{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__anonymous___vandeleur_or_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Vandeleur Or Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
VANDELEUR;
OR,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
A NOVEL.
Ye shall have miracles, ay, sound ones too,
Seen, heard, attested, everything but true.
Veiled Prophet.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET
1836.
LONDON :
PUINTED BY SAMUEL BENTL1 Y,
Dorset Street, Fleet Street.
PREFACE.
When I first determined upon writing a
tale of fiction as a resource against “ leisure
hours
1 ’
— those mental vampires which suck
out all the health of fitful occupation—I was
particularly desirous of fixing upon an entirely
new subject. It is said that our every motive
is of a compound nature, but as far as I have
been able to analyse my motive for this, I can
find no ingredient but the one of simple and
unmixed humility ; that is, as much humility as
may be consistent with writing at all in these
days. I am aware that as a good housewife
is said to
“ Gar auld claes look ’maist as weel’s the new,”
so a very skilful writer can dress up a thread-
bare subject so tastefully, that if it had itself
VI PREFACE.
the power of speech it would cry out, “ Why
this is none of I !” But as my humility whis-
pered to me that my right hand might not
possess that cunning, I endeavoured to find out
a subject which should “ win by rareness.” I
first ran through the catalogue of the passions
—it would not do, they have been “ torn to
tatters.” Not a character could I fancy, from
the hired bravo to the gentle swain withering in
secrecy and silence beneath the shade on his
mistress’s eye-brow, without perceiving, as I
looked behind me through the ghosts of de-
parted novels, the double of my incipient hero.
Now, as Peter Schlemihl owed his notoriety to
the loss of his own natural and proper shadow,
I very reasonably apprehended that a hero with
a double would at once be laid”—aside, and
that by the most charitable ; —I therefore aban-
doned the passions as being—out of date.
I thought for a moment of the manners and
customs of artificial life ; but they have been
painted, described, caricatured, lampooned, and
PREFACE. YU
dished up in so many different forms for the
public taste, that not only is “ the boudoir
1
'
1
itself
as familiar to the vulgar eyes as the sign upon
the windows of their own circulating libraries,
but every lamp and every lustre belonging
thereto is nightly burned in effigy in their own
“ squalid parlours.
11
So that really, unless by
having recourse to the cuisine itself, I should
not now know how to cater to the appetites
of folk so greedy after “ high living.
11
Then
for the converse of the human picture, the
lower Irish, who live professedly “ by their
ways and their manes ,
-11
has that subject not
been exhausted between open enemies and nomi-
nal lovers until their own orthography, if not
pronunciation, becomes correct, and the means
being gone, their ma-nes alone remain ? Thus,
between ghosts and gourmands, the spirit and
the flesh, I was nearly scared altogether from
my undertaking, when an opportune visit to
Paris, by introducing “ animal magnetism
11
to
my notice, suggested to me that the point I
vm PREFACE.
sought “ might lie between
11
—it professing to
be that mysterious point between mind and
matter, too material in its effects to be all
mind, and too subtile to be all matter !
Seriously, a particular circumstance brought
the subject under my consideration in a very
striking and a very startling point of view
;
and if the reference I have given must not
necessarily prove more satisfactory than any
assertion from an anonymous writer, I assure
my readers that “ I could a tale unfold,
11
the
/ —
slightest word of which would justify me for
making the theory the foundation of a novel
!
—Still, justification falls so far short of appro-
bation, and accquittal of applause, that I had
no sooner attained the object of my ambition
—an unhacknied subject, than I began to fear
that it was too foreign to English sympathies,
and that I should only draw upon myself
%
that ridicule with which the subject has hi-
therto been treated here. Against this, the
only defence I have to offer (without again
PREFACE. IX
referring to the testimony of foreign but en-
lightened nations) is, that since a learned body
has not disdained to make animal magnetism
a subject of investigation, surely it should not
be considered as beneath the dignity of a novel.
But a truce to hopes and fears —to arguments
and reasonings ; I have launched my little bark
on the tide of public opinion, and all I can say
now in its favour will indeed be talking to the
winds. The public breath alone can swell my
sails, and as I have left the cape of good hope
far behind me, I now equally dread the dead
calm of neglect, or the storms of harsh criti-
cism, and put my trust in the trade winds
;
praying, that instead of “ blasts from heir to
damn my humble venture, they may prove
“ airs from heaven
1
’
to waft me “ unto the
wished-for haven of my bliss.”
'
.
VANDELEUR
CHAPTER I.
’Tis not the painted canvass I admire,
However curiously the hues are blent
;
I seek the magic touch of living fire,
That needs no guide to tell us what is meant.
Anonymous.
My friends and acquaintances consider me
particularly deficient in what is commonly call-
ed “a taste for drawing which “taste
11
being
rather prevalent in our family, the imputed
want of it has been a source of not unfrequent
mortification to me in my younger days. The
half pettish, half contemptuous exclamation,
“ Oh no ! not to her,
she does not care for It,
she has no taste for drawing,
11
of some young
VOL. i. B
o
«x. VANDELEUR.
companion who had just suffered a pretty
sketch to be wrested with gentle violence from
her hands, and by thus excluding one poor luck-
less wight from the privilege of seeing it, at once
affected displeasure, and gave permission to have
it shown to all others, still rings in my ear
;
and 1 see myself seated at a little distance from
the speakers, with book in hand, over the blaz-
ing fire, and shaking the foot that lay over the
other, with all the nonchalance I could assume,
sufficiently conscious of my own moral deficiency
on the subject not to challenge the declaration
made against me, yet sufficiently indignant at
the wanton affront, to feel my cheek colour as
much as the previous good offices of the fire
would permit to become visible. And so poi-
gnant was my feeling on these occasions, that,
when afterwards emancipated from the sweet
thralls of home and childhood, I determined to
try whether it was not possible for me, by in-
dustry and perseverance, to overcome this plague-
spot in .my education : but no, it would not do.
VANDELEUR.
I tried various kinds of drawing and painting,
but never finished a piece that did not cause me
more blushes, for falling so far short of my own
conceptions, than even my former unambitious
ignorance had done. Some, indeed, exclaimed in
astonishment at the progress I made, and were
even beginning to retract their former opinions
of my deficiency : but it was all in vain—
a
painter I was not to be. I threw by my palette
and my colours in utter disgust at my own at-
tempts, and my friends once more triumphed in
their superior judgment. Well, these days have
long gone by, and I have passed on in my riper
age as one “ not fond of painting r
-
” and yet,
strange to say, I do not think it is possible that
any individual can have felt more intense plea-
sure from the art than I have done in my time ;
but then it was in my own way, and at very
rare intervals. I have stolen away at times
and hours when I knew public and private
collections of paintings to be least frequented by
others, for the purpose of giving myself up to
n £
4 VANDELEUR.
all the dreamy delight of a romance read in
some speaking eye, or some tragedy in the
haughty and revengeful lip. And if this blend-
ing of story and of painting was a sin against
the latter, I can only say as I have said before,
and as others have said for me, that “ I have
no taste for drawing.”
Of all the paintings, whether compositions or
portraits, that have ever arrested my fancy or
my feelings, I never remember to have been
more irresistibly interested by any, than by
three which are now (at least were, a very short
time since,) to be seen in the picture-gallery of
the Duchess of ,
in shire. They boast
no foreign name, and are evidently of the mo-
dern school ; but there is so much of truth, of
nature—that undefinable something about them,
that I was impressed at once with the conviction
that the subject was not merely fanciful. But
if already I was inclined to admire them as, at
least, masterpieces of very cunning workmanship
from the pencil of an amateur, (as the artist was
VANDELEUR. b
described in the catalogue to be,) most assuredly,
when circumstances afterwards brought to my
knowledge the outline of their history, with
permission to weave it into a little tale, it did
not lessen my interest in them, or dispose me to
behold them with a more critical eye.
The first of the three portraits which thus
engaged my attention, was that of a young girl,
apparently about fifteen or sixteen years of age,
and a boy somewhat younger, whose arms fond-
ly entwined around each other, as they appear-
ed to stroll along, gave one the idea of what
children born to our first parents before their fall
might have been. You saw at a glance that they
were not lovers ; for, besides the early youth of
the boy, there was a character about their love
and their familiarity, that can be described best
by negatives. It was free from all appearance
of anxiety, free from all emotion, free from any
of “ love's delicious agonies .'
1
They looked as
if they had just fallen from heaven together,
and knew nothing yet of the ills of earth. Be-
6 VANDELEUR.
sides, they were extremely like each other.
Her eyes, indeed, were of a softer blue, and her
ringlets, though dark as the raven’s wing, were
more silky and more luxuriant than his, and
her lips were plumper and more round; still,
there was the indescribable family likeness
strongly impressed, and I knew that they were
brother and sister. It seemed to be some in-
teresting moment in their young lives ; for the
girl’s countenance betrayed a sweet and joyous
consciousness, as her beautiful forget-me-not
eyes encountered those of her brother, which
looked down upon them in return with an ex-
pression of arch affection. The scene, too, was
one that might have served for a representation
of paradise. It was a rich and glowing sunset
;
and the fair artist, who I afterwards discovered
was an Englishwoman by descent and birth,
must certainly have caught those glowing co-
lours from an Italian sky, or else have seized
in happy hour, with the inspiration of genius,
VANDELEUR. 7
one of those rare and delicious evenings in an
English summer that are sometimes sent to ut
us in mind of heaven. She always declared it
was the latter.
The second picture presented the same lovely
female figure in lineaments that could not he
mistaken ; but, gracious Heaven ! how changed
!
Where was the blooming cheek ? the smiling
eyes P the halo of unbroken, unfearing hap-
piness ? —All, all were changed or gone. The
look of very early youth indeed still lingered
there ; but it was only to lend a heightened
effect to the death-like hue of her attenuated
countenance, and to give a yet wilder animation
to the agony it expressed. She was dressed in
the most costly fashion, and her arms loaded
with ornaments ; all of which formed a striking
and painful contrast to her air of desolation and
supplication, as, with upraised eyes, and hands
that seemed grasped together in convulsive
agony, she knelt at the feet of another lady, of
8 VANDELEUR.
whom a beautiful side-view was presented. The
scene was a saloon, evidently of Continental
magnificence.
The third picture was the interior of a cot-
tage-porch, with a glimpse of a wild Alpine
landscape. Sitting within the porch was the
same lady, but no longer young, and a gentle-
man, who might be some ten years older. He
was not the hero of the first piece ; for the eyes
of the boy were blue like his sister’s, while those
of the present portrait were of a rich black, more
deep than bright, as they are wont to be when
subdued by sorrow and anxiety. The air of the
gentleman was strikingly noble,—I should have
said military, but there was nothing in his dress
to confirm this idea.
The wild agony which the countenance of the
female in the second picture expressed, was here
softened down to a calm and heavenly resigna-
tion and pensiveness. The brow and even the
cheek were still of marble whiteness ; but it
seemed to speak of sorrow that had nearly passed
VANDELEUR. 9
away, and only left those enduring traces to
mark where it once had been. She was still
eminently lovely ; and although from having
the first picture still before you, in which she
seemed a creature invested with perpetual youth,
health, and happiness, you could not fail to per-
ceive that Time must now have passed his cold
wing over her, yet it was only that circum-
stance which seemed to remind you of it. Had
you seen her now for the first time, her age
would never have come into your imagination,
at once led captive by her loveliness and pecu-
liar air of resignation. Her jet black hair was
uncovered, yet gave no air of coquetry, or of a
lingering after other days ; for it was so inartifi-
cially arranged as to be evidently a matter of no
moment to her, and you knew at once from her
whole air and appearance, that it was rather in
utter disregard to personal adornment, than with
any view to admiration, that she wore no head-
dress but that with which Nature had provided
her. Her hair was entirely brushed away from
10 VANDELEUR.
her temples at each side, and loosely folded up
behind. Her head was beautiful ; it required
no adept in phrenology to admire it —Nature
asserted her own power without the rules of
art
;
and although ignorance might be unable
to trace the cause of its own spontaneous ad-
miration to beautiful proportions and noble de-
velopement, the pleasing effect was not the less
felt. There was something in every line of that
head that diffused an air of irresistible interest
around her. Her form, too, was lovely ; though
few besides herself would have stood the test
of her dishabille. She was wrapt in a loose
white muslin robe ; which if the worst costume
that could have been selected for effect in paint-
ing, gave, to my mind, perhaps for that very
reason, an air of truth and reality to the whole,
that weighed more with me (anti-connoisseur as
I have avowed myself) than the most judicious
management of light and shade could have
done.
The lady was in the very act of withdrawing
VANDELEUR. II
her hand (and it was a hand of exquisite sym-
metry, where youth still lingered in round and
dimpled smoothness) from the arm of the gen-
tleman, where you saw, or perhaps only felt,
that it had rested the moment before, in earnest
persuasion, but was hastily removed, as his hand
(also still suspended) was about to be laid upon
it. She did not look indignant, still less haugh-
ty, and no colour had rushed to that bloodless
cheek ; but her whole air was that of startled
matron delicacy, and her eyes met his with a
look of gentle, but soul-touching reproof, in which
was mingled a ray of affection, such as I have
never seen equalled upon earth. It was the
love of an angel for a mortal soul ; it was the
love of a purified spirit for one which was not
yet all of heaven.
The gentleman was evidently rebuked in her
presence ;
yet it was rather as a mortal might
feel in the presence of a being of a higher sphere,
than the angry humiliation of one erring crea-
ture before another. His whole manner be-
12 VANDELEUR.
trayed a mixture of sorrow and adoration. I
was utterly at a loss to conjecture what the sub-
ject of this picture could be, or in what relation
or position the parties stood to each other ; and
I became so deeply interested in them altoge-
ther, that when I was some time after favoured
with their history, I took a considerable jour-
ney for the sole purpose of looking once more
upon those countenances, with which I felt
so intimately acquainted ; and I have since sat
for hours together gazing upon them, until I
have fancied that the lips absolutely moved,
and gave utterance to the feelings that I now
learned had been working in the hearts of the
originals. And in filling up the outlines of the
story, I have at times been almost persuaded
that I myself heard the words uttered, and
the sentiments expressed, which I only received
at second-hand.
Partly perhaps in the hope of inspiring
my readers with something of the same in-
VANDELEUR. 13
terest that was thus awakened in my own
breast, I have selected the subject of the
first picture for the opening scene of the
little history 1 have undertaken to present
them with.
14 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER II.
At intervals some bird from out the brakes
Starts into voice a moment—then is still
:
There seems a floating whisper on the hill
;
But that is fancy, for the starlight dews
All silently their tears of love distill,
Weeping themselves away till they infuse
Deep into Nature’s breast the spirit of her hues.
Byron.
It was one of the loveliest evenings in the
loveliest month of an English summer. The
day had been sultry, bright and beautiful ;
birds had been even clamorous in melody,
vying, as it were, with each other in songs of
praise and gratitude for the pleasure it afforded
them : trees looked darker and richer from
the repose of their thick foliage ; rare flowers
had confidingly expanded their delicate petals
VANDELEUR. 15
to tlie genial glow that was abroad ; and there
seemed to be more light in the world than we
are accustomed to enjoy. Nature was not only
smiling, but joyously laughing all around. It
seemed as if the very fishes, the dullest and
coldest of organised beings, grew reasoning crea-
tures upon such a day, and supposing that
its influence must be felt by all, even by the
tyrant man, forsook the safety of their protect-
ing clement, and ventured to the surface of the
waters to take their share in the universal joy.
In short, it had been one of those days when
the sun and our earth are evidently in good
humour with each other. He smiled brightly on
her, and she repaid him a thousand-fold with
all her charms. Yet that day had passed away,
—ay, even as the brightest dreams of youth !
It had passed ;
yet, like the “ sober sadness” of
the breast that once beat highest to those bright
hopes, the very evening of such a day was worth
the noontide of any other. The warmer beams
indeed were gone ;
yet their delightful influence
16 VANDELEUR.
still was felt in the soft, balmy, genial tempera-
ture that remained. The birds, the bees, the
butterflies had all vanished ;
yet even of them
one would have said some soft, impalpable, un-
definable charm still lingered in the dreamy,
undulating hum, which, though gradually be-
coming fainter and fainter, was still about ; and
if some delicate flowers had closed their bosoms
from the breath of evening, others there were,
and perhaps the sweetest, which gave out their
fragrance with less coyness now.
The evening was lovely everywhere ; but
perhaps there was scarcely a scene more cal-
culated to receive and display its delicious in-
fluence to advantage, than Beauton Park.
Beauton Park had been for many generations
the family mansion and principal residence of an
old English family, of wealth and local respect-
ability, but of whose members none had ever
risen, or seemed desirous to rise, to the peerage,
or to any particular eminence in church or state.
They were good easy folk, whose harmless
VANDELEUR. 17
ambition was satisfied with the glory that was
acquired for their country, independent of any
exertions of theirs ; and while they paid their
taxes punctually, and religiously kept up what
they called the good old English sports and
customs, they conceived that they had as good
a right to bask in the beams of that glory, as
any other well-born Englishman. It need
scarcely be added, that they were not a family
remarkable for talent ;
yet, as their friends and
neighbours sometimes were heard to declare,
“ they were no fools;” and being a remarkably
handsome race, the gentlemen, whose habits of
locomotion (though still very limited) were yet
more extended than those of the females, not
unfrequently made a conquest of some faded
fashionable, either at a race-ball in some coun-
try-town, where she had retired to rusticate for
a season, or at some watering-place, whither she
had repaired in the hope of reviving her faded
roses. But somehow it was remarked, that
these marriages, though they served to prevent
]8 VANDELEUR.
the family from falling into utter rusticity,
seldom turned out happily.
The Evelyns, though good-humoured, and,
on the whole, well-disposed and kind-hearted
men, had too much of old English — what
shall I call it ? boorishness ? or dignity ? (my
readers may choose the term,) to be guided much
by the fancies of their wives ; and although as
“ gay young bachelors” they thought it only
reasonable, and right, that they should them-
selves see a little of life, at Tunbridge or at
Bath, still the moment they had slipped their
necks into the marriage-noose, being downright,
well-meaning folk, they could see no further
business they could have, beyond the county-
town where the assizes were held, or the most
extended run that Reynard was pleased to
favour them with. Still less, of course, could
they conceive any justifiable reason for their
ladies
1
wr
ish to rove ; an she who married with
the idea of favouring her handsome, but coun-
try-bred husband, with her company during the
VANDELEUR. 19
summer months, enlivened by the presence of
a thousand-and-one dear friends, in succession
from the metropolis, on condition of his making
her a handsome present every spring for her
London expenses, invariably found herself most
wofully mistaken ; and although the first
year’s refusal might be accompanied only by
a laughing and good-humoured determination,
the second generally was ushered in with a
few nationally characteristic asseverations, that
put an end to the lady’s hopes, if not to her
resentment, on the subject for ever.
This Blue-Beard custom of the Evelyns
seemed to he a sort of family heir-loom,—a kind
of hereditary principle, which each in succession
held as sacred and inviolate as the laws of
the Medes and Persians were held, and perhaps
for no better reason than the good old English
maxim, to u do as our fathers have done before
us.” What a blessing it is that this imbecile
maxim is going out of fashion ! Innovation
may in some cases be dangerous ; but who never
• 20 VANDELEUR.
ventures can never win. To adhere blindly to
the habits of our forefathers, merely because
they were such, is not only to presuppose them
“ the wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best,
11
but,
even giving full scope to those filial feelings, it
is presupposing likewise, that everything else
around us—in fact every circumstance—has con-
tinued in precisely the same situation as when
our predecessors acted in such or such a man-
ner, or laid down such or such rules ;
(by the
bye, I agree with Lord Byron in hating “ in-
variable rules and this I believe no one is
prepared to assert on any subject. The alter-
native is, that we are shutting our own eyes, to
be guided by charts given us by persons who
never trod the path, themselves : for it is no
longer the same path, if new turnings and new
windings have been made since their day ; so
that pitfalls may now be yawning, where once
were “ ways of pleasantness, and paths of
peace.
11
To return to the Evelyns : it must be ac-
VANDELEUR. 21
knowledged, that if ever gentlemen could be ex-
cusable, (and far be it from me to say that they
could,) for immuring their wives in the country,
and denying them the pleasures of the metro-
polis, the proprietors of Beauton Park might
surely put in their claims for forgiveness. That
very extensive demesne, situated in one of the
southern counties of England, seemed to con-
tain within itself almost all that the heart of
man could desire, or woman either. The dwell-
ing-house, to which frequent and judicious ad-
ditions had been made, was a noble mansion :
it stood upon a gentle slope, which at a little
distance became more decidedly elevated, so
that the house was sheltered and shut in on
three sides by deep hanging woods, and the fourth
looked out upon a splendid lawn, studded with
noble inhabitants, both animate and inanimate ;
for the beautiful deer were so numerous, as some-
times, in the distance, amongst the tall trees, to
be mistaken for underwood.
As if to make amends to the ladies of the
22 VANDELEUR.
family for their seclusion from gayer haunts,
and perhaps not a little to escape the trouble
themselves, the proprietors of Beauton Park
generally permitted their wives to exercise un-
limited control over the ornamental parts of
the demesne ; and the result, as may be sup-
posed, was at all times whimsical, and frequent-
ly very beautiful :
—deep-tangled walks, unlook-
ed-for glades, “ mosques beside Grecian tem-
ples,
11
deserts in the very bosom of forests, and
not unfrequently jets di'eaux on the top of a fa-
vourite hill ; in short, every variety that taste,
or caprice, or both united, could suggest, was
realised there. There was at the southern side
of the mansion a gentle gradual declivity before
the bolder hill on that side began to rise again
and as one of the windows of a summer sitting-
room looked out upon this side, it was soon
made to breathe of all the mingled sweets of
Araby, and the humble green in which Nature
had decked it was exchanged for the many-co-
loured parterre. A sort of little road or narrow
VANDELEUR. 23
strip of valley, that ran between this declivity
and the higher chain of hills, which formed a
sort of amphitheatre round the house, was
closely planted with dark evergreens, and sweet
flowering shrubs, which blending in gradation
with the woods that clothed the hills to their
very base, gave to the descent a strange and
almost mysterious termination ; the evergreens
being planted so close that their tops seemed
to form the level of the little valley. Amongst
them and the overhanging wood, with which
they mingled, ran paths so varied and so de-
vious, as not only to be called, but really to be
worthy of the name of, Labyrinth ; and not un-
frequently have persons, who came to visit a
place so abundant in beauties, expressed their
very rational astonishment, how the “ Cynthia of
the minute
11
could ever tire in a place of such
variety : tor of course the domestic grievances
ot the Evelyns, like all other domestic griev-
ances, soon escaped from their only legitimate
bounds—namely, their own bosoms ; I will not
even say—firesides.
24 VANDELEUR.
The gentleman who was in possession of
Beauton Park, by right of inheritance, at the
time in which this story commences, differed
very little, either in his virtues, or his faults, or
even in his family circumstances, from those
who had gone before him. He was one of
the best and handsomest among them, and
had, in his turn, picked up a fair and delicate
wife, from the hotbed of fashionable life, who
had come to seek the renovation of a fragile
constitution at the springs of Bath. She was
an earl’s daughter, and if her fortune was
small, she was reputed to be “ extremely talent-
ed and although, for some unaccountable
reason, that advantage did not seem to atone,
in the eyes of her London admirers, for other
deficiencies, still it was a circumstance very
likely to render her more difficult of access, and
therefore, by human perversity, a more desirable
acquaintance in the eyes of unsophisticated
youths from the country. When, therefore,
she condescended to smile upon the extremely
VANDELEUR. 25
handsome and wealthy master of Beauton Park,
can it he wondered at, that the flattered Cory-
don knelt at her feet, and only rose on her con-
senting’ that he should lead her to the altar ?
Lady Alicia was, however, really a talented
person, and naturally amiable ; but somehow in
those days (fifty years since) people did not know
how to manage talented daughters. First-rate
and extraordinary talents will, of course, at all
times, and in all circumstances, make their own
way ; but how many minds, a degree or two
lower in the scale, have, for want of judicious
culture, and sufficient aliment and exercise,
withered, and stagnated into dull pedantry, or
turned aside into some wild and fearful paths,
even although
“ The light that led astray was light from heaven !”
And surely, when such were the results, it is
not to be wondered at that men conceived a
horror, and even a terror, of what were called
“ learned ladies.” It is at least, I think, a much
more rational way of accounting for their having
VOL. i. c
26 VANDELEUR.
entertained such feelings towards them, than the
common, and to me ever absurd, explanation of
envy ay, even though some specimens of the
nobler sex, ignorant enough themselves to make
it credible, may have shrugged their silly shoul-
ders, and generously pleaded guilty to the charge
for the whole fraternity.
However, the kind of cleverness which Lady
Alicia possessed did not lead her into exactly
either of those extremes. It was not brilliant
enough for the one, and it was too gentle for
the other ; but its fate was not to herself much
better. She married Mr. Evelyn, as many
others had done his ancestors, in the hope of
leading him into fashionable life ; but when she
found the family failing incurably strong in him,
she gave up the point, determining within her-
self, that since he would not associate with her
friends, she would not with his ; and according-'
ly, under the plea of delicate health, she con-
fined herself by degrees almost entirely to her
own apartments, and in sullen disappointment
VANDELEUR. 27
broke off nearly all correspondence even with
her own family.
This, to a person gifted with talents, and
situated in the country as she was, might all
have been very well, had she ever been taught
to turn those talents to good account ; or had
she even been taught the necessity of keeping
them in control of any kind, in order that they
might not turn upon and rend her. But she liad
not been taught this; and the consequence was,
that fancy and imagination, left to their own de-
vices, soon made out food for themselves on the
subject of her health, and she became a confirm-
ed valetudinarian. The successive births of two
lovely children, a boy and a girl, for a time di-
verted her attention from this fatal subject ; and
she even undertook, as the children advanced
from infancy to childhood, ,to be their instruc-
tress. But this could not continue long: both the
children, as will sometimes happen, inherited
all their mothers talents, and the boy a thou-
sand times more. Although nearly a year
c 2
28 VANDELEUR.
younger than his sister, he very soon proved
that he required a Letter and more profound
teacher than his lady mother.
Idie first symptoms that this discovery was
mutual, were his visits to the dressing-room be-
ing suffered to become much fewer and shorter
than heretofore ; and at length Lady Alicia
yielded to the truth of an opinion latterly fre-
quently expressed by her husband in these
words,
u My dear, I think it is time I should
be looking out for a tutor for that boy and a
tutor was accordingly procured.
Most providentially, the wisest and fondest
parents could not have selected one more de-
sirable in every respect than the individual whom
accident threw in the way of these very incompe-
tent and heedless judges. Mr. Mason was at
once a profoundly learned, and a most conscien-
tious man.
Although long habits of seclusion in the
haunts of a college, joined to a peculiar sim-
plicity of character, had left him as ignorant
VANDELEUR. 29
of the ways of the world, (the modern world, as
he termed it,) as an infant, they had rendered
him, perhaps, but the more earnest in the duties
he had undertaken to perform. He poured
into the delighted ears of his intelligent pupil,
not only the erudition of the schools, but li-
beral, high-minded, and extended principles of
right and wrong—such as, falling upon congenial
soil, seemed calculated to make the promising
youth, in time, a good as well as a great man.
They became almost immediately attached to
each other in no common degree. The Chris-
tian simplicity of the good old man’s character,
though it never amounted to the ludicrous, was
yet sufficient to make him conscious and re-
served in the society of strangers ; and because
he felt that his own philosophic and high sen-
timents would not be understood by them, and
yet knew no others with which to replace them,
he generally remained perfectly silent, and by
many was considered stupid, if not ignorant.
How delightful was it, then, for him to find, in
30 VANDELEUR.
the lovely child now committed to his care;
one who could not only tolerate his noble pecu-
liarities, but into whom it was at once his. duty
and delight to instil all his own high aspirings,
after the only valuable knowledge,—namely,
moral good in its most extended sense !
Of women, Mr. Mason was particularly shy ;
not from contempt or dislike, but simply be-
cause all he had ever read or heard of them,
added to his own experience, (which consisted
almost wholly in their exclusion from all seats
of learning,) caused him to believe that they
could have no feeling in common with him; and
if, in his younger days, he had ever entertained
other hopes, they were so long gone by, that he
felt now as much apart from women, as if they
were another order of beings. Indeed, he
scarcely expected to be able to make himself in-
telligible to them, even in the common civilities
of the table, and was therefore most agreeably
surprised to find Mr. Evelyn’s house nearly
exempt from their presence ; as, by the
VANDELEUR. 81
time he became domesticated in it, Lady
Alicia had entirely abjured the lower apart-
ments, and took even her meals alone, or in
company of her little girl only. Good Mr. Ma-
son’s joy on this subject was, however, to be
of short duration ; and he himself was destined
to be, in part, the innocent and most uncon-
scious cause of an accession to the female
society at Beauton !
It so happened, that, since children were first
given to their parents’ prayers, never did two
creatures love each other more fondly than did
Herbert Evelyn and his sister Gertrude. They
were both amiably disposed, which prevented
ill humour—that bane of infantine, and in-
deed of mature affection ; and being the only
children of the family, they were entirely de-
pendent on each other for all their sports and
all their happiness. Besides, though both were
endowed with more than common intelligence,
their talents were of a different order ; and the
boy was very soon able to assume his sex’s su-
YANDELEUR.
Q.Q
OrC
periority over the little girl, by becoming her
assistant and her champion, which established
another powerful bond of interest on both sides.
Under these circumstances, it is not to be
supposed that when her brother became eman-
cipated from the dressing-room, Gertrude re-
mained very contentedly behind ; and as Lady
Alicia was the least fitted, of all persons in the
world, to struggle with or control a lively child,
however well disposed to the task, she soon
began to overlook her frequent absences, under
various excuses to herself of its being good for
the child’s health, and a pity to deprive the boy
altogether of his only companion, she having
succeeded in scaring away all visiters from her
house. Gertrude was but too delighted to per-
ceive this tacit yielding to her wish for liberty,
and she first began to spend the time of her
brother’s leisure hours in gambols with him
then advanced to sitting on the window-sill,
and watching with wistful eyes until lie should
be released from his lessons ; and, finally, won
VANDELEUR. 33
by tlie mild and gentle countenance of the old
man, she ventured into the room, and became
almost as much pleased to be near him as near
her brother, until at last her visits to the dress-
ing-room became as rare as Herbert’s own.
But although Lady Alicia was not unwilling
to get rid of the task of teaching a little girl
whose mind she had not the happy art of en-
gaging, she soon began to feel the disagreeable
vacuum which was caused by her long absence,
and once more her thoughts turned entirely
upon the subject of her own health. This,
with a person who lived so secluded, even from
the society of her own family, must soon have
ended in absolute insanity ; but, before it had
reached such lengths, she came to the determi-
nation of procuring some person who, whilst
she listened to and sympathised in her lady’s
tender grievances, as part of her engagement,
should at the same time act as a sort of o-over-
O
ness or duenna to the little girl ;
—that is, she was
to see that her hair and dress were properly
c 5
34 VANDELEUR.
attended to, and that she did not break her
neck in her pastimes with her brother, when the
gouver?iaiite was not better employed in reading
aloud some ‘
Guide to Health,
1
or some fashion-
able novel, for the relief of Lady Alicia's men-
tal or bodily languor, as the case might be most
urgent at the moment.
It may be asked why, in choosing a female
companion, Lady Alicia did not endeavour to
procure one who, while she was really capable
of instructing the beautiful little girl in all that
was befitting her sex and age, might, at the
same time, have proved a rational and agreeable,
if not an improving, companion to herself.
Simply for this reason—that Lady Alicia loved
her own ease more than anything on earth ;
and she had an instinctive feeling, that a well-
educated and independent - minded woman
would have been a troublesome associate for
one so sunk in indolence, and, at the same time,
with sense enough still remaining to know that
better things should have been expected of her.
VANDELEUR. 35
She sometimes knew herself to be whimsical,
and unreasonable ; but as she intended to con-
tinue so, she wished for a companion who would
minister to her whims, without making her
ashamed of them.
On the cruel injustice to her charming child,
she soothed her conscience with the recollection
that Gertrude was still so young, and that when
she had thus secured a person to look after her
in her idle hours, she should herself be better
able to attend to her accomplishments and
education. Alas ! upon what grounds is it that
we build so confidently on being able to resist
one temptation, while we are quietly suffering
ourselves to be overcome by another? Are
they not all alike, the froward offspring of our
passions ; and when we yield to one, will not
the others assert their equal right, with a cla-
mour which we are sometimes fain to hush, at
a sacrifice we should previously have spurned
at, and which had never been heard if the first
symptoms of insubordination had been subdued ?
36 VANDELEUR.
Lady Alicia succeeded in procuring an humble
companion, under the name of governess —one
as humble and as well fitted for the former, as
she was unfitted for the latter task ; and finding
no immediate ill effect from her first failure in
duty to her child, she, as might be expected,
felt less reluctance in yielding to the next, and
the next ; and so the little creature, whom Na-
ture had gifted in no common degree, with
beauty of person and intelligence of mind, was
suffered to grow, like one of the neglected rose-
trees in her mother’s flower-garden, wild, lux-
uriant, and untrained —but sweet, lovely, and
graceful notwithstanding.
Her father, from the very hour of his son’s
birth, gave all the affection that should have
been divided between his children entirely to
him, partly for the wise reason that he was
his son and heir, and partly because he was not
of the sex of his lady mother ; which sex Mr.
Evelyn had latterly begun to think a very
troublesome part of the creation. By him,
VANDELEUR. 37
therefore, even when his held sports, or domes-
tic annoyances, did not call or drive him from
his home, she passed totally unnoticed. Her
brother, indeed, more than once mentioned his
sister’s capabilities, and the little cultivation
they received ; and Mr. Mason even found him
occasionally giving her lessons himself : but if
for a moment this caused the good man to fix
his mild contemplative eyes upon her, as if to
ask if she could be an exception to her sex, and
really capable of literary acquirement, some
idle freak or lively sally of the animated little
girl crushed the extravagant hope in the bud,
and he would turn away with a smile and a
sigh, pleased that his pupil had so innocent,
and to himself so improving, an occupation for
his leisure hours, but grieved that it must prove
so useless, where he expected it to be so benefi-
cial. Yet, once more, let it not for a moment
be supposed that Mr. Mason despised or held
women in contempt : besides that he was much
too mild and gentle for such a feeling, he merely
38 VANDELEUR.
looked on them as lie did on the flowers of'
the field or birds of the air —a beautiful species
in their own nature, but of which he understood
as little, and therefore left them to themselves.
It must be confessed that circumstances were
still most unfavourable to the good man’s re-
covery from his delusion upon this subject.
Had he even known of Lady Alicia’s talents,
(latent as they may well be called,) the know-
ledge would have been attended with no other
consequence than to make him suppose her a
lusus naturcc,
and, like all such, but the more
useless and repulsive, as a heterogeneous mix-
ture of different natures, instead of the perfec-
tion of some one, even of a lower scale in the
creation. And for Miss Wilson, the gouver-
nante,
if ever there was a being formed ex-
pressly to sanction and confirm his precon-
ceived ideas, she was that one—not that she
was an idiot ; if she had been, he should have
heard her spoken of as such, and gathered
that such was not the common state of woman-
VANDELEUR. 39
hood : she was only an automaton —an eating-,
drinking, sleeping, walking machine. He was
not at all sure that her powers amounted to
speaking, and should certainly have doubted
the fact, but that he recollected to have heard
his pupil more than once say that she was read-
ing to his mamma in her dressing-room—and his
word he could not doubt. Still, reading, albeit
a wonder of another kind, did not involve a
power of forming a sentence herself ; and this
he was obliged merely to infer from some nearly
inarticulate sounds that escaped her at dinner,
eked out by odd nods and wriggles, when ad-
dressed on the subject of her food,—and farther
than this no one seemed inclined to venture. It
was enough, however, to prove that she was not
dumb. And when Mr. Mason saw others do so,
he was of course obliged to accept her as a speci-
men of the sex. Still, that she was not a pleasing
one, some instinctive feeling told him ; and he
kept quietly but tenaciously aloof from her, as
something more inexplicable to him than all
40 VANDELEUR.
the rest, with nothing to redeem her cold stu-
pidity. Hate any one he could not, much less
one so inoffensive ; hut he always felt out of
his element if any accident disturbed his regular
system, and brought him more within the
sphere of her attraction, or—repulsion.
But what, perhaps, was stranger still, there
were not wanting those who believed the du-
enna to be shrewd and sensible ; others, deep
and designing ;
just according to their own class
and order of intellect : and all this merely be-
cause she was silent, quiet, and unobtrusive;
and that it was even less odd to believe her
clever, in spite of all appearances to the con-
trary, than to suppose that an humble com-
panion could really be what she seemed to be,
and no more ! She was, nevertheless, simply
what she seemed to be—quiet, unobtrusive, and
unobservant, with just enough of animal instinct
remaining to know and feel herself comfortably
situated, and therefore to take care to be in
nobody’s way, to interfere with nobody’s incom-
{
VANDELEUR. 41
ings or outgoings ; in short, to make herself
secure of the permanence of her present abode,
on the same principle as a chair or a sofa
might be, in a quiet family.
I believe it is maintained by some, that we
are all composed originally of the same ele-
ments, and even in exactly the same proportions ;
and that it is only as external circumstances act
upon our sensitive and plastic organization, that
different characters are formed, according to the
particular passions, powers, or talents, which,
either by judicious education, or casual circum-
stances, are called into exercise and strengthen-
ed, whilst others are suffered to lie dormant,
until finally they become to all practical pur-
poses extinct. In this view of things, Miss
Wilson might have been originally intended by
nature to be more of a human being than she
now appeared to be ; but in early life she was
so culled and buffeted about, by low unprinci-
pled parents, for appearing to understand what
they did not choose that she should understand,
42 VANDELEUR.
yet talked of openly before her, that whatever
little degree of intellect she had been born
with was barely sufficient to enable her to
conceal it
When death removed her parents, she was
given her morsel in the house of a petty village
schoolmistress, a distant relation of her own,
and taught to read and write, (by dint of strokes
of more kind than one,) in order that she might
in time assist in teaching the other children.
In this situation she still found it so inconve-
nient and so unlucky to see what she should not
see, and to hear what she should not hear, that,
as she had not sufficient energy to seize the op-
portunities afforded her of becoming a rogue,
or, in other words, not having talent enough at
once to exercise and conceal them,—she adopted
the much less difficult task of stifling them ;
and, by a little determination and good manage-
ment, she was enabled soon to render them so
completely latent, that even she herself lost sight
of them entirely, and soon forgot that they had
VANDELEUR. 43
ever existed ; and by the time that a chance
circumstance threw her in the way of Lady
Alicia Evelyn, she was as completely passive a
machine to be acted upon by the will of others,
as any toady ever professed to be, but so sel-
dom is.
Only one circumstance during the whole
course of the first seven years she had vegetated
at Beauton Park ever afforded the least surmise
of her having even a negative will or wish of her
own ; and it must be confessed that the occa-
sion was sufficiently extraordinary ; —so much
so, that previous to making the necessary claim
on the reader’s confidence in our veracity, it is
necessary to inform him, that Miss Wilson,
with all her mental deficiencies, possessed the
usual complement of limbs and features ; the
first duly forme d the second tolerably fair, but
so dead, so inanimate, so devoid of all that could
inspire love from the very hope of reciprocity of
feeling, that she was still Miss Wilson at some
undefinable age between forty and fifty. Still,
44 VANDELEUR.
she could never be called plain ; and stranger
still, she was not essentially vulgar—that is, she
was not a vulgar toady. It is not often that
a very dull, very silent, perfectly undesigning
and quietly self-possessed person, satisfied with
their own position, will appear absolutely vul-
gar. It is your sensitive, aspiring, lively, an-
xious—ay, and clever people, who are either vul-
gar or—odd ;
people with exquisite ears, who
catch up every rich brogue and expressive into-
nation around them—in short, who feel them-
selves above their seeming, and are nervousl v
jealous of not being recognised by others to be
so. But this is only when untoward circum-
stances have conspired to deprive them of their
natural birthright ; namely, elegance, high breed-
ing, —manners polished as their minds, because
emanating from and regulated by them ; suavity,
which accommodates itself to all, because con-
scious that few can accommodate themselves to
it ;
—in short, that moral dignity which, when
suffered to expand itself in congenial atmo-
VANDELEUR. 45
spheres, acknowledges no rules but what are
born of itself ; and which smiles on the superficial
and studied observance of conventional rules by
others, as it would on the gambols of the child,
who, mounted on its wooden hobby-horse, be-
lieves, because it has learned by rote all the
technical expressions and attitudes appertain-
ing to horsemanship, that it has also acquired
the true spirit of the thing.
This is an inheritance to which dulness,
though it may escape vulgarity, never can suc-
ceed, consigned for ever to insipid mediocrity.
And hence it is, that while the cold and me-
diocre character, though by constant friction
smoothed down to a convenient level of deport-
ment, will on any sudden excitement or fer-
mentation betray its inherent dross; inborn
elegance, though overshadowed and obscured,
will, when excited beyond the outward seeming,
break out into such bright and sparkling emana-
tions, as does the pure crystal spring when any-
thing disturbs the scum that may have rested
46 VANDELEUR.
r
on its surface. This insipid mediocrity, however,
was precisely the sort of mind or manner best
suited to one in Miss Wilson’s situation ; and so
well did it carry her through her present routine
of life, that it began to be observed, that a gouty
old fox-hunter, whom Mr. Evelyn occasionally
invited to his house with other gentlemen of the
neighbourhood, looked upon her with a degree
of complacency, if not of interest, which seemed
to say :
“ Gad ! I think she would make an
excellent wife for a rich old fellow, who wants
some one to nurse him when that d—d gout
attacks him : she is so silent, and slips about so
quietly.” The thing was almost incredible,
but so it was ; and other unequivocal and not
less wonderful symptoms began in time to
manifest themselves.
It may be thought strange how a courtship,
or even a flirtation, with Miss Wilson, who
never spoke, even on her fingers, or seemed to
understand when others spoke, (thanks to her
early education,) could be carried on, much
VANDELEUR. 41
less observed, or, as the saying is, “ get wind ;
but everything in this world is by comparison.
Miss Wilson was one of that class of beings
who are allowed to take the trouble both of
making tea, and of handing it about to the com-
pany. Now, as the eye long accustomed to
any one object, or even to vacancy, although it
may be unconscious of its own perception, will
notice any sudden change in the object or the
space ; so it was observed one evening, that
Miss Wilson’s chair was more constantly occu-
pied by its fair tenant than was usual with her
during tea-time, although she seemed to be in-
dulging in an odd sort of exercise, of perpetually
rising and sitting down again, without ever
leaving her place. It was examined into, and
found to be owing to the alertness of the old
gentleman, who, according as she filled the
cups, hobbled forward to receive them from her
hand and distribute them ; to which she sub-
mitted with the apparent nonchalance of a high-
bred lady, accustomed to receive such attentions
48 VANDELEUR.
as her right—if high-bred ladies could by any
accident be placed in such a situation, but
which, in her, proceeded from that passive qui-
escence, which yielded to whatever seemed to
be the will of others. At first this Quixotic
gallantry only excited a laugh, in which the
cunning old beau himself affected to join ; but
when he proceeded to sitting next to her at
dinner, heaping choice fruits upon her plate,
and deserting the bottle once or twice to follow
her to the drawing-room, people began to stare
upon each other, and to shake their heads.
At last the climax came : he pursued her one
evening into the shrubbery ; what passed there
no one ever exactly knew ; but the old tutor,
who, in taking his evening stroll, happened to
encounter them, was observed to look back
several times with an expression of more asto-
nishment than his placid countenance had ever
before exhibited, as if to satisfy himself that
either his eyes or ears had not played him false,
VANDELEUR. 49
and was even heard to mutter, “ God preserve
me ! a love-talk with her !”
This, together with a sudden change in the
attentions of the gentleman, which evidently
‘
drooped from that hour,” left but little room
to doubt that he had popped the question, and
been—refused. It was not, however, observed
that he broke his heart ; and when quizzed and
questioned upon the subject, he never made
other answer than, “ Gad ! she’s a most extra-
ordinary woman !” with a look, and a sort of
shrug, and dubious smile, which showed that he
was, now at least, as much astonished himself at
what had taken place, either upon her part or
his own, as any of his friends could be ;
and he
was quite willing to leave it amongst them, to be
discussed, and inquired into, if any light could be
thrown upon the matter.
The lady, in the mean while, answered all
raillery upon the subject with a quiet and un-
meaning extension of her thin lips, which leaves
VOL. i. D
50 VANDELEUR.
it, to this day, a matter of doubt whether her
refusal proceeded from her not having under-
stood, until it was too late, the honour that
was intended for her —from her being too
wise to relinquish the elegant comforts of Beau-
ton Park for a sick room—or from her being too
passive to take the trouble the change of posi-
tion would necessarily entail upon her. But so
the matter ended for the present, although not
so its effects upon her odd machinery.
Such was the person who acted, or who was
called on to act, as the governess of Miss Eve-
lyn. From her, indeed, the young lady could
learn no evil,-— but what of good? Of the
advantages which, notwithstanding so much was
neglected, she still could not fail to derive
from her refined and elegant, though selfish
and indolent mother, she was also deprived be-
fore she had quite attained her fourteenth year.
Lady Alicia at last fell a victim to her own
valetudinarian habits, and left her lovely girl at
that tender age without a friend, or almost an
VANDELEUIt. 51
acquaintance, upon earth, save those who com-
posed her father’s household, flow far they
were suited to superintend the devclopcment of
her mind and character, the reader may himself
imagine.
One or two of Lady Alicia’s nearest relatives
did indeed, when the melancholy event was
made known to them, offer to look out for a
fashionable seminary for the young lady, and
to superintend her education there ; but as Mr.
Evelyn thought he had seen but too much of
the effects of a fashionable education in her
mother, and yet, with characteristic inconsist-
ency, could not conceive what more could be
requisite for her, than to continue the governess
whom that mother had selected, he peremp-
torily refused to allow of their interference ; and
so alienated from his innocent and beautiful
child the very few even nominal friends whom
her mother’s whims and pride had left to her.
52 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER III.
And both were young, and one was beautiful
And both were young, yet not alike in youth.
As the sweet moon on the horizon’s verge,
The maid was on the eve of womanhood
The boy had fewer summers, but his heart
Had far outgrown his years.
Byron.
Most happily for Gertrude, under all the
disadvantages of her position, her brother and
she continued to love each other with an affec-
tion, that indeed “ grew with their growth, and
strengthened with their strength.
r’
The years
that had passed over them, while they left Ger-
trude the amiable, enthusiastic, lovely, and lov-
ing being which she had come from the hand of
Nature, had mellowed and blended down every
VANDELEUR.
exuberance, and called out every talent and every
virtue in Herbert’s mind and character, under
the judicious culture of his excellent friend and
tutor; so that he became, even at his early
age, everything that sanguine friend could have
wished. His intellect was precocious, as were
his feelings ; and this enabled him, though
younger than his sister, to preserve an influence
over her, which evinced itself in endeavours to
impart to her some of that information which
he had himself acquired. While she, quick,
lively, and happy, with that dislike of applica-
tion, the constant attendant upon a certain kind
of talent, which refuses to acknowledge its neces-
sity, would, except from very fondness for her
brother, and unwillingness to disoblige him, have
gladly dispensed with any information beyond
that supplied by her own vivid imagination,
quick perception, and sympathetic feelings. It
was beautiful to see the boy, whose manly form
had already far outstripped his sister’s in height
and strength, remembering his own fewer sum-
54 VANDELEUR.
mers, yet, in the consciousness of his superior
mental advantages, gently endeavouring to coax
the playful girl into attention to her task, which
she too frequently evaded by a bound from the
glass door of the summer sitting-room, down the
flowery slope on which it opened, with a pro-
mise from its base, that if he found her amongst
the various paths to which it led, she would
pay the penalty of more attention. Sometimes
on these occasions the boy, smiling and shaking
his head at her in despair, would turn away to
his own amusements or avocations ; but more
frequently, the spirits of his own age, as well as
hers, would overcome him, and he would bound
after her, and chase her until the task was
forgotten by them both.
It might have been after one of these chases,
and about two years after the death of Lady
Alicia, that, in such a lovely evening, as we have
attempted to portray in the ojjening of the story,
the brother and sister sauntered along one of
the romantic dark walks of Beauton Park.
VANDELEUR. 55
They were such a pair as seemed purposely
formed to rove in such a scene, and such an
hour. They were at this time both strikingly
beautiful ; and were moving together in the very
attitude in which the picture represented them ;
his arm twined fondly round her neck, while
hers circled his waist. He was now a tall,
slender, and graceful youth, and her bright and
beautiful cheek rested as gently on his shoulder,
as the movement of a very slow stroll per-
mitted.
“ Our lessons are at an end for ever now,
Gertrude,” said young Evelyn, as his sister
and he paced along.
“ Why, dearest Herbert ?” she quickly
asked ; but a hasty blush that succeeded to
the question, showed that she had made a
better guess at his meaning than she cared
to own.
“ Oh ! because—why, for various reasons : in
the first place, because you are grown as inat-
tentive as if—really, as if you were in love ; and,
56 VANDELEUR.
r
in the next place, because Major Vandeleur is
in love with you !”
“ In love with me ! how ridiculous, Her-
bert !” But the sweet uncontrollable twitter
about her lovely little plump mouth, the delighted
though shy glance of her bright, bird-like eye,
and the now deepened blush on her round and
almost infantine cheek, all plainly told that the
news was neither strange nor disagreeable to her.
“ Ay, in love with you, Gertrude, all won-
derful as his taste must be ;” (and they ex-
changed sweet and affectionate smiles ;)
“ and
what is more to us, you are in love with him,
my sister, and I am quite sure you will be
married to him.”
44
Nay, that at all events can never be,”
said she ingenuously ;
“ for I have heard Major
Vandeleur say several times to papa that he
was but a soldier of fortune—which, you know,
means a soldier without any fortune ; and
though mine will be large, I have often heard
poor mamma say, it was only enough to entitle
VANDELEUR. 57
me to a larger : not to supply the place ot
both.”
“ You are wonderfully provident, Gertrude
exclaimed her brother, looking at her with
some surprise. “ I begin to think you are not
in love with Yandeleur after all.”
Another bright shy glance from eyes in-
stantly averted, and cast on the ground, with a
speaking though unconscious smile, told even
to the youthful brother, far better than words
could have done, not only that his first con-
jecture was the right one, but that she would
gladly share, not her large fortune alone, but
her last crust of bread, with the man they spoke
of ; and that in calculating as she did, it was
only in anxious anticipation of the objections
that might be urged by others against her mar-
rying him. He knew well the human heart
who said,
“ Who fondly loves must greatly fear.”
Her brother gazed for a moment on her
downcast face with a tenderness of feeling that
d 5
58 VANDELEUR.
might have become a father ; then twining his
arm more closely round her neck, he said :
“ That shall be no impediment, Gertrude.
I love Vandeleur myself, and papa and every
one seems to like him ; and if want of money
be the only objection to your marrying him,
you know I must hereafter inherit every shil-
ling of my father’s large fortune, except what
you receive as the settlement for younger
1
children, and I can easily prevail on him to
make over a part of it to you and Vandeleur
immediately.”
Gertrude was herself too generous, too un-
spoiled by the cold and artificial world—why
must we say—too young ? to see anything novel
or objectionable in this proposal, and only
answered it by raising her bright smiling face
to his.
“ Then it is to be, Gertrude ?” he asked in
a tone of fond, and almost pensive interroga-
tion :
“ what shall I do for my playmate and
dear pupil ?”
VANDELEUR. 59
“ Herbert, I will not leave you ! 1 will
never leave you for any one !” she exclaimed,
suddenly throwing herself into his arms, while
her eyes filled with tears.
“ Nay, my own Gertrude, this is childish ; I
did but jest. You know I am going almost
immediately to college ; and wherever you and
Vandeleur may settle, I can always come to
you. But, Gertrude, it is time to ask, has
Vandeleur spoken to you on the subject
yet ?”
“ Why, not absolutely ; but still I think I
can see that it is in his head.”
“ And I can see that you are in his heart
so when these two are agreed, it is pretty plain
what will follow—you know the hand lies be-
tween them.”
“ I have so longed to talk to you about it,
Herbert, but feared you would laugh at me.”
“ And did you think, Gertrude, that Lady
Augusta Starling would feel more seriously on
the subject?”
60 VANDELEUR.
“Lady Augusta Starling ! —no. I have been
obliged to take hers and her father's raillery in
good part ; but I have never spoken to her seri-
ously upon the subject.”
“ Have you not indeed ? Then, my sweet
sister, the sooner you make a merit of a neces-
sity the better ; for when she commences her
raillery, you always look so conscious, and so
beseechingly for mercy, that I assure you I
supposed you had made an acknowledged confi-
dant of her, and felt not a little jealous.”
“ Dearest Herbert, could you believe that
you should not be my first and only confidant ?
Besides, I have really known Lady Augusta so
short a time.”
“ Yes, but she is a fine and intelligent girl.
Our mothers once visited ; but since the death
of both, and Lady Augusta being sent to Lon-
don to be educated, there has been no way of
keeping up the intimacy, except when my
father happens to bring good old Lord Foxhill
home to dinner, when he meets him out hunt-
VANDELEUR. 61
ing. But now that Lady Augusta is returned,
I dare say they will see company, and be a
great acquisition to you, as they are such near
neighbours. She seems to like you more than
you do her.’
1
u Not more indeed, Herbert. I think her
very lively and agreeable, and like her very
much, so far : it was only when you spoke of
her and yourself together, that one liking was
lost sight of in the other.'”
“ Well, I am glad to hear it ; for if a certain
affair proceeds, I do not know whom else you
have to look to, for all the pretty little
offices necessary on those occasions ; as I
do not think our good Miss Wilson would be
exactly suited to be one of Cupid’s emissaries
or assistants, or even of old Hymen’s.”
u Nay, now, Herbert, you are quizzing me
after all. But, do you know, seriously, I think
Miss Wilson has been odd of late.”
“ How do you mean odd ? or how of late ?
for if there is any change, it must be to become
62 VANDELEUR.
less odd. Pour Vamour, what do you mean ?
By the bye, I shall use that form of entreaty to
you in future, my fair lady, as the most appro-
priate. So, pour ramour, tell me what you
mean about Miss Wilson.”
Gertrude was obliged to recover herself from
a fit of laughing at her own thoughts, ere
she was able to answer, “ You will think me
jealous if I tell you, that since Major Vandeleur
has been in the habit of coming here so often,
I observe a change in her manners and deport-
ment altogether. Well, Herbert—you make
no exclamation of surprise ? no reply ?”
“ I am waiting to understand you—to get
even a glimpse at what your meaning can be.”
“Well, then, I do assure you I have observed
what I say. She is become much more atten-
tive to her appearance, and looks much more
alive, than heretofore ; and, I think, even speaks,
or at least nods, more than usual.”
“ Well, granting it is so, what do you infer
from all this ?”
VANDELEUR. 68
“Nay, what would you infer from it?
[laughing.] —“ I tell you the change has taken
place since Major Vandeleur’s frequenting our
drawing-room .
11
“ Shall I tell you what I infer from it, Ger-
trude P
11
“ Certainly.
11
“ That you are realizing all I have ever
heard, but never before believed, of love not
only blinding the eyes, but turning the brain.
1 ’
“ Nay, but, my Herbert, it has only opened
my eyes, it seems.
11
“ But if you must fulfil all the prescribed
rules of an inamorata, and as, I confess, you
had not many to choose amongst here, why did
you not select Lady Augusta as a more worthy
object of jealousy P
11
“ In the first place, because, though the
change I speak of in Miss Wilson is as strange
as true, still I absolutely am not jealous ! —and
in the next place, because if I did want an
object on whom to practise such prettinesses,
64 VANDELEUR.
r
Lady Augusta could not be the one, as Major
Vandeleur and she are old friends; and you
know old friends never become new lovers.”
“ Where were they acquainted ?”
u In London, two years ago. They met at
Lord Hampton’s, where his mother lives, and
where Lady Augusta is always received very
kindly, as her father and the late marchioness
were related. She says Major Vandeleur was
exceedingly admired in London in the first cir-
cles, but that he vanished off the scene from
that time.—But, Herbert,” she continued, bash-
fully and almost pleadingly, “ tell me, do you
really think that if —mind, I say if—Major
Vandeleur should wish it, papa will give his
consent ?
”
“ Not unless Vandeleur asks it, most assur-
edly, however much he may wish it.”
“ Unkind Herbert ! why are you so teasing?”
“To make you speak candidly and simply
out at once, Gertrude.” Then, throwing his
arms fondly round her, and kissing her forehead,
VANDELEUR. 65
he hastily added :
“ I do—I do think he will —
must give his consent, my own dear Gertrude,
if it will make you happy.
11
“ Nay, you know I am so happy already
though I confess that now—I think —I believe,
—Herbert, you are laughing at me l
11
“ I am not, love ;
I am only laughing at
your hesitation to acknowledge what we all
know so well.’'’
“ What !
—what do you all know ?
11
she ex-
claimed, startled and blushing: —“not that I
wish to leave home P
11
“ No, no,
11
said her brother, smiling; “ only
whatever you were about to acknowledge your-
self, when my unlucky smile arrested it on
your lips .
11
“ I was only going to confess, that I should
now certainly miss Vandeleur’s society very
much.
11
“ Well, you shall not miss it, my dearest sister.
He is a fine, noble-looking fellow, and seems
very pleasing and amiable : the only possible
VANDELEUR.
66
objection I can think of is, that, if we under-
stood him rightly, his mother is governess, or
companion, or something of that sort, in some
nobleman’s family;—I hope she’s not like Miss
Wilson
!”
“You may be satisfied, then, that she is not
for Lady Augusta told me all about it, and it is
quite a particular case : it is in the Marquis of
Hampton’s family. He had but one daughter,
to whom Mrs. Vandeleur went rather as a second
mother, when the marchioness died, than as a
governess : she continued with her always, and
moved in the first circles with her. The young
lady is now married, and Mrs. Vandeleur con-
tinues to reside with her, and is held in the
highest respect and estimation.”
“ Oh ! this does indeed seem a distinct busi- •
ness from a mere common governess. But I
wonder, then, why Vandeleur thought it neces-
sary to bring it out as he did, —for it certainly
seemed to me to be done for the express pur-
pose of giving us information which he seemed
VANDELEUR. 67
to apprehend might not be pleasing; and it was
at the same time that he spoke of himself being
a soldier of fortune. He took the opportunity,
too, when only papa, you and I, and Mr. Ma-
son were present, as if to spare Miss Wilson
—and he certainly coloured when he mentioned
it : all this looked as if he himself felt it a
degradation.”
“ He looked as if he was what he is, the
noblest and most upright of men ! How well
I know why he mentioned it all in that way!
— not only that we might know the worst that
any one could think of it, but that we might
find it so much better in reality than he repre-
sented it.”
“ Well, that was a little Quixotic, too : how
will he look if he has given my father a pre-
judice he cannot remove ?”
“ You don’t think he has, Herbert ? I do
assure you, I have not exaggerated in the least
Lady Augusta’s account of it ; she even said that
they were known to be people of good con-
68 VANDELEUR.
nexions ; and you know Lady Augusta, though
not, I think, exquisitely high bred herself, has
been lately in very high society in London.
11
“ She has, I believe, and is a very good and
shrewd judge in these matters; and, happily
for you, I don’t think my father cares a fig for
them ; and I know he will have confidence
enough in me to make a considerable addition
to your fortune .
11
An affectionate kiss from Gertrude expressed
at once her happiness and thanks ;
and they
were proceeding homewards, now perfectly
silent, lost in their own sweet thoughts, and
innocent plans for a continuance of happi-
ness, which had never yet experienced a cloud ;
and probably offering up the incense of their
young hearts
1
gratitude for their being so
favoured amongst men, when Gertrude, per-
haps from that very reflection, suddenly ex-
claimed —
“ Oh ! Herbert ! did you remember to ride
over to read to the poor old dying woman who
VANDELEUR. 69
begged to see you as the clergyman was
absent ?”
u No ; indeed I am ashamed to say I did
not, and I do not deserve the happiness I
enjoy ; but I shall yet have time this lovely
evening, while you and Vandeleur row about
the lake, and I think my father must have re-
leased him from the dining-room before now ;
so, good-frye.”
“ Good-frye, dearest, dearest brother ! but if
you knew how dreadfully the thought of leav-
ing you takes from my happiness in the pro-
spect before me !”
“ Silly girl !
you will not leave me. Great
haste as you are in, very possibly it is I who
shall leave you, to enter college. You are not
married yet, remember, for all our wise saws.’'’
And away he flew.
How had Major Vandeleur been employed
while his fate was thus settled by his two
youthful and innocent admirers ?
For some time he was detained by Mr. Evelyn
70 VANDELEUR.
iii the dining-room ; but as lie was not anxious to
render himself particularly agreeable this lovely
evening within doors, in a room heated with the
fumes of dinner and of wine, when he guessed
that the lady of his love was enjoying far differ-
ent perfumes without, he was soon released.
Failing however in tracing her steps amidst the
intricacies of Beauton, he retired to the summer
sitting-room, which by custom had become almost
exclusively sacred to Gertrude and Herbert, and
there sat down to console himself for their ab-
sence by writing a letter to his mother, wdiich
we shall take the liberty of presenting to our
readers.
Letter from Major Vandeleur to his Mother.
“ My dear Mother ;
“ Many thanks for your kind letter and pre-
sent, or letter and kind present, I care not
which way you place the adjective, for I assure
you one was as acceptable to me as the other.
I plead guilty to your charge of having been a
VANDELEUR. 71
remiss correspondent of late ;
but I am about
to make amends for it now, by so long a letter
as, if I had not the privilege of enclosing to
your noble friend, would try, I think, even
your patience, all interesting as I know the
subject will prove to you. I told you in my
last how much I liked my present quarters,
and chiefly in consequence of two very agree-
able families, that of old Lord Foxhill and of
Mr. Evelyn ; and when I told you that Lord
Foxhill’s daughter, Lady Augusta Starling,
lively and beautiful, and witty and musical,
and well-dowered, was at her father’s old man-
sion here, you threw out some gentle insinu-
ations. But, my mother, did I not tell you at
the same time, that Gertrude Evelyn, though
N
neither witty, musical, or an heiress, was the
sweetest and most fascinating creature, without
my being exactly able to say why, that I ever
beheld—almost—(but let that pass). You say
I did not mention this ! Well, hear it from me
now, my mother. She is not yet quite sixteen,
72 VANDELEUR.
but she really is the most delightful mixture of
childishness, and woman’s best feelings, that
ever laid siege to a poor soldier’s heart. In one
thing she can compare with Lady Augusta
even in verbal description—she is quite beau-
tiful. You remember when our friend Lord
D was first presented to the beautiful
daughter of General G ~, his exclamation in
his own odd way of, ‘
Blue eyes and black
hair, how interesting !’ Add to this a very fair,
and particularly soft and beautiful skin, and
you will have the same odd jumble of beauties
united in her person, as is in her character ;
and the result is the same too — ‘ love and
> loveliness.’ She is petite,
but exquisite. With
a voice like a cherub, or, if that is a far-fetched
simile, like Joy whispering its own sweet se-
crets ! she is too airy to suffer it or her fingers
to be broke into order. Luckily her laugh is
music in itself, and does not require as much
entreaty to bring it forth, as the more artificial
music of other ladies. She is fond of painting,
VANDELEUR. 73
and lias done some pretty things. She rides—
was going to say like an angel, but that might
imply by the aid ofwings; and you, being a very
learned lady, might fancy I meant on Pegasus;
of which, to say truth, she is as guiltless as any
unlettered soldier could wish his wife to be.
No ; to speak seriously, her education, as it is
technically called, has been rather neglected
though the refinement of her late mother’s mind
and manners, which is universally admitted,
has given a polish to her children, which is even
striking already ; whilst her secluded, and vale-
tudinarian habits, left Gertrude without a com-
panion except her brother ; to which, I suppose,
may be attributed her blooming health and art-
less simplicity. But then, to make amends for
the want of a systematic education, she has
sweetness, amiability, vivacity, and a degree of
cleverness, that not only shows she would he an
apt scholar, hut which could not fail to interest
a man of taste and feeling ; in neither of which,
I trust, is your poor son wholly deficient. Then
VOL. i. E
74 VANDELEUIt.
her brother, who, though a year younger, is
already a perfect gentleman, and an enlightened
companion, has taught her all that she would
consent to learn from him ; but he complains
sadly of her idleness. They are devotedly at-
tached to each other, and really are a charming
and beautiful pair. Mr. Evelyn himself is a
good-humoured, hospitable sportsman ; but so
utterly unfit to be father to Gertrude—at least
to be her sole protector, that I think he would
not be very fastidious in the choice of a husband
for her, simply to free himself from the respon-
sibility of taking care of what he has some
vague idea is a treasure ;
just as a clown might
have of one of Raphael’s Madonnas—he neither
knows or loves her as he ought. Add to these
personages a most classical specimen of a tutor :
really one of the most genuinely good, and learn-
ed men, it has ever been my lot to meet with ;
and who, odd as it may seem, has taken a great
fancy to me—indeed, T am the only one, except
Herbert Evelyn, whom he ever volunteers to
VANDELEUR. 75
address. Nay, now it is odd, mother, notwith-
standing your partiality, and my own self-love.
For, whatever modest laurels I may have gained
as a schoolboy, they have been long crushed
down under my heavy helmet, till I fear not a
leaf of them remains. One more addition, and
you have the household of Mr. Evelyn com-
plete, and even some of the furniture ; for cer-
tainly little better than a sweeping-brush dress-
ed up in petticoats, is a thing who is here by
way of keeping Miss Evelyn in countenance in
this bachelor’s house. I have never yet heard
the sound of her voice by any accident
but when I insisted to Miss E. that she
must be dumb, she assured me that she
was not ; that when first she came, she used to
answer at dinner,—but that now she has so
broken them into her 4
nods, and becks, and
wreathed smiles,
1
(ye gods ! what a smile it is!)
that she is enabled to dispense with words alto-
gether ! Miss Evelyn is pleased to say that
I see her to particular advantage ; that she
E 2
76 VANDELEUR.
dresses much better, and her signs are much
more frequent, since my arrival —dear soul !
But you will wonder to what all this long his-
tory is tending — will you, my mother ? Well,
it is tending, or intended at least, to make you
intimately acquainted with a family, with whom
it would be the pride, and happiness, of my ex-
istence, to become connected, through the lovely
daughter. Young men in general make choice
of each other to become the depositaries of such
secrets as this; but, besides that some passages
of my past life, too sacred even for friendship’s
ear, have necessarily fallen under your eye,
and thereby formed a more than common bond
between us—besides this, I have never much
relished committing these little matters to mas-
culine sympathies. Hear me then, my mother :
T love Gertrude Evelyn as I never thought I
should have loved woman again —Again, did I
say ? nay, it is as unlike what has passed by as a
dream in a former state of existence —as if the
two feelings did not come under the same denomi-
VANDELEUR. 77
nation. And it is much better that it should he
so : had it been at all of the same kind, it never
could have equalled it, in respect, devotion—
had nearly said worship. But now it is a species
in itself, new and delicious : I love her as an
angelic child ; I adore her as a lovely woman ;
who, by re-wakening feelings that I thought
had slept for ever, has already restored me to
happiness. It is true, she is some ten or twelve
years younger than I am ; but what of that ? she
is so young that it does not make me an old
man ; and in good faith, if I can win her, I think
I shall make her as good a guardian as her father
does. Nor do I think the little angel is wholly
unconscious of my passion : she blushes at my
approach, and I have sometimes thought I de-
tected a bright glance exchanged between her
and her brother, when any little confusion or
blundering at table, or elsewhere, has obliged
me to make any marked effort to get near her ;
nor has the glance been an unjoyous one,
and seldom unaccompanied by an irrepressible
78 YANDELEUR.
smile on that loveliest and most ingenuous of
mouths; while the gentlemanly and more cau-
tious youth, generally, in endeavouring to avert,
is sure to confirm my suspicions, by a deep
blush, and an effort to look grave. Cannot you
fancy them very charming and interesting ? If
I should be so blest as to win Gertrude, I really
think half—no, perhaps not so much —but a
great deal of my happiness will consist in be-
coming elder brother to him. I have formed
a sincere, and serious friendship for, and with
him, far beyond what, without knowing him,
you could suppose possible with one of his age.
But, after all, what pretensions have I to such
a girl as Miss Evelyn ? This sometimes presses
heavily on my consideration. The small, very
small inheritance which your generosity and
maternal affection induced you to leave for me,
unburthened even by your own support, when I
was too young to understand the sacrifice you
made, until you had become too much attached
to, and too much beloved by your angelic pupil,
VANDELEUR. 79
to think of parting from her ; this trifling in-
heritance, and my pay as major of dragoons, not
only does not entitle me to aspire to a young
lady of Miss Evelyn’s handsome—nay, very
large fortune, not to mention any other con-
siderations, —but scarcely, I fear, sets me above
the suspicion of very great presumption. From
the charge of mercenary views, indeed, the best
safeguard is in her charming self. Mr. Eve-
lyn’s large property is strictly entailed upon his
son, and failing him, upon his daughter ; and,
although I can safely assert that I should rather
have himself as a brother, both for Gertrude’s
dear sake and my own, than have his fortune
by his death, still this entail renders her right
(in Smithfield language) to a noble match, all
the stronger : however, we shall see. Her
father seems to me not to value her half enough
—and perhaps poor somebody’s chance is all
the better for that.—But I must break off, for I
see her just coming up towards the house, from
a walk on which she mischievously set out with
80 VANDELEUR.
her brother, before I could make my escape
from the dining-room ; and as he is not returned
with her, I must go in civility and escort her.
No, my mother, no disguise with you—I cannot
stay away from her. However, as I sleep here
to-night, I shall finish my letter in the morning
and perhaps, perhaps, for she does look so
beautiful this moment, carolling along the walk
without shawl or bonnet.
“ My mother ! it is true ! it is as my soul
whispered me ! My sweet, my lovely, my an-
gelic girl loves me, with a depth and fervour,
which I now perceive I did not dare to antici-
pate from her years. Her father has accepted
me, and I am the very happiest fellow that
treads this beautiful and happy earth. I would
go through particulars for you if I could ; but I
cannot. She looked so lovely and so conscious,
when I joined her the evening before last, when
I threw by my letter, that I know not how it
was, in questioning that consciousness, that I
was emboldened to plead my own cause.
VANDELEUR. 81
Yesterday everything was settled between Mr.
Evelyn and me : lie certainly is off-handed and
liberal enough. Dear Herbert is nearly as hap-
py as I am, though pensive on it, instead of
gay. His wedding present, by his father’s con-
sent, is a lieutenant-colonelcy for me ; and they
are to give Gertrude a few thousands extra for
her wedding-clothes, carriages, &c. &c. so we
shall do extremely well : at all events, we are,
and will be extremely happy. Congratulate
me, my mother, and, in good old phrase, give
me your blessing. I even made my confession,
and told my dear, dear Gertrude, that though
now my only, she was not myfirst love: she fixed
her dear eyes on me with a kind of childish
disappointment for a moment, but was soon
perfectly reassured, and accepted my candour
instead.—Nowr
,
am I not dutiful to write so
much to you at such a time ? Ah ! but who wept
with me in other times ?—she who will now, I
trust, rejoice with me.—Gertrude has not yet
made her appearance this morning ; which is an
e 5
82 VANDELEUR.
unusual thing, as it is past her hour, and a morn-
ing bright as our prospects. I think I hear her
light step now.—Adieu, my dear mother ; God
ever bless you !
“ Your affectionate son,
“Godfrey Vandeleur.
“ P.S.—It is not she, after all. I wonder
what makes her so unusually late. You re-
member my servant Wliitecross ; his wife is
maid to Lady Augusta Starling, and when she
came here with Lady Augusta, she set up such
a romance about me through the house, that it
really became quite disagreeable ; as, for her
worthy husband’s sake, I did not care to enter
into the particulars of that bygone story. She
certainly is a grateful creature, but rather ob-
streperous in her gratitude.—Adieu ! I hear
Gertrude now. I shall see you soon, for I must
run up to town previous to . Addio,
cara /”
From the moment of this auspicious proposal
nothing could exceed the happiness at Beauton
VANDELEUR. 83
Park. Mr. Evelyn, at all times jovial and good-
humoured, felt now not only as if a weight, a
care, a responsibility, had been removed from
his shoulders, but as if he himself must in some
way have deserved credit for his only daugli-.
ter’s being so soon, and so eligibly settled in life
and in this complex feeling of relief, and self-
gratulation, he grew fonder of Gertrude than he
had ever been before. Herbert’s love could
know no increase ; but a kind of tender respect
towards the young bride, the chosen of Major
Vandeleur, began now to mingle with it, and
the effect was delightful. Mr. Mason became
sincerely interested in hers and Major Vande-
leur’s happiness ; and such was the diffusive
nature of this general good-will, that even im-
passive Miss Wilson did not wholly escape the
infection. In her, however, it was manifested
in a manner peculiar to herself, and such as
served to show, that if Gertrude was mistaken
in the cause she affected to assign for the change
in her Duenna’s deportment, it was neverthe-
84 VANDELEUR.
less more dependant on the time and circum-
stance of Major Vandeleur’s arrival, than she
herself had ventured to imagine.
The establishment at Beauton, though on a
very liberal scale, was not, as may be imagined,
conducted with the elegance or propriety of a
nobleman’s house in London, or even of that of
a man of half Mr. Evelyn’s fortune, in the pre-
sent improved state of society. For instance, if
a servant was unexpectedly dismissed for some
misdemeanour, Mr. Evelyn would never think
of replacing him until, perhaps, some day when
more persons than usual were expected to din-
ner, Gertrude or Herbert might observe to
him, that there were not servants enough to
attend at table; and then his answer would be
—u Oh, d it ! then let John the under-
groom, or Tom the helper, slip on that fellow’s
livery and come in : I suppose they can carry
a plate from one to another ? I must certainly
inquire for a servant to-morrow.” The conse-
quence was, that many little gaucheries and
VANDELEUR. 85
vexatious contretemps occurred from time to
time, from which he would have been glad to
purchase exemption at double the man’s wages,
when it was no longer possible.
It was upon one of these occasions that Miss
Wilson did more towards proving the truth of
the metaphysical doctrine, of all being alike in
all, already alluded to, in describing her cha-
racter, or —want of it, than all that has ever
been conjectured upon the subject. It was one
of her distinguishing traits —indeed almost ne-
cessarily so, to be remarkably indifferent about
her dress. Not that she was offensively slovenly,
but only seemed to escape from that by some
odd chance, or habit, impressed upon her in some
lucky moment. And here again her inertia stood
her friend ; for the one decent dark dress, which
had first been prescribed for her, she invariably
replaced, when it seemed to threaten a change,
by another critically the same. Of late, how-
ever, as Miss Evelyn had remarked, the dark
gown was sometimes superseded by a pale and
86 VANDELEUR.
faded lilac silk, which might have had its birth
in the days of good Queen Bess ; and on the
occasion above alluded to, when a few more
gentlemen than usual were to dine at Beauton,
not only did she make her appearance in this
gothic piece of finery, but an additional bow of
ribbon upon her cap, left no doubt upon the
minds of any, but that Miss Wilson intended to
act the belle. Major Yandeleur, albeit he had
other occupation for his eyes just then, could
not, as she placed herself opposite to him at
dinner, fail to observe her grotesque appear-
ance, and whispered to Gertrude, as he took his
place beside her
“ You must now tax your mischievous inge-
nuity to find out some other reason for all this
finery, than a design on me for, unless she
means to carry me off vi et armis,
she must
have given up all hopes since Thursday. But
changed she certainly is ; even I myself can now
perceive it. Do look, Gertrude, how she ogles
about ! What can be the meaning of it ? Is the
old bachelor you told me of at dinner to-day ?”
VANDELEUR. 87
“ No, nonsense ! lie lias been at Batli for
bis health since before you came to the country;
and positively it is since you came, that she has
grown so very ridiculous !”
Vandeleur laughed, as he always did when
Gertrude, with evident seriousness, dated Miss
Wilson’s altered eye from this period. “ Can
it be rejoicing over your happy prospects ?”
he asked in the same tone of playful raillery.
“ I do not know, but the effect is most melan-
choly : it really makes me uneasy ; I am some-
times afraid she is going mad.”
“ You need not and if she were, her mad-
ness is more amusing than her idiocy. But take
my word for it, that there is something besides
madness here : the disease is of the heart, and
not of the head.”
“ What can you possibly mean ? Are you
becoming a convert to my jealous apprehen-
sions r
“ No; I mean simply this,—that she thinks,
since you are about to marry, it is time for her
to
4
go and do likewise.’ Believe me, Ger-
88 VANDELEUR.
trude, that bow upon her cap is intended to
shoot arrows
“ Though where they aim at, no one dreameth.”
The words had scarcely passed his lips, when
the whole party was startled, and the very
glasses on the table made to tremble, by a
piercing shriek ; and Miss Wilson, with her eyes
distended beyond even their usual inane dimen-
sions, and fastened upon Gertrude with a look
of reproachful appeal, was heard to exclaim in
a shrill loud scream of despair, “ Ooh ! the
breadth of my gown !”
Had the gown itself cried out from agony at
the scalding soup, which it was now discovered,
had been, by “ Tom the helper,
1
'’
precipitated
upon it, it could scarcely have produced a more
startling effect upon every one present. Upon
Gertrude it was such, that she flew round the
table to the rescue, as if irresistibly impelled
by the startling appeal that had been made to
her ; and when arrived there, she found to her
amazement that the whole was produced simply
VANDELEUR. 89
by the passive machine, the walking automa-
ton—“ the passionless, fusionless’” Miss Wilson,
proving herself to he “ a woman still”—in per-
fect agony over an injured dress ! Gertrude,
absolutely bewildered by the phenomenon, en-
deavoured to console her in terms more suited
to the effect than to the cause, and several nap-
kins were applied to repair the injury : but all
efforts were alike in vain to soothe Miss Wil-
son ; the ice was broken, the long-pent stream
burst forth, and on she flowed :
“ Oh, Miss Evelyn, my gown ! my gown !
the only handsome, dressy- looking one, I ever
had ! and as the front breadth was a little
soiled, I had just got it altered, and put it to
the side !
—oh ! and put it to the left side on
purpose that if anything was spilt it should
fall on it ! but that odious ‘
Tom the helper,
,
(darting a look of fury at him,) who never does
anything as he ought, comes flouncing round
to my right, and empties the plate on my good
side !”
90 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude actually recoiled a few paces
with horror at this awful speech; and there
were none present at the moment, who had
not been in Miss Wilson’s company often
enough to be fully aware of the extraordinary
circumstance of any speech from her. Even
placid, gentle Mr. Mason was startled from his
usual negative avoidance of her, and advanced
a step or two from his place, muttering, “ Poor
woman !
poor creature ! what ails her ? she must
be ill ; something has touched her head —
while Mr. Evelyn kept exclaiming eagerly
from the other end of the table, “ What is the
matter ? what is all that ? will nobody answer
me ? was it Miss Wilson who cried out and
spoke ?”
His doubts were about to be solved on the
instant, by the lady herself, who turned and
glared on him with that intent, holding up the
fatal “ breadth” between her hands, when Ger-
trude, though really palpitating with alarm,
apprehending another disgraceful exposure,
VANDELEUR. 91
hastily exclaimed, in a tone to which her anx-
iety lent decision, “ Miss Wilson, for Heaven’s
sake speak no more ! Pray sit down, and
compose yourself, I beg !” Anything like au-
thority was too habitual in its influence over
Miss Wilson, to be rejected even in that mo-
ment of unnatural excitement ; and after turn-
ing round from Mr. Evelyn to Gertrude with
“ the breadth” still stretched between her hands,
and an idiotic look and sob of despair, she
mechanically resumed her place, and order was
to all appearance restored. But the adventures
of the night terminated not so peaceably : the
flames of a hidden fire may be partially sub-
dued, but if the source be not extinguished
they will surely burst out anew.
When the party assembled next morning at
breakfast, Gertrude and Major Vandeleur, as
they each successively made their appearance,
inquired for Mr. Mason, who was so regular in
his habits, that, not to find him reading in the
window of the breakfast-parlour, was little less
92 VANDELEUR.
strange, than if that window itself had disap-
peared. The first inquiries passed without
answer or apparent notice ;
but as breakfast
proceeded, and Gertrude inquired more seriously
of Miss Wilson if she knew what had become
of Mr. Mason, Mr. Evelyn, unable longer
to contain himself, burst out into a long, loud,
and uncontrollable fit of laughter. Herbert
raised his cup to his face, as if to conceal a
smile ; and Miss Wilson put a larger piece of
bread than usual into her mouth, but showed
no other symptom of concern. Vandeleur
and Gertrude stared from one of the party to
the other ; but as no one seemed disposed
to answer their looks of intelligence, they
were obliged to turn them upon each other.
Presently Mr. Evelyn, either unable to recover
himself, or wishing for a companion in his
mirth, rose from the table, and touching Major
Vandeleur’s shoulder slightly as he passed him,
they left the room together. The moment they
got outside the door, Mr. Evelyn proceeded
VANDELEUR. 93
without further preface, to inform Vandeleur
that Mr. Mason had actually fled the house for
no other purpose, than to shun the persecution
of Miss Wilson’s love ! Vandeleur of course
thought the joke too good to be true ; but he
was soon satisfied of his sceptical error, and
his enjoyment of it then, was scarcely inferior
to that of Mr. Evelyn himself.
The circumstances were as follows: —It was
Mr. Mason’s custom, especially when any stran-
gers dined at Beauton, to leave the dining-room
almost immediately after the ladies, to enjoy
either a solitary walk, or the society of more
instructive companions in the library. To this
apartment, which immediately adjoined his own,
and which was nearly as sacred from the intru-
sion of the females of the family, or indeed of
Mr. Evelyn himself, though not from exactly
the same reasons, he had betaken himself for a
quiet hour, on the evening of the gown adven-
ture. Not being able to lay his hand on a
book which he had been reading before dinner,
94 VANDELEUR.
lie passed on into liis own room, to see whether
lie might not have left it there. He had not
been many minutes engaged in this search,
when his attention was arrested by hearing a
light, at least a female’s, step in the library.
He was surprised, but resolved to wait until the
unwelcome visiter, who had probably merely
come in search of some old romance, should
have retired. The step, however, was suddenly
checked, as if from uncertainty or disappoint-
ment, ere it had advanced many paces into the
room. There was a moment’s pause ; the step
was resumed, and seemed approaching towards
his bed-room : he turned quickly round to see
whom it could be, and, let the reader imagine his
astonishment, when he beheld Miss Wilson ad-
vanced several paces into his room, and stand-
ing before him with a simper on her odd face
that seemed to say —“ Yes, here I am !”
Mr. Mason certainly was no Hector ; his lite-
rary habits, if not his natural character, pre-
cluded this ; but neither was he deficient in that
VANDELEUR. 95
moral courage, the constant attendant on the
wise and good. Yet must it he confessed, that
as this apparition met his view, and all the
accompanying circumstances darted into his
mind,—his remote chamber—the solitary hour
Miss Wilson’s exhibition at dinner—the miracu-
lous breadth of the gown, which had caused
even the dumb to speak, now impassively inter-
posed between him and the library, the only
place where he felt himself invincible and
hitherto safe, — the simper broaden upon the
inane countenance—her venturing, or even find-
ing her way, up his staircase at all, —and, though
last not least, the sudden change from her usually
quiet and unobtrusive deportment;—as all these
circumstances crowded at once upon his mind,
it must be confessed that his courage so utterly
forsook him, that he first glanced at the door,
which was behind her, and which therefore he
could not gain without passing nearer to her
then at the windows, which were behind him-
self, but which being some thirty feet from the
96 VANDELEUR.
ground, lie could not escape by without the
risk of breaking his neck, and finally edged
towards the fire-place, in order to be within
reach of—the poker !
Alas ! it is too true ! Miss Wilson, whe-
ther it was that she perceived his design and
wished to arrest it, or whether it was that
she thought she had acted dumb show long
enough, suddenly jerked herself (it could not
be called springing,) towards him, and, seizing
one of his hands between both hers, looked
up into his face with an expression which, if
not insinuating, was certainly meant to be
so, as she stood precisely in the attitude in
which Liston says, “ I hope I don’t intrude !”
and continued to simper and peer in a fearful
manner with both lips and eyes. Good, gentle,
gentlemanly Mr. Mason l —it is painful to expose
any little weakness on his part—but the best
and greatest of us are mortal still, and subject,
at some unlucky moment, to human frailties
and affections ! —The truth must be told—the
good old man shouted aloud !
VANDELEUR. .97
It was of no use —Miss Wilson was un-
daunted ! We have already said that the ice
that incrusted her meagre intellect, and bound
her tongue, was broken, by whatever spell ; and
her imbecility once set a-going, it was as impos-
sible to stop it, as it had hitherto proved to ex-
cite her. Mr. Mason struggled to release his
hand, and she struggled to retain it ; and as he
was absolutely trembling with terror, and ner-
vously anxious to avoid further contact with her,
by using his other hand, she was successful, in
spite of all his efforts, in retaining her grasp of
his thin fingers, while now stretched on tip-toe,
she kept shrilly crying out —“ Mr. Mason ! Mr.
Mason !
you mistake me, sir ; I ’m not going to
hurt you ! Why, dear me, sir, hear reason ; I
don’t want to hurt you !”
It is impossible to say how this most unusual
struggle might have terminated, but that, just
as it had arrived at this point, one of the wo-
men servants, who usually arranged the sleep-
ing apartments at that hour, suddenly opened a
VOL. i. F
98 VANDELEUR.
door of the room, which Mr. Mason had forgot-
ten in his sudden terror, being one he never
used, and which only opening on the servants’
staircase, the housemaid generally kept locked.
No sooner did she put her head into the room,
and perceive how it was occupied, than, utter-
ing a faint scream, she hastily withdrew. This
seemed to have some slight effect even upon
Miss Wilson, and she involuntarily slackened
her hold ; which Mr. Mason instantly taking
advantage of, with a vigorous effort shook his
hand free, and made towards the door by which
the woman had retired. Miss Wilson pursued
him. It was needless. The woman, true to
her constant custom, in her amazement departed
not from it, and had locked the door behind
her ! Mr. Mason groaned, and Miss Wilson
chuckled ! He turned his eyes heavily and
despairingly towards the other door ; and the
fearful barrier being now removed, he made a
desperate rush towards it. Alas ! he was a
frail and feeble old man ! Miss Wilson per.
VANDELEUR. 99
ceived his design, and plunged after him ;
and
being much the more active of the two, she
reached the goal first ; and as she whisked
round in triumph, having locked the door, and
popped the key into the unfathomable depths of
her pocket, Mr. Mason and she dashed plump
against each other ! Miss Wilson absolutely
laughed. If the laugh of Dominie Sampson
produced a very serious effect upon a delicate
woman, most certainly that of Miss Wilson did
not leave Mr. Mason unmoved ; or rather, it
rendered him immovable. He sank down upon
a chair in utter exhaustion both of mind and
body, really beginning to think that all the
powers of earth, if not of another region, were
leagued against him, and faintly repeated to
himself — u Oh, my God, what is all this !
Miss Wilson took advantage of his apparent
resignation, and approached him : he hastily
pressed his hands over his eyes, as if to avail
himself of the only means that were left him to
escape at least from beholding the frightful
f 2
100 VANDELEUR.
vision. She, however, remained perfectly un-
moved, and addressed him in these words :
“ Now, Mr. Mason, what is the matter with
you ? why do you treat me so rudely ?”
The hand was for a moment withdrawn to
wither her with a look of indignant astonish-
ment ; but as it utterly failed of its effect,
after another hopeless glance at both the doors,
the hand was firmly replaced, and she continued
with the utmost solemnity —
“ Mr. Mason, are you saying your prayers ?
I thought you were going to answer me : why
do you treat me so rudely, (no movement from
the poor despairing old man now,) by receiving
me in such a manner, when I am come into
your room to speak to you on a most serious
business ?”
A low stifled groan told more plainly than
any words could have done, that, let the busi-
ness be what it might, to him it was serious
enough.
She proceeded. “Yes, Mr. Mason, and a
VANDELEUR. 101
business that concerns you as well as me. You
see, Miss Evelyn is going to be married, and
Mr. Herbert going to college
1,1
She paused, and once more the hand was
withdrawn, in utter amazement at so rational
an observation from her ; and though habit so
far prevailed as to prevent his thinking it neces-
sary to use words to her, his countenance pretty
plainly expressed, “ Well?'”
“ Well,
11
she said ;
“ and what is then to be-
come of you and me P
11
His countenance grew dark and despairing
again.
“ Indeed, Mr. Mason, I should never think
of coming forward in this manner if you were a
young man ; but as you have seen that other
men, your superiors in rank and fortune, have
courted me, and as you are a poor desolate
old man, there can be no harm in my saying
at once to you, that it seems to me the best
thing we can do is to marry and take care of
each other I
11
102 VANDELEUR.
We must leave the matter here; no words,
no language, could give any idea of Mr. Mason’s
situation at the moment his cars received these
words, uttered, as they evidently were, in per-
fect seriousness and earnestness. He stared,
he gaped, he literally gasped at her ; and the
first words he uttered since she entered the
room were, after a considerable pause, and
with the utmost solemnity, as if a new light had
broken on him —
“ Woman ! are you drunk ?”
“ Drunk ! indeed I am not, Mr. Mason. But
now just tell me what better we could do ?”
Another stare of more unmixed horror and
detestation was followed by the answer
“To die ! and be d—d !”
If we have succeeded in giving our readers
the remotest idea of Mr. Mason’s natural and
acquired gentleness and philosophy, this violent
answer will go farther than any description, to
show the state of horror and despair to which
he was driven ; and, let it be remembered, all
VANDELEUR. 103
this time hopelessly locked up with his tormen-
tor in his own room !
She remained still utterly unmoved.
“ Nay, now, Mr. Mason, why do you an-
swer that way ? You cannot but have some
feeling for me, after living so many years
together.
11
u I have r he groaned forth, with an empha-
sis that could not have been mistaken by any one
else, but by obtuse Miss Wilson it really was.
“ And now, Mr. Mason, if you have, what
hinders you from marrying me, and our spend-
ing our lives together P
11
“ Woman ! spend your life with the devil if
you will ! what have you or I to do with each
other P
11
“ Just this, sir; that you "’ll see, if we marry
together, the family will settle something hand-
some on us to support us .
11
It must here be remembered that Mr. Mason
was a liberal, learned, and gentlemanly-minded
man, though from adverse circumstances and his
104 VANDELEUR.
own primitive simplicity, he never rose above
being dependent on bis talents for comfortable
support. It may be imagined, then, bow far the
consideration now suggested tended to sweeten
bis inamorata’s preceding proposal. It actu-
ally roused him to fury, and suddenly spring-
ing from bis seat, be seized her by the arm, and
exclaimed, “Woman !
you are either drunk or
possessed with an evil spirit. Give me the key
this very moment, or I vow to Heaven I will
take it by force, and throw you out of the
window !”
Miss Wilson was not one of those sensitive
persons to whom cowardice belongs, and accord-
ingly she began once more
“ Now, Mr. Mason ” but he stopped
her short by turning to the bell, and ringing it
furiously, exclaimed, “ Now, madam, see bow
you will look when the servants fly up, think-
ing I am only on fire !”
She did consider it, and instantly producing
the key, banded it to him; though, while be was
VANDELEUR. 105
unlocking the door, she kept muttering, “ Well,
Mr. Mason, you are not wise—you don’t know
what’s good for you. God knows, I meant
nothing but to secure a provision for us both
in the simplest manner; and you’re ungrateful
too, for it is to please you that I have studied
my dress of late ! and little I’d have cared about
the breadth of my gown but for you /”
Mr. Mason, who by this time had got the
door open, gave her one more look of contemp-
tuous aversion, and was motioning her out
through the library, when she said, “ Well, if I
had foreseen all this, I’ll engage I never would
have refused Mr. Nelson : but, besides that I
never thought of Miss Evelyn’s marrying so
soon, I thought that whenever it did happen I
was always sure of you !” And so saying, she
left the room, apparently without resentment or
confusion, by one door just as the servants en-
tered by the other.
Of course the woman who answered the bell
appeared with a grin and a simper.
10G VANDELEUR.
“ Go tell your master I must speak with him
instantly.
1’
The woman stared. “ My master, sir, has
not left the dining-room yet.”
“No matter ; tell him I must speak with him
this very moment.”
The message was sent in, and in a few mi-
nutes Mr. Evelyn came running up stairs, all
astonishment and curiosity, having first ascer-
tained from the servant that no accident had
happened. He found Mr. Mason busily en-
gaged packing up his clothes.
“ Good God ! Mr. Mason, what’s the mat-
ter ? where are you going ?”
“ Oh, sir, to perdition, I believe ; my brain is
turned—I never was in such a state before.”
“ Explain yourself, Mr. Mason, I entreat
you ; what has happened, in the name of Hea-
ven ?”
“ Oh, mention any name but that, sir ! The
infernal- But no, I won’t debase myself.”
VANDELEUR. 107
And as calmly as lie could lie informed Mr.
Evelyn of the scene that had just occurred.
It may easily be guessed what intensity of
delight it afforded to a man of Mr. Evelyn’s
idle but jovial disposition and habits. He laugh-
ed until he saw Mr. Mason had nearly con-
cluded his packing, utterly regardless of his
mirth ; he then endeavoured most anxiously to
dissuade him from his purpose of departure ;
and, finally, when he could not laugh him out
of it, by pointing out the ridicule that would
necessarily attach itself to the procedure, he
seriously assured him, that if either must quit
the field, Miss Wilson should be the one. But
of this Mr. Mason would not hear : he said,
and said truly, that he had all along intended
absenting himself during the wedding festivi-
ties ; that this untoward matter only hastened
his departure ; and that Herbert was long as fit
for college as he could render him. In short,
all that Mr. Evelyn could obtain was his pro-
108 VANDELEUR.
mise not to engage himself elsewhere, without
communicating with them again ; and as Miss
Wilson’s services would probably terminate
with Miss Evelyn’s marriage, that he would
then return to them at least upon a visit.
It was then settled that, in order to avoid
exciting curiosity and explanations, no one
should be made aware of his intentions that
night except Herbert ; and before any of the
rest of the family had left their pillows next
morning, he was driven by his attached and
grateful pupil, to the town of B ,
to meet the
coach that started from thence for the north of
England, where his family resided. His books
and more heavy luggage he left behind him as
a pledge of his return.
Such were the consequences that ensued from
the unlooked-for, unhoped-for, unexpected pro-
posal of marriage from one sickly old bachelor,
operating upon a weak and nearly idiotic mind,
which admitted of but one idea—that of provi-
sion—not emolument—merely provision ; and
VANDELEUR. 109
even that, only by negative means, such as
should be suggested by others, and not coun-
teracted by herself. The moment she attempt-
ed to act or think for herself, all was absurd
chaos : and her having resisted the probably
not very pressing, or energetic proposal of Mr.
Nelson, can only be accounted for, by sup-
posing, in addition to what she said herself, that
she really was so taken by surprise, (it being
the first time in her life such an address had
ever been made to her,) that she knew not
what she did.
Some will be pleased to say that such sur-
prises generally affect ladies the other way
but those are ladies whose thoughts have
been long and deeply engaged upon the subject
in the affirmative light, which Miss Wilson’s in
reality never had been. Besides, to counter-
balance whatever of that propensity is abso-
lutely inseparable from a lady’s nature, the first
*
mention of it only presented to her mind the
prospect of quitting the substantial comforts of
no VANDELEUR.
Beauton ; and as she never had been in the
habit of looking before her, this prospect, which
would have been the one ever present to a more
rational mind, in order to provide against its
consequences, came to her with all the force of
a most disagreeable novelty, and she hastily re-
jected what seemed to her calculated to produce
it. When the marriage of Miss Evelyn forced
the consideration on her mind again, and she
saw no one appearing desirous to renew Mr.
Nelson’s offer, she, for the first time, ventured
to think and act for herself—with what effect
the reader is aware, and we must only hope
that it might deter her from such unnatural
efforts of mind in future. It seemed for the
present, indeed, to have done so ; for she at
once subsided again into her own quiet and taci-
turn habits ; and even her dress, to the morti-
fication of Major Vandeleur’s vanity, sank to
its former level, or perhaps a little below it.
It was remarkable that she never even once in-
quired what had become of Mr. Mason. In
VANDELEUll. Ill
former times, indeed, this would not have been
noticed in her ; but, after such an explosion,
minor sparks were naturally expected still, now
and then, to scintillate.
It was not so, however ; she was true to her
second self ; and as Gertrude, though she now
experienced an odd and unpleasantly uncertain
feeling towards her, would not suffer her to be
quizzed or tormented on the subject, the family
resumed their usual habits, as far as she was
concerned, as much as if no such disturbance
had ever occurred. The ocean subsides as per-
fectly after a rock has been cast from an Al-
mighty hand, as when a pebble has been flung
by an infant : the greatest misfortunes or the
greatest joys are forgotten in their effects, as
well as the trifle of the moment ; the only dif-
ference is in the time they each require.
In the mean while, days flew by at Beauton
on the wings of love —the most rapid, but the
least enduring of Time’s many wings ! The first
cloud that was seen to hover over those assem-
112 VANDELEUR.
bled there, since the auspicious hour of Major
Vandeleur’s arrival amongst them, appeared on
the occasion of his going to London, to make
some necessary arrangements, and to bring his
mother to be present at his wedding. Still, it
was but a summer-cloud ; and so bright, and so
pure, was the expanse of happiness across which
it passed, that it excited a smile rather than
a tear, in the grateful hearts which it over-
shadowed. He departed ; and we shall avail
ourselves of his absence to take a peep at his
past life, and endeavour to throw light upon
one or two allusions which he made to other
days, in his letter to his mother.
VANDELEUR. 113
CHAPTER IV.
Can I not serve you ? you are young, and of
That mould which throws out heroes ;
fair in favour,
* * * * *
*****
And doubtlessly, with such a form and heart,
Would look into the fiery eyes of war
As ardently for glory as you dared
An obscure death to save an unknown stranger.
Werner.
Godfrey Vandeleur’s father had been the
younger son of a respectable, but by no means
wealthy family. Nor bad they to boast of, or
bewail, any gradual or sudden u decline and
fall.
11
They bad for generations been respect-
able both in class and character, and there was
no record of their ever having been much higher
or much lower in human estimation—probably,
114 VANDELEUR.
therefore, they never had been. His mother
had more to boast of : she was the daughter
of a clergyman much more highly connected
but as she was one of nine daughters,
“ Her portion was but scant
and as the glebe-house occupied by her father
was very near to one of the residences of his
noble friend and patron, the Marquis of Hamp-
ton, into whose society it was the darling hope
of his heart to see his children as they grew up
admitted, he made that portion still smaller,
by educating each of them “ to the top of their
bent.” Mrs. Vandeleur was at once the most
amiable, and the most highly-gifted amongst
them ; and yet, as it was impossible for a con-
scientious clergyman to confine his family to
the occasional society of Lord Hampton’s man-
sion, she formed an attachment with Mr. Van-
deleur, which was extremely regretted by her
father. She would not offend him ; and there-
fore it was not until after his death, which, by
depriving his children of the chief source of
YANDELEUR. 115
their provision, and all their claim to “ looking
high,” rendered Mr. Yandeleur a perfectly
suitable match for her, that she yielded to the
dictates of an affection, which, had she followed
her own inclinations, would have led her to
share a throne with him, if such had been her
lot. They purchased the lease of a small farm
between them, and retired to it, determined to
endeavour by close attention, and strict economy,
to avoid the guilt of bringing a family into the
world to abject poverty, and its almost constant
attendant, vice.
The education which the young ladies had
received, the cultivation of their father, and the
society they had mingled in, could not fail to
impart a polish and elegance both of mind and
manners to Mrs. Yandeleur and her sisters,
which produced different effects on their differ-
ent tempers. Some, when their father’s death
deprived them of these advantages, preferred
brooding over past enjoyments in solitary retire-
ment, or boasting of them among humbler
116 VANDELEUR.
friends, to forgetting them in any subordinate
station ;
while Mrs. Vandeleur, with a superior
mind, and more real dignity of character, only
looked back to more prosperous times with
grateful acknowledgment for the means she
had acquired in them, of rendering her husband’s
lowly home more agreeable to him, and of
educating her family herself, without incurring
the expense of other teachers.
All this promised fairly ; but when, after
about nine years of wedded happiness, Mr. Van-
deleur paid the forfeit of his life, for the impru-
dence of standing out too long under violent
rain, in his anxiety to see some part of his har-
vest made safe from injury, the scene to his
widow was sadly changed. He left her with
two children, a boy and girl ; and although, by
his prudent and diligent management, they had
hitherto found their little property amply suffi-
cient for their wants and moderate wishes, Mrs.
Vandeleur soon found the difference between a
VANDELEUR. 117
master's eye and that of a timid woman, now
sunk in the depths of affliction.
Still, she felt unwilling to part with what had
been purchased in such happy times, and culti-
vated and improved by so dear a hand ; and it
was not until an event occurred which deprived
her home of half its remaining charms, that she
could allow her mind even to dwell upon the
necessity of parting with it.
The death of her little girl, which took place
within the year after that of her father, had
such an effect upon the mind of the poor wi-
dowed mother, that, to save her from sinking
altogether under the pressure of her calamity,
she felt it was now become absolutely necessary
for her to seek to engage her attention in some
scene, not calculated every moment to remind
her of her double bereavement.
Her noble boy, now about nine years old, she
felt already called for other instruction than she
could afford him, even although she had stepped
118 VANDELEUR.
a little beyond the limits usually prescribed to
her sex, and gave him herself his first rudiments
of Latin. This was a serious, indeed an awful
consideration to her ; for of inferior English
schools she had a horror instilled into her by
her highly-educated father, and at an expensive
one she had not the means of placing him, and
at the same time supporting herself.
In this dilemma it occurred to her to write to
Lord Hampton, on one of whose estates her
farm was situated, to request of him to take
it off her hands. All intercourse had indeed
ceased between her family and his, since her
father’s death, and her removal to a distant part
of the country ;
but his character was so well
known to her, for considerate kindness and libe-
rality, that she preferred a direct address to
him to any intermediate application.
Her feelings were in some degree soothed by
a letter from himself soon after, saying that
the following autumn, which was the time she
named, the farm should be taken off her hands
VANDELEUR. 119
upon her own terms. She wr
as not so weak as
not to appreciate and rejoice in this liberal ac-
ceding to her wishes, yet she nearly effaced the
characters of the letter in her tears. There is
scarcely anything makes one weep so much as a
favour conferred cheerfully and kindly, in the
belief it is giving pleasure, which yet it is only
severe necessity could induce us to accept : it
shows us, somehow, so plainly how little our
feelings are understood by others.
Young Yandeleur happened to run past the
window with his dog, as his mother wr
as thus
engaged, and his quick dark eyes instantly per-
ceiving her affliction, lie sprang into the house,
and shutting out his dog, contrary to his wont,
as if he felt it wr
as no scene for him, threw his
arms round his mother’s neck, and leaned his
head on hers in silence. He had been accus-
tomed to see her weep, and supposed it still to
be for the same cause. At last he perceived
the letter lying open on her lap, and her eyes,
now and then, fix themselves on it.
120 VANDELEUR.
“ Dearest mother,
1'’
lie said gently, “ just tell
me if anything new has happened to afflict you ?”
“ No, my sweet boy, it is not affliction that
makes me weep,—it is weakness, folly, sinful-
ness I
11
“ Nay, mother, whatever it is, let me share
• j
it.
44
Even such as I have described it, Godfrey?”
44
Even so, mamma : if you are suffering from
it, I will share it with you.”
Need it be told that the mother kissed the
brown cheek of her manly boy ? “ But God-
frey, I fear the news will afflict you on your
owii account.”
The boy started, and his innocent mind ran
hastily over the catalogue of his favourites,
his dogs, his bullfinch, his father’s gun.
44
What is it, mamma ?”
“ Should you be very sorry to go from hence,
Godfrey ?”
“ Go from hence ! —no, mamma. I know I
must go from hence some time ; and, only for
VANDELEUR. 121
you, I wish I were in the army now, to fight
that young general who is oppressing the poor
Italians.”
“ Why, whom did you hear speaking of Gene-
ral Bonaparte ?”
The hoy reddened and looked down : he had
learned not to speak of his father unnecessarily
to his poor mother.
“ Well, but Godfrey,” she resumed, stifling
a sigh, “ it is not to go into the army, but to go
and live elsewhere, and to give up this place for
ever.”
“ Indeed, mamma, I don’t care much if Caesar,
and Pompey, and old Corcoran come with us
Whistle I can bring in my hand.”
“ Your wdiistle, boy !”
The boy laughed.
“ No, mamma, not my whistle, but Whistle
the bullfinch.”
“ It is nearly as bad. Go, child—go out and
play.” And she pushed him from her, with a
kind of jealous affection.
VOL. i. G
122 VANDELEUR.
The child lingered in the room, evidently
disconcerted. The course of the mother’s tears
Avas checked, and she rose to leave the room,
saying as she passed him, u What is the matter ?
why don’t you go out and play? I’m not angry
with you.”
“ No, mamma, but worse —you are disap-
pointed with me, and AAdiat could I do else ?”
“ Nothing, child ; it was I was wrong—un-
reasonable. There, (kissing him,) go away now
to your Ca?sar ; see, lie’s sitting at the window
looking in for you.”
Hoav little even the fondest and most atten-
tive of parents sometimes know the workings
of a child’s mind ! Doubtless Mrs. Vandeleur
thought that, in thus condescending to allude
to his dog, she had proved to her son that all
unpleasant feelings had passed from her mind :
but it is not until custom and the habits of
society have taught us that words are all that
avc can be called upon actually to acknowledge,
that the more natural evidences of our feelings
are overlooked.
VANDELEUR. 123
It was not until the child was asleep that
night, that his mother learned the true work-
ings of his manly little heart. lie was aware
that she was in the habit of going over to look
at him in his little bed every night before she
retired to her owm, as the last sweet duty that
depended on his earthly parent, before she gave
him up for the night to his heavenly one ; and
although, in spite of all his efforts for a quarter
of an hour against it, sleep had closed his eyes
long before she came up, she found laid upon
his warm and rosy cheek a letter directed, in his
childish hand, “To mamma.
11
She opened it in
no small surprise, and read the following lines,
which we venture to present to the reader, as
affording the first dawnings of a character in
which we hope they are already somewhat in-
terested.
“ Mamma, who is the wisest, best,
With which a child was ever blest,
Once told me we must leave our home
Upon the strange wide world to roam;
And ask’d if I should greatly grieve
My own nice darling home to leave.
G 2
124 VANDELEUR.
What could I say ? Papa had taught me,
No matter what regret it brought me,
To try to spare mamma all pain :
And if she cannot here remain,
Was it for me to grieve her more
By counting all our losses o’er ?
Should I have said ‘ Mamma, don’t go
From where papa and Jane lie low ;
Oh, do not leave the darling spot
Where he so often bless’d his lot
Leave not the pretty chestnut-tree
Where he used often have his tea;
Leave not the rose and jasmine bower
He twined to shade you from a shower
Leave not the spot which you have said
M as sacred by the honour’d dead : —
M as it for me to say all this,
Just for myself to gain a kiss ?
I would not make my mother cry
For twenty kisses more —not I.
I ’d rather try to make her feel
My heart was made of wood or steel,
Which, though they may be cut full deep
For use, will never melt or weep.
And if I named my dogs and bird,
’Twas but to show, upon my word,
That all that I could bring about
With ease to her I would not scout.
And as they love me, 1 ’d regret
To leave them here behind to fret:
But if this would her grief incur,
Why let them fret instead of her.”
VANDELEUR. 125
It may be thought that Mrs. Vandeleur’s
most prudent and most proper part, on reading
this little effusion, would have been to have
kissed her child’s cheek with such softness as it
his life depended on his not being wakened,
and to reserve all further expression of her
feelings until he came to her next morning.
But different circumstances bring different feel-
ings and different modes of acting : the former
would perhaps have been the most natural to
the happy wife who could have flown to the
bosom of her husband, and there given utter-
ance to all she felt.
With the lonely and widowed mother of
little Godfrey the case was very different, and
she neither could nor wished to restrain herself
from rousing her boy, by murmuring on his
cheek, “ Godfrey, Godfrey, my son, speak to
your mother and forgive her.”
The child wakened, started, and stared wild-
ly round him for a moment, utterly forgetful of
all that had passed. Presently, his eyes be-
126 VANDELEUR.
coming more reconciled to the light, and falling
on his own letter, the whole circumstance
rushed at once to his mind, and with a smile
and a blush he hid his face in his mother’s
bosom.
She held him there for more than a minute.
“ And these were your real feelings, my child ?”
she said at last.
The poet was all forgotten, and the simple
answer, “ They were, mamma,” was all he
whispered.
His mother seemed at a loss how to speak
to him. She pressed his head for a moment
more closely to her bosom ; then gently raising
his face, she took off his nightcap, that she
might the more fully indulge herself in the
sweet delusion of having already found another
friend and guardian of her feelings in her al-
most infant child.
The verses, which it may welt be believed
she looked on with a mother’s partiality, were
in that hour forgotten even by her, and, from
VANDELEUR. 127
the utter incapacity she felt to suit her feelings
to mortal ears, she said,
44
Godfrey, my child,
leave your bed for a moment and pray with
your mother.
1 '’
Her prayer we shall not repeat
but it taught her child, in that happy, glowing
moment, the comprehensive lesson to give thanks
for being already enabled to give happiness to
his parent’s widowed heart. That hour and
that prayer never were forgotten. She replaced
him on his little couch, and his happy spirit was
soon away in fairy-land again.
Not so with her. The excitement of her
feelings, although joyous, did not so rapidly
subside : she seemed to have got a new spirit
of exertion within her, and for that night, at
least, she thought every sacrifice would be light
to her for the sake of that noble boy ; and that,
above all things, no selfish pining of hers should
ever again cast a shade over his buoyant and
joyous spirit.
One more consequence ensued from this little
adventure. A mother’s partiality is a thing of
128 VANDELEUR.
so different a nature from a critic’s justice, that
it has not unfrequently been known blindly to
beguile those it has loved best, into the fangs of
the latter, where they perhaps barely escaped
annihilation, physical as well as moral. And
really I think this very reflection should make
critics merciful, as it belongs not to mor-
tals to visit the sins of the father upon the
children.
In the present instance, however, it only led
to Mrs. Vandeleur’s thinking it of even more
importance than she ever did before, that her son
should receive the most liberal education ; and
though a sensible and even a clever woman, her
mind floated awr
ay for a moment to the bench
or the stall, if not to the woolsack or the mitre
themselves : a field-officer’s epaulettes indeed
glittered before her eyes for a moment ; but
from them she turned away, for they were
presented to her on the point of a sword steeped
in blood.
As the preliminary step, however, to all or
VANDELEUR. 129
to any of this advancement, she remember-
ed that it was necessary she should herself
»
make some exertion, and before sleep closed
her eyes, the true-hearted woman, and affec-
tionate mother, had come to the determination
of looking out, between the present time and
the following autumn, for a situation as go-
verness in some family, of such character and
consequence, as should take from the office any
appearance of degradation, that could hereafter
call a blush into the cheek of the son for whose
sake she made the sacrifice, and for whose fu-
ture fate she looked so high.
Fortune, or a higher Power, seemed to favour
her laudable resolution on this head. About a
month before the time arrived at which she
was to give up her sweet cottage-home, and
while she was yet anxiously looking around
for another, in which to remain until she could
permanently settle herself to her satisfaction, or
rather according to her judgment, she received
the following letter from Lord Hampton :
130 VANDELEUR.
“ Dear Madam,
“ At the time 1 received your letter on the
subject of your farm, my mind was so painfully
occupied by an impending domestic calamity,
that I could only reply to the application in
the very briefest terms. You have doubtless
since heard of the loss- I have sustained, and
that my little girl is deprived by death of her
excellent mother. Believe me, madam, I am
at all times sincerely interested in whatever con-
cerns you, or any member of your esteemed
father’s family ;
yet I am not by any means
certain that selfishness may not be my chief
motive in the proposal I am about to take the
liberty of making to you. Should there be in it
anything unpleasant to your feelings, or wholly
foreign to your views, I hope you will excuse it
on the assurance, that no motives should have
induced me knowingly to offend against either.
My intention is immediately to procure for my
little girl, the advantage of the constant and
affectionate care of some lady, whose mind,
VANDELEUR. 131
manners, and accomplishments, may in some
degree lessen to her the loss she has sustained.
I am aware liovv difficult it is to meet with such
who would condescend to the situation ; but
allow me to point out to you, madam, that, as
far as is possible, it shall in this case, for my own
satisfaction, be divested of every appearance of
a subordinate one. The lady shall have the
entire control and management of the child,
who is only five years old, with carte blanche for
her expenses as to masters, attendants, and
minor matters; and a small suite of apartments,
for her own and her little protegee’s use, in
whichever of my residences she may prefer. At
the same time I should hope always to be
favoured with the lady’s presence at my dinner-
table, and as much as possible in my drawing-
room ; as it is quite my hobby that every one,
as well as the child herself, should understand
that her maternal friend is not a mere govern-
ess. For other considerations, I have no hesita-
tion in saying we cannot fail to agree, as I
132 VANDELEUR.
should think almost any remuneration too small
for one who was qualified to meet my wishes on
this important matter : and in casting my eyes
around me, I can think of no one who, from my
own knowledge, and pleasing recollection of her
various excellences and superior mind and man-
ners, seems to me to unite all I could desire so
completely as Mrs. Vandeleur. Should it so
happen that the offer meets your approbation,
I shall, believe me, feel myself doubly grati-
fied.
“ I have the honour to remain,
“ Dear madam,
“ Your friend and servant,
“ Hampton.”
“ London, August 17.”
It is unnecessary to dwell upon the gratitude,
the delight, with which Mrs. Vandeleur received
this proposal, magnificent of its kind. She
clasped her boy in her arms ; and although
floods of tears convinced him that their hour of
parting was at hand, still there was something
VANDELEUR. 133
in her embraces and her countenance, that told
to his feeling and intelligent mind and heart,
that there was joy mingled with her sorrow.
The farm with all it contained was soon after
taken off her hands at a liberal valuation, the
proceeds placed at interest in her son’s name,
and in less than a month he was settled at
an excellent and highly respectable school in
shire ; and she proceeded to join Lord
Hampton’s family in London, where they had
remained in consequence of the marchioness’s
illness.
The school at which Mrs. Vandeleur had
placed her son by the advice of one of her bro-
thers, combined what in her situation were great
advantages. It was one of those schools which
were established at the time that the French
Revolution sent so many to seek refuge in Eng-
land, partly on the speculation of being able to
procure foreign teachers on very low terms ; and
as it was conducted by an English gentleman
of sense, prudence, and judgment, it did in-
134 VANDELEUR.
deed afford the most polite and liberal educa-
tion on comparatively moderate terms. But
besides these substantial advantages, it had one
more in the eyes of the fond mother, which
perhaps would have outweighed them all had
she listened to her feelings rather than to her
reason : happily in the present instance they
went hand-in-hand.
The school was situated about six miles from
Seaton, the favourite country residence of the
Marquis of Hampton ; which gave to her heart
the hope that she should frequently, in the sum-
mer months, be able to see her boy ; though
her propriety and native dignity determined
her to keep the matter of his vicinity a se-
cret from Lord Hampton. Accordingly, when
he on her arrival politely inquired how she had
disposed of her son, she slightly answered,
that she had placed him at school in the coun-
try by the advice of one of his uncles ; and the
matter passed from Lord Hampton's mind.
It is now time to say a few words of her
VANDELEUR. 135
little pupil. The young Countess of Seaton was
the only child of the Marquis of Hampton.
She inherited her mother’s title, and was heiress
to the greater part of her father’s possessions.
From a long line of noble ancestry on both
sides of her house, the Lady Seaton derived pro-
pensities and talents as noble ; but with them a
loftiness and independence of character, which
was perceptible at the very earliest age, and
which it required the most watchful and judi-
cious care of her maternal friend, to temper
down into the gentle, amiable, and feminine
creature she afterwards became.
To check a spirit which in itself was all
generosity, noble pride, and dislike of being
controlled, would have seemed a superfluous,
perhaps an indiscreet endeavour, to the many
who deem such qualities the fit accompaniments
of rank and power, as rendering their possessors
properly alive to the distance between them-
selves and less fortunate mortals. But the
judicious friend to whom the care of forming
136 VANDELEUR.
Lady Seaton’s character was committed, thought
differently. Her study of the human heart,
and her experience in life, alike tended to con-
vince her, that the sense of one’s own superior
advantages over others much oftener requires
the rein than the spur. Her efforts, therefore,
all tended to render Lady Seaton worthy of the
elevation of her rank ; and the plan she adopted
to prepare her for commanding others, was by
teaching her to command herself ;
—an exercise
which, without the risk of engendering pride,
arrogance, or hard-heartedness, has the effect
of forming that strength of mind, and decision
of character, which are indispensable to the due
employment of wealth or power.
Before her pupil had completed her tenth
year, she already felt in some degree rewarded
for the anxious care bestowed on her most ar-
duous undertaking, when one day the little girl
came running back to her from a walk, down
which she had gambolled before her, with a
blush of mortified pride upon her cheek, as she
VANDELEUR. 137
exclaimed, “ I am humbled, dear madam, I am
humbled ! I have been commanded by my
passions, and I yielded to them and her
lustrous black eyes swam in tears.
She bad met the gardener carrying some
fruit to the house, and bad taken a rosy apple,
which was to her forbidden fruit. She now
banded it half-eaten to her governess ; and
though offered permission to reap the fruits
of her disobedience, she flung it from her in
indignation and disgust.
Lady Seaton was beautiful, as I think most
of the daughters of our English aristocracy are :
it can scarcely be otherwise, with their delicate-
ly transparent complexions, which establish at
once an impression of high nurture and refine-
ment —their finely-formed noses, that distin-
guishing feature of race and even of country
and their fair shining tresses.
Lord Hampton lived as a great English
noble ought to live, much in the world both in
town and country ; and the young countess
138 VANDELEUR.
was from her very birth accustomed to mingle
with the elite of the earth. Mrs. Vandeleur
was ever at her side. From the moment that
Lord Hampton made clear his wishes that it
should be so, she took her station in society at
his house, and conducted herself in it, with such
becoming and inherent dignity, aided by grace-
ful and polished manners, that she was as much
respected and esteemed by every class, as if she
never had moved out of that elevated sphere.
It was impossible that this judicious attention
to his wishes, and her complete success so far
in the education of his heiress, should pass un-
noticed by a man of Lord Hampton’s discern-
ment and liberal feelings. Notwithstanding her
noble salary, he still felt himself her debtor,
and looked forward to the pleasure of marking
his approbation by forwarding her son in what-
ever profession he should select, whenever he
became old enough to profit by it : and once
or twice of late he asked what his age was, and
expressed a hope that he was receiving a
VANDELEUR. 139
thoroughly good education. Perhaps, had he
known that, at the moment he made these
inquiries, the boy was so near to him, his kind
consideration and respect for Mrs. Vandeleur
had led him even further. The matter, however,
was destined not to remain longer a secret.
It was customary with Lord Hampton, when
in the country, to take what he called constitu-
tional rides, in the morning, round his grounds,
before any of his guests appeared. One morn-
ing, when riding as usual along a broad walk
that ran all round the demesne inside the wall,
his attention was attracted by loud and angry
voices, and sounds of contention, which seemed
rapidly increasing. At last the words —“ I am
unwilling, sir, to bid my men fire upon you,'”
convinced him there was no time to be lost
if he meant to interfere ; and galloping to the
nearest gate, which happened to be a very short
distance before him, he was in a moment or
two up with the party. It consisted of a re-
cruiting serjeant, a party of soldiers, a young
140 VANDELEUlt.
lad (who seemed just enlisted, and whose bullet-
eyes and large stolid face were swelled even
beyond their usual dimensions by blubbering),
and two young gentlemen, one of whom ap-
peared to be from fifteen to sixteen years of
age, tall and handsome-looking, with large dark
eyes, which now, in his anger, seemed to emit
sparks of fiery indignation ; the other, some
years older, and evidently, as well by his ap-
pearance, as by his accent, a foreigner.
There was a temporary cessation of hostili-
ties the moment Lord Hampton appeared ; and
upon his inquiring the cause of the disturbance,
both of the young men hesitating how to an-
swer, the serjeant proceeded to inform him, that
he was conducting the young recruit, on whose
collar he still kept a firm grasp, and whom he
stated to have enlisted the evening before, to
the next town, where the regiment was quar-
tered, when he was pursued by the taller of
those two young gentlemen, (pointing out the
young Englishman,) who not only urged and
VANDELEUR. 141
instigated the young candidate for martial ho-
nours, to throw hack the bounty-money he had
received, but threatened to beat the serjeant
and assist him in escaping.
“ Indeed, my lord,” added the man, who
knew Lord Hampton’s appearance, “ I think
him mad, for my part ; for he olfered to enlist
himself instead of this here chap.”
“And this other young gentleman P ” asked
the marquis with a look of grave and deter-
mined patience and inquiry.
“ That other young gentleman, my lord, I
know nothing of : he came up but now, and
was taking my part against this other madcap.
I was loth to go to extremities with him, seeing
they are both pupils of Mr. Hamilton’s esta-
blishment near this.”
“ How far off?”
“ Five miles or so, my lord.”
“ Proceed, serjeant, on your route,” said the
marquis with authority, “ and I shall make it
my business to inquire from Mr. Hamilton how
r
142 VANDELEUR.
it happens that his young gentlemen are wan-
dering the country at these hours, and disturb-
ing persons in the discharge of their duty.”
“ By Heaven he shall not proceed, though !”
exclaimed the English youth. “ My lord, I
beg your pardon ; I have the highest respect
for your character and person —(the marquis
bowed haughtily and impatiently, the young
man coloured and went on:) —“ these are not
words of course, my lord, as you would know
if you knew who I am ; but this man shall not
carry off William Henshawe, whom he enlisted
in a fit of intoxication, and leave his family to
ruin of every dreadful description.”
At this moment the other young man stepped
hastily forward, and taking hold of the arm of
the speaker, “ Come, come,” he said, “ recol-
lect yourself, my friend, there has been enough
of this; don’t offend Lord Hampton, and
—
he whispered very rapidly a French sentence in
his ear, the purport of which was a promise,
by everything sacred, that there should be no
VANDELEUR. 143
more on his part of a certain affair which was
understood between them ; and added, in the
same low and rapid tone, “Take my advice and
drop it, or people will very fairly suspect your
own intentions.
1 ’’
“ Villain and coward !
’’’’
exclaimed the young-
man, shaking off his hand ; and forgetful of
where he stood, in whose presence, and every-
thing but his indignation at the moment, he
struck his school companion a violent blow'
across the face with a switch he held in his
hand.
In the impulse of the moment the blow was
returned, and it was only on a muttered chal-
lenge being given, and accepted, that they were
dragged asunder.
The Marquis of Hampton, highly incensed,
once more commanded the serjeant to proceed ;
tellingf him at the same time, if he was asrain
interrupted, to order his soldiers to do their duty.
“ Then let them fire on me I
11
exclaimed the
young man, “ if so it must be ; and do you,
144 VANDELEUR.
William Henshawe, either quietly proceed and
leave your sister to destruction, or stand by me
and share my fate.'”
This speech, uttered as it was with all the
vehemence of truth, as he was far from in-
tending that matters should proceed to any ex-
tremity with the headstrong youth, however he
might wish to intimidate him from interfering
further with the serjeant, attracted the mar-
quis’s attention, and afforded him a pretext for
again inquiring into the merits of this case,
which at present appeared rather extraordi-
nary.
He no sooner made known his wishes to that
effect, than the young Frenchman coming for-
ward, apologised politely and handsomely for
his share in the matter, and said, that being un-
willing to trespass further on the Marquis of
Hampton, or to discuss the business any fur-
ther on the high road, he should beg leave to
retire, certain that, whatever passion might lead
his young friend to be guilty of, he could rely
VANDELEUR. 145
implicitly on his honour and veracity, and that he
would assert nothing to the prejudice of any one
which he could not prove, and therefore he left
his character with confidence in his hands.” He
turned to depart.
“ It shall not avail you not one single iota !
all the fine speeches you can make to me,” re-
turned his companion ;
“ the more honour and
truth I possess, the worse for you ; so stay and
defend yourself if you can, for I tell you plainly
my generosity will not be the least worked on
to spare you in your absence.”
But ere this exhortation, however loudly
uttered, came to its conclusion, it was borne
by the wind far from the ears it was intended
for.
There was a moment’s silence ; the marquis
was a man of too much discernment not to be
struck with the reliance on the young man’s
honour and truth, and, as it seemed to him,
his generosity also, evinced by his companion
and now antagonist ; and he waited for the de-
VOL. i. H
146 VANDELEUR.
fence of his late conduct with a secret hope that
it would prove a sufficient one. But the youth
seemed suddenly to have lost his courage and
bold bearing, and stood with an irresolute and
vexed expression of countenance.
At last the marquis said, “ Well, young gen-
tleman, I thought you were about to give some
explanation of this strange and disgraceful
scene ?”
“ I had intended it, my lord, if that fellow
had stayed : but, as he said, it is a different thing
to accuse a man to his face and let him defend
himself, from speaking behind his back what,
after all, I certainly can not swear to.”
“ Come, come,” said the marquis, “ this
is either trifling, or the very romance of youth-
ful generosity, which, if it be allowed to run
headlong at first, and outstrip justice, will soon
exhaust itself, and in riper years be left as far
behind, by justice : now prudence should be
the charioteer, and from the very onset make
the two pull side by side together.”
VANDELEUR. 147
“ I understand and like your metaphor, my
lord ; but, somehow, one cannot jump at once to
everything that’s right : however, I shall try to
unite them as well as I can.” And he proceeded
to inform Lord Hampton that William Hen-
sliawe was the only son of a poor blind old
woman, whose chief means of support was the
employment this youth received at Mr. Hamil-
ton’s school, where he almost constantly re-
sided, and, being an active and unassuming lad,
was frequently admitted to join in their rougher
exercises. It happened that, the day before
this memorable one, there was a great cricket-
match, and the winners gave an entertainment,
at which poor Henshawe became so intoxicated,
that, on his way home, meeting the recruiting- «
seijeant, he fell an easy prey to his allure-
ments.
“ Well, my good sir,” said the marquis, in a
tone of rather surprised interrogation, “ and if
the youth chooses it, what then ? I am sorry
to say, it is the way half our soldiers are en-
H 2
1 48 VANDELEUR.
listed ; and we must not be too nice in these
times.”
*
“ Chooses it, sir !” exclaimed the young
man, while the candidate for martial fame
groaned in spirit, but seeing his cause in bet-
ter hands, had the wisdom to leave it there.
“ Chooses it, my lord ! his heart is breaking
at this moment ; and he would be a brute if it
were not so. Is it not, Henshawe ? —why don’t
you answer ?”
“ I heared no question asked of I before : but
no, Mr. Vandeleur, no, —my heart is as tough
as another’s, I warrant.”
Neither Lord Hampton nor even the young
gentleman himself could refrain from a smile at
this attempt, on the part of the soldat malgre
lui, to assert his manhood, even against the
chance of his escape.
“ Well, but I mean,” resumed his young
champion, “ would you not be happy to be let
off ? I know that, while I live, I never shall for-
get the scene I witnessed this morning in your
VANDELEUR. 149
mother’s cottage .
44
Oh, my lord !” turning to
Lord Hampton, 44
it was really fearful to see
the large tears falling from her sightless eyes !
and the young man seemed really to shrink
from the recollection.
44
And may I take the liberty of inquiring
how you happened to be in his mother’s cottage
at so early an hour? Methinks Mr. Hamilton
gives his young gentlemen a loose rein.”
44
The poor old woman sent for me, sir,
when she heard what had befallen her son.”
44
There is something in all this which I do
not yet see through,” said the marquis ;
44
and
until I do, I cannot interfere further in the mat-
ter than to protect the serjeant in the discharge
of his duty. How came a poor blind old woman
to select you amongst all the gentlemen in the
country to rescue her son ?”
44
Why, my lord,” replied the youth, blush-
ing and hesitating,
44
I happened to be the only
one—at least the one she knewdbest ; I had seen
her more than once before.”
150 VANDELEUR.
The marquis noticed his hesitation with a
scrutinizing eye. “ Oh, you had ! Pray, does
her family only consist of this young man and
herself?”
“ No, sir; he has a sister—she has a daugh-
ter ; and, in fact, it is chiefly on her account
” Pie again hesitated.
“ Humph !” said the marquis, and turning to
the serjeant, was about once more to bid him
proceed with his recruit, when Henshawe, no
longer able to continue silent, exclaimed, u Oh,
sir ! oh, my lord ! do not suffer me to be lost
through Mr. Vandeleur’s generosity ! —for, in-
deed, it is only that he is loth to speak against
that other gentleman, though why I do not
know, for they never were friends like—not
they.”
“ Well, sir, never mind canvassing this gen-
tleman’s motives : if you have anything to say,
let me hear it at once, or I shall ride off and
leave you to your fate.”
“ Well, sir, the thing is just this, you see:
VANDELEUR. 151
My sister Sally, my lord, is a very young and
very pretty girl—younger than I, please your
lordship, by two years—and every one says
handsomer by twice also. She is not a giddy
or a silly girl either ; but the best of us is no
match for love betimes ; and she coming one day
of a message to me at Mr. Hamilton’s, though
mother never would let her inside the gate,
this gentleman and the chap that’s just gone
happened to pass at the time and saw her : and
the upshot was, that the other lad took a
fancy to her ; and I don’t say but Sally might
have liked him too, for lie’s very coaxing in his
own French way, sir: and what makes me
think Sally liked him is, that when Mr. Van-
deleur here came to warn my mother of it,
and to keep a strict eye on Sally, Sally cried
greatly, sir, and took it very much to heart ;
and, as I found out afterwards, again from Mr.
Vandeleur, that they still saw each other:
and it ’s wonderful, please your lordship, how
they do contrive it. I know, if ever I’m in love,
152 VANDELEUR.
it must be above-board, and in the face of
day ; for I never should have a head to plan
these stolen meetings.”
61
It is the heart, not the head, man, that
plans them,” said the marquis, laughing. u But
go on.”
“ Well, then, my lord, I had to speak to
her myself, and to take my oath to her, that
if it was not dropt that minute, I’d go to
Mr. Hamilton, and get young De Brons turn-
ed from the school. And what do you think,
sir, but after all she managed, I think, to let
him know this ; for he grew very stiff with
me for a while, until all of a sudden he said
yesterday he would forgive my unjust suspi-
cions of him—though indeed, sir, I never ask-
ed him ; and he took me into a room in the
evening, and made me drink more than I ever
drank before, as he said, to drown all un-
kindness.”
“ Then d—me !” exclaimed the seijeant,
VANDELEUR. J 58
now coming forward, “ since that’s the way
of it, if I don’t tell the whole truth. I hap-
pened to meet this young Frenchman yester-
day morning, my lord, about their own
grounds, where I went to look at the cricket-
match, thinking it a good place to pick up
idlers ; and this young man entered into con-
versation with me about my business, and all
that ; and at last he pointed out this here fellow
to me,—told me he had a great mind to enlist,
only for some wish of not vexing an old mo-
ther, and that if I contrived to meet him at
night I should have a fine stout soldier for
my trouble. I met the lad, drunk to be
sure ; but then you know, my lord, as you
said yourself, we cannot be too nice in these
times: but if I had known how the matter
lay, I ’d have blown my fingers off be-
fore they tendered him the bounty. I saw
his sister this morning ; and a lovely beautiful
girl she is, my lord—and hung on his neck
h 5
J 54 VANDELEUR.
crying as if she would have died there ; and
it was the hardest job of duty I ever did to
tear him away.’
1
“ Yet, she seems but a giddy, headstrong
girl, even by his own admission,” said the
marquis, turning to Vandeleur.
“No, indeed, she is not,” he answered
eagerly; “if she were, I should almost fear less
for her : but she is innocent and confiding, and
so young and lovely ; and I have reason to
think that this fellow has tried to turn her brain
by some jargon of French philosophy, which
hitherto the poor girl has withstood ; but if her
brother leaves her, he leaves her to destruc-
tion. A blind old woman is no protector for
such a girl.”
“ She seems to have another and a more
efficient one in you,” said the marquis, smiling
gently.
“No, my lord,” replied the youth, colouring,
i
“ I am not, as you are well aware, a fit protec-
tor for her, except in an extremity like this.”
VANDELEUR. 155
“ Then, may I ask finally, if this is all
pure and disinterested benevolence ; or what
makes you so much interested in this young
girl?”
“ I shall tell you frankly, my lord : it is not
pure, unmixed benevolence. I feel myself in
some degree responsible for the girl’s safety
on this occasion, because it was not only I who
first brought her brother to Mr. Hamilton’s,
but having once seen her by chance, 1 was
struck with her exceeding beauty; and the fatal
day that Henshawe mentions her having come
to the gate, I was walking about with this
De Brons, and meeting Henshawe running very
fast, we asked him where he was going ; he
said, to speak to his sister at the gate ; upon
which I very giddily, and of course not fore-
seeing the consequence, proposed to De Brons to
go round by another way and see this girl
returning, as she was so extremely beautiful.
This is the whole story, my lord.”
“ And have you never seen her since ?”
156 VANDELEUR.
“ Never until this morning, and once or
twice at a distance with De Brons. And it is
from his own brutal jesting that I suspect what
I mentioned of the sophistry with which he is
endeavouring to corrupt her principles.'”
“ Then allow me to shake hands with you,
young gentleman,'” said the marquis, frankly
advancing to him ;
“ and I freely ask your par-
don for any distrust I may have shown. But
why, instead of proceeding to violence, did
you not try the golden key to the Serjeant’s
heart ?”
“ I did, my lord ; but my stock is but slender,
it would not do.'”
“ I like you not the w'orse for that acknow-
ledgment. Well, I promise you this matter
shall be arranged to your entire satisfaction,
and Sally shall be taken care of. I dare say
the Hensliawes are tenants of mine.”
u We are, indeed, my lord !” exclaimed Wil-
liam.
“ Very well. Serjeant, proceed on your way
VANDELEUR. 157
with your recruit for the present ;
you have
done your duty with propriety and prudence.
—Mr. Vandcleur, as I dare say Mr. Hamilton’s
breakfast-hour is past, you will do me the
favour of breakfasting with me. By the bye,
you will meet a lady, a namesake of yours, at
my house and he turned his eyes more fully
on the young man as he recollected this circum-
stance.
Vandeleur looked down with an expressive
smile, and a slight colour rose to his cheek.
“ What ! will you not accept of my invita-
tion, young gentleman ?”
“ The lady of whom you spoke is —my mo-
ther, my lord.”
“Your mother, young man!” exclaimed the
marquis in much astonishment. “ Hotv is it that
I never knew of your being so near us ?”
The young man smiled ingenuously in the
marquis’s face, as he replied, “ Rather, how
should you, my lord ?”
“Why did not Mrs. Vandeleur inform me
158 VANDELEUR.
of it, in order that I might have shown you
some attention ?”
“ I rather believe, my lord, it was that she
might not encroach on your kindness that she
did not mention it.
11
“She is an excellent, noble-minded woman I
11
exclaimed the marquis ;
“ and I am very glad to
find, sir, that she has a son worthy of her. But
come to breakfast ; 1 shall enjoy her surprise.
And harkye, young gentleman, I think you are
too much grown for Mr. Hamilton's school at
present, and a little too fiery withal ; a year or
two at a military academy would do you more
good ; and if a pair of colours lie in your way,
they are yours from this moment ; though some
might think that the punishment for endeavour-
ing to deprive a serjeant of his recruit might be
better chosen.”
“ Not when I was willing to go myself in his
place,” said the young man smiling, and slight-
ly blushing at the Quixotic offer he had made
in his desperation. “ But let that convince you,
VANDELEUR. 159
my lord, that in giving me a commission, you
have fulfilled the first wish of my heart.
11
And
he gracefully raised his hat as his bright eyes
glowed with rapture and enthusiasm.
The marquis caught the infection, and again
shook hands with him. u Well, then, you return
to Mr. Hamilton’s no more ;
—nay, I insist upon
it for my own reasons. Your mother, or my
man of business, can settle with him :
you
must promise me to go there no more. What
you seem annoyed, young man ?”
“ Oh, my lord, I should be so sorry to de-
ceive you at any time, but particularly at this
moment ; but indeed I have an engagement
that I must keep.”
“ Well, 1 guess to what you allude ; I heard
it muttered between you : but we shall see to
that ; it can be settled as well anywhere else,
and better than near your school. So now I
take it as granted that I have your promise.”
Still the young man blushed, hesitated, and
looked on the ground.
160 VANDELEUR.
“ Come, come, young- gentleman, if I am in-
terfering too much in your concerns, say so at
once, and I have done : but I can remain tri-
fling here no longer.”
Vandeleur raised his eyes for a moment full
to the marquis’s face, as if to read his counte-
nance ; then apparently satisfied with the result,
he said frankly, and without removing his eyes
from the marquis’s, though with a very vivid
blush, “ I should like, my lord, to see old Mrs.
Henshawe once more, and —and to tell Sally
that I was the means of rescuing her brother,
and to put her on her guard more fully against
De Brons : she might listen to me now.”
The marquis laid his hand kindly on his
shoulder :
“ She might, and I dare say she
would,” he said, smiling; “ yet is the office no
fit one for you. Come, do not tarnish the good
work you have begun, by letting self creep in.
Take this from an old man : it is at the moment
we have done a good deed, that we should be
most on our guard ; for then we are not only
VANDELEUR. 161
ready to think we may trust ourselves to any
lengths, but even to allow of some little indul-
gence as a kind of reward. Believe me, you
are no more fit to be Sally’s adviser or pro-
tector, for having protected her from another,
than you were before ; and if you would raise no
suspicions to the girl’s prejudice, after this morn-
ing’s adventure you will never see her more : I
told you she should be taken care of. Come,’' he
said kindly, holding out his hand and smiling,
“ I really can wait no longer for my breakfast:
as we go along you can tell me who this De
Brons is.”
The young man not only accepted the hand
held out to him, but caught and pressed it be-
tween both his, until the marquis smiled : he
seemed but for very shame inclined to raise it
\
to his lips.
“ I like you, my lord, and I like your mode
of giving advice ; and if I ever disgrace your
recommendation, I hope the last disgrace of the
infamous will fall upon me as a punishment.”
162 VANDELEUR.
The marquis was a man of worth and re-
spectability, yet perhaps never, in the long
course of his public career, did any eulogium go
more home to his heart than this simple effusion
of gratitude from the ingenuous and intelligent
lips of unsophisticated youth ! He returned the
pressure of the young man’s hand in silence,
however ; and after they had proceeded a few
steps towards the castle of Seaton, he again in-
quired of young Vandeleur who his foreign com-
panion or antagonist was.
“ He is the son of a French nobleman, my
lord,” replied Vandeleur, “ who fled with his
family from France at the time of the revolu-
tion ; and I suspect He Brons is but a feigned
name to suit their present circumstances. Fie
has been for many years at Mj. Hamilton’s
school, partly to receive his own education, and
partly to impart the French accent to the
pupils. He is a strange sort of fellow ; and
between him and a tutor that is there, who fled
from France at the same time, though himself,
VANDELEUR. 163
I believe, a German, some of the wildest doc-
trines and theories are disseminated through the
school. I dislike the Frenchman more than the
German, however.”
“ Is that from national or natural antipa-
thy ?”
“ Natural, I think, my lord. One I think
only wild and fanciful, the other deep and un-
principled.”
“ But why does Mr. Hamilton allow such
dangerous companions among his pupils ?”
“ Why, strange to say, after what I have
just said, De Brons only seems to have burst
forth in this new light since Edelstein has come,
which is not long. I don’t think Mr. Hamilton
is aware of it yet the German professes to
teach chemistry and his own language.”
u Well, Mr. Hamilton should be made aware
of this. But the time is, I think, at hand when
those French emigres can return to their country,
and leave our English air unpolluted. Mats
nous voild arrives,
mon ami.”
1 64 VANDELEUR.
We need not enter the house with them, or
dwell on Mrs. Vandeleur’s gratified surprise : it
is enough to say, that Lord Hampton found
means to hush up the quarrel between the
young men, without injury to the honour of
either, and that a year from that day saw the
bright-haired English youth sailing away to
join his regiment, then fighting in Italy.
It happened to be exactly the line of life he
should have chosen for himself, even if fortune
had not presented it to him in such seducing
colours as made even his adoring mother feel it
her duty to stifle and conceal every selfish pang
she experienced upon the subject; and although,
when she left Seaton to meet her boy-soldier
in London, and bid him farewell previous to
his embarkation, tears certainly did mingle with
her blessings, still she commanded herself so as
not to suffer the slightest murmur of discontent
to escape her lips, but bade him go and prove
himself worthy of his patron’s favour.
The slight and graceful stripling knelt at her
VANDELEUR. 165
feet in his new military undress ; and she parted
the hair on his forehead, to prolong the sad
pleasure she felt in gazing on him such as she
knew she never should behold him again.
“ Mother, give me a lock of your hair,
11
he
said, as he felt her fingers twining through his
own dark curls.
“ Tush, silly hoy ! my hair is not like this ;
it is quite grey long since .
11
“ And what then, mother ? is it for youth and
beauty that sons love their mothers ? Come,
11
he said, “ the hour is drawing near, mother ;
11
and snatching a pair of scissors from the table,
he himself cut off one of the greyest of the locks
she still wore on her temples ; then affection-
ately kissing the spot he took it from, partly to
conceal the emotion that rushed to his eyes at
seeing how very grey it was, he rolled it up,
while his mother stood wiping away her fast-
falling but silent tears.
“ But what shall I do with it now P
11
he
exclaimed, u that I may not lose it P Mother,
166 VANDELEUR.
I must commit yet another robbery :
you must
give me that little locket you wear round your
neck, until I get a more gentlemanly mode
of preserving it and he took the ribbon hastily
off her neck and threw it over his own.
“ Nay, but, Godfrey,’
1
she exclaimed, “ my
little pupil Lady Seaton’s hair is in it.”
u Well, it shall not stay in it to profane yours
you can get plenty of it and taking it out, he
was about to throw it on the ground, when,
struck with the beauty and softness of the little
ringlet, he said gently, “ Well, it is too pretty
to be insulted,” it may remain with yours as
you love her so well
!”
“Oh, mother,” he continued, while he fixed
the hair into the locket ;
“ and so you tell me
that Sally Ilenshawe is married to Sergeant
Whitecross. Well, she may thank me for that;
for her own brother’s account of her, that morn-
ing that sealed my fate as well as hers, would
have gone a short way towards it. Well, I ’m
heartily glad of it : how good it was of Lord
VANDELEUR. 167
Hampton to give lier a portion ! and now, mind
you, mother, when her first child is born, send
her a christening present from me, and I ’ll re-
pay you with some pretty gew-gaw from the
Continent. And now farewell ! God ever bless
you !” and the young soldier rushed hastily
from the room, and from the house, as if he had
not a care at heart, while he was remarked to
be the saddest and most silent, for the rest of
that day, on board the transport that bore him
for the first time from his native countrv.
1G8 VANDEtEUR.
CHAPTER V.
Thou ’rt not for me, and 1 T1 lay thee by.
Deep, deep within my heart
And the world, with its cold and searching eye,
Shall never know where thou art.
Anonymous.
Ten summers, and ten winters, passed over
the head of Vandeleur, before he stepped again
on English soil. They were, however, literally
ten years of “ fame and glory.”
Those were the days when the metal of every
man was tried, and no warlike beating of the
young heart, was forced to waste its energy
against its own bosom. England was engaged
in a struggle which could only have been de-
cided in her favour, by the very flower of her
bravest and her wisest. It was much to say,
that even amongst them, and against no less
VANDELEUR. 169
brave and wise antagonists, Godfrey Vandeleur
played no unlionoured part. He was at once a
brave soldier, and a very few years
1
experience
made him an able leader. ,
More than once,
after severe actions, lie received the thanks of
his commanding officer, and was made honour-
able mention of in the public despatches.
How beat his mother’s heart the while ?
Proudly?—no ; humbly, fearfully, gratefully.
She felt that his life was still in the hands of
his Creator, and that His mercy alone could
preserve it. It was spared, whilst hundreds
thousands, as loved, and perhaps as worthy to
be loved, fell around him.—And on the strange
termination which, to remote ages, will be ana-
lyzed with the deepest interest in the page of his-
tory—on the sending of him, who had fought and
conquered until his name had gone forth over the
earth as something either above or below hu-
man nature, to his first sea-girt prison, Godfrey
Vandeleur returned to his native country and
his widowed mother.
VOL. i. i
170 VANDEI.EUR.
Promotion in such times is rapid; and the
%
smooth-cheeked schoolboy, who left her ten
years before an ensign of infantry, was now re-
turned a captain of dragoons. When the strug-
gle broke out on the Peninsula, he had exchanged
into a cavalry regiment on service there, and
which became as much distinguished by its good
conduct as by its heavy losses in the field.
Other changes too he had undergone : the
fiery, daring, almost unbroken youth, was tem-
pered into the self-possessed and fashionable
man. His joyous temper and animation were
indeed in themselves unimpaired ;
but his in-
tercourse with the world, and its most powerful
interests, had taught him to command them and
himself.
With the floods of tears, indeed, with which
his mother received him to her anus once more,
he could not choose but mingle his own for a
moment ; but in the next he was able to divert
her mind from its agitation, by a lively descrip-
tion of whatever he thought would interest her
most in his adventures.
VANDELEUR. 171
“ So I perceive, by my cards, that your son
has returned, Mrs. Vandeleur ?” said Lord
Hampton to her one day at dinner.
“ Is he indeed returned ?” exclaimed his
daughter :
“ why did you not tell me, Mrs.
Vandeleur ?”
“ I did not suppose you remembered him.'”
“ I can scarcely say I do ; but you might have
given me credit for participating in anything so
interesting to you.”
“ And, as I have not forgotten him,” said her
father, “ I beg, Mrs. Vandeleur, that when he
next calls, should I not be so fortunate as to
see him myself, you will present my kind re-
gards, and say that I hope to see him at dinner
here whenever more agreeable engagements
do not interfere. He has indeed done me
much credit in my recommendation. I shall
not send him formal invitations, as that might
limit his visits to them ; whereas I really wish
to see him en famille,
and I know he will not
stand on ceremony with me.”
i 2
172 VANDELEUR.
Mrs. Yandeleur bowed her gratified acknow-
ledgments, while her pupil added, “ We dine
at home to-morrow, do we not ? let him make
his debut then .
11
“ Pray do,
11
said the marquis ; and Mrs. Yan-
deleur promised to be the bearer of the message.
Godfrey Yandeleur inherited all his mother’s
dignity of mind, or, as it used to be called in the
olden time, “ proper pride.'* He felt gratified, as
she did, at the kindness of Lord Hampton’s
invitation : he felt it to be an honour ;
but to
render it either a permanent or an advantage-
ous one, he was well aware, depended upon his
own manner of receiving it ; for he could not
forget that, gloss it over as he might, his mother
still held a situation which only her own su-
periority prevented from being looked on as a
subordinate one. He did not try to forget it
for he well knew that the sooner he should do
so, the sooner would the world think it necessary
to remind him of it : nor yet did he feel a wish
that she should, for his sake, relinquish a situa-
VANDELEUR. 173
tion in which he knew her to he permanently
happy.
He read it in her letters when he was away,
and he saw it in her appearance and whole man-
ner when he came home. lie found that the
tie was changed between her and Lady Seaton,
from governess and pupil, almost to mother and
child, and that already it was an understood
thing that they never were to separate.
Nor indeed, to a mind like Vandeleur’s, would
the stio-ma—if stigma it must be called—have
been washed out by a late relinquishing of a
situation she had held so long ; and could it have
been veiled over, he himself would have been
the first to withdraw the veil. His nature was
particularly frank, and, if the word can be tole-
rated, honest. Disguise of all kinds was so hate-
ful, so troublesome to him, that he preferred
the habit of never doing or saying anything
that needed it. This he considered the only
sure foundation of dignity. Respect me, not a
phantom of your own creation !
174 VANDELEUR.
Abroad, indeed, and in scenes where a mail’s
conduct necessarily made his consequence, Van-
deleur felt no superior, even in worldly estima-
tion ; and, as if such were his native sphere, he
was happy, agreeable, lively, and universally
courted and admired : but in London, in arti-
ficial life, and especially in Lord Hampton’s
house, he felt the case was altered, nor felt it
with vulgar resentment, or affected disdain.
Many years before, he had thought deeply on
the subject, and had come to the conclusion
that it was, must, perhaps ought to be so ; and
instead of peevishly declining the opportunity
that was now offered to him of at least step-
ping within u the magic circle,” he gladly availed
himself of it, only determining to conduct him-
self therein with such sensitive delicacyas should
not leave room to the most haughty to say lie
had “ forgotten himself.” Accordingly, when
he appeared next day at Lord Hampton’s din-
ner-table, no one could have traced in the cold,
reserved, silent, but perfectly self-possessed gen-
VANDELEUR. 175
tleman, the lively, warm-hearted, energetic, and
talented soldier, the spirit at once of the battle-
field and of the foreign coterie. Lady Seaton
kindly addressed herself to him several times
but as they sat at opposite sides of the table,
their conversation was necessarily limited to a
few short observations, and he did not seem
anxious to prolong it.
He did not return to the drawing-room that
evening, and Lord Hampton’s invitation wr
as
specially repeated before he appeared again.
But again and again he did appear, and still
remained apparently cold, silent, and reserved.
Happily, however, there was a something so
bland and polished in his manner, while uttering
a casual, and unavoidable observation or reply
to Lady Seaton, or her father, as caused every
one to feel that there r
as “something in him :
v>
still, as it seemed hopelessly shut up there, he
was on the very point of being set dovm for ever
as “ a bore,” when one day it so happened that
two or three young men, who had just shown
] 7 G VANDELEUR.
themselves long enough in lancer caps and
hussar jackets to add regimental rank to that
which they inherited by courtesy from their
fathers, met together at dinner at Lord Hamp-
ton’s. After the ladies had retired, a trifling
matter of dispute arose between them, which
by degrees grew into a warm debate ; and as it
seemed very unlikely to come to a favourable
issue, the subject being a parallel between a late
action on the Continent, at which neither had
been present, and one of Marlborough’s battles
in Flanders, which neither of them appeared
to remember very distinctly, Lord Hampton
thought it time to make a diversion by saying,
—“If you seek to be convinced, gentlemen, I
dare say Mr. Vandeleur can state the exact
merits of the case, as he commanded a com-
pany, I think, at one of the actions you speak
of ; and, I ’ll be bound, knows just as accurately
every particular that is related of that to which
you would compare it.”
Vandeleur, thus appealed to, turned at once
VANDELEUR. 177
from the gentleman next him, with whom lie
had purposely entered into conversation to avoid
the awkward position of a listener to a warm
dispute ; and by his clear, prompt, and explicit
answer, not only proved that not a word had
been lost upon him, but that the decision he
gave was a judicious and enlightened one. For-
tunately for him, it so happened that neither of
the disputants had been right ; therefore they
readily granted to each other that neither could
have been wrong, and Godfrey was hailed by
both as a “ most upright judge.
11
But his triumph ended not here. The con-
versation was continued ; and as just enough of
the late feelings remained, to make each of the
young noblemen prefer making him the common
conductor of their opposite currents, he was of
necessity completely drawn into it. It was not
in his system, still less in his nature, churlishly
to resist any overtures made to him ; and not
only did he contrive adroitly to neutralize their
conflicting opinions, but even to make one pass
t 5
178 VANDELEUR.
over to the other, and by degrees he found him-
self the only speaker in the room.
Every one present was attracted by Lord
Hampton’s appeal to him ;
and though they
were too polite to appear to observe it, their
attention was more or less arrested ; and pre-
sently each person—and there were some of dis-
tinguished talent as well as rank—found him-
self listening with pleasure and interest to Van-
deleur’s animated and graphic descriptions of
the struggles in which he had so lately borne
his part, and which had succeeded in leaving
them free to enjoy the luxuries of their splendid
homes.
“ Come up to the ladies,” said Lord V.
as soon as the conversation ceased. He was
one of the late disputants, who had worn
brilliant regimentals for a season, in the hopes
of having to tell of deeds of arms himself, little
suspecting that his noble parents had been suc-
cessfully exerting their interest to prevent it.
“ No,” replied Vandeleur, “ I cannot. I am
engaged for this evening.”
VANDELEUR. 179
“ Plio ! so am I ; but I shall not think of it
for three hours to come.”
“ But I am going to the opera, I believe,
11
said Vandeleur, still hesitating.
“ There is nothing worth going there for
to-night. Come up and hear Lady Seaton’s
music for this evening, and let us go together
to-morrow night.’
1
Vandeleur yielded ; and here was formed the
first link of a chain which every day increased
in length, and soon bound him to society in
golden fetters.
It was not in human nature, still less in the
frank and manly nature ofVandeleur, to distrust
or to resist the flattering attentions he now re-
ceived. He began to think that it was even
due to Lord Hampton, that he should make all
the recompense he could in return for them; and
accordingly throwing aside at once the cold, and
to him unnatural and irksome reserve, in which
he had wrapped himself at first, he gave way
to his own animated and joyous spirits, and was
soon considered as an acquisition wherever he
180 VANDELEUR.
appeared. Nay, such is the caprice of fashion,
that when once the circumstance of his mother’s
situation was partially forgiven, the other ex-
treme was adopted, and it was now declared to
enhance the interest with which it was their
pleasure already to invest him ; and the dispute
at Lord Hampton’s dinner-table, which he had
adjusted with so much success, though almost
professional, gave a tone to the opinions that
began to circulate in his favour. Fortunately,
though not deeply read, his natural endowments,
and such advantages as had been afforded him,
together with strong volition, enabled him to
support the part thus thrust upon him ; and
presently not only were his lively repartees, and
playful bons-mots, repeated in the most elevated
circles, but “ the unlettered soldier” was gene-
rally the one appealed to in any light lite-
rary dispute amongst ladies, or when any point
requiring accurate recollection was discussed
amongst gentlemen. It is not intended to as-
sert that, in such cases, Godfrey Vandeleur’s
VANDELEUR. 181
memory, or even information, never was at
fault ; but even when it proved so, his happy
talent of supplying the deficiency with some
jeu (Vesprit of his own, or his eager search
for the book which contained the passage
in dispute, and his animated comments upon
it, not only procured him forgiveness, where
prepossession was already, albeit almost ac-
cidentally, so strong, but caused the task im-
posed, not seldom, to be considered “ more
honoured in the breach than in the observ-
ance.” It need scarcely he added, that a
very handsome person, and graceful address,
contributed their share to this unexpected
success.
There was one individual, and one only, with
whom his intimacy, instead of increasing from
the time of his first introduction, seemed latter-
ly rather to decline.—Strange to say, that one
was his mother’s pupil
Lady Seaton was at this time only twenty
years of age. Her mind and character, however,
182 VANDELEUR.
were fully developed ; and the native loftiness
of her temper, and sense of her own situation,
though mellowed by courteous manners, and
gentle, amiable feelings, threw around her an
air of dignity and reserve, which caused her to
be, by common acquaintances, more generally
admired and respected, than approached with
any warmer, or more familiar feeling. The trea-
sure of her love, or even of her friendship, was
one, which, by the casual observer, was either
believed to be as fabulous as the ring of Solyman
—or, if it existed, to be almost as far beyond the
reach of the most aspiring ; while her reception
of the addresses of the few whom her beauty
and splendid advantages had tempted to brave
all this, did not tend to dissipate the idea. Not
one of them had interested her feelings, or those
of her father, sufficiently to induce her to think
for a moment of leaving her happy home, or
him to urge it.
When Godfrey Vandeleur was first presented
to her, she received him with cordiality, and
VANDELEUR. 183
almost friendly familiarity of manner, as the son
of her beloved friend ; which, if it did not of it-
self succeed in beguiling him from the cautious
reserve he had imposed upon himself, certainly
was not without its effect upon his feelings.
But, as if his success in society, for his mother’s
sake, was the sole object she had in view ; no
sooner did that success appear to be ensured,
than her manner to him became less distinguish-
ed in its kindness; and though now almost every
evening meeting him in society, the brilliant
and encouraging smile, which was ever ready
to point applause to his first contributions to
the game of fashionable conversation, was now
scarcely ever vouchsafed, though ever eagerly
sought ; or if accidentally elicited, was latterly
followed by a hasty blush : —that blush was
never confined to her own cheek !
By one so deeply interested as was Mrs.
Vandeleur, this change could not fail to be per-
ceived ; but she perceived it not only without
resentment, but seemed to appreciate the pro-
184 VANDELEUR.
priety from whence she believed it to proceed ;
and, as if by mutual but tacit consent, her son’s
name was now scarcely ever mentioned between
her and her pupil. The young man himself,
whatever his feelings on the subject might be,
scrupulously studied to suit his deportment to
.Lady Seaton’s wishes ; and though his eye
might occasionally glance furtively to see if she
listened when others applauded,
his conversa-
tion was now scarcely ever addressed exclu-
sively to her, even when he availed himself of
Lord Hampton’s constant invitations.
“ What a handsome and agreeable man that
Captain Vandeleur is, and seems to be !” ob-
served Lady Augusta Starling one evening, as
she and Lady Seaton came together up stairs,
from the dining-room at Lord Hampton’s, just
after Lady Augusta’s arrival in town for the
season. “ Who is he ? or where is he fallen
from ?”
“ He is son to my Mrs. Vandeleur, and he has
just risen from the campaigns on the Continent.
VANDELEUR. 185
a How risen ? Was lie in tlie ranks P
11
Lady Seaton coloured. “ No ; I said lie was
son to Mrs. Vandeleur : lie is of an ancient and
respectable family, but lie is risen in worldly
honour and estimation.
1 ”’
“ What, then, is he a hero P
11
“ How you run, as ever, from one extreme to
another ! No", not a hero, but a very brave and
gallant officer, who has distinguished himself, and
been frequently mentioned in the despatches
home.
11
“ Oh, that’s his label, is it ? Is he horse or
foot ?”
“ Horse ; the —th Dragoons.
11
“ Oh, then he really is presentable, and per-
haps an acquisition ?”
“ I hope so .
11
“Nay, you know you are not responsible for
every one who dines at your table being an
acquisition —especially people that you cannot
avoid asking.
11
“ I think I am, whenever many meet there :
186 VANDELEUR.
it is only on very particular friends that we
inflict bores, when we are sure of their being
treated at least with respect.'”
“ Nay, Lady Seaton, you hit as hard as if
I had said Captain Vandeleur was a bore, in-
stead of an acquisition.”
“ I never give any one credit for a lucky
escape,
nor take it myself.”
“ Well, I know there’s no arguing with you ;
but will you ask him to join our riding-party
to-morrow, and I shall take him to task, and,
if I find him all right, shall patronise him :
will you ?”
“ No.”
“ Why ?”
“ Because I have never done so, and I don’t
think he would come.”
“Not come !
—not come at the call of beauty !
Then is he no true son of Mars !”
“ He has at least done all I require of him
as such, and, I believe, quite enough to dispense
with our patronage.”
VANDELEUR. 187
“ Really ? Then you are serious that he is
already one of us ?”
“ As much so as you or I can make him,
at least.”
“ Then he is to be petted, instead of patron-
ised ?”
“ Cest selon .”
“ Nay, you are so very proper, and so myste-
rious absolutely, that I must have recourse to
himself to find out what he is.”
“More than a very handsome, and very agree-
able young man, which you have yourself pro-
nounced him ; and a good, and brave officer,
which I have told you he is.”
“ Oh, dear, yes ! a thousand things more !
That is all merely surface ; the one for ladies
in general, the other for gentlemen in general.
Now I want to see what he is for owe.”
“ That is, for Lady Augusta Starling ? Well,
I hope he may be as successful as with the
others.”
When Vandeleur came up to the drawing-
188 VANDELEUR.
room, Lady Augusta Starling was at the piano,
accompanying Lady Seaton’s liarp. Being ex-
tremely fond of music, he came over almost
immediately to the instrument, and Lady Au-
gusta soon found occasion to employ him up-
on several little commissions, for music, harp-
strings, and so forth; and finally, as soon as the
duet was over, she quickly turned round and
led him into conversation. At first, Vande-
leur, was as usual, distant and reserved ; hut as
the giddy girl fluttered on, he was obliged to
follow.
“ I dare say now, as you seem a grave and
reserved person, that you would rather I had
suffered the music to continue, than break it
off for conversation :
you seem to enjoy music
greatly ?”
“I do ; but only for the soul and feelings it
breathes forth ; conversation may have the same
charm.”
“ I trust you are not sentimental?”
“ Why ?”
VANDELEUR. 189
“ Because, in that event, we had better be-
come honourable enemies at once —easier cha-
racters to sustain, in general, than swearing an
eternal friendship. I never could talk senti-
ment.
1 '’
“ Nor listen to it P
11
“ Nor listen to it ,
11
she repeated, quickly
looking round on him with some astonishment .
“ I assure you, nor I. So now as we are agreed
in this, and as peace is such a novelty at pre-
sent, I hope you will not be the first to break it.”
“ Oh, apropos of peace and war, I under-
stand you are quite a hero.”
Vandeleur bowed with mock gravity to the
compliment.
“ But is it true ?”
“ Before I answer, I must know from you
what constitutes a hero.”
“ Oh, if you know not that, it is evident that
you are none. I am answered already.”
“ On the contrary, the wise ones say we
never know ourselves.”
190 VANDELEUR.
“ Well, then, a hero means a very brave, a
very noble, and a very generous man.”
“ I fear you have left out the chief ingre-
dient.”
“ What is that ?”
“To be a fortunate one. Now I should de-
fine a hero a first-rate actor, whose part is well
cast, on a suitable stage.'”
“ Do you mean to say that heroism is only
acting ?”
“ I do ; but it is acting up to nature. How
many hundreds, with all the ingredients of he-
roism that ever filled the breast of Scipio, have
gone down unhonoured to their graves for want
of the requisites I mentioned ! A man’s becom-
ing a hero depends as much on others as on
himself. It was Bonaparte made Wellington
a hero.”
“ What am I to gather from all this? —that
you would have been a hero if opportunity had
been afforded you ?”
VANDELEUR. 191
“No. In such times as we have had, the
stage was so extensive that every man might
choose his own part ; and as I had all the requi-
sites that I named, we must only suppose that
I was not up to hero-pitch in some of those
named by you. There was nothing in Bona-
parte’s birth or circumstances to favour his be-
coming one : but the stage was decked, the dra-
matis persona ready to support him ; he stepped
forward and did his part nobly.”
“Can you say that, after all?”
“ I can. I never saw Bonaparte—that, as it
were, materialized mind—without a feeling of
reverence, that, true Englishman as I am, I
was obliged to do double duty to clear my con-
science of. But I observe that Lady Seaton
has been looking towards you more than once
as if she wished to speak with you.”
“ How can you see so far across this great
room ? But do try, will you ? —Thank you.”
Vandeleur approached Lady Seaton, and
192 VANDELEUR.
certainly felt rather awkward and officious,
when she coldly answered, “ No : I only look-
ed to see whether she was waiting to play a
particular duet with me, which she requested
me not to forofct this even-ina1
.
11
Vandeleur repeated these words to Lady
Augusta. (l
Oh, then, of course I must play it.
Adieu,
moil keros—au revoir A and turning
again to the piano, the music recommenced.
Vandeleur met Lady Augusta Starling the
next evening, and the next ;
and on the morning
ofthe fourth, her brother, Lord Cranberry, called
on him and invited him to dinner. Lady Au-
gusta had made it a point to represent him as
the pet of the Llamptons ;
“ a most extraor-
dinary fine young man, a hero, and very clever
—and a lion to boot .
11
Vandeleur declined the invitation. Each
time that he had met Lady Augusta, she had
condescended to renew her familiar chatting
with him, and rather to prolong it more and
VANDELEUR. 193
more ; and although he was bound to follow as
she led, still his good sense told him he was
now treading on slippery ground, and that, all
charmed as he was by his new sphere in life,
it might only be for a season he was permitted
to enjoy it. He felt the attentions he received
to he a most delicious draught, and even per-
mitted his spirits and feelings to be a good
deal elevated by it ; but he had no mind to
suffer them to become so intoxicated as either
to cause him to be chased from that sphere as
a presumptuous fool, or to pay for it the pe-
nalty of a broken heart. Accordingly, though
many young fashionables now honoured him
with “ wreathed smiles,
11
and though to gentle-
men he had a good deal relaxed, he still con-
tinued reserved and distant to ladies, and ob-
served one invariable rule —never to ask any
of them to dance.
It was while matters w'ere in this train that
Colonel and Mrs. Malcolm arrived in London.
He was the colonel of Vandeleurs first regi-
VOL. i. K
194 VANDELEUR.
ment, and had ever since been in habits of in
timacy with him. He had formerly been an
acquaintance of Lord Hampton’s, and Vande-
leur met him and his lady at dinner there short-
ly after their arrival.
His reception by Colonel Malcolm did not
serve to lessen the respect in which he was
already held, while his meeting with the lady
served to show that the reserve he thought
proper to assume in general, could be laid aside
at pleasure. To her he was attentive, kind,
and even assiduous ; while in her manner to-
wards him there was something that partook of
subdued respect, and even tender gratitude.
Colonel Malcolm, who was a sensible, gen-
tlemanly man, and twenty years older than
his pretty wife, seemed not only to under-
stand, but even to appreciate and value, Vande-
leur’s attentions to her. The most cynical and
censorious could therefore do no more than view
l
it as a matter of curiosity,—and, truth to tell,
the kindest and best did no less.
VANDELEUR. 195
Vandeleur’s star was still in the ascendant
and this circumstance only tended to swell the
tide of his popularity still higher, by investing
him with a degree of mystery which perhaps
alone was wanting to complete the engouement
that he created. None, however, were ever
destined to be enlightened on the subject.
Whatever the feeling or bond between the par-
ties was, it was evident that Vandeleur was the
benefactor, they the obliged —and that in some
matter too delicate for common conversation.
All that ever transpired, if indeed it could
be called anything, was one evening that Vande-
leur excited the astonishment, and it is scarcely
too much to say envy, of his fair young friends,
by dancing a quadrille with Mrs. Malcolm.
As he restored her to the side of her hus-
band, and was sauntering to another part of the
room, Lady Seaton, whose partner had gone in
search of her shawl, congratulated him on hav-
ing broken the ice.
“ It is not broken,
1'’
he replied playfully.
k 2
] 96 VANDELEUR.
u One single measure, which I took care to
tread so lightly, lias not broken it, else you had
seen me ‘
borne down by the flying whereas
I trust to resume the grave dignity of my de-
portment with double force.
“ Oh !
” exclaimed Lady Augusta Starling,
who just then paused in the dance, close to
where Lady Seaton and Vandeleur stood, “ are
you not shocked to find what a coward Cap-
tain Vandeleur has turned out after all, Lady
Seaton ? He is absolutely afraid to dance I
11
44
Afraid of what ?”
“ Will you, pray, repeat to Lady Seaton all
that you said to me the other day, as your rea-
son for not dancing? —about becoming too well
acquainted with dangerously-charming creatures,
and all that pretty nonsense about Cupid’s ar-
rows being too fine to fly far ; and therefore, that
while you keep at a certain distance, you are
safe, &c. &c.—a bad compliment, by the bye, to
those whom you honour with your attention :
and, upon my word, now I think on ’t, I ought
VANDELEUR. 197
to be offended, for people say yon talk to me
more than to any other lady.”
Vandeleur and Lady Seaton, for the first
time in their lives, irresistibly exchanged a
momentary glance full of meaning, and each
looked down to conceal an involuntary smile.
But how different was the expression of the
countenance of each next moment, when Lady
Augusta continued —
“ And you, Lady Seaton, ought to be flat-
tered, for I think you and he do not get on at
all.”
Their eyes, which had again met, were now
instantly, as it were, again shot asunder, and
once more fastened on the ground, while a vivid
and conscious blush suffused the countenances
of each. Happily Lady Augusta was at that
moment drawn away by her partner ; and as
Vandeleur saw the gentleman whom Lady
Seaton had despatched for her shawl returning
with it, he just lingered to say, “ I danced
with Mrs. Malcolm because she is a strano-e
O
198 VANDELEUR.
here,—because I knew it would be acceptable,
—and, more than all, because it would grieve
me excessively, both for her sake and that of
her excellent husband, that so innocent and
amiable a person should have cause to feel her-
self neglected.”
It was enough : from that hour Mrs. Mai-
%
colm, during her stay in London, found herself
supported in society by the leading star of fa-
shionable life.
VANDELEUR. 199
CHAPTER VI.
Yet there was light around her brow,
A holiness in those dark eyes,
Which show’d, though wandering earthward now,
Her spirit’s home was in the skies.
Yes ! for a spirit pure as hers
Is always pure, even while it errs;
As sunshine, broken in the rill,
Though turn’d astray, is sunshine still.
Moore.
Spring wore on. Lord Hampton and his
family, with a select party of friends, prepared
to remove for the Easter recess to one of his
mansions in the country.
“You will accompany us, Vandeleur?” he
said one day at dinner, as the matter was talked
over.
Vandeleur hastily declined it.
“ Why ?” said Lord Hampton. And the
200 VANDELEUR.
simple monosyllable was more confounding than
any elaborate speech could have been; at least,
it left him less time to frame an answer, and
it suggested none itself. He stammered and
looked distressed, then laughed at his own di-
lemma.
“ Nay,” said Lord Hampton, smiling also,
“ if there is any ‘
business of importance’
to de-
tain you here, I am not the man to urge you to
play truant: if not, let’s see you, that’s all.”
There was something in Lord Hampton’s
smile that told plainly what the ‘business of
importance’ was to which he alluded ; and there
was something in the young man’s feelings at
the moment that irresistibly impelled him not
only to disclaim all such engagements, but, in
order to free himself completely from the impu-
tation, unequivocally, and without regard to the
apparent inconsistency, to accept Lord Hamp-
ton’s invitation.
He had no sooner uttered words to that
effect, than his eye almost involuntarily asked
how Lady Seaton was pleased at the circum-
VANDELEUR. 201
stance : hers happened to be fixed on him at the
moment with an expression of deep inquiry ;
but on meeting his, she covered a slight degree
of confusion in a graceful bow, as it were of
acceptance of his promise to join their party.
He could not ascertain whether she was glad or
sorry.
Nor here let rustic though well-meaning
parents, whose hopes suggest a lover in every
“unmarried man” who approaches the seclusion
in which they and their promising progeny are
immured, exclaim, “ How imprudent of Lord
Hampton !” The Countess of Seaton had from
her very birth been surrounded by the “choice
spirits
11
of her age and sphere ; and the low-bred
precaution of guarding her heart against their
enchantments, no more entered into the head
of her aristocratic father, than it did into
the precepts of her refined and high-minded
governess.
“ And we have got another acquisition to our
party, Theodosia,
11
continued Lord Hampton.
“ The Duke of Castleton is just arrived from
k 5
202 VANDELEUR.
the Continent, and has promised to join us in a
few days. You are aware that his father was
a particular friend and near neighbour of mine
in shire : our estates there adjoin each
other.'”
Lady Seaton bowed her head in silence,
and the conversation turned to other sub-
jects. In fact, this was one which was not
quite agreeable to Lady Seaton. The young
nobleman to whom Lord Hampton alluded, and
whose return to London, after an absence of
several years, was an event of considerable in-
terest in the fashionable world, was one of
England’s wealthiest subjects; and whether it
was from the old intimacy between Lord Hamp-
ton and the late duke, or whether from the
general apparent suitability of the alliance—or
whether, as is most probable, from both these
causes together, not only Lady Seaton’s immedi-
ate friends, but several others, looked upon that
alliance as an event very likely to take place.
She had, it could scarcely be said how, heard
the whisper ; and to one of her lofty and inde-
VANDELEUll. 208
pendent spirit it was anything but an accept-
able one.
The duke was young, handsome, and said to be
agreeable ; but two days’ domestication with him
in the country served to convince Lady Seaton,
that as bis mind was of a very mediocre grade,
and bis character a negative one, be was not
more of the latter than was absolutely un-
avoidable from his great advantages, and re-
sidence for some years in foreign courts ; while
even those who were more predisposed in bis
favour, were not unfrequently surprised to find
themselves turning from bis insipid, but courtly
compliments, to the half-concealed, but never
bitter raillery, of Godfrey Vandeleur.
When first the little party congregated at
Lord Hampton’s villa, Vandeleur felt a degree
of awkwardness at being associated so closely
with Lady Seaton, the anticipation of which
alone had been sufficient to suggest his refusal
to join the party. But it would have been
totally inconsistent with her high breeding, and
real dignity of mind, to suffer this to continue.
204 VANDELEUR.
From the moment that her father had prevailed
with him to make one in so small and so select
a party in their own house, she felt that all
private or especial reserve on her part must
give way ; and that where each guest depended
so much upon the other, it would be equally
uncourteous, and unfair, either to throw a damp
upon his agreeability, or to avail herself of it
without the least return.
Vandeleur instantly felt the change in her
manner, and was not only alive to its effect,
but to its cause. His own delicacy of feeling
enabled him to sympathise in hers ; and instead
of peevishly or indecorously resenting her for-
mer reserve, he now determined to avail himself
of the relaxation just as far as might meet her
views, and no farther.
Like the attendants in the fairy tale, he en-
deavoured to anticipate her every wish, yet to
conceal the hand that ministered to it; and thus
was unconsciously and tacitly established be-
tween them a sweet, subtile, but dangerous,
because unacknowledged, sympathy.
VANDELEUR. 205
In the riding parties, from which he could no
longer be excluded, Vandeleur apparently nei-
ther sought nor avoided her side; and although
when any laughing appeal from her, or other
accidental circumstance, called him there, it
generally so happened that he kept the place
until the ride was over, yet the evening never
seemed to cement the intimacy. He approach-
ed not the harp or piano when she played, and
was, on the contrary, generally deeply engaged
in some different entertainment with others of
the party.
Thus matters wore on, when one hopeless-
ly wet day set the whole party at their wits’
ends to devise some agreeable mode of getting
through it. The usual resources of a country-
house were tried ; hut as the season, on the
whole, had been a wet one, none of these re-
tained the charm of novelty ; they were there-
fore soon cast aside, and as the party was a
social and well-selected one, the anxiety be-
came general to strike out some amusement
which should engage them all, and not suffer
206 VANDELEUR.
the gentlemen to pair off* to the billiard-room,
or chess and backgammon tables.
At last some one suggested that every gen-
tleman should repair to the conservatory, and
choosing some flower there, present it, with an
appropriate original inscription, written with a
pencil on a band of white ribbon, to the lady of
his choice, which she in return was bound to
wear at dinner, the flower in her hair, the band
of ribbon as a bracelet on her arm. To this
there were at first some dissenting voices ; but
when a few amendments had been adopted, it
was finally carried. One of the amendments
was, that, in order to spare the gentlemen all
gentle confusion, the addresses should be written
in feigned hands and presented anonymously ;
and in order to avoid all chance of detection,
a basket was to be left in the conservatory, into
which they were to be promiscuously thrown,
\
and from whence Lady Seaton's maid was to
take and distribute them according to their dif-
ferent directions, whilst the ladies dressed for
dinner.
VANDELEUR. 207
It is necessary that a young, gay, and idle party
should be hopelessly shut up by bad weather in
a country-house, where they had assembled for
amusement, in order to understand the avidity
with which this little scheme was now hailed, and
the merriment excited by the sombre counte-
nances of the gentlemen, as, seated at the
various tables in the drawing-room, they en-
deavoured to conjure verses out of their brains,
by the very dint, it would seem, of frowns and
contortions.
It was simultaneously voted and agreed that
the ladies should retire, as their unfeeling mirth
only served to distract them more. This, after
all, was no unacceptable decree ; for not only
is laughing long at the same thing tiresome in
itself, but the humid atmosphere had weighed
so heavily on their silken tresses, as to warn
them by many a touching appeal to their eyes,
that it would require more time than usual, to
put them into a state worthy the blushing ho-
nours that were preparing for them with so
much labour ; and, indeed, one or two had already
208 VANDELEUR.
slyly slipped away, after a stolen glance at a
mirror, to see how her face bore the careless
pushing of her drooping ringlets behind her
ears. A careless toilette reads well, but some-
how few can bear it.
A very few minutes after the ladies had re-
tired, the Duke of Castleton left his seat, and
went over to the table where Vandeleur sat a
little apart, engaged, pen in hand, like the
rest ; hut not like the rest, taking fresh ink into
his pen between every extorted word, as if the
genius lay in the ink itself : on the contrary,
having undertaken to write a couplet, his pen
flowed on with a facility in which he had not
indulged since the days of his boyhood.
“Come, Vandeleur,” said the duke, “be
charitable. I never wrote a line of poetry in
all my life, and I see they drop from your pen
even without an effort. Do, like a good fellow,
write a couplet for me. Why, bless me !
you
have already enough there to serve a dozen.
You cannot cram all those upon a bracelet;
VANDELEUR. 209
it must be a sash ,
and that you cannot present
to a lady : so, do be generous, and give me a
stanza or two out of these —those you reject
will do for me.”
“ But suppose, my lord, they will only suit
one object ?”
“ Then are they no love verses ;
for the feel-
ing is all that is ever described when we think we
are describing the individual, and that is alike
in all. Did you ever show lines upon love to
any lady in your life who did not in some way
betray that she thought them particularly appli-
cable to herself? just as natural characters in a
novel are said to be personal. Upon my soul, I
once knew a girl who answered lines she read in
a newspaper, under the firm persuasion that her
lover or beloved had adopted that mode of com-
municating his feelings ; they were, she said, so
exactly applicable, though he was not only in
India at the time, but had never written two lines
of verse in his life. Some one, to humour the
joke, replied to hers ; and, the sentiments being
210 VANDELEUR.
still his, she appointed a meeting, and ulti-
mately, to save her character, became the wretch-
ed wife of a talented shoemaker ! But come,
11
he added in a low voice, and with a slight degree
of hesitation, “ I don’t care if I tell you, that I
think it but right to present my offering to Lady
Seaton : will your verses at all apply to her
“You may judge for yourself, my lord. You
may have these lines, and if you can pick out
any that suit you, you are welcome to them
only remember your own principle, that the feel-
ing is alike in all and to all .
11
And so saying,
he handed to the duke the following lines, and
left the room.
Oh, pardon that thou hearest from me
The wailings of a hopeless flame ;
Henceforth I shall not be to thee
An object of thy praise or blame.
Then do not deem each mournful line
A vain attempt thy breast to move ;
I would but soothe the pain of mine,
By murmuring—how much I love !
I would but bid a last farewell,
To one, though late, too dearly known,
Ere I take up my staff and shell
To wander through the world alone.
VANDELEUR. 211
Thou wert to me a lovely star,
The empress of my wayward will,
And though too high, too bright, too far
For me to hope, I loved thee still.
I did not hope—yet had a dream
That fame might make me worthy thee ;
And then, how proudly did I deem
No task too high, too hard for me !
That star I worshipp’d as my guide,
I own’d no other guide but thee ;
I follow’d —but thou didst abide
Above no Bethlehem for me !
As soon as the company began to assemble
in the drawing-room before dinner, a judge was
appointed, who, seated in all the dignity of a
music-stool, was to have the privilege of taking
each fair lady by the hand, reading aloud the
inscription which its ribbon bore, and pronoun-
cing judgment as to how far the lines suited
the flower selected. Of their originality all
doubt vanished according as they appeared !
Lady Augusta Starling entered the room
first, her auburn curls bound with a wreath of
roses, and on her wrist she bore the following
lines :
212 VANDELEUR.
Fair Rose ! since not Apollo’s lyre could now
Give one new strain in which thy praise to speak,
Go twine thyself on fair Augusta’s brow,
And guess thy beauty from her blushing cheek.
44
Why, this is an address to the rose, and
not to the lady !” said Lord Hampton, who was
appointed judge, as retributive justice for his
having pleaded the 4
Easter holidays,’ in the
forenoon, as an exemption for himself, and one
or two other 44
steady senators,” from all extra
exercise of the brains.
“ Oh, never mind,” exclaimed Lady Augusta
44
trust me, there is no sweeter compliment than
that paid through a rival beauty.”
Another fair creature entered. She held a
blue hyacinth in her hand ; she wore on her
arm its application
Thrice happy flower ! the Lily or the Rose
May each one emblematic grace disclose;
Whilst thou dost two of Emma’s charms declare —
Her eyes of blue, and hyacinthine hair.
44
Humph ! I did not know that puns were
admitted.’’
44
Oh yes, when they are superadded gratis.”
VANDELEUR. 213
“ Very well ;
pass on.
,,
A third came, with a bunch of lily-of-the-
valley.
Fair belle,
though here no humble valley smiles,
Thy native sweetness still our hearts beguiles ;
—
Like her who, nurtured in the highest sphere,
Boasts all that makes the cottage maiden dear.
u And what may that be ? for in all my long
life I never yet could find out that a cottage
maiden was better than a pis-aller.'
1
'
1
“ Hold ! hold !” exclaimed two or three
together ;
44
a forfeit ! Lord Hampton is invad-
ing our privileges, and punning.”
“ I think it was much more like an Irish
bull : however, if you choose to
4
make the
worse appear the better reason,
1
I’m sure I have
no objection, and will at any time gladly pay a
forfeit for a witticism of my own ! But
about this pretty young lady who, in my mind,
has been so injuriously compared to a cottage
maid ?”
44
Oh, you inexorable judge ! of course it only
means artlessness and simplicity, and so forth.”
214 VANDELEUR.
“ Heigh-ho ! I do wish people would learn to
distinguish between simplicity and ignorance,
vulgarity and artlessness. But pass on, fair
girl
;
you are in no danger of confounding them.
Hah ! —what have we here ? A new species
of geranium, which I have never seen before.
Will the motto tell its name ?”
Blushing and beautiful, the charming girl
who wore it, held up her arm. She was the
affianced bride of a young nobleman, whom
some accidental circumstance prevented from
being of the party at the moment ; but as the cir-
cumstance of their betrotlnnent was no longer
a secret, some one had in his absence selected
the species of geranium then recently obtained,
and called by his name, and addressed it to the
lady with these lines :
The time is past to sing thy beauties o’er
These let them sing whose fate denies them more.
But let this flower my fondest hopes combine ;
It bears my name—my Laura, make it thine !
The judge was touched with the graceful
good humour, and good breeding, of the lovely
VANDELEUR. 215
fiancee,
,
and respectfully raising her hand to his
lips, he handed her on without uttering an ob-
servation.
One or two more succeeded, and then there
was a pause—a pause for the mistress of the
revels. Presently she entered, but with a
countenance whose flushed colour, and bashful
expression, but ill accorded with the laughing
hilarity of the moment, wherein each fair lady
was expected to receive her offering as a mere
jeu dC esprit, and not at all dal cuore.
Lady Seaton looked particularly lovely, and
it was perceived that her fair ringlets were close-
ly enwreathed with —the dark passion-flower.
She hesitated to advance to her father, and one
or two of her young companions impatiently
seized her hands, as if expecting to find in the
charmed motto the secret of her surpassing
beauty. If so, they were driven to despair ; for
there was neither verse nor motto, and she
wore the white band pure and unsullied.
“ How ’s this ! how is this ?” exclaimed the
216 VANDELEUR.
judge, to whom she was now handed up. “ A
forfeit ! a forfeit from Lady Seaton !”
“ I was not aware, my lord judge,
-
” she said,
“ that we were liable to be fined for the want of
taste of others, in not deeming us worthy of an
address : methinks the slight is in itself punish-
ment enough.”
“ Nay, fair lady, that humble apology will
not serve your turn : he who presented you with
that expressive emblem of crossed* love never
deemed you unworthy of a verse.
“ But,” exclaimed Lady Augusta Starling,
“ may it not be the other way—the other way?
May he not have deemed her above all common
modes of communication, and left that melan-
choly flower to tell its own tale, on the princi-
ple that —
‘ Silence in love betrays more woe
Than words, tho’ e’er so witty ;
As beggars that are dumb, you know,
May challenge double pity.’
* It is scarcely necessary to remind the reader that the
passion-flower is marked with a cross, from whence it is
said to take its name.
VANDELEUR. 217
Indeed, if he had had his wits about him, he
would have given in these lines with the flower,
to explain his silence.”
“ If he had been an Irishman, I dare say he
might,” said Lady Seaton.
“Yes, yes, but all these ifs, mights, and
perhapses will not do,” interposed the judge ;
“ we must have Lady Seaton’s forfeit, or some
good reason against it.”
“ Ask her,” said the Duke of Castleton, “if
she received no other flower with an address
and if so, why she declined to wear it.”
“ Is it as a forfeit, my lord ?” she said, turning
to him with a slight blush, “ that you would
compel me to hurt the vanity of some well-
meaning swain, who fancied he was paying me
a compliment, by forcing me to tell him how
unacceptable it was ?”
“ I am answered, and rebuked,” said the
duke, with a greater appearance of mortification
than the matter seemed to call for : so much,
indeed, that Lady Augusta whispered in his
VOL. i. L
218 VANDELEUR.
ear, 44
I think, my lord, that amounted to 4
a
contempt of court
"
1
—Need I finish the word ?”
44
Come, duke,” said Lord Hampton with a
smile,
44
come ; as this ill-omened flowr
er has not
only defrauded Lady Seaton of an expected ad-
dress', but almost deprived her of her own,
we
must only take for granted that she wears it as
emblematic of passion indeed, hut of a kind the
very reverse of that it was meant to express.
And now, good people, 4
to dinner w ith what
appetites wr
e may.
1 11
It was utterly impossible that Lord Hampton
could have formed the most distant guess at
who, amongst so many, might have presented
the passion-flower to Lady Seaton. She was
aware of this, and could therefore only attribute
to one cause, the slight degree of annoyance that
to her, if to no one else, was perfectly visible
under the smile which he had assumed in utter-
ing these words. This conviction did not tend
to restore her composure, and threw an uncon-
scious gloom over the whole procedure, which
made every one feel it had gone far enough.
VANDELEUR. 219
Under this impression, the subject was only
once again alluded to, and that was by the
duke himself, who, as he sat next to Lady
Seaton at dinner, literally seemed unable to
detach his eyes from the dark wreath which
certainly did contrast most beautifully with
her blonde complexion and hair. “ Well,
I envy, but cannot guess, who selected that
flower,’
1
he said. “ I can make some guess at
nearly all the others, but not the least at the
silent swain whose offering is so honoured ; and
the worst of the matter is, that, upon my soul I
11
he said, laughing, “ I tried to get at that flower
myself, but it was so deuced high I could not
reach it. He must be a tall fellow.
11
Lady Seaton instantly repeated, as it were
musingly, but quite distinctly, the line,
“ Fain would I climb, but fear to fall.”
“ Yes ! finish the couplet, as Queen Elizabeth
did,
11
exclaimed the duke.
“ Why, my lord ? it could not in the least
apply to you, you know.
11
And it did not : but there was one brown
220 VANDELEUR.
cheek opposite to her at dinner which became
deadly pale when he caught the line. A glass
of sherry however, hastily swallowed, set all to
rights, and his emotion passed off undiscovered.
When the time came for Lord Hampton and
his family to return to London, Vandeleur at
once determined within himself to spare Lady
Seaton the ungracious task (should she again
deem it a necessary one) of withdrawing from
him the intimacy with which she had honoured
him in the country. Accordingly, for some
time his visits were much less frequent than
might have been expected. Lord Hampton re-
marked it ; and once more, with an expressive
smile, hoped he was employing his leave of ab-
sence to some advantage.
Vandeleur looked graver than when last the
hint was conveyed, and his eye sought not Lady
Seaton’s this time ; it would not have met it if
it had : but his mother, who was present at the
moment, suffered hers to glance furtively, and
anxiously, from one to the other.
VANDELEUR. m
That lady had for some days past manifested
a dejection of spirits, and a sort of dissatisfied
manner, very unlike her usual placidity, and
dignified deportment. On the evening before
this observation of Lord Hampton’s, Lady Sea-
ton, finding her sitting apparently in deep and
unpleasing meditation, in a saloon formerly ap-
propriated to their studies, took a seat beside
her, and kindly taking her hand, inquired what
had occurred to annoy her.
Mrs. Vandeleur instantly replied, “ I scarcely
know if I ought to trouble you with it, my love ;
but there is a matter which causes me a good
deal of anxiety.”
“My dear Mrs. Vandeleur, is it any matter
in which my father or I can assist you ?”
“ No, dearest Lady Seaton, it is not : it
merely relates to Godfrey’s marriage and she
raised her eyes to her pupil’s face.
It was instantly dyed with a deep and burning
blush. As rapid blushes were, however, an es-
sential part of Lady Seaton’s beauty, it might,
222 VANDELEUR.
she hoped, betoken nothing more than surprise ;
and the paleness which certainly succeeded she
was willing to attribute to the mere reaction
of the eloquent blood. As Lady Seaton seemed
not about to make any observation, Mrs. Van-
deleur continued :
“ A near relative of my late
husband, a man of much respectability, and
even immense wealth, acquired in mercantile
pursuits, has taken an uncommon fancy to
Godfrey, and has had him a great deal at
his house. One of his daughters, a very pretty
pleasing girl, —and, I assure you, Lady Seaton,
lady-like and accomplished, —has beheld him
with still more partial eyes. She is her father’s
favourite child ; and, in short, such overtures
have been made to him, chiefly through me, as
might be acceptable to a nobleman. They
satisfy their own feelings in all this, by affect-
ing to think that his want of fortune may deter
him from coming forward, and yet render so
very large a one as they offer, necessary to him.
But, I lament to say, he will not even hear me
on the subject.”
VANDELEUR. ns
Another rapid blush, hut without the suc-
ceeding paleness, was the only answer Mrs.
Vandeleur still received from her attentive
pupil. She therefore continued : “ It is a mat-
ter of great regret to me; because, besides the
young lady herself being really everything I
could wish, and even, as I said before, remark-
ably pretty, the noble fortune which her father
is willing to settle on her, would place Godfrey
at once far beyond anything he can ever look to,
after his life spent in his profession, be his suc-
cess what it may.
1 ’
She paused; and Lady Seaton at last said,
(but, Mrs. Vandeleur could not help fancying,
with a slight degree of timidity very unusual to
her,) “ And does he assign no reason for his ob-
duracy ?”
Her eyes were not cast down when she
uttered the words, still less were they fixed
upon her governesses countenance, but wander-
ed with constrained indifference, as did her
fingers, over the chords of a little musical toy
which lay on the table beside her.
VANDELEUR.
224
“ No, none,” Mrs. Vandeleur answered
“ except the usual reply on such occasions, of
general disinclination to marriage, and devotion
to his profession. I trust the life he is now
leading may not wholly unfit him for that he is
likely to lead in future.”
“ And what is that ?”
“ That of an unfortuned soldier in country
quarters.”
A silence of some minutes succeeded. At
last Lady Seaton said, with all her usual grace
and self-possession, “ It is not indeed a case, I
fear, in which we can give you any assistance ;
and therefore, dear Mrs. Vandeleur, I shall bid
you good night ;” and she accordingly with-
drew.
The Duke of Castleton had returned to Lon-
don a day or two before the Hamptons did,
and was received into the gay vortex there
with all the avidity that one of his high rank,
splendid fortune, courtly manners, and really
gentle and amiable temper, deserved. He
VANDELEUR. 225
bowed, and smiled, and danced, as fancy or
propriety dictated, amongst his numerous ac-
quaintances ; but, alas ! it was very soon per-
ceived that, even while he smiled on one, his
eyes were wandering round the crowded room
in search of another form ; that form was Lady
Seaton’s.
What is it that makes men and women love
those most who least resemble themselves ? —It
is a wise decree of Providence, that the balance
of good and evil should be fairly adjusted.
Young ladies, as soon as this predilection on
the duke’s part was discovered, gave up all
hopes ; for few, even in their own estimation,
could hope to rival Lady Seaton. But not
so their wiser mothers : they peeped farther
behind the scenes, and plainly perceived that
Lady Seaton was as indifferent to the duke, as
the duke was enamoured of her.
“ It will never be a match,” said the Dow-
ager Marchioness of L., who had three fair
daughters in the room at the time, and whom,
l 5
226 VANDELEUR.
they being exactly the same height and remark-
ably like each other, she had taken the desperate
step of bringing out together, on the speculation
of their being called ‘
the Graces.
1
“ It will
never be a match, my dear madam : I know
Lady Seaton’s independent temper too well.”
“ Yes, but / know her father’s, from whom
she derives it ; and, believe me, he will carry his
point, though in all courtesy,” replied the young
Countess of S., whose daughters were yet all
children.
“ But the man can never propose ; she treats
him so haughtily.”
“ Never mind ; he knows what he is about
he is gentle, and has never ventured to say
anything to her to induce a refusal ; and he
will take advantage of that, and will apply to
her father.”
It was even so. It might have been about a
month after Lord Hampton returned to Lon-
don, that he one morning requested his daughter
to give him an audience in the library.
VANDELEUR. m
She of course immediately complied, and lie
there informed her of the proposals of the Duke
of Castleton. He waited some moments for
her reply. “ Well, Theodosia ?” he said at last.
“ Well, my dear father, to decline them, of
course.”
“ On what plea, Theodosia ?”
“ On what plea, father !
—rather, on what
plea should I accept them ?”
It is needless to go over Lord Hampton’s
answer, and all that ensued in enumeration of
the advantages of the alliance. It is enough to
say, that Lady Seaton was for the first time
afraid to examine her own heart. To her
father she offered the excuse of utter in-
difference.
“ This cannot, or at least ought not to in-
duce you to refuse him time to endeavour to
remove that indifference, Theodosia,” the mar-
quis answered. “ You know that I have never
pressed you upon this subject of marriage, and
therefore
”
228 VANDELEUR.
She earnestly interrupted him —“And there-
fore do not do away now with your former in-
dulgence, my dear, dear father : let me continue
happy with you !” and she knelt before him.
“ This, Theodosia,” said the marquis, at-
tempting to raise her, “ is acting like a board-
ing-school citizen, or the heroine of some low-
lived novel.”
Lady Seaton instantly rose, and stood respect-
fully, but with an air of almost offended dig-
nity, before him.
“ I beg your pardon, Theodosia,” he added,
“ but I am really surprised and disappointed.
You will at least permit the duke’s attentions as
usual ?”
“ As usual I will, sir ; but that, you must be
aware, will be with marked disapprobation."
Lord Hampton rose and left the room, as if
afraid to trust himself with a further reply.
Lady Seaton sank into a chair the moment he
disappeared, and remained there in no enviable
state of mind, until Mrs. Vandeleur entered in
VANDELEUR. 229
search of a book. In a moment she was struck
with the abstraction and depression of Lady
Seaton’s air, so very unusual to her.
“ My dearest Lady Seaton, what is the mat-
ter ?” she asked in unfeigned alarm, and knelt
down before her in her anxiety, in order to look
into her face, which was supported between
her hands, while her elbows rested on the arms
of her chair. Without changing her position,
Lady Seaton turned her eyes on her governess
for a moment, as if hesitating how to reply to
her ; when suddenly, as if she read in her anx-
ious face all the sympathy she sought for, she
threw herself upon her neck and whispered,
44
The duke has proposed to my father.”
Mrs. Vandeleur folded her closer in her arms,
and at the moment mistaking the cause of her
emotion, warmly exclaimed, 44
From my heart
I congratulate you, my dearest child !”
She was soon made aware of her error : Lady
Seaton no sooner heard the exclamation, than,
disengaging herself coldly, but hastily from her
230 VANDELEUR.
arms, she pushed her from her with the near-
est approach to anger she had ever exhibited,
and left the room without uttering another
word.
Mrs. Vandeleur remained as it were para-
lysed for a few minutes ; but fully aware that
something more than common must have hap-
pened to affect her temper and spirits thus, she
hastened after her to her dressing-room. There,
to her surprise, she found her engaged with her
women preparing to go out to ride. Mrs. Van-
deleur paused a moment, hoping that she might
dismiss them ; but soon perceiving that such
was not her intention —indeed that she even
studiously, as she thought, avoided doing so,
she quietly approached the dressing-table, and
waited there until the toilette was completed.
Still she was disappointed ; for Lady Seaton no
sooner found herself freed from their officious
hands, than she turned hastily to her governess,
and whispering, “Forgive me, dearest Mrs.Van-
deleur, I was very naughty,
1,1
touched her cheek
VANDELEUR. 231
with hers, and flew down stairs as if her life
depended on her not losing a moment. Even
that passing touch, however, was sufficient to
convince her maternal friend that her cheek was
flushed and feverish.
44
I see some one galloping after us very fast
in the distance,’'’ said Captain Vandeleur, with
a faint but expressive smile, as he rode up
with some trifling commission to Lady Seaton’s
side.
44
Who is it ?” she asked hastily.
44
Why, no eyes could tell at this distance ;
but fortunately we have perceptions independ-
ent of our outward organs, and mine tell me it
is the Duke of Castleton.”
44
Your perceptions must be keen ; —are they
so on all occasions ?”
44
Why, I rather think you hit me fairly, for
falling into the common error of calling deduc-
tions perceptions. Though I certainly could
not distinguish the duke’s person, I am satisfied
that it was his hurried pace made me guess
232 VANDELEUR.
that it must be he ; and now I can see by less
equivocal signs that I was right,—it is his noble
self. I fall back to my place, to deliver your
answer to my message.'”
“ It requires no answer, does it ? At least,
I think I gave none.”
“ But will you not ?”
“ I shall consider.”
“ Nay, this is tyranny,” said he, laughing,
“ not to allow me to cover my retreat under
this form.”
“ Why must you retreat at all ?”
“ Nay, if you do not command me—” he said,
looking at her with some astonishment ;
but
then recollecting himself, he added :
“ But no
I will not abuse your kindness and good-nature ;
I shall not usurp this coveted place.”
“ Certainly not, if you do not wish to retain
it,” she said more seriously ; but at the same
time averting her head with a degree of con-
sciousness which gave double force to her ex-
pressions.
VANDELEUR. 233
The young man paused a moment in anxious
doubt; then, in a low emphatic voice he re-
peated, “ If I do not wish it ! O God ! en-
able me never to listen to the dictates of my
wishes !”
“ They must surely then be something very
criminal,
11
she said hurriedly, and putting her
horse into a light canter as she spoke, while
he was under the necessity of keeping at her
side to catch her words.
“No,
11
he answered, “my prayer was not
as religiously meant as you interpret it ;
I
rather prayed to be saved from sorrow than
from sin .
11
“ You are abstruse this morning. I confess
I see not how following the dictates of your
wishes could tend to your unhappiness, except
through sin .
11
“ I spoke not of following my wishes, Lady
Seaton ; that rests not with me. I spoke of
presuming to allow my own heart to commune
with itself, and even learn what they may be
234 VANDELEUR.
lest, like Narcissus of old, it should grow
enamoured of its own reflection ,
and die in
despair.”
He tried to smile and give an air of playful-
ness to the latter part of his speech ; but it
would not do. The tone of truth and deep
feeling could not be disguised. Lady Seaton
remained silent for a moment, with her head
still rather averted, until Vandeleur said,
“ Lady Seaton, the duke has fallen into our
rear ; he is just exchanging compliments there
previous to joining you. Tell me seriously if
you wish me to prevent his obtaining this place
at your side.”
a Seriously, then, I do. I am really at a
loss,” she said quickly, after a moment’s hesi-
tation, “ to account for Captain Vandeleur’s
anxiety to forward the Duke of Castleton’s
views or wishes in little matters where gentle-
men are generally allowed, and indeed gene-
rally prefer,” (she added a little contemptuously,)
“ trusting to their own powers.”
VANDELEUR. 235
“ I am at a loss to understand you.”
“ Oh, why writing love-sonnets for them
making way for them to get near particular
persons, &c. &c. Has my father given you
commission to this effect ? or does Captain Van-
deleur think that he alone has magnanimity
enough to disregard worldly advantages ?”
The unfortunate young man to whom this
speech was addressed, was thrown into the
utmost agitation—we had almost said conster-
nation, by it. Through a good deal of bitter-
ness of feeling, and some hauteur of manner,
he could not but perceive the blushing cheek,
and hurried palpitating breathing. Spouting
hackneyed sentiment was a style of conversation
which he was well aware the refined, and high-
bred countess, at all times held in the utmost
horror, contempt, and disgust, and he there-
fore felt, through every nerve, that something
awful to his fate was impending. As far, how-
ever, as the matter had yet gone, he could only
affect to receive it as a sort of badinage. Ac-
236 VANDELEUIl.
cordingly, he answered, though still very unsuc-
cessful in his attempts, “ I assure you I never
wrote any sonnets for the Duke of Castleton.
When we were all condemned to try to drown
rain in ink, I, like the rest, scribbled some lines,
which the duke, without knowing what they
/
contained, begged from me ; and as they were
not worth refusing, I gave them.”
“ And had you time to compose others ?
You must be very clever.
,,
Vandeleur turned his eyes on her; but hers
were again carefully averted.
“ No,” he said; “and I was not sorry to
be spared saying what I could not have said
lightly, and yet not seriously without imper-
tinence : I was fain to take shelter under a
flower.”
“ Fain—that is a quaint old mode of ex-
pression.”
He turned to her again, to see if she wished
to remind him of the line she had muttered that
day ; but her manner appeared unembarrassed,
VANDELEUR. 237
and she added, “ It must have been a very high
flower to have sheltered you.
11
“ It was ; but as I feared not to climb any
height for the purpose for which I wanted it, I
gained it. However, just as I attempted to go
one step farther to obtain another, the ladder
gave way, and I was precipitated from my
giddy height.—But how did you know those
lines were mine ?”
u By perception,
as you said to me jilst now.
I knew they could not he the duke’s ; and I
also knew that no one else of the party would
have been so charitable to him, or perhaps
could have afforded it.”
“ Well, poor man !” said Vandeleur with a
slight smile,
<c
I am making him pay dearly
now, for having assisted him then. Observe
how lie keeps aloof, until I shall have the tact
to resign in his favour. Well, if I am to be-
come a dragon to scare off knights errant, I
must only endeavour to do my devoir man-
fully.”
238 VANDELEUR.
There is a state of feeling—luckily it is a rare
one—in which the slightest jest, or light allusion
to the subject that at the moment is affecting
one, falls like molten lead upon the nerves.
Lady Seaton was, for the first time of her life,
in this state of feeling.
“ Oh, pray do not invest yourself with any
such unamiable character,” she said. “ If that
is the only one in which you can consent to
keep this place ; I am aware that I have no right
over Captain Yandeleur’s duty or allegiance.”
“ Yet have you command over every feeling
or sentiment he possesses,” replied the young
man, without farther hesitation, and in the
most emphatic manner ;
“ and his only anxiety
is how to render them subservient to your
slightest wish, in the least obtrusive, least
offensive form.”
Lady Seaton, like all persons whose feelings
either of mirth, or anguish, have hurried them
farther than they could foresee the consequences
of, was now startled at the sudden and serious
VANDELEUR. 239
change in Vandeleur’s voice and manner ;
yet,
such, is the waywardness of the heart if once
listened to, that, in spite of all her efforts to
look and feel calm and dignified, she only felt
soothed and softened, and large and silent tears
fell glittering upon her dark riding-dress.
Nothing, as may be supposed, could exceed
the agitation, the alarm, the bewilderment into
which Vandeleur was thrown at this unwonted
sight. While he hesitated in an agony of un-
certainty whether he had better seem to notice
her emotion or not, he perceived that the Duke
of Castleton, become hopeless of his withdraw-
ing, was now making his escape from the rest
of the party, and just preparing to ride forward
*
to address Lady Seaton. As this, he was aware,
could not fail to be most unpleasant to her at
this moment, he drew close up to her, and lay-
ing his hand on her bridle-rein, said in a tone
of voice in which tenderness, anxiety, and haste
contended for mastery
“ Dearest Lady Seaton, bear with me for a
240 VANDELEUR.
moment. The Duke of Castleton is just com-
ing up to speak to you : if you would not that
he saw you just now, let us gallop forward and
turn off the high road until you are better.”
“ I cannot, I cannot !” she sobbed forth al-
most in a passion of tears ; “I really am un-
able : besides, it would look too marked, too
ridiculous.”
The duke galloped up.
u Lady Seaton is not well,” said Captain
Vandeleur, (while she pressed her handkerchief
to her face and stifled her sobs,) — “ and as
she is anxious not to alarm and break up the
riding-party, I want her to turn down this sort
of avenue just before us, until she recovers, and
then either return home or follow them.”
The presence of a third person, especially
when that person was the dreaded duke, partly
removed Lady Seaton’s objections to this pro-
posal ; and as she felt really unequal to pro-
ceeding, she suffered the gentlemen to turn her
horse down one of those beautiful green lanes, so
VANDELEUR. 241
frequent in England, and of which one or two
still remained at that time even in the neigh-
bourhood of London. Here an abrupt turn,
and the thick foliage of early summer, caused
them in a few moments to be completely lost
sight of from the road. They dipped Lady
Seaton’s handkerchief in a rivulet that ran close
by ; and as she applied it to her eyes and tem-
ples, she said, “ I am better now ; and if I
could get a message conveyed to Lady Augusta
Starling, she would manage to leave the party
without breaking it up, and would, I know,
accompany me home.”
The duke, with lover-like alertness, under-
took the office of messenger, —for such had
been the guarded propriety of Vandeleur’s bear-
ing towards Lady Seaton upon all occasions,
that not even the jaundiced eye of jealousy had
found any exercise through him.
The moment the duke was out of sight, Van-
deleur approached Lady Seaton, and although
fearfully apprehensive of appearing impertinent-
VOL. i. 31
242 VANDELEUR.
ly intrusive, felt it impossible to resist inquiring
the cause of her emotion, to which, strange as
it might be, it certainly appeared that he had
contributed, if not entirely occasioned. Under
this impression, he said :
44
Can you acquit me
of impertinence, Lady Seaton, if I venture to
inquire if anything I have said has offended
you ? Believe me, at least, that it should not
be so : mine is rather the dumb and disinter-
ested devotion of the dog, than the presump-
tuous
,
‘
l
He hesitated to pronounce the word
love and leaving the sentence unfinished, he
went on to say,
44
But this it cannot be ; this
you are too well accustomed to, though not
perhaps either in kind or in degree, to be of-
fended at it.—But this is transgressing : I would
only ask if there is anything in my power to do
—any sacrifice of life or limb that I can make,
—in short, Lady Seaton, I would ask if the time
is come when my highest ambition shall be
crowned by serving or assisting you ? ”
There was something so gentle, so devoted,
VANDELEUR. 243
yet so manly and so upright, in this expression
of attachment, that Lady Seaton’s tears, agi-
tated as her spirits were, flowed afresh; and as
Captain Vandeleur approached her in alarm,
she suffered her hand to rest upon his shoulder.
He shuddered beneath its gentle pressure ; and,
after standing for a moment as if transfixed, he
gently withdrew himself, and moved to a greater
istance. At that moment the duke appeared
with Lady Augusta Starling; and Lady Seaton,
making a violent effort over herself, was able to
answer the inquiries, and expressions of alarm
and regret, which were showered upon her, with
tolerable calmness. They proceeded homewards
without delay ; and as soon as they arrived,
Lady Seaton, pleading indisposition, retired for
the evening to her dressing-room.
VANDELEUR.
244
. CHAPTER VII.
And what, oh ! what is this to the pain
Of chilling young Love’s first blush,
And with steady hand, ere yet ’tis in vain,
Its first sweet blossoms to crush !
Vet shrink, oh ! shrink not from this, ye to whom
The ungenial task may be given
For the love thus embalm’d in its first pure bloom
May blossom again in Heaven !
Anonymous.
Lady Seaton had not been many minutes
alone, when Mrs.Vandeleur, hearing other sud-
den return, hastened with anxiety to inquire
the cause of it ; and never, in the course of that
lady’s long and watcliful guardianship, had she
been on any occasion so thoroughly alarmed as
now, at the state in which she found her be-
loved pupil, in this her first hour of unhappiness.
VANDELEUR. 245
On her knees, beside the couch on which Lady
Seaton lay in gloomy silence, she implored of
her to unburtlien her mind, and conjured her to
remember that she was addressing her most
anxious friend, and one who was an indulgent
mother.
“ Ah ! but not of daughters,
1
'
1
said Lady Sea-
ton with some degree of bitterness :
“ and what
is noble and dignified in man, is considered
weak and unbecoming in woman.
11
“It is rarely the case,
11
said Mrs. Vande-
leur, “ to that extent ; and if you would but
intrust me with the cause of your present dis-
tress, perhaps we should find that this is not
one where their principles are at variance.”
“Be it so, then,” said Lady Seaton ; and
suddenly raising herself on the couch, “ The case
is simply this : that—your son and I agree too
well in our sentiments and ideas concerning love
and marriage !”
How little have words to do in communi-
cating the thoughts and feelings of the heart !
246 VANDELEUR.
Such a sentence, uttered in common conversation
or in ordinary circumstances, might have con-
veyed nothing more than an abstract coinci-
dence of opinion, founded on reason, between
two persons, and might have existed between
two ladies : but, preceded and accompanied by
the unwonted emotion of Lady Seaton, as it
was in the present instance, poor Mrs. Vande-
leur, whose fears had been already vaguely ex-
cited on the subject of her son’s and her pupil’s
mutual regard,—though none but a mother’s eye
could have detected it, —interpreted Lady Sea-
ton’s confession according to her fears ; and
releasing the hand which she had hitherto held
between hers, she pressed both hers upon her
own brow, and exclaimed, “ Then my worst
fears are true ! my prayers have been in vain !”
Lady Seaton raised herself upon her elbow
to gaze upon her. u What prayers ?—in Hea-
ven’s name, what prayers ?—what can you or
do you mean ?”
The governess pressed her forehead against
VANDELEUR. 247
Lady Seaton’s arm, and, throwing her own
around her waist, she exclaimed, “ Theodosia !
countess ! child of my affections and of my
cares ! know, that what you have just told me
afflicts, but does not surprise me. My unfortu-
nate son’s infatuation I have for some time sus-
pected, and your gentle appreciation of what a
mother may be allowed to call his merits, I
have sometimes feared ;
but, God knows how
little I ever thought it would come to this !”
And she bowed her head still lower against the
sofa, though she pressed Lady Seaton still more
fondly.
“ And may I ask the cause of this over-
whelming affliction at the discovery ?” asked
Lady Seaton, rather submitting to, than return-
ing, her embrace.
“ The cause !
—can you indeed ask me the
cause ? See you not the misery, the ingrati-
tude, the disgrace that it involves ?”
“ I confess myself not so clear-sighted. Dis-
grace, misery, and ingratitude to whom ?”
248 VANDELEUR.
“Disgrace to you, my love, my child, my
darling !
—ingratitude to your father and his fa-
mily !
—and, oh ! Countess of Seaton, misery to
us all !” She wept bitterly.
Lady Seaton’s good sense, and kind heart,
wr
ere touched by her distress. She wound her
arms round her neck ; and, hiding her face in
her bosom, she gave to the tried friend of
her life the particulars of what had passed
that day.
When she had finished, Mrs. Vandeleur, who
had risen and seated herself beside her on the
sofa, again sank upon her knees, and bowing
her head and clasjfing her hands, exclaimed,
“ I thank thee, I thank thee, 0 gracious Lord !
Godfrey my son is still upright and noble ; and
you, my equally beloved child, are still un-
fettered, un compromised.”
“You are certainly, at all events, a most
disinterested mother,” observed Lady Seaton,
again a little struck by the fervour of her thanks-
giving, as it were, at her son’s escape.
VANDELEUR. 249
“ I trust I am, where your happiness or re-
spectability is concerned :
you saw it otherwise
with me in the case of my young relative. But
retire now to your chamber, my dearest love.
Admit me in the morning, and I will give you
in full my ideas upon this subject ; and if I fail
to convince your reason, remember, I am still
Godfrey’s mother, and your devoted friend.”
So saying, she rose to ring for Lady Seaton’s
attendants ; but the latter conjured her to say
whatever she wished upon the subject at once,
and assured her it would contribute more to
her repose.
“ I only can judge of that, my child,’* re-
plied Mrs. Vandeleur ;
“ and do you give me
now an example of that command of mind
which I have endeavoured to ensure to you,
but which you have never been called upon to
exercise before. Dismiss the matter from your
mind for this night, as you are aware that you
are not in a state to view it dispassionately ; and
to-morrow morning, believe me, you shall be
m 5
250 VANDELEUR.
the arbitress of your own fate I” Soothed, com-
forted, and supported by remonstrances at once
kind and judicious, Lady Seaton yielded ; and
only detaining Mrs. Vandeleur until her spirits
became more composed, she retired for the
night.
It was considerably past her usual hour when
Lady Seaton entered her dressing-room the fol-
lowing morning. She had ordered breakfast
there for herself and Mrs. Vandeleur, and ac-
cordingly, on her entrance, she found that lady
anxiously awaiting her. The moment she ap-
peared, Mrs. Vandeleur threw aside the book
she had been reading, and leading her at
once to the breakfast-table, touched, without
affectation or apparent effort, upon the various
indifferent little topics which usually furnish
breakfast conversation : but no sooner was the
breakfast-table removed, than, anxious to re-
lieve the mind of her beloved pupil from the
suspense and inquietude which she knew were
preying upon it, she gently took her hand, which
VANDELEUR. 251
trembled within hers, and leading her to the
sofa, adverted at once to the subject that was
unfinished when they parted the evening before.
Lady Seaton’s pale cheek assumed even more
than its usual brilliant hue when she began
but it was only for a moment ; and she prepar-
ed herself to attend with calmness and com-
posure.
“ My dearest child,” said Mrs. Vandeleur,
placing her arm tenderly round her waist, “ I
will not keep you in suspense respecting senti-
ments which I promised last night to express to
you, and which, were it only from their subject,
must naturally be interesting to you; but which,
I know, will likewise have a merit in your eyes
from being mine. Listen to me, then, with pa-
tience ; but fail not to interrupt me if there are any
to which your reason does not assent. That is
all I seek to gain over to my cause ; for, to your
heart, against it, I know you would never listen.
In the first place, then, I would protest decid-
edly against the maxim, so common amongst
252 VANDELEUR.
young people, that it is tyranny in their parents
or family to control their wishes on the subject
of marriage, on the plea of its being a matter
which only concerns themselves. In any rank
of society I deny this to be the case; but fehe
higher the rank in life, the more decidedly it is
the contrary. Every member of a family is, in
my opinion, bound by moral links to contribute
his or her share of happiness to the general
stock, and has no right to destroy it for the
gratification of their individual self, still less for
that of a stranger. This, however, like every-
thing else, has its limits, of course. Happiness,
I believe, was originally intended by an all-
wise Providence to be pretty equally diffused
and whether it was by his institutions, or by
those of man, that some are rich and some are
poor, I will not now inquire : it is enough for
our purpose to know that the advantages of the
rich are clogged by duties and restraints from
which the poor man is free, and thereby in some
degree compensated for the want of them.
VANDELEUR. 253
There is no one, I believe, who in the abstract
will deny, that whoever accepts the advantages
of any situation, tacitly binds himself, unless
by previous stipulation, to conform to its condi-
tions. My study with you has ever been, that
you should shrink from nothing—nothing in
practice, which you admit in theory. I believe
the neglect of this to be one of the fundamental
errors of human nature—the open and declared
war, as it were, between the spirit and the
flesh ; for u the spirit indeed is willing, but the
flesh is weak.” The gamester, the drunkard^
the debauchee—ay, even the scoffer, I could
pardon and excuse, while their minds were so
darkened that they saw not the error of their
ways : but I always turned with a kind of loath-
ing despair from those who exclaim, ‘
I know’ it
is very w’rong, but I cannot help it." You tell
me that you did not—perhaps do not believe
your feelings to have been VTong. I do not
doubt it, my child : but, as I hope to convince
you that they are so, like a cunning arguer I am
254 VANDELEUR.
trying to cheat you into an admission before
you are aware of the consequences it involves.
However, both my case and my judge are,
I believe, too good to require that management
so I shall proceed at once to the duties of your
station. Of your individual duty to your only
parent, I will not speak ; because you might an-
swer me, that if he should be induced to act
tyrannically, your duty to obey him ceases : it
is my part, then, to endeavour to prove to you,
that in withholding his consent from a dispro-
portioned marriage, or even in strongly urging
the advantages of another, he does not act tyran-
nically, or in any manner inconsistently with his
duty towards you. I said, we each had duties
according to our different stations :
yours hap-
pens to be invested with rank, connexions, and
influential wealth ; therefore your marriage is a
matter of serious importance to many besides
yourself : and tell me, are you justifiable in set-
ting aside their claims for any selfish considera-
tion ? Perhaps you will say that the happiness
VANDELEUR. 255
of a dearer self is at stake ;
but I appeal to
yourself again if this is not the most dangerous
kind of selfishness under the disguise of genero-
sity. Ask yourself, if that object, however wor-
thy and deserving, happened to be one who excit-
ed some unaccountable antipathy in you, whe-
ther from any consideration for his happiness, or
if even to save him from destruction or death,
you could be induced to stoop from your high
station to become his wife ?—or whether you
would not consider any one a presumptuous fool
who should propose the unreasonable sacrifice?
There may be cases in which all I have been
saying may, and ought to be set aside ; but such
cases are rare, and are rather to be avoided as
exceptions, than brought forward as precedents.
Of the unhappiness likely—indeed certain—to
ensue to yourselves, I will not speak—because
that is beyond the reach of any young imagina-
tion to conceive while under the opposite delu-
•
“n
sion.
Here Lady Seaton interrupted her for the
256 VANDELEUR.
first time. “ Indeed you do me less than justice
there !” she exclaimed. “ I believe I should
not have been happy if—under all the circum-
stances,—in short, it was a thing which I con-
sidered as impossible as he did, until—until—per-
haps for one moment yesterday—and then—it
certainly was a strange moment—a sort of era
in my moral existence—the voice of uncon-
trolled nature, heard, as it were, for the first
time, —a wild feeling that my destiny was in
my own hands. And, after all, Mrs. Vandeleur,
surely—but no—that is only one side of the
picture !”
<c
True, true, my love. I believe that a well-
assorted marriage—that is, one where, with per-
fect esteem and affection, neither party makes
any great sacrifice of station or other advan-
tages—may produce the greatest happiness which
human nature is capable of enjoying. But there,
are natural laws of mind, as well as of matter ;
there is as surely a moral, as a physical che-
mistry ; and the combinations which constitute
VANDELEUR. 257
happiness and virtue, when complete, may, by
the addition or loss of one single ingredient,
produce misery and remorse. It is to the want
of proper skill in, or due attention to, this mental
or moral chemistry, that half our sorrows and
our sins are owing. And now I would call
your attention to the presumption of any indi-
viduals'
1
murmuring, because disappointed of the
exact portion or kind of felicity which they had
struck out for themselves. It is this wayward
presumption, which, refusing to take any, be-
cause it cannot have all, makes unhappiness out
of what ought only be a matter of quiet, patient
acquiescence. Duty, circumstances —everything
forbids your union with my son ; banish it then
at once and for ever from your thoughts. Let
him continue hereafter your friend, or your ac-
quaintance, according as you may deem proper ;
and show me, and show yourself, that no selfish
feeling has the power to turn you aside from
the duties of your high station. Prove that to
know your duty, and to fulfil it, are one and
258 VANDELEUR.
the same with you.
1
"
She paused, and remain-
ed with her anxious eyes riveted, as they had
been throughout, upon the downcast but at-
tentive countenance of her hearer.
Lady Seaton spoke not for a few minutes ;
but then, with a very low sigh, and a peculiar
smile of cold but decisive resignation, and with-
out raising her eyes, she said, “ It shall be so,
my dearest Mrs. Vandeleur; but surely it does
not follow that I must marry another
?’’’
“ I think it does, from the same course of
reasoning. I think it your duty to your father,
and to your situation in life, that you should
marry. The social compact is a chain com-
posed of many links, or rather, a complicated
machine, of which each separate part has a duty
to perform, which works together for the gene-
ral good ; and I do not think that, as society is
regulated at present, any individual has a right
to seek his or her own selfish gratification, re-
gardless of its effects upon that society, unless
they are prepared to forego every advantage
VANDELEUR. 259
also which they derive from it. In a savage
state, indeed, where man is willing to owe
his pleasures and his subsistence to the labour
of his own hands, and where he has only
them to afford him protection from his fellow-
savages, he is free to follow the bent of his in-
clinations : but I would it could be proved how
long the love, that we are here disposed to break
through all social, if not all moral laws to gra-
tify, would stand amid the universal wreck and
chaos of those laws !”
“ But, Mrs. Vandeleur, there is yet a point to
be considered, and I blush to have subjected
myself to the necessity and she did blush to
intensity, and pressed her hands upon her
temples. “ But do you not think that I have
committed myself in some degree to Captain
Vandeleur P
11
“ Most unreservedly I can say, I do not, my
child. Some vain and giddy boy might per-
haps have drawn some such flattering conclusion
from your agitation, and even from the few
260 VANDELEUR.
words that passed ; hut sure I am, that Godfrey
never caught a glimpse of such hopes. No, no ;
not heroism itself could enable him to endure
the overthrow of such,Jiopes, one moment in-
dulged in.—No ; he probably guesses what your
feelings are towards the duke, and thinks that
the hurry of your spirits threw you a little off
your usual dignified bearing, and suffered the
Marquis of Hampton’s heiress to be a moment
forgotten in the confiding woman.”
“ But he saw that I did not resent his ex-
pressions of—of deep regard.”
“ You had been to blame if you had resented
them : there was enough on your part to call
for all he uttered, (you see—you know that I
always speak the exact truth,) and as he pre-
sumed no farther, I can scarcely even regret
what has passed ; it has brought the matter to
its little climax, and, I hope, its end. Nor do I
tell you now that you should shun poor God-
frey, or he you. I believe neither of you can
ever think better of the other than you do at
VANDELEUR. 261
this moment ; and when hope is over, as in
your well-regulated mind it will be from this
day, and as in his it never existed, or at least
will not survive the knowledge of your engage-
ment, I believe that time, while it cements
your friendship and esteem, will gradually de-
prive it of all warmer colouring. I am aware
that to some weak and frivolous spirits, who
could not answer for their own resolutions, or
rather for the stability of their principles, beyond
the moment of discussion, this might be dan-
gerous indulgence : but with you, my noble
pupil, I think it entirely depends on whether
the pleasure of his society is, or is not, too
dearly purchased by the little regret you will
perhaps often feel through life—not that he is
not your husband, but that your husband is not
like him. But I am so far from thinking that
a subdued and momentary regret of that kind
is inconsistent with our highest duties as wives,
that I look on it as wild and dangerous romance
to teach a girl that she should not marry any
262 VANDELEUR.
man except tlie one slie thinks superior to all
others. Nothing- that is false can be desirable
or right : and think how few marriages could
take place were this conscientiously observed!
and it is a had and dangerous principle to make
anything a point of conscience that is not to
be strictly observed,—if possible, even enforced.
The sort of happiness allotted for you, my be-
loved girl, does not seem to be that of mutual
and rapturous love in your wedded life ; then
turn your thoughts to some other source for it
and I as sincerely believe, as I ardently pray,
that you may have as much, and even perhaps
far more than that could have afforded to you.'”
Mrs. Vandeleur ceased, and perceiving Lady
Seaton to be rather disposed to deep reflection
on what had passed, than to uttering any ob-
servation or comments upon it, she rose, pressed
her lips upon her forehead, and left the room.
Once she paused at the door, to consider whe-
ther or not she should say to Lady Seaton how
fully she was aware of the disinterestedness, and
VANDELEUR. 263
consequent depth, of her attachment, and there-
fore could fully appreciate the strength and
uprightness of her mind in relinquishing it
but as Lady Seaton herself had never once
throughout the conversation made an allusion to
it, she properly conjectured that it was more
consonant to the loftiness of her character to
suffer her own self-approval to be her sole re-
ward.
In a very short time it proved so ; but, in the
mean while, the agitation she had undergone, the
fever of remorse for having stooped for one dizzy
moment from her height, (and who shall say,
inconsistent though it may appear, that smother-
ed affections did not also contribute their share ?)
brought on an illness which confined her to
her chamber, and nearly to her bed, for a
fortnight.
What had become of Vandeleur in the mean
time ? Anxiety and suspense are words that
convey not the least idea of the torture he was
undergoing. He was as little vain as any man
264 VANDELEUR.
alive, and the least presuming ; a native pride
prevented this. Yet, notwithstanding his proud
humility, and notwithstanding his mother’s as-
surances to Lady Seaton that no hope had
flashed across his mind, some wild and fluttering
anxiety, very closely resembling it, was devour-
ing his heart and brain ; but it was so wild,
so vague, and, as he thought, so impossible, that
he determined not to act in any manner upon it
until he should see Lady Seaton again.
For this purpose, he presented himself, day
after day, at the door of Lord Hampton’s man-
sion, with a burning cheek and palpitating
heart : and when, day after day, he received
the same answer, that Lady Seaton was still in-
disposed, he felt too wretched even to be seen
by his mother, and returned home, to fling him-
self upon his couch, and remain there in agony
of mind almost beyond endurance, sometimes
until the following morning.
She recovered however, and he was ad-
mitted at last to see her. She was seated,
VANDELEUR. 265
whether by design or otherwise he knew not, in
one of the inner apartments of the suite, one to
which morning visiters were not generally ad-
mitted. When he was announced, “ I shall
see him here,” she said ; and, as he approached,
she rose not from her chair, but held out her
hand very kindly to him. He seemed about to
kneel before her, but a hasty blush, and almost
a start, recalled and restrained him. He took a
chair close beside her, and made the tenderest
inquiries after her health, yet with a wild anx-
iety in his manner, and countenance, that dis-
tressed her. At length, as if himself unable to
endure the state of his feelings, he said,
u Lady
Seaton, we may be momentarily interrupted
other visiters may claim your attention ; will
you therefore suffer me, however abruptly, to
revert to the commencement of your late illness,
or at least to the emotion to which I was wit-
ness ? and believe me, oh ! believe me, that no
impertinent curiosity or even selfish anxiety in-
duces me to this, but solely the glimpse of hope
VOL. i. N
266 YANDELEUR.
that broke upon me then, that it might be in
my power to serve or obey you in any manner ?”
Lady Seaton paused one moment with down-
cast eyes ; then, without raising them, calmly
and decisively, though with gentleness, and even
kindness, said, “ 1 thank you most sincerely,
Captain Yandeleur, but the matter which af-
flicted me then, and caused me to act so child-
ish —so silly a part, (with a deep blush and a
stifled sigh,) is one —in which you could not
now render me the slightest service.”
The sunburnt soldier turned as pale as death !
There was a silence for several minutes, during
which Lady Seaton never once raised her eyes
from the embroidery on her pocket-handkerchief,
which she seemed to be examining with critical
minuteness. At last Yandeleur spoke again, and
the tones of his voice had suddenly become hoarse
and husky; “There is one word more I would say,
Lady Seaton, and let it not offend you —God
knows how remote from my soul is any feeling
that ought to do so! —but something seemed to
VANDELEUR. 267
weigh upon your mind ; it may not indeed be in
my power to relieve it, but I would remind you
once more, that life, and all it bolds of worth to
me, are at your disposal. I owe much to your
father ; but there are feelings which man never
can, and never ought to sacrifice to any other I
11
He paused.
Lady Seaton felt that the crisis of her fate
and his was at hand. She remembered how
much she had herself contributed to, if not
wholly induced, any expression of the young
man’s carefully controlled feelings ; and she duly
appreciated the delicacy with which he intimat-
ed them now, under cover of a sentence that
might bear the interpretation of only an ardent
desire to serve her. She felt that everything
called upon her to be explicit, and she therefore
said with pointed emphasis and decision, though
still in the gentlest and kindest manner that the
circumstances admitted of, “ Once more, from
my very soul, I thank you, Captain Vandeleur : I
esteem and respect you more than almost any
N 2
268 VANDELEUR.
one ; and should an occasion ever occur in which
you can serve me, I shall put your friendship to
some test, you may believe me ; though never,
I trust, to the test of—disobliging my father T
She could not conceal a crimson blush and
a slight tremour as she pronounced the last
words, but she instantly held out her hand to
him. He took it for a moment, but relinquished
it without the slightest pressure. She had time,
however, to feel that his was cold and clammy.
She raised her eyes to his face ; cheeks, fore-
head, and lips were all of the same livid white-
ness.
“ Good God ! Captain Vandeleur,” she ex-
claimed, starting up, “ you are unwell.”
It was a moment or two before he could an-
swer her; but, leaning back in his chair, he
made an effort to recover himself, and succeeded.
Then rising slowly, as if unwilling to relinquish
a seat of which he had possessed himself un-
der dominion of such different feelings, he said,
“ Farewell then, Countess of Seaton !
—God
VANDELEUR. 269
bless you! —all is as it ought to be; I know
and feel that it is so.—Farewell !” And hav-
ing pronounced these words in a hoarse and
smothered voice, he drew from his bosom a
small locket, and taking from within it a soft,
fair, silken curl, he laid it at Lady Seaton’s
feet, and left the room.
A day or two after the foregoing conversa-
tion, Lord Hampton observed to Mrs. Vande-
leur that her son had deserted their dinner- table,
and civilly inquired the cause.
“ He is gone out of town, my lord,” she
replied, “ on a visit to a friend of his at Bath.
He charged me with his respects to your lord-
Ship, as he did not see you when he called. I
expect him again in about a fortnight.”
And he did return ; and though perhaps a
less frequent, and certainly less animated, vi-
siter at Lord Hampton’s than heretofore, such
had ever been the unassuming propriety of his
bearing to Lady Seaton, that no eye detected any
further change. Nor, except amongst those
270 VANDELEUR.
who had borne a part in it, did a suspicion ever
exist on the great stage of high life, of the little
tragedy that was enacted behind its scenes
the birth, and death of a passion, as jrare, and
which, had circumstances favoured it, had pro-
bably been as fervent, as any that ever linked
two hearts together.
But what avails it now to say what might
have been ? pass we on to what was.
As soon as Vandeleur’s leave of absence had
expired, he joined his regiment in the North of
England ; and in about six months after, the
news reached him that the Countess of Seaton
had become Duchess of Castleton.
Perhaps it would not have been in human
nature not to have felt a pang at the intelli-
gence ; but certain it is, that there mingled not
with that pang, the slightest degree of resent-
ment, or bitterness of feeling, towards her. His
own quick sympathies told him all that had
passed in her heart upon the subject, and he
knew that it had been exactly as she had said
VANDELEUR. 271
to her governess,—that it was hut for one dizzy
moment she had thought of the possibility of
stooping from her height, however favourable
towards him her secret wishes, and admiration
of his engaging qualities, long had been. He
felt also that, in marrying the duke, there did
not linger in her heart one feeling that she
would have banished thence ; though perhaps,
had she been able suddenly to transform that
heart, as by degrees she hoped to do, she had
caused it to glow with warmer feelings from the
first towards him who was now her husband.
For himself, Vandeleur neither felt the same
moral obligation, nor was it so essential to his
peace of mind, to banish her image from his
heart. In fact, the place it occupied there, was
so far removed from that which is usually as-
signed to common love, that it partook far more
of a sort of devotional respect, gratitude, and ad-
miration, than of any more selfish feeling. The
one hour of weakness, when she felt, (as she
herself expressed it,) that her fate was in her
272 VANDELEUR.
own hands, had indeed kindled in his breast
a fever of anxiety, which partook of the nature
of suspense, if not of hope : but it was so in-
tensely agitating in its nature, so distracting,
so overwhelming, that the change from it even
to despair, came, after the first painful pa-
roxysm, like a kind of relief and repose, even
as the racking agony of an inflamed wound finds
a pause of pain in the extinction of vitality. One
permanent effect only the matter left upon his
feelings ; which was, to render him much more
fastidious in his intercourse with ladies than he
had ever been before.
VANDELEUR. 273
CHAPTER VIII.
As brother and sister born at one birth,
So Joy and Sorrow lighted on our earth,
Link’d to each other by the self-same tie
Of Nature’s deep, mysterious sympathy.
For though young Joy may, in her wanton pride,
Gambol a moment from her brother’s side,
If she but once attempt to use her wings.
He hies, and over her his dusky mantle flings.
Anonymous.
Genius ! thou gift of Heaven, thou light divine,
Amid what dangers art thou doom’d to shine !
Oft will the body’s weakness check thy force,
Oft damp thy vigour, and impede thy course
And trembling nerves compel thee to restrain
Thy nobler efforts to contend with pain !
It was not until two years had elapsed, after
the events recorded in the preceding chapter,
that Vandeleur believed it to be even possible,
\
that another being existed, who could have
m VANDELEUR.
power to rewaken the depth of feeling of which
he had by this time learned that his heart was
capable.
The circumstances which then induced this
belief, were, his regiment being quartered in the
neighbourhood of Beauton Park, and his intro-
duction to Gertrude Evelyn.
As he himself declared, however, nothing
could, under one denomination, be more different
than the kind of love he experienced towards
each ; that for Lady Seaton partaking of so many
different feelings, that the result was rather aw-
ful than pleasurable ; while, in being accepted as
the husband of Gertrude, he felt that he was more
perfectly happy, and satisfied with himself, and
with the world, than he had ever been before
on any occasion ; and that he would not have ex-
changed his present prospects for any others
that even his own imagination could have
created. Nor, in gaining the first and best affec-
tions of that young, ingenuous, and confiding
being, did he feel that he made an unsuitable re-
VANDELEUR. 275
turn, by giving, in exchange for them, those that
had already been almost offered to another. In
that former intercourse there had been nothing
to blight or sear the heart ; on the contrary, it
had but gained strength, decision, and concen-
tration, by the discipline it had undergone ; and
perhaps never did two persons look forward to
becoming votaries at the altar of Hymen, with
happier auspices in their favour, than did that
gallant soldier, and that lovely being, half child,
half woman.
In her composition, what is usually termed
girlhood seemed to have been forgotten, and
the omission to have been atoned for, by her
being permitted to retain all the graces of child-
hood, with the amiable and interesting feelings
of young womanhood. The artificial restraints,
the tutored propriety, the airs and graces, hopes
and fears, of the young lady, were all forgotten ;
and Gertrude Evelyn was either the artless play-
ful child of Nature, or, when occasion required
it, the delicate and exquisitely feeling woman.
276 VANDELEUR.
In her own family, indeed, heretofore she had
been unappreciated, except by her brother, who,
though younger than herself, was, both by nature
and education, more matured in his mind and
knowledge of mankind. Little as his experience
was, his good sense, as well as his affection, told
him, that there could not be many people pos-
sessed of his sister Gertrude’s sweetness of tem-
per, kindliness of heart, and intelligence of mind,
or earth must have been a better and a happier
world than it was said to be; and he sometimes
wondered how his father could overlook, or be
insensible to, such a treasure. By Gertrude her-
self this Avas unperceived. From her birth she
had been accustomed to see it thus ; and as it
would not have been possible for peevishness
itself (and Mr. Evelyn was a good-tempered
man,) to have spoken harshly to, or found fault
with her, she supposed it to be the common
course of things, that she was only to seek for
affection, sympathy, and confidence in her bro-
ther. She found it, and was happy.
VANDELEUR. m
When Major Vandeleur appeared however,
matters took another turn : the devoted and
respectful love of a man whose manners, and
conversation, at once asserted his superiority,
raised poor little Gertrude even in her father’s
estimation ; and when his proposals were ac-
cepted, she felt that the whole house was changed
to her, except Herbert. But her innocent heart,
without searching farther explanation, set it all
down in some way to Vandeleur, and repaid
them all tenfold, by her endearing, because dif-
fusive, happiness.
The very neighbourhood around seemed de-
stined to benefit by its influence ; for Mr. Evelyn,
by way of causing the time of Major Vandeleur’s
absence in London to pass less heavily, invited a
party of friends to remain in the house, amongst
whom were Lady Augusta Starling and her
father.
Gertrude would gladly have dispensed with
them all, (except perhaps Lady Augusta, who
had promised to be her bridesmaid on the
278 VANDELEUR.
r
approaching occasion ;) for her brother still con-
tinued to be the only one to whom she really
opened her heart, and to whom she confided
the full extent of her innocent joy in the pro-
spect that was before her. Not a picture was
sketched, not a scene imagined, in which Her-
bert still did not bear a prominent part ; and
those skilled in the windings of the human
heart would have seen, what she saw not her-
self, that the prospect of passing her life with
one capable of appreciating her, was the chief
ingredient in her scheme of happiness, and
therefore she could not leave out of it one who,
she felt, without knowing it, had ever done so.
But, although she would gladly have dispensed
with the presence of strangers at such a mo-
ment, her spirits were too buoyant, and her
temper too imperturbable, to be long discom-
posed by them ; and accordingly she went carol-
ling about the house, and joining cheerily in
every little plan of amusement, literally like
some seraph, whose divine attribute it was to
VANDELEUR. 279
diffuse happiness through the atmosphere witli
every waft of his wings !
In this joyous mood, one day, about a month
after Major Vandcleur’s last letter to his mo-
ther, and while they only waited his return for
the marriage to take place, she agreed to make
one of a gay equestrian party setting out from
Beauton for a day’s amusement, and which was
to be joined, en route, by other ladies and gen-
tlemen of the neighbourhood.
»
The day was bright and beautiful, though the
summer was on its wane. But who does not know
those delicious pet-days, as they are fondly called,
of autumn, which, perhaps from the very rarity
of their visits and the uncertainty of their con-
tinuance, sometimes elevate the spirits more than
“The long sunny lapse of a summer’s day light?”
Nothing, at least, could exceed in brillian-
cy the spirits of the youthful party, who now
set out to enjoy one of the loveliest of those
lovely days, amidst some of the softest and
richest scenery, in rich and luxuriant Eng-
280 VANDELEUR.
land. As far as the eye could reach, it waO
feasted, and delighted, with smiling meadows ;
and with woods whose boughs bent gracefully
down, to kiss the beautiful verdure that grew
beneath them. Where the objects were too dis-
tant for minute observation, the whole was
softly bathed in a rich, warm flood of purple
haze, which, like the veil of beauty, only served
to delight the imagination more.
And whence is this feeling ? Can the limited
mind of man, even in its revellings, surpass the
works of Omnipotence, from which alone he has
derived that imagination ? —or, did he ever,
after the fondest creation of his own fancy,
believe for a moment that it was not equalled
and surpassed by Nature’s real workmanship ?
No ! but the secret charm lies in his own ima-
gination having done the work :
“ it is mine,
and I made it,” in the mouth of man, is the
secret of all of beauty, and of worth, to him.
Nor is it strange that it should be so : there is
not a pleasure in Nature for us, except through
VANDELEUR. 281
the medium either of our senses or mental facul-
ties ; hence the more, and the oftener, they are
called into exercise without fatigue, the more
constant are our enjoyments. When the eye is
already satiated with all it sees, to leave some-
thing beyond its reach, so as to call the mental
faculties into action also, is, I believe, the simple
solution of the question so often asked, Why
is it that we always wish to have “ something
left to the imagination ?” and which has some-
times been answered by attributing powers of
creation to the mind of man surpassing those of
God.
It is the same principle upon which healthy
and intelligent children act, when they cast aside
the gilded but unmeaning toy, to whirl the rude
hoop, or pore over the ingenious puzzle.
This, too, is the secret of that love of novelty,
so often imputed to man as a defect, but which,
in my mind, only becomes so when it turns,
for its gratification, from worthy, to unworthy
objects. For ample, ample—far beyond the
282 VANDELEUR.
limited span of man’s short hour of existence
here, is the field of Nature’s wonders, in which
he may range with still-increasing pleasure and
still-progressing improvement !
“ IIow happy you must be, Gertrude !” ex-
claimed Lady Augusta Starling, from the mere
excess of her own animal spirits ; and for which,
being unable otherwise to account, as, of all hu-
man beings, she was the least accustomed to ana-
lyse her own sensations, she looked for the solu-
tion in her friend’s approaching happy marriage.
“ I am indeed happy, most happy,” replied
Gertrude, her eyes liquid from the exquisite na-
ture of her enjoyment, and the glowing grati-
tude of her young heart. “ I am indeed happy :
but who could be otherwise than happy, on such
a day, and in such lovely scenery—even almost
without a Godfrey And turning to her brother,
she continued in a voice of rapture, her riding-
hat pushed back from her beautiful forehead,
her cheeks glowing in the warm sunbeams, and
her whole Hebe-like countenance sparkling with
VANDELEUR. 283
delight ;
“ Oh ! is it not glorious ?—is not that
scene of luxuriant and bountiful Nature enough
to make glad the heart of man ?”
“ It is, and of woman too, it seems,” said
Herbert, smiling delightedly at her enthusiasm.
“ But tell me, Gertrude, is it true what they
say of all earthly happiness, that it is never so
prized when it is really within our grasp, as
when seen in the distant perspective ?
u It is not, it is not !” she exclaimed enthusi-
astically, and with a smile so beamy as might in-
deed have been taken as a proof of her own sweet
theory. “ There is nothing in true and beau-
tiful Nature to confirm such forebodings —the
mere phantoms of some one’s own disordered
sensations. Is not happiness ours at this mo-
ment, until it is almost palpable, tangible, visible ?
and are we not aware of it
—grateful for it ?
Listen, listen to that enchanting music from
the birds around us, so much more delightful
than all other music, just because we know it is
the voice of happiness. I often fancy that the
284 VANDELEUR.
throats of birds are little iEolian harps, which,
when breathed on by the soft breath of spring
and summer, give out the wild sw'eet music of
Nature. Now inhale the breath of these gar-
dens we are passing ; look up to the bright
beautiful blue of the summer sky, without
shutting out all it shines upon ; attend for a mo-
ment even to the delightful ambling pace which
our steeds, as if from the very instinct of har-
mony, have fallen into, and tell me, is there
anything left for the greatest gourmand after
happiness to desire ?”
“ You did ill to choose the word gourmand,"'
said Lady Augusta, “ seeing that, in affecting
to go through the gratification of our senses,
you have cheated us of that which we derive
from our dinner.”
“ Nay,” said Herbert, “ surely you perceive
that taste is the sense she intends should give a
zest to all the others !”
“ Thank you, Mr. Evelyn ; but I wonder
how long 4
the feast of reason, and the flow
VANDELEUR. 285
of soul,'
1
would compensate to English tastes
for more substantial fare ? 1 confess, the chief
pleasure I derive from all this beauty, order,
and cultivation around us, is in the idea of
how wealthy and comfortable the people must
be, and what excellent breakfasts, dinners, and
suppers they can afford to have every day of
their lives.”
“ Oh ! Augusta, how can you be so gross
so material?” said Gertrude, laughing.
“ Gross ! material ! Why, that is what you
always have recourse to, my most ethereal
friend, when I speak plain common sense. But
I should like to know how much of all these
fine feelings the generality of honest English
farmers, that ‘
staple commodity of the country,
1
would enjoy if they were excessively hungry ?
I fancy, then, that a good comfortable brick-
house, standing bolt upright, with a reeking
chimney that seemed to say 4
For further parti-
culars inquire within,
1
would be the most de-
lightful object in a landscape ; a snuff of nice
286 VANDELEUR.
roast beef or mutton, the most delicious odour
and you know, on better authority than mine, that
‘ The jingling of glasses all music surpasses.’
M
“ Let us put her out of company,” said Ger-
trude, turning playfully from her, to her brother.
“ Nay, you dare not quarrel with me for that
for even that young Irish poet, who, in my private
opinion, (which, like other people’s, is always
at the service of the public,) rivals Yandeleur
in your affections ; he—Moore, the author of
those exquisite wild melodies, all sentimentalist
as he is, and wishing to make us believe that
he could live for ever on music and flowers, at
the first sight of a smoking chimney betrays his
fallen nature, and calls out
<
If there ’s peace to be found in the world,
The heart that is humble might hope for it here
very rationally thinking that peace and plenty
go together.”
“ And so I dare say they do,” said Ger-
trude :
“ but who thinks of jJcace on such a day
as this, when all around is rapturous happiness ?
VANDELEUR. 287
You see, lie says it is the humble heart which
might be content with peace and plenty. I
grant you that those who only look for 'peace
may require to eke out their sensations with a
little feasting now and then, while happiness
feeds on its own sweet fancies.”
“ It cannot last long, then,” said Lady Au-
gusta, “if it preys on its own vitals.”
“No punning, Augusta: you know we have
instituted a fine for that offence.”
“ But that is not a pun. I protest Ger-
trude no more knows the definition of a pun,
than the good man who thought that an anony-
mous letter was a pun !”
“ Besides,” said Herbert, “ I think good
puns should never be made subjects for fines :
they are not only amusing, but show prompt
recollection and aptitude, which, if not a talent
in itself, at least very nearly approaches to one ;
to say nothing of the gay humour from which
they must always spring, and generally excite.”
“ I know they rather make me cross than gay,”
288 VANDELEUR.
said Lady Augusta :
“ and as for recollection ,
we all know that memory is the faculty of
fools.
1 ’
“ That is another and a far more ridiculous
prejudice,” said Herbert :
“ and, if I might
adopt a lady’s style of reasoning, I should beg
the question at once, and say that the very
adage disproves itself ; for, of course, he that
wrote against memory had none himself, and yet
he was evidently a fool ! But a better defence
may be to ask—What is all knowledge but a
memory of what we have either seen, heard,
*
read, or learned in some way ?”
“ Gertrude cried out to me, ‘
No punning,
Augusta !’ so I cry out to you, ‘
No prosing,
Herbert !
’
I would even rather hear Gertrude
talking about her happiness, albeit I cannot
quite agree with her in living either on flowers
or music but I suppose my time will come too
for the latter, seeing that in certain stages of
every one’s life it serves for food. At present, I
shall beg to canter on for my luncheon instead
VANDELEUR. 289
since, alas ! though two or three years older
than she is, and not much uglier, yet
‘ There’s nobody coming to marry me,
Nobody coming to woo/ ”
And giving her sweet voice to the gay words,
she whipped her pretty pony into a canter, and
was soon pursued at the same pace by the rest
of the young party.
Lord Foxhill, and two or three elderly gen-
tlemen, who, like himself, had fallen in with the
party from the mere infection of happiness, con-
tented themselves with keeping within hearing
of their joyous young voices, which now were
all joined in the merry chorus as they canter-
ed along, and which would have communicated
a sensation of gladness to age itself.
The gentlemen, if they did not express this
feeling to each other, (and perhaps they would
scarcely have known how ) acknowledged it in
the smile of benevolence that crept over every
countenance, as they exchanged looks when the
sounds reached their ears, and by the quick-
VOL. i. o
290 VANDELEUR.
ened yet gentle trot by which they seemed de-
sirous not to lose a note of it.
Suddenly the chorus ceased —there was a
moment’s silence—then a piercing shriek. The
gentlemen, even at the distance which intervened,
could distinguish a halt—a clustering and con-
fusion—and several persons hastily alighting.
Lord Foxhill and his companions galloped
forwards in alarm : as they approached, it was
confirmed into consternation by the expression
of every face they looked on. Two of the
youthful party were not to be seen at the first
glance ; but the next instant, as the gentlemen
alighted, and the terrified group who surrounded
the principal sufferers, made way for them, they
perceived young Evelyn extended on the ground,
pale and motionless ;
whilst his sister Gertrude,
not less pale, was kneeling beside him, wildly
rubbing his hands, and kissing his lips, alter-
nately, and breathing as if every gasp must ex-
haust life itself. She looked up as Lord Fox-
hill approached: — “See here!” she cried —
here is an agreeable termination of our ride ! '>
VANDELEUR. 291
It was indeed a fearful sight !
—There was
not the least appearance of any wound, yet not
a sign of life was visible. Lord Foxhill raised
the youth’s head, loosened his neckcloth, chafed
his hands, without effect. One of the young
men of the party had already galloped off’ to
the town of 11 for a surgeon ; while another
was despatched to the nearest cottage in search
of a table, or some board, on which to convey
the unfortunate young man to his home.
In the mean time Lord Foxhill was able to
gather the following account of the accident :
The horse which Herbert had ridden was wild
and fiery, and being excited by the noise and
cantering about him, had suddenly plunged for-
ward ; and when Herbert, with a master’s hand,
reined him strongly in, he reared so violently
that he fell backwards upon his rider. The
horse was instantly dragged up; but Herbert’s
head had come against the ground ; and though
no visible injury was inflicted, he had never
moved since it occurred.
29 2 VANDELEUR.
Almost immediately some peasants arrived
with a light table and mattress ; and on this
the boy was laid, and carried homewards by as
many as his
t
weight required. Gertrude insisted
on walking beside them ; and, without uttering
a single word, she continued breathing in the
same ' gasping and laboured manner until they
arrived at Beauton.
Fortunately Mr. Evelyn was not at the mo-
ment in the house ; and as the young man who
had gone in search of the surgeon soon returned
with the intelligence that he was not at home,
nor expected until the following day, every re-
medy that the invention of any of the party
could suggest, except the salutary one of bleed-
ing, was resorted to, in hopes of restoring ani-
mation before the unhappy father should return.
For a long time all efforts were alike fruit-
less ; but at length they perceived his colour
begin to change, and presently a movement of
his chest showed that life was not extinct ; and
by the time that Mr. Evelyn did arrive, the
VANDELEUR. 293
party, though ^till agitated and uneasy, were so
far recovered from their first alarm as to be able
to communicate the account of the accident to
him with tolerable calmness. He immediately
repaired to his son’s apartment ; but he, not hav-
ing been, like the rest, relieved from still more
fatal apprehensions, was overwhelmed at the
state in which he found him. The boy lay per-
fectly still, with his eyes closed, and, except by
breathing, gave no sign of life. His father called
him several times by name without producing
the slightest sign of attention ; and when at last,
in an uncontrollable burst of parental anguish,
he cried out between a shout and a scream
“ Herbert! —my boy, my boy !” and dropped
on his knees beside him, the noise seemed to
have just roused him sufficiently to induce him
slowly to open his eyes ; but instantly they were
closed again, and nothing after this seemed to
produce the least consciousness.
Mr. Evelyn despatched an express imme-
diately to Major Vandeleur to London, request-
294 VANDEL^UR.
ing him to return with the most eminent medical
man he could procure on the instant ; and in
the mean time every means that could be de-
vised by the family to preserve life by cordials
and stimulating draughts were resorted to; and
thus was increased the pressure on the brain,
already but too powerful.
Gertrude never left his bedside, although he
never for one moment showed the least sign of
being conscious of her presence. When en-
treated to take any food or drink that was pre-
sented to him, he seemed not only as if he un-
derstood not, but as if he did not even hear :
yet, when his lips were gently opened, and liquid
put into his mouth, he swallowed it without
much apparent effort.
He continued in this state during the remain-
der of that day and night : and about ten o’clock
next morning Major Vandeleur arrived, bring-
ing with him Dr. C ,
a surgeon and physi-
cian, at that time eminent in the medical world,
but who has since fallen a victim to his profes-
VANDELEUR. 295
sional labours. They entered the young man’s
I
chamber together; and so absorbed was Ger-
trude in watching the countenance of her beloved
brother, and listening to his breathing, and so
utterly regardless of what was passing round
her, and of who came in, and who left the room,
that they had advanced to the bedside, and
gazed a moment on the patient, before she per-
ceived that Major Vandeleur was arrived.
Gertrude was new to grief and new to sick-
ness. She saw that something very unusual
was the matter with her brother ; she saw it
even by the anxiety of those around her : but
yet, as he did not seem to suffer pain, she flat-
tered herself that they were all, herself included,
unnecessarily alarmed ; and she had looked for-
ward with a vague, undefined hope to Major
Vandeleur’s arrival, as if some one who had
not been present at the first shock must prove
a better, a more favourable judge.
What, then, were her sensations, when a
stifled groan causing her to look up, she per-
296 VANDELEUR.
ceived at once the dismay and anguish with
which he too gazed upon the object of their mu-
tual and nearly equal affection ! She uttered
a piercing shriek, and, springing to his arms,
pressed her hand wildly over his eyes, as if by
shutting out that agonised look, the object that
excited it could be rendered less sad ; then
burst into a flood of tears, the first that had
come to her relief since the accident had oc-
curred. They flowed now in a profusion that
threatened suffocation ; and by the orders of
Mr. C she was conveyed to her own apart-
ment, where, by the aid of soothing anodynes,
her shattered nerves found rest at last in heavy
sleep.
For several succeeding days Herbert Evelyn
manifested but very slight symptoms of amend-
ment. By degrees, however, he did improve ; his
appetite, and with it his strength, began to re-
turn ; and yet, to the astonishment of those
around him, Mr. C in each succeeding visit
seemed less and less satisfied with his progress.
VANDELEUR. 297
He changed his mode of treatment again and
again, and finally tried in succession every plan
that skill, judgment, or experience could sug-
gest; but still the effect he wished for was not
produced ; and at length, with all the delicacy
and kind consideration which the heart-rending
circumstance admitted of, he communicated to
Major Vandeleur, that although the boy’s life was
no longer in any danger, and his bodily health
tolerably restored, he greatly feared that there
Avas some injury inflicted on the brain which
was at present beyond the power of the medical
art to remove. But while he thus gently en-
deavoured to prepare Major Vandeleur for his
continuing in the listless—alas ! almost idiotic-
state in which he had been ever since the acci-
dent, he held out hopes that, as his constitution
strengthened, and his growth increased, better
prospects might be looked for. In the mean
time, as soothing and affectionate attention,
with the careful absence of anything that might
irritate or alarm him, was all that could prove
o 5
298 VANDELEUR.
serviceable, he intimated that further attend-
ance on his part was unnecessary.
Major Vandeleur stood aghast at this an-
nouncement. He had for some time past re-
marked how listless, and unobservant of every-
thing around him, Herbert had appeared ; but
the fearful idea of his mental faculties being per-
manently injured had never come across him.
Death itself would have appeared a less dread-
ful change, than to behold that intellectual and
gifted being converted in a moment into a help-
less idiot. His muscular frame shook with the
violence of his emotion, and he again asked Mr.
C if he had indeed any hope of his final
restoration. Mr. C again assured him that
there was no reason to think that it might not
be so ; but as it would come on, if at all, by slow
and imperceptible degrees, it was absolutely ne-
cessary to prepare his friends for what they were
to expect, and the treatment they were to pursue.
Major Vandeleur left the house with Mr.
C ,
and accompanied him part of the way
VANDELEUlt. 299
to town, for the purpose as Well of taking fur-
ther directions concerning Herbert, as to delay
as long as possible the misery of communicating
such disastrous tidings to his father and sister.
Finally, he resolved within himself, that the
best plan would be to hint it as well as he could
to Mr. Evelyn, but to suffer it to break by de-
grees upon the young and innocent Gertrude,
whose nerves were already too much shaken to
allow him to risk the additional agitation which
such a communication must produce in her at
present.
In pursuance of this plan, he sought out Mr.
Evelyn, and with as much tenderness and judg-
ment as if he were indeed his son, and the youth
his only brother, he informed him that he must
not look for as speedy a restoration of the boy’s
usual liveliness, anti brightness of intellect, as
they could wish ; but failed not to hold out the
utmost extent of hope that Mr. C ’s autho-
rity permitted him. Veil it as he might, how-
ever, the shock was overwhelming; and the gal-
800 VANDELEUR.
lant soldier could ^uot contain his own tears, as
he heard the loud sobs of the afflicted father.
My beautiful boy ! my beautiful boy ! of
whose talents and acquirements I was so proud,
though scarcely myself capable of appreciating
them !
—and his poor doting sister !”
They were the kindest words Vandeleur
had ever heard him utter concerning his
daughter, and he hastened to take advantage
of them, and to divert the poor man’s atten-
tion to anything in which it could avail. “ Ay,
there is indeed the point to consider,” said he ;
“ there is indeed the point for consideration
and self-control.”
He then communicated to him his idea of
its being better to suffer the melancholy truth
to daw'll by degrees upon her mind, than to
startle her by any intimation of it, however
tenderly conveyed, since, to her, no hint for cau-
tious or watchful attention could be necessary.
Mr. Evelyn agreed with him in this ; and as
soon as he hoped he had gained some composure
VANDELEUR. 301
and command over himself, lie repaired with
him to the chamber of the youth.
Herbert was now accustomed to sit up for
some hours of every day in an arm-chair,
but preserved almost unbroken silence, and
could seldom be prevailed upon even to an-
swer any question. Yet, as his family, ac-
customed to this from the first, had never
until now formed the slightest surmise of
his real situation, they had hitherto attributed
his silence to mere bodily exhaustion, or to
some internal suffering which had not yet been
removed. Gertrude was the only one of whom he
ever appeared to take the slightest notice,—if
notice it could be called, that he sometimes, when
apparently deaf to the entreaties of every one
else to swallow some nourishment or medicine,
when she spoke, would hold out his hand for it,
but without speaking or raising his eyes. Once
or twice he was seen to look at her ; but if she
happened to meet his eyes, it seemed too much
for him, and he slowly withdrew them. She
302 VANDELEUR.
had indeed more than once inquired if it were
not strange that, as his appetite and strength
returned, he showed no farther signs of recovery ;
but her questions had been easily evaded, while
the truth had yet never flashed on any of them.
When Major Vandeleur and Mr. Evelyn en-
tered the room after the fatal communication
had been made, the poor boy raised his eyes list-
lessly, and continued for a moment to look to-
wards the door, as if he expected some one else
to enter—probably Mr. C ; but, not per-
ceiving him, he merely cast them down again,
without the slightest uttered observation. His
father sat down beside him.
“ Do you miss your kind physician, my
dearest Herbert ?” he asked, fondly taking his
hand between both his, and looking into his
face.
The boy made no reply, but looked on him
with an eye from which all intelligence was fled.
His father continued :
“ He is returned to Lon-
don ; he thinks you now quite well, my boy.
11
YANDELEUR. 803
No answer yet, save a weak and almost fa-
tuous smile. His father, in the newly-awakened
consciousness of his dreadful state, could endure
it no longer, but, hastily rising, fled from the
apartment, that he might not betray his emo-
tion. The boy once more raised his eyes at
the sudden movement ;
and a faint tinge which
came over his pale, gentle face, shot a ray of
hope into the heart of Vandeleur, that even
that faint blush betokened some natural emo-
tion.
But, except this very faint indication, days
and days passed on without the slightest change,
except that, for the last two or three, he was
heard to mutter to himself, but so low, or so in-
coherent, that no one wished to think they heard
him aright : and when, as day by day they hung
over him, and could not catch one connected
sentence, even Gertrude began to experience a
strange palpitation at her heart whenever he
attempted to speak ; and he himself, poor fel-
low ! as if finding how ineffectual were his
304 VANDELEUR.
efforts to make known his wishes, or to express
his ideas, or else finding the effort too painful,
abandoned it altogether, and fell back into his
former listless and silent state. Gertrude now
began to grow alarmed, without well knowing
on what point to fix her fears. She asked why
Mr. C had abandoned them ? And on being
O
told that he considered Herbert as nearly well,
she sighed deeply, and once said, “ I hope
not !” And latterly, when he attempted any in-
coherent speech, she would fix her melancholy
eyes on her father and Major Vandeleur alter-
nately, with a look of such agonised and pier-
cing inquiry, (as if to search the very truth of
their souls,) that they not unfrequently found it
very difficult to avoid replying to their touching
language.
At last, as she came up one evening as usual
from the dining-room to her brother’s apartment
before the gentlemen, and took her place beside
his arm-chair, after contemplating him for a
moment in anxious silence, she laid her hand
VANDELEUR. 305
upon his arm, and endeavoured to attract his
attention by asking him if he would like to hear
her read to him. He turned slowly round, and
softly pronounced, in a kind of whisper, the
word “ Gertrude.”
It was the first time he had ever seemed to
recognize any one by name ; and the poor girl
was so much affected by it, that she burst into
tears, and, throwing herself into his arms, ex-
claimed, “ Dearest, dearest Herbert
!”
It appeared that even that gentle embrace was
too rough for the slight dawn of recollection :
he shuddered from her touch, and literally
shaking with alarm and terror, he distinctly
uttered the words u Go away.”
Language cannot do justice to the poignancy
of Gertrude’s distress and disappointment at this
deathblow to her newly-awakened hopes. She
rushed out of the room, and meeting Major
Vandeleur upon the stairs, she hid her face upon
his shoulder, and sobbed forth, “ Godfrey, my
brother is—is—not himself !”
306 VANDELEUR.
Vandeleur was deeply affected: lie felt at
once from her manner of uttering these words,
that they were rather the confession of fears long
entertained, than the transitory alarm of a mo-
ment. He folded her to his heart, and whis-
pered every consolation that love could suggest.
But it was all too late—the Rubicon was pass-
ed; and they talked and wept together over the
loss of an intellect once so brilliant.
Gertrude was for some days nearly inconso-
lable, and was obliged to absent herself almost
entirely from her brother’s room, until her mind
had become in some degree accustomed to view
him in this new and heart-rending light. By
degrees, however, the ardour and buoyancy of
spirit natural to her age and character, aided
bv her lover’s arguments, enabled her to rouse
herself from the lethargy of despair, and she
began to turn all her thoughts to how she might
best “ minister to the mind diseased." She soon
succeeded in persuading herself, that where a
being’s whole heart, soul, mind, and feelings,
VANDELEUR. 307
were concentred on one object, it was not pos-
sible that he or she should not at last accom-
plish what was desired.
“Is not this the triumph of mind over mat-
ter,
11
she said, “ of which I have sometimes
heard my beloved Herbert speak P
11
“ Yes: but we must remember, dearest Ger-
trude,
11
said her lover, “ that there is a Mind
that can triumph over our minds, and whose
ways are not always our ways.
11
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
London :
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,
Dorset-street, Fleet- street.
VANDELEUR;
OR,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
A NOVEL.
Ye shall have miracles, ay, sound ones too,
Seen, heard, attested, everything but true.
Veiled Prophet.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
1836.
3S! (Oyr
VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER IX.
That work which most the public voice decries
Is still the fav’rite in its author’s eyes
;
And thus you ’ll find amid her infant host
The mother loves her idiot boy the most.
A.
Matters continued at Beauton Park pretty
much as we left them in the last chapter, when
Major Vandeleur’s regiment was ordered to the
south of Ireland. It now became necessary
that he should renew the subject of his marriage
with Gertrude, which, from delicacy towards
the afflicted family, and deep sympathy in their
sufferings, he had not touched upon since the
fatal accident.
VOL. II. n
2 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude had given him no credit for his for-
r *
bearance ; for she had scarcely remembered his
situation, in the tumult of her grief, until recalled
to a recollection of it by his gently claiming a
fulfilment of her engagement. She turned as
pale as death.
“ What is the matter, my sweetest Ger-
trude ?” he asked, alarmed at the excess of her
emotion.
She paused a moment ; then, fixing her eyes
upon him, “ You do not —you cannot mean
that you would remove me from Herbert as he
is now ?” she replied.
Her lover felt embarrassed, and at a loss how
to answer her, between the fear of awakening
her alarm for the permanency of her brother’s
bereavement, and that of appearing selfishly im-
patient to remove her from him in his present
state.
She perceived his hesitation, and throwing
her arms fondly, but pleadingly, round his neck,
—“ No,” she said, “ my Godfrey loves me too
VANDELEUR. 3
sincerely—loves Herbert too sincerely, for that
:
but to remove the temptation from you, I here
solemnly swear in the presence of Heaven,”
(falling on her knees as she spoke,) “ that no
entreaties shall induce me to become your wife
until six months from this time are expired
;
and that any attempt on your part to dissuade
me from this, or even any attempt to see me
before then, after you shall have left England, I
shall consider as unworthy of you as of myself.
Give your mind to your professional duties, and
I shall by that time know what we may have to
expect, and shall either share with you my hap-
piness, or seek consolation in your affection for
my misery.”
She leaned her head against his knees, over-
come by the excitement to which she had yield-
ed. He attempted not to raise her ; a death-
pang shot across his heart. “ Is it possible, after
all, that she loves me not ?” he asked himself,
and felt nearly as he felt the morning that he
parted with Lady Seaton in the saloon.
4 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude, astonished at his silence, looked
up ; and when she saw the expression of ago-
nized doubt upon his manly countenance, she
sprang from her knees, and standing a moment
before him, “ You do not—no—it is not pos-
sible that you doubt my affection, Godfrey !”
she exclaimed. 44
Oh, God ! so deal with me,
as I believe no woman ever yet loved as I love
you !” and she clasped her hands, and raised her
eyes to heaven.
Vandeleur folded her to his heart. 44
And
how is it then, my Gertrude, that you can pre-
fer anything to becoming my wife ?” he whis-
pered.
She raised her sweet eyes to his, as if consider-
ing how she could best explain to him her feel-
ings ; then, as if hopeless of making him under-
stand them, she ejaculated, 44
Ah, Godfrey, it
is evident you never had a brother or sister.
1 ’
44
The more then do I require a wife,” he
whispered again.
44
And you shall have a wife, Godfrey,” she
VANDELEUR. o
replied ;
“ but not yet ! take her not believing
that slie neglects a sacred duty to become
yours. Wait for a few short months; go with
your regiment to Ireland, fulfil the conditions I
have imposed, and believe that at the end of
that time I shall be ready either to return with
you there, or wherever else your duty may call
you.”
“ But, dearest Gertrude, if you will not ac-
company me now—and I scarcely intended to
urge it—why will you not become mine before
we part, and remain still to attend on our dear
Herbert ?”
“To what purpose, Godfrey ? Is it that the
time and scene are so fitted for rejoicing ? or is
it that I shall not have enough to occupy my
thoughts without feeling myself a widowed
bride ? —No, Godfrey, believe me I shall not
so readily part with my husband ; and trust me,
it will be more for your own happiness, as well
as mine, to receive me when my mind can be
more wholly yours.”
6 VANDELEUR.
To these arguments, accompanied as they
were by a gentle determination of manner,
which she endeavoured to soften hy half play-
ful, half serious smiles, Vandeleur was forced
to yield. Indeed, from the moment of her
solemn vow he had very little hopes of being
able to prevail with her to change her purpose
;
and in a few days after this conversation he
departed with his regiment for their new desti-
nation.
Poor Gertrude, in banishing her lover from
her side, and exacting a solemn promise from
him, that, unless recalled by herself, no other
circumstance should induce him to make an
attempt to see her again until six months
should have elapsed, not only thought, in the
enthusiasm of her young sorrow, that she had
made a sort of propitiatory offering to poor
Herbert ;
but, more rationally, that she should
by this absence have more time, and undivided
thoughts and attention, to bestow on him. But,
’alas ! when days, weeks, months, passed over,
VANDELEUR. 7
and she saw no change in that beloved object,
she felt that time hung but too heavily on her
hands. She had not even the usual excitements
of the sick-room, the hopes and fears from hour
to hour of some change either favourable or the
reverse. There she sat from mom till night,
watching the still gentle, uncomplaining, but
listless and vacant countenance, until scarcely a
hope lingered in her own breast that it ever
would become even intelligent enough to thank
her, and yet she had no one on whose breast to
lay her head and weep.
Her lover’s letters, indeed, were affectionate,
consoling, and generally entertaining ;
yet they
could afford little more than a temporary relief
to one whose youthful spirits were sinking
under the pressure of a misfortune ever before
her eyes.
Her father, too, whose good-lmmour was
rather derived from animal organization, than
command or buoyancy of mind, began to droop
under the loss of the field-sports, which to him
8 VANDELEUR.
were as food and light, but tvhich he had almost
totally abandoned since his son's bereavement
;
and though kinder in his manner to his daugh-
ter than heretofore, yet so new was he to sor-
row himself, and so unused to bestow tender-
ness upon her, that he was angry at her melan-
choly, because it brought that sorrow to his
mind, and his very caresses generally ended in
reproaches which drove her from him in tears.
Miss Wilson, who still hung on amongst
them, was the only one who did not seem to
sink beneath the visitation ; but still, though
she was, if not kinder, certainly more atten-
tive and watchful in the sick-room than per-
haps might have been expected, there was
nothing in her dull and unswerving placidity
to check or to repel the gloom of which she
seemed insensible, while it usurped so fearful a
dominion over the other members of the lately
happy family. Winter, too, had set in in its
most depressing form,—of sleet, and dark inces-
VANDELEUR. 9
sant rain ; and, while this precluded all refresh-
ment to the jaded spirits from without, close
confinement, and consuming anxiety within, be-
gan at last to make inroads upon the hitherto
unbroken health of Gertrude. This did not
serve to enliven the scene ; and such was the
state to which the nerves of the whole family
were at last reduced, that they all agreed in
the belief that never before were such hideous
howlings of the wintry blast heard around the
house of Beauton, or amid its leafless trees.
When once the nerves are in a state to be at
all affected by this, there are few things pro-
duce a more painful impression upon them ; but
it is one, the force of which can be fully con-
ceived only in a large, dreary, and nearly unin-
habited mansion in the country.
In the midst of this gloom, sickness, and de-
pression, a letter arrived from Lady Augusta
Starling, who had gone early in the winter to a
dowager aunt of hers in London, whose old-
b 5
10 VANDELEUR.
fashioned habits still promoted her to fly the
country with the last green leaf, and seek the
warmth and shelter of the metropolis.
The wisest cannot foresee what will eventu-
ally tend to their advantage. Lady Augusta
would have been extremely well pleased to have
deferred her visit to a later period ; but her aunt
pretty plainly intimated to her, that if she in-
tended as heretofore to make the house in
Berkeley-square her home during the whole of
the belle-season,
she must make up her mind
to endure it also for a part of the dowager-sea-
son ; and she was forced to comply. The con-
sequence was, that when other fair anglers were
only beginning to weave their nets and gauzes
for the coming season, Lady Augusta wrote to
inform Gertrude that she was already convert-
ing hers into her wedding gown.
“ And now, Gertrude,” continued the lively
young lady, after very kind and anxious inquiries,
“comes the pith of the story. You must be my
bridesmaid ; —nay, do not start, or shrink. The
VANDELEUR. ] I
matter stands thus : married in London I cannot
he ;
people would either say that I took the man
at a week’s notice, en passant,
or that I remain-
ed in town out of season on purpose to catch any
stray creature that happened for his own misfor-
tune to be passing through. Now, as I like nei-
ther of these alternatives, I have determined
upon retiring to ‘cool shades and purling brooks.’
W hat though the shades may be of Lapland
tempeiature just now, and the purling brooks
swollen to roaring torrents, — still, however,
they may feel, they will sound pretty well; and
people may then suppose, you know, that the
victim came down to shoot or hunt with papa,
and when he thought he had been most success-
ful, only brought home a wounded hart for his
pains —may that pass ? However, in addition
to all these wise reasons, papa chooses that the
wedding should take place at the old mansion;
because, as Cranberry is in Paris, there is nobodv
here to give me away, and all that ; and papa
says he would rather see me die an old maid
VANDELEUR.
12
than come up from the foxes and hares just
now : so, Gertrude, consent you must. I shall
say nothing of Lord Luscombe but what I sup-
pose you know already ; that he is just returned
from his embassy to the court 0f T * * * *, &c.
honours which are never conferred on boys : but
then, you know, I am very steady. Adieu !
dearest Gertrude,
Ever yours,
A. S.
“ P.S. Remember, I do not consider that a
bridesmaid fulfils her duty unless she watches
by the bride during the lioney-moon at least, to
brush away any little imperfections that might
turn the honey into gall during that important
season.”
“ How did this letter come?” said Gertrude
to her father, observing that there was no post-
mark on it.
“ It came under cover to me,” he replied.
“ She wrote to me also, to beg I would if pos-
sible enforce her request.”
VANDELEUR. 13
“ But I hope you have no thoughts of doing
so, my dear father. Lady Augusta can be at
no loss for friends on this occasion ; and indeed,
indeed, sir, I have neither spirits nor inclination
for such scenes at present
.''
1
“ Why, that’s the very reason, child, she
wishes you to go. Paris is such a gay dashing
place just now, that they say it would put a frog
into spirits.”
“ Paris, sir ! —why do you mention Pa-
ris ?”
“ What ! why, did she not mention it to you?
Nay, then, perhaps I have said it too soon :
but, hang me ! if she could have hit on a worse
schemer or manoeuvrer in the world to second
her than myself ; even Miss Wilson would have
done better. But the short and the long of it
is this, Gertrude ; she goes for a month to
Paris immediately after the wedding, and she
insists upon your accompanying her; and, I
must say, I think it would do you a great deal
of good.”
14 VANDELEUR.
“ My dear father, I would not think of it for
worlds I
11
“ That ’s agreeable, when I say I wish that
you should.
1 ’
“ I did not hear you say so, sir ; but, even so,
I am sure you will think better of it. I could
not leave Herbert in such a state .
11
“ Why, what good are you doing him ? God
knows, if you were, I would be the last to bid
you go ; but as you cannot do him any good, I
wish very much you would go. You know
very well Mr. C. in his last visit said you were
the patient yourself now, and that change of
scene was absolutely necessary for you. It ’s
quite enough to see one of you dying, or worse
than dying, before my eyes.—Come, don’t cry,
Gertrude, there ’s a good girl ! Think of
what I ’ve said.” And muttering “ I can’t
stand this !” he hastily left the room.
Lady Augusta herself arrived a few days
after to reiterate her petition ; but not all that
she could urge, nor all that Mr. C., in answer
VANDELEUR. 15
to a letter from her father, could prescribe, had
the slightest weight with Gertrude, until a letter
arrived from her lover, written in a tone of real
alarm at the accounts her father had given him
of her health, and assuring her that if she did
not consent to try change of air and scene,
which the present favourable opportunity offered
to her, he should not only consider her as failing
in her regard for his happiness, but should con-
sider himself released from his promise, and bound
to fly to her immediately, to urge by his presence
all that his wishes in absence failed to effect.
“ For my sake !” (those irresistible words
from lips we love)
—“For my sake !
go, my
Gertrude,” he continued. “ Every one that can,
ought to see Paris at this interesting moment,
when the national feeling is in a ferment that
casts up all its peculiarities in turn. Depend
upon it, that after this it will subside, and, by
i 1
constant and friendly intercourse with England,
in time become so assimilated with us, that
little of interest will remain in visiting it. Go,
16 VANDELEUR.
then, my dearest, that I may always have to
boast of my wife having seen it, —not in its
glory, but ere yet the shadow of its glory
had passed from the earth. And let me whis-
per, that as three months of my probation
are over, and my happiness is to be crowned
within three more, it will be a pity to lose such
an opportunity for making up such a trousseau
as shall enable you to kill as many ladies by
envy of your dress, as I shall gentlemen by envy
of my wife. Farewell, dearest! Date your
next letter except one from Paris.”
Vandeleur’s wishes, thus urged, were not to
be resisted ; but even in giving her consent to
Lady Augusta she betrayed the effort it was to
her spirits, and how gladly she would have been
spared it.
“ And do you really love Lord Luscombe,
Augusta? —a man old enough to be your fa-
ther !” she asked, as if almost in hopes still to
escape, even by rendering her friend dissatisfied
with her own prospects.
VANDELEUR. 17
“ I really love his rank and station in life :
nay, Gertrude, don’t look so shocked. Well,
then, I really like all I ’ve known of him ; and
he is very well esteemed as to character, and
all my family liked the match, and I ’m very
dutiful and obedient. Now is not that the way
to say it ? What ! not a smile yet ? Why,
you are really sadly changed, my poor Ger-
trude.”
“ I am indeed, Augusta,” said the poor
girl, bursting into tears, 66
and I fear you will
heartily repent of the companion you have
chosen ; —but it is not yet too late ?”
“ Nay, that is not kind, dear Gertrude.
Though not a very old creature myself, yet I
know how much change of scene produces
change of feeling ; and I look to giving you
back to Godfrey the blooming bride he first
courted.”
A faint smile and as faint a blush were now
just visible.
“ And I assure you, Gertrude, that is part
18 VANDELEUR.
of my motive for being so very urgent, after
you expressed so much dislike to the plan. But
you must second me yourself, and not refuse to
be amused.”
“ I shall certainly at least not keep out of
the way of it, and will promise to do all in my
power, dear, kind Augusta, that you may not
repent of your good-nature.”
As the time for the marriage to take place
now rapidly approached, Gertrude grew, if pos-
sible, more assiduous than ever about her bro-
ther. At least she changed the course of her
assiduity ; and all the affectionate tenderness
she had hitherto delighted in exercising to-
wards him herself, she now as anxiously labour-
ed to instil into Miss Wilson : there was not an
hour in the day in which she did not endeavour
to impress upon her how much his safety de-
fended on the most affectionate attention and
watchfulness. That impression was probably
beyond the poor woman’s limited intellect to re-
tain ; but Gertrude saw with delight, that the
VANDELEUlt. 19
force of habit and obedience seemed very tolera-
bly to supply the place of feeling ; and what
she bad now seen Gertrude do for months, she
seemed able enough to follow. And alas ! the
state in which Herbert continued seemed to
require but little more.
He now seldom uttered a distinct sentence,
or manifested the least desire to move about ;
and as the weather was by no means such as to
induce them to put any force on his inclinations,
he sat from morning till night in his arm-chair,
in a kind of dreamy state of existence ; as if
the vital spark still lingered, but in its very
lowest proportion.
Still, although Gertrude felt better satisfied
with Miss Wilson’s attention than she perhaps
expected, she could not prevail on herself to
commit so precious a charge to one of her ca-
libre, who, if any change should take place,
would certainly never think it called for a
change of treatment; —nor yet to her anxious,
but impatient and unskilful father. When,
20 VANDELEUR.
therefore, she first made up her mind to ac-
company Lady Augusta, she immediately wrote,
with her father’s consent, to old Mr. Mason, to
mention the circumstances of the family, and
to entreat that he would return to watch over
his beloved pupil in her absence.
“ And now take care, Miss Wilson,” Mr.
Evelyn said with a gravity and seriousness
which he knew would have due weight with
her, and which now were more consonant to his
feelings than jesting,
—
u take care that I hear
no more of your outrageous attacks upon the
poor old man ; for I tell you plainly, that, by
the Lord ! he never shall again leave my house
for you—if indeed he will consent to enter it
while you are here.”
Miss Wilson hung her head ; and, exactly as
a child of ten years old might do when repri-
manded for a fault, she said in a low voice, “ I
will not, sir, say any more to him !”
Not a word had been heard of Mr. Mason
since he left Beauton Park. In the first days
VANDELEUR. 21
of affliction no one thought of the poor old man ;
and when at last Vandeleur recollected and
wrote to him, he never seemed to have taken
any notice of the letter. Gertrude wrote again
in the course of the winter, still without pro-
ducing a reply ; but as she could not for a
moment do him the injustice to attribute this
silence either to forgetfulness of his affection for
Herbert, or want of sympathy in his misfor-
tune, she set it down either to some accident to
himself, or some oddity—too inexperienced to
know that oddities of his sort are only odd in
manner or expression, never in feeling. Indeed
the very word odd on human lips, which are so
prone to speak evil, should be (and perhaps is)
much more generally understood to imply some-
thing above, rather than below, the common
;
something which inferior minds cannot exactly
comprehend, and yet, instinctively feeling that
it is above censure, satisfy their consciences by
the word “ odd”
As poor Gertrude, however, had no feelings
VANDELEUR.
of envy towards Mr. Mason* and was willing to
give him credit for all that was good and kind,
she now wrote again on the eve of her depart-
ure, and was preparing to leave home next
morning with a very heavy heart indeed, when
the old man himself arrived ; but so worn and so
altered, that every one started at his appearance.
On being questioned, however, he merely said
that he had not been well all the winter, and
was a little fatigued by the journey.
“ A little ! —why, you seem scarcely able to
stand,” said Mr. Evelyn.
“ I shall be better presently, sir,” he said,
as he sank almost fainting into a chair.
Gertrude brought him a glass of wine, which
he hastily swallowed, and seemed to revive a
little. .
“ But what has been the matter, Mr. Ma-
son ?” Mr. Evelyn asked : “ you were so very
healthy all the time you were here.”
Mr. Mason only smiled.
VANDELEUR. 23
“ Did you get Major Vandeleur’s first let-
ter ?” asked Gertrude.
“ I did,
11
he replied ; and no one cared to
inquire further the cause of his long illness.
The old man never had loved any one else since
the days of his youth.
When after some time he requested to see his
beloved pupil, the meeting between them was
affecting to the last degree. He entered the
room shaking from head to foot, from all the
cautions that had been given him not to alarm
the youth. Herbert did not for some time
notice his entrance ; at last Gertrude said,
“ Dearest Herbert, there is your dear Mr. Ma-
son come to see you .
11
He raised his eyes very
slowly, a faint colour came to his cheek, and a
slight movement of his lips was perceptible.
Mr. Mason had to be carried from the room,
and from the adjoining apartments altogether,
that his sobs might not reach his pupil’s ears.
He retired almost immediately to bed; and as
24 VANDELEUR.
the wedding was to take place early next day,
Gertrude saw him no more.
Though much affected by the scene of the
evening before, she rose that morning with
lightened spirits at leaving her beloved brother
with so kind and so anxious a friend, and flat-
tered herself that his own exhaustion was chiefly
produced by over-exertion after illness. Pre-
vious to setting out, she stole into her brother’s
room ; but, as he still slept, she only knelt by his
side for a moment, and uttered a prayer for his
safety ; then taking an affectionate farewell of
her father, and repeating her cautions to Miss
Wilson, she stepped into the carriage, and was
borne to a scene how different from that she
left behind her ! A bright and lovely early
spring morning, together with a letter from her
lover, put into her hands by a servant return-
ing from the post town, thanking her in the
most affectionate and grateful terms for her com-
pliance, served to cheer and enliven her, and
VANDELEUR. To
she arrived at Lord Foxhill’s mansion in toler-
able spirits.
The wedding took place immediately on her
arrival ; and in about an hour afterwards, Lord
and Lady Luscombe, Gertrude, and their re-
spective attendants, set out for Paris.
“ I see you brought no maid, Gertrude,
1
'
said
Lady Luscombe.
“ No: you know it was agreed that I should
have Mrs. Whitecross as soon as you provided
yourself with a French one ; so I thought it
unnecessary to bring another : besides, you
know, we settled I should not .
11
“ Yes, hut I half repent it now; for the mo-
ment I told Whitecross that she was to ero to
live with Mrs. Vandeleur, she got into such ec-
stasies, that I expect very little comfort from
her en attendant. I think she considers you
her lady already ; at least, she certainly con-
siders Vandeleur her lord.”
u How do you mean ?”
VOL. II. c
26 VANDELEUR.
“ That she really almost worships him. I
never heard one human being speak of another
as she does of him.”
“You are so kind, dear Augusta, to try to •
lead me to chat on what you think an inspiring
subject ; but I promised you I should exert
myself, and I assure you I feel much better,
much less miserable, already, than I should have
thought possible; so choose some topic in which
Lord Luscombe can join,” (and she smiled across
to him,) “ and you shall see how well I shall
behave.”
“ Come, then, my lord, do tell us some of
the sights you have seen in your wanderings
over the world,” said his bride.
“ I am too much charmed with the sight be-
fore me, to think of looking back.”
u Oh, but as it would not be very pretty in
us to return the compliment, pray have pity on
us.”
“ I should then rather you would look for-
ward than back.”
VANDELEUR. 27
“ Still,” said she, affecting to stretch her head
forwards towards the opposite seat, where Lord
Luscombe sat with his back to the horses, “ still
I can see but the one object, your lordship .
11
66
And is that not enough, Augusta P
11
“ Why, really now that is the most conceit-
ed, or else the most ill-bred, speech I ever
heard. Either it is addressed to Miss Evelyn
as well as me, in which case it is conceited ; or
else you have entirely forgotten that her eyes
may require refreshment while your own are
feasting so luxuriously, which is very ill-bred .
11
“ I believe I had best leave this whimsical
girl to you, Miss Evelyn,
11
said Lord Luscombe,
smiling ;
“ I seldom can make anything of her.
11
In such sort of conversation, if conversation
it may he called, the time passed over. Lord
and Lady Luscombe, though both well-meaning,
and u fair to pass
11
as to intellect, were neither
of them gifted with real talents for conversation.
Lady Luscombe could always rattle on upon
whatever was passing before her at the moment,
28 VANDELEUR.
but seldom had the power of deeply engaging
the attention ; and Lord Luscombe, on the con-
trary, though a man of the world, had just
enough of tact to describe well most of what he
had seen as sights,
but never had attained to de-
ducing a single new idea from them ; and as at
this moment his thoughts were, as he said him-
self, more engaged upon the present than the
past, he was not particularly entertaining to his
companions.
Still the time did pass on, and they arrived
without accident, or annoyance, in what was
then, and for many years afterwards, considered
the gayest city in Europe.
VANDELEUR. 29
CHAPTER X.
On Apathy’s cold brink,
To seize the soul, and teach it how to think ;
To tell of Nature’s wonders, till the lot
Of self, with all its mimic care’s forgot;
And new creations open on the soul,
With bursts of joy beyond this world’s control
;
Till the freed spirit, purified, refined,
Leaves puny woes and discontent behind,
To seek at last the goal they cannot reach :
—
This is the true morality to teach.
Anonymous.
In Paris, as it was at that period, what a
completely new view of life presented itself to
Gertrude! who, until launched at once with her
gay friend into the gayest circles, composed of
visiters from almost every civilized nation in the
world, had scarcely ever wandered beyond the
precincts of her own domain.
30 VANDELEUR.
Lord Luscombe had visited Paris once before
in an official character, which, with other cir-
cumstances, ensured his party being received at
once into the very first circles even of foreign
society. And certainly nothing could be more
interesting to every class of intellect than the
society then to be enjoyed in Paris. For the
gay, there were unusual excitement and variety ;
for the contemplative, there was a panorama of
events, such as one lifetime could never hope to
comprise again ; for the philosopher, there was
food for study in the impulses which had brought
about such mighty changes ; for the old, there
was the hope of peace—for the young, the hope
of Avar ; but no class, no sex, no age, was left in
a state of dull stagnation. And between the
tours de raises,
the deepest subjects of poli-
tical interests were discussed by lips that until
then had only opened to pronounce upon a
ballet or an opera : people’s minds were kept
on the stretch in the gayest coterie ; and this is
the real charm of society.
VANDELEUR. 31
For the first few days Gertrude moved about
i
sad and pensive ; she was terrified and grieved
to find herself so far from Herbert, and—from
Vandeleur. But, of all human beings, hers was
the nature least calculated to resist the influ-
ence of pleasure and excitement. It happened
that, amongst the accomplishments upon which
Gertrude’s mother had prided herself, was that
of speaking French fluently, —an accomplish-
ment then less a matter of course than it is at
present. This she had in her first days of in-
dustry imparted to her children ; and the habit
of speaking to them in that language once ac-
quired, she had never totally abandoned, es-
pecially with her daughter. The consequence
was, that though still far from speaking the
language correctly or elegantly, Gertrude found
herself at as little loss to understand, or make
herself understood, in Paris, as most English
women did who visited it at that time. In
addition to the facility this acquirement afford-
ed her of forming acquaintances, and enjoying the
32 VANDELEUR.
society of foreigners, several of Lord Luscombe’s
friends were amongst those who had for many
years found refuge in England from the dis-
tractions of their own country, and who had,
while there, received hospitality and kindness
from his family ;
—good offices which were by
many forgotten, but which by many also were
warmly remembered, and repaid as far as cir-
cumstances admitted. Altogether Gertrude
was as favourably placed for enjoying all that
is supposed to constitute enjoyment to the
youthful mind, as external matters could
ensure.
Nor did she remain insensible to their cheer-
ing influence. By degrees her courage and her
spirits recovered their tone ; her father was
careful to write no depressing accounts of Her-
bert ; and by the time that Lord Luscombe^s
party had been a fortnight or three weeks in
Paris, Gertrude found herself an object of uni-
versal attention and admiration in the circles in
which they moved, and had even found it ne-
VANDELEUR. 33
cessary, with a blushing cheek, to request of
Lady Luscombe to suffer her engagement with
Vandeleur to be generally understood. This
precaution, seconded by her own delicate and
retiring manners, had the effect of freeing her
from several professed admirers, especially
amongst her own countrymen ; and, without
this unwholesome food for female vanity, there
still remained plenty to interest and delight
her.
It has been said that Gertrude's education
(as it is called) had been rather desultory, and
such as her natural aversion from study or
sedentary habits left very imperfect : but that
very dislike to study, when joined to, and pro-
ceeding from, eagerness and vivacity of mind
and perception, as it did in her, rendered her
the more susceptible of, and delighted with,
whatever information or new ideas she could
acquire independent of that study. At Beau-
ton this enjoyment was almost denied her,
—
indeed was one of which she scarcely knew
c 5
34 VANDELEUR.
the existence ; but when* launched into the
enlightened, spirituel circles of Parisian life,
where the mysteries of nature were turned
into children’s toys, and the bourgeois who sold
them could lecture on their properties, she
really began to feel as if she had only then
begun to live. Yet far was this feeling from
bringing any coolness in her faithful heart to
those she had loved and left ; the only effect
it produced towards them, was to make her won-
der how they could so much have loved one so
far beneath them ; and she determined, during
her short excursion, like the bee, to gather all
the treasure that she could from every one who
was willing to impart it, and carry it all faith-
fully home to her own hive.
It will readily be conceived that this vivacity
of mind, and intelligent delight in everything
she saw, were, in so young and so lovely a girl,
beheld by liberal, polished, and enlightened per-
sons with interest and indulgence ; and many
a gentleman, whose gallantries and personal
VANDELEUR. 35
compliments she had effectually repressed, passed
a delightful evening in describing to her the
principles of some ingenious toy, or showing her
some beautiful chemical experiment.
The effect of all this on her mind was incon-
ceivable to those who from their earlier years
have been familiar with such intellectual enjoy-
ments ; it was delicious—it was intoxicating.
Her ideas of the powers of the human mind
became exalted, and, with the enthusiasm of
youth and inexperience, she could scarcely be
persuaded, that where so many wonders had been
discovered, all should not in time become so ;
and to the question, “ Why should they not
it was not in the power, still less was it the
interest, of those who excited these emotions,
to reply.
Much that they taught her was true and
valuable, but many unproved theories were also
presented to her ; and her principles of cultiva-
tion, if we may be allowed the expression, were
not sufficiently matured to distinguish between
36 VANDELEUR.
them, "where all was received on trust by her
;
and, alas ! she had no friend at hand to guide
her through the dangerous, because dazzling,
paths of scientific speculation. To Lord and
Lady Luscombe, indeed, she sometimes men-
tioned her new field of enjoyment ; but they,
though politely attentive to what she said, were
too prudent to hazard an opinion where they
had never had an idea, and only rejoiced that
she had found anything so fully to absorb her
attention.
Amongst the persons of the French noblesse
who had received attentions from the family of
Lord Luscombe in England, was the Count De
fEspoir, an ancient and respectable nobleman,
but who had fallen under the displeasure of the
demons of the Revolution, and who had suffered
so severely, that while in exile in England, and
reduced in many instances to what he consider-
ed degradation, he affected the incognito, and
assumed the name of De Brons. He had re-
turned to his country and gleaned up the remains
VANDELEUR. 37
of his property ; and though he was now no more,
his only son procured an introduction to Lord
Luscombe’s house, under the pretext of return-
ing thanks for the civility his family had re-
ceived when in England. He was that same
De Brons, now the Count De FEspoir, from
whose snares Vandeleur had rescued the present
Mrs. Whitecross when Sally Henshawe.
In very early youth young De FEspoir had
evinced talents of no ordinary class ; and as his
father was anxious to afford him every advan-
tage for cultivating them, he procured, as his
tutor, a young German student, who had come to
Paris on a visit to a sister of his married there :
but who, liking the gaieties of that city, and its
stirring interests, better than the life he led in
his own country-home, decided upon remaining
there ; and in order to enable himself to do so,
found it necessary to draw largely on his own
talents to procure the means.
Nature had by no means been niggardly to
Edelstein : he was born without any dangerous
38 VANDELEUR.
or leading passion, and with a fair proportion
of the ingenuity and talent of his country
;
but circumstances had been unfavourable to
him. He came to Paris a young and inexpe-
rienced man, if not in love with virtue, cer-
tainly unused to vice: but such, at that pe-
riod, was the state of society there, that to
look on, and be able to snatch what was good
from such a furnace of evil, and not perish
in the attempt, required a firmer character
and more settled principles than were those of
the young German student. He explored the
depths of human nature indeed, but without
the safety-lamp of true philosophy ; and though
he perished not, he fell into that moral lethargy
from the effects of which he never afterwards
recovered. He succeeded, however, in snatch-
ing some glittering particles from the mine ;
and though mingled with much dross, and
earthy impurities, they yet shone sufficiently to
enable him, after some time, to offer himself as
the instructor of youth.
VANBELEUR. 39
Fate threw him in the way of the Count De
l’Espoir, who engaged him for his only son,
then a hoy about twelve years of age. Very
soon after this arrangement was made, the Re-
volution broke out ; and when it became neces-
sary for the count to fly from that country and
carry his son with him, Edelstein having little
inducement to remain behind, and being very
greedy in the pursuit of novelty, implored per-
mission to follow his fortunes.
They came to England, and the Count De
PEspoir was but too happy to accept of such
hospitality as his rank, and unmerited misfor-
tunes, procured him from the English, on his
own behalf, and to place his son at a school
where he might still pursue his education. The
German tutor was separated from his patron for
a time, and after continuing for about two years
to procure a precarious livelihood by his talents,
he determined upon taking orders, as a means
of increasing his respectability ; and with some
difficulty got himself ordained by an ex-bishop
40 VANDELEUR.
of France, at the instance of the Count De
FEspoir.
It is not to be supposed that such motives,
and followed by no active duties, could produce
much influence upon his character ; or, without
more interest than he possessed, upon his
worldly fortunes ; he continued, therefore, the
same unsteady, wild, and fanciful creature
he had ever been, trifling with the deepest
mysteries of nature, and only sipping enough
of each to render them dangerous to himself
and others, until after a few years, the course
of events placed him as an usher at the same
school in shire where young De FEspoir
now was, in the sort of intermediate posi-
tion between pupil and teacher : that is, the
terms of education were lowered in his favour,
on account of the purity and correctness of his
French accent.
Hitherto De l’Espoir, at the different schools
he had been at, had passed as a sort of cha-
racter, whom, if nobody praised, every one
VANDELEUR. 41
seemed afraid to blame. An odd, startling sort
of daringness now and then broke out in his
sentiments, and even in his conduct ; but as he
quickly was able to restrain the one, and to
turn the other off in a satirical laugh, people
were willing to pass him by as a French-
man.
When, however, Edelstein appeared at Mr.
Hamilton’s school, the scene was changed. The
long-smothered fire broke out under the sanction
of a coadjutor ; and the German and the French-
man, though very unlike in natural disposition,
thus meeting in a foreign land, became link-
ed in bonds of friendship far beyond those
necessarily attendant on their former acquaint-
ance. Nothing, indeed, could be more opposite
than were the characters of the two young men.
It might almost have been supposed that they
had each been changed at their birth ; for while
the German was animated, volatile, and un-
steady, the Frenchman was deep, reflective,
cool, and designing. But as if each, by myste-
42 VANDELEUIl.
rious sympathy, recognised his own proper nature
in the other, they became firmest friends ; and
this fatal friendship gave the last puff to the
already waning lamp of Hans Edelstein’s prin-
ciples.
De l’Espoir had deeply felt his family’s fall ;
but he felt it only in their loss of wealth as the
means of enjoyment, and his earliest thoughts
turned to the possibility of supplying that want.
While yet in his boyhood, he had sounded seve-
ral of the companions whom chance threw in
his way upon these means ; but the plain and
plodding honesty of John Bull, and the happy
circumstances of English youth, rendered them
alike unable and unwilling to understand or to
second his schemes. For a time he suffered
those visions to slumber, or was forced to con-
ceal them within his own breast, and endeavour-
ed to make himself amends by such amusements
as were within his reach. But no sooner did
his German tutor re-appear, than he found in
him a spirit ready to minister to whatever
VANDELEUR. 43
devices his still young but dangerous ambition
should suggest. The circumstances of the times,
and their own absolute poverty and want of
friends in a foreign country, rendered political
intrigue totally out of their reach ; but they
turned all their attention to making some such
figure in the occult sciences, so little practised in
England at that time, and in which the Ger-
man was an adept, as should, in the first in-
stance, procure them some money, for the right
use of which they determined to trust to cir-
cumstances.
Matters were just at this pass between them,
when chance introduced young Vandeleur to the
notice of the Marquis of Hampton. His ac-
count of the foreigners had sufficient weight
with that nobleman to induce him to write to
Mr. Hamilton on the subject. The conse-
quence was a strict investigation, and pro-
hibition of all studies that were not submitted
to his inspection. This for a short time
seemed to produce the desired cessation ; but
44 VANDELEUR.
before any more permanent effects could ensue
from it, that political period arrived which en-
abled the Count De l’Espoir and his son to re-
turn to their native country.
They did return ; but not so did their an-
cient possessions return to them : and young De
PEspoir, with deep and bitter discontent, saw
himself so confined in his means, as to have
little more enjoyment in his power than when,
half tutor, half pupil at Mr. Hamilton's school,
he endeavoured to subvert the principles of a
beautiful and innocent girl. Once more he
turned his dark mind to its own resources, and
instead of pursuing the broad and noble path of
science, which might have led him to wealth,
and certainly to honour, he wrote to his ci-de-
vant tutor to rejoin him, and together they re-
commenced, in a city the most favourable to their
wild and secret practices, their endeavours to
win by trick, device, and experiment, from the
ignorant and the credulous, that notoriety and
emolument which, with a little more time and
VANDELEUR. 45
study, they might have commanded, by the
force of truth and the power of knowledge, from
the highest and the noblest.
For some time their machinations served little
other purpose than to afford them amusement
and the means of low intrigue. But at length,
and suddenly, an accident occurred ; a report was
spread : a life fell the sacrifice to some mysterious
chemical experiment which, professing to bestow
immortality, only kept the pledge by dismissing
the spirit from its mortal tabernacle. There
were some dark attending circumstances about a
will, and the matter called for legal investiga-
tion. De FEspoir had friends in power, and
was still a young man. Edelstein was declared
the criminal, and fled once more from Paris for
his life. This fearful event, which took place
a few years before Gertrude visited Paris, acted
as a temporary sedative upon De FEspoir —on
his father as a lasting one. The old man sank
beneath the shock ; and the young count con-
trived to cover, by his new title, the blot
46 VANDELEUR.
upon his name. He had now grown wiser
by experience, and the visions of youth having
faded before added years, he determined to turn
from theory to practice, from mind to matter;
and when the peace with England sent its love-
liest and its wealthiest flocking to Paris, he began
to recollect its “ smiling homes,” and to think
that, as he was a remarkably handsome man
and still in the prime of life, he could not do
better than give his title in exchange for some
of their fertile acres. Fortune hitherto had
been unfavourable to him ; for besides that his
own possessions were by no means so ample as
to induce any parent to covet his alliance, his
was not a character to win the love of woman ;
there was too much of cold, selfish, wmrldly
calculation about it. He was one of those per-
sons who contrive to hold their place in society
despite a certain instinct which prevails amongst
men to their disadvantage, and to be wr
ell re-
ceived by women, but never to be an object of
their love.
VANDELEUIt. 47
He was without principles ;
but, as lie was
also without ardent feelings, he was never hur-
ried by their impulse into any flagrant vice; and,
taught caution by added years and unsuccess-
ful youth, he now was rather one who looked
steadily forward to the time when some happy
hit should enable him to indulge his passions
or propensities without control, than one who
yielded headlong to their impulse, perhaps to be
as quickly arrested by some mercifully counter-
acting feeling. He played, but it was still with
the same cold caution that marked his whole
demeanour : he neither lost his money nor his
character—the one was nearly as precious to
him as the other. Not that he was a miser ; on
the contrary, he merely valued money as the
instrument of his pleasures —his passport into
good society—and his character—for the same
reason
!
Such was the man who, on plea of the civili-
ties which his father had received from the
family of Lord Luscombe, got himself intro-
48 VANDELEUR.
duced to the young, innocent, and inexperienced
Gertrude. He, like the rest, had heard of her
engagement ; but as, at the same time, he also
heard of her large fortune, and that only a sick-
ly youth, her very affectionate brother, stood
between her and a princely one, he did not, like
others, resign his boldest hopes. What to bet-
ter-principled minds seemed an insurmountable
barrier between her and them, to him only ap-
peared to reduce his competitors or rivals from
infinity to one.
“Sauve qui pent /” cried he. “ Scared by the
phantom of a woman’s faith, the field will be
all the clearer for me.”
He inquired if her fiance were in Paris ; and
on learning that he was not, he considered the
field already won.
A more modest man might also have been
staggered by witnessing, as he did, Gertrude’s
quiet but decided rejection of all personal adu-
lation, from whatever source presented ; and her
innocent assumption of matronly dignity, when
VANDELEUR. 49
not thrown off her guard by her youthful and
enthusiastic feelings : but it produced no other
effect on him, than to show him that the usual
avenue to women’s hearts was closed up with
her, and that therefore he must make another for
himself.
It is not to be supposed that one so deeply
interested, should long remain ignorant of the
delight which the poor girl took in literary con-
versation ; and Paris itself scarcely afforded a
person more perfectly qualified to catch and en-
trance the attention of one at once so intelligent,
and so uncultivated, as Gertrude was. His own
daringness of fancy,—want of loyalty, as it were,
in the cause of science,—and the innumerable
theories of which he had tasted in his youth,
gave him weapons with which to assail her ima-
gination, as bright, and various, as they were
subtle and dangerous.
The road to her attention thus once dis-
covered, he determined to shut it up from all
competitors ; and in the evening conversazione
VOL. II. D
50 VANDELEUR.
in the gardens of the Tuile'ries, the ride in the
Bois de Boulogne, or the enchanting lounge of
the Louvre, he was ever at her side, and ever
pouring into her ear some interesting or amus-
ing fact or theory. Still she dreamt not of dan-
ger or imprudence. Yandeleur and De FEspoir
were beings so unlike, that by any accident they
had never yet even crossed each other in her
mind. Nor was De FEspoir unaware of this.
The stake for which he played was too deep
not to render him quick-sighted ; and when an-
other fortnight passed over, and he found that he
had not made the slightest advance in her affec-
tions, or even interested her vanity, he perceived
that he must either change his plans, or be con-
tent to find himself a mere benevolent, disinter-
ested instructor to a beautiful young girl. The
character neither pleased nor suited him ; and,
albeit he was not used either to despond, or
quickly to abandon any scheme he had once
adopted, he was for some days absolutely at a
loss on what point to assail her with the re-
motest prospect or even chance of success. A
VANDELEUR. 51
mere accidental circumstance revealed to him
that point.
It happened that, one evening at a gentle-
man’s house, where there were hut few persons
assembled, Gertrude, looking over the few books
and pamphlets that lay scattered about, took
up a report upon the effects of animal mag-
netism. She had heard some odd rumours in
England of something of the kind, but always
heard it spoken of with the greatest contempt
and derision : even Vandeleur, she remembered,
had joined in the laugh, and pronounced it
nothing but French or German humbug. This,
of course, did not tend to excite her interest in
the subject, and it had probably never again
crossed her imagination until chance threw in
her way this publication ; but then, great
indeed was her astonishment to perceive, signed
to it, one or two names of the leading medical
men of the day, and whose talents and high
acquirements she had heard both English and
French alike extol.
52 VANDELEUR.
“ What in the world is this ?” said she,
pointing it out to De FEspoir, who, as usual,
was hovering about her. He received the
pamphlet from her hand, looked at it for a
moment, and before he found words to reply
to her fate-teeming question, he felt an instinc-
tive conviction that she had at last herself
pointed out to him the snare in which alone she
could be caught.
De FEspoir had been for years in England
;
he was of course aware of the prejudices that
even a few years ago existed much more strong-
ly than they do now, against almost everything
French, but especially against what was called
French quackery, and French philosophy.
Happily those prejudices are fading away : the
word French no longer is synonymous with
false ; and people at last have learned to try a
medicine, a doctrine, or a theory, by some other
test than that of French and English. But
they did exist, and perhaps never in greater
force than when De FEspoir was receiving
VANDELEUR. 53
or imparting instruction there. Indeed, lie had
suffered from them himself : for even before
the Marquis of Hampton had taken the trouble
of making Mr. Hamilton aware of the dan-
gerous inmates he harboured amongst his pu-
pils, De l’Espoir found himself looked upon
with an eye of suspicion by the pupils, and
even shunned and dreaded as some one possessed
of unhallowed powers. This, of course, he re-
membered still, and was well aware of the cau-
tion that would be necessary, in order not to
scare away the timid stranger-bird, that now
came fluttering round the dangerous snare to
examine its contents.
Before he made up his mind in what way to
answer her, she had run her eye over another,
and another, startling instance of the cures
effected, or said to be effected, by the power of
the human will, and sympathies, over the ener-
gies. of another. She was confounded, and
again exclaimed, u Do explain to me, if you
can, what all this means, signed by G and
54 VANDELEUR.
D ,
&c. &c. names that are esteemed alike
by us and you, on a subject which I thought
only tolerated by fools or madmen ? But per-
haps it is not one with which you are even
acquainted ?”
The count smiled gently, and looked down.
“ I believe,” he said at last, “ it is scarcely
too much to say, that few are better acquaint-
ed with it.”
And it was true. It was one of those the-
ories which in his youth had engaged much of
his attention ; and if it had not led to cures
for others, had led to many a wild adventure
for himself. It had of late been laid aside, with
other pursuits unbecoming his new rank and sta-
tion in society, and indeed was only practised now,
by any one in Paris, in secrecy and obscurity :
still, nowand then, such startling effects did take
place, and such wonderful cures were occasion-
ally effected through its medium, from what-
ever cause, that some liberal-minded physicians
could not refuse their testimony to the facts ;
VANDELEUR. 55
while one or two men, whose extensive talents
and research were patents in themselves, even
ventured to write in favour of the theory.
By degrees, and with a skill worthy of a
better cause, De FEspoir put Gertrude in pos-
session of these circumstances ; and when he
saw, through her liquid eyes, the holy hope that
was kindling up in her enthusiastic soul, as he
adroitly and delicately drew her attention to its
influence in all nervous cases, or affections of the
head, her own heart did not bound more tu-
multuously at the thought of its being service-
able to her beloved brother, than did his at see-
ing how insensibly she was suffering herself to
be at least made accustomed to the ideas he
wished to instil into her mind. It was all he
aimed at for the present ; and, changing the con-
versation that she might not be able to sus-
pect his object in it, he determined to wait with
patience until she should again lead to it herself.
Alas ! it was not long before she did so : the
hints he had thrown out, the facts he had re-
56 VANDELEUR.
lated, were to lier of a nature too deeply inter-
esting to leave them unexamined. He of course
followed as she led, and even, when he could do
so with effect, took a stride before her; and
though she never yet had spoken to him of
her brother’s health, he plainly perceived that
every question, every idea, and every throb of
her heart had but the one object. He waited
with palpitating anxiety, but at the same time
with consummate art and caution, until she
should make it known to him herself ; while
beforehand he made it his business, by every
indirect means within his reach, to put himself
in full possession of every particular relating to
the boy’s malady, and to the general circum-
stances of the family. This enabled him con-
stantly to give such a turn, and such a colour, to
every instance he related of the effects of ani-
mal magnetism, as exalted the poor girl’s en-
thusiastic hopes to the highest ; and at last, one
day, with a blushing countenance, and eyes hu-
mid, from the excess of her emotion, and the
VANDELEUR. 57
delicacy of the communication, she informed
him of the state in which her brother languish-
ed, and of the hope that had sprung up within
her heart.
De FEspoir received her communication
with all the skilful tact of one, at once deep-
ly interested, and prepared beforehand for it.
He seemed at first scarcely to encourage her
in thinking of the undertaking ; but, with the
difficulties and the obstacles which he pointed
out, he managed to blend so artfully the cer-
tainty of success if they could but be surmount-
ed, that he fully succeeded, even to his own
satisfaction, in fixing, instead of removing, her
anxiety to try it.
Still there were moments when her clear
understanding, unformed and immatured as it
was, suggested to her the improbability that
any art, science, power, or whatever its nature
might be, so beneficial in its effects on human
beings, should remain so long, at the least, a
matter of doubt, if not of ridicule, to almost all
58 VANDELEUR.
the enlightened part of mankind. But what
is the theory so extravagant that may not, by
clever and interested casuists, be surrounded with
arguments to dazzle and bewilder, if not for the
moment to win over to its side, the youthful
mind, to which every new idea is almost alike
wonderful and extraordinary ? And how long
is it before the young and vigorous intellect is
convinced that its own powers are not creative !
or can believe, where so much is taken on trust,
that any one has ascertained where the limits
should be laid !
In the present expanding state of Gertrude’s
faculties and ideas, she was particularly exposed
to this danger ; for she really felt it to be almost
presumption in her, to attempt to question the
probability of any theory, merely by the force of
her own weak powers of reasoning or compre-
hension.
In the principles of animal magnetism there
was everything to enlist the gentle, and the
feeling, on its side ; its ostensible, and indeed
VANDELEUR. 59
only legitimate object, being to alleviate the ills
of humanity by curing diseases which may be
beyond the physician’s skill. And, as it pro-
fesses to require virtue, and purity of mind, in its
agents, there was nothing revolting to delicacy
in its practice : whilst a theory that brought with
it, in Gertrude’s case, so holy, so delicious a hope
as that now awakened within her, was of all
others the least likely to be rejected by her
ardent and affectionate heart.
“ Can it be, oh ! can it be !” she exclaimed,
“ that God has heard my prayers, and sent me
here for the purpose of making me—even me
—the instrument of his mercy to my beloved
Herbert
!”
She blushed, however, very deeply when De
l’Espoir proceeded to explain to her the abso-
lute necessity that she should, in so critical a
case, have some one by her side, well skilled in
the practice of magnetising, in order to direct
her movements, and sustain her nerves in case
of any sudden emergency.
60 VANDELEUR.
“ Then it is indeed at an end !” said she,
“ for such a person is not to be found in Eng-
land ;
and in vain should I endeavour to pre-
vail on my father to bring Herbert here, on
what he would indeed call a wild-goose chase.’'’
“ But know you not that Frenchmen can
cross the seas as well as Englishmen ?” in-
quired De l’Espoir, smiling.
“ Yes: but to -whom could I turn for such
a sacrifice of time and trouble ?” she ask-
ed, hastily raising her eyes to his face, but
as hastily dropping them when she read his
countenance, although her artless lips could
scarcely refrain from reflecting the smile she
caught on his, and thus betraying the consci-
ousness of his intentions, which only that in-
stant flashed upon her mind. He seized her
hand, pressed it between both his, and exclaim-
ed in a voice of unfeigned transport, u To me
—to me, Gertrude, may you turn for it !
—
T
shall folloAV you to England—I shall assist you
in your pious undertaking. You will need con-
VANDELEUR. 61
stant advice and support ;
I shall be at hand
to afford it ; and—my only reward shall be
—
a place in that angelic heart
!”
Gertrude started at this finale to his speech ;
and, with a burning blush and downcast eyes,
asked him in a voice almost inaudible, if he
knew not of her engagement ?
Few mistake the symptoms of genuine truth.
De PEspoir felt that he had touched the very
verge of the precipice that, in another moment,
had engulphed his dearest hopes. He recovered
himself at once, and skilfully retreated. “ I
do !” he said emphatically. “ I have long known
it : else where had been my security ?—I ask
but for the lowest place to which a sincere friend
may aspire.”
The youthful girl, too early assuming the cha-
racter of a matron, unsupported and unassist-
ed, again blushed at what she now believed to
have been only her own vanity ; and reassured
at once both of his propriety and extraordinary
kindness, she not only accepted his proposal, but
62 VANDELEUR.
poured upon him the most enthusiastic expressions
of gratitude and delight. De l’Espoir was not
yet quite unembarrassed : he saw that Gertrude
had not taken into consideration a point upon
which all his chance of success must hinge—that
of absolute concealment of the whole proceed-
ing from every human being except themselves
and the poor invalid, who was of course incapa-
ble of betraying them.
The Count was by far too much a man of
the world, and knew too much of England, to
share in Gertrude’s hope of the arguments that
prevailed with herself having any effect on her
plain, downright, John Bull father; or even if
a parent’s despairing anxiety for the reco-
very of an only son, should induce him to try
everything, or anything, that held out a hope of
success, still De l’Espoir well knew that nei-
ther his own worldly advantages, nor the in-
terest he had been able, with all his pains, to
awaken in Gertrude’s breast, afforded the small-
est chance of his superseding Vandeleur, either
VANDELEUR. 63
with her family or herself ;
and that, therefore,
even should the boy recover, he must content
himself with abundance of thanks, and expres-
sions of gratitude ; and — should he not, why
the matter were still worse. Neither of these
alternatives answered his purpose, and no-
thing remained for him but to follow Gertrude
to England privately, but with her own con-
currence ; to secrete himself in the neighbour-
hood of her home ; to bring about clandestine
meetings with her ; and, finally, to entangle her
so completely in his meshes, that even her
family should no longer wish to oppose her
marriage with one with whom her character
was so deeply compromised.
Nor, in planning thus, did De FEspoir con-
sider that he was betraying an innocent and
lovely being into perpetual misery, through the
medium of her best affections. Perhaps, if he
had, he might have hesitated, if not desisted
altogether. But if the idea ever obtruded itself
upon him, he banished it with the idle and
64 VANDELEUR.
imbecile tirade upon woman’s fickleness and
want of character ; and while really determin-
ing to do all that was “ reasonable” to make
Gertrude happy as his wife, he persuaded him-
self that her fidelity to Major Vandeleur, and
absolute indifference to admiration from any
other man, was like the obedience of the pow-
erful brute creation to the will of man, which pro-
ceeds merely from their ignorance of their own
capability to resist. Her engagement once forci-
bly broken,—perhaps, if matters were well man-
aged, by Vandeleur himself,—he flattered him-
self that her young, gentle, and loving heart
would turn its feelings all on him, from the self-
same docility and sense of duty.
Alas ! how seldom men can correctly read the
secrets of a woman’s heart, there to learn how
much of all that gentleness and docility which
they see, has been born of love itself
!
Of De l’Espoir’s intended tampering with
the unfortunate invalid himself, it is much more
difficult to speak. There is but One can search
VANDELEUR. 65
the human heart through all its secret wind-
ings ; and that I am myself at this moment igno-
rant of how much or how little faith De T Espoir
really placed on the influence of animal mag-
netism, is perhaps the best defence that can be
offered of what ensued from his machinations.
Indeed, his mind was of that satirical, half-
light and half-sombre cast, that it was scarcely
possible ever to pronounce on what he did or
did not believe, and it was very doubtful if he
knew himself. He had long rejected all guid-
ance from the lamp of others ;
and with too
little steadiness, warmth, or desire after truth,
to trim his own with diligence, he went
groping about in a sort of twilight state of
mind, touching and feeling everything, without
taking time or pains to assure himself of any,
and not unfrequently obscuring the way to
others.
In his youth he had certainly not only thought
of, but practised, animal magnetism, under the
inspirations of his German tutor; and unless
66 VANDELEUR.
lie had bribed two or three respectable-looking
persons, whom he contrived to bring before
Gertrude in her walks, he had succeeded
in performing some extraordinary cures. Of
the failures, it was not his cue to speak ; and
for his abandoning a practice so fraught with
charity and good-will, he gave as a reason,
the prejudices of the world, “ which would not
be saved and hinted that, for aught Ger-
trude could tell, he still might practise it in
secret.
In secret indeed it must have been; for, from
the first conversation they had held upon the
subject, he had made it a request that she
should not use his name in speaking of it, as
her doing so would expose him, he said, to im-
becile ridicule. This of course she neither felt
the right nor the inclination to refuse ; and the
subject having first been presented to her as
one held in derision by almost all, she was not
startled to find it was so, by many.
In endeavouring to dive into De F Espoir’s
YANDELEUR. 67
real feelings on the present occasion, it must be
confessed that the thought sometimes did cross
him, that if Gertrude’s brother were out of the
way, or even if his imbecility were to become
confirmed, she would be a prize worthy of the
aspirations of his country’s highest nobles. But
Nature holds no monster capable of making
the fondly-attached sister the instrument of de-
stroying her brother, through the medium of her
very love. No, no ; he persuaded himself that
the trial would at least prove a harmless one
with respect to him. If indeed he should suc-
ceed, why then Gertrude, with the fortune that
was already settled upon her, were a prize well
worthy of his efforts, even without the influence
which he might fairly calculate upon obtaining
over her brother’s mind ; and if he failed, why
he had intended well, and the entire property
was entailed upon Gertrude. That the matter
would require some careful and adroit manage-
ment he was 'well aware ; but such he considered
his forte : and against any risk from the indig-
68 VANDELEUR.
nation or revenge of lier family and lover, he
felt he had an invulnerable shield in her own
character, so deeply and doubly involved. How
far he could be considered justifiable in attempt-
ing the trial under such circumstances, I leave
to the believers in animal magnetism to deter-
mine, who maintain that the most perfect purity
of heart and singleness of intention are necessary
for the well-being of the patient .
VANDELEUR. 69
CHAPTER XI.
“ Such were the deep-drawn mysteries,
And some perhaps even more profound.
More ’wildering to the mind than these,
Which, far as woman’s thought could sound,
Or a fall’n, outlaw’d spirit reach,
She dared to learn, and I to teach,
Till, fill’d with such unearthly lore,
And mingling the pure light it brings
With much that fancy had before
Shed in false-tinted glimmerings,
The enthusiast girl spoke out.”
The Count De l’Espoir, though devoid of the
warm feelings and affections which are commonly
supposed to afford the surest road to the know-
ledge of our species, through the medium of our
sympathies, had yet mingled in too many exciting
scenes, not to have acquired enough of that know-
ledge to enable him to see that the deep involve-
70 VANDELEUR.
ment of Gertrude’s character in its most delicate
points, which his scheme required, was precisely
what would cause it to be at once rejected by
an older, a more experienced, or, alas ! a more
prudent person than her with whom he had to
deal. Even had her chaperon in Paris been one
•whose mind and manners gave her more in-
fluence over Gertrude, his task had been more
difficult ; but while Lady Luscombe, gay and
good-humoured, plunged headlong into all the
gaieties presented to her, and laughed and chat-
ted with every one, about everything, she left
her friend unmolested, and unquestioned, upon
the subject of her deeper studies.
In her letters to Vandeleur, Gertrude had
described the pleasure she enjoyed in the deve-
lopement of her mind, and the delight with
which she looked forward to his finding her im-
proved in companionable qualities, and subjects
for conversation, when, as she playfully added,
the only one they had tried as yet, should be
exhausted. But, as that was not yet the case,
VANDELEUR. 71
she deferred all discussion of the new subjects
that interested her, until then ;
and did not for a
moment think of giving herself the trouble of
writing, or him of reading, the names of her
acquaintances, which, she concluded, must be ut-
terly uninteresting to him ; or if by any chance
she might have mentioned the Count De TEspoir,
the name would not have been recognised by
him. This deprived him of the opportunity of
doing more than giving her some general cau-
tions, which she, in her inexperience, did not
know how to apply ; and he was himself too
much rejoiced at her rational manner of spend-
ing her time, and at perceiving that her inter-
est in life was evidently returning, to be very
anxious to throw a damp upon her pursuits,
especially as every letter of hers breathed undi-
minished affection and confidence in him. For
the propriety and eligibility of her acquaint-
ances he trusted alike to her own purity of mind,
and to Lord Luscombe’s position in society.
In fact, the latter did, once or twice, remark
72 VANDELEUR.
to his lady the constant attendance of the
Count De FEspoir upon their young protegee,
and she laughingly repeated it to Gertrude: but
the unfeigned amazement, the heartfelt con-
tempt with which the latter treated the very
idea of his rivalling Vandeleur in her affections,
together with her open and undisguised avowal
of the only link or point of attraction that ex-
isted between De FEspoir and her, perfectly
convinced her friend that she was as indifferent
to the count as Vandeleur himself could desire.
“ Still ,'
1
Gertrude said, “ still, Augusta, al-
though nothing could he more impossible than
that my feelings could be, in the very remotest
degree, influenced by his civilities, if there is
anything the least remarkable in them, I would
not receive them an hour longer.
11
But Lady Luscombe assured her that on that
head she need not have an apprehension, as,
even were she to change her mind, the world
had no right to censure ; but, upon any other
supposition, it would be childish and unmeaning
VANDELEUR. 73
to deprive licrself of the pleasure and improve-
ment she professed to derive from his society
;
and Lady Luscombe, for her own part, was de-
lighted that Gertrude had found a companion
who seemed to render her visit so agreeable
to her.
Probably, had De FEspoir been a more loving,
or more loveable being, women would not have
felt this perfect safety in his company, both for
themselves and others.
Lady Luscombe and Gertrude continued to
be sincerely attached friends ; but they moved
now in different worlds —one in that of reality,
the other in that of imagination —and they lat-
terly had scarcely an idea in common. It was
with little difficulty, therefore, that De FEspoir
prevailed upon Gertrude to promise not to sub-
ject either his name, or even this his favourite
theory, to the gay badinage of her lively friend.
She had, in fact, herself felt no inducement to
confide the secret to her ; hut when, encouraged
by her ready acquiescence in this request, he
VOL. II, E
74 VANDELEUR.
proceeded to extend the prohibition to those
nearest and dearest to her, not all the maxims of
worldly prudence, and suspicions of the perfidy of
man, that ever were preached into the ears of
youthful woman, could have brought a more vivid
blush to the cheek, or a more revolting sensation
to the heart, than did woman’s innate feelings
of propriety and love’s ingenuous suggestions to
the cheek and heart of Gertrude.
“ It was impossible,” she said, “ absolutely
impossible, to keep so important a step a secret
from her father and she blushed to explain
the injury she felt she should be doing to Van-
deleur’s confiding affection, in thus linking her-
self in such close intimacy with another man, to
his exclusion.
De l’Espoir felt his airy castles tottering a
second time ; but, too good a tactician to com-
bat her feelings in their first force, he content-
ed himself with bowing in seeming acquiescence,
and expressed his regret that all was indeed
then at an end. In his own mind, however, he
VANDELEUR. (0
rejoiced to find that her scruples lay in her own
natural and affectionate feelings, rather than in
the cold, acquired cautions of the world’s wis-
dom, and prescribed rules of propriety ; for he
judged that it would he much more easy to
overcome the former, in one so artless and so
disinterested, and for so hallowed a purpose.
He judged hut too truly.
“ Why at an end ?” she asked.
“ In the first place, mademoiselle, suffer me
to ask, have you any reason to hope that you
could prevail on your father to allow what he
considers quackery and nonsense, if not some-
thing worse, to be practised on his son in the
state in which you describe him to he ?”
“ I must hope he could be prevailed on to
hear the arguments in its favour ;
—at least,” she
said hesitating, as the doubt of what she ven-
tured to hope, came strongly over her, — “ at
least, I am sure Major Vandeleur would.”
The reader will be at no loss to guess that
the Count De l’Espoir did not relish his being
e 2
76 VANDELEUR.
brought into the conclave : indeed, he thought
it not a little strange that they two should come
again in collision, as it were, by Gertrude as a
connecting link ; and perhaps in his light—dark,
sarcastic mind, the pleasure of revenge, though
not strong enough to have instigated him of
itself to any serious undertaking, gave not a
little zest to his present plan. Be this as it
may, he now asked Gertrude if she had kept
her promise of never mentioning his name.
“ As connected with animal magnetism ?"
she said. “ No, never; nor, indeed, I think, to
Major Vandeleur at all.'”
“ Well, allow me to enforce on your recol-
lection your promise not to do so ; and, indeed,
since you have become so much interested on
the subject, do not, pray, mention my name on
s
any subject in your letters to him, lest he might
connect the circumstance with it : and on this
point I confess myself particularly sensitive of
ridicule, —indeed, to an extent that might pre-
VANDELEUR. 77
vent my attempting any further services to my
fellow-creatures.”
“ But is that right ?”
u Perhaps not ; et puis ?”
“ Oh, certainly—I perfectly understand you.
I have no right to stop as much good as you
are disposed to do, because you choose not to
do all. Then I am to understand that you
would not come over openly, even if my father
could be prevailed upon to give his consent ?”
“ My dear Miss Evelyn, when I first made
you the offer, I confess that the idea of exposing
myself to public ridicule did not occur to me
;
and of course, then, that was not taken into con-
templation : yet I do not hesitate to say, that
were there no other possible means to effect this
most interesting cure, I should sacrifice every-
thing to try it.”
“ But if you are so sure of succeeding, what
ridicule could attach to it ?”
“ I am not sure of succeeding : I am only
78 VANDELEUR.
sure of this, that as far as either my judgment
or experience can go, it seems a case particu-
larly calculated for the influence of the will,
and the diffusion of the magnetic fluid to be
exerted with the most beneficial results. I
should therefore feel it sinful not to try it at
any sacrifice of mere conventional rules.
1 '
“ Yes ; but it is the conventional rules I
wish you not to break through.”
“ True,” said De FEspoir, affecting to correct
himself for this mistake, which he had purposely
committed to show Gertrude her own case ;
“ True; I should have said, of any worldly or
selfish feelings ; but the simple fact is, that this
very publicity would in all probability defeat
the object altogether ; and that is really my
standing objection.”
He then proceeded to inform her, that the
most perfect unity of mind, and faith, and will,
are necessary in those deeply interested in a
case of magnetising : that too great anxiety,
the slightest doubt, or even any wandering
VANDELEUR. 79
thoughts of any single person present during
the time of operation, may be most injurious to
the patient ;
and, in short, that his conscience
would not permit him to make the trial where
people were concerned so likely to disturb its
course as her friends, whose minds could not
possibly be brought into the necessary state.
“ No, mademoiselle,” he added, playfully
taking her hand ;
u if you will yourself sacri-
fice nothing, the sacrifice of my feelings alone
will not do, else believe me it should be made."
“ Oh ! God knows how readily I should sa-
crifice my life could it restore my dearest Her-
bert to what he was !” she exclaimed. “ But
there is something in this undertaking so awful
—so mysterious: and besides,” she said, with
the most natural and most salutary feeling that
a woman can encourage—“ and besides, I do
not think that anything can be right in itself,
that calls for concealment from our nearest and
dearest friends, those most interested in our
welfare.”
80 VANDELEUR.
“ That is, supposing the world to be in a state
of perfection,'” observed the count.
“ No: how ?”
“ Because, if not, there must ever be erro-
neous judgments and opinions upon every sub-
ject ; and the only way the wise and good can
correct them, is by acting by the rest who are
not so, as parents do by children ; that is, by
concealing the salutary medicine, that they may
be forced to profit by it.
-
”
“ But I—I, so young a girl, surely am not
the one who should take upon myself to set
established rules at defiance upon my own su-
perior judgment ?”
I)e l’Espoir smiled meaningly, and looked
down with a look that would have become a
blush, had one been at his beck. After a mo-
ment’s pause, he said, “ No, perhaps not ; but
pardon me if I say, that you would not be act-
ing altogether on your own judgment.”
“ Oh ! I perceive,” exclaimed Gertrude, her
playful spirit irresistibly caught by the modestly
VANDELEUR. 81
ridiculous dilemma into which the count had
betrayed himself,—“ I perceive, you,
Monsieur
le Comte, are the wise and good ; viy friends
and family are the silly children ; and / am (or
ought to he) your most obedient humble
servant.'”
“ At least, you are ever charming,” he ex-
claimed hastily ;
“ and if you cannot convince
my judgment against my life’s experience, you
can at least win or command my silence. So
let us drop the subject for ever, after one little
word more in self-defence. I do not set myself
up in opposition to your family ; I have not
the happiness of knowing them : I only pro-
posed a temporary concealment from them of a
medicine, I may call it, which you own they are
prejudiced against, until the accomplishment of
an object dear alike to them and you ; at which
time you were not only at liberty to reveal the
whole, but poor /, should even look forward
to your doing so, as the only means of my
being permitted to continue an acquaintance
e 5
82 VANDELEUR.
become so valuable to me. You are as well
aware as I am, that their prejudices, were
there no other objections to the premature
disclosure, would totally defeat our plans.
11
“ It is too true,
11
said poor Gertrude, in a
cruel state of perplexity. “ And beloved Her-
bert ! But am I quite sure that their objections
to, or contempt of, this theory are not well
founded ? May it not be I who am mis-
taken ?”
“ It is not for me, who profess the theory, to
decide that question,
11
answered De FEspoir,
with a quiet dignity which spoke much at least
for his own belief in it ;
“ and if you think that
they have impartially studied the subject, and
are, on conviction, satisfied of its absurdity, per-
haps you would be wrong in preferring your
own judgment, or mine, before theirs. But if, on
the contrary, you believe that they have merely
heard of it, if at all, as one of the wild visions
of a detested, because long a rival nation, and
have never seen a trial, or listened to an argu-
VANDELEUR. S3
merit in its favour, will you inform me what
science might not be rejected on the same
grounds ? Remember that Galileo was per-
secuted and imprisoned by the most enlightened
nation then in existence, for broaching the doc-
trine of the sun not moving round the earth.”
Gertrude sighed deeply ; she felt unable to
refute the casuistry of the count, and her whole
soul was bent upon making the experiment
on her brother : while the selfish point of view
in which De FEspoir artfully placed her scru-
ples, was not without its effect on her generous
nature.
After a minute’s silence, which De FEspoir
was careful not to interrupt, she said, “ But
could I not go through the rules myself ? they
appear to be extremely simple.”
“ For your soul’s sake, attempt it not !” he
exclaimed with either real or well-feigned soli-
citude. “ The very anxiety that would rest
upon your mind, after what I have said, would
defeat your object. You say your brother is
84 VANDELEUR.
much debilitated : better let him linger on even
in that pitiable state, than bring on a paroxysm
from which the slightest terror, or indecision,
would incapacitate you from restoring him, and
perhaps either loss of life, or the final overthrow
of his reason, be the consequence .
11
“ Oh, better indeed l
11
exclaimed Gertrude,
turning very pale ;
“ and if such consequence
could ensue, the undertaking in any way ap-
pears to me a desperate, almost an impious
one.
11
“ It need not, under skilful directions, and,
above all, with steady collected nerves. The
surgeon might as well shrink from the saving
operation, as you from relieving your suffering
brother : much more so indeed ; for the one, in
any event, subjects the patient to excruciating
pain,—the other is either imperceptible, or de-
lightful in its effects.
11
“ Ah ! but,
11
observed Gertrude, “ the sur-
geon has the experience of mankind, and, still
more, the evidence of his senses and reason to
VANDELEUR. 85
guide him ; whilst the professors of animal mag-
netism have nothing hut the assertion of unac-
countable effects, founded upon the authority of
a few, and, in general, obscure individuals, in
opposition to the reason of the many, and the
enlightened, and which even they themselves
who most believe in it, do not pretend to account
for.”
“ When they can account for the thoughts,
which they maintain to be immaterial, produ-
cing visible and palpable effects upon substantial
matter—when they can account for a movement,
or a look of their own, producing an effect upon
another person, which may perhaps occasion a
change in that person’s destiny, not only through
time but through eternity—then will I undertake
to explain to them how far the whole concentra-
ted power of the mind, with contact of the per-
son, (for I go not the lengths some do, in saying
the idle can operate at a distance), brought to
bear upon one object,—as the health of a friend,
—may operate to that person’s benefit or preju-
86 VANDELEUR.
dice. I know they tell us, that, the will being no
body,
and denying, as they do, the existence
of any such fluid as that we call animal mag-
netic Jluid, or at least our power of dispensing
it, it is impossible the will, or mind of one
person, can affect the body of another. Why
then is not the question, as to whether or
not light is a body, at once set at rest for
ever? —for, surely, no one will deny the effect
which light produces on the body of the
eye — on the materials of vegetables ? But,
what may appear more simple still, or what
may at least seem to bear more completely on
the subject, is infection. What is infection ?
Is it a body? —is it a fluid? —and how is it
communicated from one person to another ?
When they can prove these phenomena to be
better understood than what we profess by ani-
mal magnetism, then will I no longer be its
votary. In fact, were I to attempt a solution
of my own concerning it, —or rather, were I to
attempt to account for its being so much more
VANDELEUR. 87
uncommon in its effects than infection, I should
say it was because human nature is so much more
willing to part with (I will not say to impart
)
disease than with health ; and though there may
be many instances in which health would ’wil-
lingly be divided, to save or serve a beloved
object, yet our nature, our corporeal nature,
ever at war with our spiritual, is averse to the
effort, and acts, like most of our vital functions,
almost unconsciously to us, preventing our very
knowledge of the power that is within us. Were
it not for this wise tenacity of nature in pre-
serving what is essential to its own well-being,
I have not a doubt but that good health would
be as infectious as disease. But few are capa-
ble of the will to dispense it, or, in other words,
to become magnetisers.”
“ Then the exertion of magnetising is inju-
rious to those who practise it?” observed Ger-
trude.
“ In most cases it is slightly so ; at least, if
pursued too long or too frequently : but Nature
88 VANDELEUR.
lias supplied means for repairing the injury.
You already know my theory, of a certain por-
tion of everything being in the world always,
unchangeably, without increase or diminution
;
and that it is according as they are well or ill
apportioned out, we have good or evil, health
or sickness. When, therefore, a person in health
of mind and body has, in order to minister to
the sufferings of another, given out a portion of
his own existence, ‘ there are a thousand in-
animate objects at hand to return it to him
—
a walk in the sunshine, the exhalation of flow-
ers or trees,’ * and various other remedies as
simple. At the same time, caution and mode-
ration must be observed in this as in the use of
every other gift.”
He need not have been so anxious to satis-
fy his present auditor that the effects on the
magnetiser were not serious or permanent.
The information, that the operation called
perhaps for some slight sacrifice of her own
* See the various works on Animal Magnetism,
VANDELE UR. 89
health, was so far from cooling poor Gertrude’s
desire of exercising it for her brother’s relief,
that it seemed rather to give double weight to
the count’s arguments, by investing her, as it
were, with an individual right in the matter,
by dispensing her own health for him : and be-
sides, she was yet young, and ardent enough to
think that the more difficult any task, the more
pleasure she should have in performing it. She
became more anxious than ever to make the
experiment ;
yet, with the oppressive feeling that
the first mystery or concealment must ever
bring to an ingenuous mind, she left the count
with a heavy sigh, and a promise to give the
matter her best consideration.
Alas ! she was but little aware how inca-
pable she was of giving it the consideration it
required, or placing it in those various lights
which the many eyes of the world would reflect
upon it. In the privacy of her own apartment,
indeed, where she was accustomed to be, as it
were, surrounded in imagination by her family
90 VANDELEUR.
and her lover, their opinions, their feelings,
and their very prejudices resumed their sway.
But when again she thought of Herbert lan-
guishing out, perhaps a long life in hopeless
idiocy, or at least in listless non-enjoyment
;
and that all which she could bring forward to
console herself for so dreadful a doom to one so
dear, was the reflection that she had run no
risk of injuring her own character in the eyes
of the world ;
she turned with absolute loathing
from so cold, so selfish a consideration, and
would, perhaps, have cast it to the winds for
ever, had not the image of Vandeleur given it
a weight it possessed not before. His sor-
row, his disappointment, his anguish, at learn-
ing that she was capable of such imprudence,
and such want of confidence in him, was not to
be endured ; and then, young as she was, she
was fully aware how differently the matter
would be viewed by the most candid, according
to its failure or success. Should it succeed,
she could at least appeal to their own senses for
VANDELEUR. 91
the strength of the arguments that had prevailed
with her, and displeasure at the risk she had
run would be lost in the joy which it produced.
But should it fail, and leave them only as they
were before, she must for ever either bear the
heavy burden of a secret from her husband, or
submit to his thinking she had suffered herself
to be unpardonably duped into a very improper
step.
As her native good sense, when left to its
own pure light, presented the matter to her
in this point of view, she came to the determi-
nation of writing to Vandeleur upon the sub-
ject of animal magnetism ; repeating some of
the strongest arguments in its favour ;
quoting
some of the certificates she had seen ; and
without betraying De TEspoir, which she felt
bound in every way not to do, or her own
project, lest by a premature and positive
prohibition he should deprive her of the very
power of prosecuting it, draw out his opinion
of the arguments, and so be enabled, at least,
92 VANDELEUR.
to form some idea as to wliat probability there
was of bis ever being brought to tolerate, or
1
even to forgive, the experiment.
As soon as this letter was despatched, Gertrude
felt her mind a little more at ease than it had
been for some days past ;
and, indeed, would pro-
bably have been more so than it had been for
months, now that her sanguine nature made
her hope that she had put this most important
matter into the surest and safest train, had not
a most unexpected monitress sprung up to an-
noy her, in the person of Mrs. Sally White-
cross, now become entirely her own attendant.
This young woman, whose debt of gratitude to
Vandeleur, the longer she lived she became the
more sensible of, now took it into her head to
evince it by watching over Gertrude in his ab-
sence, as a nurse might be supposed to watch
over a lovely infant committed to her charge.
It was not long before she heard Lord Lus-
combe’s foreign servants laughing, and comment-
ing upon the constant attendance of the Count
VANDELEUR. 93
De l’Espoir upon her young lady. The name,
of course, conveyed no idea to Sally of her ci-
devant admirer ; but still she thought it very
hard that her idol, Major Vandeleur, should
run the risk of losing his lady-love, for any
Frenchman of them all : for neither the feel-
ings of an English soldier’s wife during the
Peninsular war, nor anything she had therein
seen of that nation, had tended to correct in
Sally’s mind the illiberal prejudice to which so
many better informed persons have yielded
—
that of judging a nation by an individual, or
by accidental circumstances. She only waited
to hear that the attentions were continued;
when she determined, at whatever risk to her-
self, to try the effect of a little timely remon-
strance.
Accordingly, one evening, as she finished Ger-
trude’s toilette, and handed her gloves and fan,
she fetched forth a sharp sigh, and said, “ Well,
I know what I wish.”
“ What do you wish, Whitecross ?” said
94 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude carelessly, as she stooped once more
to the glass to arrange a stray ringlet,
“ I wish Major Vandeleur were here to dance
with you to-niglit.”
“ Why? do I look so particularly well ?” asked
Gertrude, with a slight smile, and a slighter sigh.
“ Oh !
you do, ma’am, to be sure,” answered
the lady’s maid; “ you always do that; but it
was not just that I meant.”
“ What then ?” said Gertrude, as she fixed
her bouquet more firmly together.
“ Oh ! maybe I have my reasons.”
Gertrude looked round in astonishment
:
“ What in the world do you mean ?”
“ Why, then, ma’am, if I must speak,”—and
she affected to settle a pin in the back of Ger-
trude’s dress, in order to conceal a slight trepi-
dation at the liberty which she felt she was
taking ; —“ then, Miss Evelyn, if I must speak,
it is just this—that I don’t like to hear so much
of that count’s dancing such constant attendance
on you.”
VANDELEUR. 95
“ Oh ! is that all, Sally ? Are you afraid for
your favourite P Well, I assure you there is not
the least danger; so you may make your mind
perfectly easy ;
besides, I have not danced since
I came here.” And she ran down stairs, not
herself too well satisfied that these remarks
should have been made.
But Sally could not make her mind perfectly
easy. She flattered herself she knew too much
of the world for that, and especially of French-
men. She recollected how irresistible one of
them had once appeared to her ; and had she
not good reason then to conclude they must be
so to all women ? Indeed, amidst all the con-
tempt, horror, and detestation which in those
days it was almost a duty to express and feel
towards them, not the least cause was their
ascendency over the fair sex ; and we should
scarcely like to affirm, that to this may not be
attributed the derogatory opinion that English-
men so long entertained of a lady’s taste. Be
96 VANDELEUll.
that as it may, Mrs. Sally Whitecross, it appears,
had no great dependance on that of Gertrude
;
and accordingly, to relieve her mind, she sat
down and wrote a letter upon the subject to Ma-
jor Vandeleur, taking care to direct it as she had
seen Gertrude direct hers, not even forgetting
the final e in Irelande,
and carried it to the post-
office herself.
Nor in acting thus did Sally prove herself to
be more meddling than the generality of her sex.
In fact, she was not so, though what is called
an active and bustling young woman ; and in
all probability, had it not been for the precise
nature of the service which Vandeleur had
rendered her, such an idea never would have
occurred to her. But, as it was, she felt that
she had an opportunity of repaying him in
kind, and of course eagerly seized upon it ;
—
not, however, in the form of a complaint of
Gertrude ; for, not only was she already too
much won upon, by her engaging gentleness and
sweetness for that, but she was pleased to make
VANDELEUR. 97
the cases more exactly similar, by represent-
ing Gertrude as artless and unsuspecting, and
% cautioning him against the allurements of the
Frenchman. She little knew how much more
similar still she might have represented them ;
but she was destined soon to be enlightened.
“ Miss Evelyn,
11
said the count, a day or two
after Mrs. Whitecross had despatched her let-
ter, as Gertrude and he strolled on a little be-
fore the rest of their party, u I have at this
moment an opportunity of showing you such a
specimen of the power of animal magnetism,
as I think could not fail to convince any one,
except those who are pronounced to have ‘
eyes
and see not,
1
4
ears and hear not.
1
I have a
person thrown into the state of somnambulism by
my own power as a magnetiser ; and if you will
bring any sick person to him, he will, by the
force of sympathy and forgetfulness of self, —that
is, by having the selfish energies so relaxed, by
the magnetic fluid, as to lose their own tenacity
and unite with others,—he will in this state
VOL. II. F
98 VANDELEUR.
not only inform your patient what her or his
ailment may be, but will prescribe the proper
remedies to cure it.’”
“ That indeed would be a curious sight,'”
exclaimed Gertrude, “ and I should like ex-
tremely to see it. I may choose some sick per-
son of whom you have never even heard ?”
“ Nay, it must be so ; else where would be
the proof? and I am anxious that nothing should
be taken upon trust from me.
11
It may be supposed that Gertrude readily
grasped at this offered testimony, not so much
for her own further satisfaction, as to have it to
bring forward to convince her friends. How-
ever, when she came to consider of it at leisure,
she soon perceived the utter impracticability of
her contriving, in Paris, to have an invalid con-
veyed from one place to another, to undergo so
curious an examination, without drawing down
such publicity, and conjecture, as she should
shrink from herself, even setting aside all con-
sideration for the count.
VANDELEUR. 99
In tliis dilemma, she could only think of
having recourse to her maid, and deputing her
at once to procure the invalid, and be witness
to the scene. It was to take place in the house
where the somnambule (himself a convalescent
patient) resided; he was of course a poor
man, living in a poor and remote street ;
but
Sally, from having travelled over a good deal of
Europe as a soldier’s wife, and as maid to those
of the officers, was more suited to the office than
many Englishwomen would have been.
To this plan she was obliged to procure the
count’s concurrence ; but as she represented the
young woman as one entirely in her interests, and
on whom she could implicitly rely, he made but
few objections ; the more so as he foresaw him-
self, though he did not admit it as yet to her, that
some one confidant would be absolutely neces-
sary in England to the carrying on his scheme,
and he did not regret having an opportunity of
paying his court to her beforehand.
With Sally herself the task was still less diffi-
f 2
100 VANDELEUR.
cult ; for she had such a reliance upon her own
knowledge of human nature, and especially of
mankind, founded on her early escape and sub-
sequent campaigns, as served to convince her-
self, at least, that she should see through the
count’s intentions at a glance. Besides, she
was really kind-hearted ; and when Gertrude
confided to her, with that air of truth which is,
after all, scarcely ever mistaken, though others
may be mistaken for it, that the only thought
of her soul was to learn from him how to per-
form a cure upon her brother, the woman her-
self became interested in the case, and now felt
a severe twinge at heart, when she recollected
the letter she had written to Vandeleur ; this,
however, she quieted with the reflection of how
speedily another might overtake it : and, c<
after
all, she had, she blessed her stars, said nothing
against her young lady whom, however, she
now felt double zeal to serve, from some little
lurking dissatisfaction with herself.
VANDELEUR. 101
CHAPTER XII.
Ye shall have miracles—ay, sound ones too,
Seen, heard, attested, everything—but true.
The Veiled Prophet of Khorassan.
In order still more fully to prevent all suspi-
cion and conjecture, it was settled that Mrs.
Whitecross was to proceed at once to the house
of the somnambulc,
where the sick person, whom
she found no difficulty in bribing with a few
francs, was to meet her at the hour appointed.
De l
1
Espoir promised to he there beforehand;
and had he even known that the appointment
Avas with his former love, and had his feelings
continued in their first force towards her, he
could not have awaited the interview with more
punctuality, and anxiety for the final result.
102 VANDELEUR.
The moment Mrs. Wliitecross sent up Ger-
trude’s note, mentioning that the bearer was the
person to be trusted, De l’Espoir desired that
she should be shown into an apartment, where
he purposely waited, in order to find out, in a
few minutes’ tete-a-tete conversation, what sort
of person he had to deal with. And perhaps
never before did two persons meet, so anxiously
determined critically to examine into the cha-
racter of the other, without a suspicion of how
intimately they were once acquainted !
The moment Sally was shown in, and the
door closed upon her, the count spoke: “You
are Miss Evelyn’s maid ?” he said.
He had scarcely uttered the words when
something in the voice, the foreign accent, and
yet the good pronunciation of English, struck
upon her ear ; and hastily flinging back her thick,
black, English lace veil, she saw standing before
her, in all the pride of masculine beauty, the first
man who had ever whispered love into her ear or
instilled it into her heart. For a moment she
VANDELEUR. 103
stood overcome with the natural feeling of sur-
prise, and flashing recollections ; but instantly-
recovering herself, she began to consider the
proper, and the becoming, and uttered two or
three shrieks so fast after each other, that the
count had not time to stop her,—if indeed his
amazement would have permitted him to make
the attempt. For, to what a pitch it was excited,
may be imagined, when the reader is informed
that Mrs. Whitecross had all the advantage of
the recognition on her side. Time had not in-
deed dealt particularly severely with Mrs. White-
cross ; but still, the mother of six children, and
one who had been exposed to much vicissitudes
of burning suns, and piercing winters, was not
without some memorials of his flight; and the
plump, and fashionably-dressed Parisian abigail,
bore, at first view, but little resemblance to the
fair, delicate, and sylph-like little English pea-
sant girl of fifteen years of age.
In fact, poor old Time is condemned to bear
the blame of many a theft not his; but the
104 VANDELEUR.
day is not far distant, when circumstance will he
made to take its share, from which it has been
so long exempt.
Some will think, that as soon as Mrs. White-
cross perceived, by the unfeigned amazement of
the count, and his respectful and distant inqui-
ries as to the cause of her alarm, that he really
had not the very slightest idea of what it could
he, her wisest plan would have been to have
drawn down her Manchester veil again, pre-
served the incognita, and done all that her
mistress required of her, and no more. But
Sally knew too much of human nature to think
that would be natural in her situation ;
(a know-
ledge, by the bye, that isoften “ more honoured in
the breach than in the observance'’
,
—a knowledge
only desirable when teaching us what to shun,
seldom what to excuse,) and a feeling at that
moment sprang up in her breast which I am
at a loss how to designate : for, vanity one
would think it could scarcely be, that made her
at once angry at finding how much she was
VANDELEUR. 105
altered, and yet anxious to prove to him that
it actually was the beautiful Sally who was so
altered. I think Locke ought to have taken
this female feeling into consideration when dis-
cussing personal identity.
On De FEspoir’s approaching her once more,
and begging to be informed what had alarmed
her, she raised her eyes to him with a re-
proachful glance, and continued them in that
position for some time. The eyes were certain-
ly very bright and beautiful eyes, but there was
nothing in the expression that he could either
account for or recall.
“ So you don’t recollect me ?” she said at
last.
“ Recollect you ?” he stammered forth, shock-
ed that he could be subjected to the accusation
from so fine a woman as Sally certainly still
was ; and, strange to say, something in her
voice, though of course altered also, struck upon
his ear.
“ Yes, recollect me. But I suppose the Count
f 5
106 VANDELEUR.
De F Espoir and Monsieur De Brons are people
as different as, it would seem, Sally Henshawe
and Mrs. Whitecross are ?”
“ Bon Dieu ! Sally Henshawe ?” exclaimed
the count in unfeigned amazement, springing to-
wards her. But Sally, who was not only an
indignant, hut really a virtuous woman, accord-
ing to her own views of human nature, and
sincerely attached to her worthy husband, drew
back with becoming dignity. And, perhaps,
if the truth was known, the desire of showing
the count how virtuous she could now be, might
have partly led her to discover herself.
The count who, after all, knew human nature
fully as well, if not a million times better, than
she did, instantly recovered himself. “ Is it
possible?” he exclaimed: a You are indeed
altered ! Never could I have supposed that
the sweet, pretty, but childish little rustic, could
have grown into the lovely woman now before
me.” And he bowed as he might have done to
her mistress.
VANDELEUR. 107
Sally’s indignation subsided ; she even felt
joy in hearing that her beauty was only altered
to be improved, and wondered at her own stu-
pidity in doubting it. But it was an honest
joy, and only flashed across her for a moment,
as she thought upon her fond husband. To the
count, she bowed to his bow, and said, that
“ she was handsome enough in the eyes of them
she wanted to be handsome for.”
“ Then your husband still lives, Mrs.
ah—ah ?”
“ He does, thank God ! and I hope you
have forgotten his name too ?”
“ His name,—oh, dear no !
—hem! But, some-
how, I like better to call you Sally.”
“ But I like better to be called Mrs. White-
cross; so you will keep your distance if you
please, and now inform me what you are dan-
gling after my young lady for ? Do you want
Mr. Vandeleur to come across you again ?”
“ By Heaven, if he does !” exclaimed De
FEspoir, his dark eyes emitting sparks of fury
108 VANDELEUR.
as the sight of Sally brought his early rival or
antagonist before him ; but he forbore to utter
his threats.
“ Why, then, I can tell you, he shall and
will,” said Sally, “ if you don’t give over your
attempts : there are them who will warn him,
for one good turn deserves another.”
“ What attempts, Sally ? Is it possible that
silly child has not told you the object of my at-
tentions ?”
“ Who is the silly child ?”
“ Why, Miss Evelyn. I vow to you, Mrs.
Whitecross, in the most solemn manner, and by
everything sacred, that I never uttered a word
to the girl in the way of love or even flirtation :
in fact, she is a child compared to me. No !
though I would say nothing to offend you now,
in mere self-defence, and to disabuse you of
a dangerous error, I may confess that my first
love was my last.”
Sally thought it proper not to seem to under-
stand this.
VANDELEUR. 109
“ Why, certainly, she is little more than a
child,” she said ;
“ and therefore it is that I
would take care of her.”
“ You are right, quite right, Sally ; and I
refer you to herself for the truth of what I have
said. No ;
I have done with love : my busi-
ness now is to endeavour to instruct Miss Eve-
lyn in an art that I think might restore her un-
fortunate brother to his senses.”
At this moment a person entered to say that
the invalid was arrived. “ Well, let them wait,”
said De FEspoir, with a careless impatience that
did not speak much for his reverence for his
art, or at least for his instruments ; but in-
stantly recollecting that there must be no ap-
pearance of collusion between the somnambule
and the sick person selected for the experiment,
he desired the latter to be shown into the
apartment occupied by himself and Sally, and
motioned to him to take a seat ; rightly
judging that the poor invalid, who was a crip-
ple with only one leg, would take but little
no VANDELEUR.
interest in the English dialogue carrying on at
the farther end of a large and gloomy apart-
ment. Accordingly, as soon as the door was
closed again, he continued :
“ Sally, tell me if
you believe me free from all love, or selfish
views, towards Miss Evelyn or any other wo-
man ?”
u Towards Miss Evelyn, I do, sir, from what
she has told me herself ; but for other women,
I neither know nor care.”
“ I do not hope you do, Sally ; and yet, if I
told you that I had been planning a visit to
England since I came to my fortune and title,
for the purpose of inquiring if your husband still
lived, or if there was any chance for me, per-
haps you would think with more kindness on
one you once certainly loved, Sally.”
“ Ay, and one who would have taken a
pretty advantage of that love.”
“ For that, Sally, you have seen too much of
the world, not to know that at that time young
men of my country had every disadvantage of
VANDELEUR. Ill
education, and everything else, to struggle
against, and that there was a wildness of prin-
ciple over the world—over the Continent at least
—just then, that led astray older heads than
yours or mine. And who can say, after all,
Sally, that we might not have been happier
than we are ?”
“ Are you beginning again exclaimed
Sally. “ Speak for yourself ;
I am happy
enough.'”
“ Heaven keep you so, Sally ! But don’t
stand in the way of all that remains for me, that
of doing good to my fellow-creatures. Do not
prejudice Miss Evelyn against me by mention-
ing our early folly,—if such must now be called
what we once both called by another name,
Sally, in our evening strolls by the hawthorn-
lane. But never mind ; let me serve this poor
youth if I can, and then forget me.”
Sally wiped her eyes, and promised not to be
the means of stopping him from anything that
was right.
112 VANDELEUR.
u Then come up now, and see how much I
can do.”
They went up stairs accordingly to a room
in which stood a bed with the curtains drawn,
and in it De l’Espoir informed Sally that his
somnambule lay, in that mysterious sleep into
which he had thrown him, by the force of the
magnetic fluid which he had imparted to him.
“ You may go over and look at him,” said he.
u Is there no fear of wakening him ?”
“Not the least; he cannot wake while I
will him to sleep.”
She approached the bed, and saw a man
apparently in deep slumber.
The invalid was then brought in. It was
clear that he and De FEspoir had never met
before ; and equally clear that there had no in-
telligence passed between the latter, and the
sleeper since the arrival of the sick man. On
his entrance now into the chamber, De FEspoir
led him over to the bed ; and before he utter-
ed a word, the sleeper was heard to turn and
moan as if he felt some uneasiness.
VANDELEUR. 113
“ He is now experiencing’ the influence of the
sick man’s presence,
11
whispered the count to
Mrs. Whitecross.
She became terrified, and fancied that she
herself felt something queer.
“ Sit down, but don’t be alarmed at whatever
you may see,” said the count ;
and gently
extricating one of the sleeper’s hands from the
bed-coverings, he brought it in contact with
that of the invalid. The sleeper took the hand
and held it for a few minutes. De l’Espoir
spoke. He informed the sleeper that the per-
son whose hand he held desired some informa-
tion respecting his state of health. There was
no answer for a moment ; but then the sleeper,
without moving, or having once opened his eyes,
or even pushed back the curtains, pronounced
these words, in a decided tone of conviction :
“ The man whose hand I hold is sick : he has
been treated for a disease of the stomach, and
stimulating medicines given him, which have
augmented the disease, the seat of which is in
114 VANDELEUR.
the liver, and not in the stomach ; let him go
home, avoid the hot and intoxicating liquors he
has hitherto indulged in to keep down the un-
easy sensations that succeeded to the amputa-
tion of his leg—let him have recourse to medi-
cines of an opposite tendency, and he will re-
cover.”
De FEspoir, who had hitherto kept his eyes
fixed on the sleeper, was now startled from his
contemplation by a piercing shriek from Mrs.
Whitecross, whose superstitious terrors at this
extraordinary manifestation of clairvoyance to-
tally overcame her, and, before De FEspoir had
time to re-assure her, she actually fainted.*
De FEspoir caused her to be immediately car-
ried out of the room, and directed the proper
restoratives to be applied. When these had
succeeded, and she opened her eyes, she found
* Without pledging ourselves for the accuracy of the
particulars of this case, we need only refer our readers to
the reports of the commissioners who examined into the
subject of animal magnetism in Paris in 1826, for the
authenticity of facts as curious.
VANDELEUR. 115
lierself in the same apartment into which she
had first been shown, with nobody hut the count
there besides.
“Well, Sally,
11
said he smiling, “what do
you think of my powers now ?” She confess-
ed herself overwhelmed. “ Well, you will give
a good account of me to your young lady ? eh ?
—and you will say nothing to stand between
me and her further instruction for her brother’s
recovery. And, Sally, let me hope I may see you
again ?”
Sally made some dignified reply about having
no objection to see him as a friend ; and, upon
the whole, not ill pleased with her morning’s ad-
venture,—proud of all she had to tell, and of all
she must not tell, though redounding so highly
to her own honour,—she could not resist calling
on her way home at the house whence she had
procured the invalid. Here, as they were
already necessarily in so much of the secret,
she could not conceive it any harm to let them
know that it was no low vulgar magnetiser they
VANDELEUR.
m
had to deal with, but no less a person than
the Count de l’Espoir.
The woman of the house, mother to the poor
cripple, changed colour at the name, and hesi-
tated not to load him with a parent’s curses.
He had not long before robbed her of her only
daughter, and that when her son was fighting
the battles of his country, in one of which he
had lost that leg, to which the somnambule
alluded.
Sally, as may be supposed, both felt and ex-
pressed a proper degree of horror at this intelli-
gence ; upon which the woman, a decent and
respectable person in her sphere, proceeded to
unfold to Sally such a character of him, sup-
ported by facts and witnesses to which she re-
ferred her, as caused Sally to think she had in-
deed had, a second time, a merciful escape that
he did not carry her off wholesale to the infernal
regions.
The truth of the magnetic power, however,
she could not deny ; and, indeed, nothing in the
VANDELEUR. 117
poor woman’s account tended to invalidate it ;
on the contrary, everything’ corroborated his
head to he as good, as his heart was bad.
Sally came therefore to the determination that
she would tell the truth to Miss Evelyn on
that point ; but would take care to warn her
against his general character, and even to re-
peat these words of the poor woman’s, “ If there
be a young lady in the case,” (as, in spite of all
cautions, Sally had dropped some hints,) “ tell
her to take a mother’s word for it, that she has
no chance of safety but in avoidance.”
Unfortunately they were the words, of all
others, the least calculated to touch the pre-
occupied heart of the guileless and pure-minded
Gertrude. Had she spoken of prudence, pro-
priety, conventional rules, or the duty of con-
fidence in her family, it might, and probably
would, from any one, have had due effect ; but
the idea of danger, which to her only appeared
in the one form of entangling her affections, she
treated with the contempt it deserved.
118 VANDELEUR.
However, tlie scene which awaited Sally
on her return, was one which did not leave
her either time or inclination to enforce her
lessons, even with the eloquence she might
otherwise have employed. And, above all
things, whatever flickerings might have crossed
her mind about confiding to Gertrude her own
knowledge of the count, now completely vanish-
ed ; as she determined that such unpleasant
confidence was no longer necessary.
On her return to Lord Luscombe’s hotel,
she found it in a complete uproar : men
shouting, and running to and fro ;
women
chattering, and running in their way ; and, in
short, preparations making for a hasty return
to England, with all due confusion. Notwith-
standing all Sally’s travelling, her “mother-
tongue” was still that which, in any sudden
emergency at least, came most home to her ear.
She fled, therefore, as quickly as was possible,
from the jabbering of the foreign domestics, to
her young lady’s apartment, to learn what this
VANDELEUR. 119
sudden fuss could mean. She found her ap-
parently acting under the same influence as
those she had flown from ;
pulling her dresses
out of their receptacles, and, in the hurried
restlessness of irrepressible anxiety, attempting
to pack them for travelling, with as much haste
as if the entire expedition was only retarded by
waiting for her wardrobe ! Sally, now in se-
rious alarm, inquired what had happened ?
“ Oh, rather tell me, Sally,"’"’ said Gertrude,
flying to her and seizing her by the arm, “ oh,
rather tell me what has happened ! Do I live or
die ? Are there any hopes for me ?” And she
gasped for breath from her own vehemence.
Sally was terrified, and really feared her
intellects were disturbed. “For God’s sake,
ma’am, what is the matter ?” she now whim-
pered out in tears.
“ My brother—my brother, Sally ! he is—he
is very ill ; and poor Mr. Mason is—no more, and
he is left all alone. My father has hinted it to
me ; but Lady Luscombe’s letters speak more
120 VANDELEUR.
plainly. We are to leave Paris this evening.
Now, tell me what you have seen ; have I any
chance of saving him ?”
“ It was not in human nature, at least not
in Sally Whitecross’s knowledge of it, not to
bestow all the comfort in her power at such a
crisis as this. She gave, therefore, a full, true,
and clear account of the wonderful scene she had
witnessed, as far as the effect of animal mag-
netism was concerned, and did not hesitate to
give it all the colouring of her own startled
imagination : and was then, as in duty bound,
beginning with, “ Still I don’t much like
—’’but
Gertrude stopped her, by clasping her hands
and exclaiming, u Then the die is cast !” And
in that moment of wild excitement and agita-
tion, she flew over to her writing-table, and
scribbled these words to De l’Espoir :
“ I have terrible accounts from England. I
accept your generous offer. Come after us,
and let me do all I can to repair my absence
from my beloved brother at such a time. I
VANDELEUR. 121
cannot delay sending this, long enough to think
whether or not I ought to confide to my maid
your intended visit to England ; so that point I
leave to your own discretion and discernment.
I enclose a bank-note, which will defray your
expenses, and which it will offend and shock
me if you refuse, as I shall be under sufficient
obligations to you without adding pecuniary
ones.'”
Having, with trembling hands, folded and
sealed this note, she delivered it to Sally, and
told her she must repair instantly with it to the
hotel of the count. Sally’s conscience twitched
her, and she began again about her dislike of
the count ; but Gertrude, who very naturally
thought she herself had as good an opportunity of
judging of him as Sally, who had only then seen
him for the first time, as she supposed, impa-
tiently stopped her, asking if that was a reason
why she was not to avail herself of his know-
ledge or skill to save her brother, and that she
wanted nothing more of him.
VOL. II. G
VANDELEUR.
m
“ Take care of that, ma’am,” said Sally,
and repeated the old woman’s words.
“ I thought,” said Gertrude, “ I desired you
most particularly not to mention the count’s
name to any one ?”
Sally was frightened, and tried to make some
excuse. Gertrude interrupted her.
“ I am very much displeased at your disobey-
ing my orders. You have shown me that you
are not to be trusted. Happily it does not sig-
nify now, as we are leaving Paris so imme-
diately ; but of this be assured, that I consider
myself a better judge of my own conduct and
feelings than either you or your new friend can
be.”
Sally was too much alarmed at having dis-
pleased her young lady to make further remon-
strance, and concluding that the note was in all
probability to bid him farewell, especially as she
espied a bank-note enclosed in it—which, after
all, did not look like love—she compounded with
her conscience, and departed on her mission.
VANDELEUR. 123
Oil arriving at the count’s door, she met him
just returning from their rendezvous : he ex-
pressed a hasty pleasure at seeing her so soon
again, and without taking time to observe her
“ altered eye,” he hastily seized the note, and
running up stairs, perused it with no small delight .
“ Thus, then,” said he, u are my wishes
crowned at last. Fate, I thank thee ! or rather,
De l’Espoir, T thank thy own cool courage !”
All cool and calculating as he was however, it
was some moments before he could subdue his
joy at having seen the poor bird fly into the net,
sufficiently to consider what she had said about
trusting Sally : but when he did weigh the mat-
ter deliberately, he came to the determination
that it was better to confide in her who already
knew so much, than to convert her into a spy by
choosing some one else as a confidant. And
the more he considered, the more he saw the
necessity there would be of having some third
person to carry notes and messages between
him and Gertrude. He was perfectly aware
g 2
J24 VANDELEUR.
nevertheless, that Sally would require no little
management ; for though he succeeded in sooth-
ing her in the morning by an appeal to her
vanity, he saw very plainly that the slightest
circumstance would be sufficient to rewaken her
former suspicions of him, and that the least
hint dropped on that subject to her young mis-
tress, would end his hopes at one fell swoop.
In this he judged truly; but he did Sally less
than justice when he thought, that, in order to
allay late suspicions, he had only to profess for-
mer love. Even had her virtue (as she called
it) not received the stimulus it did, by hearing of
his depravity, she still had truth and principle
enough, albeit a little vain and presuming, to
shrink with horror from any open declaration
of love to herself, both as a wife and mother.
Before having recourse, however, to this expe-
dient, which, after all, he thought it as well for
many reasons to reserve to the last, De FEspoir
determined to sift out her opinion of his real
plan of proceeding.
VANDELEUR. 125
He summoned her accordingly to his pre-
sence, and threw out some hints of his intention
of going incog, to England, to assist Miss Evelyn
in her experiments upon her brother. But, be-
fore he had proceeded half-way in his disclosure,
or hinted at Miss Evelyn’s concurrence in it,
Mrs. YVhitecross burst out into such a torrent of
abuse, and such downright, and rational repre-
sentations of the madness and wickedness of
such a scheme, coupled with threats of instantly
informing Lord and Lady Luscombe of the
whole business, that De l’Espoir saw clearly
that she could never be brought to sanction it
;
and that even persuasions from Gertrude herself,
whom she affected to look upon as a mere child,
would but stimulate her determination to be-
tray the secret. In this emergency he had
recourse to his original spell ; and having always
kept in view the probability of its proving the
most powerful, he had taken care to conceal
whatever might have appeared inconsistent with
it. He affected to consider for a moment what
1 26 VANDELEUR.
else remained for him to urge ; and then, appa-
rently driven by his feelings to speak the despe-
rate truth, he fell upon his knees before Sally,
and seizing her hand, he insulted her ears by
a declaration that all he had said, all he had
planned, all he had thought of, was only to
cover the real object he had in view, namely,
to get to England on any pretence for the sake
of his love to her !
It is unnecessary to paint her indignation ;
it was unfeigned and unbounded : for the whole
circumstance was invested with everything that
made guilt doubly guilty to a vulgar mind. She
stormed and she preached ; hut she had to do
with one a thousand times her match in clever-
ness. He suffered her wrath to expend itself
by its own force, and by degrees he ventured
adroitly to throw in such hints of her noble con-
duct, as, on a mind like hers, could not fail to
produce a sedative effect. Presently he became
overwhelmed, grew penitent, confessed himself
subdued by her eloquence; then wept in horror
VANDELEUR. 127
of his past crimes, all of which he failed not to
lay to the account of that unfortunate scape-
goat, disappointed love ; and finally, before he
left her, had not only obtained her forgiveness,
on his promise to abandon all thoughts of visit-
ing England, but secured her reiterated pro-
mise not to drive him to his wicked courses
again, from desperation at finding his hopeless
love betrayed. Once more Sally left his pre-
sence highly satisfied with herself, and per-
suaded that nothing but her young lady’s leav-
ing Paris so immediately, should induce her to
keep the secret of his infamy ; which, however,
she was very glad to have a proper excuse to
keep, as the disclosure of it now, would in-
volve her, having already concealed the very
important fact of her former acquaintance
with him.
She was no sooner out of the house, than he,
trusting at once to his quicker pace in walking,
and superior knowledge of the town, left it also,
and succeeded in arriving at Lord Luscombe’s
m VANDELEUR.
hotel before her return. He inquired for Lady
Luscombe, intending only to send up his card
had she been visible ; but as she was out pay-
ing some farewell visits, he asked for Gertrude,
and was admitted. All agitated and bewil-
dered as she was, she felt but too happy to see
him—at once to have her spirits reassured by
his confident anticipations, and to make the ne-
cessary arrangements for their future meetings.
And here Gertrude shrank with fresh horror
from the manoeuvring, and the clandestine in-
tercourse, that she saw would be necessary, not-
withstanding De l’Espoir’s anxious efforts to
keep it as much as possible in the background.
He told her, indeed, that Sally was absolutely
unfit to be trusted, and this the morning’s dis-
closure tended to confirm ; and he had the cou-
rage and adroitness laughingly to hint, that as
nothing could disabuse her of the idea of their
being lover and beloved, instead of patient and
physician, lie had found it absolutely necessary
to conceal from her the plan of his going to
VANDELEUR. 129
England, as lie plainly perceived that she had
taken such a dislike to him, from the hare idea
of his rivalling Major Vandeleur, as would in-
duce her, in revenge, to do all she could to pre-
judice every one against him. This sounded so
plausible, that Gertrude heard it undoubtingly,
and blushed and laughed at the idea.
It was then settled that De PEspoir was to
leave Paris within two days after Gertrude and
her party, and to repair immediately to Beauton,
a small post-town about two miles distant
from the park, and from thence to despatch a
note to inform Gertrude of his arrival. She
trembled when this awful step appeared so
near; but De PEspoir, like an able general,
coolly rose to take his leave before she should
have time to call up any more arguments against
the plan, or look too closely into its various
difficulties.
“Well, adieu for a short time!'” he said.
“Trust me, we shall see happier days. Make
my compliments to Lady Luscombe, for I shall
o 5
ISO VANDELEtJR.
not intrude again, as you must be much en-
gaged:’
She followed him to the door with undefined
terror at the thoughts of where they should meet
next, and a sort of lingering wish to keep the
power of revoking her consent in her hand a
few minutes longer. He was as anxious to
escape for the very opposite reason. As they
gained the hall, they were met by Sally, who,
hearing that the count was in the house, and
that Lady Luscombe was out, had some misgiv-
ing which induced her to form the resolution of
summoning Gertrude away from him on some
domestic pretext. She was too late, however;
and the moment that De l’Espoir spied her, he
repeated his adieus much more emphatically,
and as if for ever, and departed.
Sally contented herself with saying, half to
Gertrude, and half to herself, “ Thank God,
you’re gone at last !” and returned to her
packing.
VANDELEUR. 181
CHAPTER XIII.
“ Charmed by her voice, the harmonious sounds invade
llis clouded mind, and for a time persuade.
Like a pleased infant, who has newly caught
From the maternal glance a gleam of thought.
He stands enrapt the half-known voice to hear,
And starts, half conscious of the falling tear.”
Mrs. Whitecross had but a very few minutes
set out upon her office as witness to the effects of
animal magnetism, in giving an insight into the
diseases of others, and inspiring a knowledge of
the proper remedies, (I suppose by the power of
the same unperverted instinct which teaches
dogs and other animals to select their medicines
amongst herbs,) when the English post arrived
with letters for Lord and Lady Luscombe, and
one for Gertrude. The latter, it must be con-
132 VANDELEUR.
fessed, was sufficiently alarming, considering that
her father had, with the inconsiderateness that
marked his character, if not his class, hitherto
buoyed up her hopes far beyond the truth. It
was as follows :
“My dear Gertrude;
“ I do not wish to alarm you, hut, as the
time you proposed staying in Paris is already
past, I feel the less hesitation in informing you
that I do not think your poor brother has been
so well of late. You will be very sorry to hear
that poor old Mason is no more. He died in an
odd way, after all. He had been poorly ever
since he came here, and for the last two or
three days confined to bed : but at last, the
third day, that d —d Miss Wilson went in to
see him ; and whether it was the sight of her,
or what, I don’t know, but she came out saying
the poor old man was dead. I asked her what
she had done to him. She declared nothing, but
asked him how he was, and to forgive her ; upon
VANDELEUR. 133
which lie bid her go away in a weak voice ; and
when she went nearer, (the d —d wretch!) to
save him the trouble, she says, of speaking so
loud, he tried to motion her away with his
hand, and muttered something as if in his
throat. She was frightened, she says, at the
thoughts of his dying without forgiving her, and
went up to the bed and fell on her knees ; but
receiving no answer, she found he was dead. I
was going to turn her out of the house ; but she
looked so terrified and so sorry, and then Her-
bert is so poorly, that my heart failed me. I
wish you could come home, my dear ; we are
badly enough off without you. We have had
our friend Mr. C here again, but he does
not much like how poor Herbert is going on.
“ Your affectionate father,
“George Evelyn.
11
It must be acknowledged that few epistles
could be less satisfactory than the foregoing,
on such a subject. It fully succeeded, however,
134 VANDELEUR.
in terrifying Gertrude nearly out of her wits,
though, on what point to fix, she knew not. Was
Herbert dying ? Was his reason more alienated ?
or had it become madness ? Not one of these
questions could she solve ; and when, throwing
herself into Lady Luscombe’s arms, she be-
sought her to tell her what her letters from the
same neighbourhood said, she could gather lit-
tle more. Lady Luscombe, knowing that she
should in vain seek to disguise the truth from
her penetrating anxiety, thought it best at once
to show her the passage in Lord Foxhill’s letter.
It ran thus: “Young Evelyn is rapidly de-
clining : your friend Gertrude will soon be a
splendid heiress.”
It is really strange in what a careless manner,
almost of congratulation, kind and good-hearted
people will sometimes speak of an event that is
perhaps to destroy for ever the earthly happi-
ness of the object of their felicitations. On the
present occasion, Gertrude merely said, a May I
never live to see the day !” in a tone which would
VANDELEUR. 135
have chilled the most unthinking, and proceeded
to ask Lady Luscombe what was to be done.
The intended period of their stay in Paris
was already elapsed, and Lord Luscombe had
thrown out many hints of his wish to return
home. His lady, however, gay and good-hu-
moured, delighted with her reception in society,
and all she saw around her, either turned a
deaf ear to such hints, or laughed them off, from
day to day. But as she was in reality kind
and good-natured, and sincerely attached to
her young friend, and distressed at being the
cause of her absence at such p, time, she now
started up, and declaring that not one moment
longer should be lost, she ran to Lord Lus-
combe’s dressing-room, and informed him of the
sad news. He regretted the cause, but was
exceedingly happy at the effect ; and lest any
letters should arrive next morning to render
such haste unnecessary, he heartily concurred
in his wife's proposal that they should leave
Paris that very evening.
136 VANDELEUR.
This, however, was found impracticable ; but
as early next morning as daylight permitted,
they bade adieu to that gay city, and returned
to England, every one of them with feelings very
much in the same tone in which they had left
it two months before ; Lord and Lady Lus-
combe gay, or contented, according to their dif-
ferent temperaments, and poor Gertrude with
the same heavy and gnawing anxiety at heart,
and only with the additional grief for poor Mr.
Mason’s death. On arriving at her father’s
gate, having parted with her friends at Lord
Foxhill's house, where she had joined them on
going, she stopped the carriage to make more
particular inquiries, or at least to receive an-
swers that she could more rely on, than those
she received at Foxhill, and was somewhat re-
lieved by learning that her brother had been
considered better for the few last days, and was
down-stairs. She hurried to the house, and
there, in the summer sitting-room, the scene of
so much of their former happiness, sports, and
VANDELEUR. ]37
studies, she found him seated in an arm-chair
at the open window, apparently enjoying the soft
evening breeze that came up the flowery decli-
vity already often alluded to, laden with all the
mingled sweets it afforded. Her father and
Miss Wilson were also in the room, and they
both came forward to receive her ; but even while
receiving and returning their salutations, her
eye anxiously wandered to the beloved invalid.
She saw beyond all doubt that he recognised
her, and not only recognised her, but even made
several efforts to approach and join in bidding
her welcome ; but was each time prevented by
some nervous fear, or bodily weakness, and
again sank down into his chair. She flew to-
wards him ; and alike fearful of agitating him,
and unable to suppress her affectionate feelings,
she knelt down before him, and laying her hands
upon his knees, looked up into his face.
He was paler, and more haggard-looking, than
when she had left him ; but his countenance
decidedly, at that moment, expressed more of
138 VANDELEUR.
intelligence. He smiled affectionately upon lier ;
and on her offering her lips to him, he stooped
to receive the salutation, and said “ Gertrude,
11
in a soft low tone of pleasure and affection.
She burst into tears, which from the first
moment of her entrance she had been struggling
to restrain, and falling on his neck, she wept
long and convulsively. All that had passed
since they parted rushed back upon her mind.
The doubts and fears, and hopes and prayers,
she had gone through for him—the fearful re-
sponsibility which she had consented to incur
for his dear sake, all crowded upon her heart
at once, and she embraced him as the new-
found, tangible object of all these emotions and
all this suffering ; and with a feeling which can
only be compared to that with which a mother
embraces her new first-born, it seemed to her
as if she had never loved him until now
:
he himself became aware of the excess of her
emotion, though not of its cause, and gently
asked, “ Have I hurt you, Gertrude P
11
VANDELEUR. 1 39
Her renewed embraces satisfied him that he
had not ; and then he asked if she wept for
coming home.
“ No,"” she exclaimed ;
“ Heaven knows how
I have longed to return to you, dearest Her-
bert r
“ I rather—I rather wonder at that, I think,
said the poor boy thoughtfully, and pressing his
hand upon his forehead ; but the effort and the
scene altogether overcame him, and he too burst
into tears.
I do believe there never was one human
being loved another as Gertrude loved her bro-
ther at that moment : it seemed as if the only
thing that could recall him to consciousness, or
natural feeling, was his love for, and sympathy
with her ; and as she bent over and soothed him
with her caresses, she made a vow in her heart
that no other love, no overstrained sense of self-
respect, no consideration of any kind, should
stand between her and every effort for his re-
covery. In a few minutes, by checking her own
140 VANDELEUR.
tears, she succeeded in drying his ; and pointing
to the soft fall of the hill down which she had
so often run to escape from him, and from her
lessons, she asked him if he remembered
chasing her there. He glanced quickly at the
walk, then at her with a smile that was almost
arch ; but instantly breathing a deep sigh, he
suffered his head to droop into its usual position
upon his breast, and his countenance resumed
its listless expression.
To those who knew the manly character and
spirit of the boy, these indications sometimes
gave the idea that his mind was not as totally
destroyed as would at other times appear, and
even that he was not wholly unconscious of his
state ; but that, some important function being
impaired, he felt unequal to all mental exertion
whatsoever, and remained passive and uncom-
plaining under the infliction.
After a little time, when he seemed to have
become composed again, Gertrude went over to
VANDELEUR. 141
her father, who had thrown himself upon the
sofa during this scene.
44
My dear father I
11
she whispered, 44
Her-
bert seems to me to be a great deal better than
when I left him.”
Mr. Evelyn smiled an odd, cold, almost
bitter smile.
44
Dear sir, you, being constantly with him,
may not observe it ; but I assure you he never
before manifested nearly so much recollection.”
44
Mr. C. does not think him better.”
44
That surprises and grieves me very much
indeed. Don’t you perceive yourself, sir, that
he seems more collected ?”
44
Yes, more collected; but look at him
now.”
She did look, and perceived him gazing after
her, and again making weak and fruitless
efforts to rise from his chair. He again pro-
nounced her name. In an instant she was. by
his side ; and perceiving that his bodily strength
142 VANDELEUR.
had indeed decayed so much as to render him
unable now, even with her assistance, to cross
the room, she drew a footstool beside his chair,
and sat down at his feet. He seemed pleased
and satisfied, and even touched and smiled at
some articles of her Parisian costume, as if he
was fully alive to its novelty.
As nothing could to Gertrude have been so
shocking as the total loss of his intellect, so
nothing that her father could say or hint could
now damp her pleasure in these apparent sym-
ptoms of its recovery ; and for the dissatisfaction
of his eminent physician, she could only hope
that her father had mistaken him. That Her-
bert was weaker than when she left him, she
could not deny ; but then he had been ill, and
every one agreed that he was getting better
again.
In fact, for some days after her return, he
did appear to be gaining strength ; but even she
could not disguise from herself, with all the
self-will of hope, that his mental and bodily
VANDELEUR. 143
strength appeared unequally balanced, and that
according as one predominated the other de-
clined. They seemed to vibrate thus for a
short time, now exciting in Gertrude’s sanguine
breast the liveliest hopes, now plunging her into
the depths of despair ; when one day, as she
and Miss Wilson sat together in the drawing-
room, a note was handed to Gertrude. The
first glance served to convince her that it was
from De l’Espoir, and that he was already
arrived at the town of Beauton.
Youth, ardent youth, is so inconsistent ! It
is so new to life, and its chequered events, its
causes and effects, that though it may adopt
the very same means which it has seen others
adopt to effect certain ends, yet it is fre-
quently only when those ends have actually
been produced, that it begins to believe in the
reality of its own powers.
Although Gertrude had considered, resolved,
agreed to, and arranged everything for this visit
of the Count De l’Espoir, and had, from the
144 VANDELEUR.
moment of her return home, lived in a kind of
feverish excitement, expecting his arrival ;
yet
it was only when it had actually taken place,
that she became thoroughly alarmed at the
powerful engine which her own hand had set in
motion ; and so great was her agitation at the
instant, that it attracted the attention (albeit
not very susceptible) of her humble compa-
nion, even to the extent of causing her to ask
if she were ill.
“No, no — not ill, Miss Wilson; but so
terrified !” and she panted as if indeed she had
found a viper in the note she still held in her
hand.
“ Terrified ! ma’am ?” repeated Miss Wilson.
“ Yes. But ask me no questions. What
shall I do ?”
Miss Wilson, judging that “ ask me no
questions,” meant also “ nor answer any,”
which being also congenial to her habits,
took no notice of the last ; and Gertrude re-
mained for a few minutes like one bewildered.
VANDELEUR. 145
It was fortunate for her secret that there was
not a more intelligent witness of her agitation.
“ What have I clone ?” again escaped her
trembling lips ; and although even peculiarly
ignorant of the harsh construction which the
world might put upon her proceeding, her heart
whispered “ Vandeleur !
v>
in a tone of gentle
reproach which she could not misunderstand.
De l’Espoir, however, showed himself well
skilled in human nature, when he wished this
to be the feeling that awoke within her, rather
than more artificial ones, which, coming under
the form of lessons of propriety, assume the
sacredness of duty. For she, in her affection-
ate devotion to her brother, soon persuaded
herself, that were Vandeleur himself, with all
her own happiness, to be the sacrifice, she ought
not to hesitate between them and that brother’s
recovery. And probably she would not have
hesitated, dearly as she loved Vandeleur ; for
Gertrude’s principles were as pure, and upright,
as her affections were ardent ; and they kept
VOL. II. H
146 VANDELEUR.
each other in perfect and beautiful control. It
was only where they seemed to her to clash,
and to become inextricably entangled, to each
other’s destruction, that she could ^ver be led
into error,—and this from her own guileless
and unsuspecting nature.
It never ought to have been so. Alas ! it
never ought to have become necessary for the
general security of social order, that a check
should be put upon our dearest and our sweet-
est feelings and sensibilities. Oh ! why, why
did man destroy his Creator’s first glorious
plan of an earthly paradise ? Severely must
he labour before he can bring back this ruined
earth to that first blissful state !
No sooner did poor Gertrude come to this, as
she hoped, proper and disinterested conclusion,
than she felt the necessity of composing her
spirits, and setting herself seriously to con-
sider the steps that it now devolved upon her
to take in this momentous business. For this
purpose she retired to her own chamber, and
there once more read over the count’s epistle.
VANDELEUR. 147
It was written with all the caution that it
was possible to use against alarming her, af-
fecting to look on the whole business in a light
and matterfof-course sort of way ; which, he
hoped, would have the effect of soothing her.
Still, final and minute arrangements he knew
could not longer be deferred ; and accordingly
he informed her, that foreseeing every diffi-
culty that might attend their interviews, he
had determined on coming to the town of Beau-
ton as a petty French jeweller, and had brought
a few trinkets and baubles with him for this
purpose : and begged of fier in communi-
cating with him through any intermediate
person, (should such be necessary,) to re-
member this new character of his : but, in
order to defer the necessity of any such confi-
dence as long as possible, he informed her that
on his arrival the day before, he had made all the
inquiries he could, a la derobce,
concerning the
situation of Beauton Park, &c. &c. and had
the next morning himself, in person, reconnoitred
J 48 VANDELEUR.
the grounds and demesne, which, indeed, nearly
extended to the town. He then described a
particular, secluded grove, where he implored
Gertrude to consent to meet him that evening
before dusk, as it was absolutely necessary that
they should have, at least, one interview, in order
to arrange matters previous to their commencing
operations. Taking it for granted, he said,
that her good sense would second him in this,
he informed her that he should be in waiting
there the whole evening until she appeared
;
but, by everything rational or consistent, he
implored her not to suffer any childish alarm or
uneasiness, or want of confidence in him, to in-
duce her to think of betraying him to any one ;
—but, above all others, not to her busy, self-
sufficient abigail.
There was something in the tone of this let-
ter that displeased and chilled Gertrude. The
necessity of an interview she could not for a
moment deny :
“ But what does he mean by
uneasiness, and want of confidence in him ?
v
VANDELEUR. 14.9
she said aloud, though no one was present to
reply. “ What confidence ? I’m sure it is he is
so anxious to keep the secret, not I. Or does he
mean—is it indeed come to this—that I am
placing confidence in him by meeting him alone ?
if' so, I will not do it ; for this there can he no
imperative necessity. I will take Miss Wilson
with me ; I know my power over her, and her
habits of obedience will ensure her silence. But
soft,—am I at liberty to betray Count De PEs-
poir s secret ? No, certainly not. I must then
write, and ask his permission ; but meet him
alone in the dusk of the evening I will not. It
is just what would shock Yandeleur, I know
;
and yet the evening, when my father and the
servants are all engaged at or after dinner, is
the only time I could be sure of being free from
interruption. Heigh-ho ! he is right in saying
Whitecross is not to be trusted, she is so bab-
bling. Well, I must write to him—and I hate
that too. Heigh-ho ! well, dearest Herbert, it
is for you, and may Heaven grant that the end
150 VA.NDELEUR.
may sanctify the means !
—at all events, it is too
late to consider farther about them now.
11
And
with this fatal conclusion—so characteristic of
frail mortality, whose thoughts are finite, —this
conclusion, which has often silenced the last
whisper of our good angel to rescue us from
some yawning precipice,—she went to write to
De FEspoir.
Her newly-awakened alarms at his style, so
different from that he used in Paris, she did
not of course betray ; but wi th that dignity of
feeling which now and then broke out amidst
her infantine confidence, as the blush of indig-
nant virtue will sometimes startle us on the
cheek of infancy, if wrongfully accused, she an-
nounced to him her determination not to give
him the meeting he desired, unattended. She
described Miss Wilson to him as far as was
essential, and mentioned how fully she could
depend upon her silence ; and concluded by
saying, that if she did not hear from him again,
she should suppose herself at liberty to mention
VANDELEUR. J 51
the matter as far as she should deem advisable
to Miss Wilson, and, accompanied by her,
should meet him in the grove. She felt that she
dared not bring him, upon any pretext, to the
house, lest the prying eyes of Sally should light
upon him.
As soon as her note was completed, she
brought it herself down-stairs, in order to avoid
ringing for her maid : for, although it was
directed under the name of Dubois, which the
count had assumed for the present, still Ger-
trude’s conscience made her anxious to adopt
every precaution against exciting suspicion. As
she crossed the hall, she met the servant who
had brought the note for her to the drawing-
room, and inquired of him if the person who
came with it still waited. He said not ; that it
was brought by a little hoy, who, handing it
in, said no answer was required, and instantly
departed.
“ This was to ensure my compliance,” said
Gertrude to herself ;
“ hut I hope I require
152 VANDELEUR.
something more than so trivial, and apparently
accidental a circumstance, to induce me to turn
out of the common path of propriety.”
“ Then, William,” she said aloud, a I must
trouble you to carry this note to Beauton. In-
quire at Mrs. Lane’s, the grocer, for a French
jeweller, and deliver this note to him yourself.
It is necessary it should go instantly ; so get
your hat, and go out this way by the hall-
door, and across the fields, and make haste
back.”
The man did as he was desired, Gertrude still
keeping the note in her hand until he returned
with his hat, and not aware that her deep blush
and faltering accents at this her first connivance
in anything like disguise or falsehood, together
with her unusual expressions of haste, did not
escape the man’s attention ; although it was not
until after circumstances gave importance to
such appearances that he thought of recalling
them. He departed with the billet, and Ger-
trude retired to her chamber to tell herself, again
VANDELEUR. 153
and again, that the die was now fairly cast, let
it turn up what it might.
For the first time she congratulated herself
upon her lover's absence, as she reflected that,
had he been in the neighbourhood, or even had
her mother lived, she had found her present
undertaking almost impracticable. “ But if it be
successful,” she said, “ I shall consider these ap-
parently fortuitous circumstances as direct inter-
positions of Providence in my favour.”
Alas! how fallacious is the faith founded
upon circumstance ! The rules of right and
wrong alone are immutable ; we should never
venture to look beyond them.
In the mean while, the day was passing over,
and Gertrude received no answer from the
count. She ascertained that the servant had de-
livered the note into his own hands, and had
even, through rustic curiosity, spoken with him ;
so that there was no longer a doubt but that
his silence was to be taken as permission for
what Gertrude required.
154 VANDELEUR.
Ill fact, provided her confidant could be re-
lied on for a few days, so as not to defeat all
by a premature discovery, De F Espoir was ra-
ther pleased that there should be one witness of
her voluntary intercourse with him ; while she,
poor thing ! felt as if half the objections were
removed by the confidence being- extended to
any one member of her own family.
As if the Fates were disposed to forward
Gertrude’s plans in every way, Mr. Evelyn,
who seldom indeed dined alone, this day
brought home two or three gentlemen with
him to dinner ; and although Gertrude seldom
deemed her long sojourn in the dining-room
after the cloth was removed, either necessary
or desirable, she left it even earlier than usual
on this occasion, and requested Miss Wilson to
accompany her to her chamber. Miss Wilson
might have been a little astonished at the re-
quest, as it was rather an unusual one ; but 1
believe such a sensation never had had birth in
her torpid breast. As soon as they were seated,
VANDELEUR. 155
Gertrude commenced, with a seriousness and
dignity of tone and manner, which the youngest
and the gentlest will naturally assume over
those of inferior minds, to enforce the necessity
of the strictest secrecy on the subject which she
was about to speak of. Miss Wilson promised
obedience, of course ; and, indeed, when Gertrude
recollected how very little inducement it afford-
ed for her to break through her usual habits of
silence, she almost thought the precautions she
was taking were superfluous.
She proceeded to inform her that a French-
man had undertaken to cure her brother ; but
that, as her father had a great dislike to every
one, and almost everything, appertaining to that
nation, she thought it right and necessary to
conceal the circumstance from him ; and as she
did not deem it prudent or proper to meet the
gentleman alone, yet must occasionally see him,
in order to arrange and plan the different prepa-
rations for the cure, she had determined upon
confiding in her, and taking her with her upon
156 VANDELEUR.
these occasions. She concluded by desiring her
to prepare to accompany her just then.
Had these circumstances, and this commu-
nication fallen within Miss Wilson’s ken pre-
vious to her residence at Beauton Park, it
is very probable the whole matter would have
failed to excite even a passing thought ; but
during her attendance upon Lady Alicia she
had read many and many a novel, all, all
about “ the one loved name” of love ; and this
continuing for several years, and being reduced
to practice, as it were, in her own case, by
the old fox-hunter’s proposals, she could not
remain (as was proved to poor old Mr. Mason’s
cost) altogether so dead upon the subject as she
once had been. Still, the life imparted was
like that conveyed by galvanism to the limbs
and muscles of a frog. It served little other
purpose than to astonish, scare, and terrify the
spectators by its awkward and uncouth mani-
festations; while not a spark was kindled in her
heart to guide or to direct them.
VANDELEUR. 157
When Gertrude first made her communica-
tion, no doubt of its veracity entered Miss Wil-
son’s mind ; but when she accompanied her
through the demesne, across one or two fields
to the specified grove, and there beheld the very
handsome and gallant-looking gentleman, who
hurried forward to meet her with an air and
manner very strikingly different from that of “a
quack doctor,”—as she had imagined him to be ;
and when she saw the undisguised rapture that
sparkled in his brilliant eyes,—she said to herself
at once, but in her own way, that, under pre-
tence of curing the brother’s head, he was come
to wound the sister’s heart.
Still, what had she to do with that? For
Major Vandeleur she had no particular regard :
indeed, all she knew of him was, that he had
come to upset the establishment at Beauton
as far as she was concerned. For, although he
had readily joined with Gertrude in the propri-
ety of settling an independence upon her hum-
ble friend, and though this had been distantly
1 58 VANDELEIJR.
and delicately liinted to her, yet such was her
sluggish inertia, that anything like a change
came to her like a calamity. From whom or
whence that change should proceed was, then, a
matter of little moment to her ; and, indeed, if
she reasoned at all upon the subject, it was to
think that as in the former case her dismissal
was a thing decided upon, she might, in that
now before her, he better, and could not be
worse. It was one of the consequences of Miss
Wilson’s sleepy intellect never to get more
than one view of any subject at a time, just as
if only a small part of her brain was in proper
condition to receive an impression ; and there-
fore generally the moment any idea entered,
it became instantly established there as a fact,
when others would discuss and perhaps reject
it altogether. And a passing thought being to
her as gTeat an effort as the deepest consider-
ation to a more powerful mind, it was attend-
ed with the same importance and conviction.
Thus, thouQfh she heard not a word of love
7 O
VANDELEUR. 159
breathed between De FEspoir and Gertrude,
although near enough to catch much of what
they said, that circumstance went not one step,
towards removing the first impression which
she had stupidly conceived, solely from his
appearance being such as she had read of.
In the mean while, the idea of such a suspi-
cion arising in her mind never entered into
Gertrude’s ; and after undergoing a degree of
nervous agitation during the interview, which
obliged her to lean against a tree for support,
she arranged with De FEspoir that the first
trial of the effects of animal magnetism on her
O
brother’s malady should take place the very
next day ! De F Espoir had prepared her for
the possibility of many trials being necessary,
and she felt a kind of relief in hearing that
it was more than probable that the first or se-
cond would produce no apparent effect what-
ever.
Had De FEspoir been less deeply interested,
he would perhaps have betrayed some impati-
160 VANDELEUR.
ence at the nervous, and almost childish pertina-
city with which the poor girl made him again
and again recapitulate his strongest arguments
in favour of the theory, even as a woman loves
to have her ear refilled with the vows of love
as fast as it transmits them to the brain or
heart.
As the spring was now pretty far advanced,
and the weather extremely fine for the season,
and as the objections to introducing De FEs-
poir into the house continued in full force, it was
agreed that the best method to prevent discovery,
would be for Gertrude to endeavour to bring
Herbert to an arbour, which remained in what
had once been a pleasure-garden, but which, as it
was a considerable distance from the house, had
of late years been abandoned almost entirely, and
suffered to run wild. Gertrude alone sometimes
strolled thither, for the sake of “ lang syne,
11
or
to vary her rambles ; and as the gravel-walk
leading to it, though now overgrown with weeds
VANDELEUR. 161
and grass, was still level, she had no doubt of
being able to wheel Herbert thither in his gar-
den-chair. Of his willingness to accompany
her, too, she had little apprehension ; for, besides
his ever gentle and complying temper, he was,
when able to enjoy it, always fond of the open
air, and all the delicious offerings it presents
to the senses and the heart.
As soon as this spot was decided upon, and the
hour appointed which was indeed to colour Ger-
trude's future fate through that of her brother,
she parted from Ue V Espoir and returned to
the house with Miss Wilson. She maintained an
absolute silence during their walk homewards,
not so much either through necessity or design,
as from the tension, as it were, of her nerves
and heart, which was such that it seemed to her
that the slightest indulgence to them would
render them independent of all control.
It is scarcely too much to say, that from that
moment, until the time arrived for her to lead
her brother forth, the unconscious object of so
1 62 VANDELEUR.
serious an experiment on his shattered constitu-
tion, the unfortunate girl was in a high fever.
She neither ate nor slept ; and, strange to say,
she scarcely ever in the same interval of time
prayed so little. Frequently, indeed, through
the remainder of that evening and next day,
whenever she found herself alone, she would fall
upon her knees, cast up her hands and eyes
to Heaven, and then how her throbbing fore-
head to the earth ; but it was rather in the
energy of great excitement, that seemed in-
stinctively to ask for pity and composure from
above, than a rational prayer for a blessing on
her undertaking ;
—she was literally unable to
tell to Heaven or to herself that she had indeed
determined on that undertaking.
Lady Luscombe happened to drive over to
Beauton Park that day. As they sat at luncheon,
Mr. Evelyn, observing the alternate absence and
flutter of Gertrude’s spirits, said abruptly, “You
have not brought Gertrude home much better
than she left us, Lady Luscombe.”
VANDELEUR. 163
“ No !” she exclaimed in astonishment :
“ why, I flattered myself she was quite another
creature. She certainly was, in Paris. Per-
haps, Gertrude, you are pining after your agree-
able count, eh P
11
The vivid blush which conscience called into
the cheeks of Gertrude at this malapropos sally,
could not pass unnoticed. “ Nay, never blush
and look miserable about it ,’
1
pursued her friend ;
“ you know I am no tell-tale. Only make haste
and forget him before a certain gallant soldier
returns .
11
“ She had better make good haste then,
11
said her father, looking at her with some sur-
prise ;
“ for he may be here sooner than she
thinks for .
11
“ I hope not, sir ! How do you mean P
11
exclaimed Gertrude, turning to him in an
alarm which she had not presence of mind to
conceal.
Mr. Evelyn stared still more at her ; but she,
recollecting herself, quickly added, “ He pro-
164 VANDELEUR.
mised not to make any attempt to see me until
six months should have elapsed.”
“ Yes; hut ladies seldom quarrel with such
vows being forgotten.”
“ I should,” she said very seriously. “ Have
you any reason, sir, to think Major Vandeleur
will ?”
“Nonsense, you silly girl ! I mean that the
six months are nearly over now
;
so we may
lawfully expect his return, even on your own
absurd terms.”
“But he will of course write before he comes
;
don’t you think so, sir ?”
“ Indeed, you know best what order you have
him in.”
“ Well, good people,” said Lady Luscombe,
rising, “ I must leave you to discuss that knotty
point without my assistance, seeing I could no
longer give unprejudiced advice to young ladies ;
so good-b’ye.”
She drove off, and Gertrude retired to her
chamber.
VANDELEUR. 165
“ Oh, that Godfrey had been here ! or Mr.
Mason alive !” she now exclaimed to herself,
with blanched and trembling lips. “ Nothing
should now prevent my telling them all. But it
is all too late for that, and there is no one else
whose judgment I could trust to. Oh, why did I
not think of this before ! Yet this is nothing
more than nervous weakness ; for have I not
weighed the matter long and anxiously enough ?”
Then she would recapitulate to herself the
most forcible of the arguments employed by
De l’Espoir, and always concluded with saying,
“ At all events, he pledges himself it can do no
harm.”
Alas ! those pledges ! they are like the bond
i
offered by the ruined spendthrift to borrow yet
another sum, and may indeed prove availing to
those who can be satisfied by revenge instead
of payment, but are therefore most frequently
offered to those who, with perhaps a broken
heart, would cast them into the fire on finding
their worthlessness.
166 VANDELEUR.
At dinner Gertrude found it absolutely im-
possible to swallow one single morsel : the ten-
sion had extended from her heart up to her
throat ; her face was exceedingly flushed ; and
as she handed something at table to her father,
and their hands met, such was the damp and
death-like coldness of hers, that he looked up
and exclaimed, “ Why, Gertrude, you cer-
tainly cannot be well, child—what is the mat-
ter ?”
Will it be believed that the poor girl was
so overcome—so oppressed with her lonely and
awful secret, that she was upon the very point
of bursting into tears, throwing herself into
—
even her father’s arms—and revealing all ? But
even while she struggled for strength to make
the effort, the remembrance of her promise
came over her, and the inconsistency of her con-
duct appeared glaring in her eyes. She gulped
down her tears, and pleading a severe head-
ache, said she would stroll out into the air,
which she was certain would refresh her.
VANDELEUR. 167
“ Well, do so,” said Mr. Evelyn :
“ and
harkye, Gertrude, as tlie evening is so fine, I
wish you would take Herbert with you,—I think
it would do him good.”
Gertrude felt guilty as she answered, “ I
will, sir.”
“ But come here, dear ; I positively insist
upon your taking this glass of Madeira. Why,
you are absolutely trembling, and as cold as
death.”
“ Indeed, sir, I would rather not
;
I cannot
swallow just now.”
“ Nonsense, child ! one can swallow wine
when one cannot anything else. Here, I insist
upon your taking it ;
—why, you are now as pale
as you were red this moment.”
Gertrude took the wine, and left the dining-
room, knowing that—her hour was come !
168 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER XIV.
Why do you bend such solemn brows on me ?
Think ye I bear the shears of Destiny ?
Have I commandment on the pulse of life ?
SlIAKSPEARE.
Had it been possible that, by some infernal
machination of the Enemy of Mankind, the gen-
tle, exquisitely feeling, and devoted sister, who
would have sacrificed life, and fame itself, for the
recovery of her brother, could, instead, have
been wrought upon, for some deadly purpose, to
work out his destruction, and that the moment
for action w as now at hand, Gertrude could not
have trembled more violently, or felt a stronger
beating at her heart, than when she now repaired
to that brother’s apartment to try to wile him
VANDELEUR. 109
out to the destined scene, as she hoped, of his
restoration to health and unclouded reason, by
telling him of the loveliness of the spring even-
ing, the delicious odours which that evening’s
breeze was rifling from the profusion of flowers
all around, and the sweet singing of the birds, of
which Herbert was always so particularly fond,
that even yet he frequently dragged himself
across his chamber to scatter crumbs outside his
window for their support.
This happened to be one of his days of bodily
debility, and his intellects, accordingly, seemed
a little clearer. He looked towards the win-
dow, and then at Gertrude, as if there was a
slight struggle between his feeling of exhaustion
and his desire to yield to her wishes ; but, as
usual, the latter prevailed. His room had of
late, since the weather had become finer, been
changed, at Gertrude’s suggestion, for one on
the ground- floor, which had once been used
as a breakfast-parlour, in order to save him
VOL. II. i
170 VANDELEUR.
the fatigue or annoyance of being conveyed up
and down stairs.
She now directed his garden-chair to be
brought to the hall-door. As soon as he was
seated in it, the servant who brought it asked
if he should be required to wheel him. “ No,”
Gertrude said ;
u I shall wheel him myself.”
She frequently had done so ; but this even-
ing, as they passed close outside the dining-room,
Mr. Evelyn hurried to the window, and throw-
ing it up, exclaimed, “ Now, Gertrude, why
do you wheel that chair when you are so ill
with headache ? You really are very—very
perverse.—Here, William,” he called aloud, as
he saw the man standing at the door,
—
44
here ;
wheel Mr. Herbert about with Miss Evelyn.”
“ My dear father, pray, no,” said Gertrude,
terrified and unhappy ;
“ the servants are just
going to dinner ; and besides, Herbert and I
would much rather be without them.”
“ Well, wheel that chair you shall not,” he
said peremptorily, for of late his temper had
VANDELEUR. 171
acquired an irritability to which it was formerly
a stranger. “Oh! there’s Miss Wilson. Here,
Miss Wilson ; wheel Herbert’s chair a bit, will
you ? Gertrude is not able and he shut down
the window.
Gertrude was too happy to exchange the pre-
sence of the servant for one over whose very
thoughts she felt she held control, to make any
farther opposition ; and determining to dismiss
her when they should come to the entrance of
the old garden, she suffered her to wheel the
chair so far.
“ Thank you, Miss Wilson, that will do
now
;
Herbert and I will saunter about here for
a little, but we will not trouble you any farther.”
“ Shall I wait, or return to wheel him
home ?”
“ Neither, thank you. My head is already
better from the air, and I shall wheel him home
myself: and don’t mention to my father or any
one where I am. Now, observe what I say
;
because I do not wish to be intruded on, and
172 VANDELEUR.
my father is too anxious about my headache;
so don’t go in his way until 1 return.”
Miss Wilson departed.
Gertrude and Herbert were now at what had
once been the gate of the pleasure-garden ; and
within it, at some little distance, stood an ar-
bour, formed in the high and close beechen hedge
which enclosed the garden, and which was shel-
tered by a grove behind. The arbour was spa-
cious, having been in former days frequently
used by the children and their young friends in
their feasts of fruit and flower-gathering ; and
the seats and benches used by them in those
happy hallowed hours were still standing within
it. The luxuriance and order of beauty around
was all faded and gone—but still, as “ many a
garden-flower grew wild”—and as fragrant weeds
were also in profusion about—such as wild gera-
nium, thyme, and heaths of various kinds, it
was a spot particularly frequented by bees, as
its solitude caused it to be by birds.—And as
the youthful and innocent pair, who once seemed
VANDELEUR. 173
the Abel and the Adah of this earthly paradise,
now entered it together—she for such a purpose
—and he the unconscious object of that purpose,
—there was something more than commonly in-
teresting in the scene altogether :
—that ruined
garden, which still told of beauty past ; and
that shattered being, where still there lingered
traces of mental and of personal perfection.
It had a powerful effect upon the feelings
of Gertrude, as she thought upon the days
of their childhood ; when, two lovely and in-
telligent beings, they would, hand in hand, run
on before their parents and attendants, until
arrested by some trifling object, perhaps a peb-
ble or a flower still new to them. The little
girl, though perhaps equally attracted, would
generally have been satisfied with wondering;
while the more reflecting boy would run back
with the object of his curiosity, have it ex-
plained by his attendants, and return to impart
the information to his sister.
She remembered all this, for the same tenden-
174 VANDELEUR.
cies had continued with little alteration in both ;
and painfully, dreadfully did she now feel the
contrast. There lie sat, looking around him in-
deed, as if something struck him in the scene ;
but it was only with that listless look that
might have become infancy itself, when first
the mother fondly tries to anticipate the dawn-
ing of intelligence ! And as a bird suddenly
whistled a loud note in their ears, as if to ask
the cause of their intrusion, or a bee buzzed
past them as if to reconnoitre, he would look
up at her and smile—a smile that literally ap-
peared to dissolve her heart.
It was already past the appointed hour, and
Gertrude caught a glimpse of De FEspoir about
the arbour. As, however, it was thought ex-
pedient that he should not appear to Herbert,
in order to avoid any flurry to his spirits, the
moment he perceived them at the gate he re-
tired to the farther side, where, while the
branches prevented him from being seen by
those within, he should be near enough, not
VANDELEUR.
'If*-'*'’
1 to
only to superintend and support Gertrude in
the event of any agitation or alarm, hut even to
hear all that should be spoken.
All villain as he was, he could not feel wholly
unmoved, as he peered forth from his hiding-
place in impatience at the delay : for some
feeling inexplicable to herself, where she now
again felt confident of success, had made Ger-
trude unwilling to hurry Herbert to his fate.
De TEspoir saw them at length enter the gar-
den, Herbert leaning on his sister’s arm, having
at her suggestion left his chair, and undertaken
to walk the few paces that remained. He was
%
obliged to confess to himself that few things
could be more affecting than their appearance
at that moment. They were both deadly pale ;
but while the quiet repose in the beautiful coun-
tenance of the one showed that paleness to be
the consequence of ill health, the almost con-
vulsive though restrained agitation of the not
less beautiful features of the other, only told of
the wild tumult within.
176 VANDELEUR.
She tried to pray, but could not ; every step
or movement of her precious charge recalled her
thoughts to earth ; and, with nervous anxiety,
she felt desirous to guard or shield him from
the slightest uneasiness, unwilling, as it were, to
add one tittle to the trial that awaited him ; as
if she had not risked her dearest hopes on that
trial ! She had—but still her good sense some-
times whispered her, that what was powerful
for good might be powerful for evil !
—At these
moments her prayers were comprised in the
exclamation, “ My God ! my God I” and one
time she was so carried away by her feelings,
as hastily to clasp her hands together, forgetful
of the poor invalid, who leaned heavily on her
arm, and whom this hasty movement of hers
shook off, and caused to totter a few paces.
Had Gertrude wantonly intended to distress
or incommode him, instead of being rendered
momentarily incautious by the very intensity of
her anxiety concerning him, she could not have
felt more remorse than she did when she saw his
VANDELEUR. 177
debility, and the gentle expression of his coun-
tenance, as it seemed to ask why he was thus
cast off. She flung her arms around him, as if to
repay him doubly for the momentary withdrawal
of her support, and laying her head on his shoul-
der, asked him to forgive her, while a flood of
tears came to the relief of her pent-up emotions.
It always seemed as if the sight of Ger-
trude in affliction, had power to overcome the
listlessness of Herbert’s malady for the mo-
ment. He now bent and kissed her cheek, and
then attempting to wipe away her tears, said,
“ Dearest Gertrude !”
She pressed her arm more fondly round him.
“ Say you forgive me, Herbert !” she exclaimed ;
and then yielding to the torrent of feelings which
her tears had given a vent to, she fell on her
knees, and with a wild earnestness, which was
far more appropriate to the impending, than the
past offence against him, and which indeed was
probably dictated by a vague anticipation of
what the future might bring forth, she seized
178 VANDELEUR.
liis band, and looking lip in his face with a
countenance of agony, repeated, “ Herbert,
will you not say you forgive me ?”
The poor boy gazed on her with more of
astonishment and intelligence than he usually
exhibited, but could make no farther exertion
than to repeat, “ Yes, indeed.” She was
obliged to be content, and they proceeded to
the arbour.
Herbert immediately sat down upon one of
the old benches that remained there ; and Ger-
trude, perceiving that he seemed, as was usual
after the slightest mental exertion, to sink into a
dreamy sort of languor, left him for a moment
to receive her final instructions from the count.
She found him considerably less animated, if
not less composed, than was his wont, and in-
stantly caught alarm from the change. But he,
perceiving tin’s effect of his remorse, or weakness
as he termed it himself, instantly chased it away
by running over in his mind some of those seda-
tives, of which the human heart has so large a
VANDELEUR. 179
store, ever ready to soothe again the startled
conscience. They conversed for a few mo-
ments, when he contrived to reassure the flag-
ging spirits of his luckless pupil, and going-
over again the most minute descriptions and
instructions respecting the routine of gentle
and monotonous movements, so especially cal-
culated to induce sleep, or somnambulism,
as it
is technically called, he dismissed her, with a
blessing, to commence her awful task.
Gertrude returned to the arbour. She gazed
for a moment on the gentle, unconscious object
of all that was going on, so vitally important to
him ; and turning aside for a moment, once more
to raise her eyes and hands beseechingly to
Heaven, she drew a seat in front of his, and
composed her spirits to commence the operation.
Nothing can be more simple and less influen-
tial than the process of magnetising would seem
to be ; the entire exertion, and power, being in
the mind and will of the magnetiser. The subtile
fluid is supposed to be conveyed by the mere
] 80 VANDELEUR.
rendering of the object passive enough to receive
it, —that is, by lulling to repose whatever of his
own faculties might be supposed so active as
to resist it. For this purpose, the first move-
ment is to take the hands of the patient, and
gently pressing them, retain them in that posi-
tion as long as may be deemed necessary, ac-
cording to the state of the patient and other
attending circumstances, before proceeding to
the other methods of diffusion of the fluid.
This caressing movement from his kind sister,
was of course received by poor Herbert merely
as one of her usual testimonials of affection, the
more perhaps as it wr
as now accompanied with an
intense look of tenderness and anxiety. Even
when she changed that movement for the less
familiar and more active ones, of passing the hands
from the head downwards over the person of
the patient, but without actual contact, though
lie at first stared a little anxiously at her, he
finally smiled, and appeared rather to enjoy
what he probably innocently conceived was done
merely for his amusement !
%/
VANDELEUR. 181
I have said that the evening was soft, balmy,
and genial ; the twitter of birds—the hum of bees
—and the perfume of flowers, was about ; the spot
selected was still and secluded. How far all these
circumstances might have tended to produce a
disposition to somnolency in the invalid boy, we
may not determine ; but certain it is that Ger-
trude had not many minutes continued her softly
lulling movements about him, when his gentle
eyes began to look heavy, the transparent lids pre-
sently drooped over them, and he seemed over-
come by slumber !
—It was the desired effect; yet
poor Gertrude, with youthful inconsistency, felt as
much alarmed at this proof of her power, as it
were, over her brother's constitution, as if she
had never hoped, prayed, laboured, suffered
for it.
“ He sleeps !” she said softly to De TEspoir.
“ Already !” was the reply, in a tone of
pleasure.
But, although subdued almost to a whisper
in order not to arouse the boy, the strange
182 VANDELEUR.
voice, proceeding from directly behind him, not
only scared away what probably had not yet
been sleep, but caused him to start up and
look around him with a wilder expression of
countenance than he had ever before exhibited,
and he uttered a faint shriek.
Gertrude became terrified, and deeply affected;
but remembering the reiterated cautions she had
received never to suffer him for a moment to
remain under the influence of terror, she com-
manded herself, and proceeded to endeavour once
more to soothe and compose him, by a repeti-
tion of what had already so completely produ-
ced that effect. It would not do —the spirit of
alarm was roused in the poor boy—he looked
first inquiringly, then wildly, on her hands flit-
ting about him ; a universal tremour took posses-
sion of him.
Gertrude, as we have said, had been particu-
larly cautioned against suffering her own feelings
to overcome her, so as to induce her to stop
suddenly in her operations, probably to the
VANDELEUR. 183
serious injury of her patient. Accordingly, al-
though her heart was almost breaking, she
forced herself to continue her operations, only
rendering them as gentle, and even expressively
affectionate, as was in her power. It would
not do—his eyes continued rapidly and wildly
to follow her hands—he glanced at her face
and saw tears falling slowly over it. For a
moment or two, he seemed as if spell-bound to
his seat—but, in the next, he shuddered con-
vulsively, and fell fainting into her arms !
Gertrude shrieked out to De FEspoir, who im-
mediately came to her assistance, and implor-
ing of her to subdue her feelings, and not unfit
her mind for her undertaking, assured her that
everything was going on as well as possible.
“ He is merely overcharged with magnetic fluid,"’
he said, “ and we will soon relieve him of that
and he proceeded to go through the process
prescribed for that purpose.
For some time it did not appear to produce
the slightest effect. De FEspoir became alarm-
184 VANDELEUR.
ed, and his manner evinced flurry and agita-
tion. Happily, Gertrude was too much wrap-
ped up in watching her brother, that she might
welcome the first symptom of returning ani-
mation, to observe him. Besides, there are
some anticipations so dreadful, that the mind
positively refuses to receive them. According-
ly, she stood calmly by, not daring to admit
the slightest apprehension of danger.
Seeing, however, that time was passing, and
that the count’s attempts to restore her bro-
ther’s consciousness seemed to fail, she asked,
in a tone almost sarcastic from subdued alarm,
if she might apply her smelling-bottle to his
nose. De l’Espoir made no objection ; and
whether it was from the influence of the pun-
gent salts, or the manipulations of the count, or
whether from a mere effort of nature, it boots
not to inquire, but in a very few minutes the
boy began to show symptoms of returning ani-
mation.
And now it is that the darkest cloud of un-
VANDELEUR. 185
certainty liangs over the real wishes and in-
tentions of the Count de l’Espoir. There can
be no question that, witli the first symptom of
the unfortunate youth’s recovery from the
swoon into which terror had thrown him, the
safest plan, in common cases, would have been
for De l’Espoir to have withdrawn himself
from his sight, and suffered that terror gra-
dually to subside by the absence of the ex-
citement. But whether it was that he really
believed that it was his manipulations and ope-
rations which alone had commenced, and could
perfect his recovery,—or whether his previous
alarm had so far bewildered him as to cause
his judgment at the moment to err,—or whether
that apparent alarm had merely been the agi-
tation that the worst of human beings must
have felt, at seeing the near accomplishment of
such hellish plans ; —certain it is, that, instead of
withdrawing himself, he recommenced his ges-
ticulations and movements round the boy more
vigorously than ever; so that when the un-
186 VANDELEUR.
fortunate youth opened his eyes, he found him-
self still surrounded by, and subjected to, the
same frightful and bewildering incantations,
—
and not now from his gentle favourite, but from
a dark and foreign-looking stranger.
It was too much for his weak and shattered
nerves and intellects to resist. He looked
wildly and despairingly around him for his
sister : she stood at a little distance, with fast
cold tears pouring over her quivering lips and
cheeks, but not venturing to interrupt the
count in his operations. In that agonised
moment, nature, habit, long association asserted
their power—and as a bird, when pursued by
the cruel hawk, has been known to seek shelter
in the breast of man—so, though poor wretched
Gertrude had been made the instrument first
to inspire her brother with that cruel terror,
instinct told him she was not his enemy —and,
in the moment of his mortal agony, he no soon-
er caught a glimpse of her, than he shrieked
44
Gertrude ! Gertrude .
,V)
in a voice that might
VANDELEUR. 187
have waked the dead by its piercing and help-
less anguish—and making an effort to fling him-
self towards her, a fearful struggle overcame
him—it became convulsive—he wrestled with
it for a moment—and then—his pure and ha-
rassed spirit was at rest for ever !
No one who has once seen Death can ever
again mistake his fearful aspect. De l’Espoir
knew at a glance that the boy was dead ; but
there are some young spirits so full of life
themselves, never having seen, scarcely having
thought on or believed in death, that they re-
fuse to acknowledge it on its first appearance,
especially if it assume the features of one they
love. Such was the case with Gertrude : she
flung her arms about her brother—alas ! around
her brother’s corpse — and kissing his lips
and chafing his hands, endeavoured to revive
him.
The count, distressed and alarmed, approach-
ed her. “ Away ! away !” she cried, waving
him off with her hand, but looking not up from
188 VANDELEUR.
her occupation,—“ Away ! lie shall be terrified
no more. Fool, fool that I was ! at the mo-
ment too when reason seemed dawning on
him r
He caught at the words. “ Know you not,
my dearest young lady, that such is generally
the forerunner of—of
”
“ Of death ?” shrieked Gertrude, in a tone
of interrogation. “ He shall not die ! God
would not so deal with me.” And then heating
and stirring up the powerful salts, she again
held them to his nose.
But this time it was in vain — and every
moment was making it evident and more evi-
dent that Herbert Evelyn had passed away.
Some vague feeling of this was forcing its way
into Gertrude’s heart, but she would not listen
to it. “ Here,” she called to De l’Espoir, in
hurried but commanding accents, — “Here —
perhaps he is overcharged with magnetic fluid ;
relieve him from it again as you did before.”
VANDELEUR. 189
And she rose from her knees to make way for
him.
De l’Espoir was now unaffectedly shocked,
as well as terrified ; nothing else could have
detained him so long in so perilous a situation.
He approached Gertrude, and taking her hand,
gave her to understand, with such precaution as
the time and scene admitted of, that no earthly
power could nowr
restore her brother !
When Gertrude had first entered the arbour,
she had thrown aside her bonnet ; and in the
subsequent agitating scenes, her long dark hair
had escaped from its confinement, and fell in un-
heeded profusion about her face and neck. Any
object will serve the overwrought nerves to
exhaust their energy upon. She now twisted
her hands in her dishevelled tresses, and with
eyes far started from their sockets, cheeks of a
ghastly paleness, from which they never after-
wards perfectly recovered, and lips as white,
and literally foaming from the gasping manner
190 VANDELEUR.
in which her breath forced out its passage, she
stood before De TEspoir on the very verge of
madness ! She uttered not a shriek, or word, or
sound, except one long protracted articulation
of the interrogatory monosyllable, “ A—y— ?”
and continued fixedly gazing on him, as if to
save herself from ocular demonstration of the
overwhelming fact.
De l’Espoir, all villain as he was, felt at that
moment that Gertrude and her estates were
dearly purchased, and literally shuddered at the
sight of the state to which his machinations had
reduced that lovely pair. He approached the
unfortunate surviving victim in this moment of
awakened feeling, and clasping her in his arms,
of which she not only appeared, but in reality
was, utterly unconscious, he whispered every
tender epithet he could think of, mingled with
anxious hints that nothing now remained for her
but to fly with him, and find consolation in his
devoted affection. Had it been the rattlesnake
itself which had exerted its baneful influence to
VANDELEUR. 191
subdue her spirit to its own destruction, Ger-
trude could not have remained more utterly
unmoved, and seemingly insensible of all he
uttered.
He was at a loss how to understand her si-
lence and abstraction, for she neither shed a
tear, nor breathed a sigh, but continued to gaze
on him with a glassy eye, when his attention
was most fearfully diverted from her by the
voices of persons close at hand.
It has been mentioned that the garden was
neglected of late years ; and the walks, over-
grown with weeds and grass, returned no echo
to the foot as it fell upon them ; so that ere
De TEspoir had time to look round, even without
changing his position, two gentlemen already
stood within the entrance of the arbour. The
age of the one, and the strong resemblance
which his handsome features bore to Gertrude
and her brother, and the military travelling
dress, together with something remembered of
the former appearance of the other, served to
192 VANDELEUR.
convince him at a glance that he stood con-
fronted with the father and the lover of her, and
the father and intended brother of him whom
he had destroyed.
Gertrude also recognised them at the same
instant, as was evident from a certain unde-
finable expression which struggled through the
rigidity that had taken possession of her fea-
tures. But although De l’Espoir had mecha-
nically released her from his embrace the mo-
ment he perceived them, instead of making
any attempt to address them, or evincing the
slightest surprise at the unexpected appearance
of her lover, she merely pointed downwards
with terrific calmness to the body of her bro-
ther, which still lay stretched where it had
fallen. Hitherto she had avoided looking to-
O
wards it, as if yet resisting the dreadful con-
viction ; but now her eyes uncontrollably light-
ed upon it. She gazed and gasped wildly and
loudly for a moment, as if she would scare
away Death itself ; then flinging herself, or ra-
VANDELEUR. 193
tlier suffering herself to fall with violence on
the body, she shrieked “ Herbert ? Herbert ?”
in so heart-rending a tone of interrogation, as
caused every one present involuntarily to press
their hands on their ears ; and would, indeed,
had one spark of life remained, have called it
forth to tell her she had not done the deed.
The voice was one of loud and distracted ap-
peal—almost, you would have said, reproachful,
in its shrill agony : but, no, no,—that heart
which would have responded to soothe her was
hushed for ever, and she found indeed that she
but addressed
“ The dull cold ear of death.’*
Mr. Evelyn and Major Vandeleur, who had
from the moment of their hasty entrance literally
stood transfixed with horror, and as if rooted to
the earth, were restored to consciousness, or at
least to motion, by Gertrude’s wild scream
:
and although Vandeleur was certainly at the
moment assailed by, perhaps, all the most
dreadful feelings to which man is liable, when
VOL. II. K
194 VANDELEUR.
lie beheld his betrothed bride apparently re-
ceiving the caresses of another, and her only
brother, his beloved friend, lying at the same
time a corpse at her feet ; still, when he heard
that soul-drawn shriek, and saw her, in her hope-
lessness of awaking her brother, seize his cold
hand and press her throbbing forehead into it,
his own burning anguish was lost in pity for her,
and he made an attempt to go forward to raise
her from so dreadful a position. But the unfor-
tunate father, whose feelings he had overlooked,
at the same moment seized his arm to keep him-
self from falling, and, after two or three ineffec-
tual attempts to speak, at last uttered, in a sort
of hoarse whisper, the words, “ Ask them—ask
them what it is.”
When Vandeleur and Mr. Evelyn entered the
arbour, De PEspoir’s back was towards them
;
and although he instantly turned round, Vande-
leur had already seen that which made every-
thing and everybody else a matter of little mo-
ment to him ; and, in fact, he had as yet not
VANDELEUR. 195
raised his eyes from Gertrude and her brother.
On this appeal of the wretched father, he slow-
ly and loathingly turned them to the stranger.
Memory for a moment deserted him, although
something in the whole appearance was familiar
to him. It was hut for a moment : his eye soon
ran greedily over the dark and handsome counte-
nance—the tall and gentlemanly figure : its pu-
pil visibly began to contract ; he drew his breath
inwards for a moment—took one more scrutiniz-
ing survey —then dismissing every remaining
doubt, slowly and emphatically pronounced the
words, “So! my schoolfellow, De Brons l
1 '
De FEspoir, whose feelings towards his fated
rival did not require the additional exasperation
of the haughty or contemptuous survey he had
been obliged to undergo, touched his hat as
haughtily, and feeling that concealment was at
an end, replied, “ The Count De FEspoir,
sir.”
“Then, Count De FEspoir, M. De Brons,
or whatever name may suit you now, in God’s
196 VANDELEUR.
name, what is the meaning of the scene that is
now before us ?”
De FEspoir hesitated for a moment; he
felt that his fate through life depended wholly
upon his conduct in this interview —almost
upon his next answer. He took his resolu-
tion. “ That it is a strange scene and an
afflicting one to you, sir, —if you are, as I judge,
Major Yandeleur,—I can imagine : nevertheless,
from me you can receive no explanation of it.
Your right to demand it at my hands I might
question ; but, instead, I tell you for your own
sake to forbear the inquiry and he threw into
his countenance a sinister and hellish expression.
“ This will not avail your purpose, sir :
you
forget you speak to one who knows you of old :
account for your clandestine, unauthorised ap-
pearance here under such fearful circumstances,
or the vengeance with which I shall visit you
where you stand, shall send your infamy to the
very ends of the earth.
1 ’’
“ Vengeance for what, sir ?
11
asked De FEs-
O 7
poir with startling coolness.
VANDELEUIt. 197
“ For what, sir ? Can you look before you
and ask for what ?”
De FEspoir smiled a cold and meaning smile ;
but ere Vandeleur had time to ask again what
that meaning was, Gertrude, who had remained
with her forehead only kept from the cold earth
by her brother’s hand —almost as cold—but
which was kept from becoming utterly so by the
few scalding tears that escaped from her eyes
without her consciousness, —on hearing Vande-
leur’s loud and angry tones, raised her head from
its position, and looking up at her father, said, in
a kind of confidential, hissing whisper, which
fell like molten lead drops upon the nerves of
all present, “ Father ! I did it
!”
It was neither madness nor idiocy which dic-
tated these fearful words ; it was simply that her
mind was so shattered —so decomposed, as it
were,—that it admitted but of the one over-
whelming idea, and that to be expressed in its
simplest form. Every one made some involun-
tary movement expressive of his horror at her
gate : her father, ever more partial to his son
198 VANDELEUR.
than to liis daughter, seemed to recoil from her
even for the very words.
De FEspoir looked at her with an expression
of pity evidently intended to be observed ; while
Vandeleur, feeling that, whatever had been her
fault, her sufferings now atoned for it, advanced
to her, and forcibly raising her from the ground,
(for she would have resisted his efforts,) im-
plored her, by every feeling that ever was dear
to her, to compose herself, and try to give them
some account of what had happened. As his
voice and manner resumed something of its
former tone and tenderness, it seemed to pro-
duce some little effect upon her recollection ;
for, turning her head towards him as he sup-
ported her, she looked in his face with a kind of
inquiring and softening curiosity.
He repeated his entreaties. “ Oh, Godfrey !
Godfrey !” she said gently, but without any par-
ticular expression ; but as her eye again glanced
at the body of her brother, she grew wilder, and
raising herself from his supporting arms, she
VANDELEUR. 199
seized his wrists in her hands as if for security,
and said, “Well, Godfrey, what would you
with the fratricide ? Have I not already told
my father ?
V)
—and with terrifying distinctness
and solemnity she repeated the words — “ /
—
killed —my brother
She finished with a faint sound, something
between a sigh, a shriek, and a moan of heart-
sick despair. Godfrey himself, although con-
vinced that grief had disordered her intellects,
now started as far back as the strange and ner-
vous grasp she had taken of his wrists would
admit of ; hut her father, whom nothing of the
kind restrained, and who was wrought up to
absolute frenzy between De FEspoir’s insinua-
tions and her own confessions, made a stride
towards her, and, had not Vandeleur, with a
wrench releasing his hands, sprung up in time
to arrest him, would have struck her to the
earth !
The unfortunate girl, whose intellects had
already been shaken almost to imbecility, was
VANDELEUR.
200
now finally bewildered and overwhelmed. She
had felt her lover start from her; —she saw
her father lift his arm to strike her, and at
the same moment felt Vandeleur wrench his
hands from her grasp.—In her terror she mis-
took the object of his sudden and violent move-
ment, and only feeling that she was condemned
and abandoned by the world, and that De FEs-
poir alone could bear witness to her motives,
she fled with a shriek towards him to ask that
explanation ; but, ere she could utter a syllable,
fell fainting into his arms.
This was too much for Vandeleur to bear.
He sprang towards her to drag her from her
hateful resting-place ; but De F Espoir, coolly
drawing a pistol from his breast, (which, antici-
pating the possibility of some interruption, he had
brought with him,) cocked it on the instant, and
told him to advance a step farther at his peril.
Vandeleur, already infuriated, and only ren-
dered desperate by this threat, closed with him
instantly, and attempted to wrench the weapon
VANDELEUR. 201
from liis hand. De l’Espoir fired, and the con-
tents lodged in Major Vandeleur’s right side
and liip. He fell instantly, utterly disabled,
but called out to Mr. Evelyn to secure the
ruffian whom alone he believed to be the au-
thor of all the misery around them.
De FEspoir smiled contemptuously, and, pro-
ducing another loaded pistol, convinced them
how useless any farther opposition to his will
must prove.
In this cruel dilemma Mr. Evelyn knew not
what to do. VandeleuEs life-blood seemed
welling from his wound, fearfully stimulated
by his agitation ; and as he was already becom-
ing faint, it was evident that in a few minutes
more he would, if unassisted, be little better
than Herbert was himself. He saw that there
was no chance of saving him but by hurrying
to the house and summoning that assistance
;
yet, unwilling to leave De l
1
Espoir sole guardian
of all he held dear on earth, though without
Vandeleur’s reasons for suspecting his worst
k 5
202 VANDELEUR.
designs, lie said, “ Man, whoever yon are, or
whatever your intentions, at least convey my
daughter to the house, since you will not leave
her ; and there let us, if possible, understand
each other.”
De l’Espoir indulged in another of his sar-
donic sneers. “Would it not be as well to
\
know the young lady’s own wishes upon that sub-
ject first ?” he asked. “ Methinks you have seen
enough already to make you at least doubt that
such would be her choice and he looked down
on the lovely form which still lay lifeless on his
arm.
Vandeleur, though now speechless, seemed
not yet to have lost all consciousness, for he
was seen to writhe? and even heard to utter a
faint moan.
“ By Heaven, it is too true !” said Mr.
Evelyn, relapsing into fury against his unfortu-
nate daughter, which had for the moment been
so fearfully diverted :
u and this explains what
Lady Luscombe hinted, and her own horror of
VANDELEUR. 203
Vandeleur’s return. D—n me if another va-
luable life shall be lost by her ! and I care not
if I ever see her again !” So saying, be left
the arbour as hastily as bis limbs, shaking and
tottering from agitation, would admit of.
He was no sooner out of sight, than lJe
TEspoir, raising the wTetched Gertrude in bis
arms, regardless of a convulsive movement and
a hoarse cry from her still more wretched lover,
bore her from the arbour before bis eyes, and
across the fields to an opening from the road,
where be bad a post-carriage and four horses in
waiting, merely on the chance of their being
required that evening.
Nearly an hour necessarily elapsed before
Mr. Evelyn returned with the servants ; and by
that time Vandeleur was not only speechless,
but apparently without life or motion. No
trace of the fugitives of course remained ;
and
Mr. Evelyn, really feeling, as be said, indifferent
about ever seeing bis wretched daughter again,
and believing De TEspoir to be her choice, de-
204 VANDELEUR.
ferred, in the confusion that ensued, al! active
search after her, until the travellers had indeed
gained such an advantage as to elude all chance
of being overtaken. We shall therefore leave
them in unmolested progress on their journey,
and in the next chapter endeavour to account
for the sudden and unexpected return of Major
Vandeleur.
VANDELEUR. 205
CHAPTER XV.
Yet do I live ? —O how shall I sustain
This vast, unutterable weight of woe,
—
This worse than hunger, poverty, or pain,
Or all the complicated ills below !
She in whose life my hopes were treasured all
Is gone. She lives on some far happier shore;
—
She lives—but, cruel thought ! she lives to me no more !
Suawe.
Herbert Evelyn had been visibly declin-
ing in bodily strength for some time before bis
father thought it necessary to inform Gertrude
of the circumstance. With Major Vandeleur,
however, he was less reserved ; and to him he
communicated that Mr. C ,
in his last visit,
had expressed his apprehensions that the hoy’s
constitution was giving way; hut reiterated his
charges to Major Vandeleur, not to cloud Ger-
trude’s present enjoyment by imparting news
206 VANDELEUR.
for which she could point out no remedy. In
this, as may be supposed, Vandeleur fully ac-
quiesced.
When poor Mr. Mason died, Mr. Evelyn
wrote to Vandeleur again ; but having no sys-
tem in his proceedings, and not excelling in epis-
tolary talents, he omitted to mention to him his
determination now to inform Gertrude of the
truth, and to summon her home. Accordingly,
Major Vandeleur had no prospect before his
mind’s eye but his beloved young friend, left to
the cares of those he knew to be very incompe-
tent to the task ; and as Gertrude’s last letter to
him made no mention of any time for her return,
though only a few weeks now remained of his
probationary period, he thought his best plan
would be to procure his leave at once ; to pro-
ceed in person to watch over Herbert ; and if
Gertrude continued inexorable about seeing him
before the stated time, he settled to go to
London for the very few days that he thought
it probable would remain between the time
of her return and the expiration of the six
VANDELEUR. 207
months. Mrs. Whitecross’s letter reached him,
but it added not one spur to his impatience
to return ; so perfect and undoubting was his
confidence in her truth and affection : and he
merely attributed it to the well-meaning, but
vulgar mind of an officious woman, who saw
a lover in every man of more than ordinary
civility.
In pursuance of this plan, he wrote to Mr.
Evelyn, saying he would be at Beauton very
soon after his letter ; but, in his turn, desiring
him not to write this his intention to Gertrude,
as, in consequence of her prohibition, it would
require all his own eloquence to procure his
pardon.
Mr. Evelyn paid very little regard to all such
prohibitions, and especially from his daughter
;
and that he did not inform her of it, was
much more in order to procure himself the plea-
sure—or, as he termed it, the “ capital fun
1’
—of their mutual surprise, than in obedience
either to her wishes, or even to those of Vande-
leur St' 11, as the time drew near, he attempted
208 VANDELEUR.
to hint it toher; but her reception of that hint,
though only making him more determined to
laugh and set at nought such whims, had the effect
of making him avoid any discussion upon the
subject. How he afterwards interpreted her ex-
clamation on that occasion is already evident.
Gertrude had not long set out upon her fatal
expedition with her brother, when Major Van-
deleur arrived. His first inquiries were of
course for Herbert.
Mr. Evelyn said he was out.
“ Out ! I’m glad to hear he is able to be out.
Who is with him ?”
Mr. Evelyn stammered for a moment ; then,
recollecting himself, said
—“ Miss Wilson. But
come, and we’ll look for them: they cannot,
I’m sure, have gone far.”
Vandeleur, heartily pitying his poor young
friend for being consigned to the companionship
of so obtuse a being as Miss Wilson, readily
agreed to set out in quest of him.
They searched several of the walks in vain ;
VANDELEUR. 209
but at length Miss Wilson appeared in sight.
“Why, is not that Miss Wilson ?” said Vande-
leur. “What can she have done with Herbert?”
But turning to Mr. Evelyn, and seeing no alarm
in his countenance or manner, he only hastened
his steps to meet her.
Miss Wilson, however, on perceiving them,
remembered Miss Evelyn’s injunction to her, and
turned to avoid them. Mr. Evelyn called after
her : she affected deafness and held on her course,
for obedience was the alpha and omega of her
code of duty ; in fact, it seemed as if she could
never of her own free will resist whatever im-
pulse was last given to her. Mr. Evelyn, how-
ever, had no mind to resign his share of this her
single virtue ; he therefore called again, and
hastened his steps almost to a run.
Vandeleur, concluding that it was the sight of
him which had scared her, laughingly paused, to
suffer Mr. Evelyn to come up with her alone ;
but the odd creature actually pursued her way,
unmindful of his repeated calls, even when he
210 VANDELEUR.
was close behind her, until he was absolutely
obliged to seize her by the shoulder to stop her.
“ What is the meaning of this, Miss Wilson ?
Why the devil don’t you stop or answer when
you are called ? \V here is Miss Evelyn ?”
“ I don’t know, sir.”
“ You don’t know ! Why, didn’t I tell
you to wheel Herbert’s chair ?”
“ I did, sir.”
“ Where to ?” A dead pause. “ Why don’t
you speak ? Has anything happened ?
“ No, sir ; no, indeed.”
“ Then, d—n it ! why don’t you give me an
answer ?” and his manner grew irritable as it
was wont of late to be.
Miss Wilson was frightened ; and not having
art enough for any evasion, though silence was
her forte, she now answered—“ Miss Evelyn,
sir, bid me not tell you where she was.”
“ How ! And where’s Mr. Herbert?”
“ With her, sir.”
“ Tush, you idiot !” he half muttered and half
pronounced. “ Well, I insist on knowing where
VANDELEUR. 211
they are. Speak this moment, I command
you.”
“ I wheeled Mr. Herbert, sir,” she now whim-
pered, “ to the gate of the old East-garden, and
I left them there.”
“Well, go—to the devil !” he said; but we will
hope that, as he had the grace only to finish the
sentence as he turned to rejoin Major Vande-
leur, she escaped without hearing her destina-
tion, lest in that moment of her obedience being
enlisted on Mr. Evelyn’s side, she might have
thought it her duty to obey him to the letter.
“ Well, have you made out about Herbert ?”
asked Vandeleur.
“ Oh yes, I have. Come on. She left him in
the East-garden.”
“ What, alone !”
“ Oh no : never mind ; ask no questions.”
Vandeleur stopped short in his walk, and fixed
his eyes on his companion. “ Is it possible ?” he
asked, suddenly and anxiously.
“ Nonsense ! is what possible ?”
“ Is Gertrude here ?”
212 VANDELEUR.
“ D—n that Miss Wilson I
11
was the reply ;
“ only for her you never would have guessed.”
“ My dear sir, what had she to do with it ?
I heard not a word that passed between you : I
assure you it was entirely your own manner be-
trayed you. But is it really the case that my
dear love is here already ?”
u Ay, but she flurried my manner, the wretch !
and put me off my guard. Indeed it was Ger-
trude’s own doing at bottom.”
“ Does she then know I am coming ?”
“ No, not she ; but, in one of her whims, she
desired that idiot not to tell me where she was.”
And he spoke so peevishly from being disap-
pointed of the full enjoyment of the double sur-
prise he had planned, that Vandeleur thought
the sooner he removed his sweet bride out of
his power the better. Nothing, however, could
at that moment long damp the rapture he
felt at finding her so near him; and seeing
nothing in what her father called her whim, but
some little innocent device of her playful spirit,
VANDELEUR. 213
he with infinite difficulty restrained his steps
to Mr. Evelyn’s pace.
Of the scene that awaited them the reader is
already aware, and it is needless to go over it again.
It is quite impossible to convey any idea of
the consternation of the servants, on Mr. Eve-
lyn’s return to the house, at the almost in-
credible events that had taken place in one
short hour, or very little more : their young
master dead, no one knew how—their young
lady eloped with a stranger of whom no one
had ever heard—and Major Vandeleur returned
unexpectedly within that hour, and now appa-
rently a corpse likewise !
One and all they followed Mr. Evelyn back
to the arbour, except Mrs. Whitecross, whom
her young lady had sent on some commission
from which she had not yet returned ; and
Miss Wilson, who, fearful alike of meeting
Mr. Evelyn or his daughter, had extended her
walk beyond her wont.
When at length Mrs. Whitecross did return,
214 VANDELEUR.
she was amazed at the unusual stillness that per-
vaded the yard and out-offices of the house. Re-
collecting, however, that it was about the servants'
1
dinner-hour, she entered their eating apartment.
There she found the remains of their dinner in-
deed, but evidently abandoned in a haste and
confusion far beyond that permitted even at
Beauton Park. She was still more amazed, when
she went through the rest of the servants
1
apart-
ments, and could nowhere see anybody. Bash-
fulness, however, was not her foible ; and accord-
ingly she hastened to the drawing-room door,
and gave two smart taps at it. No answer was
returned. She opened the door : the room was
deserted. She turned to the dining-room, and
hesitated not to apply eye and ear alternately to
the key-hole. It was in vain ; neither sight nor
sound repaid her.
Her courage, great as it was, did not amount
to running the risk of an abrupt intrusion up-
on Mr. Evelyn ; so she hurried up stairs, and
running through the few rooms that were now
VANDELEUR. 215
inhabited, and finding them all deserted, she
shrieked aloud with terror. Echo only replied
to her ; and hurrying down stairs again, and has-
tily peeping into Herbert’s room as she passed,
she muttered 44
Mr. Herbert and all !” and es-
caped from the house into the lawn.
As she crossed the front hall, Major Vande-
leur’s portmanteau and travelling trunk caught
her eye :
44
Oh ! this is all enchantment toge-
ther !” she exclaimed, rubbing her eyes. 44
Let
me think : did I taste anything at the milliners’
that they could have put any drug into ?—not
a drop. What is come to me ?”
She looked around her again, and now in the
distance she saw a crowd advancing slowly
through the trees ; —for, evening as it was, the
news had spread through the air, no one knew
how, and several persons had fallen in amongst
the domestics of the family.
Mrs. Whitecross hurried towards them. The
first person whom she distinctly saw, supporting
the head of his beloved master, was her own
216 VANDELEUR.
husband, who had returned with Vandeleur. It
was no time for welcome —she looked a little far-
ther—and saw the dead body of Herbert ! Sally
Whitecross, though conceited and presuming,
was good-natured and affectionate. She was
obliged to catch by some one’s arm to keep her
from falling,—or, as she termed it herself, from
“ dropping,” at this appalling spectacle ; and it
was some minutes before the poor woman’s hyste-
rical choking permitted her to burst into loud
wailing and to ask what had happened.
No one could tell. And as their feelings
were as yet too sincerely engaged to allow their
imaginations to fabricate a story, they indulged
in the mysterious, and only gloomily shook their
heads.
“ Oh, my heavens ! my poor young lady !
what will become of her when she hears it!
Does no one know where she is ?”
“No one, indeed,” some one whispered :
“ they say she ’s gone entirely.”
“ Gone entirely ! What do you mean ? gone
where ?
”
VANDELEUR. 217
Again, though no one knew how the whisper
had been spread, or with whom it originated,
for no one could recall what words fell from Mr.
Evelyn in his distraction, but so it was, that
every one had a vague idea that Gertrude was
gone off’ with a foreign-looking stranger; and
this was now conveyed to Mrs. Whitecross.
She uttered a loud scream, which reached
even Mr. Evelyn’s ears ; although he, unwilling
to have his anguish exposed to the gaze of
the strangers who had assembled, hung consi-
derably behind. Fearing that some alarming
change had taken place in Vandeleur’s state, he
hurried forward to inquire what had happened.
Mrs. Whitecross forgot all her fears of him in
her consternation, and running up to him, cried
out, “ Oh ! sir, for God’s sake tell me, is it true
that Miss Evelyn is carried off by a French-
man ?”
“ It is but too true that she is gone.”
“ Then may God pity the poor child ! Oh,
sir ! oh, husband ! oh, William Whitecross
!
VOL. II. L
218 VANDELEUR.
there is no time for further concealment ! the
truth must be told! —the Count de FEspoir has
mistaken Miss Evelyn for me/”
On hearing this speech, not a doubt even en-
tered any one’s mind but that Sally’s brain had
turned. Her husband, under this impression,
tenderly consigned his master to the care of
whoever stood next him, and turned to console
his wife. “ Compose yourself, compose yourself,
Sally,” said he; “don’t talk so wildly, dear.
But do you know anything of this Frenchman ?”
“ Know anything of him ! Oh, William !”
she sobbed out, falling on his shoulder, “ it is
true what I have said. It was me he wanted
—
it is” and she hesitated, with a natural feel-
ino’ of reluctance, to name to her husband her
former wooer as being again an acquaintance.
But, while she hesitated, Miss Wilson—for
even her inertia was overcome by the general
attraction—-joined the sad procession, and hear-
ing Mrs. Whitccross’s last words, was roused
enough by the tumult around her to say, “No
VANDELEUR. 2J9
such thing-, no such thing, woman ;
the gentle-
man has been meeting and courting Miss
Evelyn. And having calmly made this an-
nouncement, she was timidly advancing on tip-
toe to see what had befallen Herbert in the
short period since she left him, when Mr Eve-
lyn, seizing her by the arm, exclaimed, u What
is that you say about this man meeting Miss
Evelyn ? When—where, that you could know
of ? and how have they destroyed my child P
11
But the very words softening his feelings, he
again remembered that there were too many
witnesses of his emotion, and determined to
stifle further anxiety to learn the particulars,
until tliev should reach the house, and until
Vandeleur, nearly as deeply interested, could
attend to them.
As the first step taken by Mr. Evelyn when
he had returned from the arbour, after Major
Vandeleur
1
s wound, was to send off his fleetest
hunter for a surgeon, who resided in the town of
Beauton, the procession did not arrive many
l 2
VANDELEUR.
220
minutes before he did. Of course, his first
glance at poor Herbert was decisive; but of
Major V andeleur’s state he was very doubt-
ful. The ball, though it had passed quite
through the lower part of his side, had touched
the hip-joint, and, the surgeon feared, had frac-
tured the bone.
Quiet was of course prescribed above all
things. But as that, under existing circumstances,
could only be the result of utter insensibility, no
sooner did Vandeleur, under the surgeon’s hands
and the influence of restoratives, recover his fa-
culties and speech, than he insisted upon making
every possible inquiry respecting the dreadful,
and indeed most mysterious, events of that fatal
evening.
Mr. Evelyn and the surgeon would both have
dissuaded him, the former assuring him that he
had sent to have Gertrude sought for ; but there
was a cool decision in Vandeleur’s manner, that
showed them opposition would be fruitless. Ac-
cordingly, the surgeon, saying he would return
VANDELEUR. m
to Beauton to make some necessary arrange-
ments previously to taking up his abode at the
Park, withdrew ; and Mr. Evelyn informed \ an-
deleur exactly of what had fallen from the two
women, and of which he had not yet lfad time
to inquire farther.
Nothing could of course be more distracting
than such intelligence proved, as far as it went
;
for though Vandeleur, notwithstanding all that
appeared against it, would sooner have doubted
his own faith and truth than that of Gertrude,
he knew not how to account for Miss Wilson's
assertion—she who was simple truth itself, from
the mere incapacity for invention. Mrs. White-
cross’s letter also now flashed across his mind ;
and though he did not for a moment believe
—
scarcely listen to the speech of that lady, as to
herself being the object of the Frenchman’s pur-
suit, he still admitted not a doubt even to enter
his mind but that his young and artless Ger-
trude had been led into some fatal snare, and
was far more sinned against than sinning. It
222 VANDELEUR.
scarcely required a moment’s consideration for
him to arrive at this conclusion ; and even De
l’Espoir could, in his utmost malice, have wished
his rival no deeper agony than that which as-
sailed him while Mr. Evelyn went to summon
Sally Whitecross to his presence.
She entered his chamber, her eyes swollen
with weeping ; and instantly advancing to the
bed on which Vandeleur lay, she burst out
again into such floods of tears, that she was
unable to speak for some minutes, and hid her
face in the counterpane. As soon as she was a
little recovered, she clasped her hands together,
and with eyes still streaming, and an air of sin-
cerity and contrition which could not be mis-
taken, she exclaimed, “ Oh ! Major Vande-
leur ! —oh ! my dear master ! I am a wretch—
I
am a wretch !
—you never can forgive me ! I
have destroyed you and my dearest young lady !”
She sobbed violently again.
Mr. Evelyn desired her to command herself,
and consider the state of Major Vandeleur’s
VANDELEUR. 223
health and feelings. Vandeleur was himself
unable to speak, from agitation and alarm of he
knew not exactly what kind.
“ Oh ! I will, I will, sir ! But to think of it,
the base deceiving villain !
—and J that ought
to know so much of human nature ! Cer-
tainly, after all, William Whitecross, you
know more, and are the best man and husband
living.
11
She then, without much farther apostrophising
the absent, or tantalizing the anxiety of those
present, proceeded to give a circumstantial ac-
count, from beginning to end, of Gertrude's and
her own adventures with the Count De TEspoir,
and of the infatuation which prevented her from
putting Gertrude on her guard against him by
disclosing the truth.
At a glance Vandeleur beheld, displayed be-
fore him, the whole of the diabolical scheme that
had been laid for his unhappy bride, and which,
alas ! had been but too successful. That he
could not wholly acquit her of being too easily
224 VANDELEUR.
duped by a stranger, was only the necessary
consequence of his never having even heard of
the arguments which that stranger had quoted
in support of his theory ; but his fond affection,
and consideration of her youth, inexperience,
and exalted motives, not only prevented him
from throwing a shadow of blame over her, but
caused him more deeply to execrate the villain
that could take advantage of such a creature,
whose intelligence avas only inferior to her con-
fiding purity and innocence.
Mr. Evelyn, however, wr
as not so easily con-
vinced. He remembered Lady Luscoinbe’s
hints, and Gertrude’s own confusion at the
thoughts of Vandeleur’s return ; and even should
they all prove to have been subservient to the
same end, not such he conceived the assertions
of Miss Wilson.
“ Call her in,” was Yandeleur’s only reply,
with a cold smile which told sufficiently how
lightly he held farther doubts.
“ Miss Wilson,” said Mr. Evelyn as she
entered, “ did you not say that this stranger
VANDELEUR.
lias been meeting with, and courting my wretch-
ed daughter for some time ?”
“ Not for some time, sir ;
only they did
meet before.”
u When ? and where ?”
“ In the far grove, sir, yesterday evening. 1
went with Miss Evelyn.”
“ What makes you think he was courting
her ?”
“ I saw his eyes, sir.”
“ But did you hear any of their conversa-
tion ?”
“ I did, sir.”
“ Well, d—n it! go on! What was it
about ? Did they talk of going off, or of love
at all ?”
“ No, sir.”
Mr. Evelyn made an impatient movement, as
if he would strike her. She hastily added
—
“ But I judge the gentleman was coaxing
Miss Evelyn to meet him again, and telling her
he had some queer animal to show her, whose
name I forget.”
l 5
226 VANDELEUR.
“ You see ,” said Yandeleur with a faint
smile, to Mr. Evelyn.
“ What do I see ? I don’t understand her.”
“ You see, it is still the same story : she lias
heard them speaking of animal magnetism.'''’
“ Yes, sir, that was just the name. Miss
Evelyn seemed afraid of it, and yet to wish to
see it : and, indeed, I thought it all only a cat’s-
paw to have another meeting. But, sir, what
has happened to Mr. Herbert ?”
“ Go, go—that will do,” said Mr. Evelyn,
instinctively feeling, what poor Gertrude felt
before, how utterly impossible it would be to
convey any idea of the truth to her obtuse and
unimaginative mind : indeed, he could scarcely
be said to understand it himself ; and although
never, even at the frenzied moment of raising
his hand to her, did he really suspect his inno-
cent child of the crime of which she accused
herself, yet the habitual injustice of preferring
one of his children to the other, without the
slightest reason, now came out in double force
VANDELEUR. m
when they were thus thrown into so dreadful a
collision ; and in his heart, at that moment, he
hoped he might never see his daughter more.
Here let us drop the veil. There are some
states of feeling in which the sufferer dares not
give the rein to his own imagination—nay, dare
not boldly open his eyes on the whole reality,
instinctively feeling that madness or death must
ensue. Such was Vandeleur’s present state. To
lie powerless on a bed of sickness while his bride
was borne away in the fangs of a monster whom
he well knew how deeply she must by this time
loathe, and to be obliged to leave to hirelings,
whom he despatched in every direction for that
purpose, the chance of rescuing her, might seem
perhaps as great a trial as man could be sub-
jected to : but, in addition, Vandeleur sometimes
felt that deep and foul suspicion might, in the
vulgar mind, attach itself to her sacred name.
In this, however, he gave himself unnecessary
pain. Mrs. Sally Whitecross’s penitential ex-
planation, elicited by the steady good sense of
228 VANDELEUR.
her husband, and her own good feeling, and
made public under the same influences, turned
the tide at once, completely, and for ever, in
Gertrude’s favour: albeit it was received by
the multitude as they acknowledge the influence
of the moon upon the tide of the waters ; —they
believed it as firmly, and understood it as little.
The only difference was, that while they are,
perhaps, vaguely disposed ultimately to refer
the moon’s influence to God, they certainly not
more vaguely referred the Frenchman’s to the
devil.
These consolatory particulars, however, reach-
ed not Yandeleur in his sick-chamber, where he
lay for many months a prisoner, and, during
which time, not a trace had ever been found of
the fugitives : and though Mr. Evelyn’s first
orders on this subject might have been luke-
warm, it is almost unnecessary to say, that from
the moment Yandeleur recovered his recol-
lection, all that love, benevolence, and indig-
nation united could suggest, was put in force
VANDELEUR. 229
for Gertrude’s recovery from the state of sur-
passing misery in which he knew she must be,
if yet living. But all was alike in vain.
Lord and Lady Luscombe came to visit the
afflicted family ; and she, dispensing with form
on so trying an occasion, herself accompanied
Mr. Evelyn to Vandeleur’s chamber, to assure
him of everything that he already knew, of Ger-
trude’s purity and unswerving truth ; and that
no one who saw them together, could for a mo-
ment have doubted of the nature of the count’s
claims to her attention. Indeed, her own last
letter to Yandeleur from Paris, which onlv
reached him a fortnight after her disappearance,
recapitulating some of the strongest arguments
in favour of animal magnetism, and, as was
now evident, wishing to elicit his opinion and
sentiments concerning it, removed the only feel-
ing that had ever crossed his mind as even unac-
countable in her conduct, viz. that of such pro-
found secrecy of her feelings, and hopes, from
him.
230 VANDELEUR.
But the only circumstance which, during
the course of his long and most ill-timed con-
finement, could have brought anything like
real comfort to his mind, was the following
letter from Mr. C., Herbert’s physician, which
Mr. Evelyn received about three weeks after
the boy’s death.
“ My dear Sir,
“ Although in your affliction you have not
thought of communicating to me the catastrophe
which has befallen my interesting patient, your
son ; still, as the sad affair has reached my ears
through other channels, with some circum
stances which must have rendered your be-
reavement particularly trying to your feelings,
I cannot deny myself the satisfaction of writing
to you on this subject, because I think I can
afford you some comfort. I am informed that
circumstances have led you to attribute your
son’s death to the interference and quackery of
a stranger. Now, however much I condemn all
VANDELEUR. 231
such unqualified tampering with health, 1 must
on this occasion assure you that I do not think
any human power could much have accelerated
that melancholy event ; and although whatever
means were used, may have possibly caused it at
that particular moment, it was only as it might
have been caused by taking him up or down
stairs—into the open air—or any other neces-
sary exertion. This does not, of course, in
the least acquit the person in intention ; and I
merely pledge myself to the fact, as I think it
must bring some comfort to your mind, to
show you by what a frail tenure his life was
held from hour to hour, and how soon it must
have been relinquished even with the tenderest
care. You are aware I mentioned this in sub-
stance to you when I was last at your house.
From the moment I perceived his recollection
or intelligence occasionally returning, and his
bodily strength proportionally sinking, I saw
that we had nothing left on which to work. Of
your other, and perhaps severer trial, I will not
232 VANDELEUR.
speak, seeing that on that point I can afford
no relief, yet, feeling as I do that there lias
been some unexplained mystery attending the
whole matter. With sincere condolence,
“ I remain,
“ My dear sir, &c.”
Will it be believed that this letter, so calcu-
lated to afford Vandeleur such peculiar com-
fort, not only with respect to his own feelings,
but as being a balm for those of Gertrude when
it could be communicated to her, which she
would probably feel as almost indemnifying her
for all she should have suffered ; —will it be be-
lieved that Mr. Evelyn withheld this letter from
his knowledge ? It is almost impossible exactly
to define his motives. He not only really and
sincerely liked Vandeleur, and enjoyed his so-
ciety, but was as much more enraged and dis-
gusted with his unfortunate daughter even than
he would otherwise have been, for having caused
his present illness,—as if she would not have
VANDELEUR. 233
saved every throb of his wounds by doubly
painful ones in her own heart :
yet, with the
cruel injustice to which he had habitually
yielded, he withheld from him what he knew
would have afforded him relief, because he did
not choose to be deprived of the right of blam-
ing Gertrude for everything. Not that he
acknowledged this motive to himself—far from
it : on the contrary, he first threw the letter
pettishly from him, saying he did not believe a
word of it ; that Mr. C. had always made a
sort of pet of Gertrude, and, under pretence of
clearing the stranger, meant it really to ex-
culpate her : although in fact, in the mutilated
edition of the story which had reached London,
Mr. C. had never even heard Gertrude’s name
mentioned in connexion with her brother’s
death ; and, in the latter paragraph of his let-
ter, merely alluded to her elopement, as he
was aware of her engagement with Vandeleur.
Mr. Evelyn next said to himself, he should
show the letter to Vandeleur by-and-by. But,
234 VANDELEUR.
ill the mean time, a pretty little toy of Ger-
trude’s stood on the table near him,—a sort
of ornamented letter-box, which Vandeleur had
sent to her from London for slipping his letters
into, without the trouble of unlocking it each
time she received one, as that was to be an
event of such frequent occurrence. Mr. Eve-
lyn now, either by design, or in a fit of ab-
sence, let the letter slip into this box. It of
course was irrecoverable, as Gertrude had the
key of it always hung about her neck. Poor
thing ! how often must she have sighed over
it since ! and how little did she guess the
treasure it now secured,—one which she would
have valued far beyond even the dear ones al-
ready there !
For an instant Mr. Evelyn almost blamed
himself when he found he could not open the
box without violence, which he did not feel
himself authorised to use ; but then he satisfied
himself by saying that Vandeleur already ac-
quitted Gertrude more than he thought she de-
served, and that justice to all parties was best
VANDELEUR. 235
preserved by leaving matters as they now stood.
He forgot that it was the fear of the balance
preponderating against himself, that made him
so anxious for this left-handed justice, which
is but too common to uneducated minds.
Another excuse too, and perhaps a more
efficient one, may be offered for Mr. Evelyn’s
conduct on this occasion. His health, both of
mind and body, had decidedly got what is ex-
pressively termed a shake. From the time of
Herbert’s first accident, he had almost entirely,
and quite suddenly, abandoned his field-sports,
and consequently almost all his exercise or oc-
cupation. His spirits flagged, and he had re-
course to wine. He was naturally healthy and
robust ; this course of life was therefore pre-
cisely that most destructive to him. The
effects first showed themselves in his temper :
lie became irritable, nervous, feverish ; odd, un-
pleasant sensations in his head and stomach
succeeded, and his spirits sank still lower. He
drank more wine ; the symptoms increased
:
but as his health was apparently still unimpair-
236 VANDELEUR.
ed, and as lie was one who, from seldom re-
quiring one, laughed at doctors, lie refused to
attend to those symptoms.
Then came the final blow,—the loss of both
his children however differently estimated—and
the tedious illness of Major Vandeleur. He
sank entirely beneath it —or rather beneath its
influence on an uneducated mind which had no
resources to turn to ; and beneath deleterious
habits which were suffered to become inveterate
from the same cause—want of education,—that
is, of mental discipline.
He now did little more than wander about
the court in front of the house, dashing the peb-
bles about with the end of his stick ; or sit in
the drawing-room, to which Vandeleur was now
able to be moved, murmuring lamentations and
bitter execrations, which alike had lost their
poignancy, if not their meaning, from constant
reiteration.
At last, one day, Miss Wilson, who still
vegetated in her old quarters unmolested, came
VANDELEUlt. 237
running into the drawing-room. She looked pale
and frightened; for, strange to say, the poor
creature had grown nervous under the fearful
convulsions that had upset the family.
“ What is the matter, for Heaven’s sake,
Miss Wilson?” exclaimed Vandeleur, starting
up from the sofa where he was reclining. “ Any
news ?”
“ Oh no, sir, none that you mean. But Mr.
Evelyn, sir, looks very queer.”
“ What on earth do you mean ?” (for her looks
could not be trifled with.) “ Where is he ?”
“ Sir, he is sitting on the parlour-window
stool, leaning up in the corner, and his eyes
and mouth all wrong.”
Vandeleur hurried out as fast as he was able ;
and there indeed he found his unhappy friend
in an alarming state. He had been suddenly
seized with a fit, and although medical attend-
ance was instantly procured, he never spoke
again. He seemed to retain life for two days ;
but at the end of that time he was no more,
238 VANDELEUR.
and was laid beside his son in the vault of the
family.
When Mr. Evelyn’s sudden death took place,
Vandeleur found himself in a very disagreeable
and troublesome situation. Mr. Evelyn had
few relations, and of those few none were re-
siding in the same part of the country with
himself. His nearest and almost only acknow-
ledged relative was a nephew, the only son of
his only brother; a youth for whom, on the
death of his spendthrift father, Mr. Evelyn
had purchased a commission, and who had gone
with his regiment to India. Vandeleur was
perfectly aware of the general state of Mr.
Evelyn’s pecuniary affairs ; for, besides that the
latter had not the strange and unamiable foible
of keeping them concealed as closely as if he
feared a robber in every friend, the late cir-
cumstance of his intended connexion with the
family had put him fully in possession of every
particular. He knew that Gertrude was now
sole heiress to her father ; and, from Mr. Evelyn’s
VANDELEUll, 239
habits, lie thought it very probable he had made
no will. At all events, under every considera-
tion, he felt that he himself was the person most
fitted to act as executor. Yet, wishing to have
some one present while he examined the papers
and desks of his late friend, he wrote to beg of
Lord Foxhill, who, he knew, was one of Mr.
Evelyn's most intimate companions, to do that
good office for him. He came immediately ; and
in their search they found, contrary to their ex-
pectations, a will, made soon after Herbert’s ac-
cident, when probably Mr. Evelyn had thought
seriously for the first time in his life.
The will contained little more than a few
trifling legacies ; but it was particularly satisfac-
tory to Vandeleur’s feelings, both with respect
to the past and future, as it appointed him and
Lord Foxhill joint trustees and executors: and
as they both felt conscious that the latter was
merely named as being always on the spot, while
Vandeleur was likely to be wandering about,
their first step together was to put matters into
240 VANDELEUR.
such a train, as, while it should admit of a
long and indefinite absence on the part of Van-
deleur, without Gertrude’s interest suffering
thereby, should at the same time spare all un-
necessary trouble to his old colleague.
From the first moment that Yandeleur had
seen reason to hope for his own final recovery,
he had formed a resolution, that as soon as he
should be able to endure travelling, he would
set out, and in person institute such a search
after Gertrude, as, if her destroyer should be
able to elude, would indeed prove him the de-
mon that some already believed him to be.
From this determination there was nothing
now to deter him. His mother had long been
weaned from depending on his society for her
happiness, and still resided almost entirely with
the Duchess of Castleton. He therefore re-
solved at once upon disposing of his commis-
sion ;
for, besides that his health was still far
from being perfectly restored, he knew that the
duties of his profession would immeasurably in-
terfere with the unlimited search he meditated.
VANDELEUR. 241
Of the disadvantage to himself attending his a-
bandoning a profession in which he had so far suc-
ceeded, even beyond his own most sanguine hopes,
he thought not for a moment. The image ever be-
fore his eyes, was that of his innocent, beautiful,
loving, and beloved Gertrude, delivered up entire-
ly into the power of a monster, who had not liesi-
tated to employ such means for her destruction.
He knew her ardent character too well not to feel
in his own soul, and through every nerve, how
deep and dreadful must be her abhorrence of
him in whose power she was; and he sometimes
was driven to hope, and to believe, that death
must have ere now delivered her from such sur-
passing misery. With such thoughts ever pre-
sent to his mind, what were his own worldly
advantages or prospects to him ! —less than no-
thing. He felt that his interest in them was
gone for ever, with her who was to have shared
them, and that to resign them now in her service
was the last ray of comfort he could ever derive
from them.
VOL. II. M
242 YANDELEUR.
He hurried to London ; and so determined
was lie upon liis search being made with a mi-
nuteness that must baffle all ingenuity of con-
cealment, that while the arrangements for the
disposal of his commission were going on, lie
had every means put in requisition to seek for
the fugitives even there. But it was in vain ;
and in vain was it likewise that he caused the
offices whence passports are issued, to be exa-
mined : there was no record of any such names
as De l’Espoir or De Brons to be met with.
His next visit was to Paris ; but there he was
equally unsuccessful. The Count de PEspoir had
indeed left Paris at the time that corresponded
with his appearance in England—this he knew
too well—but of his return no one had ever
heard.
Being fully aware that Gertrude’s fortune
must have been far more the object of the vil-
ianous pursuit, than the reluctant hand of a crea-
ture so unsuited to him in every way, Vande-
leur drew up an article, which he caused to be
VANDELEUR.
inserted in the public prints of every part of
Europe, mentioning the event of Mr. Evelyn’s
death, and the circumstance of his daughter
being now sole heiress to his splendid fortune,
hoping thereby to elicit some intelligence re-
specting her. But although he gave references
and addresses to every capital town, and
even to many others, of the Continent, and
spared neither time, fatigue, nor expense, by
which he could have a chance of lighting on a
trace of those he was seeking, total mystery and
silence still enveloped them, until at last he be-
gan to think that both must have perished to-
gether.
He shuddered at the thought of how ? or
where ? or when ? or why ? The probable an-
swer to each was alike dreadful. And yet, if
she still lived, was her fate much better ?
244 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER XVI.
This cold and creeping kinsman, who so long
Kept his eye on me as the snake upon
The fluttering bird, hath ere this time o’erstept me
—
Become the master of my rights, and lord
Of that which lifts him up to princes in
Dominion and domain. Werner.
It was after a continued and unwearied
search of several months, during which time he
had visited more cities, wandered through more
inhabited solitudes, and plunged into more
places of public and private amusement, and ge-
neral resort, than probably the merest votary of
pleasure, or searcher after variety, had ever done
in the same space of time, that one evening,
heartless and dispirited, he flung himself upon
a sofa in his hotel at Brussels, whither the circle
VANDELEUR. 245
of his wanderings had brought him on his
return homewards.
“ A letter from England, sir,” said his ser-
vant Whitecross, who still accompanied him. .
“ Why did I not get it earlier ?” he ex-
claimed languidly,—“ when the English post
came inr
“ It came in the ambassador’s bag, sir ; which
was the cause of the delay.”
Vandeleur took the letter. He did not im-
mediately recognise the handwriting ; but, on
opening, he found it was a scrawl from old
Lord Foxhill. But, heavens ! what were the
news that scrawl contained !
Since Vandeleur’s absence from England,
Lord Luscombe had been appointed Secretary
for Foreign Affairs; and Lord FoxhilFs letter
was to inform Vandeleur, that he had just re-
ceived a letter from his daughter, Lady Lus-
combe, informing him that Mr. George Evelyn,
the next heir to the property of Beauton, and
who was just returned from India, had applied
246 VANDELEUR.
for a warrant to be issued from the secretary’s
office for the apprehension of Gertrude and her
accomplice, accused of the murder of Herbert
Evelyn. Lady Luscombe, with all the activity
of friendship, on hearing of this, wrote off to her
father, who, she was aware, always knew where
to direct to Vandeleur, and entreated of him
not to lose a post in despatching a letter to him
with the frightful intelligence.
It is absolutely impossible to convey any idea
of Vandeleur’s feelings on reading this letter.
That vague and unpleasant surmises might be
formed concerning Gertrude’s disappearance,
by those who only knew the worst of human
nature, and who had never known her, to cor-
rect their vile imaginings by, he was well
aware : but that there lived a human being
whose interest or inclination it conld be to fix
the stain upon her spotless purity, and then
hold it up to public view for the finger of scorn
to point at, had never even entered into his ima-
gination.
VANDELEUR. 247
When, upon the death of Mr. Evelyn, he ran
over in his mind the few relatives of whom he had
ever heard him speak, he thought of Mr. George
Evelyn amongst the rest, solely from an acci-
dental mention of him upon one occasion ; when,
the conversation turning on the purchase of
commissions, Mr. Evelyn mentioned his having
bought an ensigncy for this young man. The
circumstance of his beinsr in the entail never on-
o
tered into the contemplation of any one, probably
not even of himself, for Herbert and Gertrude
seemed even peculiarly formed for health and
happiness, until the death of the one, and the
mysterious disappearance of the other, seemed
literally to throw the ball at his foot. His mo-
ther immediately wrote the news to him, and ad-
vised him to return. He did so ; and from all
the particulars he could collect, without exciting
suspicion of his intentions, he succeeded in per-
suading himself that Gertrude herself was no
more, and that De FEspoir, having no legal proof
of their marriage to produce, had determined
248 VANDELEUR.
never to make any claim even on her personal
fortune. However, as Mr. Evelyn was aware
that, while this was mere conjecture, the trustees
could not be expected tQ resign their trust in his
favour, he resolved upon bringing the matter to
a crisis at once, by instituting the prosecution
against his unfortunate kinswoman and her ac-
complice ; soothing whatever compunctious vi-
sitings might occasionally assail him, with the re-
flection, that if Gertrude were innocent, her in-
nocence would appear—and if guilty—why she
deserved her fate.
Vandeleur ran over Lord Foxhilfs letter
again and again, in hopes each time of extract-
ing- some comfort from it; but it was all in vain.
O 7
Lord Luscombe was obliged to issue the warrant ;
and, turn the matter in what light he could,
he saw nothing but additional misery and dis-
grace impending over the lovely young crea-
ture whom he had taken to his bosom, with feel-
ings which partook of those of the tender parent,
as well as of the impassioned lover.
VANDELEUR. 249
Acquittal ! what a word to be coupled with
her name ! and acquitted of what ? Why, the
very accusation would prove her death.
Yet, that he must be the one to seek and
make her aware of that accusation, was the first
feeling that he knew to be reality, where for
some time all had appeared a frightful dream.
Yes, he must seek her out if she still existed,
and find what was the most prudent course
now left her to pursue, even if his own heart’s
blood must distil drop by drop in the undertak-
ing. But where to turn to next ?
There was but one capital town of any consi-
deration which he had yet left unexplored,—and
that perhaps as much from the improbability of
their having gone thither, as from feelings of an-
other kind, which made him prefer writing and
sending agents thither, to presenting himself on
such a quest to the English ambassador who at
that moment resided at St. Petersburgh. When
this frightful letter reached him, however, and
when he considered the minuteness of his former
m 5
250 VANDELEUR.
search, and the hopelessness of going- over the
same ground again ; and when he recollected
that the very circumstance of his supposing St.
Petersburgh out of the question, might cause it
to be selected by De l’Espoir, as it was evident
he chose for some reason to lie perdu,
he de-
termined that no selfish feelings of mortification,
or of any other kind whatsoever, should, even
for an hour longer, operate to detain him from
this last and remote chance of finding her, and
doing all in his power to smooth a path which
it pleased Heaven to make so rugged for her.
Accordingly, within an hour after he received
Lord FoxhilFs letter, he was cn route once more;
and scarcely allowing himself time for rest or
food, he arrived in the capital of Russia in the
shortest possible time.
It is the custom in that city for persons of all
ranks and conditions, even strangers who are
only residing there for a short time, to put their
names on some conspicuous part of the outside
of their houses or lodgings. Although Vande-
VANDELEUR. 251
leur had not a hope that De FEspoir would com-
ply with this custom, except by giving a false
name, still, in the feverish state of his anxiety,
the first evening of his arrival found him tra-
versing the streets, and examining the houses
as he passed, with an intensity of curiosity
which called forth many a gratified smile from
the inhabitants. They little guessed how in-
sensible his eye remained to every part of their
gorgeous architecture, except the one little com-
partment on which it rested.
As he was thus hurrying along, and endea-
vouring to form in his mind some plan for
his proceedings the next day, which might af-
ford him any chance of ascertaining whether, or
not, the persons he sought had been heard of
there, he observed an immense concourse of
persons flocking to one particular building, and
entering it promiscuously. He inquired of his
guide the, meaning of it, and was informed that
the building was a theatre, and that on that
evening was to be performed a new tracredv
252 VANDELEUR.
which the Emperor had commanded, and at
which he, and the rest of the imperial family,
were expected to appear.
Vandeleur had made it a rule to peep into
every place of public resort wherever he wan-
dered ; deeming it very probable that, whatever
might be the state of the miserable Gertrude, her
villanous destroyer would not entirely seclude
himself from pleasure and amusement, however
he might deem it necessary to conceal his name
and character. In pursuance of this plan, Van-
deleur now resolved upon joining the crowd,
taking his place in the theatre, and remaining
there as long as he observed people continue to
flock in. He had not the most distant hope of
meeting Gertrude in any place of the kind ;
fearing, but too acutely, that such would be far
from congenial to the state her feelings must be
in. “ But, O that I could meet him P he ex-
claimed ; and his dark eyes assumed an expres-
sion of fierceness very foreign to their natural
animated, but joyous and benevolent one ; and
VANDELEUR. 253
his cheek became flushed with a colour that had
for many months been a stranger to it. Vande-
leur had but partially recovered from his severe
wound when he set out a pilgrim in Gertrude’s
cause, and the excited and feverish state of his
mind and feelings since that period, had consider-
ably altered his appearance. He had lost the look
of vigorous health and activity that formerly
distinguished him ; he was languid, pale, and
emaciated ; and the bright and playful smile,
which was formerly the chief point of attraction
in his countenance, had now totally disappeared,
and was replaced by a severe compression of the
mouth, that gave to even casual observers the
idea of a mind stretched on some painful subject
beyond calm or patient endurance.
His fine temper still remained unimpaired :
it seemed as if his griefs were too much apart
from every one, and every thing else, to exercise
the slightest influence towards them ; and his
faithful Whitecross not unfrequently swept a
tear from his own eye, when, as he waited on his
VANDELEUR.
254
master, he observed by bis gloomy silence,
and sometimes an involuntary gesture of de-
spair, how deep bis sufferings were, while be con-
tinued gentle and kind to those about him.
On entering the theatre, the spectacle that
met Vandeleur’s eye was noble and imposing.
The imperial family of Russia were remarkable
for the beauty of their appearance, and the fine
and commanding air which is so essential to
royalty ; unless, indeed, where the want of it
is supplied by a mind so commanding, so exalt-
ed in itself, that it seizes those of others cap-
tive, and draws them after it above all minor
considerations. But this is not often to be seen ;
perhaps it is not desirable that it should be.
If the Russian ladies in general want the ex-
quisite polish and refinement in which those of
England perhaps surpass all others, they still
possess a degree of beauty, both of feature and
form, which renders them far from uninteresting
:
and as this occasion was considered quite a fete,
Vandeleur happened to see them to the best
VANDELEUR. 255
possible advantage. But what was loveliness
or brilliancy to him P He sought the blighted
and the broken-hearted ; and his eye ran as
coldly, though as inquiringly, over the beauty of
the faces that surrounded him, as it had already
done over their abodes.
It was also as much in vain. He saw men
and women of all ages, and of all grades, and ap-
parently of all countries, that one usually meets
with ; but nowhere did he see the features
which he sought.
* 4
He waited until the play was nearly half
over, and was then about to leave the theatre
in despair, when, on changing his position for
that purpose, his attention was arrested by a
tall dark figure in a distant box. He held his
breath, and strained his eyes, in order to obtain
a clearer view ; but, as if the person was aware
of his intention, he perceived him stoop, as in
the act of addressing some one who sat behind
him, and continue in that leaning position.
Vandeleur kept his eyes fixed, with a determi-
256 VAN DELE UR.
nation at least to weary him, if indeed he
purposely chose that attitude for concealment.
In the mean time the tragedy deepened ; a
death scene ensued, and the house was breath-
less in emotion. The actor was a powerful one,
and addressed himself to the feelings of all.
Subject, performance, and incident would, how-
ever, all alike have been lost on Vandeleur, but
that just at the moment of the death, which
happened to be that of a young man, an only
son and brother, he observed a sudden bustle
and confusion in the box on which he had
previously fixed his eyes. Every one who oc-
cupied it had stood up, and Vandeleur could
now distinctly see that they were carrying out a
lady who had fainted.
To one whose whole soul is concentrated on
one particular object, almost everything in na-
ture will appear to bear some reference to it;
just as the eye, after gazing long and fixedly
at anything, will for some moments see its
image reflected upon everything else it looks
VANDELEUR. 257
at. A circumstance which at another moment
would not have cost Vandeleur a thought, now
struck upon his heart almost with the force of
conviction. The circumstance was merely that
the lady, whoever she might be, had sat at the
back of the box, though only gentlemen occu-
pied the front, and had contrived to conceal
herself so completely as to elude even his in-
tended scrutiny. It was sufficient to cause him
to rush from his own place, and, by contriving
to meet the party in the lobby, to ascertain if
his palpitating presentiment was correct.
It was.
In the wan, wnsted, and now death-like
form and countenance he encountered, en-
circled in the arms of strange and foreign-look-
ing men, he recognised, at a glance, his own
loved and long-lost Gertrude. The lobby was
rather obscurely lighted ; but the fiery gleam
that darted from Vandeleur’s eyes, as he sought
De l’Espoir amongst those who surrounded
her, seemed as if, of itself, it would have illu-
258 VANDELEUR.
minatecl it, at least sufficiently to discover the
object of his fury. He was not, however,
amongst them.
Could Vandeleur, then, have been mistaken
in the figure which had first attracted his
attention to that box ? And if so, should it
be a subject of rejoicing or lamentation to
him ?
He had not long time to consider ; for the
moment that the fresh current of air from the
entrance rushed in upon Gertrude, she yielded to
its influence, and revived. She opened her eyes,
and looked in astonishment around her. They
caught in an instant the form of Vandeleur hurry-
ing in agitation towards her. Her first involun-
tary impulse, while her senses had as yet per-
haps but imperfectly returned, was to utter a
rapturous exclamation, and stretch her arms
towards him : but, as if the act itself, or his
rush forward to receive her, had the effect of
fully rewakening her, she suddenly started back
into the arms of the gentlemen who supported
VANDELEUR. 259
her, and uttering a fearful and prolonged scream
of despair, buried her face in her shawl, and
made a movement with her hand to hurry
forwards. Vandeleur stopped, as if he had re-
ceived a death-blow, on the instant.
There are some feelings which, when de-
liberately read or written, seem to be the result
of reasoning, and therefore to require time in
their experience ; while in reality they are but
nature’s instinct, and flash through the brain or
heart in less time than we can calculate.
When Gertrude first stretched out her arms
to Vandeleur, with the look and tone of joyful
recognition, he felt as if there wr
as still hope
—
still some explanation, however improbable,
by which she might yet be his. But when
lie saw her start back—when he saw the rush
of sudden agony over her countenance—and
when he heard that shriek of despair, he knew,
but too surely, that all was lost ! Under this
conviction, he hesitated for a moment whether
or not to address her, so paralysed, so over-
260 VANDELEUR.
powered did lie feel. It was, however, but for
a moment he could hesitate. He stifled his own
agonising feelings, and remembering- the im-
portance of the communication lie had to make,
he determined to forget himself, except in as
far as he could be of use in softening the cruel
hardships of her almost unprecedented fate. In
this spirit he advanced and took her hand, for
the gentlemen stood irresolute during so strange
a scene. Her face was still buried in the folds
of her dress ; hut it was evident she knew who
touched her, for she trembled violently, and,
without looking up, she made an effort to release
her hand.
Vandeleur endeavoured to compose himself
sufficiently to speak ; hut ere he could com-
mand words, De l’Espoir himself appeared.
He had only run forwards to order a conveyance,
and now returned to carry Gertrude into it.
He instantly recognised Vandeleur, and, with-
out betraying the slightest astonishment or con-
fusion, took off his hat, not only with that
VANDELEUR. 261
coolness which a man may well assume who
has succeeded over another to his utmost sa-
tisfaction, but with the perfect politeness and
expressive civility of a Frenchman. Vandeleur
instinctively returned the salutation, hut, it
must be confessed, with a very different grace ;
for it was evident to all, that the honest brow
of the Englishman grew darker, as if to in-
demnify himself for the forced concession ; and
turning abruptly again to Gertrude, he said in a
tone of deep decision, “ I must speak with you
instantly.
11
Gertrude, who, though her face was still
covered, had caught the sound of De FEspoir’s
foot returning, now looked up, and cast towards
him a look of terror, and evidently habitual in-
quiry of his will.
He did not answer to her speaking glance ;
but calling one of the gentlemen aside, gave him
such an explanation of the scene as he thought
sufficient, at once to account for it, and to cause
them to disperse. They did so accordingly,
262 VANDELEUR.
with many bows and expressions of regret; and
l)e FEspoir, taking the support of Gertrude now
on himself, turned once more to Vandeleur, and,
in a tone and with a dignity which might have
suited well with a better cause, said, “ Major
Vandeleur, I can be at no loss to imagine how
bitter your feelings must be towards me ; and, as
far as it is in my power, I should be most happy
to soothe them.—Nay, hear me out.—For some
part of the cause of those feelings (and he
glanced at Gertrude) I cannot, nor can you ex-
pect that I should, apologise : for others, they
only require patient investigation to clear me ;
and for your own wound, I assure you, upon
my honour, it was accidental.—Nay, permit me.
—I am aware of Mr. Evelyn’s death, and that
you are his executor. I will hope that, as a
man of sense, you have come hither to seek us
only in that character, and as such,—nay, (let
me add, in both our names,) as an old friend
of both, the Countess de FEspoir and myself
will be most happy to receive you.” He again
VANDELEUR. 263
took off his hat as if to acknowledge Vandeleur
in this new character of old friend.
During the earlier parts of this speech, Yan-
deleur had frequently made indignant attempts
to interrupt and contradict him; but still kept
iu bounds by his cool politeness, and his own
wish to learn all that it so much imported
him to know, he determined to hear him to an
end, and then judge how he was to act. But
when that end did come, every other feeling
—
ay, even of indignation and disgust—was ab-
sorbed in the one fearful idea of Gertrude’s
actually being the Countess de l’Espoir. - He
changed colour violently, and hastily turning
his eyes towards her, glared upon her with a
look that would have terrified her, had hers not
been immovably fixed upon the ground. But
who could look on that faded, shrinking form,
and feel aught but the deepest and most heart-
felt compassion ! His countenance relaxed
in a moment from its wild expression, very
nearly resembling reproach, and stepping quiet-
264 VANDELEUR.
ly toward her, lie took her hand, even as she
leaned on De FEspoir’s arm, and in a deep
hollow voice, which spoke at once the sorrow
and the pity of his soul, he asked—“ Gertrude,
are you married ?”
She raised her eyes to his with one lightning
glance. It was enough :
—the most vivid flash
that ever broke from out the heavens on the
darkest night, never served more clearly to
show to the shipwrecked mariner the ruin and
the desolation, the wide and hopeless gulf that
yawned around him on every side, far as the eye
could reach, than did that glance tell to Yande-
leur that all his earthly hopes were at an end.
All she had felt for him, all she had suffered
since, and all that she was aware he would feel
at the intelligence, were mingled in that glance
—and it did not signify that the words “ I am"
1
died inaudibly upon her lips.
What is the nature of hope ? Is it some-
times so palpable as to constitute the chief sup-
port of our Existence ? —sometimes so subtile as
VANDELEUR. 265
to elude our own consciousness? Few will, per-
haps, be disposed to deny the first : and if the
second be less sure, whence is that patient ac-
quiescence under the privation of that we most
desire, until we even persuade ourselves we have
ceased to wish for it ;
—yet, if a moment arrive
when some physical or moral impossibility in-
tervenes between us and the object of our de-
sire, which it is no longer in fate to overcome,
we at once experience a contraction, a convul-
sion, a tension, as it were, of the brain, and stag-
nation of the heart, as violent and as painful as
if we had never until then contemplated the
possibility of our disappointment ?
Such were the sensations experienced by God-
frey Vandeleur for one dreadful moment when
Gertrude Evelyn confessed herself a wr
ife. Had
he been asked, or had he asked himself, in what
other situation than that of De FEspoiFs wife, he
could have hoped, or even wished, to find her, he
must have acknowledged that his present feel-
ings were not founded in reason. Yet so it was,
VOL. II. N
266 VANDELEUR.
that when he saw his young, and beautiful, and
loving bride, actually the wife of another man,
and so, out of his reach for ever, he felt stun-
ned, as if the gentle and momentary look that
had acknowledged this, had indeed been one of
lightning, which had blasted him in its glance.
He continued to gaze upon her for a moment
longer, as if to take a farewell view of her as his
own, and to recognise her as the property of an-
other—and that other the Count de l’Espoir ;
then stifling a heavy groan, in the calmest voice
he could assume, but whose tones were still deep-
ly mournful, he said, “Even so—even so, Ma-
dame De l’Espoir ! I must speak with you im-
mediately and privately.”
Gertrude did not again raise her eyes to her
husband ; but her whole air and attitude spoke
in silent but eloquent language, that from him,
and not from her, the answer to this request
must come.
Yandeleur’s heart bled within him. The
gay, the happy, the playful, idolized Gertrude,
VANDELEUR. 267
thus in a few short months so completely sub-
dued to the tyrannical will of a cruel and un-
principled stranger, who had defrauded her ol
herself! And, now he clearly read the story
of that wasted and attenuated form, and that
faded cheek.—His feelings were becoming un-
controllable.
“ Gertrude,
11
said he, seizing her arm with a
grasp that seemed to have less of tenderness
than determination, — “ Gertrude, this is all
madness ! I must speak with you yourself, and
that instantly and he would have dragged her
forwards, though she clung wildly to her hus-
band's arm, but that he, politely interposing, in-
timated how deeply he must be concerned in all
that concerned her, and invited Major Vande-
leur to take a seat in their carriage and accom-
pany them to their house.
Vandeleur was absolutely disconcerted by his
coolness ; and the more so, as poor Gertrude's
feeble resistance, when he would have dragged
her forwards, showed him that the count had
268 VANDELEUR.
her obedience at least on his side. He felt then
how ridiculous, as well as useless, would be any
violence on his part ; and suddenly making an
effort over himself, as he looked on Gertrude’s
shrinking and shuddering form, and saw the
company now beginning to flock out to where
the party stood, he hastily intimated his accept*
ance of De l’Espoir’s offer ; but with a manner
intended to convey to him that he only accepted
it in order, thereby, to procure for himself the
opportunity he desired, of learning all he required
to know, and then acting upon that knowledge.
It did not suit De l’Espoir’s purpose to under-
stand this silent, and therefore doubtful lan-
guage ; and affecting to take his acceptance in
all courtesy, they proceeded down stairs.
“Gertrude, take Major Vandeleur’s arm,”
said De l’Espoir ;
“ you are not able to support
yourself.” But Gertrude, muttering something
unintelligibly, declined this permission.
The few moments that separated them whilst
proceeding to the carriage, enabled Vandeleur
VANDELEUR. 269
in some degree to collect Ids ideas and spirits
from the confusion and hurry into which they
had been thrown. He asked himself, now that
he had found those he had sought so eagerly,
what object he had in view. Was it a gratifi-
cation of his own desire for revenge ? or was it
an anxiety to serve the ill-starred Gertrude in
any manner that might yet he possible ? Surely
it was the latter ; and he would have consider-
ed himself cruelly selfish to have sacrificed the
chance of that possibility to any other feeling.
Viewing the matter in this light, he saw that to
take the punishment of De l’Espoir into his own
hands would be madness ; for what could ensue
from such a mode of proceeding, but ridicule and
calumny, and an attraction of the public atten-
tion to Gertrude’s sad story, which, at the pre-
sent juncture, and in a foreign country, with
only her former lover for her protector and advo-
cate, might prove fatal alike to her fame and
life. In order, however, to ascertain how he
might render her the service he desired, it was
270 VANDELEUR.
necessary that lie should have a private inter-
view with herself, lest, from his being still in
total ignorance of all the springs and counter-
springs of the overwhelming circumstances that
had taken place, he should, in attempting her
rescue, either militate against her own wishes,
or plunge her into deeper destruction. To ob-
tain this interview, enough had already passed
to show him that he must conciliate the count.
Nothing could be more abhorrent to the noble
soul of Vandeleur, than anything like treachery
or deceit ; but when he considered whose life
and reputation were at stake, and by what vil-
lanous means they had been placed in jeopardy,
he could not refuse to impose upon himself the
task of suppressing his indignation for the mo-
ment, and, by accepting De l’Espoir’s offered
civility, avail himself of the only means in his
power to find out how matters really stood.
He had been deeply penetrated—heart-struck
by Gertrude’s clinging to that stranger’s arm to
protect herself from him : but though this cir-
VANDELEUR. 271
cumstance served the more fully to convince
him of the impropriety and impolicy of any
violent measures on his part, and though her
whole air and appearance spoke of subdued and
rigorous observance of duty, yet not for a mo-
ment, even to his agitated and searching scru-
tiny, did it betray one softer feeling towards
him whom she clunof to as her husband : and
Vandeleur felt that from her own ingenuous
lips alone, could he hope to learn what plan
would be safe or advisable for him to pursue at
this fearful crisis. At present he saw not how
this was to be obtained ; but, as a step towards
it, he accepted De FEspoir’s offer of a seat in
his carriage, and in the course of their drive
suffered him to converse as if no deadly feud
was between them; and while affording him
such information as he required upon the sub-
ject of the property that, by her father's death,
devolved on Gertrude, he kept clear of all
mention of the suit instituted against them by
the heir-at-law.
272 VANDELEUR.
How far De FEspoir was in reality deceived
by tliis apparent quiescence ofVandeleur, can-
not be precisely known ; but it was evident lie
chose to accept it as sincere; and although upon
arriving at the hotel which he inhabited, he did
not repeat his invitation to Yandeleur to enter,
but, on the contrary, apologised for omitting to
do so by the lateness of the hour, yet he beg-
ged the favour of a visit from him next morn-
ing, in order to enter more fully upon the busi-
ness of the property to which the latter was
executor.
Never in the course of Vandeleur’s existence
did he labour under such a feeling of oppression
—of suffocation from suppressed emotion of va-
rious kinds, as when, on promising to comply
with De l’Espoir’s request, he coldly bade good-
night to Gertrude, and stepped from the car-
riage to pursue his way homewards. He gasp-
ed, and gulped the air even audibly ; set his
teeth, and clenched and opened his hands. It
was not from anger, grief, or amazement : it
VANDELEUR. 273
was merely an effort of nature to relieve him
by bodily exertion from the excruciating moral
restraint he had laboured under for the last
half-hour.
During the drive from the theatre, Gertrude
had sat back in one corner of the carriage, per-
fectly still and silent. She had wrapped her
face in her veil from the first moment, and she
never uncovered it until Vandeleur left them.
No sigh, no groan escaped her ; but in one of
the furtive glances which Vandeleur ventured
to dart towards her, as a pale, lonely, lamp
threw its sickly ray into their carriage, he
thought he perceived the black gauze pressed
more closely to her face, and it seemed to have
become dense and humid. The sight of this
had probably contributed to his keen agony of
emotion ;
but it would be doing him the grossest
injustice to attribute it all to that circum-
stance. In fact, the human heart is not capa-
ble of harbouring at the same time more than a
certain quantity of different feelings, if we may
n 5
274 VANDELEUR.
use the expression : one may fill it even to
bursting, but a thousand can do no more, and
must each be diminished in proportion to the
variety. No man ever loved a woman more
fondly, more entirely, more devotedly, than did
Vandeleur his young bride, without one alloy-
ing circumstance or feeling. But when she was
snatched from his arms, and, when he found her
again, the wife of another man, indignation
against her betrayer and the murderer of her
brother, as he believed him to be, together
with the overwhelming anxiety he felt for the
fate that was now impending over her, neces-
sarily produced the effect of keeping passion in
the background for the present ; and in hoping
to see expiated the death of Herbert, by that of
his slayer, and so freeing Gertrude from her
thraldom, not a selfish feeling or unholy wish
had one moment’s existence in his breast. In-
deed, had he contemplated such a termination,
he must have seen that the hand that deliver-
ed over her husband to die the death, could
VANDELEUR. 275
never again in common decency be clasped in
hers : but lie did not think of this, for this
termination was not his object. But, though the
sun of passion had sunk for the present beneath
the billows of anxiety and despair, the pure and
chastened beam that still hovered around Ger-
trude, showed that it had only yielded to the in-
fluence of the barriers that were interposed be-
tween her and its radiance, but still preserved
its own existence.
I do not take occasion here to speak of
Vandeleur’s principles, moral or religious; for
though we may trust they would have had
their weight, and influence, in subduing every
wish that the forced change in his circum-
stances now rendered criminal, yet I do not
seek to attribute to them, what, in fact, was
owing to the causes I have already mentioned ;
and, without anything more than this, he now
devoted his energies and his life to Gertrude’s
service, with feelings that, at the present mo-
ment, might have become a brother.
276 VANDELEUR.
Upon reaching his own hotel he flung himself
into a chair, and after an hour or two spent in,
or rather yielded up to, vague want of thought,
he began to deem it time to make an effort to
compose himself, collect his ideas, and endea-
vour to form some plan likely to bring about the
desired interview. He could scarcely tell whe-
ther he was most glad or sorry to feel, or to ima-
gine, that he had not deceived De FEspoir into
any real confidence in him ; for, though it left
him no grounds on which to build for a private
opportunity of addressing Gertrude in the next
morning’s visit, there was something consolatory
to his feelings in not having acted his part too
well. Yet again he blamed himself for this,
when he recollected how time was passing ; and
that while he was thus coquetting with his own
pride or principles, the fatal warrant might ar-
rive to arrest Gertrude.
After a night spent without even an attempt
at courting sleep, he came to the determination
of writing a note to her, beseeching her, in such
VANDELEUR. 277
terms as slie could not feel justified in refusing,
to strike out some plan for granting him an
immediate interview, and of trusting to chance
or circumstance for being able to convey this
note to her in the course of the projected visit.
The more obvious mode of committing it either
to the post, or to the care of a servant, he at
once rejected, as being perhaps fraught with
a degree of danger to her, the extent of which
he had no means of estimating, and had but too
much reason to fear might be extreme. Indeed,
every circumstance attending this transaction,
served to mark more and more emphatically,
that the fewer were the persons concerned in its
accomplishment, the surer would be its success.
At the appointed hour he set out upon his
promised visit, and was received by De FEspoir
alone.
He inquired for Gertrude : the reply was
slight, but sufficient to show Vandeleur that he
was not to expect to see her that morning.
This, he determined, must be amended ; and ac-
278 VANDELEUR.
cordingly, in the course of the information he
afforded De FEspoir on the matters of business
between them, he contrived, with some adroit-
ness, to make it appear that Gertrude’s pre-
sence was essentially necessary to confirm or
elucidate some points at issue.
De FEspoir despatched a servant to require
her to appear ; but it was a considerable time
before the order was obeyed. De FEspoir sent
again, and in a more peremptory tone. She
came at last—and Vandeleur was astonished to
perceive that she still wore the black gauze veil
of the evening before. Apparently De FEspoir
wr
as astonished also ; for he immediately ex-
claimed, “ My dear ! why, then, are you
veiled ?”
“ My eyes are exceedingly weak, and I
\
cannot bear the light to-day,
1
’
she said timidly,
as she placed herself, with only a slight inclina-
tion of her head towards Vandeleur, with her
face turned from it.
But no manoeuvre could conceal from the
VANDELEUR. 279
anxious eyes of her devoted friend that hers
were red and swollen with recent weeping. His
heart fluttered in his bosom, seemed to rise to
his throat, and it was with an effort he pre-
vented the tremor of his frame from becoming
visible. Why had she been weeping at that
especial hour P and why was she so anxious to
conceal the fact? Was it from him or from
her husband that she wished to conceal it ?
Had she known that he was in the house ? and
had she remembered the time when she would
not have been exiled from his presence ?
De l’Espoir abruptly resumed the conversa-
tion ; Vandeleur endeavoured to follow him
—
but, in spite of all his efforts, an additional de-
gree of coldness, and almost disgust, was appa-
rent in his manner ; while Gertrude sat apart,
cold and motionless, like one dead to every sub-
ject that has interest for others in this life.
When appealed to, she either bent her head in
acquiescence, or gave a reply, when necessary, in
the shortest form and lowest possible tone.
280 VANDELEUR.
Vandeleur could not in such tones recognise,
in the least, the joyous ones whose notes of
gladness used to call out an echo wherever they
were heard. He suffered the conversation to
drag on some time longer, when, seeing no
chance of accomplishing his purpose, but, on
the contrary, fearing every moment that De
l’Espoir would dismiss his unhappy wife with
the intimation that her presence was no longer
necessary, he slowly rose to take his leave ;
and
then casting his eyes, apparently in curiosity,
round the foreign reception-room, but in reality
in the forlorn hope of seeing some safe hiding-
place for his billet, he spied a work-box of
Gertrude’s on a distant table.
“ An English work-box, I protest !” he ex-
claimed : and advancing towards it in well-
feigned enthusiasm,—although, had it been of
foreign manufacture, it would have served his
purpose equally,—he took it up, and inquired
how it had found its way so far.
De l’Espoirv to his great annoyance, fol-
VANDELEUR. 281
lowed him to the table, and answered, “ Oh !
why madame has a kind of liking for England
still, and purchased this box from a poor woman
who had it to dispose of.”
“Well, you will admit, count,” said Vande-
leur, “ that even in such trifles as these,—I beg
pardon,” he said, half-playfully turning to Ger-
trude, as he still held the box in one hand, while
he took up its cushions and trinkets with the
other,—“ but even here, I think you will acknow-
ledge that if we fail in prettiness,
we excel in all
that is useful and substantial. Even in this box,
now, here is an air of comfort,
if I may use the
expression ; and that, you know, is a quality
which we boast as peculiarly English.
”
“ Why, amen, and so be it,” said De FEs-
poir. “ I ’m sure we do not grudge comfort to
those who require it so much : for us, we can
well dispense with it for the sake of joy. But
it is not my part to speak against England,” he
added, politely bowing.
Vandeleur felt no inclination to pursue the
282 VANDELEUR.
subject, and returned his bow with one of fare-
well. De l’Espoir accompanied him down-stairs ;
and whether it was that Vandeleur, in the in-
stant he had turned to beg Gertrude’s pardon
for ranking a lady’s work-box amongst the
trifles of the earth, had contrived to convey to
her by a look that he had deposited a note ; or
whether innate perception of his every move-
ment, and sympathy with his every feeling, had
told her that the exaggerated interest he mani-
fested at the sight of a common work-box of a
country he had just left, as she supposed, and
was free to return to, could only be to conceal
some other interest,—it matters not to inquire ;
since the effect was, in either case, precisely the
same ; namely, to cause her, the moment their
receding steps convinced her she was safe, to
spring from her chair to that distant table
—
raise the cushion of the box—seize from be-
neath its silky softness the hidden billet—has-
tily transplant it to the concealment of her reti-
VANDELEUR. 283
cule, and return to her chair as if she had
never moved from it.
Alas ! alas ! for the fate that could have
taught caution even to ingenuousness itself
!
It was no premeditation of deceit ; it was
the mere instinct of nature, when placed in a
position to require it. Probably, had there been
time for reflection, she would in her scrupulous-
ness have spurned at the impulse, as unbecoming
her situation as De FEspoir’s wife : but, fortu-
nately for her, she had not the time, and thus
escaped the impropriety of determined decep-
tion ; while she was spared all that would have
ensued from the note falling into the hands of
De FEspoir. It soon appeared, however, that
whatever means Vandeleur had adopted to com-
municate the secret to her, suspicion had done
as much for him. For, no sooner did he see Van-
deleur out of the house, than, bounding up the
stairs again, with strides that passed over several
at each step, he proceeded direct to the table on
284 VANDELEUR.
which stood the eventful box ; and first delibe-
rately raising the cushion, then each trinket he
had seen Vandeleur touch, he finally turned the
box upside down, and emptied the contents
upon the table.
The search was of course fruitless ; and for a
moment he seemed ashamed of himself, and
endeavoured hastily to replace them. Finding
it not an easy task, however, he turned to Ger-
trude, and said, “ See, my dear, I have disar-
ranged this box, that has met with such ad-
miration ;
you can settle it again. For my part
I see nothing to admire so much in it —do you ?
or did you he said emphatically, and fixing
his eyes upon her.
“ You are fully aware of the feelings that
induced me to purchase it,
1
’
she said with a
sigh : “admiration was the last feeling I thought
of.”
“ Hah ! what other ? love perhaps ?” he
said, rather in reference to his own meaning,
than to her answer.
VANDELEUR. 285
She continued steadily :
“ Yes; love to my
country, love to all that belongs to it.”
De FEspoir’s eyes scowled for a moment :
but he had reasons for not wishing to quarrel
with Gertrude just then ; so he subdued what-
ever he might have felt, and, with that self-
command of which he was eminently master,
he said, “ Well, my dear, I shall no longer
feel jealous of your love to England. I trust
we shall very soon visit, if not reside there. In
the mean time, I am sorry that I am obliged to
leave you for the rest of this day. I fear I
cannot return before night, as I am going into
the country with our friend Dumoulin ; but I
hope you will be able to amuse yourself in the
mean time.”
“ Oh ! certainly,” said Gertrude. “ Are you
quite sure you will not return before night ?”
“ Quite sure. But why do you ask ?”
“ Merely,” said Gertrude, “ as in that case
I shall not expect you to dinner.”
And it was the simple truth. But how differ-
286 VANDELEUR.
ently did the dark mind of De FEspoir inter-
pret it !
“ No, I cannot be back before quite
night ; so, adieu !” he repeated, and departed,
apparently perfectly satisfied.
Scarcely did De FEspoir himself ascend the
stairs, in search of the suspected note, with more
rapid flight, than did Gertrude now, to gain
the privacy of her own chamber, and devour
its contents. But here all similitude between
them ended. No sooner did Gertrude feel her-
self free from the sickening and exasperating-
presence of her loathed betrayer, and tyrant
husband, than her feelings subsided into their
natural gentle and feminine cliaunel ; and when
she proceeded to draw the billet from her reti-
cule, and her eye dwelt, for the first time for so
long a period, upon the well-known characters
traced by that beloved hand, and saw the im-
pression of his cipher seal, she found such feel-
ings revive within her breast as caused her to let
it fall from her hand upon the floor, and, closing
her eyes, almost vow to look upon it no more
VANDELEUR. 287
And now it was, that, for the first time, com-
menced the struggle between duty and affection
in her innocent and bleeding bosom. Hitherto,
in weeping over the peculiar misery of her lot,
the loss of Vandeleur, and her accursed union
with De l’Espoir, they all appeared so inter-
woven with, so much the consequence of the
miserable catastrophe of her brother’s death,
that, in weeping for all, she felt only to weep for
that one event ; and the thought that Vandeleur
had believed her guilty, and had cast her from
his heart, had so deepened the gulf between
them, that never, in looking into it, could she
trace even the shadow of former happiness.
She lost all remembrance of what she had
been, what she might have been, and only
lived in the misery of the present ; waiting with
an anxiety and eagerness, that she sometimes
was obliged to pray for strength to resist, for
the moment that was to set her spirit free, and
to reunite her, as she fondly hoped, to her be-
loved brother. She looked to his spirit now as
288 VANDELEUR.
her only friend—the only one, except the Divine
Being, from whom she hoped for justice or for
mercy !
Such had been her feelings hitherto. But the
sight of Vandeleur—her first, her only love ;
—
he who had gathered the fluttering feelings of her
young heart unto himself, and first given them,
as it were, “ a local habitation and a name —
he who had given re-assurance, sanction, and a
haven of welcome, to feelings which she had been
half afraid were unbecoming to woman’s dignity,
and valued them as the most precious treasure
of his existence ; —he had again appeared before
her, and not only manifested by his manner
deep and absorbing interest in her fate, hut even
sought, by means she knew to be uncongenial to
his nature, to renew an intercourse with her.
u For what purpose ? to what could he mean it
should tend?” were questions she asked herself,
and which, though unable to answer definitively,
all ended in the one conviction, that he could in-
tend nothing unworthy of her or of himself. But
VANDELEUR. 289
then—was his opinion in this or any other par-
ticular any longer to he her guide ? Could she
indeed trust her heart’s feelings in a renewed
intercourse with him, when she already felt it
beat so wildly at merely seeing again his hand-
writing addressed to her,—so wildly, that she
dared not cast another look upon it, until she
had endeavoured to school that heart into a
state of calmness becoming the wedded wife of
another man ?
For this purpose she flung herself upon her
knees, and, uttering a fervent prayer to be puri-
fied, guided, and directed, she bowed her head
upon the seat at which she knelt, and endea-
voured dispassionately to consider whether or
not she ought to destroy the billet without
allowing herself the indulgence of perusing it ;
or whether, considering the circumstances in
which she stood, she was not justified in, at
least, hearing the wishes of one whom she look-
ed upon as little less than perfect. She con-
sidered the serious interests that were involved
VOL. II. o
2.90 VANDELEUR.
in her destiny, and she remembered, above all
things, how necessary it might be to Vande-
leur’s own peace of mind, to hear from herself,
apart from the influence of one of whom he
had reason to suspect so much of evil, that she
really was De l’Espoir’s wife, and determined
to conduct herself as such.
This last consideration appeared to her de-
cisive ; and with childish scrupulosity forbearing
from again looking upon the seal or superscrip-
tion, she opened the note and read as fol-
lows :
—
“ Gertrude ! By all you ever were to me, or
I to you, under a parent’s sanction, I conjure
you to grant me ten minutes’ conference with
you in private, if possible this very day. For
this purpose I shall, after this morning’s visit,
hurry home, procure the disguise of a mendicant
friar, return and hover about your hotel until I
find that the count goes out. I shall then apply
for admission to your presence, by saying I was
once in England ; and, if possible, do not refuse
VANDELEUR. 291
to see me : but, if absolutely impossible on that
occasion, have a line ready to be given to me, as
if wrapped round an alms-giving, to tell me how
soon it will be possible ; for see you I must. I
shall only appeal to your knowledge of my
veracity, when I assure you that the commu-
nication I have to make to you involves more
than your life, and that my feelings in re-
questing this interview shrink not from the
eye of the God whom we both adore.
“ G. V”
The effect of this note upon Gertrude was
almost electrical. Hitherto her energies, her
very ideas, had been, by deep and overwhelming
despair, subdued and paralysed into a quiescence,
and timidity, alike foreign to her intelligent
mind, and buoyant character. But now the
vital spark, as it were, being rekindled, by the
influential feeling of a friend and a protector
being within her reach, she started to her feet,
and exclaimed aloud, “ I will see him ! J will
hear what he has to say ! To the duties that
VANDELEUR.
have been forced upon me, I trust I ever shall
be faithful ; but it cannot be that I am to en-
danger—I know not what ; run risks the extent
of which I cannot estimate ; set at nought every
friendly caution, and perhaps extend the ruin I
have set at work still more widely,—unless I
have first asked the permission to act right,
which I know would be refused me ! and to
ask it of whom ? Oh, God ! oh, God !” She
paused, and a cold shudder passed over her.
“ But this latter is not the feeling I am to
encourage now,” she said, recollecting herself ;
“and in meeting Vandeleur,—Vandeleur ? do
I indeed again pronounce that name ? —in meet-
ing him, as I believe I am justified in doing,
I must be doubly watchful that no feeling
creeps in, which will cause me hereafter to
repent it.”
She had no sooner come to this resolution,
than, in order to keep her spirits in the calm
and quiet tone she deemed becoming, she took
up a book and attempted to read. But she over-
VANDELEUR. 298
calculated her own composure : whatever she
might be enabled outwardly to assume, all was
excitement and perturbation within. Nothing
beneath heaven itself could be purer or holier
than her intentions and her feelings ;
yet some-
thing there was that told her she was once more
incurring a deep responsibility, should her hus-
band return and find her engaged with Vande-
leur. But no, that was not to be apprehended :
he had made an appointment for the day, and
he had no inducement to forego it for his home.
But, should the circumstance ever reach his
ears ?—Impossible ! No one there had ever seen
iM
Vandeleur ; and besides, he was to be disguised ;
and she could trust even her fame itself to his
precautions. But should her own feelings betray
her ? —she clasped her hands, and prayed to be
“ led not into temptation.””
The words were yet upon her lips, when one
of the servants came to inform her that a friar,
who had once been in England, was come to
speak with the English lady.
294 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude underwent a violent palpitation, but
desired him to be shown into a small room
which was inside that they generally used
for dining, and which no one ever entered
except Gertrude herself ; who sometimes re-
tired thither for the sake of gazing out upon
the champaign view which its window com-
manded, and endeavouring to conjure up some
fanciful resemblance to England. Here she
thought the communication which Vandeleur
had to make, and which she could not but sup-
pose was of a vital and agitating nature, would
be less liable to interruption, while the assumed
character of her visiter took from it all appear-
ance of strangeness.
Thither, then, he was shown ; and thither,
after the delay of a very few minutes, Gertrude
repaired to receive the secret visit of the man
she had loved so fondly and lost so sadly.
VANDELEUR. 295
CHAPTER XVII.
The lady of his love—oh, she was changed
As by the sickness of the soul! her mind
Had wander’d from its dwelling, and her eyes
They had not their own lustre, but the look
Which is not of the earth.
Byron.
When Gertrude entered the dining-room,
within which was the little saloon, or closet, in
which Vandeleur awaited her, her head was still
enveloped in the dark, mourning veil. As Van-
deleur approached to meet her, however, she
put forth her hand to him from beneath it, and,
whatever might be her internal emotions, wel-
comed him with a calm and dignified seeming.
He took her hand, and led her back to the
296 VANDELEUR.
little apartment in deep and mournful silence
;
but, as if feeling the propriety of following her
example of composure, and of entering at once
upon the business that brought him before her,
the moment they were seated, he gently re-
placed her hand upon her lap, and passing his
own over his face, endeavoured to select the
gentlest and least startling terms in which to
communicate to her, that a warrant was already
issued to apprehend her for the murder of her
brother ! It was in vain, however, that he ran
over the vocabulary in his mind—all seemed
equally revolting that would have served his
purpose, and any he could find courage to utter
would have utterly failed in conveying an idea of
so horrible a fact. Gertrude, in the mean time,
waited in pointed silence for the disclosure that
was to form the excuse and justification of their
clandestine meeting.
At length, absolutely in despair at the task
he had undertaken, and agitated by all the cir-
cumstances attending it, Vandeleur leaned his
VANEELEUR. 297
head back against the wall and uttered a heavy
groan.
Gertrude turned toward* him in terror; and
having vainly waited a few minutes longer for
him to speak, she at last said in a very low and
tremulous tone
—
u You sought this meeting;
have you forgotten wherefore P
11
He turned his eyes slowly and heavily to-
wards her : the folds of her veil had fallen a little
to one side, and gave to view that still youthful
and lovely face, with its altered expression and
faded features.
Vandeleur, as it were, seized upon the glimpse
thus accidentally afforded him ; and after suf-
fering his eyes to run hastily two or three times
over her whole person, as if to compare it with
what it had been, and to mark the ravages which
suffering and sorrow had wrought upon it, he
suddenly dropped his head between his hands,
and burst into convulsive sobbing.
Gertrude was immeasurably terrified,—not by
the disclosure this might portend, but by the vio-
o 5
298 VANDELEUR.
lence of his emotion. She rose hastily from her
seat, sank down again as hastily, drew her hand-
kerchief rapidly and almost wildly from hand to
hand incessantly, while she stole towards Van-
deleur glances of mingled tenderness and alarm.
His agony seemed to augment—to become un-
controllable—and looking up towards heaven,
in a voice of desperation and deprecation, he
almost shouted forth, “ Oh, God ! oh, God !
have mercy on us both !”
Gertrude sprang from her seat ; and looking
wildly on him, and all round the little apart-
ment in which they sat, attempted to spring
past him towards the door, in order to make
her escape.
He started, and seized her by the arm.
“ Would you indeed leave me, then, Gertrude ?
Have you no feeling for me remaining ?” He
looked on her face, from which her veil had
now completely fallen, and was arrested by its
wild and wandering expression. Perceiving her
lips moving rapidly, he listened to endeavour to
catch her words; he concluded she was praying,
VANDELEUR. £99
for lie heard distinctly the words “ lead us not
into temptation,” emphatically repeated.
He was affected—alarmed. “ Compose your-
self, my dearest Gertrude,” he said more gently
;
“ I only meant to ask you, have you indeed
no explanation to give me of all the fearful
past ?”
“ Explanation ! —explanation now /” she re-
peated, with lips and eyes distended in astonish-
ment, and the latter still wandering rapidly over
everything in the room except Vandeleur him-
self. “ Methinks it were rather late now. Ha !
ha ! ha ! No ! no ! to what purpose now ?
Besides,” she added in a lower and a calmer
voice,
—“ besides, indeed I dare not !” and she
bent her eyes upon the ground. '
“ Why ?” asked Vandeleur soothingly : “ is
he not absent for the whole day ?”
“Oh! I spoke not, I thought not of Arm,”
she replied very mournfully, “ when I said I
durst not enter into any explanation of the past.
And wherefore in any case, Vandeleur ? for you
could not believe ill of me
;
—yet, to be sure, it
300 VANDELEUR.
must be all strangely mysterious to you. I can
remember that now : yet I dare not attempt
to satisfy you at present. No—I dare not” she
said musingly. Then suddenly turning to him,
added :
“ Harkee, Godfrey ; I have something to tell
you that will shock you and she turned as
pale as death, laid her hand upon his arm, and
seeming to speak with a great and painful effort,
whispered—“ Godfrey ! I have been out of my
sensesfor a long,
long period !” Having uttered
these frightful words, she looked fixedly in his
eyes, as if eagerly seeking for the shock she felt
so sure of having imparted.
She was not disappointed. Vandeleur’s pre-
vious emotion seemed subdued in a moment,
and his face reflected the paleness of hers. He
gazed upon her with a sick sensation at his
heart, such as he had never felt before ; and his
feelings at that moment were of so pure, so holy,
so subdued a character, that he internally cursed
as idle the prejudices of the world, which forbade
VANDELEUR. 301
him to fold her to his heart, and bid her take
comfort there.
He restrained himself, however, lest he should
startle her again ; and after gazing on her for a
few minutes, with an expression from which she
did not shrink, but, on the contrary, seemed to
find morbidly soothing, he said—44
This, then, is
the cause of your being lost so long ; this is the
reason why every effort your friends have made
to find you has been hitherto unavailing
!”
44
My friends ! —efforts to find me !” she re-
peated. 44
Who are those friends ? and what
those efforts ? But no matter — no matter
now ; tell me not of them : the die is cast, the
past is parsed, and surely I, at least, may say,
4
I Ve known the worst.
1 11
44
God in his mercy grant it may be so I
11
said
Vandeleur emphatically. 44
But tell me—tell
me, Gertrude,
11
and he would have taken her
hand, but she gently prevented him,
—
44
tell me
before we proceed farther—and you need neither
be offended by the question, nor fear that it is
302 VANDELEUR.
asked with any selfish view — such, indeed, is
at an end with me for ever ; —but tell me, as the
friend and guardian on whom your only parent
bestow'ed you, and whose only hope is still to
fulfil that trust without other reward now than
that of serving you, —have you nothing to com-
plain of on the part of this De TEspoir, of which
the law might avail itself to rid you of him for
ever ?”
“ Alas ! alas ! no ; —I suppose not. We were
legally married with my consent.”
Vandeleur started.
“Nay, start not at that, Godfrey ; let it go
with the rest of the mysteries involving me,
until I feel able to unfold them. And now J feel
so much calmer, that I think I could almost ven-
ture. But it was not for that we met,” she said,
recollecting herself,
—“ oh, no, not for that !
And, as I said before, to what could the recital
now tend ? For even were it possible that I
could be freed, why should I make the effort
now ? T trust my sufferings, with my life, are
VANDELEUR. 303
near their close ; and what could it avail now,
except to drag before the world a creature who
ought rather to seek some hole in which to hide
her head ?”
“ But why—why this, Gertrude ? On the
contrary, would you not wish that your fair
fame and innocence should shine before the
world, while he who is the transgressor should
pay the forfeit of his crimes ?”
“ And what might that forfeit be ?”
Vandeleur cast down his eyes, and in a low
and expressive tone said, “ That is as circum-
stances should be traced to and proved against
him.”
“ I understand you —I know to what you
allude,” said Gertrude, in a calmer voice than
Vandeleur expected. “ But is it my part to
stand up against my husband? Oh ! no,—rather
than voluntarily swerve from my sworn duty,
let me drain the cup to the very dregs ; they
must prove their own remedy at last and she
held up her hands and eyes to heaven.
304 VANDELEUR.
“ But there will be no occasion for you to do
thus. Let the law take its own course ; only
do you retire from the storm for a little while
until it passes by, that you may not indeed be
called upon in a manner from which you should
and ought to shrink.”
“ And who, then, is to originate a prosecution
against the count P My poor father is no more ;
surely, it is not ” She hesitated.
“ No, it is not me,
Gertrude. I, alas ! have
no claim to take proceedings against him. But
there is one prepared to do it ; one, in short, has
instituted it, —one, of whom none of us ever
thought ; and it is upon this subject that I am
here.” He paused.
“ Who can that person be ?” exclaimed Ger-
trude in the utmost astonishment. “ Who in
this world, besides yourself, feels any interest
in me ? or, if they did, who has the claim ?”
“ It may not be interest in you that insti-
gates them, my dearest, best Gertrude,” said
Vandcleur, inexpressibly affected by her utter
VANDELEUR. 305
unconsciousness of the cruelty that was medi-
tated against her ; and feeling, from his own ex-
citement, as if each word lie uttered must open
her eyes forcibly to the truth ;
“ but—but—do
you not remember your kinsman, George Eve-
lyn ?”
u My cousin George ! What interest can he,
of all persons, take in me ? I have scarcely ever
even seen him ! Can it be gratitude for papa’s
having given him his commission ?”
Vandeleur’s brow became contracted from
very pain, as he said in a low tone, with his eyes
bent on the floor, “ Are you not aware that he
is the next heir after you to your father’s pro-
perty ?”
“ Yes ; but what then ? Alas ! I am still in
his way—still a shield between him and De
l’Espoir.”
Yandeleur forbore to answer ; but his expres-
sive silence arrested Gertrude’s attention. She
fixed her eyes eagerly, devouringly, on his em-
barrassed countenance and working features ;
306 VANDELEUR.
then suddenly and at once, as if a new light
broke in upon her, she sprang to her feet—clasp-
ed her hands tightly together—and after pausing
for a moment, as if to satisfy herself in her own
conjecture, she exclaimed -aloud, as her colour
varied from pale to red, and from red to pale,
in a second—“ Hah ! I see—I see it all now :
how stupid it was of me to hesitate ! I under-
stand it now ! Mr. Evelyn would have me
hanged, and himself inherit my father’s pro-
perty !”
Vandeleur, who had also risen from his seat
when she sprang up, now enclosed both her
clasped hands between his, and suffered his
silence and deeply sorrowful countenance to tell
her that she had guessed rightly.
“ It is even so then ?” she exclaimed, look-
ing on him with wild and heart-breaking anx-
iety. “ Gracious and eternal God !
—oh ! God-
frey, Godfrey !” and as if her last hour were
indeed come, when all artificial restraints are
dispensed with from the consciousness that their
VANDELEUR. 307
infringement can lead to nothing more—or as if
the deep and awful reality of her feelings at
that moment refused to descend to the petty
distinctions she had till now so scrupulously
observed, she slowly sat down again, and laying
her head upon Vandeleur’s shoulder, burst into
the first tears she had shed since they met.
He was rejoiced to find her over-tried feel-
ings vent themselves in this way ; and it need
scarcely be said, that she did not weep alone.
His first impulse, when she leaned her head to-
wards him, again w'as to catch her to his heart
:
but the very confidingness and self-abandonment
of the movement restrained him once more, that
he might not startle her from that resting-place,
and that he might not take advantage of the
temporary forgetfulness in her, which he could
not plead in excuse for himself. He contented
himself with still tenderly holding her hands,
and suffering his own tears to mingle with hers as
they fell together upon them.
She indulged herself for a few minutes in
808 VANDELEUR.
weeping bitterly, but in perfect silence ; and
Vandeleur was careful not to interrupt the na-
tural and refreshing current : but as she gazed
upon her own and his tears as they poured upon
their united hands, apparently the sight of his
sorrow began to affect her even above her own,
and she hastened to relieve it.
“ Dear Godfrey, what are you weeping for ?
You do not believe there is any fear of this
being proved? No; if there is sense or jus-
tice upon earth, it could not stand one single
moment P
“ Blessed be God for that word, at all events P
said Vandeleur. “ But tell me —tell me why
you say so. Tell me all or something respect-
ing it ; and, above all, tell me, my own Ger-
trude, why you are De FEspoir's wife ?”
Vandeleur asked this question as the mystery
he was most desirous to have solved, not from
any selfish anxiety, so much as being that which
seemed to throw the deepest colouring over the
rest ; and he wished above all things to learn
VANDELEUR. 309
what defence the unfortunate girl had it in her
power to offer to those who should be interested
in accusing her. It served at present, however,
only to startle her delicacy, by recalling her
recollection. She raised her head from his
shoulder, and gazed with a sort of bewildered
look of interrogation, first in his face—then on
their clasped hands—and gently, but decidedly,
drawing hers from between his, she pressed one
upon her forehead, and said faintly, “ Do not
call me i/our Gertrude ; it confounds dates in
my mind : and, besides, it is not proper now
She 'sighed heavily. “No; I am again unfit
to enter on that dismal tale. Oh ! Herbert,
Herbert !” and again her tears flowed bitterly.
“Tell me rather,’” she resumed, “all par-
ticulars about Mr. Evelyn’s intentions against
me ; and, believe me, I will hear it calmly now ;
the shock is past.”
It was indeed necessary that she should be
informed of them ; and accordingly Vandeleur,
in the best manner he was able, informed her
310 VANDELEUR.
of a warrant being already issued to apprehend
her, and her husband, for the murder of her
brother. He told her, that to apprise her of
this, before it should reach her in another form,
in order that she might form her own plans
accordingly, was the cause of his being now in
Russia ; and that those plans might be formed
according to her own wishes, and free from the
baneful influence of the count, was the cause of
his having sought this private interview.
Gertrude heard him to the end without again
betraying the slightest agitation. It was pecu-
liarly one of her characteristics to bestow and
accept good-will with equal simplicity, and one
glance of affectionate confidence was all the
thanks she now offered to Vandeleur. She re-
mained for some minutes perfectly silent, as if
considering of all she had heard, and then, ap-
parently having come to some determination,
she asked,
“ And why would you not tell the count of
this ?"
VANDELEUR. 311
Vandeleur, as delicately as he could, sug-
gested to her the possibility of avoiding the
trial, should she shrink from it, by making her
escape, and leaving De l’Espoir to clear her
fame by his own condemnation.
She smiled coldly, and a pink spot became
visible for a moment in either cheek.
“ No,
11
said she. “ That so hideous, so
foul a suspicion should rest upon my name, is
indeed severe to bear ; so severe, that I would
brave all the horrors of such a trial to wash it
out, if I had still a link to bind me to this
world. But I have not—I have not ; and to
one who bears in her breast the dreadful con-
sciousness of having done what I have done,
however innocent in intention, it matters little
what more coals arc heaped upon my head.
Fhe count has tried to drag me again into the
world ; in shame and in sorrow I might do my
penance in it, but in any other light—never,
never ! But what makes you so pale ? —what
have I said anew to shock you P
11
312 VANDELEUR.
“ Did you say—did you say, Gertrude—my
unhappy, ill-starred Gertrude,—did you say that
it was you indeed ’’
and his pale quivering-
lips refused to finish the fearful question.
She took it up,—“ That it was I did it ? Yes,
truly was it I !
—these hands, Vandeleur ! And
thinkest thou I then could care what became
of my wretched life !”
Nothing in nature could he more dreadful
than the expression of Gertrude’s face as she
uttered these words, and held up her hands to
show them to Vandeleur as the instruments of
her brother’s death. No sculpture, no painting,
no words could convey an idea of the fearful
contrast between the pale and beautiful features,
and calm low tone of voice, and the deep, deep
agony of the countenance, and the dilating and
contracting pupil of the unquiet eye.
Vandeleur shivered, and literally grew cold,
as he listened to and looked upon her. He was
almost afraid to speak for fear of exciting her
feelings still farther, but ventured at last to say,
VANDELEUR. 3J3
as gently as lie could, “ But, dearest Gertrude,
you know poor Herbert’s case was already
hopeless.”
“ It was not—it was not
!
Ten million worlds
would I give to know it was ! Ay, in spite
of all, I might live again, from the very horror
of what I have suffered, could I but learn tliat.
But it is over now. No, no ; he was getting
better, —wretch that I was ! he was getting
better, if I had but left him to Nature. Dr. C.
indeed, made my father uneasy about him ; but
I think, and always thought, my father mis-
understood him, for Herbert’s mind certainly
had recovered very considerably.” Then, as a
new idea seemed to strike her, “ Godfrey !”
she exclaimed with sudden energy, “ suppose
you were to ask the question of Dr. C. P I
could be no worse than I am. And, oh God of
heaven ! if he were to say I had only hastened
his release
”
She paused, overcome with her own enthu-
siastic hopes ; but presently observing Vande-
VOL. II. p
314 YANDELEUR.
leur’s mournful silence, “ You do not answer ;
—
you look sad ?” she gasped forth ;
“ you have
already ascertained that but for me he would
have recovered ?”
“ No, no, dearest Gertrude, I have not in-
deed ; but,—I regret to say,—poor Dr. C. is
himself no more.”
Gertrude uttered a piercing shriek. Per-
haps until that moment some indescribable,
some undefinable, hope had lingered in her bo-
som that the heaviest part of her heavy burden
of sorrow might yet be removed. It was over
now ; for a moment she felt as if she had com-
mitted the deed over again. But this could not
last : the reality of affliction was too present
with her to yield long to an imaginary one ;
she even made a powerful effort to bring back
her mind to the matter before them.
“ Then I will yield myself to my fate. I am
the wife of the Count de l’Espoir. I still be-
lieve—at least, oh God ! I hope—he was as in-
nocent in intention as I was myself, as to the
fearful catastrophe. My resolution is formed
VANDELEUR. 315
and fixed. It is this: that you, Vandeleur,
inform the count of the danger he is threatened
with : he is skilled in the ways of the world,
and will know what to do ; and, as he does, I
will do. To fulfil my duty, whatever it may
be, is but a slight penance for the crime I have
committed.'
”
Vandeleur was about to answer, doubtless to
endeavour to lay more clearly before her all she
undertook to perform, in adopting this resolu-
tion, when a female servant hastily opening the
door, announced the unexpected return of De
FEspoir ! The woman had no reason to sup-
pose that the mendicant friar was other than he
x $
professed himself to be, and her evident alarm
seemed only to betray the general feeling ex-
cited by De FEspoir’s presence.
But neither Vandeleur nor Gertrude had time
to speculate on this, when De FEspoir himself
appeared. There is no use in disguising it
—
nothing could look more confounded than they
both did ; and the best proof of how far such
confusion may be from guilt, is, that Vandeleur,
316 VANDELEUR.
who wished to deliver him over to meet his de-
serts alone, did not betray more than did Ger-
trude, who had just expressed her sincere de-
termination to abide by him to the last.
De l’Espoir, as usual, was perfectly collect-
ed, and apparently composed. The dark ma-
lignant expression of his eye, and cold sneer
upon his lip, did nothing to contradict this. He
removed his hat as he encountered Vandeleur,
and calmly said, “ So, sir, it is now my turn
to give you a surprise,
1-
’
(alluding to the fatal
evening in the arbour) :
“ may I beg your
presence for a moment in this outer room ?
You, madam, please to retire with your spy-
servant .
11
There are moments when the weakest ex-
hibit extraordinary courage, if sufficient in-
ducement or provocation is offered to them.
Gertrude, although in general subdued in the
presence of De l’Espoir, almost to the passive-
ness of a machine or an idiot, gathering in one
moment, from his manner and expression, that
VANDELEUR. 317
death was in his eye, and remembering that
his pistols lay in that outer room, almost al-
ready within his grasp—forgot every other feel-
ing in her terror for his and Vandeleur’s life,
and, suddenly seizing his arm, was about to in-
form him of the whole object of the meeting.
He did not give her time : he looked upon
her one moment with such an expression of fell
hatred as a demon might be supposed to cast
upon an angel which had thwarted him in some
favourite scheme ; then seizing her by the shoul-
der, flung her from him in the direction of a
large metal stove, which stood in the chamber,
with a force which would probably have ter-
minated her sorrows at a blow, had not the
woman, who still lingered in the room, re-
ceived her in her arms and borne her from
his presence.
Vandeleur now lost all command of himself,
and seizing De PEspoir by the throat, “Mon-
ster ! villain ! fiend P
1
he exclaimed, “would vou
add one more victim to your list ?”
318 VANDELEUR.
De l’Espoir made no reply, but in the strug-
gle snatched at a pistol, and calling to Vande-
leur to take the other and defend himself, took
his stand to shoot him across the table.
Vandeleur recoiled : one second’s thought
©
served to convince him, that if Gertrude’s hus-
band fell by his hand under such circumstances,
her fame was indeed blasted for ever. “ Mad-
man ! demon ! I will not fire !” he said : “I
will not take the pistol, lest it should discharge
itself at such a monster, and so cheat the hang-
man, whose gripe is already upon you.”
De l’Espoir, in his fury, which was now uncon-
trollable in proportion to the restraint he was in
general capable of imposing on it, either did not
understand this threat, or if he did, remember-
ing that his bitterest enemy that moment stood
almost within his power, seized the second pis-
tol, and hurling it towards Vandeleur, ex-
claimed, “ Defend yourself, or die the death of
a dog.” Then, without waiting for an answer,
or giving Vandeleur time to put himself in a
VANDELEUll. 319
posture of defence, he a second time laid wel-
tering in his blood the man who from his ear-
liest youth seemed destined to cross his path.
The report of the pistol immediately brought
the numerous domestics, that are always to be
seen about the poorest establishment in St.
Petersburgh, rushing to the room ; and De
l’Espoir, hurrying from amongst them, without
seeming even to hear their questions and ex-
clamations, rushed with demon strides to the
chamber of Gertrude, and rudely burst the door
open with his foot. He found her lying pale
and terrified on a couch. “ Ay,
1
’
he exclaimed,
grinding his teeth and extending his arms in
fury towards her as he approached—“ Ay, you
may well be frightened for what your infamy has
brought to pass ! —your lover lies slain by my
hand ! And now tell me, I command you, what
he meant, or whether he had any meaning, in
what lie uttered of the hangman being awaiting
me ?”
Gertrude, without betraying any other eino-
820 VANDELEUR.
tion than an universal tremor of her person, re-
capitulated, as well as she could, the purport
of the information which Vandeleur had given
her.
De F Espoir listened until she had finished ;
then glaring upon her, and setting his teeth
more firmly, he advanced quite close up to her,
and said fiercely, “ I see ! And you were to have
eloped with your lover, and to have appeared with
him in evidence against me, until you had suc-
ceeded in becoming a widow and marrying him!
1 '
Gertrude showed no additional sign of terror
at his menacing voice and attitude, but, think-
in cr it right to disabuse him of this error, she
simply and gently pronounced the monosyllable
“ No,” in a voice that seemed overstrained and
cracked from internal suffering.
“ No ! What then ? What may your plans
have been, if I may be so bold ?”
“ To be guided by you and she sighed
heavily.
“ Ay? indeed ! Did Vandeleur, then, come to
VANDELEUR. 321
caution me ?—answer me at once. Did lie not
urge secrecy from me ? Did lie not urge you to
fly, and to leave me to my fate ?” Gertrude
remained silent.
“ It is well,” lie said. “ And you were such a
dutiful wife that you would not listen to him, I
suppose ? and only received him into that closet
in disguise in my absence, to lecture him upon the
immorality of his conduct ? No, no, Gertrude ;
you hate me, and I hate you ; and, by all that is
sacred ! I would not, for all the possessions now
become so precarious, be burthened with you
longer. While I thought you a simple, dri-
velling, but harmless idiot or maniac, you
and your estates might have balanced each
other ; but now, you may both go to the devil for
me ! I loathe you, and I despise them.—Why
heard I not of this heir-at-law before ? By
Heaven ! I believe Vandeleur is himself the in-
stigator of it all, aided and encouraged by you.
But, be it so ;
ye shall both be disappointed : I
shall not stand a trial which the illiberal feelings
322 VANDELEUR.
and ignorant prejudices of your brutal country
would alike lead them to decide against me.
Follow the bent of your own inclinations, and
see if the events of this night will not be con-
sidered to justify me in seeking my own safety
alone.” And so saying, he flung out of the
chamber.
For some minutes after his departure, Ger-
trude had not energy sufficient even to rise and
ring the bell ; and when she did drag her trem-
bling limbs so far, no answer was returned to
the summons. She grew frightened now on
another score ; and, collecting energy from de-
spair, she rang it again, and with so much
violence, that the same female who had an-
nounced De TEspoir’s return, hastened to her.
She inquired calmly if Vandeleur were dead.
“ Dead, ma’am ! No, Lord love you ! nor like
to die, say I, if he was taken in time. But what
with one thing, and what with another, my
own hands are the only surgeon he has had as
yet. We had him carried to a room, and I
VANDELEUR. 323
stopped the wound, which is in his right
side”
“ Where is the Count De l’Espoir ?”
“ He is gone out ; and his servant says he was
shut up for some time in his room_ first, rolling
up papers and taking money out of his desk
;
but he gave no orders, and did not say if he
would be home to-night.”
A conviction instantly flashed upon Gertrude
that she should never see him more. She lay
back on her seat for a moment overwhelmed
with this awful thought, and the peculiar cruelty
of abandoning her in such a moment : but, as the
original character of poor Gertrude’s mind was
very far removed from weakness or indecision,
however artless and easily guided by those in
whom she placed confidence, even the cruel
malady which had been forced upon her by
her horrible fate, had not had power perma-
nently to impair it, although it left her still
liable to over-excitement on certain trials of her
feelings. Her principles and excellent under-
324 VANDELEUR.
standing now came to her support, and told
her that a crisis was come when she must act
with promptitude and decision, or involve one
dearer than herself in calumny and disgrace, if
not endanger his life.
Without a moment’s hesitation, she desired
that Monsieur Dumoulin, a French physician
who was on terms of great intimacy both with
De l’Espoir and herself, and who attended her
with skill and kindness during her illness, should
be sent for. He was one of those gentlemen
who supported her out of the theatre the even-
ing before, when Vandeleur discovered her ;
and although she was conscious that her agita-
tion on that occasion, together with the scene
now awaiting him, must raise strange surmises
in his mind, the energetic resolution she had
formed, to be guided throughout this critical
period by reason, rather than by feeling, en-
abled her to disregard what at a calmer moment
O
might have caused her to hesitate about em-
ploying him.
VANDELEUR. 325
As soon as slie had given orders to this effect,
she sat down to collect her thoughts, and con-
sider seriously what was now in her power to
rescue herself from the fearful and desolate si-
tuation she was in at that moment.
That her husband might return she knew was
possible ; but, even if he should, she was but
too well aware, that for her to continue with
him after the events of that evening, and the
impression they were sure to leave upon his dark
and wicked mind, would be absolutely impos-
sible, even to a spirit so bruised and broken as
was hers. She could not face a new species of
sorrow in the worst form—that of suspicion and
disgrace.
But, that he would not return she did not
even for a moment doubt. The threat of leav-
ing her, which she now believed he had put in
execution, he had often uttered before, when,
exasperated by the sight of her silent and
uncomplaining, but undisguised and hopeless
misery, he cursed the life of her father, which
326 VANDELEUR.
made him, as lie brutally expressed it, serve so
hard an apprenticeship for his property.
Nor was this, even when uttered, a mere
vague or idle threat. He had often weighed
the matter seriously in his mind, during the pe-
riod of Gertrude’s mental alienation and subse-
quent suffering ; but there were considerations
which served at that time to avert its being put
into execution,—the distant prospect of still reap-
ing the rich reward of what he now called h is
endurance—the unheard-of barbarity of aban-
doning a creature in the state to which he had
reduced Gertrude, to the care of total strangers,
in a foreign and far distant country—and per-
haps more than all, the interest felt for her by
her attending physician, who accompanied them
to Russia, and the nature of whose influence
over De l’Espoir will be hereafter explained.
But now that the prospect of his ever obtaining
the coveted wealth, which had led him so far on
the road to perdition, appeared surrounded with
difficulties and dangers which he had little hope
VANDELEUR. 327
of being able to overcome under all the attend-
ing circumstances ; now that he either thought,
or affected to think, that Gertrude had found a
friend whose counsels she preferred to his,—what
was there to restrain him from seeking safety
in flight ; and, hushing up the story, as he had
done others before, leaving Gertrude to stand
between him and her kinsman’s claim, and re-
appear himself on a stage where his talents and
adroitness should cause the whole matter to be
laughed at as a story in romance ?
It is not to be supposed that Gertrude carried
her meditations on his frame of mind quite so far
as this ; but she keenly remembered enough of
the past to form her conclusions of the future
:
and now it was that she blessed, as inspiration,
the fancy which had induced her to select St.
Petersburgh as the remote scene in which she
was, in compliance with her husband, to be
forced to enter the world again. But how to
render that fancy available, now required her
deepest consideration.
328 VANDELEUR.
Not yet a fortnight in St. Petersburgh, she
was still a perfect stranger, not only to its habits
and customs, but to every human being that
breathed within it, except the physician who
had accompanied them thither, De l’Espoir him-
self, and him who now lay stretched upon a sick
bed by his hand. Even the servants were stran-
gers to her ; as De TEspoir deemed it judicious
to remove from about her, in her convalescence,
as many as possible of those who had been wit-
nesses of her illness : and thus was she left with-
out even the humblest friend to whom she could
turn for sympathy or assistance. Probably it
was well for her that it was so ; for there are
certain states of the mind in which the slightest
o
hope of foreign support will induce us to depend
entirely upon it until it fails beneath us, when
without it we should have grown energetic from
despair or necessity.
Such was Gertrude’s case at present. One
resolution she came to at once; which was, that
no consideration should induce her to see Van-
VANDELEUR. 329
deleur again. Every care and attention that
gratitude and affection could suggest, she order-
ed to be lavished upon him ; but she deter-
mined not by the slightest yielding to her own
feelings to add to the calumny that she knew
was hovering over her, and which one un-
guarded movement might precipitate upon her
head.
Her next step was to see Monsieur Dumou-
lin ; to mention, simply, that a dispute had arisen
between the count and Vandeleur, in which the
latter had been wounded ; and to endeavour to
learn from him what means it was proper for
her to use, in order to throw herself upon the
protection of the lady of the English ambas-
»
sador.
Accordingly, when Monsieur Dumoulin ar-
rived, and had examined Vandeleur’s wound,
he w'as summoned to the presence of the
countess.
To the first part of her communication he
paid just as much attention as other circum-
VOL. II. n
330 VANDELEUR.
stances led him to think it deserved ; for he
was shrewd and discerning : to the second part,
he was able to answer little more than that
he should next morning make it his business
to procure her the information she required
;
as for himself, he knew nothing more than
where the house of the English ambassador was
situate, and that his lady was to have a splendid
ball that evening. This he had learned by
chance from Lady Harriet Stuart, whom he had
been attending for a heavy cold which she had
caught on her arrival at St. Petersburgh two
days before ; but who insisted, contrary to his
advice, on her being well enough to attend the
fete that evening.
To remain another night in the hazardous
and desperate situation in which Gertrude was
now placed, was an alternative beyond her
powers calmly to contemplate for a moment,
even had she not deemed it absolutely incor-
rect ; and her enthusiasm, and ignorance of the
customs of the world, for once befriending her,
VANDELEUR. 331
she formed her own plan, and during the absence
of Dumoulin, who did not find Vandeleur’s
wound, though severe and painful, so alarming
as to require his incessant presence, she put
it into execution.
END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.
LONDON I
HUNTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,
Dorset Street, Fleet Street.
VANDELEUR;
OR,
animal magnetism.
A NOVEL.
Ye shall have miracles, ay, sound ones too.
Seen, heard, attested, everything but true.
Veiled Prophet.
IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.
LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET.
1836.
UGBAJW
VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER XVIII.
Man may the sterner virtues know,
Determined justice, truth severe.
But female hearts with pity glow,
And woman holds affliction dear.
Crabbe.
What different scenes are enacting at the
same instant on the great theatre of the world !
Tragedy, comedy, farce, melodrame, and all the
other varieties that genius or fancy can ima-
gine, proceed, each regardless of the other
;
and yet intuitively each performs his part so
well, that, under the one great Master-hand, the
most opposite parts are made in the end sub-
VOL. III. B
2 VANDELEUR.
servient to each other, and' all is blended into
one harmonious whole.
On the self-same evening on which Gertrude
was deserted by her villanous husband, and,
all circumstances considered, thrown into a si-
tuation as wretched as could well be imagined
for a young and delicate woman—delicate alike
in mind and body—the mansion of the British
ambassador in St. Petersburgh, was thrown open
to receive a gay concourse of visiters. The
beauty, youth, high rank, and splendid fortune
of his lady, had created a great sensation even
in that cold climate ; which, together with her
noble character and elegant mind, caused her
balls and soirees to be acknowledged as the
models of good taste and fashion. No expense
had been spared to congregate the luxuries of
every climate at her shrine ; and at seasons
when the inclemency of the weather deprived
the hardy Russ of some of his i(
fair propor-
tions,” the most delicate Eastern rose was seen
to bloom in the bosom of the fair English-
C
woman.
VANDELEUR. 3
At the precise moment which this chapter is
meant to open upon, she reclined upon a costly
divan, of peculiar construction and magnifi-
cence, the especial gift of the Emperor of all
the Russias to herself. Her dress was a grace-
ful demi-toilette,—or, at least, what might have
been considered such, but for the rich jewels
with which she was laden ; and which, as the
cassette still lay open beside her, gave the
idea of a whimsical fit of indolence ; refusing
to suffer the annoyance of changing her cos-
tume of the morning, even to receive the noble
guests of the evening, and compromising the
matter by sending for her jewels : while, without
moving from her luxurious seat, she glanced her
eyes, now and then, to one or other of the
splendid mirrors by which the reception-room
was surrounded, as she tried on one costly toy
after another, and selected those which suited
best with her degagee dress.
The occupation and the scene might have
become an Eastern princess ; while the high and
n £
4 YANDELEUR.
aristocratic cast of her fine features, together
with the air of listless languor which at this
moment sat upon them, would not have mis-
become the character, had she not been betray-
ed by her own island’s peculiar beauty— the
perfect blonde of her rich complexion and
silken tresses.
She soon, however, tired of her feminine occu-
pation ; and as it yet wanted an hour or more of
the time when she might expect her guests, she
took up a book that lay beside her, as if to
while away that hour. Apparently, the book
had not the power of charming longer than the
jewels; for presently she threw it also from her,
and touching a little golden bell that lay within
her reach, the attendant spirit appeared.
“ Let baby be brought to me,” she said ;
but the answer returned was that baby slept.
“ Pshaw ! I think she always sleeps when I
most wish for her,” she muttered half-pettishly,
half-fondly : and again she raised her eyes to
the beautiful toy which sang out the hours in
VANDELEUR. 5
sweet music for her ear, as if to drown the
hoarse voice of Time, and pointed to the pass-
ing moments with a golden rose ; as if music,
gold, or flowers could beguile one step of his
steady tread, or hide one wrinkle of his furrowed
brow !
There still remained the hour to be got over,
and seldom did the fair islander feel so little in-
clination to turn it to account. She yielded to
her languor for the present ; and dismissing her
jewel-box, rejecting her book, and entrenching
herself more deeply in the downy depth of her
cushions, she suffered herself to sink into a
dreamy slumber. Its duration was not destined
to be much longer than that of the other re
sources she had tried.
Scarcely had she quite “ forgot herself” in
some fairy vision, when she was startled back
to life and all its realities by the massive doors
of the chamber being thrown open, and Lady
Harriet Stuart announced by one of her Eng-
lish servants. The lady instantly followed on
6 VANDELEUR.
the announcement, and the door was closed
behind her.
The noble hostess started up to receive her ;
• •
and casting yet one more hasty glance at the
beautiful timepiece, rather apologetic than re-
proachful, was advancing to receive her guest
with her usual grace, when the latter, rushing
towards her, wildly flung herself at her feet, and
seizing hold of her dress, buried her face in it,
and burst into hysteric sobbing.
The lady shrieked—and looking hastily round
for her little golden bell, was about to snatch it
and ring for assistance, when the stranger, per-
ceiving her intention, seized both her "wrists,
and holding them gently, but with sufficient
force, deprived her of the power of executing
her purpose. In this movement, however, she
'
necessarily looked up ; and there was that in
the wasted loveliness and woe-begone expres-
sion of her face and person, that at once arrest-
ed and riveted the attention of her to whom
she clung, while it served in part to increase that
VANDELEUR. 7
lady’s terror. She saw, not only that the person
before her was not the Lady Harriet Stuart
whom she had known in England, but was
not any one whom she had ever beheld before.
Still, there was something in her beautiful young
face, and beseeching though energetic manner,
that caused the kind and tender heart of the
ambassadress to feel as much of pity as of
displeasure, or even of terror.
The stranger’s brow was decked with a wreath
of jewels ; her once beautiful, but now emaciated
arms, were laden with rich workmanship, and
altogether her dress was such as might have be-
come an expected guest of the evening.
She perceived the eyes of her unwilling
hostess drinking in these strange appearances,
and, laughing wildly, she exclaimed, “ Yes,
yes! I am decked, lady, but not for you ! I am
your guest, but not by your invitation ; and
these misplaced emblems of gaiety and mirth
are only assumed to elude the vigilance of your
servants. You see I am not the Lady Harriet
8 VANDELEUR.
Stuart ; but learning by an accidental observa-
tion that she was but a few days arrived in
Russia, and was invited here to-night, I trusted
to the chance of none of your servants having
seen her yet, that I should be able to pass them,
and gain access to your presence—under cover
of her name, for—the outlawed fratricide Ger-
trude Evelyn !”
The ambassadress uttered another piercing-
shriek, not only at this frightful annunciation,
but from the very excitement of her nerves at so
strange an interview.
“ Ay, lady, shriek and shrink from me,”
the unfortunate girl continued, “ like the rest
of an unfeeling and short-sighted world ; but
know, that as there is a God above us, you are
not more guiltless, more incapable in intention
of the crime imputed to me, and for which
my brain has maddened, and is maddening fast
again, than she who now stands before you.”
And she arose, and stood indeed a fitting em-
blem of dignified despair.
VANDELEUR.
There was something in her words, manner,
and whole appearance, that spoke to the noble
and ingenuous heart of her whom she ad-
dressed, with the irresistible force of truth and
nature.
“ Sit down—pray sit down,” she said in a
voice broken and gasping from agitation and
alarm, as she sank herself into her seat ;
“ arid
let me know to what I owe this interview.”
“ Permit me first, noble lady,” said Gertrude,
“ to ask one question. Is Mrs. Vandeleur with
you in Russia at present ?”
“ She is not
;
she is in England : she felt
unequal to the journey and the change of cli-
mate. Are you acquainted with her ? If so,
you have indeed a claim upon my best services?”
answered the Duchess of Castleton ; for we need
no longer have recourse to equivocal titles and
epithets to disguise that it was she.
“ Alas ! no,” said Gertrude, “ I have not
that claim ; and yet it is a deep and deadly
disappointment to me to learn that she is not
10 VANDELEUR.
here, for slie would have felt a deep interest in
me, and one from which I need not shrink.”
“ And is there nothing I can do for you for
her sake ?” asked the duchess, with increasing
commiseration, as she saw the pitiable effect
her communication produced on the mysterious
stranger.
“ Oh ! much, much ! if you will do it ;
—to
shelter and to shield me,—to protect and to
advise me,—and, believe me, I deserve it at your
hands. You look astonished ; but it is even so :
the innocent and the oppressed deserve justice
and pity at the hands of the powerful and the
good. There has been a warrant issued, and
which will in a few days pass through your noble
husband’s hands, to apprehend and bring me
and my husband to trial for the murder of my
brother. My husband has fled—I believe for
ever, from me, on hearing of it ; and, oh ! lady,
I come to you to throw myself upon your mercy
for advice and protection.”
The duchess’s manner and countenance as-
VANDELEUR. 11
sinned a coldness it had not yet worn, at this, as
it appeared, unreasonable claim.
“Myprotection,'
11
she said, “in such a case is
not in my own power to bestow : I am not here
to counteract the measures of the government.
For my advice, it is, that you render yourself up
at once to the laws of your country, which, if
you are as innocent as you assert, and as 1 fully
believe, will not fail to acquit you before the
eves of the world. In the mean time, the mo-
merits are gliding swiftly over. I am truly
concerned that I am so entirely engaged to my
friends this evening ; but, as I feel certain you
would not choose to appear amongst them
under your present circumstances, it would be
unkind and unfeeling in me not to inform you
that they may now momentarily arrive/
1
Gertrude’s eye mechanically followed that of
the duchess to the timepiece ; but to her it
presented no idea : her ear only was alive to
the cold and chilling words—her heart to the
altered manner. She clasped her hands over
12 VAiNDELEUR.
her brow, which now burned, while she appear-
T
ed next moment to become even paler than before.
“ What is to become of me ?” she muttered in
distraction ; and, falling upon her knees once
more, she clasped her hands together and ex-
claimed, “ I cannot go ! Duchess of Castleton,
I cannot go ! If you have the feelings of a wo-
man, take pity upon me, when I tell you that
the only man I ever loved —he to whom I was
within a few days of being united for ever
—
lies at this moment in my house, wounded se-
verely by my husband’s hand, and that husband
fled I know not whither ! If not for the sake of
sweet charity, at least for your Mrs. Vandeleur’s
sake, grant me your protection, for—myaffianced
lover is her only son !”
The duchess visibly started, and scarcely
suppressed another scream, so great was her
surprise at this announcement.
Gertrude attributed her emotion, and the cri-
tical glance with which she now again ran over her
face and person, to her interest in Mrs. Vande-
VANDELEUR. 13
leur ; for Godfrey, in confessing to her that he
had loved before, had never hinted at the ob-
ject ; and no accidental circumstance had ever
brought the idea into her mind of its having
been his mother’s pupil.
There was a momentary pause. Gertrude
spoke again. “ Have I not yet touched your
heart ?” she asked imploringly. “ I know not
how much or how little of my frightful story
has reached the public ear ; but if you have any
doubts upon your mind respecting me, I will
speak to you as might a Catholic at the confes-
sional, and you will not refuse me your sympa-
thy then.”
u Did you say that Major Vandeleur was the
person to whom you were betrothed, and who
now lies in your house wounded by your hus-
band’s hand
?”
“ I did ; and it is true. Hut let not that
”
Here a violent ringing at the door, and hasty
steps and bustle upon the stairs, announced that
the guests were beginning to assemble. Gertrude
14 VANDELEUR.
stopped short in her appeal, and, scared and
r
terrified, seemed disposed to fly she knew not
whither.
The duchess appeared little less agitated. She
seized Gertrude by the arm. “ Tell me in one
word,” she exclaimed, <4
as there is truth in
Heaven, ought I to shelter you ? Why is your
lover in your house? why 'is he wounded by
your husband’s hand ?”
“ Alas ! alas ! the question shows that you
know neither of them. But let my being here,
speak my wishes and my feelings.”
“ It is true—it must be true !” said the duch-
ess hastily. “ Come with me :” and they escaped
by one door, as the duke, with some of the
company of the evening, entered at the other.
“ There is no time for ceremony now,” the
duchess said, as she hurried Gertrude along the
passages : “I must, were it only to avoid suspi-
cion, return instantly to receive my guests ; and
you must consent to become a prisoner in my
dressing-room. I cannot even admit my own
VANDELEUR. ] 5
women to the secret, as it could not fail to lead
to conjecture ; and I would not for worlds in-
volve the duke : so I must e’en lock the door
upon you myself, and trust to my wits to make
some excuse.” So saying, she hurried Gertrude
in, locked the door, and depositing in her tiny
reticule the weightiest burden that had ever ex-
panded its embroidered sides, returned to her
business of the evening.
She performed her part indeed as lady of the
revels ; but never in the course of her short and
happy life did she acquit herself with so ill a
grace, or sat so heavy a cloud upon that noble
brow. Her temples throbbed almost to mad-
ness ; and such was the excited state of her
nerves, that once or twice, when suddenly ad-
dressed, she started, and uttered a low and
stifled shriek.
Such symptoms in one accustomed to be the
life and soul of every assembly, particularly
within her own especial precincts, could not fail
to attract attention ; and at length, in answer
16 VANDELEUR.
to the general solicitude expressed for her
health, she was obliged to acknowledge an over-
powering headache. This avowal of what, in
fact, it was beyond her utmost efforts longer to
conceal, soon relieved her from her guests ; and
offering the same apology to the duke, she bade
him a hurried good-niglit, and fled to the cham-
ber where she had concealed the unfortunate
Gertrude.
How had she passed her time in the interim ?
Had she been disposed to envy, or even had
her mind been sufficiently disengaged for obser-
vation and admiration : there was ample food for
each and all in the little apartment to which
she was thus unpremeditatedly consigned. Her
dressing-room, the duchess had called it, and
such indeed was its destination—but so tastefully
and so splendidly arranged, that every article of
furniture or of dress that met the eye called forth
an inquiry whether it was not placed there for
ornament alone. The brilliant lamp exhaled
perfumes ; the mother-of-pearl table seemed en-
VANDELEUR. 17
amelled with the jewels it was destined to dis-
play for its mistress’s selection.
But Gertrude had not an eye or a heart for
all this ; she only perceived •
a deep arm-chair,
and, throwing herself into it, endeavoured, by
pressing her hands on her eyes, and concealing
from them all outward objects, to turn them
upon herself, and calmly to consider what
she had done, and what remained for her to
do. The truth soon became sufficiently evi-
dent to her, that, whatever power she might
have . had over the past, little remained to her
over the future. She had thrown herself and
her fate into the hands of one an utter stranger
to her, but whom she had heard Vandeleur
mention with esteem, and who, being educated
by his mother, must be all that was amiable.
So had reasoned her fond, youthful heart, in a
far-distant country, when she made what ap-
peared so strange a choice as that of St. Peters-
burgli for their temporary residence ; and so
whispered her hopes even now, not the less vi-
18 VANDELEUR.
vidly perhaps from the consciousness that she
had no longer left herself a choice.
Nor did she repent of having placed herself
in that predicament. The trying interview over,
in the calm solitude of the dressing-room, her
nerves by degrees relaxed from their excited
tone, and she recalled to her recollection the
reasons and the principles which had led her to
adopt that course. It might have appeared
more rational, more consistent with the customs
of the world, to have waited until next morning,
and formally presented her petition to the duch-
ess. But most of the misfortunes that had
already befallen Gertrude were owing to her
peculiar ignorance of the customs of the world,
joined to a tendency in her character to hold
them very light in comparison with her ideas of
right and wrong.
She had considered it wrong1
to remain an-
other hour under the roof with Vandeleur, after
all that had occurred; and yet a vague idea that
M. Dumoulin would endeavour to overcome
VANDELEUR. 19
those scruples prevented her from communicat-
ing with him. Accordingly, as soon as he left
the hotel for a few hours in order to visit other
patients, Gertrude, availing herself of the infor-
mation she had elicited from him, rummaged
out some dresses and trinkets, which De TEs-
poir had insisted upon purchasing for her, in the
prospect of presenting her to the world as his
bride ; and decking herself in them, she sent for
a conveyance, and directed the man to drive to
the house of the English ambassador. The man
stared, but obeyed ;
and so far all was well.
Gertrude, in forming her plans, had been calm
and composed ; but the fuss of dressing, and the
strange appearance she wore in her own eyes, like
a decorated victim, (to use a worn-out simile,)
flushed her spirits a good deal. Then came the
thought of giving Vandeleur over to the care of
strange domestics. True, she hoped to interest a
friend, if not his mother, in his behalf ; and it was
only now she recollected how agitated must have
been their interview, when she had forgotten to
20 VANDELEUR.
inquire, or he to mention, whether or not his
mother was in Russia. She would have sent
now to ask him, but was informed that he slept
by the effects of some anodyne, and that the
doctor had given orders that he should not be
disturbed. She left a note for him, beseeching
him to consider all that was theirs in the hotel
his own ; and another for M. Dumoulin, be-
speaking his attention as a friend to Vandeleur.
T o neither did she communicate her project ; for
she felt, that if the duchess consented to befriend
her, she might reasonably choose that it should
be kept a secret. This caused her silence to
Dumoulin; and for Vandeleur, for both their
sakes, she deemed it better that he should be
left in ignorance of her hiding-place.
These considerations, with repeated charges
to the woman to be careful and attentive, set
her a good deal at rest on the subject of leaving
Vandeleur ; but when she found herself actually
shut into the carriage, and whirling away, to
present herself in so strange a manner, and un-
VANDELEUR. 81
der such unusual, if not suspicious circumstances,
to an utter stranger, her agitation increased to
a fearful degree. Once or twice she was on the
point of turning back ; but this, she feared, was
only a return of her malady, and she forced her-
self to proceed. And finally, by the time that she
arrived, and was shown into the presence of the
duchess, she had nearly relinquished all control
over her shattered, overwrought feelings, and
gave vent to them in the manner already related.
The calmness of the dressing-room, however,
as we have said, composed her spirits ; and
when the duchess was able to rqjoin her, she
was agreeably surprised to find a person so dif-
ferent from her she had left a few hours before.
Gertrude hastened forward to meet her ; but it
was with the subdued and melancholy air of one
rationally alive to the peculiarities of her situa-
tion, and of the intrusion of which she had been
guilty. At the moment that both resumed their
seats, it would have appeared that the duchess
was the more agitated of the two : she was the
22 VANDELEUR.
first to speak, however ; for, now that the ex-
citement of Gertrude’s nerves had subsided, she
seemed incapable of attempting an adequate
apology.
“ I am happy to perceive,” the duchess be-
gan, “that your spirits are a good deal reco-
vered from the hurry they appeared to have
undergone. I feared that such a lengthened
confinement, without refreshment, would have
wholly overcome you. I have ordered some to
the next room, and from thence I shall convey
it to you myself ; for you are by this time, I am
sure,” she said with a gentle but expressive
smile, “fully aware how cautious I must be,
whether for your sake or my own, of betraying
that I have concealed in my dressing-room the
person whom you inform me the duke will in a
few days be called on to have apprehended. I
trust, and I believe, that you will be able in a
few words to reconcile me to myself for this ap-
parent breach of public, as well as private duty,
when you have had a glass of wine.” So say-
VANDELEUR. 23
ing, she left the room, and returned, carrying in
herself her own especial salver with some re-
freshments, now become indeed very necessary
to poor Gertrude, who accordingly did not re-
fuse to partake of them.
“ And now,” said the duchess, who felt her
heart rapidly softening, and cautious suspicion
slipping as rapidly away, as she gazed upon the
pure and beautiful brow of the evidently artless
and interesting creature before her—And now,
wrap yourself in that shawl, as I shall myself in
this one. I have sent my people to bed, saying
I cannot sleep for a severe headache ; and, as
they have replenished the stove, we shall be as
comfortable as your story will admit of.”
Gertrude fully appreciated the considerate
kindness of the duchess’s manner, and deter-
mining to show her sense of it as far as lay in
her power, she commenced at once a full and
undisguised account of all that had befallen her,
from her betrothal with Major Vandeleur, up to
the fatal scene in the arbour at Beauton.
24 VANDELEUR.
Here there was a complete interruption, not
only from her tears and violent sobs, and the
tears of the duchess, which now flowed plenti-
fully with hers, but also from her not having com-
pletely recovered her senses from the moment of
her fainting in De PEspoir’s arms, until she found
herself in London, in consequence of a strong
narcotic administered to her by her betrayer
the moment he perceived her begin to revive, and
then so imperfectly, that it will be much more
satisfactory to our readers that we should take
up the thread.
VANDELEUR. 25
CHAPTER XIX.
Thou ’It fly ? —as easily may reptiles run
The gaunt snake once hath fix’d his eyes upon ;
As easily, when caught, the prey may be
Pluck’d from his loving folds, as thou from me.
No, no ;
’tis fix’d—let good or ill betide,
Thou’rt mine till death, till death Mokanna’s bride!
Veiled Prophet.
It was a soft and beautiful night : the moon
O
shone so brightly in the clear, deep, mellow
sky, that the lamps of London looked squalid
in her beams ; and even in that home of artifi-
cial sensations, her pure chastened light wakened
in the breasts of many some recollection of the
scenes of nature. By far the greater number,
however, this glorious sight was unperceived or
disregarded. Some hurried on to the midnight
revel and the crowded room, as if nothing
purer or more animating were within the reach
VOL. i t i
.
c
26 VANDELEUR.
of man. Some crept along to the haunts of
vice, as if there were neither moon nor stars to
witness their unhallowed orgies ; while others
plodded their weary way to misery and home,
for no better reason than that they had not the
means of making their way anywhere else. To
neither of these three classes, however, belonged
two men, who upon this night might have been
seen strolling arm-in-arm along some of the
darker and least frequented streets in the me-
tropolis ; and yet, perhaps, they both partook in
some degree of the two latter.
The taller and elder of the two might be
from forty-five to fifty years of age ; but, what-
ever his years might be, he was evidently old in
proportion to them. There was the undefinable
air of a foreigner slightly clinging to him still
;
but it was neither the lively eye of the French-
man, nor the dark complexion of the Italian :
his was rather of that fair though now faded hue
which marks the more northern nations. His
brow had some traces of care and anxiety, if
VANDELEUR. 27
not of want and endurance ;
yet his light blue
eyes still occasionally gleamed with an expres-
sion that seemed to set suffering pretty much at
defiance, not in sternness, hut in recklessness.
His dress was clerical, hut had seen its better
days.
His companion might have been some twenty
years younger,—a dark, meagre, but good-look-
ing Frenchman. He seemed but lately imported
from the land of his forefathers ;
indeed, from
the tone of his conversation, his anxious inqui-
ries into the customs, habits, and manners of
the country in which he now found himself, and
his probable chance of success therein, he seemed
to he but just arrived.
44
And so you would counsel me to return to
la belle France
"
he said, addressing his compa-
nion, 44
and seek for loaves and fishes there ?”
The clergyman took snuff. 44
Mafoi,
oui, mon
ami. The surgeon of a French regiment that
fought so boldly against the Holy Alliance is
not likely to have much success here. If you
c 2
28 VANDELEUR.
found it difficult to get employment there at
present, here you will find it impossible ; for
these betes English not only hate Nap and his
adherents with all the rancour of ultra-loyalists,
but with the far more venomous hatred of inferior
minds to a great and powerful rival. Sacre
!
if
I thought some former passages in my life were
forgotten, I don’t know but I should myself re-
turn there too, even at this late hour, where I
spent many a merry year (his blue eye laugh-
ed and emitted a spark of hidden fire ;) “for,
somehow, twenty or thirty years
1
residence in
the fogs of England does not render one’s
French more fluent, especially to one not origi-
nally native ;
and these d —d English are be-
coming so knowing upon our hands, that they
set up to detect bad French, and to talk of pa-
tois and provincial accents.”
“But you —3/0?/, Monsieur, the clever and
the enlightened, and almost a Frenchman, what
can you have to fear from fastidiousness itself?”
“ Good sooth, my friend, a great deal : fa-
VANDELEUR.
sliions change in dialect as well as in other mat-
ters. I am now almost an Englishman : one s
ears become brutalized by their guttural tones
ever dinning into them ; and for cleverness
and all that, I had only too much of it for the
age in which I lived. Trust me, it is safer
for a man to be a little behind than a great
deal before his fellow-men : in the one case, they
will turn to help him up ; in the other, they will
conspire together to crush him down. I was
obliged to hide my light under a bushel in
this beef-eating, malt-drinking country. Bah !
their intellects are as heavy as their food, and
I do believe their brains grow as fat as their
paunches.”
“ And with such an opinion of them, why
did you not leave them long ago ?”
“ Pour des raisons,
mon ami,
pour des raisons /”
making a playful lunge with his forefinger at his
companion’s side. “ Sacre ! know you not that
I used my brains a little too freely at one time in
Paris, and found it convenient to make my bow ?”
so VANDELEUR.
“ I know but little of your history,
11
replied
the young man, “although your sister’s son. She
advised me, wheja our party got undermost, to
flv to you, and seek my fortune under your
protection in England. She told me nothing,
save of your great genius, worth, and learning ;
and so, me voild, monsieur /” taking off his hat,
with the how peculiar to a Frenchman, which
always seems to say “ You see how polite I
am !”
“ Ah, poor Celine !” exclaimed the elder,
“ she ever thought partially of me. Well, well
;
she Avould wonder at the world and despise it, if
she saw me now. But we will not think of these
things.—Will you take snuff?—Time was, in-
deed, when Frenchmen and foreigners of all sorts,
either of the medical trade like yours, or the
maitres de Franfois,
like me, were a rarity here,
and during the war could only be gathered en pri-
sonniers. But now —now parbleu! they are
swarming like locusts : and, at this moment, a
man unpeu passe,
like myself, is obliged to have
VANDELEUR. 81
recourse to dyeing his hair, and gluing on a mou-
stache, to prove he has not had time to forget,
or—be forgotten. I sometimes think now of
trying how far the knowledge I have acquired ot
English might serve my turn in France.”
“ Have you still any friends remaining there ?”
“Humph! why, I’m not so sure of that.
There is one, indeed, who ought to be my friend
in his prosperity, as only good luck saved him
from being my companion in adversity. Had
you asked me the question a month ago, 1
should certainly have answered No ! —for to the
many applications I felt myself justified in
making to him for assistance, I never received
any answer but silence, which in this case could
scarcely be taken for consent. However, to my
very great amazement, about three weeks ago,
when I had given up all hopes, I received a let-
ter from my friend and quondam pupil, assur-
ing me of his deep interest in me, and add-
ing, (doubtless par hasard,) that be wanted
my assistance in procuring him lodgings in Lon*
32 VANDELEUR.
don, whither he was coming immediately on
some business which required equal despatch
and secrecy. Hither he came indeed ; but,
save sharing my lodging, and giving me a
share of his meals while he remained, I have as
yet to take either his 4
interest
1
or ‘ principle
upon trust—ha ! ha ! However, he is to he with
me again in a few days ;
and as I have got a
rein half-way at least over his neck at present,
I may count so surely on some douceur as will
enable me to give you some supper to-night.
So, come along! But, hey ! morbleu ! what's
this he exclaimed, as they came within sight
of his squalid dwelling ;
“ A carriage at my
humble door at this time of night ! and four
foaming horses ! Surely it cannot be him re-
turned already P —And yet—stop you here, my
friend, a moment, until I run on and see ; and
should I enter the house, you must seek your
supper elsewhere for this night—ha ! ha !
—but
never droop for it. Here's my last sixpence,
and come to breakfast with me to-morrow.
VANDELEUR. 33
Hah ! via foi,
it is himself—I see him clear-
ly now,
1 ’’
he continued, as he ran towards the
door. “ And, in God’s name ! what is that large
bundle he is lifting out? —By this moonlight, it
is a woman ! Then he actually has succeeded.
Hey ! for better days !
—presto '.presto /” and he
arrived at his own door just as the unfortunate
Gertrude was carried, in that deep and deadly
slumber, into the house, and laid upon the mi-
serable remains of a sofa which the room, called
by courtesy a parlour, afforded, until a bed
could be prepared for her.
De f Espoir took the opportunity to confide
to his former tutor, Edelstein, what had taken
place. There was, as the reader is aware, that
between them already, which enabled him not to
shrink from reposing such confidence in him ;
and yet, he did him injustice if he expected not
to shock him. Edelstein was both grieved and
shocked by the transaction, in the most favourable
light in which De Y Espoir could place it; but
it was his feelings only that retained any tinge
c o
VANDELEUR.
84
of their original amiable tendency—his intellects
and principles were alike withered and gone.
De l’Espoir promised him competence if he
should succeed in his undertaking, for his co-
operation was necessary : Edelstein forbore all
remonstrance, and agreed with him, that all that
now remained, even for Gertrude’s sake, was to
make her his wife as speedily as possible.
“ And this office you must perform for us, my
friend.”
The tutor shrugged his shoulders. “ It is
so long since I practised, that I have forgotten
my trade.”
“No matter; we will not be too critical.
But a ceremony, however mutilated, must pass
between us, or I shall never get her out of this
d—d country ; and if I did, she would raise a
mutiny in the vessel, and have me thrown over-
board without benefit of clergy, by way of retali-
ation.”
“ Is the young lady so very pious, then ?”
“ Oh, she is just everything that will give us
VANDELEUR. 85
trouble, I fear !” replied De FEspoir, casting an
anxious glance into futurity. “ Hang me ! it 1
know what to expect from her, after what I have
seen of the violence of her feelings ; and since l
dare not here attempt a legal marriage, all I can
do is to marry her illegally, and keep that little
deficiency a secret from her, until I shall have it
in my power to make her the amende honorable.''
“ But suppose you change your mind, and
never make it ?”
“ My good Edelstein, men have changed in
their love to woman, cooled in their hate to
man, and forgotten even their thirst for ven-
geance ; but when were they known to change in
their desire for wealth ? Wealth to the mind
of man may be considered what the central gra-
vity is to matter : other powers may weaken its
effects and render them less strong in one per-
son than in another ; but it is still the grand im-
mutable principle of our nature ; and the pro-
portion of those who resist it, are as the bodies
which fly upwards, compared to those of the
36 VANDELEUR.
opposite tendency. No, no,; this is a sweet and
pretty girl, little as you can see of her now as
she lies there wrapped up in my travelling-cloak :
but, believe me, she is fair enough not to scare
one from the possession of ten thousand a year,
—that is, two hundred and fifty thousand livres
of our money. Think of that, monami ! and talk
of my cooling towards her !”
“ Think of it, you, my count ; and remember,
that you can never touch a penny of it except
by a prompt and legal marriage.”
De FEspoir laughed a short contemptuous
laugh. “ And, in good and sober truth, thinkest
thou me such a hot-headed boy as to run the
risk I have run with any other view ? When
didst thou see me even in early youth yield to
my passions beyond my control ?”
“ Cest vrai, ce nest que trop vrai /” retorted
the other, with quite as much contempt, but of
another kind. De FEspoir despised his soft-
ness, — he detested De FEspoir’s heartless-
ness.
VANDELEUR. 37
But it suited neither of them to quarrel at
present ; and the landlady here entering to carry
away Gertrude to the room now hastily pre-
pared for her, gave time for the angry feeling
of the moment to subside.
The tutor resumed, as if the little digression
had not been made,—“ But, granting that I can
rake up from the old lumber-room of my brains
sufficient prayers to suit our purpose, are you
sure that she will not still rebel ; and if we force
the golden ring upon her finger, in return slip a
hempen one upon our necks ?”
De l’Espoir almost felt it upon his own al-
ready, and looked with a kind of envy at that
of his friend, which made him not unwilling to
bring it to the same level.
“ No,” he said ;
“ I have no reason to think
that the young lady hates me. We have hi-
therto been excellent friends; and at the mo-
ment of her extremity she cast herself into my
arms from her father and lover. To be sure,
there was something at the moment that de-
38 VANDELEUR.
dared that it was more front fear of them than
love to me,—or rather, an appeal to me to explain
matters for her, which in other circumstances I
should have found it difficult to resist. But, be
it as it may, I think I have now arguments
enough to use, aided by her present circum-
stances, to induce her to submit quietly to be-
come Countess de FEspoir : her own large for-
tune I touch that minute, and show my gra-
titude to you ; and I shall behave so prettily to
her, that I dare say her father (who, entre nous,
is nearly as young and twice as stout-looking
a fellow as myself,) will add a few livres more
to it in sheer thankfulness. But we must
not lose an hour in getting out of this, for
at this very moment there is a hue-and-cry
after us.
1 ’
“ I wish to Heaven you were both safe out
of this poor house at all events ! But nothing
can be settled until the young lady wakes from
her lethargy : pray Heaven you have not drug-
ged the dose too strongly !”
VANDELEUR. 39
“ Not a bit of it. You are a coward since
that little accident in Paris ; but I assure you 1
went exactly by your orders.”
The tutor shrank with some appearance ot
horror at the unfeeling allusion. “ Ay, ever
thus, ever the same—wishing to shift the burden
oft’ your own shoulders ;
but you fail to make
me take it now. If you only did as I desired
you, the young lady will wake again ;
if not, the
blood be on your own head ! And so, good
night.” And they shook hands and parted
with every appearance of cordiality.
No language, not even when assisted by her
own fearful shudderings, and varying colour at
the recollections of that dreadful moment, could
succeed in conveying the faintest idea of the
state of Gertrude’s mind when she wakened
the next morning, raised her throbbing temples
from her pillow, and looked about her upon a
wretched room, still more wretchedly provided.
It is almost trite to ask, who has not felt the
deadly weight upon the heart, when one first
40 VANDELEUR.
awakes after a few hours’ oblivion of some re-
cent calamity, before memory has had time to
re-collect the scattered particulars ?
—yet there
is no other way in which the reader can put
himself even partially in poor Gertrude’s place.
Happily few, very few, have had to recall a
calamity like hers.
On first awaking, she hastily sat up in her
bed, pushed back the soiled and shabby curtains,
then her own stray ringlets from before her
eyes, in hopes of finding that all she saw was but
the lingering of some hideous dream. It would
not do, however : there was no delusion ; she was
in some strange and frightful place. She look-
ed on the sleeves of her night-dress ;
they were
not of the kind she was in the habit of wearing.
She tore off her night-cap, and examined it to
see if it corresponded in strangeness with all the
rest :
—alas ! but too fully !
She could not long remain forgetful of the
event that had taken place through her instru-
mentality. On recalling it to her mind and
VANDELEUR. 41
looking around her, her first idea was that she
was in a prison ! A violent palpitation seized
her, and threatened her with suffocation. She
endeavoured to scream, hut had not power ;
and
a train of nervous sensations, increased by the
laudanum which De FEspoir had compelled her
to swallow almost at the moment he carried
her from the arbour, succeeded each other so
rapidly, that she sank back upon her pillow,
almost believing that she had left the abode of
men and was given up to demons.
She had lain in this pitiable state, despairing
and heartbroken, about a quarter of an hour,
when the opening of the room-door aroused her
by bringing with it hope of relief. Again she
started up, and to her utter amazement per-
ceived the Count de FEspoir coolly enter her
chamber ! Covered with confusion, her first
impulse was to conceal herself from his view,
and, burying her head in the bedclothes, it
was not until he had several times adjured her
by everything solemn and serious to allow him
42 VANDELEUR.
to converse with her for a moment, that she
answered, “ Then be so good as to retire
until I dress and come to the drawing-
room !”
“ Nay, Gertrude, this is childish, — idle.
You know, love, that you are mine now and
for ever I’’
1
The unfortunate girl forgot her confusion and
every other feeling in these frightful words, and
once more starting up, with burning cheek and
flashing eyes she exclaimed, “ Call my father
!
call my father instantly ! or take me to him this
moment — this very moment !” and she flung
her arms wildly over her head.
De FEspoir seized one of her hands, and fall-
ing on his knees beside her, implored of her to
compose herself.
“ But where am I ? Tell me where I am F
1
she reiterated, breathing very rapidly. “ Where
am I ? and why am I insulted by your presence
in my chamber ?”
“ I shall retire, Gertrude, if you will promise
VANDELEUR. 43
to compose yourself, and to allow me to speak
rationally to you when you are dressed !”
“ Retire, at all events, if you please. Dress-
ed ! Yes, I shall certainly dress ; hut it will be
to fly to my father and my betrothed husband,”
she added, gaining courage from desperation.
“ Leave me instantly, and let me get ready to
set out
!”
De TEspoir suppressed a fiendish smile, and
complied with her command to leave the room,
but waited impatiently without until she had
made her hasty toilette. The moment she open-
ed her door to seek a sitting-room, he met her,
and, taking her hand, implored of her to waive
idle ceremony where everything was at stake
;
and as the house they occupied did not afford
a sitting-room,—it having been converted into a
bed-room for him and Edelstein, who still occu-
pied it, —to permit him to converse with her in
the apartment she had just quitted.
Gertrude, seeing no alternative, was forced to
comply; but it was with an air of the most
44 VANDELEUR.
haughty dignity that she re-entered the cham-
ber, took her own seat upon the window, and,
pointing to the only chair the room contained,
intimated her permission to De l’Espoir to sit
down also. In spite of his heartless effrontery,
he was for an instant almost awed by this new
feature in his youthful victim. It was but for a
moment, however, that he could yield to so na-
tural, so salutary a feeling. It not only passed
away, but he determined to indemnify himself
for its transitory existence, by humbling to the
earth her who had occasioned it. He was pru-
dent, however, even in his revenge, and re-
solved not to defeat himself by any such violent
measures as should drive Gertrude to despair,
unless he found that none others would succeed.
In this spirit, instead of accepting the seat so
haughtily offered to him, he flung himself on his
knees at Gertrude’s feet, and, bewailing “ in
good set phrase” the unhappy termination of her
experiment, as he now took care especially to
term it, he disclosed the story of his long and
hopeless passion !
VANDELEUR. 45
Gertrude heard him make this declaration
with the most loathing indignation. At the
mention of her brother’s death she wept not
and fainted not again. Her feelings were now
wrought too highly, without one softening mix-
ture, for either ; and almost everything was
merged in the horror and amazement of the si-
tuation in which she found herself. At the men-
tion of De F Espoir’s passion a new light seemed
to burst upon her mind, and she literally be-
lieved it a flash from hell, tinging with its
lurid hue the whole deadly transaction. She
heard him in perfect silence to the end : she
felt too sick to speak ; but the moment he
paused, without the slightest comment upon all
she had heard, she merely replied with calmness
and decision, u Well ! now be pleased to let me
see my father.”
De FEspoir was absolutely disconcerted by
her self-possession. He endeavoured to recall
to her recollection, and with tenfold exaggera-
tion, the indignation of her father and her lover.
“ I know it, —I know it all,” she answered
46 VANDELEUR.
with the same apparent composure :
<;
it is in-
deed all I remember since the one dreadful
moment ; hut I know likewise, that it is not
possible that their indignation could outlive one
moment,—it was only grief that made them
mad. One word from my lips will set them
right ; or, if not, death at their hands will be
welcome. Take me to them instantly,—or
rather, I shall o-o to them mvself.”
She rose and endeavoured to pass him. He
seized both her hands, and gently but deter-
minately replacing her upon her seat, he affected
to struggle a good deal with his feelings before
he could bring himself to intimate to her the ex-
act position in which she now stood respecting
the fatal experiment. At length, appearing to
make an effort over himself, he said :
—
“ Gertrude, you know not how you stand
with your father ;
you know not how much cir-
cumstances are against you :
you know little of
the science with which you tampered ;
but they
will make it their business to inquire deeply into
VANDELEUR. 47
it. Trust yourself to me ;
you have not anotlie r
friend : let me become legally so, and I will pro-
tect you against the world.”
“Never! so help me Heaven, never! Re-
lease my hands this moment ! Oh, Godfrey !
Godfrey ! —No ; rather would I drag out the re-
mainder of my wretched life in the cell of the
maniac, or sink at once into my grave, — than
owe my existence to becoming your wife
!”
“ These are professions which all can make,”
replied De V Espoir coldly, irritated by the aver-
sion she evinced towards him, “ but we sec few
who can stand the test ; especially—especially,
mademoiselle, when their own consciences like-
wise stand up against them.” And lie looked on
her with a sardonic smile, and eyes, the dark
malignity of which nearly scared away the little
remains of reason which she was struggling
hard to retain ; and which the various agita-
tions she had undergone, and the baneful drugs
that had been administered to her, barely left
her.
48 VANDEEEUR.
“ What do you mean ?” she asked, staring
on him with amazement.
“ Why, I simply mean this : that the very es-
sence of animal magnetism is the will of the
magnetizer ; and that the effect is never inju-
rious, or at least fatal, when his intention is
pure.”
Gertrude was still at a loss to understand him,
and again asked what he meant.
“ In two words, then, I mean, that I subjected
you to too great a trial —too great a temptation.
The advantages accruing to you from your bro-
ther’s death were so great, that, unknown per-
haps even to yourself, — at least certainly I
believe unacknowledged,
—your will operated to
his destruction /”
By those whose lives have been spent in the
world, where so many are ready to vilify our
best intentions, and constantly to misunderstand
them, and who have consequently learned the
necessity of being satisfied with the mens con-
scia recti ; —by the mathematician, who stifles
VANDELEUR. 49
imagination with the weight of proof ; —or, by
the hardened sinner, who has seared his con-
science until it has lost all outward sign of sensi-
bility ; —by each of these, and perhaps by many
others, the villanous suggestion of De FEspoir
would have been treated with the contempt it me-
rited. But, to the delicate mind, hitherto watched
with tenderness and care ; to the young heart,
taught to look to the approbation or displeasure
of others for its rule of right, simply because
others are severer critics than ourselves ; but,
above all, to her whose nerves had been shatter-
ed and excited to the very utmost,—it sounded
like the denunciation of an avenging God,
through his minister of wrath !
She leaned back upon her seat with glaring-
eyes and quivering lips. Her mouth, throat,
and tongue became dry and parched. She shut
and opened her hands with a convulsive move-
ment, in time to her gasping breath ; and having
continued thus for the space of a minute, glaring
on De FEspoir, she fell heavily forwards. He
VOL. III. D
50 VANDELEUR.
caught her in his arms, carried her to the bed,
on which he laid her, and left the room in search
of wine. She did not faint ; and when he re-
turned, and held some wine to her lips, she not
only swallowed it, but eagerly drank off the
remainder, perhaps hoping this time at least
the draught he offered might do its work surely.
She suffered her head to fall back upon the
pillow ; and as De l’Espoir anxiously leaned
over to see if she had fainted, she suddenly
burst into a loud and maniacal laugh, —it was
the very voice of misery ! it was absolute de-
spair laughing at its own excess !
De F Espoir’s feelings at this moment were
far from enviable. Already the doubt had
come across him, even before quitting Beauton
Park, whether he had not undertaken too des-
perate a game, and every hour was tending more
than the last to convince him that he was
mistaken in the tool he had chosen : that,
meek, gentle, and complying as Gertrude seem-
ed in ordinary intercourse, her feelings were
VANDELEUR. 51
deep and fixed, and the very reverse of passive.
Even now, when he had struck the last blow
on which he depended for success, instead of
the puny terror of conviction and of punishment
which he had hoped would have led her to seek
refuge in his arms, he saw only the deep work-
ings of a morbid and excited conscience.
He contemplated her countenance and whole
person contracted in misery before him, and
for one moment the thought came across him
to despatch her back to her family and make his
escape. But then, could he hope that Gertrude
would not betray him, and that they would not
search him out from the uttermost ends of the
earth for vengeance ? He believed, indeed, that
Vandeleur might pass it over, but the father
—
the father could not ! And what would be
the result ? Either condign punishment, or at
least the loss of the sort of ‘touch-and-go'
character which he had still contrived with
some adroitness to preserve. His ruin were
effected equally in either way ; and would he then
d 2
VANDELEUR.
KQ
KJ »V
consummate it ? —would lie, after having run all
the risk, endured all the suffering and annoy-
ance —would he now shrink from reaping the
advantages which were already, he believed, with-
in his reach, because there yet remained a few
brambles to push aside ? The thought was dis-
missed as soon as formed.
He turned once more to Gertrude, and endea-
voured to take her hand in order to soothe her ;
but the shriek with which she snatched it from
him, and the look of terror with which she ex-
amined it, as if it had been in the fangs of a wild
beast, convinced him that to persevere farther
at present were to drive her to actual insanity.
Even he was almost struck with pity when he
perceived that the last blow he had given was
so deadly, that the poor victim, all wretched as
she was, no longer presumed to ask to be taken
to her father: but whatever effects such pity
might have produced in other circumstances,
in the present case he reminded himself that
self-preservation was his paramount duty. He
VANDELEUR. 53
determined to make Gertrude his by any means
in his power, and then trust to circumstances
for reconciling her to her fate.
With this view he sought Edelstein ; informed
him frankly of Gertrude’s repugnance to the
match, and consulted with him what measures
were the safest for him to pursue.
'
“ I must leave England with as little delay as
possible,” he said ;
“ and in order to do so, should
present myself for my passport instantly : but
the lady should appear also ; and, in good sooth,
she is in no state to do so, nor is it quite safe
for me. Come, Edelstein, you who have been
here so long and ought to know their ways, can
you give me no assistance ?”
“ Why, I do happen, not by being here so
long, but by the chance of a family, of which the
children had long been my pupils, going to the
Continent, to know the routine of these matters,
as I assisted them in such preparations. It is
not absolutely necessary for the lady to appear,
in ordinary cases, to procure a passport ; but,
54 VANDELEUR.
perhaps the circumstance of a Frenchman carry-
ing off an English wife might make them more
particular. Lest it should he so, I’ll tell you
what you must do. Have you noticed our land-
lady’s daughter who came in to prepare break-
fast for us ? Would she do at all to personate
your fair one ? You are aware the descriptions
are always very liberal likenesses ; in general, if
the eyes, hair, and height do not absolutely con-
trast, it is enough.”
44
Why, in that case she might do ; for I
see she has dark hair and light eyes, like this
poor girh But then she must conceal her
cherry-cheeks, and act the invalid to the very
—death,
I will say, instead of life ; for I see
Gertrude must be dosed again in order to be got
on board.”
44
Indeed ! Are matters so very bad ? Think
you not it is a desperate business, to say the
least P Suppose she die on board ?”
44
The least said is the best,” answered De
l’Espoir with some irritation.
44
1 cannot now
VANDELEUR. 55
draw back if I would. She is in no state to re-
turn to her friends just now ; and wait here for
her recovery I dare not, even were I the chick-
en-hearted fool you would make me ; —my own
affairs all upset, my money-matters arranged
for a long absence from Paris : do you think
me mad, or are you doting yourself ?
11
“ Neither, De FEspoir. But the truth is this,
that both for your sake and my own, I must in-
sist upon your taking into consideration the
chance of this girl dying of grief or terror, or
both, when she wakes from her second dose and
finds herself with you on the high seas. You will
not call that success, and my reward will be
forgotten.
11
“ What the devil, then, is to be done ?” asked
De F Espoir, who knew that Edelstein had at
least the right of might to give his opinion, for
he had the power of betraying him ;
“ what do
you advise ?—or rather, in the name of common
sense, what remains to be done P
11
A thought had entered the brain of Edelstein.
56 VANDELEUR.
He was not naturally of a selfish character, but
his difficulties had taught him to consider his
own advantage before all things. Accordingly, his
motives in the proposal he was now about to make
were of a mixed nature. He truly felt for Ger-
trude’s misery : even by De 1’ Espoir’s own ac-
count he gathered that an affectionate young
girl had been made the instrument of death to
her brother, and was then to be carried abroad
to a strange country, and forced to marry the
man who had done this deed by her. The case
was pitiable enough. Then if she died, he knew
how little hold he should have uponDe FEspoir,
whose promise indeed in that case would be null
and void ; as, except some vague intimations of
present gratuity, always seconded by ‘the scar-
city of present supplies,’ his specific reward was
to be contingent upon De 1’ Espoir’s receiving
%
the girl’s fortune : but then, it was to be splen-
did in consideration of the delay.
Edelstein had long lost sight of all his own
family connexions ; but when his sister’s son
VANDELEUR. 57
threw himself upon him for assistance and ad-
vice, however lightly he affected to treat the
matter, the chord of nature still vibrated at his
heart ; and he was ashamed and sorry that, with
talents and some good feeling, he had not the
means of serving him either by money or by in-
terest : even his vanity was a little piqued when
the young man frankly told all his mother had
led him to expect.
When Edelstein first asked De l’Espoir what
he proposed to do in the event of Gertrude’s
dying on the passage, his chief design was to
suggest to him the idea of abandoning the pro-
ject altogether. So far he was disinterested.
But so lightly seated was the feeling, that the
moment De 1’ Espoir asked “ And what the
devil can I do ?” the thought struck him, “ Take
a physician’s opinion and it required but one
step farther to think that a physician to accom-
pany them was just the thing required, and that
his nephew Dumoulin, was just the person.
From this moment he abandoned all thoughts
D D
58 VANDELEUR.
of dissuading De FEspoir from the enterprise,
and even determined to allow his taking the
young man with him to go in part payment of
the promised reward. He was the more de-
lighted with this project, as De FEspoir talked of
going to America for some time, until he should
have brought Gertrude into training, as he called
it; and Edelstein knew that if Dumoulin could
hope for success anywhere, it might be there
:
farther, he was especially well pleased to have
a friend at court, to keep an eye on the financial
department. All that now remained was how
to break this matter to the count.
“ Well,
11
resumed the latter, as Edelstein re-
mained meditating for some minutes,—“ Well,
what have you to suggest ? for you are plotting-
something. I tell you, I am afraid to go to the
office myself for a passport ; for now that three
days are well nigh gone by, if those people of
hers are not more indifferent than I can believe
flesh and blood to be, they will be lying in wait
for me just where they know I must go. Could
VANDELEUR. 59
you not get some friend to do this office for
me P Have you never a dark, good-looking
fellow in the circle of your acquaintance ? he
asked jocularly, in hopes of dissipating the cloud
he saw still deepening upon Edelstein’s open
brow : it would not do, however.
“ I’ll tell you what it is, De l’Espoir,” he
said ;
“ I do not like this business. It would be
easy for me to comply with your wishes. My
own nephew, as dark and as good-looking as
you are, is on the spot and at my command
;
but d—n me! (and that’s an English oath which
ought to mean a great deal,) if I like to have
much more to do with this business. But, at all
events, I tell you no passport is required to get
from hence to America.’’'
“ Ay ; but I told you I would not venture
to take shipping here for America. The dose
will take us safe to some French port, and from
thence I can contrive to get in some friendly
French vessel to America : but this girl’s
O
waking in a vessel commanded by an Eng-
GO VANDELEUR.
lishman would, as I said before, be the signal
for my being made food for fishes, if not for
themselves. So, come, Edelstein, away with this
coquetting : in two words, is this nephew of
yours to be trusted ?”
“In two words, then, I shall not try,” said
Edelstein, in his coldest and most determined
manner; which was so much the more impres-
sive, as it was foreign to his nature, and very
rarely assumed.
De l’Espoir regarded him a moment with a
look of deep and searching inquiry ; apparently
he came to some decision, for he totally altered
his tone from the sort of cajolery he had adopt-
ed, and with a look and manner quite as de-
termined as that of Edelstein, he said, “ Hans
Edelstein, you and I have known each other
too long to quarrel now on a pretence of prin-
ciple : in one word, then, since two did not suit
you, what is your nephew’s price ?”
“ In one word then, that you take him with
you. Let him watch over this unfortunate
VANDELEUR. 61
creature’s health for both oursakes; for, I assure
you, / can anticipate the possibility of her dying
of the effects of all this. Let him try his for-
tune in the New World under the name of your
travelling physician ; and, in consideration of all
this, and of a small sum of ready money now to
myself, I will not exact the full amount of the
sum I am to receive out of the girl’s fortune.
Think well before you decline this proposal
;
for though you may know my circumstances too
well to think I could afford to forget self-in-
terest altogether, yet believe me there is no
worse friend for an unprincipled man, De
l’Espoir, than one just a degree better than
himself.
11
“ By Heavens I believe it I
11
said De FEspoir
bitterly ;
“ I believe what you mean, though
I would put it in other words, and say there
is no worse friend for a wise man than—
a
fool .
11
Edelstein, whose temper was imperturbable,
coolly replied, “ In the qualities which consti-
62 VANDELEUR.
tute tliat latter character, don’t forget—ob-
stinacy.”
De l’Espoir ground his teeth ; but still the
objections to quarrelling with Edelstein could
not be ground away, and after a few minutes’
moody silence to digest the surprise, he finally
consented to the proposal. After all, Gertrude’s
preservation was or ought to be his own main
object ; and the mere fact of spending a little
more money when necessary, was not a mis-
fortune that De l’Espoir, abstractedly, dreaded
as much as some others might do.
The two friends, now apparently perfect
friends again, were discussing the matter in
very different moods from that in which it
was first proposed, and had even advanced
to chuckling and laughing heartily in antici-
pation of future success and enjoyment, when
a slight rustling in the hall arrested their
attention.
“ Are not the women both out ?” asked De
l’Espoir hastily.
VANDELEUR. 63
“ They are : I saw them out myself, and
there is no one else in the house,’
1
answered
Edelstein, astonished likewise at the noise.
“ There is, by Heaven !” exclaimed De l’Es-
poir ; and, springing over the table, he rushed
from the room, and discovered Gertrude softly
endeavouring to open the hall-door ! She de-
sisted the moment he approached, in hopeless
terror ; and, without either of them uttering a
word, she sulfered him, without an attempt at
resistance, to lead her into the room he had just
quitted. The only sound that escaped her was
such a sigh as might be called a sobbing sigh.
Nothing could be more heart-rending than
her appearance. She was pale, cold, and sub-
dued-looking. The unnatural excitement had
exhausted itself ; and if she had not died from
the reaction, she at least retained only such a
semblance of life as might be imparted by an
effect of galvanism : an occasional violent con-
vulsive start, without any apparent cause, was
not inconsistent with this.
64 VANDELEUR.
Edelstein rose at her entrance ; and although
it might be supposed that it was not possible to
have presented her to a stranger’s eye under
more personal disadvantages than at the present
moment ;
yet such was the chiselled beauty of
her features, the luxuriance of her bright hair,
and the peculiar air of youth and innocence
diffused over her whole person, that the German
was struck with pity, admiration, and astonish-
ment at the same moment, and remained stand-
ing in a kind of respectful embarrassment, feel-
ing himself for the first time guilty towards her.
She took not the smallest notice of him ; but
when De l’Espoir brought a chair behind her
and attempted to place her in it, she yielded to
the movement and sat down. Her eyes had
lost all expression, and she blinked and opened
them repeatedly, as blind persons sometimes do.
De l’Espoir, instinctively feeling the effect
produced on Edelstein, was at a loss how to
address her. At last he asked, “ Where were
you going, mademoiselle ?”
VANDELEUR. 6*5
“ To my father,
1,1
very faintly but dis-
tinctly.
“ But he would not receive you.
11
“ Perhaps not .
11
Another sigh.
“ And then P
11
No answer. This question was beyond the
present enfeebled state of her mind. De l’Es-
poir resumed.
“To your lover, perhaps P
11
No answer still ; but a momentary tinge
upon her cheek showed that she understood
him.
“ But he too spurned you, Gertrude.—Ger-
trude, will you not speak ? You have no friend
in the world but myself,
11
(the poor girl’s teeth
were heard to chatter ;)
“ let me become your
husband. This gentleman is a clergyman ; he
will unite our hands.
11
He knelt to take hers. She did not with-
draw it, and only shut and opened her eyelids
more rapidly. “ Why do you not speak, my
Gertrude ?” he asked soothingly.
G6 VANDELEUR.
She muttered very low and very quickly
in reply, “ Because I am trying to keep myself
composed, that I may not go mad.”
De l’Espoir and his friend exchanged
glances.
u But if you would suffer me to soothe you,
Gertrude ? if you would accept my affection
—
my caresses ?” and he attempted to put his arm
round her waist.
If the little animation Gertrude had hitherto
exhibited through this scene might be attributed
to a galvanic effect, or something at least of life
without volition, the spring with which she now
evaded the contamination of De PEspoir’s em-
brace might have given the idea that all the
energy, and all the volition she had ever pos-
sessed, had been reserved for, and concentrated
in that movement. She rushed to the door, but
finding it locked, she looked over her shoulder
for a moment inquiringly, though very wildly,
into the stranger’s countenance ;
and fancying she
saw something like pity there, she flew towards
VANDELEUR. 67
him, and catching him by the arm to support
her shaking frame, she said with a look and
tone that might have moved a stoic, “ Take
me to my father !”
Edelstein gazed upon her with infinite com-
passion. She immediately perceived it, and,
falling on her knees before him, she clasped her
arms round his, and in the softest accents of
entreaty reiterated, “ Do, ah ! do ; for the God
of mercy’s sake, do !”
Nothing in grief or terror could be more
beautiful than Gertrude was at that moment.
A shawl, which she had wrapped about her for
her departure, had fallen off ; and as she still
wore the dress in which she had appeared at
dinner for the last time in her father’s house, her
exquisite arms and neck were uncovered, except
where her hair now streamed about them : the
new excitement had tinged her pale cheek, and
her lips were slightly apart from the eagerness
of entreaty, and her head was thrown a little
back, and her lovely young face was turned up
68 VANDELEUR.
towards his, with all her ardent soul struggling
through it.
Edelstein was sensibly affected, and cast a
look of appeal to De l’Espoir ; but the armour
of the latter rang of gold, and was not to
be so easily melted. He could not indeed
be blind to Gertrude’s charms, but they served
only to reconcile him once more to what he
had almost begun to think was a hard bar-
gain !
He feared to approach her, however ; but
making a sign to Edelstein, who seemed lost in
pity and admiration, to raise and replace her on
her chair, he assumed a colder and more de-
termined manner than he had yet exhibited
towards her, and informed her that this foolery
must have an end ; that his life was in danger,
and that he could no longer be trifled with ; in
short, that unless she consented at once to be-
come his wife, so as to stand between him and
her father’s resentment, he would never repeat
VANDELEUlt. 69
the offer, but carry her out of England within
an hour.
“ And if I do consent asked the poor girl,
losing in a moment the tinge of colour which
excitement had lent to her cheek, but at the
same time innocently believing that De FEspoir
had at last betrayed unwarily the real motives
for his wishing to marry her, and welcoming
anything rather than his hateful love,
—“ And
if I do consent P
11
“ Oh, if you do, dear Gertrude,—why, if you
do ”
She looked to Edelstein with eyes that asked
an answer : his were carefully averted. She
stood up, and seizing his arm, forced him to let
his eyes meet hers. The momentary wish (or
at least the hope) of softening De FEspoir,
which the poor girl had caught in them before,
was vanished now, and had given place to un-
mixed compassion for an inevitable fate. At
one glance she perceived the change : she
breathed quickly for an instant—looked once
70 VANDELEUR.
more at him—let go his arm—and, dropping her
head upon her breast, sank into her chair, and
seemed to give up all hope.
From that moment she became less and less
collected. De l’Espoir perceived her critical
state, and that no time was to be lost in con-
summating his villanous purpose. He repeated
his desire for her consent to an immediate
union.
“ And if I do ?” she replied again, but in a
weak, almost imbecile, whining voice, and with-
out raising her head.
He felt it was no time either to exasperate
her feelings any farther, or to strain at trifles
for himself. “ If you do,” he said unhesitating-
ly, “ I will take you back to your father.”
“ Indeed !” she exclaimed, now looking up ;
“ how soon ?”
“ Oh, immediately.”
She pressed her hand on her brow. “ Then
I think I will ; I think I ought,—at least, I
believe so. God ! I am losing my senses !
VANDELEUR. 71
slie shrieked out ;
—and stood up hastily, turning
deadly pale, but sank or rather fell into her
seat again.
De FEspoir flew to support her. She could
not spring from him again, but she turned away,
shrieking, “ No—no—no ! I say you are not
to touch me. Mind your oath ! Even if I
die in your house, your hand must not close
my eyes, or even bear my pall. Ha ! ha ha !
An auspicious wedding ! —Wedding ? Monster !
fiend !” she said, her beautiful face for the
first time in her life distorted with rage and
hatred, “ remember your oath ! And if I do sell
my hand from Godfrey, remember, you are that
moment to take me to Herbert.
11
She had ex-
hausted herself, and she fell fainting into De
FEspoir’s arms.
Edel stein was assiduous in his endeavours to
revive her, and took occasion, while she lay-
senseless, once more to urge De FEspoir to
abandon the enterprise altogether, and to en-
gage some woman, who knew nothing of the
72 VANDELEUR.
circumstances, to take the wretched girl to her
family.
De l’Espoir cast on him a look of mingled
wrath and scorn.
u I’ll tell you what it is,
Edelstein,” he said ;
u by the g— G— ! if you
repeat this trash but once more, I shall take
my own measures without your assistance.
We are man to man here, and, by G— ! I will
take your life, or let you have mine, unless you
at once and without farther higgling perform
the ceremony the moment she is capable of
answering. Swear to me this moment,” he
said, suddenly letting go his hold of Gertrude,
and seizing Edelstein by the throat, his eyes
flashing fury almost to frenzy,—“ swear to me,
by 'whatever you hold sacred in heaven or hell,
that you will second me like a man, and make
your own fortune and mine, or I shall dash you
to the earth, and crush you like a worm !”
De TEspoir was an athletic man, and Edel-
stein the contrary. Had the latter until now
even imagined himself his match, the first grip
VANDELEUR. 73
of his hand would have convinced him of his
error. He made no attempt at resistance, but
betrayed not any alarm. He smiled with well-
assumed calmness, and at once said, as he
gently attempted to free himself from De 1 Es-
poir, “ Softly, my friend, softly :
you are
surely beside yourself. I swear to everything
you wish. I’m sure I had motives enough to
induce me to it before ; but I now tell you, it
that will satisfy you, that I will marry you to
her whether she can speak or not. My soft
moods don’t last long ; so, in God’s name, let us
to work. Remember, Dumoulin is yet to be
spoken with, and the passports to be procured ;
and I would you were out of my house one
and all.”
De l’Espoir examined his countenance for a
moment : he saw that he was perfectly sincere ;
the momentary gleam of virtuous compassion
had again passed away. He released him from
his grasp, and they again turned their attention
upon Gertrude.
VOL. III. E
74 VANDELEUR.
In a few minutes she revived ; but, though
she opened her eyes and looked around her on
them both, she lay still and quiet as if from
exhaustion. With the excitation, part of the
confusion and bewilderment of her intellects
had subsided also.
De l’Espoir wished to avail himself of the
moment to have the ceremony performed. For
this purpose he began once more in gentle and
soothing accents to promise, that the moment
it was completed he would carry her to her
father. She was now sufficiently collected to
see the absurdity of this promise, and accord-
ingly, faintly, but most determinately, declared
she never would consent to be married to
him.
“ Then you know the consequences, made-
moiselle ?”
“No consequences can ensue so dreadful as
that would be.'”
“ Don’t reduce me to the necessity of proving
how vainly you flatter yourself in that.”
VANDELEUR. 75
“ Do what you will, I never will be acces-
sary to my own perdition here and hereafter.
While I am free, there is still at least hope.
11
“ Hope is proverbially a flatterer,
1
"
replied
De l’Espoir coolly. “ It must be something
more than hope that will enable your friends to
find you out in the remote and distant country
to which I shall instantly convey you, and hide
you there for my own security.
11
The poor girl’s breathing became evidently
impeded by terror at this threat ; but, think-
ing it her best plan to seem determined, she
endeavoured to suppress all signs of emotion.
Alas ! could she deceive such interested ob-
servers ?
“ Then it must be done, and without farther
trifling or delay,
11
said De TEspoir, addressing
his friend ; and added, as if in pursuance of
a preconcerted plan, “ Edelstein, call up that
coach which is waiting for us : and you, madam,
excuse the violence to which you compel me
and so saying, he seized Gertrude’s shawl, which
E 2
76 VANDELEUR.
lay on a chair, and throwing it over her head, •
prepared to fasten it so as to prevent her call-
ing for assistance.
The bait took. The unhappy girl, in spite
of her previous exhaustion, sprang up, and
made convulsive and frantic efforts to free her-
self ; calling out at the same time, “ Spare me !
save me ! I consent to everything if you will
take me to my father l
11
De FEspoir, whose
only object was to frighten her, no sooner heard
these words, than he suffered her to succeed in
throwing the shawl from her head. Such was
the effect upon her nerves, that she gasped fear-
fully, as if already half-suffocated. The wild
and heart-rending excitement returned, and
in a few minutes she was little better than a
maniac.
To conceive Gertrude's situation at this mo-
ment, it is necessary to recall all that she had
suffered in mind and body for the last two days.
Food had never crossed her lips, and her only
drinks were those best calculated to excite and
VANDELEUR. 77
bewilder her intellects. It may be, that many
women, in similar circumstances, would have
had presence of mind to remain quiet and col-
lected, until some opportunity should offer for
claiming protection from the laws of her country,
or the compassion of her fellow-creatures ; but
the young and innocent girl, hitherto watched
and tended, if not with fondest solicitude, at
least in such a way as to render the idea of
danger or of suffering like the visions of a dream,
or the tale of a romance — something, in short,
which never could come near to her—was wholly
unprepared for it when it did come, and could
neither judge of its extent or remedy. She was
far from deficient either in moral courage or in
physical endurance ; but her mind and strength
together undermined, she lost all guidance of
herself. She neither knew where she was, nor
what had brought her there. She had as yet be-
held no living being but her evil genius and his
colleague ; and when she could think at all, she
very naturally thought either that her father
VANDELEUR.
78
and lover had abandoned her to her fate, or
else that she was spirited away somewhere be-
yond their reach. There was nothing in this
world, or in the next, that she dreaded so
much as De l’Espoir’s love ; and probably, had he
continued in that strain, she would even have
suffered herself to be carried abroad and buried
alive, rather than have consented to marry him.
But when he artfully gave as a reason for his
pressing the suit, that she might prove a shield
between him and her father’s resentment, she
thought it better even to incapacitate herself
from ever becoming the wife of the man she
loved, than continue in the power of him she
feared and hated, even by suffering the ceremony
of marriage to pass between her arid that dread-
ed one. In short, she now grasped at the pro-
posal, as a drowning wretch will, when terror
has bewildered his judgment, relax his own
useful and rational efforts, to seize the out-
stretched hand of the enemy who has pushed
him into the whirlpool.
VANDELEUR. 79
De l’Espoir hastened to avail himself of the
success of his plan, ere the paroxysm of terror
had again time to subside. He made a sign
to Edelstein to approach ; and, taking Ger-
trude’s hand, intimated to her that the ceremony
was about to commence. A fearful shiver ran
through her. “ Down ! down on your knees
then !” she said very wildly, “ and swear you
will take me to my father instantly !”
De FEspoir indulged her by going through
the form she prescribed, and then rose to go
through that he considered much more import-
ant. He placed himself by Gertrude’s side,
while she, with glaring eyes, and hair dashed
hack from either temple alternately, as if to
cool them, rapidly repeated the words Edel-
stein dictated to her from an old prayer-book
of his landlady’s, but concluded every sentence
with the words a in order to be taken to my
father as if by adding that clause she could
either ensure the fulfilment of his vow, or in-
validate her own.
80 VANDELEUR.
The ceremony proceeded, however, without
farther interruption than these words, until De
FEspoir attempted to place his own ring upon
her finger. She struggled against it for an
instant ; but, as he succeeded, she shrieked
aloud, “ Oh, Godfrey ! Godfrey !” and relapsed
again into a second fainting fit.
Here was another chasm in her narrative to
the duchess. From that moment she had not
the faintest recollection of any circumstance
that befel her until she recovered her senses six
months afterwards in the city of New York.
VANDELEUR. 81
CHAPTER XX.
That fatal vow, howe’er so rashly given.
Is calmly, deeply registered in heaven.
Nor all the tears that breaking hearts can weep
Avail that page in Lethean drops to steep :
All other woes some remedy may claim,
Save that whose only cure were guilt and shame !
Anonymous.
Dumoulin, the nephew of Edelstein, was
but too happy to accept the offer that was made
to him to accompany the Count de FEspoir and
his lady to America. Enough of the story was
confided to him, by De FEspoir’s consent, to
explain the circumstances that could not be
concealed ; and the young man was too wary to
pretend that he suspected more.
De F Espoir succeeded, with his assistance, in
procuring passports for himself, his invalid wife,
and travelling physician, in a vessel going to
e 5
82 VANDELEUR.
France, and from thence lie found no difficulty
in embarking for America. The state into which
Gertrude had now fallen favoured his schemes
to the utmost of his wishes. Instead of the
wild vehemence that had hitherto characterised
her despair, she revived from the last fainting
fit only to a state of listless and silent exhaus-
tion ; there was no farther occasion to excite her
nerves, and therefore she was suffered to remain
almost in the stillness of death. Food was offer-
ed to her, but she neither accepted nor rejected
it, or seemed indeed conscious for what purpose
it was offered. De FEspoir was content; he
saw at once, that while she continued in this
quiescent state there would be no difficulty in
having her conveyed on board.
When, however, the rest of that day and
another night passed over without her seeming
to wish for food, or attempting even to utter a
word, he became alarmed for her life, and has-
tened to procure for her such delicacies as he
thought might tempt her appetite.
VANDELEUR. 83
He need not have been so fastidious then ; the
unfortunate girl, all deranged as she was by the
excess of her sufferings, had yet begun to feel
the pangs of hunger, and these increased in pro-
portion as the excitement of her nerves subsided.
When De FEspoir himself brought food to her
bedside, though too weak to raise her own hand
to her lips, she even greedily devoured that
which he presented to her. She was, however,
too far gone for it to do more than support life :
either reason, or all power of exerting it, was
fled ; and she continued to lie in a state remark-
ably like that into which her poor brother was
thrown by the fatal accident which first led to
all the misery that had ensued.
In this state she was carried on board, unre-
sisting, and probably unconscious of the circum-
stance. Her bodily organs were, however,
unimpaired ; and under the kind and judicious
treatment of her young physician, who became
deeply interested in one so lovely and so gentle,
the exhaustion was soon removed by suitable
84 VANDELEUR.
nourishment and medicines. But, alas ! it was
in vain he watched for the return of her reason.
Probably the strange and alarming circum-
stances of finding herself in a ship at sea,
surrounded only by strangers and her cruel
persecutor, had confirmed the temporary alie-
nation. However this may be, by the time
they arrived in the New World, she was a wild
and raving maniac.
Nothing could exceed De FEspoir’s de-
spair, when week after week passed over, and
neither Dumoulin nor any other medical man
whom he consulted gave him assurance of any
amendment. He tried every remedy, however
expensive, which held out to him the slightest
hope ; and himself treated Gertrude for some
time with the soothing tenderness that was pro-
nounced to be essential for her.
At length, just as Ue FEspoir’s patience
was well nigh exhausted, whether it was owing
to the influence of a clear American winter,
or whether it was only now that the system
VANDELEUR. 85
that had been pursued with her began to take
effect, a sudden improvement became evident
in Gertrude’s disorder, and from the moment
that it appeared to yield at all, her recovery
proceeded with a rapidity which could only
have been the result of her youth, and hitherto
perfect health.
As it was at this point that she was enabled
to continue her narrative to the duchess, we shall
again have recourse to her own expressions.
“ And, oh, God ! oh, God !” she exclaimed,
after mentioning the first perfectly lucid interval
that she recollected, u there need have been no
place of punishment created for the wicked if
all could suffer here what I suffered then ! One
thing after another began to strike me as strange
;
and I was near relapsing into madness from very
amazement on recovering from it. God ! when
I first heard myself familiarly addressed as Ma-
dame Lapin—for he had again changed his name
—and found myself considered as the wife of the
Count De V Espoir,—oh ! I could madden again
86 VANDELEUR.
over the recollection of that hour !
—And yet it
was nothing, absolutely nothing to that which
succeeded. I had some faint glimmering re-
membrance of a frightful ceremony which had
been forced upon me ; but now, in my recovered
senses, I made known my determination not to
abide by it—to have its legality at least disputed.
Alas ! alas ! why did I betray my intentions ere
I had recovered sufficient strength of mind to
resist the consequences which the disclosure of
them brought upon me ! But I knew not my
own lingering weakness until it was too late,
and I am lost for ever !”
Here she burst into agonizing sobs ; and the
duchess tenderly soothing her, and mingling her
tears with hers, besought her to be comforted,
and to mention what the consequences were to
which she alluded, for that as yet nothing had
appeared to prevent her sham marriage from be-
ing set aside.
“ Alas ! alas ! no ; it cannot, cannot be !” she
sobbed out. “ Oh ! duchess, I can scarcely bring
VANDELEUR. 87
myself to tell you what ensued. Forget, oh !
do, dearest, kindest lady,—forget the artificial
differences between us ; let me treat you really
as a dear friend,” she said, with imploring eyes,
“ or I shall break my heart, or go mad again.”
The duchess was deeply affected, and threw
her arms around her. Gertrude pressed her to
her heart, and laying her head upon her shoulder
sobbed forth, “ Oh ! duchess, Ae, he —the cruel
one, the monster, told me that our marriage, if
not strictly binding by the laws of England, was
solemnized in the eyes of God by a real clergy-
man ; and whispered me,—oh ! duchess, that
—
that I should only bring down eternal infamy on
a being —that was yet unborn, by any attempt
to invalidate the ceremony !” She buried her
face yet deeper in the duchess's bosom, and the
burning of her temples penetrated through its
covering.
After a short pause she resumed. “ Ah ! how
is it that people can ever expect that language,
composed when the mind is at ease and the feel-
88 VANDELEUR.
ings at rest, can convey any idea of the misery
of which the human heart is susceptible ! I
cannot believe that there ever was a feeling, ex-
perienced by another, to equal the horror of mine
at that moment : I really do believe, that had it
been less dreadful, less overpowering, less mad-
dening, I should have better resisted the pro-
posal with which he followed it up —namely,
the having our marriage solemnized over again
;
giving as a reason for this, to any one who should
necessarily be informed of the circumstance, that
we had previously been married by a clergyman
of one persuasion only, and that as his and mine
differed, we were anxious to have the ceremony
repeated. Let it show you the state of sullen de-
spair into which his communication had thrown
me in the shattered state of m}r
mind, when I
tell you that I even eagerly caught at this, and
we were formally married that evening !”
The duchess with difficulty restrained a
scream of horror at this irrevocable step ;
but
Gertrude felt her involuntary start.
VANDELEUR. 89
44
Ay, it is but too true I
11
she cried ;
44
I was
still half a maniac, at least utterly weakened in
judgment ; and lost, as I believed myself to be, I
I
saw no object in rejecting the proposal. But,
oh, God ! had I been as I am now, I might have
known that it was all a deep and dreadful
falsehood. Yes, yes ! that has been spared
to me! —it was all a deep and dreadful false-
hood ! I never relapsed again into absolute in-
sanity ;
but the sight of my cruel persecutor, to-
gether with all the returning recollections which
his presence so forcibly recalled, for some time had
such an effect upon me, that my physicians feared
confirmed convulsions or death from it, and I
was released from his visits until my health was
perfectly restored. He was unaffectedly de-
lighted at this, as it seemed to promise him the
harvest for which he had so hardly laboured,
and which I, fool that I was ! never even thought
of, until he began to hint about my writing to
my father, and seconding him in his claims for
my fortune. This I positively refused to do. To
90 VANDELEUR.
betray over to the punishment he had deserved
the man to whom I had, however madly, given
my marriage vows, was what I certainly never
could think of doing ; but, on the other hand, to
suffer either my father or Godfrey to believe that
I had voluntarily become his wife, would be, I
felt, a crime of scarce a lighter dye. He saw
that he had no chance of prevailing with me :
for some time he grew sullen, and even cruel in
his treatment of me ; but seeing this had no
other effect than to threaten a relapse into my
mental disorder, he changed his plan once more,
and endeavoured to prevail upon me to enter into
society. This was scarcely practicable where we
were ; and at all events nothing could have in-
duced me to appear in public, where I knew
I must long have been in private the object of
curiosity and conjecture, if not of pity or sus-
picion. The count wished to return to Europe,
but still was not anxious to present himself any-
where that he had been already known, until he
should have come to some terms with my poor
VANDELEUR. 91
father, and, I believe, until lie could feel more
confidence in me. There was at this time oc-
casionally visiting at our house a gentleman,
who was shortly going in an official character to
St. Petersburgh, and who, having taken a great
fancy for M. Dumoulin, my physician, in con-
sequence of an accidental, but essential me-
dical service, which he had had an opportunity
of rendering him, was endeavouring to prevail
upon him to accompany him thither, where all
foreigners of talent were at that time wel-
comed by its enlightened emperor, and were
almost certain of encouragement, whatever
might be their profession. As I wr
as now
tolerably recovered, and as poor Dumoulin,
falling under the general odium which I sus-
pect attached to us all at New York, had not
at all succeeded with the public there, nothing
deterred him from at once availing himself of
this proposal but the fear of letting De l’Es-
poir out of his sight until he should have
fulfilled the engagement to his uncle, of which
92 VANDELEUR.
I had acquired some intimation, I could scarce-
ly tell how, but chiefly I think from De l’Es-
poir himself when urging me to apply to my
father for money. In the course of con-
versation on the subject, this gentleman hap-
pened to mention that the Duke of Castle-
ton was the English ambassador there, and
that the duchess was rendering the place a
paradise by her graces and amiability. The
name fell like manna upon my heart : I thought
of Godfrey’s friends, of Godfrey’s mother per-
haps, being there ; and to one so long an out-
cast from all that were ever dear, and almost
hopeless of ever seeing any one of them again,
—
indeed, not daring to wish it, —this information
seemed like a message from Heaven, to tell me
whither to direct my weary steps with the hope
of rest. Oh ! the blessed feeling that I should
once again be within the reach of a real friend
—
for such I knew that any friends of his must prove
to me. I was now grown wiser by sad experi-
ence, and did not give the count my reasons for
VANDELEUR. 93
petitioning to be taken to St. Petersburgli, but
suffered him to imagine that it was partly the
dread of being separated from my kind and skil-
ful physician, partly the caprice of lingering ill-
ness. Happily for me, he was not only at the
moment at a loss where to take me to, but was
desirous to gratify me in every point, in the hope
of winning me at last to suffer an appeal to my
father, without betraying the treatment I had
suffered. I confess I now allowed him to in-
dulge in this hope, so far as accepting the kind-
ness that 1 knew flowed only from it, and
here in the course of time we arrived. M. Du-
moulin having preceded us as travelling physi-
cian to his new friend. On our arrival, the first
news that greeted us was the death of my poor
father, which was announced in very particular
terms in some French newspapers which the
count procured,—at least such was the account
he then gave me of the manner in which the
news reached him ; but I have had reason since
to believe that he knew it some time before,
94 VANDELEUR.
but, previous to asserting his right to my fa-
ther's property, was desirous, by kindness and
indulgence, to win me over to conceal all
that he had been guilty of ; for he was too un-
principled himself to trust to my principles, un-
less seconded by my feelings ; and I believe that
latterly, even when trying to prevail on me to
write to my father, he knew of his death, but
made that a sort of test of how far I mig-ht be
trusted ; for now that such wealth seemed within
his grasp, he became very desirous to preserve his
character, by hushing up the means by which he
procured it. The news of my poor father’s
death affected me dreadfully : as usual, I traced
this new affliction to myself ; and but that I fan-
cied I recognised Godfrey’s spirit hovering over
me in the particularity of the advertisement, I
should in despair have believed that he also was
no more, and that I was indeed alone on earth.
I became very unwell, but without any return of
my mental malady ; and, by way of diverting my
mind, the count prevailed upon me to accompany
VANDELEUR. 95
him to the theatre, where I was found by Vande-
leur. There certainly is a fate in everything ; for
you may imagine with what reluctance I agreed
to appear in public, and so soon after the news of
my father’s death : though, indeed, on that ob-
jection I dwelt but little ; for where all was dark-
ness within already, the form of not going into
a crowd had but little weight with me. You
already know the recognition which took place
there, and all that ensued in consequence. On
our first arrival the count had, with the assist-
ance of M. Dumoulin, caused my wardrobe to
be fashionably replenished, and gave me the
trinkets he had brought to England when
under the disguise of a jeweller, and which I
really now believe he even then intended for a
wedding present, and hoped that the sight of
them would help to reconcile me to my fate.
Here they are, decking me now, dearest lady
;
and to cheat your servants into admitting me
to your presence this evening, is the first purpose
to which they have been dedicated. May I, 0
96 VANDELEUR.
may I hope that it has not been a fruitless
one ?”
The duchess once more embraced her, and
assured her of her warmest sympathy. “ But
tell me,
11
she said, “ why you did not sooner ad-
dress yourself to me, or to Mrs. Vandeleur,
since you thought she was with me ?”
“ Alas P said Gertrude, “ you do not know
how different it is for the sick heart at a dis-
tance to wish for an indulgence, and when it is
near, for the scrupulous conscience to avail itself
of it. To he near Godfrey's mother seemed a
sufficient reason for my coming to St. Peters-
burgh ;
yet, arrived there, I asked myself if it
were not a feeling to be checked, and, at all
events, I determined to postpone the gratifica-
tion of it until it should become either absolutely
necessary or irresistible ; for, alas ! alas ! where
there is not the shield of love, a woman who
would be virtuous must be very self-denying :
the indulgence that is safe with that shield,
is guilt without it." She paused.
VANDELEUR. 97
“ You are an estimable, amiable creature,
said the duchess enthusiastically ;
and added,
“ and you loved Godfrey very dearly ?”
“ Loved him ! I loved him with all my heart’s
first affections, and I never could have learned to
love another. Nor is this romance. I believe it is
only when the first object is delusive, and disap-
points our fancies of perfection, that we change
our sentiments towards it, or can turn them
to another. If the heart and mind have once
been wholly filled, no other can ever get en-
trance there; it is only when some little corner
is left unsatisfied, that something or some one
else creeps in, and in time shoves out the first
occupant : and this is so often the case, that ex-
ceptions are called romances.”
“ But all think their own case an exception
while they love.”
“ I even doubt that. They endeavour to
persuade themselves, and still more to persuade
others, that such is the case ; but I believe those
are persons who are more enamoured of the pas-
vol. in. F
.98 VANDELE UR.
sion than of the object —those, in short, who
were predetermined to fall in love .
11
“ You seem to have studied the subject deep-
ly,'” said the duchess, smiling. “ And does
Godfrey love you as truly ?”
“ As truly, I believe he does, but not exactly
in the same way. Godfrey loved before ; and
I can never believe that any love can be like a
first love.”
Gertrude was astonished at the vivid blush
that suddenly suffused the duchess’s fine fea-
tures, and was startled to feel her hand loosen
its grasp of hers. She feared she had touch-
ed some painful chord, though distant was
any surmise she formed from the truth ; she
hastened to remove any pain she might have
given. “ I may be mistaken, however,” she
said ;
“ minds are differently constituted ; and,
indeed, I do believe that Godfrey loved me
as much as ever man loved woman : but this
I must think of first love,—while time and
circumstances may wear out any other love,
VANDELEUR. 99
and even turn it to hatred, there is something
that clings to the person who has first wakened
your soul to its own delicious powers, that invests
him or her with a sacred interest — a commu-
nion as it were with oneself, that, while that
self continues, can never be entirely obliterated.
In after loves, we look for gratitude in return
for the compliment we pay ; in first love, we are
thankful for the blessing of being taught to love ;
and though we may never acknowledge it to the
world, and scarcely to ourselves, yet we feel a
bond of union for that blessing between us and
the object, not wholly distinct from that of a
child to a parent, and often, I believe, as pure and
holy. In short, a second love, if unfortunate, may
be repented of ; I do not believe a first ever was.
1 '
<(
With your ideas of first love,
11
said the
duchess, “ I should be sorry my husband or
lover had experienced it before .
11
“ Godfrey is neither husband nor lover to me
now : when he was one, and almost the other, J
scarcely regretted it. I have said minds are dif-
100 VANDELEUR.
ferently constituted : I know the uprightness and
truth of Godfrey’s heart and principles ; and he
has often told me that the object of his first love
was so unlike me in every respect, that his affec-
tion for one and for the other never came even
to a comparison in his mind.”
The duchess stole a glance at the counte-
nance of her who thus uttered words so imme-
diately concerning herself ; but it was open and
unconscious, as her voice was unembarrassed.
“ Then you have conversed upon this sub-
ject P
11
asked the latter.
“ Often. I don’t think he disliked it, nor did
1 : the lady seems to have been one of those supe-
rior creatures that he was proud to have loved
even when the passion had passed away for ever.”
“ You have no idea who the lady was?” the
duchess at last ventured to ask in a low and
timid tone, with eyes irresistibly fastened on the
ground.
“No. He once begged me not to ask, and I
never repeated the inquiry.”
VANDELEUR. 101
“ But were you not afraid of meeting her in
society P
11
“ Afraid ! —I should he delighted. I love her
already for his sake, and I am sure I should im-
mediately love her for her own.'”
Gertrude was now as much surprised by the
sudden embrace of the duchess, as she was be-
fore by her withdrawing her hand.
“You are indeed an amiable creature,
11
she
said once more, as if to account for the move-
ment ;
“ hut we must now think about this very
serious business. Not a doubt remains upon my
mind but that it is mv duty as well as inclination
to protect you ; but yet, so delicate is the matter,
that I must not involve the Duke of Castleton in
it. This renders my part difficult. In our own
England, indeed, I could easily manage it all for
you ; but here I am intimately acquainted with
so few. However, we shall see. In the mean
time, day dawns ; and as my intellects will be
infinitely clearer after a few hours
1
repose,
102 VANDELEUIl.
for your sake as well as my own I shall seek it
:
I recommend —nay, I command you to do the
same. Look here,” she said, drawing aside a
blue satin drapery, and discovering a fairy
couch ;
“ consider yourself the most favoured
of mortals, when I tell you that you may take
possession of that bed to-night.”
So saying, she bade her a kind good-night,
and disappeared.
Gertrude at first felt so soothed, so happy,
so safe as it were, to be once more in confidence
with any one, that, notwithstanding all the
causes she had for anxiety and alarm, she be-
lieved it would be only necessary to throw her-
self upon the luxurious-looking couch, to sink
into a profound slumber. Such was not the
case, however : the excitement and agitation
she had suffered, had taken too much hold upon
her nerves to be so easily hushed because her
reason was in some measure satisfied ; and she
had only had fitful snatches of sleep for about
an hour, when her kind and benevolent hostess
VANDELEUR. 103
appeared again in lier chamber, in such morning
costume as was calculated for driving out to pay
visits or take the air. Without waiting for ex-
pressions either of surprise or gratitude on the
part of Gertrude, she told her she must rise
without delay, swallow the cup of aromatic
coffee that stood ready for her on the table, and
wrapping herself in a large mantle and close
bonnet which the duchess herself brought to the
dressing-room, follow her softly and quickly to
the carriage which waited for them at the en-
trance.
“ Ask me no questions, dear creature,'
11
she
continued, “ but do as I command yon, for I
am like a thief endeavouring to escape with my
prize before the proprietor returns. The duke
is luckily gone out for an hour, and we must
avail ourselves of his absence to fly, as he must
by no means be involved in my quixotism, see-
ing that such an adventure would but ill become
the representative of English government .
11
So saying, she hurried through the pompous
104 VANDELEUR.
edifice which called her mistress for the time,
and having placed herself and Gertrude in the
carriage, she gave her orders to the servants in
so low a tone that Gertrude not only could
not catch the sounds, but almost fancied that it
was purposely intended she should not.
This, for a few minutes, was sufficient to
prevent her asking any questions, and the duch-
ess seemed glad of the excuse to avoid speaking
also ; but when Gertrude perceived, that in-
stead of driving to any remote part of the city
—or, as she once or twice hoped, in spite of her
better reason, to her own hotel, to make in-
quiries respecting Vandeleur,—when, instead of
this, she perceived that they were not only
leaving St. Petersburgh behind them, but con-
tinuing to drive at a steady pace farther and
farther into the country, her excitement and
alarm became too overpowering for delicacy,
and she could not prevent herself from exclaim-
ing in a palpitating voice, “ Where are we
going, dear kind duchess ?”
VANDELEUR. 105
u Going ? where are we going ?” repeated
the duchess, starting from a fit of anxious ab-
straction. “ Why, I scarcely know if I should
tell you yet. Let me see : one suspense I can
remove, —we are not going to your house. I
feared even to send to inquire for your poor
friend, lest you might be traced ; and, after all,
it could have done no good. You are quite
sure he is well cared for ?”
“ Oh yes ; I believe all danger was over
before I left home. Yet I should have been
glad—but I am sure you are right in all you
do, and that the greatest prudence is necessary
for every one’s sake, as well as my own, and I
will not ask another question.”
The duchess smiled a faint and absent smile.
She looked pale and anxious ; and as the car-
riage drove rapidly on, she frequently put her
head quickly out, then drew back, relieved as
it were by a momentary respite.
Presently, however, the road, and the whole
face of the country they drove through, began to
f 5
106 VANDELEUR.
assume an appearance that could not pass unno-
ticed by any one. Even Gertrude, all wretched
and anxious as she was, was attracted by it
;
and although she adhered firmly to her promise
not to ask another question, her eyes drank in
with amazement the magnificence of the grounds
through which they were now driving.
The duchess perceived it.
“ It would be useless, I see, as well as cruel,
to endeavour to keep you longer in ignorance of
whither I am conducting you. I am going to
Tzarsco-Celo, to throw you upon the protection
of the empress-mother, and to endeavour to in-
terest her in your favour.”
Poor Gertrude started and changed colour at
this very unexpected intelligence. The duchess
smiled.
u Yes, it certainly is an adventure, and will
probably be a trying scene for us both. I ought
to endeavour to support your spirits, and give
you some hints how to conduct yourself ; but,
in very truth, I am unable. I am myself con-
VANDELEUR. 107
siderably agitated ; for 1 am taking a step tliat
may give offence, and in that case may prove
injurious where I wish to serve.
11
“ But in that case it may also prove injurious
to yourself. Oh ! do not—do not, I beseech
you, suffer me to spread my baneful influence
any farther ! Heaven knows, it has been wide-
spreading enough !”
“ To myself it can bring no injury, and the
duke must not be involved in it. If I can in-
terest Maria Feodorowna in your behalf, you
must submit blindfolded toiler guidance. You
must, my poor unhappy friend, leave St. Pe-
tersburgh, leave Russia, at a moment’s notice,
if she procure you the means, or advise the
measure.
11
Gertrude of course could only promise to be
implicitly guided by her who had so kindly
interested herself in her behalf ; and, clasping
her hands tightly together, she lay back in si-
lence in the carriage.
VVe shall take the opportunity, as they drive
108 VANDELEUR.
r
along, to acquaint our readers with the reasons
which prompted the duchess to a measure ap-
parently so hazardous. In the first place, the
mere circumstance of a measure being hazard-
ous, if it was one that ought to be embraced,
was so far from deterring the Duchess of Castle-
ton from attempting it, that the energy of her
character, and the unflinching purity and up-
rightness of her principles, rather led her to seek
that most which others were likely to shun. In
the mere common course of charity and bene-
volence, though contributing nobly according to
her noble means, she was so far from rendering
herself conspicuous, that it might have been
almost supposed she was lukewarm. Of the
popular subscription which was sure to have
many advocates, she never was the patroness,
nor did she expend her wit or her smiles behind
the tables of a bazaar ; but where there was a
bruised spirit to be healed, which but for her
had broken, or where the good to be perform-
ed was invested with a degree of trouble and
VANDELEUR. 109
annoyance, from which people in general were
glad to turn to some gentler ministration, there
was the sphere the Duchess of Castleton had
chosen for herself. To do the good that others
would have done, she felt to be almost selfish-
ness, and considered it to be only useful and
acceptable to do that which but for her were
left undone ; in short, sire did not believe that
the great and beneficent Creator of the universe
made some of his creatures miserable, for the
purpose of affording others an opportunity of
laying up a certain quantity of merit by re-
lieving them. No : she believed that God made
all nature perfect ; that man disfigured it ;
—and
that for each to do all the good in his power
now, and to prevent all the wrong, was a gene-
ral concern in which each was alike involved, if
not hereafter, at least certainly in this life, as
we had all fallen under one general curse; and
that therefore for each to run separately to the
easiest task, merely for the sake of saying, “ I
have done my share,” were as if the children of
no VANDELEUR.
one father were all to rush in to cultivate the
fruits or flowers of the garden, and refuse to
assist in the rougher but more necessary labour
of the field.
i
With principles such as these, and with
a mind that never for a moment suffered it-
self to dwell on the possible disunion of prin-
ciple and conduct, the quantity of real good she
had contrived to do, even in her short career,
was astonishing, and she moved along in her
noble consciousness of all things being possible
to the willing mind, blest and blessing ! Yes,
she was blest herself ; for, although there might
have been moments, as clouds will pass over
the sun, when she thought of more selfish hap-
piness that once seemed within her grasp, most
assuredly she far more frequently clasped her
hands and bent her knee in gratitude, for having
been enabled to listen to the advice of her in-
estimable governess, and having thereby esta-
blished a command over her own mind and
feelings, which turned all her thoughts into a
VANDELEUR. Ill
holier, more diffusive channel, and secured her in
a situation that enabled her to fulfil her most
extensive schemes for the happiness of her fel-
low-creatures. Even he for whom she could
once have cheerfully resigned and forgotten
these high aspirings—even he was now placed
within her power to serve ; and she felt a thank-
fulness which she did not fear to offer to the
throne of Grace, for being permitted to do so in
the way most congenial and acceptable to her
delicate feelings and upright principles ; — even
through the medium of one who had succeeded
her in his affections. There was perhaps but
one particle of the leaven of human frailty that
mingled in the benevolent schemes or under-
takings of the Duchess of Castleton ; and that
was pride : —not a low or an ostentatious pride ;
but the pride that shrank from putting herself
under a compliment to others for their co-ope-
ration or assistance ; and she conscientiously
believed that if merit could at all attach to
anything of the kind, it was to those who dis-
VANDELEUR.
112
dained not to become beggars for the beggars.
Sometimes, when particularly assailed by this
many-headed monster, she would make it a point
of duty to overcome it, if it stood much in the
way of the object she meant to serve ; but she
was better pleased when she could make to
herself a satisfactory excuse for following its
dictates.
Such was the case with respect to the mat-
ter she had in hand at present. In England
she could scarcely have persuaded herself that
sufficient reason existed for her not confiding
Gertrude’s secret to some friend, or some de-
pendant, through whose means, with perhaps
a little risk, she could have either been per-
manently concealed, or enabled to fly the coun-
try : but in St. Petersburgh, she told herself
that on none had she sufficient claims to
authorise her involving any one in her ro-
mantic undertaking ; especially while she occu-
pied her present official position, if we call it
so ; and, in short, that the only course open to
VANDELEUR. 113
her to pursue with any propriety, was that which
she now adopted, —to throw herself and her
protegee upon the kindness of the empress-mo-
ther, whose elevated situation, while it shield-
ed her from any risk in the responsibility, was
such, that the Duchess of Castleton herself could
not shrink from accepting or even requesting
a favour at her hands.
To this she was also particularly encouraged
by the character of the empress-mother. The
court of Russia is encumbered with much pomp
and ceremonial, and is generally considered
very difficult of access to strangers ;
but such is
not the native taste of its imperial family, how-
ever they may yield to the dictates of policy ;
and, from the time of their great Peter, down
to the present, they generally have had some
cottage or ferme ornee,
to which they retired at
intervals from all the pomp and circumstance
of royalty, to remember that they were mortals,
and to conduct themselves as such. But even
if this were not the case, what pomp or what
114 VANDELEUR.
ceremonial would not recede before the dignified
elegance of the Duchess of Castleton ? or what
fastidiousness not feel honoured by her inti-
macy ?
With the empress-mother in particular, she
was an especial favourite : for that shrewd and
intelligent princess, —whose soul was bent on
improving the moral and intellectual condition
of her people, and whose highest energies were
put forth in founding schools and establishments
of various descriptions, that might in time ele-
vate that people to the standard of the nations
that surrounded them—so inferior in extent, yet
so surpassing in cultivation, that Russia might be
compared to an uncut diamond surrounded by
polished brilliants ; —a princess whose thoughts,
time, and revenue were devoted to objects so
ennobling,—could not long be blind to the judi-
cious hints and advantageous suggestions to be
derived from one of the finest specimens of one
of the finest nations in the world. The Duchess
of Castleton, again, liberal-minded, and ready to
VANDELEUR. 115
hail sense and benevolence wherever she met
. them, failed not to appreciate these leading
i
traits in one labouring under, but struggling to
overcome, the disadvantages that beset Maria
Feodorowna. Hence, despite many little cir-
cumstances that might not have been agreeable
to her in another, there grew between them an
intimacy that perhaps deserved the name ot
friendship as much as many other liaisons that
assume it without question. Concerning her
establishments for the education of young fe-
males, Maria Feodorowna was particularly
anxious ; and so often had the Duchess of
Castleton accompanied her in her visits of in-
spection to them, and so many conversations
had they held upon the subject, in which the be-
nevolent and maternal feelings of the empress
were expressed with the energy peculiar to her,
that the duchess persuaded herself that she
could not fail in her endeavours to excite her
interest in behalf of one so artless, so innocent,
and yet so miserable as Gertrude.
116 VANDELEUR
Indulging in these hopes, she had recovered
tolerable spirits when, according to directions
previously given, the carriage stopped at a short
distance from the splendid palace of Tzarsco-
Celo ; where the empress-mother happened to be
staying at the time, and which had originally
been a love-gift from the Empress Catherine to
her august spouse.
VANDELEUR. 117
CHAPTER XXI.
The lady strange made answer meet,
And her voice was faint and sweet
:
“ Have pity on my sore distress,
—
I scarce can speak for weariness.”
Christabel.
Although it was not without mature con-
sideration of the risk that would have attended
the delay of sending to the empress for permission
to wait upon her at an hour and on a matter
so unusual, that the Duchess of Castleton de-
termined upon waiving that ceremony, and con-
tided in the plain good sense and indulgence of
the empress to excuse her ; still, when the car-
riage stopped, and she looked upon Gertrude
pale and terrified, and remembered that she had
118 VANDELEUR.
herself never beheld her or heard of her exist-
ence until the evening before, it was with a
hand that trembled a little at its own temerity
that she sent in a note with a request that it
might, if possible, be delivered to the empress-
mother without delay.
In as short a time as she could have hoped, an
answer was returned that the empress-mother
was always happy to see the Duchess of Castle-
ton, and desired that she might be conducted to
her presence.
“ You will remain here,” the duchess said
to Gertrude, “ until I either return or send for
you ; and I beseech of you, endeavour to com-
pose yourself—your suspense shall be as short
as I can make it. And now, God bless you ! I
must not delay.” And in the next moment
Gertrude found herself alone, in a situation
which might have appalled firmer nerves.
And moment succeeded to moment, and she
was still alone, until at last she began almost to
VANDELEUK. 119
fancy that she was in a dream. Ere she was
able to wake from it, however, the duchess re-
turned.
She looked flushed and agitated. “ Come,'
1
she said hastily ;
u the empress has, with some
difficulty, consented to see you. It was indeed
a bold request of mine ; but, as yet, I do not re-
pent it. It is all I can say. You must do the
rest yourself. You speak French ? —it is well.
1
'
And without another word being uttered on
either side, the duchess hurried her protegee
through the magnificent apartments of one of
the most magnificent palaces in Europe, without
permitting her to pause one moment, even in
astonishment, had she been so disposed ; but,
in truth, Gertrude’s faculties were too deeply
engaged for extraneous objects to affect them
much, and there was a floating mist before her
eyes that would have caused even brighter ob-
jects to look dim.
She followed the duchess in almost breath-
120 VANDELEUR.
less silence ; and in a few moments, a look ex-
pressive at once of anxiety and encouragement,
cast on her by her kind friend, and some unde-
finable change in the manner of the officer who
conducted them, as he made a respectful sign
towards a door which stood half open, at the
upper end of the suite through which they had
passed, made her aware that she was about to
enter the presence of the empress-mother of
Russia. The officer retired with an expressive
obeisance ; and the duchess taking the hand of
Gertrude, who now trembled so much that she
was scarcely able to support herself, led her
within that half-open door, and there paused.
There was perfect silence and stillness for the
space, it might be, of two minutes ; and Gertrude,
all bewildered and terrified as she was, had
time to recover herself sufficiently to cast a fur-
tive glance round the apartment in which she
stood. It was not as extensive as some of those
through which they had passed, but appeared to
VANDELEUR. 121
surpass them all in splendour and adornment : it
was almost sheeted with mirrors, of a descrip-
tion far excelling anything that Gertrude had
ever seen before, and the poor trembler shrank
back abashed at perceiving her own image form
so prominent a part in that imperial chamber.
The panels round the room were encrusted with
lapis lazuli ; and the floor consisted of a parquet
of fine wood, inlaid with wreaths of mother-of-
pearl. But, dazzling as were these splendid
adornments, especially to the eye of a novice,
there was an object within that chamber which,
though unconnected with them, after the first
hasty glance around, riveted the attention of
Gertrude beyond them all.
A lady was sitting at a table, with her back
towards the door, and bending over something
on which she seemed attentively occupied. Se-
veral specimens of medals, devices, designs, and
mottoes were scattered about her, with various
pretty toys formed of ivory, and a tiny appa-
VOL. III. ft
122 VANDELEUR.
ratus for turning them, so elegant in its form
and structure, as to be well suited not only to
the hand of a female, hut to that of an
empress
.
It was indeed Maria Feodorowna who sat
thus occupied before them. She did not for a
few moments seem to notice their entrance ; hut
from the quickened movement of her fingers as
she pursued her task, it would appear that this
was rather from an anxiety to complete it with-
out interruption, than from not being aware of
their presence ; for presently rising, she took up
the little medal on which she had been working,
and viewing it in various lights, she quietly
turned to the duchess, and without expressing
any surprise at her being there, or taking the
slightest notice of poor Gertrude, she asked,
i
“ Do you ever amuse yourself in making de-
signs for medals, Madame la Duchesse, or in
making these pretty ivory toys ? —no ! — In
England do the ladies consider such things be-
VANDELEUR. 123
neatli them ? or, perhaps, too hard for them ?
Are not hard and difficult expressed by the same
word in your English ? You are so solid,
even
in your expressions, that you cannot describe
or conceive an operation of the mind except
through the medium of the body.'” And she
gave one of those glances which in the gay and
feminine court of Marie Antoinette procured her
the character of satirical ; and which, perhaps,
had its effect in causing the agitation of Marie
Antoinette herself when the then Archduchess of
Russia was first presented to her—an agitation
so great as to oblige her to swallow a glass
of water to recover her spirits.
There was not much in this reception, if such
it could be called, and address, to encourage
poor Gertrude ; nor was the personal appear-
ance of the empress calculated to diminish the
awe which her presence inspired.
She was at that time considerably past what,
in the most liberal sense, is termed the prime
a 2
124 VANDELEUR.
of womanhood ; but, from unimpaired health,
purchased by early hours and a regulated
course of life, and from an animated and varied
expression of countenance, the effect of constant
occupation and activity of mind, she not only
appeared many years younger than she really
Avas, but even retained a considerable share of
personal beauty. Her figure was noble and
commanding ; and the head-dress which she
Avore, consisting of a hat surmounted by a full
plume of soft and beautiful feathers, added to
her height ; a lilac silk dress, made up close
about her neck, showed to advantage the
fine outline of her form, while it concealed the
first inroads of age on the fading throat, and
suited well in delicacy of colour to the fair
complexion of her German extraction.
Still, as a woman—a mere lovely woman, the
empress was decidedly too masculine in her air
and manners, which even extended that cha-
racter in some degree to her appearance. But
VANDELEUR. 125
ill a queen — even in a queen-consort, we are
prepared for, if not desirous of finding it so.
We have had such sad experience how ill
suited a perfectly feminine and lovely woman
is to fulfil the duties, and struggle against the
trials, of that high station, that we are half
tempted to adhere to the old-world maxim, that
woman’s proper sphere is in the shade. And
yet it is a deep question ; for when was England
more glorious than while the imperious Eliza-
beth swayed its sceptre ? or when was the femi-
nine character more outraged than when gentle
Mary reigned in Scotland ? In short,
Ilad great Elizabeth been never queen,
We ne’er had known what Mary should have been :
Ilad lovely Mary not been frail as fair,
We ne’er had known what gentle queens may dare.
But the season for extremes, the offspring of
prejudice, is passing fast away : it is no longer
believed necessary that a woman’s hand must be
either daubed with pastry or with ink, and it
126 VANDELEUR.
is now admitted that ungartered stockings are
not always blue. In these days of liberality, a
woman may venture to sweeten conversation
with her playfulness and wit, as well as pies
or puddings with sugar-plums ; or mayhap may
even confide the latter to an intelligent assist-
ant, and while she herself becomes more the
companion of her husband than of her cook, his
table may be nevertheless elegantly supplied.
And surely, surely, when such an incongruous
character has once been tolerated as a good
housewife and a rational companion, we no
longer need despair of seeing justice and mercy,
firmness and gentleness, go hand ill hand ! We
will hope more ; we will hope that since all that
ages of experience have summed up as the best
and most improving discipline for the human
mind, has been lavished on a soil by nature fit-
ted to receive it—we will hope in such a case for
all the perfection that human nature is capable
of attaining ; we will hope for dignity that
VANDELEUR. 127
shall display itself in uncompromising principles
of right and wrong, instead of narrow bigotry
weighing moral truths by early prejudices ; we
will hope for that candour, that humility of
genius, that will ever ask, is no one wiser than
itself?—that, finding such, will make that per-
son’s wisdom its own ; or failing such, will ex-
amine more deeply into itself, with the awful
responsibility of being the fairest specimen of
—
human nature ! And to what should such a dis-
covery lead ? to the godlike principle of being
merciful to that in others to which we show no
mercy in ourselves ! And since it is maintained
that mind is not matter,—since the science of
phrenology, by seeming to lead to a contrary
opinion, is by one party looked upon as enthu-
siasm, by another as infidelity, and the dif-
ference of the bumps in the head of a male
philosopher from those of a female flirt is
laughed at as imaginary,—why should it be sup-
posed impossible that a female form should con-
128 VANDELEUR.
tain the noblest mind ? Let us at least be con-
sistent : though, alas ! when was prejudice ever
yet consistent? We acknowledge the athletic
frame, the well-developed muscle, to denote
strength and endurance in the trunk, the legs,
and arms, but we deny such indications in
the head : we confidently pronounce that the
broad and open chest proclaims lungs expanded,
healthful, and ready to do their office nobly
;
but we refuse credence to the like manifesta-
tions for the brain. Once more, then, let us be
consistent, and denying that mind is matter, let
us believe that it cares not in what form it clothes
itself, but that the difference between masculine
and feminine intellect depends solely upon educa-
tion. We do not say that such is our opinion ;
what our private opinion may be, is of little
consequence to the world ; all we are arguing
for now is consistency in any doctrine on the
subject. How far it is desirable that the two
systems of education now so opposite, pursued
VANDELEUR. 129
with regard to men and women, should be more
nearly approximated, is another question ; and
perhaps, in accordance with the political econo-
mist’s principles of the “ division of labour,” it is
best as it is : hut there is no rule without ex-
ceptions, and when a woman’s destiny calls upon
her to assume the office that might seem to befit
the other sex, we will hope that an education
suited to that peculiar destiny cannot fail to ren-
der her “ wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best ;
'
and that to the lovely softness of Mary Stuart’s
character, without its weakness, may be joined
the firm decision of Elizabeth Tudor’s, without
its sternness. Nor is there anything preposterous
in the hope, in an age like the present ; although
even no farther back than that in which Maria
Feodorowna sought to seize the reins of govern-
ment while they had yet scarcely fallen from
the grasp of her murdered husband, and in a
country then so far behind our own in moral
improvement, it were perhaps impossible for a
g 5
1 30 VANDELEUR.
woman, especially of high and commanding
station, to rise superior to her own sex without
assuming somewhat of the deportment of the
other. How, indeed, could it well be otherwise,
when educated women were so rare, that when
such a phenomenon appeared, she was, by ne-
cessity as well as mutual consent, driven for
companionship to their sole society, and hooted
at, and persecuted by her own, like the poor
bird who, once noticed and caressed by man,
is never again admitted as a companion by its
kind ?
Still, and with her many disadvantages,
Maria Feodorowna was neither revoltingly mas-
culine, nor oppressively pedantic ; and they
were harsh indeed, who, in one whose chief aim
certainly was the improvement of her people,
could not pardon a little self-complacency on
the success of her efforts. When she first ask-
ed the Duchess of Castleton if the ladies of
England never employed themselves as she was
VANDELEUR. 1 31
then employed, it was probably merely one of
those careless questions that are so often asked
without even the desire for an answer ; but
happening to raise her eye at the moment, there
was something, perhaps she could not herself
have told what, in the exquisitely feminine and
refined appearance of the two lovely islanders
before her, which told to her acute but jealous
mind, that the implied superiority of her occu-
pations was unfelt, and she sought to avenge
herself by a sarcasm. It also was unfelt, for
the duchess only bowed and smiled ; and the
empress, too noble-minded long to resent a
mortification she had drawn upon herself, pre-
sently smiled also, and with good-humoured
emphasis continued
—
“Yet, Madame la Duchesse, you must not
think the mother of Rus sia too frivolous. Re-
member, if you find me designing medals, it is
only to present them in return for one struck
for me by the Imperial Academy of Sciences,
in
132 VANDELEUR.
acknowledgment of the countenance and pro-
tection I afforded them. And know, farther,
duchess, that these employments are only taken
up in our hours of relaxation. When your
message reached us, we were engaged in look-
ing oyer the accounts of some of our establish-
ments ; but, being always at the command of
the Duchess of Castleton, we quitted our study,
and repaired hither to receive her.'” And so
saying, she threw from her hand the medal she
had executed, and pushing the table a little
from her, she turned the chair round, and
seating herself upon it with the dignity which
so well became her, she desired the duchess to
be seated also. The duchess obeyed ; and the
empress then, as if for the first time, turning her
eyes upon the faded and shrinking form of Ger-
trude, kindly said,
“ Your young friend too seems in need of a
chair. Sit down, young lady : we have heard
your frightful story, and pity you from our
VANDELEUR. 133
heart ; but if you will be guided by us, you
will at once resign yourself to your own govern-
ment, and be acquitted before the whole world ;
for it should not be necessary to be Caesar's
wife for a woman to avoid suspicion.”
“ And if my death, honoured madam, would
free me from suspicion, oh gladly would I die !
r>
exclaimed poor Gertrude, roused by this sudden
address,—“gladly would I die at all events by
the hand of God ; but I do,—oh, duchess, tell
the empress that I do shrink from such a trial
and such a condemnation.
1
’
And sinking on her
knees, she buried her face in her hands, and
gave vent to her long-suppressed tears.
“ This is sad, this is unpleasant,” said the
empress hastily. “ Pray, young lady, restrain
your agitation. You know yourself to be inno-
cent of the crime, do you not ? so we understood
from the duchess at least.”
“ Innocent ! innocent of intending harm to
mv brother ?”
134 VANDELEUR.
And poor Gertrude, though speaking French
more correctly than the generality of English
women, felt so unable to express the extent of
her horror of the crime imputed to her, in any
but her native language, which she knew it
would he indecorous to use, that she contented
herself with turning her pleading and almost
reproachful eyes on the duchess, with an ex-
pression which seemed to say,
44
Is this all that
you have done for me in your long interview ?”
In fact, the duchess had purposely only given
such outlines of the dismal story as were neces-
sary to induce the empress to admit Gertrude to
her presence, wishing the truth and animation
of her own intense feelings to he called into
play, to do the rest.
The empress caught the expression of Ger-
trude’s countenance.
44
Yes,” she said,
44
the duchess has acquitted
you ; but I confess I am somewhat at a loss to
understand how it is, if you feel yourself per-
fectly innocent, that you shrink so sensitively
VANDELEUR. 135
from a trial. Know you not, that if neither
you nor your husband appear, you will forfeit
your estate P
11
“ And think you, madam, I should ever enjoy
an estate earned by my own hand as the price
of blood P And, oh God ! of whose blood ?
r>
Gertrude exclaimed with more of vehemence
than might perhaps have seemed perfectly con-
sistent with the respect due to her to whom she
spoke.
The empress paused for a moment, then half
smiled and replied, “ You are wrong there,
young lady, you are wrong. A wish to profit
by events as they occur has no necessary con-
nexion with an effort to produce them, or even
the desire beforehand for their occurrence. It
might be, and probably is so, that this estate,
as we understand it to be of noble account,
would be better dispensed by you to those
who in all countries need the assistance of the
wealthy, than by him who seems ready to grasp
at it by any means ; and the fields will not look
136 VANDELEUR.
less green, or the crops less luxuriant, because
your poor brother was not suffered to live out
the years you thought allotted to him.”
“ Honoured madam, it may be so—it must
be so, as your majesty in your wisdom deems
it so ; but I am a broken reed—no more capa-
ble of dispensing blessings to others now, than I
am of receiving them myself. Oh, let me but
escape and hide myself in some obscure corner of
the world, until God recalls me to himself
!”
and she held up her hands in earnest suppli-
cation.
u There is something in all this I do not un-
derstand,” said Maria Feodorowna, turning to
the duchess :
“ such despair, such heartfelt hope-
lessness, at her age, where all her intentions were
pure and innocent, is past my comprehension ;
and truly I scarcely know what we can do with
her. —Hearken !” she exclaimed suddenly, and
turning to a door which opened to the more
private apartments of the palace,
“ Here comes the empress, here comes our
VANDELEUR. 137
well-beloved daughter ! You see, duchess, we
of the Imperial House of Russia live perfectly
en famille with each other. Have you not
heard so ? Is it the same with your royal
familyin England ?”
Before the duchess had time to answer, the
reigning empress, Elizabeth, entered the apart-
ment, and almost started at perceiving how it
was occupied. In a moment, however, recover-
ing herself, she addressed the lady of the Eng-
lish ambassador with dignified courtesy, and,
instantly struck with the air of misery and ex-
citement but too visible in Gertrude, she asked
if her presence were intrusive.
The empress-mother hesitated for a moment
;
then, as if she had come to some decision, she
exclaimed,
“ No ; on the contrary, we will hope it is
providential. It is said that ‘
in a multitude of
counsellors there is safety and as safety is
what we want at present, let us, my fair
daughter, have the benefit of your wisdom
138 VANDELEUR.
on an interesting occasion .
11
And so saying,
she drew the empress into the recess of a
window, whither in a few minutes beckoning
the Duchess of Castleton to join them, she
caused her to fill up the details of the dismal
story of which she herself had given the outline
to the young empress.
The duchess seized the opportunity to enlarge
more upon the whole matter, and upon Ger-
trude’s hapless situation, than she had yet done,
having found Gertrude herself utterly incapable
of doing justice to it. Both the princesses,
during the recital, shed tears ; and Gertrude,
who heard much of what passed, .
sometimes
wrung her hands, and sobbed in convulsive
anguish.
When the conference was finished, the Em-
press Elizabeth approached the afflicted girl, and
gazing for a moment on her youthful and exqui-
"
sitely beautiful countenance, said, “You shall
not suffer persecution. Our imperial and much-
honoured mother is interested in your fate, and
VANDELEUR 139
also the noble Duchess of Castleton” (bowing to
her). “ It wouhl not answer for her to take you
into her household ;
but come with me, and I
shall keep you as an attendant on myself. I
have had an English attendant once before, so
that the circumstance need not excite extra-
ordinary suspicion ;
only we shall show you as
little as possible in public, as yours is not an
appearance to pass unnoticed. Au reste,
we
trust that you will find our country residence no
loathsome prison.”
We may readily conceive the joy and gra-
titude with which the Duchess of Castleton
heard this proposal made to her hapless pro-
tegee—one so far beyond the utmost she could
have ventured to solicit for her ; and Gertrude
herself, much as her own secret longings were
after the utmost solitude, and most profound re-
tirement from almost all of human kind, felt
that it would be madness not to accept, and
indecorous not to return thanks for, an olfer that
promised at least immediate protection ; and
HO VANDELEUR.
whilst the Duchess of Castleton should continue
in St. Petersburgh, she persuaded herself she
could not feel utterly amongst strangers.
A little plan was hastily sketched out on the
instant for eluding surmise and conjecture re-
specting Gertrude’s sudden appearance in the
imperial palace ; and for this purpose it was
arranged to alloAv it to be understood that she
was an unfortunate young lady, a friend of
the Duchess of Castleton’s, whose husband had
died suddenly, and that the duchess had made
interest to have her received into the household,
to instruct the Empress Elizabeth in the English
language. Her emaciated and miserable ap-
pearance was well calculated to confirm any
tale of woe ; and the Emperor Alexander, whose
acute mind might have led him to make further
inquiries on the subject, especially in consequence
of the English warrant, was fortunately still
absent, engaged in the momentous discussions
which at that period called into exercise every
talent, every principle, and nearly every quality
VANDELEUR. 141
of the highest and the wisest of the sons of
earth.
Agreeably to this plan, the Duchess of Castle-
ton engaged to send Gertrude the dress proper
for a widow according to the English fashion of
the day ; and although Gertrude’s feelings slight-
ly revolted from this, her own good sense, to-
gether with a glance of caution from the duchess,
who read her expressive countenance, told her
how ill-timed such fastidiousness must prove,
when others had run so much risk for her.
The duchess soon after rose to take her leave,
fearful alike of intruding too long upon her im-
perial hostess, and of exciting the curiosity of
the duke by her prolonged absence. She once
more gracefully and respectfully expressed her
gratitude ; and turning to her protegee, bade
her as cordial a farewell as the circumstances
admitted of, and followed the attendant officei
from the presence.
Gertrude remained standing for a moment, as
if in a state of stupefaction. She had appeared
142 VANDELEUR.
to receive the adieus of the duchess calmly
—
coldly—as if mechanically ; but she was too new
to the world, and her feelings in too much ex-
citement, to remain composed at such a moment.
She endeavoured to restrain herself ; but it was
in vain: as she heard the receding footsteps of
her only friend, and looked upon herself as irrevo-
cably shut out from Vandeleur and all news of
him, her presence of mind and self-possession
utterly forsook her, and either forgetful of the
presence in which she stood, or at the moment
disregarding all artificial ceremonies in the in-
tensity of her feelings, she suddenly sprang to
the door of the apartment, and without one
word of apology, or even once looking behind
her, flew after the duchess, nor paused until
she threw herself, panting from agitation, into
her arms.
The duchess, not guessing how abrupt had
been her proceeding, only implored of her to
compose herself, and to tell her if there was
anything more she wished to say.
VANDELEUR. 143
“ You will not forget me ? you will not
lose sight of me entirely ?” Gertrude sobbed
forth. u Oh, say, say you will not, or I shall
not quit you I
’ 1
“ Lose sight of you I must, my love, for both
our sakes,
11
said the duchess, shedding tears
also ;
“ but to forget you would be as impossible
as to forget that I myself exist.
11
“ But you will not lose your interest in me ?
Vow to me, that you will watch over me still,
my guardian angel !”
“ Indeed, indeed I will ; but, dearest, think
of where we are, and try not too far our noble
hostesses. Command yourself, my love, and
suffer me to go.
11
“ Oh God ! farewell then ! But, duchess, I
must say one word more : it cannot surely be
wrong. Will you contrive to learn that he
—
that Major Vandeleur is attended to ? In you it
cannot be indecorous.
11
And she hid her blush-
ing face in the duchess’s bosom.
“ Trust me, trust me, he shall be cared for !”
144 VANDELEUR.
the duchess answered, bending her own cheek
over Gertrude’s. I shall contrive to have the
accident reach the duke’s ears, and through
him every attention shall be paid to Vande-
leur.”
“ Ah, but will you yourself not see that it is
done ? the duke may have so much to think of
;
and indeed it is most unreasonable of me to ex-
pect that even you can remember or interest
yourself in this; but if he could know that I
am safe—I know it would tend so much to his
recovery !”
“ He shall know it. Trust everything to me,
and be assured I. shall forget nothing.”
“ You are an angel upon earth,” said Ger-
trude, raising her head, and gazing on her with
an expression of unfeigned admiration, and al-
most of astonishment.
The duchess shrank from it.
“ Nay,” she said, “ you must not give me
more credit than I deserve. Remember, Ger-
trude, there is but One that can know the
VANDELEUR. 145
windings of the human heart. If I can escape
the slightest tinge of self-condemnation, the
slightest reproach of selfishness in all this, it
will be a subject for my warmest gratitude.
Farewell, and pray it for me. God bless you l’
1
And so saying, she tore herself from Gertrude’s
arms, and, regaining her carriage, was conveyed
rapidly back to St. Petersburgh.
Poor Gertrude returned, with slow and
pensive steps, to the chamber where the two
empresses, although a good deal astonished at
her sudden and impetuous flight, and even
doubtful of her ultimate return, kindly and
condescendingly waited the event.
Gertrude made an attempt at an apology,
which, if not very intelligible, was aided by so
vivid a blush, and so gentle and subdued a
countenance, that it was taken in good part
;
and she was almost instantly given in charge to
one of the ladies of the household, with a con-
siderate intimation, in order to spare her the
pain of idle questions and importunities, that
VOL. III. H
146 VANDELEUR.
lier grief was of too recent a date to endure the
slightest allusion to it ; and that, as a friend of
the Duchess of Castleton’s, she was to he treated
with tenderness and consideration, and suffered
to live in the privacy that suited her at present.
In this privacy we also shall leave her, and
look after Yandeleur.
VANDELEUR. 147
CHAPTER XXII.
. They met, but not as they had been
For time had drawn a veil between
That makes familiar things seem strange,
And each was sensible of change.
Their course of life had been apart,
Diverse the history of each heart.
And, now in distant scenes they met,
The past came thronging back : regret
It was not, that with memory came.
—
* * * *
Silent they were, though inly glad ;
Seeing, you might have deemed them sad :
And in their oft-averted eyes
Restraint there was, but not disguise,
For neitlv -
had a thought to hide.
The wound wliicli Vandeleur had received,
though such as to incapacitate him from all exei-
tion, and indeed for some time to deprive him of
recollection, was not by any means dangerous
148 VANDELEUR.
ill itself ; and the only apprehension his surgeon
felt was of an excess of fever from the vio-
lent state of agitation under which he laboured.
Finding that neither reason nor argument could
prevail upon him even to attempt to compose
himself, Dumoulin administered to him a strong
narcotic, under the influence of which he fell
into a deep and protracted slumber.
It was almost morning when he wakened
from it. For some time he was at a loss, as is
usual in such cases, to recollect wdiat had be-
fallen him, or where he was ; but it only re-
quired a few minutes to bring the circumstances
of the evening before him.
He sat up in his bed, and perceiving an old
woman who had been appointed to watch by
him, nodding at his bedside, he put out his
hand to rouse her. The woman roared aloud
as if a ghost had touched her.
“What is the matter?” asked Vandeleur
angrily ;
“ why do you shout in that manner,
to alarm the house ?”
VANDELEUR. 149
“ ’’Faith, for that matter,” replied the woman,
sulky at the prospect of losing the gratuities
which she, in common with the rest of the idlers
about the establishment, had expected from the
French count and his lady, both of whom it
now began to be suspected had disappeared for
ever, “’Faith, for that matter, there are but few
in the house to alarm ; and them few, I wish
they were alarmed up, and with us ; for, what
with the frights of one kind or another I have
got this evening, I don’t know when I shall be
the better of it.”
“ What frights ?” asked Vandeleur ;
“ and
how do you mean there are but few people in
the house ?”
“ Oh, no matter, sir,” replied the woman
with recollected prudence. “ You are not to
talk ;
the doctor says you are to be kept quiet
;
so I won’t tell you what has happened.”
Vandeleur threw himself back in his bed in
despair, lest nothing he could say could over-
come such stupid propriety.
150 VANDELEUR.
•*
Come, my good woman,” said lie at last,
“ I’ll tell you what it is. You see I am not
very ill ; that long sleep has restored me.
Now, if you don’t this moment tell me what
has happened, I shall jump out of bed, run out
of the room, lock the door behind me, make
my escape from the house, and, as they will be
afraid to come to disturb me while you do not
appear, you shall be left shut up here, either
till you starve, or if I die on the way, as is
very likely, until my ghost comes and plays a
pretty game with you.”
And so saying, he suddenly put out his hand,
and caught her arm in a grasp she could not
struggle against. Her only resource was ano-
ther scream ; but as Vandeleur, as soon as he
could command his countenance, seemed about
to put his threat into execution, she exclaimed,
“ Oh, lie quiet—for the love of God lie quiet, if
you be not entirely mad, and I will tell you
everything.”
“ Well, do so; and as I judge whether it
VANDELEUR. 151
is true or not, so I will let go your arm or
not.”
Thus exhorted, the woman proceeded to in-
form him of the separate disappearance of the
count and countess.
Nothing could exceed his astonishment and
despair. Had they arranged to depart at sepa-
rate hours, but to meet at some appointed place ?
or was Gertrude gone out upon the wide world
alone ? were questions which he asked himself,
but which he could not answer. He inquired
of his attendant if the countess visited much.
“No; they were strangers here : no one ever
came near them ; and the countess never had
her foot outside the door until the evening be-
fore the last, that she went to the play ; but she
was surely going somewhere last night, for she
was elegantly dressed out.”
Vandeleur was lost in amazement—conjec-
ture it could not be called, for he knew not a
single point on which to found even a surmise
beyond what he was told.
152 VANDELEUR.
In this cruel state of perplexity, he counted
the tedious hours until his physician called ; and
if the latter was surprised at the state of exces-
sive agitation and excitement in which he found
his patient, notwithstanding the powerful effects
of the narcotic, the patient was not less surprised
at the dark and ominous expression of concen-
trated wrath, which took possession of Dumou-
lin’s features, when Vandeleur adverted to the
disappearance of the count and countess.
“ I do not know what to make of it,
1
” said
Dumoulin ;
“ but this I know, that so sure as he
has played me false, and escaped me, I will
make him repent the hour. I know more than
he dreams I do. My uncle was not such a fool
as to send me with him without the rope in my
pocket, ready to fling round his neck whenever I
should feel it necessary to do so. I had indeed
at one time nearly given up all hopes, and left
him to his fate ; but since he came here, matters
have looked so promising that I thought all was
uj)on the eve of accomplishment.”
VANDELEUR. 153
“ You seem deeply interested, sir,” said Van-
deleur :
“ have you then known them long ?”
“ Long enough to do him a mischief if he does
me one,” replied Dumoulin ;
“ but I shall wait
to see, I shall wait to see ; and then, sacre /”
He ground his teeth in anticipation of his re-
venge.
“ But can you conceive whither his lady is
gone?” resumed Vandeleur.
“ I cannot. I now recollect, what did not
strike me much at the time, that when I saw
her last evening, she seemed, though inclined to
converse upon indifferent subjects, yet reserved in
expressing her opinion concerning her husband’s
sudden departure. I am inclined to think she
has followed him by appointment.”
Vandeleur groaned.
“ And you can form no idea where he is likely
to have gone ?”
“ None. We parted not very amicably yes-
terday. He was in a devilish bad humour set-
ting out ;
and when I pressed the question of
h 5
15-1 VANDELEUR.
—of—his accession to hisr
wife’s property, lie
evaded it in a manner I did not altogether like ;
and we gave up, at his suggestion, an excursion
we had proposed into the country.”
Vandeleur perceived that there was some con-
nexion between M. Dumoulin and De l’Espoir,
which the former did not yet choose to explain ;
and as he perceived also that he could give
no further information on the subject of the
flight, he dropped it for the present, and de-
termined to endeavour by every means in his
power—even by the most difficult of all, that of
keeping his mind at rest — to expedite his own
recovery, in order to be ready, should the oppor-
tunity ever occur, to save or assist Gertrude.
Such was the sensitive delicacy of his feeling for
her, that, when questioned the evening before if
he had any friends in St. Petersburgh whom he
wished to have informed of his accident, he de-
clined even sending for his servant Whitecross,
in order to prevent the conjectures that must
arise in his mind from the apparently suspicious
VANDELEUR. 155
circumstances under which he received his
wound. With this view, lie still determined to
dispense with his attendance, and, under all the
inconveniences likely to ensue, to remain quietly
where he was, for the short time that he hoped
would be necessary to enable him to seek his
own hotel.
He was not destined, however, to preserve the
incognito he wished for. Dumoulin had not
very long departed from the house, half dis-
tracted between anger and curiosity, when a
message was brought to Vandeleur, that a ser-
vant from the English ambassador was below,
with the duke’s compliments, and a request to
know in what manner he could show his atten-
tion to Major Vandeleur’s wishes ;
“ And here
is a little note he brought,'” added the person
who delivered the message.
Vandeleur eagerly caught at the billet. It
was in a beautiful female hand, and contained
but one single line,
—“ She for whom you are
anxious is safe !” It had no signature, and
156 VANDELEUR.
Vandeleur had never happened to see the du-
chess’s handwriting ; but it was sealed with a
device which he had once suggested—a female
figure with the finger across the lips as imposing
secrecy, and he felt as satisfied of Gertrude’s
safety as if he had heard a voice from Heaven.
“ My own Gertrude !” he exclaimed tenderly,
as he thought with delight on her having had
the prudence to fly to the lady of the English
ambassador for protection, and as he now traced
the duke’s attention to her solicitude for his peace
of mind. There was something, too, in her
having thus unconsciously cast herself into the
arms of her once powerful rival, which made her
inexpressibly and unaccountably dear to him at
that moment.
To the message from the duke, and the precious
little note, he returned but one general answer
of thanks, and a promise to wait on the ambas-
sador as soon as he should be sufficiently reco-
vered ; and he was obliged to make as powerful
efforts to prevent his joy now, as his despair be-
VANDELEUR. 157
fore, from retarding that anxiously-desired re-
covery.
Between the skill of his physician, however,
and his own determination to recover, the pre-
sent wound proved very different from that he
sustained nearly two years before from the same
hand, though probably intended to be much
more fatal in its effects. In less than a week he
was able to leave his room, and it need scarcely
be mentioned that his first visit was to the
Duke of Castleton.
He was shown into the duchess’s morning
i
apartment, where the duke happened to be at
the moment also. He had not until then seen
the duchess since her marriage, and the first
words that she or the duke uttered, were ex-
clamations from both, at Vandeleur looking so
extremely well after his accident. A few mo-
ments, however, showed that the high colour
which led them into this belief was transitory.
“ I am delighted to see you, Vandeleur,” said
the duke, “ and particularly to-day. I was just
158 VANDELEUR.
meditating a visit to you myself, and came
in to consult the duchess about the expediency
of it. I have received a most disagreeable
task to-day, and on a frightful sort of subject
;
and it just occurred to me that it was possible
you could throw some light upon the matter, if
the stories which have reached me of the circum-
stances of your wound are true. The matter is
this : a warrant has been sent from England,
and confirmed by the authorities here, and I
am called on to sanction it, for the apprehension
of a French gentleman, and his companion, an
English lady, for a most extraordinary murder
—
that of the lady’s brother. Similar orders have
been sent all over Europe where our people re-
side ; and as I understand a large property de-
pends upon it, no stone will be left unturned
to discover the fugitives. Now, is it true that
the Frenchman who wounded you was married
to an English lady ? and have you any ob-
jection to mention whatever you know about
them ?”
VANBELEUR. 159
Vandeleur had, during the course of this ad-
dress, ventured, unperceived by the duke, to
glance towards the duchess, in order to learn
how the news had affected her ; hut by the
determined manner in which she kept her eyes
fastened on some elegant trifle of embroidery
which she held in her hand, he not only per-
ceived that she was perfectly at ease on the
subject of Gertrude’s safety, but did not choose
that the least sign of intelligence should pass
between them.
For one moment the thought shot across his
brain, “ Could I after all be mistaken, and is
she really totally ignorant of the whole matter ?”
It was a moment of agony, but it passed away
;
—no. one else could have written that blessed
line. The duke waited for an answer ; and
Vandeleur, still in utter ignorance of all Ger-
trude’s plans and wishes, was at a loss what
answer to return, lest he might in some manner
interfere with them. The duke saw his hesi-
tation, and was about to relieve him from it,
160 VANDELEUR.
when the duchess rising hastily, said with
a smile, “ As you gentlemen have thought
proper to turn my drawing-room into a court
of justice I shall retire ; and when you have
pronounced sentence you may send for me
again .’’ 1
She was leaving the room, when, as Vande-
leur turned to receive her bow, for one single
instant, as she stood shaded by the door, she
threw herself into the exact attitude of the figure
on the seal, and disappeared.
Vandeleur caught the token, and now con-
fined his answer to an assurance of his total
ignorance of whither the fugitives had directed
their flight. The duke forbore to press the
subject. Indeed, the agitation that Vandeleur
could not control, on hearing that the warrant
for Gertrude
1
s arrest had actually arrived, had
not wholly escaped his observation, and he felt
politely anxious to change the subject without
delay.
They had scarcely fallen into another, when
a little confusion of whispering and rustling at
VANDELEUR. 161
the door was succeeded by its being slowly
opened, and a beautiful little girl of three
years old being pushed gently into the room
by some invisible hand. When once her
entrance was effected, she strutted boldly up
to the duke, and in the sweet lisping accents
of infancy, said, “ Papa, mamma sends me
to remind you of the appointment you have at
this o’clock, and—and—for the gentleman to
go away, I believe.'”
The duke took the child’s hand. “ Oh no,
Theodosia, I am sure that mamma did not say
that. I rather suppose it was to ask the gen-
tleman to dine with us.”
“No j,
indeed,
papa, it was not,” replied the
child eagerly.
“ Well, Theo, do you go and ask him now ?”
“ No, papa ; I think mamma wants him
away, and wants you to go out.”
“ Silly, inhospitable child I no,” said the
duke, smiling ; then turning to Vandeleur, “ The
fact is, the duchess knows that I have an
appointment of a very particular nature this
162 VANDELEUR.
morning ; but if you will return and dine
with us, or remain now and send for dress,
you will give us great pleasure. I can answer
for the duchess, I assure you, notwithstanding
the gaucherie of this little animal, of whom
she is so proud that she takes every oppor-
tunity of sending her in to be seen. She ought
to teach her better manners,” he said, pat-
ting the child’s head. “ But, seriously, she
will be delighted, I know ; I assure you she was
most anxious during your illness, and almost
every little attention that was shown you in my
name, was suggested by her ; she has quite an
affection for your mother. Do stay ;
you now-
look quite well again.”
Vandeleur bowed, but positively declined the
invitation, pleading his recent illness and fear of
the night-air; but in his own mind he deter-
mined to take some step, either to see or hear
from the duchess in private, in order to learn
something more of the situation of Gertrude
:
for although some judicious mediciner “ to the
VANDELEUR. 168
mind diseased” lias of old mercifully prescribed
that “ no news” is to be taken as “ good news,”
still this negative good is but meagre fare, and
will not long satisfy an ardent anxiety.
But the matter was better arranged for Van-
deleur. u See now, Theodosia, you have made
the gentleman go away,” said the duke as he
rang for his carriage.
The sweet child looked shy and distressed,
and left the room. Presently, however, ex-
actly as Vandeleur’s carriage, and the duke’s,
were together announced, the little girl returned,
leading in her mother by the hand, as if to give
her an opportunity of rectifying some error, of
which she perceived she had herself been
guilty.
The duke laughed at the child’s consideration,
but, saying he had not time to see it out, ran
down stairs while Vandeleur was receiving the
duchess’s apology.
“ In fact,” she said, “ the duke has a very
particular appointment, which he will scarcely
164 VANDELEUR.
now have time to keep, and I also am obliged
to drive some miles into the country imme-
diately ; but, as I wished for a few minutes
1
conversation with you, it made my mind par-
ticularly tenacious of the hour.”
She paused, and Vandeleur’s heart beat high
at this announcement. However, as he only
bowed, the duchess was obliged to proceed,
though with some slight degree of hesitation,
which she vainly endeavoured to control.
“ I shall not detain you many minutes,” she
began ;
“ but there are two things I wished to
say to you : the one concerns myself, the other
more particularly you. I shall dismiss my own
part first. I wish to explain the sign which I
made to you on leaving the room, and which I
am conscious,” she said with a vivid blush, and
a look of distress at not being able to subdue
that blush,—“ which I am aware must have
appeared strange to you. The explanation is
this : The duke is in utter ignorance of every
circumstance relating to this dreadful business,
VANDELEUR. 165
except wliat lie learned officially to-day. I, on
the contrary, am in possession of them all
—
all
;
and while I believe that there does not exist a
monster who could withstand the innocence,
beauty, and fascination of the —of your— of
Gertrude in short, I felt that there would be
impropriety and indelicacy in my exerting- my
influence with the duke, to turn him from the
course of his duty. I have therefore taken her
protection on myself : I have ensured her safety,
and it was at her entreaty I communicated it to
you. As soon as the duke gives up this em-
bassy, I intend to make a full confession of my
disobedience, not however as is generally the
case,” she added with a smile, “until I have reap-
ed all the fruits of it.” She paused, and played
with the sunny curls of the child’s hair. “ For
Gertrude,*’ she continued, seeing that Vandeleur
made no attempt to speak, “ 1 absolutely can-
not tell you more than that she is in perfect
safety, and not with that wretched man. Of
his movements she knows no more than you do.
166 VANDELEUR.
Where I have placed her, she will remain until
this storm is past ; and believe me that no care
—no attention on my part shall be wanting to
soothe and comfort her. I never saw so lovely,
so interesting a creature.”
Having said this, she was slowly rising as if
to bid good morning, when Vandeleur recover-
ing his speech, of which he had hitherto appear-
ed to be deprived, exclaimed,
“ Duchess of Castleton ! I will not thank you
for your surpassing goodness. Your own heart
must tell you all that mine should wish to say.”
He stopped, deeply agitated.
“ My dear Major Vandeleur !” she exclaimed
in a playful voice, to dissipate her own emotion,
u how you overrate a trifling exertion in behalf
of a most interesting and injured being ! They
must be hard-hearted indeed who could resist
her; and then you could not, I hope, doubt my
wish to serve any friend of yours, or, as the
poor people so expressively say,
4
of your mo-
ther's son .
1
My little girl tells me you cannot
VANDELEUR. 167
dine with us to-day, and indeed I think you are
only prudent ;
hut I hope we shall see you soon
again.”
She made another movement to end the con-
versation ; but Vandeleur having now com-
pletely recovered himself*, said,
“ Suffer me to trespass on you a few mi-
nutes longer, if indeed your engagement is not
of a very pressing nature, and to profit by a
goodness which I so deeply feel. Since I must
not inquire where Gertrude is, may I not at
least be told if she is likely to continue long
there ? what her plans are afterwards ?—in short,
Duchess of Castleton, as you are aware of our
miserable circumstances, and of Gertrude’s pe-
culiarly friendless condition, you will not won-
der that I am most anxious, if possible, to have
even one interview with her, and to learn from
her own lips her intentions for the future. In
every point of view, as her betrothed husband,
and now her father’s executor, it is even my
duty to watch over her.”
168 VANDELEUR.
“ Major Vandeleur, believe me, there is not
any one can more deeply sympathise in your
feelings on this subject than I do ; and it is not
with a view to deprive you of the gratification
which you so naturally wish for, that I assure
you that Gertrude shall never again be friend-
less or unprotected. I really do not at this
moment know her further plans, nor do I be-
lieve she does herself ; but I shall see her for
the purpose of learning them, in order to satisfy
your mind ; and if she will consent to the in-
terview you propose, I shall endeavour to faci-
litate it.”
“ And may I entreat that you will make her
understand, that I have no object now in life
but to watch for every opportunity of serving
her ?”
“ I will.”
“ And when may I receive her answer ?”
“ I shall let you know as soon as I receive
it.”
Vandeleur once more endeavoured to express
VANDELEUR. 169
his thanks ; but the duchess would not listen to
them ; and haying1
made her little girl shake
hands with him, she bade him good morning.
Two days passed over without his hearing
from her again. On the morning of the third
he received a note requesting him to call. He
found her alone. She proceeded at once to re-
lieve his anxiety.
“ I requested an interview, Major Vande-
leur,
11
she began, “ in preference to writing to
you, partly because Gertrude herself wished
that it should be so, and partly because what
1 have to say may call forth objections, argu-
ments, or entreaties on your part, which might
lead to a protracted correspondence, and per-
haps not be satisfactory at last.
1 ’
“ Have you then seen Gertrude since ?” Van-
deleur asked with evident anxiety.
Oh yes, indeed I have,
11
the duchess an-
swered, smiling. “ I have seen her several
times in her hiding-place, and I assure you she
looks infinitely better than when she entered
VOL. Ill, i
170 VANDELEUR.
there. Be assured, it is no loathsome dungeon ;
but you must, 1 fear, be satisfied with this
assurance,
—you must not think of seeing her
yourself
“ For how long ?”
The duchess looked down, and seemed dis-
tressed as she answered, “ That must depend
on circumstances over which none of us have
any control. In short, Major Vandeleur, I
am sorry to be the messenger of a disappoint-
ment to you ; but poor Gertrude is limited at
present in confidantes, and therefore I have en-
gaged to say to you from her, that she cannot
think of seeing you any more. She implores of
you to return to England, and to endeavour to
seek for happiness from some other source.'”
Vandeleur turned very pale. “ Happiness !
happiness !” he repeated ;
“ that is a strange
word for Gertrude to mock me with. No
;
I think I was born under some planet be-
neath which happiness is for ever doomed to
wither.”
VANDELEUR. 171
“ Do not say so, Major Vandeleur,
11
said
the duchess, pitying the bitterness of feeling
under which he seemed to labour ;
“ you have,
I grant, been severely tried, but you have
surely lived long enough to be a convert to the
doctrine at which first youth spurns so con-
temptuously,—namely, that there are various
degrees of happiness, and that it is manifest
presumption in any one to murmur if his own be
not the highest/
1
There was something in the quiet sincerity
with which the duchess uttered these words,
that, in the irritable state into which Vandeleur’s
feelings had been thrown by this message from
Gertrude, made him feel them almost a cold-
hearted insult ; and he said with increased
bitterness, “ Yes, Duchess of Castleton, it is
easy for those to uphold that doctrine who are
in possession of all that their hearts can
covet .
11
The duchess did not raise her eyes ; but a
gentle smile, and a very faint suffusion, passed
i 2
172 VANDELEUR.
over her beautiful countenance. Vandeleur
felt disposed to shoot himself. However, as
there was no implement of destruction at hand,
he was obliged to content himself with rising
hastily from his chair, clasping his hands toge-
ther, and exclaiming with heartfelt earnestness,
“ Forgive me, forgive me, duchess l
11
“ What for ?” she asked, now looking up
and smiling openly ;
“ for supposing me in pos-
session of all my heart can covet ? I assure
you, you are right ; I really am so. I thank
God, I can sincerely say, there is nothing upon
earth that I covet ; or, lest that word may sound
ambiguous, there are few things I have left even
to wish for ; and foremost of these few, is yours
and Gertrude’s happiness. This wish indeed, 1
fear, is not as likely to be granted as almost all
my others are ; for one reason why she wished
me to speak, instead of writing to you, is to
enforce upon you, against any arguments or
persuasions you might use, her unalterable de-
termination to see you no more.”
VANDELEUIt. 173
“ In any event P
11
“ In any event which she permits herself to
take into consideration .
11
“ And may I not even be informed of her
plans for the future ? am I not to be permitted
to make myself useful to her in any way P
11
“ Of her plans for the future she can say
little, not having formed any very definitely, be-
yond remaining where she is at present ; and she
particularly entreats that you will give up all
intention of watching over her, as the idea of
this prevents her mind from regaining that com-
posure she might otherwise in time obtain.
Nay, do not look so shocked ; I am sure you
cannot but appreciate the feelings which dictate
this apparently unkind command.
11
“ Let me ask one question ; and answer me
sincerely, I beseech. Are these commands the
result of her own unbiassed judgment, or are
they
11
“ I believe, entirely her own. At least
this I know, that I was faithful to my trust,
174 VANDELEUR.
and gave your message without note or com-
ment. Indeed, had I presumed to give advice,
perhaps it might not have been so rigid ; for I
am of too proud a spirit to think that there is
no safety but in flight. On the contrary, I
think that wherever there is a great sacrifice
constantly kept up, self-complacency does what
constancy never would have done, and invests
the matter with a factitious importance which
fixes it indelibly in the imagination. However,
people’s minds and feelings are differently con-
stituted ; and those who differ in opinion from
me, I can well believe, may have excellent
reasons for doing so. In Gertrude’s case I
know it to be so. She has vowed obedience to
one who would disapprove of her holding com-
munication with you ; and this renders it a
positive duty in her not to do so. Let me have
the satisfaction of informing her, that you re-
spect her feelings, that you will return to Eng-
land ; and depend on me, that should any change
occur—any opportunity in which you could be
VANDELEUR. 175
of use to her—you shall immediately be in-
formed of it. I can always know your address
through your mother.
11
“ And when you and the Duke of Castleton
return to England, will Gertrude return there
too ?”
“ At present, she says not ; she declares she
would rather bury herself in the farthest corner
of the earth, than ever appear there again : but
these feelings may subside.'”
“ You have yourself no idea of when you
shall return ?”
“ Why no. There is, you know, some ru-
mour of a change of ministry ; but the duke
does not think it likely to take place ; and if
not, we both like our residence here well enough
to remain for some time longer. You know it
was my fancy to come : I always had a great
curiosity about Russia since the agreeable em-
peror was with us, and had very little hope of
satisfying it in any other way ; so I must not
be impatient now.
11
176 VANDELEUR.
Vandeleur fell into a gloomy reverie. He
had indeed very little now on earth to cheer
him. The thought even came across him, of
how ill he had been rewarded for the command
which he had formerly exercised over his feel-
ings with respect to Lady Seaton ; but from
this he started at once, as every way unworthy
of her, of himself,—perhaps, most of all, of Ger-
trude. He next glanced with momentary re-
gret on having given up his profession ; but from
this he also turned away, for he felt conscious
that he could no longer have maintained the
character there which he had so justly acquired.
He felt desolate and wayward, and seemed
disposed to indulge in a protracted silence.
“ Come,'” said the duchess, “ I must rouse
you from this abstraction, even by telling you
to imitate your own Gertrude. She sees her
duty and performs it. You surely will not be
a stumbling-block in her way, by hovering
about her, when she has confessed it to be
VANDELEUR. 177
essential to her peace that you should return
to your own country ?”
“ No ! let her be assured that I will not be a
stumbling-block in her way.
11
“ Nay, I will not deliver this message either.
I am not one of those rigidly right who think
that fire and sword should be employed to keep
asunder two hearts which fate will not permit
to be united in the closest bonds ; because I
no more believe in the frailty that makes it
impossible to confine the indulgence within
proper bounds, than I can think that the ab-
sence of temptation constitutes purity : but, at
the same time, if from any circumstance either
party wishes for that separation, I think they
are guilty indeed who counteract that prudence.
Come, say you will obey Gertrude’s behests, for
she is indeed an angel .
11
“ She is,
11
said Vandeleur warmly, and
heaving off a load of waywardness and indeci-
sion with a deep sigh, he added, “and she is
178 VANDELEUR.
r
not alone in that character even upon earth. I
will obey your and her commands ; I shall re-
turn to England : but, Duchess of Castleton,
you will he merciful to me ?” he said with deep
and emphatic pleading in his voice and coun-
tenance ; “ you will remember my wretched
situation, and let me hear sometimes of Ger-
trude ? I am aware of the extent of what 1
ask.”
“ My dear Major Vandeleur, I shall have
the greatest pleasure in complying with your
request : indeed I should have done so with-
out it. Your mother and I correspond re-
gularly ;
but now my letters to her will be
more frequent, and much more interesting.
Farewell ! I shall be anxious to hear from her
how you fulfil the spirit of our injunctions ; and
pray be always assured of my kindest regard
and esteem.” She held out her hand, and
Vandeleur pressed it respectfully, affectionately.
If a tear dropped on it, Gertrude herself might
have analysed that tear.
VANDELEUR. 1^9
The door had nearly closed upon his receding
figure, when he hastily re-entered the room and
said, “ Duchess of Castleton, I will trespass one
step farther ; it will probably be the last, and
you will forgive it. Will you see Gertrude
once more ? will you tell her that I obey ?
And suffer me to wait upon you once more,
to learn how she receives the communica-
tion, how she feels when she learns that I
too have appeared to abandon her ; and ask her
at least if there is nothing that I can do for her
in England ? nothing that she would like to
have sent to her from Beauton ?”
The duchess complied with this request also
;
but if Vandelcur had in his secret soul founded
any hope upon it, of a revocation of Gertrude's
orders, he was disappointed : the only message
she sent to him was heartfelt thanks for his obe-
dience ; the only commission, a request that lie
would destroy his own letters, which were in the
little letter-box which he had sent to her in
happier days, for the purpose of containing
180 VANDELEUR.
them, and of which she now sent him the
key.
“ I am to go then,” he said. “ But if your
stay in St. Petersburgh should be long pro-
tracted, I may return, even without any hope
of seeing her.”
“ We cannot, of course, control your move-
ments any farther than as concerns her.”
It was then arranged that the duchess was to
become Gertrude’s banker, and that Vandeleur
should make any necessary remittances of money
through her. He paid his respects to the duke,
and almost immediately after this last interview
he set off with a heavy heart for England.
VANDELEUR. 181
CHAPTER XXIII.
And at the last a path of little bread
I found, that greatly had not used be ;
For it forgrowne was with grasse and weed,
That well unneth a wighte might it se :
Thought I, this path some whider go’th parde ;
And so I followed till it me brought
To right a pleasaunt herber, well ywrought.
The Flower and Lefe.
In the meantime, not a trace was discovered
of either of the fugitives by the emissaries des-
patched in search of them ; and days had grown
to weeks, weeks were stretching into months,
and Gertrude, in her splendid retirement, seemed
gradually regaining as much peace and com-
posure of mind as could have been expected for
her under circumstances so peculiar. She still,
indeed, shunned with nervous apprehension
182 VANDELEUR.
meeting strangers of whatever rank or descrip-
tion ; but as she was not in any way compelled
to do so, she suffered but little inconvenience
from that feeling. Her duties about her im-
perial mistress from the first had been little
more than nominal, and even the slight task of
reading some French romance for an hour or
two in the dressing-room, or giving her a short
lesson in the pronunciation of English sentences,
had been almost wholly discontinued since the
return of the emperor ; for Gertrude, who knew
not the jealous weakness of Elizabeth’s temper,
was as much surprised as delighted at the
willing permission accorded her, to absent her-
self entirely during his visits to his royal con-
sort ; while so lost was she herself to the com-
mon interests and curiosity of life, of which she
once partook so largely, that while the rest of
the world—at least the world by which she was
surrounded—was exhausting itself in efforts to do
honour to the return of their imperial hero, and
rending the very skies with acclamations in his
VAN DELE UR. 183
praise, there was one being within his very pa-
lace-walls, and night after night sleeping under
the same roof with him, who had never even by
stealth obtained a sight of him, and ofwhose very
existence he was as ignorant as if she had con-
tinued to dwell in her own England. Gertrude
was in fact, as she herself expressed it, though
outwardly a living body, a corpse within ; and
although she ate a little, and slejit a little, and
moved about a little, it seemed really to be
more the effect of habit than volition.
It soon appeared, however, as if even the
outward tranquillity she had of late enjoyed was
more than was deemed good for her at present
;
for it had continued but a very short time,
when it was again disturbed by the news
of a change in the cabinet at home ; in conse-
quence of which, the Duke of Castleton had
requested to be recalled, and preparations
were already in progress for his leaving
Russia.
Gently and kindly as this intelligence was
184 VANDELEUR.
communicated to Gertrude, it came upon her as
a dreadful stroke. Her young and enthusiastic
heart, at all times ready to fling some of its
sweet fibres round anything fitted to receive
them, had in its present desolation wholly
abandoned itself to one so entirely worthy of it
as the Duchess of Castleton ; and to part with
her now, and she herself to remain behind in so
very foreign a country, seemed but another of
the many deaths she had already been doomed
to die.
To her gentle mistress Gertrude felt a grate-
ful and respectful attachment ; but their ranks
were too far apart, and their circumstances too
different, to admit of anything like friendship ;
while the good ladies of the household, though
they could not behold without pity, and some
degree of interest, the deep but unobtrusive
melancholy of the young and lovely English-
woman, were too different from her in their
habits, feelings, and ideas, for anything like con-
fidence to exist between her and them, even if
VANDELEUR. 185
her sorrows had not been of a nature that called
for the closest reserve on her part.
At the same time, they, worthy souls ! con-
trived to satisfy their own curiosity respecting
her, by filling up the outline of the rumour that
had reached them of the affray betAveen the
count and Vandeleur ; and assured each other
that it was Gertrude’s husband who had been
“barbarously murdered,” and that when the
English ambassador went to administer the
knout to the offender with his own hands, he
fell so desperately in love with the young widow,
that the duchess was fain to hide her in the
palace, where the duke would not dare to seek
her, under the protection of their virtuous
empress.
Perhaps this story answered the purpose of
concealment as well as any that the parties
themselves could have invented, though not
exactly such as Gertrude might have selected,
and obtained all the readier belief, because it had
birth amongst themselves. Some — that is, the
1 86 VANDELEUR,.
few who were so fastidious as to require a show
of consistency—added that she was a cousin of
the duke’s or the duchess’s, (on this point the
authorities were not agreed,) which was the
reason of the great intimacy between her and the
duchess : and, according as the fair causalists
leaned to the weak, or the virtuous side of
human nature, they asserted that Gertrude re-
mained concealed from the duke by her own
free will, or was flattered and bribed by the
duchess into that prudent measure.
Little indeed, if any, of this gossip was ever
obtruded on Gertrude’s ear ; but still it is not
much to be wondered at, that when the news
reached her of the intended departure of the
Duchess of Castleton, her kind, her true, her
refined and delicate friend and protectress, her
first momentary impulse was to throw herself
into her arms and exclaim,
“ Take me with you ! at any risk to myself,
take me with you, dearest duchess ! I cannot
remain here without you.”
VANDELEUR. 187
“ Would you then yield yourself up, my love,
to the trial ?”
“ Oh no, no ! Anything but that ; my
senses would never hold : but to be hidden
anywhere
She paused, and looking into the duchess’s face,
saw so much embarrassment mingled with the
gentlest pity and anxiety, as instantly recalled
to her recollection how difficult and dangerous
was the task she was about to impose upon her
indulgent friend ; and her own generous feelings
prompting her, not only to suffer everything her-
self rather than involve her in farther trouble,
but even to spare her the pain of a refusal, she
eagerly revoked the hasty wish she had uttered ;
and only making the duchess repeat over and
over again her promise of writing to her as fre-
quently as was possible, she promised and de-
termined to do all in her power to remain con-
tentedly where she had found such timely re-
fuge, until some turn in her fate should either
enable or oblige her to leave it with propriety.
188 VANDELEUR.
“ But I shall see you again, dear duchess,
before you go?” she repeated, still clinging to
her, while tears, which she found it impossible
to restrain, fell fast from her eyes.
“ You shall, my love, and frequently, I hope.
Our movements are seldom as rapid as we our-
selves propose. Dry your tears, my sweet Ger-
trude, and remember that your remaining here
is only a matter of prudence after all, and for
your own sake : but it can be revoked, and
shall be,” she added soothingly and affection-
ately, all scruples of expediency and caution
overcome by Gertrude’s air of gentle resigna-
tion, “ if you continue really to wish it.”
“ Thank you, thank you, my dear kind
friend, for that word ; it is as judicious as
it is kind ; for, to an ardent temperament like
mine, the idea that you can escape when you
please renders anything endurable.”
And Gertrude, true to her own generous
—
and, may we not call it heroic ?—nature, re-
solved that, were it only for the sake of that
VANDELEUR. 189
kind word, she would not abuse the duchess’s
indulgent consideration.
“ But, alas ! if it is true that many an evil
thought and many a guilty wish are smothered
in their very birth, who cannot also bear witness
to many a high resolve and generous purpose
that have been driven back upon the heart, or
to which the opportunity for exercise has been
denied ? And yet they who feel indignant or
sorrowful when such has been the case, do per-
haps but reap the bitter fruits of corrupted seed ;
for it belongs not to degraded man to triumph
in a lofty sentiment—there is no such thing for
him. God made us perfect ; we have debased
ourselves ; our loftiest aspirings are then but so
much of our original nature, of the “ order of
things,” unspoilt ; and to lament the loss of an
opportunity for displaying them, is to lament
that something has not gone wrong that we might
rectify it ; and not very unlike the Irishman’s
wish, that his friend had been drowned that he
might have had the pleasure of plunging into the
190 VANDELEUR.
water to rescue him ! That all things should
work together for the u universal good,” is all
the benevolence that man should pretend to ;
and to do his part humbly, meekly, and zealous-
ly, as one avoiding negligence in repairing the
disorder that he or his fellow-men have wrought,
should be the end of his endeavours. To look
for a higher station, or a better sounding office,
is indeed the mark of a fallen nature ; it is
taking our standard from the nature to which
we have fallen, instead of from that from which
we had our noble origin. There are, however,
two classes prone to this error, who are in their
natures as opposite as light and darkness, as
life and death : the one is the spiritually proud,
who say to their neighbours, “ Stand aside, I
am holier than thou !”—the other is the young
and the warm-hearted, who say to the afflicted,
“ Come to me and I will bind up thy wounds ;
and would that they were ten thousand times
more loathsome, that thou mightst see that whilst
every one else turned away disgusted, I would
VANDELEUR. 191
sit by tliee and dress them still.” Now, while
to the eye—ay, and to the heart of man, the
latter class is the gentlest, the most amiable
—
perhaps the most loveable of any that exists,
and the former perhaps the most revolting
;
whilst the latter is one that ameliorates our
nature and softens its afflictions, while the
former aggTavates its asperities, and draws ill-
will on religion itself ;
yet am I of opinion
that they are equally the signs of a fallen na-
ture. By equally, I mean that one shows it as
clearly as the other, although so much of good
be mingled with the one, while the other has
not one redeeming trait, unless it plead its cold
and selfish bigotry as such. I believe that the
brave sentinel, who is placed to guard the out-
posts of the camp, would as soon think of
claiming credit for not u doing his work negli-
gently,” though his own life were to be the for-
feit of that negligence, as a real Christian would,
for all that he can do, in the short space of his
existence, to assuage or ward off the evils we
192 VANDELEUlt.
have brought upon ourselves ; and that the
one, when the battle is raging around him,
might as rationally seek for some little sepa-
rated spot where he could prove his own little
prowess, while kingdoms are hanging on the
result of the general melee,
and expect credit
for the same, with all its petty selfishness, as
the Christian to seek for occasions to display ex-
traordinary qualities of any kind ; with this dif-
ference only ; that glory being the soldier’s meed,
to seek it is his profession ; while humility being
the passport to heaven, is the only unfailing
sign of a regenerated nature. But whither have
we wandered from poor Gertrude ? who, if she
was not now the humblest of human beings,
only yielded to a jglad sensation in any generous
resolve from the very warmth and energy of her
young heart. Even that, however, was to be
tempered ; and before Time effected that process
with his cold wing, whose undiscriminating in-
fluence is generally extended over every feeling
of our nature, she was destined to learn that
VANDELEUR. 193
lesson, so difficult to the springing-time of life,
—to be content to “ do no wrong not as weak
mortals use the words, but in the extended
sense of the Scriptures.
Gertrude, we have already said, was from
the first indulged in a degree of liberty about
the palace and its princely domains, that was
not permitted to the more formal members of
the household ; and, as no one felt it their duty
to instruct her too rigidly in the ceremonial ob-
servances, or etiquette attending her situation,
she frequently wandered about at hours, and
into places, which by others were deemed sacred
to the pleasure or the privacy of the imperial
family.
There was one spot in particular, at a con-
siderable distance from the house, where she de-
lighted to pass whole hours together, both on
account of the beauty of the place itself, and
because, when there, she felt sheltered alike from
the rays of the mid-day sun, and from the in-
trusion of any human being. It is true, there
VOL. III. K
194 VANDELEUR.
was an ornamented walk, tended with the ut-
most care, leading to this seclusion ; but this
walk Gertrude always shunned, and contrived
to arrive at her favourite haunt by one, which,
overgrown with grass and brushwood, seemed to
have been long forsaken for its newer neigh-
bour. The spot itself was a sort of circular
chamber, if it might be termed such, cleared
out amidst dark and lofty trees, the close em-
bowering branches of which, while they suffered
the grass to grow rank, dense, and dark beneath
their moisture, seldom permitted the cheerful
rays of the summer's sun to penetrate ; and
while the gnarled trunk of one lofty lord of the
surrounding forest had been bowed to form a
rustic arm-chair, and the branches interlaced
composed a canopy above, so admirable was
the taste displayed in all, that the mind almost
refused to believe that it was the work of art,
and not the dwelling of some spirit of the
woods.
There were, however, signs that could not
9
VANDELEUR. 195
be mistaken of the ingenuity of man. As you
sat within the fairy circle, the sound of dashing
water fell continuously upon the ear ; and when
you rose to seek the fairy fount, behold ! the
splendid but artificial jet (Teaii,
tumbling in a
thousand fanciful forms of silver spray, met
your—shall I say ? — disappointed gaze.
Disappointment at least to Gertrude it cer-
tainly was, when, after having frequently en-
joyed the lulling sound without sufficient curi-
osity to ascertain whence it proceeded, she at
last ventured from her hiding-place to seek its
source ; and perceived, what told in language
that could not be mistaken, that others besides
herself had loved her favourite spot. The un-
welcome story was still more fully confirmed by
the splendid bath-house and the odoriferous
shrubs that she now discovered ; and, above all,
because of the trouble and expense that attend
the importing, and preservation of them, in a
climate where the winter is so inimical to their
bright feathers and musical voices, by the
k 2
r
196 VANBELEUR.
assemblage of beautiful singing-birds that she
saw fluttering and chirping about.
Her first timid feeling on this discovery was
to fly ; her first exclamation, “ this is no place
for me but when returned to the sylvan ves-
tibule, which was at a short distance from the
gay scene we have just described, its gloom
again seemed as congenial to her spirit as be-
fore ; she recollected too, that, frequently as she
had already visited it, never yet had its soli-
tude been disturbed save by herself ; and as the
baths, though magnificent in design, and con-
siderably advanced in execution, were evidently
unfinished, and yet no workmen having ever
been employed there since her arrival, she be-
gan to flatter herself that the purpose, whatever
it had been, was nowabandoned, probably through
some caprice of satiated taste and luxury, and
that all that now alarmed her would soon be-
come as wild and deserted as the path by’
which she was in the habit of stealing thither.
Still the alarm she had experienced was suf-
VANDELEUR. 197
ficient to prevent her return for some days ;
and the next time she ventured to visit it,
was one day after her light dinner, at which
time she was in the habit of wandering about
the grounds, whilst she knew the empress to be
engaged at hers. She had never, indeed, ven-
tured so far from the palace at that hour before ;
but the evening was particularly tempting, and
it was so much lonofer than usual since she had
seen her favourite haunt, that she strayed on
until she arrived there almost unconsciously.
She seated herself mechanically in her rustic
chair, and sank into the melancholy musing
which the place was at all times calculated to
inspire, but which with Gertrude was now al-
most a second nature. Escaped from her cruel
husband, and the fear of discovery having a good
deal subsided, her musing had of late lost much
of the gloom and bitterness that once accom-
panied it ; and she used even to look forward,
with a sort of soothing anticipation, to the hour
for repairing to a scene that seemed formed for
]98 VANDELEUR.
quiet, and repose of mind : but she had never
visited it in the evening before ; and though, as
we have said, that evening was one of particular
loveliness and brightness, so deep and impene-
trable was the shade of the trees around her,
that night seemed suddenly to have fallen upon
the earth. Whether it was owing to that cir-
cumstance altogether, or to the heavy dewy
breath that foliage and herbs give out in the
summer evenings, and which, all delicious as it
is, is sometimes oppressive to those of weak
spirits, or whether to some predisposing state of
her nerves, she could not perhaps herself have
told ; but so it was, that she had not been
seated many minutes there before she felt a chill
creeping over her spirits, and painful recollec-
tions began to throng too thickly upon her.
The hour—and some undefinable, perhaps imagi-
nary similitude in the atmosphere and scene, re-
called to her recollection—first Beauton itself
—
then particular places there—associations con-
nected with them —hours—days—evenings —
VANDELEUR. 199
and finally—the fatal and the last. Irresistibly,
and as if spell-bound, she dwelt upon its fearful
memories with a vivid distinctness, that—alone
and separated as she was from the world in
that lone wilderness—affected her spirits with a
gloom and an oppression, that, in all her variety
of suffering, she had never before experienced.
For the first time she suffered herself to doubt
in what spirit her sainted brother looked down
upon her now, and she felt that a frightful terror
was taking hold upon her. Presently her limbs
grew cold, and her heart seemed to cease its
pulsations. To rise and fly was her first im-
pulse ; but she felt, what all, in similar nervous
paroxysms, I suppose, have felt ; namely, that
to make the effort would deprive her of the
little presence of mind that remained, and that,
if her feet performed their office at all, it must
be to bear her shrieking to the palace. Still,
her terror was every moment augmenting ; and
she was now shuddering, as persons sometimes
do before they faint.
200 VANDELEUR.
In her extremity she had recourse, as usual, to
prayer. She sank down upon her knees with
as little movement as was possible, feeling
that the very rustling of her clothes would
jar upon her excited nerves ; and desperately
burying her face in her hands, in the hope
that, by shutting out the objects by which she
was surrounded, she could shut out their effects,
she endeavoured to form a prayer to be relieved
from the gloom that had fallen upon her spirit.
The most perfect stillness was around, and even
the little birds had betaken themselves to the
aviaries and various devices that were contrived
to allure them to that spot. Gertrude was com-
pelled to restrain even her own palpitating
breathing, so fearful did it sound in that still-
ness.
But hark ! even while yet her short aspira-
tion is unfinished, she hears a rustle—a step
—
it is close beside her—in a frenzy of terror she
looks up—and, standing about a yard distant
VANDELEUR. 201
from her, she sees a gentleman, and a stranger.
A moment before, the sight might have been
welcome as that of an angel ; but now, her
nervous excitement had gained too much power
over her strength, —he appeared too suddenly
before her,—and no sooner did she behold him
than, uttering a low and smothered shriek, she
fell fainting at his feet.
The gentleman sprang to her assistance, and
caught her in his arms as she fell ; and fearful
as was her alarm, it did not exceed in intensity
the astonishment that took possession of him,
when he beheld the exquisitely beautiful young
creature, whom the sight of him (for in no other
way could he account for it) had nearly, if not
entirely, deprived of life. He saw at once that
she was an English woman, which did not tend
to solve the mystery ; and knew enough of our
customs to be aware that she wore a widow’s
dress. So young, so beautiful, so refined and
distinguished-looking, even in her insensible
202 VANDELEUR.
state, who could she be ? or what had brought
her to wander in the grounds of the imperial
residence, alone and at such an hour ?
But although these questions passed rapidly
through his mind, he did not pause to give
them utterance even in exclamations ; but, raising
Gertrude in his arms, he carried her to where
the waters were playing, and, suffering some
sprinkles to fall upon her face, he chafed her
hands, loosened the strings of her bonnet, and,
not being very expert at the employment, pull-
ed off her widow's cap at the same time, by
which means the comb which supported her
fine hair fell out; and when, after a few moments,
she opened her eyes, she found herself reclining
against the breast of a gentleman whom she had
never beheld before, and whose arms, breast,
and shoulder were all shaded over with her
flowing tresses. So complete had been her
nervous exhaustion, that it was some minutes
before she could recover herself sufficiently to
rise from his encircling arms, or even summon
VANDELEUR. 203
recollection sufficient to think where she was or
what had befallen her.
The moment, however, that she was able to
make the effort, though still trembling, shock-
ed, and bewildered at all that had passed, she
eagerly exclaimed,
“ Pray tell me, for God’s sake, who you are,
and how you came so suddenly before me ?
Have I been long ill ?”
The gentleman smiled gently.
“ Compose yourself,” he said, “ I am no
bandit. If you recollect, the grass around
where you sat is particularly soft : when I was
near enough to distinguish a lady in the attitude
of prayer, my step could not reach your ear
;
and my curiosity was so much excited by the
sight, in such a place, at such an hour, that I
will not deny that I might have stept more
cautiously forwards then, partly indeed fearful
of disturbing your devotions.”
“ But who are you ?” repeated Gertrude,
whose bewilderment and agitation had no
204 VANDELEUR.
yet sufficiently subsided to allow her to think of
conventional etiquette. “ Who are you P Are
you any one who can accompany me back to the
palace ? for I am too ill and too nervous to at-
tempt to go alone !”
“To the palace I
11
the gentleman repeated in
increasing astonishment ; and forgetting Ger-
trude’s curiosity in his own, he exclaimed in his
turn, “ Who then are you ? Can it be that
you are ?” He paused.
“ Who screamed poor Gertrude, with a
look of such sudden dismay as must at once
have betrayed her to any one interested in her
apprehension.
Happily, the gentleman had never even heard
of the circumstances attending her, and there-
fore merely gazing on her in fresh astonishment,
he answered, “ Nay, don’t be alarmed ; it is I
who have cause to fear to offend, if I venture to
ask if the empress is so happy as to number you
in her household ?”
This question, together with the gentlemanly
VANDELEUR. 205
address and noble air of the handsome stranger,
might have served fully to reassure any one
whose nerves were in better order, or whose
imagination was more under the control of
their judgment, than those of Gertrude were at
that moment. But, as in her, the fear of being
discovered and dragged before the world on the
frightful charge that hung over her, had only
subsided in her utter seclusion, the sight of a
stranger was at any moment sufficient to recall
it ; and now, in the lone evening, far from the
palace, far from aid of any kind, Vandeleur in
England, the duchess preparing to leave Russia
—all this rushed upon her mind at once, and
completely deprived her of all sense save of
instant apprehension. She suddenly, from the
very force of terror, recovered strength suf-
ficient to spring up from the green knoll on
which she had hitherto been sitting, and stood
before her astonished companion a monument
of silent but gasping terror.
The gentleman, who had also till then re-
206 VANDELEUR.
mained seated beside her, now sprang up likewise,
confounded by her sudden and violent emotion,
and they stood confronting each other in silence
for an instant, each under the influence of their
own sensations. The gentleman, however, per-
ceiving that her terror seemed every moment
increasing, and utterly unconscious of the cause,
advanced towards her in the hope of soothing
or removing it ; but he was deterred from his
purpose by her wildly clasping her hands to-
gether, and with a countenance of the most
piteous entreaty repeating, “ Oh, spare me ! for
God’s sake, spare me ! and if you would not see
me die at your feet, tell me who or what you
are, and what you want with me ?”
“ I beseech of you, lady, to compose your-
self,” he replied in a low and soothing voice ;
and at the same time moving a little nearer to
her, as if feeling that that tone must reassure
her, “ compose yourself, and believe that I
am at a loss to conceive how I can have terri-
fied you thus, chance only having brought me
VANDELEUR. 207
to your presence : but if nothing but my name
will convince you that I am no midnight mur-
derer, you shall not ask it again and taking
her hand between both his, with a look and man-
ner so gentle, and even tender, that she could
not reject it, he bent his head, and said in a
kind of whisper, “ I am—ALEXANDER.”
“ Alexander !
good heavens ! not the em-
peror ?” she hurriedly exclaimed, gazing wildly
on him, while conviction followed fast upon the
words as she herself repeated them ; and she
felt at once that all that had seemed strange,
unusual, and almost oppressive toiler in the con-
descending familiarity of his manner, was thus
happily and graciously accounted for.
“ Yes, the emperor of all the Russias l
11
he
replied, smiling at her vehement and inartifi-
cial exclamation, “ but your most devoted
servant.”
Gertrude instantly felt the necessity of en-
deavouring to collect her senses from the aban-
donment in which she had hitherto rather suf-
208 VANDELEUR.
fered them to indulge, and would have bent her
knee ; but the emperor, gracefully restraining
her, begged of her once more to satisfy his
curiosity, as far as might not be disagreeable to
her. The entreaty was a painful one, for she
was not an adept in falsehood, or even in what
is considered allowable disguise. She hesitated
and stammered ; and at last, bursting into tears,
said she was a very unhappy creature, who had
/
met with much and trying misfortunes, and
that the Duchess of Castleton had made in-
terest with the empress, to take her into her
service.
“ How long ago ? and how is it that I
have never had the happiness of seeing you
before ?”
Gertrude informed him.
“ Well, now that Fortune has favoured me
more than you or the empress were disposed to
do, I hope you will allow me to profit by my
chance, and to assist her in offering you all the
consolation in our power. In the mean time,
VANDELEUIl. 209
now that you see I am no wolf in human form,
or whatever other monster your fancy con-
jured up, will you resume your seat until
you are more perfectly recovered P
11
and lie took
her hand to replace her on that from which she
had so hastily risen ; but as she was already
sufficiently recovered to attempt to walk, and
felt no desire whatever to prolong the embar-
rassing interview, she expressed anxiety not to
trespass longer upon his majesty, adding with
a deep blush, as she glanced at her bonnet,
which still lay on the grass, though she had
hastily folded up her hair again in her cap,
“ that she feared she had already put his kind-
ness and good-nature to too severe a test ; but
she was so frightened !”
“ But what frightened you, my fair mys-
terious P My vanity is not relieved on that
subject yet, I assure you. I may have fright-
ened men in my time, but I never knew I was
so hideous as to cause women to faint.
1 ''
Gertrude could not help smiling at this man-
210 VANDELEUR.
ner of accounting for her illness, especially as
she now had had leisure and composure enough to
notice the very handsome, though (when not sof-
tened, as at present) somewhat stern features of
Alexander, whose figure also was so noble as
to cause him to be considered one of the finest
men in his own vast dominions.
“ It did not require ugliness to frighten me
at that moment, as I need not tell your ma-
jesty,” she said, with a smile and a blush of
such engaging simplicity that it seemed almost
playful, and Alexander felt it to be the sweet-
est compliment he had ever received ;
“ but my
mind was oppressed and shaken at the moment
with such fearful recollections, that an angel
would have probably met the same reception
from me.”
“ That I could have still less conceived,” said
Alexander, “ as we are seldom scared at our
own images ; but why do you fasten on your
bonnet ? the evening is so lovely ! but, per-
VANDELEUR. 211
haps, I have intruded upon you, and still annoy
you by my presence ?”
44
Oh, no !” she exclaimed hastily, a slight re-
turn of vague alarm flashing over her as she
thought of being left alone again in that se-
cluded, gloomy, though most lovely little wil-
derness of taste. “ Oh, no ; indeed I do not
wish to remain longer, evening is rapidly ad-
vancing !”
44
But you said you were afraid to return
alone,” said the emperor smiling ;
44
and as I
have not yet enjoyed the ramble I came out for,
or seen what progress they have made during
my absence in my new baths here, if you will
not accompany me, either you must return
alone, at the mercy of all envious sprites, or I
must give up my purposed pleasure. Which is
to be ?”
44
Surely not the latter,” replied Gertrude ;
44
every moment I am getting better ; and now I
shall respectfully and gratefully take permission
212 VANDELEUR.
to leave your majesty to pursue your walk;
1 ’’
and curtseying low, slie was turning to depart,
when Alexander, who was infinitely struck with
her beauty, grace, and naivete,
exclaimed,
“ Nay then, since you are so perverse, I
must yield ; and, after all, it is but resigning
a lesser for a greater pleasure, though, miser-
like, I wished to have grasped both ; but come,
you must reward me by letting me be of some
use. You must lean upon my arm, as you are
not yet strong enough to walk alone .
11
Gertrude would have excused herself from
this, but the emperor would not be denied; and
they proceeded towards the palace by the new
path, which Gertrude had hitherto carefully
avoided.
VANDELEUR. 21
3
I
CHAPTER XXIV.
Have I with all my full affections
Still met the king ? loved him next Heaven ? obeyed him
Been, out of fondness, superstitious to him ?
Almost forgot my prayers, to content him?
And am I thus rewarded ?
Bring me a constant woman to her husband,
One that ne’er dream’d a joy beyond his pleasure;
And to that woman, when she has done most,
Yet will I add an honour,—a great patience.
Henry VIII.
In their walk homewards the emperor did not
again revert to his curiosity as to who Gertrude
could be, or under what circumstances she
had become an inmate of the imperial palace.
There evidently was some mystery connected
with it which he could not guess at, and which
she was unwilling to explain ; but he satisfied
214 VANDELEUR.
himself for the present with a determination to
learn all from Elizabeth herself.
In the mean time he endeavoured to draw
Gertrude into conversation on various topics;
and she, deeply sensible of his kindness and
condescension throughout the whole adventure,
felt it incumbent on her, whilst in his com-
pany, to struggle against her usual tacitur-
nity and abstraction. The very anxiety not to
appear ungrateful, lent to her manner a soft-
ness, and an appearance of interest in all he
said, which, satiated as lie might well have
been by the adulations of millions upon mil-
lions, came to his feelings with a gracious fresh-
ness that he felt to be delicious. There was
not, indeed, in her conversation either the bril-
liancy of wit, or the display of erudition, nor
yet the specious seeming which constant asso-
ciation with polished society can give to airy
nothings : but there was instead, much native
intelligence, some judicious cultivation, though
much of wild luxuriance ; and there broke out,
VANDELEUR. 215
every now and then, little light emanations,
which showed a naturally vivid and lively
mind ; while over all was diffused a degree of
native elegance, refinement, and simplicity,
which the emperor seldom had seen so hap-
pily blended together, and which he was fully
capable of appreciating. He became every mo-
ment more and more pleased and interested in
his young companion, and began to exert him-
self to please in his turn. He spoke of his visit
to England, and gave her several amusing and
interesting anecdotes respecting it ; he spoke of
the preceding war, and Gertrude listened as at-
tentively as if she had expected that some of
his anecdotes were to particularize Vandeleur
himself : but Alexander guessed not this motive
for her willing attention ; and, gay and good-hu-
moured, he proceeded from subject to subject,
until Gertrude was absolutely, and probably for
the first time since the fatal event occurred,
cheated into forgetfulness of her misfortunes.
Mutually pleased, they were proceeding at
216 VANDELEUR.
a slow and protracted pace, when, as they made
an abrupt turn from one shaded path into an-
other more open one, which led directly to one
of the private entrances through the empress’s
favourite pleasure-gardens, they met Elizabeth
herself, with one or two of her ladies, saunter-
ing in the same direction, tempted out by the
beauty of the evening. Words cannot express
the amazement she experienced at encountering
her broken-hearted and concealed protegee fa-
miliarly leaning upon the arm of the emperor,
and listening with so much pleased attention
to his animated conversation, that it was some
minutes before either the speaker or the lis-
tener became aware that thev were not alone.
«/
No sooner, however, did Gertrude look up,
and perceive Elizabeth within a few paces of
her, than she was struck with the look of cold,
and evidently displeased surprise, which had
taken possession of her countenance ; and in an
instant struck back into all the miseries of her
own situation, she became so overwhelmed
VANDELEUR. 217
with the sudden transition from her momentary
enjoyment, that the animated and open expla-
nation, which a moment before she should have
been able to have given of her late adventure,
died upon her lips, and she stood in confused
silence, trusting that the emperor would himself
explain it ; but he too, whether he had also
perceived the expression of Elizabeth’s counte-
nance, or whether he did not choose to seem as
if he thought any explanation could be deemed
necessary for an intimacy which he perhaps
wished should appear as a matter of course,
—
whatever the reason might have been,—he re-
mained perfectly silent, and the empress herself
was the first to speak.
“ We sought your majesty,” she said, “hear-
ing you had wandered hitherwards alone, to
offer you our company, not being aware that
you were already provided with a companion.”
“ My having found a companion,” Alexander
gaily answered, “ was more the effect of good
fortune than good intention on my part ; and
VOL. III. L
218 VANDELEUR.
for this lady, as she will not I fear acknowledge
the good luck, and is too honest to claim the
good intention, I believe she must have recourse
to simple chance and her own good taste, which
led her to the prettiest spot in all these grounds,
and where I found her in a death-struggle with
the guardian spirits of the place, who were en-
vious at seeing it possessed by any one fairer
than themselves. I, however, like a true
knight, stept in to the rescue, and have now
the pleasure of restoring her safe into your ma-
jesty’s hands and, so saying, he yielded to the
attempt of Gertrude to withdraw her arm from
his, which he had hitherto resisted.
Elizabeth, though still in perplexity and
astonishment at the sudden intimacy, aware as
she was that the parties had never met before,
felt she had no excuse for evincing farther
displeasure, and merely observing, “ Your
majesty has become quite poetic in your com-
pliments since your late visits to Paris,”
VANDELEUR. 219
accepted the arm which Alexander now offered
her.
Gertrude in the mean time was seized upon by
the ladies who had accompanied the empress,
and obliged to give the most minute account of
the whole occurrence : and, though already pro-
perly aware of the kindness and condescension
of the emperor, it was only from their com-
ments that she learned the full extent of how
highly she had been favoured, and one or two
hints, thrown out perhaps maliciously, of the
weakness attributed to the empress, soon suc-
ceeded in dispelling anything that remained of
satisfaction in her mind from the interview.
She felt indeed so terrified and disgusted at
the new ideas suggested to her, and so dejected
at the fate that seemed to pursue her on all
sides, turn where she might, that she pleaded
indisposition, and did not leave her room for the
two or three succeeding days.
In the mean time the emperor returned to St.
220 VANDELEUR.
Petersburg^ ; and, when Gertrude reappeared,
Elizabeth’s manner towards her had resumed
all its usual kindness and gentleness. The em-
press was indeed intrinsically amiable ; and if
she suffered from a failing to which so many
who have warm affections have been victims, it
was perhaps more a subject of pity than of
blame, especially as, when at its most painful
crisis, it led in her gentle breast to no step
more violent or undignified than the withdraw-
ing of herself from the court of her husband for
some time, and retiring to that of her royal
father.
Gertrude often longed extremely to ask whe-
ther the emperor had made any inquiries con-
cerning her, and how far Elizabeth had thought
fit to confide in him : it could not but be deeply
interesting to her to know ;
yet was there some
feeling, inspired probably by the hints of the two
gossiping ladies, that always prevented her from
naming the emperor and herself together, especi-
ally as she could not but observe that Elizabeth
VANDELEUR.
never again alluded to that evening’s adventure,
or made a further comment upon the subject.
Several days passed over before Gertrude hap-
pened by any accident to see the emperor again ;
and it might have been a fortnight after the
first adventure, that as she sat one evening at
the open window of an apartment on the ground-
floor, which she particularly enjoyed because of
its being at the least ornamented and least fre-
quented part of the palace, and opened on a
pretty but neglected little flower-garden, she
was startled and surprised to see the emperor
himself enter the little enclosure, closing behind
him its fanciful gate.
Her first movement was to draw her head
back from the window ; and, as she hoped he
had not perceived her, she softly rose and was
about to steal from the apartment : before she
reached the door, however, Alexander was al-
ready at the window, andlookingin, requested her
to return ; she had no excuse for refusing to obey
him, and he sprang into the room from where
222 VANDELEUR.
he stood, and, taking her hand, led her to a
seat, and inquired in the kindest and most re-
spectful manner after her health ; expressing
regret at her recent indisposition, of which he
had been informed.
“ I fear you caught cold on that evening
when I had first the pleasure of meeting you,'”
he said, and fixed his eyes on her with a look of
such penetration as brought a blush into her
cheek ; it seemed to her to ask so plainly
whether her indisposition were real, or only
assumed in compliance with a hint from the
empress.
She hastened to disabuse him of that surmise,
without betraying her consciousness of it, and
mentioned, as the probable cause of her illness,
the unhappy state of her mind, which every
trifle now painfully agitated.
The emperor regarded her with compassion.
“ I am aware of your sad story,” he said in a
low, solemn, and very feeling tone. “ Why do
VANDELEUR. ns
you start so fearfully, and become pale? Do
you think me capable of injuring you ? For
God’s sake, compose yourself ;
you are terrified,
you are going to faint again : let me support
you.”
But she was not going to faint ; and, gently
rejecting his support, she leaned her head upon
her hand, and large tears fell from her eyes.
Alexander was affected ; he was good-na-
tured and kind-hearted on any sudden occa-
sion, and taking the handkerchief which lay
upon her lap, he himself, ere she could prevent
it, applied it to her eyes. Her evil star was
still in the ascendant ; at that very moment
while Alexander was with one hand drying the
tears from her cheeks, and with the other
gently holding down hers, which would have
prevented him, the Empress Elizabeth, guided
thither doubtless by some presentiment in her
own breast, suddenly but softly opened the door
of the apartment. She stood for one moment as
2M VANDELEUR.
if petrified at the sight she beheld ; then in-
stantly closing it, without uttering a word, re-
tired.
Words could not do justice to the horror that
instantly took possession of Gertrude ; all that
the ladies of the court had hinted to her, all that
she had herselffelt by woman’s sympathy of what
Elizabeth’s feelings must be, rushed upon her
mind at once, and, leaning back in her chair, she
uttered the words “ I am lost
!”
Alexander, who himself was for a moment
confounded, not from any consciousness of guilt,
for he had not the slightest reason for such con-
sciousness, but merely from his knowledge of
the foible of the empress, and the contretems of
her opening the door at that moment, now felt
the necessity of concealing such feelings from
his companion, and, wishing to soothe her, was
about to take her hand again, when, starting
from him and from her chair, she fled from
the room before he had the power to prevent her,
and, rushing along the suite of apartments
VANDELEUR.
through which slie knew the empress must
have passed, she never paused until she over-
took her, and, forgetting all fortuitous distinc-
tions of rank and etiquette in the alarm of the
moment, seized her by the dress, and gasped a
moment to recover her breath.
The empress, utterly unused to such a mode
of address, screamed with alarm ; and, had she
not purposely come on her jealous quest by a
way where she was not likely to meet any of
her attendants, the uproar might have been un-
pleasant. As it was, Gertrude, not however
relinquishing her hold, lest the empress should
escape her, fell upon her knees ; and, her whole
soul speaking in her eyes and countenance,
exclaimed,
“ You must hear me, empress ! I know
what mischief has often ensued for want of a
timely explanation ; this must plead my apo-
logy. I know what you think of me, and how
you feel to me at this moment : but as I hope
to see heaven; as I hope, O, Empress ! to see
l 5
226 VANDELEUR.
him whom I sent there before his time ;
you
wrong me cruelly, you wrong yourself, you
wrong the emperor. It has all been acci-
dental, unavoidable, however odd it may have
appeared to you. I always wished to have
explained to you how the first meeting took
place ; but you never mentioned the subject to
me, and I was ashamed to introduce it.” She
stopped, and gazed eagerly and anxiously in the
empress’s face.
Elizabeth, the infirmity of whose temper
could not overcome her kind and candid dispo-
sition, perceived in one moment the force of
truth in what Gertrude asserted, as far at least
as it concerned herself. Of the emperor’s feel-
ings she still believed, with that fatal determina-
tion that ever clings to the jealous, that she
herself was the best judge.
She raised Gertrude kindly from the posture
she had in her energetic appeal assumed ; and
hesitating for a moment how to reply to her,
between her sense of queenly dignity and her
VANDELEUR.
feelings as a gentle and obliged woman, she
gave way to the latter, and, gracefully laying her
hand upon Gertrude’s head, she said,
u I be-
lieve you, and I thank you. You have seen mv
weakness, you must hear my apology and
taking her arm, she led her into an apartment,
the door of which they had already reached.
Gertrude trembling excessively, both from
the alarm she had experienced, and from wit-
nessing the emotion of the empress, stood before
her in very unpleasant anticipation of what was
to follow ; for, young as she was, she knew it
was ever accounted a dangerous distinction to
be the repository of the secrets of princes ; more-
over, she felt sorry to see the empress, whom
she loved and respected, stoop to excuse herself
by criminating her husband, where the burden
of blame to be borne must be so disproportioned.
In this spirit she would have remonstrated ; but
Elizabeth was too eager to hear her, and pro-
ceeded to pour into her unwilling ears a little
history of fears and feelings that at least tended
228 VANDELEUR.
as much to show her own predisposition to he
alarmed, as any faults on the part of her
husband.
Gertrude, forgetful for the moment of her
own precarious position, or in her artlessness
imagining that any unpleasant suspicion was for
ever removed because the empress was satisfied
for the moment, felt unaffected sorrow to find
how one unhappy failing of temper, not even
amounting to a moral jvrong, may have the
power to blight the happiness of two persons
apparently in possession of every thing that the
heart of man or woman could desire. Elizabeth
perceived her melancholy dejection, and, attri-
buting it to sympathy in her own sorrows, felt
more pleased and satisfied with her than ever ;
and now believing that she really had wronged
even the emperor by her momentary suspicions,
she generously resolved to remove the impression
it might have left upon his mind, by voluntarily
bringing Gertrude more into his society, and
VANDELEUR. 229
even affording him opportunities of conversing
with her.
With a mind, the general constitution of
which was unimpaired, and naturally healthy
and vigorous, though some accidental blemish
may for a moment have disfigured it, such a
course might have been judicious and successful
;
but as there is no point that puts the physician’s
skill to a nicer test than to pronounce when an
operation may be salutary, or the contrary, so
does it require a thorough knowledge of one-
self, or others, to ascertain beforehand, what de-
gree of temptation or provocation we may brave
or bear.
Accordingly, although the plan resorted to
by Elizabeth might in many cases have succeed-
ed in restoring health and vigour to the mind;
to hers, amiable but facile, gentle but enfeebled
by long habits of indulgence in tender sorrows,
whether real or imaginary, the trial was too
severe. She struggled carefully as long as it
230 VANDELEUR.
might be possible to conceal from Gertrude the
uneasiness she suffered ; but the wound only
festered the more bitterly within. While the
latter, from the perfect propriety and even re-
spectful kindness of the emperor’s conduct to-
wards her, together with Elizabeth’s seeming
confidence, which she innocently believed to be
sincere, lost all fears of future annoyance, and
perhaps partly unconsciously, but also as hoping
by that means more fully to reassure the em-
press, laid aside all her assumed reserve and
much of her depression when enjoying his agree-
able society. One more skilled in human nature
would have probably seen at once through the
disguise the unfortunate empress imposed upon
her own feelings ; but, though Gertrude’s sym-
pathy was ever remarkably acute, she was her-
self so frank, so ingenuous, so incapable of all
“ seeming,” that she had not yet learned to trust
her own perceptions against the assertions of
others ; and to Elizabeth’s particular failing, it
so happened, that she was by nature a perfect
VANDELEUR. 231
stranger, never having for one moment expe-
rienced it in the slightest degree. Had it been
otherwise, she had perhaps been more constantly
on her guard, and might not have found ne-
cessary the serious measure she finally adopted
to repair her error when she discovered it.
232 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER XXV.
Fate is behind the scenes : she holds the strings
That rule the motions of this shifting show
;
Fear, love, and hate, counsel and accident,
These hath she gathered in a hidden coil,
No man thereof may spy the intricate ends.
So we are moved to aims we deem not of.
The Lord of Malfy.
It was a very few days before that on which
the Duke and Duchess of Castleton were to leave
St. Petersburgh on their return to England, that
late one evening a note was handed to the duchess
by one of her attendants, who informed her that
it was given to him by a poor English woman
who waited for an answer. The duchess ran
her eye hastily over the contents, and, unable
to suppress an exclamation of surprise, desired
VANDELEUR. 233
that the woman should be shown to her dress-
ing-room.
“ My dear love,’
1
said the duke, who wr
as
present at the time, 16
why give yourself the
trouble of seeing every one who chooses to apply
to you for charity ? Can you not order some-
thing to be given to her P
11
“ I must see this person,"
11
said the duchess.
“ I believe it is a poor creature who wants our
protection to England.
11
“ But you know we are not going direct to
England. You know .we have determined on
making a little tour through Switzerland and
Italy.
11
“ Still we may be able to afford her some
assistance in leaving this country, and I cannot
refuse to see her.
11
The duke yawned and was silent, accustomed
to yield without much remonstrance or inquiry
to his wife’s active offices of benevolence, to
which, to do him justice, he seldom objected
to contribute as far as any sum of money
234 VANDELEUR.
which she in her prudence ever requested from
him.
The duchess hurried to her dressing-room
;
and there awaiting her, wrapped in a cloak such
as the peasant women of Russia wear, she found
Gertrude. She did not perhaps feel as much
alarm, but certainly not less surprise, than when,
on a former occasion the same person presented
herself before her an utter stranger.
“ In the name of Heaven, Gertrude, what has
happened to you ? How are you from the palace
in this disguise? Has, anything befallen the
empress ?”
“ You must sit down, my dearest duchess,
and hear me circumstantially ; and then I trust,
even if you think I have acted hastily, you will
at least not call it imprudently.”
The duchess sat down at her request, though
very much doubting in her own mind, as people
generally do when startled, that she should
wholly acquit her of imprudence ; but, as she
forbore to express this doubt, Gertrude pro-
VANDELEUR. 235
ceeded to inform her of what she had hitherto
suppressed from respect to her august mistress,
viz. the first symptoms she perceived of her
jealousy, how it was repeated, then abjured, and
finally renewed in a manner which neither Ger-
trude’s feelings nor judgment could allow her to
endure any longer. It took place the very morn-
ing of that day. It appeared that, for some little
time past, the emperor, encouraged by Gertrude’s
innocent and confiding manner, had gradually
become more and more kind, and even tender, in
his attentions to her ; and had made her several
elegant little presents, which, as she always
carried them on the instant to the empress for
her approval, she felt no necessity of ungraci-
ously declining, although perfectly convinced in
her own mind that to her they must ever be
utterly valueless, either intrinsically or even as
tokens of his regard. He had once or twice
joined her too in her rambles through the de-
mesnes ; but, as latterly she had never been
tempted to wander far, it had hitherto happened
236 VANDELUER.
that he was never able to contrive to follow her
until she was near the house on her return, and
then any excuse served her to leave him almost
instantly : indeed, he himself, though evidently
disappointed, did not on these occasions attempt
to detain her, but, on the contrary, seemed to
approve of her prudence ; for though, in his ad-
miration, and even increasing interest in the
beautiful and unfortunate young stranger so
curiously thrown upon his protection, there was
as yet nothing to alarm his feelings or his con-
science, yet, fully aware of the sensitive nature
of his empress’s affection, he was desirous to
avoid awakening her alarm in the slightest de-
gree. As, however, this wish was in the pre-
sent instance founded on no better principle
than to avoid any annoyance to himself or
Gertrude, it was not likely to influence him
beyond what the fear of detection might impose ;
and accordingly, on the first opportunity that
presented itself for indulging in Gertrude’s
VANDELEUR. 237
society unmolested, lie hastened to avail himself
of it.
The imperial family of Russia at all times
observed early hours, particularly early rising ;
and although the long day is a blessing only for
the happy, and a necessity only for the busy, and
although poor Gertrude now belonged to neither
of these two classes, and found her hours of
sleep the most endurable of her existence, still
when the world,—and who may call their own
little circle the world, if not the members of a
royal court ? —when the world was astir about
her, she could not be the only one to indulge in
habits of indolence. Besides, she was always
passionately fond of the fresh open air. Born and
nurtured in a lovely country, far remote from
the loaded atmosphere of a city, her pure and
healthful constitution enjoyed—even, as it were,
palpably enjoyed—the refreshing supplies of life
that come prepared for our use from the vege-
table world. The summers in Russia are love-
238 VANDELEUR.
ly ; ancl now that the noon of summer had pass-
ed by, nothing could be more delightful than its
gentle decline ; and when, one morning, Ger-
trude, happening to waken much earlier than
usual, rose and looked out upon the luxuriant
scene that spread far as her eye could reach,
steeped in the delicious dew of early morning,
and breathing of all the accumulated sweets
that taste and fancy had collected there, she
felt her very soul expand within her bosom with
every breath she inhaled ; and, hastily performing
her toilette, she stole from the house, determined,
under favour of the early hour, to indulge her-
self in a longer ramble than of late she had
attempted.
I dare say there is no one who has not re-
marked, though perhaps few can explain why it
is so, that if one member of a family happens to
waken earlier than usual, some other is likely to
do so too : it may be owing perhaps to some atmo-
spheric influence, or it may be caused by some
occurrence of the preceding day, which, acting
VANDELEUR. 239
alike on the nerves of each, was yet by each
disregarded or forgotten. I know not whether
it was owing to either of these recherchees causes,
or whether to simple chance, that, upon the
same morning on which Gertrude sprang from
her couch with something like her former joy-
ous waking, before her poor mind had time to
recall the fearful reality of her fate, Alexander
also rose before his usual hour ; and although
Gertrude had wandered far away, even to the
beautiful spot where she had first beheld him,
before he left his dressing-room, as she lingered
there enjoying some of the calmest if not happiest
sensations she now had felt for many, many
months, he, attracted first by her window open
at so early an hour, and then tracing her small
foot-prints in the dewy grass, was at her side
before she even thought of returning.
She started at seeing him so early ; and blush-
ed, she could scarcely have told why, at his
finding her again in the place that was known
to be particularly his favourite resort when he
240 VANDELEUR.
wandered through the grounds, and which he
had in a manner consecrated to himself by
causing baths to be erected there for his own
use. He smiled, with a gratified feeling, on her
embarrassment, and softly whispered,
“ Is it the fascination of terror that attracts
you here, where you suffered so much alarm
from the sudden appearance of a monster ?”
“ No, sire : it is simply admiration of a place
laid out and embellished with so much taste,
together with thoughtless carelessness whither
I bent my steps this lovely morning ; and in-
deed I feel I should apologise for intruding on
the haunt that almost all others hold sacred to
your majesty.”
“ Come, Gertrude, this is affectation :
you
are well aware that I consider this retreat, that
I consider our palace, honoured and embellished
by your presence. I wish to Heaven you would
treat me more as a friend ; I wish you would
open your heart to me, and converse freely upon
your sorrows ; I am convinced it would relieve
you to do so.”
VANDELEUR. 241
“ It is impossible, sire, quite impossible,” she
said, turning away her head, and shrinking, as
she always did, from that subject.
“ And why impossible ? why do you turn
away ? do you never converse with the empress
about it all ? I am sure I take as much interest
in you as she does.”
“ Never, I never do; I am unequal to speak
on the subject, though it is never for a moment
absent from my thoughts ; and this lovely morn-
ing is the first time that I have thought upon it
with anything short of despair. Do not, pray,
force open the floodgates of my grief just now ;”
and she smiled a smile of such gentle pleading,
as if enamoured of one moment of peace, that
Alexander felt it to his soul, and, seizing her
hand and kissing it, he exclaimed,
“ I will not. I would sooner die than give
you pain ; let me be your companion for half-an-
hour, and we shall discourse on everything that
may amuse your mind.”
Gertrude felt embarrassed and distressed
:
VOL. III. M
242 VANDELEUR.
she had no reason to assign for refusing this re-
quest of the emperor ; and yet some instinct,
that is, some latent spark of judgment not yet
quite smothered by our superadded and foreign
habits, and which we are so apt to term pre-
sentiment, made her feel that there was im-
prudence, if not danger, in yielding to his re-
quest. She faltered and hesitated.
“ Have you any objection ?” he asked em-
phatically, and with more of haughtiness than
he was wont to assume towards her.
“ Objection, sire ! no ; certainly none to your
society. How could it be ?”
“ What is the matter then P Is it—shall I
guess ?” and bending his head close to her he
pronounced the words—“ the empress ?”
Had he fired a pistol at Gertrude’s ’
ear she
could scarcely have felt more astounded, more
bewildered, than by that low though emphatic
whisper. She felt as if suddenly a gigantic
barrier of propriety and reserve between her
and the emperor had been demolished, and that
VANDELEUR. 243
u the decent drapery of life had been rudely
torn aside .
1,1
For a moment he stood as if enjoying her
confusion ; then, recalling his better nature, he
said more gaily,
“ Come, come, Gertrude ; this is idle trifling
between you and me. I would not say, I would
not feel, anything disrespectful of the empress ;
but you have lived too long with us not to know
poor Elizabeth’s failing, with how little cause
I am sure you might yourself avouch, from the
specimen you had of it one day before ; but
come, she is not thinking of wakening yet, and
as I flatter myself you not only have not, but
never shall have, reason to regret the acquaint-
ance commenced between us on this spot, I
trust you will not represent the empress as
less amiable than I know her to be, by making
me suppose she would deprive me of the society
of every agreeable woman.”
“ But, sire, without drawing on such feel-
ft
ings as you attribute to the empress, there
m 2
244 VANDELEUR.
is a difference of rank and station to be ob-
served.”
“ And who is to judge of the propriety of
those distinctions ? and when they are to be ob-
served, and when dispensed with ? Who creates
and dissolves them at pleasure ? the empress ?
you ? or vie ? Come, once more come, Ger-
trude ; do not put me out of humour with my-
self and everybody else this charming morning,
which I came out to enjoy in a frame of mind
very different and, so saying, he drew her arm
within his ; and although she did not dare to
contradict him farther, yet there was a restraint
and coldness diffused over her whole air and
conversation, of which though Alexander could
not exactly complain, he felt it to be unplea-
sant, and before long, without any request from
her to that effect, he turned to retrace his
steps to the palace ; and, as they approached it,
they had gradually sunk into total silence, and
the emperor had yawned more than once.
To say that Gertrude did not observe this
VANDELEUR. 215
change, would be to say that she had not ob-
served his former pleasure in her company ; and
not to say that she even saw in it what had
been a subject of regret to many — to herself
in other circumstances, were to say she had not
the feelings and sympathies of woman : but that
she not only did not lament it now, but even
felt a stern and healthful satisfaction in it, even
while tears rose to her eyes, is but as true as
it is just to her prudence, and affectionate feel-
ing towards the empress : and innocently sa-
tisfied with herself, and triumphant in her ex-
cellent principles, she waited on her royal mis-
tress that morning in higher spirits than she
had ever experienced since the happy days of
her girlhood. But u her doom had gone forth
light spirits it seemed were never again to be
her portion, and the slightest approach to them
was sure to be followed by tenfold depression.
On entering the apartment of the empress,
she perceived her brow was cloudy, and that
her manner was cold and restrained. Still, as
246 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude never felt more confident that she
herself could in no way have caused this ap-
pearance, and even feeling that the change in
Alexander’s manner would, dared she to have
hinted at it, have delighted the empress, the
very consciousness of this enabled her for some
time to rally and bear up against the empress’s
increasing depression.
She even ventured to say, “ The emperor
has been already walking this morning, madam.”
No answer was vouchsafed ; but the cloud grew
deeper and darker, and a slight colour tinged
the pale cheek. Then suddenly a thought, a
painful thought, flashed across Gertrude’s mind,
and she determinately continued,
“ I met his majesty in his ramble ; or, rather,
he found me, as I had gone out first.”
“ A lucky chance !” the empress said in a
tone that could not be mistaken.
Gertrude paused a moment ; then, with a
beating heart, and in a gentle and mournful
tone, asked the simple question, “ How lucky,
madam ?”
VANDELEUR. 247
The empress cast a hasty, angry, and dis-
dainful glance on her, and remained silent.
Gertrude stood in misery beside her, but it
was misery that ought not to be endured.
“ You seem displeased with me, madam.
Did I wrong in walking out this morning ?
God knows how little I expected, how little 1
intended, to intrude upon the emperor.
11
“ Gertrude, you are a hypocrite.
11
“ I am not, dearest madam,
11
(bursting into
an agony of tears,) “but I am accursed of God
and man ;
11
and wringing her hands she con-
tinued, “ there is a spell, a curse upon me, that
I blight every one I wish to serve. Oh, ma-
dam, madam, pity and hear me : I have shun-
ned my walks of late ; I have done everything
to avoid seeing the emperor, except in your
presence. I got up this morning at an hour
when no one could have supposed him stirring
;
and when ill-luck brought him upon me, I made
myself so purposely disagreeable to him that I
think he will never care to see me again.
11
248 VANDELEUR.
The empress hastily looked round in amaze-
ment at her. She was once more staggered in
her suspicions of her falsity hy this ingenuous
and artless speech, which seemed to her jaun-
diced mind unconsciously to admit the emperor’s
evil designs, while it cleared her of participation
in them.
“ Then you mean to say, Gertrude, that you
did not meet the emperor by appointment this
morning ?”
Gertrude held up her hands and raised her
eyes in astonishment and despair.
“ So help me Heaven ! I did not, madam ;
hut, on the contrary, chose the hour when I
thought it impossible. Oh, dearest madam !”
she exclaimed, suddenly altering her tone,
and throwing herself on her knees before the
empress, “ once more rouse yourself from
this fatal imagination. Do justice to your-
self, to the emperor, and to me. You wrong
us all, indeed you do, by these groundless
alarms.”
VANDELEUR. 249
44
Groundless ! alas ! alas !” exclaimed Eliza-
beth, her fine eyes filling with tears ;
“ no, Ger-
trude. Once more I believe in your innocence
as yet ; but for the emperor, believe me I know
the world better than you do.'”
“ To know the world, dearest, honoured
madam, is not to know every individual and
every circumstance in the world ; and some par-
ticular fact may fall under the knowledge of a
child, while it is concealed from the oldest or
the wisest ; and, believe me, the emperor is as
incapable of wronging you as I am.
11
“ Gertrude, you distract me,” exclaimed the
empress, suddenly clasping her hands on her ears.
“ You distract me by your praises, your de-
fence of him. If you think of him thus, what
is to save you ? and what must you think of
me ? then what is to save me ? Oh ! I have
long though secretly anticipated this,” and the
unfortunate victim of jealousy bowed her head
in her hands and wept.
Gertrude never felt so overwhelmed, so much
m 5
250 VANDELEUR.
at a loss how to act or wliat to say. To offer
further exculpation of the emperor were to in-
crease the empress’s apprehensions ; and after a
moment or two spent in silent despair, she
sobbed out, “ Oh, dearest madam, for God’s
sake recall your noble self ; compose yourself,
and reflect what is there to afflict you thus ?”
“ Alas ! Gertrude, but too much. How
could you know the emperor’s heart as well as
I do ? He loves you, and I am miserable for
ever. The more good, the more amiable you
are, the more wretched am I ; for indeed, in-
deed, I would not injure you.”
Gertrude rose from her knees in calm des-
pair at this speech. She stood in deep medita-
tion for a moment ; then came into her mind a
resolution, which, in the course of the day, she
found means to execute. It was to bid adieu
for ever to the court where, in spite of her best
endeavours, she only brought misery to its
gentle mistress. She determined to leave it
secretly, because she felt convinced that Eliza-
VANDELEUR. 251
betli’s generosity, together with her fears and
shame at having the cause suspected, would have
induced her to oppose her departure, at all events
until she should probably have lost the oppor-
tunity of quitting Russia under the protection
of the Duchess of Castleton, whose departure
she knew was now close at hand.
Accordingly, writing an affectionate and most
respectful letter to the empress, in which she
stated her reasons for the step she was about to
take, and begged permission to return, through
her, the presents she had accepted from the
emperor,—feeling that nothing could tend more
to satisfy the alarmed wife,—she in the course of
that day made her way from the palace, and
being exceedingly energetic and intelligent when
called upon to act decisively, she found means
to procure a conveyance to the capital ; and
arriving in the evening, wrapped in a cloak
which she purchased for the purpose, presented
herself at the residence of the English ambas-
sador.
252 VANDELEUR.
CHAPTER XXVI.
Thus ever thus has been my wayward lot
To love and cherish those who loved me not.
Or, if by chance one genial heart I met,
Fate frowned and made it duty to forget.
Anonymous.
Such was the tale which Gertrude now im-
parted to the duchess, who remained silent for
several minutes after hearing it. She began
really to think that misfortune had marked
Gertrude for its own, and that no efforts of
judgment or prudence would be able to counter-
act the baneful influence ;
but, as this was not
an idea congenial to her sanguine because
energetic character, she rejected it immediately
and exclaimed,
VANDELEUR. 253
“ Well, my poor Gertrude, contrary, T will
acknowledge, to my anticipations, you have in-
deed had sufficient cause for the step you have
taken, if the means you adopted prove the
most prudent ; and I do not say that under the
circumstances they may not he so : but tell me
now what you purpose doing with yourself ?”
Gertrude looked down with hesitation in her
countenance,—not the hesitation of irresolution,
but of timidity,—in imposing yet farther trouble
on her generous friend. The duchess took her
hand.
“ Do not hesitate for a moment in making
known your wishes to me. If you have, in con-
sequence of all this, felt the desire of returning
to England, tell me so, and I dare promise
that I shall be able to hide you there where
surmise could never reach you ; and the little
tour we purpose making on our way home
would recruit your spirits, and give you fresh
strength to make the trial .
11
#
“ Impossible ! it is quite impossible, my kind
254 VANDELEUR.
and beloved friend !” sobbed Gertrude. “ I am
better already than I believed I ever could have
been had I lived a thousand years ; but not one
iota am I altered in my original determination
never to show myself in England again, or any-
where else where my sad story has been heard
of. The brand of Cain is upon me, and it be-
comes me to hide my head.”
“ But, Gertrude, you should remember it is
not there by the finger of God.”
“ Then with God I will retire, away from
erring and misjudging man. There was but
one hope I ever had, but that is at an
end. I thought it just possible that Dr. C.
might know that Herbert’s life was not in my
hands ; but oh, duchess ! he died and made no
sign !”
“ Gertrude, it is almost sinful for you to
sorrow thus as over an intended crime.”
“ Nay, I do not. Had it been an intended
crime, I had not dared to retire to the com-
panionship of God and Herbert’s spirit.”
VANDELEUR. 255
“ To retire whither ? what are your inten-
tions ?”
“ Sometimes I regret that I was not brought
up a Roman Catholic, as a convent would now
be so fit a resting-place for me ; but I intend
—
I intend—duchess,” she said hesitating, and
hiding her head upon the duchess’s shoulder,
“ I intend to make a last trespass on your kind-
ness.”
“ What is that ?” asked the duchess, a little
anxious from the enthusiastic tone which Ger-
trude had assumed.
“To suffer me to accompany you from hence
to Switzerland, and there to take up my abode
in some retired corner for the remainder of my
days.
“ But, my dear Gertrude, you are too young
and lovely to be left thus in a strange country,
without friends or protection. Would it not
even be better to continue here, where you
could if necessary claim the empress’s counte-
nance ?”
•256 VANDELEUR.
To this Gertrude strongly objected. She did
not like Russia or the Russian ladies. She
could not think of passing the residue of her
days amongst them, and she wished to settle
herself somewhere from whence she never should
have to remove again.
“ There are, I know, cantons in Switzerland,”
she said, “ where the most primitive simplicity
and good-will still exist ; and for being quite
alone, I have thought of a plan to obviate even
that objection.”
The duchess inquired what it was. Gertrude
mentioned Miss Wilson, and gave a sketch of
her character.
“ But, my dear Gertrude, by your account
she would be a person rather to be taken
care of, than to take care of you.”
“ And I will take care of her in reality,”
said Gertrude, “ while she is old enough to
afford the semblance of any protection I shall
require ; and, what may appear very strange,
she is the only one of former days whom I
VANDELEUR. 257
could endure to see. She will know what I
feel, without grieving me by sympathising in
my sorrow farther than just to suffer me to
indulge it as I like ; and her presence will take
from me the sensation of utter loneliness of
spirit, to which I have been so long a victim.
Then her taciturnity and mechanical docility
ensure me against her revealing my sad story
to any one. In short, dear duchess, she com-
bines all I now wish for in a companion who is
yet not to be a friend.”
The duchess, though she thought Gertrude’s
choice a little different from what her own, under
such circumstances, would have been, with her
usual liberality made allowance for the fancies of
a sick heart, and was too well pleased to find
that Gertrude would even suffer so slight a link
to be introduced between her and the world,
not to second her wishes in this respect. It
was accordingly settled that the duchess should
write immediately to Mrs. Yandeleur, and re-
quest of her, through her son, to have Miss Wil-
25 8 VANDELEUR.
son packed up and despatched to Berne, with pro-
per directions to wait there until the arrival of
the Duchess of Castleton ; and promising that
proper provision should be made for her recep-
tion ; but taking care, by Gertrude’s desire, to
express her directions so as to give no clue as to
where she* was to join Gertrude ; and with the
extraordinary kindness and consideration that
marked every movement of her life, when the
time approached, the duchess despatched one of
her own women to take her in charge until
their arrival.
This also answered another purpose, as the
duke was still in utter ignorance of his lady’s
liaison with Gertrude ; and as it was deemed
advisable that he should continue so until she
was safely settled in her new destination, it
was necessary that she should accompany the
duchess’s party in some disguise. There was
only one that seemed practicable, that offemme
de chambre,
and the duke wr
as given to under-
stand that she supplied the place of her whom
VANDELEUR. 259
the duchess had despatched to wait for them at
Berne.
“ But do you not fear running into the lion's
mouth P
11
said the duchess to Gertrude, as the
day of their departure approached ;
u do you
never anticipate the possibility of being dis-
covered and reclaimed by the count P
11
“ Not in the least,
11
she replied. “ He will
4
never appear to me again. If by any chance he
is thrown in my way, which will indeed be a
strange chance in the seclusion to which I shall
confine myself, he will turn aside, and make as
though he saw me not. He was not just ruf-
fian enough to murder me, though I believe he
has long thought me dearly purchased even with
the luckless estate tacked to me ; but now that
he has got rid of me, and when even my dowry
is a matter of doubt, he will never stand his
trial in England for the chance of gaining one,
with the certainty of the other.
11
“ A nd you do not think he has made away
with himself in a fit of the remorse that often
260 VANDELEUlt.
seizes villains when they find that they have
sinned to no purpose ?”
“ No, I am convinced he has not. There
is a sort of determined elasticity, if I may use
the expression, in his character, which not only
bears him up against every misfortune, hut
makes every misfortune a trifle to him. He is
a gambler in the widest meaning of the term
;
he tries, speculates upon everything ; thinks
no risk too great to run, having little to lose ;
and when one ticket proves a blank, remembers
there are prizes still in Fortune’s wheel. I am
satisfied he is this moment deep in some scheme
of life in America, or some distant country, as
if nothing agitating had ever occurred to him ;
and all this without liveliness, or even the
characteristic gaiety of his country. I never
saw any one wdio gave me such an idea
of heart having turned all into head, as he
does.”
“ Yet his head has not hitherto done much
for him.”
VANDELEUR. 261
“ Do yon think it ever can, without a particle
of heart ? don’t you think, to deal with human
beings, we must have sympathies in common
with them ? in short, don’t you think the fair
laws of proportion are necessary to perfection in
everything ?”
“ Who made you so philosophical, my Ger-
trude ?”
“ De FEspoir. My beloved Herbert indeed
endeavoured to teach me many wise maxims,
but I was too happy then to let them reach
my heart ; still they tingled in my ears, and
when I went to Paris, I believe the grand at-
traction which De FEspoir’s society had for
me was, that he termed himself pliilosophe,
which we used to call him whom I cannot
now bear to name with him. My mind was
too unformed to judge of the different schools
to which they belonged ; and as of course they
held many laws in common, I imagined they
agreed in all things, and quaffed eagerly the
draughts of knowledge that De FEspoir present-
262 VANDELEUR.
ed to me, alas ! alas ! I need not tell you with
what fatal effect.
1
'
“ My dearest Gertrude, you are not the least
like yourself this evening ;
you are bursting
upon me quite in a new light. Where is
my childish, innocent, untutored little prote-
gee r
“ Here ! here I
11
exclaimed Gertrude, throw-
ing herself into the duchess’s arms, “ I am lost
unless you think me so still, dearest duchess; it
is nearly as bad, worse indeed for oneself, to be
all heart as all head : that am I ; and it is only
at moments when I feel less miserable than at
other times, that I am able even to recall a
single idea beyond the pale of my affections and
my sorrows ;
that I am able even to think or
reason on the cause of them, or do anything
but weep.”
“ But you must have thought often and
deeply on De FEspoir’s character, to be able to
express yourself as you did just now concern-
ing it.”
vandeleur. 2G3
“ No, indeed, I assure you I have not; but
have you never felt that you go on constantly
receiving impressions, picking up knowledge, as
it were, quite unknown to yourself, and of
which perhaps you never become aw'are until
some chance elicits it ? I don’t know that I
ever thought thus of De l’Espoir before, but I
am sure I often felt it, or rather was the un-
conscious object which received the impressions,
that, like those of invisible ink, may come out
if subjected to the necessary process, or may
remain concealed to all eternity.”
“ But, Gertrude, with your mind, you should
not sink utterly under misfortune as you have
done.”
“ My dearest duchess,” (twining her arms
round her,) “ do you not perceive that, in saying
so, you are giving me credit for more mind
than I possess ? Saying people should make an
effort to overcome a misfortune, is in fact saying
they ought to have a power which they have
264 VANDELEUR.
not : if the observation be made to themselves, it
may sometimes be of use, because it, as it were,
imparts to them that power, by making them
aware of its existence; but otherwise, it is in mv
mind nonsense ; for every effort the mind makes
is a self-acting power, or else must be impelled
by some invisible agent over which we have
no control in the first impulse.'”
“ But,
11
said the duchess, smiling,
£C
now that
I have suggested to you to make the effort,
do you not acknowledge that you ought to
do so ?”
“ I know at least that I shall try. Strange,
oh God ! how strange to say, I feel the edge
of my despair is becoming sometimes less in-
tensely piercing. I can now sometimes think
of hereafter with something like calmness and
patience; the nightmare of that man’s presence
is removed from my mind, and it dares as it
were to look about it once again.”
“ Gertrude, my beloved friend, for indeed
VANDELEUR. 265
I may call you so, you will be very happy
yet.”
Gertrude smiled, and turned her beautiful
eyes to heaven, with a look of calm conviction
of the wildness of the suggestion.
“ And why not ?” asked the duchess ten-
derly, answering to that look.
Gertrude turned her eyes on her for a mo-
ment.
“ Simply because —I killed my brother;” and,
turning deadly pale, she leaned her head upon
the duchess’s shoulder, and in a few moments
found relief in tears.
“ There is one vow you must make to me,”
said Gertrude, after a long fit of musing
;
“ duchess, you must vow to me that no circum-
stance will ever induce you to reveal to Godfrey
the place of my retreat, or even the country
in which it is to be. You know I have de-
clined the request of his mother to correspond
with me, which she sent through you.”
VOL. in. N
266 VANDELEUR.
u ^ ou did indeed, and I thought you most
fastidious in doing so.”
“ My dearest duchess, in this one point I
must act according to my own sense of right,
even against yours, my beloved, inestimable
friend. I wish I could think I might be
guided by yours : but oh ! duchess, mine is no
common love ; I know not whether it was the
original nature of my character, or whether
it was my frightful fate which fixed the impres-
sions indelibly on my heart, but I feel, I feel,
oh ! duchess, that I could not, dare not, ought
not to hear of Godfrey, or to know that he
is watching over me. My aim is to detach
my heart from the world ; it would be the same
were I indeed the widow this dress bespeaks
me. I might then indulge in loving Vandeleur,
but his wife I would never be with so deadly a
weight upon my heart ; but now, to cherish my
love to him, to feed it at least by food from
without, were as impolitic as I feel it would be
sinful.”
VANDELEUR. 267
“ And you really and absolutely have, at
your age and with your attractions, bidden
adieu to life and all its hopes ?”
“ I really and truly have : my heart is not
formed for suspense, I could not bear it ; re-
morse still less: so, as you would see me inno-
cent and at peace, promise me that Godfrey shall
never learn more than that I am alive and well,
comparatively happy; and never let his name be
uttered or written to me, except in either of two
events — his death or — marriage.” She pro-
nounced the words distinctly ; but at one image
or the other, or perhaps both, she again became
very pale.
Thus adjured, the duchess of course could not
refuse to comply with her request. She gave the
solemn promise required of her ; and a few days
after, having made the apologies she thought
would be most acceptable to the empress, for
Gertrude’s sudden departure, which, however,
she w'as woman enough to know was already
n 2
268 VANDELEUR.
pardoned, she, with the duke and their suite,
in which Gertrude was included, bade adieu to
St. Petersburgli, and set out on her route to
Switzerland.
VANDELEUR. 26.9
CHAPTER XXVII.
The mighty sorrow hath been borne,
And she is thoroughly forlorn.
Her soul doth in itself stand fast.
Sustained by memory of the past
And strength of reason ;
held above
The infirmities of mortal love ;
Undaunted, lofty, calm, and stable,
And awfully impenetrable.
Wordsworth.
Shift we the scene !
Fourteen years have now gone by since the
opening of our story ; the young have advanced
to middle age, the middle-aged have become
old, and the old have gone down to their final
resting-places ; the joyous and the laughing-
have become sad and sober, and some, that were
sad then, are become happy now.
270 VANDELEUR.
But while these, and even greater changes,
have been taking place amongst the sons of men,
the inanimate scenes of nature have remained un-
moved. The rock juts as boldly from its deep
abiding-place, and the ocean plays its freaks as
wildly round it : all that depends on man is
subject to his infirmity, and may rise or fall
according to his whim. But there is compa-
ratively little over which he has control ; the
planets roll above his head, the waters roar
beneath his feet ; to the one he cannot say, “ be
still,” nor to the other, “ be ye silent !
” Yet
much is granted to him ; spots of paradise are
scattered here and there for his use, and in
these he may amuse his baby-mind ; the world
which he cannot regulate, he may mimic, and
within some small enclosure bid it live in minia-
ture for him.
Amidst the countries of the eastern hemi-
sphere, I know of none better calculated for this
great-little object than some parts of Switzer-
land. There the spectacle of creation attains so
VANDELEUR. 271
much of soul-expanding majesty, assumes so
many graces enchanting the imagination
;
there so intimate is the blending of the terrible
and the lovely, that the poet might be tempted
to fable that the wildness of Switzerland had
-wedded with the softness of its neighbour Italy,
and that the magnificently varied scenes were the
offspring of the union,
“ Where every day
Soft as it rolls along, shows some new charm,
The father’s lustre, and the mother’s bloom !”
For many a paradise of bright verdure and
blushing flowers lies fondly nestled among
those stern granite cliffs ; soft pastoral valleys,
with their deep cool moss and enamelled turf,
wind through the gloomy solitudes of the howl-
ing forest ; the chaunt of summer birds from
many a scented nook thrills blithely above the
deadened roar of distant cataracts ; and the
sunlight dallies with the sparkling gush of tiny
rills below : while, far above, the giant Alps
rear their icy pinnacles, height over height,
against the unclouded aether ; and, in the vast-
272 VANDELEUR.
ness of the contemplation, the gazer’s breath
grows laboured, and a shuddering silence falls
on the parted lips, until awe and rapture soar
above the bounds of conscious frailty, and break
out in glorious song :
“ Ye ice-falls ! Ye that from the mountains brow
Adown enormous ravines slope amain !
Torrents methinks that heard a mighty voice,
And stopped at once amid their maddest plunge !
—
Motionless torrents ! silent cataracts !
—
Who made you glorious as the gates of heaven
Beneath the keen full moon? Who bade the sun
Clothe you with rainbows ? Who with living flowers
Of loveliest blue spread garlands at your feet ?
God ! Let the torrents like a shout of nations
Answer, and let the ice-plains echo, God !
God ! Sing ye meadow-streams with gladsome voice.
Ye pine-groves with your soft and soul-like sound !
And they too have a voice, yon piles of snow,
And in their perilous fall shall thunder, God !”
It was on the verge of that savage and im-
penetrable tract which towers southwards of the
lake of T—n,
—- a region where hills are piled
on hills like the ruins of a former world, —but
in one of the loveliest of those pastoral valleys
that descend among the mountain gorges, one the
VANDELEUR. 273
most hitherto unknown and unfrequented, that
the scene passed which was the subject of the
third picture in the gallery to which I alluded,
and which I endeavoured to describe, in the
opening chapter of this narrative.
There was a beautiful cottage — it preserved
the picturesque character of the country in
which it rose—but with that was blended the
comfort and even the elegance of England
:
beneath its porch sat a lady and gentleman,
exactly as I have already described them in the
painting, except that, all vivid as that painting
was, it could not do justice to the lights and
shades that passed over each countenance as
they conversed together, not calmly, and yet
not passionately.
“ No—no—no—my friend,” said the lady,
“ it is all over ; there have been moments indeed,
ay, days, months, years, when, borne up on
the wings of my young ardent spirits, I have
felt persuaded that there was some peculiar
happiness in store for me ; I have looked out
n 5
274 VANDELEUR.
upon the summer landscape, and have felt that
happiness could not be that illusory thing that
men have deemed it. I have seen it before me,
and only waited to burst through some slight
trammel of time or space to seize it. I have
pursued it with as much faith and hope as ever
did the alchemists their search after their
golden dream, but, like that, it flitted still
before me ; and if indeed there was anything of
presentiment in these self-gratulatory feelings,
it has only been that I should attain very, very
near to the blissful phantom, and sometimes be
happy in the very anticipation of happiness
;
but no more : and yet so strong have been my
natural aspirings after it, that even since the
curse of Cain fell upon me, I have had my
dreams ; his spirit was to be guardian angel to
mine, for they never sinned against each other ;
and the one chastening remembrance was to
purify and temper down my happiness here to
the pitch that is permitted to man ; still it was
to be happiness, but it is years now since I have
VANDELEUR. 27r,
had these dreams. I will not say I am.grown
wiser or better ; but my fancy has grown tired
of them, my patience is worn out, or lias
changed its nature. I abandon them for ever.
The Almighty will allow me to turn even in
my disappointment all to him, and herein I
think it is that his divine superiority comes most
touchingly home to us. Man, in his cruel pride
and enduring resentment, turns from the broken
heart that turned perhaps from him in its hour
of prosperity; but God, God only accepts the
sacrifice of the afflicted spirit, turn to him
when it will. How beautifully, by the bye,"
she said, sinking a little from her tone of me-
lancholy enthusiasm, “ how very beautifully
Moore expresses that idea in the exquisite little
hymn, 4
Oh Thou who driest the mourner's
tear,
1
do you remember it ?
‘
Oh Thou who driest the mourner’s tear !
Ilow sad this world would be,
If, when oppress’d and wounded here,
We could not fly to Thee !'
not that 1 believe he meant all that I mean
—
276 VANDELEUR.
for I mean the excelling goodness and mercy of
God, not only in comforting us when the world
afflicts us, hut in allowing us to think that we
even please him by offering to him the shattered
remains of the heart that we have first offered
round the world, and that has been rejected by
it. Moore's idea is freer from the leaven of
human frailty than mine is. He speaks of
wounds and afflictions coming upon us from
others, I speak of those we bring upon our-
selves ; still, still there is God to £
dry the
mourner’s tear.’ How consoling, tender, and
beautiful are the expressions in that little hymn,
and in some others he has written ! and yet
I have heard his fellow-creatures, his fellow-
sinners, and those too who set up as excel-
ling in goodness, so utterly forget the pre-
cepts of charity and good-will preached by
their divine Master, him at least whom they call
Lord and Master, as to exclaim in pious horror
at ‘
Moore's presuming to write religious verses !'
But this narrow-minded daring, this presump-
VANDELEUR. m
tuous judging of their neighbour, in spite of the
awful doom denounced against that hateful sin
which involves so many others within itself, is a
subject upon which I cannot trust myself to
speak, scarcely to think, lest I too fall into
the same error.—But I perceive I am wearying
you ;
you take no interest in what I am saying
:
perhaps this is a subject not even worth ridi-
cule in the world now ; but you must remem-
ber that I have not stirred out of this retire-
ment for twelve long years, and then wonder
not at any antediluvian ideas vou may detect
in me.”
“ That you have exiled yourself for twelve
long years, T remember but too well ; but is it
possible that you have continued in this same
spot so long, while I have been a wanderer
over the face of the earth ? and, above all things,
tell me what can have prompted you to this en-
during cruelty to your friends P Why did you
not return to your country when you learned,
that, not only the prosecution was withdrawn,
278 VANDELEUR.
but the story of your misfortunes gone abroad
like the history of a martyr ?”
The lady looked down for a moment, to con-
ceal a slight blush ere she replied. “ Alas !
how little it would appear, even you can read
my heart ! That my name is cleared from
all odium, or obloquy, is rather grateful to me
than otherwise ; that it should have been neces-
sary, lowers my estimate of human nature ; but
that any one, and especially you, my friend,
could suppose that thereby my objection to ap-
pearing again in the world was done away, does
indeed astonish me. Did the public opinion ren-
der me more or less guilty ? or, did the danger
of our losing my estate render me less safe
from the return of ; but of that I will not
speak. Let it convince you how dead I am to
such concerns, when I tell you that I never
even suffered the Duchess of Castleton, that in-
estimable friend, who is my only channel of
communication with the world, to write me
the particulars of the prosecution being with-
VANDELEUR. 279
drawn. I receive one letter from her every six
months ; and that one is, at my request, confined
to informing me of the welfare of herself and her
family. I have been, you see, very determined
in keeping my mind turned completely from the
world.”
“ It is most strange !” exclaimed the gentle-
man, apparently thinking aloud ; “ you are a
strange and powerful character !”
“ By no means ; rather the contrary ; unless
you conceive strength of character to consist in
wishing to do right, and keeping as many diffi-
culties as I can out of my way : but let us not
talk of that either ; rather tell me now, since
I am for this evening a human being again,
what did induce my cruel kinsman to withdraw
his prosecution ?”
“ Your kinsman is not by any means the
fiend that we all, who knew you, believed him
to be ; he is rather that mixture of good and
evil that is, I fear, the commonest character.
He no sooner ascertained that you were not
280 VANDELEUR.
only innocent in thought, word, and deed, hut
had already suffered what might be considered
sufficient punishment for the deadliest crimes,
than he withdrew his claim at once, and was
the loudest in execrations against your de-
stroyer. The means of his being led to this con-
viction were indeed curious. Do you remember
the surgeon who attended me in St. Peters-
burgh ?”
“ Surely. M. Dumoulin ; a kind and good-
natured man ; it were strange if I forgot him.”
“ Well, I do not know whether you are
aware that the count had bound himself to pav
a handsome sum of money to the uncle of this
man, whenever he should obtain your fortune,
and of course this young man was to share it;
for this purpose chiefly, Dumoulin continued as a
sort of spy upon De FEspoir’s movements, as they
had no great trust in his honesty : but when
their hopes seemed upon the very verge of ac-
complishment, De FEspoir and you suddenly
slipped through his fingers, he never hearing of
VANDELEUR. 281
the cause the count had for flight. He waited
for some time in hopes of hearing from him ;
but, when he gave this up, he wrote to his uncle
in London, to inform him that the bird had
escaped them after all, just as the golden egg
might be expected. The old German became
infuriated ; he forgot everything but his re-
venge ; and supposing that De FEspoir was
privately but regularly receiving your income,
without thinking of his reward, he came to me
and to Lord Foxhill, as your father’s executors,
and laid the whole matter before us. You will
believe that I lost no time in communicating it
to the heir-at-law, and the suit was of course
abandoned. My trust and aim in this was,
that you would return to England ; and that if
that wretched man, tempted by the accession
of your wealth, ever ventured to return, that
you would make the greater part of it over to
him upon condition of his never troubling you
again.
11
“ The duchess hinted at this compromise
282 VANDELEUR.
to me ; but, besides that I knew not where he
was, I should, as I said before, never think
of returning to England under such circum-
stances.'”
“ But why ? why ? what have you found in
this valley so attractive as to supersede all
earlier feelings ?”
“ Peace I” said the lady emphatically
;
“peace! which I should never have found in
scenes where I once looked for more and lost
all.”
“ And have you lived here without a friend
except poor old Miss Wilson, who seems now to
have lost the only mode of communication she
ever had, that of nodding, now that it has be-
come confirmed into an unceasing habit.”
“ No ; she has not been my only friend. I
have been most fortunate under my peculiar cir-
cumstances. On our first leaving Russia, the
dear Duchess of Castleton never for one mo-
ment forgot my comfort; and you would have
supposed by the inquiries she found means of
VANDELEUR. 283
instituting in every place we came to, that to
settle me respectably was the sole object of her
tour. It was throughout most fortunate for me
that the duke was of that passive, far-niente
character, which induced him never to trouble
himself about any of his lady’s plans or pro-
jects for the benefit of others, though he never
refused her his assistance when she required it.
After being almost reduced to despair, at the
town of , where the duke took a fancy to
remain a week, we at length by dint of persevering
inquiries, such as must certainly, adroitly as they
were conducted, have excited the curiosity of
those of whom they were made, heard of two
English ladies who resided in a cottage in a very
retired valley about twelve miles from the town,
and near to the Convent of Santa Catarina,—in
short, in this valley. The duchess made a visit
to them, and learned their story ; they proved
to be two old Irish ladies, who, with their father,
had fled at the time of the rebellion of 98, he
being deeply implicated. They were Roman Ca-
284 VANDELEUR.
tholics ;
and an elder sister became a nun, and,
having some property of her own, founded a
convent here. Their father died soon after their
arrival, and they remained ever since buried in
the seclusion they had chosen : but, notwith-
standing that seclusion, they still remembered
enough of other days to know that the duke-
dom of Castleton was one of the proudest
amongst English titles ; and the grace, beauty,
and fascination, which you must admit shine
conspicuously about our dear duchess, took
their imaginations captive in an instant. She
made known the object of her visit. She in-
formed them that an unfortunate young creature,
whom her partiality sketched as interesting, had
been by the most perfidious arts betrayed into
a wretched marriage, from which, as it could
not be dissolved, she had no resource but in
concealment ; and that her friends were anxious
to procure for her the countenance of some
respectable residents in the country which she
preferred. The amiable old ladies listened with
VANDELEUR. 285
pity and interest. The duchess besought
them to visit her at her hotel, and judge for
themselves of the object : this they declined ;
but, completely won by the duchess herself,
they promised to be to me all that she had
asked, which then only amounted to being
charitable neighbours ; but far, far indeed have
they since surpassed that promise ! Miss Wil-
son was written for to Berne ; she joined us at
the hotel ; and, within an hour after, the duchess,
she, and I were on our way hither. An apart-
ment had been taken for Miss Wilson and me
in a cottager’s dwelling, until I should select
some spot on which to build one for myself ; but
the amiable and kind-hearted Irish women, pre-
possessed by the duchess in my favour, never
suffered me to occupy it for one single hour. I
was absolutely compelled to take up my abode
with them until this cottage was finished, and
here I have remained, as the story-book says,
4
from that hour to this !
1 ”
286 VANDELEUR.
“ Good God ! without ever seeing another
human being ?”
“ Not exactly; I have made occasional visits
with them to the convent of which their sister
is abbess, and have been so charmed with all I
saw there, that—will you believe it ? —I have
sometimes thought of becoming a nun myself,
and taking up my abode with them for ever !”
“ I could believe any cruelty, after what you
have been capable of, in hiding yourself so per-
tinaciously for so long; but luckily this is not in
your power, they could not receive the vows of
a married woman.”
“ God could receive them, and the lady, having
founded the convent herself, has the power of
dispensing with some rules ;
besides which, they
are so much attached to me, and so anxious to
make a convert of me, that they would waive
a great deal in my case. But come,” she said,
smiling, “ these are vague fancies, and have
only flitted rarely across my mind.”
“ I should hope so indeed, or you are more
VANDELEUR. 287
utterly lost to me than I have yet dared to
believe. Gertrude,
11
he said, in a tone of such
deep feeling that his features seemed almost
convulsed, “ you can never know what I
felt when I heard of the sudden determination
of the Duke of Castleton to return to England,
and thought of you being left alone in that
strange and distant country ; for I feared, from
what the duchess had told me, that jmu would
not so soon return to England. I was just pre-
paring to set out once more for St. Petersburgh
when the duchess’s letter arrived, desiring that
Miss Wilson should be sent to Berne, and re-
questing in your name that I should make no
farther inquiries until the return of the duchess
to England : tortured as I was, I felt obliged
to obey; but when the duchess did arrive, and
I found that I was never to learn more than
that you still lived But I will pass over my
feelings then; some recollections there were that
saved me from despair, but they did not always
avail me. I hung on for a long time in this
288 VANDELEUR.
dreadful situation, still hoping that either you
or your friend would relent, and at least let me
learn how you passed your time : hut one final
interview with the duchess, in which I was
more unfortunate than usual, destroyed this
lingering hope ; she told me the secret was not
hers to impart, that her honour was pledged to
you, and I left her in despair. Soon after this,
which I dare say was two years after I had been
in Russia, my poor mother, broken down I
think a good deal by sympathy in my misfor-
tunes, fell sick, and, after lingering for a few
months, paid the penalty of our fallen nature.
I was then left without even an interest in life,
or a tie to engage any affections ; I could not
endure the dreadful vacuum in my heart and
mind —I wished for employment ;
but though
I knew I could by the Duke of Castletoif’s in-
terest procure one with very little trouble, my
mind was still in that enfeebled, apathetic state,
that I turned with loathing from everything
that called for cold and formal attention to sti-
VANDELEUR. 289
pulated duties, and from the mockery of re-
ceiving emolument where I had already more
than my languid desires suggested the expen-
diture of. In this state of feeling I thought of
endeavouring to lessen the miseries of my fellow-
creatures, not so much as a religious duty, as an
exercise likely to keep the feelings from the hell
of utter stagnation, or rather of only preying on
themselves : to render my views on this subject
more efficacious, I determined upon entering
into holy orders.”
“ Holy orders ! do you mean to say that you
are a clergyman ?”
“No: when I first mentioned the subject, the
Duke of Castleton kindly pressed me to accept
a living ; but besides that, as I said before, 1
had more income already than I wanted for my
own support, I neither liked to be bound to one
place, nor fettered in what I may call my whims
of benevolence ; and, to say truth, I did not care
to be paid, as a religious professor, for what I
embraced from such decidedly selfish motives.”
VOL. III. o
290 VANDELEUR.
“ In short, then, you are become a sort of lay
missionary ! wandering over the world to make
converts—to the Church of England of course ?”
“ I have indeed been wandering over the
world ;
yet I neither call myself a missionary,
nor do I ever seek to make converts except
from vice. I have never yet endeavoured to
subvert one principle professed to be taught by
any church ; for I do not believe that it is by
such principles, or doctrines as I should rather
call them, obscure and above the comprehen-
sion of the wisest of us, that the poor and the
ignorant will be judged. I believe it will be
by the use they make of the instincts implanted
in them by the finger of God himself, namely,
‘
faith, hope, and charity,’ and confirmed by
divine revelation.”
“ Well, but faith, what faith ?”
u Faith in their Creator—hope in their Re-
deemer—charity to all men. With these, truly
and deeply engraven on their hearts, and made
manifest by their works, I care as little in what
VANDELEUR. m
form their little acts of devotion, as they are
called, may be offered, as I should care if some
friends, wishing to evince their respect for me,
should one select one way, and another another
for doing so. No : I have even prevented con-
versions, as you call them, when I have thought
them merely the effect of momentary enthu-
siasm, or, what is still more frequently the case,
of disguised vanity and spiritual pride.”
“ You are indeed as I ever
11
The lady
stopped abruptly, and a slight shade of colour
passed over her pale but still lovely face.
“ I am what, Gertrude ? I am truly blessed
at this moment in having found you after all my
wanderings, which, though I never dared to tell
myself distinctly that such was my object, yet
I am convinced were still influenced by it.
About a week since, I came to the village of ;
not that there is much immorality in these pri-
mitive regions, but I was requested to visit it for
a short time, as I need not tell you, I suppose,
that there is no resident clergyman for many
o 2
292 VANDELEUR.
miles round it. In my hours of leisure I of
course explored the beautiful scenery about ; and
when I tell you that neither in these, nor any
other hours, or even moments of leisure, you
have ever been absent from my thoughts for
the last fourteen years, you may judge of my
feelings when I met you wandering in that ex-
quisite valley this evening.”
The lady’s countenance underwent a peculiar
change. The melancholy, which had passed
away from it for a moment, returned with a still
deeper shade, but now blended with an ex-
pression of soul-touching tenderness as she an-
swered, “ I can indeed, my dear friend, imagine
by my own that they must have been most
affectionate ;
but I trust, I trust, not inconsistent
with our unchanged, unchangeable position with
respect to each other.”
“ In Heaven’s name, Gertrude, what do you
mean by unchanged,
unchangeable ? and incon-
sistent with what ?”
“ With my being the wife of De 1’Espoir,
VANDELEUR. 293
Vandeleur, which I think you almost forgot at
the moment of our meeting. You are aware he
still lives ?”
“ I gathered from the duchess that you sus-
pected it some time ago.
11
“ Suspected it ! I knew it. When, won by
the kindness and affection of my two old friends
here, I confided my story to them, they, with-
out any suggestion from me, made inquiries
through their Parisian banker, if anything had
been heard of him ; through that channel we
ascertained that he had gone to the Antilles,
and suppressing his name and title —now become
a dangerous distinction—had settled there as a
merchant, and was amassing immense wealth :
through the same channel they hear regularly
of his welfare .
11
Vandeleur, on receiving this information, re-
mained for several minutes in a profound si-
lence : at length he said, “ Gertrude, do you
never mean to leave this cottage P
11
“ Never, except for a still narrower dwelling-
VANDELEUR.
294
place : where should I go to ? unless indeed,”
she added with a smile, “ to the convent.”
“ Then here also will I end my days,” the
gentleman exclaimed in a tone of cool and calm
decision.
“ Here ! how or what do you mean ?”
“ Why no, not exactly to take possession of
your house; but I shall procure one for myself
close by, and ‘
hand in hand’ we may still
6
go
down the hill together what though they be
but clasped in friendship ?”
It was now Gertrude’s turn to be silent for
a few minutes ; but her ever expressive coun-
tenance plainly indicated that the pause was
not one of indecision, but merely a wish to se-
lect the gentlest language in which to convey
her determination.
“ It is impossible, utterly impossible : Van-
deleur, it must not be,” she said at last. “ In
what respect are either of us so much changed
as that I should now consent to what I so de-
terminately fled from twelve years ago, when
VANDELEUlt. 295
most miserable, and, God knows, requiring all
the consolation which friendship could afford ?”
“ Then you are not miserable now ?”
“No, thank Heaven! that word would be
much too strong for my present state of mind
:
the one black spot is in my heart, which would
alone, were every other objection removed, pre-
vent my presuming to seek the enjoyments of
life, from which I cut him off; but still the
natural buoyancy of my temper, my unbroken
health, and the cultivation of my tastes under
the inspiring influence of this charming scenery
and climate, together with the surest remedy
of all—the lapse of time—have left me at this
moment far from miserable. Could you believe,
Godfrey, that I have become so calm under my
infliction,—so familiar, as it were, with my
Herbert’s spirit now, —that, having cultivated
my native taste for painting, under the direction
of one of the sisters of the convent, I have made
a picture of the first evening in which my be-
loved brother and I spoke in confidence of you ?
296 VANDELEUR.
It appears to me and to Miss Wilson a striking
likeness ; come in and see it”
Vandeleur followed her into the interior of
the cottage, where, in her only sitting-room, he
observed a large picture shaded by a muslin
drapery ; some feeling, which the fair artist, or
else the mourning sister, had not yet overcome,
having induced her to conceal it from the glare
of day, or the casual observation of even her
very limited circle of acquaintances. She now
advanced to it, and, drawing aside the curtain,
displayed to Vandeleur the first of the three pic-
tures which so powerfully attracted my atten-
tion in the gallery of .
Vandeleur stood for a moment confounded
by the extraordinary likeness of the boy ; then,
as the recollections of that blissful evening
crowded upon his mind, he burst into tears and
rushed out of the room. Gertrude let fall the
curtain over the picture once more ; and delay-
ing a few minutes, as well to suffer him to re-
cover, as to banish all traces of the emotion
VANDELEUR. 297
which she herself experienced, she rejoined him
in the porch.
“ I need not ask if you think the likeness a
good one ?” she said softly, still anxious to have
it confirmed by his lips.
“ It is life itself,” he replied ;
“ have you
done any others ?”
“ Of him ? No. Though I had resolution
enough to plan and even to execute that design,
I would not undertake another : I was nearly
three years completing it ; my tears almost
effaced every feature just in proportion as it
grew like : but I am now engaged in doing one
to represent my first interview with the Du-
chess of Castleton, which was another critical
period of my life ; but it is not yet advanced
enough for you to see it.”
“ And in these pursuits you have found the
tranquillity which I am as far as ever from
attaining ; and yet you refuse to let me partake
of it, Gertrude ?”
“ And where would it be then ? How long,
o 5
298 VANDELEUR.
think you, it would last when self-condemnation
began to mingle with it? No, no, Vandeleur
;
I would, God knows, give up my own tran-
quillity to ensure yours, but not by means which
would deprive us both of it : a great part of
mine is based upon the belief that Herbert’s
spirit is still hovering over me,—for he knows 1
never sinned against him,—and that he approves
of the self-denial I have practised ever since.”
Vandeleur gazed upon her with an expression
in which, if something of earthly passion still lin-
gered, it was tempered, if not neutralised, by
her holy enthusiasm. It passed away however,
when she ceased speaking ; and with a return of
anxious pleading he asked, “ But, Gertrude, is
this self-denial that you speak of, merely to
avoid the misconstruction of a world that has
long lost sight of us both, and would never
come to seek us here ?”
“ And if it be,” she said, evading the question,
and turning aside to conceal a conscious blush,
“ if even that be essential to my peace, you
VANDELEUR. 299
would not urge the contrary ? No, Vandeleur,
I know you would rather contribute to my hap-
piness ; and the only means in your power to do
so is, to promise me that you will be happy
yourself.
11
“Away from you? never l
1
'
he exclaimed
with vehemence, starting from a reverie into
which he had fallen. “ I have imposed duties
upon myself, and I fulfil them ; but it is only
like taking an opiate to drown recollection for a
time, that it may return at intervals with re-
doubled anguish.
11
“ Vandeleur, you terrify me,
11
said Gertrude,
her countenance indeed confirming what she
uttered. “ Is this what you call religion P
11
“ Pardon me, you cannot have attended to
what I said. I neither tried to deceive you
nor myself—and the Almighty I could not de-
ceive —as to the motives which induced me to
take up this profession, if I may call it so.
There were but two courses left for me to
avoid a state of apathy which I could not en-
300 VANDELEUR.
(lure ; a course of blind and heartless dissipation,
or that I have chosen. Your image, and, I will
hope, something more, withheld me from the
former ; and I adopted the latter as being at
once injiocent and not foreign to my natural
disposition, which the acquisition of money
without an object would have been. If I have
been of some use ; if I have bound up some
bruised and broken spirits, or led one human
being aside from vice ; I am grateful for the
temporary gratification it afforded me : but I
found no merit upon it, no claim to be called a
religious character. But, even as a remedy
against misery, how far short has it fallen of
success ! my thoughts have been sometimes
filled, my feelings interested, but my affections -
never ! Yet let me not shock you, my dear
Gertrude. I had been more or less than man
could I have forgotten my interest in you ; and,
less I think it must have been, whilst I believed
you in a miserable exile. Since I see you happy
and beautiful as ever, I shall endeavour to bear
VANDELEUR. 301
my own burden more lightly but the look
and manner that accompanied these words seem-
ed to contradict their import.
“ Oh, Vandeleur, that you could cease to
think it a burden !” said Gertrude in a soft and
deprecating tone. “ Now that you see me
comparatively happy, oh that you would be-
come so yourself ! and since your benevolent
exercises do not, unhappily, satisfy you, why
will you not seek it from some other source ?”
“ How do you mean, Gertrude ?”
“ If you would but marry, dearest Vande-
leur.
11
“ Marry ! marry ! are you quite mad, Ger-
trude ? Never, even for one single moment,
has the bare possibility of such an event crossed
my mind.
11
“ It is exactly for that reason that I suggest
it to you. You are still in what is often called
the prime of man’s life ; and since you paid me
a compliment just now, I can with sincerity re-
turn it, and say you wear your years particu-
302 VANDELEUR.
larly well. Many, many an amiable, ay and
fair young girl, could you find to make you a
happy husband and father.”
“ Yes, to sell herself, or be sold to me for an
establishment.”
“ Not so, Vandeleur. They do women gross
injustice who assert that they cannot sincerely
love an amiable agreeable man, if he be not
also young. An objection there is in the usual
dissimilarity of tastes, when the disparity in
years is great ; but good sense and good temper
on both sides—and I would not have you marry
any one without them—will make molehills of
what seem mountains to others.”
“ Yes, and this is what I am to be content
with, instead of heaven’s own happiness which
I once expected, —perfect blending of being,
soul, and mind, until two imperfect creatures,
under the sweet control of each other’s love,
grow into one perfect one, each for the other’s
sake, and so at last return to their Creator,
never more to be divided ; and such I am con-
VANDELEUR. 303
vinced is the happiness which marriage was in-
tended to confer.'
11
“ When Eve was created for Adam, perhaps
it was, and may sometimes even happen still
;
but, oh ! so rarely, that which of Adam’s fallen
sons will presume to say such should be his
lot ?”
“ And yet, oh God ! it might have been
mine /” Vandeleur exclaimed in deep emotion ;
but it was the emotion of him who looks for
one despairing moment over the side of some
vessel in a storm, to catch a last glimpse of
the treasure that has been swept overboard,
and which the waves are about to ingulph for
ever from his view. A shade passed over the
lady’s brow.
“No more of that ! it is unbecoming, it is
sinful,” she said.
“ It is not sinful, so help me Heaven ! Un-
becoming, or at least most fruitless, it mav
now be ; but sinful my feelings are not, and
never were upon that subject. If they had
304 VANDELEUR.
been, I should not feel so much pain in re-
linquishing them. There is always something
in doing right, that consoles one for the sacri-
fice it may require. I mean not this theolo-
gically. I mean that the mind which has
strength enough for the effort, will always
feel a certain degree of pleasure in the exer-
cise of it ; but here, to give up all hopes
”
“ Hopes l
11
repeated the lady with a look of
sad reproof. “ Hopes ! and on what can such
hopes be founded ? Oh, think upon the last
commandment ; think upon Him who in his
wisdom said the wish was the crime."
1
“ It is in vain, Gertrude,” said Vandeleur
utterly unmoved, “in vain that you would
seek to alarm me upon this subject. I never
broke that commandment. I never coveted
the wife of another. I would not, God knows,
—even if I could, I would not—take her to my
bosom as such, even now after the long years
of hopeless misery I have endured ; but how
is the commandment broken in seeking the
VANDELEUR. 305
pure friendship which now alone can—or even
in the humble hope that the time may yet come
when 11
“ Vandeleur, no more !
11
said the lady, inter-
rupting him ;
“ for your feelings I cannot ex-
actly answer; from my own I know, I know,
that
the indulgence of such hope is highly dangerous,
if not in itself sinful ; and will they not be
doubly guilty who knowingly incur the danger
of that guilt P But I have yet another argu-
ment in store. I said twelve years ago, and
I repeat it now with a determination as fixed,
that were I even free to marry, with my bro-
ther’s blood upon my head, I never would
become the wife of any man !”
“ This is fanaticism, madness, Gertrude ; but
alas ! there is no occasion to dispute it yet. I
will hope that if the blessed time should ever
come
11
“ Vandeleur, I will not hear you talk thus ;
and more, I will not have you think thus. Did
I not even believe it sinful, I would not have,
306 VANDELEUR.
you waste your life in pursuit of a phantom.
There is yet a way to end it,—a deep and
solemn vow,'” and she raised her hands and
eyes to heaven, “ that no time, no time,
no
circumstances, shall ever induce
11
Vandeleur seized her arm convulsively.
“ Speak it not ! think it not !” he gasped forth.
u Gertrude, we have already suffered enough
from an oath of yours, deferring our marriage.
If I must abandon all I have hitherto dragged
on existence for, let it be by means which /
also shall recognise as binding. What power
could the oath of another have over my con-
science ?”
Gertrude feared to irritate him by farther
opposition, but by her own feelings she knew
what a change the utter impossibility of their
ever being united would necessarily produce in
his ; and at that very moment a thought, a
plan, a determination, was formed in her mind.
She had lost none of her early enthusiasm, and
she believed the thought to be almost inspira-
VANDELEUIi. .307
tion. She gave it no utterance, but averted her
head to conceal the tears that forced themselves
to her eyes at sight of his emotion. He did
not appear to notice her or them, but leaned
back in moody silence. Gertrude wished to
interrupt the train of his reflections.
“ Vandeleur!” she said, and laid her hand
upon his arm as if to soften the seeming cruelty
of what she was about to say—“Vandeleur, it
is almost time that we should part, evening is
falling fast around us.”
He attempted to lay his hand on hers, but
she hastily withdrew it with matronly dignity ;
—and it was this moment that was* so happily
caught in the third picture of the series—and
her eyes did indeed beam with the reproving yet
pitying affection of a being of another sphere
for one not yet perfected.
She feared he had misconstrued her forbear-
ing her intended vow at his request ; she was
anxious to undeceive him : “Yes, we must
part, Vandeleur,” she said, “and ” She
308 VANDELEUR.
hesitated to complete her sentence ; he took
it up.
“ And how early may I come to-morrow ?”
Still she hesitated, rapidly changed colour,
and cast her eyes upon the ground ; he could
not imagine what occasioned her emotion, and
gazed upon her in astonishment. She clasped
her hands together, and in the gentlest and
most supplicating manner, a manner that was
peculiarly her own, she said,
44
Vandeleur, dear, dear Vandeleur ; do not
be angry with me, but we must—indeed we
must—meet no more !
”
Vandeleur sprang from his seat as if a ball
had been shot through him. It was evident
that, notwithstanding all Gertrude had been
preaching with so much sincerity, some vague
hope, some delusion, some —in short, 44
any-
thing but leaving her”—had still kept possession
of his feelings, if not of his reason.
44
No more ! meet no more !” he exclaimed
as soon as he could articulate.
44
What ! after
VANDELEUR. 309
twelve years of accursed separation and misery,
do we part thus on the very first meeting ? Ger-
trude,” he said in an altered tone, and looking
fixedly upon her, “ Gertrude, you are either
trifling with my feelings, or else your own for
me are utterly, utterly changed and gone !
”
“ I should think the first involves the second,”
she said gently ;
“ but, dear Vandeleur, think
of me whatever will tend most to lessen your
own regret.”
“ Regret for what ?”
“ For me,
Godfrey ; for indeed—indeed
Must I then repeat it ?”
“ For indeed we must part, you would say ?
and for how long, pray ? Are there to be no
limits to your tyranny ?”
“ Vandeleur, until you can tell me that the
remembrance of me does not stand between you
and your being happy with some other object.”
“ Then indeed farewell for ever,
Madame de
FEspoir ! You said truly that we shall meet no
more :
you are doubly safe from my presence
310 VANDELEUR.
henceforth ; first, as I have no power to fulfil
your condition ; and secondly, as I find my in-
terest in your regard is at an end.” He rose as
he spoke, and, bowing coldly, hastily went out
from the porch.
Gertrude stept forward with the intention
of stopping him ; but he either did not perceive,
or did not attend to her. Just as she was
about to utter his name, in that tone which
could not have been resisted, the thought oc-
curred to lier
—“ to what purpose ?” and she
suffered him to depart. She turned into her
lonely abode, sought her own chamber, and,
flinging herself upon her knees beside her couch,
she buried her face in her hands, and remained
in that j>osture for upwards of an hour. Let no
one endeavour to pry into what passed between
her and her God !
VANDELEUR. 311
CHAPTER XXVIII.
“ Jours charmans, quand je songe ii vos heureux instans,
Je pense remonter le fleuve de mes ans ;
Et mop coeur enchante, sur sa rive fleurie
Respire encore l’air pur du matin de la vie.”
When Gertrude rose next morning, it was
evident even to her unobservant friend Miss
Wilson that some change had been wrought
upon her spirit ; the holy calm and quiet she
had hitherto enjoyed seemed to have passed
away, and a strange and feverish anxiety to
have taken possession of her. For herself, she
felt that the equilibrium of her mind, which it
had required so many years and so much school-
ing to establish, had been rudely disturbed, and
she feared would not be easily restored: she
told herself that she had done right in dismiss-
312 VANDELEUR.
ing her devoted friend, her former lover ; but
alas ! she felt that the sacrifice had upset her.
“ But I will atone for it ! I will atone for
it r she exclaimed ; “he shall not thus linger
out his precious life in vain hopes of what never,
never can take place. Heigho ! I wish I had
not seen him, I wish he had not drawn that
picture of wedded love : but I will pray, earn-
estly pray, that he may yet enjoy it with ano-
ther ; and why should he not. He is indeed no
longer young, but he is still eminently hand-
some ; all the animation and warmth of his
earlier years still characterise his delightful
manners ; his fine eyes have indeed changed
their expression, and are become pensive and
melancholy ; but this very circumstance proves
that their power of expressing his feelings is
still unimpaired, and, if he were happy again,
they would again be bright and joyous. I won-
der if I am as little changed : I dare say I may
be ; for it is the ‘
wear and tear
1
of the feelings
and affections, that leave their traces on the
VANDELEUR. 313
countenance : where these have been smothered
and pent up, they are still fresh to shed their
animation around one when called forth. But
what am I thinking of? what does it signify
how much or how little / may be changed ?
nor should I have permitted my mind to dwell
so long on his appearance, were it not con-
sidering it for another. Yes, he has every
reason to expect happiness if one fatal fasci-
nation were removed ; and removed it shall be.
In the purity and austerity of a convent my
mind will soon again subside from the little
agitation that has now assailed it ; and when
I have vowed my vows, after my own fashion,
never under any circumstances to leave that
holy place again, even though I may not con-
form to every ceremony or subscribe to every
doctrine, I shall let Yandeleur know my irre-
vocable doom ; and by degrees, when hope is
utterly destroyed, he will think less and less of
me, and I shall go down to my grave happy in
the thought that he is happy !”
VOL. III. p
314 VANDELEUR.
Having come to this resolution, Gertrude’s
mind became for the present more composed ;
such generally is the effect of any powerful
effort over one’s self : but it is when that first
glow of satisfaction has expended itself that
the trial comes on ; and therefore it is, that
every resolution formed in the excitement of
our feelings, should afterwards be diligently
examined by our reason before we proceed to
put it into execution.
Gertrude had had too little experience in
life, too few opportunities in her secluded valley
of forming resolutions to be kept or broken,
to be aware of the caution they require. She
felt that there was something necessary to tear
her heart and Vandeleur’s asunder once more,
after the spring they had again made towards
each other by their unexpected meeting ;
and
she imagined that the most desperate means
must be the most effectual. She felt no doubt
of being admitted on her own terms into the
convent of the Irish abbess, as well from that
VANDELEUR. 315
lady's partiality towards her, as through the in-
fluence of the two lay sisters, who were still
more intimately attached to her : and, to Ger-
trude’s own feelings and principles, there was
nothing so revolting in the Christian sect that
had such amiable beings for its sincere votaries,
as that she could not conform as far as civility
should require when domesticated beneath their
roof, whilst her own heart was the temple in
which she at all times loved to worship.
In this frame of mind, she despatched a note
to one of the two sisters who lived near her,
informing her that she intended to visit her that
morning on very particular business, and beg-
ging to know if she should be at leisure to
receive her without interruption. While the
messenger was away, Gertrude sat down to the
breakfast-table, which had hitherto, in the ex-
citement of her nerves, almost escaped her no-
tice ; although Miss Wilson, in her unaltered
habits of mechanical regularity, had eaten hers
before her eyes with perfect unconcern.
p 2
316 VANDELEUR.
Gertrude was destined not to partake of any
that day.
“ Do you expect Major Vandeleur this morn-
ing ?” asked Miss Wilson as she turned her
heavy eyes from the window opposite which she
sat.
“ Wo,” said Gertrude very emphatically; “ he
comes hither no more.”
“ Because I think that ’s very like him, gal-
loping as hard as he can up towards the house.”
“ Impossible !” said Gertrude, starting up
and running out to the porch, literally with the
intention of preventing him from alighting ; but
Vandeleur had already given the mule he rode
to a man who was doing some little job of
husbandry before the cottage, and, entering at
once, encountered Gertrude on the very spot
where they had parted the evening before.
She was amazed, and almost startled, at the
extraordinary change in his appearance: instead
of the gloomy melancholy and depression of the
evening before, all was now with him joyous
VANDELEUR. 317
animation ; and, as if utterly forgetful of all that
had passed, he seized both her hands, and, kiss-
ing them warmly but respectfully, he inter-
rupted all remonstrance by exclaiming,
u No, no, Gertrude ; this is no moment for
trifling forms. I speak not, I feel not, as your
lover now ; I forget myself in the happiness 1
have the power of imparting to you. Read that
letter, dearest and he drew one from the breast-
pocket of his coat, and handed it to her.
Gertrude, though scarcely able to support
herself, from the agitation which his extraordi-
nary manner had excited, received it from his
hand, and glanced her eye over it ; but, no
sooner had her mind taken in its purport, than,
with a wild scream between joy and agony, she
flung herself into Vandeleur’s arms, and fainted
on his bosom.
Perhaps never since faints were first invented
to try the nerves of the lookers-on, was one
ever perpetrated that excited so little commise-
ration, as did that of Gertrude now in the breast
318 VANDELEUR.
of Vandeleur. He held her from him for a
moment, and absolutely smiled in the intensity
of his own pleasurable feelings ! Not conceiving,
however, that this was exactly a legitimate
mode of gratifying them, he carried her into the
interior of the cottage, and, placing her on the
sofa, called to Miss Wilson for assistance ; but
in a tone so light and joyous that even she,
in running about for hartshorn and water, two
or three times looked back to see if it was not
a hoax got up for her
!
She felt almost confirmed
in her suspicion when, on her return, breathless
with haste, (a most unusual state of body or
mind for her,) she found Gertrude with a coun-
tenance beaming with such ecstasy and thank-
fulness, as she had never seen upon it since
the day that Herbert was thrown from his
horse ! The moment Miss Wilson entered, Ger-
trude arose; and, though choking with the ex-
cess of her emotion, threw her arms round her
neck,—an excess of feeling and familiarity which
that quiescent person had never before expe-
VANDELEUR. 319
riencecl from any one,—and sobbed out, “ Oh !
my dear Miss Wilson ! thank God with me,
and for me ! I am not, I am not the murderer of
my brother !” Will it be believed that Miss Wil-
son burst into tears ! This was the more extraor-
dinary, as it was never known how she had
learned that poor Gertrude had ever accused
herself of the deed, or even that she had learned
it ; but it proved, perhaps more fully than any-
thing else could have done, how powerful and
evident had been the change wrought upon Ger-
trude by that dreadful conviction, when the
sudden removal of it could thus affect one “ al-
beit unused to the melting mood.” “ Kneel
down, Miss Wilson ! kneel down, my dearest
Godfrey ! and return thanks with me !” Ger-
trude exclaimed: they obeyed her mechanically,
but no one attempted to utter a word ; the over-
flowing heart feels them so unnecessary ! Ger-
trude’s joy was, however, too overwhelming to
continue under restraint even in prayer. She
rose from her knees again :
“ Tell me, oh! tell
320 VANDELEUR.
me, Vandeleur,” she said, still weeping as if
the bitterest affliction had fallen upon her, ex-
cept that the muscles of her mouth were twitch-
ing, vibrating as it were, in mockery of her own
tears,
u tell me where you found this blessed
document of heaven, and why you did not tell
me of it sooner ?”
“ Because I did not know of it, my dearest
Gertrude : think you I could have concealed it
for one single instant ? Do you remember, Ger-
trude, the only commission you gave me from
St. Petersburgh ?” Gertrude’s feelings were too
deeply engaged at present upon the one engrossing
object of her life for any other to gain admit-
tance, and she answered with the most perfect
composure, “ I do ; it was to destroy your let-
ters to me, which were in my little letter-box,
and for this purpose I sent you the key of it.”
“ You did, but I never could endure to exe-
cute your commission ; I felt as if doing so
would destroy the only link that now existed
between us. I disobeyed you in the hope—may
VANDELEUR. 321
I acknowledge it ? —that the time might come,
when together we should rejoice over the breach
of your command ; and I always carried the
little letter-box about with me, wherever I tra-
velled, as the most precious part of my luggage.
Last night, however, when I really believed, for
the first time, that all was over between us, that
there had arisen obstacles against me in your
own breast, Gertrude,” (and his countenance
saddened once more,) 66
more hopelessly insur-
mountable, at least more destructive to my
hopes, than any others that fate could oppose,
except death itself, I determined, nay, I vowed
in the bitterness of my anguish, to destroy those
letters of other days, no longer of value in your
eyes. I did not reach my home last night ; but
the moment I arrived there this morning I shut
myself up in my chamber to perform my cruel
task, little, indeed, foreseeing what it was to
bring about ! For this purpose I took from my
neck, where it has hung for twelve years, the
little key, and opened the box. The first letter
p o
322 VANDELEUR.
that met my view was one directed to your
father, in a hand I knew, yet could not at the
moment recollect. In my capacity of executor
I opened it, and I leave it to your own heart to
judge the sensations of mine when I read that
letter ! I now recollect distinctly your poor
father peevishly muttering that he had had a
letter of condolence from Dr. C—, but, when I
asked to see it, saying he had mislaid it. You
may be sure I lost no time in coming to you
with the news ; and now, my dearest Gertrude,
will this blessed intelligence not make a change
in your determinations ?”
“ Vandeleur !” she exclaimed, clasping her
hands together, and looking up to heaven in an
ecstasy of thankfulness, “ do not talk to me of
my determinations, or of the future now ! For the
first time, for nearly fourteen years, I feel once
more what it is to be happy in the present
!
Oh, God ! oh, God ! teach me to bear it as I
ought !” She bowed her head again, and re-
mained silent for an instant ; then resumed,
VANDELEUR. 323
“ But you think, you really think, there is no
doubt of this ? that there can he no mistake ?
Oh, Vandeleur I
11
and with a sort of sobbing
sigh, and beaming smile, she leaned her head for
an instant against his shoulder: it was but for
one instant, and seemed really to be the effect of
the very exhaustion of happiness. “ Vandeleur,"
she said, “ you, even you, can have no idea of
what I feel this day. Good God ! I am almost
startled to find how much of my grief for my
beloved Herbert was owing to the idea of my
own part in the tragedy : but no, I do myself
wrong in saying so ; for nothing, as you know,
could exceed my grief during his long illness,
and how willingly I sacrificed my own, and
even your happiness for him. No ; it only shows
that every thing in nature is relative, and that
all things are alike to God ! Could I ever have
believed it would be positive happiness to me
to hear of the impossibility of his ever reco-
vering from the effects of that .
fatal fall ? and
yet now my whole soul is subdued in thank-
324 VANDELEUR.
fulness to hear it ! Oh ! how can any one ever
doubt that there must he some unlimited Mind
which sees all things past, present, and to come
at a glance, and regulates them accordingly ?”
Yandeleur suffered her to run on for some
time longer in this strain, or any other in which
the exuberance of her joy and gratitude seemed
inclined to vent itself. When she appeared
to grow a little calmer, he ventured once more
to endeavour to lead her to think of the future.
“ But now, dearest Gertrude,” he said, “ now
that this oppressive load is removed from your
heart, will you not return to England—to your
friends ?”
She turned to him with one of the sparkling,
speaking smiles of her early youth ; it seemed to
say, “ Might I?” but alas ! it scarcely lingered
for a moment ; a shade passed over her brow,
and a blush over her cheek. u No, no ; better
not,” she said ; “I am still the wife of De
FEspoir, still the wife of one over whom a
criminal prosecution may be impending, or, if
VANDELEUR. 325
it be abandoned, who perhaps would not even
yet leave me at peace ! No, no ; shall I, at the
very moment when such an unlooked-for mercy
has been vouchsafed to me,—shall I choose that
moment to be less thoughtful of my duty, or less
scrupulous in avoiding temptation ? Oh ! no,'"
she exclaimed, bursting again into tears; “ and I
feel mortified at finding how much of my self-
denial proceeded from my incapacity for enjoy-
ment, when I thought it all a principle of duty :
but I will make the mortification a salutary one ;
what I was willing to do from inclination, I will
do from duty. Vandeleur, I will not leave this
valley ! there shall he no change in my determi-
nations whatever they may have been /”
Vandeleur was alarmed at the decisive and
emphatic tone in which she pronounced these
words ; but, fearing to let them take still deeper
root in her mind, he exclaimed, “For God’s sake,
Gertrude, do not give way to this enthusiasm !”
“ My dear Vandeleur,” she replied, mildly,
but firmly, “ that I am of an enthusiastic tern-
326 VANDELEUR.
per I am well aware, and that enthusiasm must
find vent in some way is as certain. I am by
circumstances debarred from exercising it where
it only adds zest and warmth to the pleasures of
life, therefore do not seek to restrain me from
turning it where, at least, it can do harm.”
“ Then let me remain near you, Gertrude,
where I may see you even occasionally ; in
your fresh accession of happiness yoh should not
be so churlish of it.”
“ I am not churlish of it, Vandeleur.
Heaven, which alone can judge the heart,
knows I would transfer it to you if I could
;
but,” she continued, with a bright blush and
downcast eyes, “ it is not at the moment
when I find how I had deceived myself as
to the purity of my own motives, that I will
yield to what my own wishes might suggest.”
“ But do not call it yielding to your own
wishes, Gertrude; yield in pity, in charity,
for the sake of mine.”
“ No, Vandeleur ; for neither. I formed a
resolution in my suffering, which I believe
VANDELEUR. 327
to be right ; I will not shrink from it in
my joy !
” There was a few minutes’ silence.
“ Gertrude,” said Vandeleur at last, with a
gloominess of voice and manner, “ Gertrude,
you have not the smallest regard for me re-
maining. I am worse than a fool to persecute
you any longer.”
Gertrude was considering how to reply to
this speech, when the door opened ; and in-
stead of the answer to her note to the old lady,
which she had expected, that lady herself made
her appearance. Gertrude sprang forward to
receive* her ; but, whether it was the joyous
change in her own feelings and deportment, or
whether there really was any foundation for
it, she imagined that she perceived something
more reserved and serious than usual in the
lady’s air and manner. Gertrude hastened to
present Vandeleur, mentioned each to the other
as her particular friend, and gave a hurried ac-
count of her accidental meeting with the latter.
Still it would not do. The old lady, though
usually cheerful and chatty, sat silent and sub-
328 VANDELEUR.
dued. At last Gertrude said, “ It was very
good of you to take the trouble of coming to me,
instead of allowing me to go to you ; but I have
some news for you which your kind heart will
consider as amply repaying you.
11
“ And I have news for you,
11
the lady said
with the same gravity, “ which I thought it
more proper to inform you of here, than to
bring you to my house to learn.
11
Gertrude, who was actively concerned with
her two old friends in many little schemes of
benevolence and utility, concluded that the lady
alluded to something relating to some of these ;
but, surprised at the seriousness of her tone and
manner, and perceiving that Vandeleur’s pre-
sence seemed a restraint upon her, she asked
if she should wish to speak to her in another
room, and, with an apologetic smile and bow to
Vandeleur, she retired with her. Before, how-
ever, Gertrude could suffer the lady to com-
mence her communication, whatever it might
be, in the tumult of her own joy she caught
VANDELEUR. 329
her in her arms ; and again weeping, almost
hysterically, from the mere effect of uttering
such blissful words, informed her of her com-
parative innocence of her brother’s death. The
old lady heartily and affectionately congratu-
lated her, and even warmly joined in her re-
newed thanksgiving.
“ And what will he the consequence of this
news ? What will you do now,—go back into
the busy world, and forget all the lessons of
your adversity ?”
“No, my friend; I trust I never could be
guilty of such ingratitude, even were I called
to the highest summit of earthly bliss that my
own heart could covet ; but as I never have
concealed anything from you, my respected
friend, I will not conceal now that I should not
wish to be subjected to the cruel trial of daily
and hourly seeing pictures of domestic happi-
ness before my eyes, which once seemed de-
stined to be my own lot
;
and to know that one”
(and she laid her blushing cheek against that of
330 VANDELEUR.
her old friend) “ whose soul is still centred in
me, is withering under the same regrets. No ;
I will fly from the temptation of useless repining,
and I will put the temptation for ever out of
his way. My friend, I am going to enter into
your sister’s convent !”
Had a thunderbolt burst at the old lady’s
feet, it could not have more astounded, though
it might have more alarmed her, than this an-
nouncement at this particular moment. That
Gertrude would in time become a Roman Ca-
tholic, where she scarcely ever saw any person
of another persuasion ; and even that, in future
years, they might all find the convent their final
resting-place, might, and probably did, occa-
sionally flit across the imaginations of the ami-
able sisters ; but that the sudden and irrevocable
resolution should be adopted by Gertrude her-
self at this particular moment, when for the
first time she betrayed the joyous, bounding
animation and happiness of her earlier days and
natural disposition ; and at the moment too,
when, after a separation of twelve years, the
VANDELEUR. 331
lover of her youth, and the still beloved friend
of her chastened feelings, sat once more beside
her, appeared an anomaly so strange, that the
old lady was almost tempted to burst out laugh-
ing at it. There was more than all this too in
the news she had herself to impart, to make it
appear one of those critical moments, that have
occurred at some periods of every one’s exist-
ence ; when the fortunate have had ever after to
congratulate themselves on a lucky escape, the
unfortunate to mourn over some irrevocable step ;
or, as Shakspeare more eloquently expresses it,
it was that
Tide in the affairs of men,
Which taken at the flood leads on to fortune ;
Omitted, all the voyage of their life
Is bound in shallows and in miseries.
The news which the old lady had to impart
was, that Gertrude’s wretched husband was no
more ! It was not the regular time for her
hearing from her banker ; but as he was on
terms of more than professional acquaintance
with her family, and as she had always ex-
332 VANDELEUR.
pressed a great desire to be informed of anything
that might transpire respecting De FEspoir, the
gentleman had the kindness, as soon as the news
reached him through De FEspoir’s own man of
business, to write to his fair correspondent to
inform her of the event. All the necessary
particulars were given. He had died at the
Antilles of the yellow fever ; leaving, as the
newspapers asserted, a wife, (the daughter of a
wealthy planter,) and two children, to deplore
his loss.
When the old lady received this news, her
first feeling was unmixed delight ; and she was
just setting out to inform Gertrude of it, when
she received her note. As she walked along,
she composed her features and deportment to
the decent gravity becoming the announcement
she was about to make ; and there was something
that struck her in finding Gertrude in such
animated and evidently not melancholy emo-
tion, seated beside her early lover, that deepened
that gravity even more than she intended : but
when she retired with that amiable being, and
VANDELEUR. 333
was made acquainted, not only with the source
of her joy, but the uprightness and purity of
her principles and resolutions, there appeared to
her something so exalted, so heavenly in it all,
that she considered for a moment whether it
would not he wrong in her to throw any stum-
bling-block in her way to such perfection, by in-
forming her that the only one that stood be-
tween her and earthly happiness was removed.
Besides, as bonne Catliolique,
she was not sure
how far she should be justifiable in preventing
a conversion ; and such her sagacity told her
would inevitably be the consequence of the
communication she had to make. But as,
notwithstanding all that is thought, or at least
said, to the contrary, being bonne Catliolique
is not absolutely inconsistent with being a kind-
hearted, upright, and feeling woman, the old
lady asked herself if, after all, she had a right
to take the matter of Gertrude’s happiness
here, or salvation hereafter, so completely into
her own hands. “ And her conversion must be
so sudden too !” she said to herself, “ for the
334 VANDELEUR.
last time we spoke upon this subject, about a
fortnight ago, she laughingly evaded all our un-
answerable arguments, just as she ever did. I
will sound her at all events upon this subject,
and I hope act accordingly.”
“ But, Gertrude,” she began, in pursuance of
this prudent resolution, “ your conversion, my
dear, is little short of a blessed miracle ; or were
you only pretending to hold out so long ?”
“ No, indeed, my kind friend ; I never pre-
tended anything on the subject, nor will I de-
ceive you now. The truth is, I am still a he-
retic in many points ; but then I trust to your
kind intercession, and that of
”
“ Oh then, if that be the case, my dear,” ex-
claimed the kind-hearted old lady, interrupting
her before she should have time to make any
further attack upon her conscience, which she
now persuaded herself told her to refuse the ad-
mission of a heretic, “ if that be the case, put
it out of your head. It is not your vocation.
God can show you his light in the synagogue
of the Jews, as well as in the convent of Santa
VANDELEUR. 335
Catarina ; and in his holy time I do not doubt
but he will. In the mean time, my dear young
friend, return to the world ; act your part there
in prosperity as nobly as you have done here in
adversity ; and never give your poor old friend
cause to regret that she did not cheat you into
becoming a nun, by concealing from you that
it is in your power to become a wife F
1
and
the old woman embraced her lovely young friend
in a torrent of kindly tears.
Gertrude for a moment feared her brain had
turned: “ What in the name of Heaven can
you mean, my dearest madam ? ” then, turning
pale with sudden apprehension, she exclaimed,
\
“ Is—is — Monsieur de FEspoir come back to
claim me
“ No, my child ; the Count de FEspoir is
gone to that place from whence he never can
return to trouble you more. Gertrude, you have
been a widow for more than four months F
1
Gertrude stood transfixed for one moment,
the picture of horror and amazement :
yes, not-
withstanding all that she had suffered, and all
336 VANDELEUR.
that she had expected still to suffer, the first
sensations produced by this awful announce-
ment were horror and amazement.
“ Take courage, my dearest child,” said the
kind old lady, taking her cold hand ;
“ I see
the finger of G od in all this : there are happy,
happy days in store for you yet.”
The conflict was awakened in Gertrude’s
breast ; the rush back upon her heart of the
full tide of early feelings, early hopes and wishes,
contending with all that, since, had so firmly
and conscientiously had possession of it, toge-
ther with the agitation she had already under-
gone for the last two days, was too much for
her strength ; her kind old friend assisted her
to gain her couch, to which she was confined in
a sharp fit of illness for nearly three weeks.
At the end of that time she was able to
receive a visit from Vandeleur : he had of course
been made acquainted with the sudden change
in her circumstances and prospects ;
and
although his first feeling, it must be acknow-
ledged, was rapturous joy, with loverlike ap-
VANDELEUR. 337
prehensions, lie soon began to torment himself
on the subject of Gertrude’s late coldness ; and,
by the time that she was sufficiently recovered
to receive a visit from him, he had worked him-
self into a state bordering upon despair.
In this frame of mind he stood in the little
sitting-room of the cottage, anxiously but tre-
mulously expecting her appearance ; and such
was the excess of his agitation upon hearing
her light step advancing from the inner chamber,
that he was obliged to turn hastily to the win-
dow to conceal it. When he heard the door
open, he still remained standing with his back
towards it. Gertrude was astonished, for she
knew that he must have heard her enter. She
shut the door, and, advancing a few steps, stood
still in the middle of the room ; still he did not
move or seem as if he heard her. At last she
softly pronounced his name, and, as if from com-
pulsion, he slowly turned at the call; but betrayed
a countenance so full of anxiety and emotion,
that Gertrude was no longer at a loss to ac-
VOL. III. n
338 VANDELEUR.
count for his wishing to conceal it ; and there
was mingled with its expression a sort of manly
mortification that seemed to say, “ You see what
I am reduced to, but I cannot help it !
”
Gertrude felt tenderly affected : she could not
for a moment hesitate between mere conven-
tional forms, and the keeping such a heart in
unnecessary suspense ;
“ that, indeed,” she said
to herself, “ would be making no distinction
between the reality and the shadow.” She ad-
vanced at once, though with an air of conscious
timidity, and held out her hand to him. He
gazed one anxious moment in her face before
he accepted it : apparently he was satisfied with
what he saw there ; for with a sort of smothered
groan of rapture—if one has ever heard such a
thing,—he caught her in his arms, and was about
to call her his own for ever, when she, hastily
stepping back, placed her hand upon his mouth,
and with her sweetest smile, while she bashfully
averted her eyes, gently whispered “ Not yet.”
VANDELEUR
CHAPTER XXIX.
( Which may he omitted if the Header pleases.)
And happily I have arrived at last
Unto the wished haven of my bliss.
u Oh ! mamma,” exclaimed the lovely young
Countess of Milford, who with her husband had
arrived in London that evening from their man-
sion in Wales, in time for one of her mother’s
elegant soirees,
“ oh ! mamma, I have found her
out ! I am quite sure I have found out which
is your beautiful heroine and friend ; and I am
so glad you did not bring me to her, that I may
have the credit of the discovery.”
“ Provided always that you are right, Theo-
dosia,” said her mother, smiling fondly and a
little archly upon her.
“ Oh ! I am right ! I must be right ! no one
else could be so beautiful and yet so peculiar-
looking ! I never saw anything before like the
340 YANDELEUR.
expression of lier countenance ; something so
beaming, so refulgent in its happiness, and yet
so sweet and chastened, that it gives one the idea,
not of earth hut of heaven, or at least of one
already purified from the dross of earth and the
fear of sorrow. It must be she : look here, mam-
ma, between these two persons’ shoulders, and
you will see who I mean, with a fine-looking man,
whom I never saw before, standing beside her.”
“ It is indeed she, my own Theodosia ; and
that fine-looking man is her husband, Mr.
Yandeleur.”
“ He is the picture of happiness too ; I de-
clare they are quite lions in their happiness.”
“ I am rather surprised at your thinking them
so for that reason, my own gay, happy Theo.”
“Yes: but you know, mamma, I don’t often
see my own face, except when cross and wearied
with the trouble of dressing ; and you must
observe yourself how different her happiness
appears from that of all around her,—so calm,
so placid, yet, as I said before, so absolutely re-
fulgent that it seems to shine abroad on us all.”
VANDELEUR. 341
“ That is because she has been tried in ad-
versity; and the blessings that we thoughtlessly
receive as almost our due, she has learned to
appreciate as the free and especial mercies of
Him who showed her how little they can be
commanded without his will. Your observa-
tions, my child, are acute and just. I never saw,
I never expected to see, such happiness on earth
as they enjoy ; I really sometimes think it is
permitted to them, in order to prove to us that
such may be still enjoyed on earth, if we would
not ourselves destroy it. You know they at
present live in a beautiful little place of mine
in shire, close to Seaton, because Beauton
Park is in lease ; and indeed I imagine Gertrude
rejoices that it is so, for some time ; until, as she
says herself, she becomes by degrees more accus-
tomed to the thoughts of returning there. I’m
sure I shall dread it, for their settling near me has
been a powerful accession of happiness to me.”
“ Are they then really agreeable companions,
mamma, apart from your peculiar interest in
them ?”
342 VANDELEUR.
“ Preeminently so : they have each cultivated
their minds to the utmost, and each have ardent
feelings ;
he has seen a great deal of life, and she
has an incessant flow of imagination. I don’t
think I ever had three happier days than I
spent with them soon after their arrival last
autumn. I was alone at Seaton,—you had gone
away from London after your marriage, and
your father and brother being detained there
by some parliamentary business, I hastened to
Seaton before them, and drove over the very
evening of my arrival to visit my dear friends
in their new abode. I was told they were out
walking ; I sent my ponies away to the stables,
and strolled out myself in search of them : it
was a most lovely evening ;
and as there is no
room for scenery or magnificent timber at “ Le
Bouquet,” it is a very paradise of flowers and
flowering shrubs, which, in a dewy autumn
evening, do really call out all that ever was less
than sordid and artificial in one’s feelings ; and,
old as I am, I felt their influence so strongly upon
that occasion, that, while wandering through
VANDELEUR. 343
the little wilderness of sweets, I became quite
romantic, and worked myself up to expect that
happiness which the soul sometimes dreams of,
but so seldom sees. I was not disappointed :
I found the Adam and Eve of this little paradise,
seated under one magnificent lime-tree which
is in their lawn, and which forms an arbour
of itself. Mr. Vandeleur had their eldest boy
upon his knee, and Gertrude a sweet baby in
her arms : her head was leaning on her husband’s
shoulder ; but what was my surprise, when I
advanced closer, to perceive that she was in
tears ! They both started up on seeing me ; and
at the first moment, yielding to custom, I affected
not to have noticed Gertrude’s tears: she dried
them off instantly, and smiling said,
“ Nay, duchess, you must not be a hypocrite
with me, nor must you be so indifferent about
me as not to be anxious to ask the cause of my
weeping : it was not sorrow ; indeed, I rather
think it was the contrary. I had just been
wishing that my ever beloved, lamented Her-
bert could be witness now to the happiness I
344 VANDELEUR.
enjoy ; and Godfrey was endeavouring to per-
suade me that it probably constitutes some of
his own happiness above, and that he is only
spared from the knowledge of aught that could
afflict him : or if the purified spirits have perfect
knowledge,—and it is hard to reconcile their
having any, and not all, —he thinks it probable
that in their extended foresight they smile at
our little misfortunes here, as we do at the
mimic woes of childhood, which we scarcely
would remove, for the very sake of the transient
variety they afford to them and to ourselves.”
“ I suppose this little fellow’s name is Her-
bert ?” I observed, kissing the loveliest boy I
ever beheld.
“ No,” she answered, “ Godfrey kindly pro-
posed that it should be, but I could not bear to
hear that name profaned even by that beloved
being and she nearly smothered the boy with
kisses in his father’s arms, to make amends for
the seeming slight.”
We returned towards the house, the conver-
sation still continuing in a religiously philosophic
VANDELEUIt. 345
strain ; and will you laugh at your mother, my
Theodosia, when I tell you that so happy, so
charmed, so elevated did I feel by the sight
of their happiness, and its rational and dilfusive
nature, that I sent for Palmer and my dressing-
box, and continued with them till the duke
returned.
“ But you are very happy yourself, my dear-
est mamma ; are you not ?” exclaimed the young
countess, suddenly struck with the rapturous
manner in which her still lovely and admired
mother spoke of the happiness of others ; a sub-
ject upon which she never remembered to have
heard her expatiate before.
“ Happy, my sweet child ! I am most happy ;
how could yours and Clandalton’s mother be
otherwise than happy ? But still my happiness is
now of a nature so different from theirs, that the
variety is delightful ; for though in point of cal-
culation I am but a few years older than Ger-
trude, yet her feelings of wedded love and hap-
piness are in their first youth still, with all the ad-
ditional glow and fervour of long suffering turned
346 VANDELEUR.
into the fruition of joy, while mine have of
course sunk into the calm quiet of long liabit.‘
n
“ You think then, mamma, that the habit of
loving even one’s husband, and being perfectly
happy always, deadens one to the enjoyment of
it ?” inquired the young countess, still almost
a bride, with an expression of melancholy in her
lovely face.
Her mother did not wish to enter into the
subject too closely. “ Why, no indeed, my
love, I do not ; I scarcely know what I did mean,
except what I tried to express at first ; namely,
that very young people are so prone to hap-
piness, it is so much their natural state as it
were, that they are scarcely more conscious of
the blessing than they are of the advantage of
having hands or feet ; but when so many years
have been spent in the school of discipline and
adversity, one not only knows the true value of
happiness, but ventures almost to feel that their
dark hour, such as all must have on earth,
has passed by, and that the future will be all
sunshine : such, at least, I know are Gertrude’s
VANDELEUR. 347
and Mr.Vandeleur’s feelings ; but then their case
is indeed a rare one, and can scarcely be tried
by common rules.”
“ She is a lovely-looking creature at all
events ; how long does she remain with you,
mamma ?”
“ Only till to-morrow,” answered the Duchess
of Castleton ;
“ nothing can detain either of
them more than a few days from their home :
she remained this day solely for the pleasure of
seeing you.”
“ Oh, then I must not indeed lose another
moment in making her acquaintance. Come,
mamma, and present me.”
“ Yes; but I should be sorry to think that
this were all you should see of her, or she of
you, my love. You must make a point of com-
ing to Seaton this summer, where you have not
now been for some years, but where I hope to
persuade your father to pass most of his sum-
mers in future. I always loved Seaton, but
now it has double fascination for me. Mrs. Van-
deleur is a first-rate amateur painter ; she per-
348 VANDELEUR.
fected herself in the art in her seclusion, and has
done some beautiful pieces which now ornament
my gallery : three of them are historical pieces,
if I may call them so, of the most critical mo-
ments of her own eventful life ; two of them she
did in her cottage in Switzerland, and the third
she has done since at Mr. Vandeleur’s request.
I want her to do one more, choosing for the sub-
ject the evening I found them and their sweet
children seated under the lime-tree, in order to
show the happiness they now enjoy ; hut hither-
to I have been unsuccessful : sometimes she says
she no longer has sufficient leisure for painting,
and at other times asserts that paintings are
only meant to commemorate what has already
passed away. But come, love, we have indulged
in a tete-a-tete too long.”
And so, gentle Reader, perhaps have you and
I : so, fare thee well !
THE END.
LONDON :
PRINTED BY SAMUEL BENTLEY,
Dorset Street, Fleet Street-
