{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__anonymous___testimonials_on_behalf_of_george_combe.pdf","mytitle":"Testimonials On Behalf Of George Combe","mylang":"de"}
k
ON BEHALF or
GEORGE <JOMBEj
AS A
CANDIDATE FOR THE CHAIR OF LOGIC
lN THK
UNIVERSITY OF EDINBUHGH.
.
.:I
EDINBURGH:
JOHN ANDERSON ,JUN. 55 NORTH BRIDGE STREET;
LONGMAN & CO., AND SIMPKIN & MARSHALL, LONDON.
MDCCCXXXVI.
'I ~3 &I
......
Digitized b Google
___... - -
r1t1NTi:Tl 81' !fU!.J. A; co. QJ.D t' ISJIMABllE'f,
o;g;uzedbyGoogle
To the J.oRD PROVOST
23. CuAaLoTTE Sclu•••, Eo..aoaou,
91/a April 1836.
of the City of Edinburgh.
Mv LoaD PaovosT,
P.nc.EJVING by the Newspapers that the Professor-
ship of Logic in the University of Edinburgh is about to
become vacant, I beg leave, '\lery respectfully, to ofFer myself
as a Candidate for the Chair. In case I should have the
honour of being elected, I should leave entirely in the hands
of the Council the arrangement of the allowances to be made
out of the emoluments to the Rev. Dr R1TcH1:s, the preaent
incumbent, and eYery other detail. I should alao pledge
myself to devote my undivided time and attention to the du-
ties of the office.
I beg permission oC your Lordship and the Council to
state briefly the motives which induce me to make the pre-
sent application.
The Logic, as hitherto taught, has been the junior class
for the Philooophy of Mind, and I presume that it is intend-
ed to be continued on the same footing. For seventeen
years I have been the public advocate of t•. New Philoeo-
phy of Mind founded on the functions of the Brain, and
have taught that Philosophy by Lectures an~ in Books, with
what success it does not become me to state. Regarding
this as the only true science of Mind, knowing that it is ma-
king rapid and extensive advances in public favour, and be-
lieving that it is destined, like all other truths, ultimately to
•a
'1•111....!la-•rr
.._. - __ --- ----- - -
Digitized by Google
----·~
ii
triumph, I feel it an incumbent duty to bring its pretensions
under the notice of your Lordship and the Council on the
present occasion. Edinburgh has long been celebrated as a
seat of Mental PhilO!Ophy, and if she shall be the first to
honour the new science with an Academic Chair, she may,
hereafter, boast of the enlightened sagacity which enabled
her Civic Magistrates to anticipate the verdict of posterity,
and to benefit her sons by communicating to them the great
truths which are ~estined to occupy so large a share of the
attention, and to inftuence so powerfully the opinions and in-
stitutions of the n~t generation.
In writing thus I may perhaps appear to your Lordship
to be led away by a warm imagination, and I shall therefore
~onsider it necessary to trouble you with such evidence, in
the fo~ of Testimqnials, as may warrant your Lordship and
ihe Council in giving effect to this application, without in-
curring the cqarge of rash and inconsi(lerate preference of
novelty in the discharge of your present important duty.
To remove farther any hesitation on this head, I beg to add,
that I should have rw hesitation to accept of an appoint-
ment during the pleasure of the Council ; leaving it in their
power at.a~y ~.when· they saw.cause to doubt the pro-
priety of the election w:hiah they had made~ to retrace their
steps, and re.vert to the philosophy of the existing school.
I have the honour to be,
Mv Loan,
Your Lordship's faithful and very olJcdient servant,
Gl-:0. COMBE.
Digitized by Google
xv
P•ge
21. From ,Captain MAoo.Nocaua, R N., F.G,S., 8eeretary to the
Royal GeQg?aphical Elc;>ciety or London, &c. &c. 24
22. Erom A:imasw Co11BB, M.D., Fellow-of the Royal College
of Physicians of Edinburgh, and Physician in Ordinary
to th~ Majesties the King and Queen of the Belgians, 26
23. From Professor Baou88AIS of ·the Faculty of Medicine of
Paris; DI BassIEu:s, of the Faculty of Paris, Member
of -the Anthropological Society, author of " An Intro-
duction to the Study of Phrenology, &c.; M. Dnrn
RICHARD, Member of the Society of Natural Sciences of
France, and of the Anthropological and Phrenological
Societies of Paris ; Dr CAsunR BaousSAIS, Physician and
Professor to the Val de-Grice, Agrege et Professeur
Suppleant d'Hygiene to the FacW.ty of Medicine of
Paris, .!\{ember of several Learned Societies, and Vice-
President of the Phrenological Society of Paris; Dr J.
RoBERToN, Member of several Learned Societies, and
President of the .Anthropological Society of Paris; Dr
FossATI, President of the Phrenological Society of Paris,
Member of several Learned Societies, formerly Clinical
Professor, and Director of several Italian Hospitals; M.
BouILLAUD, Professor of Clinical Medicine to the Fa-
culty of Paris; M. TURPIN, Member of the French In-
stitute; M. JULES CLOQUET, Professor to the Faculty of
Medicine of Paris, and Surgeon to the Hospital of the
Faculty of Paris; M. SA!irsoN (.Atne), Professor of Cli-
nical Surgery in the Univenity of Paris, and succes-
sor to the Baron Dupuytren as Srirge9n of the Hlitel-
Dieu; M. PELTIER, President of the Society of Natural
Sciences and Member of the Philomathic Society; M.
FREDERICK LEo, Paris ; Dr FEaaus, Physician to the
Hospital of Bicetre, Professor of Clinical Medicine on
the Diseases of the Nervous System, &c.; Dr JosBPH
VIMONT, of the Faculty of Paris, Honorary Member of
the Phrenological Societies of London, Edinburgh, Bos-
ton, &c., and .Author of a " Treatise on Human and
Comparative Phrenology;" Dr GAUBERT, Ex-Professor
of the University of France, Knight of the Royal Order
of the Legion of Honour, Principal Editor of the Jour-
nal of the Phrenological Society of Paris, Member of the
.Anthropological Society, &c. ; M. DuMoUTIBR, .Anato-
mical .Assistant to the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, and
Honerary Member of several Learned Societies ; and
•i••rllh•••~-- - -~- DigitizedbyG . ogle
:
---~. .__..~...
"--··-....---·---
xvi
Page
Dr F1mx V01s1N, of the Faculty of Paris, Physician to
several Hospitals of that City, Foaader of the Esta-
blishment at Vauvres for the Treatment of the Insane,
and Founder of the Orthophrenic Establishment, 29
24. Extrait du Discours prononce A la seance Annuelle de la
Societe Phrenologique de Paris, par M. le Professeur
ANDR.t.L, President, Professeur A la Faculte de Medi-
cine de Paris, Titulaire de I'Academie Royale de Me-
dicine, Membre des Societes de Medicine de Bogota,
d'Edimbourg, &c. et Medecin de l'Hopital de la Pitie,
Medecin Consultant du Roi, Chevalier de la Legion d'
Honneur, &c. Avril 1836. (Published in the" Jour-
nal de la Societe Phrenologique de Paris,") 32
26. From Dr W. F. EDWARDS, F. R. S., Member of the Insti-
tute of France, 33
26. From ALBX. J. D. DoRBBY, Esq. Master of the English De-
partment in the High School of Glasgow, 34
27. From S. HARE, Esq., Proprietor and Medical Attendant of
the Retreat for the Insane near Leeds, 35
28. From Dr WILLIAM WEIR, Lecturer on the Practice of Me-
dicine at the Portland Street Medical School, Glasgow,
formerly Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, and one of the
Editors of the Glasgow Medical Journal, 36
29. From Dr RoBBBT HuNTER, Professor of Anatomy and Phy-
siology in the .Andersonian University, Glasgow, 39
30. From ALEXANDKB Hoon, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock, ib.
31. From JouN MILLER, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock, 40
32. From Dr J. S. CoMBE, Member of the Royal College of
Surgeons of Edinburgh, 41
33. From GEORGI': SALMOND, Esq. Procurator-Fiscal of Lanark-
shire; WALTER Mo1a, Esq., Sheriff-Substitute of La-
narkshire ; and Mr D. M'CoLL, Governor of Glasgow
Jail, 42
34. From Dr JouN MA0K1NTOBH, Surgeon to the Ordnance De-
partment in North Britain, Lecturer on the Principles
of Pathology and Practice of Physic, Fellow of the
Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, Member of
the Medico-Chirurgical and Wemerhm Natural History
Societies of Edinburgh, of Montreal, Heidelberg, and
Brussels, 41
35. From ANDRKW CAR111ou.a..L, Esq., M.R.I.A., Dublin, 46
Digitized by Google
J
-~----=-'"-:.
ADDRESS
TO THE RIORT HONOURABLE TBB
LORD PROVOST, MAGISTRATES, AND COUNCIL,
OF THE CITY OF EDINBURGH.
BY OEORGE COMBE.
23 CHARLOTTE SQUARE, EDUfRURGH,
10th Mag 1836.
Mv LoRD PRovosT AND GENTLEMEN,
ON the 9th of April last I addressed a letter to the Right
Honourable the Lord Provost, offering myself to the Patrons
of the University as a Candidate for the Professorship of Lo-
gic, then declared vacant; and I now very respectfully sub-
mit to your consideration some Testimonials on which my
pretensions to fill that chair are founded. As I aspire to this
~onour on account of my exertions in maintaining, .diffusing,
and applying a new doctrine, which has not yet been admitted
into any of the older Universities as science, I beg your in-
dulgence while offering a few observations on the points on
which the testimonials have been chiefly designed to throw
light. But, before entering on these topics, I am anxious
to can your attention for a moment to the history of the re-
ception of other important discoveries by the ages to which
they were first disclosed.
Professor Playfair, in his historical notice ofdiscoveries in
physical science, published in the Supplement to the Ency-
clopredia Britannica, observes, that ' in every society there
are some who think themselves interested to maintain things
in the condition wherein they have found them. The con-
.........
, •••
)k..:.:...
.....
- - - -~ Digitized byGoogte
...
iv
siderations are indeed sufficiently obvious, which, in the moral
and political world, tend to produce this effect, and to give a
stability to human institutions, often 11<> little proportionate
to their real value, or to their general utility. Even in mat-
ters purely intellectual, and in which the abstract truths of
arithmetic and geometry seem alone concerned, the preju-
dices, the selfishness, or the vanity of those who pursue them,
not unfrequently combine to resist improvement, and often
engage no inconsiderable degree of talent in drawing back,
instead of pushing forward, the machine of science. The
introduction of methods entirely new must often change the
relative place of the men engaged in scientific pursuits, and
must oblige many, after descending from the stations they
formerly occupied, to take a lower position in the scale of
intellectual improvement. The enmity of such men, if they
be not animated by a spirit of real candour and the love of
truth, is likely to be direeted against methods by which their
vanity is mortified, and their importance lessened." *
The treatment experienced by Galileo and by Harvey is
too well known to render it necessary for me to recapitulate
it here ; hut, at a later age of the world, the discoveries even
of Sir Isaac Newton met with a similar reception. Professor
Playfair, speaking of the announcement of the composition of
light by that distinguished philosopher, says : " Though the
discovery now communicated had every thing to recommend
it which can arise from what is great, new, and singular;
though it was not a theory, or a system of opinions, but the
generalization of facts made known by experiments ; and
though it was brought forward in a most simple and un-
pretending form ; a host of enemies appeared, each eager to
obtain the unfortunate pre-eminence of being the first to at-
tack conclusions which the unanimous voice of posterity was
to confirm.'' t
These observations are applicable to Phrenology. Profes-
sor Andral, one of the most distinguished physiologists of
• Part ii p. 27. t P. 66.
Digitized by Google
v
France, remarks, that this science also " must pay the ulUal
tax of entry ; some one must be put to inconvenience in its
progress, and few perA<>ns are food of being set aaide. It
has, moreover, the great fault of being younger than thoee
it claims to enlighten; but let it alone, and it will throw all
obstacles behind it with marvellous force."•
One of the greatest reproaches that has hitherto attached
to established Universities, is their pertinacious adherence
to·emmeous opinions after they have been abandoned by the
general judgment of enlightened men. This haa led a die-
tinguished author to compare them to " beacons moored in
the stream of time, which serve only to mark the rapidity
with which the tide of civilization is flowing past them." It
is a characteristic feature in the constitution of the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh, that its Patrons do not belong to the
class which has generally brought upon itself the condemna-
tion of resisting important discovenes ; but to one engaged
in the active business of life ; one which, although not boast-
ing of a scientific character itself, possesses intelligence suffi-
cient to appreciate the value and to understand the direction
in. which the currents of science are flowing, and which
therefore is more open to the adoption of new truths than
are those learned bodies, which cease to oppose improvements
only when their individual members who have been educated
in exploded opinions cease to exist. " Truth," says Mr
Locke, " scarce ever yet carried it by vote any where, at ita
first appearance. New opinions are always suspected, and
usually-opposed without any other reason, than because they
are not common. But truth, like gold, is not the less so,
for being newly brought out of the mine. 'Tis trial and ex-
amination must give it price, and not any antique fashion;
and, though it be not yet current by the public stamp, yet
it may, for all that, be as old as nature, and is certainly not
the less genuine."
• Extrait du Discours prononce a la seance Annuelle de la Societe
Phrenologique de Paris, par M. le Professeur Andral, President. Avril
1835•
••• Digitized by Google
vi
The Logic Chair, as hitherto taught in the University of
Edinburgh, has embraced the study of the intellectual facul-
ties of the mind and their applications ; and regarding it aB
the junior class for mental philo8ophy, I proceed to point
out the bearing of the accompanying testimonials on the sub-
ject of appointing a new professor.
Phrenology professes to be the science of mind, discovered
and matured by observations made on the manifestations
which accompany the cerebral organs in a state of great de-
velopmerit or deficiency, both in health and in disease. It
poSl!.esses, therefore. two distinct characters : 1ae, That of the
Science of 'Mind, .considered apart from its oonnection with
organs; and, 2dly,· That of the Physiology of the Brain.
The following individuals certify that Phrenology, viewed
as the abstract science of_ mind, is superior to any system of
mental philosophy· which has preceded it, namely-
His Grace the Lord Archbishop of Dublin, late Prin-
~ipal of St Alba.n's Hall, and Fellow of Oriel Col.-
lege, Oxford, and who,, by his works on Logic and
Rhetoric, has established a right to be regarded as
the highest British authority on this subject, p. 5 ;
Dr Barlow, p. 4 ;
Sir Geo. S. Mackenzie, p. 7 ;
Dr Macnish, p. 15;
Dr Evanson; p1 !il() ;
Dr Gregory, p.,!U ;
Professor Nichol, p. 28 ;
Cq.ptain MacQDOChie, p. 24 ;
Dr A. C0tnbe, .P· ~ ;
The Hon. D. G. Hallyhurton, M. P., p. 49;
Professor Longfield, Dublin, Appendix, p. 50;
Charles Maclaren, Esq. p. 57;
Robert Chambers~ Esq. p. 55 ;
The Hon. Judge Crampton, p. 68.
&c. &c.
The following individuals certify that Phrenology con-
tains a true exposition of the physiology of the brain :-viz.
Digitized by Google
vii
The moat distinguished Medical authorities in Paris,
pages !8 to 88 ;
Dr Wm. Weir, p. 86;
Dr Mackintosh, p. 45;
Dr Elliotson, p. 47 ;.
Richard Carmichael, Esq. .Appendix, p. 8;
John Fife, Esq., Appendix, p. 8;
Alexander Hood, Esq., Appendix, p. !;
Dr Robert Hunter, Appendix, p. 84;
Dr James Johnston, p. 67.·
&c. &c.-
Assuming that these certificates affi>rd as satisfactory evi-
dence of the nature and truth of Phrenology as can be ob-
tained without personal investigation, the next object which
I have aimed at e11tablishing is, that it is useful. · Lord Ba-
con inferred that the Philosophy of Aristotle was false be-
cause it was barren ; and the same rule of jadging would lead
to a similar concluliion regarding the philosophy of mind as
hitherto taught in the established universities. It has served
as a kind of mental gymnastics for exercising and sharpen-
ing the intellectual faculties .of students, but it has been
found inapplicable to the elucidation of insanity, education,
the treatment of criminals, or almost to any purpose which a
sound philosophy of mind should subserve. Phrenology
claims a superiority over it in each of these particulars. I ts
doctrines, like those of all other nafu'ral sciences, are at once
simple and profound. The moralist, the physician, the le-
gislatar, and the teacher, are able to draw fl'Om it lights to
guide them in their practical duties ; while, to the student
who boastl!I' ·of a ·penetrating and adventurous intellect, it af-
fords scope for indulging in the most recondite researches and
relflned. ianalysis.
''i'he following tertificates Witt inform you of its applica-
tion in ·discrin'tina'tl't'lg the varieties of insanity :,._;.·
Sir Willittin Ellis, p. H ;
W·. A. F. Br<>'Wne, E5q. p. 10;
s. Hare, Esq. p. 36;
A. Mackintosh, Esq. p. 53 ;
--~---· -· .. - - - - ---·-·
Digitized by Google
viii
·H. A. Galbraith, Esq. Appendix, p. 89 0
· Dr James Scott, Appendix, p. 18;
D. Mackintosh, Esq. Appendix, p. !O ;
&c. &c.
The following testimonials will prove the bearing of Phre-
.nology on the classification and treatment of criminals:-
George Salmond, Esq. p. 4!! ; ,.
Dr Otto, p. 65 ; Appendix, p. !!8 ;
Dr Vimont, Appendix, p. 3!!;
Mr William Brebner, Appendix, p. 89;
&c. &c.
And the following will inform you of its application to the
purposes of education, viz.:
Mr A. J. D. Dorsey, p. 34; and
. ,, Mr William Hunter, p. 51.
.. In addition to testimonials from persons of station and of
·philosophical eminence, I have procured several from indivi-
duals in various ranks and employments, with the view of
shewing that the true philosophy of mind is calculated not
exclusinly to adorn palaces and academic halls, but also to
r~mmend itself for its truth and utility to int~gent men·
of every grade. The pupils who attend the logic classes are ·
the sons of such persons, and partake of their mental qualifi-
cations.
Two other points of importance for your consideration are,
the extent to which it has already prevailed, and the proba-
bility of its future progress to general acceptation as the true
philosophy of mind. An accurate opinion on these subjects
can be formed only by a careful perusal and consideration of
the whole documents annexed. In the letter from Robert
Ferguson, Esq. M. P., p. 18, you will find its history brie8y
sketched from the year 1799 to the present day. In the let-
ters of James Simpson, Esq. and Thomas Wyse, Esq. M. P.,
you will observe evidence that the Legislature is drawing upon
it for lights in education ; in the letters of Charles Maclaren,
Esq. and Robert Chambers, Esq. you will see the opinions
entertained of it by two eminent conductors of the periodi-
Digitized by Google
ix
cal presa ; ·and in ~ letten of Dr Weir, p. 86, Dr Hunter,
p. 61, Dr Evanson, p. !W, Dr Mackintosh, p. U, and Dr
Elliotson, p. 47, yoo. will find that it is actually taught aa
established science in several great and ftourishing institu-
tions for medical education. In the certificates from the
French capital, p. 28, from Dr Gregory, and Dr Otto of
Copenhagen, you will see evidence which leads to the ~
sumption that it is on the eve of being admitted ink> foi:eign
universities as the science of mind and the physiology of the
brain; and only now, in all probability, will the honour be
within your reach, of being the first to recognise its claims,
and take the lead in doing homage to its merits.
In regard to my pretensions as an individual, I wish to say
little.. .I appear before you as the bumble repreeentative of
a great system of natural truth, and wish to be estimated by
its merits alone. If Phrenology be at once a system of
mental philQsophy·and of the physiology of the brain, and if
durin,g nearly twenty years I have not only incessantly
studied it under the~ aspects, but publicly entered the field
of co~troversy with every respectable opponent, combating
the metaphysician with arguments, and the physiologist with
facts, it may reasonably be inferred that my intellectual fa-
culties have acquired some training that may conduce to the
successful teaching of the Logic class.
I may perhaps be permitted to claim also the quality of
moral intrepidity, in having braved the ridicule with which
Phr~nology was assailed for many years; and if by the ex-
ercise of this attribute I shall be recognised hereafter as ha-
ving in any degree benefited mankind, I shall feel contented,
whateYer your decision may be.
In 1819, when the all but unanimous voice of l!Ociety was
directed against Phrenology, I ventured to publish a book in
its defence. I was then unknown in literature, destitute of
influence, and entirely dependent on my profession for the
means of subsistence. Many prophetic warnings were offer-
ed to me of the utter impossibility of my aiding the cause in
any appreciable degree, and of the perfect certainty of my·
Digitized by Google
x
own ruin, both as a professional man and as an author, by the
inune attempt. Nor were willing instruments wanting in this
city to give e&ct to these unfavourable auguries:·. For seve-
ral ye8rs·the wit of '~ talented ct>Jiducto'r of Blackwood•s
MagaziM was directe<hgainst Phfl>nology and its adherents ;
Sir William :flatnilton lectured and wrote ·againSt: it with all
the subtlety and keenness for which he is distinguished ;
while Lord Jeffrey directed the full force of his refined rail-
lery, acute argumentative talents, and great reputation, to its
ex:tinction. In other cities a similar course was pursued.
In Edinburgh, the enlightened editors of the Scotsman long
stood singular'as its defenders in the public press. I am far
from insinuating that any talents ofmine suftieed to stem the
mighty t6rrent of ridicule, abuse, and argument, by which
Phrenology was alisailed. I was only one very humble among
many able a11d ~ient advocates of its truth ; but I do claim
the merii of having hazarded all that is 'dear to the human
mind,-fortune, reputation, and friendship, in its cause, at a
time when that cause appeared to the world in general to be·
desperate. 1·ha:ve never repented the selection which. I then
made ; :and the Testil110riials themselves which this applica-
tion !has called forth, are· to me more than an adequate re-
eolilpeIO!e fo1' all that I may have hazarded and done in its
defence.
I forbear to press on you my own qualifications as an author
and: a lecturer. The certificates will speak sufficiently on
these }><>ints.
- I expect still to receive a few testimonials from distant
quarters, which I shall take the liberty to present before the
day of election. I have added, as an Appendix, some testi-
JIDliats bearing on the t'ruth of Phrenology, presented by Sir
George S. Mackwde tol:he Right Uonomable' L'<>rd Glenelg,
Secretm-y to the Colonies, to relation to the application of
the. sci~Ot! to the t:las~ifi~tion of criminals. It will be seen
from. their dates, that the greater number of them were writ-
ten before the vacancy in the Logic Chair occurred ; and to
them I respectfully solicit your attention.
-- - --- -·--
Digitized by Google
xi
I have to apologise to you for the great length to which
these testimonials have extended, as well as for their miecel-
laneous nature; but unleBB I could bring forward not only
high but general evidence, that Phrenoloiry is entitled to be
received into your University as science, I conceived that
my claims to your suffrages would be inadequately sup-
ported.
I beg also to mention, with the utmost respect, that it is
not my intention to trouble you with a personal canvass. I
regard you as judges, exercising a solemn and important
trust, delegated to you by your fellow-citizens for the gene-
ral good ; and I should feel it to be as unbecoming to solicit
you individually for votes, as to request a judge privately to
decide a cause in my favour as a litigant. If any of you de-
sire to converse with me for the sake of obtaining additional
information, I shall feel a pleasure in waiting on you ; but
unless requested, I shall assume that you approve of my
present resolution to make no personal applications.
It is my intention to publish these Testimonials, as bear-
ing on a subject of general interest, and by this means you
will have an opportunity of gathering also the opinion of
society on the merits of the present application.
I have the honour to remain,
My Loan PuovosT and GENTLEMEN,
Your very faithful and obedient servant,
GEO. COMBE.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
CONTE~TS.
To the LoaD PaovosT of the City of Edinburgh, (prefixed)
ADDU88 to the Right Honourable the LoaJ> Paov01T, M.-
GISTRATBS, and CovNOIL of the City of Edinbmgh, by
G:soRGB CoMBB, (prefixed) • iii
TESTIMONIALS.
1. From CB.A.a. CowAN, Esq., M.D.E., M.D.P., M.R.C.8.E.,
Bachelor of Letters of the Sorbonne, Eleve of the Eoole
Pratique, Member of the Medical Society of O'hllerva-
tion of Paris, &c., Lecturer on Anatomy, Translator of
Louis on Consumption, 3
2. From E. BARLOW, Esq. M.D.; Graduate of the University
of Edinburgh of the year 1803; Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Ireland; Fellow of the Royal
Medical and Chirurgical Society of London ; Senior
Physician to the Bath Hospital, and to the Bath United
Hospital, &c. &c. .&
3. From his Grace the LoRD ARCHBISHOP or DuBLllf, a
4. From HawaTT CoTTaBL WATSON, Esq., F.L.S., &c.; for-
merly Senior President of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh; author of the "New Botanist's Guide,"
the " Geographical Distribution of British Plants," and
other works, 6
6. From Sir G. S. MAoKBNZIE, Bart., F.R.S.L., formerly Pre-
sident of the l'hysical Class of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh, and V. P. of the Society of Scottish Anti-
quarians, and President of the Astronomical lnltitution
of Edinburgh; Fellow and Honoraey Member of seve-
ral Scientific and Pbiloaophical Societies in Britaiil, on
the Continent, and in America; authQr of" Travela ila
Iceland," of" An Essay on Taste," of" Illustratiomof
Phrenology," of" An Agricultural Survey of Ross and
Cromarty Shires," and of various Memoirs in the Trans-
actions ofSocieties and Periodical Works, and in Brews-
ter's Edinburgh Encyclopaidia, &c. 7
6. From JAS. L. DRUMMOND, Esq., M. D., Professor of Anatomy
and Botany in the Belfast Royal Institution ; President
of the Belfast Natnral HistorySociety; Honorary Mem-
Digitized by Google
xiv
Page
ber of the Natural History Society of Newcastle-on-
Tyne, and of the Cuvierian Society of Cork; author of
" Thoughts on Natural History," "First Steps to Bo-
tany," and" Letters to a Young Naturalist," 8
7. From V. F. HovENDEN, Esq., M.A., late Fellow of Trinity
Coll~ge. Cantab. 9
8. From FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, Esq., M.D., F.R.C.S. Edin-
burgh, Vice-President of the Phrenological Society, 9
9. From W. A. F. BROWNE, Surgeon, Medical Superintendent
Montrose Lunatic Asylum; formerly Lecturer on Phy-
siology, &c.; President of the Royal Medical, Royal
Physieal, and Plinian Societies, &c. 10
10. From WILLIAM WILDSMITH, Member of the Royal College
of Surgeons, London, of the Council of the Literary and
Philosopl}ical Sodety of Leeds, &c... ' 11
11. From Sir W. C. ELLIS, M. D., Physician to the Lunatic
Asylum for the County of,Middlesex, 12
12. From JOHN SCOTT, M.D., Fellow of the Royal College or
Surgeons, 13
· 13. From Rear-Admiral BULL.EN, . 13
14. From R. WILLIS, M. D., Member of the Royal College or
Surgeons in London, Librarian to the same Institution,
and Member of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical So-
ciety, 14
15. From Dr RouBaT MACNIBH, Member of the Faculty of Phy-
sicians and .Surgeons .of Glasgow, and author of the
Philosophy of Sleep, &c. 16
16. From RoBBRT FERGUSON, Esq. M. P. 17
17. From the Same, 18
18. From RICHARD ToNsoN EvANSON, Esq., M. D., M. R. I. A.
Professor of the Practice of Physic in thti Royal College
of Surgeons, Ireland, . 20
19. From Dr WILLIAM GREGORY, F. R. S. E., Fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh ; Member
and formerly President of the Royal Medical Society ;
Corresponding Member of the Societe de Pharmacie
and of the Phrenological Society of Paris ; and Secre-
tary to the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh, 21
20. From J. P. N1cHoL, Esq. F.R.S.E., Professor ofPractical
Astronomy in the University of Glasgow, 23
Digitized by Google
36.
xvii
From Dr JonN ELLIOTBON, F.R.S., President or the Royal
Medical and Chirurgical, and or the London Phrenolo-
gical Societies ; Professor or. the Principles and Prac-
tice or Medicine and or Clinical Medicine, and Dean of
Fa<llllty, in the University or London; Senior Physician
of the North London Hospital; Fellow or the Royal
College or Physicians or London; formerly Physician
to St Thomas"s Hospital, and President of the Royal Me-
Page
dical Society of Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c. 4.7
37. From JAMBS Sn11PS0N, Esq. Advocate, 48
38. From the Honourable D. G. HALLYBURToN, M. P. for For-
farshire, · '9
39. From W1LLIAK HuNTBR, Esq. A.M., late Professor of Lo-
. gic, &c. in the Andersonian University, Glasgow, • 61
40. From ALEXANDER MAoB:INTosn, Esq. Surgeon Superinten-
. dallt, DUndee Royttl Lunatic Asylum, • 63
41. From RoBERT CHAMBERS, Esq. one of the Conductors or
Chambers's Edinburgh Journal, 66
42. From CHARLES MACLAREN, Esq., Editor of the Scotsman
Newspaper, . 67
43. Second Letter from GEORGE SALMOND, Esq. Procurator-Fis-
cal of the County of Lanark, 60
44. From WILLIAM HUNTER, Esq. Town-Clerk or Forfar, and
President of the Forfnr Phrenological Society, 61
46. From DAVID MuRRAY, Esq. Physician in Forfar, 62
46. From ALKXANDER SMITH, Esq. M. D. Physician in Forfar, 62
47. From JonN F. ALLAN, Esq. Licentiate of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, Edinburgh, 63
48. From the Honourable Judge CRAMPTON, formerly Fellow
and Professor or Law in Trinity College, Dublin, 63
49. From the Rev. Dr FRANCIS SADLIER, S. F. Trin. Col. Dublin, 64
60. From C. OTTO, M. D. Professor of Medicine in the Uni-
versity of Copenhagen, Physician to the Civil Prisons,
Member of the Royal Board of Health, and of the Me-
dical Societies in Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Stockl1olm,
Paris, Montpellier, Berlin, Leipzig, Lyons, &c. &e. 66
51. From THOMAS WvsE, Esq. M.P. Chairman ohhe Commit-
tee on Education in Ireland, 66
62. From JAMES JoHNSON, M. D. Physician-Extraordinary to
A*
Digitized by Google
xviii
Pag..
the King, Editor of the Medico-Chirurgical Review,
&c.&c. 67
53. From the Rev. Dr SPRAGUE, Pastor of a Presbyterian
Church at Albany, New York, 68
EVIDENCE OF THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY.
I. BooKs Sold-
L Certificate of Numbers ofMr COMBE's Worksprint-
ed by Messrs NEILL & Co. Edinburgh, 69
2. From Messrs WILLIAM and RoBBRT CHAMBERS,
Booksellers, Edinburgh, • 70
3. F~m M~ssrs LONGMAN, REES and c~., Booksellers,
London, . · 71
4. From Messrs SIMPKIN, MARSHALL and Co., Book-
sellers, London, 71
5. From Mr JoHN ANDEB,BON jun., Bookseller, Edin-
burgh, 72
Foreign Editions.-In the United States of America,
-in France,-in Germany,-in Sweden,-in
Denmark, · 73, 74
II. LECTURBS--
1. Certificate from JAMBS P. FALKNER, Esq., Secreta-
ry to the Edinburgh Philosophical Association, 74
2. From the Same, 75
~- From WILLIAM HuTToN, Esq., F.G.S., Member of
the Geological Society of France ; Secretary of
the Natural History Society, and Member of the
Council of the Literary and Philosophical So-
ciety of Newcastle-upon-Tyne; Honorary Mem-
ber of seTeral similar Institutions, &c. &c. 7~
4. From JAMEB M'CLELLAND, Esq. Accountant, Glas-
gow, 77
5. Extract from a Letter from Dr JAMBS Cox, dated
Paris, 17th April 1836, 78
6. From WILLIAM TAIT, Esq. Surgeon, Lauder, 78
DigitizedbyGoogle
- - __...
-
TESTIMONIALS.
I. From CHAS. CoWAN, EsQ. M.D.E., M.D.P., M.R.C.S.E.
Bachelor of Letters of the Sorbonne, Eleve of the EcOle
Pratique, Member of the Medical Society of Observa-
tion of Paris, &c., Lecturer on Anatomy, and Translator
of Louis on Consumption.
BATH, 27, RxvBa-STBBBT,
14th April, 1836.
MY DEAR Srn,-Finding from my friend, Dr. Barlow, that
you are a candidate for the vacant Professorship of Logic in
the University of Edinburgh, it affords me much pleasure to
express, however feebly, my deep conviction of your high
qualifications for so important a post.
While I feel that this impression might be fully justified by
your acknowledged talents and general attainments, it is
materially strengthened by the fact of your having so long and
ably advocated Phrenology.
The evidence upon which this science is now founded
appears to me quite irresistible, and the means which it affords
of simplifying·and. rendering r(l411y practical the·philosophy of
Digitized by Google
4
the human mind, so superior to all others, that I should con-
sider no individual properly qualified for the Chair of Logic,
who was either unacquainted with, or who disregarded its
principles.
With much esteem, believe me, My Dear Sir,
Yours very truly,
CHARLES COWAN
To Gxoaax Co11BE, Esq.
II. From E. BARLOW, EsQ. M.D.; Graduate of the University
of Edinburgh of the year 1808; Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Ireland; Fellow of the Royal
Medical and Cbirurgical Society of London; Senior
Physician to the Bath Hospital, and to the Bath United
Hospital, &c. &c.
BATH, SYDNEY-PLACE,
.April 14, 1836.
Mv ;DEAR Srn,-l hail .with peculiai: gratification the an-
nouncement of your being a candid!l-te for the Professorship of
Logic in the University of Edinburgh. Convinced as I have
long been that Phrenology is the true philosophy of mind, I
cannot but regard it, not only as conducive to the successful
teaching of a Logic class, but as the only foundation on which
sound Logic can be reared. The attempt to direct the opera-
tions of mind, whi.le overlooking its real nature and powers,
must ever fail, and is a solecism which, I trust, will in no long
time be banished from our schools.
Of your competency to teach the true philosophy of mind,
no individual testimony can be needed, it being unequivocally
attested by the unparalleled circulation of your published
works, and the high estimation in which you are held as a
mental philosopher, not only in this country, but over a large
portion of the globe.
I shall only add, that no public event could give me inore
Digitized by Google
5
sincere and ardent pleasure than your appointment to the
University Chair; which could not fail to benefit signally the
Logic Class, while it would reflect high credit on those to
whom the selection of a professor is confided.
I remain, My Dear Sir, with sincere respect and esteem,
fuithfu11y yours,
E. BARLOW, M. D.
To GEORGE CoHBE, Esq. Edinburgh.
Ill. From his Grace the Loan AacHBISHOP OP DUBLIN.
DoauN, 14th April, 1836.
DEAR Srn,-1 have no hesitation in repeating what I have
often said before, that I have derived both entertainment and
instruction from the perusal of your works. In some points I
differ from you, and in several others I remain in doubt; hut
much that you have said I consider as highly valuable.
The anatomical and physiological portion of Phrenology-
what I believe you call Organology-demands more attention
than I have had leisure to bestow, to enable a cautious in-
quirer to make up his mind upon it. But I am convinced
that even if all connection of the brain with mind were re-
garded not merely as doubtful, but as a perfect chimera, still
the treatises of many phrenological writers, and especially
yours, .would be of great value, from their employing a
metaphysical nomenclature far more logical, accurate, and
convenient, than Locke, Stewart, and. other writers of their
schools. ·
That the religious and moral objections against the phreno-
logical theory are utterly futile, I have from the first been
fully convinced.
That clever article in the Edinburgh ·Review• to which
you replied, I consider you as having completely and de-
•·By Lord Jeffrey in No. 88.-G. C.
Digitized by Google
6
cisively refuted. Your answer did not indeed establish the
truth of your theol'y, nor appeared to have such a design;
but in repelling those particular objections against it, you
were triumphant.
Believe me to be, with much respect, your faithful humble
servant,
RICHARD DUBLIN.
To GEORGE Co11BE, EsQ.
IV. From HEWETT CoTTREL WATSON, EsQ. F.L.S.,&c.,for-
merly Senior President of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh, author of the " New Botanist's Guide," the
"Geographical Distribution of British Plants," and other
works.
DITTON MARSH, SURREY,
.April 14, 1836.
Understanding that MR. GEORGE COMBE has come
forwarq as a candidate for the vacant Professorship of Logic
in the University of Edinburgh, I hereby offer to the Civic
Council of Edinburgh, and other patrons of that University,
my respectful but most decided testimony, that Mr. CoMBE's
p~renological acquirements would render his lectures ex-
tremely beneficial to students of Moral Philosophy, and be
eminently calculated eventually to increase the celebrity of
the University in which he should be appointed a professor.
I also add, that the science of Phrenology is one of great
practical value; and that no system of Logic or Moral Philo-
sophy, in which the principles of Phrenology are neglected,
can henceforth be considered on a par with the science of the
present age.
It is supposed by many persons, that avowed beliefin Phren-
ology is detrimental to the influence of individuals, and would
prove injurious to the fame of any University in which that
science should be taught. This has been the case until recently,
hut it no longer is so. I am now engaged in collecting statistical
evidences to show the present state of Phrenology, and shall
"!13'9'"-- -------.~---·-- ~~·---
Digitized by Google
7
shortly lay before the public the most conclusive proofs that a
steady conviction of the truth and value of phrenological
science is now extensively and rapidly spre~ing through
society. In consequence of which, it may safely be predicted
that colleges and academies,professors and teachers, neglecting
the principles of Phrenology in future, will fail to support
their acquired fame, and soon fall into disrepute.
'Vith fervent wishes that the high scientific name of the
University of Edinburgh may not be thus endangered, I sub-
scribe my name and designation, according to the wish ex-
pressed in the circular of Mr. Combe.
HEWETT COTTREL WATSON, F.L.S., &c.
\",From Sir G. S. MACKENZIE, BART. F.R.S.L., formerly
President of the Physical Class of the Hoyal Society of
Edinburgh, and V. P. of the Society of Scottish Anti-
quaries, and President of the Astronomical Institution
of Edinburgh; Fellow and lfonorary Member of several
Scientific and Philosophical Societies in Britain, on the
Continent, and in America; Author of " Travels in Ice-
land;" of" An F..ssay on Taste;" of " Illustrations of
Pqrenology;" of " An Agricultural Survey of Ross and
Cromarty Shires ;" and of various Memoirs in the
Transactions of Societies, and Periodical Works, and in
Brewster's Edinburgh Encyclopredia, &c.
CouL, 15th April, 1836.
WHILE I was unacquainted with the facts on which it is
founded, I scoffed, with many others, at the pretensions of the
new Philosophy ofMind, as promulgated by Dr. Gall, and now
known by the term Phrenology. On hearing and conversing
with his most eminent disciple, the lamented Spurzheim,
the light broke in upon my mind; and many years after I had
neglected the study of mind, in consequence of having been
disgusted with the utter uselessness and emptiness of what I
Digitized by Google
8
bad listened to in the University of Edinburgh, I became
a zealous student of what I now perceive to be truth. During
the last twenty years I have lent my humble aid in resisting a
torrent of ridicule and abuse, and have lived to see the true
philosophy of Man establishing itself wherever talent is found
capable of estimating its immense value. Mr. Combe's
writings abundantly show his fitness to teach this philosophy,
and all its important applications; and an intimacy with him
during twenty years enables me to declare, that a more
zealous, able, and faithful teacher cannot be found. It will
be a proud day for Edinburgh when herrulers shall determine
that substantial truth shall be taught in her University,
instead of young men being forced to listen to empty and
unmeaning declamation.
G. S. MACKENZIE.
VI. From JAs. L. DRUMMOND, EsQ. M.D., Professor ofAna-
, tomy and Botany in the Belfast Royal Institution, Presi-
dent of the Belfast Natural History Society, Honorary
Member ofthe Natural History Society of Newcastle-on-
Tyne, and of the Cuvierian Society of Cork. Author
of " Thoughts on Natural History;" " First Steps to
Botany;" and" Letters to a Young Naturalist."
BELFAST, 15th .A.pril, 1836.
BELIEVING that Phrenology forms the true basis of the
science of mind, while it affords the best means by whicb the
latter can be clearly and satisfactorily understopd, and .being
also fully impressed with the conviction tiiat it must eventually
supersede every other system of. Mental Philosophy, I have
no hesitation in giving my opinion of its merits, and in stating
my belief, that it is calculated to give a degree of success
hitherto unknown to the teacher of Logic.
JAMES L. DRUMMOND, M. D.
9
VII. From V. F. HovBNDEN, Es2. M.A., late Fellow of
Trinity College, Cantab.
SaaBBAKPTON, NBAa B.u1TOL,
15t/& ~pril, 18S6.
SIR,_:_You are most welcome to my opinions on the
subject of Phrenology, if they can be of any service in for-
warding your views with regard to the Chair of Logic in the
Uuiversity of Edinburgh.
I have no hesitation, then, in stating that the observations
and reflections of ten years have very strongly disposed me to
regard the doctrines of Phrenology, not as mere visionary
speculations, but as essentially in accordance with truth and
nature, and, consequently, as affording a satisfactory basis for
the study of the human mind.
How much a solid ground-work was needed for that study,
it is not necessary for me to say.
I,am, Sir, (in great haste) your obedient Servant,
V F. HOVENDEN, M.A.
VIII. From FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, EsQ. M.D., F.R.C.S.
Edinburgh, Vice-President of the Phrenological Society.
EDINBUltGB, April 16tla. 1836.
DEAR Srn,-Your coming forward as a candidate for the
Chair of Logic in the University of Edinburgh has afforded
me much pleasure, and I sincerely wish. you .success. Con-
vinced by the experience of many years that Phrenology is the
only true science of mind, I am of opinion that Logic must
be based upon it, and that it can be successfully taught
only by a Phrenologist. I have perused all your works with
the deepest interest:, and much benefit; they contain profound
and. often original views of.our·mental constitution, and prove
how capable the science is of being applied to all the impor~
Digitized by Google
10
ant affairs of life. I have re~larly attended several courses
ofyour lectures on Phrenology, and, with great pleasure, bear
testimony to the clearness of their statements, and the ingen-
uity and eloquence of their illustrations.
I am, Dear Sir, yours sincerely,
FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, M:. D.
1X. From W.A.F. BaowNE, EsQ. Surgeon, Medical Superin-
tendent of the Montrose Lunatic Asylum, formerly Lec-
turer on Physiology, &c., President of the Royal Medi-
cal, Royal Physical, and Plinian Societies, &c.
MoNTROSB, April 16, 1836.
I ATTENDED Mr. Combe's public lectures, as a pupil,
or several years, and shall never cease to recur to the period
is that in which I became acquainted with the laws and
>henomena of the human mind, and with my own mental
;onstitution and capabilities. l had previously completed a
.:ourse of philosophical studies at the University, and was con-
sequently, to a certain degree, competent to compare what he
taught, and his mode of teaching, with what was then and
what still is, the established mode of instruction. I have no
hesitation in declaring that Mr. Combe's course appeared to
.me infinitely superior to all others, and this superiority con-
sisted as much in its being so perspicuous as to be compre-
hensible by all men of ordinary intellect, and so practical as
to be of universal utility, as in its being a faithful exposition
of mental philosophy. Since this period I have endeavoured
to investigate the different systems of philosophy with care and
impartiality. I have done tP.is with a view to qualify myself
for the care and cure of the insane-for the study of mind
under disease; and have come to three conclusions:
I. That the doctrines taught by Mr. Combe, or contained
in his works, are founded on truth. 2. That by no other
means can the phenomena of mind in general be explained,
the minds of the young educated, the minds of the mature
--~--~--..,,=>--------o
-
igitizedbyGoogle
11
regulated, or the minds of the diseaseu i....stored to health. 8.
That Mr. C. is the most profound,. eloquent, and successful
teacher of these doctrines.
Upon these grounds I conceive Mr. C. is most eminently
.qualified to discharge the duties of the Logic chair. But
these are not his only claims. He has devoted himself for the
last twenty years to the study of mind in all its bearings. His
knowledge of the opinions of the metaphysicians is extensive,
and would enable him to give a most comprehensive view of
the history or progress of mental philosophy. His mannC'r
as a pubHc teacher is highly impressive, it bears the very
impress of truth and sagacity, and his style is clear and chaste.
I can, in short, imagine no man more likely to infuse a spirit
of philosophical inquiry into the young, or more capable of
guiding that inquiry to its legitimate results.
. · W. A. F. BROWNE.
X. From WILLIAM WILDSMITH, EsQ. Memberofthe Royal
College of Surgeons, London ; of the Council of the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Leeds, &c. ;
author of a work on the Connexion between the Mind
and the Brain.
LBEDI, April 16, 1836.
MY DEAR Srn,-It gives me sincere pleasure to learn that
you are a candidate for the Chair ofthe Professorship of Logic
in the University of Edinburgh.
Having, for a series of years, taken great interest in the
sciences of Metaphysics and Logic, and felt assured that the
subjects could not be clearly elucidated, especially to students,
without the aids which are afforded by the doctrines of
Phrenology, I have ever been anxious that some of our
Universities or high places of learning· should associate them
as kindred sciences, under the guidance of an 11:ble and im-
partial teacher-being confident that they haVe' 8everally suf-
f~red from the want of such combination, arid equally certain
that much advantage will accrue from theit•joint stu<ly.
Digitized by Google
12
To no one, in my estimation, could so distinguishecI an
honour be given than yourself, devoted as you have been
to Phrenology, and successful as your efforts have ever proved
in rendering the subject clear to others. Possessing a truly
philosophic mind, unrestricted by any narrow bounds of preju-
dice, I consider you eminently qualified to undertake the
arduous, yet deeply interesting duty of conveying to the rising
generation truths at once so interesting and so important.
With best wishes for your success, believe me to remain,
Yours very sincerely,
WILLIAM WILDSMITH.
XI. From Sir WILLIAM C. ELLIS, · M. D., Physician to tl1e
Lunatic ~sylum for the County of Middlesex.
H.t.NWELL, 16th .April, 1836.
DEAR SIR,-1 wish I knew in what words to address you,
that would have the greatest weight with those gentlepien who
have the honour of •ppointing to the Chair of the Professor-
ship of Logic, now vacant in your University, that I might, if
possible, induce them to burst the trammels of prejudice that
have so long confined the public bodies in the United King-
<lom, to pursue a system ofstudy, that can give no solid satis-
faction to any one really desirous of becoming acquainted with
the science of mind. As far as my feeble testimony may have
any influence, I candidly own, that until I became acquainted
with Phrenology, I had no solid basis upon which I could
ground any treatment for the cure of the disease of insanity,
which had long had a peculiar claim upon my attention. I
can only say, that I most sincerely hope you will be the pro-
fessor appointed. Nothing, I think, can be fairer than your
proposal to accept the chair during the pleasure of the Coun-
cil; because, if they find themselves wrong, they can so easily
retrace their steps. But on that head I feel quite confident,
that instead ofony retracing of steps, they will have the proud
Eatisfaction of feeling they stand first in the list of th~ who
----
Digitized by Google
13
lmve tnken any public steps to afford a numerous elass of stu-
dents an opportunity of becoming fundamentally acquainted
with those principles which alone can discover the·true char-
acter of man. Repeating my sincere wish for your success,
I remain, Dear Sir, yours very faithfully,
W. C. ELLIS.
XII. From JonN ScoTT, EsQ. M. D., Fellow of the Royal
College.of Surgeons of Edinburgh.
31, NoaTHUHBERLANn-.S'l'iu:ET; l7tA .April, 1S.'J6.
DEAR Srn,-Believing Phrenology to be the true science of
mind, I have no hesitation in stating, that in my opinion it
ought to form the basis of a course of lectures on Mental
Philosophy. You now occupy the highest place among living
Phrenologists, and from your eminent success as a lecturer,
and the great reputation you have acquired both at home and
abroad from your writings, I know no one whose claims can in
any way be placed in competition with yours, should the civic
councila<,l.opt your views of the subject.
With best w~hes, I remain, Dear $ir, yours sincetely,
JOHN SCOTT, M.D.
To GEoaGE CoMBE, Esq.
XIII. 'From Rear-Admiral BuLLEN.
BATH, J6tA'..4.pril, 1886.
DEAR S1ii,-I am informed by my friend Dr. Barlow, that
you are a candidate for the Logical Chair in the University
of Edinburgh. As a very humble phrenologist, though a
sincere and zealous one, you have my best wishes, in unison,
I am sure, with every true phrenologist in the world, that
you may be successful; as we may then expect that the. true
philosophy of the mind will be taught on its only firm basis,
Digitized by Google
14
the principles of Phrenology. I lament the distance between
us prevents me from personally offering you my grateful
thanks for the great pleasure and instruction I have derived
from your works on Phrenology, the Constitution of Man, &c~
assuring you, that they have not only enlarged the boundaries
of my mind in various ways, but they have done more, for
they have increased and given energy to my charity, teaching
me by my own infirmities to compassionate and make every
allowance for those of my neighbour.
Again proffering you my sincere wishes that you may suc-
ceed in your approaching contest, permit me to subscribe my-
self, yours most truly,
T. BULLEN, RBAB-ADKillAL.
To GEO&GE CoKBE, Esq.
XIV. From R. W1LL1s, EsQ. M.D., Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons in London, Librarian to the same
Institution, and Member of the Royal Medical and
Chimrgical Society.
LONDON, April lath, 1836.
MY DEAR Sm,-1 am glad to learn that you are in the
field as a candidate for the vacant Chair of Logic in the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, and, for the sake of that only true and
most harmonious science of mind of which you have so long
been the distinguished and nble advocate, I do most heartily
pray that success may crown your canvass. An old student
myself in the Logic class, I can never look back but with re-
gret on the barren path I then found myself compelled to
tread; attempting, with faculties still boyish and immature, to
grasp abstractions, and to gather positive knowledge out of a
series ofdiscussions upon names. Familiar for many years past
with the philosophy of mind which rests on the observation of
nature at large, which has followed our better acquaintance in
the present day with the physiology of the brain, I feel my-
self competent to declare how much of interest and i[J'lportance
...._ ___-~
Digitized by Google
15
attach to the study of the operations ofour minds, and of the
primary powers by which they act on the universe around us,
when pursued under the guidance of the truths now brought
to light, and embodied in the doctrines of Phrenology.
My frequent intercourse and long acquaintance with you
personally, as well as with your writings, lead me to the con-
viction, not only that in the Chair of Logic and Metaphysics,
you would be most completely in the plaee for which
nature has fitted you, bu~ that the Univenity of Edinburgh,
(my own respected alma mater,) would soon see reason to be
proud of the choice she had made of a professor.
Believe me, my Dear Sir, to be, with great esteem,
Very sincerely yours,
R. WILLIS, M.D.
XV. From Da. RoBERT MAc1usu, Member of the Faculty
of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, and Author of
" The Philosophy of Sleep," &:c.
29, W.1sr-GE0B.011-STB.BBT, Gu.SGow,
19th April. 1836.
Ma. COMBE having started as a candidate for the Logic
Chair in the University of Edinburgh, I feel called upon, by
a sense of the high admiration which I entertain for the moral
and intellectual character of that gentleman, to state my im-
pressions as to his capability of successfully discharging the
duties attached to the Chair in question.
For many years the philosophy of mind has occupied much
of my attention; but till I became acquainted with the new
method of mental investigation discovered by the late Dr.
Gall, I found it uttei-ly impossible to arrive at any rational
conclusion upon the subject. The old system of metaphysics
explained nothing satisfactorily; and like all persons who
attempted to arrive at definite results by its assistance, I only
experienced mortification and disappointment. Since com-
mencing the study of Phrenology, a new light bas dawned
Digitized by Google
upon me, and various phenoJJ)~ whkili_ w;ere before. perfectly
inexplicable upon any known theory, are now of easy solu-
tion. Nor is the influence of this light confined t.o a state of"
healthy mental manifestation; it extends equally t.o the func-
tions of mind in a state of disease-giving a new insight into
the hithert.o dark and unaccountable mysteries of insanity, and
clearing up what was formerly hid .in impenetrable darkn~.
As a medical man, I have dei:ived the greatest benefit from
the forcible manner in which th~ 'itudy of Phrenology has
directed my attention t.o the functions of the brain in health
and disease. The relations subsisting between the brain and
other organs have been unfolded by this science with uncom-
mon clearness, and with ,&··precision and. accuracy hitherto
undreamt of by physiologists. I have no hesitation in saying,
that my notions on every subject, whether of morals or physi-
cal science, have become more just, more systematic, and more
in harmony with each· other, since I studied Phrenology; and
I firmly believe that the same fortunate result may be calcu-
lated upon by all who pay.attentioll tO the subject.
Great light has been thrown upon this science by Mr.
Combe. His System of Phrenology is a beautiful exposition
of the phenomena of mind, and constitutes, in my humble
opinion; by far the best·system of mental philosophy in the
English ·language. !'fhis ~ not the solitary opinion of a
phrenologist. Many who know nothing of the doctrines, and
who,· in truth, do not believe in them, are convinced that, con-
sidered simply as a metaphysical account of the human mind
in its various aspects, M1·. Combe's book surpasses in clear-
ness, intelligibility, and in the ease with which its statements
may be put to the test, and thus either confirmed or refuted,
every work of the kind which they have had an opportunity
of perusing. His volume on the Constitution of Man is a
performance of an equally high order of intellect, and may be
justly considered one of the most remarkable productions of
the present day. Few works have met with such a circu-
lation, and when we consider its extraordinary merits, thil fact
is no way wonderful.
· - Digitized by Google
17
I have heard Mr Combe lecture on Phrenology and on
Moral Philosophy, and entertain the same high opinion of
his oral discourses as of his written productions. They are
characterised by equal clearness, sagacity, sound reasoning,
and benevolent and liberal feeling. Indeed, I am not ac-
quainted with any individual, either in Edinburgh or else-
where, who, as a teacher of Logic or Metaphysics, can be
compared with him. 1.'hese facts I mention, not from a slight
or casual knowledge of this gentleman and his writings, but
from a minute and intimate acquaintance with both, which
has enabled me to speak with a confidence upon the subject
which I should not otherwise have felt authorised to do.
R. MACNISH.
XVI. From RoBERT FERGusoN, Esq. M. P.
To GzoaeE Co11nz, Esq. 18 Pov.T11.ur SQV.AllK,
· MY DEAR Sia, 16th April 1836.
I find you have otfered yourself as a Candidate for
the Professorship of Logic now vacant in the University of
Edinburgh.
I cannot presume to offer any direct certificate of my opi-
nion of your high fitness for such a situation. But this I
will say, that I consider the Chair would be filled, if the
choice was made of yourself, in a way the most conducive to
the progress of the Philosophy of the Human Mind, more
than by the appointment of any man I know.
The important science which you have so successfully fol-
lowed up, may not yet have obtained that general confidence
which it must ultimately acquire ; but I cannot doubt that
the Philosophy of" Mind, founded on the functions of the
brain, so ably, so eloquently, and so philosophically main-
tained by you, must ere long become the basis of Mental
Philosophy, and prove highly conducive to the useful
teaching of the Logic Class.
Edinburgh will do itself high honour if you are the sue-
cessful candidate.
Ever very truly yours,
ROBT. FERGUSON.
*B
Digitized by Google
18
XVII. From the Same.
To GzollGE CoHBE, Esq.
MY DEA& Sta, PollTJIA!f SQuAaE, 201A ..fpril 1836.
SINCE I wrote the enclosed note, expressive of my
hope that you might be the successful candidate for the Lo-
gic Chair, it has occurred to me that I inight state, that a con-
viction of the importance to mankind of a thorough· know-
ledge of the Philosophy of the Mind founded on the func-
tions of the brain, was at an early period awakened, and
strongly impressed upon my mind, by the great author of the
science, Dr Gall himself. I happened to be at Vienna in 1799.
Doctor Gall had previously developed his theory after long
and careful investigation. He WaR a man most eminently
qualified for philosophical inquiry, and, with a singular can-
dour and simplicity ol character, hazarded nothing without
being founded on observations in nature, and supported by
anatomical facts, and more particularly without being sup-
ported by a combination ol facts folinded on comparative
anatomy.
His medical friends, to whom he anxiously imparted all
his discoveries, were satisfied that the great basis of his sys:.
tern was founded on unquestionable evidence, drawn from
observations of the brain, and of human talents and dispo-
sitions.
At the time I mention, he had begun to lecture publicly
on his system in German ; and, encouraged by the great in-
terest it excited, offered to lecture and develope his views in
French, for the sake of the strangers then at Vienna.
I, with several English gentlemen, eagerly embraced the
opportunity thus offered to us, to listen to Dr Gall.
The impressions which the novelty and interest of his di&-
cov-eries excited, alarmed the priests, who, from a false and
ignorant view of the subject, were led to imagine that such
a theory might lead to results inconsistent with their religious
tenets; and the result was, that the government was induced
: to interdict him from lecturing any more.
----·
Digitized by Google
19
I was, however, so much struck and impressed with the
truth of his discoveries, which. I considered so consistent
with the wise simplicity and unity which mark so forcibly
the laws of our Omnipotent Creator, that I was fortunate
enough to obtain Dr Gall's permission to listen to hia deve-
lopment of his views in private.
From the persecution he met with, he, soon after lhat,
found ·he could not follow out his favourite study witll any
advantage at Vienna; he went elsewhere, and at last flxed
his residence at Paris. ·
I can never forget the strong impression his philosophy
made upon me, and, above all, the important results which
must follow from a general system of education connected
with it.
When his views first attracted public notice, the able, the
talented, and the enlightened attacked them, without deign-
ing to inquire into their truth, because they were an easy
prey for playful and ignorant criticism ; but I am glad to
find that they have been followed up by able and scientific
pupils, and that they at last have gained a footing which
must advance, and which cannot now retrograde.
You, Sir, have bec~me their eloquent and successful cham-
pion, and the current is now running strong in their favour.
It is because I consider the Philosophy of the Mind found-
ed on the functions of the brain mos~ essential to the future
advantage of education, not only in a practical, but in a
philosophical point of view, that I consider your obtaining
the Chair of Logic would ultimately benefit mankind most
essentially.
Ever truly yours,
ltOBr. FERGUSON.
Digitized by Google
20
XVIII. From R1cHABD ToNsON EVANSON, Esq., M.D.,
M. R. I. A., Professor of the Practice of Physic in the
Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland.
DuBLur, 36 DAw11o:ir STllEET,
,fpril 16. 1836.
I HAVE long been acquainted with the science of Phre-
nology, and feel no hesitation in declaring my conviction oC
its truth.
As a system of Metaphysics, .it differs from all others, in
being founded on fact and built up by obeervation. Phy-
siological facts are substituted for metaphysical speculations.
As a sdence of Mind, its doctrines inculcate morality,
rationality, and religion.
It is practically useful, as well as philosophically true.
In Phrenology, we find united the best exposition of the
moral sentiments, and the most approved metaphysical doc-
trines heretofore taught, while it surpaSMeSall former systems
in practical utility and accordance with facts ; being that
alone which is adequate to explain the phenomena of Mind.
This opinion I am emboldened to pronounce, not merely
as my own conviction, but as that which I have heard ex-
pressed by some of the most scientific men and best logicians
of the day.
I conceive that a knowledge of Phrenology, as the true
science of Mind, must not only be " highly conducive to the
successful teaching of a Logic Class," but I do not think that
Metaphysical Science can be adequately taught, as it is now
understood, without such knowledge ; and, therefore, con-
sider that no greater improvement could be made in academic
education, than the introduction of the new philosophy of
Mind.
That such improvement cannot long be deferred, must be
obvious to all who observe the deep impression which Phre-
nology has made on the public mind, and the increasing fa-
vour with which it continues to be received.
The opportunity is now oWe..oo to the Civic Council of
.,..,,....______ . - --- -------~
Digitized by Google
21
Edinburgh, to aec1:1re this distinction for their University;
and I feel convinced that, by being the first to appoint a
Phrenologist as teacher of Logic to their Class, they would
adopt the course best calculated to raise the reputation of
their University, and to advance the interests of theh- Stu-
denbi.
RICHARD TONSON EVANSON.
XIX. From Dr WJLLIAM Guooay, F.R.S.E., Fellow of
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh ; Mem-
ber and formerly President of the Royal Medical Socie-
ty ; Corresponding Member of the Societe de Pharmacie
and of the Phrenological Society of Paris; and Secretary
to the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh.
'To GEORGE Co:anni:, Esq.
AnHLIE PL~cE, EDnlBUllGU,
MY DEA11. Srn, 20th ...fpril 11136.
ALTHOUGH I have not the vanity to think that
my opinion can have much weight with. the Patrons, I will-
ingly comply with your request on the subject of the Chair
of Logic.
As that Chair embraces a most important department of
mental science, namely the Philosophy of the Intellect, it is
<>bviously in the highest degree desirable that it should be en-
trusted to one who has not only turned his attention to the
.subject, but has availed himself of the discoveries which
have, since the commencement of the present century, effected
110 great a change in this branch of knowledge.
I allude, of course, to Phrenology : and I speak with the
less hesitation, because I am conscious of having used my
best endeavours to satisfy myself that that science is founded
in nature.
These endeavours have led to a firm conviction of the
truth of Phrenology, and of its vast importance, as consti-
Digitized by Google
22
tuting the only satisfactory and consistent system of mental
philosophy which the world has yet seen.
Such being my conviction, I cannot do otherwise than
express my earnest hope that a thorough Phrenologist may
be appointed to the vacant chair. Even should not this
take place at present, it does not require much penetration
to see that the time is not far distant when Phrenology will
be recognised in our schools as the true science of mind.
In a letter which I received about a fortnight ago from
Dr VIMONT of Paris, the distinguished author.of a work of
.great ~agnitude and interest on Human and Comparative
Phrenology, the following passage occurs:-
" The number of the parti88lls of Phrenology increases in
·France to a remarkable degree ; and there is no doubt the
science will now make a part of public instruction."
Let us hope that the University of Edinburgh may be
the first to do what, sooner or later, will be done univer-
sally.
The Honourable Patrons cannot surely require any tes-
timony to your personal qualifications for the vacant Chair,
further than that which may be derived from your numerous
and highly valuable works, and from the fact, that you have
delivered many successful courses of lectures on the PhilO-
sophy of Mind, including, of course, the department allotted
to the Professor of Logic.
From what I have seen and heard of you, I am satisfied
that, if the choice depended on the suffrages of those who, in
foreign countries, have cultivated the same field, your elec-
tion would be secure. That you may be as well appreciated
by your townsmen, is my sincere hope.
With every wish for your success, I remain, my dear
Sir, yours most faithfully,
WlLLIAM GREGORY, M. D.
,,..,,,____ ----=~.
--
Digitized by Google
g
- - - ..
IS -, - .--:._~ ~-===-- -:;.·
23
XX. From J. P.· NtcHoL, Esq., Professor of Practical
Astronomy in the University of Glasgow.
IN availing myself of the privilege of recording my opi-
nion of Mr Combe, I am chiefly influenced by the daaire to
shew what estimation of his merits may be taken by indivi-
duals, who, like myself, have not enjoyed opportunity of at-
taining a decided. opinion concerning the minuter organology
of the science whose .claims he has so ably and perseveringly
advocated. It must not be conceived that this qualification is
intended to insinuate an opinion hostile to Phrenology-for,
on the contrary, I have long considered that in the main it has
a strong foundation in truth ; but while I am qualified to hold
this general belief, it would, in my present state of know-
ledge, be somewhat of presumption were I to profess myeelf
a phrenologist : nor is such profession necessary to entitle
me to express my admiration of that acuteness which has en-
abled Mr Combe to present the world with a more accurate
account and estimate of the various faculties of the mind,
than was ever given before.
I am acquainted with no work relating to Moral Phil()!l(>-
phy, from the perusal of which so much pleasure and benefit
may be reaped, as from a carefu1 and dispassionate study of
" The Constitution of Man." It unfolds views, novel in
most respects, concerning the character and right treatment
of the mind, which are already obtaining wide currency and
acceptance in society, and preparing, more rapidly than has
.been usual: with discoveries in this .field, a.large increase of
happiness fur mankind. It were indeed wonderful if an au•
thor so original and adventurous, should in all respects es..
cape e1T0r; but ,even if err.Qrs sho~ld .anywhere mingle with
his specula.tions-and I ·know of none that are material-his
contemporaries ·are bound, by what they owe to the first in-
terests ,of society and of trtUth,. to see that· his labours and
deservings be appreciated, not. by consid~ation oftheamount
of ·such possible· excepUon~ but by· those strikiag lights
Digitized by Google
-------- -~·· ---- ----- -------....,-------
24
which he has succeeded in throwing on the most difficult and
important department of human inquiry.
Mr Combe's success as a teacher is demonstrated; for he
has during a succession of years fixed the attention of large
audiences on disquisitions from which, however important
and necessary to be thought of and understood, the public
had by common consent been formerly debarred. His power
consists partly in the simplicity and effectiveness of his lan-
guage,-partly in his possession of a comprehensive intellect,
which enables him to arrange details, and subordinate them to
principle,-but chiefly, perhaps, in the manifestation of those
moral qualities which impelled him to assume the position he
has occupied. It is never possible for Mr Combe's audience
to doubt that the aim and object of his instructions is the
benefit of mankind; and he is manifestly actuated by that
pure and independent love of truth, which it is the highest
privilege of a teacher to exhibit and infuse, but which is ne-
ver a ruling principle unless in very superior minds.
J. P. NICHOL.
20th April 1836.
XXI. From Captain MACONOCHIE, RN., F.G.S., Secre-
tary to the Royal Geographical Society of London,
&c. &c.
MY DEAR SIR, LONDON, 20th April 1636.
I HAVE learned with great pleasure that you are·a can·
didate for the Professorship of Logic in the University qf
Edinburgh ; and I wish that I could persuade others, as en:
tirely as I am myself persuaded, that your success would be
a great public benefit.
I believe you know, that I have not paid so much atten.
tion to the study of Phrenology in detail as might have been
expected from my opportunities. But I have been long
most thoroughly convinced of the truth and correctness of
its analysis of the human mind; and I am certain that it
would thus confer lasting honour on the Patrons of the Uni-
Digitized by Google
I
l
---·
25
versity of Edinburgh, to be the fint to give it a place among
the academical studies of the country. 'rhat it will eventual-
1y come to this I have not the least doubt; and there would
be a peculiar propriety in the example being first set in
Edinburgh. But whether this shall be now, or a little later,
depends on these gentlemen ; and I wish I could think it
possible that any profession of my individual faith in the
science, could have an influence in determining them to take
the bolder course.
I have, however, written to our friend Trevelyan, who is
now in Rome, asking him to join me in making the attempt ;
and his known character as a scholar, and long residence in
Edinburgh, should his answer reach me in time, may have
some weight. Of the nature of that answer I can have no
doubt ; knowing, as I do, the extreme interest that he takes,
both in your own indiTidual success, and in that of a branch
of human knowledge which you have almost made yours, by
your long-continued and successful advocacy of it, under the
most trying circumstances.
I shall write again, therefore, as soon as I hear from him ;
and, meanwhile, with every good wish for your success, in
which many here join me, I remain, my Dear Sir, youn
very truly and faithfully,
A. MACONOCHIE.
XXII. From ANDREW CoMBE, M.D., Fellow of the Royal
College of Physicians of Edinburgh, and· Physician in
Ordinary to their Majesties the King and Queen of the
Belgians.
BEFORE expressing any opinion on the subject of
Phrenology as the science of Mind, l think it proper to con-
fess that, for nearly two years after I first heard of Dr Gall's
discovery of the Physiology of the Brain, I not only dish&.
lieved its reality, but treated it with ridicule and contenipt.
Circumstances, however, .then occurred which mduCed Die to
Digitized by Google
26
eumioe the doetrines more ·&erioursly, wid to verif.y the .fact•
on which. they were said to be baaed. , .In.fplJowfog tbiS more
rational course, the firit N1Ult at w.bich. I .aniv.ed was the
mortifying conviction of my having been previ9usly entirely
ignoraQt of their real nature and e'Videaces. and employed
in ridiculing fancies of my own which I believed to be pb~
nology, but which had scarcely any resemblance t.o it. In
proportion.as my knowledge advanced and D)y observations
were extended, the impression became the atronger, that the
leading principles and facts of Phrenology were not only de-
monstrably true,· but,. like all other great truths, fraught
with the most important. oonsequences to human improve-
ment, and to the prevent.ion and alleviation of human suffer-
ing; because they were directly applicable to the scienceji of
medicine, education, and morals-:-,including in the latter
civil and criminal legislation, the reg.ulation of the practical
duties of life, the extension of true religion, and every thing
in short in which human nature is copcemed, either as the
agent or as the object acted upon.
Sixteen years have now elapsed since the. above. <:Pnviction
became deeply rooted. in my mind; ·and it is worthy of re-
mark, that it arose against the influence of prejudice, and
against what I then believed to be my worldly interest ; for
in common with many of my friends, I imagined that. in the
then state of public opinion, any open avowal of belief in
Phrenology would be detrimental to my success in life. The
probability, therefore, was the greater, that, in embracing it,
I was not carried away by enthusiasm, but yielding solely to
the force of evidence.
My whole subsequent experience has confirmed the opinion
I then formed of the truth of the new philosophy, and great-
·1y increased my sense, of.its jmpor.tli.llce to mankind; as con-
stituting, in fattf' that ~eruie of.Mfad which has..been,so
long, sd ardently, and~ till ..now, .so ,i.mau.ccl!Sijfully .l!Ougbt
after-by the ablest men of..every.sue<:eeding,age. It is.the
only basis on which a true system :of Logic cim be ei.:ected.
·This, .Wdeed, follows as a. Jl.~ty, cwa.sequepce,. if ~ts own
-~- --- ----·
Digitized by Google
27
. truth be admitted: because Logic treats of the intellectual
powers, ·and of their right use; and if the number, "nature,
and laws of action, of these powers are not previously known
and explained, it· is impossible to treat successfully of the
means·hest·adapted for their cultivation and right employ-
ment. · .Accordingly, the very first step taken by every Pro-
f"essor of Logic, is to unfold some theory of Mental Philoso-
phy as his groundwork ; and. from the failure of every such
attempt antecedent to the discovery of Phrenology, Logic
has hitherto remained an abstract'and valueless subject, pro-
ductive of few beneficial results beyond the mere mental ex-
ercise involved in its study. Phrenology, however, by pre-
senting us with a true theory of mind, enables us for the first
time to render Logic, as a science, useful, consistent, and in-
telligible to all persons of ordinary capacities and ·attain-
ments ; which, in my humble opinion, it can never become
until it is taught on phrenological principles.
In thus expressing so decidedly my conviction of what
Phrenology is, I am only acquitting a small portion of the
debt of gratitude which I owe it, not merely for teaching me
the better use of my own faculties (the chief aim of Logic),
·but for solving many difficulties which formerly troubled and
perplexed me. Even in a purely medical point of view,
there is scarcely any branch of knowledge which has been
more constantly and extensively useful to me, especially in
the treatment of the numerous and afHicting class of mental
and nervous affections; and there is consequently none which
I should be more unwilling to surrender, if I were compelled
to make the sacrifice of any. But having already published
my sentiments on these subjects at some length, and con-
sidering myself restricted at present to the consideration of
·the relation between Phrenology and Logic, I refrain from
going into farther detail.
ANDREW. COMBE.
BR.UllELS, l81h Jfpril 1836.
Digitized by Google
28
XXIII. From Profesaor Baousu.IB of the Faculty of Me-
dicine of Paris; Dr B&sSIBRES, of the Faculty of Paris,
Member of the Anthropological Society, author of" An
Int~uction to the Study of Phreno1ogy," &c.; M.
DAVID R1cHARD, Member of the Society of Natural
Sciences of France, and of the Anthropological and Phre-
nological Societies ofParis; Dr CASIMIR B:aoussA1s, Phy-
sician and Professor to the Val de-Grace, Agrege et
Professeur SuppJeant d' Hygiene to the Faculty of Me-
dicine. of Paris, Member of several Learned Societies,
and Vice-President of the Phrenological Society of Paris;
Dr J. RoBERTON, Member of several Learned Societies,
and President of the Anthropological Society of Paris ;
Dr FossATI, President of the Phrenological Society of
Paris, Member of several Learned Societies, formerly
Clinical Professor, and Director of several Italian Hos-
pitals ; M. BouILLAUD, Professor of Clinical Medicine
to the Faculty of Paris ; M. TURPIN, Member of the
French Institute; M. JuLES CLOQUET, Professor to the
Faculty ofMedicine ofParis, and Surgeon to the Hospital
of St Louis ; M. SANSON {Atne), Surgeon of the Hatel-
Dieu, Paris; M. PELTIER, President of the Society of Na-
tural Sciences and Member of the Philomathic Society;
M. FaEDERICK Lxo, Paris; Dr FERRus, Physician to the
Hospital of Bicetre, Professor of Clinical Medicine on the
Diseasesofthe Nervous System, &c.; Dr JosEPH VIMONT,
of the Faculty of Paris, Honorary Member ofthe Phren0-
logica1Societies of London, Edinburgh, Boston, &c., and
Author of a " Treatise on Human and Comparative Phre-
nology ;" Dr GAUBERT, Ex-Professor of the University
of France, Knight of the Royal Order of the Legion of
Honour, Principal Editor of the Journal of the Phrenolo-
gical Society of Paris, Member of the Anthropological
Society, &c.; M. DuMOUTIEa, Anatomical Assistant to
the Faculty of Medicine of Paris, and Honorary Member
of several Learned Societies; and Dr FELIX V01s1N, of
--------· Digitized byGoogfe
·-
29
the ·Faculty of Paris, Physician to several Hospitals of
that City, Founder of the Establishment at Vauvres for
the Treatment of the Insane, and Founder of the Ortho-
phrenic Establishment.
p.UH, 1- 16 ..fflf'U 11188.
LA Chaire de Logique d'Edimbourg etant dans le cas
d'etre vacante, les soussignes seraient vivement satisfaits
qu'elle flit remplie par un horn.me nourri des doctrines ph~
nologiques; car la Phrenologie etant aleurs yeux la science
des facultes humaines la plus certaine et la plus complete, ils
pensent que tout hon systeme de logique ne saurait etre plus
fermement base que sur l'etude approfondie de cette science.
C'est en temoignage de leurs desirs et de leur conviction sur ce
point qu'ils ont transmis la presente declaration a Monsieur
George Combe, l'un de plus chauds et des plus habiles pro-
pagateurs de la philosophie positive de l'obaervation, fondee
par Gall et perfectionnee par Spurzheim.
BROUSSAIS, Professeur aIa Faculte de Medecine de Paris,
forme des vreux pour que M. Combe obtienne la Chaire
de Logique d'ont il s'agit. Elle ne peut etre remplie
par un homme plus en etat de f'aire faire de grands et
rapides progres ala philosophie positive.
BESSIERES, ·Dr Med. de la Faculte de Paris ; Membre de
la Societe Anthropologique, Auteur de l'Introduction
al'Etude de la Phrenologie, &c.
DAVID RlCHARD, Membre de la Societe des Sciences
Naturelles de France, de la Bociete Anthropologique de
Paris, et de la Societe Phrenologique de Paris.
CASIMIR BROUSSAIS, Medecin et Professeur au Val-de-
Grace, Agrege et Professeur suppleant d'Hygiene a la
Faculte de Medecine de Paris, Membre de plusieurs so-
cietes savantes, Vice-President de la Societe Phreno-
logique de Paris.
J. ROBERTON, M. D., Membre de plusieurs societes sa-
vantes, President de la Societe Anthropologique de
Paris. •
FOSSATI, President de la Societe Phrenologique de Paris,
Membre de plusieurs societes savantes, Ancien Profes-
seur de Clinique, et Directeur de plusieurs Hopitaux en
Italie.
Digitized by Google
30
Je me reunis aM. le Proftlllleur B?f>ussais, et a mes auters
confreres, dans le vam qu'ils forment pour que M. Combe
obtienne la Chaire de Logique qu'il sollicite, et qui
convient si bien au genre de travaux, et a la ha.ute
capacite philosophique de ce savant confrere.-BOUIL-
LAUD, Professeur de Clinique Medicale a la Faculte
de Paris.
TURPIN, Membre de l'Institut de France.
Je pense que M. George Combe convient parfaitement a a
Chaire de Logique Vacante aEclimbourg, et que ses
connaissances dans la Science Phrenologique lui seront
d'une grande utilite pour remplir dignement cette
place.-JULES CLOQUET.
Je me reunis bien volontiers au sentiment de mes collegues
MM. Broussais, Bouillaud,·&c., et je pense que per-
sonne mieux que M. Combe ne pouvait remplir la Chaire
vacante., SANSON (Aine).
PELTIER, President de la Societe des Sciences Naturelles,
et Mem~re ·de la Societe Philomatique.
.FREDERIC LEO.
Les ouvrages publies·par M. Combe me foot presumer qu'il
est fort apte a populariser les connaissances philoso-
phiques.-FERRUS, Medecin de l'Hospice de Bicetre,
Professeur particulier de Medecine Clinique sur Jes Ma-
ladies du Systeme Nerveux, &c. ·
Je· ·eonsidere M. Georges Combe comme la seule personne
· capable de remplir dignement et convenp.blement la
Cbaire de Logique vacante aErumbourg.-J. VIMONT,
D. M. de la Faculte de Paris ; Me'mbre honoraire des
Societes Phrenologiques de Londres, Eclimbourg, Bos-
' ton;·&c. · ·
GAUBERT, Eit-professeur de l'Universite de France, Doc-
teur en Medecine, Chevalier de l'Ordre Royal de la Le-
gion d'Honneur; Redacteur principal du Joumal de la
Soeiete Phrenologique de Paris; Membre de la Societe
Anthropologique, &c.
Je souhaite ardemment pour les progres des sciences morales
et de la philosophie, et pour le bien~etre de l'humanite,
qu"nn homme d'un merite aussi e'minent, et qui a rendu
•si importante services, soit appele par tous ses conci-
toyens a occuper la Chaire de Logique vacante a
Edimbourg ; et je joins mes vceux a ceux de mes con-
treres et de· tous·tes•vrais ·amis de l'humanite, pour que
Mi George Colnbe•reqoive ia .nomination a laquelle ses
----~~-~--.----1
Digitized by Google
31
travaux et son savoir lui ont acquis des droits incon-
testables.-DUMOUTl ER, Aide d'Anatomie ala Fa-
culte de Medecine de Paris; Membre titulaire de plu-
sieurs societes savantes.
FELIX VOISIN, Docteur de'la Faculte de Paris, Medecln des
H8pitaux de la meme ville, Fondateur de l'Etabli.sa-
ment aVauvres pour le traitement des Alienea, ct Fon-
dateur de l'Etablissment Orthophrenique.•
• TILAMSLATION.
The Logic Chair of Edinburgh. bei"I( no" vacant, the undenigned "ill de-
rive much satisfaction from seeing it filled by a man imbued with the phrenologi-
cal doctrines ; for Phrenology being in their opinion the moet certain and complete
ecience of the facultie1 of man, they coneider that a good 1y1tem of Logic cannot
be more firmly baaed than upon the profound etudy of that science. It ia in teati-
mony of their deeirea ·and conviction on thi1 point that they ha... tranemitted the
present declaration to Mr George Combe, one of the "armeat and moat able
diifueers of the positive philosophy of observation founded by Gall and improved by
Spursheim.
BaoussA111, Profe11or to the Faculty of Medicine of Paria,
hopes that Mr Combe "ill obtain the CbaiT of Logic in
que1tion. It cannot be filled by a man beher qualilied
to cauae a great and rapid advancement of the poeitive
philoeophy.
B11Ss1zazs, M. D. &c. ·&c.
DAVID RICHARD, &c. &c.
CASIMIR B11.0uss.us, &c. &c.
J, RoBERTON, &c. &c.
FossATI, &c. &c.
I concur with Profeaeor Br<l1181aia and my other brethren in
their wish that Mr Combe may obtain the Chair of Lo-
gic ·fot which he is a candidate,. and which is 10 well
adapted to the nlltllre of che labours and the high phi-
looophical abilitlell' of t'hat learned individual.-BoutL•
J,AUD, .&c. &c.
Tm<PIN, Member of th~ Fr~nch Institute.
I am of opinion that Mr Combe ia excellently qualified for the
r~nt Chair of Logic at li:dinburgh, and that his phre-
nological knowledge will be of great utility in enabling
him to fill creditably that situation.-Juus CLoQUJ:T.
most willingly concur in the sentiments of my colleague•
Me11rs BRou1SA1s, BOVILLAUD, &c., and consider that
no on11 ia better fitted than Mr Combe to occupy the ....,
. cant Chair 11f Logic.- SANSON ( Aine).
P11L'rJJ:a, loc. &c.
The work& publiabed by Mr Combe lead me to infer that be
is well qualified to communicate pbilooopbical knowledge
in a popular manner,__.Fzaaus, &c. &c.
I consider
Digitized by Google
32
XXIV. Extrait du Discours prononce ala Seance AnnueJle
de la Societe Phrenologique de Paris, par M. le Profes-
seur ANDBAL, President, Professeur ala Faculte de Medi-
cine de Paris, &c. &c. Avril 1885.
"Dans tout ce que j'ai dit, Messieurs, je n'ai eu qu'un but,
c'es(celui de prouver que la science dont Gall est le fondateur,
et alaquelle le nom de Phrenologie a ete impose, doit faire
desormais partie des etudes graves et serieuses de la physiol~
gie. La question n'est pas de savoir si, clans la determination
des organes encephaliques, ii y a eu erreur de la part de Gall
ou de ses successeurs. Quand meme aucun de ces organes
n'auroit encore ete trouve, les bases memes de la science n'en
existeraient pas moins." " Si, d'ailleurs, le science phren1r
logique a pour elle la verite, ne vous embarrassez pas de son
avenir; car ii n'y a pas d'exemple d'une verite qui, une fois
lancee dans le monde, n'y ait fait son chemin. Mais ii faut
d'abord qu'elle y. paie son droit d'entree; ii faut qu'on se de-
range pour lui faire place, et cela est du gout de fort peu de
personnes. Elle a d'ailleurs le tort grave d'etre plus jeune
que ceux qu'elle pretend eclairer. Mais laissez..la faire; elle
saura merveilleusement jeter derriere elle tous les obstacles
I consider Mr George Combe ae the only person capable w
worthily and suitably filling the vacant Chair of Logic
at Edinburgh.--J. VIMONT, &c. &c.
G.A.UBJ:R.T, &c. &c.
I ardently desire, for the lake of the progrea of moral eci-
ence and philosophy, and the well-being of the human
race, that a man of auch eminent merit, and who baa
rendered such important aenicea, may be unanimoualy
called by hie fellow-citizena to occupy the vacant Chair
of Logic at Edinburgh ; and I join with my brethren,
apd with all true frienda of humanity, in wi1hing that
~r George Combe may receive the appointment to which
hia worka and attainments have 10 incon*8atably entitled
him.-DOMOUTlll&, &c. &c.
Fi:L1x Vomx, Doctor of the Faculty of Paria, Phyli-
cian to 1everal Hospitala of that City, Foander of the
&tablishment at Vauvrea for the Treatment ofthe In-
sane, and Founder of ta Orthophrenic Eatablilhment.
Digitized by Google
33
qu~on Jui oppose. La terre n'est pas devenue immobile
comme l'astre autour duquel elle gravite, parcequ'il y a trois
OU quatre siecles, OD defendit aGalilee d'annoncer que la terre
tournait; et la circulation du sang n'a pas cesse d'exister,
pour avoir ete opiniatrement niee bien des annee1 encore
apres avoir ete decouverte." •
XXV. . },rom Dr W. F. EnwARDs, F.R.S., Member of the
Institute of France.
Puu, 26th .AprU 1838.
THE relation between mind and body is by far the
most interesting subject of investigation. 'l'hese two ele-
ments of human nature had been the object only of separate
study, except to some physicians, with a view to mental
• Tramlalion.
Extract from the Discourse of Professor Andral, President of the Phre.
nological Society of Paris ; delivered at the Annual Meeting, in
.April 1836. Published in the "Journal de la Socl~te Phr~nologique
de Paris. Troiaieme aunee, Avril 1836." P. 210.
In all that I have said, Gentlemen, I have had but one aim, and it ia-
to prove that the science of which Gall is the founder, and which is lmo1t'D
by the name of l'hrenology, must henceforward be included among the
grave and serious studies of Physiology. '1.'he question is not whether
Gall or his successors have committed mistakes in determining the tune.
tions of the organs of the brain ;-even although none of theae organs were
yet ascertained, the fundamental principles of\he science would not on that
account exi&t the less.••••••If, in short, Phrenology be true, do not concern
yourselves about its future success; for there is no example of a truth,
once fairly launchod, having failed to make its way. It must, however, pay
the usual tax of entry ; some one must be put w inconvenience in i~ pro.
gresa, and few persons are fond of being set aside. It has, moreover, the
great fault of being younger than those it claims to eoJ.i&hten ; but let it
alone, and it will throw all obstacles behind it with marvellous force. The
earth did not become immoveable, like the sun round which it gravit.ate11,
because, three or four centuries ago, Galileo was forbidden to declare that
it moved.; and the circulation of the blood was not arrested by its being
obatinately denied for many yelll'I subsequent to the labours of Harvey.
c•
Digitized by Google
34
alienation, when Gall directed all the eft"orts or his sagacious
and powerful mind to this question ; the vital importance or
which, whatever be the fate of his theory, none can deny.
Researches on the subject, if properly conducted, and found-
ed on a judicious comparison of numerous and well-authen-
ticated facts, cannot, whatever be their result with regard to
Phrenology, fail of enlarging our knowledge of human na-
ture. No man has, since Gall and Spurzheim, done so much
in this respect as Mr Combe,-to who~ labours the scientific
world, and humanity at large, are much indebted. I am
happy of this opportunity of expressing towards him my
feelings of esteem and regard, and should be much gratified
if my opinion of his merits met with corresponding sympathy
among his countrymen, so as to promote his researches, by
·placing him in a situation useful to him and to the public.
Scotland has the honour of having founded the science of the
Wealth of Nations-she should be ambitious of adding to
her glory, by promoting the first of all studies, that of Man.
W. F. EDWARDS.
XXVI. From ALEX. J. D. DonsEY, Esq. Master of the
English Department in the High School of Glasgow.
To GEORGE COMBE, Esq.
DEAR Sm, 26th April 1836.
IN reply to your question regarding the bearing
of Phrenology upon Education, I beg to state, that, as Edu-
cation, properly considered, aims at the proper development
and regulation of man's nafore; as it is, therefore, abso-
lutely essential to a teacher's success that he should have a
GUIDE to the knowledge of that nature ; and as Phrenology
appears to me not only the plainest, but the most satisfactory
gui<le yet discovered, it is my decided opinion, that he who
teaches and trains upon phrenological principles, will expe-
rience a constantly increasing attachment to his profession,
liqiti7·•d by oog e
35
will invariably secure the affectionate esteem of bis pupils,
and will, as a necessary consequence, succeed in giving them
a thorough EnucATioN, moral, intellectual, and physical. I
write this not in a theorizing spirit, but from several years'
extensive experience.
To enter into details would be here impossible. I may,
however, briefly state, that the principle of presenting to the
faculties the objects to which they are respectively related,
is of itself truly invaluable in guiding the teacher to the end
he has in ~ew. Acting on this excellent principle, I have
not merely employed'Such physical objects as tended to de-
velope the knowingfacr,lties, but have also habitually exer-
cised the pupils in the use of their reflecting powers. In
teaching morals, too, I consider mere instnu:tion as very in.
ferior to training. For instance, instead of telling a boy to
be charitable, I direct his Benevolence to a suitable object ;
instead of commanding him to be just, I exercise his Con·
scientiousness by making him act·as a juryman in deciding
the petty cases of the school ; and thus he karns by practiu
what others.fancy they liave karned by theory.
In History, the use of Phrenology is truly valuable. In
fact, till I knew something of this beautiful system of men-
tal philosophy, I never taught History properly, or, I may
add, any thing else.
I have the honour to be, dear Sir, yours respectfully,
ALEX. J. D. DORSEY.
XX VII. From S. HARE, Esq., Proprietor and Medical
Attendant of the Retreat for the Insane near Leeds.
26. EAST PARADE, LEICDI,
23d April 11138.
MY LORD PROVOST AND GENTLEMEN,
IT affords me sincere pleasure to find that Mr
Combe is a Candidate for the vacant office of " Professor of
Logic" in the University of Edinburgh.
Having for many years studied the science ofPhrenology,
c!
Digitized by Google
36
and found it practically useful, I am satisfied that it has un-
folded principles from which a Science or Philosophy of Mind
has been deduced, infinitely superior to the one commonly
taught in the schools; and coI)sequently I consider Mr Combe
eminently qualified, on account of his extensive phrenologi-
cal and general knowledge, for the important situation. ·
It is but justice to Mr C. to state, that few publications
have done more to enlighten and benefit man than those
with which he has favoured the public ; and his labours du-
ring many years as a Lecturer, and otherwise, in promulgat-
ing information most beneficial to the best interests of his
fellow-men, are truly invaluable, and cannot but be highly
estimated not only by his fellow-citizens, but by every lover
of the human race ; hence it will be a source of great satis-
faction to me to learn that your Lordship and the Council
of the City of Edinburgh have placed Mr C. in the highly
honourable situation to which he aspires; for which, on ac-
count of his well-known habits of industry, perseverance, and
high acquirements, he is so well calculated, and so justly en-
titled.
Feeling it a duty to bear this testimony to the Science of
Phrenology, and to the profound and v11ried talents of the
.candidate for the office .before named, I have the honour to be,
my Lord and Gentlemen, very respectfully, your obedient,
To the Loan PROVOST and CouNCIL
of the CITY of EDINBURGH.
S. HARE.
XXVIII. From Dr WILLIAM WEIR, Lecturer on the PraC:.
tice of Medicine at the Portland Street Medical School,
Glasgow, formerly Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary, and
one of the Editors of the Glasgow Medical Journal.
BucHAN'AM STREET,
GLASGOW, 15th April 1836.
I HAVE much pleasure in bearing testimony to the very
'1Uperior talents and high attainments of George Combe,
.......................
-...
~i.......
'T.
Digitized by Google
37
Esq. of· Edinburgh. I have been peraonally acquainted
with him for some time, have frequently heard him lecture,
and am intimately conversant with his various writings on
the Science of Mind.
Iieing myself firmly convinced, after many years' study
of the &ubject, and numerom1 observations, that PhrenologJ
is the true Philosophy of the Mind, I have taught it, in my
lectures delivered to medical students, as the correct physio-
logy of the brain ; and I consider it impossible to give a pro-
per view of the functions of the brain on any other but phre-
nological principles. In my I.ectures ou the Practice of
Medicine, also, I have, during the last five years, applied
the principles of this science towards the elucidating the
nature and treatment of Insanity.
I have no hesitation in further stating my opinion, that
an acquaintance with Phrenology must be eminently useful
to the successful teaching of any branch of knowledge con-
nected with the human faculties 9 and that, therefore, .the
application of its principles to the exposition of the subjects
treated of in a course of logic is absolutely necessary, and
highly conducive to the proper understanding of that
science.
Holding these opinions, I consider Mr Combe, from his
splendid talents, his vigorous and enlightened understanding,
and his very superior attainments in philosophy, to be emi-
nently qualified for the Logic Chair in the University of
Edinburgh. I know that he has devoted a great portion of
his time, for the last twenty years, to the study and the teach-
ing of mental science, and that he has been very successful
as a public instructor. As a lecturer his language is forcible,
yet plain and simple; his demonstrations are always clear
and easily understood, and his arguments at once logi-
cal and convincing. He possesses, in a very high degree,
that aptness for teaching,-that power of communicating
knowledge to others, so very ·essential to the instructor of
youth ; and also the capability of fixing the attention of an
audience, so necessary to render the subject interesting, and
Digitized by Google
38
the lecturer popular with his pupils. I have heard few lee> I
tur~rs who could equal Mr Combe in these particulars. •·
Of Mr Coinbe's publications it is scarcely necessary for me
to speak. They are in the hands of thousands. The " Sys-
tem of Phrenology," and "The Constitution of Man con-
sidered in relation to External Objects," are his two great
works. In the former the principles of Phrenology are
maintained with evidence and illustrations equally appro-
priate and conclusive, and with the dignity and strict accu-
racy ofpure inductive science. It is truly a comprehensive sys-
tem of mental philosophy, and contains rules for facilitating
improvement in every thing connected with human happi-
ness-education, prison-discipline, legislation, and, morals.
It only requires to be read by a mind free from hypothetical
notions and the prejudice of authority, to bring conviction
to the understanding. The" Constitution of Man"' is a true
exposition of the laws of the Creator as applicable to man-
kind, and contains a mass of information which cannot be
obtained in any other work. The views of human nature
laid down in this treatise are perspicuous and profound, and
its tendency has always appeared to me in the highest de-
gree useful and excellent; for it inculcates, in the strongest
and most impressive language, and in a style level to the
meanest capacity, the high importance ofcultivating the moral
and intellectual faculties, and keeping in due subjection the
impulses from the lower propensities. These two publica-
tions are sufficient to stamp Mr Combe as a writer of the
very highest class. The subjects are treated with the vigour
and eloquence of a master, and every page exhibits a mind
powerful, discriminative, and just. I must be permitted to
add, that the perusal of these and his other writings has been
to me the source of much instruction, and very great plea-
sure; and it consists with my knowledge, that they have af.
forded the same to very many within my own circle.
WILi,. WEIR.
,,91.izc J oy Google
• 39
XXIX. From Dr RoBERT HuNTEB, Professor of Ana-
tomy and Physiology in the Andersonian University,·
Glasgow.
GLASGOW, 26th .April 1836.
I HAVE had ample opportunity of ascertaining the
character of1\Ir George Combe both as a lecturer and a philo-
sopher. I have attended a course of his lectures on Phreno-
logy, and perused nearly all that be has published on rnb-
jects connected with the science of mind. The lectures of
Mr Combe are characterized by simplicity, clearness, ele-
gance, and cogency of reasoning; and his writings are remark-
able not only for purity of style, but for sound philosophy
and right moral feeling. The mind of Mr Combe is of a
high order, and adequate to the successful cultivation of any
department of mental philosophy. I have no doubt he will
excel as a teacher of Logic, for he has studied most pro-
foundly the operations of the human mind, and under the
refulgent lights of Phrenology.
The appointment of Mr Combe to the Chair of Logic
now vacant in the University of Edinburgh, would, I con-
ceive, add to the high character which that University has
already attained, and be productive of national advantages.
ROBERT HUNTER.
XXX. From ALEXANDER Hoon, Esq., Surgeon, Kil-
marnock.
Ma GEORGE COMBE, a candidate for the Professor-
ship of Logic in the University of Edinburgh, has been
known to me for many years, as a gentleman possessed of
distinguished talents, great acuteness, and deep metaphysical
research. He is the able advocate and assiduous cultivator
of the Philosophy of the Mind first made known to the world
by Drs Gall and Spurzheim.
Digitized by Google
40
Believing, as I do, that Phrenology is the true llCience ol
the mind, a science which comprises all the primary func-
tions of the brain, whether they may be for the acquisition
of knowledge, the regulation of the conduct as a moral
agent, or simply for supplying the wants and cravings of
animal nature, I know no individual so capable of analyzing
these elements of human actions, separating truth from error,
and giving instructions in this most important department
of knowledge (or of a good education), as Mr Combe. His
various publications on this subject and on ethics have ac-
quired for him a distinguished name in the literature of his
country, and conferred on him a European reputation.
The style of Ilia lecturing is solemn and dignified, pre-
cise and perspicuous, well suited to the treatment of the sub-
jects which come under discussion, and rendered so intelli-
gible as to be understood without much effort on the part of
the student. Phrenology seems at no very distant date des.
tined to supersede all the other systems of the philosophy of
the mind which have preceded it ; and should the Patrons of
the University deem it meet to give a wider range to the
practical advantages which must necessarily result from a
more extensive diffusion of the knowledge of the doctrines
of which Mr Combe is the able expositor, I am confident
that his talents, assiduity, integrity, and enthusiasm would
advance the best interests of humanity, and confer honour on
the Chair to which he aspires.
KILJUBNOCK, 22d .Jl.pril 1836.
ALEX. HOOD, Surgeon.
XXXI. From JoHN MILLi:R, Esq., Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
KILHABNOClt, 26th April 1836.
UNDERITA.NDIXG that the Logic Chair in the Univer-
sity of Edinburgh is at present vacant, and that Mr George
Combe has declared himself a candidate for it, chiefly upon
the ground of his qualifications as a Phrenologist ; I beg
leave respectfully to offer my humble mite of support to his
ligiti7·•d by Google
41
pretensions. I have no hesitation in avowing my decided
conviction that Phrenology is the true Philosophy of the
Mind, and may therefore, with the greatest propriety and
advantage, be substituted for the metaphyrical system of it
hitherto taught in our seminaries ;-that Mr Combe, unques-
tionably the first of our living Phrenologists, has, by his
printed works and public lectures, proved himself qualified
to be an able and succe~ful teacher of his favourite science;
-and that, by his long and powerful advocacy of Phren0-
logy, amid the scorn and derision with which he has been so
virulently and so unjustly assailed, he has well earned a title
to the houour of being the first to promulgate its doctrines in
the halls and under the sanction of our Metropolitan Univer-
aity.
JOHN MILLEB.
XXXII. From Dr J. S. CoMBE, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.
To G:IOBGE Co:MBE, Esq.
Mr DEAB. SIR, Lz1TH, 25th~ 1836.
I AM glad to learn that you are a candidate for the
Chair of Logic, and I earnestly hope that the Patrons will
embrace the opportunity of securing your great talents, and
thus testify their sense of your extraordinary exertions in the
diffusion of the true philosophy of mind.
I can imagine no individual aspiring to the honour who
can stand less in need of the recommendation of his friends.
For many years you have, with a zeal arising from a firm
conviction of the truth of the doctrines you have taught, and
with an active benevolence which your opponents have at
last found could not be checked, laboured spontaneously and
unremittingly in unfolding the great truths of mental phi-
losophy, and the intimate connexion that. exists between
mind and body.
That your metaphysical powers are of the first charact.er
Digitized by Google
42
is not less true than the admirable facility with which you
can explain to others the knowledge you possees ; and, in ap-
pointing you, the Patrons will therefore not only select an
eminent philosopher, but a distinguished teacher.
I am, m_y dear Sir, most truly yours,
J. S. COMB~::.
XXXIII. From GEORGE SALlltON», Esq. Procurator-Fiscal
of Lanarkshire; WALTER Morn, Esq. Sheriff-Substitute of
Lanarkshire; and Mr D. M'CoLL, Governor· of Glasgow
Jail.
To GEORGE CoHBE, Esq.
SHEB.IFF's CHAlllBEB.S,
DEAR SIR, GLASGOW, 22d April 1836.
A FEW days ago Sheriff Moir having told me of .
your intention to examine phrenologically some of the crimi-
nals in Glasgow jail, I expressed a wish to be present, in
order that I might have a practical test of the system, and
ascertain whether your inferences of character should accord
with what was privately and officially known of them by
myself; and Mr Moir having kindly honoured me with an
introduction to you, I had the gratification of attending your
examination of a number of these persons, and of hearing
with sincere interest the accurate conclusions you arrived at
on each of them.
Never before having witnessed such an operation, and ex-
pecting that, after a tedious process of examination, taking
_notes, and comparing and calculating results, something of
an oracular generality of character should be announced, I
was very much pleased to observe, that while your examina-
tion of each did not average a minute, you instantly, and
without hesitation, stated the character, not generally, but
with specialties of feelings and propensities, surprisingly jus-
tified by what I knew of them ; and being aware that you
had no access to them, nor means of knowing them previous-
ly, as they were taken at the moment promiscuously from
Digitized by 008 e
\
\
'
l
'
43
numbers of the other criminals, I was at once led to a con-
viction of the truth of the science, and to see eminent advan-
tages of such knowledge to society, and more immediately in
regard to criminal jurisprudence and practice.
Of the instances of your observation, suffer me to mention
a few, which at the time occurred to me as peculiarly con-
vincing.
The first man you examined you pronounced " a thief,
reckless and dangerous, who, for instance, if under the in-
fluence of liquor, would not hesitate to murder or destroy all
around him." Now this fellow has for years travelled about
the country with a horse and cart, selling salt and trifling
articles, and has acquired the character of a masterful thief,
and just now stands indicted with a cruel assault on, and
highway robbery of, a poor labourer, of all his hard earnings
last harvest.
Another, you observed., had "a fine intellect, and was
likely to have been guilty of swindling;" and the accuracy
of this observation on a painter, who is indicted forfalsehood,
.fraud, and wilful imposition, or swindlin,g, is self-evident.
A third, whom you pronounced " a cunning, daring, and
decided thief," is an incorrigible thief, who for years has, in
the most concealed and adroit manner, headed a gang of
housebreakers, .and is at present indicted for highway rob-
bery, committed by his savagely knocking down with a heavy
stob a poor man, who was almost killed on the spot. Pri-
vate information leads me to understand that he has been
party to another crime,·of a nature equally, if not more,
daring and cruel.
A fourth you described to be " a depraved and most
dangerous man." He is a crony of the man last noticed; has
long been a thief, and was one of the most noted corpse-lift-
ers while subjects were bought by the medical schools; and
he is said to have been concerned with the man last men-
tioned in the atrocious crime alluded to at the close of the
observations as to him.
A fifth, whom you judged to be " a sly thief, who, with
Digitized by Google
44
a meek and specious aspect, possessed daring even to cruel-
ty,"' is a fellow who is by trade a thief, adroit and cunning,.
and who has of'ten attacked and escaped from the officers of
justice. He lately stole, in broad day-light, on the streets of
Glasgow, a silk handkerchief from a gentleman's pocket, and
ran off. Being promptly pursued, he, as a decoy, threw
from him the napkin. Being af'ter a race oYertaken, he leapt
into a dung-pit, whither the gentleman could_ not think of
following him, but stood watching him till the police he sent
for arrived. On this the fellow in the most fawning manner
craved sympathy, and finding this did not move the gentl&-
man's purpose, he suddenly sprung out, and, on being seized,
made a desperate struggle, bit severely the gentleman's hand,
and, by his force and violence, might 500n have got oft' had
not the police arrived.
The accuracy of your conclusions has deeply impressed
me with the benefit which.would accrue to society from the
application.of such investigations toward the better classifica-
tion of criminals confined before and after trial, to the selec-
tion and treatment of convicts, and even to the more certain
identification of such criminals as might effect their escape
from justice or confinement.
With much regard, believe me to be, dear Sir, yours
most faithfully,•
GEO. SALMOND,
Pror.-Fiscal of J,anarkshire.
We were present on the occasion of Mr Combe's visit to
the Jail of Gla11gow, and testify to the perfect accuracy of
Mr Salmond's representation of what happened. Mr Combe's
inferences of the characters of such prisoners as he then exa-
mined, were most accurate, and never could have been the
result of chance.
WALTER MOIR,
Sheritf-Subst. of Lanarkshire.
D. M'COLL,
Governor of Glasgow Jail.
• See additional I.etter from Mr Salmond, p. 60.
liQiti7·•d by Google
I
I
\
'
45
XXXIV. From Dr JoHN MACKINTom, Surgeon to the
Ordnance Department in North Britain, Lecturer on the
Principles of Pathology and Practice of Physic, Fellow
of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, Mem-
ber of the Medico-Chirurgical and Wemerian Natural
History Societies ofEdinburgh, of Montreal, Heidelberg,
and Brussels.
To GEOBGE CoMBE, Esq.
MY DEAR S1R, EDurBVBGR, 27tA AprU 11138.
I HAVE received your letter announcing your in-
tention of offering yourself as a candidate for the Chair of
Logic, now vacant, in the University of Edinburgh ; and it is
with very great pleasure that I bear testimony to your talents,
zeal, and industry, and that you possess the rare power of
communicating knowledge to others.
I have perused your works, and have frequently heard
you lecture with greAt delight and advantage. Several times
I have witnessed your uncommon coolness, acumen, and
fairness in public discussions regarding the truth of that Sci-
ence of which you are undoubtedly the greatest living advo-
cate. The more closely I study ·nature, in health and dis-
ease, the more firm are my convictions of the soundness of
phrenological doctrines. I regard Phrenology as the true
basis of the Science of Mind, and as such am persuaded it will
be found highly conducive to the successful teaching of
Logic.
I know no one who has devoted the energies of his mind
to the careful study of Phrenology who has not become a
convert, and I anticipate, at no very distant date, the tri-
umph of truth over the prejudices which have been so assi-
duously heaped upon the science by crafty men, or those
quite ignorant of the subject. I have a high opinion of the
tnoral and religious effect your works and lectures have al-
Digitized by Google
46
ready produced; while your honourable principles, talents,
and inductive method of reasoning, eminently qualify you
for the important situation to which you aspire.
Wishing you success, I am, My dear Sir, yours faith-
fully,
JOHN MACKINTOSH.
XXXV. From ANDREW CARMICHAEL, Esq. M. R. I. A.
Dublin.
24. RUTLAND SQUARE,
MY DEAR SIR, 16th April 1836.
THE hopes I entertain of seeing you before long in
the occupation of the Chair of Logic in your University are
attended with redoubled gratification when I consider the
interests of science, of society, or your own. No individual,
I am bold to say, in any country, is better qualified than
you are to explain the. phenomena of mind, and their bear-
ings upon legislation and government, education and morals,
insanity and idiocy. No unprejudiced man who has read
your various disquisitions on Phrenology, but must be satis-
fied of the truth of your views and the profoundness of your
philosophy--or your Constitution efMan, without the almost
certain anticipation that a new era awaits us, most beneficial
to mankind, and that to confer on you the professorship in
question will be to hasten the blessing. ·
I am not singular in these sentiments, and I have had an
opportunity of knowing how many distinguished men hold
the highest opinion of your intellectual powers and the use
you make of them. When I did myself the honour to pro-
pose you as an. honorary member of the Royal Irish Aca-
demy, our celebrated astronomer, Sir William Hamilton, Dr
Litton, Professor of Botany of the Dublin Society, and one
of the Vice-presidents of the Royal Irish Academy, and the
Very Rev. Henry Dawson, Dean of St Patrick's, were all
1g1tize by
47
desirous to·place their names beside mine in certifying your
qualifications on this occasion. There is nothing peculiar in
this certifil'ate, as the same form is always used. I need not
therefore supply you with a copy.
With anxious wishes for your success, I remain, my dear
Sir, very faithfully, &c.
A. CARMICHAEL.
XXXVI. From Dr JOHN ELLIOTSON, F. R. S., President
of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical, and of the Lon-
don Phrenological Societies ; Professor of the Prmciples
and Practice of Medicine and of Clinical Medicine, and
Dean of Faculty, in the University of London; Senior
Physician of the North London Hospital; Fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians of London ; formerly Phy-
sician to St Thomas's Hospital, and President of the
Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c.
CONDUIT STREET, Lo:imox,
April 23. 1836.
Dr ELLIOTSON takes the opportunity ofa distinguished
phrenologist offering himself for the Chair of Logic in the
University of Edinburgh, to state, that metaphysics, or men-
tal philosophy, have formed a favourite study with him from
his youth, and that he has carefully read a large number of
the best writers on the subject,-but that he feels convinced of
the phrenological being the only sound view of the mind,
and of Phrenology being as true, as founded in fact, as the
science of Astronomy or Chemistry. Twenty years have
elapsed since his attention was first directed to it, and, du-
ring the whole period, a day has not passed without some
portion being devoted to its consideration. His opinions
have been published in his notes to a translation of Blumen-
bach's Physiology, which has gone through many editions,
as well as in papers which have appeared in periodicals.. He
Digitized by Google
48
always taught it in his lectures upon insanity when he had
the Chair of the Practice of Medicine in St Thomas•s Hos.
pital; and notwithstanding this was stated, he understands,
to the University of London when he offered himself for the
Chair of the Practice of Medicine in that Institution, he was
unanimously elected to that chair, and has not only discussed
the subject of insanity there, ever since, upon phrenological
principles, as the only ones by which a person can have any
knowledge of insanity, but has premised a statement and de-
fence of .Phrenology on arriving at that department of his
course. He must add, that none but those who are totally
ignorant of Phrenology regard it as a means of merely dis-
covering natural powers and dispositions by external signs.
Those who have studied it know, indeed, that the natural
powers and dispositions are, ueteri.J parihtu, in conformity
with the size of the various parts of the brain ; but they
know likewise, that Phrenology unfolds the only satisfactory
account of the mind, human and brute ; that it contributes
to establish the surest foundation for legislation, education,
and morals, and presents a large department of nature in the
noblest, grandest, and the only satisfactory point of view;
and that those who reject or neglect Phrenology, are lament-
ably ignorant of much which they fancy they know, and de-
prive themselves not only of much intellectual delight, but
of much practical utility; and, compared with phrenologists,
remain as men of some centuries past.
If such is Phrenology, he feels justified in expressing his
opinion, that no one could be found more fitted for the Chair
of Logic than Mr Combe, and scarcely any one so fit.
XXXVII. From JAMES SIMPSON, Esq. Advocate.
To GEORGE CoHBE, Esq.
MY DEAR SIR, EDINBURGH, 26th April 1836.
I MAY be a partial friend as to your personal meritSt
hut if it will have any effect on the Patrons of the LogiQ
liQiti7• '1 by
49
Chair, I am happy to oft'ei' my testimony to the talue of d.ie
Philol!ophy of Mind which you teach. I ·have long seen and
felt its truth, and there can be but one analysis of the men-
tal powers true. I was examined for seven days, four houn
a day, .by the Irish Education Committee of the House of
Commons, last August, and endeavoured to detail to them a
systematic philosophy of education ;, and I have the sati._
faction to say, that my whole testimony was based on, .and
stated results to which I had been led by, that philOl!Ophy.
My evidence extends to one hundred and fifteen folio printed
pages in the report, and has been printed documentarily in
·the appendix of the English Committee, before which I was
not examined.
I am very faithfully yours,
JAMES SIMPSON, Ad\'ocate.
XXXVIII. From the Honourable D. G. HALLYBURTON,
M. P. for Forfarshire.
To the Right Hon. the Lonn Pnovon.
20. GnoavEN'OR STREET WEIT, Gaosv.E:iro• PLACE,
Mv LoRD PnovosT,
.April 26. 1836.
I HAVE recently been informed by my friend
.Mr Geo. Combe of Edinburgh, that he is a Candidate for
the Chair of Logic, now vacant in your University, and he
has done me the honour to request, that I, in common with
some others, should state my opinion of his qualifications for
that honourable appointment. I trust your Lordship will
forgive the method I am taking to do this, which Mr Combe
left to myself.
I need scarcely, I think, appeal to your Lordship, o~ to
others of the Gentlemen who sit with you in the Town
Council, that wherever Mr Combe is known (and he is very
generally known in the Scotch metropolis), there is but one
opinion, and that a very favourable one, of his ample quali-
fications, for filling with credit to himself, benefit to his pu-
D*
Digitized by Google
50
pils, and honour to any learned body who should adopt
him, the Chair of auch a Professorship as that of Logic.
I need not, I am persuaded, state to your Lordship, that
those inquiring and competent judges, who have dispassion-
ately, and with the sole lou of truth, innstigated the sub-
ject, agree almost to a man in mahrtaining, that Phrenology,
as a true science, rest& upon eYidence that is irrefragable,
and next to demonstrative; and that the time is not far off,
when all philosophy of miud, which shall not rest upon it as
a baai8, will be put aside as very incomplete, and in so far
fallacious.
The appointment of Mr Combe to the vacant chair
would not necessarily imply a conviction on the part of each
individual elector, that Phrenology is true; all that it would
imply would be, that sufficient evidence, on the part of indi-
viduals of known intelligence and respectability who had
studied it, along with the public fact of its wide diffusion
and increasing popularity, had produced in their minds a
reasonable presumption, on which, as public men, they are
entitled to act, that the science is founded in nature, that it
is about to become the standard philosophy of the age; and
that the Council are therefore entitled-rather called upon-
to take the lead in improvement, by placing an individual
distinguished for his knowledge of it, and his powersof teach-
ing it, in the Logic Chair.
The point at issue, then, my Lord Provost, appears to
be this,-and I say so with the utmost respect to those who
in the present instance are to decide the question,-whether
the Magistrates and Town Council of the City of Edinburgh
shall proceed a little in advance of the opinion and spirit of
the age, or some few years hence shall appear to have lagged
miserably behind such spirit, in their choice of a Logical
Professor.
If Mr Combe shall be the fortunate choice of a majority
of the Patrons, they may not, it is true, just at present be
cheered on by the unanimous voice of popular opinion,-the
new doctrine not having yet the sanction of fashionable ac~
liQiti7· "by Coogk
51"
quiescence,-but I •would respectfully ·beg·lea\re·to·ask.YOW:
Lordship, whether tile NeWtOnian pmoeophy9·for example,
was leBS true, or·less important, 'towards the- latter pa.rt of
the seventeenth century, Then 'it •was carped 'at and op-
pugned by many a mathematician and self-styled pbiloeopher
in Europe, than it was some·thirtyor furty years later, when
enthroned with aU academical pomp and honours. in Cam.;
bridge, its birth-place and its cradJe.
Again disclaiming the slightest disrespect towards yotlr
Lordship, and the respectable Body who will act with you
in this important election, and begging your Lordship'•
personal excuse for the trouble I am giving you, I haTe the
honour to be, my Lord Provost, your faithful and very
humble servant,
n. G. HALLYBUBTON, M. P.
XXXIX, From WILLIAM HuNTEa, Esq. A. M., late Pro-
fessor of Logic, &c. in the Andersonian University,
Glasgow, present Teacher of the Classical Department in
the Grammar School of Paisley.
I AM convinced that Phrenology is the true science
-of the mind. Every other system is defective in enumerat-
ing, classifying, and tracing the relations of the faculties.
I consider this science indispensably necessary in teaching
any branch of education properly. I find it eminently use-
ful in giving instructions in Ancient and Modern History;
-in Greek and Latin, in connexion with our vernacular
tongue ;-in Logic and Rhetoric, with the analysis of argu-
·mentative works on the most dissimilar subjects ;-and, it is
signally effective in exciting and directing the faculties of
·the mind without having recourse to corporal punishment,
or even a peevish or resentful expression.
In studying history the learner is delighted to discover the
different powers of mind which were manifested by any in-
dividual, the effects which consequently resulted, and the
Di
Digitized by Google
52
pow~rsofmind which werenaturallycombined and roused into
activity in the community of which he was a member, as well
as in the nation he opposed. In turning their attention to
Logic and Rhetoric, with the analysis of argumentative writ.
ings on various subjects, students are generally not·satis6ed
with the Aristotelian and Baconian philosophy after they
have· made themselves intimately acquainted with the doc-
trines of Phrenology. They then see the importance of
viewing the faculties as naturally manifesting themselves in
various combinations and degrees of activity, and of going
beyond the ideas and the language, if they wish to succeed
in convincing and persuading.
In prosecuting the study of Greek and Latin in eonaec-
tion with the English language, the capacity of the pupil
for learning the signs alone is, by means of Phrenology, care-
fully distinguished from the exercise of the faculties by
which the meaning of the signs is acquired ;-his capacity
of judging and feeling, of apprehending the meanings of
terms, and the very definitions themselves, is duly appre.
ciated. In this manner the peculiar attention of every pupil
is secured, and his peculiar combination of faculties is im-
proved and gratified.
The principles of Phrenology applied.to1the science of Po-
litical Economy were found strikingly useful, as the gentle-
men who attended a Course of Lectures I lately delivered
are ready to testify. When the faculties of the student are
excited and directed,-when their use and abuse,-their rela-
tions to the Creator, to external objects, and to one another,-
are familiarly explained and illustrated; and when judicious
reference, as Phrenology directs, is made to the knowledge
thus acquired, as often as a desire for intellectual inactivity
or a tendency to perversion of feelipg or moral sentiment is
evinced, the student whose mind is thus enlightened and ad-
dressed, seldom fails to bow with gratitude and respect to
his instructor.
I may add briefly-and I state from long and varied ex-
perience in teaching~that this science, when its principles
Digitized by Google
...
53
are understood and properly applied, cannot fail to be pro-
ductive of justice, and benevolence, and piety.
To Mr Combe, author of" The CODHitation of Man," &c.
&c. I feel chiefly indebted for these views, which guide me
pleasantly, and, I trust, not unprofitably, in discharging the
duties of my profession; I am, therefore, in duty bound to
wish every species of happiness to such a benefactor, and I
should rejoice to learn that Mr Combe was elected to fill the
Logic Chair in the University of Edinburgh, a situation
which it is perhaps not possible to find any other philosopher
quali6ed to hold with equal benefit to the science of I.ogic,
profit to the student, honour to the University, and credit
to the Electors.
Ga.uuu.a Sceoo1., PAISLEY,
30th .April 1836.
WILLIAM HUNT.ER.
XL. From ALEXANDER MACIINTosH, Esq. Surgeon Super-
intendent, Dundee Royal Lunatic Asylum.
DUNDEE, 29th .April 183e.
i HAU heard a great deal about Phrenology, but
principally against it, before I went to Wakefield in York-
shire. \Vhen there, I had repeated conversations with Dr
and Mrs Ellis of the Lunatic Asylum for the West Riding;
and the circumstances in which they were placed, their learn-
ing, their talents, their having been long studying insanity,
together with the high character they bore for religion and
morality' made me pay much attention to what they advanced
in favour of the new Philosophy. I afterwards spoke to
several eminent medical men in France on the subject, who,
if my recollection serves me, agreed, -as most people do, in
the general principles of the seieiice.
However, some years ago, I determined to look into the
subject mid judge for myself-the rather, as all that I had
heard or read about the mind, its organ, or its manifesta-
tions, seemed only to mystify and confuse me, and also in
Digitized by Google
54
the hope of deriving some benefit from the pursuit. In this
I have not been disappointed. I read some of Dr Spurz-
heim's publications carefully, but it was Mr George Combe's
~orks that brought about conviction;-his admirable System,
at once profound, perspicuous, and concise, dispelled the mist
of prejudice, and convinced me that the functions of the
brain presented the only true philosophy of mind; and to
him I am _indebted for knowing what little I do know of that
i~j;eresting subject.
While Mr Combe's works instructed me by unfolding a
systeio in m;1,ispn with nature, and explaining satisfactorily
wh$t no other system ever did or could do, they also delight:
ed and amused me-and such has been the agreeable impres.:-
siori, that I -have 1·ecommended them to all and sundry, per-
suaded as I am that a careful perusal cannot fail to benefit
and instruct those who engage in the study ; and I am glad
to say that my feeble efforts have not gone unrewarded. One
of my greatest objections was removed by Sir William and
Lady Ellis (now of Hanwell Lunatic Asylum), viz. that
Phrenology interfered with the religion of the individual im-
bibing its prindples. This was falsified most completely in
their case; for while they advocated the science, they remain-
ed the same pious persons they had hitherto been, and all
my reading and inquiry have only tended to confirm the
truth of this statement. ·
I regret that I have not had the pleasure of hearing Mr
Combe lecture. Some of my relatives and friend~, however,
on whose judgments I place great reliance, have heard him,
and have expressed to me their unqualified approbation of his
talents and eloquence as a public lecturer. As far, therefore,
as I can judge of his qualifications-as an author-a scholar
-a master of the real, of the only true philosophy of mind
-I have no hesitation in stating my humble opinion, that
he is almost the only individual of his day, at once able, zeal-
ous, and willing to fill such a chair as that of Logic in the
Unive!'sity of Edinburgh. ·
ALEXAND.lm J\IACIHNTOSH.
Digitized by 008 e
55
XLI. From IloBKB.'J' CuAHBK&s, Esq., one of the Conduc-
tor:; of Chambers's Edinburgh Journal
ANNE STBE•T, EDnrauaea,
Mag 4. 1836.
'l'HAT the Chair of Logic, now vacant in the Univer-
i;ity of Edinburgh, should be filled by a professor of the
phrenological philosophy, instead of ~y one who clings to
the former el'positions of mind, is an object which I consider
as of great importance to the community.
Without having had an opportunity of satisfying myself
respecting the organology of the science, I consider the
scheme of mind which results from it as not only superior to
any other hitherto laid before the world, but the only rea-
sonably complete account of human nature which we possess,
and the only one which can serve as a basis for any system
of instruction. To me Phrenology appears to bear the lllime
relation to the doctJ.ines of even the most recent metaphysi-
cians, which the Copernican astronomy bears to the sysu;m of
Ptolemy. By this science the faculties. of the mind have been
for the first time traced to their elementary forms; in it conse-
quently we have at length obtained an instrument, by which
ordinary men may readily unravel the complexity of their
own thoughts and motives, and the thoughts and motives of
others : ,,by this power I conceive that a much greater pro-
portion of mankind may henceforth be able to regulate both
their conduct and their reasoning faculties, than have ever
been able to do so heretofore. Phrenology may thus be de-
scribed as a kind of novi8aimrem organum--0ne, I grant,
hitherto recognised and used only by a few, but which, I am
persuaded, will ultimately become universaJ, and add im-
mensely to human happiness. Nor is this system of mind so
much limited in its acceptance as may be supposed. I have
reason to know that, with or without the organology, it is
making rapid progress amongst the more thinking portion of
the middle jlnd lower ranks ; so that, while the elder schools
Digitized by Google
56
of mental science never consisted of any but a few learned
persons, the new may be considered as tending, without the
sanction of the learned, to embrace the great body of the
people. Its progress would, in my opinion, have been much
greater, if its pretensions as a means of discovering character
from external signs had not been ignorantly confounded with
those of the false sciences of the middle ages. Were the me-
taphysics presented alone, this obstacle would be in a great
measure overcome, and multitudes who have hitherto regard-
ed the science as only a new kind of divination or palmistry,
would be astonished to view a system calculated to throw
the united labours of Aristotle, Locke, Reid, and Stewart,
into the shade--an almost exact reflexion of human nature,
a code of sublime morality, a means of accelerating to an
unprecedented degree the social progress of our race.
The objections which have been made to Phrenology as
tending to Materialism, appear to me to rest upon mere ver-
bal quibbles. 1'he mind may be presumed to be charged,
in the present state of our being, upon a material organ,
from which it is to be separated at last by the Power which
created both. Phrenology, so far from necessarily being in-
terpretable into something hostile to religion, is not only con-
formable, but favourable to it. If we take the science as a
scheme of mind founded upon observation of actual facts,
and, in comparing it with Christianity, find it in exact har-
mony with both the doctrinal and preceptive parts of that
form of faith, can we resist the conclusion that Christianity
has here obtained the aid of demonstrative, in addition to tes-
timonial evidence ? Phrenology might be described as Chris-
tianity thrown into the character of a science; each is calcu-
lated to have great force in urging the other upon the con-
victions of mankind.
If the Patrons of the University should see fit to prefer a
professor of this science, whose qualifications in other re-
spects are satisfactory--and such I deem Mr Combe's--1
should consider them as laying up a store of future praise
amply compensatory of any censure which may be bestowed
Digitized by Google
57
upon them at the time of the act. 1.'hough I am very far
from presuming to challenge any decision they may come to,
I cannot help believing that they will yet regret one unfa-
vourable to Phrenology. Indeed, were it not that many of
the most enlightened men are still ignorant of the merits of
the new system, the filling of the present vacancy with one
who persists in describing the mind as consisting of memory,
judgment, and imagination, would appear to me as a sole-
cism not less great, than would the appointment to the Chair
of Chemistry of one who continued to describe fire, earth, wa-
ter, and air, as the elements of matter.
ROBERT CHAMBERS.
XLII. From CHARLES MACLAR'EN, Esq., Editor of the
Scotsman Newspaper.
16 NOB.TBUJIBE•L.t.JID ST•ll:ST,
6th Mag 1836.
MY LoRO PaovosT AND 6ENTLEMEN,
HAVING been requested by Mr Combe to state my
opinion of his qualifications for the Chair of Logic, I take
the liberty to intrude upon the Patrons with a few observa-
tions.
Permit me to state in the outset. that I believe Phrenolo.
gy to be founded in truth,-that the brain is the organ of
the mind,-and that the character of an individual can be in-
ferred with considerable certainty during life from the exter.
nal form of the skull. But Phrenology, in my opinion, is
chiefly valuable when regarded as a system of mental philo-
sophy. Even though I had no faith in its organology, J
should still hold that it possesses the following advantages :
lat, That it exhibits a more scientific and consistent classifi-
cation .of the human faculties than any other system of phi-
losophy; ~d, That it gives a more lucid and satisfactory ex-
planation of those varieties of national and individual charac..
ter which we find in the world ; 3d, That it has a more i~
Digitized by Google
58
mediate and practical bearing on human conduct and the
business of life, on morals, education, and legislation. We
have the testimony both of the learned and the unlearned to
its m~ts in this respect. I refer to the letters from the
Archbishop of Dublin and other eoiinent men, among these
documents-to the 'republication of Mr Combe's phrenolo-
gical works in America, and their translation into several
of the.continental languages-and to the rapid and extraor-
dinary sale of 14,000 copies of the oheap edition of the Con-
stitutiqn of Man within the last eight months. Thi11 sale
must have been chiefly among the less wealthy and less edu-
ca~ classes, since 5500 copies of a more elegant and expen-
sive edition were sold almost contemporaneously. Now, the
fact of a book on a subject so abstruse, running counter also
to old opinions, and courting no prejudice, being so eagerly
purchased by the humbler classes, seems to me to a1Ford a
strong presumption that its doctrines are in accordance with
the laws of Nature, and therefore find a response in the com-
mon sense and common feelings of mankind.
Since the object of Logic, as now taught in this Univer-
sity, is to explain the structure of the human mind, and the
application of its powers to the discovery of truth, it follows
that Phrenology, if it gives the most satisfactory explanation
of mental phenomena, must afford the best foundation for a
system of Logic.
With regard to Mr Combe's talents and his competence
for the duties of the Chair, I would refer to the same work,
his book on the "Constitution of Man." 'l'o me it seems a
model of inductive reasoning and rigorous analysis, and an
admirable exemplification of. the rules of Logic applied to the
i11vestigation of subjects of the highest importance. I may
fUtther obElerve,"that Mr Combe like his predecessors Drs Gall
and Spurzheim, instead of applying the new doctrines to un-
settle men's notions-of duty by raising doubts and difficulties,
ha.S invariably 'etnployed them -to strengthen the foundations
of virtue and religion. The moral results of his system may
be said to be, that we best promote our own wellbeing when
Digitized by Google
we venerate God, and obey the voice of conacien<.-e,-wben
we are temperate, industrious, and orderly, and cxerciae jus-
tice and charity towards our neighbour.. These principles
are not only enforced in the" Constitution of Man," but
they may be said. to pervade every page of it,
The Professor of Logic. must teach some system of mental
philosophy; and the question for the Council·is not whether
Phrenology is a perfect system, but whether it is not prefer-
able to any of the others presently known, which are nume-
rous and discordant. Mr Combe's certificates shew at least
that it enjoys a sufficient reputation to vindicate the pro-
priety of the Council's choice, if they elect him to the Chair.
In other respects, I think it will not be easy to produce an
individual so well qualified for the situation. I trust the
Council are superior to those vulgar prejudices which have
so often verified the maxim, that a " prophet hath no honour
in his own country." Many persons in this city know Mr
Combe merely as an active man ofbusiness, or as an individual
often met with in society, or as an ingenious speculator whoee
doctrines have been ridiculed in the Edinburgh Review,
Blackwood's 'Magazine, and other periodicals. The docu-
ments, however, which accompany this, amply demonstrate
that his name is widely known and highly respected in f0-
reign countries, and that he is the living head of a school of
philosophy which is i;r:taking rapid advances, and which al-
ready numbers among its adherents a multitude ofintelligent
and zealous disciples, including pot a few distinguished
names, in the British Isles, continental Europe, and America.
I have myself a strong conviction that the doctrines which
he advocates, modified no doubt in various respects by fu-
ture inquiries, are destined to supersede all that is now taught
as the philosophy of mind. Even already they are so widely
diffused, that this election will excite an interest far beyond
the boundaries of the British empire. The Council are not
called upon by Mr Combe's supporters to pronounce Phre·
nology true: it is only required of them not to pass a sen-
tence of proscription against opinions finding larger credence
Digitized by Google
60
from day to day among enlightened men,-by rejecting a
candidate otherwise admirably qualified for the Chair, on ac-
count of his adherence to them. If the. expectations which
I entertain, in common with many better informed men,· of
the future progress of these opinions, be well founded, the
decision of the Council will be a fact of some importance in
the history of philosophy, and may be the subject of praise
or censure many centuries hence.
I have the honour to be, my Lord Provost and Gentlemen,
your very obedient servant,
CHARLES MACLAREN.
XLIII. Second Letter from GEORGE SALMOND, Esq., Pro-
curator-Fiscal of the County of Lanark.
SBEIUFF's CHAMBERS, GLASGOW,
DEAR Srn, 4th Mag 1836.
IN my last, I said nothing of the_ case of a young
man charged with murder whom you examined, because the
investigation as to him had not been made by me, and con-
sequently the nature of the evidence was unknown to me ;
but having since heard the whole, as adduced on his trial, I
beg leave to trouble you with this addition, as deeming it
highly C'.on6rmatory of the justness of your remarks at the
time you examined him.
You may remember that you said of him that you could
discover nothing remarkable about him as indicative ofstrong
criminal propensity ; and that, on being told that he was in-
.dieted for the murder of his own father, you said, " that his
head did not indicate a great tendency to violence," and that
" surely he must have had very great provocation."
Now, the proof at the trial shewed that the provocation
given him was such, that one of the jury was for acquitting
him altogether, and the otherfourteen, while they returned a
verdict of culpable homicide, recommended him to the le-
Digitized by Google
61
niency of the court; and the latter sentenced him only to
nine months' imprisonment.
I beg to refer you to the report of the evidence in the
Glasgow newspapers of the ~th or 19th ultimo, as amply
j ustif"ying your conclusious as to this person. His name is
Robert M'Anally.
I am, dear Sir, yours faithfully,
GEORGE SALllOND.
XLIV. From WILLIAM HUNTER, Esq., Town-Clerk of For-
far, and President of the Forfar Phrenological Society.
Foua, 3d Mar 1838.
THE study of Phrenology has made great progress
in this quarter among the professional and educated classes.
It has removed the chief difficulties that attended the old
school of mental philosophy, and has furnished an analysis of
the human faculties intelligible, complete, and practical. It
therefore appears to be essential to the successful teaching of
Logic.
Mr Combe is justly regarded as the most profound and
eloquent expositor of the doctrines of Phrenology ; and his
superior qualifications, as established by his writings and lec-
tures, for discharging the duties· of the Logic Chair in the
University of Edinburgh, are beyond all question.
The University of Edinburgh was the first public semi-
nary that adopted the Newtonian philosophy;• and it may
• My authority for this statement is a Life of Dr John Gregory, pub-
lished in Edinburgh in 1788, and Whiston's Memoirs of his own Life, voL i.
p. 32. It ii there said, that David Gregory, afterwards Savilean Profe880r
of Astronomy at Oxford, while Professor of Mathematics in the University
of Edinburgh, saw very early the excellen11e of the Newtonian Philosophy,
and had Lhe merit; of being the first who introduced it into the schools by
his public lectures 1 and, Mr Whiston adds, " that he had already caUBed
several of his scholars to keep Acts upon several branches of the Newt0-
nian Philosophy, while we at Cambridge, poor wretches! were ignominious-
ly studying the fictitious hypotheses of the Cartesian."
~~~ --~~--~~~--~~------111111
oi.
git.
ize
•
d•
by
~CJ
lll!G
~
G
•
6
•t
•
@
.._.
fl2
not perhaps' be too ·presumptuous to remark, that it would
be no mean praise were it also to he the first to adopt the
new philosdphy of mind.
In drill testimonial.the Society over which I have the hon-
our to preside h·eartt1y concur.
WM. HUNTER.
XLV. J<'rom DAVID MuBRAY, Esq. Physician in Forfar.
Fo•rAw, 3d Mag 1836.
HAvrnd had an opportunity of attending the logic8.I
prelections of Dr Ritchie, and also a course of lectures on
Phrenology by Mr Combe, and having in the course of my
subsequent practice tested the latter science as opportunities
occurred, I have not the slightest hesitation in declaring my
conviction that Phrenology is the true science of the mind.
I therefore warmly anticipate that those who app0int a
successor to Dr Ritchie will do their University the high
honour ofselecting one who is ver~ theoretically and prac-
tically in Phrenology to fill the Chair of Logic. To Mr
Combe I point as that individual, and give my decided tes-
timony to his abilities in elucidating and advocating the ·new
philosophy to the advantage of his pupils and honour ofhis
country.
DAVID MURRAY.
XI~VI. From ALEXA:Sl>ER SM'.ITll; Esq. M. n.', :l>hysi~ian
in Forfar.
; : \ ,· ,..
FoaFAA, Mag 4. 1836,
1 BEG to offer my humble testimony in favour of Mr
Combe as the successor of Dr Ritchie iri the Logic Chair of
the Edinburgh University. .. . . . . ,·
I have attentively considered the system of mental philo-
Digitized by Google
63
sophy so ably advocated by Mr Combe, and in the dUcharge
of my professional duties have often found it of great utility
in explaining certain mental phenomena arising from a dis-
eased or excited brain, which were lota1ly ~ by the
old systems.
A. SMITH.
XLVII. From JOHN F. ALLAN, Esq., Licentiate of the
Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.
Fouu, Id Mflf 11138.
I RESPECTFULLY offer ·my testimony in favour of Mr
Combe, as an individual possessing the highest qualifications
for filling the Chair of Logic in the University of Edin-
burgh.
I am convinced, from an attentive perusal of Mr Combe's
works, and from having made a practical application of his
doctrines to the treatment of disease, that they constitute the
true science of mind, and are, in my opinion, indispensable
to the successful teaching of Logic.
J. F.ALLAN.
XLVIII. From the Honourable Judge CRA.HPTON, formerly
Fellow and Professor of Law in Trinity College, Dublin.
MEBIOJf STB:SET, Du11Lnr,
Sia, 4th Mag 1836.
I RAD yesterday the honour ofyour letter, dated the
!9th April last, announcing that you are a candidate for
the Chair of Logic in the University of Edinburgh, and re-
questing a certificate from me in favour of Phrenology, the
science of Mind, as you justly term it.
I can have no hesitation in stating my conviction, that, in
the present advanced state of mental philosophy, an adequate
Digitized by
G4
knowledge of Phrenology will be found to be a most useful,
I had almost said a necessary, quali6cation for a Professor of
Logic and Metaphysics ; as it is, I am sure a most valu~
ble aeSistant to the medical practitioner in his treatment of
insane and nervous patients, and to the schoolmaster in his
education of youth.
To the above testimonial I am, however, bound in can-
dour to add one qualification, namely~ that it comes ma a
person but imperfectly acquainted with the science of Phre-
nology ;-sufficiently so acquainted, however, to be persuad-
ed that it i6 amongst the most important of the acquisitions
made to_ the stock of modem knowledge, and that upon it
must be based every sound system of mental philosophy.
I conclude by expressing my cordial wishes, that so able
and distinguished a promoter of the science of Phrenology as
yourself, may be elected to fill the Chair to which you aspire.
I am, Sir, your. very obedient servant,
P. CRAMPTON.
To Gzo. CoMH, Esq.
XLIX. From the Rev. Dr FRANCIS s,\Dl.IER, s. F. Trin.
Col. Dublin.
To GEOBGE CoHBE, Esq.
Sia, COLLEGE, DuBLur, Ma111. 1836.
I HAVE had 'the honour of receiving your letter of
the $th ult., and though I cannot suppose that my single
testimony of approbation can add any thing to the great es-
timation in which your phrenological works are held; yet as
you desire it, I feel much pleasure in expressing it, and in
stating my opinion that a person of your ingenuity and acute-
ness of intellect, must be eminently well qualified for the si-
tuation you tell me you are seeking.
I have the honour to be, Sir, your very humble servant,
FRANCIS SADLIEH.
Digitized by Google
65
L. From C. OTTo, M. D., Professorof Medicine in the Uni-
versity of Copenhagen, Physician to the Civil Prisons,
Member of the Royal Board of Health, and of the Me-
dical Societies in Copenhagen, Edinburgh, Stockholm,
Paris, Montpellier, Berlin, Leipzig, Lyons, &c. &c.
MY DEAR SIR, CoHNHAGEN, .April 26. 11138.
IN order to comply with your wish of receiving my
opinion of Phrenology, I feel it a duty incumbent upon me
to state, that, as far as twelve years' observation and study
entitle me to form any judgment, I not only consider Phre-
nology as a true science of mind, but ·also as the only one
that, With a sure success, IJ\ay be applied to the education of
children, and to the treatment of the insane and criminals.
I have found it of the highest importance, as physician to the
civil prisons, in acquainting myself with the character of the
prisoners, and adapting my moral treatment of them to this
knowledge; and, as a member of the Royal Board of Health,
my voteson the motives and themisdeedsofcriminals, ofwhose
responsibility the Board is questioned, are always according
to phrenological principles ; and hitherto the court ofjustice
has in all instances acted upon my judgment. In my lec-
tures on Forensic Medicine, I treat the chapter on insanity
and responsibility phrenologically, and am by the science of
Phrenology more able to explain the subject than I would
be by metaphysics, the doctrines of which badly accord with
the precepts of common sense and daily experience.
Upon the whole, I consider Phrenology as one of the
greatest benefits that of late have been bestowed upon man-
kind; and in which respect the world is greatly indebted to
you, whose valuable works have elucidated the subjects be-
longing to the science in the ablest manner, and are celebrated
for excellence everywhere where they are read.
But I must add, that the present Professor of· Logic' at
our University, Professor Sibbem, a very celebrated author,
*E
Digitized by
-- ·---- __ ___..., -- -
66
always mentions Phrenology favourably in his lectures. In
his Danish book, "On the Human Mind (Menneskets aan-
delige Natiir ag Vresen)," he expresses himself in the follow-
ing terms: u If, upon the whole, the brain is such an organ
for the mind that the latter cannot act without the former,
but is disturbed whenever the brain is morbidly affected,
certainly nothing can be objected to the principle in Dr
Gall's doctrine, that certain faculties of the mind require cer-
tain modes of action in the brain, and have their appropriate
organs in it. To assert that.a talent for mathematicsrequires
a special organ in the brain, is no more singular than to as-
sert that thinking in general requires a well organized brain.
Psychologically considered, Dr Gall's doctrine is not at all
improbable." I think this will in~rest you. I have alao the
pleasure to tell you, that next winter I again intend to be-
gin a phrenological course.
'With the deepest sentiment of gratitude, I consequently
remain yours ever most sincerely,
C. OTTO.·
LI. From '.rnoMAS WnE, Esq. M. P., Chairman of the
Committee on Education in Ireland.•
8 CLEVELAND Row, ST JAHEa'a,
Mr DEAR Sm, ..fpril 29. 1836.
You must not attribute my silence to any other cause
than my absence in the country, from which I have only just
returned, and great pressure of public business, Committees
especially, since my arrival. I feel, I trust, that high ad-
Jlliration for your talents, and not less for the truly Christian
benevolence which directs them, which they so well merit.
J shall seize the very first moment permitted me this next
• I have not yet received the testimonial promiaed in this note, but I
ahall add it, when received, to the remaining testimonials which I may have
occuion to prlnt.-G. C.
Digitized by Google
67
week, to add my humble testimony to those eminent ones
you have received. I waa unwilling, however, to allow even
that short period to pass, without conveying the expression
of my esteem, and endeavouring to remove any impression
that I was indifferent to the just claims you have to the Logic
Chair of the University.
I beg you to believe ine, Dear Sir, sincerely yours,
THOS. WYSE.
LII. From JAM:Es JouNsoN, M. D., Physician-Extraordi-
nary to the King, Editor of the Medieo-Chirurgfoal Re-
view, &c. &c.
To GEORGE CoHBE, Esq.
SurroL1t PLACE, PALL·MALL EA&TEa,
LoNDON, 3d May 1836.
I HAVE been long acquainted with the writings or
Mr Combe, and have considered them as exhjbiting the most
rational and enlightened views of the human mind, as revealed
through the organ efMind, in this our sublunary state of
existence. I have long been convinced, that the science of
Mind can only be understood and taught, properly, by those
who have deeply studied the structure and functions of its
material instrument-the brain. I am convinced that, in
this world, Mind can be manifested only through the medium
of matter, and that the metaphysician, who studies mind in-
dependent of its corporeal organ, works in the dark, and with
only half of his requisite tools.
Without subscribing to all the details of Phrenology, I be-
lieve its fundamental principles to be based on truth ;-and,
as a profound phrenologist, I have no hesitation in stating
my conviction, that Mr Combe is eminently qualified to
teach the manifestations of the immortal apark through the
medium of its perishable instrument on earth.
JAMES JOHNSON, M. D.
----- -·---~---~---=
68
LIIJ. From the Rev. Dr SP&AGUJt, Pastor of a Presby-
terian Church at Albany, New York.
To GEo•GE CoxBE Eaq.
l\fy DEAR Sia, .EJ>nn111uB, Mag 8. 1838.
In answering your inquiry in respect to the pro-
gress oC Phrenology in the United States, it is due to can-
dour that I should say that I have myselC little knowledge
of the science, as my time is necessarily so much occupied
with professional duties, that I have little to devote to any
thing which is not immediately connected with them. I
have, howeYer, no hesitation in giving it as my decided opi-
nion that the science is rapidly gaining ground in the coun-
try at large, and I know that it numbers among its advo-
-cates many of our most reflecting and intelligent men. I
hardly need say that your own books are very extensively
circulated, and are constantly appealed to as standard worb
. on the subject.
I am, My Dear Sir, with much regard, very truly yours.
W. B. SPRAGUE.
Digitized by Google
.,.,
-
69.
EVIDENCE OF THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY.
I. BOOKS SOLD.*
1. Certificate of Numbers of Mr CoxDE's Works printed by
Mell&l's NEILL & Co. Edinburgh.
WE hereby certify, that we have printed and delivered
to various booksellers the following copies of works by Mr
George Combe:-
1819, Oct. Essays on Phrenology, pp. 416, 8vo,
This work, in subsequent editions, was
named" A System of Phrenology."
1826, Nov. System of Phrenology, ~d edition, pp. 680,
8vo,
1830, Oct. Do.
1836, April. Do.
do.
do.
3d edition, pp. 724, 8vo,
4th edition, 8va,
(In the Press)
Total of System,
1824, July. Elements of Phrenology, pp. 240, 12mo,
1826, May. Do. do. pp. 262, 12mo,
1828, May. Do. do. pp. 228, 12mo,
This work is out of print, and a new
edition is preparing.
Total of Elements,
760 copie1.
1000
1000
1600
4260 copies.
1600 copies.
1600
1600
4000 copies.
• Large editions of Dr Spurzheim's works, as well as of several smaller
publications by various authors, _have been sold in Britain, but I have no
means oflmowing the eX!'ft extent ofthem.-G. C.
70
1821, Oct. Outllne1 or Phrenology, pp. 32, 8vo,
1823, April. Do. Do. pp. 28, 8vo,
1824, Oct. Do. Do. pp. 32, 8vo,
1829, Jan. Do. Do. pp. 32, 8vo,
1836, April. Do. Do. pp. 36, 8vo,
1000 copies.
600
750
300
3000
Total or Outlines, 5750 copies.
1828, June. Constitution of Man, pp. 336, 12mo,
1833, Feb. Do. do. pp. 460, 12mo,
- July. Do. do. pp. 400, 12mo,
-- Nov.
1836, Mar.
Do.
Do.
do.
do.
(Smaller type)
pp. 408, 12mo,
pp. 408, 12mo,
1500 copies.
3000
1000
1000
1500
Total of Constitution 8000 copies.
1833, Dec. Three Lectures on Popular Education,
pp. 80, 8vo, 1000 copies.
(This work is out of print.)
ABSTRACT.
1.'otal number of Mr Combe's Works printed by us:-
1. System of Phrenology
2. Elements of do.
3. Outlines of do.
4. Constitution of Man, .
5, Lectures,
EDllllBVKGB, 30th ..fprill836.
TOTAL,
4250 copies.
4500
5750
8000
1000
23500 copies.
NEILL & CO.
~. From Messrs WILLIAM and RoBERT CHAMBERS, Book-
sellers, Edinburgh.
Wx hereby certify, that we have printed and publish-
ed the following impressions of " The Constitution of Man
considered in Relation to External Objects, by George
Combe," in royal Svo, double columns, and stereotyped :-
Digitized by Google
1836.
Oct. 19. Fint impreuion,
Nov. 20. Second do.
1836.
Jan. 13. Third do.
Mar. 26. Fourth do.
71
On hand, May !. 1836,
Total
Actual sales from Oct. 19. 1836 till
this date, May 2. 1836,
2117 copiet
6260
6270
6278
17916
3260
14666 copies.
WILLIAM AND ROBERT CHAMBERS.
E1>11'BVll&B, M1111 2. 1836.
3. From Messrs LoNGllU.N, REEB and Co., Booksellers
London.
DEAR SIR, Lol!rDOJf, .tfprU 14. 1838.
I'I gives us great pleasure, by reference to our books,
to have it in our power to certify, that your works on Phre-
nology have met with a regular and constantly increasing
sale since 1819, when they first appeared, and that the sub-
ject of which they treat appears to be gaining, in proportion
to the sale of the books, in public estimation.
We shall be happy to find that you prove successful in
obtaining the Chair of Logic in your University. We ,are,
dear Sir, yours very faithfully,
LONGMAN, REES & Co.
4. From Messrs SIMPKIN, MARSHALL and Co., Booksellers,
London.
D:a:AB Sia, Lo:irno>r, .tfprU 14. 1838.
IT will give us great pleasure if any thing we can
eay respecting your books will assist you in the object you
have in view. The first work of yours that we published
Digitized by Google
-"--~-~----- --- --~-------------
72
was the Elements of Phrenology, in 18!4. We cannot epe-
cify the number we-have sold of that work. but it is conai-
derable ; the sale of it has increased very much during last
year, and there is a great demand for it just now. We sold
many copies of the: Constit!-ltion of_ Man prior to our be-
coming one of-your agents in April 1835, since which we
have sold about 4400 copies of the work, viz.-
500 Henderson's Edition, at !a. 6d.
1400 royal I ~mo, at 4s.
2600 People's Edition, at ls. 6d.
Of this last near 1500 have been sold since January !S. this
year, and the demand is increasing. We sold many copies
of the System of Phrenology, and have many inquiries for
it now. We feel no hesitation in saying, that the sale of
your works has increased very much during the last eigh-
teen months ; and, from the sale of these and other works on
Phrenology, we think there is more interest taken in it now
_than there was three or four years back.
We are, dear Sir, yours truly,
SIMPKIN, MARSHALL &: Co
5. From Mr JoRN ANDERSON jun., Bookseller, Edinburgh.
oli NORTH BRIDGE STREET, El>IXBVRGB,
MT DEA& Sta, 12th AprU 1836.
I RECEIVED your letter of 11th instant, and in reply
have to state, that I first became publisher of works on Phre-
nology in the year 18~, and my inclination to do so arose
from a strong conviction of the truth of that science. Then,
and for a considerable period afterwards, Phrenology was
subjected to much ridicule, and there was little demand for
works on the aubject : but the state of matters for the last
six or eight years has completely altered; the study has be-
come popular; in this city, and elsewhere, courses of lec-
tures have been attended by numerous auditories, especially
of the young-; and there is now a regular and increasing de-
Digitized by Google
73
mand for your writings and other phrenological work11, not
only in this country, but also in America.
I am, my dear Sir, yours sincerely,
JOHN ANDERSON Ju-..
FOREIGN EDITIONS.
In the United States ef.America.
The whole of Mr Combe's works have been reprinted in a
variety of editions. Egitions were published, in stereotype,
by Messrs Marsh, Cap0nand Lyon, of Boston, in 1838-4-5.
" The Constitution of Man " was published in double co-
lumns, stereotyped, in May 1835, at New York, by William
Pearson and Co., 106 Nassau Street, New York. The pub-
lishers announced the edition in these words : " The Con-
stitution of Man considered in relation to External Objects,
by George Combe, the price of which at present is D.1 C.50,
will occupy only a little over two numbers" (of the Alexan-
drian, a republication of valuable literary and scientific
·books), " bringing the price for the complete work to a trifle
over one shilling." ·
In France.
Essai sur la Constitutfon de l'Homme de M. George Combe,
traduit de l'Anglais, par M. Prosper Dumont. Parle.
chez Arthus Bertrand, Libraire-Editeur, Rue Haut~
feuille~ No. 28. 1834. lflmo, pp. 341.
Nouveau Manuel de Phrenologie, par George Combe. Ou-
vrage traduit de l'Anglais et augmente d'additions nom-
breuses et de notes, par le Docteur J. Fossati, President
de la Societe PhrenoJogique de Paris. Paris, Germer
Bailliere, Librair~Editeur, 13 (bis), Rue de l'Ecole de
Medecine, 1886. lllmo, pp. 48!.
Digiti~ed by Google.
74
In Germany.
George Combe's System der Phrenologie aus dem Englischen
iibersetzt von Dr S. Ed. Hirschfeld. Braunschweig,
gedruckt bei Friedrich Vieweg und Sohn, 1888. 8vo.
pp. 498.•
Dr Hirschfeld, in a letter to Mr Combe, dated in March
1886, mentions that he has completed a translation of
" The Constitution of Man" into German, which will be
printed in June 1836.
In Sweden.
Monsieur. G. M. Schwartz, Directeur en chefdu Control de
Suede aStockholm, Membre de l'Academie des Sciences,
on 23d September 1833, wrote to Mr Robert Cox of
Edinburgh:-" Mr Combe's work on the Constitution of
Man is now translated into Swedish, and will'be printed
on my return to Stockholm, under the title of ' The
Doctrine of Happiness on Earth.'"
In Denmark.
Professor Otto of Copenhagen translated large portions of Mr
Combe's works, and published them in the Phrenological
Journal of that city. ·
II. LECTURES.
1. Certificate from JAMES P. FALXNEB, Esq., Secretary to
the Edinburgh Philosophical .Association.
EDUl'BUllGB, April 20. 1836.
I HEBEBY certify, That Mr George Combe delivered
a Course of Lectures on Phrenology to the Edinburgh Phi-
losophical Association during session 1832-1888: That the
number of Tickets sold for the course was ~' and the
number of Visitors admitted 700.
Mr Combe further delivered a short Course of Lectures
Digitized by Google
75
on Education in the beginning of seuion 1888-1884, to
which the holders of tickets to the other lec:tuJea delivered
under the auspices of the Association during the seaion were
admitted gratis. The number of Visitors to these lectures
was 340.
A second Course of Lectures on Pbrt!Dology wu delive11-
ed by Mr Combe during session 188~1885; the number
of Tickets disposed of was fllMi, and the Visitor• admitted
1114.
JAMES P. FALKNER.
2. From the Same.
EDIXBUBGB, Ma119. 11136.
I HEREBY certify, That Mr George Combe delivered
a Course of Twenty Lectures on Moral Philosophy to the
Edinburgh Philosophical Association, during session 1885-6,
and that the number of members of that Association was 446,
all of whom held transferable tickets, entitling to admission
to Mr Combe's lectures, and to the other lectures delivered
under their auspices. There was also sold 68 other ticket1
admitting to l\Ir Combe's class, and 495 Visitors were admit-
ted, at the rate of ls. for each lecture.
JAMES P. FALKNER.
S. From WILLIAM HUTTON, Esq. F. G. S., Member of
the Geological Society of France ; Secretary of the Na-
tural History Society, and Member of the Council of the
Literary and Philosophical Society of Newcastle-upon-
Tyne; Honorary Member of several similar Institutions,
&c. &c.
N J!WCA!TLE-OX-TYlrE,
MY DEAR .Sin, 261/a ..4pril 1836.
IT gives me great pleasure to find that you are a
candidate for the Chair of Logic in the University of Edin-
burgh, and I most sincerely wish success to your applica-
tion.
Digitized by Google
76
As I was the individual appointed by the Literary and ·
Philosophical Society of this town, to make arrangements
with you for the Course of Lectures you gave in that insti-
tution in October last, I. may be allowed to. state, that the
Course was a most successful one, and gave more general
satisfaction than any one had before given ; it was attend-
ed from the beginning to the end by very large and attentive ·
aiidiences, these being only limited by the size of the room,
which contained 300 persons, and was inconveniently crowd-
ed every night. I may farther state, that of the persons who
attended the Lectures you gave, there was a much larger por-
tion than usual of those who are known in the town for their
attachment to science, and that the public vote of thanks
you received at the conclusion, which was unanimously
authorized by the ruling body of the Society, was fully re-
sponded by all who attended the class.
Believing, as I do, the system upon which you teach the.
Philosophy of the Mind, to be the true one, I may, I hope,
venture to state, that the manner in which you teach it ap.
pears to me excellent; the clearness and logical precision dis-
played are, I conceive, admirably fitted for a public in-
structor.
Of Phrenology, the ground-work of your system of teach-
ing, I must avow myself a believer, amongst many others
here, and consider that no basis upon which to erect a system
of Mental Philosophy has yet been proposed, which is at the
same time so simple and so comprehensive. The practical ap-
plications you made of the principles of the science in the
prison • and lunatic asylums of this town, were sufficient to
convince the most sceptical.
Again heartily wishing, you success, I am, my Dear Sir,
yours most faithfully,
Wx. HUTTON, F. G. S.
GEORGE CoHBE, Esq. Edinburgh.
•See a report of !\Ir Combe's visit to Newcaatle jail, in Appendix, p. 44.
Digitized by Google
77
4. From JAKES M'CLELLAND, Eaq. Accountant, Glasgow.
No. 88 MrLLE• ST•EET, GL.LIGOW', ·
29th Jlpril 1888.
A DESIRE having been expressed by many gentle-
men of this city, that a Course of Lectures on the ecience of
Phrenology should be delivered by George Combe, Eaq. of
Edinburgh, a requisition to that gentleman to do so waa sub-
ecribed in a short time by upwards of 120 names.
At a public meeting of the requisitionists, a committee was
appointed to conduct the detail, by whom I was authorised
to correspond with Mr Combe preparatory to his arrival.
During the course of lectures delivered by Mr Combe, a
principal charge of the detail was taken by me.
The fourteen lectures given by Mr Combe were attended
each night by audiences of upwards of five hundred, a por-
tion of whom were ladies. The audience comprised the
most respectable classes of the city, and among them many
of OUf most talented citizens.
'rhe applications for tickets for single lectures could not on
many occasions be fully supplied, and had a larger hall been
attainable previous to the commencement of the course, a
considerable addition to the regular class would have been
got.
Each lecture lasted upwards of an hour and a half, and
the audience throughout manifested great interest in the sub-
ject, and few, I believe, have seen so large a body of ladies
and gentlemen listen with so much eagerness to lectures on
any of the sciences as was done during the whole .of Mr
Combe's course,-a sufficient proof, without any farther com-
ment, of the acceptance of the doctrines propounded, and of
the talent displayed in doing so.
Having had my attention directed to Phrenology for up-
wards of eighteen years, I have no hesitation in stating that
a very great increase has taken place in this city in the num-
ben of those who understand, believe, and carry its doctrinee
Digitized by Google
78
into practice,-that the desire for information on the subject
;,,. daily increasing,-and that little indeed is now heard of
the ridicule which used to be cast upon the science, and up-
on those who professed to be its followers.
JAMES .M'CLELLAND.
5. Extract from a Letter from Dr JAMES Cox, dated Paris,
17th April 1836.
To GEORGE 'ConBE, Esq.
" Dn BnoussAIS has commenced a course of lectures on
Phrenology from pure zeal, and the amphitheatre is crowded
to suffocation. Two thousand were estimated to have been
at the first lecture. Three have been delivered. Never
were such crowds seen at phrenological lectures before. The
professor who lectured immediately previous to Broussais,
finding himself interrupted by the crowds of students who
poured in during his lecture to be ready for Broussais, or.
dered the doors to be bolted on the day following. When
the crowd gathered they broke down the doors, and one in-
dividual was nearly crushed to death. Indeed no one can
attend who has not great strength of ribs. The lectures are
very good."
JAMES COX, M. D.
6'. From WILLIAM TAIT, Esq. Surgeon, Lauder.•
SIB, LAUDER, 28th April 1836.
IT gives me much pleasure and satisfaction to be able
to inform you, that the desire for information on Phrenology
in this district is still on the increase. Before the winter of
1885 the subject was scarcely heard of; and the principles
• This letter, addressed to the Editor of the Phrenological Journal, is
presented as an instance of the manner in which Phrenology is spreading in
the country. Many similar communications could he produced.
Digitized by Google
79
of the science were, by the very few who had heard or read
of them, treated with ridicule and disdain. It was easily
discovered, on talking over: the subject with any of those
who hazarded an opinion regarding the claimsof the science,
that they were grossly ignorant of them, and probably had
never read any of the standard works upon the subject. To
this I am the more inclined to adhere, as some of them con-
fessed that all their information on the subject was presented
to them through the distorting medium of the Edinburgh
Review. It is but justice to the inhabitants of this town to
say, that now they have given the subject a fair hearing.
You are aware that I delivered a short course of lectures last
year, which were attended by about twenty-four persons,
principally mechanics. I was still desirous that they should
be better informed concerning the principles, and I undertook
a second course of eight lectures this spring, which were at-
tended by upwards of forty individuals, some of whom were
the most respectable persons in the town and neighbourhood.
At the conclusion of the course, Mr John Romanes, town-
clerk, expressed his approbation of the course I bad pursued
in bringing the subject under their notice, and the satisfac-
tion he had experienced while attending the lectures; and in
the name of all those who honoured me with their attendance,
returned thanks for the trouble and exertion I had put my-
self to in their behalf. He farther stated his willingness to
defray the expenses incurred by the"present course, and ex-
pressed a hope that I would again, ·next winter, resume the
task, when he would be most happy to attend.
The results of these lectures are very encouraging. The
Mechanics' Library has got two copies of Combe's Constitu-
tion of Man, and one copy of his Elements of Phrenology.
Considerable attention is now paid to Phrenology, theoreti-
cally and prl\Ctically, and many are true converts.
WILLIAM TAIT.
Digitized by
-r -· ~-..._..
Digitized by Google
ADDITIONAL TESTIMONIALS
OJr BER.ALF or
GEORGE COMBE,
Al A
CANDIDATE FOR THE CHAIR OF LOGIC
JJr THE
UNIVERSITY OF EDINBURGH.
SIST MAY 1836.
Digitized by Google
'
PRINTED BY NEILL & CO. OLD FISHMARKKT.
Digitized by Google
ADDITIONAL TESTIMONIALS.
LIV. Extracts from Letter from Cen.JsTOPBBa DoNITN, Esq.
Albany, United States.•
GEOBOE Co11BE, Esq. ALB.ANY, N. Y. U!iITED ST4TJ:I,
Mr DEAR Sia, 14th April 1836.
I trust that your zeal for the advancement of popular
~ucation will lead you to excuse the liberty I take in ad-
dressing this communication to you. • • • The subject
to which I would ask your attention, is the procuring of a
competent infant school teacher, to organize and superintend
the infant department of a school in this city, the general
direction of which has just been placed in my hands.
Our school is designed to afford facilities for every branch
of education from the nursery to the counting-room or college,
and we are particularly anxious to make it as soon as possi-
ble perfect in its primary department, because the success of
the whole institution depends so essentially on it.
Albany is in a very central situation, the capital of the most
populous and enterprising state in the Union. The enterprise
of our State is much of it directed to the establishment of
good institutions for popular education. The schools in
this city are particularly flourishing.
I venture to hope that you will be the more disposed to
help us in this matter, from the consideration that by so do-
ing you will aid a cause which you have much at heart-the
cause of Phrenology.. The Trustees ofour Academy are ex-
• The date of this letter will shew that it was written without any re-
ference to the Logic Chair.
Digitized by Google
84
tremely well disposed to the phrenological doctrines on the
subject of education, and are desirous to carry them into full
operation. It is with this view that they wish to see that
kind of infant school which the phrenologists have recom-
mended. In inviting me to become principal of their insti-
tution, they expressly recognised the policy of placing the
whole school orr the phrenological systeltl as far as possible.
Any service, therefore, which you may render us, will, in so
far as it renders the success of our experiment more certain,
tend to establish and raise the character of Phrenology, as a
pmctical science; in this quarter. Our position, as I have
already said, is one of the most central in the country. 'Vhat-
ever we may succeed in effecting here will be copied very
rapidly and very extensively. There is probably no place in
the States where a school on phrenologica.I prhidpl~s would
esert a wider influence on the organization of our schools in
geaetpl..
Hoping that you will excuse the length to "ttliit!h·this letter
has extendedj and that the request whieh if ccitttaih~ biay not
prove too seve~ a burden on your kindness, I subscribe my-
self, my dear sir, very respectfuliy and truly your obedient
servant,
CHR; DUNKIN'.
LV. From Monsieur G. M. ScuwARTz, Ancien Professeur de
Physique et de Chimie ; Directeur General du Controle
Royal et Directeur de l'Institut Royal Technologique;
Chevalier de l'Etoile Polaire; Membre des Academies
Royales des Sciences, cl'Agriculture et des Sciences Mili-
taires, aStockholm, ainsi que de quelques autres Societei1
llilvantes de Suede et en etranger.
bvoaM~. par Mr George C~mbe qu'il s'est offert pour
la charge de Professeur de Logique a l'Universite d'Edim-
bourg, et engage par lui a prononcer mon opinion~ si' la
Digitized by Google
85
Phrenologie peut remplir le but qu'on se propose generale~
ment avec une chaire de Logique, comme fondement pour
lea etudes academiques, j'ai l'honneur de presenter ici la de.
claration suivante :
1°, Autant queje puis enjuger,je considere les importantes
decouvertes de Mr Gall, de Mr Spurzheim et autres, sur
lesquelles est basee la Phrenologie, comme fondees sur des
observations et inductions les plus scrupuleuses et conscien-
cieusement faites, et comme ayant parfaitement rempli leur
but: d'avoir donne a la science des facultes de l'ame, dite
Psychologie, jusqu'ici purement speculative, le meme degre
d'evidence que les autres sciences naturelles; sur lequel point,
la polemique en tous pays parait avoir cesse entre Jes savans
qui en ont pris une connaissance plus que superficielle, et
qui, par le genre de leurs etudes, sont competens aen juger.
l?l0 , La Psychologie a de tous temps ete regardee comme
la baile de toutes Jes etudes philosophiques en general, et
particulierement de la Logi.que, ou la science des fonctions in-
tellectuelles, ainsi que de la maniere de les diriger dans la re-
cherche de la verite, pour amener acertitude dans toutes les
branches des connaissances humaines, et pour l'enonciation
methodique de la pensee, a6n de la communiquer clairement
et produire conviction; de plus, la Psychologie renferme les
premiers principes de morale et de droit naturel, et elle est
en6n le guide le plus sur pour un arrangement de la vie,
copduisant ala felicite, conformement aux lois sages et bien-
•eillantes du Createur. La Phre~ologie, qui n'est autre
chose que la Psychologie, regeneree, OU tiree de son etat sta-
tionaire, et conv~rtie d'une science remplie d'hypotheses en
une science exacte, doit, par ces raisons, plus parfaitement
remplir ces ditf'erens buts, et etre, par consequent, l'etude la
plus importante.
Pour Mr Combe personnellement, les grands services qu'il
a, parsesouvrages, rendus ala science dont il est ici question,
non moins en contribuant dans un degre eminent a ses pro-
gres, qu?en la rendant plus populaire, et ayant plus qu'aucun
autre mi!:: au jour la grande importance de son application aux·
Digitized by Google
8()
plus hauts interets de la·vie ; merites generalement reconnus
par des savans distingues en France, en Allemagne, en
Dannemark et en Suede, dans lesquels pays aussi plusieurs
des ouvrages de Mr Combe ont ete traduits,-ces services
sont tellement au-deasus des eloges que je pourrais en faire,
que je considererais comme une inconvenance de m'en eriger
le juge, et me borne afeliciter l'Universite qui a le bonheur
de s'approprier un aussi digne membre.•
STOCKHOLM, ce 29 Ami 1836.
G. M. SCHWARTZ.
• Translation of M. Sohioarhs' TellimoniaL
Being informed by Mr G. Combe that he has offered himself as a Can-
didate for the Professorship of Logic in the University of Edinburgh, and
being requested by him to give my opinion whether Phrenology be calcu-
lated to promote the object which is generally proposed by a chair of Lo-
gic, namely, laying a foundation for academic studies, I have the honour
to present the following declaration :
ht, As far as I can judge, I consider the important discoveries of Mesara
Gall, Spurzheim, and others, on which Phrenology is based, to be founded
on the most scrupulous and conscientious observations and inductions, and
as having perfectly achieved their object-that of giving to the science of
the mental faculties, called Psychology-till now purely speculative-the
same degree of evidence possesaed by the other natural sciences; on which
point, controversy seems, in all countries, to have ceased among those
learned men who have made themselves sufficiently acquainted with the
doctrines, and who, by the nature of their studies, are competent to judge
of them.
2d, In all times, Psychology has been regarded as the base of all philo-
sophical studies in general, and especially of Logic. I.ogic is the science
of the intellectual functions, and embraces the manner of directing them
in the search after truth, and of attaining to certainty in the different
branches of human knowledge. It includes also the methodical announce-
ment of thought, in order to communicate it clearly and to produce con-
viction. Moreover, Psychology contains the first principles of morals and
of natural rights; and it is, in short, the safest guide by which to accom-
plish an arrangement of life that will conduct to happinet1S, in conformity
to the wise and benevolent laws of the Creator. Phrenology, which is no
other than Psychology regenerated, or drawn out of its stationary condi-
tion, and converted from a science of hypotheses into an exact science,
ought for this reason to fulfil more perfectly these different ends-and to
be consequently the most important study ofall.
With
Digitized by Google
87
L VI. From the Reverend ADAH BaowN, Minister of the
Cameronian Chapel, Kilmarnock.
As I understand that G. Combe, Esq. intends to stand a
candidate for the Professorship of Logic in the University
of Edinburgh; I beg leave to state my firm belief that few
will be found better qualified to fill the vacant chair. His
work on the Constitution of l\lan shews that the science of
Logic is familiar to him, and that he ranks high as a skilful
metaphysici!ln. His Essay on Human Responsibility as af-
fected by Phrenology also seems to accord with sound mora-
lity. And although many of the more minute facts in Phre-
nology are beyond my research; yet believing as I do that
the leading facts are well established, I have no doL1bt that
he will make them powerfully tell in the illustration of the
subjects that will come under his review.
.ADAM BROWN,
Minister of the Cameronian Chapel.
KILMARNOCI, 2d May 1836.
With regard to Mr Combe personally, the great services he bas render-
ed by his works to the science in question are well known, not less in con-
tributing, in an eminent dpgree, to its progress, than in making it more po-
pular, and in having, more than any other person, brought to light the
great importance of its application to the highest interests of life. His
merits are generally recognised by the distinguished sgavans of France,
Germany, Denmark, and Sweden, in which countries, also, several of bis
works have been translated. These services are so much beyond the prai91!8
that I am capable of bestowing, that I should consider it unbecoming to
erect myself into a judge of them,-and I therefore confine myself to
felicitating the University which bas the good fortune to appropriate ao
worthy a member.
G. M. SCHWARTZ,
Late Professor of Natural Philosophy and Che-
mistry ;Director-general of the Royal Board
ofControl, and Director of the Royal Tech-
nological Institution ; Chevalier of the Po-
lar Star; Member of the RoyalAcademiesof
Sciences, Agriculture, and Military Science
at Stockholm ; as well as of other foreign
and Swedish learned Societies.
STOCltHOL)f, April 29. 1836.
Digitized by Google
LVII. From Professor HoPPE', Medical Inspector of Copen-
hagen ; Corresponding Member of the Phrenological and
Medi~hirurgical Societies of Edinburgh, &c.
MY DEAR S1:a,
FnoM your late letter to Dr Otto, I leam that a
testimonial concerning my conviction of the truth and ueeful-
ness of Phrenology would be acceptable to you. Although
it i11 far from me to suppose that my unknown name might
contribute in the least degree to direct the public opinion in
any way, yet I should think it a reprovable want of grati-
tude to the science that has spread for me, as for every he-
liever, light upon· the path where light is of the highest im-
portance for every thinking being-and to you, the third de-
fender of Phrenology, whose personal acquaintance during
my stay at Edinburgh for ever shall be dear to me-if I
should neglect this opportunity to comply with a wish of
yours: .ccm&equently I state it as my most sincere conviction,
that Phrenology is the only true Philosophy of Mind, and of
course the most important of all human sciences, the influence
of which, in a great many practical points of view, already
has been,·and still will be, more striking.
I should hail it as one of the happiest eventsat present for
giving the right turn to thinking-and besides a splendid
glory to the Council of Edinburgh-if you might obtain the
vacant professorship.
I recommend myself to your kind remembrance, and· re-
main, my Dear Sir, your most obliged and obedient servant,
B. HOPPE, M. D.
CoPENHAOEN, 2d Mag 1836.
Digitized by Google
89
LVlll..Fi;om Dr D. E. HrasCHF&LD, Bremen.
BaEME:lf, &lh M111 1836.
I Hl!:REBY certify, that it is my intimate conviction, that
Phrenology is the true Science of Mind, and the oµly ,e"1
Physiology of the Brain,-th11t it is indispensable to a sou11d
System of Logic, which is the art of '1'Plying the intellect~!IJ,
faculties to the discovery and communication of truth,--{1D4
that also this Science is of the greatest utility in insa¢~y at;id
education.
The writings of Mr G. Combe have of late, in Gel)WU)y,
greatly attracted attention to the subject, and wherever th~y
have been noticed, have met with a very favourable recep-
tion. After having translated his System of Phrenology, I
am now about. publishing a German edition of the "Consti-
tution of Man,"-a work which, in my humble opiJJ,ion,
throws more light on human nature on earth, and wh!ch
thereby is more calculated to promote human happinfi!68, th!W
any I am acquainted with.
It being gener,ally acknowledged by our professional m~,
that the different regians of the brain perform diffe,rent
functions, there is but one step to the acknowledgment of
different organs of mind ; and the number of applications
made to me from ,different p~rt11 of the country for moJ:e
ample information. as to the mode a.nd means of verifying
the existence of the phrenological organs, proves to me, that
in the course of a ~ew years the study of Phrenology will be
~s universally followed in Germany, as the high importance
of the practical results it lfads to really ma~es it deserve•.
D. E. HlRSCHFE:i:-P, M .D.
;l.I~. .lfroµi RICHARD CARMICHAEL, Esq. M.R.I.A., .Cor-
reff>Onding Member of the Academie Royale de Medecine
. ~e France, &c. &c. &c., and Consulting Surgeon of the
Ric~ond Surgical Hospital, Dublin.
DuBLl'N', Mag 9. 1836.
I feel the highest gratification in stating my firm belief in
the principles ofPhrenology, and conceive that it explains bet-
Digitized by Google
•
90
ter than any other system of Mental Philosophy the operations
of the mind. From it alone we learn why two persons edU-
cated together, and subjected to the same moral and physical
impressions, may be widely different from each other as to
their dispositions, talents, and acquirements. It alone ex~
plains in a satisfactory manner the vadous degrees of that rea-
soning faculty with which the lower animals are gifted, and
why they should necessarily follow almost blindly their dis-
positions, so as to have hitherto given these tendencies to cer-
tain actions the name of Instincts, but which Phrenology has
satisfactorily explained as depending upon the peculiar or-
ganization of the brain of each species of animal. Phre-
nology has alone afforded a satisfactory 'explanation of
the long disputed doctrines of free will and necessity,~it
teaches us to what degree we are necessitated to obey the im-
pulses arising from organization, and how far and by what
means we are free agents, to act as the superior faculties di-
rect. By it also are satisfactonly accounted for many mental
phenomena in man which all the old systems of metaphysics
and morals failed to explain ;-from it alone we learn why
certain individuals should excel in one pursuit or branch of
knowledge, and be dull in most others; why some are so
disposed to commit breaches in the organic and moral laws
to which man is subjected, that they can scarcely be consi-
dered as accountable persons, and are therefore better fitted
for the seclusion of a lunatic asylum than for the punishment
t6 which the criminal codes even of civilized countries would
·subject them ; and on this account we have sufficient groundg
to assume that the principles of Phrenology ought to be con.;
sulte<l in criminal legislation.
In the p~ctice of medicine~ Phrenology is of the highest
utility, as it is manifestly the true and only physiology o.f.the
brain, and therefore upon it ought to hinge its pathology
·also. When the functions of this important organ are dis-
turbed; as happens in acute and chronic inflammation of the
brain, general fever, injuries of the head, and the various
grades of apoplexy, from vertigo to the annihilation of the
intellect, power of motion, and use of the senses, and, lastly,
91
in monomania and general insanity, Phrenology may assist
us in the treatment, as I have already exemplified in a paper
inserted in the Dublin Medical Journal.
I need scarcely add, after having stated so much as to my
belief in the principles of Phrenology, that were education
illuminated by the lights which this science is capable of
throwing upon it, the state of improv€ment at which man-
kind might arrive is incalculable. In fine, as to the benefit
which morals and religion may derive from this science, I
need only refer to Mr George Combe's admirable work on
the Constitution"of Man, (now very generally read), which,
by disclosing)he true nature of the laws to which the human
being is subjected, permits us to see more dearly than we
ever did before~the scheme of Providence in the government
of man ; teaches us how much it concerns our interest to
avoid the violation of these laws; how independent the or-
ganic and the moral code are of each other; how, generally,
by a heedless or culpable inattention to those laws, we incur
the necessary penalty of their breach; and, finally, it recon-
ciles us without a just murmur to the events of this world.
RICHARD CARMICHAEi.
I~X. From JAMES O'BEIRNE, Esq. M. l>. of the Uni-
versity of Edinburgh, Surgeon Extraordinary to the
King, &c. &c.
S1R,
No•TH Cu.llBBB.L.t.ND ST&EET, DuBL1N,
Mag 9. 1836.
IT is my conviction that Phrenology is the only
true science of mind-that it is all-important in the education
of youth-very useful in the treatment of insanity-and emi-
nently calculated to infuse a more just and humane spirit
into criminal legislation. Such being my firm and solemn
_belief, it is scarcely necessary for me to add, that I consider
Digitized by G-,
O
....,...,,.,......,.
92
an intimate knowledge of this sciew:e to be indi.penw.Wy ne-
cessary .to the su~essful teaching of Logic. Indeed Lenter-
tain a very confident .eJq>eetation that the day is not fa.r dis-
tant when that body which shall be the first to vindicate its
just pretensions in this respect, will be univ:er~lly honQUred
for its bold and timely asserti.on of a great truth.
I sincerely hope that this high honour ii;; reserved for the
University of Edinburgh, of which I am proud to .call my-
self a graduate. It would also be· a source of great gratifi-
cation to me, and to your numerous friends aod admirers iu.
this city, to hear that the choice of the Electors to the Pro-
fessorship of Logic in that University, had fallen upon 1JO
distinguished a teacher and cultivator of Phrenology, as you
are, with great justice, and by common consent, admitted to
be.
Wishing you every success, I have the b®QW" to be, Sir,
your obedient humble servant,
JAMES O'BEIRNE.
LXI. From RoBERT HARRJSoN, Esq. M. D., M. R. I. A.,
Member of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland
and London; Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in
the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, &c.
I. HUME STREET, DUBLUr,
May 10. 1836.
I JIELlEVE there are few persons of education who
are not more or less acquainted with the admirable, inge-
nious, and truly philosophical writings of Mr George Combe.
They are clearly the result of an acute and vigorous mind,
well trained, and highly cultivated in the art and science of
reasoning. The individual posses~ing such a mind and such
acquirements, is in my opinion pre-emine11tlyJUted to 611 the
professorship of-logic. But there is one circumstance which
most peculiarly points out Mr Combe as adapted for this
- - - - _.,.._ _ _,,,.,._ _ _ _ _ _
u""
,9""
;1;z
-
ed
~b
""'
y?
~
~
O
"
b
""e_s
.....,
k
--~~
93
chair, namely, the devoted and •ucceuful attention whieb for
yea.rs he has given to the science of phrenology. Plire""1ngu
may be called the Science of Mind, while L<Jgic directs the
exercise of &0me of its highest powers, its noblest attributes.
These two branches of philosophy appear to me to be most
closely allied, and the latter is most assuredly likely to re-
ceive the greatest aid, and to be urged forwards with most
success, by one who may be justly called the great master of
the former.
ROBERT HARRISON.
LXII. From D. G. Krns1rn, M. D. Gottingen, Ordinary
Public Professor, and Member of the Medical Faculty
at Jena; Privy Councillor to the Grand Duke of Saxe
Weimar; Director of a Clinical Hospital ; President for
1836 of the Association of German Philosophers and
Physicians; Vice-President of the Imperial Academy of
Sciences of Charles Leopold ; Member of the Academies
and Societies of Harlem, Gottingen, Moscow, Berlin,
Mai·burg, Halle, Bonn, .l!:rlangen, Jena, &c.; Author
of several Physiological and Medical Works.
NAcH vollendeter Durchsicht der Schrift des Herm
George Combe zu Edinburgh; " System of Phrenology,"
ergiebt sich ; dass der Verfasser (abgesehen von dem W erthe
und der allgemeinen Gi"ltigkeit der Phrenologie, wor::.ber
erst die Geschichte ein Endurtheil abzugeben berufen sein
m0chte) mit besonderem Fleiss diejenigen Organe des M.e.n-
schlichen KOq>ers, welcbe die Geistesv.errichtungen vennit-
teln, so wie die wesentlichen Verhiiltnisse, Eigenschaften,
und Combinationen der geistigen Thatigkeit selbst, studirt,
und sjch mit ausgezeichnetem Scharfsinn dem Studim;n der
Phrenologie und der Psychologie gewidmet hat.
Da ein Studium der Verhiiltnisse des menschlichen Geistes,
sowohl in seinen innern als aiissern Bezichungen, in seinen
Digitized by Google
94
Grundlagen und Handlungen. a Basis der Kenntniss der
Hauptfunction des menschlichen Geistes-des Denkens-
angesehen werden muss, und da ausserdem die Schrift des
Herrn Combe von einer mit vielseitiger Belesenheit verbun-
denen wissenschaftlichen Bildung, 80 wie von Reife und Con-
sequenz des Urtheils zeugt; 80 diirfte es keinem Zweifel
unterworfen sein,-wenn anderweitige Requisite des J_,ehrer-
talents nicht mangeln--, dass der Herr G. Combe zu einer
akademi8Chen Lehrstelle der Logik vollkommen befiihiget,
und derjenigen Lehranstalt Gluck zu wiinschen sein diirfte,
welcher sein Talent zu widmen Herr Combe sich entschlies-
sen mochte.
Vorstehendes spricht seiner Ueberzeugung gemiiss auf
Verlangen durch seine Namenunterschrift aus.
». G. KIESER.
JENA, 11th May 1836.
• Tramlation.
Having read through the System of Phrenology of Mr George Combe
of Edinburgh, it appears to me, (without reference to the value and uni-
versal truth of Phrenology, on which history will alone be qualified to pass
a final judgment), that the author has investigated with peculiar industry
those organs of the human body through which the operations of the mind
are performed, as also the essential relations, properties, and combinations
which characterise mental phenomena, and has devoted himself with dis-
tinguished acuteness to the study of Phrenology and Mental Philosophy
(Psychology).
Since the study of the relations of the human mind, both external and
internal, in its principles and in its manifestations, must be regarded as the
foundation of the knowledge of the most important mental function, viz.
thought; since, moreover, the work of Mr Combe evinces scientific acquire-
ments united to profound learning, as well as maturity and censi6tency of
judgment: it is impossible to doubt (if the other :requisites of a gooiteacher
be not wanting) that Mr Combe is perfectly well qualified for a Professor-
ship of Logic, and that any university would be fortunate in securing his
services.
The above is certified according to my conviction, and authenticated by
my signature,
D. G. KIESER.
JEN4, 11th May 1836.
Digitized by Google
95
LXIII. FromDrW. F. MoNTGOMERY,Professorof Midwifery
to the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland.
MOLEIWOBTB 8TBEET,
Mag 12. 1836.
HAVING been requested to state my opinion as to the
value of Phrenology, as a science intimately connected with
Metaphysics; and, secondly, as to Mr Combe's qualifica-
tions for teaching Logic, as Professor of that branch of
science, I beg to say, that upon both points experience has
enabled me to arrive at very decided conclusions. Some
years ago I devoted very considerable time to the study of
Phrenology ; and the conviction of its truth and great value,
in leading to a proper understanding of the operations of the
mind, then impressed upon me, has been subsequently more
and more confirmed ; and my present opinion is, that in all
circumstances where it be<-omes necessary to study the work-
ings of the human faculties, in order to establish systems of
management, whether of restraint, punishment, or educa-
tion, it will be be&t and most judiciously done by those who
are best versed in Phrenology ; at the same time, of course,
possessing other suitable qualifications.
As to Mr Combe's fitness for the duties of Professor of
Logic, I feel perfectly convinced, from a careful perusal of
his published works, and from attendance on his lectures, in
both of which the public have long since agreed, that he has
shewn himself an able metaphysician and good practical
logician.
F. W. MONTGOMERY.
LXIV. From Dr JoHN MoLLAN, Upper Gloucester
Street, Dublin.
GEORGE Co:t1BE, Esq.
DEAR SIR,
UPPER GLOUCERTER STBEET,
Dublin, Mag 14. 1835.
Mr A. CARMICHAEL has informed me that yon
were desirous of obtaining a statement from some of the per-
Digitized by Google
sons who were present during your examinations of several
of the patients of the Richmond Lunatic Asylum, with re-
ference to the correctness of your views, an account of which
has been published in the Edinburgh Phrenological Journal.
As one of the persons who were present on that occasion,
I ".:an have no hesitation in stating, that I~ in common with
allthe ofher gent1emen who witnessed the examination, was
particularly struck with the accuracy of your delineations of
the characters of the individuals submitted to you, as well as
their agreement with the hallucinations under which they
laboured.
I attended your course of Lectures on Phrenology, and
can vouch f~r the impression produced by them on the minds
of the auditors. Your clear expositions and logical deduc-
titJns, and the perfectly candid manner in which the subject
was treated, were universally admitted, even by some who
may have dissented from you as to the particular doctrines
of Phrenology.
Major Edgeworth is not at present in town, otherwise, I
a111 sure, he would have confirmed what I have so briefly
iltated. I am, Dear Sir, your obedient sernnt,
JOH~ MOLLAN, 1\1. D.
LXV. From HILL \V. RowAN, Esq.
SAUNDERS GROVE, IlALTINGL.ASI, IBELA'll'D,
DEAR Sta, Mag 16. 1836.
Our friend Mr A. Carmichael of Dublin, intimated to
me a few days ago, that you wished me to express my opinion
respecting the accuracy with whicli you delineated the char-
acters of persons confined in the Richmond General Peniten-
tiary (the Millbank oflreland) upon Phrenological principles,
when you visited that establishment ; I have much pleasure
in stating that I perfectly recollect your examination of
many persons then inmates of that institution : and that
your representation oftheir character,; and propen11ities coin-
Digitized by uoogrc
eided, in a most extraordinary degree, with what I knew,.
from l~ng experience of the individuals in question; to be
their true dispositions.
I am, dear sir, very faithfully, your obedient Servant,
HILL W. ROWAN,
Chief .Magistrate of Police.
LXVI. From THOMAS WYSE, Esq. M. P. Chairman of th~
Committee on Education in Ireland.
8 CLEVELAND Row, ST J.un:s's,
MY DEAR Srn, Mar 16. 1836.
I rejoice to learn that you are willing to devote your
talents and benevolence to the instruction ofthe rising gt:nera-
tion in·a department which must be the basis of all others,
the science ofmind, and with that view have offered you df
as candidate for the Chair of Logic in the University of
Edinburgh.
I read your " Constitution of Man" with a deep sense not
only of the importance of the subject, but also of the truly
admirable manner in which you have treated it. Without
feeling myselfqualified to pronounce ab1<>lutely on the claims
of Phrenology to the distinction of the sole or best philosophy
of mind, I cannot but regard the results you have deduced
frcm it, in the work just mentioned, as of inestimable value
to the metaphysician and the moralist. In no other produc-
tion do I remember to have seen Christian duty so harmo-
njously, I may almost say so lovingly, combined with the
most extended exerciseof all the faculties, intellectual, moral,
and·physical, bestowed upon us by the Creator. The influ-
ence of such a system on education especially, can i;carcely
be other than highly salutary, and if I wished for any confir-
mation of such an opinion, I should have found it in the
conclusions to which it appears to have led some of the most
remarkable of the witnesses examined before our committee
of education last year, amongst whom I may particularly in-
stance Mr Simpson. Nor is the doctrine impaired by the
Digitized by
98
manner in which it is conveyed. It has the eloquence of
simplicity, ease, and thorough conviction, and proves a most
especial fitness for the high but difficult duties of instructing
and .formi11g youth. Thousands can <uquire and retain
knowledge ; how few are competent to cmivey it. Wishing
well, as I do, to the fame and efficiency of the distinguished
University with which you desire to be connected, as well
as to your own honourable aspirations; I continue to express
the most earnest hopes for your success ; and am, my dear
Sir, with the greatest esteem, yours faithfully,
THOS. WYSF..
To GEORGE Co11nE, Esq. Edinburgh.
LXVII. From GEORGE RENNIE, Esq. Sculptor.
CBESHAll P£AcE, BELGRAVE SQoAaE, Lo1mo1r,
MY DEAR SIR, 17th May 1836.
When I consider how Phrenology was scoffed at and
despised at the time it was first taught in Edinburgh by Dr
Spurzheim, and now that you, its ablest and most persever-
ing advocate in this country, can come forward as a candi-
date for a chair in the University, supported by testimonials
from so many distinguished and able men, all concurring
that Phrenology is the only true philosophy of the human
mind, and consequently the only means by which Logic can
be taught to any practical or bene6cial effect,-1 cannot
doubt that ere long the truths of this science must become
the basis of all education and improvement. .
As an artist, I have at all times found Phrenology advan-
tageous in the practice of my art, and that expression iii
almost every case coincided exactly with what was indicated
by the cerebral development.
Wishing you success in the object you have in view, for
which your talents and acquirements qualify you more than
any person I know, believe me yours very truly,
GEORGE RENNIE.
Digitized by Google
99
LXVIII. From the Rev. GEORGE LAWSON, Minister of the
ABSOCiate Synod, Kilmarnock.
KILxAJl:iroc:a:, Mar 17. 1836.
I DO not pretend absolutely to decide on the truth
of Phrenology. The mal!s of facts, however, which are ad-
duced in support of it, have given it a distinguished place
among the objects of human inquiry. Its leading principles
appear to me to involve nothing subversive of morality, or
incompatible with the doctrines of Christianity.
The writings of Mr Combe on this subject, prove that he
possesses uncommon acuteness as a reasoner, and great ele-
gance as a writer. He appears to me peculiarly skilful in
applying facts to the illustration of the phenomena of intel-
lectual and moral character. I should certainly consider the
present vacancy in the Chair of Logic as a most favourable
opportunity of " bringing forward the pretensions" of Phre-
nology " as the science of mind," and preparing the way for
a correct and final decision on its merits. These objects
would be gained by the appointment of Mr Combe to that
professorship. And the liberal and candid proposal which
he makes in the concluding sentence of his letter to the Lord
Provost of Edinburgh, certainly gives him an unusual claim
to the very favourable consideration of the Council, with
whom the appointment lies.
G. LAWSON,
.Mlnitoter.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
101
TO THE
RIGHT HON. THE LORD PROVOST, MAGISTRATES, AND
TOWN COUNCIL OF EDINBURGH.
MY LORD PaovosT AND GENTLEMEN,
AFTER I had o.lfered myself as a Candidate for the
Logic Chair, I received a letter from Dr Neill, a Member
of Council, stating that difficulties seemed io occur to some
religious persons in regard to the bearing of Phrenology
on certain doctrines ofour holy religion. On the H!th day of
April last, I wrote to him a letter explaining my views on the
subject, which has been since printed arid presented to the
Council, under the title of " The Suppressed Documents."
Dr Neill sent that communication to the Rev. Professor
Duncan for his opinion, and he wrote a long and interesting
letter on the general subject of the Relation between Phre-
nology and Christianity. To this letter I replied, and Dr
Duncan sent a second short communication to Dr Neill.
By the kindness of these gentlemen I have been permitted
to print and present the whole correspondence to the Coun-
cil ; and, as it embraces topics of great interest, I hope to
be forgiven for the additional trespass which I necessarily
make on their time, in requesting for them an attentive
perusal.
l have the honour to remain,
MY LoRD PaovosT AND GENTLE.MEN,
Your very faithful and obedient servant,
EnurnuRGH, 13th June 163fi.
GEO. COMBE.
r -
Digitized by GUCcsk
Digitized by Google
103
LETTER from ev. Professor DUNCAN to Dr NE1LL.
(ON THB RELATION BETWEEN PHRENOLOGY AND
CHRISTIANITY.)
NoaTR Bamoz, M.w;.C&LDza,
Mv DEAR Srn, April28.1836.
I am obliged by your communication ; but such is
the difficulty of the subject, and the responsibility con-
nected even with an opinion, in present circumstances, that,
had it not been for our long-continued friendship, and some _
slight hope of being useful, as you say, I should have begged
leave to decline any reply. The reply, for want of leisure,
must be short ; but it will not therefore consist of a
few hasty reflections, but exhibit the result of my past
studies in Divinity, as related to the comparatively new
science of Phrenology. With the latter science, I confess,
my acquaintance is not so extensive as it is, or at least should
be, with the former; but as, in regard to Geology, I have
my own way of reconciling all the progress yet made in dis-
covery with the statements of Scripture, so in regard to
Phrenology ; and I can perceive no discrepancy between
the fundamental positions or principles of this new science,
so far as founded on, or justified by, the phenomena of the
human constitution, and what I have been accustomed to
believe on Divine testimony. Phrenologists would mani-
festly err, were they to promulgate their system of mental
philosophy as the all-controlling science, without duly pon-
dering the claims of other sciences, and, according to the
validity of these, endeavouring to discover and shew the
consistency of Phrenology with these sciences, whether
natural or revealed. They would place it under still greater
Digitized by Google
104
disadvantage, by representing it as at variance with them,
or directly opposed to their ascertained principles. Phre-
nology may be calculated to assist in the regeneration of
the world by a juster view of man's constitution and rela-
tion to external nature, but it will never be by superseding
Revelation, ·or displacing any of its fundamental and pr0-
minent doctrines. Books professing to be divine exist,
have long been preserved, and are known to have been
greatly useful in ameliorating the condition of mankind,
both by promoting human science and ca-operating with it
for this purpose: these facts surely demand a most careful
examination of their claims."" Predilection for any human
science, or for all that comes under.this description, should
not be allowed so to occupy the mind, as to preclude the
enquiry, whether any thing of a higher order exists, which
is clearly possible, and whether the Scriptures are the record
which contains it. The affirmative being admitted on due
examination, it must become a fixed principle, that nothing
proved to be certain in physiology or mental philosophy can
be really opposed to the plain statements and prominent
doctrines of Scripture. We may not be able for a time to
perceive the consistency, but we ought not rashly to suppose
it is wanting, or to traduce or speak unfavourably of either
science, on account of the other. I should indeed have re-
gretted much if Mr Combe had adopted a different course,
as this mode of procedure must have tended to separate,
and render antagonist, two great engines intended by God ·
for the benefit of mankind, and must therefore have ob-
structed the rapid elevation of human nature to its true
Qignity. But it is pleasing to know that the disparage-
ment of any other science, human or divine, is disclaimed
by him and all sound phrenologists.
I am not exactly aware of what Mr C. means by styling
our propensities and sentiments mere "blind instincts," nor
• Phrenologists assume the existence and authority ofrevelation.-G. C.
Digitized by Google J
105
can I see the propriety or philosophical accuracy of the
phrase, as explained by himself, of the susceptibility of a
right ·and wrong direction ; nor do I understand hoW' be
distinguishes between these and a " superior illumination,"
which he seems to refer chiefly, if not solely, to reason,-
admitting, as I think he does, the utility of Revelation as a
guide to reason~ Would it not be wise to reconsider, ifnot
the statement, yet the terms in which it is expressed? I
do not see how ·he will be otherwise able to escape misre-
presentation. He knows the difficulties connected with the
doctrine of instincts, which render it almost impossible to
define them, or draw the line of demarcation between them
awl other phenomena of the mental constitution. He knows
the misconstruction to which the term Instinct, in its onJi..
nary acceptation, is liable. when applied to a large propor-
tion of the human constitution.• While a convert to the
science of which he is the able and strenuous advocate, so
far as I have hnd opportunity of studying it, my uncer..
tainty with regard to some of his statements connected
with theology, renders it necessary that I should simply
give yon my own views ; and, by the knowledge you have
of the accordance of these with Mr Combe's, you will Judge
how far he is sound in my opinion, and fitted for being an
instructor of youth in Logic or mental philo!!Ophy.
Man, when first formed,· was, according to Scripture, in-
nocent, but fallible, and placed in a state of probation. To
this his purely ]>hysical constitution was evidently adapted.
His faculties~ with all their organs, being, physically con-
sidered, indiffe1"tmt, had only to be framed with that cast
which befitted the immediate workmanship of God, that is,
Veneration, Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, Amativeness,
• This would lead me into a long reply in elucidation of my meaning.
In my " System," Pp. 228, 478, el pa1sim, he wilt find explanations on
this topic, which I feel confident nmst satisfy him' and'etery calldid
enquirer.-G. C.
Digitized by Google
106
&c., all properly directed. Their susceptibility of a wrong
directjon, which was not precluded by Divine·confirmation
in the right cast, constituted his fallibility; and, as it·might
be proper that God alone ·should appear to be naturally
and necessarily infallible, the state of probation in which
Man was placed, and in which the test ·was most ·wisely
adapted to his circumstances, was perrilitted in his -case" (as
it had been.even in that of Angels) to discover his defecti-
bility. The Scriptures declare, that he deviated from recti-·
tude, and is now in a fallen state. In this state the orga.:
nization is less perfect,· the cast of all the propensities is to
evil, they are constantly ·apt to take the wrong direction,
while reason is impaired, and unable to control them.
Science may do much to restOre reason to its proper place,
and_ even to render it susceptible of the power of revelation,
and thus of that supernatural ·influence which accompanies
divine truth; but it is to revelation; accompanied with this
influence, we must now look for the true regeneration of
man. What is there here inconsistent with the discoveries
of Phrenology, or calculated to displace its utility ?
If it be asked how all men, in consequence of the first
transgression, came to be in a fallen state, I must refer, for
the discussion of this point, to the Essay on the Existence
of a God,_ part ii. sect.~' on the Origin ·and Existence ef
Moral Evil, published in the first volume of the Biblical
Family Library, where the account of this matter is given
to the best of my power, and from which it will appear that
our present fallen state is punitive, as well as on what prin-
ciple it is so. Unless this view of the ·present existence of
moral and physical evil, for which we are indebted to Re-
velation, be ad!)pted, I see no way of vindicating the Deity
from being the direct author of both. Were Mr C. to hold
that the present constitution of man is that which ·was
original, I do not conceive how he could extricate himself
from the startling imputation. But I am yet to learn
"-----Di!iiiizeci by-Google
____ __.J
107
that he does so, or how it is essential to Phrenology to
hold such an opinion.• On the principles which have
just been suggested, the science is perfectly· consistent
with the Scripture account, both of the state of prob.
tion and of our present condition ; and these principles
afford as much satisfaction as perhaps we shall ever get, or
as is necessary in the present life, with regard to the pro.
priety of the ways of God, and his benignity to man. When
I find that he had ulterior de1igns as to this world and it&
inhabitants, which could not be developed in the first forma-
tion of man, I do not enquire whether, proleptically, the
physical state of inferior beings, animate and inanimate,
might not be adapted to what He who seeth the end from
the beginning knew would take place, and intended to per-
mit, for the purposes of his own glory. As flowers were
made to decay and fruits to perish, so might carnivorous ani-
mals be intended to feed on others, just as the graminivorous
on the herbs of the field ; and all this, together with the na-
tural death ofthe animals, even abstract from the anticipated
res\tlt of the state of human probation, might be sufficiently
consistent with the utility,pleasures, and happiness ofinferior
creatures, who, having no responsibility, could be intended
only for ·temporary existence. I see no necessity for sup-
posing any change in their condition beyond that which
arises from their now being employed for purposes of judg-
ment, or that to which they are subjected by the cruelty
and violence offallen man.. This the Scriptures style their
being." subjected to vanity and the bondage of corruption,"
contrary to their original·design. That the state of nature
• Seep. S6 of the 12mo. edition of ConmtVtion of Man• ."The view
now presented, makes no attempt to explain "'hg pain or evil exists,. be.
cause I conceive the inquiry to surpass the limits of' the human under-
standing." The assumption that, by Phrenology, or Ally. other science,
it can be proved that the present state of man.(which ~one l.investi.
gate) wa11 his original state, is disclaimed by Phrenologists-G. C.
Digitized by Google
108
was the ~ prior to the fall that it still is, seems to be
indicated, by the employment assigned to man, of dressing
and keeping .in order the garden of Eden,-a pleasant re.
creation, calculated to fumish that exercise by which, as
truly as by food, his life and health were to be upheld, but
which implies the same necessity of restraining luxuriance,
of sowing, transplanting, clearing, propagating the finer
specimens, and otherwise improving both flowers and fruits,
or preventing them from degenerating, which now exists,
though, doubtless, not to that inconvenient and oppressive
extent which is traced to the fall.-Gen. ii. 15; iii. 17, 18,
19. Does not this, on the principle of analogy, lead to a
similar conclusion with regard to the Animal Kingdom?
But would not man have been liable to be harmed or
devoured by th_e farce, though he had retained his primi-
tive integrity ? There is no necessity for supposing the
occurrence of such danger from defect of food, from natural
inclination, or from any casual supervening malignity of
disposition, on the part of the inferior animals. Man, what-
ever may be the analogy between him and them in organi-
zation, is such a dilferent creature, that Reason itself must
recognise him as their manifestly intended lord ; and the
Scriptures preclude all idea of danger by declaring, that,
in the majesty of innocence, he was invested with " domi-
nion over the beasts of the earth, the fowls of the air, and
the fishes of the sea." The dilference between him and
them, the existence of this dominion, and the safety result-
ing from it, were all indicated by the peaceful transition of
the animals before Adam, when, pondering their characters,
he gave them names, but selected no companion from among
them, rejecting even those that most nearly rei!embled him-
11elf.* Even on the supposition, clearly inadmissible,_ that
circumstances incompatible with a state of innocence had
• Simia, quan1 •imili•, turpissima leslia nobis. C1c. ex Ennio.
Digitized by Google
100
occurred, the danger co111d have been· prevented, as infidels
must allow, as easily as the destruction of Daniel in the
liolas' den, or of his companions in the ·fiery furnace. He
who, from respect to moral integrity and religio"f!, in the
c&se"of imperfect beings, could restrain the devouring ani-
mals or elem_ent, might surely have been expected to com-
mand absolute aecurity for the unfallen; but, according to
Scripture, the·arrangements were so made, as tc;>·supersede
tlie necessity of recourse to miraculous interposition.
But was not man naturally mortal-liable to die ? · There
was certainly nothing in bis physical constitution to pre-
vent his liability to die. Rigidity and decay, the natural
effects of old age, might have occasioned his dissofotion.
Thus far I agree with Mr C. But who is not aware
that Revelation not only forbids the supposition of this
natural process occasioning his death, or of his dying in any
other way, had he not sinned, but even suggests an expla-
nation of the subject? "There is first a natural body· (de..
-pendent on air, food; &c.), and there is aspiritual body"
(which can live independent of these supports), -such a
body as Christ now has, or Enoch" and Elijah. · The
possibility of this Paul illustrates from analogy, 1 Cor.
xv. 39-4!. Now, the former, the natural body, we derive
from Adam, who was made a· living soul ; the latter would
have been conferred, had he not fallen, without tasting of
dt!ath,-as it shall be upon all the redeemed through the
mediation of Christ, who are alive and remaining at the last
day. It would have been but a poor felicity, of_ which man
(even a botanist) might have become weary, to have re-
mained for eve.do this world, though surrounded with a
paradisaic state of things. ~ intended somethlDg of a
higher order for man; and, ·after preserving him free from
danger~ in all the delicious f~elings of the soundest health,
would have invested. him with the spiritual body;that is,
effected a change on the same· body, calculated to fit him
Digitized by Google
·110
for existence in another tegion, to which suooeesive gene.
rations would have pasaed to give-place to the new gene-
rations produced in this world. Though, for wise rea-
sons, (specified in the section of the work alresdy referred
to•), moral and physical evilis allowed to exist even wKb t1le
regenerated, yet are they rej>reeented in Scripture u ,ulQ.
mately rettored by the second Adam to all that was loat and
forfeited by the first. These seem to melegitimate eonolu-
sions from such scriptures as the following :-Gen. ii. 17.
iii. 19; Ram. v. H. 17. viii. ~; l .Cor. xv. ti. 44-60.
And what is there in all this inconsistent with the tnte priu-
ciples of PhrenolOgy, or how can it·infer the necessity of a
.primitive and original destination to death ?
I am anxious we should have a fellowehip of mind on the
subject 61 this letter, though we should dift'er a little on
others. I hope Mr Combe will never perceive any thing
incompatible with just views of the doctrines of Scripture
in the science which he has done !IO much to elevate·to its
present state. The phenomena of which it treats are in
my view of great importance in mental training, and no
more inconsistent with human responsibility, or favourable
to materialism, than other phenomena of our physical con-
stitution, long known, and universally admitted.
I am, my dear Sir, yours faithfully,
ALEX. DUNCAN.
LETTER from Mr CoMBB to Dr NEILL.
MY DB.AB Sia, Eum•uaes, M41f1 1a. 1836.
I duly received your letter of the 29th of April, inclos-
ing a letter dated the 28th of April, from the Rev. Professor
Duncan to you. I have read both with great attention, and
have delay«! answering them till nqw, in conaequeoce ofyour
•Biblical Family Likary, vol. i. p. 188-191.
Digitized by Google
111
. having intimated that you were then on the eve of setting
out for London. Allow me to offer my best acknowledg-
ments to you for the kind and upright motives which ia.
duced you to apply to Profeuor Duncan for his opinion of
the relatioq between my phrenological doctrines and Chrill-
tianity, and to him for the excellent spirit in which he hM
answered your appeal. My own views are the following:
There are three questions which it is here neceuary to
distinguish and to treat separately, viz.
1. What facts and doctrines in Phrenology are confonn-
able to nature?
· I. What ·are conformable to right interpretations of.
Scripture?
S. What are conformable to the standards of any parti-
cular church, the Church of Scotland, for -example, or that
of England, or that of Rome ~
I assume it as a fundamental principle, that there can-
not by poesibility be any discrepancy between real facts ia
nature, or 10und deductions from them, and right interpre-
tations of Scripture ; because the God of Nature and Be-
•elation is one : He is the fountain of truth and wiedomt
and his works and word cannot be diacordant.,
In directing my attention, therefore, to Nature. I ne.er
once imagined that if I discriminated truth I could be de-
viating from Scripture ; nor can I conceive this even D01'
to be the case.
I regard Revelation as a sacred subject which ought not
lightly to be brought into collision with philosophy. This
may be done in two ways-by adducing ilJ..obeerved or
incorrectlyinterpretednaturalphenomenaasevidence against
revelation on the one hand,--or by advancing erroneous
interpretations -of Scripture as objections against indubit-
able natural truths on the other. Many sceptical Writ.era
have been guilty oi the fint,-while the Roman Pontiff
and ~ardinals who_condemned Galileo, and al&o the reli-
Digitized by Google
dallm:;::.-==-...........--~-- - - - - -
112
gious •authors who in our .day denounce goology as -ie_-
cpnsistent with Scripture,-are chargeable with the second
of_the.lie-erroni.
It appears to me more adnntageOUJJ to i~"e~gatenatur~
hy herse!f
.ftrat, and to proceed to compai1!. bet phenomena
~th Scripture _only af~r being certain that we have rightly
obseJ"Ved and interpreted them.
._. By this_ method we shall preserve _our JDinds _calm ~d
unbiassed for the investigation of truth; we shall test Natu~
by herself, :which·is the proper 1;1tandard by which .to_ try
her; anu we shall avoid bringing discredit on Beyelation by
invQlving it in un·seemly conflicts with natural pheno~ena.
To be able to discover, in a sound and satisfactory man"."
ner, the relationship between natural truths and ~velat,ion,
the_ fovestigator should be critically acquainted with both.
In reading the attacks made by serioqs persons who ar~
ignorant of geology~ against ~he dis®veries made in tpat
science, you_mu11t have occasionally been convinced, tha:t; ii!
_so far IMI- they had the pqwer, they were injuring,. whilethey
intended to seI"Ye~ the cause of religion ; because they were
penouncing as subversive of Revelation, f~ts which couJ4
not possibly give vtay before JI.DY form of 11rgument, seeing
that they )Vere founded in nature. The same error is
committed every day in regard to Phrenology. Religious
p!r!IC>n.s attjick ~rtain _statements asfa"lse which are indubit-
ably true, and only bring obloquy on their own cause wbe~
~hey imagine that they are overwhelming the advocates of
the new science.
It is rare, however, particularly in the case of p. nelf
11cience, to find an individual qualified by his knowledge
pf iicience and Scripture to compare them advantageo-iJsly.
The mind pf the successful explorer of nature is generally
too closely and ardently _directed toward!! her phenolll$la,
to r~der hi~ ~µally clear-sighted and zealous in his i~
.te.rpre~tions of Scripture. Both _objects, therefote, will
Digitized by Google
113
b_e better·accomplished, if he who takes the lead in interro-
gating nature shall confine himself to that province ; and if
a:noµier individual pouessed ofa clear, calm, and unbiassed
understanding, who has made theology his study, shall
follo'\V jn his tract,-detecting his error& where he has fallen
into ~y, yet recognising and embracing all the truth which
he has brought to light,-and shall then proceed to compar~
this truth with Revelation, with the single and upright pUl'~
pose .of discovering their harmony.
Entertaining these views, I have on principle confined
myself to the investigation of nature, never doubting that,
in so.far as I may have discovered truth, Scripture wilJ be
found to harmonize with my doctrines. ·If in any instance
I have observed or interpreted erroneously, I .shall be moat
411xious, on this being pointed out, to renounce my errors.
But I hope it will not be imputed to me as a fault that I
have not discussed also the relation of nature to Revelation,;
regarding this, as I certainly do, as more properly the duty
of individuals better qualified than myself for the task,
There is another distinction which is too often overlook.
ed. All Christian churches are agreed in regard to th~
import and obligation of the moral precepts of Christiani-
ty, and it is only touching points of doctrine and churcq
government that they differ. Now, Phrenology as a mer~
human science comes into direct relationship only with thtt
first-the practical precepts-and it })as generally beeq
iJiowed by those who have attended to the subject, that nq
mental philosophy in existence can be compared with it•
pot only for its exact accordance with this great and import-
ant department of Christianity, but for the power wit~
which it demonstrates that all nature is framed and adjust-
ed on the principle of enforcing by positive sanctions th~
~heme of Christian morals.
I very respectfully maintain, therefore, that Phrenology,
and the deductions which I have made from it, are in a re-
;.. . ' ·. - ..
114
markable degree in harmony with all the points on which the
Christian world in general is agreed ; and when you con-
sider that the Logic Chair is one, not of theology but of
science, and that, by the constitution of your University,
the class may be; and generally is, attended by students
professing a variety of shades of doctrinal belitd',-it may·
well be doubted whether this certain harmony between the
principles of Phrenology, and thoee Christian principles in
which all the students are agreed, be not a decided recom.
mendation of it to the Patrons.
The third question before stated, or the accordance of
Phrenology with the standards of the Church of Scotland,
is the only one that remains to be considered. .It there be
harmony between the constitution of Nature and the doc-
trines of Phrenology, and also betweell° the moral precepts
of Christianity and these doctrines, which there assuredly
is, it would be strange indeed if discord were diacovered be-
tween them and sound Christian doctrine. A11Suming, then,
that the standards are correct deductions from Scripture, it is
afairpresumption thattheyandPhrenologydoalsoagtte. But
as philosophy is addressed to men of every variety of faith,
and as I appear before you exclusively as a philosopher, I
humbly urge that it is the duty o( the divines of each church
to adjust the relation between their own standards and any
particular philosophical doctrines, if true, (and if mine be
untrue I shall cheerfully abandon them); and that them~
hers of the Church of Scotland are not entitled to insist on
your rejecting my claims to a philosophical professorship,
merely because they have not taken the trouble to discharge
a duty incumbent exclusively on themselves.
I am confirmed in my conviction of the soundness of the
course which I have adopted in avoiding all doctrinal dis-
cussion in my printed works, by a fact which cannot be
generally known. I have received letters from several ex-
cellent and ingenious friends well skilled in theology, on
Digitized by Google
116
the relation between doctrinal Christianity and Phrenology,
reconciling the1n ; but no two of them agree in the manner
of doing eo. Each proceeds according to hie individual
views of Christianity, and according to his individual ca,at of
mind. Professor Duncan's views, although highly ingenious,
differ from them all. T his satisfies me that the time is not
:yet come, and that the men have not yet appeared, .for dping
justice to this great subject ;-and perhaps they will not
arrive until both Uevelation and Phrenology shall have been
contemplated under broader and stronger lights than are
yet possessed; and which, I cannot doubt, will at last bring
them into complete harmony. Any attempt on my part,
therefore, to enter on this question at present, would prove
unsatisfactory to myself and unprofitable to the public.
Probably a report from a committee of the first members
of the Church, after Phrenology shall have been fully
studied by them as science, will be necessary before the
public mind will be thoroughly satisfied on the subject, and
I should allow such a committee ~veral years for delibera-
tion. But this affords no reason why the progress of truth
should be arrested in the mean time; why a doctrine found-
ed in nature, and admitted by many sound theologians
to be undeniably in harmony with practical Christianity,
should be excluded from your University, and why I should
be held forth as an enemy to religion merely because cer-
tain of those who take an interest in that sacred cause
have not yet found it cqnveoient tq study the two subjects
and deliberately to compare them. If I advance only doc.
trines founded in nature and in accordance with Christian
morality, I am entitled to the benefit of the presumptipn
that they are also in harmony with all sound doctrinal in-
terpretations of Scripture. If any of my views are at vari-
.ance with nature or Christian morality, I am ready to
;give them up.
You are aware that my works on Phrenology have
Digitized by Google
116
obtained a. very .extensive· circulation, in this country,
in America and on· the Continent, and that· my lectures
have been numerously and respectably attended. Is it ere.:.
dible tha( I can have been teaching doctrines hostile to
Christianity, ·and yet have been thus cordially received?
I very re!pectfully maintain, and you as a Phrenologist are
cai}able ofjudging of the point, that my whole doctrines are
much :more obviously in accordance with Christianity than
the philosophical theories ofMrStewart and DrBrown,whieh
a.re not generally objected to by the Christian public. Jn my
System of Phrenology~ in particular, which contains all the
principlesofthe science that would be embraced by the Logic
Chair, there· is not a view that any reasonable Christi&.n·Qn
object to. And I am ready to pledge myself, if this should
be any satisfaction to the Patrons, not to go beyond the oon-
tents ofthat volume in teaching Logic on phrenological prin;
ciples in the University. They have a guarantee for my sin.:.
~erity in this assurance, in my offer to resign the Chair on
their requisition to do so. To you who understand Phreno-
logy, I need scarcely add, that the very clearness of the light
which it throws on the human faculties, their objects, and
applications, would afford no small security against .any
Pr~fessor abusing it in teaching dangerous doctrines ; it
would enable the students instantly to detect, to expoae;
llltd refute the errors of their master.
Allow me, in conclusion, to draw your attention to the
fact, that the late Rev. Dr Andrew Thomson attended a
·course of my lectures on Phrenology in 18~! or 18!8, and
suf.vived the publication of " The Constitution of Man," a
~opy of which I presented to him, for nearly three years;
·and although he conducted the Christian lnstrm:tor, and
was a zealous, ready, and powerful. writer, vividly.alive to
the purity' of the faith which he espoused, yet he' never
published a word against that book. I sat for several years
in his church, and was personally acquainted with him, and
- DigitizedbyGoogle
117
yet· I never received even any private remonstr.ance from
him on the suqjeCt. Further, Dr Chalmers published his
Bridgewater Treatise several years after my work had a~
peared, and although the subjects in his book and mine are
closely·analogous, he has sb&ted no objection whatever to my
views, which is quite inconceivable if he had regarded them
as dangerous and unfounded in nature, and been prepared
to refute them. Now, 'I very respectfully submit, that it
would be unjust to presume against me, without evidence and
without argument, that my facts and deductions are errone-
ous and at variance with Scripture, and on this presump-
tion alone to exclude me from the Logic Chair. Instead
ofenjoying the natural presumption of innocence, which is
allowed even to malefactors, until they be proved to be
guilty, the rule is pro~ to be reversed in my case.
Some religious men contend for my exclusion on the bare
possibility that I may, after the matter is investigated,
be found to have committed heresy! They urge my
exclusion without any rellponslble accuser having ap-
peared against me, without a trial, and of necessity,
therefore, ia opposition to justice. I can only appeal to
the common sense and good feelings of mankind against
such proceedings.
I observe a work by Mr Scott of Teviotbank in oppo-
sition to " The Constitution of Man," announced as prepar-
ing for publication. But I can hardly anticipate that he
will consider himself called on to supply the supposed omi~
sions of the two learned Doctors of Divinity above Barned.
If. however, I shall be mistaken in this, and if Mr Scott
shall make any attempt to shew that my work contain!'
doctriDeK incon~istent with the principles of sound Chris-
tianify, it will be sufficient for me to remind you and the
public that Mr Scott is a layman, that he enjoys no reputa-
tion for theological learning, and that his opinions therefore
are not ofauthority to decide thequestion. Bel!ides, you are
Digitized by Google
118
well aware that Mr Scott strenuously opposed the views
contained in the Constitution of Man when they were diS-
~ussed in the Phrenological Society prior to their publica-
tion, and that the public voice in this country, in America,
and on the.Continent, has pronounced an opinion of the work
widely different from that en~tained by him.
I am, my dear Sir, yours very sincerely,
GEO. COMBE.
· SECOND LETTER, Rev. Professor DuNCAN to Dr NEILL.
NoRTD BRIDGE, l.\frnCALDEll,
MY DEAR Sia, May31.1836.
I received yours yesterday, with the two letters;-
mine certain!y in another. form than I ex~ted such a ~~y
production to appear in.* However, if ~r Combe think11
the circulation of both will be of any servi~ to him, I have
no objection to your printing it. ··His, I think, is calculated
to remove misapprehension. and scruples. Tender to. him
my thanks.for the kind manner in which he received mine,
on your shewing it to him.
With his fundamental principle, (page 111,) I entire-
ly agree,-wh9 sh~uJ:d. not? but without relinquishing the
s.tatemP.nts,·pages ]0~4; for .deference to ascertained facts
is different_ from making rea&on judge, not of the proofs
of revelation, which it must always be, (for these are faets
too, though asce1'tained by testimony,) bllt of the contents
or. doctrines of revelation. An accredited revelation can-
not be opposed to a.~rtained far.ts in physiology or any
other science, but it may aid "in explaining or accounting
for them, and such aid ought to be sought, and cordially
accepted. My sole objection was, to combining with Phre-
nology opinions on subjects not necessarily connected with
• In proofsheet.
Digitized by Google
no
it ; and I cannot but approve of Mr Combe's distinction of
the three questions, and the nunmer in which he follows it
out, as also of the plan on which he proposes to teach Logic
should the honuur of the Chair be conferred upon him. It
is certainly the business of divines to reconcile undeniable
phenomena with Revelation. This they are bound to do,
and this they will ever be able to do, with all the requisite
measure of success, provided no impediment be thrown in
their way, by attaching inferences or opinions to these phe-
nomena which interfere with sound theology, or constrain
to interpretations of Scripture inconsistent with the rules of
just biblical ·criticism, or calculated to displace the necessity
and make void the utility of a Divine Revelation. It gives
me pleasure to find 1\lr Combe intends no such method of
teaching.
I am, my dear Sir, yours faithfully,
AI.EX. DUNCAN.
DigitizedbyGvu L'--
120
To Mr WM. }'RABER, Printer, Edinburgh.
My DEAR SrB, EDINBURGH, 4th June 1836.
As you have had the best opportunities of observing
the effects which Phrenology has produced, and is producing,
on the minds of the middle and operative classes of Edin-
burgh, and as you were highly instrumental in founding
and promoting, for several years, the·Society for procuring
instruction in Useful Knowledge, now denominated the Edin-
burgh Philosophical Association, I shall feel ·greatly obliged
if you will favour me with a statement of your experience
and observations, in such a form as may be presentro to the
Council.-! am, my dear Sir, yours sincerely,
GEO. COl\fBE.
LETTER from Mr WILLIAM FRASER, Printer, Edinburgh.
To GEORGE CoHBE, Esq.
DEAR Sm,
The Chair of Logic being that in which are or should
be taught the true nature of the intellectual faculties, and
the proper means of applying them to their legitimate ob-
jects, I conceive that all classes of the community in the
kingdom, and more especially the citizens of Edinburgh, have
a very deep interest in the proper selection of a Professor to
fill that Chair, now vacant, in our University, and I there-
fore cheerfully give my humble opinion on the merits of
your claims, both on public and individual grounds, to that
important situation. ·
It was in 18fl8 that my attention was first practically
directed to physiological and mental phenomena, by your
valuable work on the Constitution of Man. For a consider-
able time previous my health had been seriously impaired,
and although the ordinary medical means were resorted to
for recovery, I have no hesitation in saying, that it was
Digitized by Google
121
the lucid exposition of what you denominate the Natural
Laws in the above work, that speedily enabled me to trace
the causes of my illness, to avoid these and others in future,
and ultimately restored me to health. I have ever aince
kept. the operations of the physical, the organic, and the
moral laws steadily in view, and have derived, in common
with many of my friends who have done the same, a corres.
ponding portion of bodily and mental comfort.
In the spring of 188l'l, I accidentally heard you deliver a
short course of lectures on Phrenology to a highly respect.
able audience of medical and other gentlemen ;-in the sum-
mer of the same year a more extended (gratis) course to a
numerous attendance of the working classes of both sexes;-
and in the winters of 188~-S and 1884-0 two full courses on
the same subject to crowded audiences, composed (likewise of
both sexes) of the mercantile and trading portion• of the
community. At the commencement of the above courses of
lectures, the science of Phrenology was in great disrepute
among these classes in Edinburgh, but the lucid and masterly
exposition which you gave of its principles, and of its prac-
tical application to all the duties of life. invariably elicited
unqualified praise from all ranks of your hearers, and has
completely turned the tide of public opinion in its favour. ·
In the summer course of lectures given to the working
classes, and also in the subsequent one to a higher claas of
auditors, you gave instruction in the general principles of
Physiology, illustrated by anatomical drawings and a hu-
man skeleton. You were thus the first to introduce this in~
teresting and essentially practical branch of knowledge into
popular education. The propriety ofdoing so, however, was
at first most vehemently denounCC!d, both publicly and p.ri.,
vately, as subversive of all right feeling, and a gross breach
of morality ; but you soon convinced your auditors. to the
contrary,-persevered in your philanthropic labours,-and
have since seen this description of popular lectures received
into due favour with the public.
Digitized by Grrr~
d
~
IC-
,__
li2
At the commencement of winter 1888-4, you delivered
three lectures on general education, whioh were afterwards
repeated in spring to an audience of the upper ranks, and
printed at the request of the Directors of the institution now
denominated the Edinburgh Philosophical Association, be-
fore whom they were first delivered,-an institution avow-
edly most deeply indebted to your exertions and liberality,
for its origin, and progressive prosperity. In these lectures
you ably exposed the many and great defects of the systems
of general education as hitherto conducted, and no less clear-
ly delineated the more rational and generally useful plan
which should be adopted. These lectures were subsequently
published as a pamphlet, and also reprinted in Chambers's
Journal, and had a very extensive circulation. On this oc-
casion, again, your views were most virulently attacked by a
oonsiderable portion of the press, and by a great majority
of those engaged in public instruction ; but again you most
successfully triumphed; and, it may be unnecessary to re-
mark, what is now so generally known, that numerous semi-
naries of education for all ages and ranks in society have
been everywhere already established upon your principle!,
and are flourishing in an eminent degree, while those on.the
old plan are languishing and falling off in a corresponding
ratio.
In the summer of 1835, you gave a short course oflectures
on Moral Philosophy, ·founded on Phrenology and Phy-
siology, as preliminary to a more extended one, intended to
be delivered in winter to the Association above referted to.
This course has likewise since been given to a very nu-
metollil and highly respectable class of the eomrituni.ty,
although you laboured under the great disadvantage of a
majority of your auditors, many of whom were new atteftders,
being'eitber totally ignorant of, or but very superficially ac-
quainted with; "the principles of either Phrenology or Phy-
siology~ upon both 'Of which your course was chiefly based.
i have been thus minute in these details, to shew the great
....-=____.... -
Digitized byuoogle ----
HtS
and successful exertions you have made among all ranks in
the cause of public education,-the all but insurmountable
obstacles you have had to encounter .at every ·step,-and
·that, by the manner in which .you have successively and most
triumphantly borne down .every opposition, you have ex-
hibited talents almost unrivalled for defending.truth, expos-
ing error, and discharging all the other important duties of
a public teacher.
With regard to the system of Mental Philosoph.v founded
on Phrenology, I have no hesitation in saying-if we may
judge, from its leading principles being almost intuitively
comprehended by the high and the low, the learned and the
unlearned, and from its being practically applicable to all the
purposes of life, as well those of the most orthodox divine as
of the humblest artizan,-that there can be little doubt of
its being the true philosophy of mind, or, at all events,
vastly superior to any system hitherto adopted. If, there-
fore, it be the task of a Professor of Logic to expound the
constitution of the human faculties and their proper use in
the investigation of truth, and to explain their various combi-
nations in the formation or modification of character, with
the innumerable advantages to be derived and conferred on
the whole community from such knowledge ;-and, farther,
if a candidate most thoroughly acquainted with the new
science of Mind, and in every other way eminently gifted
for the art of public teaching, is to be appointed to fill the
vacant chair, its Patrons will have very little difficulty in the
selection.
By some I may perhaps be thought to have exceeded the
limits of an oajinary testimonial ; but, in the present appoint-
ment, the progress of knowledge and the fame of our Uni-1
versity are peculiarly at stake,-the eyes of enlightened
Europe and of America are bent on the intellectual dis-
crimination and moral courage of its Patrons,-and the
rise or fall of the educational reputation of Edinburgh,
with all the beneficial or baneful consequences on its mer-
Digitized by Google
cantile and other CODCe!'ns, most materially depend on their
decision. It becomes, therefore, u already mentioned, the
duty of every citizen to state his views fully on the subject ;
and, looking to the independent, intelligent, I.ind liberal cha-
racter of our present Town Council, with the unparalleled
weight of unquestionable testimony which you have laid be-
fore them in your favour, I am unwilling to doubt the result
of their choice.-1 am, &c:
W. FRASER.
91h Ju1111 1836.
Digitized by Google
TO TH"
RIGHT HON. THE LORD PROVOST, MAGISTRATES, AND
TOWN COUNCIL 01'' F.DINBURGH.
23. CHARLOTTE SQUARE, EDI>IBURGR,
lat July 1836.
Mv Loan PRovosT AND GENTLEMF.N,
I beg leave to present to you a few additional Tes-
timonials which I have received from the Unitecl States of
America, and to avail myself of the occasion to offer some
explanations regarding the grounds of my pretensions to the
L-0gic Chair, which, I am informed, are still imperfectly un-
derstood by several members of Council.
It has been remarked, that, if a Chair of Phrenology were
to be disposed of, my certificates might be deserving of at-
tention, but that they have no relation to Logic.
I beg leave very respectfully to solicit the attention of
those who entertain this opinion to .the following words of
Mr Dugald Stewart: "I have always," says he," been con-
vinced that it was a fundamental error of Aristotle (in which
he has been followed by almost every logical writer since his
time) to confine his views entirely to Reasoning or the dis-
cursive faculty, instead of aiming at the improvement of our
nature in all its various parts. If this remark be
weU founded, it obviously follows, that, in order to prepare
the way for a just and comprehensive system of logic, a
pret•Wua aurvey ef our natitre conridered aa one comprelien-
1ive whole, is i1ul.i8pensably necessary."'•
The late Mr George Jardine, Professor of Logic in the
University of Glasgow, in his " Outlines of Philosophical
• PhiloMJphical Buag• by Dugald Stewart, Esq. : 2d edition, chap. ii.
PP· 61-63.
Digitized by Google
126
Education, illustrated by the method of teaching the Logic
Class" in that University, says, " To the elements of the
science 9fthe lmman mind, therefore, I have recourse on the
present occasion, as the mother science, so to call it, from
which all others derive at once their origin and nourishment.
'.fhus logic, metaphysics, ethics, jurisprudence, law, and elo-
quence, have their common origin in mind; . . and con-
sequently an intimate acquaintance with the phenomena of
mind must form a suitable introduction to the study of every
branch of knowledge." P. 45.
The Royal Commissioners appointed to visit the Univer-
sities of Scotland, in their General Report, observe, that
" Logic may be rendered more elementary and useful, by
being confined to a brief and general account of the objects
uf human knowledge, the.faculties ~lJ whic/1 it is acquired,
and the rules for the investigation of truth." P. ~8.
Assuming, then, that the philosophy of mind is indispen-
sable to the formation of a sound and useful system of Logic,
I beg leave to observe, that Phrenology, whatever notions of
it individuals who have never studied it may entertain, is the
philosophy of the human mind, based on observation of the
mental organs.
The external senses may be adverted to in illustration of
its nature and pretensions. In order to comprehend the phi-
losophy of vision, it is necessary to study the following par-
ticulars:-
1. The structure and functions of the eye and optic nerve,
which are the organs of this sense.
fl. The effects of the condition of these organs on the
powers of vision. One constitution of the eye, for instance,
gives distant, another dose vision. When the eye is di&-
eased, we may see green objects as yellow, or we may see
double, or we may be altogether incapable of seeing, accord-
ing to the nature of the malady.
3. The relations of external objects to these organs. This
head includes the science of optics, with its various applica-
tions to painting (perspective), astronomy (making ef te'le-
scopea), &c. &c.
If the philosophy of vision were studied, by merely
Digitized by Google
127
naming, recording, and classifying its phenomena, with-
out knowledge of the structure, functions, diaeases, and rela-
tions of the eye, it would present precisely the same appear-
ance which the philosophy of mind now exhibits in the pages
of the metaphysicians.
In studying the works on mental philosophy by Dr Reid,
Mr Dugald Stewart, and Dr Thomas Brown, who form the
boast of Scotland in this department of knowledge, the fol-
lowing observations strike a reflecting reader.
I. These authors differ widely in regard to the number
and nature of the primitive mental faculties.
If the philosophy of the senses had been studied without
knowledge of their organs, we &hould probably have had, in
like manner, disputes whether hearing and seeing, tasting and
smelling, were distinct senses, or whether, by some metaphy-
sical refinement, they could not all be referred to one sense.
2. They make no,inquiry into the organs of the faculties.
s~ They give no account of the obvious fact, of different
individuals possessing the faculties in different degrees of en_-
dowment, which fit them for different pursuits.
4. They give no account of the effects of disease on the
manifestations of the faculties.
5. They have given no philosophical account of the rela-
tions of external objects to the faculties, and cannot do so
while the faculties themselves continue unknown.
In consequence of these imperfections, it is impossible to
apply, with reasonable success, the philosophy of mind, as
taught by these distinguished authors, to any of the follow-
ing purposes :-
1. To the selection of proper pursuits for individuals ac-
cording to their capacities ; or to the selection of persons en-
dowed with the necessary natural ability to fill particular
offices. Men of penetration accomplish these ends by the aid
of their natural sagacity, sharpened by experience; but me-
t1tphysical philosophy affords them no aid in doing so.
i.:.2. ·T.o·the elucidation and treatment ofinsanity.
Digitized by Google
-----------·-----~-- -
1~8
8. To the exposition of the relations of different sciences to
the human faculties, an indispensable requisite in an effective
•ystem of education.
4. To the elucidation of the mental causes which produce
the tendency to crime.
5. To the exposition of the effects of the condition of the
bodily organs on the powers of mental manifestation.
Phrenology, on the other hand, is recommended by the
f~llowing considerations :-
1. No faculty of mind is admitted as primitive until the
organ by which it is manifested be ascertained by observa-
tion.
In consequence, the Phrenologists no more attempt to
make and unmake faculties, or to analyze one into another,
than they would attempt such feats in regard to the external
senjW?s. Every faculty stated as ascertained in Phrenology
stands forth as a distinct mental capacity, whether of feeling
or of thought, resting on the stable foundation of an organ,
having specific functions, and standing related to determinate
objects, very much as the external senses appear when stu-
died in connection with their organic apparatus.
!2. The fact is ascertained by observation, that the power
of manifesting each of these faculties bears a ralation, ctde-
ris paribua, to the size of its organ ; and that the relative
size of the organs differs in different individuals.
Hence, it is possible to ascertain the strong and feeble
powers in individual minds, and.to apply this knowledge in
dedicating them to particular pursuits.· The same know-
ledge renders it possible to select persons enjoying particular
mental qualifications to fill particular offices.
S. The mental faculties being studied in relation to their
organs, their constitution in health is philosophically ascer-
tained, and it becomes easy to understand their appearances
under the influence of disease.
4. The fact, that, cmteria parilma, the power of manifest-
ing the faculties is in proportion to the size of the organs,
enables us to comprehend how some individuals, from having
Digitized by Google
129
the organs of the animal feelings in excess, and the organs of
the moral emotions in a state of deficiency, are prone to
crime ; and the knowledge of it aids us in their treatment.
5. The mental faculties being specifically ascertained by
means of their organs, it becomes possible to determine the
relations in which they stand to external objects ; in other
words, to form a rational system of Logic, and a really phi-
losophical plan of education.
Jt is generally admitted, that Logic and mental science,
as at present taught, are inapplicable to any practical pur-
pose, except serving as a species of gymnastics for exercising
the mental faculties of the young.
Professor Jardine, in speaking of the state of Logic when
he entered the University of Glasgow, uses these words:
" During several sessions after my appointment, the former
practice was regularly followfd : that is, the usual course of
logic and metaphysics was explained by me in the most in-
telligible manner I could-subjected, no doubt, to the same
animadversions as my predecessor. Though every day more
and more convinced me that something was wrong in the
system of instruction pursued in this class-that the subjects
on which I lectured were not adapted to the age, the capa-
city, and the previous attainments of my pupils, I did not
venture upon any sudden or precipitate change. Meanwhile,
the daily examination of the students at a separate hour,
gave me an opportunity of observing that the greater num-
ber of them comprehended very little of the doctrines ex-
plained ; that a few only of superior abilities, or of more
advanced years, could give any account of them at all; and
that the greatest part of the young men remembered only a
few peculiar phrases, or technical expressions, which they
seemed to deliver by rote, unaccompanied with any distinct
notion of their meaning. Impressed with this conviction,
which the experience of every day tended to con6rm, I found
myself reduced to the alternative of prelecting all my life on
11ubjects which no effort of mine could render useful to my
pupils, or of making a thorough and radical change in the
!!nhject-matter of my lectures."-P. ~8.
Digitized by Google
180
Professor Jardine informs us, that he did make "a thorough
and radical change in the subject-matter of his lectures" ae-
cordingly; and no doubt he introduced great improvements:
but you may easily ascertain by inquiring at the students of
the latest session, whether the foregoing observations are not,
in a great degree, still applicable even to the most improved
systems of Logic taught in the Scottish Universities. On
this subject, indeed, Mr Stewart speaks emphatically. Al-
luding to the long prevalence of Aristotle's Logic, he re-
marks, that " the empire founded by this philosopher conti-
nued one and undivided for the period of two thousand
years; and, even at this day, fallen as it is from ·its former
grandeur, a few faithful and devoted veterans, shut up in its
remaining fortresses, still bid proud defiance in their mas-
ter's name to all the arrayed strength of human reason."*
" As to Logic in general," he observes, " according to my
idea of it, it is an art yet in its irifancy, and to the future
advancement of which it is no more possible to fix a limit,
than to the future progress of human knowledge."-P. 63.
Again, he remarks, that " to speak in the actual state of the
world of a complete system of logic (if by that word is meant
any thing different fr:Jm the logic of the schools), betrays an
inattention to the object at which it aims, and to the pro-
gressive career of the human mind; but, above all, it betrays
an oz1erweeni11g e.ytimate ef the little which logicians have
hitherto done, wl1en compared with the magnitude ef the task
whicli they have lift to their successors.''-P. 64. Jn· accord-
ance with these remarks, you will observe, that in the Testi-
monials presented to you in favour of the champions of the
existing school, no al.lusion is made to the utility of the doc-
trines, either in Metaphysics or in Logic.
The questions for you to determine, therefore, are, Whe-
ther the teacl;iing of Logic in your University shall be con-
tinued on a system which the experience of ages has demon-
strated to be nearly useless, and which has been condemned
as barren by the highest authorities in mental philosophy :
• Philosophical Essays, p. 66.
•q aq
Digitized by Google
131
Or whether you will endeavour to introduce a new system,
founded on the improvements in mental science which have re-
cently taken place-rational, practical, and in harmony with
the spirit of the age. If the former be your determination,
then you should by all means reject my pretensions; but if
you aim at the latter alternative, I very respectfully solicit
your suffrages, because I appel!-r before you as the represen-
tative of a new mental philosophy, capable of affording a basis
for a sound system of Logic ; and I have endeavoured to
prove by evidence in my testimonials that that system is
founded in nature, and applicable to practice.
In forming your judgment on these two questions, it may
not be without advantage to bear in mind, that the history
of all scientific discoveries establishes the melancholy fact,
that philosophers fducated in erroneous systems have in ge-
neral pertinaciously adhered to them, in contempt equally of
the dictates of observation, and of mathematical demonstra-
tion. You cannot, therefore, reasonably expect that the
masters of the expiring systems should, in the present in-
stance, view with any favourable eye the pretensions of the
new. Experience also shews that it is equally true in philo-
sophy as in the affairs of ordinary life, that " coming events
cast their shadows before ;" in other words, that the opiniom
ofthe young present the best index ofthe doctrines which will
prevail in the next generation. There is no instance in the
records of science, of the authority of great names, even al-
thotJgh sustained by the energy of civil power, proving suc-
cessful in permanently supporting error in oppo°sition to
truth ; and neither is there an example of any established
University, which had at an early period embraced a great
discovery in science, having had occasion afterwards to repent
of having done so.
In applying these historical facts as principles of judg-
ment to the present case, I would respectfully remind you
that Phrenology is now in the forty-eighth year of its promul-
gation, and that during the whole period of its history it has
been opposed, ridiculed, misrepresented, and contemned, by
almost all the men whose intellectual reputations rested on the
basis of the philosophy which it is extinguishing; and that
Digitized by Google
132
nevertheless it has steadily advanced in public estimation, un-
til at present, even in weighing the mere authority of names
against names, it stands in Europe on an equality with the
older systems, and in America it has unquestionably the as-
cendency. Farther, in looking at the state of opinion in
your own city on the subject, it is certain that while you
will hear Phrenology condemned by the more aged patrons
of the ancient school, you will find the young ardent en-
quirers into its doctrines. Your acute and learned member
of Council, Bailie Macfarlane, will correct me if I am in error
in stating, that in 18~, when he so ably and eloquently de-
fended Phrenology in the Royal Medical Society in this city,
he had scarcely any supporters; but that in proportion as he
persevered, season after season, in lifting up his te!ltimony
in its favour, he found himself backed by a constantly increas-
ing minority. And I am informed that, now, so numerous
are its adherents in that body, that questions touching its
truth and merits are generally carried by majorities in its fa-
vour.
In nominating a Professor of Logic, you are providing a
teacher for the young ; and I very respectfully beg of you to
consider whether it is probable that, with the testimonials in
favour of Phrenology which have been presented to you in
their hands, with the books and museums on the science be-
fore their eyes, and with the constant advocacy of its truth
by a highly influential portion of the periodical press, the
students !Jf the rising generation will readily bow to the au-
thority of a philosophy which never satisfied men of practi-
cal understandings, even when it was supported by public
opinion and the highest names, but which is now generally
proclaimed as being useless, and which is brought into com-
petition with a newer, a better, and -a highly practical system
of truth.
I have been told, that, to rest my claims on the truth and
utility of Phrenology, is to deprive myself of the benefit
which I might otherwise have derived from the talents which
I have displayed, and the beneficial uses which I have made
of them, however humble these may be. I profess myself
altogether ·incapable of comprehending this objection. I
Digitized by Google
133
fuuncl my pretensions on Phrenology, because I entt.'l'tain
the sincere conviction that no rational or useful system of
Logic can be reared without its aid. If you have confidence
in the judgment and good faith of the gentlemen who have
honoured me with Testimonials, you have grave authority for
admitting the reasonableness of this opinion. To reject my
claims, therefore, because they are based on, and bound up
with Phrenology, would be simply to shut your eyes to doc-
trines which have been certified to you by men of the high-
est talents and philosophical rf'putation, as constituting the
only basis of a sound system of Logic.
It may appear to savour of egotism in me to observe, fur-
ther, that on your decision in the present instance will de-
pend, to some considerable extent, the prosperity and repu-
tation of your University for the next generation; but I ven-
ture to do so, because I speak not of my own importance,
but of that of a great system of natural science, lo the prorr
perity of the University of Edinburgh. As an individual
I am utterly insignificant ; but if, in rejecting me it shall
be understood that you refuse to admit Phrenology as a
science within your academic walls, then you may injure the
institution over which you preside. Phrenology stands in
much the same relation to the philosophy of mind and its
applications, in which the discoveries of Copernicus, Galileo
and Newton stood to astronomy and physical science. It is
calculated to remove mystic speculations, and to supplant
them by facts and the sound inductions of reason. Its first
an<l greatest influence will be felt in leading to an important
reformation in the subjects taught in classes dedicated to moral
and intellectual science. Its next effect will extend to the
improvement of education, rendering it at once philosophical
and practical. But it will exert a still more extensive in-
fluence. Phrenology is the doctrine of the functions of the
brain, and I feel and aver that if it were· once admitted into·
your University as science, Professors of Physiology might
soon find it prudent to instruct their pupils in its principles,
else they would fall behind their age. It is the foundation
of the most rational views of insanity, and Professors of
Medical Jurisprudence might find it proper to give effect to
Digitized by Google
134
its doctrines, in preparing their pupils for judging of thi1
form of disease. It affords an intelligible clue to the reci-
procal influence of mind and body, and teachers of the
Theory and Practice of Medicine might, I trust, be induced
to avail themselves of its lights in their prelections. But
while I say these things, permit me to assure you, that, if
placed in the Chair, it would be my earnest study, as it would
be my duty and interest, to avoid giving offence to any one ;
and I am persuaded that I could teach Logic on phrenolo-
gical principles without doing so.
In short, were the new philosophy introduced into your
University, a very few years would justify the wisdom of
your decision ; and you would maintain for your Seminary
that pre-eminence as a seat of unfettered and liberal study,
which it has already enjoyed, and which contributes so great-
ly to the fame and prosperity of the city.
On the other hand, if you shall shut your eyes to the pre-
tensions of the new science, you will proclaim to the world
that the University of Edinburgh is not disposed to take the
lead in adopting the new lights of the age, and a short period
may suffice to reveal to you a decline in its prosperity,
which it may be extremely difficult to arrest.
I am aware of the criticisms to which I expose myself in
making these remarks; but criticism has already done its
worst on me, and I have nothing farther to fear from its
severity. If I did not state to you truths, and truths of the
utmost importance to the welfare of your University and
City, I should be bound to submit to obloquy, because it
would be merited ; but if I merely present to you facts ·
founded in nature, and endeavour to open your understand-
ings to the perception of consequences which a few years
may realize, I appeal to public opinion when enlightened by
experience, to decide on the merits of the course which I
have pursued.
I have the honour to be,
My Loan PaovosT and GENTLEMEN,
Your very obedient Serl-ant,
GEO. COl\ffiE.
Digitized by Google
~ I
185
From the Rev. G1..:0RGE TREVOR SPENCER of Buxton.
EDoi:xooa, near Bu:s.To>r,
DEAR Sm, Jun11 9. 1836.
I have heard with great pleasure that you are a can-
didate for the vacant Chair of the Professorship of I.ogic at
the University of Edinburgh, because I am convinced that
no one can be better qualified to do justice to the spirit of
the times, which requires truth-practical truth-as the basis
of instruction, than he who has so fearlessly advocated its
cause, through good report and through evil report.
Without the most distant pretension to adduce my opi-
nion, which in so humble an individual is utterly valueless,
I nevertheless feel, th~t, in common with thousands, I owe·
you a debt of gratitude for the pleasure, and, I will hope,
benefit, that I have derived from the perusal of your works,
-a debt which I can only discharge by expressing my sin-
cere respect for your character, and my earnest hope that
Edinburgh will render honour to herself and justice to you,
by electing you to the vacant Chair.
Objections, I am aware, have been urged against Phreno-
logy as dangerous to religion : I confess I cannot believe it
to be so; on the contrary, religion being the truth, subordi-
nate truth will necessarily play into her hands, and strengthen
her cause. And surely we are bound to inquire whether a
system of mental philosophy advocated by such talent, and
supported by so many uncontroverted facts, be truth or not.
This, at least, we have a right to demand, and this will be
effectually done by placing you in the responsible situation,
to,which, in the opinion of those so well privileged to judge,
you so justly aspire.
I have the honour to be, dear Sir, your very faithful ser-
vant,
G. TREVOR SPENCER.
Digitized by Google
136
FROM AMERICA.
I. From WILLIAM M. HoLLAND, Esq. Professor of An-
cient Languages in Washington College, Hartford,
Connecticut.
N.t.aux C.t.PElf, Esq. Boston. H.t.RTFoaD, JU1111 1. 183&
DEAR SIR,-Having been requested by you, through
our common friend, Dr Brigham, to state in what estimate
the writings of Mr George Combe of Edinburgh are held in
this region, where they have been so extensively circulated,
I do not hesitate to say that they are very highly valued by
all persons of intelligence and candour, who have read them,
whether phrenologists or not. In my view, Mr Combe has
unfolded the true science of the Human Mind ; and the learn-
ing, candour, and excellence of his writings, shew that he
must be eminently qualified to give instruction in Mental
Philosophy and Logic.
I am, Dear Sir, very truly your friend and obedient
servant, Wx. M. HOLLAND.
In the expression of the views of the tendency of Mr
Combe's writings, contained in Professor Holland's letter, we
entirely concur.
N. S. WHEATON, D.D., Pres. Washington College.
SAMUEL FARMAR JARVIS, D. D., Professor of
Oriental L. L. and Lit.
EDWARD .P. TERRY, l\I. D., Consulting Physician
to the Connecticut Retreat for the Insane.
AMARIAH BRIGHAl\I, M. D., Author of " 01-r-
"atiom on the lnjltWnee of Religion upon Health, and
Remarks upon the Phgrical Welfare of Mankind;"
and "Mental Cultitlation and Mental E.uitmumt
"pon Health," &c.
II. f'rom Dr .JoeN C. 'VARREN, Professor of Anatomy,
Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
To N. CAPEN, Esq. BosTON, June 3. 1836.
DEAR S1a,-ln reply to your question in regard to the
reputation of Mr Combe in this country; not being a phre-
nologist, I do not know that I should be thought a proper
137
judge. Independently of Phrenology, however, Mr Combe'•
works are highly esteemed here, and have been productive of
real improvement in intellectual and physical culture. The
great truth, that men have the control of health and life, to
a certain extent, is set forth in his work on the Constitution
of Man, with a strength of light that must strike and impress
the mind. I can add, that having had some agency in dis-
tributing this work among those whom I consider to be ex-
cellent judges of its merits, I have heard but one opinion in
regard to it, and this a most favourable one.
Respectfully your friend and servant,
JOHN C. WARREN.
III. From SAMUEL Howx, M. D., Director of the New
England Institution for the Education of the BlineI.
N. CAPEN, Esq. BosToN, Jut111 3. 1838.
DEAR SIR,-You request my opinion of the works of
Mr George Combe. I cannot conceive how my individual
opinion can be of any consequence; it would be but a faint
note in the loud expression of approbation.and admiration
which I am sure would follow a question on the subject, if
addressed to hundreds of our first literary men. Convinced
as I thoroughly am of the soundness of Mr Combe's views,
and the truth of most of his deductions, my opinion as a
phrenologist might be considered as biassed in his favour ;
but aside from that, I speak my own deliberate opinion, and
that of many of my anti-phrenological friends, when I say,
that Mr Combe should be ranked among the master-spirits
of the age. But one fact is worth many speculations; I have
bad occasion to teach the general principles of the Philosophy
of Mind to the young. I have given my class the views of
the older writers, and mystified them with Stewart and Brown;
but on presenting the new Philosophy, as explained by Mr
Combe, they said that they saw, and felt, and understood,
what before was dark and unsatisfactory. I consider Mr
Combe's works as invaluable to a teacher of Moral and In-
tellectual Philosophy. Yours truly,
SAMUEL HOWE, M. D.
Digitized by Google
188
IV. From C.H. STEDMAN, M. D., Surgeon and Physician
to the United States Marine Hospital, Fellow of the
Massachusetts Medical Society, &c.
GEORGE ColllBE, Esq. BosToN, June l. 1836.
Sm,-Having just heard of your application for the Pro-
fessorship of Logic in the University of Edinburgh, I cannot
allow the opportunity which this circumstance presents, to
pass, without testifying to the fact of your extended influence
over the minds of my countrymen, through the many talented
works of which you are the author. Let me assure you of
the continuance and constant increase of that influence, and
of your usefulness in this country. It has displayed itself on
many occasions, and has taken deep root among our best edu-
cated classes, and particularly in our colleges and our schools.
With the hope .that your far-famed City may have the
honour of taking the first sure step in the Science of Mind,
and that your efforts in the cause of truth may be rewarded
with the distinction they deserve, I beg leave respectfully
to .subscribe myself, your most obedient servant,
CHARLES H. STEDMAN, M. D.
V. From GEORGE HAYWARD, M. D., Professor of Surgery,
Harvard University; JoHN Ho~ANs, M. D.; Z. B.
ADAMS, M.D.; H. HosHER, M.D.; J. H. Dix, M. D.;
JoHN D. FISHER, M. D.; JosHUA B. FLINT, M. lJ.;
CHARLES T. HILDRETH, M.D.; JOHN FLINT, M. D.;
J. T. FLAGG, M. D., all Members ef the Massachusetts
Medical Society; J\. ALCOTT, M. D.; D. H. STORER,
M. D., M. M. S. ; W. LEwrs ,Jun., M. D., M. M. S.;
DANIEL HARWOOD, M. D., M. M. s.
GEORGE COMBE, Esq. BOSTON, June 2. 1836.
Srn,-We have beard with much satisfaction that you
will be a candidate for the Professorship of Logic and Meta-
phyoics in the University of Edinburgh.. The various works
which you have written upon the Physical and Intellectual
Condition of Man,-works which contain, according to our
•
Digitized by Google
189
view$, thetrue principles ofPhilosophy,-all exhibit evidences
of the peculiar talent and constitution of mind which should
distinguish the individual who is to fill the important office
of Teacher of Intellectual Philosophy. For the benefit of
our fellow-men, and for the reputation of the distinguished
University of your City, we sincerely hope and trust that
you will be the successful candidate for the office you have
applied for.
With profound respect for your talents and labours in
the cause of Human Happiness, we subscribe ourselves, your
obedient servants,
GEORGE HAYWARD, M.D.
JOHN HOMANS, M. D.
Z. D. ADAMS, 1\1. D.
H. HOSlIER, M. D.
J. H. DIX, M. D.
JOHN D. FISHF.R, M. D.
JOSHUA B..FLINT, M. D.
CHARLES T. HILDRETH, M. D.
JOHN 1''LINT, M. D.
J. T. J.<'LAGG, l\f. D.
A. ALCOTT, M. D.
D. H. STORER, M. D., :\-1. M. S.
\V. LEWIS Jun., M. D., M. M. S.
DANIEL HARWOOD, M. D., M. M. S.
Digitized by Google
·"
141
VI.-From RoBLEY DuNGLisoN, .M. D., Professor of Thera-
peutics, &c. in· the University of Maryland; GEoB.GK .It.
CALVERT, Professor of Moral and IDtellectual Philosophy
in the University of Maryland; JosHUA J. COHEN, M. D.,
ProfellsOr of Mineralogy and Geology, University of Mary-
land; R. S. STEWART, M. D.; Wu. L. MARSHALL,
Councillor at Law; .TouN P. KENNEDY, Professor of His-
tory, University of Maryland; Wx. R. FISHER, Secretary
ofthe Maryland Academy of Science, &c.; G. L. DuLANY,
Councillor at Law; J. T. DucATEL, M. D., Professor of
Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Maryland; E-
GxnnINGs, M. D., Professor of Anatomy and Physiology,
University of Maryland; and SAMUEL HENRY D1cxsoN,
M. D., Professor of the Institute and Practice of Medicine
in the Medical College of the State of South Carolina.
BALTlHOB.E, M-'llYLAND, JU'M 3. 1836.
BEING requested to state our opinion of the reputa-
tion of Mr George Combe in the United States, we _the im-
dersigned very cheerfully bear testimony to the favourable
impression produced by his "System of Phrenology," and
his" Constitution of Man." These works have been repub-
lished in this country, and widely circulated. Wherever
they have been read they have been admired, as well by those
who do not as by those who do believe in the phrenolugical
doctrines, and have given their author fame in America as
man of high mental powers and fine cultivation.
ROBLEY DUNGLISON, M. D.
GEORGE H. CALVERT,
JOSHUA J. COHEN, M. D.
R. S. STEWART, M. D•..
WM. L MARSHAI,L,
JOHN P. KENNEDY,
Wx. R. FISHF.R,
G. L DULANY,
J. T. DUCATEL, l\f. D.
E. GEDDINGS, M. D.
BoSToll', JuM 7. 1835.
In the above favourable estimate of the value of Mr
Combe's works, and of the reputation which he enjoys among
the reading public of America, I heartily concur.
SAMUEL HENRY DICKSON, M. D.
Digitized by Google
14!
VII...,.,..From Jou!! F. Guv, M. D., Member of the Medical
Society, New Yor-k, and Vice--President of PMenological
Society, New York; VALESTIN~ MoTT, M.D., Professor
flf Surgical Anatomy in the College of Phyaicians and
!iul'geons; H. J. JvDsoN, l\l. D., Member of Medical
Society, New Yol'k, and the College of Physicians, &c.;
WtLLIAll CBAliNING, M. D., Member Medical Society,
New York; JOHN filcoTT, Judge of the Marine Court,.
and l'residoot Phrenological Society, New York; Le.aJNG
.D. Ou4t>UT, Member of Pr1µ1klm Society, Ctlrreapoaillng
l\{ember af Albany Institute, SecretQ.l'Y of the Ne.w York
'.Phrenological Society, &c.
NEW Yo:itx1 .Tu• 8._ \831$.
THE undersigned heartily concur, with very many of their
fellow cltizees, distinguished for intelligence and high moral
daaracter, in believing Phrenological Sci~ to be the true
and oaly n~ural philosophy of mind :-its rapid progK'M
throughout this oountl'y is an evidence of opin\on elsewhere.
They also cheerfully coincide whh the public f>l'\!SS and wtih
the clergy, in declaring their exalted opinion of the wridnge.
of Mr George Combe, for both their scientifie and men!
character. Few works in our langµage are ealculaled to
:Pft,lduce more lasting and salutary et'eots oo tlle meral senti-
ments of mankind ·than " Combe'& eo~tution of Man."
JOHN F. GRAY, M. D.
VAL~li'l'lN~ ~•.Mo J).
H.J. J.V~<;>N, ~.n..
WM. ~.IIANNIN~. )!. I>.
JOHN SCOTT.
I.ORIN6 D. CffAP!?f.
ligitized by oog e
VIU. Froi.i Cs.uu:,toa C.Ai.:i>waxi, )f. D., Profetsor of \Jte
In1titu~ of MediQ and Cijuical Pl'&l;tk:e in Tl'aQflfl•
vania Un\venity.
George Combe, E9'l·
MY n.....1' $.(a; Li:~nrB'fOli l[r., .Tl&m 9. 1836.
On my return, t.wo day11 ii<>, after an abaen~ of two
months from home, I found your letter of ~e ~4th o( April.
This sojourn abroad is the re...,n why J<>lJ have oot heard
from me at ~ eadwr periocJ. 'J,'be °"Ulf~llefit gives me much
tegret, not that I believ~ you Piee4 the feeble aid which 1117·
6ltfort of mine could aff<>rd, but \.>e()au$e it wQUld have been
highly i""tifying ~ D\yself to make the d°oft. And it ia
iJ!atU"yin1 tQ me itt.Ul w t;ell. you ~w BDiµetbing of what I·
w9\Ud h•"e 118.id, with inuch more pleuure, under a prospect:
qf proving ~iceable to you.
The tinie haui at.leogth arrived, when,in UM United Statea,.r
fbNoology is begi®ingto QQCNpy,in the.public mind, mme...
what of the atati® whim j•tly belongs tQ it. Oppoeition
t.p it i1 fpat <kclimng, a.ad its 1proad ia perhapa u •pd u
it.a friend. thould deeim. In DOthUlg ia ,~ maturit1
deshitble, ~Ullllt cWti(!I ia alway1 ita ~n•. By
e'1ery mlUl of in\elli8fnm\ who U. ~t~ 11Wdled Phre-
~y hE.'ll"e, it is ~ed u the tn,Je, and, of comae, the
Olllt/ legitiMlf ~ tfmUd To this, I do not ~
that a aiagle ex~tion esiltsin our OCMJDtry. Nor do I eon-'
oeive it. l"l'•il* (this stro~ t.m ia in~ employed),
~t tiUeh all eueption ean exist. Srielilu in the ma~r may
still demur, look wise. and doub•. But Tho~ t Of 2'Uch
S11Mttuera wa :make no account. Ju far 111 I am ,,.clriled oa
the subject, all the active, cawld,. and we~infcirmed oppo-
1\flllts Qf Phre,nolo~ are either ailen~, Gr prolel,ted. As
yet the science has not heel\ regqla.rly intro.ducal into any oi
the hi8her Institutions of' the United States, except that to
which I myself belong, where I statedly lecture on it as a
Digitized by Google
141
branch of Pkyaiorogy-of which I consider it the Aighest
branch. In some of .the e1emeritary schools of the .oormttjr,
I am told that its principles are beginning to be taught, but
to what extent I know not. In a word,· though the confest
has been long, and exceedingly unpleasa~t, the victory in
favour of Phrenology, in this country, illay be pronounced
complete~ lndeed to· call the success that has croWlled the
struggle a ".victory," is to ·use a term unequal to the event.
·IT IS A CONQ.UEST.
As·regards your writings on the science, there exists in the
United States but one opinion. They are of thefirst orclcr.
This is. true alike of their matter and manner, their argu-
ment, illustration, and style. When people ask me, as they
often do, from what single volume or work they can derive
most instruction in Phrenology? I uniformly direct them to
your" System." And as to your " Constitution of Man,"
while its circulation has been most .extensive, its praise is .on
the tongue'of every one who has perused it. It is becoming
almost as inuch of a" stock-book," as the Waverley Novels,
or the Pilgrim's Progres& Were not thiR statement so niuch
a niatter of history and notoriety' as to amount to a truism,
I should not hazard the making ofit, lest my sincerity should
be 'called in question. But no competent judge will oonira~
diet 1t. And the great merit of your works consists in their
establishment of truth, by facts judiciously Selected and per-
spicuously stated, connected with inferences correctly dedu-
ced-in positions,· the product of observation, and inductions,
the product of reason: And such, if I mistake not, is the
mental process which constitutes LOGIC. Your peculiar fit-
ness, therefore, for the post you aspire to cannot be doubted.
And such, I trust, will prove to be the sentiment of the.
'•Civic Council of Edinburgh."
Allow me to renew my assurances, that I am, my dear Sir, ·
very truly and respectfully yours,
CH. CALDWELL, M:. D.
'
sggs 7 : : m: ;:.re• , .
Digitized byCoogfe
( 146 )
EXTRACTS FROM NEWSPAPERS.
Faox TBE GL.HGOW A:aous.
TnE testimonials presented by this gentleman (Mr Combe) in support
of his claim to the Logic Chair in Edinburgh, are, in more than one respect,
extremely interesting. They establish beyond question the extent to
which the views ofPhrenology have obtained a hold upon the public mind;
they prove that, right or wrong, these views must have a powerful inftu-
ence in forming the intellectual characterofthe rising generation; theyput
it beyond the power of men of science to overlook this important element
of national opinion. Much discussion has been excited by Mr Combe's
assertion of the claim of phrenologists to the right of full citizenship in
the republic of letters. All admit the high intellectual qualifications and
the intrepid devotion to what he believes to be truth evinced by this
gentleman. :But there are people still sufficiently inftuenced by a vague
prejudice to be startled at the notion ofplacing him in the LogicalChair
-some even who are by no means very decided opponents of Phreno-
logy. We confess that we do not share their doubt& As by no means
adherents of Phrenology, we cannot be suspected of sectarian bias; and
we are decidedly of opinion that if, in other respects, Mr Combe's quali-
fications for the Chair shall prove superior to those of his competitora,
the circumstance ofhis being a phrenologist ought to be no obstacle in
the way ofhis appointment. The task of a Professor of Logic is three-
fold. He has to expound the practlcal sciences of correct management
of the intellectual powers (logic) and ezegula (rhetoric); and he has to
rest these upon the ultimate principles of mind (psychology). One class
•finvestigators into the natural history of mind look only to the know-
ledge of its powers as .derived to us from our internal consciousness.
Phrenologists affirm, that, in addition to this, we can discover such a
uniform coincidence between certain actions and certain external con-
formations of the head, as entitles us to infer the exercise ofcertain in-
tellectual faculties through local organs in the brain. This is a question
offact, which can only be settled by observation. It must be admitted
by every candid mind, that strong eYidence has been adduced by the
phrenologists in behalf of some of their organs, and the question stand-
ing thus, we do not see that a man's being a phrenologist should, of it-
self, exclude himself from a Logic Chair. Mr Combe's testimonials are
such as we have scarcely ever seen in favour of one individual
Digitized by Google
--- ----
---- -·---=-----~
146
Faox TBE LoNDON Couarxa.
We mentioned some time back, that Mr Combe, the learned phreno-
logist, waa a candidate to fill the vacant Chairof Logic in the Univenity
of' Edinburgh. To make his preteasions fully known, Mr Combe baa
published the letters and certificates with which learned men in almost
every part of Europe have honoured him on this occasion. We are sur-
prised at their extent. They fill an octavo pamphlet of seventy pages,
and among them are to be found testimonials from the Archbishop of
Dublin, and from the Profet1110r of Medicine at the University ofCopen-
hagen. There are letters or certificates from upwards of seventy per-
sons distinguished in literature or science in favour of Phrenology, which
shew that it baa spread far, and struck deep root in every part of Europe.
The Archbishop of Dublin declares, that it " employs a metaphysical no-
menclature, more logical, accurate, and convenient, than Locke, Stewart,
and other writers of their schools." Dr Edwards, known all over Europe
for the accurary of his sdentific investigations, and a Member of the In-
stitute of France, says " that the two elements of human nature, mind
and body, had been the object only of separate study, except to some
physicians, with a view to mental alienation, when Gall directed all the
efforts of his sagacious and powerful mind to this question, the vital im-
portance of which, whatever be the fate of his theory, none can deny."
" No man has, since Gall and Spurzheim, done so much in this respect
as Mr Combe, to whose labours the scientific world, and humanity at
large, are much indebted."-" The science, ofwhich Gall is the founder,"
writes Professor Andral of Paris, "and which is known by the name of
Phrenology, must hencefoxward be included among the grave and serious
studies ofphysiology." The ingenious, acute, and scientific editor ofthe
Scotsman, after declaring his conviction of the truth of Phrenology, adds,
that " Phrenology, ifit gives the more satisfactory explanation of men-
tal phenomena, must afford the best foundation for a system of logic.,.
" The Profeasor of Logic must teach some system of mental philosophy,
and the question for the Council is not whether Phrenology is a perfect
system, but whether it be not preferable to any of the others presenUy
known, which are numerous and discordant. Mr Combe'• certificates
shew at least that it enjoys a sufficient reputation to vindicate the pco-
prlety of the Council's choice, if they elect him to the chair. In other
respects, it will not be easy to produce an individual so well qualified for
the situation." If otherwise well qualified, then, as we, from Mr
Combe's excellent books and lectures, believe him to be, these tes\i-
monials, from learned men In all parts of Europe, must convince the
Town Council of Edinburgh that they would gain respect and honour
from conferring the chair on Mr Combe. "Scotland,'' says Dr Edwards,
' has the honour of having founded the scieuce of the wealth of nations.
She should be ambitious of adding to her glory by promoting the first of
all studies-that of man." We certainly are not acquainted with any
individual in modern times who has done so much to promote the study ;
and the Univemty of Edinburgh would enjoy the benefit of his repu-
tation and his exertions wer.
e she to polll:eJS him as a teacher
Digitized by Google
147
Faox THE F1FE H:saALD.
The attentlon of the public aeems considerabl.raclt.ed in vuloue quar.
terS relative to the choice the Town-Council of Edinburgh are likel.r to
make of a successor to Dr Ritchie in the Logic Chair. That choice in-
volves important coruiequences te the characLer of the Council They
have it in their power to introduce into the University a man who bu
shewn himaelf capable ofcultivating and expounding the ecience of mind
with singular originality and success, and in whose hands it hu suddenly
staned up from the position of an inert mass of inapplicable speculation
into a most powerful agent towards human improvement ; or, after the
manner of their predecessors, they may deliver it over to llOIDe otber,
with not a single pretension above those of' the moat common.place of the
persons who have already occupied it-aome one who bu nenr contri.
buted one new idea to the general 1tock of knowledge. and under whole
guidance that important chair will continue as it bu been, productin of
no consequences save distaste at a science which, in regard of pnetieal
purpd8ell, is no better than a solemn mummery, and imprellBing on &he
student's mind but this one conviction-that Logic is utterly Uleieae. It
is very seldom that a body of electors are in the present position of the
Edinburgh Council ·A man like Mr Combe does not often appear to ask
the suffrage of any body ; for individuals capable of regenerating edence
-of breaking up old ground, and delivering ua from hereditary common•
. place-do not exist in the scientific world often in a century. It » pos-
1ible that some of the electors may be deterred from the performance of
their duty by the virulent and fanatical outcry got up in certain quarters
ln regard of what, after the most approved fiishion of old times, is termed
the "dangeroul!De81 of the new philosophy." We solicit the1e gentle-
men to reflect. If the choice lay merely between commonplace men,
persons who have never ntoved one inch out of the beaten path, and peceil
on at the usual jog·trot-there would be no such outcry. To be pur.
1ued by a sectarian and bitter hostility is still the price which ever1 man
must pay for originality and eminence. The outcry, therefore, is at once
a proof and ,inseparable concomitant of Mr Combe's del!llel'tl; and the
question for the resolution of the Council is, not whether there i1 an out-
, cr,r, fbr that is inevitable; but whether Mr Combe can manhal in his
behalf sufficient of the. suffrages of learned and enlightened men, and a
sufficient weight of public opinion, to entitle them, in justice to the Uni-
versity, to despise and neglect that cry P The fint question is answered
by Mr Combe's certificates. They bring forward a mass of influential
opinion on behalf of Phrenology, which, considering the position of the
individuals from whom it comes, hi, we dare to ay, &r outweighing all
that could by its most induetrious enemy be collected against it; and in
:reference to the latter question we undertake to speak. Large masses of
our countrymen have already been delighted and J!levated .by th~ study
· of the new philosophy. Mr Combe has brought truth out from among
misty abstractions, and thousand1 have read hill expOl!it.ionof it. If other
parts of Scotland are like Fifeshire, the Town Council of Edinburgh could
not perform a more popular act than by sanctioning hil claims. It woold
1le hailed by all liberal inquirers as the beginning of.a new epoch in ellu~
cation.
Digitized by Google
148
l<'aoM THE SPECTATOR.
The approaching election of a Profeesar of Logic in the University of
Edinburgh is exciting much interest beyond its own locality. The chief
candidates are Sir William Hamilton and Mr George Combe; and tbe
interest arises from the pretensions of the latter to establish the Phreno-
logical Philosophy of Mind and Morals for the first time, in a university
chair. We think this question an important one; for the days of an ig-
norant ridicule of phrenology, and of dogmatic prejudice against it, as
leading to" materialism," and what not, are, by the common consent·of
thinking men, gone by. Mr Combe, rightly considering the patrons of
the Chair (the Town.Council), whatever may be their private opinions,
as placing no ProfeBSor in their Uninrsity on their own judgment of
the truths of bis philosophy/but as being determined by the evidence of
trustworthy authorities, bas laid before them a whole \•olume of Testi-
monials, prefaced by a very philosophical and sensible letter from him-
se)£ At bis own request, the evidence is directed more in favour of bis
science than of his own qualifications. Indeed, all will agree, that if
this science shall be installed in the University, it must be so in the per-
son of its most celebrated teacher, George Combe. The number, and,
what is more, the weight ot' the certificates, have, in our degree of belief
of the progress of the science, much surprised us, and would stagger the
most sceptical. ·
The testimonialiata, sixty in number, are of various countriea,-for
fifteen are eminent Frenchmen, some are Danish, others American ; they
are ofvarious walks in science, religion, literature, and life; many of them
· are the well-known beads and officers of philosophical institutions, and
teachers of the great schools of medicine and general science through-
out Europe; and some of them members of parliament. Among them
are the present philosophical and 'high-minded Archbishop of Dublin,
himself the chief authority on Logic, as a writer upon it ; and Andral,
one of the most eminent guides of the medical student. Such men, and
all of them, declared it to be their deliberate opinion, on long and pa-
tient study, that Phrenology is the true science·of mind and analysis of
the human faculties; and many of them, that it is the only discovered
-physiology of the brain, for which organs no certain use was previously
known. The testimonials are claBSed as they support one or other or
both of these claims, and yet more particularly, as they bear testimony
to the value of the science in difft'rent departments of human affiLirs,-
as Education, ~rlminal Legislation, and Insanity. On these three, the
authority of practical men is very strong. It cannot be said, according
to the Baconian test, that Phrenology, like the other systems of mental
philosophy," is false because it is barren." We recommend the volume
(published at Lo?gman's) to the perusal of our readers and the scienti.
fic world, as a very singular document. We wish we had room to extract
a fair portion of it; we can only afford a few bits.
• • • • • •
The letters from Sir William Ellis, of the Hanswell Lunatic Asylum,
Mr Browne, of the Montrose, and some others, .are very striking; and
not less so are those from pel'llOns who have the. charge of criminals and
ot' schools. Appended to the Testimonial11, there are certificates &om
Digitized by Google
149
printers and publishers (Neill & Co., Chambers & Co., Longman, Simp-
kin & Marshall, and John Anderson), of the immense sale of Mr Combe's
various workS--tJbove thirty-eight thof.UIJnd copiel ; each certificate stating
that the demand is on the increase, and the interest on the subject ex-
tending.among all ranks of the people. Can any thing like this be said
of the old philosophy ? Th~ugh we ourselves are not physiologists of the
brain-in other words, organologists-we are not incompetent to judge of
the abstract faculties, and above all of the f'tlBUlta; which Mr Wyse, the
Chairman of the Irish Educational Committee of Parliament, certifies
to be his condition. We can observe, too, the signs of the times, in a
more enlightened treatment of both lunatics and criminals, based on
phrenological principles; and, above all, a system of education gaining
popularity, which is nothing but the training and improvement ot the
filculties of the phrenological analysis, in physical, moral, and Intellectual
education. We Pee the Legislature giving that education an unusually
patient investigation; and, as stated in another part of this number, a
disc.iple of the same system honoured by a public expression of favour,
by one of the most intelligent and important communities in the empire.
The old pedagoguism received no such distinctions.
Our readers may ask, what has all this to do with the Chair of Logic ?
The certificates answer this question. Logic is the right use ofthe in-
tellectual faculties in knowing and reasoning ; and a just analysis of the
filculties forms an eBSential part of the instruction of a Logic chair. The
present position of the patrons is most interesting. The old philosophies
of mind hitherto taught in their University have all been "barren;"
and, if they ever had much, have lost authority in the ·scientific world.
Dugald Stewart himself held that " the philosophy of mind w1111 yet in
expectation." Shall error, admitted error, be entailed upon another ge-
neration? or shall a new, and a generally admitted fruitful philosophy,
have a trial ? There never was a Ill-Ore important question; and many
an eye is fixed on the patrons.
Some, it is said, object to Mr Combe's religious opinions. If it were
not the Chair of Logic, but of specific theology, which he aspired to fill,
there would be sense and consistency in this objection. But it is utterly
illogical, as applied to the teacher of any science which rests, like ma-
thematics, on a natural and not a scriptural foundation. The previous,
the only questions, are-does Mr Combe, in bis own dep8!f:ment, teach
truth~ and does he interfere with no other department of instruction ?
Truth in its essence is of GOO, and Is not lei!S truth that there may be
errors in other opinions held by the same mind that teaches it. We have
suppo&ed (what we know not, and have not the impertinence to inquire),
that Mr Combe's religious faith actually differs t'rom the standards of
the Church of Scotland; and we ask what then? That of many con.
scientious christians, some of them profossors in the same university,
does so too. In the diversities of human faculties and their combina-
tions, the book of life is, and must be, variously read. Who has a right
to judge his brother, and escape being judged himself? " To me, and not
to thy master, thou standest or fallest ?" There must be an end of this
pharisaical gossiping....:tbis prying into our neighbour's conscience-this
eavesdropping to learn or coajecture his religious opinions. It is a per.
eecution worse than the Popish ;·which, otherwise, the Reformation ha.,
Digitized by Google
150
only cast off to replace,--:tlthougb the buis of the Reformation is the
right ofpri11(1111 judgmmt. But Mr Combe has not to declare his philoso-
phy for the first time from the LCJRl.c chair ; it is known to the world.
Mr Combe has never questioned a religious doctrine. He haB shown
that the ethics he tesches are coincident with Preceptive Christisnity,-
indeed, 110me of his testimonialists consider his Conatitution of Man as the
Phnosophy of Preceptive Christianity,-but he has never impugned the
peculiar dogmas of any religious sect. But bis philosophical views, it ia
replied, tend to certain heresies, and are lherefon dangerous. This illo.
gicality of intolerance, this mere twaddle of dogmatism, is disgraceful in
an enlightened age. Are his views true j If they are,-nd they can on.
ly be shown to be false by philoBophical facts or reasonings, not by theo.
logical persecution,-they nre of the Creator's establishing; and we may
ask any candid and sensihie man to explain to us what is meant by a dan.
gBrOrU truth I If the objection were that Mr Combe's views were en"Oo
f160U1, he would, doubtless, respect the objection and meet it, providel\ ~
were philosophically, and not theologically urged; but nothing can be
more absurd than an attempt to quash philosophical opinions, on the sole
ground of their alleged tendency to affect theological conclusions or
scriptural interpretations. If the philosophical views are sound, then let
the theologians look to their interpretations. Since the reformation, WI!
have not heard of Infallible theologians, more than infallible philosophers.
Judging Mr Combe by his writings and lectures, we consider the odiua
theologicum for some time past raised around him as a crying injustice.
It is not, however, uninstructive, that the religious world are themselveJ
divided in their opinion of the. tendency of Mr Combe's philosophical
views. Most sincere christians have declared in our own hearing, that,
without in the least shaking its foundations, theise views have rendered
their religion more clear and practical We have heard, on good autho.
rlty, that the letters Mr Combe has received from religious persons
alone, would, if published, neutralize the theological vituperation. Is
this able and conscientious man, then, not to be allowed to have an opi-
nion ot' his own P Is a mass of inferior minds, because it is a mass, to he
permitted to control, nay, extinguish, a mind which seems raised up t41
enlighten them all ? We hope and trust that such a blot is not to form a
page of the University's history, in the seilond quarter of the nineteenth
century ; but that the patrons,-whom we know to be liberal, indepen.
dent, ay, and enlightened men,-will 11ot, tram deference to Mr Combe's
persecutors, either scientific or religioul', lose hold of the noble opportii·
nity, which will be speedily seized by some other seat of science, of anti.
cipatingthe verdict of posterity, ~d opening the SBll)e gates to the new
Philosophy of Mind which had the immortal hol),our to be the first to ad-
mit the Principia of Newton. " .,.....,,,__.
FBOM THE KILHAB!IOClt JOURNAL.
Independently of the ability of any individual advocate of this
science, or of the form in which it may be set before the public,-whether
compressed into a small octodecimo, or swelling o\1t into a goodly.sized
octavo,-the interest which Phrenology now excites as a recognised sys.
tem of mental philosophy, and its importance from its claims to be th'1
Digitized by Google
Ul
ne,aw& approula wtaiqA tau 1et been made to a ""' 111111 inulllgf6111 npe-
lliUon of the pbenomeaa of minli, are 1ulllelently great to command the
attenU.on of tho.e who make pretension to aelent16c reH61"Ch-to entice
to Its intimate acquaintance all who would not be left like " beecons on
the stream of time, marking only the rapidity with which the tide of ci-
viliaatl.on flows past them." Phrenology, long repudiated as the crude
theory of dreaming enthuaia&t.1, has now worked its way into no small
degree of acceptance and respect; and those of ita early advocates who
have outlived thJ lltorm of ridicule and abuse with which they were for
many years 80 virulently assailed, now number among their supporters
many of the most stalented and eminent in the land. The time is gone
by, when Phrenology formed a standing jest for witlings and for dabblers
in metapltysics,•and when the avowal of a beliefin its doctrines required
perhaps a greater exertion of intrepidity than the acknowledgment of
imbecility or even of immorality itsel£ Now that "the winter of its
days is past,"-that, as in the case of the other sciences, it has paid" the
usual tax of entry,"-that, after bringing, like the discoveries of Galileo,
of Harvey, and of Sir Isaac Newton, the wonted meed of persecution
upon its founders, it is daily witnessing its scoffers becoming the most
zealous of its devotees,-none need keep back from linking their fortunes
with itlamld the fair weather and prosperity that seem now to await it.
No one need shrink from declaring himself a votary of a science, which,
in the opinion of many well qualified to judge, is destined soon to super-
sede the other systems of intellectual philosophy with which the world
bas so long been amused (would that we could say edified),-any one
may be proud to inscribe his name in the list of those who already do ho-
mage to its claims. When from a host of these, we select the names of
the Lord Archbishop of Dublin, entitled, from his talents and able works
on logic and rhetoric, to be regarded as the highest British authority re-
specting the science of mind ; of Berzelius of Stockholm, the most illus-
trious of living chemists ; of Blumenbach, the great German physiolo-
gist; of the celebrated Otto, of Copenhagen; of Andra!, Brous1ais, and
Vimont, of Paris; of Lawrence and Elliotson, of London; of Gregory
and Mackintosh, of Edinburgh; of Harrison, Marsh, and Carmichael, o
l>ublln,-not to speak of Mr Combe, Sir George l\Iackenzie, and others,
80 identified with Phrenology as to render the mention of them almoat
superfluous ;-it is indisputable, that a mass of living authority is pre-
sented in tis favour, incomparably weightier than has ever been acttl4lr,
arrayed against it. Among the testimonials in favour of Phrenology,
and in support of the application which Mr Combe is at present making
for the :vacant Chair of Logic in the University of Edinburgh (to which
testimonials, now printed and circulated, we invite the attention of all
who still pretend to make light of this science), is one from the Arclibi-
shop of Dublin, in which he says, " That clever article in the EdinlnargA
Review (by Jeffrey), to which you (Mr Combe) replied, I consider you
as having completely and decidedly refuted," and " that the religious IUMl
moral objections against the phrenological theory are ullerlt//utikl, I have
from the first been fully convinced." Dr Elliotsoa, as shown by a llimio.
• According to the new.l and lftGlt ap1>110ved de6nltlon<>f t111a~· When 'lte talk at
_\biogs whlch we dJ no•underataDd, ill iluijj\Uli'l Wlll<lla ....- - i - aar lllllss.,.. -
dentand,-that ls metaphysics.
Digitized by Google
1'51
lar certificate, " feels convinced of Phrenology being u true II Aatrono-
m.r or Chepiistry," and is aatisfied ''that thoee who r.Uect or neglect
Phrenology are lamentably ignorant of much which lheg think tll8f/ knoeo,
and compared with phrenologists, remain as - qf -~ cen1uria pMt."
Dr Mackintosh " knows no one who has devoted the energies of his mind
to the careful study of Phrenology, who has not become a convert;" and
upwards of a dozen of the most distinguished phylliologists of France,
certify to its being " the most certain and complete science of the facul-
ties of man," and, par U06lknce, "the poiriliw philoeophy."
FB.OH THE SCOTSJl.Uf•
.. .Among the crowd of aspirants for this Chair, there are three whoae
qualifications are ofno ordinary kind ; we mean, Sir William Hamilton,
Mr Taylor, and Mr Combe. All of them are men of good character and
undoubted talents; and each, besides high testimonials, has credentials
ofa more.unequivocal kind to exhibit in his printed works. The merits
of the two former have been copiously displayed by members of the
Town-Council, and by articles in several Edinburgh papers ; and far be
it from us to detract from the well-earned praise they have received.
We think, however, we are not stepping beyond the line of our duty in
calling attention once more to the qualifications of Mr Combe, who, as
the able and intrepid defender of a new system of philosophy which has
many zealous opponents, is likely to get less than justice. Mr Taylor,
in his eloquent address to the Council, has observed with great truth,
that the Old Logic of the Schools, as now taught, affords merely a gym-
nastic exercise to the mind, and is practically of no use. He farther in-
timates, that were he in possession of the Chair, he would deem it neces-
sary to construct a new system for himself. Now, what he proposes to
do, Mr Combe has already done: what the one desiderates, the other
has realized. It will be seen, from the language Mr Taylor employs,
that his contemplated Logic is in substance a great system of mental
philo110phy, comprehending within it the moral and intellectual nature
ef man, and his relations to the external creation and to the Creator.
By electing him, therefore, the patron11 would in effect pass sentence of
condemnation (as we think deservedly) on the existing metaphysics, and
this as strongly as if they elected Mr Combe. Here the parallel ends.
Mr Combe comes into the field armed with a system of philosophy which
Ill already fully organized, which is already supplanting old opinions,
and finding increased acceptance from day to day with the learned and
the unlearned, in the face of deep.seated prejudices. What says Arch-
bishop Whately, the first living authority on such subjects P-That the
" phrenological writers employ a metaphysical nomenclature far more
logical, accurate, and convenient, than Locke, Stewart, and other writen
of their schools." Now, the nomenclature, that is, the classification of
the faculties, comprehends the whole metaphysics of the phrenological
system.
It is observed by Professor Jardine of Glasgow, in his " Outlines of
Philosophical Education," that every rational system of Logic must be
based on a philosophy of mind, of one kind or another ; and the questiou
for the Council U, not whether Phrenology is a perfect system, but wbe.
Digitized by Google
163
ther it·does nol; explain the phenomena of mind better than any of the
systems presently known. Of the three candidates we would ny, that
Sir William repreaent11 opinions, which, though sanctioned by great
names, are rapidly pa11&lng into oblivion ; Mr Taylor condemns the old
systems, but has not yet, by his own confl!Bsion, laid the foundations of
another; Mr Combe comes forward provided with a system whose popu-
larity is a strong presumption ofits truth,_and which already fills such a
space in the intellectual world, that the Council could not be ju!tified if
they made it a pretext for excluding from the Chair a man otherwise
admirably qualified to fill it.
We dwell upon this point because we know the desire of the Council
to do their duty faithfully, and to satisfy the just expectations of the pub-
lic, for whom they act ; and we: onlyffear that many of the memben
may not be aware how deeply Mr Combe's mental philosophy has struck
its roots in the public mind, and how rapidly it is gaining ground in all
circles.
No one can read Mr Combe's work on "The Constitution of Man,"
without perceiving that be has a logical understanding of the first order.
He has the power of dissecting purely ethical and philosophical questions
into their elements, perhaps beyond any other living man. Now this is
exactly the talent which the Chair requires. Of the eminently practical
character ot his philosophy, we have striking evidence in the light which
it throws on the cause• of insanity, and of its application, with the hap.
pleat success, by many teachers to the business of education.
, iTo all this we should add, that Mr Combe is a successful_lecturer, and
that he is a man not only of the strictest probity, but ofgreat prudence.
He well understands the warfare to which the doctrines he advocates are
exposed ; and, without bating one iota of what he regards as the truth, is
careful to avoid all unnecessary collisions with opinions, which, though
erroneous, are honestly entertained.
F'B.ox TBE B.a.TR HEJLALD.
Intense interest has been, and continues io be, excited, liy the pre-
tensions of Mr George Combe, the well known author of the ' Constitu.
tion of Man,' ' System of Phrenology,' and other works, as a candidate
for the Chair of Logic in the above celebrated University. The profound
and extensive labours of this gentleman in the_cause of Phrenology, du-
ring the last seventeen years, have very justly made him the champion
of the system he so ably professes, and his pretensions to a Chair, which
involves instruction in the first elements of intellectual philosophy, and
which, if obtained, would be a public triumph of a system opposed to all
previous methods of mental investigation, naturally creates great activi-
ty, both among the friends and opponents of Phrenology. Indeed the
struggle cannot be regarded with indifference by any whose philanthropy
is not purely individual, since the possession of a true or false system of
moral and intellectual science involves questions indissolubly associated
with the best interests and truest happiness of mankind.
In consequence of the peculiar nature of Mr Combe's claims as a
Candidate, and with the view of diminishing the responsibility of the
'Town Council of Edinburgh, on whose decision the choice of a future
Digitized by Google
Proft!lllOr depends, daat ~tlemaa bu requested the fJUIMla ol Phreno-
logy, both in Great Britain and on the ContineDt, to exprees their opi-
nions of hia qualification• u a Lecturer, anclZml>N espedally their con-
clusions as to the truth and practical! utility of the syltem he would
make the bull of instruction.
These Teatimoniall are now published in the form of a MRllll ""'-•
rather than a pamphlet ; and, from their number and importance, cannot
but surprise both the advocates and opponents of Phrenology. ProbeblT
an equivalent amount of evidence baa never been collected, in se short a
time, in favour of any individual or of any subject whatever; and while
:Hr Combe baa just reason to be proud of such a monument to his talents
and character, he muat be still more gratified! with the demonstrative
proof it affords of the rapid progress which Phrenology has made, and of
the high estimation in which it is now held by many of the most distin-
guished individuals both of this country and of the Continent. The most
virulent of its opponents must pause before such collective evidence of
its truth and vast practical importance, and the Towb Council, in the
opinion of impartial judges, would be more than fully justified, ehould
they found their decision upon testimonials, which, for number and im-
portance, we do not hesitate to predict, will be unrivalled, and which we
would defy any candidate to bring forward in BUpport of any other
psychological system whatever.
A convincing proof of the public estimation of Mr Combe's writings
is the fact of more than 36,000 copies having been sold since 1819-be.
sides numerou11 editions in America, and in some of the European }an.
guagea. Of the cheap edition of the' Constitution of Man,' published
by the Messrs Chambers of Edinburgh, the astonishing number of 14,666
copies were sold in less than BevBn montlla.
Mr Combe's testimonials are bound up with others nearly equally
numerous and quite as important as regards the evidence ln favour of
Phrenology, addressed by Sir G. S. Mackenzie to the Right Hon. l..ord
Glenelg, Secretary for the Colonies, with the hope cf influencing the
Government to apply the principles of Phrenology to the selection of
criminals for transportation to New South Wales. Very serious evils
have arisen from their being indiscriminately sent out, without the least
regard to their previous character or history; and it is proposed that only
the more favourably organized should be distributed among the settlers,
while the more untractable and vicious are superintended in our establish-
ments at home.
Phrenology is boldly offered as the means of effecting this very de-
sirable distinction, and the proposed conditions are such, that the experi-
ment must be inevitably fatal to the pretensions of any system not
founded upon the laws of immutable truth. Should it; however, prove
successful, it must silence every conschmtious objector, and prove that
the practical capabilities of Phrenology infinitely surpass even the theo-
retical pretensions of any metaphysical system with which mankind has
hitherto been familiar.
Every lover of truth, aml of his fellow.man, must be anxious for
such an experiment to be impartially tried; the advantages it holds out
are incalculable, and, should it fail, it will only accelerate the discovery
of error.
Digitized by Google
156
We_ shall conclude this notice of the subject, not by any selections
from the evidenct! adduced, but by recommending uur readers to peruse
the pamphlet fur themselves.
Faon THE EDINBURGH CuaoNICLE.
" Authority 1eowlcd upon it, and taste was disgusted by it, and f'uhion wa1
ashamed of it, and all the beauteous speculation of former clay1 wa cruelly broken
up by thia new announcement of the better philoeophy, and 1cattered lib the
fragment. of an aerial vision, over which the put generation1 of tbs world had
been slumbering their profound aud their pleasing reverie.''-CAalrMra' .41tr0ttO•
mkal Diacoo.r-, Diec. II.
IT will be readily admitted that very few vacancies indeed have occur-
red in our University, which have called forth candidates of higher emi-
nence, given rise to greater anxiety in the public D1ind, or involved
principles ofsuch paramount importance to all clasee8 uf the community.
Under ordinary circumstances, the natural talents and acquired attain-
ments o~candidates have alone to be considered. The subject or system
of instn1ction peculiar to the vacant chair, is pretty generally understood,
and its utility recognised by the public. Hence the Patrons are called
upon to judge merely of the comparative abilities of the respective com-
petitors. But in the present instance, the question is widely difterent.
The whole agstem of instruction hitherto adopted in this and similar
Chairs, is very generally and loudly denounced, Ill' " unintelligible,"
" barren," and "useless," by unquestionable authority, while not one
word is uttered in its defence. On the other hand, an improved system
of Mental Philosophy has been adduced, certified by a cloud of witnesses
from all quarters of Europe and America, to be based, not on metaphyli·
cal speculation, but on positive facts in nature,-capable of being easily
understood, pregnant with the most beneficial consequences to morala and
religion, and applicable to all the educationaland other practical purpoees
of life.
The primary question fur consideration then iii, Would the Patrons be
justifiable in adopting the ordinary course of procedure under such ex-
traordinary circumstances ? that is, to have regard alone to the learning
or other qualifications of the candidates, without taking at all into view
the merits or utility of the agatem, if any, which they respectively profeea
to teach. .And in answering this question, let it be considered what.
course would most probably be adopted by a judge or jury in analogous
circumstances. Most usuredly they would never throw out of view the
real merits of the case, nor totally discard the evidence laid before them,
but would, regardless of individual claims or popular prejudice, sift the
matter to the bottom, and ultimately give judgment according to the
sterling principles ofjustice and truth. Now, it is obvious, that such is
exactly the course which should be taken on the present occasion.
Neither private influence, nor ignorant clamour, nor Imaginary fears,
ought. to have any weight in investigating the real merits of the old or
uew systems of Ment.al Philosophy. Whatever system is most satisfac-
torily proven to have simplicity and general utility on its side, ought by
all means to be adopted ; or if sufficient evidence be not produced in
favour of either the one system or the other, then let more be called fur,
Digitized by Google
156
and the Chair be fixed on a rational and firm basis, before any one be
appointed to occupy it.
It is almost unnecessary to remark, that the candidates who have ex-
cited the greatest attention are Sir William Hamilton, Mr George
Combe, and Mr Isaac Taylor. The fint of theae is celebrated for his
great learning in ancient metaphysice, and for other literary attainment~;
the eecond Is famed a& an eminent phrenologist, able lecturer, and ardent
advocate of popular education ; ud the third is pretty well known by his
worb, particularly thOll8 entitled "The Natural History ofEnthusiasm,"
and "The Physical Theory of Another Life." The testimonials in favour
of Sir William Hamilton are totally silent on every thing but his own ac-
quirements; and the letter circulated by Mr Taylor (for he has gi.ven no
testimonials) is almost wholly occupied with promises of improvement in
the department of the Logic Chair should he be appointed Professor, but
without any proof whatever of his own abilities as a teacher, or notice of
the system he would pursue. The testimonials in favour of Mr Combe,
however, speak directly and in an undeniable manner to the truth of the
system of meutal philosophy which he espouses, to its great utility in
every department of life, and to his own unrivalled abilities as a public
teacher. He comes forward as the representative of a new philosophy of
mind, and claims for it a fair triaL
Our limits will not admit ofentering into minute detalls regarding the
individual merits of any of the candidates; nor is this necessary, because,
as already stated, it is the system and not the men which should decide_
the question. If the old method of teaching Logic is to be preferred,
then, by all means, let Sir William Hamilton be appointed Professor;
·but if the weighty evidence in favour of the new system remain uncon-
troverted, IL is difficult to cmweive on what rational grounds it can be
rajected. We are aware of the objection as to popular prejudice, but
we are also aware that this prejudice has been vastly overrated, and that
it is rapidly vanishing. In evidence of the truth of this statement,
and independently of the host of witnesses, we have only to appeal to the
fact that upwards of forty thoussnd copies of Mr Combe's books alone
have been sold within the last eight years in Britain, and about the same
number in America; besides editions in France and Germany. More-
over, wherever lectures on the new Philosophy of Mind are announced,
IMg a~ uniformly attended by crowded audience1 of all mnk1 ; and this not
once only, out of mere curiosity, but for season after season. Mr Combe
stands in his present influential position, after the most powerful efforts,
by men of the highest talents, have long been exerted In vain to put him
down. It is therefore a great mistake to suppose that were he appointed
to the Logic Chair fewer students than hitherto would attend the Univer-
sity. The result would be quite the reverse; for It is evident, that, inde-
pendently of the more intelligible and useful course of Logic which could
and would be given on the new plan, the very circumstance of so celebra-
ted a teacher as Mr Combe being within the College would draw far
more students to his class than would compensate for such as might for
a short time go elsewhere. It has been argued that the abilities of private
teachers without the walls of Universities have always compensated for
any deficiencies that must, from obvious causes, more or l~s ever exist
within them. But although there may be an excuse for the decay of
Digitized by Google
157
energies which have been exhausted in the course of nature, and although
the loss may be supplied in the way referred to, these are no legitimate
Teasons why the active and experienced teachers ~hould be debarred the
precincts of Universities when vacancies occur. 'They may continue to
teach for a season as private instructors in Edinburgh, but when they
perceive that their abilities are depreciated and publicly contemned, they
will undoubtedly betake themselves to places where they will be duly
1.ppreciated, and the city which they would have honoured will be thus
Jeprived of their talents and their fame.
Logic, as hitherto taught, has been of no earthly utility, except per-
haps to a very few subtle and wrangling minds-those who delight in
shadows rather than in realities. Logic, as it would be taught by the
aid of the new Philosophy of Mind, would be quite the reverse ; it would
give a rational and practical analysis of the human facultiee, explain
their relation to God, to man, and to external nature ; and expound the
individual and combined legitimate applicatiora of one and all of these
faculties to religion, morals, arad all the other duties of' life. It would,
in short, give a direction to education, calculated, in time, to communi-
cate an improved character to society at large ; and, instead of the Pro-
fessor of Logic lecturing on metaphysical abstractions, or rather absurdi-
ties, to 100 or 150 Divinity students, who are compelled by antiquated
academical regulations to squander their time and their money on this
totally useless class, he would be eagerly listened to by crowds of all
ranks and professions, while they again would derive solid, lasting, and
profitable instruction. . '
We say nothing of Mr Taylor's claims, because his writings seem to
us any thing but clear orintelligible, and we should be sorry were a can-
didate to be preferred who is confessedly a stranger to public teaching,
and who has resolTed on no fixed principles to guide him in the discharge
of such important duties. Too long has it been the opprobrium of the
art of teaching, and baneful have been its effects on intellectual and moral
improvement, that almost every one considered himself qualified for the
office. No sooner had the village tailor failed in his own vocation than he
became "dominie"-no sooner had the town mechanic acquired a little
arithmetic, and a smattering of English grammar, than he commenced
teacher-no sooner had the man of literature or science acquired a little
fame by his closet studies, than he looked after a professorshiP-aDd no
sooner did a divine become unpopular or incapable of discharging his
proper duties, than he had an eye to an easy chair in some ofthe" drowsy
shops" of divinity or metaphysics. But, all the while, one grand l'equi-
site for successful teaching was totally overlooked-that of regular train.
ing "r e~rience in the art, the great and indispensable qualification for
this as for every other profession. Truly has it been said, that thousands
can acquire knowledge, but very few can impart it ; numbers can become
authors, but not many of them public speakers; and, unless a candidate
for a professorship of either mental or physical science has nut only ac-
quired, but with facility can impart, knowledge as well by ~peaking a&
by writing, he is by no means possessed of the requisite talents for a
Chair in any University. -
On the whole, we must candidly confess, that we shall ever regret,
for the sake of Edinburgh, for the fame of the University, and for the
Digitized by Google
158
honour of cotland, should the evidence •hlcb Mr Combe has adduced
in support of his claims be disregarded, and another candidate be chosen.
Not that •e tear the lou of his talents in the great cause of public in-
struction, for •hile he bas hf'Slth and strength, we know that he will
be now more devoted to it than before, and most assuredly will not allow
his opponents to repose on beds of roses-but because a stain will be inde..
Jibly fixed on the character of our citizens through their municipal
representatives, for having thus excluded a man from their University
wha&e talents and exertions have done so much tor his native city, have
effected such great improvements in education, and whose works are
second in populuity only to those oftbe Great Unknown.
ELECTION.
July 15. 1836.-A special meeting of the Town Council was held this
day, in order to appoint a Professor to the Chair of Logic. The LoJU>
PROVOST was in the chair.
The Loan PaovosT, in reference to this appointment, said, ifseveral
candidates were proposed, be thought the best course was to take the
vote with regard to the whole, and then to strike off the lowest on the
Ieet, and in the same manner take the sense of the Council with regard
to the remainder, always striking off the lowest, until the contest should
lie between two. •
The Clerk then read the list of the candidates, who were Sir William
Hamilton, Mr P. C. M'Dougall, Mr Combe, Mr Isaac Taylor, Dr
Memes, Lieutenant-Colonel James Stewart, Mr Dunlop, the Rev. Mr
Muston, the Rev. Mr Rae, and Dr R. Poole.
Mr H. G. Dell and Mr Spalding, advocates, bad previously withdrawn
their names as candidates.
Mr Il.\ND intimated, that he was ready to propose Dr Memes, but
from the mode in which it had been resolved the votes mould be taken,
he felt himself bound, in the exercise of the discretionary power with
which that gentleman had entrusted him, to tender a letter of resigna.
lion as a candidate.
Two letters were then read by the Clerk, from Professor Mylne of
Glasgow, and the Lord Provost of Glasgow in tii.vour of Mr Muston; as
also a letter from Professor Hampden of Oxford in favour of Mr Taylor.
A letter was next read from the Rev. J. Sinclair, George Street, bear-
ing testimony to Sir Wiiliam Hamilton's knowledge of theology and his
religious beliet:
The Loan PaovosT said, that be felt quite inadequate to do justice to
the candidate he was about to propose, but in proposing candidates he
trusted, in the first place, that a degree of calmnes.~ and absence of aspe-
rity would be shewn by all the Members of Council in the arduous duty
they were about to propose-(Hear, hear.) Gentlemen might say what
they pleased in favour of those they were to propose, but be trusted as
little ns possible against the others who were put in competition, for 1ucb
n constellation of talent had not yet appeared as candidates for any office
the Council bad at their disposal. In proposing Sir William Hamilton
Digitized by Google
159
be would say, that in the fint place he did not fl!t.'1 himself quallfled to
give an opinion with regard to the qualifications necessary for the Logic
Chair, and it wouid not be expected in an unlettered person like himaelf
to make the attempt. Therefore be considered himself in the situation
ofa penon sitting in the jury-box to decide on evidence he bad never
heard before ; and, from the inquiries he bad made, be felt perfectly ea•
tisfied, that if Sir William Hamilton was the successful candidate, the
Council would do credit to \hemselves, and honour to the University, by
the selection.
Mr BnucE had great satisfaction in seconding the nomination. Be
might say, that not only were the eyes of the citizens fixed upon them,
but the eyes of all England who were interested in the advancement of
science-nay, be might go further, and say, that the attention of the
most distinguished philosophers both in Europe and in America was fixed
on the decision of this day. It behoved them to judge calmly, and dis.
passionately, and conscientiously, on whom the election ought to fall, be.
cause they must feel 11&tisfied that they were at the bar of public opinion,
· and were more on their trial than the different candidates. On their
choke depended the opinion which men would form of the propriety of
depositing the patronage of the Univenity in their hands. He (Mr
Bruce) was one of those who thought, that there were few chairs respect.
ing the qualifications of whose professors the electors could form a per-
sonal judgment. Who among them would pretend to fathom the philo-
sophy of a Newton or a Bel'!IChel? and, with respect to mental philo.
sophy, they must be blind indeed if they did not see, that without evi-
dence it was impossible for them to form an unassisted judgment. Their
constituents had sent them there as honest, upright, and intelligent men;
not ns competent to judge of excellence in the higher walks of philosophy
or literature, but as men who could sift evidence, who could weigh the
testimony, the character, and the credibility of the various witnessef.
Were they then to choose upon evidence; or would they choose one who
placed his works before them without any evidence, except one testimony
from Professor Hampden of Oxford, and the testimony of Dr Chalmers,
which could not be considered testimony, as be preferred another candi-
.date ? Mr Bruce then referred at great length to the series of splendid
names which bore testimony to the European reputation of Sir William
Hamilton as a metaph1sician ; and to the testimony from Oxford, stat-
ing, that, on his examination there, no one, even among the professors,
was found to compete with him-that bis examination stood unrivalled
in their records, and that the impression it made at the time was not yet
effaced. He then compared his qualifications with the other candidates,
and stated, that of the splendour of Mr Taylor's talents there could be
no doubt; but of his fitness as a teacher of logic there was no evidence.
Some time ego he had the honour to be introduced lo Mr Taylor, when
be stated to that gentleman, that, in his mind, testimonials from emi-
nent men were essential to his succes~. Mr Taylor said, that be had ap-
plied to several gentlemen whose names were familiar to them all. None
bad come, however, exrept one from Dr Hampden. 'Vhy was this?
Could he not get them? They had been told that Mr Taylor was an
anonymous writer-was be also a hermit-had be no intercourse with the
world of living men? If they elected Sir 'Villiam Hamilton, and that
appointment should not prove satisfactory, they could refer to bis testi-
Digitized by Google
160
monials as Uie ground of their choice ; if they chose Mr Taylor with the
same result, they ~ad no such testimonials under which to shelter them-
selves. With respect to his eminent friend Mr Combe-for he delight-
ed to call him so-his supereminent talent had brought the science of
Phrenology to its present state in this country; but it was a science in
which he (Mr B.) was not prepared to say he fully concurred. That it
had a foundation be believed, but that It had so extensive influeace on
the human character as Mr Combe stated, he had great doubts. Under
these circumstances, then, he could not bring his mind to support Mr
Combe. For the sake therefore of the University-for the credit of the
Council-nd to meet the expectations of all men of science, he trusted
Sir William Hamilton would be their choice on this occasion.
Dr NEILL said, The candidate I am about to propose has already been
complimented by my friend Mr Bruce for his supereminent talents-I
mean Mr Combe. He stands at this moment in a most influential posi-
tion, both with regard to education and mental philosophy ; and he has
attained this influential position notwithstanding the most powerful and
persevering efforts of men ofthe greatest talents to put him down. Indeed,
I believe it would be pretty generally admitted that Mr Combe's claims
are paramount, had he not been the great champion of Phrenology. It
seems to befeared by one set ofthe gentlemen around this Board, that Mr
Combe would teach Phrenology in the Logic class, and that the preju-
dice against Phrenology is still so strong in this city, that Mr Combe
would neither be acceptable to the Senatus nor to the public. I have no
fear on either of these points. l\lr Combe would undoubtedly teach Lo.
gic on phrenological principles; so would Dr Welsh had he been invited
to the Chair ; so would Dr Poole were be to be elected to it. I may add
J am deeply persuaded that Logic will never make sure progress till it
be taught on those principles, and it is quite possible to teach Logic on
phrenological principles, without giving offence-nay, almost without us-
ing phrenological language. In one instance, Indeed, an essay was
published, treating a medical subject on phrenological principles, but
without using phrenological terms. The essay was an excellent one,
and was highly praised by anti.phrenological doctors, whose prejudices
would certainly have induced them to withhold their meed of praise,
had phrenological language been employed. As to the prejudices,
I believe they would soon die away. Mr Combe's lectures would
be numerously attended ; and when the old Professors came in close
contact with the new one, they would, I am "ure, be agreeably sur-
prised : they would find an accomplished scholar and an accomplished
geutleman, with a very clear head and very kind heart,- man quite
disinclined to giving offence. "b case (Hys l\lr Combe in a private note,
and he has stated the same thing in substance in the last series of his
printed testimonlals)-in case I shall be placed in the Chair, I shall con-
sider it a duty equally to the Patrons, to Phrenology, and to myself, to
use every means of avoiding offence to old feelings and prajudices." A
great change bas of late years taken place in the public mind regarding
the discoveries and doctrines of Gall. Ten years ago they were treated
with contempt and ridicule by the Edinburgh Reviewers; but now these
learned genUemen maintain a most respectful silence. The day for twit-
ting about bumps bas gone by. " Where be all their gibes now?" Real-
ly the Reviewers seem quite "chopfallen ;" and assuredly Mr Combe's
Digitized by Google
161
testimonials must put a final extinguisher on their anti-phrenological wit,
for many of those testimonials proceed from the friends of the Review-
ers. They now seem only to otUect that Phrenology is not one of the
exact sciences,-an objection equally applicable to Medicine. I call upon
the Council to act as a jury; and I am bold to say, that Mr Combe's
witnesses are many of them on a par with those brought forward by Sir
William Hamilton. Again, it is thought that some of Mr Combe's
views are at variance with certain fundamental doctrines of our reli-
gion. Although no letters of mine are produced, yet some addre!!Sed to
me, and circulated along with Mr Combe's testimonials, bear intrinsic evi-
_dence of my readiness to sympathise with such fears. I am glad to have
been the means of making it appear, from the testimony of an eminent
Professor of Divinity in the Secession Church, that the doctrines of Phre-
nology are nowise inconsistent with the truths of Christianity; and, from
Mr Combe's explanations, that he is not nearly so heterodox in his views
as some appear to have taken for granted. I have reason to hope that
the nomination of Mr Combe will be seconded; but I confess I have also
reason to fear that his supporters will be sadly in the minority. This I
shall regret, for I am convinced that Mr Combe's appointment would at
once benefit the.University, do credit to the City, and honour to this
Council, who would t)ius anticipate by a score of years the sure verdict
.of our successors in favour ofthe new system ofMental Philosophy. May
I be permitted at present to mention to whom I shall give my second
vote, U' we come to one? (Here some demur was expressed, but at length
~he Doctor was allowe!l to proceed.) I have felt some difficulty on thil
point, and am by no !lleans surprised at a variety of opinions existing.
Dr Memes, who has withdrawn, is a first-rate scholar, and a tried and in-
defatigable teacher, Of Mr Muston of Uotterdam, I have a high opi-
nion, from his work on Recognition in the Next World, which I have been
reading with delight. It now appears, however, that the contest Ii~
between Sir William Hamilton, Mr M'Dougall, and Mr Taylor. In
pne respect, they are all objectionable to me. They will all teach more or
less on the old system ; they are all anti-phrenologists. But the last-
named will, I think, be less afraid of change ; indeed, he is pledged to
change; and from all that I have seen and heard of him, be will not shut
his eyes to the evidence of Phrenology, but will be open to conviction.
Sir William Hamilton bas. I admit, the fame of profound erudition; but
him we already possess, both ns a l'rofessor and as Sec~etary to the Se~
natus; and I should be glad to see him better rewarded (which may be
done if we get L.2500 a-year for the College). Mr M'Dougall is of the
highest promise; but be bas yet his fame to create, and I am sure be will
not fail to realise it. If to-day we choose Mr Taylor, we shall incidental-
ly do away with the reproach (if reproach it be, for I think it noue), that
we select only Scotsmen, and we shall directly add a distinguished name to
our University. I shall therefore give my second vote for l\lr Taylor.
Mr MILNE seconded the nomination of Mr Combe.
Mr MACKAy then rose and said, that on the best of all evidence, an
intimate personal acquaintance, Dr Chalmers had recommended to their
notice a count.ryn1an of their own, distinguished by his attainments in
literature and science, whose moral and religious character eminently
qualified him for being a teacher of youth. In a case ofsuch importance,
B
Digitized by Google
16i
they certalnly mould prefer evidence at home to foretgn testimony ; and
he might add, wu there an individual at home or abroad, better qualified
than Dr Chalmen to give an opinion and advice as to the fittest pel'llOn
to fill I.his chair ? Could they suppose that in doing so he would be sway-
ed by any other motive than a con11eientious desire for the public good P
Would he, so deliberately as he had done, have thrown the weight of his
name into this 1Cale, if he had not. from the deepest conviction, thought
lie was performing a public duty? Having completely entered into his
views, and being fortified in that opinion by every inquiry he (Mr M.)
had made, he had greaa pleasure in proposing that Mr Patrick Campbell
Macdougall be the ProfeB10r, and he en\reated the CllUDCil to give effect
to the nomination.
Mr G. G RAHAii secende'1 the motion.
Bailie 1\-IAcrARLAK agreed with Mr Bruce u to the importance of the
duty they bad to perform, and that the eyes of their cO\lntrymen were
upon them. They were assembled to be tried at tire bar of public opi-
nion, and upon this he was quite willing to rest the result on this elec-
tion, for, as the Lord Provost had said, there was a constellation of talent
before them. The candidates were all men of splendid abilities, and
great personal reputation. But being thus at the bar of public opinion;
be believed that whatever they did would be coJMlemned ; because all
those who supported the unsucceut'ul candidates, and who were so un-
candid as not to coneede to others what they took to themselves, viz. the
right ofjudging, would say that the Council had madea bad choice. But
they had a hisher authority to whom they ought to look. They ought
to lay their hands on their hearts, and declare that, as thl'y had appealed
to a higher power, they had ell'.ereised their patronage tG the best of their
abilities for the interests ofthe University. He felt sati&fied that the
choice could fall on no man who was not eminently qualified to disdiuge
the duties of that Chw. He had read several of the Edinburgh Review
articles ofSir William Hamilton, for whom be had the highestrespect; and
while he thought thosearticles displayeci agreatdealofprofoundlrnowledge;
he stillconceived &.hey didnot appearto carryoutthehighreputation wh.re.
with Sir William Hamilton bad started ; and to this day he though&. the
appearance of Sir William Hamilton at Oxford was the highest teatjmo-
nial that has been produced in his favour. After the fact that there WU
not a single one ef all the Profe880l'll ofthat distinguishedUniversi.ty tbd
could compete with him, he must say, that he would have a:pected that
the bright star ofthe morning should have been the harbinger ofthe noon.
day sun ; and they ought to have had writingsthat would ha.,.e dietinguiah.
ed his name. They had writings, to be sure, butsti!J.only in the shape ofar.
ticles in the Edinburgh :Review, and it was well known that reviewers had
a freedom in their writing which was not taken in other works of a more
elaborate character. Sir William bad also been a Professor in this Univer.
elty, and for a considerable number of years in a Chair affording the mo&
amplescope for the display ofleaming, and yet had neverattractedany par-
ticular notice in that Chair. He was also struck by the clrcumatance, that,
from thetestimonials produced by Sir William Hamilton, it appeared aa ii
he had left Ollford yesterday. They were all given on the idea.that when
Sir William was placed in an academical·chair, he would shine tOrth as a
clear and eloquent expounder of science. But he confessed that he liked
Digitized by Google
163
to eee evidence not of " what be will be," but of" what be. baa been."
And it was strange that his acquirements had not excited more general
attention than the wonder ofa few French philosophers. They were no
doubt sitting here as a jury, but he had yet to learn that a jury on de-
ciding upon their verdict did so only on a statement upon one side, and
were not accustomed to look at every side of the question. No doubL
testimonials were important, hut at the same lime there was 1111otber kind
oftestimonials of which every man of common sense wu able to form an
opinion. These were Lhe works of the individual, and these works they
might judge of with as great freedom and perspicuity as they could the
testimonials of the most learned. He then referred to Mr Combe and
Mr M'Dougall, and said, Lbat if testimonials were to decide the question,
none of the candidates could come up to Mr Combe in that respect ; and
with regard to Mr M'Dougall, he might say, that a Review written by
him, he (Bailie Macfarlan) considered at least equal to thoee of Sir Wil-
liam Hamilton. But In ?rfr Taylor he thought they had a candidate still
more eminent. Bailie Macfarlan then referred to several works Lo shew
the high estimation in which .Mr Taylor's talents were held, and parti-
cularly alluded to one review which Wal written by Mr Taylor, which
10 called forth the admiration of an eminent literary character, that he
declared, " that there was but one man in England who could have writ-
ten this review, and that was Robert Hall" He might also remind the
Council, that the Chair of Logic was situated at Lhe very threshold of the
study of divinity, and therefore it was all important that the divinity stu-
dents should listen to the prelections of a man of that deep piety, enlight-
ened understanding, and powerful eloquence which Mr Taylor's nume-
rous writings prove him to be. Some of these works manifested his pe-
culiar fitness for the Logic Chair, in particular his Elements of Thought,
of which Mr Warren of the Inner Temple spoke in the most favourable
way. Bailie Macfarlan also referred to his " Process of Historical
Proofs," as one of the most beautiful and logical works in the English
language. Mr Taylor was one of the noblest sons of English literature.
Be had already distinguished himself by his works, and he had several at
present in progress. and many more he (Bailie 11.) trusted would yet ap-
pear, whether Mr Taylor was successful this day or not. He concluded
by nominating Mr Isaac Taylor.
Bailie S..t.wE:as seconded the motion.
(Here there were cries of' " vote, vote," but Mr Deucbar insisted o.n
being heard.)
Mr D.EuceAR stated he felt deeply the responsibility which attached to
him as an individual on this occasion, and it was with much diffidence
that he ventured to give an opinion on a subject which involved the best
interests of our University. But when he considered the mighty inftu~
ence which a professor of Logic would undoubtedly have on the thousands
ofyouthful minds who should successively be placed under his charge, it
was of the highest importance that they selected a person not only dis-
tinguished for his talents, and whose literary fame would shed a lustre on
our University, but whose pious and religious character was such as to
afford the stronger guarantee to parents that their sons would be in no
danger while listening to their teacher, of imbibing the insidious poison
of scepticism which ao abounded in the wo;rks of many @linent ~ who
Digitized by Google
164
bad written on mental phil080phy. Mr D. observed, that although all
the candidates who had been named were men of high literary attain.
ments, he would only direct attention to three of them. First, Mr
Combe. No one could deny Mr Combe's abilities and great scientific
attainments; but he was the teacher of a new philosophy of mind, which,
even were it true In theory, had not been satistactorily tested by expe-
rience; and while the great majority of learned men are opposed to the
doctrine, it would be great presumption in this Council of thirty-three,
and indeed a gross dereliction of duty, were they to suppose that by join.
ing the minority they could tum the scale of opinion, and thereby esta-
blish Phrenology. In this view of the subject, he (Mr Deuchar) was
saved the necessity of giving any opinion on the merits of Mr Combe's
celebrated work on the Constitution of Man ; but he could not help ex-
pressing his decided opinion that many .cf the doctrines therein promul-
gated tended to subvert revelation, and were consequently injurious to
the be.it interest of man. Second, Sir William Hamilton. He at once
admitted that this gentleman's tt!Stimonials were of the first order, and
Mr D.'s only surprise was, that a man so eminent for talent. so full of
mental power, and so acute as a philosopher, had not made greater effi>rts
to supply a text-book on logic, or to favour the public with an enlarged
or connected system of mental philosophy. He might write well for the
few, and that was admitted; but he had not written for the many, which
would be the duty of the logic professor. On the point of religion Mr
D. was bound to say a few words. 'Vhat were Sir 'Villiam's sentiments?
He might be a religious man. l\fr Sinclair's testimony was onlyastate.
ment of vague belief that he was. No direct testimony, however, ·was
given, and the Council was entitled to have the fullest evidence on this
subject. · Mr D. next adverted to Mr Taylor, and submitted, In addition
to what Bailie Macfarlan had so eloquently stated, various quotations
from the London Reviews on Mr Taylor's works, which bore testimony
in the strongest manner to Mr Taylor's splendid talents and powerful
mind. Mr D. concluded by mentioning, that Mr Taylor, by his able and
valuable works, had gained a name in the literary.world which would, if
he were elected, shed a lustre on our University, and reflect the highest
honour on the Council.
(An attempt was here again made to dose the debate. Reference was
made to the delicate health of the Lord Provost; and Mr Robertson
stated that he had intended to speak, but in tenderness to his Lordship he
would forbear. Mr Johnston and Mr Jameson, however, both opposed
this course; and his Lordship stated that he felt quite equal to &itting out
the debate.)
Mr JAMESON then proceeded to speak at great length in support of the
claims ,f Mr Taylor, and said that, after what he (Mr Jameson) had
seen at this election, he had lost much of that enthusiasm with which he
had once contended for the Council being the best depository of the Uni.
versity patronage. From the mode in which this election had been con-
ducted, and from what he had heard of the canvassing going on, he was
not now prepared to say, that as a body, they ought to be allowed UD·
checked to retain their right of patronage. He was about to vote for Mr
Taylor, a gentleman for whom he had unquestionably been exerting
himself, or rather for a p1inciple; for, without denying the eminent qua-
Digitized by Google
165
lifications of Sir W. Hamilton, he (Mr J.) considered Mr Taylor the
superior man, especially on religious grounds. On this subject he wished
to speak with reverence ; he wished that he was more under its influence;
but he trusted that all the Council recognised its importance. '.l'hey
would not forget the fervent and pious sentiments in the prayer of the
eloquent clergyman (Dr Muir) who had opened their meeting, that they
would remember they were in the presence of God discharging a most
important duty-a prayer which had touched his heart, as he trusted it
had done tbe hearts of his brother Councillors: It had been said that
there was a constellation of talent competing for this chair. He sus-
pected that a good deal of the refulgence which struck gentlemen so
forcibly, was in consequence of the nearness of some of the objects, and
that what was distant was not so'. brilliant. Mr J. then referred to the
obscurity of Sir W. Hamilton's style of writing as an objection; and,
after reading several of the testimonials in favour of that gentleman
(which he contended, however, had all been given previous to Mr Taylor
coming forward, so that he was justified in presuming that had they been
written subsequently they would have been a good deal modified), he pro-
ceeded to remark, that had the splendid abilities for which in his testi-
monials he got credit been available, they would have exhibited them-
selves in his present Chair. But had they done so? It was well Irnown
they had not. Sir W. Hamilton, he contended, was not known except
from his connection with the F.dinburgh Review, and it was well known
that the theological philosophy of that journal was not in high repute.
He (Mr J.) was unwilling to say any thing for which Mr Black mighi
drag him into the Court of Session, as he sometimes attempted to do to
others; but he would not hesitate to repeat, that, as a religious journal,
the Edinburgh Review did not stand very high-that its religious prin-
ciples were ·generally regarded with suspicion. (Mr Black, "trash.">
Perhaps any thing he (Mr J.) could say on the subject of religion, would
seem trash in the eyes of some people-(here there was considerable im-
patience manifested in the Council)
The Lord Provost called Mr Jameson to order. Such language could
not be permitted.
Mr JOHNSTON contended that when candidates came forward, their
whole character was before the public; and that Mr Jameson was quite
in order in discussing Sir W. Hamilton"s religious qualifications. .
Mr BRUCE put it to Mr Jameson whether the fact of having written a
few articles for the Edinburgh Review made Sir W. Hamilton responsi-
ble for the religious opinions of that journaL
Mr JAMESON, after a pause, again proceeded to address the meeting,
and concluded by again declaring himself decidedly in favour of Mr
Taylor.
Treasurer BLACK said, that before Mr Jameson spoke, he did not see
any necessity for further speaking on the subject; but there was one part
of that most extraordinary speech which he could not but notice. It was
one of the unpleasant signs of the times that they found men, whenever
they had an object to carry, making a stalking-horse of religion (hear,
hear.) Whatever matter was under discussion, one party was sure to
raise the cry of heresy against the other-a cry which has done more
mischief, since first it was raised to the present moment, than' any thing
Digitized by Google
166
else in the world. He believed there had been men who had joined the
holy oftlce of the Inquisition, and burned their fellow-creatures, thinking
they did God service ; and that there were many peraons in modem
times who carried their principles to the extreme, under the idea that
they were promoting God's glory. But there was another class of men,
who, while they were in the constant habit of taking the name of God in
vain, while they took no active interest in the promotion of real religion
in the world, did yet come forward with hypocritical, canting, whining
epeechell on religion when they had a point to carry, (hear.) When he
(Mr B.) met with auoh men, he was filled with infinite disgust. He
could excuse those who through their whole life had manifested strong
and ardent zeal in promoting their own religious principles, and who, in
their ordinary conduct, were apt to carry their zeal too far ; but when
individuala who had never shown themselves to be inliuenced by religious
zeal, and who yet came forward under the semblance of it to carry their
point-who could help feeling the utmost disgust P-{Mr Howden, " To
be aure.") He (Mr Black) thought the last speech had let out a great deal
of the influence which had been used against Sir W. Hamilton. He
had no doubt that there had been much talking about the German phiL>-
sophy being contrary to sound theology. They did not perhaps say that
Sir William was an infidel ; they dared not do that; but in a calm, quiet,
serpent-like, creeping way, insinuated and left the inference to be de-
duced that he was an infidel But let that charge be publicly made. Sir
William had written many articles, in which his infidel opinions, if he
had any such, would naturally have shown themselves. Let his oppo-
nents tum up those, and put their fingers on pa81111gl!S from which such
an inference could be made. But how was it argued that he was llllt fa..
vourable to religion ? Why, because he had written some articiei in tbe
.Edinburgh Review. Was it then to be said that the religious opinions
of .all who had written in the Edinburgh Review were to be suspect;ed 1'
Dr Chalmers, it was well known, had written in the Edinburgh BerJe~
and in that case it would follow that he was not favourable to religiolJ,
(hear.) But why should either of these writers be made reepomible:fnr
errors committed by other writers in the Edinburgh Review? ~ .all
works written by various persons, every man should be made responsible
for his own writings only ; and in this way let a charge of infi.delit;y be
brought.against SH.- William Hamilton if they could. He (Mr B.) was
111tiafied that this was the grand objection that had been brought against
Sir W. Hamilton-brought forward too in the moat unworthy~­
He (Mr B.) had taken as much interest in }Jromoting religious IOdeties
as JDost of those gentlemen who opposed Sir W. Hamilton on religious
gi'Ounds.; but he had not found those who were so eloquent on the fear~
religion being injured by Sir W. Hamilton, take the same interest in
promoting religion, but had stood aloof; leaving it to others. Several
reviews had been quoted in favour of Mr Taylor. But what said.j;be
leading reviews in his favour? What said the Quarterly Review i' ~"
a word. The writers of it then did not seem to be so deeply im,presaed
with the writings of Mr Taylor as his supporters would have people h-
lieve. What said the Edinburgh Review? He found a review. of'"M°r
Ta,lor's work on Fanaticism, written in 1834, without any reference tO
the present contest, uid the opiniwi then enterki,ned .of :Mr TaylQr was
Digitized by Google
16'7
not very ftaLterlng;....(Here Mr Biaclr: quoted .eYeral puages of that
Review.) He (Mr B.) was willing to admit that the literary merits of
Mr Taylor were of a high order of their own kind-be wu very imagi.
native and very eloquent, but that be was a proper penion to fill the Lo.
gic Chair be (Mr B.) could not acknowledge, especially when they had
such favourable testimony in favour of another individual. After re-
marking upon the principle.upon which the Council should receive evi-
dence, Mr B. proceeded to say that it bad been objected to Sir W. Ha-
milton, that in his present chair of Universal History, he had never been
able to raise a class. His (Mr B.'s) opinion was, that nobody ever would
raise a clal!s of U uiversal History. No one ever had done it,and no man,
however eminent, would do it. But he had beard a gentleman declare
that Sir William's lectures on that branch ofstudy were of the most elo-
quent and'useful kind, but that, from the nature of the chair itse~ it wu
impossible to draw large bodies ofstudents towards it. Mr B. concluded
by declaring himselfcordially in favour of~ W. Hamilton.
Mr Rtr!l8ELL read extractsfrom the writings ofDr Chalmers, Dr Ward-
law, and Mr Buchanan of Leith, to show that it was of great con1eo
quence to unite religion with the teaching ofphilosophy. He considered
Mr Taylor best qualified to do thi&, and therefure he should vote for
him.
MrJoeNSTON wished to have a guarantee that Sir William was 11<>und
in regard to religion ; and he asked if it would be proper in the Council
to elect a pe!'llon to the ~r of Logic whose principles in that reepect
were not guaranteed even by his stoutest advocate& He (Mr J.) also
wished for evidence of his qualities as a teacher. They had ample evi-
de~ce, he admitted, of his philosophical talents ; but it wu to be kept in
mind that it was not to Lord Jeffrey, Sir David Brewster, Mr Macvey
Napier, and such profound philosophers, t~ Sir W. Hamilton wu to
lecture, but to boys of fifteen years of age. The learned Councillor,
therefore, argued, that the testimonials of such men u be had llllllled
ought to have no weight in this cue. Mr M'Dougall, he argued, had
produced abundant evidence of bis fitness in every respect to fill tha
Chair; but as he saw the contest would be between Sir W. Hamilton
and Mr Taylor, he would, after Mr M•DougaU, certainly vote fur the
latter.
Mr Gil'FOR.D also contendedfor the superior claims ofMr Taylor in a
religious point ofview.
After a few remarks from Mr WHYTE and Mr UIN&, the latter or
whom said the argumenti;was Rll on his side,
Mr M'LAREN said, that Mr J obnltton had called particularly upon him
for evidence of Sir W. Hamilton's Christianity, and said, that ifhe could
assure him (Mr J .) of thi&, and quiet bis conscience upon that point, he
would be satisfied. It was, he said, a very unlikely thing that he (Mr
M'Laren) would guarantee the religion ofSir William Hamilton, a gen-
tleman whom he bad never seen, and whom be would not know if he
were then ,present. He .had never been asked to vote for Sir WU.
liam Hamilton, except by an elder ofthe Church, who was now pre11e11t,
Dr Macaulay. It wBB ludicrous to call on him to guarantee Sir William
Hamilton's religion. He would not guarantee the religion even ofMr
Johnston (a laugh). He knew nothing of any man's religion except oc-
Digitized by Google
168
caaionally by his works, which was the best criterion that he knew to
judge by. Had Sir William Hamilton gone to his parish minister for a
certificateofhis religious character, he (Mr M'Laren) would have thought
such a proceeding pitiful and contemptible, and if he did not choose to
stand upon his character, he deaer-red to loss his situation. He held it
was the duty of those who threw out unworthy insinuations regarding
Sir William's character, to bring forward some proofs to support them.
It had been stated by Mr Jameson, that in this instance the evangelical
dissenters were united with the more religious part of the members of
the church to return Mr Taylor in opposition to Sir William Hamilton.
He did not know on what authority Mr Jameson had spoken, or how he
should have known of such a union, if it had taken place. He (Mr
M•Laren) did not know what were the sentiments of the great body of
dissenters on this subject, and therefore could express no opinion. He
had never heard of any such union as had been stated to have taken
place. He knew several dissenting clergymen both in the town and
country, who thought that Sir 'Villiam Hamilton would be..infinitely su-
perior to Mr Taylor in the Chair of Logic, and he did not know one
clergyman who held the reverse of this opinion. He knew many who
looked with disgust upon the circumstance ofreligion being so frequently
made a stalking-horse of in cases where it ought not to be introduced ;
and he must say that to.day'he had heard no sneering against religion
but against its being used in this way.
Dr MACAULAY said, it was quite true that he had asked Mr M'Laren
to vote for Sir William Hamilton, and that he had intended to do so
himself up to Monday last, when he had learned, on returning from Lon-
don, that Mr Taylor was positively a candidate. On reconsidering the
question, he had since become satisfied in his mind, that, on the score of
religion, Mr Taylor was the fittest of the two candidates, and in voting
for him as he intended to do, he wll!I quite willing to take the responsibi:
Jity attaching to his change of opinion.
Convener Drc11: stated, that in voting in favour of Mr Combe, he did
not pledge himself to Phrenology, but he supported him because he
knew him to be a successful teacher, and an acute and logical reasoner.
Mr DuNcAN gave his reasons for preferring Sir 'Villiam Hamilton,
which were, that, upon a strict inquiry, he was satisfied of his qualifica~
tion, both as a moral man and a Christian.
The Council then proceeded to vote upon the whole list of candi~
dates:-
For Sir William Hamilton-The Lord Provost, Bailie Donaldson,
Bailie Stodart, Treasurer Black, Councillors Watson, Howden, M•La-
ren, Ponton, Baird, Duncan, Robertson, Grainger, Grant, and Bruce
-14.
For Mr Taylor-Bailie Macfarlan, Bailie Sawers, Councillors Deu.
char, Jameson, Russell, Gifford, Banks, Whyte, Laing, and Macaulay
-IO.
For Mr M'Dougall-Deari of Guild Lamond, Councillors Johnston,
Mackay, Gillespie Graham, and Maclagan-6.
For Mr Combe-Convener Dick, Councillors Neill and .Milne-3.
At the close of this vote, the]proposers of the two last named candi.
dates agreed to withdraw them, when another vot7 was taken for Sir
Digitized by Google
169
William Hamilton and .Mr Taylor, and, in addition to those we have al·
ready name'1, there voted, ·
For Sir William Hamilton-The Dean of Guild;the Convener, Coun·
clllors Gillespie Graham and .Milne, giving a total number of 18.
For Mr Taylor-Councillors Johnston, Mackay, Maclagan, and Nell,
total IL
Faox TBE ScoTIHAll'. ~
Sir William Hamilton was elected yesterday by a narrow majority over
Mr Taylor. The election has euU.ed an extraordinary interest, and we
have reported the proceedings at great length. In recommending Yr
Combe, we were well aware that his chance of success was extremely
small; and .we stated this distinctly when we fuBt adverted to his being
a candidate. But though we could scarcely indulge the hope of seeing
him elected, we did not think our advocacy of his claims useleu. Some•
thing has been done to remove prejudices, which obscured the talents of
a very able man, and prevented philosophical opinions of great import•
ance from receiving the fair and impartial hearing to which they are now
shown to be well entitled. The support which Mr Combe received in
the Council, if small, was highly respectable. It ls not what we think
due to him, but it is more than he would have received a few years ago.
Faox THE Eu1nuaaa Caaox1cLz.
We refer to the " Town-.Council Proceedings '' ofyesterday for an
account of the election to the Logic Chair. In our last publication our
views were fully stated on this important election. These were, that,
to do justice to the University, the candidates, and the public, the Coun·
cil should, from the evidence laid before them, consider, first, the claia11
of the old and new systems of Mental Philosophy; and, secondly, the in·
dividual merits of the candidates. If the old system were '°be prefer-
red, then we thought there was no choice but to elect Sir William
Hamilton,-and if the new, Mr Combe. The Lord Provost, in opening
the·business, said, he certainly considered himself in the light of a jury-
man, and that he could only look to the evidence laid before them ; but
in doing so he preferred Sir William Hamilton. A majority of the
Council have also approved of his Lordship's choice, and have thereby
proclaimed to the world that a system totally unsupported by one word
in the evidence before them, and all but univeJ'Slllly acknowledged to be
totally useless, should still be retained in the imperative cuniculum of
our University. We were highly gratified, however, to find the new
system of mental philosophy, and its talented advocate Mr Combe, so
ably supported by Dr Neill, an educated pupil of the old school, and
therefore well qualified to judge; as also by Mr Milne, and Convener
Dick,-the latter likewise an undoubted judge of physiological science,
and the representative of the Trades of Edinburgh. We refrain at pre-
sent from saying more; but are confident that a very short time will
convince the Council of the error they have committed, and will shew
that the efforts of blind authority and religious fanaticism will be directed
in vain to obstruct the progxess of true philosophy and the advancement
of useful knowledge.
c
Digitized by Google
'. 170
FROM THE. SPECTATOR..
T~e Edinb~;~h Town-Coun~il have filled up the vacancy in the u~
\iersity;by electing Sir 'Villiam Hamilton. It is one thing to grudge
the amount of the reward, and another to question the propriet,r .of th~
choice. lfintellectual labour, disinterested and unwearied, can merit dis.
tinction, Sir William !Jamilton has fairly earned..it; but it is unfortu-
nate that his recompence should have been conferred in circumstances
under which, by the vote of a. popular body, erudition bas been exalted
over rare talent--industry, with moderate acuteness, over elevated .per-
8everance 'accompanied by the highest originality-and in which a tho-
foilgh acquaintance with \.he works of the inquirers of past time, came
into contest with a power to benefit society by the discov.ery of new
truths, and seemed to bear away the palm. Had an Edinburgh Towri-
'Councilofthose days beStowed approbation on th,e old astronomer TYCBO,
'r.o one would have quarrelled with them; but had the reward involved
.his preference to the youthfol NEWTON, .
ma11kind would long ago have
reversed the verdict. It is, however, at least satisfactory, that the re.
sult ha3 not given victory to a mere rhetorician, and, through him, to ii
clique of noxious intriguers,
·A short debate preceded the vote; demanding especial notice on ac~
co1,mt of one important feature. It must sincerely gratify the friends of
liberty of .thought. that such men as Mr Black and Mr D: Maclaren,
.(individuals on whose religious belief not one shadow.of implication can
be cast by the most straitly orthodox-who are, indeed; themselvesu£ the
very straitest sect,) 'utterlyscouted and spurned the us.
e attempted to be
made of the name of religion~that old stalking-horse argument ever ai
~ommand of the base, the hypocritical, and the ignorant. It is 11ot for
us, at this distance, to decide and ai>propriate the moti\'es inciting to the
. utterance of the slangreferred to, but it is allowable to express the hope;
that if the people of Edinburgh havereason to apply to any ofits authors
the castigatton of Mr Black, s11pported·and enforced liy the briefaddress
of 1\-Ir Maclaren,-if they know that the forward and blustering advo-
cacy of what is termed Christian doctrine, is, in any cnse, not supported
by Christian life,-if this noisy assertion of the authority of stringent
dogmas be not proved to be sincere by the practice of austerities com.
manded by such dogmas,--or if there is reason to assume in their case~
as in similar one!i, that vain and empty and ambitious adventurers, who
h!!_e attained some notoriety by their talking adherence to one party,
are now employing that notorie.ty by way of raising their purchase price
with another,-it is allowable, we repeat, to express the .hope that
the electors of Edinburgh will have seen enough to give application to
the penalty they can inflict, by consigning that alone which in all nature
is contemptible-viz. insincerity--to the contempt and worst obscurity it
hss earned. There were persons, however, figuring in these discussions,
to whom it is impossible to lay charges of this description; but no amount:
or degree of orthodoxy should authorize the committal of duties like thoae
just discharged to individuals with whom orthodoxy is not, through ef.
feet of their ignorance, the slightest guarantee against uncharitable, in-
t~lerant, and tyrannical action. It seemed goo<I, for instance, to.l\fessrs
Digitized by Google
- -- - -----~------~--
171
Deuchar and Russell, to state broadly before the Council, that certain
pusages in Mr Combe's C0718titulion of Man demonstrated hla "hostility
to Christianity." These penons are sound men, we doubt not, and im-
pregnable in t,he faith of Calvin; but a tritling increment of modesty and
a due augmentation of that charity which is the most prominent charac-
teristic of a fallible mind, feeling the presence ofits great and pure Maker,
would certainly not be superfluous in proof of their own Christianity.
The merits of this question should be fairly laid before the public. Mr
Combe's work is a positive. It contains a statement of much that is pori-
tive and new in reference to the condition of man and the element.I of hill
happiness ; and in this it is altogether contradistinguished from the worb
of theologians, who for the last two hundred years have done nothing but
brow-beat and abuse each other, and in the assumed name of the Almighty
browbeat their flocks. Now in this whole treatise there is not onestate-
ment in opposition to those fundamental facts reg.rding man which
Christianity brings into strong relief; although the novelties, the disco-
veries of the work, seem to compel modification in ths philoaophiu 111Aioh
theologians have constructed on the baris of thsse facts. Is it because of this
that Mr Combe's work has been at once abused, hated, and unanswered.
It bas di8tur~ the theologians, simply as discoveries always disturb
them; but in consequence of its strict fundamental correspondence with
the essential elements of Christianity, and its manifest foundation in na-
ture, not one theologian of note bas ventured, notwithstanding its cele-
brity and success, to stake bis reputation by opposing it. Is it not, in
such circumstances, somewhat too much for a Mr Deuchar or a Mr Rus-
sell to pronounce e:r cathedra as to its opposition to Christianity P The
statement comes only to this-that their view ofChristianity does not com-
prehend truths which Mr Combe unfolds; and a man even of ordinary
modesty, or ordinary diffidence in bis own powers, and inclined even in
an ordinary degree to that respect for talent and for the labour of the con-
scientious inquirer, which is the very first moral constituent of a judge
in such a matter,- man of this kind, on seeing, or seeming to see a con-
tradiction between his own views and the new ones, would have said with-
out he&ita1ion, " Perhaps my yiews of Christianity are imperfect: these
new doctrines appear to rest on strong substantive foundations : let me
beware of rejecting them simply because of their contrariety to my pre-
conceived views: when I have read more, and thought more deeply, I
may perceive the agreement." Let it be well understood what u intoler-
ance. Mr Russell, who went to gaol rather than pay the Annuity-tax,
and who, perhaps, on the ground of that achievement, reckons himself a
sort of a martyr, clearly requires to be informed, that the levying of a
shilling or two out of a man's income in support of a strange creed, is just
the most insignificant and least important way possible in which perse-
cution can be rendered effective. The root of the persecuting spirit is
in that 4isposition (and a pestiferous one it is) which disposes us to be-
lieve that our neighbour cannot be right simply because be differs from
us; and which, because of difference of opinion, will blast his character
or deprive him of merited station, without one feeling of reluctance, all
as in the service of God ! We shall think ill of our old friends of Edin-
burgh, if, after manifestations of this mischievous kind, silly and ignor.
ant men be permitted longer to share in the conduct of University affail"ll
Digitized by Google
112
These remarks have been hazarded not so much In particular reference'
to the present case, as by way of warning against the action ofa bad and
dangerous, and prevalent disposition ; but there is another point, and a
serious one, with respect to Mr Combe's rejection, to which we feel it a
duty to solicit attention. The advancement of society must ever come'
from within, not from without. Its elevation of character, and the
breadth and permanence of its institutions, depend on the condition of its
people as to enlightenment and their sound views of morals. One kind
of Reformel'S-nor let merit be refused them-keep their eye only on
outward influencet1, and strive, or seem to _
strive, to obtain for society
certain forms of law, without ever imagining the necessity of cultivating
or cherishing those internal agencies which, if well developed, will of
themselves always procure for a people every beneficial result. Lord
Melbourne knows very well that Reformers of this sort are the most
vulgar of all ; and in his best speeches-those which do him rnost credit,
and which will live-he has well lamented the strength of social or in-
t.ernal obstacles to the progress of civilization in t.he British empire. It
is sufficiently strange, then, that the individual who more than any other
man in Great Britain has laboured with effect in the clearing of the pub-
lic mind,-who has founded and propagated a philosophy with signal suc-
cess, which will in the end teach men their true nature, and destroy su-
perstition,-it is strange lhllt Mr Combe should have been only scowled
on by the influential Whigs of Scotland ! Attachment to old schools and
old systems and old masters, is all laudable; but the bestowal of Govern-
ment influence in subjection to such feelings, is what in these days we
can hardly well afford. The vacation is appronching; and we request
Lord Melbourne, not as a favour, but in performance of 11 public duty,
to peruse the Constitution ofMan: and, after he has s11tisfied himself by
how much his best BishoJ>-even the Hierarch of Durham-has been ex-
celled by Mr Combe in contributions to sound sense, in metaphysics, or
in works of public utility, he may perhaps be inclined to ask why the re-
presentatives of his Miniatry in Edinburgh did, with one consent, con-
trive to keep the author of that work from one of the fE'w positions at-
tainable by him in Scotland, from the elevation ofwhirh his 11lready re-
cognised authority would have been more visible and doubly influential.
Mr Combe requires no condolence because of his defeat. Probably,
he never looked for success; and if many of the Edinburgh Council are
like Messrs Deuchar and Russel, he must have known from the begin.
ning that success was hopeless. But he has established a fresh claim on
the grateful notice of posterity,-daringa position which no rran in that
line will again rejoice to occupy, offering himself as a first sacrifice to the
high priests of Old Philosophies, and maintaining with the dignity of a
pnilosopher the interests of truth.
Digitized by Google
,
0
DOCUMENTS
' LAID BF.FORE
.THE RIGHT HONOURABLE LORD GLENELG,
llY
SIR GEORGE S. ~ACKENZIE, BART.,
ULATIVE TO
THE CONVICTS BENT TO NEW SOUTH WALES.
APRIL 11136.
Digitized by Google
IV
Medical Society of Edinburgh, and Secretary to the
Phrenological Society of Portsmouth, 9
9. From Dr JAMES INGLIS, M.R.C.S.E., and Soc. Ed. Med.
Reg. Soc. Ed.; SAKUEL M'KEuR, Esq. Surgeon, Castle
Douglas; the Rev. WILLIAM GLOVER, .A.M. Minister of
Crossmichael; Dr JouN CoLVIN, Bengal Establishment,
M.R. C.S. Lond. and Mem. Med. and Phys. Soc. Calcutta, 10
10. From S. HARE, Esq. Proprietor and Medical .Attendant of
the Retreat for the Insane in Leeds, • 11
11. From Dr JAMES STEWART (A), Surgeon, Royal Navy, and
Physician Extraordinary to His Royal Highness the Duke
of SvssEX, It
12. Froin Dr JAMES ScoTT, LL.B., Surgeon and Lecturer to the
Royal Hospital at Haslar ; Licentiate of the Royal Col-
lege of Physicians of London ; Surgeon a~d Medical
Superintendent or" the Royal Naval Lunatic Asylum ;
President of the Hampshire Phrenological Society, &c.
8fc. 13
13. From HEWETT COTTRELL WATSON, Esq. F.L.S., late Presi-
dent of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh; Author
of the " Geography of British Plant.a," and other works, 13
14. From Sir WILLIAM C. ELLIS, M. D. Superintendent of the-
Lunatic .Asylum for the County of Middlesex, at Han:"'
well, 16
11>. From Dr DtsNEY .ALEXANDBR, late one of the Physicians to
the WakefieldDispensary and the PauperLunatic.Asylum,
Lecturer on Phrenology, Author of an Es.say 011 the best
Means of preservillg Health, of a Treatise on the Croup,
and otLectures on the Internal Evidencesof Christianity, 17
16; From GEORGE MART:&LL, Esq. Member of the College of Sur-
geons, London, Surgeon to the Jail of Pcutsm.outh, and
Senior Surgeon to the Dispensary, &c. &c. 17
17. From lAMEB Sii.r,Pso_N, Esq•.Advocate, City Assessor of Edin-
burgh. and author of" Necessity of Popular Education
as a National Object," 18
18. From HENRY WITHAM, Esq. of Lartington, Yorkshire, Mem-
ber of the Geological Society of London, and Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh, &c. &c.; and .Author ofa Work on
" The Internal Structure of Fossil Vegetables," 18
19. From Dr FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, Fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and Vice-President of the
Phrenological Society. 19
Digitized by Google
•
v
2Q, From Dr S. E. H111110&rl.SLD, Bremen, 19
21. From theSuas:1<1nto the N&WO.UTUINl'IRKABT, and Fifteen
other Gentlemen of that Town, • 20
22. From W. A. F. B11owNJ1, Eaq. Medical Superintendent of
Montrose Lunatic Asylum, 22
i3. From Dr C. Ono, Professor of .Materia Mediea and Forensic
Medicine in the University of Copenhagen ; Physician to
the Civil Penilentiary; Member of the Boyal Board of
H.ealth, the Royal Medical Society of Copenhagen, and
thirteen other Medical Societies abroad; Editor of the
Danish medical joumal " Bibliothek fur Lieger," &c. &c. 23
24. From the Honourable DouGt.AI GoJLDoK llAi.uBu&TOK, M. P.
for Forfarshire, . • 24
2.6. From Dr P.utuox NBILL, F. R. 8. E. & F. L. 8. London, . 29
20. From Dr JoHN ELLIOTSON, F. R. S., President of the Royal
Medi.cal and Chirurgical, and of the London Pluenologi-
cal Societies ; Professor of the Principles and Practice of
Medicine and of Clinical Medicine, and Dean of Faculty,
in the University of London ; Senior Physician of the
NorUi London Hospital; Fellow of the Royal College of
Physicians of London; formerly Physician to St Thomas's
Hospital, and President of the Royal Medical Society of
Edinburgh, &c. &o. &o. 30
27. Fi:om Dr JoBK BooTT, Fellow of the Boyal College of Bur-
. geons, EdinbufA'h, 31
28. 1''rom JouPH V11101"1', M. D., of the Faculty of Paris, Hono-
rary Memberof the Phrenological Societiel of Pam, Lon-
don, Edinburgh, Boston, &o. 32
29. From DrW1uu.• Guooav, F.R.8.E., Fellow of the :Royal
College of Physicians of Edinburgh, Member and for-
merly President of the Royal Medical Society, Corres-
ponding Member of the Societe de Pharmacie and of the
Phrenological Society of Paris, and Secretary to the
Phrenological Society of Edinburgh, 33
30. From Dr RoBBRT HUN'Ra, Professor of Anatomy, &e. in the
.Andersonian Univenity, Glasgow, 34
31. From RoaaaT :M...omSH, Esq. Member of the Faculty of
Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, and Author of
"The Philosophyof Sleep," &c. 36
32. ,rom R1ouan PooLs, M. D., Fellow and Joint Librarian of
the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh ; Author
of various Articles in Periodical Joumals and the Ency-
Digitized by Google
vi
clopaidia Edinensis,-as Language, PhiWlogg, M~
tic8, Mind, Philoaophg, and Education, the last of which
has been republished sei)arately, 36
33. From CHA.BLBS M.i.cLARBN1 Esq, Editor of the Scotllman, 37
34.. From W1LLIAll· W1LDSlllTB, Esq. Member of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, London, and of the Council ofthe Leeds-
Philosophical and Literary Society ; and Author of " An
Inquiry concerning the relative Connexion which subsists
between the Mind and the Brain," 38
36. From Mr W1LLIAll BREBNKR, Governor of the County and
City Bridewell, Glasgow, 39
36•.From H. A. GALBRAITH, Esq, Surgeon to the Glasgow Royal
Lunatic Asylum, 39
37. From GEoRGE Su1110Nn, Esq. Procurator-Fiscal of Lanark-
shire; WALTER MoJR, Esq. Sheriff-substitute of Lanark- ·
shire; and Mr D. M'Coll, Governor of Glasgow Jail, 41
38. .Account ofMr Co111eE's Phrenological Examination of Heads
of Criminals in the Jail of Newcastle-on-Tyne, October
183.'i, 44
39. From.Dr JoeN MACKINToss, Surgeon to the Ordnance De-
partment in North Britain ; Lecturer on the Principles of
Pathology and Practice of Physic ; Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Edinburgh ; Member of the Medi-
co-Cbirurgical and Wernerian Natural History Societies
of Edinburgh, Montreal, Heidelberg, and Brussels, 47
~. Certificate from HENRY MARSH, Esq. M.D., M.R.I.A., one of
the Physicians to Steven's Hospital, Consulting Physician
to .the Dublin General Hospital, St Vincent's Hospital,
and the Institution for the Diseases of Children ; RoeERT
HARRISON, Esq. M.D., M.R.I..A., Professor of .Anatomy
and Physiology, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland ;
RrnnARD ToNSON EvANSoN, Esq. M.D., M.R.I..A., Profes-
sor of the Practice of Physic, Royal College of Surgeons
in Ireland; JA111Es .Aa111sTRONG, D.D., M.R.I•.A.; FRANCIS
WHITE, Esq. President of the Royal College of Surgeons
in Ireland; W. F. MoNTGoKERY, Esq. M.D., Professor of
Migwifery to the King and Queen's College of Physicians .
in Ireland; W111. W. CAMPBELL, Esq. M.R.I..A., Demon-
strator of .Anatomy to the College of Surgeons in Ire-
land, Resident .Assistant Physician to the .Dublin Lying-
in Hospital; .ANDREW BouRNE, Esq. Barrister; Teo111As
EDWARD BEATTY, .Esq. M.V., late Professor of Medi<'.al
Digitized by Google
VII
Jurisprudence, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland ;
ARTHUR EDWARD GAYER, Esq. LL.D., Barrister; ANDRJ:W
CARMICHAEL, Esq. M.R.I.A.; JouN HousToN, Esq. M.D.,
Curator or the Museum, Royal College of Surgeons, Ire-
land, Surgeon to the City Dublin Hospital, Surgeon to
the Charter Schools or Ireland, and to the Deaf and Dumb
Institution for Ireland; H. MAUNSELL, Esq. M.D., Profes-
sor of Midwifery to the Royal College of Surgeons in
Ireland, and Member or the Medical Society or Leipzic, 48
41. From His Grace the ARCHBISHOP or DUBLIN, ISO
42. From the PaovosT or TRINITY COLLEGE, 60
43. From H. LLOYD, Esq. F.T.C.D., Professor of Natural Phi-
losophy, Dublin, 50
44. From MouNTIFORT LONGFIELD, Esq. F.T.C.D., Whayleaw,
Professor or Political Economy, 60
46. From PHILIP CRAMPTON, Esq. Surgeon-General, Dublin, ISi
46. From AR. JACOB, Esq. M.D., Professor or Anatomy, Royal
College of Surgeons, Dublin, 61
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
IX
REPRESENTATION sent by Sir GEoaoz S. MACHNz12,
Bart. to the Right Honourable Loni GLl&NELO, Secretary for
the Colonies,-in reference to ConvictB sent to New South
Wales. February 1836.
TH.Ii: recent atrocities that have occurred in New South
Wales, are proof that there is milmanagement llODlewbere,
and that caution is indispensable for the future. But the
manner in which that caution is to be exercieed, involves
questions of much importance, perhaps of difficulty. It is,
however, obvious that caution must, in the first place, be
directed to the convicts. At present they are shipped off',
and distributed to the settlen, withwt the least regard to
their characten or history. A man or a woman found
guilty of an offence, is deemed an object of punishment,
whether the individual ~ave spent previous life in crime, or
has been driven by hard necessity unwillingly to commit it.
To bring back a person condemned by the law to a course
of industrious and honest habits, by means suited to the
natural character and dispositions, is a thing never thought
of. Punishment is most ignorantly deemed a universal
panacea for criminal propensities, and degradation is es-.
teemed the fitting means to restore a human being to telf-
respect, and to inspire an inclination towards good conduct.
Such id~, though they lead to practice that has for ages
been condemned by its results, arise out of ignorance of the
h
Digitized by Google
x
human constitution; and until that ignorance shall have
been dispelled from the minds of rulers, and its place filled
up by an extended view of the actual constitution of man,
error must continue to direct their measures in the highway
to evil. To be able to legi~late for man implies a know-
ledge of man. But in the case which is now specially ad-
verted to, that knowledge is entirely absent. In a short
address, as this must be, it is impossible to point out the
means of acquiring a knowledge of the true mental consti-
tution of man. It can only be stated that it has been dis-
covered, has been neglected, but still is making rapid pro-
gress in enlightening the British people.
It is therefore submitted,
lat, That when the importance of the colony of New
South Wales is oonsidered, convicts should not be sent out
indiscriminately. Their individual history and characters
should be inquired into, and the best selected for the colony,
and the worst kept for discipline at home. But, with every
exertion, the selection cannot be accurately made without
the assistance of some one acquainted with the true Philo-
sophy of Man.
'ld, It is conceived that the management of convicts
should be aspecial department of Colonial Government, to
which undivided attention ought to be given. At home
the convicts are not under the si.1perintendence of the Colo-
nial Secretary ; but when they are to be sent abroad, he
ought to have the power to select such as are the fittest for
the purposes of his department, and in which there ought
to ht an officer qualified to investigate the history of con-
victs, and to select them on phrenological principles.
Digitized by Google
XI
That such principles are the ouly St..>cure gruunds on
which the treatment of convicts can be founded, proof may
be demanded, and it is ready for production. I now unhesi-
tatingly offer to your Lordship the following public test of
their truth and efficacy, your acceptance of which, whatever
may be your notions of what the result will be, will at all
events do you honour. It is this:
Let your Lordship direct inquiry to be made into the
circumstances which brought a given number of convicts to
trial and punishment, and if possible let so much of their
previous history as can be got at, be stated. Suppose the
number to be fifty. Let these be numbered, and their
history, trial, and crimes inserted in a catalogue-of course
I trust that this shall he as correctly done as possible, and
in strict good faith. Let this catalogue be laid aside. On
being informed that this has been done, I will go to Lon-
don and take with me an experienced Phrenologist. Let
the convicts be brought to us one by one, and we will make
a catalogue of our own in the same order, and in it we will
enter what we deem the characters of the individuals to be,
and what were the crimes they probably had committed; and
likewise, we will state, in particular cases, what employment,
or at least the nature of the employment, they had proba-
bly been engaged in, and that in which they are likely to
be useful. The only information we will desire is, whether
the individual has or has not been educated. We will
examine the individuals in the presence of whom your Lord-
ship pleases. When our catalogue shall be completed, we
will then request a meeting with your Lordship and such
frienJs as you may wish to be present, and that the cata-
.,...
Digitized by L:;oogLe
XII
logues shall be publicly compared; reserving only this,
that if any discrepancy of importance shall appear, we shall
be permitted to question the subject, and to make inquiry
into the case ourselves, attended by those who made the
pre'tfous inquiry.
The result of such an experiment 11.11 this, will, I venture
to predict, satisfy your Lordship that means do exist for
the selection of convicts for the Colonies, and for their clas-
sification for treatment. I refer your .Lord.ship to the fact
of my friend Mr Combe having actually done what is here
proposed at Newcastle in October 1885, as narrated in the
Phrenological Jollt"nal, No. 46, page 5!e4, of which a copy
accompanies this oonimunication. If I can prevail on you
to make this experiment, I shall ever feel deeply grateful,
and your Lordship will gain the gratitude of all truly wise
patriots, and lay the foulMlation Qf a benefit to your country
such as no ruler has yet conferred either for effect or ex-
tent.
LETTER-Sm GsoRGE MACKENZIE.
To the Right Hooourahle l.oq GLEHU&a Secretary of State for tm
Colonial DeptJrtuient.
Mv Dua LQa.P,
I now put into your hands a number of Certifi-
cates from eminent men~ confiming my fcirmer assertion,
that it is possible to cla,s!lify convicts destined for our penal
settlements, so that the Colonists may be freed from tbe risk
of having atrocious and incorrigible characters allotted to
DigitizedbyGoogle ·
xiii
them, and the Colonial public from the evil11 ari¥ing out of
the escape of such character11. Allow me to take this oppor-
tunity to state, that, unless puuishment shall be awarded
not only proportionally to the crime committed, but to the
actual moral character and degree oC enlightenment of the
culprit, it cannot have the effect expec:ted from it, and may
even render criminals more wicked. The power to punish
ought to be in the hands of those who hal'e charge of con-
victed persons, not to be p<>sitively inflicted under an impe-
rative law, but to be used in the business of reform only
when, to a sound and philosophical judgment, it may ap-
pear necessary. The experience of penal settlements
teeches us thll, while all criminals condemned to transpor-
tation are regarded as equally deserving of punishment,
however varioU$ their degrers of guilt, they are not by any
:means equally prone to continue in a oourse of crime; for
we find that some, with the certainty of the severest punish-
ment before them, do continue to manifest propensity to
crime, and do commit it whenever opportunity offers; while
others become, of their own accord, sensible of their errors,
(though condemned as equally guilty with the others),
exert themselves to overcome their evil tendencies, and ar-
rive at the station of peaceable, industrious, and respectable
members of the ~ommunity. These facts, though pe~ectly
and long notorious, have not attracted the notice of either
the Colonial Government, or the Government at home ; but
they prove incontestibly, that there is a very great difference
in the moral constitution of criminalscondemned to transpor-
tation,a fact of which philosophy may make the most import-
ant use. The horrid slaughter of the people on my sons•
- oigitizedbyGoug ie
XIV
property would not have happened, I am bold enough_ to
say, had the Government been in possession of means to
classify the convicts~ and to keep the most atrocious in re-
straint at home, sending to New South Wales only the bet-
ter disposed among them.
Such means I am now the instrument of placing in the
hands of a liberal Government, whether it shall be regard-
ed or not ; and your Lordship, I trust, will not think me
tedious, while I very brieOy set before·you the general facts
which have brought men of philosophical understanding
and habits of investigation, to perceive, that a diz1COvery of
the true mental constitution of man has been made, and
that it furnishes us with an aJl-powerful means to improve
our race,-and that the more rapidly, ifthose in whose hands
the government of our country is placed will only listen to
facts, look at their verification, and attend to philosophical
induction from them.
Your Lordship must be aware of the fact, that, indepen-
dently of rank, education, or wealth, men differ from each
other very widely in the amount and kind of their intellec-
tual power, in moral feeling, and in their tendencies to in-
dulge their propensities. It is too well known that titled,
intelligent, wealthy bJackguards exist, guilty of the grossest
violation of moral law, while they contrive to escape the
penalties of statutes, which, however, occasionally reach
their enormities. That such are rather encouraged by
what is called high society, is notorious; and surely a
titled gambler, or cheat, or seducer, cannot be reckoned
less guilty than a poor, ignorant wretch, who steals per-
haps to sustain life, and not from a depraved propensity.
Digitized by Google
xv
It is, however, to the fact of difference of character and
talent among men of all stations of society to which I
anxiously desire your Lordship's attention. This difference
must clearly be the effect of something. There have been
philosophers who taught that man is a t11buln raaa, on which
we may 11tamp what talent and what character we please.
This, however, has long been demonstrated, by thousands
of facts ofdaily occurrence, to be a mere delusion. Differ-
ences in talent, intelligence, and moral character, are now
ascertained to be the effects of differences in organization.
The brain has been long regarded by physiologists as the
organ by which the mind is connected with the body, and
by means of which the mental faculties are manifested. To
this conclusion, the result of a vast amount of observation
and experiment has conducted them. After this fact had
been universally admitted, a similar amount of observation
and experiment led to the demonstration, by the celebrated
Gall, of different portions of the brain being allotted to the
power of manifesting different mental faculties. In those
who exhibit the manifestation of any particular faculty
strongly, the organ in the brain is proportionally large.
The differences of organization are, as the certificates which
accompany this shew, sufficient to indicate externalJ,y gene-
ral dispm1itions, as they are proportioned among one an-
other. Hence, we have the means of estimating, with
something like precision, the actual natural characters of
convicts, (as of all human beings,) so that we may at once
determine the means best adapted for their reformation, or
discover their incapacity of improvement, and their being
,
..
Digitized by L:.oogte
x-viii
iAg power in per(ieetiag human mstitutione, and hringing
about URi•enal good order, peae.e, prosperity, and happi-
Detlll.
Believe me, my dear Lord, very truly yours,
G. S. 'MACKENZIE.
Digitized by Google
CERTIFICATES.
I. From Dr WILLIAM Wx1a, Lecturer on the Practice of Medi-
cine, formerly Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary of Glasgow, and
joint Editor of the Glasgow Medical Journal.
To the Right Hon. Lord GLENELG.
BuceA:irA:ir STREET, GL.Ueow,
MY Loan, Marola I•. 1836.
At the request of Sir Geo. S. Mackenzie, Bart.
and in reference to a correspondence which has passed be-
tween your Lordship and that gentleman, concerning the
evils which the colony of New South \Vales suffers from
desperate characters being sent out as convicts, and let to
the settlers as servants, I beg leave to make the following
iitatement.
I have paid much attention, during the last twenty years',
to huinait physiology in general, and to the science of Phre-
nology in particular, and have had many opportunities of
comparing the form and size of the head in living indivi-
duals with their talents and mental character. I have also
been in the constant practice of examining the skulls and
casts from ·the heads of deceased persons, and comparing
these with their known mental characters and their actions
exhibited during life ; and I have found a constant and
A
Digitized by L:.oog1e
........ -· ----
2 PBRBNOLOOY APPLIRD TO TBB
uniform oonnexioo between the talents and natural disposi-
tions, and the form and size of the head.
I have no hesitation, therefore, in stating it as my 6rm
conviction, drawn from these sources, and from long study
and observation, that the natural dispositions of man are
indicated by the form and size of the brain, to such an ex-
tent as to render it quite possible for persons who have had
practice in such manipulation~ to distinguish during life
men of desperate and dangerous tendencies fFom those of
good dispositions.
I have the honour to be,. my Lord, your Lordship's most
obedi~nt Servan~
WlLUAM WEIR, M.D.
II. From ALEXANDBR Hool>", Esq. Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
•.ro the.Right Hon. Lord GLEMJ:La. K1uu.1urocir,
MT LORI>, MM'tJh 14. 1836.
I take the liberty of addressing your Lordship
in consequence of having received a letter on the part of Sir
George S. Mackenzie, Bart., whose sons are settled in the
colony of New South Wales, respecting the great evils
which the colonists there sustain from desperate characters
being sent out as convicts, and let out to the settlers as ser-
"Yants. · Sir George suggests that Phrenology might be be-
neficially applied in pointing out the natural dispositions of
c0nvicts, and. employed as a means of draughting from
among them the most desperate and incorrigible <:haracter&,
previous to transportation.
Having for many years devoted a considerable· time to
the study of Phrenology, and tested the truth of its prin-
ciple" by the most severe and canclusive experiments, the
Digitized by Google
CLA881PICAT10N OF CRllllNALS. 3
result has been a gradual but·thorough belief in the·ll'.Uth
of the doctrines which it promulgates, and that it is ms-
ceptible of. being applied with much advant&gt! to the oom-
munity in the manner suggested by Sir George Mackenzie.
My daily observation as a medical man confirms me in this
belief, and I conceive that a skilful Phrenologist is capable,
by an examination of the human head, of detecting any de-
fective or predominant intellectual faculty, moral feeling,
or animal propensity, nearly with as much accuracy as a
physitjan can diseover the healthy or diseased condition of
the heart, lungs, liver, or ,spine.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most
obedient humble servant,
AI,J<:X. HOOD, Surgeon.
III. From RICHARD CARMICHAEL, Esq. M. R. I. A., Correspond-
ing Member Royal Academy of Medicine of France, Ho-
norary Member of several Medical Societies ; Consulting
Surgeon of the Richmond Surgical Hospital, and Author of
several Works on Surgery.
~ro the Right Hon. Lord Guao1ELG,
Secretary, for the Colonies, &.c. &c. &c.
RUTLAND SQUARE, DUBLIN,
MY LORD, March 16. 1836.
Having received a letter at the instanc~ of Sir
George Mackenzie, desiring to know whether it is my opi-
nion ·and belief that " 'the natural dispositions are indicated
by the form and size of the brain, to such an extent as to
render it' quite p<>ssible,' during life, to distinguish' men or
desperat.e and dangerous tendencies from those of good dis-
positions," and to lay such opinion before your Lordship ~
' ,
Digitized by Google
4 PBRBNOLOGY APPLIED TO THE
I have no hesitation in certifying that such is ID); belief,
and that I consider this mode of discriminating persons of
good from those of bad dispositions, may be most usefully
employed for various purposes advantageous to society.
I have the honour to be your Lordship"s very obedient
servant,
RlCH0 • CARMICHAEL.
IV. From EDWARD BARLOW, M. D. of the University of Edin·
burgh ; Member of the Royal College of Surgeons of Ire-
land ; Senior Physician to the Bath Hospital, and the Bath ,
United Hospital; Fellow of the Royal Medical and Chi-
rurgical Society of London, &c. &c.
'J.'o the Right Hon. Lord GLBNELG,
~retary of State for the Colonies, &c. &c. &c.
MY Loao,
BATH, SYDNEY PLACE,
March lli. 1836.
At the desire of Sir George Mackenzie, I will-
ingly offer my testimony in favour of the application of
Phrenology to the examination of convicts, which he has
suggested to your Lordship. Deeply interested in the
science, from a thorough conviction of its truth, I have, for
upwards of twenty years, watched its progress; and I have
no hesitation in expressing my firm belief, that all mental
functions are dependent for the manifestations on the con-
formation of the brain; and that the natural dispositions
are indicated by its form and size to such an extent, as to
render it quite pos&ible, during life, to distinguish. men of
desperate and dangerous tendencies from those of good dis.-
positions.
Digitized by Google
IJLA88IFJCATION OF CRllllJNALS.
In early life, my Lord, I, through ignorance and incon-
siderateness, joined in the doubts respecting Phrenology,
that then prevailed; and mine was afterwards no sudden con-
version resulting from raised imagination, but the clear con-
viction produced by calm and patient inquiry. The grounds
of my present faith it would be out of place here to display;
but I may remark, that the application" of Phrenology
which Sit- George Mackenzie now advocates, was actually
and most successfully made ten years ago, in the examina-
tion, by Mr De Ville of London, of one hundred and forty-
eight convicts, transported in the ship England to New
South Wales, and that the safe completion of the voyage
was owing to the information respecting individual charac-
ter that Mr De Ville had supplied. The facts here referred
to are matter of public record, as they were reported oili-
cially to Dr Burnett, by Mr G. Thomson, the surgeon of
the ship. The history of the voyage, as detailed by Mr
Thomson, is deposited in the Victualling Office.
I consider the truths of Phrenology to be as well esta-
blished as are those of any other branch of natural science ;
being throughout, not fanciful nor hypothetical assump-
tions, but rigid inductions from numerous and accurately
observed facts. By such course of observation and reason-
ing alone can natural truths ever be developed ; by it has
the philosophy of matter attained its present advance-
ment ; and to it are we indebted for the only sound and ra-
tional philosophy of mind that has yet been produced,
namely, that which Phrenology teaches. The applications
of this science to the affairs of human life are sure to ex-
tend. as its principles become known and appreciated ; and
eventuallytheycannotfail toprove of theveryhighest import-
ance to the welfare and happine!'ls cf the human race. The
application of it which Sir Geugc Mackenzie has proposed
Digitized by L:.oogte
6 PHRENOLOGY APPl.IKO ·ro •reE
to your Lordship, has my cordial approval, and the full
senction of my unbi11ssed judgment.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's
faithful and obedient servant,
E. BARLOW, M. D.
V. From Messrs ALEXANDER Hoon, JoHN CROOKS, and JOHN
MILLER, Smgeons, and Dr ROBERT WALKER, Kilmarnock.
'l:he B.ight Hon. Loan GLENELG.
MY Loa», K;11.11411.:Noca:, 16th Maf'IJh 1836.
Oua attention having ~n dll:ected to Si,.- G.
S. Mackenzie's communication to your Lordship, respect.
fog the applicability of Phreno)()gy to the dililCrimination1of
the character of convicts transported to.the Bri~h Cofonies,
we,. whose namelil are subscribed, beg, with all ,11ubmissiQn,
to offer our united and .unqualified testimony in corrobora.
tion of his opinion.
..We are led to do so, .my Lord, from a decided convic-
tion,_ that Phrenology is the true.. science of the .mind--that
the natural ·dispositions are so accurateJy ind.icated by the
form and size of the• brain, as to render it perfectly practi-
cable, for properly qdalmed persons to distinguish, by ex-
amination of the head, individuals pos11ei11iing such as are
dangerous to the peace and saft'lty of socirty, from those
who are differently constituted'; and farther,. that the bring-
ing the doctrines of Phrenology to bear, ~wt..only upon the
matter in question, but our social institutions in general,-
upon education, and other means of prei•enting crime, as
well as upon the punishment of it, .and thE: proper disposal
of the perpetrators,-would, besides itsbeing an important
advance in philosophy, be attended with great practkal
advaptage to the community.
I
·'-~
Digitized by Google
---~-----~---~-~-~---- · ·----
CLA!l!lll"ICATION 01" CRIMINAL&. 1
With the highest esteem for your Lordship's public and
private character, we have the honour to be, My Lord,
your Lordship's obedient humble servants,
ALEX. HOOD, Swpon.
JOHN CROOKS, Surgeon.
,JOHN MII,LER, Surgeon.
ROBERT WALKER, M. D.
VI. From RoBERT FERGUSON, Esq. M. P. for Haddington-
shire.
To Gi:oaoE Coxaz, Esq. 1'~dinburgb.
MY DEAR SIR,
18. PoaTJI~ SQv._,
17th March 1836.
I HAVE no hesitatic:m. in declaring it as my be-
lief, that the science of Phrenology enables those who have
made themselves masterofit, to decide on any prominent and
marked mental faculty or propensity of an individual. And,
in more directly answering your circular, I think it would be
attended with the greatest advantage to society, ifthe heads
of such convicts who have been guilty of the crimes of mur-
der and such atrocious acts, should be examined. .
For it is certain, and am be proved from innumerable ex-
amples, that such an investigation, by practical persons,
could easily pronounce whether they were likely to be in-
curable in their propensities, or whether other dispositions
in their intellectual constitution might, if properly culti-
vated, restore them to the rank of respectable citizens,
The first should be prevented from having any inter-
course with society, or hope of future freedom whatever.
I see many difficulties yet in having a Board for this im-
portant investigation ; but means might be fallen upon to
be enabled to come to such conclusions as might guide to
Digitized by Google
8 PHRENOLOGY APPLl.lilb TO THE
the necessary character of the punishment, for the future
.Saf'.ety of society.
I remain very truly yours,
ROBT. PF.RGUSON.
VII. From JoHN FIFE, Esq., one of his Majesty's Justices of the
Peace for the Borough of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Member
of the Royal College of Surgeons of London, Member of
the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Manchester, and of the
Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh, Lecturer on Surgery
in the Newcastle School of Medicine, &c. &c. &c.
To the Right Honourable Lord GLENELo,
Secretary for the Colonies.
·Mv Loan,
NEWCASTLE·UPON·TYNE,
M twtiA 19. 11138.
Having received a communication from· Mr
Combe, at the :request of Sir George S. Mackenzie, Bart.,
stating your Lordship's disinclination to select convicts for
New South Wales by phrenological signs, and requesting
· me to express my opinion upon the proposal, a.cCompanying
the •statement of such opinion by an account of my claims
to moral influence and to some share of your Lordship's
attention, I hereby assert my conviction ·that the natural
.dispositions are indicated by the form and size:of.the brain,
to such an extent as to renderit quite possible, during life,
to distinguish men of desperate and dangerous tendencies
from those of good dispositions.
With reference to my position as a professional man, I
beg to refer your Lordship to the representatives in Par-
liament of this town or of the adjacent counties.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your most obedient
·servant,
JOHN ,J<'H'E.
Digitized by Google
CLASSIFICATION OF CRIJIINAL8. 9
VIII. From Dr W. C. ENGLEDUE, late President of the Royal
Medical Society of Edinburgh, and Secretary to the Phre~
nological Society of Portsmouth.
To the Right Honourable Lord GLEXBLa,
Secretary for the Colonies, &c. ltc. &c.
MY LoRD,
POB.TBHOtJTH, 24 S.urDPOB.T TEJLLf.CE,
March 23. 1836.
Having been requested to state to your Lord-
ship my opinion regarding the subject of Sir George M~
kenzie's communication, I do so with considerable pleasure,
being convinced both of its benefit and applicability. On
the latter point I can speak with some degree of certainty,
having numerous opportunities of testing the truth and ap-
plication of the science in that division of the Convict Esta-
blishment situated at Portsmouth. It would be impossible,
in the present instance, either to enter into minutire or
bring forward proofs; but I can assure your Lordship
that, as far as my experience extends, I unhesitatingly as-
sert, that phrenologists can detect and choose from a body
of criminals those of decidedly bad character, whom it
would be almost impossible to retrieve, and those who, per-
haps for some trivial offence, are doomed to associate with
the former, and who could not only be retrieved, but, by
care and better example, become valuable members of SO-
ciety.
This is a fact which has almost entirely escaped the ob-
servation of those legislating upon this important subject.
Convicts are now almost indiscriminately embarked for the
Colonies, without any regard to natural dispositions, or the
effects which examples produce. They are huddled to·
Digitized by Google
10 PHRENOLOGY APPLIED '.1'0 '.l'HE
gether, good, bad, and indifferent; and, after disembarka-
tion, portioned out to the settlers, too often, as in~nt~
vertible evidence proves, to have recourse to, if not exceed,
their former depredations.
Viewing these Colonies as young communities, where it
is desirable to assemble individuals of the best 'character, it
cannot be right to inundate them with the worst of beings
-those which a country protected by the justice and vigour.
of its laws found it impossible to control.
I could enlarge upon the ulterior effects likely to ensue
upon a continuation of the present syi;:tem, but th~ limits
of a certificate forbid it.
After the preceding, I need hardly repeat that Sir G.
Mackenzie's Memorial meets with my most cordial appro;
bation ; and feeling assured that your Lordship will bestow
on it your serious consideration,
I have the honour to remain your Lordship's most obe..
dient servarit,
(Signed) W. C. ENGLEDUE, M. D.
IX. From Dr JAMES INGLIS, M. R. C. S. E., and Soc. Ed.
Med. Reg. Soc. Ed. ; SAMUEL M'KEuB, Esq. Surgeon, Castle
Douglas; the Rev. W1LLIAM GLOVER, A. M. Minister ofCross-
.michael ; D(JoHN COLVIN, Bengal Establishment, M. R. C. S.
· Lond. and Mem. Med. and Phys. Soc. Calcutta.
'l'o the Right Honourable Lord GLENELG,
Secretary for the Colonies.
CASTLE DouaL.u, K1a1tcui>Ba1ou1·,
MY Loan, March 22. 1886.
IF to the truth of Phrenology as a science based
on observation, and home out by facts, our testimony can
be of any use, either regarding its propagation, or, through
Digitized by Google
CLA88JJl'ICATIO• OP CBlltJNALS. 11
it, the :furtnerance of die •common good of·-Plrind;· and
the lesseningof human· crime.and ·mieery,··we uahelitating.
ly give it u our.opinion, that the~af:the minci.u
it exist• in this world, t.o:CIUJse acti- eitlmr virtuous or vi-
·cious, can he disecwered· by the- cranial ·deftJapment-4Dd
that.whilst this hold1 in ever11 case, it does so with much
more e'OiJe7at certainty·in ·the·man of a desperate and dan-
gerous character,-who, uneducetled and. unrestmined, has
allowed for a length ·of time the·· lower feelings to reign
over the higher faculties of his mind. Believing this, we
eonsider that Sir George Mackenzie'• proposition regard-
ing the practical application of Phrenology in diacriminat-
ing the natural dispositions of convicts, may become of the
highest possible advantage to ·the. proprietors and cultiva..
tors in the Australian colonies.
We have the honour t.o he, My LORD, your obedient
1ervants.
.JAMES INGLIS,
SAl\IL. McKEUR,
WILUAM GLOVEU,
JOHN COLVIN.
X. From 8. HARE, Eeq. Proprietor end•Medieal Attendant ofthe
Retreat for the Insane in Leeds.
To the Right Honourable Lord GLEXELG.
Secretary for the Culoniel.
My LORD, LEEDS, 23d Morvh l88fl.
HAVING received a communication to the purport
that Sir G. S. Mackenzie has lately presented a memorial to
your Lordship, representing that " Phrenology might be
Digitized by Google
l~ PHRENOLOGY APPLIED TO THE
beneficially applied in discriminating the natural disposi-
tions of convicts, before being chosen for transportation,"
and requesting my opinion on the subject; I gladly avail
myself of the opportunity of stating to your Lordship, that
I have repeatedly ascertained the characters of individuals
through the medium of the principles of Phrenology, and
believe that very great advantages will result to the nation,
from a proper application of those principles in the classi-
fication of· convicts, and the improvement of prison.dis-
cipline generally.
Having occasion to employ a number of servants, I beg
to be permitted to state, that I prefer choosing them by
their temperaments and phrenological developments, to
taking them on the characters given with them.
Ardently hoping that these views will ere long be made
available, as regards the enactment of laws for the preven-
tion and punishment of crime, both in our own and other
countries, I have the honour to subscribe myself, my Lord,
your Lordship's most obedient servant,
S. HARE.
XI. From Dr JAMES STEWART (A), Surgeon, Royal Navy, and
Physician Extraordinary to His Royal Highness the Duke
of SussEx. ·
The Right Honourable I...ord GLENELG, &c. &.c.
MY LoRn, PoaTSMOUTe, 22d March 1836.
FoR some years past I have paid much attention
to the science of Phrenology, and I am firmly of opinion
that the natural dispositions are indicated by the form and
•
CLA881PICATJON OF CRIJllNALB.
size of the brain, to such an extent as to render it quite
possible, during life, to distinguish men of desperate and
dangerous tendencies from those of good dispositions.
JAS. STEWART, M.D.
XII. From Dr JAMES ScoTT, LL. B., Surgeon and Lecturer to
the Royal Hospital at llaslar; Licentiate of the Royal College
of Physicians of London ; Surgeon and Medical Superintend-
ent of the Royal Naval Lunatic Asylum; President of the
Hampshire Phrenological Society, &c. &c.
The Right Honourable Lord GLEWELa,
Principal Secretary or State for His
Majesty's Colonial Department, &c.
&c. &c.
RoYAL Ho1PJTAL AT HuL.ut,
MY LoBD, 22d Marcia 1836.
I HAVE just received a circular letter from Mr
Combe of Edinburgh, in consequence of a communication
made to your Lordship by Sir George Mackenzie respect-
ing the allotment of convict servants to settlers in Van Die-
men's Land, in which communication Sir George recom-
mended to your Lordship that convicts should be phren0-
logically examined previously to their being sent out of this
country ; and, as it appears that your Lordship does. not
believe in the truth of Phrenology, Mr Combe is desirous
of laying before you as many certificates as he can procure
from medical men regarding their opinion of the science,
requesting me to state in what estimation I hold it.
I therefore beg to say, that, after having for many years
viewed it unfavourably by the false light of prejudice, chief-
ly from having read a D)ost illogical and witty, but viru-
lent, attack on the system, published in the Edinburgh
Digitized by Google
14 PBRENOLOOY· Anl!JJl>P:TO TB£
Beriewrnmr well known·uthe production-of the.late Dr
John ·Go.do~ wlJo,·auailed·it aoonytnou8'Y' ·with all -the
ahafts of ridioule,·my atltent.ionrWll& powerfully arlllHltftl by
attending:a:course of lectures on the subject by the late
amiable and highly gifted Dr Spurzheim, at Paris, and by
another course of Lectures delivered by Mr Combe, in
Edinburgh ; and after some more years spent in careful
study and .observation,. I ·beicame- a sineete"eotl\tert to the
dootrineivof·Gall aml Spurzheim; •
I beg· to assure·your'Lordship that my conversion is the
result of an honest and careful" examination ; and as l have
been for nearly ten years the medical attendant of the Lu-
natic Asylum in this great Hospital, my-opporttmities;-.at
least, of observing have been great -indeed;· and a daily
intercourse with the unfortunate individuals entrusted to
my care and. numager,neot (whose number has never been
less than one- hundred and thirty persons, and ·often many
more), has ·nrmly,. because experimentully; convinced me
that memal ·disol'der and m01'al delinquency ean :be ration-
ally combated only by the application of Phrenology ; ·and
that the man whotreats them on any ather·eystem wilhnueh
oftener be diisappointed, than he who studies the manifesta-
tions of mind, and traces effects to their secontiary caUllfl8,
by the almost infallible beacon of Phrenology. ·
On this subject I could ·add much~ but, at present,11
have rather to apologize to your Lordship for•·having"so
long occupied your truly valuable time:
I have not yet published any thing, except an' lnaugut11l
Dissertation on Pneumonia,. and wme medical ·anti surgical
cases in various periodical·joumalS"-'-whkh• 1~ mentidl\ tmly
in compliance with it. request made in Mr -0<nfBEY8 cireular
abo,·e referred to ; but I have a wtaM of factw 11nd ooserva-
tions henring upon practMal J>Ointfl.·
oigi1i:~ byGoogte -
ClLAHil'ICATION'OF CRillINALB.
Permit me, my Lord, to conclude, by asauring your
Lordship, that, viewing you as a statesman whOBe acknow~
ledged political talents and consistency shed an additional
lustre over those virt'!les by which you are distinguished in
private life, I have the honour to be, with profound re-
spect, your Lordship's most obedient humble servant,
JAMES SCOTT.
XIII. From HEWETT COTTRELL WATSON, Esq. F. L. S., late Pre-
sident of the Royal Medical Society of Edinburgh ; Author
of the " Geography of British Plants," and other works.
To the Right Hon. Lord GLENELG,
Secretary for the Colonies.
TBAM•B D1TT01', Str•UT,
My Loan, March 18. 1836.
AT the request of Sir George Mackenzie, I have
the honour to offer to your Lordship my humble testimony
in support of the science of Phrenology ; being convinced,
after several years of careful attention to the subject, that
it is quite possible to determine the dispositions of men by
-an inspection of their heads, with so much precision as to
render a knowledge of Phrenology of the utmost import-
ance to persons whose duties involve the care and manage-
ment of criminals.
I have the honour to subscribe myself, your Lordship's
most obedient and humble servant,
HEWETT COTTRELL WATSON.
Digitized by Google
16 PHRRNOJ,OGY .t.PPJ.JED TO 'J'llR
XIV. From Sir WILLIAM C. ELLIS, M. D. Su~rintendentofthe
Lunatic Asylum for the County of Middlesex, at Hanwell.
To the Right Hon. Lord Gu:inr.o,
Secretary for the Colonies. LUNATIC ASYLUM !"OB. THE
COUNTY or MIDDLEB'EX,
Mv LORD, 19th March 1836.
I Aiw requested by Mr George Combe to address
a letter to your Lordship on the utility of Phrenology. I
cannot for one moment hesitate to comply with his request,
and to give my strongest testimonial that, after many years'
experience, I am fully convinced the dispositions of man are
indicated by the form and size of the brain, and to such an
extent as to render it quite possible to distinguish men of
desperate and dangerous tendencies from those of good dis-
positions. I have been the resident physician in this esta-
blishment, where we have upwards of six hundred patients,
for five years, and for thirteen years previous held a similar
situation in Yorkshire, where we had two hundred. and
fifty. If it was necessary, I could mention a great variety
of cases in the treatment of which I have found the little
knowledge I possess of this interesting science of the· great-
est utility; and I am fully persuaded that when it is more
known, and acted upon, very great advantages will result to
society. I have the honour to be, My Lord;your Lord-
ship's very obedient and humble servant,
W x. C.. ELLIS.
Nute by Sir W. C. Ellis to Mr Combe.-" Sir William
is quite convinced that it is unuecessary for him to inform
Mr Combe himself, that, residing amidst 600 lunatics, no
day passes over in which the truth of Phrenology i~ not ex-
emplified.''
Digitized by Google
CJ,ASSIFJOATION OP CIUMJNA.Lll. 17
I t . '
XV. From Dr D1sNEY ALEXAND~R, late one of the Phyai-
ci&na to the Wakefield Dispensary and the Pauper Lunatic
Asylum, Lecturer on Phrenology, Author of an Essay on the
best Means of preserving Health, .of a Treatise on the Croup,
and of Lecturea on the Internal Evidences of Christianity.
I.UPSET COTTAGE, WAJtEl'IELD,
March 20. 1836.
I hereby certify, that I consider it as proved be-
yond all reasonable contradiction, that " the natural dis-
positions are indicated by the form and size of the brain, to
such an ex.tent as t.o render it quite possible, during life, to
distinguish men of desperate and dangerous tendencies from
those of good dispositions;" and that Phrenology might be
beneficially applied in discriminating the natural disposi-
tions of convicts, before their being chosen for transporta-
tion.
DISNEY ALEXANDER, M. D.
XVI. From GEORGE MARTELL, Esq. Member of the College of
Surgeons, London, Surgeon to the Jail of Portsmouth, and
Senior Surgeon to the Dispensary, &c. &c.
To the Right Hon. Lord GLElllELG,
Secretary for the Colonies, &c. &c. &c.
MY Loan, PoB.TS.MOUTB, Marola 2,. 1836.
Having had frequent opportunities of seeing
the examination of individuals phrenologically, I am of
opinion that their dispositions may be fully known by ex-
ternal configuration, size, &c ; and that such examinations
would greatly facilitate the classification of prisoners.
I remain, your Lordship's most obedient servant,
GEO,aGE MARTELL
B
- --~-~ ·- -·~...._
.....~__.-..
-c;;i,.,,..iiii•i.=:::
o
::::
;9
;::
;1;z
;;:;
e;;;;
d b
:.
y.;;
\..:i
..-
O
~o
;;;;;;;i
g
~t
~
e
...
• 18 PBBENOLOGV .APPLIED TO TBE
XVII. From J4MBB SIMPSON, Esq. Advocate, City ASBeBBOr of
Edin~ sod Author of" Necessity of Popular Education
as a National Object."
Tbe Right Hon. Lord Gr.11xno.
MT Loan, E111••vaoa, 21itA Maroh 1836.
Referring to the experiment on phrenological
principles proposed by Sir George Mackenzie, for ascertain-
ing the distinctive characters of a number of convicts, I
respectfully beg to offer to your Lordship my humble opi-
nion, founded on fifteen years' experience, that the test will
be entirely satisfactory, and shew that character may be as-
certained from cerebral development, as indicated externally
on the head.
I have the honour to be. my Lord, your obedient
servant,
JAMES SIMPSON.
XVIII. From HENRY WITHAM, ~sq. of Lartington, Yorkshire,
Member of the Geological Society of London, and Royal So-
ciety of Edinburgh, &c. &c.; and Author of a Work on " The
Internal Structure of Fossil Veget.ables."
Tbe Right Hon. Lord GnnLO.
Mv Loan, l.&aT1110To1r, Co. YollE, 27tA MtM'tlh 1836.
With reference to Sir Geo. Mackenzie's sug-
gestion, that the heads of convicts should be examined,
with a view to ascertaining their natural dispositions before
transporting them to New South Wales, I beg leave to cer-
tify, that, from having studied the science of Phrenology
during several years of my residence in Edinburgh, I am
convinced of the practicability of accomplishing, by means
of Phrenology, the object in view. The differences in point
Digitized by Google
•
CLA881J'IC.ATIOM OF CRIMIMAl,,8. 19.
of:fomrbeiween the-brains of men of naturally good and
men of naturally bad dispositions, are so palpable, even
during life, that a moderate share of attention is sufficient
to disc;over them.
I have the honor to be, my Lord, your obedient humble
servant,
HENRY THORNTON MAIRE WITHAM.
XIX. From Dr FRANCIS FARQUHARSON, Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Edinburgh, and Vice-President of the
Phrenological Society. ·
The Right Bon. Lord GLENJ:LG.
MY Loa». E»nrnuJ1.Gs, 28th Mlff'flA 11131.
In consequence of a communication from Sir G.
~. Ml!-Ckenzie, Bart., regarding the phrenological experi-
1I1ent proposed by him in a memorial to your Lordship, I
beg to state my firm conviction. that it would completely
answer the object in view. This belief does not rest upon
theoretical grounds, but is the result of an extensive expe-
rience during the last ten or twelve years.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your faithful and
obedient servant,
FRAs. ~'ARQUBARSON, M. D.
XX. From Dr S. E. HIRSCHFELD, Bremen.
To the Right Hon. Lord GLENELG, &c. &c.
BREMEN, 22d Marola 1113&
I hereby certify, that I consider it practicable to dis-
tinguish between men of desperately bad dispositions, and
men of good di11positions, by examining their heads dur-
ing life ; and that such knowledge may be 11uccessf'ully em.
Digitized by Google
20 PBRlllNOLOGY APPLIED TO TRK
ployed io discriminating dangerous criminals from those
who are not destructive or blood-thirsty.
I state this opinion from my own experience.
S. En. HIRSCHFELD, M. D.
XXI. From the SURGEONS to the NEWCASTLE INPIRMABY, and
Fifteen other Gentlemen of that Town.
To ihe Right Hon. Lord GLE•ELG,
Secretary for ~e Colonies.
NEWCAITLE-cnr-TYlrB, 174 March 1838.
WE the undersigned take the liberty of ad-
dressing this communication to your Lordship, for the pur-
pose of explaining that we are of opinion that the .natural
dispositions are indicated by the form and size of the brain,
tb such•an extent as to render it possible, during life, to
distinguish ·men of desperate and dangerous tendencies from
those of ordinary dispositions : That if this opinion be cor-
rect, it woulcl be highly beneficial to use this means of dis-
criminating the natural dispositions of convicts sent out to
t~e colonies, and many of whom are let to the cultivators
as servants: That with the view of ascertaining the possi-
bility of employing these means with advantage, it would
be very desirable that a given number of convicts of marked
characters be selected, and their dispositions put down in
writing by the governor and chaplain of one or two of the
public penitentiaries or prisons; that their heads be sub:-
mi~ted to the inspection of two or three experienced Phre-
n_ologists, ·who should write down inferences concerning their
m~ntal qualities; and that, in presence of competentjudges,
th~ two· written accoutlts should be compared' That if the
res~lt should be found to accord .with the opinion "'e have
Digitized by Google
CLll81Jl'IO.lTION OJI' OBIMIN,Udl, 91
taken the liberty of laying before your Lordship, we con-
ceive a valuable service might be conferred on the colonists,
by paying attention to this means of regulating the eelec-
tion of servants.
JORN BAIRD, Senior Swpon to tbe Newc:utle
Infirmary.
T. M. GREENROW, Surgeon to the Newcutle
Infirmary, &c.
W11. HUTTON, F. G. S., Member of the Geolo-
gical Society of France, &c. &c., and Sec:retuy
of the Natural History Society of Northumber-
land, Durham, and Ne1rcutle-on-Tyne.
JNo. BUDDLE, V. P. of the Natural History So-
ciety of Newcastle.upon-Tyne, F. G. S., &c.
ROBT. Wx. SWAN.
~. CARGILL, M. D.
WILLIAM MORRISON, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons of London, &c.
ANTHY. NICHOL
WILLI.AM NEIHAM, Member of the Royal
College of Surgeons, London, of the Royal '.Me-
dical Society, Edinburgh, &c. &c. &c.
JOHN THOMSON, C.M., Member of the Uni-
vendty of GIMsow.
D. MACKINTOSH, Suraeon to the Ne1rcutle
Lunatic Asylum, &c.
J. C. BRUCE, A. M.
ROBERT CURRIE.
JOHN FENWICK, Alderman of Newcutle-upon.
Tyne.
R. B. BOWMAN.
M. H. RANKIN, Solicitor, Newcutle, Author of
" Present State of Representation in Englan<l
and Wales."
Wx. CARGILL.
PBBBNOLOGY .APPLIED TO TBS
XXII. From W. A. F. BaowNB, Esq. Medical Superintendent
of Montrose Lunatic Asylum.
MoJl'TROBE, Man:h 16. 1836.
I hereby certify, on soul and conscience, that I
have 'be'en·acquainted with the principles of Phrenology for
upwards of ten years ; that from proofs based upon physio-
logy and ob~'rvatio~, I believe these to be a true exposition
of the laws and phenomena of the human mind ; that du-
ring the whole of the period mentioned I have acted on these
principles~ applied them practically in the ordinary con-
cerns of life, in determining and analyzing the characters of
all individuals with whom I became acquainted or connected,
and that I have derived the greatest benefit from the assist-
ance thus obtained. But although the utility of the science
be most apparent in the discrimination of the good from the
bad, those of virtuous and intellectual capabilities from the
brutal and imbecile, it is not confined to this. In the ex-
ercise of my profession, I have been enabled, by the aid of
Phrenology, to be of essential service in directing the edu-
cation of the young as a protection against nervous disease,
and in removing or alleviating the various forms assumed
by insanity in the mature. For several years I have de-
voted myself to the study Of mental diseases, and the care
of the insane. During my stu~ies at Salpetriere, Charen-
ton, &c. in Paris, I was able to derive great additional in-
formation from my previous knowledge of Phrenology ; and
now that I have been entrusted with a large asylum, I am
inclined to attribute any little success that may have attend-
ed my efforts to ameliorate the condition of those confided
to my charge, to the same cause. I may add, that I was
converted from a confidence in the accuracy of the philoso-
phy of the schools to a belief in Phrenology ; that I did
Digitized by Google
t:L.H81PICATION OP CRllllNAIA.
not adopt its doctrines on the authority of my teachers, but
tested their truth by repeated experiment ; that I have
since taught them to large bodies of my countrymen, and
feel fully convinced that until they be recognised and act-
ed upon generally, no just conclusion can be drawn as to
human character, nor as to the administration of punish-
ments for the improvement or rewards for the encourage-
ment of mankind.
W. A. F. BROWNE, Surpon.
XXIII.-From Dr C. OTTO, Professor of Materia Medica and
Forensic Medicine in the University of Copenhagen; Phy-
sician to the Civil Penitentiary; Member of the Royal Board
of Health, the Royal MedicaJ Society at Copenhagen, and
thirteen other Medical Societies abroad; Editor ofthe Danish
medical journal" Bibliothek for Lieger," &c. &c.
To the Right Hon. Lord GLEJrEL&,
Secretary for the Colonies, &c. &c.
CoPEJrBAGE!I, March 26. 1836.
I hereby certify, that, from my own observation
and experience, I consider it quite possible to distinguish
men of strong animal propensities, who, when left uncon-
trolled by authority, or when excited by intoxication, would
be dangerous to society, from men of mild dispositions, by
examining their heads during life. I farther certify, that I
have practically applied this method of distinguishing the
natural dispositions of men, and found it uniformly suc-
-cessful.
C. OTTO, M. D.
Dr Otto adds, fo a letter to Mr Combe, inclosing the
above~-" As physician to the penitentiary, nobody can be
Digitized by Google
PBRBNOLOGY .APPLIBD :'l'-0 'l'.llB'
more convinced than I of the truth of. the certificate. · lri
fat:it I reap the greateiJt advantage from Phrenology in treat-
in_g the criminals in my hospital, as I vary my moral treat-
ment- of thetn according to the form of their head!!--some
~mes necessarily requiring severity, others mildness; and I
have often. without any failure, told the inspector before-
hand which criminal was to be considered as dangerous, and
which one might be trusted as quiet and benevolent. The
examination of the organs of Secretiveness and Conscien-
tiousness aids me extremely much in detecting simulations
of diseases."
XXIV. From the Honourable DOUGLAS GORDON ll.u.YBURTON,
M. P. for Forfarshire, to George Combe, Esq.
Mv DEAR Srn, LONDON, March 26. 1836.
You will, I know, excuse my not having, four or
five days ago, sent an acknowledgment of the favour of
your letter of the 14th instant, covering a copy of your
printed circular of the 10th, en the subject of Sir George
Mackenzie's communications to Lord Glenelg respecting
.Australian ccmvicts, and his Lordship's remarks on the
same.
I am afraid that, in asking my testimony on this phreno-
logical question, yourself and Sir George attribute an im-
portance to it, which it can scarcely deserve, as adding sen-
sibly to the weight of phrenological authority, of which
your circular must long since have put you in posses-
sion. However, if the attention which I have given to this
most important and interesting science, during a period now
of twenty years-the personal acquaintance I bad with Drs
Gall and Spurzheim on the Continent-the friendship with .
Digitized by Google
~------ - - - -
CLA88JP.JCATION OF CBIXINAJ.11,
which our latter departed fri~nd was pleased to honour Ille
--and my having let slip no opportunity, whether in Paris;
London, Edinburgh, or Glasg0w, to derive pleasure and
instruction from his writings, lectures, and private conver-
sation-and, lastly, let me add with no intention whatever
to flatter, the instruction and improvement I have derived
from your own writings, lectures, and conversation, com-
bined with those of your brother Dr Andrew Combe-it'
these circumstances, all well known to you, should lead
yourself or Sir George Mackenzie to believe that my au-
thority upon this subject ought at least to carry some weight
with it, then my testimony, such as it may be, Is entirely
at your service.
The point, I think, in your circular letter, upon which
you desire the opinion of competent judges is this,-" Whe:.
ther the natural dispositiomi are indicated by the form and
size of the brain, to such an extent as to render it quite
.possible, during life, to distinguish men· of desperate and
dangerous tendencies from those of good dispositions."
Before I give my answer to thi~ question, allow me, dear
Sir, to prefix a few remarks. It is well known, I am sure,
to us, that the skill of the well-instructed and practiatd
phrenologist, might safely be put to a much more severe
test than. any that is implied in the above question. In-
stead of taking the e:rtremea of'humari character, he might
be required to read and to discriminate amongst that inter-
mediate class which makes up the great bulk of mankind
in civilized life ; where the qualities of the animal man
and'the moral and religioua man are mixed up together, in
all sorts of proportions,-the combination in nineteen cases
out of twenty in civilized life, (and in various groilea of
society), being such as to give rise to those apparent con-
tradictions in men's characters, which are perpetually ob.;
Digitized by Google
PBRBNOL09Y APPLIBD TO TJIB
truding themaelves Upon every one's notice; 110 that it is no
exaggeration to aay, that the great _. of aoclety whom
one meets at every tum, including all ranka, spend their
whole lives in a sort of rotation (palpable or more covert)
of llinning and repenting-now obeying all or any of their
propensities-the animal man,-now listening to-checked
-Me>ught up, by their moral and religious nature. We
know bow all this can be most satisfactorily explained by
the demonstrated truths and doctrines of Phrenology. But
in truth, they are the same phenomena which are pointed
at by moral and religious writers and preachers (the latter
too often in language unnecesaarily quaint, and a misplaced
lldoption of Scriptural terms), when they talk of men
" walking after the flesh, or after the spirit,"-that " the
nalt1ral man cannot please God," &c. &c. &c. AU this, I
take it, merely means that the lower part of man's nature,
the animal (which God and religion intended, and I doubt
not have provided for the· ultimate fulfilment of the inten-
tion); should serve and obey the higher, the moral and spi-
ritual part,-takes the leAd, and, instead of 88'f"Oing, pre-
sumes to dictate and domineer; thus producing all the con-
fusion, and much of the misery, ofa true servile war. Now,
I would ask you the question, Can the skilful phrenologist,
in such mia:ed cases as I have described, point out, from an
inspection of the brain, as indicated by the exterior head,
the character of the individual ? I think you will answer
that he can; At least he can enumerate the.forces which
are enlisted on either side, though, being no charlatan, and
not pretending that be is a prophet, he will not venture to
predict what specific actioo, or course ef action for a time,
will result, under ~rtain ·circumstances, from the anta~
nist motives which .the man carriea within him. In illu~
tration of what I have hurriedly above been intending to·
Digitized by Google
C.,.ltllPICATION 01" CBllllNALll.
say, I would ask you again, whether there are not llCOrU of
examples in all the phreno'logical c,apilala of Europe, where
(let us take one example) parents have hesitatingly, trem:.
blingly, half believing, half afraid, taken· their children to
be examined (for their characters; &c. &c. &c.) by the moat
reputed phrenologist they could hear of,-submitting the
heads of the little creatures to the eyes and fingers-the
wand of the conjurer. If he be really an expert and well-
ill&tructed COJ!jurer, he immediately detects the general out-
lines of the children's (not infants') characters. But he
goes much farther than this,-he examines and r»eigka, he
balances the forces of the different qualities, intellectual,
moral and animal ; and in almost every instance (supposing
him always to be a good conjurer), he fairly and fully de-
lineates the character. So the poor parents stand agluut;
propensities, sentiments, passions, virtues and vices, which
they vainly imagined could be known only to themselves,
or the immediate inmates of the house or the nursery, are
brought to the surface, under the wicked scrutiny of the
phrenological doctor. The sequel of this proceeding very
commonly is, that he is consulted by the anxious parents
respecting the education, the general management, and ul-
timately the choice of prefealWna, for the several children ;
and undoubtedly it would be well for the family, if the
counsels of a really judicious phrenological adviser, regard-
ing the above mentioned points, were attended to and acted
~pon. If the statements I have been making, and the opi-
nion I have given respecting those classes (far removed
from the two e:ctremea), which make up the great mass of
human society, be true, there can be no doubt how I must
answer the query transcribed above from your circular let-
ter. .I consider it as proved to demonstration, that " the
natural dispositions are indicated by the form and size of
Digitized by Google
PHRJINOLOGY APPLIBD TO TBB
the brain to such an extent, as .to render it quite possible
during life, to distinguish men of desperate and dangerous
tendencies from those of good dispositions."
I Miall conclude this letter with a few observations, na.-
turally arising out of the subject. We know that phreno-
logical knowledge and skill, have in very many instances
been rendered most useful in the business of education, as
respects both private families and public schools, where
happily the masters or directors could avail themselves of
such assist.ances, in conducting the moral and the intell~
tual discipline of the pupils. We know further, that me-
dical science and art have been much indebted to Phreno-
logy, in the case more especially of several institutions for
the reception and treatment of patients labouring under
various forms and degrees of mental alienation, Of the
latter, the instances of .the Laucastrian Asylum, and that
for the reception of paupers of the County of Middlesex,
near the metropolis, at present occur to me, and I believe
there are many similar examples both in England and Scot-
land. Can it be doubted, then, that Phrenology is capable
of furnishing resources of equal magnitude, and to an ex-
tent not easily appreciated, in the classification and the
discipline of those unhappy persons, whose crimes, in vari-
ous degrees, have brought them under the dominion of cri-
minal jurisprudence?
I might, my dear Sir, have answered your letter much
more laconically than I have done, and possibly an apology
is due from me, for having been too diffuae; but the sub-
ject is one in which I take a great interest, and I trust I
shall be forgiven.
l remain, with much respect, yours faithfully,
D. G. HALLYBURTON, M. P.
·Digitized by Lioog[e
_._..
CLA881FIC.l'l.'ION OP CRIMINALS.
XXV. From Dr PATRICK NBILL, F.R.S. E. & F. L. S. London.
Right Hon. Lord GLENZLG.
CAJrOJfHILLI COTTAGE,
MY LoRn, Sin Mat'OA 1836.
IN consequence of a suggestion by Sir George
Mackenzie, I beg leave to mention to your Lordship, that
even before the first visit of Dr Spurzheim to Edinburgh,
I was satisfied. that the leading doctrines of Gall were
founded in truth, because the conviction was forced upon
me by my own observations made before that visit: I mean
that certain convolutions or portions of the brain are pecu-
liarly the organs of certain faculties and propensities; that
size is generally indicative of vigour; and that, in many
cases, the relative size of the organs can be distinguished
by external examination.
Knowing the powerful influence of surrounding society
in encouraging or restraining, I have never given an opi-
nion as to the probable actions of an educated. individual,
and indeed have uniformly declined examining heads among
my friends, even when pressed to do so. But I have, on
various occasions, been influenced by my private observa-
tions of development, and can most conscientiously say that
I have constantly seen JDore and more reason to trust, with
confidence, to such observations. My abstaining from any
public practice of Phrenology ought not, therefore, to lessen
the weight of my testimony.
The organs of some faculties and propensities are much
more easily recognised externally than those ofothers; and
when they are strongly marked, no Phrenologist (I would
say no one who has ever attended to the subject, although no
adept), call possibly be mistaken in ·drawing useful conclu-
si<>ns. In the case of convicts ordered for transportation,
for example, he could undoubtedly point out the probably
Digitized by Google
30 P.ffRRNOJ.OGY APPJ,IRD TO TBR
treacherous and the pr~~bly mischievous ;-so that, du-
ring the voyage, these might be more strictly guarded,
and separated as much as possible from those who were
likely to prove -00nscientious and benevolent ; and, on ar-
rival at their place of destination, that the former might be
kept at work under public surveillance, and only the latter
hired out to settlers.
To shew that I ought not to be entirely unqualified for
giving an opinion, your Lordship will excuse me for men-
tioning that in my youth I studied for three years With a
view to the medical profession ; that I attended especially to
Anatomy, and saw the human brain diasected by Monro
Becundus, and developed by Spur.zheim (for the latter
scarcely used the scalpel); that I have for upwards of
twenty years been Secretary to the W erneriao Natural
History Society ; and that I have, all my life, been attached
to the study of natural history.
I am, my Lord, your Lordship's very obedient servant,
PAT. NEILL.
XXVI. From Dr JOHN ELLIOTSON, F. R. s., President or' the
Royal Medical and Chirurgical, and of the London Phreno-
logical Societies ; Professor of the Principles and Practice of
Medicine and of Clinical Medicine, and Dean of Faculty, in
the University of London; Senior Physician of the North
London Hospital; Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
of London ; formerly Physiciam to St Thomas's Hospital; and
President of the Royal Medical Society of Edinbµrgh, &c.
&c. &c.
Co•nu1T ST.&J:ET, Lo1moN,
To the Right Hon. I.ord GLB:HLG. .4pril 7. 1838.
Dr Et.LtoTSON presents his compliments to Lord
Glenelg, and begs to say, that, at the desire of Sir George
Digitized by Google
CLASSIFICATION OP ca1111NALll· Bl
Mackenzie, he takes the liberty of communicating to hi1
Lordship his thorough conviction of the truth of Phreno-
logy. He has not passed a day f~ the last twenty years,
without bestowing at leaet some thought upon it ; and the
vast number of facts which he has witnessed, without any
certain exception ~s to any of the chief points, convince
him that it is as real a science as Astronomy or Chemistry.
Nor does he know any branch of science more important, as
it is interwoven with morals, religion, government, edu~
tion, and in short with every thing that regards human or
brute nature.
)(XVII. From Dr JoaN ScoTT, Fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons, Edinburgh.
To Sir GEORGE MACJtEWZIE, Bart.
EDillJB11RGR,
31. NoRTR11XBEJU.AND STREET,
DEAR SIR GEORGE, IOIA April 1836.
HAVING been informed by Mr Combe of the
nature of your correspondence with Lord Gleoelg, relative
to the proposed experiment-as to a number of convicts to
be sent to New South Wales, I have much satisfaction in
stating my conviction of the very important advantages to
be derived from it, in shewing the practical usefulness of
the science of Phrenology ; of the truth of which I have
been fully satisfied, from the period in which I studied it
under Dr Spurzheim in Paris, fifteen years since.
With sincere hopes that Lord Glenelg may be induced to
accede to your benevolent wishes, I remain your obedient
servant,
JOHN SCOTT, M. D.
Digitized by Cbugft:
PHRKNOLOGVAPPr.t&D TO ·rRE
XXVIII. Froin JOSEPH 'VIMO~T,'M· D.,"of the FacUity of Paris;
Honorary Member of· the Phrenological Societies of Paris,
London, Edinburgh, Boston, &c. ·
To the Right Hon. Lord G-LENELG,
Secretary for the cOlonles.
MY Loan, PAllls, 30th March- 1836.
Sir G. S. Mackenzie, Bart., in applying to your Lord-
ship for permission to examine the heads of a number of
oonvicts, in order to appreciate their mental faculties, might
have dispensed with having recourse to the testimony of
foreign physiologists. In the case proposed by the hon-
ourable Baronet, the experiment cannot fail of being crown-
(!(} witb success, if made (as I do not doubt it ~ill·be), by
phrenologists deeply versed in the theory and practice of
Phrenology. The observations made by the fol!nder of the
science, Dr Gall, in the prisons of Berlin and Spandau,
those which have been repeated in all the civilized world,
to which I may add those which I have made in three of
the principal prisons of France, viz. Caen in Normandy,
Bicetre near Paris, and Melun twelve leagues from Paris,
have convinced me that it is not only possible to appreciate .
the relation existing between the volume of the head and
the energy of the mental faculties, but that one may still,
by their examination, be able to establish among the con-
victs several classes, the discrimination of which would be
very advantageous to society and for the convicts them-
selves. The work of Dr Gall, the Phrenological Journal
of Edinburgh, the large work which I have lately publiSh-
ed, finally, the phrenological museums, abound witb in~on­
testible facts proving that the mental faculties of men may
he appreciated in a healthy state by the examination of
Digitized by Google
...
CLASSIFICATION OF CRJ.lllINALS.
their heads. To deny the truth of those facts, is to put in
doubt the existence of the best. established phenomena.
I have, my Lord, the honour to be your humble servant,
J. VIMONT.
XXIX. From Dr W1LI.IAM GREGORY, F. R. S. E., Fellow of the
Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, Member and
formerly President of the Royal Medical Society, Cor-
responding Member of the Societe de Pharmacic and of the
Phrenological Society of Paris, and Secretary to the Phre-
nological Society of Edinburgh.
To the Right Honourable
Lortl GLENELG, &c. &c. &c.
MY Loao, En1NBuaoH, I Ith April i836.
Having been requested to state my opinion of
the proposition made to your Lordship by Sir G. S. Mac-
kenzie, Bart., in reference to a phrenological examination
of convicts about to be transported, with a view to their
classification according to their natural dispositions, so as
to avoid many inconveniences to which their masters in the
penal settlements are now liable, I beg to state to your
Lordship, that, for some years past, I have studied the
science of Phrenology, and have the firm conviction that, in
the hands of properly qualified observers, this sdence af-
fords the means of ascertaining with certainty the natural
dispositions and talents ofsuch individuals as possess heaJthy
brains.
My conviction is founded on a careful study of the works
of the most distinguished phrenologists, confirmed by the
repeated examination of several extensive collections, in
which are deposited the heads of very numerous criminals
of all shades of character. I have also had very freqtient
(;
Digitized by
34 PHRENOJ.OGY APPLIED TO THE
opportunities of witnessing the facility and certainty with
which character is discriminated by practised phrenologists
in the case of living persons. It would be superfluous to
point out the advantage of such a power, especially in the
case of convicts.
Your Lordship's official avocations have probably pre-
vented you from devoting your attention to the subject of
Phrenology ; but I may be permitted to express my belief
that your Lordship could not examine it carefully without
being satisfied of its importance to mankind, as being the
only consistent and practical philosophy of mind yet oft'ered
to the world.
And when those who have carefully studied Phrenology,
and become convinced of its truth, offer, as Sir G. S. :Mac-
kenzie has done, to put it to a practical test, which may be
highly advantageous, and cannot possibly be hurtful, it is
the duty of your Lordship, and of all those who have it in
their power to authorize the experiment, not to pasi- by or
neglect a proposition so important, merely for want of that
faith in the truth of Phrenology, which no one can reason-
ably expect to po8Se88, unless he hau made himselfacquaint-
ed with the science, and the evidence on which it is sup-
ported.
I have the honour to be, my I.ord, your Lordship's moet
obedient servant,
WILLIAM GREGORY. .
XXX. From Dr RoBERT HUNTER, Professor of Anatomy,
&c. in the Andersonian University, Glasgow.
To the Right Honourable Lord GLEllELG.
Mv Loao, GueGow, lltA ..4pril 11136.
AT the request of Mr Combe, I have taken the
liberty of addressing your Lordship on the subject of
Digitized by Google
CLASSIPICATION OP CRIMINALS. 35
Phrenology. For more than thirteen years I have paid
some attention to the subject, and I beg to state, that the
more deeply I investigate it, the more I am convinced in
the truth of the science. I have examined it in connection
with the anatomy of the brain, and find it beautifully to
harmonise. I have tested the truth of it on numerous in-
dividuals, whose characters it unfolded with accuracy and
prec1s1on. For the last ten years I have taught Phre-
nology publicly in connection with Anatomy and Physio-
logy, and have no hesitation in stating, that, in my opinion,
it is a science founded on truth, and capable of being applied
to many practical and useful purposes.
I have the honour to be, my I ..ord, your Lordship's very
obedient servant,
ROBERT HUNTER, M. D.
XXXI. From RoBERT MACNISH, Esq. Member ofthe Faculty ot'
Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow, and Author of" The
Philosophy of Sleep," &c.
To the Right Honourable Lord GLElll'J!LG.
Mv LoRD, GLuaow, 11th April 1886.
HAVING been applied to, by Sir GEORGE MACKEN·
zn:, to state my opinion with respect to the possibility of
detecting the characters of convicts by an examination of
their heads on Phrenological principles, I have no hesita-
tion in declaring my perfect conviction, that, in very many
cases, the dispositions of the11e individuals may, by such a
process, be discriminated with remarkable accuracy.
The form of head possessed by all dangerous and invete-
rate criminals is peculiar. There is an enormous mass of
brain behind the ear, and a comparatively small portion
c !'l
Digitized by Google
36 PHRENOLOGY APPLIED TO THE
in the frontal and coronal regions. Such a conformation
always characterizes the worst class of malefactors; and
wherever it exists we find an excessive tendency to crime.
This fact I have had ample opportunities of verifying ;
and, indeed, no person who compares criminal heads with
those of persons whose natural dispositions are towards vir-
tue, can entertain the slightest doubt upon the 1mbject.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most
obedient servant,
R. MACNISH.
XXXII. From RICHARD PooLE, M. D., Fellow and Joint Li-
brarian of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh ;
Author of various Articles in Periodical "Journals and the
Encyclopredia Edinensis,--as Language, Philology, Mathe-
matic,,, Mind, Philosophy, and Education, the last of which
has been republished separately.
Enurnuaou, 12th April 1836.
During several years, actively employed, I have found
the principles of l,hrenology available in very important
duties,-more especially in the treatment of Insanity, to
which, as a professional man, my attention has been greatly
directed; and I feel warranted, by loog study and observa-
tion, in maintaining the opinion, that it is practicable to
distinguish individuals having naturally very low and dan-
gerous characters, from others who are naturally well con-
~tituted and disposed,-by examining and comparing their
heads during life, according to the principles of Phreno-
logy.
RICH». POOLE.
-··-- G l ·----"
Digitized by 008 e
Cf,ASl!llFICATION OF CRiilINALS. 37
XXXIII. From CHARLES MACLAREN, Esq. Editor of the Scots-
man.
To the Right Honourable Lord Gu::n:La,
Secretary for the C'oloniee, &c.
EDINJIURGB, 9th April 11136.
IN reference to a correspondence between your
Lordship and Sir George Mackenzie, on the propriety of
subjecting convicts to a phrenological examination, I beg
leave to state, that I have paid some attention to Phreno-
l.Ogy during the last seven years-that I believe its princi-
ples to be substantially true, and am convinced that the na-
tural dispositions are indicated by the form and size of the
brain to such an extent as to render it quite possible, du-
ring life, to distinguish men of desperate and dangerous
tendencies from those of good dispositions.
Perhaps I may be allowed to add, that my first impre~
sions in favour of Phrenology were produced by the ex-
planation which its doctrines afford of the phenomena of
mind, and the relations of man to the external world-an
explanation more clear, consistent, and satisfactory, in my
opinion, than can be derived from any system of philoS<>-
phy now taught in this country.
I have the honour to be, my Lord, your Lordship's most
obedient servant,
CHARLES MACLAREN,
Editor ofthe Scotsman Newspaper.
Digitized by Google
as PHKKNOM>GY APPLIED TO THK
XXXIV. From WILLIAM WILDSMITH, Esq. Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London, and of the Council of the
Leeds PhilosophiCal and Literary Society; and Author of
" An Inquiry concerning the relative Connexion which 8\10·
sists between the Mind and the Brain."
To the Right Honourable l.ord GLEll'ELG.
MY Loan, LEED&, .April UI. 1836.
HAVING been informed that Sir G. S. Macken-
zie, Bart. has made proposals tor applying the tests afford-
ed by Phrenology for the discrimination of individual cha-
racter in convicts subject to transportation, with a view to
their better classification, I beg most sincerely to add my
humble testimony in approval of the plan suggested, with
the confident assurance that the result will prove highly
valuable to the parties most interested, and prove to the
entire satisfaction of any who may doubt it, the practical
application of Phrenology to the common affairs of life.
Nothing, I am c~nvinced, can be easier than the discrimi-
nation of the naturally and the casually vicious, by the aid
of Phrenology; and, in the case in question, I doubt not of
its complete success if a trial be permitted.
I have the honour to remain, your Lordship's most o~
dient servant,
W:tr. WILDSMITH.
Digitizeci £oogle
CLA88JJ'ICA.TJON OP CRlllJNAL& 99
XXXV. From Mr W1LLtAM BaEBNBR, Governor of the County
and City Bridewell, Glasgow.
To GEOllGE Co.KBE, Esq.
DKAR Sia,
COUNTY AND C1TY BRIDEWELL,
Glu,_, 18th ..fpril 1838.
AsouT two thousand persons pass through this
establishment yearly, and I have had the charge for up-
wards of twenty-five years. During that period, and long
before I heard any thing of Phrenology, I was often struck
with the extraordinary shape of the heads of most of the
criminals. When Dr Spurzheim visited this city, I attend-
ed his lectures ; and although I do not yet pretend to have
any thing like phrenological knowledge, I have no hesita-
tion in saying, that the most notoriously bad characters
have a conformation of head very different from those of
the common run of mankind.
I may be allowed to add, that Dr Spurzheim, yourself,
and many others, professing and believing in t11e science,
who have visited this prison, have described the character,
and told the leading propensities of the inmates, in a very
remarkable manner. I am, &c.
WILLIAM BREBNER, Governor.
XXXVI. From H. A. GALBRAITll, Esq. Surgeon to the Glasgow
Royal Lunatic Asylnm.
GL&saow RoY.f.L LuxATIC AsYLux,
Mv DEAR Sia, 19th April 1836,
SITUATED as I am in the midst of a wide field
for observation, more particularly in regard to disordered
Digitized by Google
40 P.HRENOLOGY APPJ.JBD TO '.fHE
mental manifestations, I have been for several years past
led to compare these with the phrenological development of
the individuals in whom they appeared ; and from the result
of numerous and well-marked instances, which have not
only been known to me during a state of morbid activity,
but from authentic accounts of the previous mental indica-
tions, I have not the least hesitation in declaring my firm
belief in the general doctrines of Phrenology.
It gives me much pleasure on this occasion, and is but
an act of justice, to add, that when Dr Spurzheim was in
this city some years ago, he visited this Institution, and
examined several of the most remarkable heads of the then
inmates ; an~, had I been more careless and sceptical than
I really was, the correctness and facility with which his in-
ductions were made from cerebral development, must have
arrested my attention, and convinced me of the reality of
the science he professed. It is also no small confirmation
of the doctrine, as well as proof of its utility, that exactly
the same conclusions were drawn from the same heads, when
submitted to you a few days ago at your visit here. It
therefore can be no chance or random opinion, but one evi-
dently founded on a common principle, that enables the ex-
perienced Phrenologist, at the distance of years, not only
correctly to delineate the character and conduct of indivi-
duals, but strictly to coincide with that formerly given.
Although I have as yet no pretension to the name of an
experienced Phrenologist, yet be assured my faith in the
verity of Phrenology is such as to induce me to cultivate it
with more care than I have hitherto done, and it will be no
small gratification if I can add with benefit to those under
my charge. I am, My Dear Sir, yours very faithfully,
ff, A. GALBRAITH.
Gi;onoi; CouuE, Esq,
Digitized by Google
CLA88IFICATION OF CRIMINALS. 41
XXXVII. From GEORGE SALMOND, Esq. Procurator-Fiscal of
Lanarkshire ; WALTER Mo1R, Esq. Sheriff-Substitute of La-
narkshire ; and Mr D. M•CoLL, Governor of Glasgow Jail.
To Gso-.aF. CoMBI:, Esq.
SBEB.IFF's CHAMBERS,
DEAR Sm, GLAsaow, 22d April 1836.
A FEW days ago Sheriff Moir having told me
of your intention to examine phrenologically some of the
criminals in Glasgow jail, I expressed a wish to be present,
in order that I might have a practical test of the system,
and ascertain whether your inferences of character should
accord with what was privately and officially known of
them by myself; and Mr Moir having kindly honoured me
with an introduction to you, I had the gratification of at-
tending your examination of a number of these persons,
and of hearing with sincere interest the accurate conclusions
you arrived at on each of them.
Never before having witnessed such an operation, and
expecting that, after a tedious process of examination,
taking notes, and comparing and calculating results, some-
thing of an oracular generality of character should be an-
nounced, I was very much pleased to observe, that while
your examination of each did not average a minute, you in-
stantly, and without hesitation, stated the character, not
generally, but with specialties of feelings and propensities,
surprh,ingly justified by what I knew of them; and being
aware that you had no access to them, nor means of know-
ing them previously, as they were taken at the moment
promiscuously from numbers of the other criminals, I was
at once led to a conviction of the truth of the science, and
to see eminent advantages of such knowledge to society,
and more immediately in regard to criminal jurisprudence
and practice.
Of the fostances of your observation, suffer me to men-
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGY .\PPLJBD 'l'O TBB
tion a few, which at the time occurred to me as peculiarly
convincing.
The first man you examined you pronounced " a thief,
reckless and dangerous, who, for instance, if under the in-
fluence of liquor, would not hesitate to murder or destroy
all around him." Now this fellow has for years travelled
about the country with a horse and cart, selling salt and
trifling articles, and has acquired the character of a master-
ful thief, and just now stands indicted with a cruel assault
on, and highway robbery of, a poor labourer, of all his hard
earnings last harvest.
Another, you ob&erved, had " a fine intellect, and was
likely to have been guilty of swindling ;" and the accuracy
of this observation on a pai11ter, who is indicted for f alae-
lwod,fraud, and wilful impo~ition, or swindling, is self-e\'i-
dent.
A third, whom you pronounced "a cunning, daring,
and decided thief," is an incorrigible thief, who for years
has, in the most concealed and adroit manner, headed a gang
of housebreakers, and is at present indicted for highway
robbery, committed by his savagely knocking down with a
heavy stob a poor man, who was almost killed on the
spot. Private information leads me to understand that he
has been party to another crime, of a nature equally, if not
more, daring and cruel.
A fourth you described to be " a depraved and most dan-
gerous man." He is a crony of the man last noticed; has
long been a thief, and one of the most noted corpse-lifters
while subjects were bought by the medical schools; and he
is said to have been concerned with the man last mentioned
in the atrocious crime alluded to at the close of the obser-
vations as to him.
A fifth, whom you judged to be " a sly thief, who, with
a meek and specious aspect, possessed .daring even to
cruelty," is a fellow who is by trade a thief, adroit and cun-
Digitized by Google
CL.ASSJFJC.ATJON OF CRJllJN.ALB.
ning, and who has often attacked and escaped from the
officers of justice. He lately stole in broad day-light on
the streets of Glasgow a handkerchief from a gentleman's
pocket, and ran off. Being promptly punued, he, as a de-
coy, threw from him the napkin. Being after a race over-
taken, he leapt into a dung-pit, whither the gentleman
could not think of following him, but stood watching him
till police he sent for arrived. On this the fellow in the
most fawning manner craved sympathy, and finding this
did not move the gentleman's purpose, he suddenly sprung
out, and, on being seized, made a desperate struggle, bit
severely the gentleman's hand, and, by his force and vio-
lence, might soon have got off had not the police arrived.
The accura1:y of your conclusions has deeply impressed
me with the benefit which would accrue to society from the
application of such investigations towards the better classi-
fication of criminals confined before and after trial, to the
selection and treatment of convicts, and even to the more
certain identification of such criminals as might eft'ect their
escape from justice or confinement.
With much regard, believe me to be, dear Sir, yours
most faithfully,
GEO. SALMOMD,
Pror.-Fiscal of Lanarkshire.
We were present on the occasion of Mr Combe's vi&it to
the Jail of Gla&gow, and testify to the perfect accuracy of
Mr Salmond's representation of what happened. Mr
Combe's inferences of the characters of such prisoners as
he then examined, were most accurate, and never could
have been the result of chance.
WALTER MOIR,
Sheriff Subst. of Lanarkshire.
D. M'COLL,
Governor of Glasgow Jail.
Digitized by Google
PHRHNOLOGY APPLTHD TO THH
XXXVIII. Acco\int of Mr CoMBE's Phrenological Examination
of Heads of Criminals in the Jail of Newcastle-on-Tyne,
October 1835. Extracted from the Phrenoiogical Journal,
vol. ix. p. 524.
On Wednesday ~8th October, Mr Combe, accompanied
by the following gentlemen, visited the jail : viz. Dr George
Fife, assistant-surgeon to the jail (who is not a phrenolo.
gist); Benjamin Sorsbie, Esq., alderman; Dr D. B. White;
Mr T. M. Greenhow, surgeon; 1\lr John Baird, surgeon;
Mr George C. Atkinson; Mr Edward nichardson; Mr
Thomas Hichardson ; Mr Wm. Hutton ; and Captain
Hooke.
Mr Combe mentioned, that his chief object was to shew
to such of the gentlemen present as had attended his lec-
tures in Newcastle, the reality of the fact which he had fre-
quently stated, that there is a marked difference between
the development of the brain in men of virtuous disposi-
tions, and its development in decidedly vicious characters~
such as criminals usually are; and that the moral organs
generally are larger in proportion to the organs of the ani-
mal propensities, in the former than in the latter: and he
requested that a few striking cases of crime might be pre-
sented, and that the heads of the criminals should be com-
pared with those of any of the gentlemen present indiscri-
minately.
This was done ; and Dr Fife suggested that it would be
further desirable that Mr Combe should write down his
own remarks on the cases, before any account of them was
given, while he himself should, at the other side of the ta-
ble, write down an account of their characters according to
his knowledge of them ; and that the two statements should
then be compared. Mr Combe agreed to this request; and
the following individuals were examined.
Digitized by 0-
ogle
j
CLA88JPJCATIO'N OP CKUIJNALB.
P. S., aged about 20.-Mr Combe wrote as follows:
Anterior lobe well developed ; intellectuaJ powers are con-
siderable. The'organ of Imitation is large, also Secretive-
ness; Acquisitiveness is rather large. The most defective
organ is Conscientious~ess. Benevolence and Veneration
are large. Thelower animal organs are not inordinate. My
inference is, that this boy is not accused of violence ; his
dispositions are not ferocious, or cruel, or violent: he has a
talent for deception, and a desire for property not regulated
by justice. His desires may have appeared in swindling or
theft. It is most probable that he has swindled : he has
the combination which contributes to the talents of an ac-
tor.-Dr Fife',, Remarks: A confirmed thief; he has been
twice convicted of theft. He has never shewn brutalicy ;
but he has no sense of honesty. He has frequently attempt-
ed to impose on Dr Fife; he has considerable talent; he
attended school, and is quick and apt; he has a talent for
imitation.
T. S., aged 18.-Mr Combe wrote: Destructiveness is
very large; Combativeness, Secretiveness, and Acquisitive-
ness, are large ; intellectuaJ organs fairly developed ; Ama-
tiveness is large ; Conscientiousness rather moderate ; Be-
nevolence is full, and Veneration rather large. This boy
is considerably different from the last. He is more violent
in his dispositions ; he has probably been committed for
assault connected with women. He has also large ·secre-
tiveness and Acquisitiveness, and may have stolen, although
I think this lt'ss probable. He has fair intellectual ta-
lents, and is an improveable subject.-Dr Fife's Remarks:
Crime, rape • • • • No striking features in his general
character; mild disposition; has never shewn actual vice.
J. W., aged 78.-Mr Combe's Observations: The coro-
• The particular observations are not proper for publication,
Digitized by Google
46 PHRBNOLOGY APPLJRD TO 'JIBH
nal region is very defective; Veneration and Finnnesa are
the best developed ; but all are deficient. Cautiousness is
enormously large; the organ of Combativeness is consider-
able, and Amativeness is large; there are no other leading
organs of the propensities inordin~te in development ; the
intellect is very moderate. I would have expected to find
this case in a lunatic asylum rather than in a jail; and I
cannot fix upon any particular feature of crime. His moral
dispositions generally are very defective; but he has much
caution. Except in connection with his Amativeness and
Combativeness, I cannot specify the precise crime of which ·
he has been convicted. Great deficiency in the moral or-
gans is the characteristic feature, which leaves the lower
propensities to act without control.-Dr Fife's Remarka :
A thief; void of every principle of honesty ; obstinate; in-
solent; ungrateful for any kindness. In short, one of the
most depraved characters with which I have been acquaint-
ed.-Note by ...llr Combe: I have long maintained, that
where the mor-al organs are extremely deficient, as in this
case, the individual is a moral lunatic, and ought to be
treated as such. Individuals in whom one organ is so large
as Cautiousness is in this old man, and in whom th"' regu-
lating organs of the moral sentiments are so d~ficient, are
liable to fall into insanity, if strongly excited, owing to the
disproportion in the cerebr-al organs. It is common to meet
with such cases in lunatic asylums ; and as the criminal
law has gone on punishing this individual during a long
life (for he has been· twice transported), and met with no
success in reclaiming him, but left him in jail, under sen-
tence for theft, at seventy years of age, I consider these
facts a strong confirmation of my opinion that he ought«>
have been treated as a moral patient from the first.
Digitized by oogle
CLA881PICATION OF CRIMINALS. 47
XXXIX. From Dr JoHN MACKINTOSH, Surgeon to the Ord-
nance Department in North Britain; Lecturer on the Princi-
ples of Pathology and Practice of Physic; Fellow of the Royal
College of Surgeons of Edinburgh ; Member of the Medico-
Chirurgical and Wemerian Natural History Societies of Edin-
burgh, Montreal, Heidelberg, and Bn1Ssels.
To GroaGE Co11•E, 1!:1111.
MY DEAR Sia, EDnrnuaGu, 27th April 1836.
IN reply to your letter of the 16th March, re-
questing me to state whether the natural dispositions are
indicated by the size and form of the brain, so as to render
it possible during life to distinguish men of desperate and
dangerous tendencies from those of good <lisPositions, I
have much pleasure in being able to offer my unqualified
testimony as to the fact.
I was formerly not only an unbeliever in Phrenology, but
a determined scoffer, and my conversion was slowly pro-
duced by the occurrence of indivMual cases that were aC'.ci-
dentally brought before me; and I would now risk all I
Possess UPon the general results drawn from the examina-
tion of the heads of one hundred convicts, by qualified per-
sons I could name.
It would be well for society in the countries to which
t,'Onvicts are sent, it' the plan proPosed by Sir George Mac-
kenzie to the Right Honourable Lord Glenelg were adopt-
ed. It' any expense be occasioned by the investigation, I
shall willingly contribute a share, because the interests of
science will be advanced, and a great service will be ren-
dered to the unt'ortunate convicts themselves.
I may add, that a great revolution has taken place within
these few years, not only in this country, but also on the
Continent, in favour of Phrenological doctrines; the num-
ber of opponents has diminished, and the disciples have in-
48 PHRENOLOGY APPLIED TO THE
creased in a remarkable manner ;-so much so, that in Pa-
ris there is scarcely an illustrious name connected with Me-
dicine, or any of the sciences, that is not found enrolled in
the list of Members of the Phrenological Society. You
may make whatever use you please of this letter; and with
much respect towards you, for the great share you have
had in advancing our knowledge of the true science of mind,
and placing it on a wider and more substantial basis,
I am, my dear Sir, yours very faithfully,
JOHN MACKINTOSH, M. D.
XL. Certificate from HENRY MARSH, Esq. M.D., M.I.R.A., one
of the Physicians to Steven's Hospital, Consulting Physician
to the Dublin General Hospital, St Vincent's Hospital, and
the Institution for the Diseases of Children; RoBERT HAR-
RISON, Esq. M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor ofAnatomy and Phy-
siology, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland; RICHARD
ToNsoN EVANSON, Es9. M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor of the
Practice of Physic, Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland;
JAMES ARMSTRONG, D.D., M.R.I.A.; FRANCIS WHITE,
Esq. President of the Royal College Of Surgeons in Ireland ;
W. F. MONTGOMERY, Esq. M.D., Professor of Midwifery
to the King and Queen's College of Physicians in Ireland ;
WM. W. CAMPBELL, Esq. M.R.I.A., Demonstrator of Ana-
tomy to the College of Surgeons in Ireland, Resident As-
sistant Physician to the Dublin Lying-in Hospital; AN·
DREW BouRNE, Esq. Barrister; THOMAS EDWARD BEATTY,
Esq. M.D., late Professor of Medical Jurisprudence, Royal
College of Surgeons in Ireland; ARTHUR EDWARD GAY-
ER, Esq. LL.D., Barrister; ANDREW CARMICHAEi., Esq.
M.R.I.A.; JoHN HousToN, Esq. M.D., Curator of the Mu·
seum, Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland, Surgeon to the
City Dublin Hospital, Surgeon to the Charter Schools of
Ireland, and to the Deaf and Dumb Institution for Ireland ;
H. MAUNSEu., Esq. M.D., Professor of Midwifery to the
CLASSIFICATION OP CRIMINALS· 49
Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, and Member of the
Medical Society of Leipzic.
DDBLIJf, Marola 26. 1836.
WE the undersigned declare our belief, from what
we know or have seen of the science of Phrenology, " that
the natural dispositions are indicated by the size and form
of the brain to such an extent, as to render it quite possible
during life to distinguish men of desperate tendencies from
those of good dispositions ;" and we feel no hesitation in re-
commending, that trial should be made of the experiment
proposed by Sir George Mackenzie, to prove the possibi-
lity of this application of Phrenology.
We conceive that, in affording this opportunity for put-
ting publicly to the test the degree of accuracy to which
Phrenology has been brought, as a scientific method of de-
termining character, and so discriminating between the na-
tural dispositions of criminals, the Secretary for the Colo-
nies will but act the part of an enlightened statesman, will-
ing to keep pace with the advance of knowledge, to do jus-
tice to science, and afford the Government opportunity for
availing itself of all aid to be derived from the lights of
philosophy, in fulfilling the arduous and responsible duties
connected with criminal legislation.
HENRY MARSH.
ROBERT HARRISON.
RICHARD TONSON EVANSON.
JAMES ARMSTRONG.
FRANCIS WHITE.
W. F. MONTGOMERY.
Wu. W. CAMPBEi.I..
ANDREW BOURNE.
THOMAS EDWn. BEATTY.
ARTHUR F.DWD· GAYER.
ANDREW CARMICHAEL.
JOHN HOUSTON.
H. MAO:'\SELI..
Digitized by Google
50 PHRENOLOGY Al'PLIKD 'J'O THE
XI.I. From His Grace the ARCHBISHOP ofDuBMN.
I am fully convinced that the proposed phrenolo-
gical experiment of Sir G. Mackenzie, Bart., is amply en-
titled to a fair triaJ.
RD. DUBLIN.
XLII. From the PROVOST of TRINITY CoLLEGB.
P.aovosT Houiu:, April 18. 1836.
I AM decidedly of opinion that the experiment pro-
posed by Sir Geo. Mackenzie should be made, especially
when I consider that it can be made without difficulty or
expense.
BAR. LLOYD, Provost T. C. D.
XLIII. From H. LLOYD, Esq. F.T.C.D., Professor of Natural
Philosophy, Dublin.
TaunTr CoLLll:GB, April 8. 11136.
HAVING seen a paper signed by Mr Combe, relating
to a phrenological experiment proposed by Sir George M~
kenzie, I am of opinion that such experiment is deserving
of a trial.
H. LLOYD.
XLIV. From MouNTlFORT LONGFIELD, Esq. F. T. C. D.,
Whayleaw, Professor of Political Economy.
I HAVE been informed of the experiment proposed
by Sir G. Mackenzie, and am of opinion that very import-
ant results may be obtained, if the State will in that man-
ner lend its assistance to make the science of Phrenology
-~itized by Google
CLA881Jl'ICATION OJI' CRIMINALS. 51
available for purposes of public utility. I am altogether
unacquainted with the details of phrenological practice, but
from what I have read upon the subject, I am convinced
that the science is founded on true principles, and that to
writers on Phrenology we owe much of the light that has
been thrown upon the philosophy of the human mind.
Their metaphysics appear to me in general correct, with as
small a proportion of error as cou]d be expected on works
written upon a subject which has not yet been made a
branch of public education, nor converted into a source of
profit to individuals.
MOUN'l'IFORT LONGFIELD.
XLV. From Pun.JP CRAMPTON, Esq. Surgeon-General, Dublin.
DUBLUI, April 12. 1836.
I AM of opinion that the experiment proposed by
Sir Geo. Mackenzie, with a view to ascertain whether or
not " the natural dispositions are indicated by the form and
size of the brain," is worthy of a trial.
PHILIP CRAMPTON.
XLVI. From AR. JACOB, Esq. M.D., Professor of Anatomy,
Royal College of Surgeons, Dublin.
DuBLnr, April 27. 1836.
I HAVE not paid sufficient attention to the study of
Phrenology, to justify me in giving a decided opinion re-
specting its value, or the importance of its results; but I
cannot hesitate to say, that such a case has been made out,
(to prove " that the natural dispositions are indicated by
the form and size of the brain, to such an extent as to ren.
Digitized by Google
52 PHRENOLOGY APPLIED, &c.
der it quite possible during life to distinguish men of deS-
perate and dangemus tendencies from those of good dispo-
sition,") as warrants the experiment proposed by Sir G.
Mackenzie.
AR. JACOB.
- .. --- ---- . .__j
Digiti~ed by ~ oogle
CORRESPONDENCE
BBTWBBN
ACADEMICUS AND CONSILIARIUS,
~ ~
ON THB COMPARATlVB MERITS 01'
PHRENOLOGY,
AND THB
MENTAL PHILOSOPHY OF REID
AND STEWART.
FROM THB PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL, VOL.:X. NO, 50. DBOBJIBBR 1836.
EDINBURGH:
PRINTED BY NEILL & COMPANY.
1836.
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
-------------- - -·-
CORRESPONDENCE, &c.
IT were needless to attempt to conceal, for the reader could
not fail to perceive, that the following letters regarding the
comparative merits of the Mental Philosophy of Reid and
Stewart, and of Gall, Spurzheim, and Combe, passed between
Academicua and Comiliariua on occasion of the election to the
Chair of Logic in the University of Edinburgh in July 1836;
when the c1aims of Sir WILLIAM HAMILTON were rested on
the fonner, and those of Mr CoMBE on the latter philosophy.
ACADEMICUS TO CONSILIARIUS.
12th Julg 1836.
. . . . . My anxiety in the matter is not for any indi-
vidual, but for the credit of the University, and especially for
the support and extension of the mental philosophy of Reid
and Stewart, of which I am a sincere adnurer, and a zealous
though humble disciple, and which I have done my best to
study carefully, and think I understand, although I have no
pretensions to extensive metaphysical reading: I believe M.
Cousin to be quite correct in asserting two things, 1. That the
doctrines of Reid and Stewart, or what is called the Scotch sys-
tem of mental philosophy, is now generally known and highly
esteemed, and widely extending its reputation, abroad; and
that, in fact, there is little or no dispute on the Continent about
the truth and importance of the leading principles of that phi-
losophy, the only question being, whether or not the analysis of
our mental constitution can be carried farther than it has been
by them. ~. That Sir William Hamilton appears, from his
A
Digitized by Google
COJllPARATIV.£ MERITS OF PHRENOLOGY
writings, to be a lP.amed, able, and zealous disciple of that
M:hool, well qualified to compare its doctrines with, and to de-
fend them against, all other metaphysical systems, ancient and
modern.
It is my own sincere conviction, that the leading principles.
of Reid and Stewart are the only safe and sure foundation on
which the study of mental philosophy can be conducted, that
they must be the guide of all truly scientific inquirers in this
branch of philosophy in all time coming,-and that they con-
stitute the highest claim to scientific distinction, of which Scot-
land can boast. Although I know you to be an admirer of
Phrenology, I will take the liberty of saying, that if the whole
extent of the doctrines of phrenological writers were establish-
ed, they would merely take their place as a part of the system
of mental philosophy of which those authors, if not the original
founders, are the chief supporters; and that the idea of Phre-
nology being a substitute for their philosophy, is quite a delu-
sion. '!'heir philosophy is strictly the Inductive Logic applied
to the human mind, and limited in the extent to which itleads,
by the constitution of the mind itself. If Phrenology can be
established, it must be by facts and induction from them, and
will be simply an addition to the facts which have been already
observed and generalized; it may render advisable some alter-
ation of their arrangement, but cannot affect their truth or
value.
I believe that among those who have really studied metaphy-
sics of late years (and who are more numerous on the Conti-
nent than in this country), these opinions of the merits of Reid
a~d Stewart, and of the service which they did to science, by
placing mental philosophy on its true basis, and clearing away
the incumbrance of former theories and sophistrie!I, will not be
thought to be exaggerated. I think it is also generally admitted,
that Dr Brown, able and amiable as he was, is not so sound or
safe a guide in metaph,1Jsics, and that when he differed from them
(particularly from Reid), he bus retarded rather than advanced
the progress of the science. One of Sir William Hamilton's
papers in the Edinburgh Review seems to me to make this
pomt pretty clear. . • . . .
CONSILlARltJS TO ACADEMJCUS.
14th July 1836.
· ~ am satis~ed that your letter proceeds only from the most
amiable motives. It needs no apology: it does me honour.
Indeed, had you not condescended to argue against my opi-
Digitized by Google
AND THB PHH.OSOPHY OF REID AND !ITl'!WART. 3
nions, I would have kept them to myself. But I assure vou,
that, although not without the feelings of attachment natur&.l to
an old disciple of the Edinburgh School, I am convinced that
the philosophy of Reid must give way before the di8coveries
of Gall, and that a stable mental philosophy can only be based
on phrenological principles-on the analysis of mind sketched
out by him-since improved-and still in the course of being
improved. I shall put my reasons on paper at greater length,
but must take a little time.
19:h July 11136.
According to promise, I shall now, ~s briefly as po~sible, yet
I trust intelligibly, state my reasons for difFenng from you in
regard to Reid and Stewart's philosophy, and for thinking that
the credit of our University is so far from being bound up with
that system, that it would, on the contrary, be signally pro-
moted by adopting a·mental philosophy founded on the disco-
veries of Gall. lt may appear hold in a person situate as I am
to venture to differ on such a subject from you; but after
having been rather an attentive pupil of Finlayson and Stew-
art in 1799 and 1800, and after reading the best treatises in
our language, I was led many years ago, by intimacy with Mr
Forster, Dr Leach, and Dr Spurzheim, to examine Gall's sys-
tem with considerable care ; and I have also availed myself of
the admirable writings and lectures of Mr Combe. Now, if it
so happen that you have not bestowed attention on the new
doctrines, and have not examined the evidence on which they
are founded (which I suspect is the case), then, inferior as ·r
feel myself in all other respects, I have here the advantage of
yo~~ my humble opinion; then, Reid and Stewart's philosophy
is altogether unsound in its basis. It rests on observations made
by each individual on his own consciousness. Now, conscious-
ness gives us no intimation of any thing in mental philosophy,
except the state of our own minds at .the moment wben we at-
. tend to our inward condition. Some of the consequences of
this important fact may here be traced.
1. We cannot thus discover the existence and functions of
the mental organs, b~cause Consciousness does not indicate their
presence in mental operations.
2. We cannot thus distinguish primitive faculties from mere
modes of action of the faculties; i. e. if we had only Conscious-
ness to guide us in regard to the philosophy of the external
senses, we should be led to describeTaste, Smell, Sight, Hearing,
and Touch, all as modes ofaction, or modes ofimpression, of the
mind generally, and should never discover that they are sepa-
A 2
D;;zedbyGoogle
COMPARATIVE l\fERIT8 OF PBRJ;;NOLOGY
rate and distinct senses. In like manner, in regard to the iu-
ternal faculties, the school of Reid mistakes Memory, Imagi-
nation, Conception, and Perception for primitive powers; while
the most indisputable facts prove that these are only modes of
action of the real faculties, ascertained by the school of Gall,
and called in phrenological language Locality, Colouring, In-
dividuality, &c.; each having a distinct organ, and there being,
of course, many kinds of memory.
3. In oonsequem~e of this radical defect in the basis of
Reid's philosophy; it can never, I apprehend, become useful, or
afford the foundation for any sound logic. For example, if a
metaphysician of the Reid school were rather deficient in or-
gans of Conscientiousness, he might be apt .to deny the exist-
ence of a moral sense ; and so of others. Further, in conse-
quence of reflecting merely on his own consciousness, he must
remain totally ignorant of many of the active impulses, such as
(if ,}"OU will excuse me for again using phrenological language~
which I find the most precise), Combativeness; Destructivenes~
Acquisitiveness, Secretiveness, which strongly prevail in the
world of real life, but which may possibly never indicate
themselves to the philosopher in the calm_retirement of the
closet. Hence, such metaphysicians can never, by their mode
of investigation, arrive at a correct knowledge of all the facul-
ties ; for each philosopher will naturally be inclined to deny the
existence of faculties in the organs of which he may himself
happen to be :rather deficient.
4. Reid's philosophy never can give an explanation of the
differences between the mental capacity of one man a:ed that
of another, because it is confined in its basis to the mind of the
individual who studies it.
5. It cannot possibly explain the phenom~na of insanity, be-
cause it totally overlooks the organs, by the diseases of which
insanity is occasioned, as now admitted by many eminent phy-
sicians and physiologists of the greatest experience in asylums.
6. It cannot be applied to the elucidation of the causes of the
tendency of some individuals to one pursuit and of others to
other pursuits; of :::ome to mathematics and others to painting,
of some to hoarding and others to profuseness, &c. ; because
these differences depend on differences in the relative size and
on the activity of certain organs, of which that philosophy takes
no cognizance.
7. A sound logic ought to t~xpound the whole faculties of
man, hoth affective and intellectual, the relations subsisting be-
tween them and the external world, physical and mental, and
the method by which they may be best applied in the attain-
ment of good, morally,-and of truth, intellectually. The
Digitized by Go,._..,....,1-.,...,.-.- - -
A'.MD TDK PHILOSOPHY OP REID AND STBWABT. 5
philosophy of Reid can never accomplish these ends; because it
never reaches the primitive faculties at all, but deals in mere
generalities about their modes of action. ,
In consequence of the imperfect analysis of the mind thus
presented by this philosophy, we would never have been led to
think of educating the faculties, feelings, and affections, as is
now, by the lights of Phrenology, successfully done from the
earliest ages in infant schools, up to grammar schools where
the teachers have had the good fortune to become acquainted
with Phrenology.
I tmtirely dissent from your conclusion, therefore, that Phre-
nology will merely enlarge the sphere of the philosophy of Ueid
and Stewart. According to my views, Phrenology will rather
sweep that philosophy away ; and if we get something more
useful, why should we deplore its being so swept away? It
will now,• however, get trial for a few years longer in our Uni-
versity ; but it will be " weighed" by the students of each suc-
cessive season, and more and more " found wanting." When
I consider the light which phrenological books are throwing on
the causes and cure of the malady above alluded to (so inte-
resting in any discussion about Mind), on education, on crimi-
nal legislation, I clearly perceive the superiority of the new
philoliOphy, and wish it all success. It is perhaps rather a low
consideration, but it is an important one, that the writings of
Dr Reid and Mr Dugald Stewart are no longer in demand in
this country, while new editions, of thousands, of Mr Combe's
works are in constant request.
A friend lately called my attention to a clever artide in the
third volume of the Edinburgh Review, the style of which
seems to indicate the then editor as the author. It exposes in
a happy strain the futility of that very philosophy which Lord
Jeffrey, Professor Napier, and you, seem now so anxious to
maintain in the University. At page 269 he says, " In meta-
physics, certainly. knowledge is not power, and, instead of pro-
ducing new phenomena to elucidate the old, by well combmed
and well conducted experiments, the most diligent inquirer can
do no more than register and arrange the appearances, which
he can neither account for nor control. We feel and perceive
and remember without any purpose or contrivance of ours, and
have evidently no power over the mechanism by which those
functions are performed. We may describe and distinguish
these operations of mind, indeed, with more or less attention 01·
exactness, but we cannot subject them to experiment, nor alter
their nature by any process of investigation. We cannot de-
• Sir William Hamilton having been elected to the Logic Chair on the
15th July.
Digitized by Google
~----~---
6 COMl'ARATIVB lfBBlTS OF PHBBNOLOOY
compose our perceptions in a crucible, nor divide our sensations
with a prism ; nor can we, by art and contrivance, produce any
combination of thoughts or emotions, besides those with which
all men are provided by nature. No metaphysician expects by
analysis to discover a new power or create a new sensation in the
mind, as a chemist discovers a new earth or a new metal ; nor
can we hope, by any process of synthesis, to exhibit a mental
combination different from any that nature has produced in the
minds of other persons."
Mr Stewart endeavoured to answer this in the' Dissertation
preliminary to the Philosophical Essays ; but he failed : for
such objections are insuperable against him. When, however,
we study the mind by means of the organs, not one of the ob-
jections applies. By ohscrving organs (as was suggested to me
by the friend who pointed out the passage) we really do disco-
ver new faculties ; and, by ascertaining their spheres of activi-
ty, and bringing several of them to act together in a new direc-
tion and in a new combination, we may be said actually to give
rise to new products in mental manifestation. .
Allow me only to add, that,in spite of Sir William Hamilton's
review, my late esteemed friend Dr Thomas Brown seems to he
admitted by all who ·are not absolute ·devotees to Reid and
Stewart, to be superior to both these authors. To descend
once more to the shop (for really the sale of a work is the
experimentum crucis of successful· authorship), you will find
that Brown's posthumous Lectures are·vastly more in request
than Reid's Intellectual and Active Powers and Stewart's Phi-
losophical Essays.
ACADEMICUS to CONSILIARIUS.
26th September 1836.
I have not forgotten my promise to state to you my reason11
for the opinion, in regard to the pretensions of Phrenology,
which I formerly took the liberty of expressing to you; 'but
different circumstances have hitherto·prevented my performing
it. Fortunately we can now consid~r' the question indepen-
dently of any practical application, and therefore with a philo-
sophical coolness and composure.
I presume I need·hardly say, that I do not regard the pro-
positions-that the brain is the organ of thought,-that all
manifestations of the human mind, in this state of our existence,
depend on certain conditions in the state of the brain,-and
that all physical causes which influence the mind, do so by af-
fecting the condition of the brain,-as Phrenology. These
propositions are a part of physiology. They formed part of
Digitized by Google
AND TBE PHILOllOPBY OF REID .olND STEW4BT. 7
the physiology of Haller, before Gall, or Phrenology, was
heard of; and the additions, a.nd more precise form, given to
them of late vears,-the restriction of the office of the brain
proper to the.simply mental acts,-of the medulla oblongata to
sensation, and to the excitement of voluntary muscles,--and
the discovery of the office of the cerebellum in regulating mus..
eular motions,-have been the work of physiologists, of Le
Gallois, Wilson Philip, Magendie, Flourens, &c., not of phre-
nologists. .
.The peculiar doctrine of the phrenologists I take to be this :
That the brain and cerebellum (chiefly, however, the former)
consist of a congeries of organs, to each of which is assigned the
office of supplying the material conditions necessary, either for
some particular mental act, or frequently for the mental acts
which relate to some particular object of thought ; and that
the offices thus assigned to the different organs composing the
brain have been, for the most part, ascertained, chiefly by ob-
servations on the forms of the head .of different persons, and
corresponding peculiarities of characters.
That the different portions of the brain have different of-
fices assigned them in connection with the different mental
acts, seems to me highly probable, and the inquiry into these
I think very laudable, and strictly philosophical: it is distinct-
ly recommended by Lord Bacon, and has been attempted by
different physiologists and pathologists, but with little success.
It seems to me, that there is strong probability in favour of
the general opinion, that the strictly intellectual acts are con-
nected with the fore part of the brain, and the sentiments and
feelings, and propensities to action, rather with the upper and
back parts of it. As to the more minute appropriation of the
different parts of the brain, either to different mental acts, or
to mental acts on different subjects, I confess that I have not
studied the evidence adduced on that subject by Gall and
Spurzheim, and their followers, so carefully as, perhaps, I
ought to have done-on this account, that all observations made
in the way to which they chiefly trust, viz. by measurement of
skulls, and comparison of these with the known characters of
their owners, have always appeared to me to be liable to very
considerabkfallacies, affecting both the physical and the mental
parts of these observations; and, therefore, to be inadequate to
the purpose of fixing the use of the different portions of the
brain, unkss snpported and confirmed by other observation.~. I
can conceive them to derive that support and confirmation from
three sources,-from comparative anatomy,-from the results
of experiments on animals,-and from the effects of injury or
disease of individual portions of the brain in the human bocly.
Digitized by Google
8 COMPARATIVE HKBITS OF PHRENOLOGY
But, after taking some pains in the inquiry, I have come to the
conclusion, that.from flone qf tkeae 80Urcea ef information u
ti.ere a'"!J co1ifinnation of the special appropriation of the dif-
ferent parts of.the brain to the different acts of mind which
the phrenologists consider as ascertained. Indeed, as to com-
parative anatomy, you must probably be aware, that the 1·esult
of observations in that science s-oes completely to disprove the
idea, that any fixed relation exists in the different tribes of ani-
mals, between the degree of intelligence that can be observed
in them, and the size, or complexity ofstructure, or indeed any
circumstance of structure, that has yet been pointed out of their
brains. These things being so, I think 1 bave come fairly and
philosophically to the same conclusion asMagendie on the merits
of Phrenology; viz. that this study, perfectly innocent, and
highly laudable, has, nevertheless, as yet, yielded no results as
to the office of the different portions of the brain, on which re-
liance can be placed.
I have repeatedly proposed to myselfa farther question, which
is, in fact, that in which I have the misfortune to differ from you,
and which is quite separate from the question as to the merits of
Phrenology, viz. 'l'aking for granted that the offices of the diffe-
rent portions of the brain,as laid down by the phrenologists, are all
correctly stated, are they entitled, by having established these
facts, to assume to themselves the credit of sweeping away the
old Science of Mind as taught by Reid and Stewart and others,-
or are their pretensions, even on that supposition, inftdmissibie?
On this question I have formed a decided opinion, and shall en-
deavour, in a few words, to give you my reasons.
The leading principles of the Mental Philosophy of Reid
and Stewart, so far as I understand them, are JUSt these:-
1. That the constitution and powers of the human mind can
only be a!ICertained by attentive observation of its actual opera-
tions, which observation must be, for the most part, made by
each individual, studying the subject on the acts of his own mind,
nnd the results of which must be generalized and reduced to
laws of nature, on the same principles on which the determina-
tion of the physical laws of nature, by the process of induction,
is conducted ; and, 2. That in thus generalizing the facts of
which we are conscious in our own minds, and which we infer
from observation of the actions prompted by other mind~ we
must necessarily arrive at certain ultimate facts, of which we can
give no other account than that they are the will of the Au-
thor of our nature, and which stand in the same relation to
mental science as the laws of motion or the laws of chemical affi-
nity to physical science; and particularly, that among those ul-
timate facts in the human constitution, we mu!lt admit the exist-
ence, and recognise the authority, of certain fundamental laws
Digitized by Google
AND THE PHILOSOPHY OF BBID AND llTBWABT. 9
of belief, of which we can give no other account than that they
are a part of our mental constitution, always present and active
in any individual of sound mind, and leading us to believe cer-
tain things only " because we cannot help it." .
These being the objects and limits, and, as it seems to me,
the rational and philosophical general view or outline of the sci-
ence of Mind as laid down by Reid and Stewart (and indeed by
many pre,·ious authors, but I believe more cautiously and cor-
rectly by them than any others), you assert, that all the princi-
ples which can be ascertained and establi&hed in this way, must
be superseded and " swept away" if the system of Phrenology is
established ; that is, if it be ascertained that every act of mind,
or that all the acts of mind which relate to any particular object
of thought, have their residence in a particular portion of the
brain.
I assert, on the other hand, that this discovery would be mere-
ly an addition to our knowledge of the mind, rendering advisable,
probably, a change in the arrangement by which a Ji>art of the,
science is taught, but that the science would still consist of facts,
ascertained by the methods laid down by Reid and Stewart, and
generalized, and their investigation limited according to their
principles, and would therefore be substantially the same science,
with such additions only as were clearly within their contempla-
tion.
As the simplest way of illustrating this position, I shall take,
in succession, the different arguments against the system of Reid
1tnd Stewart with which you have favoured me.
You say, in general, that the system of Reid and Stewart
" rests on observations made by each individual on his own con-
sciousness. Now consciousnesR gives us no intimation of any
thing in mental philosophy except the state of our own minds at
the moment when we attend to our inward condition."
Here I would observe, 1st, That although it is true, as I
stated above, that facts in the philosophy of'mind must be ascer-
tained,.for the moat part, by observations of each individual on
his own mind, i. e. by attention to his own consciousness; and
although all other observations, applicable to the subject at all,
must always bear reference to the intimations of consciousness,
and are admissible as a part of the science, only inasmuch as
they indicate what must be the consciousness of some mind,-
yet it is quite a mistake to suppose that the mental philosopher,
according to Reid and Stewart, is confined to obaervationa on his
own mind. And to prove this I need go no farther than to a few
sentences in Mr Stewart's Preliminary Dissertation, to which you
have yourself referred.
" To counterbalance the disadvantages which the philosophy
of mind lies under, in consequence of its slender stock of expe.
Digitized by Google
COMPARATIVE lllBKITt; OF PHRENOLOGY
riments, made directly and intentionally on the minds of oorfel-
low-creatures, human l#ft exhibits to our observation a hountll.ea8
variety, 'both efintellectunl and moral pke11omena, hy a diligent
study ef which we may ascertain almost every point that we
could wish to investigate, if we had experiments at our com-
mand." " Hardly, indeed, can any exper·iment be imagined
which has not already been tried by the hand of nature,-dis-
playing, in the infinite varieties of human genius and pursuits,
the astonishingly diversified effects resulting from· the possible
combinations of those elementary faculties and principles, of
which every man is conscious in himself. Savage society, and
all the 'different modes of civilization,-the<liiferent callings and
professions of individuals, liberal or mechanical,-the prejudiced
ciown,--:-the factitious man of fashion,-the varying phases of
character.s from infancy to old age,-the prodigies effected by
human art in all the objects around us, laws, government, com-
merce, religion,-but, above all, the records of· thought pre-
served in the volumes which fill -0ur libraries,-what al'e they
but experiments by which Nature iUustrates, for our instruction,
on heP -own grand scale, the varied range of man's intellectual
faculties ?.'~-Preliminary Dissertation to Phu. Essays, p. 45.
It appears clearly from this, that in Mr Stewart's view of the sub-
ject. (and the same is as easily proved as to Dr Reid), although
the foundation of the science, and the standard to which all other
obServations must be referred, are to be found only in the study
of our own minds; yet, by the simple process of inferring, from
the conduct or language of another man, what must bethe in-
timations of his consciousne!!tl, the whole book of human life is
laid open for the instruction of the student of mental philosophy,
and, therefore, that your arguments, in so far as they are found-
ed on the supposition of his being restricted to the study of his
own mind, fall to the ground.
U, It being understood that inferences as to the mental acts
of others, as well as consciousness of mental acts in ourselves,
are the legitimate foundations of mental science, according to
Reid and Stewart ; I beg to ask, what other foundations has,
or can have, the mentalscience of the phrenologists ? Such con-
sciousness, and such inferences, must be, I apprehend, the very
essence of all the evidence by·which they establish that any
kindj or any direction, of mental acts is connected with any
pa.rt of the brain; without such mental evidence, the mere in-
spection of the brain· would be, I apprehend, a very barren
study. With such mental evidence (where truly obtained), the
study of the offices of different parts of the brain becomes a part
of the study of the mind, acording to the methods of Reid and
Stewart; and, if successful, an addition to their system, formed
on their principles,-not a substitution of another.
Digitized by Google
AND THE PHILO!IOPHY OP REii> AND llTKWART. ) }
I shall now notice in succeBBion your more specific argu-
ments.
1. You say That we cannot, by observations made by each
individual on his own coneciou1meee, discover'the·existence and
functions of the mental organs, i. e. ot' the portions of brain con-
cerned in the different mental acts. This is answered by what
I have already said, that the mental philosophy of Reid and
Stewart is not, by any means, confined to those observations.
And I freely admit, that, if the connexion of individual por-
tions of brain with particular acts of mind were ascertained,
(which can only be by observations partly made, not indeed on
our own consciousness, but on the consciousness of others, in-
ferred from their words or actions,) we should have a manifest
addition to our knowledge of the mind, but an addition as
strictly wit/,in the province eftlie mental philosophy efReid and
Srewart as are the long discussions (particularly in the works of
Reid) on the material conditions necessary for vision, and for
the other senses.
2. You sa~,., That we cannot, by the methods of Reid and
Stewart, " distinguish primitive faculties from mere modes of
action of the faculties," e.g. that" the school of Reid mistakes
Memory, Imagination, Conception, and Perception for'primitive
powers; whereas the most indisputable facts prove that these
are only modes of action of the real faculties, ascertained by
the school of Gall, and called Locality, Colouring, Individu-
ality, &c.; each having a distinct organ, and there being, of
course, many kinds of memory."
Now, this appears to me a mere verbal misapprehension.
Supposing it ascertained, that portions of the brain are appro-
priated to each of the objects of thought,-one to Forms, one to
Colours, one to Weights, one to Measures, &c.-and that each of
these portions furnishes all the conditions necessary in order
that forms, or colours, or positions, &c. may be observed, may be
recollecred, may be ims,gined, &c., you may, no doubt, apply
to each of these portions of the brain, or lo all the acts of mind
connected with it, and exerted upon any such object of thought,
the name of a Faculty. But, ~n so doing, you must be aware,
that you use the term in a sense considerably different from
that in which it· is used by Reid and Stewart, and other au-
thors. The term Faculty, as applied to perception, eonception,
memory, imagination, does not mean separate tangible exist-
ences, and is not applied to the oqjects of thought ; it is the ex-
pression of general facts or laws of mind observed, distinguish-
ed, and generalized, in regard to the actual operations of our
minds. By taking the term and applying it to another use, to
designate a different thing, you merely make an innovation in
la11guage, (and such innovations are alwayS>to be deprecated in
Digitized by Google
12 001\IP.ARATIVE lllFlRITS OF PHRENOLOGY
science). You do not invalidate the observations on which the
previous generalizations were founded, nor shew that these gene-
ralizations were wrong, and therefore you do· not become enti-
tled to sweep away these and substitute others.
It may be quite true, for example, that there i!,1' a portion of
the brain assigned for Forms, and that, when that portion is
alive and healthy, it enables us not only to perceive and dis-
tinguish forms, but to remember them, to imagine them, &c.;
and you may, if you please, give to that portion of the brain,
or to all the exertions of the mind, dependent on it, and ap-
plied to the subject of Forms, the name of the Faculty of Form.
But it is not the less tme, that the act of mind which perceives
forms, is palpably distinct from that which remembers forms or
imagines forms; and that each of these acts is just similar to
acts performed by the mind in regard to other objects of
thought ;-that we perceive, remember, and imagine colours,
sounds, numbers, and many other objects of thought, as well
as forms. You do not study the constitution of the mind, un-
less you attend to those obvious distinctions among the acts ef
mind themselves, as well as to those among the ofdects on which
they are performed. Whether we are to arrange the study of
the mind accordin~ to the different kinds of acts it performs, or
(as the phrenologists in many, not in all cases, do), according
to the objects to which these are directed,-whether we are to
treat, e.g., of memory as an act of mind, which may be applied
to many <lifferent o~jects, or of " many different kinds of me-
mory" under the different objects to which it may be applied,
-is a question of arrangement, or of taste in individuals, or of
convenience fo:r other purposes ; but. those who follow the one
arrangement are strangely mistaken, as it seems to me, if they
suppose that in so doing, they sweep away the distinctions on
which the other is founded, or the generalizations to which it
leads. In my humble opinion, they might just as well talk of
sweeping away the facts by which these obvious distinctions are
suggested.
3. You say, that a philosopher of the school of Reid cannot
have a comprehensive view of the human mind, because he will
be inclined to deny the existence of faculties in the organs of
which he may chance to be deficient ; and you instance parti-
cularly Conscientiousness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, &c.
I believe, that no philosopher, whether of the &chool of Reid
or of any other, can have just views of the constitution of
the mind, who is not conscious of these and other motives to
action existing occasionally in himself; but I have already
shewn, that the philosopher of this school is not restricted,
any more than any others, to the facts made known to him by
his orcn consciousness, and thus set aside this argument.
Digitized by Google
ANIJ THE PHIJ.OSOPH\' OF RIUD AND s1·~wA111·. 13
4. The same answer applies to your next 'ar~ument, that
Reid's philosophy gives no explanation of the differences be-
tween men in mental capacity, because it is confined in its basis
to the mind of the individual who studies it. That this is a
mistaken notion of the basis of Reid's philosophy, I have al-
ready ishewn. At the same time I willingly admit, that the
differences of mental constitution in different individuals, form
a branch of the study of the mind which has been more fully
illustrated by some phrenologists than I believe it e\"er was be-
fore. But it was not overlooked by Reid or Stewart ; it is il-
lustrated and is susceptible of illustration, only by observation
of facts which imply the consciousness of individual minds; it
is therefore strictly within the province of the mental philoso-
phy of these authors, and any advances made in this branch of
the science are made clearly in the way of addition, not of sub-
stitutio11.
5. You say, that the philosophy of Reid "cannot possibly
explain the phenomena of insanity, because it overlooks the or-
gans, by the diseases of which insanity is occasioned." If you
mean, the phenomena of general insanity, or delirium, ofwhich
the chief characteristic is the faith reposed by the mind in what-
e'"cr it conceives or imagines, as if it were a reality, I am really
not aware of any explanation of that aberration of the mind
which Phrenology offers. The only explanation I have ever
seen of it is that given by Mr Stewart, who shews its depend-
ence on the same mental law by which we put temporary faith
in our dreams, or in fancied scenes conjured up by poetry or
romance; which, so far as it goes, seems to me quite satisfac-
tory, although not at all phrenological. But I presume you
mean to refer to cases of partial insanity, which certainly often
affects the acts of the mind on particular objects of thought
only ; and I willingly admit, that if it were ascertained that
particular portions of brain are concerned in the mental acts
which relate to such o~jects, and that these portions are di&-
eased in cases of partial insanity on these subjects,-we should
have a very fair explanation, not properly speaking of the na-
ture of the change in the mental acts which constitutes the in-
sanity, but of the circumstance of the insanity being partial.
I am sorry to say that, after taking some pains on the subject,
I cannot agree with you in thinking, that the cases on record of
partial insanity with partial disease of the brain, afford any con-
firmation of the phrenological division and allocation of the
mental faculties. But if it did, it would only furnish an addi.
tion to our knowledge of the mind, studied according to the
methods of Reid; and I cannot see that it would invalidate any
one fact in our mental constitution, which he has observed, nor
one inference which he has drawn.
Digitized by Google
14 COMPARATIVE MERITS OF PHRENOLOGY
6. You say that the philosophy of Reid " cannot be applied.
to the elucidation of the causes of the tendency of some indi-
viduals to one pursuit, and of others to another." I answe.r,
this difference is afact in the constitution of the mind, open to
the observation of all, made known by the methods of inquiry
followed by Reid and recognised by him and his followers ;
although, as I have stated, not so fully illustrated by them
as perhaps it might have been. Any additional illustration
of this fact, or any explanation of it, if obtained by the me-
thod ef indflction, will necessarily be an addition to the phi-
losophy of Reid on the subject, and an addition of the kind
which he continually says he expects his philosophy to receive,
in the progress of time; but how it should ever be a substitute _
for it, I confess myself unable to comprehend. All the facts
which he has observed, or which any one else has observed, as
to differences in the propensities, or sentiments, or capacities
of individuals, will remain untouched by the establishment of
the additional fact (supposing it established), that each pecu-
liarity of disposition is connected with, and dependent upon,
the development of a particular portion of the brain.
· 7. Your last statement, that the philosophy of Reid " never
can expound the whole faculties of man, their relations and
their applications, because it never reaches the primitive facul-
ties at all," turns on the same ambiguity in the use of the word
faculties, which I have already remarked. If you use the word
in a new sense, ce1·tainl)' the facts which he had collected and
arranged under the word, as in the case of Perception, Concep-
tion, Memory, &c., will not come under it in that new sense ;
but they are still facts, and unless you ·can shew that they have
been inaccurately observed, or erroneously classed together, you
cannot prevent them from forming a part of the philosophy of
mind.
This applies to those faculties, described by the phrenologists,
which are not to be found in the description of our mental con-
stitution, given by Reid and Stewart, and which are distinguish-
ed, not by the nature of the mental acts, but by the objects
to which they are applied. But many of the faculties of the
phrenologists, (particularly of those which have the title of Sen-
timents), are the same mental acts or feelings which are described
by Reid and Stewart, chiefly under the head of Active and Moral
powers; i. e. the Self-Esteem of the former, is the Self-Love of
the latter,-the Love of Approbation of the former, is the
Desire of Esteem of the latter, &c. Now, in such a case, how
you should "sweep away" all that had been formerly asce1·tai11-
ed, by consciousness in ourselves, and by observation of the
conduct, and inference as to the feelings, of other men, in re-
gard to any such sentiment, merely by making the additional
Digitized by Goo lcr-
AND THB PHIJ.OSOPHY OF REID AND STEWART. }5
observation, that its intensity is proportional to the size of
a certain portion of the brain-I own exceeds my compre-
hension.
Considering the principles of Phrenology, if they shall be
established, simply as additicmal.facts in the natural history of
the human mind, I should rejoice ~f I could anticipate as
much benefit to our species from them as you do ; and I can
easily see that some benefits would result. But I think these
would be, chiefly from their leading to careful discrimination of
characters ; which discrimination is in our power independently
of Phrenology (i.e. independently of any examination of heads
and of any inferences as to the portions of brain concerned in
them): it is daily practised in the world; and, indeed, ifs being
practised is quite essential to any evidence being obtained in
favour of any one principle in Phrenology ; and, therefore, I
cannot help indulging a httle in the philosophical state of doubt,
whether any such peculiar advantages as you and many others
expect, will ever be derived from combining the discrimination
of characters, as made known fo us by laRguage and action,
with the measurement of organs, by examination of skulls.
And although I am aware that phrenologists suppose that the
schoolmasters, and the keepers of lunatic asylums, who have
been educated by them, are 'Superior to all other men of their
professions ; yet, I do not think this is by any means so gene-
rally admitted as to furnish decisive evidence of the practical
usefulness of the study. ,
· Neither can I agree with your friend who thinks, that " by
observing organs we really do discover new faculties." On the
contrary, I doubt very much whether you can know what is an
organ (phrenologirally speaking,) otherwise than by observing
the c;oincidence of its external si&'n with some mental faculty,
propensity, or sentiment, already known.
I beg to say farther, that I do not consider the present po-
pularity of phrenological books, and the greatly diminished
demand for the works of Reid and Stewart, any evidence of
the scientific merit and demerit of either. In the first place,
you mention that Dr Brown's book is at present popular; and
the same is true of Dr Abercrombie's book. Now, much of the
best parts of Reid and Stewart are incorporated into them ;
and if they had not preceded these authors, their works could
- not have been written. Their general view of the objects of
mental science is just the same as that of Reid and Stewart;
and although I believe Dr Brown was right in some specula-
tions when he differs from Stewart, I doubt much whether he
has in any place, in point of doctrine, improved upon Reid.
That he did not, in some important points where he differed
Digitized by Google
16 COMPARATIVE l\IERITS OF PHRENOLOGY
from Reid, I think Sir William Hamilton distinctly shewed
in one of his articles in the Edinburgh Review.
Secondly, a very great part of the writings both of Reid
and Stewart, is occupied in refuting the errors of former meta-
r,hysical authors, and so putting the study on its right basis.
l'his was indispensable for the future progress of mental philo..
sophy ; but when the refutation and correction of former errors
is generally regarded as satisfactory, the interest of the work
containing it is of course greatly diminished.
Lastly, it is only a small number of men, in any age, who
have a taste for mental philosophy, or indeed for any works of
abstruse science. No great number of editions of Bacon's No-
vum Organon, or of Newtc;m's Principia, are necessary, to main-
tain these works in their station at the head of modern science.
Excepting in the case of a literary controversy, attracting pub-
lic attention, I apprehend that a book on intellectual or moral
philosophy going in a few years through many editions, may
be safely set down as a very superficial book. Of a class of
100, either in Greek, Logic or Mathematics, how few turn out
to be zealous or eminent in any of these studies ; but the mental
labour which they undergo is useful for all, and for the few
who understand to turn their elementary instruction to account,
it is of the utmost importance that the teacher should be tho..
roughly master of the subject, and qualified to guide them
through the difficulties, and warn them of the dangers, in their
way ;-and in mental science I am thoroughly persuaded that
no man is so qualified who is not imbued with the spirit of
the philosophy of Reid and Stewart. .
It was this conviction which made me feel justified in exert-
ing such little influence as I was told I might chance to possess,
in favour of the candidate for the Logic Chair who had given
the best evidence of being thoroughly instructed in these prin-
ciples; and the same feeling will always prompt me to op-
pose by all fair means (when any may be in my power) the
introduction into the University of any men, (however much,
individually, I may respect them or their supporters,) who pro-
fess that they have a new method of studying and teaching men-
tal science, and that they are to " sweep away" the philosophy
of Reid and Stewart. The pretensions of phrenologists in this
respect have probably attracted to their system a greater share
of public attention than it would otherwise have obtained; but
I am convinced they have been a main cause of the suspicion
and distrust with which it is regarded by a very large propor-
tion of the men of science and learning in this.country. In
the end, such portions of truth as may be ascertained to be-
long to Phrenology, will make their way, notwithstanding the
difficulties which the injudicious pretensions of its present sup-
-;;;;itized byGo<Jgte -
--
AND TBB PHILOSOPHY OF REID AND STEWART. 17
porters have raised in the minds of many well-informed and
truly scientific men; but I much suspect that these pretensions
will ultimately be fatal to the personal reputation of most of
our present phrenological authors.
I must apologize for this unconscionably long letter. I can-
not expect that it will shake any of your opinions; but I hope
it will shew you, that I did not interfere in the affairs of the
Logic class, without having thought repeatedly on the subject,
and formed a deliberate and conscientious, even though it may
be thought a mistaken, opinion.
CONSILIARIUS to ACADEMICUS,
30th Septnnber 1836.
I have received your letter of twent>'-six 4to pages, and return
you many thanks for it. From the mtroductory paragraph, I
presume that you intend it for the public; indeed I am not so
vain as to imagine that yon can have bestowed so much pains
merely for my private edification. I am convinced, however,
that no publication of our corre~pondence can possibly take
place, without a "practical application" to a recent election,
although you seem to think otherwise. I am ready to lay the
whole correspondence before the worlcl. • . . . . If you
object to the printing of the whole, then, let it be understood
that I am at liberty to publish (on the general doctrines, with-
out· practical application) your first and second series of re-
marks, fairly quoted, with answers and farther commentaries;
and that in such form, and at such time, as may best suit my-
self.
ACADEMICUS to CONSILIARIUS.
6th October 1836.
I bored you with so long a letter, that I am not surprised at
your supposing I intended to print it; but I beg to assure you
that I have no such intention. I have kept a copy of it, which
I intend to avail myself of in lectures.
CONSILIARIUS to ACADEMICUS.
12th October 1836.
I regret that you are not to publish your letter against Phre-
nology; for it contains, I verily believe, all that can well be
said on that side, and is expressed in language nowise calculat-
ed to offend. I must now devise some mode of replying, with-
out incurring the imputation of drawing you into a contro-
versy, particularly as you state your intention to use that let-
ter in lectures, in which way, of course, I cannot reply to your
remarks. The introduction of the subject into lectures will do
B
Digitized by Google
)8 · COMPARATIVB ilBRIT8 OF Plt.ftHl!tbL~Y
good ; for eome University students will a.Iii<> attend Mr Comoo~a
lectures in.Argyle Square, and will thu·s be letl W thlnk, ob-
serve, and judge for themselves, which is an that the phtenolO:-
gists desire. By such means, I trust, it will sWh be }Yel"cei\TOO
to which system most credit is due for improvement~ ht educa-
tion, in the treatment of insanity, in the preventioh of crime;
-all objects of the first importance. It is pleasittg lt> 6nd that
you now freely admit, and even specify, " additions,, made to
the Reid and Stewart philosophy by the phrenologists. I hbpe
the new Professor of Logic may prove equally it\genutlUB.
10th Novemher 1836.
I have resolved, in compliance with your wishes, to avoid
taking any farther notice of the implied censure contained in
Sir W. Hamilton's letter to the Council,--0f ·can\Tassing; &e.
I shall likewise leave out every allusion to Mr Taylor; and con-
fine myself to your remarks on Phrenology. I am preparing
the article for the Phrenological Journal: I ·shall quote fairlyt
the only changes being ve1·bal ones rend-ered unavoidable.
The general candour of your long letter I acknowle<Ie:-e,
But you are perhaps hypercritical in one or two instances: for
example, you put more stress on my expression" sweep away,'"
than my use of it warranted ; for I used it antithetically; you
having alleged that Phrenology coµld only add to Reid and
Stewart's philosophy, and I having rejoined that it would
" rather sweep it away." Again, when I said that there are
"many kinds of memory," I could not mean that every organ
had its distinct " memory" attached to it ; for this would have
been like constituting memory an original or separate power,
the very thing I was denying.
If the Editors choose to add notes or comments, I shall wil-
lingly remain silent, satisfied that the discussion will be con-
ducted by abler hands.
I shall call you Academicus and myself Consiliarius. But anx
one who has read Mr Hewett Watson's little 'Work, will not fail
to perceive who is the Professor a1luded to.
17th November 1836.
The editorial remarks have assumed the shape of a Letter
from Mr Combe to Consiliarius. Mr C. gives his own name,
and he evidently alludes to you, although without naming you.
Your reasonings are, I think, completely answered; but I need
scarcely add, that the argument is conducted in a gentl-erna'n·
like style.
Digitized by Google-- ~
AND '1'88 HtLeeofoRY' ~11' ltlUb AND ITBWART. 19
Mlt U. COM1'~ 'l'O C'oltstLIAlUUS.
MT DttAR Stu, En1Nnu•ae, 16/h Nwember 11136.
I have perused, with much iDtereat, the correapoodenoe be-
tween you aod Acade1Ricus, and particularly his letter to you
dated i6th September. A& he holds the office of a public
teacher of Phylliology, and has announoed his intention of using,
io his lectures, the observations on Phrenology contained in
that letter; and as I perceive that these observations go deeply
into the merits both of the phrenological doctrines themselves,
and of the authors who now nmintain them ; I hope that I may
be allowed, \fithout being guilty of presumption, to offer for
your consideratiun some remarks, in answer to the objections
and ar~umcnts of your friend•
.Academicua commences by atating, that he has not studied
the evidence adduced by Gall and Spurzheim, and their follow-
er8' in regard to the appropt-iation of different parts of the brain
ro diJferent facultiet1, so carefully as perh11ps. he ought to have
done, and he assigns various reasons for this omiasion. I shall
examine these reasons in detail, after having discussed two other
points, which he also introduces, and which have more of a pre-
liminary character.
Academicus quotes from Mr Stewart's Preliminary Disser-
tation a passage, in which that author refers to observations on
the intellectual and moral phenomena presented by the minds
of our fellow creatures, as sources of instruction to the student
al mental philosophy; but Mr Stewart, both professedly and
dractically, confines himself es~tially to observations on his
own consciousness as the basis of his philosophy. In the same
Dissertation we find the following sentences : " I have attempt-
ed to shew," says Mr Stewart, " that the legitimate provilk!e
of this department of philosophy extends no farther than to
conclusions resting on the solid basis of observation and expe-
riment; and I have accordingly, in my own inquiries, aimed at
, nothing more than to ascertain, in the first place, the laws of
011r constitution, aa far as they can he discovered by attemi<m
tQ the auhjects ef our consciouaneas; • and afterwanls to apply
these laws as principles for the synthetical explanation of the
more complicated phenomena of the understanding." (P·. ~.)
His observations on the minds of others are professedly merely
incidental and accessory. He sayi::, " The whole of a philosa-
pher's life, indeed, if he spends it to any purpose, is one conti-
nued series of experiments on kia ortmfacultiea and power.¥ ; and
the superiority he possesses over others, arises chiefly from the
• These italics are Mr Stewart's own.
R fl
Digitized by Google
20 COJllPARATIVB JllBRITS OF PHRENOLOGY
. general rules (never, perhaps, expressed verbally even to him-
self) which he has deduced from these experiments." (P. 40.)
He pro1:eeds, " As to the minds of otliers, it is undoubtedly
but seldom that we have the means of subjecting them to for-
mal and premeditated experiments. But even here, many ex-
ceptions occur to the general assertion which I am now com-
bating." (Ibid.) That this is a correct representation of Mr
Stewart's opinions admits of abundant proof. In his Elements
of the Philosophy of the Human Mind, he says: "By con-
fining their attention to' the sensible qualities of body, and to
the sensible phenomena it exhibits, we know what discoveries
natural philosorhers have made ; and if the labours of meta-
physicians shal ever be rewarded with similar success, it can
only be by attentive and patient reflection on tlte S'tl~jects eftkeir
mon consciousness.'' (P. 8.) Again, in the same work, he says.
" My leading object is to ascertain the principles of our nature,
in so far as they can be discovered by attention to the subjects
of our own consciousness; and to apply these principles to ex-
plain the phenomena arising from them.'' (P. 12.) I therefore
regard the observation in your letter to Academicus on this
su~ject as amply borne out by these authorities. Mr Stewart
is one of the most inconsistent authors that ever published on
the philosophy of mind. In his works a constant conflict is
obvious between the results of his vicious· system of philoso-
phising and the plain dictates of common observation and rea-
son. In one page his speculative philosophy prevails; while
in the next some judicious remarks, obviously drawn from ob-
servations on other men, intrude themselves. From this cir-
cumstance, Academicus may easily St>lect particular passages in
support of his assertion that Mr Stewart's philosophy is not
confined to reflection on consciousness as its basis ; but not on-
ly the passages which I have now quoted, but the general tenor
of his writings, and the conclusions at which he arrives, prove
the reverse.
Academicus admit!", that if the connexion of individual por-
.tions of the brain with particular mental acts were ascertained,
we should have a manifest addition to our knowledge of the
mind, but an addition strictly within the province of the philo-
sophy of Reid and Stewart ; and he is particularly anxious to
shew that Phrenology, in so far as it shall prove to be true,
will be nothing more than an " addition to their system, formed
on their principles,-not a substitution of another."
This point is perhaps not very much worth contending about;
but my opinion is, that, as the philosophy of Newton swept away
the· philosophy of pescartes,.in the same sense will Phrenology
supersede the doctrmes of Reid and Stewart, as systems of mental
philosophy. So far as the hypothesis of Descartes assumed the
Digitized by Google
AND THE PHILOSOPHY OF REID AND S'TEWAR'f, 21
existence and motions of the heavenly bodies, it was not over-
turned by Newton, whose philosophy was founded on the same
physical phenomena ; and, in like manner, so far as Dr Reid
and Mr Stewart have corrt>Ctly observed and recorded the pheno-
mena of mind, th~ir observations will preserve their value. But
they will be valuable in the same sense and for the same reason
that the observations of Shakspeare and Sir Walter Scott on hu-
man nature are so--because they are descriptions of real pheno-
mena, and not because they give a true and satisfactory view of
the principles and l'elations of the phenomena, which alone consti-
tutes a science. Academicus remmds me of the Buddhist priests
in Ceylon : the missionaries frequently found no great difficulty
in convincing them of the excellencies of the Christian religion,
which they were willing to engraft upon their own ; but they
never could be made to admit that Christianity should " sweep
away" the doctrines of Buddhu.
Dr Reid and Mr Stewart admitted in general terms, as Aca-
demicus does, that a connexion subsists between the mind and
the brain ; but in their whole doctrines the following considera-
tions are overlooked :-
1. The influence of the condition of the brain, as to age, size,
health, and temperament, on the mental manifestations.
~. The connexion of particular parts of the brain with par-
ticular mental faculties. ·
3. The influence of the size and condition of each particular
part on the mental faculty which it serves to manifest.
A description of the phenomena of mind, omitting these con-
siderations, hears the same relation to mental science which a
detail of the phenomena of vision, omitting all notice of the
structure of the eye and its laws of action, would bear to optics.
Science is perfect only in proportion as it embraces and eluci-
dates the causes and relations of the phenomena of which it
treats. Tried by this test, the philosophy of Reid and Stewart
is extremely defective; for it omits all practical consideration
of the material organs of the mind, on the condition of which
depend its power of acting in this life, the degree of its vigour,
the soundness of its perceptions, and the strength of its different
functions. ·
Not only is it chargeable with these actual deficiencies, but its
methods do not admit of their being supplied. Mr Stewart, as l
have said, repeatedly refers to our own consciousness as the grand
source of information in mental philosophy, to which Academicus
adds" inferences as to the mental acts of others;" but neithe1· re-
flection on consciousness, nor inferences regarding the mental acts
of others, will enable us to discover the influence of the brain on
the mental faculties. We are not conscious of the influence of
the organs on the faculties, and, in observing the actions ofother
Digitized by Google
men, we do not perceive indications of the influence of tbei•
brains. We must go a step farther. We m1llt compare the
condition, as to 1ize, health, age, and tem.pe~ment of th~ir brains,
and oi' each particular part ·of them, with their power• ormani-
festing the mind and it• particular faeultit;li; and, whatevel'
" fallacies" thi1 method may be liable to, no progress can poss\.
bly be made in discovering the in6uence of the organiaation
until this shall be done.
Academieus is disposed to admit the oonneetion of the fore
part of th«' brain with the strictly imtelleetual acts, and of the
propensities. and sentiments with the upper and back parts of it.
This connection, in favour of which he ihioka there is a strong
probability, could not be discovered except by comparing the
power of manifesting those mental powers with the condition of
those parts of the brain ; au.d why not pursue the same method
into its more minute details? Thia i1 like a naturalist who
ihould admit ordera and genera, but refuse to inquire Into the
characteristics of 11pecies and vari(lties, on the ground that this
1aat. investigation· (although identical in its principles with that·
which had led him to make these admiSBioni) appeared to him
" to be liable to very_ considerable falladei,,,
The imperfect and enoneous nature of the methods pursued
in Reid and Stewart's philcsophy becomes apparent when con-
templated in their results.
First, In regard to the .ftelingw.-Phrenologi11te admit that
Reid and Stewart, and other metaphy11ical authors, hav.e enume.,
rated, undel'. the hel\Cl of the" active powers," a number of pri-
aiitive desires and emotions, which are found to havQ ot"g811• io
the brain ; for instanee the love of offsering, the love of fame,
the desire of society, and some others: But they observ~ 181;
That no notice is taken by these authors of the inflt¥?nee of' the
eondition of particular parts of the brain, on -the vigour with
whioh these and the other desires are experienced, and that this
influence is so importallt, that the mere eoumeration of the emo-
tions, without adverting to the organs, is no more entitled to be
regarded as the science of mind, than observatiens on the re-
volutions of the planets considered apart ffom the laws of mo-
tion and gravitation are entitled to be called the science of astro-
nomy ; 'J.dly, That many desires and erpotions are altogether
omitted in their enumerations, such as the inclination to destroy,
the tendency t~ conceal, the tendency to construct, the tendency
to venerate, and others; Sdlg, That the existence of the most im-
portant tendencies and emotions is a subject of dispute among
them, while their principles of investigation afford no satisfac-
tory means of settling the differences of opinion : for example,
Mr Stewart denies that the love of property is a primitive fa-
culty of the min<l, and ascribes avarice to association ; he and
Digitized by Google
A'SD TBB JIHI,l.OSOPBY .OF BBID AND 8TBW.4BT. 2S
Reid admit a benevolent affection, while Hobbes and others deny
it; he and Brown admit a native sentiment of justice, while
Mandeville, Hume, and Paley reject it, and Sir James Mack-
intosh considers conscience as a compound result of many af-
fections. While philosophers refer only to their own consc10us-
ness, they cannot settle these disputes satisfactorily; because
some men are ·conscious, and others are not conscious, of the
emotions. Even when they call in the aid of observation on the
acts of other men, the,Y fail to arrive at certainty; because if the
observer be deficient m the feeling himself, he does not easil.r
recognise it in the acts of others, but is apt to ascribe their
Olanifestations of it to other affections better known to himself:
and, moreover, some men do, while others do not, manifest these
feelinga, so that two observers might report different results,
and eE\ch adduce real instances in support of his conclusion.
By the phrenological method of observation, these difficulties
are greatly diminished. Each student is info1·med that he has
the strongest consciousnellS of those inclinations and emotions,
the organs of which are largest in his own brain. If he be very
deficient in the organ of Conscientiousness, he is warned that his
own consciousness is not a trustworthy index of the existence
and strength of the feeling in other men. If he possess that
tugan large, then he is acquainted with the emotion, and he is
capable of observing the presmce or absence of its manifesta-
tions in other men. By comparing the siie of a certain part of
the brain with the vigour of this emotion, he may obtain de-
monstrative evidence of its existence. Cases of imperfect mani-
festation of it by 110me individuals, if found in connection with
a deficiency in the organ, will become additional proof.'! of its
existence, instead of operating as facts negative of its reality.
Seomidly, in Pjlgard to the intellectualfoculties.-Academicus
affirms, that the phrenologists, in contending for the existence
Qf different faculties of Form, Colouring, and others, merely
U.1¥3 the term faculty in a different sense from that in which
it i11 employed by Reid and Stewart. He says that Reid and
Stewart described " distinctions among the acts of the mind
thi::m11elves ;" while the phrenologists, in the" instances now
mentioned, arrange the study according to the oqjects to which
.these acts are directed. There are much greater differences
than these,-the extent of which will again appear by the
results. The phrenologists admit Perception, Conception,
Memory, Imagination, and Judgment, to be acts of the mind,
but not faculties. What they mean by a faculty will be
understood by taking the example of an organ. There is an
organ of Colouring, for instance. 'When it is large and ac-
tive, the individual is capable of perceiving, conceiving, re-
meml;>ering, and imagining colours, with vigour and facility;
Digitized by Google
24 COMPA.RA.'J'IVE MERl1
1'8 OF PHRENOLOGY
when it is slightly deficient, he is capable of perceiving and re-
membering them, but has little power of imagination in regard
to them-he could not, for instance, invent new combinations
of them to enable him to paint unwonted appearances of CO-
iours in nature; when more deficient, he is capable only of
perceiving, but not of remembering them; and when ,·ery de-
ficient, he cannot even perceive them distinctly; When the or-
gan is spontaneously active, he conceives colours vividly; .when
it is stimulated by disease, he sees colours that have no outward
existence. The same illustrations might be given in regard to
the organs and faculties of Form, Number, and others. Now,
what Ueid and Stewart did was to describe the acts of percep-
tion, conception, memory, imagination, and judgment, in gene-
ral, and to call thesejacultie.Y. The extent of difference between
this and the phrenological method of expounding the science of
mind, admits of easy illustration.
Imagine one phyi;iologist, when treating of secretion, to de-
scribe its mere general pheno111ena, and to mention that these
are performed by the body in general; and another to proceed
to an exposition of the stomach, as the organ which secretes the
gastric juice, of the liver as that which secrett-s bile, and of the
salivary glands as those which secrete saliva. Suppose the
latter farther to point out the structure, modes of action, and
relations of each of these organs, and to explain the effects of the
state of it on its own peculiar secretions; suppose him also to
describe the phenomena which are common to all these secreting
organs, and to deduce general laws applicable to them all, but
still to discriminate the peculiar functions, modes of action, and
laws of each-which would have best unfolded the science of
secretion? Undoubtedly the latter.
Again, suppose one philosopher to describe sensation as a
general mental power, and the body as its organ ; and another
to distinguish e!lch variety of sensation, to ascribe it to its own
peculiar organ, and to expound the effect which the state of that
organ had on the sensations connected with it-which of them
would deserve the credit of having taught the philosophy of
sensation? Assuredly the one who had expounded the parti-
cular organs. And would it not be more correct to apply the
term fac'1Jlty to each of the senses, than to use that word m re-
ference to some general act performed alike by them all ?
These cases are illustrations of the differences between the
philosophy. of the intellectual faculties taught by Reid and
Stewart, and that expounded by Gall and Spurzheim, aud their
followers.
Farther, what opinion should we form of the physiologist
who, having announced that secretion in general is performed
by the body in general, should affirm that those who opposed
Digitized by Google
AND TBB PRILOIOPBY OP RKJD AND STBWART. 25
this notion, and who had established distinct organs of secre-.
tion, with distinct products, had merely classified the pheno-
mena of secretion according to their products, and made addi-
tions to hia system r We should admire his confidence more
than his discrimination ; yet this is parallel to the statement of
Academicus, that Drs Gall and Spurzheim have only classified
the mental phenomena according to their o~ject8, and made ad-
ditions to the philosophy of Reid and Stewart. It would be
necessary to" sweep away" the whole doctrine of secretion be-
ing one general function, and of its being performed by one
general organ, before a single step could be made in establish-
ing the sound philosophy of that function ; and the same con-
clusion holds good in regard to the intellectual philosophy of
Reid and Stewart.
The organs of the different faculties exist and produce
their natural effects, and common language is full of expres-
sions indicative of the existence and activity of the related
faculties. For example, men speak of individuals as being
addicted to pride, to avarice, or to vanity ; of others, as ha-
ving talents for drawing, or for painting, or for mechanics,
and so on; while other individuals are mentioned as being de-
ficient in these powers. These facts have intruded themselves
as it ·were into the writings of Dr Reid and Mr Stewart, but
they form no part of their philosophy. Indeed, they are ex-
cluded by that of Mr Stewart. After enumerating Conscious-
ness, Pei-ception, Attention, Conception, &c. as intellectual
powers, he adds: " Besides these intellectual faculties, which in
some degree are common to the whole species, tltere are ot/1er
more complicated power8 or capacitiu, which are gradually
.formed BY PARTICUJ.AR HABITS OF STUDY 011. OF BUSINESS.
Such are the Puwer ef Ttute; a GKNIUS Foa POETRY, .for
P.AINTING,.for MUSIC,jor .MATHEMATICS; with all the intellec-
tual habit8 acquired in the different professions of life."-(Out-
lines of Mor. Phil. p. 16.)
According to the phrenological system, a genius for poetry
depends on a fine temperament, combined with a large deve-
lopment of certain parts of the brain. A genius for music de-
pends on certain other parts being highly developed; and a
genius for mathematics on still otlter parts being largely pos-
sessed; high temperament being always added. According to
Mr Stewart's philosophy, these powers are not the gifts of na-
ture, but are gradually formed by particular habits of study or
of business. Nothing can be more dissimilar than these results,
and the cause of the dissimilarity is to be found in the difference
of the modes of philosophizing· adopted by him and the phre-
nologists. He mistook mere general acts of all the intellectual
faculties for faculties themselves. Perception, for instance, is
Digitized by Google
SMI CQll•.lU"tTQ .1unnTt N' ~IUUPtO~Y
the result of the }qwet\ dQgPee of activity in eiwll of the p~
nological organs dev<1ted to Intellect, such (ill Form, ColQUring,
Number, &c. Conception results from another mode of ®Uon
in each of theae; a11d Imagination from 2' third mode of ae.-
tion. But there i11 the same difference between these mod@li of
action and the primitive facnltiea theffl~lve& that thel'e itt be-
tween Sensation, regarded as a geuer~ pnwer. and Visioo,
Smell, and Hearing, as particular faculties of sensation.
In point of fact, the philo110phy of Conception, \ler®pt.iP..n,
Memory, and Imagination, was not known until it was ex~ned
by phrenologist11 ~ and so far was Mr Stewart from being p.,c..
quainte<i with it, thit.t in his philosophical writings there ht a OOJlT
founding of primitive faculties with modes of actiun, and with
the law& of their action, which proves that he had not attRined to
systernatio views on the su~ject, The fol}Qwing s~teoce, which
ooours in tht- "Very threshold of his Elements, affords a &triking
illustration of this remark:,......." Uµ® a slight att~Qtioo to the
operations uf our own mind," says he, ''they &ppear to he_,
oomplicated, and so infinitely diversified, th•t it seems to oo
jmpollSible to Peduc~ them to any general laws, ln consequence,
however, of a more accllrate examination, the prospect oleaf8
up ; and the pheuomena which appeared at first to he too va.
rious for our comprehension, are found to be the result of a
comparatively small nmpher of simple and uneompounded fa..
culties, or of simple and unoompounded prineiples of action."
It is extremely difficult to comprehend the d(atiftl:#iwJ between
u.faculliea'' and '' priueipks <!!' adi~" which ia ~bviou&ly im..
plied in the tepms of this sentence. Mr $tewart proceeds:
u Thesefaetllties a'lld prfociple.s ar• tke GEl';ElU.I. LAWS c!f cnw
COfislitulion, and hold the ume place in the philosophv of' mind,
that the general laws we inve11tigate in physics hold in that
brarich of science." This ia evidently erronCQus. The pro.
pensity of Destructiveness~ for example, is a pPimitive faculty,
and it acts according to certain laws. One of these laws is, that
it is e'!'oited by injury or provocation; and that it lies dormant
when its possessor is gratified. Under certain influences it may
become diseased, and then it is a law of its constitution that it
becomes extremely vigorous, and ungovernable by the other
faculties, and that it adds greatly to the energy of muscular
action. The propensity itself is a primitive faculty of our na-
ture, and the phenomena which it exhibits take place regularly,
and this regularity is metaphorically expressed by saying that
it acts according to certain laws, whioh are called laws of our
constitution ; but there is a want of discrimination in mistaking
the laws which the propensity observes, or its mode of action,
for the propensity itself, which ].\fr Stewart here obviously does.
The same want of ~netratio.D is apparent in hi8 remark in i·e.
Digitized by Google
AND 'l'... J'.ftl..QliOPBY QI' &Jiil> ;.\NP l\':!-'~lV.A,JlT· A1
~ w the objects of our investigation in physkal dence. h
!& true, that in astronomy, the objects of our investigation .-re
ihe la:111s which the principle of gravita,tion obeys ; but in che-
mistry, which js equally a physical science, the elementa Md
the inherent pr~rties or qualities of substances, whatever the&e
may be, are the ultimate object of investigation, juet 8.$ the pri-
mitive faculties are in mind. The modes of ~tion of chemical
substances, IUld the laws which they obey, are obviously dis.
tinct objects of study from the substances themselves. The mi-
neralogist, fo.r instance, studiea the diamond, simply as it exists;
while the chemist investigates it& elements, and its modes of
a<ition when exposed tQ heat and other external influence&.
.Again, it has long been disputed, what cal<Yric is in itself, whether
it be a fWJatance, or a state merely arising from certain modes
Qf action in matter. But the laws which it obeys in being ra..
diated, in being reflected, and in being concentrated, are clearly
distinct objtlet11 of consideration from its substance, and yet Mr
Stewart confounds them. This incapacity to discriminate be.
tween primitivefaculties and their modes of action, runs through
11lQlQSt all his writings. Sometimes be recognises original prin-
ciples distinQt}y, as in pp. 867, 371, 3'7~. On other occasions,
be lose8 Bight of the distinction between them and modes of
l.\Ction,
Having thus stated the extent to which the philosophy of
Dr Gall will '4 sweep away" that of Reid and Stewart, and the
djffe.rences between them, I revert to the reasons of Academi-
cus " for not studying so carefully as perhaps he ought to have
done," the evidence adduced by the phrenologists. He says,
'' Measurement of skulls, and comparison of these with the
known characters of their owners, have always appeared to me
to he liable to very ctmsiderable .foilacies, affecting both the
pl1ysical and the mental parts of theile observations ; and, there-
fore, to be inadequate to the purpose of fixing the size of the
different portions of the brain, tml.es8 aupported and confirmed
by other ob1Mvatians. I can conceive them to derive that SUP-
port and confirmation from three sourceil,~from comparative
anatomy,-...from the resulti of experiments on animals,~and
from the effects of injury or di11ease of individual portions of
the brain in the human body. But, after taking some pains
in the inquiry, I have come to the conclusion, that ftom none
efthese sources ef information JS there any cm!ffrmation of the
special appropriation of the different parts of the brain to the
different acts of mind, which the phrenologists consider as a~
certained."
These reasons are not philosophical. It must either be, or
not be, possible to compare the size and condition of different
parts of the brain with the mental powers and dispositions ma-
Digitized by Google
COMPARATIVE MERITS OF PHRENOLOGY
nifested by individuals. If it be p<>s1tihle, the thing should he
done, without regard to its derivmg support and confirmation
from any other source. Difficulty offers no apology for not
doing it. Academicus, standing in the situation of a public
teacher, seems bound, in duty to his pupils, to make reasonable
efforts in order to ascertain whether so great an addition to hu-
man knowledge in his department as the discovery of the func-
tions of different parts of the brain has in reality been made.
Phrenology is a science of observation, and the most ration-
al, the most certain, nnd the most speedy way of ascertaining
the real merits of its pretensions is, for the inquirer to repeat
the observations in the manner pointed out, after duly qualify-
ing himself to do so. It is strange that there should be so
great an aversion to follow this plain course in regard to Phre-
nology. Dr Roget proposed to inquire into the competency
of Drs Gall and Spurzheim to make their alleged discoveries,
before he would put them to the test of observation; and now,
Academicus abstains from studying the evidence, because it ap-
pears to him to be liable to " very considerable fallacies," un-
less supported by other observations. Phrenologists have never
asked any one to admit their doctrines on the faith of their re-
corded cases, but have constantly said,-Appeal to nature.
Academicus would have ascertained the truth of Phrenology
by appealing to Nature in half the time that he has spent in ar-
gtiing the question whether he should do so or not.
But I shall advert to the alleged sources of fallacy them-
selves.
The.first element in the evidence in favour of phrenology is,
that the size of the different parts of the brain (the functions of
which are described as ascertained), may be discovered during
life. This, I presume, is the physical part of the fallacies. On
this point I refor to the following authorities.
Magendie, in his Compendium of Physiology, says, that "the
only way of estimating the volume ef the brain in a living per-
son, is to measure the dimensions efthe skull; every other means,
even that proposed by Camper, is uncertain."
Sir Charles Bell also observes, " that the bones of the head
are moulded to the brnin, and the peculiar shapes of the bones
of the head are determined by the original peculiarity in the
shape of the brain." Dr Gordon likewise, in the 49th number
of the Edinburgh Review, has the following words: " But
we will acquiesce implicitly for the present in the proposition
(familiar to physiologists long before the age of Gall and
Spurzheim), that there is, in most instances, a general corres-
pondence between the size of the cranium and the quantity of
cerebrum; that large heads usually contain large brains, and
small heads small brains."-(P. 246.)
Digitized by Google
AND THE PBIL080PBY OP REID AND STEWART. 29
If the whole skull indicate correctly the size of the whole
brain, it is not unreasonable to believe'that the development of
different parts of it, with certain exceptions (which are stated
by phrenologists), will indicate the size of different parts of the
bram.
~dly, As to the mental fallacies, by which I presume Acade-
micus means the difficulty of ascertaining the real charactc:r of
the individual observed. I have discussed this subject in my
System of Phrenology, 4th edition, p. 85-7. But there is another
answer, which Academicus will perhaps 6nd more constringent.
In the second paragraph of his letter he says, that the founda-
tions of the philosophy of Reid ancl Stewart .are " i11/erenctNJ aa
to the mental acts efotherl>., as well as co11sc1ousness of mental
actions in ourselves." The words here in Italics must mean,
that the philosophy of Reid and Stewart is founded partly on
observations made on the mental acts of other men. If such
observations be competent to afford a foundation for their phi-
losophy, why is the same practice liable to very considerable
fallacies when resorted to by phrenologists?
Academicus state11, however, as a further apology for not
studying the evidence, that the conclusions drawn by the phre-
nologists derive no support or confirmation "from comparative
anatomy,-from the results of exreriments on animals,-from
the effects of injury or disease o individual portions of the
brain." I beg leave to offer a few observations on each of these
topics.
lat, As to Comparative Anatomy. Cuvier, speaking of the
cerebral lobes being the place " where all the sensations take a
distinct form, and leave durable impressions;" adds, " L'ana"'
tomie comparee en offre un autre confirmation dans la propor-
tion constante du volume de ces lobes av~c le degre d'intelli-
gence des animaux."-(Jteport to the French Institute in 18~2
on the Experiments of Flourens.) And it is elsewhere stated by
the same eminent naturalist, that " certain parts of tho brain,
in all classes of animals, are lar{!,e or small according to certain
qualitus of the animals."-(Anat. Comp. tom. ii) This is
pretty strong authority; to which more might be added. The
general conclusions from the comparative anatomy of the brain
are ably stated in the 94th number of the Edinburgh Review:
" It is in the nervous system alone that we can trace a gradual
progress in the provision for the subordination of one (animal)
to another, and of all to man; and are enabled to associate
every faculty which gives superiority with some addition to the
nervous mass, even from the smallest indications of sensation
and will, up to the highest degree of sensibility, judgment, and
expression. The brain is observed progressively to be im-
proved in its structure, and, with reference to the sp~nal mar-
Digitized by Google
row and nerv~ augmented in volume ntore attd tnOh!, Until
we re&ch the hutnan brain, each addition being marked by St>tne
addition to, or llmplification of, the powers of the animal,........un-
til in man we behold it possessing some parts of which animals
are destitute, and wanting none which theirs passess." .
18 Academfcm; acquainted with Dr Vimont's " Treatise on
Human and Comparative Phrenology ?n In that work Dr
Vimont delineates, in plates pnssessing the highest qualities 0£
fidelity and beauty, the btams and skulls of a variety of ani-
mals, and points out the connexion between particular parts
and particular instincts or powers.. Academicus -.vill probably
treat this wotk with contempt, because Dr Vimont i'! a phreno-
logist. Dr Vimont, however, was an antiphrenologist until he
made the investigations which he has now published; and it
was Nature that forced him to change hi8 opinions. Further~
his plates are ·visible and tangible; the brains and skulls of the
animals delineated are easily accessible; and their instincts are,
in many particulars, generally acknowledged. On what prin-
ciple of reason, then, is Academicus entitled to avert his eyes
and his understanding from such facts; and, without being able
to affirm that they are erroneous, to allege that they affb'rd nt>
confirmatio\1 of the appropriation of diff'erent faculties m dif-
ferent parts of the brain ?
Academicus proceeds: ~' Indeed, as to Comparative Anatomy,
you must probably be aware, that the result of observations in
that .scienc~ g~s compl~tely to di~prove the !dea, that any fired
relation exists m the different tribes of animals, between the
degree of intelligence that can be observed in them, and the
size or complexity of structure, or indeed any circtematance ef
structure that has yet been pointed out in their brains."
My information on this subject is very diffurent. Desmtm-
lins and Magendie state (Anatomie des Systernes Nerv-eux des
Animaux vertebres, p. 6~0), that in numerous examinations of
the brains of almost every genus of the mammalia, they found
a nearly constant.re!ation between the extent of surfa~ p~
sented by the bram m each genus, and the amount of mtelli-
gence displayed by it. "Where diffure'nces occur in oneof these
points, differences are stated to be usually found in the othel',
not only between different genera, hut between ditferent spe-
cies of the same genus, and also between different individuals
of the same species. Professor Tiedemann of Heidelberg, in
his work on the Brains of Apes and of some other animals, has
accurately ~elineated and described the progre~siv~ diminution
and final disappearance of the folds of the bram m the mam.
malia, from the Apes down to the Rodentia; and, according to
Desmoulins (p. 60fl), this progression corresponds exactly with
the diminution of intelligence. The most striking diiference
Digitized by Google
.&ND ..H. PBU.Ol!OPBY M' ••ID AR.Ill llTBW'tlRT. II
exists between the apes of the old world and those of the llew.
Many of the former are capable of being trained and employed
for useful purposes, while the latter are incapable of instruc-.
tion, and scarcely exceed squirrels in the degree of their intelli-
gence. This corresponds with the state of the convolutions.
In sotne dogs, especially those employed in hunting, the con-
volutions are scarcely less numerous and deep than in the higher
tribes ofapes; while in the less intelligent species, and in wolves,
they exist in a much inferior degree of development Every
one must have been struck by the great difference as to docility
observable between dogs and cats~ an equally strikin1t differ-
ence is found in the appearances presented by the number and
depth of the convolutions of their brains...-...i. difference so great,
that Desmoulins estimates the convolutions Qf the dog to ex..
ceed by six or eight times those of the cat. The paucity of
convolutions found in the cat prevails throughout the entire
genus to which it belongs. 1.'hat genus, Felis, which includes
the cat, lion, tiger, panther, and other animals of a similar na-
ture, is likewise remarkable for the unifbrmity observed in the
number and arrangement of the convolutions in the different
s~ies ; and in no genus are the species more distinguished for
similarity of disposition, for through none do the faculties of
Secretiveness and Destructiveness prevail in so extreme a de-
gree of strength.
Sir Charles Bell observes : " When we compare the structure
of the brain in different animals, we find that in certain lower
classes there are no convolutions ; the surface of the cineritious
matter is uniform. As we ascend in the scale of beings, we
6nd the extent of the cineritious .matter increesed. To admit
of this, it is convoluted, and tire depth of the sulci is the con•
sequence of the extension of the great cineritious mass ; and in
man .above all other animals are the convolutions numerous
and the sulci deep, abd consequently the cineritious mass, and
its extension of surface, far beyond that of all other creatures."
(Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 885.)
Farther, I have pointed out to hundreds of students the dif..
ference between the skulls of carnivorous and herbivorous ani..
mals ; between tire tiger and the sheep ; between the cat, dog,
and fox, and the doe ; and between the cat and the hare. in
the region immediately above and behind the ear, the situation
-0f the organs of Destructiveness and Secretiveness. The parts
are so much larger in the carnivorous than the herbivorous
-animals-; that it is impo~sible to fail in perceiving the differenc~
unless the eyes be utterly blinded by prejudice. I have exhi..
bited also the difference between the skull of the beaver and
that of the dog and fox in the region of Constructiveness.
Does Academicus deny these facts ; or has he only not attend~
- Ul\:JlllLt'U uy __.,.._,'-'g.._e
COMPARATIVE JIBRITB OF PHRENOLOGY
ed to them? They assuredly afford some confirmation of the
appropriation of different parts of the brain to different in-
stincts in these animals.
Finally on this topic: Academicus admits that there are rea-
8()nable grounds for ascribing the intellect to the anterior lobe,
and the feelings to the posterior and upper regions of the brain.
Quttritur, Where did he find the evidence for this opinion ?
The method of direct comparison of size with manifestations
is liable, he says, to " very considerable fallacies," and he has
never practised it; while comparative anatomy, according to
him, " gr>es completely to disprove the idea that any relation
exists between the degree of intelligence and any circumstance
of size or structure in the brain." If these sources of informa-
tion be excluded, it will be difficult for him to shew the reason-
ableness of the admissions which he is disposed to make.
3d~IJ, The next reason assigned by Academicus for not study-
ing the evidence adduced by Gall and Spurzheim and their fol-
lowers is, that their conclusions are not supported by " the re-
sults of experiments on animals." On this topic I shall simply
refer you to the following report of a discourse delivered by
Sir Charles Bell before the Anatomical Section of the British
Association, which appeared in the Scotsman newspaper of the
13th September 1834.
" On Thursday and Friday, there was a numerous attend-
ance.in the Anatomical Section, when Sir Charles Bell gave an
interesting exposition of his views of the nervous system. He
was the first to <lemonstrate what other physiologists had pre-
viously conjectured to be probable, viz. the existence of sepa-
rate nerves of motion and of sensation. His statement was a
recapitulation of his publications, and we did not observe that
he added any new facts. In several particulars we were grati-
fied by his exposition, as marking the certain, although slow,
progress of truth. Dr Spurzheim, when he visited Edinburgh
in 1816, maintained that the uses of the brain could not be
philosophically ascertained by mutilations of the brains of ani-
mals; but he was ridiculed for saying so, and it was asserted
that this was one of his numerous back-doors for escaping from
adverse evidence. Flourens and Magendie in France, Sir \Vil-
liam Hamilton here, and various other·individuals, have, in the
interval, performed numerous experiments on the brains of the
lower creatures, and published results which have been exten-
sively cited as evidence against Phrenology. Yesterday, Sir
Charles Bell explicitly stated, that he also had made such ex-
periments, ·and had obtained no satisfactory results; and he
then shewed why he had failed, and why all other experiment-
ers must fail who pursue this method of inquiry. These ex-
periments always, and necessarily, involve a great shock to the
Digitized by Google
AND THB PHILOSOPHY OF REID AND STEWART. 3.1
nervous system in general, and cannot be confim..>d in their ef-
fects to the part cut out. We may add,-If we do not know
what office the part performs in health, how can we know whe-
ther the function has ceased in co118e<p1R11re 9f the ablation or
not? It may be true, that if we were to cut out the organ of
Tune from the brain of a cana1·y, the bird \rnuld ne\'er sing
again ; but if, in ignorance of what part is that organ, we were
to cut out any other portion of the brain, with a view to dis-
cover it, we should be disappointed; because, whatever part
we injured, the effect on its singing would always be the same;
it would cease to sing, for the obvious reason that singing and
a mangled brain are not compatible in nature. We rejoiced to
hear this method of imestigation renounced and condemned by
so great an authority."
4tkly, The last reason of Academicus for not studying the
evidence is, that the results derive no support or confirmation
from" the effects ofinjury or disease of individual portions of the
brain." Such a statement could proceed only from a person who
had confined his reading to the- reports of non-phrenological or
of anti-phrenological authors. In the Phrenological Journal,
as well as in other phrenological publications, there are many
well authenticated cases, shewing that these results receive the
strongest confirmation and support from the effects of disease or
injury of individual portions of the brain. ·Among the testimo-
nials which I had the honour of presenting to the Town Coun-
cil of Edinburgh in June and July 1886, when I became a can-
didate for the Logic Chair, are several from physicians to luna-
tic asylums, who testify in direct opposition to the assumption
made by Academicus. Sir W. C. Ellis, superintendent of
the Asylum at Hanwell, says : " It is unnecessary for him to
inform Mr Combe that, residing amidst 600 lunatics, no day
passee over in which the truth of Phrenology is not exemplified."
Dr James Scott, surgeon to th~ Royal Hospital at Haslar, and
medical superir.tendent of the Royal Naval Lunatic Asylum,
says: " As I have been for nearly ten years the medical attend-
ant of the Lunatic Asylum in this great hospital, my opportu-
nities, at least, of observing have been great indeed; and a daily
intercourse with the unfortunate inctividuals entrusted to my
care and management (whose number has never been less than
one hundred and thirty persons, and often many more), has
firmly, because experimentally, convinced me that mental disor-
der and moral delinquency can he rationally combated only by
the application of Phrenology." H. A. Galbraith, Esq., sur-
geon to the Glasgow Royal Lunatic As.vlum, says : " Situated
as I am in the midst of a wide field for observation, more parti-
cularly in regard to disordered mental manifestations, I have
been for several years past led to compare these with the phre-
c
Digitized by Google
COMPARATIVE MERITS OF PHRENOLOGY
nological development of the individuals in whom they appear-
ed ; and from the result of numerous and well-marked instances,
which have not only been known to me during a state of morbid
activity, but from attthentic accounts of the previous mental in-
dications, I have not the least hesitation in declaring my 6rm
belief in the gen-era\ doctrines of Phrenology." Many other
certificates to a similar purport were brought forward by me on
that occasion, and copies of the whole of them were presented
by me to Academicus. I do not say that he was bound on that
evidence to embrace Phrenology ; but, with all deference, thP.Se
testimonials render his statement that the results of Drs Gall
and Spurzhcim's investigations derive no confirmation from" the
effects of injury or disease of individual portions of the brain,"
not entirely credible, and scarcely leave him an adequate apo-
logy on this ground for delaying to "r.tudy the evidi!nce" by a
direct appeal to nature.
While, however, Academicus practises a boundless caution
and incredulity in regard to every fact, argument, and doctrine
brought forward by phrenologists, these mental qualities a~
pear to forsake him when he considers facts, doctrines, or ex-
periments brought forward by persons adverse to the science.
He disbelieves in the cerebellum being the organ of Amative-
ness, because this is affirmed by Dr Gall, and he believes in its
office being to regulate "muscular motions," because this is as-
serted by Magendie and Flourens. I venture to ask him, whe-
ther, in fotming these opinions, he has read and candidly weighed
the evidence adduced by Dr Gall in his "Physiologie du Cer-
veau" on this point, and given due weight to the observations of
Sir Charles Bell on the effects of mutilations of the brain, in
considering the experiments of Flourens a~d l\fagendie ? He
knows that the nature of the details given by Gall prevents the
phrenologists from printing them in merely popular works; but
as a scientific inquirer he was bound to consider them in their ori-
ginal records. My suspicion is, that he has omitted" to study the
evidence adduced by Gall and Spurzheim and their followers on
this sLft>ject so carefully as perhaps he ought to have done," and
by this supposition alone is it possible to account for his reject-
ing the one and embracing the other opinion. Dr Broussais, in
his lecture on the functions of the cerebellum, reported in the
Lancet of 30th ,July 1886, accounts in a manner that appears
to me satisfactory, for the effects of mutilation.s of the cerebellum
on muscular motion, in perfect cousistency with the functions as-
cribed to that organ by Dr Gall.
Academicus remarks, that " a book on intellectual or moral
philosophy going in a few years through many editioas,. may
be safely· set down as a very superficial book." The same
might be said of a book on any other science; yet Sir John
Digitized by Google
AND THB PHILOSOPHY OF RBID AND STBWART. 36
Herschel's Discourse on Natural Philosophy has gone through
many editions in a few years, and it is generally regarded aa
being a very profound and able work. Superficiality alone
will not render a book on any subject acceptable to numerous
readers: there must be something more. If the work address
itself to strong existing prejudices, it may be temporarily suc-
t·essful and yet superficial. Beattie's Essay on Truth, as con-
trasted with Hume's Essa;rs, is an example in point. But if
, a work oppose public opimon, ifits author enjoyed no previous
, or extrinsic reputation, if it have been aombated and dissected
by men of the first talents, and if, nevertheless, it have con-
stantly advanced in estimation and circulation, the conclusion
does not inevitably follow that its success has been owing en-
tirely to its superficiality. It may have advocated important
truths in so clear and forcible a manner as to have interested
numerous reflecting men, and on this account have been suc-
cesi;ful.
Academicus is pleased to conclude by expressing his opinion,
that " the injudicious pretensions of the present supporters of
Phrenology will ultimately be fatal to the personal reputation •
of most of our present phrenological authors." As I have the
misfortune to be one of these authors, my remarks on this sen-
tence must he received with due qualification; but as he has
raised a question of pretensions, I leave the public to judge
whether his condemnation, uttered avowedly without having
studied the evidence, betokens greater or less modesty than my
asseverations in favour of certain propositions, ~having exa-
mined the proofs. Allowing for a great supenority in genius,
perspicacity, and learning, on the side of Acadelnicus, the study
of the evidence- may be reasonably allowed to add aometliing to
the probabilities of my assertions being true. This paint, how-
ever, the public alone are competent to settle. It 1s erobable
that the contests which are now maintained on this subject may
ultimately prove fatal to the reputation either of the r.hreno-
logical authors or of their opponents :-whic/, is more likely to
suffer, it is not my province to decide. If I look forward with
confidence to the ultimate decision, it is, first, because I ha'De,
in all humility and with all assiduity, studied the evidence
adduced on the subject, and have endeavoured, so far as in
me lay, to advance no opinions which are not warranted by
evidence ; and, secondly, because I find that the more narrowly
intelligent inquirers have examined into the facts, they are dis-
posed to recognize the greater extent of truth in the doctrines
which I advocate. You, for instance, who have examined them,
entertain a more favourable opinion of these arguments than
Academicus, who has not seen reason to do so. 'l'he history of
science has presented some examples of men opposing great
Digitized by Google
36 COMPARATIVE llERITS OF PHRENOLOGY,
and important discoveries, whose reputations were not advanced
in the estimation of posterity by such applications of their
talents..A writer in the 94th Number of theEdinburgh Review,
alluding to the opponents of Harvey, says: " The discoverer of
the circulation of the blood,-a discovery which, if measured
by its consequences on physiology and medicine, was the
greatest ever made since physic was cultivated,-suffers no dimi-
nution of his reputation in our day, from the incredulity with
which his doctnne was received by some, the effrontery with
which it was claimed by others, or the knavery with which it
was attributed to former physiologists, by t~ose who could not ·
deny~ and would not praise it. The very names of these en-
vious and dishonest enemies of Harvey are scarcely remem-
bered; and the honour of 'this great discovery now rests, be-
yond all dispute, with the great philosopher who made it." If
the great doctrines of Phrenology as now taught shall be ulti-
mately approved of bl competent judges who have studied the
evidence, posterity will probably be disposed to pronounce a
similar judgment on the merits of those who have rejected and
opposed them. If the doctrines, when thus triP.d, shall be
found at variance with Nature, the reputation of all phrenolo-
gical authors will most deservedly vanish.
Finally ; in judgingof the merits of living phrenological au-
thors, it is necessary to keep in view to what their pretensions
relate. They maintain thatDr Gall has discovered the functions
of many particular parts of the brain, and that thisdiscovery is
of great importance in medicine and mental science. They
offer to his memory the homage of a profound and sincere ad-
miration, on account of his having made this valuable addition
to human knowledge ; and affirm that those individuals whose
duty it is to study the evidence of his discovery and apply it,
hut who neglect to do so, are not deserving of esteem for this
omission ; but here their pretensions stop. They claim no
merit in the discovery for themselves, they boast of no supe-
rioritv of talents or of general learning over their adversaries;
on the contrary, they allow to them every possible advantage
on these points, and limit their own pretensions to the humble
merit of having observed and interrogated Nature on this sub-
ject, while their more gifted opponents, in the pride of their
own greatness, have closed their understandings against " evi-
dence" which obtrudes on their attention. To have pretended
to less, would have been to prove traitors to the causeof truth;
that they have pretended to more, is an unjust accusation(against
them.-! am, my dear Sir, yours very sincerely,
GEO. COMBE.
Digitized by Google
4MD TB• PBIL090PBY OJ' B•ID 4ND 8TBW4aT. 37
Since this article was in the press, a communication from
Academicus has been received by Consiliarius, and transmitted
to us. We shall give it in the exact words of Academicus.
171A N-1M IBS&
As to the publication of the substance of my letter to you ln the Phreno-
logical Journal, I beg to e:spreaa only two wish-I. That it may be stated
that it Wiii! not. at my desire that it waa published ; and 2. That it may appear
f'rom what is published, as I think it must from the letter itse~• that I aive
no farther opinion 1111 to the truth of the peculiar doctrine. of Phrenology ilum
this-that the evidence does not appear to me satisfactory. It ma1 be all true
f'or any thing I know ; and if I shall see evidence which shall seem to me con-
clusive, I shall be most happy to adopt it all; for I think I can truly uy, that
·in matters ofllcience I care for nothing earthly but the truth. It is to the
pr~ oC Phrenology......supposing all that they aaaume to be establiahed-
to supersede or set aside, or not1ep IJUllJJ (I still think your own phrase accu-
rately e:spressea the usual opinion of phrenologists on the scope and bearing of
their science), all the old Philosophy of Mind, that I set myself in opposition.
That my arguments will be completely answered to the satisfaction of the
readers of the-Phrenological Journal (who, I presume, are all phrenologists),
I have no doubt. That Lhey will be ao to the satisfaction of the rest of the
world, or that the rest of the world will know or care whether they are an.
swered or not, is perhaps more doubtful
.Aa you mention the work of Mr Hewett Watson, which he was so good as
to send me, I trouble{ou with an observation on a paaaage in it, critlcizinir
a BeDtence of mine. had said, that the brain proper appears, from e:sperf-
ments and morbid appearances, to be the residence of thuughl; and he BCCWJeS
me of not knowing that many of the propenrilie• and atmtimmt. are placed by
Gall and Spurzheim in the braln,-supposing that I exclude them when I
speak oflhrmghl. Now I used the word as a general one, to express all strict-
ly msnlal acll, as distinguished from sensations, and frdm veluntary muscular
efforts. Probably I should have used the (Jl!neral term fMntal acll. But if I
had meant to restrict the term to the intellectual powers, as he supposes I
did, I should have used the term intellect. This e:splanation shews that his
criticism of my observation la founded on misapprehension of my meaning.
• The letter itielfla publiahed entire, as far as Phrenology la concerned.-
Eu1T.
Digitized by Google
