{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__cox___selections_from_the_phrenological_journal.pdf","mytitle":"Selections From The Phrenological Journal","mylang":"de"}
SELECTIONS
FROM THE
PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL:
CO.tfPllISING
FORTY ARTICLES IN THE FIRST FIVE VOLUMES,
CHIEFLY BY
GEORGE COMBE, JAMES SIMPSON, AND
DR ANDREW COMBE.
EDITED BY
ROBERT COX.
EDINBURGH:
:MACLACHLAN & STEWART, AND JOHN ANDERSON JUN.;
SIMPKIN, MARSHALL & CO., LONDON ; JOHN MACLEOD, GLASGOW;
W. GRAPBL, LIVERPOOL; AND MARSH, CAPEN, & LYON,
BOSTON, UNITED STATES.
PRINTBD B\' NBILI, & co., OLD FISRMARKBT, BJllNBURGH.
PREFACE.
TuB first Number of the Phrenological Journal
was published in December 18!t3; and the work,
of which about fifty quarterly parts have been issued,
is at present in its tenth volume. Some of the earlier
numbers having now become scarce, or gone altogether
outofprint, it has been thought advisable to republish,
in a cheap and convenient form, the more interest-
ing and instructive papers contained in the)irst five
volumes. The contents of the Phrenological Joumal,
like those ofmost scientific periodicals, are of a mixed
description ; some of the papers relating to matters of
comparatively ephemeral importance, or which have
been more fully elucidated in subsequent volumes ;
while others--forming the more numerous class of
treatises-are devoted to the exposure of errors yet
widely prevalent, or to the discussion and illustration
of those abiding phenomena of human nature which
can never lose their interest in the eyes of inquiring
men. It is almost exclusively from the latter class
that the papers now reprinted have been_ taken. All
o;gHizedbyGoogle
vi PREPACE.
have undergone a careful revision, and the names of
the authors are now attached to them. In making
the selection, the editor has endeavoured so to diver-
11ify the subjects treated of, as to shew, in a forcible
manner, the extensive applications of which Phren~
logy is susceptible to human affairs.
There were five principal contributors to the early
volumes of the Phrenological Journal, and it was the
editor's wish to include the most valuable productions
of each. HaTing ascertained, however, that two of
the gentlemen were averse from the publication of their
essays in the present volume, he has confined his at-
tention to those of Mr CoKBE, Mr S1KP&oN, and Dr
ANDREW Co:t1BK, among the conductors; with the
addition of a few articles contributed by correspon-
dents.
EDINBURGH, }lith .tf.ugwt 1!136.
CONTENTS.
I. Dialogue betw- a Philoeopher of the Old School and
a Phrenologist. By Gl:oaoi: COllB.S, Page I
IL The Turnip Scory, • • • • • 11
Ill Phrenological Explanation of the Vocal IDutioos com.
monly called Veatriloqlliam. By J£MBS SmrsoN, 14
IV. Practical .Application of Phrenology on a Voyage, 33
V. Master Jam• Hobard. By Wu.Lux Rlorcu1a, . 4 I
Vt. Comparative Inlluence of Nature an.d CUcmmtances in·
the Formation of HUIRID Character. By. G11oao1:
COJ(]IJ:, • • • • 47
VII. Obeervati.oaa OD Spectral Illuaiom, and other lllusive
Perceptiona of the Knoiring Organa when in Morbid
Excitemant; · illustrated by a recent Cue. By J£MEs
SnuaoN, • • • • , 54
VIIL Dugald Stewart, Etq. on l\lilion'e Garden of Eden. By
G11oaoa CoMBB, • • • • 69
IX. Obeervations OD.IOID.e Objection• to Phrenology, founded
1112 apart ofthe Cerebral Denlopment of Voltaire. By
J£Mat SIMPSON, • • • 75
X. Travela ill Phrenologuto. Tr&D.llated from the llalian
of DoN Jos.s B£Lscoro, • 88
XL Scolding of Juriet. By Gaoaai: COHaE, • • 96
XIL Cases of W. C. M. of Edinburgh, an.d Mias W. of Lon-
don, farther illumative, r•pectively, of ihe Phreno-
logical Eaplanation of Ventriloquiem and Histrionic
Penonation. By J£HBS Slllrsoir, • • 98
XIIL Phrenology applied to Criticiam ill the Fme Arts. By
Gi:oaaa CoDa, • • • .• 113
XIV. Phrenological Eaperimem. Co-nnicated by Dr EL·
LIOTso¥ of London, • • • • 117
XV. Dr Thomaa'• Theory oithe Temperameiata. By ANllai:w
Coui:, M. D,. • • • • 125
XVI. Beluli of .an Eumim.tion, by Mr Jaaa" De Ville, of the
Heaclt of 148 Convicu, en board d.e Coavict Ship
England. ?Jbell about to tail for New South Walee
ill the Spring of 1826. By J£Kl!:s $JJIJ[J'SON, • 140
XVII. On the Causes and Cure of Stammering. By .ANna11:w
CoHB11:, M. D., • • • • • 143
XVIIL Case of Mental Derangement, with Gradual Diminution
of the Size of the Head. By Oaoaoi: Coxu, • 152
XIX. Caae of Morbid Excitement of the Organ of Number.
By Dr ALDHION of Hull, 157 -
viii CONTENTS.
XX. Size of Head, National and Provincial, obae"ed by
an experienced Hat-Mlker of London, • Page 158
XXI. On the Size of Hata used by the different Claaae1 of
Society. By a Hat-Maker of Dundee, I 70
XXIL Two Remarkable Case• of Spectral Illusion, 174
XXllI. Phrenological Analysis of Eloquence. By JAMas
SIMPSON, • • • • 178
XXIV. Additional Remarks on Dr Thomass Theory of the
Temperaments. By AND&l!W COMBE, M. D., 205
XXV. Glasgow Bridewell. By GEORGI! Coulll!, • 209
XXVI. Education.-Mr Wood's School ByJ.uu:s Slllll'soN, 216
XXVII. Eatimate of the Authority of Clever Practical Men
in the profounder and more abstract Departments
of Science. By GEoB.Gl! COMBE, • 232
XXVJIL On the Effects of Old Age on the Manifestations of
the Mental Faculties, • • 235
XXIX. Observations on the Faculty of Time, and on the
Deaf and Dumb Dancing. By JAMl!S SIMPSON, 238
XXX. On the Seat and Nat>ire of Hypochondriasis u Illus-
• trated by Phrenology. By ANDl\l!W CoMBE, M. D. 244
XXXL On the Best Means of Making Converta to Phre-
nology. By GEORGE COMBE, • 266
XXXIL Phrenological Remarks on the Mottos of Armorial
Bearings. · By JAMES SIMPSON, • · • 268
XXXIIL Phrenology applied to the Education of a Youtb. By
Gl!ORGE COMBE, • • • 272
XXXIV. Case of a Mechanical Genius. By ANDREW CoMBI!,
M.D., • 276
XXXV. AddreH to Student& of Logic and Moral Philosophy.
By GEOllGl! COMBE, • • 279
XXXVI. Some Observations on the Character of Cromwell,
as delineated in the Novel of Woodatock. By
JAMES S1HPSON, • 292
XXXVIL Historical Notice of ·Early Opinions regarding the
Functione ofdifferent Pam ohhe Brain. By W. C.
TRl!VELY.A.N and GRORGE COMBE, 298
XXXVIII. On the Advantages of Education. By GEORGI': COMBE, 311
XXXIX. Case of Ann Ormerod, a Girl with great deficiency
of the Organ of Tune. By Dr G.D. CAMERON, 314'
XL. Easay on the Question,~Does Phrenology afford a
eatisfactory Explanation of the Moral and Intellec-
tual Faculties of Man ? By ANDREW COMBE, M. D. 317
blnn, 360
oigitizedbvGoogle
- - --- -.-------
..~ - - . ._..........--·~_,,.
. .......
"I
....
--~
·· '""'''- ~-~---~--~ ........- .. -··~ ~
•
SELECTIONS.
· DIALOGUE BETWEEN A PHILOSOPHER OF THE OLD
SCHOOL -'.ND A PHRENOLOGIST.•
Phil. Do you believe in Phrenology ?
Phren. Yes, I do. Do you not believe in it ?
Phil. No, indeed. It is most ridiculous nonsense.
Phren. How do you know ? Have you. studied it ?
Phil. Not I. It is too absurd to merit a moment's at-
tention.
Phren. In saying so, do you not resemble a person igno-
rant of geometry, declaring that he does not believe in
Euclid's demonstrations ?
· Phil. This is quite in the usual strain of dogmatic absur-
dity, in which the phrenologists are so fond of indulging.
Phren. I beg pardon-the absurdity is all on the other
side.. ·
Phil. So you are pleased to say ; but you never shew us
that it is so. Have not the anatomists dissected the brain
these two thousand years, and discovered no such organs as
those you speak of; and have not the most eminent meta-
physicians carefully analyzed every thought and sentiment
of the mind, and never discovered such absurd propensities
as Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, and Secretiveness ? A
person cannot know what Euclid's Elements contain who
has not studied them, and any declaration that he did not
believe in the demonstrations would be a piece of gratui-
tous absurdity on his part, at which we might smile, but
•By George Combe.-VoL i. No. l, p. 65; and No. 2, p. 200.
A
2 A DIALOGUE ON PHRENOLOGY.
with which we could not be angry ; but certainly the brain
and the mind have been subjected to examination ere the
days of Gall and Spurzheim, and there is nothing ridicu-
lous in saying, on the faith of these investigations, that their
doctrines are mere extravagancies, unworthy of the least
consideration.
Phren. It is quite true that the brain has been dissect-
ed, and the mental phenomena have been analyzed, by very
acute men, for a very long period of time ; but, were the
phrenologists to point out fundamental errors in the me-
thods of investigation followed by all previous philosophers,
and to shew that they themselves proceed by a surer path
to truth, they would reduce all the opinions on which you
found to absolute insignificance, while they would be en-
tit.led to challenge a becoming attention to their own dis-
coveries.
Phil. I grant you this ; hut these.are mere general de-
clamationa in which your sect habitually indulges, without
condeseending to lay before us tangible and intelligible.
principles of philosophy.
Phren. " Tangible and intelligible principles of philo-
sophy," as you term them, have been repeated in every work
on phrenology, from Gall's first publication to the present
day; but you and those on your side of.the question, have
either deliberately shut your e~es . against them, or, .if
you have seen them, have never met them fairly in argu-
ment. Y014 have neither refuted nor admitted them, btit
kept them' back in all the discussions, and concealed them
from the world, as if they had never been announced.
PhiL witll..warmth. Sir, I am not aware of any such
statements as those you now allude to.
Plwen. I .beg pardon for any degreeof temper appearing
in these remarks. They were made .roore in sorrow than
in anger ;-but..to return to the point, Did .you ever hear
the principle announced, that " dissection .alone is not
sufficient to reveal. the vital functions ofany corporeal part?"
For example, that although .anatomists ha.ve disseeted the
human body for ages, they never diicovered in its.structure
the least indication of the fuct, that of two sets of nervous
fibres running UDclistinguishably in the same .sheath, one is
the organ of motion, and the other the organ of feeling, and
that one may be injured, and feeling be impaired, while, if
·A ·DIALOGUE ON PRRENOLOGY. '3
·the other continue sound, motion will remain, and t:ice
tJersa ; or are you aware, that although the mesenteric
glands and the spleen have been often dissected, their func-
tions are still a mystery in physiology ?
Phil. Yes, I am aware of the J:>rinciple, and admit the
facts.
Phren. Do you not perceive, then, that it was absolutely
impossible for anatomists, by mere dissection, to discover
the functions of the brain ? '
Phil. Well-suppose, for the sake of argument, that I
do SO-this does not" shew that you can discover .these
functions any more than they.
Phren. Certainly not-if we pursued no other method
than that of di11section. It is a vulgar error to suppose,
that Dr Gall assigned di1ferent faculties to di1ferent parts
of the brain, in consequence ofdissecting that organ. This
notion has been industriously propagated in the public
mind, and yet phrenologists uniformly state it as a funda-
mental principle of their science, that the vital function of
no organic part can be discovered by means of dissection
alone. But to proceed. They farther maintain, that by
reflecting on consciousness,or on what passes within our own
minds, we could never discover the nature of the substance
·which lies in the interior of the head; and of course, that
although different parts· of ·the brain were de f<icto the
organs of di1ferent mental powers, we could never find out
that .they were so by this mode·of exclusively retlectjng on
consciousness. ·
Phil. Well, but what then ?
Phren. These are two philosophical facts, which the
phrenologists found upon as fundamental .principles. I
have never seen them contested ; but their application is
not attended to. If they be sound, the inference &om
them is irresistible, that those philosophers who have
hitherto sought to discover the functions of the brain by
dissection alone, or by reflection on consciousness alone,
or even by both together, must be as ignorant of the11e
functions as the clown is of Euclid. ·When, therefore,
without pursuing any other mode of inquiry, they are
pleased to say that phrenology is perfectly absurd, they
approach much nearer to the supposed conduct of this
persQo. than they imagine.
4 4 DIALOGUE ON PHRENOLOGY.
•
Phil. This may do very well to shew that philosophers
in general know nothing of the functions of the brain ;
but it does not shew that the phrenologists are fartheir ad-
vanced.
Phren. True; but they go a step farther. Sir Charles
Bell discovered that motion is attached to one set of ner-
vous fibres, and feeling to another, by cutting each at its
origin, al)d observing that the power was instantly lost.
Now, Nature has to a certain extent performed this opera-
tion to our hand, in regard to different portions of the
brain. One man has a much greater quantity of brain
lying under the middle of the parietal bone than another ;
and the ·phrenologists observe (and that observation has
been confirmed by many thousand instances, and falsified
in none) that he who has the larger portion manifests a
strong natural sentiment of Cautiousness, and that he who
possesses the smaller portion, manifests very little of this
feeling. The same observation may be made in regard to
ldeality, and all the other organs.
Phil. It is easy to represent these as observations ofvast
importance ; but you forget that the two tables of the skull
are not parallel, and hence, that whatever external appear-
ances may indicate, you can draw no conclusion as to the
size of the brain beneath.
Phren. This is one of the bold assertions made by our
opponents, but it is utterly unfounded. Does not the bark
indicate the shape of the tree ? Does not the shell c~rres­
pond to the size of the crab ? Does not the brain increase
in dimensions betwixt infancy and manhQod ? And does
not the skull, in all its varying changes, accommodate itself
to its figure?. Some persons have averred, that the brain
attains its full growth at three, and others at seven years
of age ; but every hatter's apprentice will tell you that this
is a very absurd mistake. It is true, that in cases of disease
the .skull becomes irregular. In its structure it is then
sometimes thicker, sometimes thinner, than in health ; but
such cases are not those by which phrenology is to be con-
firmed or refuted•. Take a healthy man in the vigour of
life, and ·I affirm, without fear of refutation, that the skull
takes· its form from the brain, and indicates the real shape
of that organ. . . .
• Phil. But many anafomists prove_
the r-:verse ; they ex"'.
A. DIALOGUE ON PHllENOLOGY,' 5
hibit a great variety of skulls presenting the most i~gular
surfaces. ,
Phren. I know they do ; but they never venture on the
assertion, that these form a fair specimen of the skulls of
healthy individuals in the prime of manhood. They say
nothing on this point, but leave it to their hearers to take
it for granted, which they generally do. · The phrenolo-
gists, on the other hand, assert, that the skulls thus paraded
are selections of diseased and extraordinary cases-excep-
tions t.o the general rule,-and that they no more afford
fair specimens of the structure of the healthy skull than the
diseased tibire and femora exhibited by the same anatomists
afford specimens of the appearance of these bones in a state
of health. ·
Phil. But in every skull which I ever saw,there are diver-
gences fr-0m the parallelism of the outer and inner tables.
Phren. True ; and this objection is generally stated in a
sophistical manner, without specification, to make it tell
beyond its real force against phrenology. Variations from
perfect parallelism between the two tables ·of the skull, to
the extent of an eighth or a tenth of an inch, are not un-
frequently observed in the skulls even of healiliy indivi-
duals ; but then. the difference between the development of
a 'large organ and a small organ amounts to a full inch, and
frequently to more. Now, to give this objection force, it
ought to be asserted, that the bone in a sound skull in
middle life is generally found varying from an inch in thick-
ness in one part, to only an eighth of an inch in another,
and this so irregularly, that in no instance where a.promi-
nence appears can we tell whether we must penetrate
through an inch of bone before arriving at the brain, or
whether we may not meet witn it at an eighth of an inch
below the surface. Do you make such an assertion as
this? ' '
Phjl. No, I do not; but in your smaller organs this
eighth of an inch may be fatal to all your observations.
· Phren. This is evading the question, as our opponents
generally do. Ifyou wish to find the truth, seek for it where
it is most palpable in the first place, and afterwards proceed
to points of greater difficulty. If you really wish to put
phrenology to the test, contrast tbe heads of persons whose
characters you know to diJFer extremely in one point ; and
.6 A. ·DIALOGUE ON PHRENOLOGY,
ifthe difference. of development'of tile corresponding organ·
be not palpably obvious, I shall give up the cause. You
may then be entitled to talk against it, but not till then.
· Phil. But this practice of poking at heads is absurd and
ridiculous, and no gentleman can follow it without being
laughed at as a fool.
Phren. They who sit enthroned in antiquated and erro- .
neous opinions find it easier tel laugh st methods which
threaten to hurl them from their high estate,.than to offer
a valid objection to them b:y argument. They have been
successful in maintaining the laugh for a time, because the
real state of the matter in dispute was not generally known.
As soon as this is the case, the tables will be turned. An
individual is never truly absurd in seeking important know-.
ledge· in the only way in which it is to be found ; and
when the phrenologists have convinced the public, first, of
the utter ignorance of their opponents, and, secondly, of
the adequacy of their own method of investigation to arrive ·
at truth, the·ridicule will attach altogether to the other side.
The opponents must stoop to be schooled by those whom
they affect to_
despise, or act upon the maxim,-
" Ne voyons goutte, cheri1111ons l'erreur."
Phil. But you deceive yourselves ; your imaginations
are heated, and you see facts just because you wish to see
them.
. Phre:n. Then it is your duty to -0bserve better and ·con-
tradict us. You are not entitled to .assume our incapacity
to observe, without a shadow of evidence of the real exist-
ence of this incapacity. We court inquiry; we exhibit
our casts, put callipers wjth a graduated scale into your
hands, and request you t6 examine, and measure, and re-
fute us if you can. Besides, ;it is a truly ludicrous mani-
festation of one of our demonstrated organs, Self-Esteem,_
for an opponent to assume that he himself, without one
moment's attention to the subject, is a better judge of the,
real nature and merits of phrenology than other individuals
who have devoted much time and labour to its investiga-
tion. Such a piece of conceit might have pas!M;d without
·severe animadversion while the phrenologists •~re few in
number and obscure ; but when societies are formed in
various places for its cultivation, professing it to be a well-,
4· DJ.lLOGUE ·ON PHRENOLOGY,
founded experimel).tal science,-and when full courses of •
lectures on it are delivered, and attended,"aay after -Oay,
with patient attention by gentlemen arrived at maturity. of
judgment and of acknowledged talents and reput.atioD,---1
such a practice of contemptuous condemnation exposes him
who uses it to just ridicule.
Phil. But the fact is, that the votaries of phrenology are
all third-rate men-persons without scientific or phileso-
phical reputations. You are not entitled, therefore,. to
challenge ·the regard of those who have higher studies to
occupy their attention. You complain that they·only ridi- ·
cule and abuae you, and do not venture to·Challenge ·yo\lr ·
principles or refute your facts ; but you do oot yet sian.l
high enough in their esteem to give you a right to expect
any other treatment. The world has gone on well enough
with the philosophy of mind it already possesses, which,
besides, is consecrated by great and venerable names, while
your system has neither symmetry of structure, beauty of
arrangement, nor the suffrages of the learned to r.ecom-
mend it.
Phren. Ferdinand of Spain thinks the world goes on ad·
mirably without liberty, and the Grand Turk conceives his
people to be blessed by ignorance ;-ifyou belong to their.
school, and imagine knowledge to be of no value, because
men can eat, drink, and sleep, without it, I rejoice that the.
old philosophy continues to be honoured by your support..
:Theadmirers ofthe new system reckon no moral or.physical
truth unimportant, just because .it is necessarily of divine
origin. Besides, you are deciding without examinati-0~
and consequently without knowledge, that there is no sym-
metry or beauty in phrenology. It posseaaes these attributes
in the highest degree ; for nature ia ever beautiful and har-
monious. You smile at this assertion ; but you have no
authorityfor the opposite opinion. You are aware, moreoverj .
that many great discoveries have been treated with derision,
at their first announcement.. It is at present (1824) little
more than ten years since I heard a celebrated poetical.
baronet play oft' more badjokes against an ingenious genile-
man who allSerted the possibility of lighting London with
gas, than h~ has uttered eve,n against phrenology itself; ·
and yet London ~now lighted in the way then ridiculed-
·•
A DIALOOVB ON PHRENOLOGY;
aye, and the baronet's house, too, shines in all the splen-
dour of gas-illumination !
Phil. I grant that the ridicule with which phrenology has
been treated argues nothing against it, and proves only its
wide departure from preconceived ideas ; but you have not
answered my remark, that there are no distinguished names
·· among the votaries of your doctrine, the weight -0f whose
reputation might afford some reason for condescending to
examine it.
Phren. You have admitted its novelty ; and you are
aware that men who possess reputation in physiology or
.mental philosophy would appear to lose rather than gain
renown, were they to confess their present ignorance of the
functions of the brain and the philosophy of mind, an almost
necessary prelude to their adoption of phrenology ; and the
subject does not lie directly in the department of other
scientific men. ·In this manner it happens, oddly enough,
that those who are most directly called upon by their situa-
tion to examine the science, are precisely those to whom its
triumph would prove most humiliating. Locke humorous-
ly observes on a similar occasion, " Would it not be an in-
sufferable thing for a learned professor, and that which his
scarlet would blush at, to have his authority of forty years
standing, wrought out of hard rock, Greek and Latin, with
no small expense of time and candle, and confirmed by ge-
neral tradition and a reverend beard, in an instant over-
turned by an upstart novelist? Can any one expect that he
should be made to confess, that what he taught his scholars
thirty years ago was all error and mistake, anu that he sold
them hard words and ignorance at a very dear rate ? What
probabilities, I 1ay, are sufficient to prevail in such a case?
And who ever, by the most cogent arguments, will be pre-
vailed with to disrobe himselfat once of all his old opinions
and pretences to knowledge and learning, which with hard
study he hath all his time been labouring for, and turn him-
self out stark-naked in quest afresh of new notions ? All the.
arguments that can be used will be as little able to prevail, as
the wind did with the traveller to part with his cloak, which
he held only the faster."* Human nature, sir, is the same.
now as in the days of Locke•
...
•Book iv. c. 20;§ 11.
•
A .DIALOGUE ON PHRENOLOGY• 9
·Phil. Your allusions, sir, are impertinent. You will
ne~r convert mankind to phrenology by such means.
Pltren. Pardon, sir; I made no individual application of
these remarks. There is, however, another answer to your
observations, to which I solicit your attention. Some in-
dividuals are born princes, dukes, or even field-marshals~·
but I am not aware that it has yet been announced thatany
lady was delivered of a child of genius, or an infant of
established reputation. These titles must be gained by
the display of qualities which merit them ; but if an indi-
vidual quit the beaten track pursued by the philosophers of
his day, and introduce any discovery, although stupendous
and new, do you not perceive that his reputation is neces-
sarily involved in its merits? Harvey was not a man of high·
reputation before he discovered the circulation of thP blood,
butbecame such in consequenoe of having done so. What
was Shakspeare before the magnificence of his genius was'
jutitly appreciated ? The author of Kenilworth represents'
him attending as a humble and comparatively obscure suitor
at the Court of Queen Elizabeth, and receiving a mark of
favour in an " Ah I Will Shakspeare, are you there ?" And.
he most appropriately remarks, that here the immortal paid
homage to the mortal. Who would now exchange the
greatness of Shakspeare for the splendour of the proudest
lord that bowed before the Maiden Queen ? Or imagine to
yourself Galileo, such as he was in reality, a.feeble old man,
humble in rank, destitute of political power, unprotected
by the countenance or alliance of the great--poor, in short,
in every thing except the splendid gifts of a profound, ori-
ginal, and comprehensive genius-and conceive him placed
at the barofthe Roman pontiffandthe sevencardinals-men
terrible in power, invested with authority to torture and kill
in this world, and, as was then believed, to damn through
eternity ; men magnificent in wealth, and arrogant in the
imaginary possession of all the wisdom of their age--and
say who was then great in reputation-Galileo orhis judges?
l\.nd who is now the idol of posterity-the old man or his
persecutors ? .The case will be the same with ~I. . If IUs.
discoveries of the functions of the brain, and of the philoso-
phy ofthe mind, stand the test of examination, and prove to
be a correct interpretation of nature, they will surpass, ill
substantial importance to mankind, the discoveries even of
Dig1 zod by Google
'
IO A DIALOGUE ON PHRENOLOGY.
Harvey, Newton, or Galileo; and this age will in conse-
quence be rendered more illustrious by the introduction of.
phrenology, than by the butcheries of Bonaparte, or the
victories of Wellington. But besides, I could easily aheW>
that the assertion that no men of note have embraced phre-
nology is not supported by fact.
Phil. There may be some truth in these observations; hut
what I principally alluded to is the fact, that all the disciples
of phrenology are persons ignorant of anatomy and physio-
logy. You delude lawyers, divines, and merchants, who
know nothing about the brain ; but all medical men, and
especially teachers of anatomy, are so well aware of the fal-
lacy of your doctrines, .that you make no impression on
them. They laugh at your discoveries as dreams.
Plwen. This objection, like many others, is remarkable
more for boldness than for truth. I have already demon-
atrated the unavoidable ignorance of medical gentlemen
of the old school regarding the functions of the brain,
and you may easily satisfy yourself by a little inquiry that
this representation was correct. For my own part, before
adopting phrenology, I saw Dr Monro, Dr Barclay, and
other anatomical professors, dissect the brain repeatedly,
and heard them declare its functions to be an enigma, and
acknowledge that their whole information concerning it con-
sisted of " names without meaning.'' This circumstance,
therefore, puts .the whole faculty, who have not studied
phrenologically, completely out of the field as authorities~
Thefact, however, is the very reverse of what you state.
Drs Gall and Spurzheim are now pretty generally admitted
to be admirable anatomists of the brain, even by those who
disavow their physiology ; and in the list of the Phrenolo-
gical Society, out of 86 members, you will find 13 doctors
in medicine, and 11 surgeons-a proportion considerably
larger than that of the medical profession to society in
general.
Phil. Well-but this is a vain discussion, and I have too
much to engage my attention at present to listen to any
more of your odd opinions. Good morning!
( 11 )
'.J:HE TURNIP STORY.•
ON the authority of Blackwood's Magazine for May
1823, the following dialogue took place among'Certain gen-
tleinen, declared enemies of phrenology and phrenologists,
assembled in a pot-house ~ .
" Odohert9. What did your friend Brodiet die of, Mr
Tickler?
" Tickler. Apoplexy, I suppose. His face was as black
as my hat.
" Hogg. Lucky Mackinnon's bonny face was black too,
they were saying.
" Dr Mullion. Yes ; ' black, but comely.' t l saw her
a day or two afterwards,-very like the print.
" Tickler. These infernal idiots the phrenologists, have
been kicking up a dust about her skull, too, it appears.
Will those fellows take no hint ?
" Odohertg. Theg take a hint ! Why, you might as well
preach to the Jumpers, or the Harmonists, or any other
set ofstupid fanatics. Don't let me hear them mentioned
again.
" Dr Mullion. They have survived the turnip. What
more can be said ?
" Hogg. The turnip, doctor ?
"Dr Mullion. You haven't heard of it, then ?.....:.I
thought all the world had. You must know, however, that
a certain ingenious person of this town lately met with a
turnip ofmore than common foziness in his field ; he made
a cast of it, clapped it to the cast of somebody's face, and
sent the composition to the Phrenological, with his compli-
ments, as aJae-simile of the head of a celebrated Swede,
by name Professor Tornhippaon. They bit,~a committee
was appointed,-a report was drawn up,--and the whole
character of the professor was soon made out as completely
secundum artem, as Haggart's had been under the same
happy auspices a little before. In a word, they found out
that the illustrious Dr Tornhippson had been distinguished
•Vol. i. No. I. p. xviii.
1' Brodie was a notorious criminal, executed for systematic and
long-continued theft and housebreaking•
.+Pr!>h pudor I ·
12 THE TURNIP StORY,
for his Inhabitiveness, Constructiveness, Philoprogenitive-
ness, &c.-nay, even for "Tune," "Ideality," and" Ve-
neration."
" OfkJherty. I fear they have heard of the hoax, and
cancelled that sheet of their Transactions. What a pity !
" Hogg. Hoh, hoh, hob ! The organization of a fozey
turnip I Hoh, hoh, hoh, hob ! the like o' that I The Swed-
ish turnip-the celebrated Swede !"-P. 593.
This ignoble discourse was published, by the respectable·
interloquitors, in the knowledge that the true tale of that
" weak invention of the enemy," the turnip, was as fol-
lows: ·
In April 1821, a medical gentleman in Edinburgh, aided
by a landscape painter, fashioned a turnip into the nearest
resemhlance to a human skull which their combined skill .
and ingenuity could produce. They had a cast made from
it, and sent it to l\'lr G. Combe, requesting his observations
on the mental talents and dispositions which it indicated ;
adding, that it was a cast from the skull of a person of an
uncommon character. Mr C. instantly detected the trick,
and returned the cast, with the following parody of " The
Man of Thessaly" pasted on the coronal surface :-
There was a man in Edinburg,
And he was wond'rous wise;
He went into a t1unip-6eld,
And east about his eyes.
And when he cast hia eyes about,
He saw the turnips fine ;
" How many heads are there," says he,
" That likene&S bear to mine !
" So tJBf'11 like they are indeed,
No sage, I'm sure, could know
This turnip-head that I have on
From those that there do grow."
He pull'd a turnip from the ground;
A cast from it was thrown:
He sent it to a Spurzheimite,
And pass'd it for his own.
And so, indeed, it truly was
His own in every sense; ·
For c.uT and JOKB alike were made
All at his own expense.
The medical gentleman called on Mr Combe next day,
and assured him that he meant no offence, and intended.
only a joke. Mr C. replied, that he treated the matter en-
...··
THE TUB!(JP STORY. 13
ti.rely as such ; and that if the author of it was satisfied with
his share ofthe wit, no feeling of uneasiness remained on
the other side. The story got into the CaledonianMercury
.at the time, so that the above misrepresentation must have
proceeded on the faith that the real facts were by this time
forgotten. For nearly six months past, the opponents of
phrenology have been chuckling over this story, as a de-
lightful specimen of the accuracy of our science ; and we
have been equally amused with the proof it affords of their
own gullibility. A human skull is an object which it is
poslible to imitate ; and if, in the instance in question, or
in any other instance, the imitation had been perfect, a cast
from theJae-simile would have been just as completely in-
dicative of natural talents and dispositions as a cast from
.the original skull itself, supposing phrenology to have a
.foundation in nature. There was a lack, therefore, not
only of wit but ofjudgment, in the very conception of the
trick. If the imitation was complete, no difference could
exist between a cast from a turnip, and a cast from the skull
.which it was made exactly to resemble ; if it was imperfect,
the author of the joke, by his very departure from nature,
encountered an evident risk of his design being detected,
and becoming, himself, the butt of the very ridicule which
he meant to direct against the phrenologist. This has
actually been the result. The imitation was execrably bad,
and the cast smelt so strongly of turnip, that a cow could
have discovered its origin. We do not mean to say, that
the pot-house wits themselves would have been equally
acute : far otherwise ; for there cannot be even the shadow
of doubt, that, had a cast, taken from a turnip as it grew,
·:without any attempt tO make it resemble a human head,
.been submitted to them, granting to them the unusual ad-
vantage of perfect sobriety, they would not have discovered
the trick.•
. • We have reprinted the Turnip Story in the present volume of
Selections, because even yet it is in some quarters kept up as a joke
against the phrenologists. The medical gentleman by.whom the trick
was played off, lately told one of the conductors of the Journal.
that he bad subsequently become as fully convinced of the truth of
phrenology as of his own existence, and was devoting considerable
attention to the study ofit.
14
PHRENOLOGICAL EXPLANATION OF THE VOCAL IJ..
LUSlONS COMMONLY CALLED VENTRILOQUISM.•
IF Phrenology be true, the phenomena of the moral
and intellectual nature of man, however hitherto perplex-
ing, must be made plain before it. Indeed, many of its
opponents already admit, that it affords at least a sufficient
explanation of phenomena which have been given up in
despair, by metaphysicians of all descriptions, as inexpli-
.cable, according to the formula in that behalf, in :the pre-
sent state of human knowledge. This sufficiency; how-
ever, supplies one of the Baconian requisites for the admis-
sibility of a cause. The other, the existence, is still dis-
puted ; phrenologists say it is demonstrated, as will be
plain to their antagonistswhen they condescend to do justice
to the evidence.
The nature of the singular art called, or rather miscalled,
Ventriloquism, has been variously viewed by philosophical
writers, both of the present and of former times. The near-
est approach to the truth was undoubtedly made by the
.French philosophers, who investigated the subject in the
year 1770. The light of phrenology enables us now to
confirm their views, so far as they go, and, as we humbly
think, to complete the demonstration. A brief description
and history of this extraordinary vocal illusion, while. it is
.necessary to our present purpose, may not be unacceptable
to our readers.
Those who possess the art have invariably the power of
imitating with their voice the voices of other persons, the
cries of animals, and even the SQunds produced by the mo··
tion and impulse of inanimate matter. They are always
perfect imitators of sounds of every variety and descrip-
tion ; but their most mysterious power is that of deluding
those they address into the persuasion that the sound comes •
from a point not only out of, but at a considerable distance
from, the speaker's own person. The voice, in such cases,
having always a certain·stifled sound, as if it originated iu
the chest, and being often uttered with tho mouth nearly
• ByJameaSimpao11-VoL i. No. 3, p. 466.
·VBNTRILOQUJSM. 15
shut, at least with·very little or no movement of the lips,
was long, in ignorance of its true nature, referred to the
stomach or belly ; whence its name. It is not by any
means clear, however, that the deluded would have esta-
.blished the· stomach and belly as the parts ofspeech, if the
deluders had not themselves directed them thither ; and
this leads us to a brief statement of what is known his-
torically of this art. It seems to have been much more
prevalent in ancient times than we now find it. It was
known to the Assyrians, the Egyptians, the Jews, and the
Greeks'; and their's were just the climates where, great
flexibility in the organs of speech being joined with the
requisite mental powers, we should have expected it to
prevail. Scripture makes many references to the ma-
gieians, the wizards, the charmers, and those th.at have
familiar spirits ; and the profound Selden saw i:eason to
translate the Hebrew Ob, plural, Oboth (generally trans-
lated Python, or magician), by Demon or Spirit, which
was believed to dwell in the belly, and speak within the
possessed without. their exerci1ing their own organs of
speech. Accordingly, the Septuagint translates Ob by the
Greek word engaatrimutkos, and the Vulgate by ventril()•
quus, both words signifying the same thing, namely, speak•
ing with, or at least from, the belly. This was too valu-
able a deception not to be practised by the cunning de-
luders of the superstitious ancientS, and it became so com~
, mon as to form a kind of divination called gastroniancy,
where the diviner answered without appearing to move his
lips, so that the listener believed he heard an aerial voice.
There has been much controversy, even among divines,
as to the reality of the ghost of Samuel. Eustathius, Arch-
bishop of Antioch in the fourth century, composed a trea-
tise in Greek, to prove that the _supposed evocation of Sa-
- muel was the deception of a demon, of which the witch of
Endor was possessed. This is, in truth, a treatise on en-
gastrimism, according to the notinns then entertained of
• it ; for the Archbishop has no idea that the art was not
preternatural. It is by no means clear that Saul saw Sa-
muel, the word perceived being more properly understood,
as he takes his information from the woman with regard to
what ti.id appear, and is prostrate on the ~ when Sa..
16 .l'ENHILOQlJISJf.
muel speaks.• Now, ventriloqWsm in the womari has been
supposed all that was required. The Septuagint calls her
enga,strimutkon; and Selden expressly says, that in the
original, this woman spoke by means of Ob, or a demon,
which word is, in other places of the Old Testament, trans-
lated 'Ventriloquw. The opinion is common, that the Py-
thian responses were delivered by the same vocal illlllions;
and in the Vulgate, the Witch of Endor herself is said ha-
.here pytkonem.
In the earlier ages of Christianity, the same art pre-
vailed ; and St Chrysostom and fficumenius both make
mention of diviners who were called Enga1trimandri.
There is no reason to believe that so imposing and profit-
able en engine to move a rude people was unknown to the
necromancers and enchanters of the dark ages ; but we
have no account of an individual ventriloquist earlier than
the sixteenth century, when one appeared in France of the
name of Louis Brabant, valet de chambre of Francis First.
This man practised his art solely for the purposes ofswind-
ling. It is related of him, that being denied the hand of
a young woman of fortune and station much above bis own,
by her father, he renewed his addresses after the father's
.death, and when in the presence of the lady end her mo-
-ther, imitated the deceased's voice, which seemed to come
.from the ceiling of the apartment; with c.ries and groanil
·he imputed his aggravated tortures in purgatory to his re.
fusal of his daughter to Louis Brabant, and conjured heF,
" ife'er she did her poor father love," to marry the said
Louis forthwith ; which, in suitable horror, consternation,
and filial piety, she did. The swindling bridegroom suc-
ceeded, at the same time, in enriching himself, so as to
meet his bride's fortune. He frightened a rich old usurer
out of ten thousand crowns, by a well-timed intimation, en
17entriloque, of what awaited him in purgatory, with a dis-
tinct exposition of the only method of averting the otherwise
certain doom. This accomplished person, we may pre<>
sume, did much business on a smaller scale, besides these
two great coups du maitre. ··
A century after this period, probably in consequence of
the appearance of another or other ventriloquists, the first
mod~rn attempts seem to have been made to write upon
• l Sam. :nviii. 7, 8.
01g11zedbyGoogle
V~NTRILOQ'1ISM. 17
'1ie subject; and Allazzi, an Italian, in 1629, 'published. a
work entitled Leoni.a Allatii de Engaatrimytho Syntagma.
Allazzi, in the same work, translated the Greek treatise of
Eustathius into Latin ; but his own treatise, as well as that
of the Archbishop, is confined to the question of the evo-
cation of the ghost of Samuel, on which controversy the
works<Bre erudite and argumentative.
. Conrad Amman, a Dutch doctor in medicine, had ob-
served the ventriloquists of the beginning of the last cen-
tury, and published a Latin treatise at Amsterdam in 1700,
to explode the old notion, current, it would appear, till
then, that Engastrimism is a demon in the belly. His ob-
servations seem to have been made chiefly on an old woman
at Amsterdam, who possessed the talent (}f ventriloquism.
His theory was, that the effect was produced by a sort of
swallowing of the words, or forcing them to retrograde as it
were by the trachea ;-by speaking during inapiration of
the breath, and not, as in ordinary speech, during expira-
tion.-" Quidquid hactenus," says Conrad Amman, " de
voce et loquela dixi, de quotidiana ilia et vulgari accipi
velim, qure fit e:cpirattdo ; est enim adhuc modus earn per
inspi-rationem formandi, qui non cuivis datus est, et quam
aliquoties in Gastrimythis quibusdam admiratus sum :,;et
Amstreledami olim vetulam quandam audivi utroque mo-
do loquentem, sibique ad quresita quasi inspirando respon•
dentem; ut earn cum viro, duos ad minimum passus .ab ea
remoto, colloqui dejerassem; vocem enim,inter inspirandum
absorptam e longinquo venire credebam. Muliercula hrec
Pythiam agere facile potuisset," &c.
Nothing farther appears on the nature or history of ven-
triloquism till .the year 1772, when a work was published on.
the subject by M. de la Chapelle, Censeur Royal at Paris,·
and a member of several learned bodies, besides the Royal
Society of Lo~don. This, although a greatly over-learned
work, with a prodigious display ofirrelevant erudition, gives
a most satisfactory explanation of ventriloquism, which was
confirmed by a oommittee of the Academy of Sciences at
P&-is, and ultimately by the whole Academy. We have the
!JlOreconfidence in the theory, that it is demonstrated to be
true, so far as it goes, by what we hold to be the surest of
all tests.-by phrenology. The existing ventriloquists of
M. de la Chapelle's time were two, a. Barl1n Mengen, ii\
B
I
oigili,edbyGoogle
18 VENTBILOQUlSM;
the hOusenold of Prince Lichtenstein, at Vienna ; and •
person of the name of Saint Gille, a grocer at St Germain•
en-Laye, near Paris. Both these ventriloquists were com-
municative, made no secret of their art, and contributed
descriptions of their own experiences, to forward the in-
quiry which seems, in that time of profound peace, to have
made some noise in France.
Baron Mengen ridiculed the ·old prejudice,. that ven-
triloquists speak from, much .less with, ·the stomach and
belly ; and..made no pretence to any other aid than that
of the common organs of speech. The Baron's account
of himself.is, in substance, that he owed his art to a pas-
sion, whfoh shewed itself in him at a very early age, to
counterfeit the cries of animals and the voices of persons ;
and he soon found, that he had the pc>wer of imitaJing
sounds in ltlCh a 1MJJ, as to give them the appearance of
coming ftom points different from his .own mouth. That
his organs gained flexibility by use,·so as to be able to sus-
tain a long illusion. For the sake of amusing his friends,
he made a small figure or doll, with a contrivance with
which, by inserting his hand under the dress, he could oc•
casion appropriate motion of the lips. With this figure,
from which he could make his voice to a~ar to come, he
carried on droll and often ·highly satirfoal conversations.
His own words, describing the kind of vocal exertion he
made, are as follows : " I press my tongue strongly agains't
my teeth and left cheek, and the 'Yoice, which appears ar-
ticulated by the mouth of the figure, is furmed in reality
between the teeth and left cheek of my own. For this I
use the precaution to Mid in re8troe in the wind-pipe (le
gosier*) a sufficient portion of air, either to sing ()r speak,
without the stomach·or belly giving any assistance ; and it
is solely with that portion of air in reserve, moderated, te··
t.ained, and suffered to escape with effort, that I produce
the voice which I wi11h to make heard. Add to that a qua•
lity in m!I tongue e:rtremel!J 8Ubtile and rarely possessed,
by means ofwhich I articulate all 1yllables and words (either
singing or speaking) without in the lea.st •moving the lips ;
and taking great care to retain to the end of each period,
ph~e, or sentence, the air which comes frotn the lungs
• This is physically impossible; and the Baron afterwarch shews
that he meana the lungs or chest. .
VZNTllJLOQUlnti ' 19
for the renewing ofmy respiration, wAicTi req.iro a TJe11f•
good chest."
M. Saint Gille was more at hand, and was often visited
and experimented upon by M. de la Chapelle. fo their
first interview, the ventriloquist slirprised and rather alarm-
~ the philosopher, by producing a distinct cry of "M. de
la Chapelle," as if from the roof of a neighbouring house.
On farther acquaintance, M. de la Chapelle accompanied
Saint Gille on occasions of many amusing and perfectly in-
nocent applications of his e.rt. On one of these, he address-
~ many individuals of rank, of both sexes, to their great
eoosternation, as they sat on the grass, at a iete champetre,
with many witty personal remarks, for which he had been
previously prepared ; the effect may easily be conceived.
On another, he imposed inceuant mass-singing upon a rra..
ternity of monks who had been remiss in their attention t.o
the departed soul of one of their number. The deceased
spoke as from the roof of the choir where they were assem-
bled, and uttered loud complaints and awful threatenings
against the survivors for their neglect of him.
On some occasions, M. Saint Gille put ·his powers t:e
good uses, in mortifying vanity, abasing pride, disappoint-
ing avarice, and changing selfish :and base purposes. Se-
veral very diverting instances of these are detailed by M.
de la Chapelle. ·~
M. Saint Gille made .no mystery of his art more than
Baron Mengen, and attributed all his success to an eztt'ffM
desire and continued habit of exercising his organs in that
itMtatifJe way. He gained the accomplishment in a very
short time, eight days, at Martinique, 9y imitating ano-
ther ventriloquist. This circumstance leads M. de la Cha-
pelle into the only mistake he commits, namely, that any
oile that chooses may become a ventriloquist. It is the
'Vety .circumstance which forces a phrenologist to the oppo-
site conclusion. · ·'
The theory of M. de la Chapelle, as confirmed by the
Academy, is in substance as follows: The same sound va-
ries in its effect on the ear according to the distance or
place from which it comes. But every sound, as it r~hes
the ear, is a sound that may be imitated. A power.of imi-
tating sounds, which we are all accustomed to refer to cer-
tain distances and certain situations, is the whole art of
•
20 VENTRILOQUISM;
ventriloquism. It is worthy of remark, that by custom th'e
illusion lost its effect on M. de la Chapelle, he referring
the words to the mouth of the speaker, which all others re-
ferred to distant points. The members of the Academy,
commissioned to make the inquiry with M. de la Chapelle,
compare this gradation of sound to the imitations of dis-
tance in the symphonies of the opera ; the distance being
judged by the first sound heard, apparently diminishes as
the sounds become fainter.
The savans, satisfied that the effect produced was imi-
tation of the sounds appropriate to certain distances, ap·
plied themselves to investigate the nature of the organie
power which produced this effect, and referred it to a
power acquired by habit over the larynx, by which it could
be readily. shut and opened to the required degree, with die
additional power, from .flexibility of tongue, to articulate
within the mouth, or even in the back part ofit. The con·
striction and expansion of the larynx they believed to be
very fatiguing, and attended with hoarseness after a length-
ened exertion. They observed that M. Saint Gille appear·
ed fatigued befure the end of his exhibition, and lost some
degree of his power to create the illusion ; that each exer-
tion was followed by the irritation of a slight cough ; and
that, when he was enrhume, or (as we translate it in Scot-
land by a most convenient word) colded, he had great dif-
ficulty in speaking l!'lt fJentriloque. Hippocrates, treating
·of a particular ailment of the throat, says, that those affect.
ed with it spoke as if they had been Engastrimuthoi. If,
say the reporters, there be a diseased state of throat, which
produces this effect, it is easy to suppose the effect of the
malady imitated, or the throat brought artificially into the
same state.
M. de.la Chapelle, and the other academicians, unite in
their refutation of Conrad Amman's theory, that ventrilo-
.quism is articulating during inspiration of the breath. Thia
mistake was repeated, evidently from Amman, by the Abbe
Nollet, in his Le~ons de Physique Experimentale, 1745.
It is admitted that a low stifled smmd may be produced
for a few seconds during inspiration ; but the high and
often strong voice of the ventriloquists can result only from
a brisk expulsion of air from the trachea, by an increased
action of the chest. The Amsterdam woman spoke high,
VENTRILOQUISM/ 21
but it ·was Conrad that concluded she spoke during inspi..:
ration. Besides, there is no reply to the objection that
inspiration will not account, any mOl'e than speaking with
the belly, fur variations and distances.
Last of all, it was observed that Saint Gille opened his
mouth, and even moved his lips ; and that, to conceal these
..ID!l!..ements, he always turned away his face when he spoke
en tJeMhloque. When one stood in front of him, and
saw his mouth opened and his lips moved, the illusion was
destroyed.
We do not think it worth while to occupy our readen
with detailing an att.empt made to explain the illusion of
distance in ventriloquism, by supposing that the speaker
avails himself of artificial echoes, to throw back the sound
to the ear of his hearer. A paper, maintaining this view,
was read to the Philosophical Society of Manchester by
Mr Gouch, in 1801, and is preserved in the second part of
the fifth volume of their Transactions. There is much
scientific clearness and justness of exposition in that paper
on the laws of acoustics, but these laws are wofully misap-
plied to ventriloquism. It at once occurs to ask the author
ofthat paper how the ventriloqwst is to command even one
echo when he wishes it,-one fixed material distant obsta-
cle to reflect the voice? But when he is to modulate his
voice gradually as the eound is supposed to advaoce or re-
tire, or when he shifts the voice from above to below, and
. all around, where shall he command his puccession of
echoes, or the change of their position ? Mr Gouch saw
a ventriloquist, we think of the name of Garbutt, who
travelled to most towns in this island about 1796. This
ventriloquist made his voice seem to come from the part of
the room behind the audience ; but if, on Mr Gouch's own
&hewing, aound will reach the ear by the shortest road, how
did it fil'9t pass the audience, and then return .to them ?
. Garbutt farther brought the voice, as it were, from under
the benches on which the spectators sat, to which locality
/r.efirat atrongly directed their attention, and he occasion•
ally made it appear to be the voice ofa child confined un-
der a glass. Echoes for all these illusions are evidently
out of the question. But how did Garbutt carry about his
echo with him, when he alarmed a fish-woman in Edin-'
burgh, by making her own fish contradict a declaratiol). of
01g11zedbyGoogle
22 VENTRILOQUISMi
~ir fioeshness? or when he made a poor man unload a
whole cart of hay to extricate a crying child, whose voice
was heard more and more plainly as the hay diminished,
till it concluded with an imp's laugh, when the last par..
tide was examined ? The notion of echo seems to have
been hinted before, for M. de la Chapelle himself disproves
it, by an experiment made by M. Saint Gille in the open
park of St German-en-Laye, where he astonished an Ita-
lian by speaking to him from every point of the compass.
It cannot have failed to strike the reader, that, as ad-
mitted by the French savans, a ventriloquist must cheat
the judgment as well as the ear. This is effectually done;
as will be made more clearly to appear presently, by esta-
blishing a local, from which it is inte~ded the audience
shall believe that the voice comes. Garbutt had recourse
to this fine!Se in the illusions which he performed.
When we mention Mathews, we consider his powers of
vocal illusion .as the least of his comic accomplishments ;
but it is of great consequence for our readers to keep in
mind that so perfect a comic imitator as Mathews does pos·
sess to a considerable degree that power ofimitating sounds, ·
which is called ventriloquism. Indeed, we have observed,
that most clever comedians have some degree of the same
talent.
Such was the state of this curious question, when means,
equally unexpected and ample, have come within our own
reach of ve~ing former theories, and observing for our-
selves both directly and phrenologically. This opportunity
has been afforded us, and indeed our attention has been
called for the first time in our lives to the subject, by the
late arrival in Edinburgh of the celebrated Monsieur Alex-
amlre, a native of Paris, and beyond all rivalry the posses-
sor of the most astonishing powers of vocal illusion which
we have either heard or read of. This young man has al-
ready, at the early age of twenty-five, exhibited his powers
in almost every country of Europe. His vocal illusions
are displayed in amusing comic pieces, in which he is the
sole actor, and which he has exhibited in six or eight dif-
ferent languages. Nay, he performed one of these in Eng-
lish for six months, before he had learned the language, so
aa to understand what he was uttering ; and, it i1 said, with
very few mistakes. He exhibits testimonials from crowned
VENTRILOQtJISM~ 23
heads,·princes, nobles, arid saMns on the Continent,• and
from a great number of persons of rank and literary and
scientific eminence in Englat\d, ofwhich, besides perform-
ing 150 times in London, .he visited most of the great
wwns, all bearing witness to his astonishing powers, and
lll08t ofthem commending his manners and qualifications
as a gentleman. .He brought letters to niany individuals
in Edinburgh ; one of which was the means of our intro..
duCtioir to hiin, which has been to us so satisfactory. M.
Alexandre's first exhibition was announced to take place
in the Caledonian Theatre, to which we went, and watched,
as narrowly as we could, every thing he did or said, as he
succeeded, by his own unassisted exertions, in .engrossing
and highly diverting a crowded audience for three hours.t
We shall now endeavour to describe what we saw, as
minutely as we observed it narrowly. He performed ·a
sort of drama, the hero ofwhich is a clel'eryoung rogue, in
the service of an old .physic-taking valetudinarian and his
careful fantastical wife, upon·whom he perpetrates all sorts
pf Mischievous tricks, both in revenge of his OWn short
commons, and in furtherance of a scheme, for which he is
well paid, to unite the only daughter .to a very agreeable
young officer of infantry, quartered in the neighbourhood.
Without merit as a comedy, the incidents of this piece,
some of them very ludicrous, afforded him the means of
exhibiting ·every variety of his vocal illusion. He repre-
sents the whole characters, male and female, young and
old, himself, displays address and quickness which we ne-
ver saw exceeded, changes his dress thirty or forty times,
with a rapidity which ,appears almost preternatural, and
produces deception so perfect, that the whole dramatu
• Th kings of Prussia, Bav81ia, and Saxony, Princes Blucher,
Swartzenberg, Metternich, Wrede, M. Goethe, Blumenbach, &c,
It is a curious fact, that the aged Landgravine of Hesse Darmstadt
was enabled, by having seen M. Saint Gille 1n Paris, to comparl!
his iiowera with .M. Alexandre's, to which last she gave a Jec1ded
preference. ·
't M. Alexandre's success and popularity in Edinburgh, he him.
aelf says, has not been exceeded any where. Besides commanding
overflowing houses, he has visited many of the most respectable in.
habitanta, and made the most favourable impret&ion on all who have
conversed with him~ by his agreeable appearance, engaging man.
nera, and liberal sentiments. ·
24 'YENTRILOQtJISM;
persona seem to be bustling and talking at the same mo_.
ment.•
His change of dress is not, however, more complete than
his change of manner, voice, and whole character. He
spoke with his own natural voice in the valet ; a deep strong
voice in the old man ; a whining and chattering, and most
affected voice in the lady ; in a degage easy style in the
tlandy officer ; and with the softest tripping femininism in
the dandy's beloved. Of all these he maintained the cha-
racter with such judgment and effect, as to convince us of
one truth, which our readers are requested to mark, ~
hia histrionic powers, his talents aa an actor, are very
oonsiderable.
As it is of great moment for our phrenological tests in
the eequ~, to keep steadily in view the power of imitation,
we may here mention a sort of interlude, which M. Alex-
andre performed, in which he manifested his possession of
that talent, with the farther power of concealing self, t.o a
degree of intensity which, till that moment, we could not
have believed possible. He exhibited the visages, voices,
and manners of different nuns of a convent, where he ia
supposed t.o have served outside the grate. He is first a
very pretty noviciate endeavouring to sing, but covered
with bashfulness and heigh-hos l
" Her pretty oath by yea and nay,
She could not, must not, durst not play."
In an instant he is the angry abbess chiding her fooiish
pupil, with a face as round, as ftat, and as pitted, as a split
muffin, and a voice t.o suit. Anon he rises, like a ghost
from the ground, as Sister Beatrice, with a face double the
length of the average of the human countenance.... Down
· • M. Alexandre told us, that his attendants who attire him be-
hind the scenes, often urge him to wait a reasonable time to prevent
doubts of his identity. He paid an unconscious compliment to the
.uususpicious..Btitish character, when he added, that although on
some occasions, on the Continent, he has found It necessary to sta-
tion a resJ>Onsible public officer on the stage, ro t1ouch for him, he has
been delighted with the absence of nil suspicion, of which the cor-
dial, manner of his British spectat-0rs has given him the most encou-
raging assurances. Some of the changes are almost incredible· the
old ladY.'s long train has scarcely disappeared on one aide of the
st&.j!e, when the ,Yim jacketed demestic enters on the other, with a
frymg-pan.,in his hand to make an omelet for his muter.
1
o,9,,zedbyGooole
.VENTRILOQUISM·, 25
he sits again, an·d shows, just above fhe level of the table,
a face as preternaturally broad as the other was long, the
said face being the index to the soul of Sister Agnes. A
visage reduced to the size of a man's fist now peeps from
the hood of sister Angelina. · The next face is all gone off
to the east, and its successor to the west, ·till .he concludes
with Sister Celestine's lamentable paralytic deformity, an
exhibition greatly too like reality not to be exquisitely
painful to the spectators, and which, we have heard many
say, M. Alexandre would gain credit for good taste as well
as good feeling by omitting altogether. His other perso-
nations, amounting to an absolute Change of identity be-
fore our eyes, are quite sufficient to establish him the most
wonderful ptrrsonator that ever exhibited.•
M. Alexandre's vocal exhibition consisted of two very
obviously distinguishable parts: First, His mere imitations
or Changes of voice to suit the different characteni in which
he appeared on the stage ; in whiCh .he meant no farther
illusion, and left the audience to take the personage in their
sight for the speaker. · In· this it is obvious there was co-
•mic imitation, but none of the illusion more strictly called
. ventriloquism. To this class belong his imitations of ani-
mals and inanimate things, as a plane, a screw, a saw, an
omelet frying, &c. Secondly, His ventriloquial efforts. In
these he produced the effect of persons speaking from a
distance; from the other side of a door, both shut and
open ; from a trunk, also alternately open and shut ; from
a chimney-top ; and from a cellar ; with gradation of the
voice as the person in the chimney and cellar ascended or
descended. With his ventriloquial exertions alone we have
to do here ; and iJ,l. these the illusion of confinement, free-
• M. Alexandre paid a visit to the late Sir W4lter Scott, to deli-
ver a letter of introduction. This was put into Sir Walter's hands
by a young man of very interesting and genteel appearance, and
with the greatest modesty. He read it, and when he looked up to
reply, a being stood before him as different in identity from what he
had last looked upon, as an old grim French quack-doct<;>r may ~e
supposed to be from the first personage we have described.. Su
Walter started, and, with an exclamation of wonder, asbd if he
could ponibly be the same person who had two minutes before de-
livered him the letter I Our accomplished friend, Mr Jo~eph, suc-
ceeded admirablr with two busts of M. Alexandre, one m each of
these dil8imilar characters, and thusfired down a r~al ip.stead o.f an
evanescent proof of the power of per1onatWn, which u especially
valuable to phrenology. · ·
c
oigillzedbyGoogle
26 :VENTRILOQUISM.
dom, distance, and "gradual approach arid recession, wu
complete. In M. Alexandre's production of these curious
effects we observed several particulars :
1. His voice, to give the illusion of distance or confine-
ment, was invariably a stifled voice ; and in changing from
confinement to freedom, he dropt ventriloquism, and spoke
merely in character, as first above distinguished.
2. He never began to speak en tJentriloque without pre-
viously establishing a point, place, or local, or at least di-
rection from, or in which the audience should believe the
voice to come. This he did in course of the incidents of
the piece, so that all impression of arrangement was pre-
vented, and the audience never dreamed of disputing the
direction with the performer, but took all that for granw.d,
to his most perfect satisfaction. He aided the illusion by
his own action and attitude, as he spoke into a cellar, up
a chimney, into a trunk or press, or through a door.
3. We never saw his face, at least his front face, when
speaking en tJentriloque ; but we observed it always turned
towards us wheri he spoke as the person in our sight.
4. We observed, that after his ventriloquial exertions he
often coughed ; and, lastly, he counterfeited inimitably the
hoarseness of a severe cold. .
On returning from this singular exhibition our own con-
jectures on the subject of ventriloquism were these:-
l. That by the force of uncommonly acute powers of per-
ception, which nothing that happens around him escapes,
whether visible, tangible, or audible (phrenologice a large
endowment of all the knowing organs, particularly Tune
·and Indimduality), he has become perfect master of sounds
in all their varieties and modifications. In this per se be
may have, and no doubt has, multitudes of rivals. 2. Ha-
ving got familiar with the intensities of sounds as ~ey alight
upon the human ear, from various distances and certain
places, he does nothing more than imitate the sound de-
sired, not as it is where uttered, but where heard. It is in
either caSe an imitable sound. It would ~em to follow,
that the closer the person to be deceived is to the ventri-
loquist, the illusion must be the more complete, seeing
that the sound imitated is the sound that strikes the per-
former's .o,vn ear, which, it is obvious, may not suit the
variously arranged spectators in a large theatre. 3. As
...-
.'
VENTBJLOQUlSMi 27
the sound which reaches our ears must necessarily vary
with the distance it has come, but as each variation is ~
specific imitable sound, so the ventriloquist :has only-as-
suredly it requires exquisite skill-to vary his imitation
progressively, in either direction, to give the perfect illu·
sion of advance and retreat. A'n analogy occurred to us,
in which, if, as yet unknown to ourselves, we have ever
been anticipated, we should only have the more confidence.
Distanc~ is artificially represented to the eye on the land-
scape-painter's canvass by gradual diminution, according
to the rules of mathematical perspective, of the size of the
successive objects; and, according to those of aerial per-
spective, of the strength of their colouring; from the large
and bold foreground, to the diminished distance, almost
blending with the tints of the sky. Now, M. Alexandre's
vocal illusions are, as it were, the perspective ofsound!!, and
address to the ear a gradation which we cannot help asso-
ciatingwith the successive distances ofthe landscapewhence
they come. What an extent of' country a hunting party
may be made to traverse, in imagination, in the theatre, by
a skilful graduation of the sounds of their bugles, from the
faint sound in the distant hills, till the boisterous Nimrods
-their tunics of scarlet-are smacking their whips on the
stage. As to the direction of the sound, we conjectured
this to be exclusively the doing of the imaginations of the
audience, when a locality was est.ablished. This we put to
the test: believing that the performer could do no more
than imitate distance, without the possibility of imitating
direction, which has no distinctive sound as such ; we tried
to reverse, in our own minds, the direction of the chimney-
top and the cellar, and we found the identity of the sound
suit either place. It is obvious that, when a ventriloquist
fairly alarms people, he may give any direction he pleases
to his voice.
That this perspective of sound is the essence of the ef-
fect produced we could not doubt ; of the physiology of the
inquiry-the physical power .by which the effect is pro-
duced-we were by no means so certain. Organs ofspeech
in the atomach or belly we at once discarded as a barba-
rous absurdity ; but we really saw nothing in the imitations
which might not be executed by a person who posaessed a
28 VENTRILOQUISM.
great pawer over the movements of the larynx, directed by
~ good ear, and seconded by a very 6exible tongue.
We were not disappointed in our hopes to obtain M.
Alexandre's own account of his singular powers. He has
been as liberal as Baron Mengen and M. Saint..Gille, and
has unfolded to us his own·views on the subject. He makes
no mystery of it, and he is perfectly safe in his openness;
for his talent is so rare, and his art so difficult, however
clearly explained, that it requires the cover of secrecy
much as the accomplishment of the man, who stood on his
head on the cross of St Paul's Cathedral, required the pro-
tection of the patent which was offered him, we think,
by George the First. .
M. Alexandre assured us,-1. That his voice does not
come from his stomach or belly, in which, as he said in ri-
dicule, he has neither tongue nor teeth ; and against which
inelegant region he has a sort of ill-will, for having occa-
sioned the disgusting as well as absurd name of ventrilo-
quism to an art which is inerely vocal illusion. He wished
to have offered himself.in England as a professeur of vocal
illusion; but was advised that John Bull loves the marvel-
lous, and would rather give his money to see a man who
can speak with his stomach, than one who avowedly can
only speak with his mouth.
2. That he possesses uncommon power and flexibility in
the organs of speech : he can extend and contract the la-
rynx or windpipe, which has great muscular· strength, so
as to produce all the gradations from a bass voice of great
power to the 1hrillest squeak ; and his tongue has a degree
of 6exibility and power of change of shape and position in
the mouth, which enables him to do any thing with it he
pleases. The exertion, he says, does not .exhaust or fa-
tigue him.
3. That he is not consciou~of
s aking even during expi-
ration ; certainly he does not during inspiration upon
any occasion. When he sp s en ventriloque, he is not
aware that he breathes at all, but seems to use a confined
supply of air, which he retains in his chest till the period
is finished, when he breathes again. He must, hpwever,
although unconsciously, expend it in expiration as he speaks.
This seems proved by what follows next.
4. That he cannot ventriloquize with his lips shut.
VENTRILOQUISM. 29
·5. That he cannot articulate the labial consonants ·M;
B, and P, without using the lips. When he uses these
consonants, therefore, he turns away his face from .the per-
son he wishes to deceive. He endeavours, as much as
possible, to avoid the labials, and then he can speak with-
out the slightest movement of the lips, or of any muscle of
the face.
6. That he makes no use of echoes existing, muchJess
does he create any, such a thing being far beyond human
power. He scrupulously avoids places where echoes al-
ready exist, and this is the first thing he tries. .
· 7. That he deceives the audience into the belief of the
direction of the sound, entirely by previously fixing the di-
rection, and trusting, which he never does in vain, to their
imagination for the rest.. He says that, when he has fairly
frightened people, which he has often done, he has no far-
ther trouble ; which way soever he looks, that becomes the
direction of the dreaded sounds. He once horrified a
party of visitors to the embalmed bodies of the Prince and
·Princess of Lignitz, in Silesia, in the vault in which they
had lain 230 years. He first declared himself 250 years
old, and that he was present at the interment ; and then
made the Prince and Princess complain of want of air, in
consequence of an order of the magistracy to prevent the
coffin being opened to gratify public curiosity. The atten-
dants, in consternation, made no attempt to prevent.him
from opening the coffins ; for which service he received the
grateful thanks of the Prince and Princess therein'reposing,
and an inconvenient quantity of holy water to exorcise him, .
as he came out of the vault.
Last of all, M. Alexandre declares, that he has a ready
perception of the varieties of sound, according to distances,
and that each distance having its own specifo sound, he
IMITATES the sound as it is when it reaches his own ear.
He has particularly studied this power of graduation, and
has repeatedly imitated a~rson's voice who spoke at' in-
tervals as he receded above 300 yards. He. has likewise
sent a chimney-sweeper up a vent, with instructions to
speak down every few yards, and has imitated the voice in
its gradations so exactly, that the persons in the room could
not tell which was his and which the' chimney-sweeper's.
,On one occasion in Vienna, at Prince Metternich's Hotel,
30 VENTRILOQUISM.;
he hung a rope from the win4ow of an apartment on the
third floor from the ground, to which a weight was suspend-
ed to serve for a man whom he undertook to pull up, and
with whom be conversed every yard or two as be pulled
the rope, the voice of the man gradually getting plainer,
till be was at the window-sil~ when all at once M. Alex-
andre allowed the rope to slip, and down went the poor
man with a scream, and many a groan, as be lay knocked to
piecu on the ground. The company were terrified, and it
required a clear exposition of the illusion to restore their
composure. We made the remark to him, that this grada-
tion was like perspectiv~ in painting. He answered, that
the same comparison 1s engraved on a medal which was
given him by the l]niversity ofGhent. This we have seen,
but find M. Alexandre mistaken ; the medal merely allud-
ing to modu/fltion of voice.• .
He gave no other accoUDt of his change of countenance
in the nuns, quac,k-doctor, &c. than that his endeavour was
tO CONCEAL HIMSELF, and imitate, or, as nearly as possible,
be another person. He has often disguised himselfby this
means when he wished not to be known. Aware of .the
severe trial to which such exertions must put the nerves of
voluntary motion, and the subservient muscles, we asked
him if he has no fears of some permanent set in these hi-
deous forms ? He answered, that at Manchester he did re-
main the quack-doctor some hours longer than he intend-
ed~ having walked in the street disguised by that gainly
personification. He can remain voluntarily for a great
1 length of time so metamorphosed; and Mr Joseph assures
us, that he never varied while his bust was modelling.
Our phrenological readers are well .able to finish this
sketch for themselves--aware of the· strong case of nn-
T ATION which is es~blished at every step as w~ proceeded;
aware, also, that to effect perfect imitation in the voice and
JJla!mer, ~y. in the very countenance an.d person of ano-
ther, hq hem found by numerous cases, and no exceptions,
to require th~ agency of that important power SECRETIVE·
NEss,r which enables all perfec~ actors (and imitation ~
: ( •.. "
•The reverse ofthe medal is inaeribed'as follows:-" Quod, eono
.vocia acite modvlondo, aive hiec naturiil dos eit sive artia, notia: • .._.
""'"' legibus aut inld4it aut inhtdere videtur."
· +Sile the Transactions of the Phrenological Society (p. 179), on
.VENTRILOQUISM-. 31
<>nly a species of acting) not only to copy what they see
and hear, but to secrete what they are aware will spoil the
µIusion ifallo'Yed to·appear ; to·exercise in perfection ~
·art consisting in concealing art, which, as actors, they can-
not do, unless they conceal themselves-unless, by the ex:-
ercise of this power, they change the tones of the voice, and
alter the usual and recognised action of every muscle, by
the effects of which on the countenance; the shape, th~
movements, they are identified as individ~unless, in
short, they sink their own character and very presence, and
conjure up the individual to be personated. Who, for one
moment, during the unparalleled personation of the Nuns,
could recognise, in one point, the individual M. Alexandre ?
This combination of Secretivedess with Imitation, then,
gives not only the impulse to imitate, which, for the wisest
purposes, is part ofman's nature, but the power to pel'SOIP
ate-not only to copy, but for a time to be the original.
Without Secretiveness, M. Alexandre might imitate the
quack-doctor, but he would not be the quack-doctor dur•
ing the exhibition ; he would still be M. Alexandre, doing
aa the quack-doctor does. There are many who possess the
power ofmimickry to this extent, but this isnotperlQ'll(liion.
From what has been said, it follows obviously that a good
ventriloquist must be a perfect imitator of sounds, of all
sounds within the compass of his vocal powers ; and must
possess a great flexibility of larynx and tongue, to exe-
cute his imitations. This, in short, is the whole secret of
that art, which wu for ages considered too wc;>nderful not
to be preternatural. ·
Our readers will naturally look for some information on
the actual cerebral development of M. Alexandre, as con-
firming or shaking our explanation of his talent.· We are
enabled to gratify them, in consequence of M. Alexandre's
having most readily allowed Mr Joseph to take a cast ofhis
head, beilides modelling the bust formerly mentioned; and
it is impossible to imagine any result more satisfactory. To
ounelves it is the more gratifying that we .tnferred by an-
ticipation every prominent organ, on leaving M. Alexan-
dre'; first exhibition, and stated our expectations ofwhat his
. •
head would turn out;, to several friends who were with us.
the l\&ture and range ofthe faculty of Seeretivenel!ll. We make refer-
ence to wJlat is thµa written befor~to satifify &be impartial reader that
we do not create the combination to auit the case otM. Alexandre.
32 ·VENTRILOQUISM.
I. We expected, of course, that Imitation and Secretive-
·ness would be large, if not very large, especial!y the latter;
-and Tune, for variation of sound, we thought requisite.
2. We looked for the organs of the powers of observa-
tion to be large, Individuality, Form, Size.
3. From the boldness, energy, confidence, and sustained
character of the whole most difficult exhibition, we expect,
'ed to find Combativeness, Destructiveness, Firmness, and
'Self-Esteem, all large.
4. From·much·of his general manner, and from his com-
plete conception of all·the affectations of Miss Flirtilla, we
.anticipated a considerable Love of Approbation. And,
lastly, We referred the neatness and cleverness of his ar-
rangements and changes to his Constructiveness, added to
his mechanical skill and quickness of observation. ·
· The development was some days after taken by Dr An-
drew Combe, who had not seen his exhibition ; and it will
be seen, by a note of it subjoined,• how invariable nature
·is, as unveiled by Phrenology. The Imitation and Secre-
tiveness are not exceeded in Mr Joseph's bust of Mathews,
or in the cast of Clara Fisher in the· collection of the
Phrenological Society.
In the same collection is ·deposited the cast from M.
Alexandre's head, presented by Mr Joseph, which all are
invited to see, measure, and compare ; but especially
those who still compliment the good faith of the Phreno-
logists, by believing, at least by alleging, that they find
what suits their purpose, in any head whatever.
•L Amativeness; rather large.
. 2. Philoprogenitiveness, large.
a;Concentrativeness, full.
4. AdhesiTiiness, large.
5. Combativeness, rather large.
6. Destructiveness, large.
7. Secretiveness, very large.
8. Acquisitivene&!I, rather large.
9. Constructiveness, large.
10. Self-Esteem, large.
"'ll. Love ofApprobation, rather large.
·12. Cautiousness,·ratherJ!P'ge,
13. Benevolence, large.
·u. Veneration, full.
·15. Firmness, very lal'ge.
)6. Conscientiousness, large.
•17
. Hope {moderate on one side.
• ' full on the other.
.. . .. . . - . . .
18. Wonder, full.
19. ldeality, full.
20. Wit, full.
21. Imitation, large.
22. Individuality, large.
23. Form, large.
24. Size, large.
25. Weight, large.
26..Colouring, full.
27. Locality, full.
28. Number, rather large.
29. Order, full.
30. Eventuality, large.
31.'Time; rather large.
32., Tune, la1ge. ·
33. Language, full.
34. Compa,nson; large.
35. Causality, full. ·
o,g,izedbyGoogle
33
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF PHRENOLOGY ON A
VOYAGE.
25th Januarg 1824.
..
Mr EDITOR,-One of the most instructive and delight-
ful occupations which a person engaged in the study of
phrenology can have, and one which can never fail him, at
home or abroad, in the society of friends or of strangers, of
.the learned or of the illiterate, is that of observing peculi-
arities of development, and of tracing the varied natural
language and outward manifestations of the predominant
faculties in the looks, gestures, speech,, and conduct ofthose
with whom he may come in contact. Indeed, l have, ever
Bince I became acquainted with the science, found it to be
the most desirable travelling companion a man can have.
By its means the phrenologiSt derives both profit and plea-
sure, where another man finds only dulness and ennui.
Place him, for instance, in a stage-coach or in a steam-boat
among strangers, he has no difficulty in passing his time to
bis satisfaction. He sets about ascertaining what his com-
panions are, not by asking their names, places of abode,
and professions, as is the custom in France, but by in-
sr.ecting their development, the ·indications afforded by
which he knows to be the best and truest certificate of their
intellectual talents and moral qualities ; and he regulates
bis conduct accordingly. If he finds a youth with an enor-
mous endowment of Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation,
who seems to demand the homage of all about him, and to
think himself the most imJ>ortant person present, the phre-
nologiSt, knowing from .what his airs proceed, instead of
taking offence, treats him according to his. real merit!, and
probably amuses himself with studying the peculiar combi-
nation of faculties which mark his character. If he finds
another man who contradicts every word .that is said, and
shews himself obstinate in maintaining a disputed point, the
phrenologist regards this as springing from a large endow-
ment of Combativeness· and Firmness ; and, aware that
.argument only serves to inflame these already too active
propensities, he mildly st.ates his opinion, and leaves his
friend to keep that which he believes to be right. If,
again, he meets with a person in whom Acquisitiveness,
34 PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF
Secretiveness, and Self-Esteem are large in proportion to
Conscientiousness and the intellectual organs, he can see
no harm in these degenerate days in guarding against
such trifilDg accidents as the disappearance of his purse or
his watch. Or if he finds a man with small Comparison
and Causality and a small head, he will not try to talk with
him on metaphysics or political economy ; at least, with the
view of acquiring new ideas. But I must stop my illus-
trations to come to the proper business of this letter, which
is simply to give you an account of the cerebral develop-
ment and manifestations of an individual whose character
I had leisure to study during a pretty long voyage in a ship
in which he was captain and I a passenger.• The confi-
guration of his head was calculated to strike, but by no
means to delight, the observer. He soon saw the worst,
however, and he could act accordingly. Subjoined is a
note of the development, which, from actual examination,
I know to be correct :
I. Amativeneu, rather small 19. Ideality, small.
2: Philoprogenitiveness, large. 20. Wit. small.
3. Concentrativeness, rather full. 21. Imitation, full.
4. Adheaiveneu, rather small. 22. Individuality, large.
5. Combativeness, rather large. 23. Form, rather large.
_6. Destructiveness, very large. 24. Size, rather large.
7. Secretiveness, full. · 25. Weight, rather large.
8. Acquisitiveness, large. 26. Colouring, full.
9. Constructiveness, large. 27. Locality, large.
10. Self-Esteem, very large. 28. Number, moderate.
11. Love ofApprobation, rather large. 29. Order, moderate.
l2. Cautiousness, very large. 30. Eventuality, large.
13. Benevolence, large. 31. Time, moderate.
14. Veneration, not large. 3'2. Tune, moderate.
15. Firmness, very large. 33. Language, large.
16. Conscientiousness, small. 34. Compar18on, rathert\111.
17. Hope1 fulL 35. Causality, small.
18. Wonder, large.
I shall add a few remarks on the manifestations of his
predominant faculties.
Amativeness is marked rather small ; and it is a curious
feature in a sailor's life, that, notwithstanding the license
allowed on board of ship, and the little delicacy displayed
1n the choice of terms or modes of speech by sailors in
general, our captain scarcely ever, in the whole course of
the voyage, apoke a word under the impulse of this organ
•The facts atated in thla letter are not fictitioua-Enrroa.
PHRENOLOGY ON A VOYAGE, 35
which could offend the most delicate ear. In him this re-
finement was the more remarkable, as, from his rudeness
and coarseness of character, it was less expected.
Adhesiveness was rather small, and the only manifesta~
tion referable to this faculty was immoderate laughter at
his brother having been seized by the press-gang, and car-
ried on board the tender as a deserter, when he himself
was the person they wanted. He reckoned this a capit.al
joke, and delighted to tell it.
Combativeness rather large. The fibre was long, but
there was little breadth in this region. Its manifestations
were not remarkable.
Destructiveness and Self-Esteem were both very large,
and the former was used as an instrument for gratifying the
thirst for power, arising from a large development of the
latter. When Self-Esteem is large, the claim to superiority
is generally founded on those qualities which the individual
possesses in largest proportion. Thus, whe~ combined with
intellect and moral sentiment, the person values himselfon
intellectual and moral excellence. When the animal pJ'Ooo
pensities predominate, the individual seeks the gratification
of his large Self-Esteem by the infliction of misery upon
others, as the only means by which he can impress them
with a due sense of his power over them. In this way the
captain's Self.Esteem and Destructiveness acted together
in great harmony, and vented themselves in ebullitions of
passion and rage, and a tot.al disregard of the feelings of
others. The cloven foot appeared the very day we sailed,
although he was anxious to appear all smoothness and ci-
vility. Having been hurried in his preparations, the ship
presented at this time a scene of turmoil and confusion far
surpassing any thing I ever saw, or had an idea of. The
deck waa covered with every sort of lumber, in the midst
of which, pigs, dogs, hens, ducks, and geese, were joining
.the chorus,:and increasing the chaotic din ofa crew in the
·last stage of drunkenness, every member of which attri•
buted all the uproar to the intoxication of the others, and
gave loose to his wrath ;·and the noise caused by the e~
plosion of which was augmented ten-fold by that of some
unfortunate biped, :or quadruped, who had the misfortune
to be trampled.upon at every turn. The cabin was.covered
with trunks, baskets, barrels, cooking utensils, bedding, &c.
36 .PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF
so as almost to prevent locomotion. In the midst of thls,
our steward left us, on account of his brother having been
killed by a fall from the yard of an Indiaman alongside,
and we got an Irishman in his place, who had never been
in the ship till that moment, and who of course could not
know the geography of the lockers, &c. even had every
'thing been in the most perfect order. Two or three visi-
tors remained on board, and the captain wished to shew off
a little. Our new steward exerted himself amazingly, but
could not avoid a little delay and occasional mistakes, which
Solomon himself.would have committed in similar circum-
stances. Our captain, however, finding his Self-Esteem
hurt at the want of instant fulfilment of his orders, ex-
hausted his Combativeness and Destructiveness upon poor
Pat in curses and blows. The latter, conscious of having
exerted himself to the utmost, and done well too, very na-
turally felt all his better feelings lacerated, waxed a little
hot, and threatened to leave us,-for we still lay on the tail
of a sand-bank off the harbour. At dark he did leave
us, but was pursued by the captain, caught, hauled through
.the water from the one boat to the other, and again brought
on board with desperate threats of punishment in case of
farther misconduct. In the course of the voyage the cap-
tain told us of many feats in which he had wounded some
and killed others ; but these we did not believe. He
stated, for instance, that he had slain two bravadoes at
Oporto, and unslung a Yankee's .arm with a pistol-ball at
New Orleans. He also told us, in a few days after we
landed at ---, that he wished to get out of the town one
evening after the gates were shut. The sentinel refused.
The captain wrenched his musket from him in the m.ost
gallant style, threw it into the canal, and pummelled him
to a jelly, and upon this was apprehended, lodged in the
guard-house all night, where he scratched his breast with
a penknife, swore next morning it was a bayonet-wound,
and got off as having acted in self-defence. We after-
wards ascertained that there was not one word of truth in
this story, as he was on board of his own vessel at the time
alluded to; but it illustrates his character. On one occa-
sion during the voyage, however, he fired a musket at a
Dutch vessel to make her lie-to, that he might get a-head
.ofher.
PHRENOLOGY ON A VOYAGE. S7
Constructiveness was large, as were Form, Size, Loca-·
lity, and Imitation : these give a liking for mechanics. I
once questioned him about his tendencies that way. His
~wer was, " See here what I am working at just now;"-
at the same time producing from his pocket a handsome
wooden foot, which he had carved with his knife, to form
part of a female figure, from which the ship derived its
name. I saw some other specimens besides this.
His large Acquisitiveness, and enormous Self-Esteem,
gave him the most complete selfishness,.which, as Con-
scientiousness was small, he gratified at any expense within
the limits of the law, which, he said, was his only rule.
The first specimen was an attempt to make me pay one- •
third more passage-money than the others, because, as I
lived at a distance from a sea-port, he thought I would not
be able to detect the imposition. In this, however, he was
mistaken. Having a friend who lived in that part of the
country, I desired him to make inquiry about the fare, &c.,
and the captain, not knowing that I was the person for
whom he was acting, demanded one-third less from him
than from me, so that, on comparing notes, the trick came .
out. His rapacity WM evident in all his conduct, and on
one occasion it shewed itself remarkably. The first day of
moderate weather, after a succession of storms for upwards.
of three weeks, while a very high sea was still running, we.
discovered the wreck of a brig, which had suffered more
than ourselves ; and, thinking we could descry the crew
clinging to the broken masts and rigging, we bore down.
to relieve them-but all were gone, and the bulwarks and
every thing on deck swept clear away. Having a buoyant
cargo, the hull still floated, and was turned over now on
this side and now on that by every succeeding wave, and
altogether presented a spectacle which saddened every mind
except that of the captain. He alone was bent upon plun-
der, and spoke of visiting and breaking up the wreck ; but
the risk was so great, that none of the crew would go, and
he himself was sore afraid. · It was the subject of keen
regret for many days after : " Had the weather been more.
moderate, he would hav~ · gained so much;" and so forth.
. His Secretiveness was full~ but not predominant. Had
it been larger he would have been ten times worse ; but .
he generally betrayed his purpose before he could execute
38 PRAC::TICAt. APPLICATION op:
it. He was full of contradiction, and did not shew the
tact which Secretiveness gives in concocting a story. Self-
Esteem was enormous, and his whole life was passed under
its influence. I am not aware that he uttered a single word
in the whole voyage which had not a near reference to him-
self or his interest. The love of power was a marked fea-
ture in his character, and every means by which he cowd
make his authority be felt was considered lawful. If any
of the crew seemed not to feel a sufficiently strong sense of
his importance, blows and abuse were bestowed to deepen
the impression. If any of the passengers shewed an in-
sensibility to his magnificence, they were assailed with what
was intend,ed to be the most cutting satire, with occasional
threats of sending them to the forecastle among the crew,
as he assured us that every thing was arbitrary on ship-
board, and subject to his control. He could command, he
said, the speech, tlwughts, and behaviour of every man on
board, sailor or passenger. His satire was generally a
failure, as he had the smallest possible portion of wit ; and
it consisted of pure emanations of Self-Esteem and Des-
tructiveness-the snarl without the bite. If he did suc-
ceed in exciting pain, or a feeling of anger, he felt intense
delight ; it was an involuntary acknowledgment of his
power, the more precious that it was generally denied. He
could not bear contempt. Coarse and ignorant as he was,
he seriously assured us, that he was fit company for the
highest and best society in Britain, and that few were his
equals in point of knowledge ; yet in general he preferred
the company of those he counted his inferiors, because his
Self-Esteem was gratified by the deference which they
paid to him. If he had once uttered an opinion, the plain-
est and strongest facts failed to make him avow his convic-
tion that it was wrong. He felt exceedingly when we put
questions to his mate in his presence. The latter was an
intelligent, worthy, and modest man, who generally gave
us much more satisfactory answers.
Cautiousness was so very prominent, that I from the first
doubted much the truth of a supposed resemblance which
he had discovered in himself to Nelson, in never knowing
fear. Indeed he soon manifested a very intimate acquaint-
ance with the sentiment, although necessity sometimes
forced him to withstand danger. He avowed one day, that
39
in the only battle he ever was in, he felt a degree of trepi-
dation which was far from pleasant ; and he afterwards
owned, that a sow having crossed his path in a narrow
road. and in a dark night, he beat a retreat rather than
venture to pass it. His Wonder, however, aided his Cau·
tiousness on this occasion ; for as it was large, it always
mystified what he did not perceive clearly. I saw him
once, at least, pale and fluttering with a sudden flight. It
was at supper-time, only two nights before we met with
the wreck. He went on deck to look about him for a mo-
ment, and in an instant returned, and with a tremulous
voice called up the mates. They hastened up, a good deal
alarmed, and were saluted with " Breakers on all sides,"
not 300 yards off; and at the rate we were moving, five
minutes more seemed to him sufficient to seal our doom.
The first mate, however, with more self-possession, thought
that before we could be surroundedwith breakers, we must
have got into the middle of them some way or other with-
out damage, and therefore we might also get out again in
safety ; he therefore expressed a suspicion that the foamy
appearance was caused by phosphorescent animalcula in the
water, and it proved to be so. On coming down again,
the captain still looked ghastly pale, and the first words he
uttered were, " I never got such a damnable fright in my
life." Upon being reminded of his never having felt fear,
he would not take with the joke. His whole seamanship
was marked by Cautiousness, and to this we were partly
indebted for our own safety. Here was an example of the
practical effects ofa mere feeling when strong in the mind,
even with little intellect. ·
His benevolence, with all his selfishness, was by no means
a nonentity. During the stormy weather, when we invalids
were all sick, and unable to look after ourselves, he shewed
considerable sympathy and kindness of feeling, and gave us
many little things to which we had no claim. After we
were so far restored as to look to ourselves, he was less
scrupulous, but occasionally displayed touches of feeling.
Even here, however, he shewed his nature in a curious
manner. He had two kinds of wine on board, one much
l>etter than the other. Tbe better was reserved for our use,
and at table he refused to t.aSte it, and got his Love of Ap-
probation gratified by our praises for his kindness. Our
01g11zedbyGoogle
40 l'RACTICAL APPLICATION OF
bottle was set apart to distinguish it, and on several occa-
sions quantities disappeared, nobody knew how. One day,
however, on entering the cabin unexpectedly, it was dis-
covered to be the captain himself who absorbed it ·; and he
thus had the manifold luxury of drinking the wine, of being
praised for his generosity in not taking it, and of expe-
riencing a kind of pleasant feeling, arising from the grati-
fication of Secretiveness, Acquisitiveness, and Self-Esteem.
His Conscientiousness was small, and the absence of the
sentiment was very remarkable. Kill, steal, or destroy,
but keep to windward of the law, was his text; and his
creed and actions completely corresponded. He took great
delight in narrating instances of successful trick and deceit
practised 'upon ot~ers.
Firmness, very' large, with his Self-Esteem, made him
rude, overbearing, and in a high degree obstinate and self-
willed. He never could bring himself to yield a disputed
point, till a day or two afterwards, when he sometimes
would own that he had been wrong.
His Intellect was of a knowing kind. Individuality and
Language were large, with small Causality ; and it was
truly amazing to hear what scraps' of Latin and Greek,
anecdotes and history, he had collected.together in endless
confusion, without regard to probability, utility, or common
sense.
Satisfied, fr-0m the enormous Self-Esteem and Acquisi-
tiveness, with deficient Conscientiousness, that self-inte-
rest would ever be a ruling passion in this man's mind, and
that it would not be regulated by moral principle, however
much it might be smoothed down and masked under the
influence of Love of Approbation, Secretiveness, and Cau-
tiousness, which SQ often give an exterior deportment cal.
culated to hide what is going on within, I was on my guard
against it. His Self-Esteem, Firmness, and Destructive-
ness, gave him an innate love of power, and disposition to
tyrannize, which was extremely unpleasant ; and he would
go almost any length to provoke an acknowledgment of
superiority, which, if once accorded, was instantly again
demanded. With this view, he often .tried to provoke
those about him. I ~ew well the impulses under which
he was acting, and therefore was enabled to keep my tem-
per almost invariably ; and knowing, that, to a large Self-
PHONOLOGY ON-A VOYAQB, 41
Esteem, contempt is the most intolerable of all thingt, I
often looked as if I did not hear his sharpest hits. At fint
he took this highly amiss ; but afterwards, finding his efforts
fruitless, and that we would not acknowledge his import-
ance, he became more quiet, social, and forbearing.
One great benefit arising from an acquaintance with the
new doctrine is, that it cherishes a spirit of toleration and
good-will towards all mankind. Had I met with such a
character before I became acquainted with phrenology, I
would have had no .patience with him ; whereaa, knowing
that nature had endowed him with such propensities, and
that unfortunately they had been lost sight of in his educa-
tion, as in that of most other men, I never suffered myself
to be angry or hasty with him, but rather pitied him. It
enabled me, also, to see the propriety of never yielding to
him in any of his absurd notions, when practically applied,
and of leaving him in quiet postession of them while they
remained merely matter oi opinion. Yielding only in-
creased his obstinacy and importance. He and I socin
carried on our intercourse very amicably, from understand-
ing each other. He was .extremely fond of drawing a
dreadfully long bow, and was in every case the hero of his
own story. From ,observing his large Wonder, Secretive-
ness, Language, and Individuality, with small Conscien•
tiousness and Causality, I was from the fint inclined to
receive his st.ories with liberal abatement, and had no rea-
son to fear offending the feelings of an honest mind by
doing so ; and in fact be never shewed any uneasiness at
the truth of his statements being questioned. Want of
space has prevented me from entering into longer details
and illustrations ; but should the above be of any service,
you are at liberty to do with it as you see proper. I am, &c.
MASTER. JillES HUBARD.•
TUB subject of this notice is a native of Shropshire, aged
H. He is now 'fell known 'in Edinburgh for the talent
which shall afterwards be described; but in .January 1824,
and before coming hither, h& had exhibited publicly in Glas-
gow, and hadexcited eome.co~troversy between the phren'!"
• B7 William Ritobie-Vol i. No. 3. p.-~
D
42 · 'MASTER'.Jl.lllES HUBAaD, '
logists and ariti-phrenologiSts ofthat·city, Mr W. Bewick
was in Glasgow at the same time, exhibiting his copy of Mr
Haydon's Lazarus, and some other historical pictures ; and
being aware that his friend Mr W . Ritchie (3. Hill Square,
Edinburgh), was a Phrenologist, he suggested a plan by,
which, on Master Hubard's going to Edinburgh, the points
in dispute might be put to rest. Accordingly, in February,
and before Master Hubard had exhibited in Edinburgh, or
was at all known here, Mr James Edmonston of Prince's
Street, at Mr Bewick's request, waited on Mr Ritchie, to
whom he was unknown, and; without any previous notice,
introduced hi11H1elf and the boy, by aletter from Mr Bewick,
which simply mentioned, that a boy would be introduced to
him, who was possessed of a peculiar talent, and who had
excited controversy in Glasgow, as to whether the develop~
ment of his brain corre&ponded with the manifestations of
his faculties. Mr Ritchie t;tated, that he had not cultivated
*e science so arduously as .to be able to speak with perfect
.confidence respecting some of the minute organs ; but that
he would examine the boy's head, and mention frankly what
it indicated. Mr .R~ichie then .stated, without hesitation,
what; according to the development, were the leading talents
and propensities of the boy before him ; observing that he
was gifted especially.with those organs wMch enable one to
distinguish himself:asan•artist. When he had given thi!I
i>pinion, Mr Edn;ionston expressed a wish, on the part of
his Glasgow friends, that the boy, while unknotvn, should
be seen also by.Mr G. Combe; and the whole party, withjut
separating, proceeded forthwith to this gentleman's house.
Tkm-e the part~' remained together in the room they wer~
first 1hewn into, .until Mr Combe was brought to them ;
and, without any other in~imation than that there was a wish
to testPhrenologyby an examination byPhrenologists ofthe
boy's head, and an opinion as to his talents, Mr Combe pro-
' ceeded to ascertain the development and dictate an opinion.
This was all done and certified in presence of Mr Edmon-
ston, and before any ofthe party left the room. Mr Ritcllie,
1n his examination, did not measure. the head, or note down
the development of the several organs ; but Mr EdmonstOn
certified.that the account of talents and character given by
him virtually corresponded exactly with what was dictate4
separately by .Mr Combe, and which was.as .f~llows :-
MASTER JAMES RUBARD.,
From Occipital apine to Individuality,
- - Concentrativeness to Comparison,
- - hollow of the ear to Occipital spine
- - do. do. to Individuality,
- - do. do. to Firmness,
- - Deatrnctiveneas to Destructiveneaa,
- - Secretivenese to Secretivenen,
- - Cadtiousne88 to Cautiouane88,
·
- - Conatructiveness to Conatructiveness,
- - ldeality to Ideality,
- - Meatus auditoriua to Benevolence,
I. Amativeneae, large. 19. Ideality, full.
2. Philoprogenitiveneu, large. 20. Wit, rather full.
'43
3. Concentrativeneas, large. 2I. Imitation, large, more on one
4. Adhesiveneas, large.
5. Combativeness, large.
6. Destructiveness, large.
7. Secretiveneas, very large.
8. Acquisitivene88, full.
9. Conatructiveness, rather large.
IO• .Self-Esteem, rather large.
) I. Love of Approbation, large.
·12. Cautiousne88, full.
13. Benevolence, rather large.
14. Veneration, rather large.
15. Firmne88, large.
16. Conscientiousneu, full.
17. Hope, moderate,
18. Wonder, full
aide than the other.
22. Individuality, l d "d di large
23. Form, . S eci e y '
24. Size, very large.
25. Weight, not ascertained.
26. Colouring, large.
27. Locality, rather large.
28. Number, rather full.
29. Order, full
30. Eventuality, large.
31. Time, rather full.
32. Tune, rather full.
33. Language, full.
34. Comparison, large.
35. Causality, full.
" The held is large, and the organs of the propensities
aN considerably developed, which indicate power. · The
organs of the faculties which give the social affections are
large ; so that, while there will be the elements of a good
hater or a formidable enemy, there will be also the consti-
tuent feelings ofa warm and excellent friend. The com-
bination of Concentrativeness, Love of Approbation, Con-
scientiousness, and Intellect generally, will give a philoso-
phic character to the mind, and fit the individual for com-
prehending and applying principle in all his undertakings.
The distinguishing characteristic, however, is his talent for
·art~ The combination of Secretiveness, Form, Size, and
Imitation, with Individuality and Comparison, should give
-
him the tact of combining expression of character with
great truth and accuracy in the details ofhis work. At his
.time of life·it is probable that the talent Will have shewn
01g11zedbyGoogle
44 MASTER JABRS HUBAaD.
it.self in cutting or clipping figures of animals, men, &c.
Colouring is also fully developed, and he might succeed as
a painter; but his ·power of colouring will not be equal to
his power of drawing and giving expression."
Many of our readers have probably seen Master Hubard;
as he has practised his art, in the way of public exhibition,
in the principal cities of England and Scotland, and is now,
we believe, in Dublin. He clips in paper profile-likenesses
of those who visit his gallery, at the charges of one shilling .
each for half-lengths, and five shillings for whole-lengths;
and the walls of his exhibition-room are hung round with
many beautiful specimens of his 1kill. ·" The Western
Luminary" gives the following account ofhim and ofsome
of his productions:-" Little Hubard's talents were diBCO-
vered at nearly six years of age. He had been with his
· parents to the village-church, and was observed to be re-
markably attentive during the service. They were pleased
at such an early appearance of devotion, and, wishing to see
it continued, made no remarks to him respecting it. Great,
however, was their surprise shortly after his return home,
io observe tl1eir piow b"!f cutting pictures from a sheet of
blank paper ; and how much was that surprise increased,
when they saw the most striking likenesses of their minister,
his pulpit, and his precentor. ·
" Nature had so strongly spoken out in this instance, that
she could not be mistaken. His talent was encouraged,
untjl he arrived at that acme of perfection in which we now
behold him, and which we shall endeavour to give a more
'vi,id and detailed view of, by describing the various figures
in the Exhibition-Room.
" The Duke ofYork.-One of the best likeneSlleS of this
princely personage we have ever seen : he is beautifully
·bronzed.
" Going to the Races.-A very long picture, with some
·hundreds of figures. One or twoof the sketches conceived
-with great fidelity, and executed with great effect. Adan-
dizette trying to save her bonnet, and a dandy thrown from
his balance, very picturesque. A horse stopping to drink,
and being kindly inclined, giving his rider a drink too, aana
ceremonie, happily imagined. Bear-dancers, and monkey
on bruin's back, highly ludicrous.
'' CAildren.--Both-very bea1:1tifuL The child puiting-a
·MASTER JAMBS BtJBARD. 45
flower into a basket, simple and natural. ·The girl leading
a fawn with a ribband, most playful. The fawn is full of
fun, the child of innocence.
" The Glasguw Catlwlic Chapel."-This is the most
astonishing performance of the whole. Without the least
shading, save the white upon the black, it presents the
most beautiful perspective, the most exquisite symmetry,
and the most faithful outline of that fine specimen of mo-
dern architecture we ever saw-we could gaze an hour,
and yet not be satiated."
To convey an idea of Master Hubard's rapidity and dex•
terity of workmanship, we select the following description
from the letter ofa correspondent :-" I went to Glasgow
one day ignorant of this boy's existence. It happened that
I had two or three hours to wait there for a gentleman, who
was to return with me to ---, and I was really at a loss
how .to occupy the time. Accident carried me to Master
Hubard's exhibition-room, and I asaure you that, in my
life, I never was so much surprised and pleased with any
~hibinon ; never at least with one of that sort. The boy's
talent is, in my humble opinion, truly astonishing. To
view it to advantage you should, as I did, see him (to use
a happy enough expression of a newspaper-writer) despatch
300 victims at an average of 20 seconds each. It was a
Saturday, and said to be his last day. Men, women, and
children of all sorts and sizes ~ in review before the
·little conjurer, and were committed to paper, with this ex-
traordinary celerity. I took my turn, and was scarcely
tieated on the stool when I was to be displaced by another.
Hubard asked me, do you choose to have two or one, air?
(he cuts the paper double), those who took the two copies
paying an additional sixpence. Now, as to the accUJ'1lCY oC
these outlines, I watched him attentively for at least an
hour, comparing a multitude of his copies with the origi-
nals, and it struck me that many of them were very faith-
ful and spirited likenesses. With others (my own among
the number) I was not so well satisfied ; but I ascribed their
defects to no deficiency of talent in -the artist, but to the
:ridiculousrapidity with which he worked. I resolved, there-
fore, to try him again -in my own person, at a full-length
(the others were busts), if he would agree to do it. ! Most
willingly, sir, -
when the crowd is gone,' waa his answer.
46 .MASTER JAMES HUB.A.RD.
When .the crowd did go, it was threatening to get dark, and
no time was to be lost for my execution. I stood on the
floor in a fixed and condemned attitude. The day being
cold, I happened to wear a dress lined and edged with fur,
cut in the German or Polish fashion-such a coat, in short,
as I should prefer for a portrait, though certainly I had not
put it on for Master Hubard; but being on, I considered
that the unusual shape, the folds, the collar, and edging of
fur, presented a very fair trial of his skill. Before letting
him begin I took out of my pocket the busts he had done
·of me an hour before, and said, ' Be so good, Master Hu-
·bard, as to look at these, and see if you are yourself per~
fectly satisfied with the likeness so far as it goes.' He
looked at them for a moment, and replied, 'No, sir, I am
not; I will make the ne.xt much better. I have made the
upper-lip too prominent,' &c. &c. Well, in five minutes
exactly, my execution was over ; the sentence of pillory
and dissection with scissors being completed.
" The opinion of every one to whom I shewed it was,
that a more spirited and faithful outline in profile could not
possibly be made. One person at-- said, ' He has caught
your very air.' He had altered the position, and .the way
in which I held my hat at the moment; which shewed great
readiness, as he did not desire me to change my position."
We have heard it observed, that the present exceeded in
'extravagance all the cases of the Phrenologists ; for that
here they had found an organ for paper-clipping l This
remark is so truly puerile, that we should not have noticed
it, except to say that the talent is by no means rare, in an
inferior degree, and that, in the works on Phrenology it is
repeatedly mentioned, and ascribed to the faculties which
predominate in Master Hubard. We have met with seve-
ral instances of it in Edinburgh, and one, in particular,
was adverted to in an article on Constructiveness in our
last .Number. On another occasion, we happened to re~
mark a great development of Constructiveness,.Form, and
Imitation, in the head of a child of seven years, and asked
if he was not fond of drawing, or clipping or cutting figures.
His father produced a portfolio of his productions ; among
which.was a regiment of Highlanders, then in town, cut
in all the varieties of costume, from the drum-boy to the
colonel on.horseback. The great source of Hubard's ex-
1
' MASTEB~AMES HUBABD; 47
·~ellence is the peculiar combination of Form, Size, Indi-
viduality, Constructiveness, Secretiveness, Ideality, and
·Imitation, all well developed. We have seen many in-
stances in which one or two of these organs were larger J
but have never met with one in which they were all so
krge. The case confirms strikingly the doctrine long
since laid down in the systems of Phrenology, that Secre-
tiveness and Imitation give expression in the fine arts. It
is easy to account for the assertions of the opponents in re-
gard to this boy. They look for the" b1,1mp," to use their
own expression, although they have been told very fre-
9uently that it is the sizeof an organ, in length and.breadth,
from the medulla oblongata, which indicates the power of
the faculty, and that where several contiguous organs are
all large, there can be no projecting eminences. Accord-
ingly, in Hubarcl, the superciliary ridge projects in an un-
usual degree beyond the cheek-bones, and this indicates ~
great development of the whole organs there situated ; but
not one of them presents the appearance ofa swell. In the
next place, Benevolence is large, and Imitation is nearly
equal with it, and no bump is found there ; but in those
in whom Benevolence is large and Imitation small, a slop'."
ing surface is felt in the situation of the latter organ, in-
stead ofa full and flat configuration as in Hubard.
COMPARATIVE INFLUENCE OF NATURE AND CIRCUM-
STANCES IN THE FORMATION OF HU.M,AN CHARAC-
TER.•
Mr OWEN has promulgated a doctrine which he deno-
minates " The Science of the Influence ·of Circumstances
in forming the Human Character;" and to arrive at an en-
lightened judgment of its merits, it is necessary to take a
comprehensive view of the natural constitution of the hu-
man mind, and of the ·modifications of which .it is suscep~
tible.t .Before the discovery of phrenology, no adequate
•By George Combe.-Vol. i. No. 2, p. 218. ,.
-t It is proper to mention, that we submitted the following obser-
vations to a zealous and ii.hie advocate ofMr Owen's views. and that
be ha.s favoured ua with bis corrections and remarks, which we prm\
01g11zedbyGoogle
'48 . ·INPLUENCB OP NATURE AND CIRCUMSTANCES
means existed of attaining sound and definite ideas on the
former point, and until such information is possessed, all
8}>eculations concerning the latter must necessarily be de-
fective ; because, without knowledge of the natural quali-
ties of the subject which we desire to modify, we are not
in a condition to judge of the means best fitted to attain
our end, or to discriminate between results attributable to
natural constitution, and others springing from adventitious
causes. Mr Owen, like many of his predecessors, proceeds
to speculate on the modifying power of circumstances, with-
out previously ascertaining the primitive attributes of the
subject to be modified-t least without ph'iloaophically do-
ing so ; for his table of the original powers of the human
mind does not correspond with that contained in any ad-
·mitted system of mental philosophy, and he offers no evi-
dence,• on his own part, in support of its title to universal
acceptance. This is a fundamental error, the effects of
which may be easily explained. We, for example, hum-
bly believe, that a natural propensity of Acquisitivenes11
exists in the human mind, and Mr Owen does not admit
auch a feeling.t We are constrained to rank a tendency
to destroy, and another to combat, among the primitive
. powers, while Mr Owen conceives these propensities to be
adventitious. We hold Secretiveness to be natural, while
he maintains the disposition to conceal to be the result of
irrational treatment in youth. Now, suppose, what is the
truth, that both Owenites and phrenologists ardently de-
8ire to conduct mankind to the greatest possible happiness
.ot'which their nature is susceptible, how different will be
the means that will appear adequate, according to the views
entertained on the above points ; while, at the 118Dle time,
.upon the judicious.choice and employment of the means,
will depend altogether the probabilities of success !
The primitive constitution of the mind is not a point to
.in the form ofnotes, aigned O. To do him full justice, we offer no
commentary on his statements, but leave the.reader to decide, ac-
'eording to t'he dictates of his own judgment, after considering both
Ii~ of the {IUestion. . . ,
• Except the internal consciousneee 'lfhich he supposes to exist in.
each individual.-0.
.,. Net ihnate feeling of Acquisitiveness, fariher than is really ne-
eeasary for supplying, in the oest manner, all our natural wants aml
~tionill deeiree..:-o.
oig•izedbyGoogle
ON THE HUMAN CHARACTER, 49
·~ taken for granted, or passed over as of no importance ;
but ought to form a fundamental element in all our reaso~
ings, and in all our schemes, for the improvement .of the
race. If the phrenologists are well-founded in believing
that Combativeness, Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, and
·Secretiveness exist, it will be impossible, by the influence
of circumstances, to eradicate them from the mind, and no
«:heme for the melioration of the species will succeed
which does not admit their existence, and provide either
for their gratification or adequate restraint. Ifwe proceed
on the notion.that they are not natural, we shall be led to
treat them with neglect, till they burstforth and overwhelm
all our schemes. If, on the other hand, we allow their
existence, but expect completely to subdue them, then our
·system must embrace means for inducing men to practise
self-denial and restraint, and in this respect differ widely
&om institutions framed on the principles of unlimited in-
dulgence.
Mr Owen's leading principle is, " that the character of
man is, without a single exception, always formed for him ;
that it may be, and is chiefly, created by his predecessors;
that they give him, or may give him, his ideas and hahits;
which are the POWERS that govern and direct his conduct."
-{Euaya on Jhe F<>rmation of Character, p. 83.) .Ac~
cording to phrenology, the origin of human character is
lli1ferent. Nature has implanted certain animal propensi~
ties, moral sentiments, and knowing and reflecting faculties
in the mind, and connected each with a particular organ.
Each is susceptible of sponta11e()US activity, and it may be
called into action also by external excitement. Desires and
aversions take their origin from the activity of the propen-
sities and sentiments, and intellectual ideas from that of
the knowing and reflecting powers. Thus, if in any indi-
.vidua1 the organ of Acquisitiveness is adequately develop-
ed, it may become spontaneously active, and the faculty
attached to it will then generate desires for wealth, or other
·9bjects capable of accumulation. The sentiment of Ideal,.,
ity may become active in a similar way, and then the mind
.will be spontaneously filled with brilliant and magnificent
emotions ; or if Combativeness and Destructiveness be ex•
cited, the mind may be inspired with a passion for war.
According to phrenology, then, ideas and ha/Jiu are not
B
01g11zedbyGoogle
50 INFLUENCE -OF NA.TUBB AND ClBCUM!ITANCES
the " POWEBS which govern and direct the conduct;" their
influence is this :-Ifa boy possess a strong natural Acqw·
sitiveness, and his father be a merchant, and inculcate on
him the advantages ofwealth, the " ideas and habits" thus
communicated may direct the propensity to seek indul-
gence in commercial pursuits. If the youth, on the other
hand, possess the same Acquisitiveness, with little Self-Es-
teem, and great Love of Approbation, and live among phi·
losophers, who prize highly collections in natural history,
the " ideas" he receives from them may tum his Acquisip
tiveness towards the formation of a museum. If in another
child Combativeness were very powerful, ·and he were
placed within the influence of soldiers, he might be led by
the " ideas1' received from them to indulge in the profes-
sion of arms ; or, on the other hand, if he heard only of
the contentions of the bar, he might, his other faculties
permitting, be induced, by this stock of ideas, to seek ita
gratification in forensic disputation. Mr Owen, however,
appears to imagine, that by the simple communication of
ideas,* the fathers could, in any of these cases, have creat;.
ed a desire in the children to be merchants, soldiers, or
lawyers, indifferently-a notion contradicted by every
day's experience oflife. He, indeed, is not so inconsistent
u to affirm, that a boy naturally combative may be made
acquisitive, or vice versa ; for he denies that such natural
tendencies exist. Viewing the mind, however, as a very
plastic instrument, he conceives it quite possible to make
any boy a soldier, lawyer, or divine, by merely communi-
cating to him habits and ideas. In D'Israeli's Curiosities
ofLiterature, there is an anecdote ofthe " Fairfaxes," which
forcibly illustrates how widely such views differ from actual
nature. " The old Lord Thomas Fairfax one day found
the Archbishop (of York, in James the First's reign) very
melancholy, and inquired the reason of his Grace's pensive-
ness. 'My Lord,' said the Archbishop, 'I have great rea.-
son of sorrow with respect to .my sons, one of whom baa
wit and no grace, another grace but no wit.' ' Your case,'
• By sound idea.t1,&ndgood habits,the fathers might have so ronB.
.ed the judgment and inclinations of their sons, that these habitsand
ideas would have inclined them to prefer temperance, kindness, and
industry in some useful employment, to the vices which are opposed
-· ~o.thele virtWll.-0.
Dig1 zod by Google
,
ON THE HUMAN CHARACTER. 51
replied Lord Fairfax, 'is not singular. I am also sadty
disappointed in my sons. One I sent into the Nether·
lands to train him up a soldier, and he makes a tola"Sble
country justice, but a mere coward at fighting.• My next
I sent to Cambridge, and he proves a good lawyer, but a
mere dunce at divinity ;t and my youngest I sent to the
Inns of Court, and he is good at divinity, but nobody at
law.'"t ,
According to phrenological principles, then, the charac~
ter of an individual is the result of his natural endowment
ofpropensities, sentiments, and intellectual faculties, mo.
dified by education, and all external influences which have
operated upon them. This, we admit, is also Mr Owen'•
doctrine in word8 ; for in hisfirst letter explanatory of his
views, he says, " that human nature, like each distinct spe..;
cies of animal nature, is always composed of the same ge-
neral propensities, faculties, and qualities, but that these
differ in degree and combination, in every individual ofthe
human race.'' But, in the first place, this is at variance
with the doctrine above quoted from his Essays ; and, se-
condly, as already observed, he does not think it necessary
to ascertain what these primitive propensities are, in which
he admits individuals to differ-and in his general argument
he proceeds as ifthey had no existence, or at least as if
they were entirely plastic to his will. ,
As, however, we admit the influence ofmodifying causes,
it is proper to explain to what extent we conceive them to
operate. Our doctrine on this point may be embodied in
three propositions, which appear so self-evident, that wefor.
bear offering any argument in support ofthem. Pirat, We
cannot eradicate any propensity, sentiment, or intellectual
faculty implanted by nature. Secondly, We cannot essen-
tially tJka1'f}e the character ofany natural feeling,§ so as to
• This disposition would spring from large Cautiousness and Con-
11Cientiousne88,_
with a deficiency ofCombativenem, and probably of
Finnnesa and .ueetructivenl!ls.
,1- This indicates Veneration deficient· and probably Combative-
neea, which fits for disputation, along with intellect fully developed.
:t This character would result from Veneration1 Hope, and Bene-
Yolence largely developed, and probably Combat1veneea and Firm•
nesa deficient. .
§ Unleea changing the feeling ofVeneration from the g-ming
.,OW-er of the universe, to what in the Ea.st ie called "DeYil-W o~
1hip," be changing its character.-<>. ·
01g11zedbyGoogle
52 INFLUENCE OF NATURE AND CIRCUMSTANCES
convert Acquisitiveness into Benevolence, or Combative-
ness into Veneration. And, thirdly, our efforts are limited
t.o increasing or diminishing the vigour and activity of the
dllferent faculties, restraining them from improper mani-
festations, and directing them t.o legitimate and beneficial
indulgence.
Phrenology shews that man possesses animal propensi-
ties.·.moral sentiments, and intellect; and that, c<Zterispari-
bus, these powers act with a degree of energy correspond-
ing t.o the size of their respective organs. To use an illus-
tration brought forward by the Rev. Mr Singer, in his re-
ply to Mr Owen at Dublin, on March 18. 1823 :-"Adam
had two sons---0ne was Cain, and the other Abel." The
phrenologist would account for the difference of character
between these two individuals, by supposing·Abel to have
possessed a large development of the organs of the moral
sentiments, and a small or moderate endowment of the or-
gans of the lower propensities ; and Cain exactly the re-
verse. Both being exposed t.o the same external modify-
ing causes, Abel would be led, by the spontaneous activity
of his faculties, to religious and peaceful exercises ; Cain,
by the impulse of bis animal feelings, to jealousy, hatred,
revenge ; and the catastrophe of the murder would ensue
as a natural result. We use this as an illustration merely
of our position, that moral evil springs &-om abuses of the
animal propensities of human nature, when not regulated
by moral sentiment and directed by intellect. Observ•
tion shews that some individuals are born with so great a
preponderance of the first over the two latter classes, that
they are constitutionally prone to immoral and prejudicial
conduct.
· According to Mr Owen, however, moral evil seems to be
without a cause. "Each human being," says he, " comes
into the world a passive compound, and, in some respects,
unlike every other individual of his species." If the first
human being was a passive compound at creation, when
did he or the race become active ? If each child is at birth
apassive compound, why do parents experience such great
difficulties in modifying their dispositions? In short, we
are carried back to the question which we represented as
}ying·at the base of the argument, What IS human nature-
ON THE HUMA'N. CHARACTER. ,53
tN ITSELF? Mr Owen represents it as a passive;• we, on
the other hand, hold it to be an EMINENTLY ACTIVE com-
pound, susceptible at the same time of some modification
from external causes-and how different will our method&
for improving it be, according as we conscientiously hold
one or other of these views! Mr Owen, we know, will tell
us, that an infant an hour old is NOT a,ctive, and we grant
hini this position ·; but our doctrine is, that at this age the
mind contains principles which time alone will render ac-
..tive, and which cannot be eradicated, changed, or prevent-
ed &om unfolding themselves, except by the death or phy-
sical restraint of the being. He, on the other hand, to be
consistent., must deny the existence of all principles ever
tending to action ; because the moment he admits a single
aetive disposition, his whole fabric, reared on the basis of
man's passive nature, falls to the groU11d, and he must him-
selfperceive the necessity of inquiring into the character
and tendency of the active powers, before forming schemes
for directing human c0nduct.
Vehement disputes have been maintained by phil~
phers about the influence of nature and education, as form-
jng the character of individuals ; one class maintaining that
nature does all, and another that education, in this respect.,
is omnipotent. Mr Owen, although in words he disclaims
alliance with the latter, appears to us, if he were consist.
.ent with himself, to belong to it. The phrenologist steers
a middle course between the two ; man, as revealed to hi!ll
by his science, is endowed with active powers, which ill
some individuals, such as Fairfax's sons, are so energetic~
t.o form the leading features of the characters through life,
but which in others are susceptible of control and direc·
tion, so as to render them liable to receive important mo~
difications from without.
• A passive compound which can move in.no direction till it be
acted upon· that is, till a thought or idea come .into the mind;
which tliought or idea comes into his mind independently of any
power which man can command, and.lead8' him afong as decidedl1
as ifhe were drawn by force, and-boasting of his freedom-he 18
tbus led, as it were," by theno,e," from.the cradle tothegrave.-0.
..
OBSERVATIONS ON SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS,
AND OTHER ILLUSIVE PERCEPTIONS OF THE KNOWING
ORGANS WHEN IN MORBID EXCITEMENT; ILLUSTRATBD
BY A RECENT CASE.*
IN vol. i. of the Phrenological Journal, p. 551, a phre-
nological explanation is given of the phenomenon of Spec..
tral Illusions, to which I beg leave to refer the reader.
Drs Gall and Spurzheim have observed, that when the
<>rgan of Wonder is in great development and high excite·
ment, there is a tendency to see visions, or to experience
,
Spectral Illusions. In the Journal, a theory is suggested,
that this sentiment, when in a state of extreme exaltation,
may stimulate the Knowing and Reflecting Faculties to
conceive o~jects fitted to gratify it ; and that spectres, ap-
paritions, spirits, &c. are the kind of ideas suited to please
an inordinate Wonder. I wish particularly to remark, that
the organ of Wonder is here considered as not sufficient
per se to produce the illusions of spectres, but that the co·
operation of the Knowing Organs is held as also requisite.
This view will be greatly strengthened by a new and iin·
portant case, which forms the chief object of the present
communication. To understand it distinctly, an acquaint•
ance is necessary not only with the functions of the differ•
ent Knowing Faculties, but with the situations of their
organs. The following brief sketch may be useful in i'e·
·calling them to the recollection of the reader :-
1. Individuality is situated between the eyebrows, im-
mediately over the root of the nose. The faculty perceives
material existences, without perceiving their qualities.
2. Form is situated between the eyes, on the two sides
of the crista galli. The faculty distinguishes the quality
of form. . .
3•.Size is situated in the inclined curve which connects
the eyebrows with the root of the nose, and the faculty
gives the perception of extension. The organs of lndiv~:.
duality, Form, and Size are in juxta-position.
• By .James Simpson.-Vol. ii. No. 6, p. 290. Read before the
Phrenological Society on 3d February 1820. •
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS;- 51)
4. Weight, 88 it has hitherto been called, lies next to
and outward from Size, and the faculty appears to me to
produce the perception of gravitation, or more generally
force, and to enable all animals to preserve equilibrium
and regulate their movements.
5. Colouring is situated next to Weight in the supercili-
ary ridge or eyebrow, and its faculty gives the perception
of the quality of colour.
6. Locality, or the faculty which judges of the relative
position offized objects, has it.s organ in the forehead im-
mediately above Size.
7. Order is situated outward of Colouring, close to but.
1rithin the angle ofthe frontal bone, or near the outer ex-
tremity ofthe eyebrows. The faculty takes cognizance of
srrangement, is pleMed with regularity, and displeased with
confusion in physical objects.
8. Number has its organ at the very external extremity
of the eyebrow, and extending a little downward after pass-
big the angle of the frontal bone. Its higher function is
calculation, but its simple is probably the perception of
number as distin~hed from unity.
9. Time is situated immediately above Colouring. It is
marked as only probable in the books, and the faculty gives
the perception of intervals of duration. Recent tacts ap•
pear to render it certain.
IO. Tune is situated in the immediate neighbourhood of,
but distinct from Time, and appears in its more moderate
endOwment to produce the power of distinguishing different
sotmds, without regard to their harmonious or even melo-
dious relations. When highly developed, melody and bar·
mony are perceived.
. 11. Language is situated immediately above the middle
of the supra-orbitary bone, or above the middle of the eye-
ball. It produces the power of using artificial signs for
thoughts.
All these organs are placed in one region of the fore-
head, forming a group; and that they, as well as the organ
ef Wonder, were excited in the recorded cases of Spectral
Dlusions, appears obvious from the description given of the
apparitions themselves. Thus Nicolai, the Berlin booksel-
ler, saw the form 88 ef a deceased person within eight steps
of him, vas.t numiers of human and other forms, equally
56
. .
SPECTRAL lLt.tYSIONS~
in the day and night, crowds of both sexes, people .OD
horseback, birds and dogs, of natural size, and distinct as
if alive, of natural colour, but paler than reality. He then
, began to hear them talk. On being blooded with leeches,
the room was crowded with spectres ; in a few hours the~
colour began to fade, and in a few more they were white.
They dissolved in air, but fragments of them were visible
for some time. Dr Alderson of Hull furnishes the two
next cases. Mr R. left his wife and family in America,
but saw them and conversed with them in this country ;
saw trains of living and dead persons ; in a bright br<JIJ8
lock again saw his transatlantic friends, and always in that
lock ; had violent headach. A pothouse·keeper in Hull
saw a soldier in his cellar, whom he endeavoured to seize,
but found an illusion ; attempted to take up oysters &om.
the ground, which were equally unreal ; saw crowds of the
living and dead ; scarcely knew real from spectral cus-
tomers ; suffered repeated flogging from a waggoner with·
a whip, which was an illusion. In the second volume of
the Phrenological Journal* is' given the case of a man in
the west of Scritland with a large organ of Wonder, who:
sees inanimate things and persons in visions ; had a spotted
carpet for a long time before his eyes, a funeral, a log of
wood on wheels. His son has the same tendency ; he rol-
lowed a beggar, who glided and vanished into a wall. All
these perceptions are clearly referable to the Knowing
Organs.
The positions and functions.of the cerebral organs have
been discovered and established by comparing the power.
of manifesting the particular.mental qualities with the si,ze
of the various parts of the brain ; but some of them have
received additional support from the phenomena of disease.
Thus, in the case recorded by Mr Hood in the Phrenolo-'
gical Transactions, loss of the memory of words was pre.;
ceded by pain in that region of the head where the organ
of Language is situated ; pain has been experienced in the
cerebellum· in concomitance with over-excitement of the
peculiar function connected with it ; and in the Phrenolo...
gical Journalt it is mentioned, that a gentleman in Lon-
don, " when asked whether he experienced any sensation:
in the head when afllicted with visions ? pointed to ·the:
• Page lll. t VoL i. p. 604. ·
SPECTRAL lL:t.VSIONS•;
spot on ·each side where the organ of Wonder is situated,-
and said that he felt an uneasy sensation there." Conco-;
mitance of pain in the precise seats of the organs, with dis-.
order of their functions, forms a striking feature in the fol..,.
lowing case, to which I may proceed :- -
Miss S. L., a young lady under twenty years of age, of
g()Od family, well educated, free from any superstitious
fears, and in perfect general health of body and soundness
of mind, has, nevertheless, been for some years occasional-
ly troubled, both in the night and in the day, with visions
of persons and inanimate objects, in almost all the modes
end forms which we have already related. She was early-
subject _
to such illusions occasionally, and the first she re-
members was that of a carpet spread out in the air, which.
descended near her and vanished away.
After an interval of some years, she began to see human
figures in her room as she lay wide awake in bed, eYen in
the daylight of the morning. These figures were whitish,
OI' rather grey and transparent like cobweb, and generally
above the size of life. At this time she had acute head,._-
achs, very singularly confined to one small spot of the
head ; on being asked to point out the spot, the utmost-
care being taken not to lead her to the answer, our readers
may judge ofour feelings as phrenologists, when she touched
with her forefinger and thumb each side of the root of the
'IW8e, the commencement of the eyebrows, and_
the spot im-
mediatel11 m:er the top of the 'ROSe, the ascertained se.ats of
the organs of Form, Size, and Individuality! Here,
particularly on each side ofthe root of the nose, she said
the sensation could only be compared to that of running-·
sharp knives into the part. The pain increased when she.
-
held her head down, and was much relieved by holding·
her ~e upwards.• Miss S. L. on being asked if the pain
waa confined to that spot, answered, that some time after-
wards the pain extended to right andleft al<>ng the eyebrows,
and a little above them, and eompletel11 round the eyu,
which felt often as if they would have burst .from their
1ocketa. When this happened, her visions were varied
precisely as the phrenologist would have anticipated, and
she detailed the progress without a single leading question.-
• Quere,-Does not this look like a preeeure of blood on that re--
gion of the brain P _ · _ -
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. '
Weight, Colouring, Order, Number, Locality, an became
affected ; and let us obse"e what happened. The whitish
or cobweb spectres assumed the natural colour of the ob-
jects, but they continuedoften to present themselves, though
not always, above the size of life. She saw a beggar one
day out of doors, natural in size and colour, who vanished
as she came up to the spot. Colouring, being over-excit-
ed, began to occasion its specific and fantastical illusions.
Bright spots, like stars on a black ground, filled the room
in the dark, and even in daylight ; and sudden and some-
times gradual illumination of the room during the night
often took place, so that the furniture in it became visible.
Innumerable balls of fire seemed one day to pour like a
torrent out of one of the rooms of the house down the
staircase. On one occasion, the pain between the eyes,
and along the lower ridge of the brow, struck her suddenly
with great violence,-when, instantly, the room filled with
stars and bright spots. On attempting, on that occasion,
to go to bed, she said she was conscious of an inability to
balance lierself, as ifshe had been tipsy; and she fell, having
made repeated efforts to seize the bedpost, which, in the
most unaccountable manner, elu.ded .her grasp, by shifting
its place, and also by presenting her with a number of bed-
posts instead of one. If the organ of Weight, situated be-
tween Size and Colouring,·be the organ of the instinct to
preserve, and power of preserving equilibrium, it must be
the necessary consequence of the derangement of that
organ to overset the balance of the person. Over-excited
Number, we should expect to produce multiplication of
objects, and the first experience she had of this illusion, was
the multiplication of the bedposts, and subsequently of any
inanimate object she looked at-that object being in itself
real and single ;--a book, a footstool, a work-box, would
increase to twenty, or fifty, sometimes without order or ar-
rangement, and at other times piled regularly one above
another. Such objects deluded her in another way, by in-
creasing in size, as she looked at them, to the most am~
ing excess,--again resuming their natural size,-less than
which they never seemed to become,--and again swelling
out. Locality, over-exeited, gave her the illusion of ob-
Jects, which she had been accustomed to regard as bed,
being out of their places ; and she ihinks, but is not sure,
o,g,izedb; Google
-
SPECTRAL ILLUSION&. ~9
that on one occasion a door and window in one apartment
seemed to have changed places-;.but, as she added, she
might have been deceived by a mirror. This qualification
gave us the more confidence in her accuracy, when; as she
did with regard to all her other illusions, she spoke more
positively. She· had not hitherto observed a great and
painful confusion in the visions which visited her, so as to
~title us to infer the derangement of Order. Individuali-
ty, Form, Size, Weight, Colouring, Locality, and Number,
only, seemed hitherto affected.
For nearly two years Miss S. L. was free from her fron-
tal headachs, and-mark the coincidence-untroubled by
visions or any other illusive perceptions. Some months
ago, however, all her distressing symptoms returned in great
aggravation, when she was conscious of a want of health.•
The pain was more acute than before along the frontal
bone, and round and in the eyeballs ; and all the organs
there situated recommenced their game of illusion. Single
figures of absent and deceased friends were terribly real to
her, both in the day and the night, sometimes cobweb, but
generally coloured. She sometimes saw friends on the
street, who proved phantoms when she approached to speak
to them ; and instances occurred where, from not having
thus satisfied herself of the illusion, she affirmed to such
friends, that she had seen them in certain places, at certain
times, when they proved to her the clearest alibi. The
confusion ofher spectral forms now distressed her. (Order
affected.) The oppression and perplexity was intolerable
when figures presented themselves before her in inextri..
cable disorder, and still· more when they changed-as with
Nicolai-from·whole figures to parts of figures, faces, ~
half-faces, and limbs-sometimes of inordinate size and
dreadful deformity. One instance of illusive disorder
which she mentioned is curious, and has the farther effect
of exhibiting what cannot be put in terms except those of
the derangement of the just perception of gravitation or
equilibrium (Weight.) One night, as she sat in her bed-
room, and 'WJS · about to go to bed, a stream of spectres,
persons faces, and limbs, in the most shocking confusion,
seemed to her to pour into her room from the window, in
• Constitutional irregularity would, ii is very probable, explain the
whole disorder.-EDITOR.. . ..,
11PECTRAL ILLUSIONS;
the manner of a cascade I Although the cascade conti;
nued apparently in rapid descending motion, there was no
accumulation of figures in the room, the supply unaccount-
ably vanishing after having formed the cascade. Colossal
figures are her frequent visitors. (Size.) '
Real but inanimate objects have assumed to her the form
of animals ; and she has often attempted to lift articles from
the ground, which, like the oysters in the pot-house cellar,
eluded her grasp.
More recently she has experienced a great aggravation
of her alarms ; for, like Nicolai, she began to hear her
spectral visitors speak ! With Mr R. of Hull the spectres
always spoke. At first her crowds kept up a buzzing and
indescribable gibbering, and occasionally joined in a loud
and terribly disagreeable laugh, which she could only im-
pute to fiends. These unwelcome sounds were generally
followed by a rapid and always alarming advance of the
figures, which often on those occasions presented very
large and fearful faces, with insufferable glaring eyes close
to her own. All self-possession then failed her, and the
cold sweat of terror stood on her brow. . Her single figures
of the deceased and absent then began to gibber, and soon
more distinctly to address her ; but terror has hitherto pre~
vented her from understanding what they said.• ·
More lately still, she has seen distinct visions in bright
brass locks, as we mentioned above was the singular expe·
rience of the American gentleman, Mr R. ·
She went, not very wisely, to see that banquet of demon·
ology, the Freischutz, and of course, for some time after-
wards, the dramatis personre of that edifying piece, not
excepting his satanic majesty in person, were her nightly
visitors. Some particular figures are persevering in their
visits to her. A Moor, with a turban, frequently looks over
her shoulder, very impertinently, when she uses a mirror.t
Of the other illusive perceptions of Miss S. L., we may
mention the sensation of being lifted up, and of sinking
• We ma1 here mention, that the phrenological explanation of
lier distressing affection, which were given Miss S. L., hadthe happy
effect of afforaing her much more composure ·when visited by ner
.phantoms than alie thought poasible. .
t Looking into a mirror for a view of her destined husbaad, in
Hallow.e'en gambols, has, it is well known, terrified many a simple
Scottish maid with a phantom of her own creating.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS. 61
·down and falli1tf1 forward, with the puzzling perception of
objects off their perpendicular; for example, the room,floor:
.and all, sloping to one side. (Weight.)
Colours in her work, or otherwise, long looked at, are
.slow to quit her sight. She has noises in her head, and a
sensation of heat all over it ; and, last of all, when asked if
$he ever experienced acute pain elsewhere about the head
than in the lower range of the forehead, she answered that
three several times she was suddenly affected with such ex,
cruciating throbbing pain on the top of the bead, that she
had almost fainted ; and when asked to put her finger on the
.spot, she put the points of each fore.finger precisely on the
t>'T'gan ofWonder on eacli side ofthe coronal surface !-the
same points in which the gentleman in London, who was
troubled with visions, .was affected with pain. The organ
of Wonder is large in Miss S. L. as it was in that gentle.
man.
I had written thus far, when I received a communication
from our fair sufferer of a more recent experience of hers,
of a yet more pointed kind. She has lately observed, that
while objects were most fantastically enlarging and dimi·
nishing to her deluded sense, the pain has struck deeply
into the minute point where the organ of Size is situated,
and there alone. This happened lately while a pillar mag·
nified and shrunk alternately as she gazed on it. This i}.-
lusion ceased, and another came on her cheated view•
.Two demons of the Freischutz, decently dressed in black
in the original, put on for her the most brilliant scarlet,
·while acute pain was felt in the middle point of both eye•
brows (Colouring), and there alone.
. Our readers must have of themselves oheerved, as we
advanced with this instructive case, how curiously the old-
establiehed phenomena of ghosts are seriatim explained by
it. White or grey ghosts-the grey bodach of M'lvor in
Waverley,--result from excited Form, with quiescent Co·
louring, ~he . transparent cobweb effect being colourless.
Pale spectres and shadowy yet coloured forms, are the ef·
feet of partially excited Colouring. Tall ghosts and dwarf
goblins are Uie illusions of over-excited Size. Creusa ap"!
peared to JEneas, colossal in her size.-
, , Infelix aimul$Crum atque i)l4ius wnbra Creuaat
;, ·: Visa mihi ante oculos et nota majoi imago.
62 SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS,
The ghosts of Ossian are often colo88al. Gibbering arid
speaking ghosts, with an unearthly confusion of tongues
and fiend-like peals of laughter, as if the demons revelled,
are illusions which many have experienced. How these i}.
lusive voices arise which, without phantoms, frequently af•
flict nervous patients (and, as Miss S. L. assured us, are
very often heard by her, in whispering& close to her ear,
of one and sometimes many voices), we have not facts
satisfactorily to explain. If there is, as by all analogy
we may conclude there is, a portion of the brain which
hears, that portion of the brain must be morbidly excited
before illusive hearing can take place. A conjecture, but,
be it well marked, only a conjecture, may be here hazarded,
namely, that that organ which, in its higher endowment,
constitutes the perception of the relations of sounds in the
melody and harmony of music, is in the lesser degrees in
which it must exist, even in the most unmusical, the organ
of -the perception of sound. This conjecture seems yet
better warranted when we take the aid of the analogy of
Colouring; multitudes perceiving dijferent col()urs with the
same organ which in greater endowment constitutes in the
painter the talent of the colourist. If we have conjectured
aright, tl)e organ of Tune, being in contact with the con.
volutions of the superciliary ridge, might become affected
by the progress of the morbid action, and then sounds
would be heard ; and excited Language, also in the cl0&e
contact of the other morbidly affected organs, might con~
vert these sounds into words. This, however, it is proper
to repeat, is only a conjecture, and will require much ob-
servation of fact before it can be stated more positively.
One circumstance cannot be passed over ;-Miss S. L.
(who has a large organ of Tune), being asked if she ever
hears music illusively, answered that she often does, and
has gone all over the house in quest bf the cause in vain.
She has heard both singing and instrumental.music, and
very often drums and trumpets close to her ear. She added.
that during the few last months, when she wall annoyed
with frontal headachs and illusive perceptions, she has un-
accountably taken more delight than she ever knew in her
music J sits several hours together at the piano-forte, where
she before was very idle ; and lately got out of bed to play
SPECTRAL ILLUSIQNll• 63
an air she had heard, and was desirous to preserve, the
whole having come in a moment into her memory.
A case so comprehensive as that which we have just de-
tailed, is of the greater value to the phrenologist, that, in
explaining itself, it necessarily explains all other caaes which
agree with it in the kind of illusions, but are not accompa-
nied by such marked local pain. With the exception of
Mr R. of Hull's excruciating headach, which every one
knows to be a very wide word, we are not told that either
the Berlin or the Hull pot-house vision-seer had pain in
the head at all, much less in the seat of the knowing or-
ganlh It is not unlikely that pain may have been felt in
these regions and overlooked ;-if, which may not be true,
pain always accompanies over-excitement of these organs.
But it is not easy to withstand the retrospective effect of
Miss S. L.'s case (in which the affected organs are pointedly
marked), upon those cases where the phenomena were the
same, but the organs not, in so far as we are informed, in-
dicated by local pain.
It is a common remark, that whenever the attention of
the phrenologist is called to some curious and especially
marvellous fact in human nature, which he successfully
explains, the publicity .of the result brings out many si-
Inilar cases which lay dormant, because in no request by
any previous systems of philosophy. When the first Kil-
Jll,lµ'nock case of diseased Language was published in the
Transactions, every fifth person who read it knew an
old lady, or had an uncle, or was acquainted with a coun-
try gentleman, who suddenly lost the right application
of words to things, although the patient preaerved the
most perfect articulation of the words which he or she mis-
applied. Conversations on the subject, added to what
has been already published on that head, have brought
upon us an inundation of cases of vision-seeing,-faces
large and ugly in the dark,-a company of phantoms
paying morning visits, and the like. We ourselves know
a lady who has been for some years gradually recovering
her nerves after a severe typhus fever, who is annoyed oo-
casionally with forms of persons and objects which she has
seen with interest and repetition, and is especially sensible
of the perception ~f brilliant.colours, boJ.h in her sleeping
~l'BCTRAL ILLUSIONS.
and waking hours ; on such occasions she, too, experiences
acute pain in the middle point of both eyebrows, where the
-organ of Colouring, on each side, is situated. Her dreams of
forms and colours are of the most vivid and real kind ; and,
during recovery from her fever, the grey, cobweb, semi•
transparent, colourless spectres were her frequent visitors.
· Sir Everard Home, in his Life of the celebrated John
Hunter of London,• narrates, but makes no attempt to ·ac-
count for, a variety of illusive perceptions, which we are
now in a situation to trace to the knowing organs in mor-
bid excitement. In 1776, from great anxiety of mind,
Mr H. had a severe illness. It attacked him on a journey,
and his first sensation, it is well worthy of remark, was that
ofluming drunk too much, although he had taken nothing
·but a little weak punch. On going to bed, he felt as if
~ded in the air, and soon after the room seemed to go
roond with very great rapidity. This ceased, but the
·strange suspension, like Miss S. L.'s being lifted up, con-
tinued ; and, on being brought home in his carriage, his sen-
sation was that of sinking or going dmtm. The symptoms
of whirling and suspension increased ; and his own head,
when he raised it from his pillow, seemed to move from
·him to some dist.ance with great velocity. When he be,
came able to stand without being giddy, he was unable to
·walk without support; "for," says Sir E. Home, "his own
feelings did not give him information respecting his centre
ofgratJity, so that he was unable to balance his body, and
-prevent himself from falling." We need not add the ob-
vious comment, that the· organ of Weight was diseased,
and the very function we have imputed to it, the instinct
of equilibrium (expressed almost in our own words by Sir
E. Home), unequivocally impeded. ·
Mr John Hunter's organ of Size was likewise diseased
in this strange illness ; for he was impressed with the idea
.that he was himself only two feet high ; while, on the other
hand, when he pushed down his foot, " it seemed to him
to move a vast way." We know a gentleman, and the
~ is any thing but rare, who, when in fever, had the sen-
· • Annexed to John Hunter's work on the blood and gun.shot
wounda, publiehed by Sir E. H. in 1794.
SPECTRAL ILLUSIONS.~ 65
saticin that his arm, or leg, or whole body, wa8 extended to
the size of a mountain ; and another who thought his limbs
made of brass. Colouring was also deranged in Mr H.,
for he long saw the fire a deep purple-red. He got well ;
but, about thirteen years afterwards, he had another at-
tack, and its first symptom was a derangement of Locality;
for, in the house of a friend, he forgot in what part of the-
town he was, and looked out of the window to refresh his
memory in vain ; " for he had not a conception -0fany place
existing beyond the room he was in, yet was perfectly coQ-
scious of the loss of memory." Had Sir E. Home been
a phrenologist, he would have known that Mr John Hun-
ter manifested no general loss of memory, but, on his own
shewing, merely of the memory of place. A fortnight af-
terwards, the giddiness which formerly afflicted him re·
turned ; and his biographer says, " when going to bed he
had entirely k>st the centre of grmnty, although" (and we
beg attention to the important qualification) " he could
move his limbs as the will directed." So that the loss of
the instinct of equilibrium is not, as may possibly be object-
ed, the loss of voluntary motion. Objects lost their true
direction. A perpendicular seemed to him to lean to the
left, making an angle of 50 or 60 degrees with the horizon.
He had often the unnatural sensation of having no head.
His own supposition, for it is called no more, to account
for the obliquity of objects, will amuse our phrenological
readers, who have no need, if they were so inclined, to rest
in suppositions. . He supposed, " that the two correspondft
ing oblique muscles had an unnatural contraction, which
moved the two eyes round near.thirty or. forty degrees,- .
that the obliquus superiorofthe left eye brought the eyeball
forward ·towards the nose, while the obliquus inferior of
the.right eye contracted equal to the superior of the left.
This turned the under part of the right eye inwards, ~
wards the nose, and the upper part outwards, which moved
a lateral part of the eye upon the object, and gave it that
obliquity I" We had no idea that the too common illusion
of the intoxicated, that the floor on whicl1·they lie is per·
pendicular, needed such an explanation.• Mr John Hun.
• In reading, too, it is by no means uncommon to see.the letters
jn obliquity, by a sudden affection of the head.
. .. . .. .. p ' ....
66 SPBCTBAL ILLUSIONS. ·
ter, without jaundice, saw every thing of a yellow ooio;,r.
His own size was now four feet in his own idea ; also ob-
jects appeared at an unusual dmance, as if seen through a
concave glass, (Size). " Object.a in the mind were very
lively, often disagreeably so ; dreams had the strength of
reality, so much as to awaken him ; the remembrance of
them was very perfect." l t is not said that the patient saw
visions when awake, but this description is the very next
step to it. It is added by Sir E. Home, that during these
illnesses the patient's senses of sight, hearing, and tasting,
were e:iccited to great sensibility and acuteness.
I should have great .delight in following out this interest·
ing subject, but must'defer it as too extensive fur one paper.
If we can attach illusive perceptions to distinctly ascertain-
ed knowing organs in diseased activity, or in actual suspen-
sion of function, the illusions of fever will fall into their
proper places, and even the monstrous pel"Bua8ions of hy-
pochondria. A person believes, for example, that his head
is made of glass; diseased Individuality, Weight, and per•
haps Colouring, would account for this miserable illuaion.
Mr John Hunter had the sensation of having no head at
all.
The various perplexing ways in which the inatinct of
equilibrium was deranged in that eminent person, explain-
ed by the similar aiFections of our subject Miss S. L., ac•
companied in her's with pain in the seat of the organ, throw
a flood of light upon the various ludicrous phenomena ofm-..
toxication. This subjectwill be more fully detailed in its pro--
per place, in a paper on the organ of Weight. It is enough
tosay here, that 'Mr John Hunter's first uneasy feeling was
that of having drunk too much. The intoxicated llOon lose;
as Sir E. Home calls it, the centre of gravity, without, how-
ever, losing the power of locomotion. The drunkard stag·
gers, imd measures as he goes the breadth of the road ;·but
unless dead drunk, as it is called, boldly wendt and often
fighu his way. Every sober person he &ees appears drunk
to him, and he the only sober person ; and his case is com-
pleted when the ground itselfappears to him to slope at an
arlgle, and at last to arrive at an absolute perpendicular, on
which he endeavours to hang rather than to lie. This is
fearfully aggravated when the room turns round witl1 him.•
• Vertigo, and the·well-known giddineu from ruJlning round in
. SPBCTBAL ILLUSIONS, . 67 .
Many who have not been absolutely drunk, inust have ex-
perienced the odd feeling of suspension in the air, as if
their chair was borne up, when they have indulged freely
in champaigne, in the rapid manner in which that liquor,
in order to save its agreeable briskness, is quaffed off. Two
or three glasses will produce the effect; but the ·equili-
brium, if soon overset, is generally not long of being re-
stored.
Locality is often amusingly confused in the intoxicated,
as we have seen it affected in the cases we have narrated
from other causes. Let us consider what enables a sober
man to find his way home ; it is his perception and memory
of the relative position of objects. Some intoxicated per-
sons preserve this power, but many lose it; and we.lately
were told by a young gentleman, that having dined at a
tavern in Waterloo Place, he was found on the Pier of
Leith in quest of his house in Charlotte Square! We know
another gentleman, who, after intense. conviviality, was
much concerned to find, as he passed, that the Tron Church
had got on the wrong side of the street ; as he despaired of
remedying the. evil, he went home, but, with a proper feel-
ing of public spirit, returned to give .the alarm, by which
time the building had got right of itself. .
One drunkard who came in our own way, used an ex-
pression which much amused us ; for it:was a distinct and
well-worded declaration, that he had lost the perception of
the relative position of those objects which he perfectly
knew when he was sober. Under the early beams of the
summer sun, we saw him in the middle of the street main-
taining a persevering and valiant contest with the laws of
pvitation, as he stood on one spot poising his person. He
addressed us with great politeness, and often repeated apo-.
logiet and protestations of meaning oo offence, and request-
ed our advice and assistance, " for he kad lost the central
point !" He could name his home, which was not four
hundred yards distant, and in our guidance he was happily
.-estored to its shelter and concealment. We have no doubt
qur readers could furnish us with hundreds of instances of
the same kind. There is every reason to think, that the
accelerated circulation occasioned by intoxicating liquors,,
plar,1.is probably an aft'ection of the organ ofWeight or in1tinct of
eqUL11br1um. ·
SPECTRAL" ILLUSION..
:
overcharges the· minute bloodvesselS which supply that
part of the brain where the small organs of the knowing
faculties are placed. Language usually fails the intoxicat.;
ed first, not only in its articulation, but in its application,
and then follow the other phenomena which we have men.;
tioned. The excitement makes its way into the larger or-
gans of the propensities and sentiments, and the prevailing
ones manifest themselves with great unreserve,• and to
the great amusement of the sober spectator,~ advan~
tage formerly held a breach of all convivial confidence,......:
till at last all the vessf:lls are surcharged, the functions of
the brain for the time suspended, and the victim lies, what
is emphatically called,. dead drunk, till profound and pro-
tracted sleep restore& him.
The most valuable end of papers like that which we
have now finished, is to point out those departments of ob.:
servation in which all the friends of Phrenology can make
themselves useful. Every phrenologiat will be grateful for
facts of the kind now detailed ; and the existence of a So.-
ciety, and of a Phrenological Journal, leaves no one atalosa ·
as to the quarter where his information will be received
and duly appreciated. Like a museum, which, with a sort
of centripetal force, attracts detached articles in its own
way, from all quarters where they are valueless because
detached, so are the institutions I have mentioned calcu-'
lated to attract detached facts, and convert them from mere
perplexing marvels into the illustrations, and, in sufficiewt
nilmber and authentication, the demonstrations of the true
science of human nature.t
• Vide scene in Mrs Macleary's, in Waverlev. ·
t Bayle, in defending Hobbes from the belief' of ghosts imputed by
his biographers, makes a sin~lar gue88 at the phrenological doctrine
now delivered. He sayll,-' A man w.
ould not only be very rash, but
also very extravagant, who should pretend to prove, that there never
was anyperson tliat imagined he saw a spectre; and I do not think
that the most obstinate and extravagant unbelievers have maintain-
ed this. . All that they say comes to this,-that the persons who
have thought themselves eye.witnesses of the apparition of spirits,.
had a disturbed imagination. They confess, then, that there are c11r-'
tain placu in our brain, that, being affected in a certain manner,
excite the image of an object which has no real existence out of our-;
selves, and make the man, whose brain is thus modified1 believe he
aees, at two paces distance, a frightful spectre, a hobgoblin, a threat·'
ening phaµtom. . The like happens in the heads of the most incre•.
dtd<>Us, eiiher-in their Bleep. or in·the paroxysms of a violent fever;
. '
• 69
DUGALD STEWART, ESQ. ON MILTON'S GARDEN OF
EDEN.•
THE application ofphrenology, as an analytic instrument;
has interested many of our readers ; but the phrenologist.$
cannot boast of the honour of originating this use of the
philosophy of mind. Long before our science had raised
its head, Mr Stewart had 'presented his r~ers with 4lJ1
Will they maintain after this, that it is.imp0Mible for a man awa'ke,
and not in a delirium, to receive in certain places of his brain an im·
pression almost like that which, by.the law of nature, is connected
with the appearance of a phantom ?-If ther are forced to acknow~
ledge that this is posaible, they cannot promise that a phantom will
never appear to them; that is, that they will never, when awake, .
believe they see either a man or a beast when they are alone in a
chamber. llobbes then might believe, that a certain combination
{)f .atoms agitated in his brain 'mi$ht expose him to such a vision,
though he was persuaded that neither an angel nor the soul of a
dead man was to be concerned in it. He was timorourlo the last de.i
gree, and consequently he had reason to distrust his imagination
wllen he was alone in a chamber in the night; for, in spite of him.
the memory of what he had read and heard concerning apparitions,
would revive, though he was not persuaded of the reality of these'
things. These images, joined witli the timorousness of his temper,i
miglit play him an unlucky trick; and it is 'ertain that a man as
credulous as he was, but ot greater courage, would be astonisheJ 1"
think he saw one whom he knew to be dead enter into his chamber.-
These apparitions in dreams are very frequent, whether a man be.
lieves in the immortality of the soul or not. Supposing they should
on11e happen to an incredulous mnn awake, as they do frequently in
his sleep, we allow that he would be afraid, though he had never so
much courage; and, therefore, for a stronger reMon1 we ought to·
believe, that Hobbes would have been terribly alfrignted at it."-
BAYLE's Diet. voce Thomait Hobbes, Note N.
The ancients also had their apparitions:-
" Somnia, terrorea magicos, miracula, sagas,
Nocturnos lemures, portentaque Thessala rides?
• • • •
Quid te exemptajuvat, spinis de P,luribus una?"
HoaAT. Epist. 1i. lib. 2. ver. 208.
The noctumi lemure• were phantasms which infested a holllle'
Pliny gives an account ofone, lib. 7. epist. 27. " Erat Athenis tp&' •
tioea domus sed infamis et pestilens. Per silentium noctis, sonUI!
ferri, et, Bi attenderes acrius, strepitwi vinculorum, longius primo,
deinde proxime reddebatur; mox apparebat idolon, senex macie et
eqnalore confectus, promi88& barba, horrenti capillo, cruribus aom-
i>edee manibus catenas gerebat, quatiebatque. lnde in habitanti.,.
bus iriates dirieque noctes per metum vigilabantur." &c. ·
• ~1 George Combe.-VoL i. No. 2. p. 195. .
70 MILTON'S GARDEN OP EDEN•
analysis of the powers necessary to the conception of Mil-
tQn's Garden of Eden.
In his Outlines of Moral Philosophy, Part I., he says,
"The most important of these (the intellectual powers of
man) are comprehended in the following enumeration:
" 1. Consciousnet!8. 6. Association of ideas.
2. Powers of external perception. 7. Memory.
3. Attention. 8. Imagination.
4. Conception. 9. Powers ofjudgment and rea-
5. Abstraction, aoning.
" Besides these intellectual faculties," continues Mr
Stewart, " whic& in some degree are common to the whole
species, there are other more complicated powers or capa-
cities which are graduallyformed by particular habits of
ttudy or of business. Suck are the POWER of TASTE,
a GENIUS for POETRY, for PAINTING, for Music, for MA•
THEMATICS; with all the various intellectual habits ac·
quired in the different professions of life."
Here, then, IMAGINATION is mentioned as a" faculty in
some degree common to the whole species;" and TASTE as
a " power gradually formed by particular habits of study or
of business."
In the Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind,
chap. vi. sect. I, Mr Stewart states, that "what we call
the power of imagination, is NOT the gift ofnature, but the
result of acquired habits, aided by favourable circumstances.
It is NOT an original endowment of the mind, but an AC-
COMPLISHMENT formed by experience and situation, uid
which, in its different gradations, fills up all the interval
between the first efforts of untutored genius and the sublime
creations of Raphael or of Milton."
As this doctrine concerning imagination appears to differ
from that previously cited, we hold the latter passage, which
is the more elaborately written, to contain Mr Stewart's pro-
foundest views on this part of our constitution. According
to hiin, therefore, neither TASTE nor IMAGlNATION is the
gift of nature, but both are formed and acquired by
habits.
The following is his analysis of the faculties which con-
tributed to the formation of Milton's Garden of Eden :
"Let us consider," says he," the steps by which Milton
must have proceeded in creating his imaginary Garden of
1111.TOWI OARDBN OP BllZl'f.6 71
Eden. When he first proposed to himlelf'that subject of
description, it is reasonable to suppose, t.hat a variety of
the most striking scenes which he had seen crowded into
his mind. The ASSOCIATION of ideas suggested them, and
the pc>wer of coNCEPTtO'N placed each of them before him
with all its beauties and imperfections. In every 114tural
scene, if we destine it for any particular purpose, there are
defects and redundancies, which art may sometimes, but
cannot always correct. But the power of IMAGINATION is
unlimited. She can create and· annihilate, and dispose, at
pleasure, her wcJods, her rocks, her ri,ers. ·Milton, accord-
ingly, would not copy his Eden from &JV one scene, but
would select from each the features which were most emi-
nently beautiful. The power of ABSTRACTION enabled him
"' make the separation, and TASTE directed him in the se-
lection. Thus he was furnished with his materials ; by a
skilful combination of which he has created a landsca~
more perfect, probably, in all its parts, than was ever rea•
lized in nature; and certainly very different from any thing
which this country exhibited at the period when he wrote."
.(ElaRents ofthe Philosophyofthe Humaa Mind, chap. vii.
;Sect. 1.)
The Garden of Eden, $en, was created by Milton by
the aid of the powers of ASSOCIATION, CONCEPTION, AB-
STRACTION, IMAGINATION and TASTE. Of these the first
thr.ee are possessed by the whole human race ; and Milton's
superiority in the last two was the result of his " particular
h.Pits of study or of business." Hence it seems to us to
follow, that any indiTidual who possessed the three primi-
tive faculties of association, conception, and abstraction,
in the same degree as Milton, might have acquired his
habits, and by these have formed powers of imagination
and taste equally admirable, and then have written the
Garden. of Eden, or even Paradise Lost itself, if he had
happened to turn his attention that way. Now, the phre-
nologist would form a different theory. He perceives in
Paradise LOst manifestations ofldeality, of great reflecting
faculties, and much Veneration, together with Language,
Individuality, Locality, and other powers; and he would
infer, that the poem itself, and even the description of the
Garden of Eden in particular, was the result ofthe activity
01g11zedbyGoogle
72 MILTeN'S GARDEN OP EDEM(
of these faculties, improved by exercise and education,~
and that without these natural gifts, Milton's habits could
not have been acquired, nor similar manifestations of intel•
lect have been produced.;
To elucidate the value of Mr Stewart's theory and ours;
we may compare with Milton an author in whom the pri-
mitive faculties of association, conception, and abstraction
will be generally admitted to have been equal in vigour and
cultivation, and see whether he could have been trained to
write such a poem. Locke will serve as an example. Iii
the three original powers in question, he appears to have
been fully equal to Milton. In vigour of conception, scope
of association, and intensity of abstraction, the Essay on the
Human Understanding may be placed in the opposite scale
with Paradise Lost, without danger of depreciation. Equal
taste and imagination certainly are not displayed in it ; but
aecording to Mr Stewart, Locke, by possessing the primi-
tive powers, could have acquired these secondary qualities,
~d rivalled Milton in the very points in which he is reckon•
ed almost inimitable I
. In the portraits of Locke we perceive a great develop-
ment of the organs of Comparison and Causality, with rather
Loc1u:.
alLTON's GARDEN OF &DE1": 73
a deficiency .
of ldeality i in those of Milton, ori .the other
}land, we see the " fair large front:," indicating Comparison
and Causality equal to Locke's, with much larger organs of
ldeality. To Locke we would ascribe, also, great Concen•
trativeness and Conscientiousness ; and ih Milton's portraits
we distinctly perceive Veneration, in addition to ldeality;
largely developed.
. We infer that the heads of both were large ; for great
size of brain would be necessary to that powerful energy
by which they were equally distinguished. Locke must have
been conscious of this quality, when he contemplated the
·overthrow of the philosophy of his age; and Milton dis·
played it:, in an eminent degree, when he characterized his
song as one
"That with no middle.flight intends to' ~oar
Above the Aiinian mount, while it pursues
Thing• unattemptsd yet in prose or rhyme."
The combination ofConcentrativeness with Causality an~l
Comparison in Locke, would give him the great capacity
for abstract and concentrated thinking, and that compre-
hensiveness and depth of understanding, for which he is so
justly celebrated. Conscientiousness would inspire him
with that ardent love of truth which constitutes a funda-
mental element in a philosophic mind, and shines conspi-
'cuously in all his works; while the deficiency of ldeality
would unfit him for extensive flights of imagination, and
permit his intellect to follow, unclistractedly, its natural
bent towards solid and useful investigation, in preference
to ornamental.description or sublime invention. Educa-
tion would furnish his faculties with ideas, which consti-
_tute the materiel of thought ; and exercise would educe
.their native vigour, and preserve it unimpaired until dis-
ease or the chills.of age benumbed the brain. The Essay
on the Human Understanding would be the result of those
faculties and circumstances combined.
Comparison and Causality would confer on Milton depth,
scope, and vigour of intellect; not inferior to Locke's ;
whilst ldeality, largely developed, would carry him far as
the wide diurnal space beyond and above the region of
Locke's imaginings : and his powerful Veneration would
prompt him to seek for gratification of his feelings amid the
G
74 MILTON'S GARDEN OF EDEN.
glories which surround the Almighty's throne. This com-
bination, with much of the faculties of Language and Tlllle,
would constitute the natural elements of Milton's genius ;
and to a capacity for improvement by education, exercise,
and travel, equal to Locke's, it would add a susceptibility
of elevated emotion, and a consequent pewer of forming
vast, splendid, and lovely conceptions, altogether unattain·
able by the latter by any " habits ·of study or of busi·
ness."* Thus endowed, Milton's mind would be adequate
to the conception and execution of that stupendous poem,
the melody, and taste, and beauty of which are surpassed
only by its grandeur and magnificence. The Garden of
Eden would owe its origin principally to Locality, Order,
Colouring, and ldeality. Individuality and Comparison
appear not only to have supplied particular illustrations of
exquisite elegance and beauty, but also to have suggested
some allusions to heathen mythology, and incidents of com-
mon life, neither dignified, appropriate, nor refined.
These remarks are offered not as a complete analysilJ of
the genius of these two illustrious men, but merely as an
elucidation of the difference between the metaphysical
and phrenological modes of accounting for their produc·
tions. To us the latter appears, in the present instance,
to make the nearer approach to nature and the common
apprehensions of mankind ; but Mr Stewart has said, " Is
there no Arbuthnot now to chastise the follie11 of our era~
niologists ?" And he is a great philosopher ! The world
must deCide between us. ·
• The busts and portraits of Lord Bacon indicate a development
of Ideality closely resembling that of Milton, and ov
.er all his works
this faculty sheds a brilliant and fervid illumination. Locke ap-
proaches him in some degree in vigour, scope, and profundity of
thought; but he is immeasurably behind in t.hat gorgeousness of 1
fancy c
which abound& in .Baeon almost to excee1. .
•
75
OBSERVATIONS ON SOME OBJECTIQNS TO PHRENO~
LOGY, FOUNDED ON A PART OF THE CEREBRAL DE-
VELOPMENT OF VOLTAIRE.•
A BUST of Voltaire has lately become common in the
shops, and it appears to be the original of the well-known
engraving of that person in Lavater's works. The deve-
lopment and combination of organs which it presents are,
in many respects, so singular, and differ so widely from all
others which we have seen, that no statuary or modeller
would dream of compounding such a head ; while, never-
theless, it bears the strongest stamp of nature in its details,
and corresponds in so remarkable a degree with the mental
character of Voltaire, that we are strongly persuaded that
it is a·correct representation of the head of that person in
his old age.t Some years before the death of Voltaire, a
statue to his honour was erected by subscription, to which
several monarchs contributed ; and it is probable that this
is the bust of that statue. Although, however, we assign
these reasons for holding this bust to be genuine, we are
not particularly interested in that question in so far as re-
gards our present object. It has been assumed by some
of our opponents as an exact transcript of nature, and
founded on by them as shaking phrenology to its base (for
with them every objection, however small, always destroys
the wlwle fabric ofour science), because it exhibits ti large
organ of Veneration. Yes, the head of Voltaire, the most
celebrated of infidels, and more, the moit violent and im.
placable enemy of Christiariity,-the imaginer and un-
wearied prime mover of a deep and dark conspiracy, with
the Condorcets and the D'Alemberts, to .root it out in
Christendom, and ex~inguish its very name,-the malig-
nant inventor of an appellation of keen reproach and ha-
tred (L'Infame) for Him who, had he been mere man, lived
in the.ceaseless exercise of a .glowing and active Bene- .
volence, for which there is.no human parallel,-Voltaire's
head exhibits the pretended organ of Veneration in great
endowment.t . .
• By James Simpson.-Vol. iii. No. 12, p. 564.
~ An engraving of two views of the bust will be found in the third
Yolameof the-Journal.
:i: We have understood -that a celebrated antiph?enologist, in a
76 VOLTAIRE.
With great alacrity we admit, nay, found upon the un:-
·questionable fact of this large development. Voltaire ha,d
a large endowment of the organ of Veneration, and the fa-
culty he manifested as a prominent part of his character.
The following is the development taken from the bust..
DEVELOPMENT.
· J. Amativeness, large. 18. Wonder, full.
2. Philoprogenitiveness, full. 19. ldeality, large.
3. Concentrativeness, large. 20. Wit, large.
4. Adhesiveness, very large. 21. Imitation, large.
5. Combativeness, very large. 22. Individuality, full
6. Destructiveness, very large. 23. Form, large.
7. SecretiveneBB, very large. 24. Size, rather large.
8. Acquisitiveness;large. 25. Weight, rather large.
9. ConstructivenePs, rather full. 26. Colouring, rather full.
10. Self-Esteem, large. 27. Locality, large.
11. Love of Approbation, extraor- 28. Number, rather large.
dinarily large. 29. Order, large.
12. Cautiousness, full. 80. Eventuality, full.
13. Benevolence, rather large. 31. Time, large.
14. Veneration, large. 32. Tune, rather large,
l!;. FirmneBB, extraordinarily large. 33. Language, very large.
16. Conscientiousness, rather small. 34. ·Companson, large.
17•.Hope, large. 35•.Causality, large• .
· It is evident that the objection to phrenology, founded
on this large development of Veneration in Voltaire, pro-
ceeds, as do most of the current objections, upon that
nieagre knowledge of the subject to which, as in their esti-
mation quite sufficient for its refutation, the opponents Ii~
mit th@mselves. Had they read far enough, they would
have learned that there is nothing in·any of the phrenolo.o
gical books authorizing the doctrine, that Veneration is the
impulse to religious adoration exclusively. Religious feel-
ing is one of its directions, but not the only one, nor a ne-
cessary one; nay, observation has demonstrated, that it. is
by no means the most·common direction of the faculty,
and that the organ is often large, and very large, .in per•
sons' who manifest none or very faint religious feelings ;
but in such persons it will not fail to shew itself in a senti•
ment of deference for superiority in general, whether it be
of rank; or talent, or wealth, or any other common object
of respect and homage. >
paper read to the Royal Society of Edinburgh, was especially aai-
mated and triumphant on this notable discovery. we are much in~
~ebte~ to, him for .calling our attention to it. . , ,
VOLTAIRE•• 77
· ·cc This f'aculty," says Dr Spurzheiin, in· his work· pub-'
lished in London in 1815, "constitutes· a sentiment, and
not an idea. Gall observed this organ first in persons who
were in the act of adoring .God ; and, according to all my
observations, it seems that its special faculty is the senti-
ment of Veneration, without determining its objects or its·
manner. It is by this organ that man adores God, or ve-
nerates saint.s; persons,.and things."
. Sir George Mackenzie, in his workon Phrenology (1820),
when treating of the sentiment of Veneration, speaks thus:
~· That Veneration is a sentiment,·and not an idea, every
one who feels it can testify, without the arguments so clear-
ly stated by Dr Spurzheim. We are disposed to go a little
farther than he has done, in reference to the extent of the
operation of this sentiment, and to consider that it does no~ .
belong exclusively to religion, but that it also operates in
"prompting that respectful and ·yielding deportment, by
which men commonly 11hew their feelings towards those
who are superior in talent.s or rank, and those who are in-
vested with authority." ·
Mr Combe* states the doctrine as follows :-" The func-
tion of the faculty ·is to produce the sentiment of Venera-
tion in general, or an emotion of profound and reverential
respect on perceiving an object at once great and good.
It is tke source of natural religion, and of that tenden~y
to worship a superior power, which manifest.s itself in
every nation yet discovered."-Again : " Hitherto we have
considered Veneration only when directed to 'religion;
which is undoubtedly its noblest end ; but it has also many
other objects, and a wide sphere of activity in the present
world. It produces the feeling of deference and respect
in general, and hence may be directed to ever_
y objeet that
aeems worthy of such regard." - " Venerat1on· leads to
deference for superiors in rank as well as in years, and
prompts to the reverence of authority."-" Veneration may
also produce respect for titles, rank, and power ; ·for a long
line of ancestry, or mere wealth ;- and it frequently mani-
fests itself in one or other ofthese forms when it does not
appear in religious fervour. Individuals in whom Love of
Approbation and Veneration are very large, and Conscien-
tiousness and intellect not in proportion, venerate persons
• System, 3d edition, pp. 276-281•
...
78 VOLTAIRE,
of higher rank than their own, and are fond of their SO•
ciety. Persons of rank who do not possess high virtues
or talents, are fondest of the society of those in whom this
combination occurs ; it inspires its possessor with a habi-
tual deference towards them, which is felt as a constant
homage. On the occasion ofKing George·the Fourth's visit
to Scotland in 1822, some individuals experienced the pro-
foundest emotion of awe and ·respect on beholding him;
while others were not conscious of any similar excitement,
but were surprised at what appeared to them.to be the ex-
aggerated enthusiasm of the first. I examined the heads
of several of both classes, and, in the former, found the
organ of Veneration uniformly larger, in proportion to the
other organs, than in the latter."
V\ilien treating of the combinations of this sentiment
with the other faculties, Mr Combe says : " If Veneration
large is combined with large Acquisitiveness and Love of
Approbation, the former sentiment may be directed to su-
periors in rank and power, as the means of. gratifying the
desires for wealtl1 and influence depending on the latter
faculties."•
Now, if these well-established principles be kept in view,
and Voltaire's history attended to, it will at once appear
that that history would have been widely different, had
that remarkable person not felt and been permanently in-
fluenced by a strong sentiment of Veneration. Where do
we find Voltaire when not in the Bastile, or in banishment
or hiding for some literary outrage? Invariably with, or in
correspondence with, kings, courtiers, or court-favourites.
At the court of Louis XV., of George I., of Frederick the
Great, of Stanislaus, he breathes the air of palaces, and
basks·in the favour of kings, princes, and nobles.
Newton sought no royal patronage to add lustre to a
name which was above the glory of all the crowned heads
in Europe united into one focus of splendour. ·Voltaire,
t.oo, had a gigantic, a towering literary name, which need-
ed as little as Newton's the reflex lustre of royal favour.
Why, then, did Voltaire court what Newton shunned?
Kings were worshipped· by Voltaire, and their patronage
w.lued as the greatest of earthly benefits. .It was because
' • System; 8d edition, p. 576...;..See these principles ably am)?lified
in a paper on Vi;u.eration, in the Phrenological Joumal, vol•.ili. p. l.
VOLTAlllE, 79
he felt strongly the sentiment of Veneratioi:t, in the first
place ; and because that sentiment took in him the very
common direction of reverence for worldly power and gran-
deur, in the second. But Voltaire worshipped wealth and
glory as well as royalty ; thereby combining Acquisitive-
ness and Love of Approbation, in their abuse, with Vene-
ration-the very combination which Mr Combe has so truly
stated to be that which leads to court the great for the ob-
jects of wealth and preferment. He was, moreover-we
speak from his notorious biography-a false and cunning
character ; in other words, had Conscientiousness deficient
and Secretiveness large : just the combination, when joined
with Veneration, of the flatterer and·sycophant.
And now it happens that this is accurately the develop·
ment indicated by the bust which is tabled, not quite pru-
dently, against us ; and it is impossible.to conceive deve-
lopment and history more instructively coincident. His
avarice was manifested in the various money-making spe-
culations, not excepting lotteries,• in which Voltaire en-
gaged with eagerness ; and in the largesses for which he
always conditioned with the crowned heads whom he served.
• His Secretiveness had ample scope in the clever intrigues
which he managed, and in his successful missions to foreign
comts, when it was necessary to penetrate their deeply-con-
cealed purposes-a well-established function of the faculty.
Indeed this organ is unusually large in the bust. His Love
of Approbation, which is enormously large, was demon-
strated when, not content with receiving the homage of
the whole civilized world indirectly, in his retirement at
Femey, the sovereign arbiter of literature and taste, this
restless victim of vanity made a doting pilgrimage to Paris,
in his 85th year, to inhale once more the incense of popu-
lar applail8e. He was stifled with addresses and deputa..:
tions, crowned with bays in the theatre in presence of the
court and all the frivolous noblesse of France, and soon
died of the over-excitement. Lastly, his utter destitution
of Conscientiousness wa.s manifested in the deep hypocrisy
of his character;--" free-thinker in London, Cartesian at
Versailles, Christian at Nancy, and infidel at Berlin ;"t in
short, scoundrel every where.
· • Hope and Acquisitiveness iarge in the bust.
t Chalmers' Biog. Diet. flOOCJ Voltaire.
SQ VOLTAIRE;
As Voltaire's Veneration was influenced by the other fa~
culties with which it was combined, he was not a pure wor-
shipper of royalty and nobility, but a systematically-inte-
rested one, and often played the sycophant, degrading to
the last degree the faculty of Veneration. He licked the
dust at the feet of Madame Pompadour, because the .con•
troller although the mistress of a king. He was employed
to compose a piece for the festivities on the· marriage of
the Dauphin·of France, father of Louis XVI., arid pro-.
duced " La Princesse de Navarre,"-" which," says Dr·
Aikin,* " though little applauded by the public,: answered
his puq>ose of ingratiating himself with the royal family.
He was rewarded with the post"-of what?-" of gentle-
man ofthe chamber in ordinary, 8yc." No man, we will
venture to say, ever sought or accepted such a reward, who
had not a liberal share of Veneration ready for worldly, and
in no engrossing requisition for religioµs /urposes. We
have seen the same organ large in the hea of a nobleman.
who held a similar office about the person of the late Queen.
Charlotte. The same character is manifested in the artful
sycophancy with which he treated Frederick while he read
with him and corrected his works, " praising," as he says,: ·
" the good, and drawing his pen over the bad;" yet his
petulance and vanity ventured, out of the royal presencer
an unlucky pleasantry about " washing the king's· dirty.
sheets," the conceited phrase for revising his writings. This
he did not mean should reach, as it did, the royal .ear,.
and effect a breach with his exalted patron. When his
key as chamberlain and the ·cross of an order were de.,
mantled from him, he returned them to the king with .an
adulatory epigram, in which he compares that sad neces-·
sity to a lover's returning the portrait of.his .mistre~
" The physiognomy of Voltaire," sa~s Dr Aikin, " was in-.
·dicative of his disposition. It is said to have partaken of
the eagle and the monkey ; and to the fire and rapidity of
the former animal he united tl1e mischievous and malicious.
propensities of the latter. With strong perceptions of mo-
ral excellence and elevation, he was little and mean in con-.
duct, a victim to petty passions and caprices, t never ·at
• Aikin's General BioS!aphy, t1oce Voltaire. · ;
t He had so much of the higher sentiments combined with great
intellect as enabled him to discover the. excellence of many of the
VOLTAIRE/ SL
resieitheiin mind or body," never tranquiror sedate·;•.if
he was a philosopher, it was in his opinions; not in his ac-·
tions•. He had been accustomed from his youth to pay as·
much homage to rank and wealth as his vanity would per-:
mit (which was the most/owerfulfeeling of the two); his ·
tastes oflife were viti.lite , and his manners comipted ; he:
could not, therefore, be a consistent friend ·to virtue· and '
liberty, though he might occasionally be captivated with
their charms and zealous in their support. · He.was ·hahi- •
tually avaricious,t although he performed some generous;
acts, which he. took care to make known.t He was too ~
se!fish.to inspire love,§ and too eapricious to merit esteem.II'
He had numerous admirers; but probably riot one friend." :
Chalmer8 says of him :·" From the·high character of the
moralist he frequently descended to the buff'oon; from the:
philosopher to the enthusi.list ;.from mildness he passed to
passion ; from .flattery to satire ; from love of money to
love of luxury ; from the modesty of a wise·man to the va-
nity of an impious wit ; from the faith of the humble Chris-
tian to the foul language and effl'.oritery of the blasphemous.
atheist.", . This last passage, though partaking largely of
the vague langi.iage of random speculations in human .na~·
ture, which often consists of definitions without clearness,
distinctions without differences, and words without mean-
ing, contains a fair portrait of the utterly unconscientious
character which·is so prominently indicated by the bust in
question. , . , · . · . . . .
Having shewn that Voltaire made ample use of his large-
endowment .of Veneration without directing it into the
channel of religion, we have no objection. to take .up the
question even in that field ; and think we can shew .that
Voltaire's ·infidelity .was .not the.·effect of: a ·deficiency.of
Veneration in general, but the cause of a deficiency of Ve~·
neration for Christianity·in particular.
virtues; but so very little of Conscientiousness, and so much of the'
animal organs, as to render him incapable of acting on those exalted
perceptions. · · ·
. • We shall advert, in a subsequent part ofthis paper, to the cause.
of this condition of mind. .
+ Acquisitiveness large. '
·iLove of Approbation, with some Benevolence.
. Self-Esteem, Acquisitiveness, and all the animall and therefore
set sh, feelings strong. II Conscientiousness <1eficient. 1
~ We have no doubt that atheist is a mistake for infidel i~ thtJ
above passage. · ·
82 VOLTAIRE.
It·is e8sential to our venerating any person or thing, that
we shall believe it, in the first place, real, and, in the se·
cond, venerable. Voltaire could not have venerated ·the
list of kings we have above enumerated, had he been per-
suaded that they were either nonentities, or only pretended
kings; while, on the other hand, had his conviction been as
complete thatJesus Christ was theSon of God as.that Louis .
XV. was king of France, can it be doubted for a moment
that the first would have excited his Veneration in a much_
higher degree than the second ? But Voltaire did not com-
mit the absurdity of at one and the same time believing
and despising Christianity: he despised it because he did
not believe it : in other words, it was to him neither a rea-
lity nor an object of Veneration ; in which case it mattered
not·whether his impulse to venerate the real and the vene•
rable was great or small. It ·is most superficially replied,
that it requires deficient Veneration to be an unbeliever in
Christianity. As well may it be said, that it was impossi-
ble for Voltaire, without deficient Veneration, to have been
an unbeliever in the real presence of Louis XV., suppos-
ing he had discovered, by other faculties than Veneration,
that there was before him only a likeness of that prince in
wax. Veneration was not the faculty by which Voltaire
estimated Christianity, more than it was the faculty by
which he would have ascertained whether the figure before
him was the real or the'waxen figure of the king of France.
It is highly probable, that he contracted an early habit of
unbelief in Christianity by connecting it with popery,
without applying his reflecting powers to the examination
of its evidences and principles, or the doctrines of the Re-
formation.
But, farther, a person with the. strongest tendencies to
Veneration, may reject a particnlar system of religion as
untrue, for which, when rejected, he cannot feel the slight-
est Veneration, while he may not at the same time be a
stranger to that function of Veneration which is directed
to its most legitimate object, the Supreme Being. Voltaire
was not an atheist.· His biographer, Dr Aikin, says,-
" His attacks on the latter (ecclesiastical tyranny) included
hostilities against religion in general, at least of the reveal-
ed class ; and whilst he admitted natural religion, he de-
atroyed its moral efficacy." His Veneration and CauSality
VOLTAIRE.· 83
acting together made it impossible for·him to reject a First
Cause ;'and it is well known that, under the ·belief that
that First Cause exists, he built and ·inscribed a temple to
'' The Supreme," and;in 1756, wrote a splendid poem in
praise of natural religion. Thus he venerated·what he be-
lieved to be true, and did not venerate what he did ·not
believe to be true,-or positively beliE?ved:to be .fa1s6-<-a
course perfectly consistent with the greatest conceivable
endowment of the sentiment of Veneration.
The rumoured, and by some believed, horrors of Vol-
taire's deathbed; which have been referred to as a proof
that he was not an unbeliever, are entirely discredited by
the Baron de Grimm. He suffered great bodily torture,
and had too predominant an animal constitution not to have
great natural horror of death ; but he refused, like·Beau-
fort, even a sign to the curate of St Sulpice, who attended
him, that he died a Christian. " Laissez moi mourir en
paix," wa8 his answer. De Grimm's Memoires; which are
full of VoltAire, furnish several instances, not to be found
in any of his biographers, ofhis having repeatedly assumed
the Christian exterior for a day, to serve some most ob-
viously interested purpose. These are all in their very na-
ture proofs ofutter infidelity as well as hypocrisy. In 1768,
at Easter, ·when in his seventy-fuurth year, ·he went, as
Seigneur de Paroisae, in a sort ofcavalcade or procession,
attended almost en prince, and preceded'by six large wax-
candles, to communicate, "fai!re sea pa.ques," in .the church
of the parish where Ferney was situated; and demanded a
certificate from the priest. .M. de Grimm cites a letter of
"Mtreseigneur patriarche," as he·calls him, to the Count
d'Argental; in which he confesses that.the whole ceremony
was an expedient to pleasethe king and-queen, and to dis-
arm some ofwhat·he is pleased to call his fanatical ene-
mies. Hence the pomp, the ostentatious ·publicity, the
certificate, and every thing but the genuine religion ofthe
performance. Interested in every act, he took the oppor·
turiity of haranguing the peasantry upon the 'Crime of rob-
bery-of all'things !-fter the sacrament ; fixing his pierc-
ing eyes on one whom he suspected of having robbtd
him, and cunningly adding" that restitution, either into the
hands of the priest or the lord of the pari.sh, would sav~
all.disagreeable consequences both here and hereafter.
84 VOLTAIRE.·
Another time the bishop of the diocese complain~to:
whom ?~o the king, of the irreligion of Ferney, ofwhich
the patriarch hears, and forthwith takes the Eucharist, en ·
fJiatique, or privately. This he does in 'presence of two·
notaries, who draw up a regular proces-verbal of the cere·
mony I In his declaration there are at once an homage to
the king, a sarcasm at transubstantiation, and a cut at his
friend the bishop. In very sincere Christian forgiveness,·
"he declares, that, having his God in his mouth, he par-.
dons all his enemies and all his cowardly calumniat.ors with
'the king, who attacked his religion."-M. de Grimm adds,
that this simagree,·as he calls it, was ridiculed and scanda-
lized in Paris, and its profligacy and purpose equally well
understood.
. But the whole getting-up is crowned when Voltaire ap-
plies for and obtains from the pope the high dignity of
temporal father of the ord~r of the capuchins l It at least
serves t.o demonstrate the influence of that man all over
Europe, t.o say nothing of the great liberality of the head
of popish Christendom, that such an office should have been
bestowed on a notorious infidel. .
. There are a few incidents in Voltaire's hist.ory which
may be seized on as proofs of weak Veneration, t.o which
we the more willingly advert, that they can be easily ex-:
plained. When about twenty years of age, he was con-
fined for a year in the Bastille for having written, or being
suspected t.o have written,-which in France at the time
was the same thing,-some piece against the government,
and jested upon its conductors. If he did so, which is not
stated as certain, it was .before one ray of court sunshine
had come in his way to excite his venerative feelings, and,
at the most, seems t.o have been directed against the con•
ductors ofthe government, the ministers; against whom.the
intense force of his selfishness would, in the shape of envy,
naturally enough excite hostile feelings. He had power-
ful tendencies to satire,• and his enormous Self.esteem and
love of distinction are quite sufficient to have induced him
t.o make so high a venture. But when, on his liberation,
he brought cut .his " CEdipus," and the Regent sent for
him and told him " to be prudent, arid he would take
~e of him," which was the moment from which his inter•
• Deatructiveneu and Wit large, which they are in the.bust.
.VOLTAIRE.
·course with crowned heads began, we hear no more of his
satires on the French ministers•
.' He got into the Bastille for six months again, in conse:..
.quence of a private quarrel. Interest was used against him
by the Cardinal de Rohan, because of his threateningto re·
venge with his sword an affront put upon him by the young
·Chevalier de Rohan, who had caused him to be caned .in
.open day. But Voltaire had a lofty Self-esteem and vio-
lent irascibility, which would furnish him with quite coun·
tervailing motive enough for suspending his veneration for
.so very considerable a puppy as the young Chevalier de
.Rohan must have been.
Again, on his admission into the Academy of Sciences,
in 1746, " it was to his honour," says Dr Aikin, " that he
.was the first who, in his discourse at reception, deviated
.from the custom of repeating the stale praises of the Car"'
dinal de Richelieu." ·
Now, be it remembered, that the Cardinal de Richelieu
had, in 1746, been dead just one hundred and four years•
.This is itself somethingin the account ofVeneration~ The
cardinal would take no offence at the omission, and the pre-
_
mier for the time would, if he was curious in comparisons,
take less; so that the innovation was most probably a re-
:fined act ·of adulation to the exi&ting powers. At all
.events, the bold act was universally applauded ; Voltaire's
:Love of Approbation, " his ruling passion," was gratified;
.and no harm was done to his interest. But, be all this a8
it may, Veneration is but one feeling, and Voltaire had se•
·veral other powerful passions which would, in the course of
his life, act often, both singly and.combined, more power·
fully than his Veneration. The existence of this last·feel•
ing is much more clearly demonstrated byits manifestation
in the ordinary conduct of life, than its non-existence by
{)Ccasional acts of pride and violence, when Veneration was
for the time overmastered. ·
So much for the question of Voltaire's Veneration. But
I'S we cannot dismiss his bust without making use of it as a
positive testimony to the truth of Phrenology, we shall
conclude with a few observations on his character at large.
It is trite phrenological doctrine, that the selfishness of
great Self-esteem and Love of Approbation cannot brook
a rival, and especially hates one exactly similarly furnished
86 VOLTAIRB.
with these engrossing and exclusive feelings. In perfect
conformity with this view, the self-esteeming and vain Vol-
~re became acquainted early .in life, at Brussels, with that
inorbid and expanded piece .ofself-love Jean Jacques Rous-
seau; and the two worthies hated each other as intuitively
as cordially at first sight, and in all time thereafter. Vol-
taire is farther well known to have hated and scrupulously
avoided.the poet Piron, who, as a satirist, cut as deep as
himself, not sparing even the patriarch of Ferney.
The satire and sarcasm of Voltaire, his risul Sardoni-
cus,-of which last his visage presents the beau ideal,-
and all his ill-nature and malignity,* are features of cha-
racter identified with his very name.-" In this warfare,"
says Dr Aikin, " he makes use of every advantage he can
derive from his talent of placing things in a ludicrous light,
unrestrained by a regard to truth or.decency. (Conscien-
tiousness small, and the ' whole brute part of him' exces·
sive.) It was said by Montesquieu, ' When Voltaire.reads
a book he makes it, and then he writes against what he has
made.' And this is the real secret of much of his wit.;
which, however, from its supreme art of raising a laugh,
and making it stand for argument, was highly successful
with light and frivolous minds.''
Voltaire had all the unhappiness ofan ill-regulated mind;
" an impatience and restlessness of disposition and a mor·
bid irritability of temper continually tormented him.'' This
is in strict accordance with the organization, which indi•
cates strong animal and selfish feelings, combined with but
preponderating over the moral and social faculties, also of
considerable power. There is no repose. in the propensi-
ties when the masters : they are ever craving and never
satisfied. " There is no rest for the wicked." While be·
nevolence is placid and kindly, hope contented and happy,t
veneration elevated and serene, and justice calm and dig•
nified; vanity is insatiable, fidgetty, and easily mortified,
pride is. unsocial and gloomy, hatred, jealousy, rage, and
revenge, are the tormentors of the bosom they inhabit,
• Wit acting through Destructiveness, with the additional poison
of large Self.esteem and deficient Conscientiousness. Soin the bust,
+We mean Hope in good company; for, with Acquisitivenesa, and
without check from the better feelliigs, it is the curse of the game.
ater•.
VOLTAIRE'. 87
and sensuality offers not to the retrospective eye one spot
of self-respect, self-approbation, or peace. It is difficult to
imagine a being more tormented by sensuality and selfish-
ness, more incapable of satisfaction, contentment, and•
genuine happiness,· than Voltaire. About six years ago,
the Parisian press produced a volume of memoirs, by Ma-
dame Grafigny, of the private life of Voltaire for the six
months, when, driven from Paris for his irreligious writw
ings, he resided with the abandoned Madame de Chatelet
at Cirey.• He lived in open adultery with this woman;,
while the degraded husband dwelt in the house and herded
with the servants. The apartments used by the selfish
and guilty pair were fitted up with perfect comfort and al-
most oriental magnificence ; while the rest of the chateau,
in which they accommodated or rather discommoded their
visitors, was scarcely wind and water tight. Madame Gra-
figny, author of the Peruvian Letters, took a two-month&'
refuge with them from the brutality of her husband. She
had to submit to every species of degradation and insult ;
and, worst of all, was taxed with her contingent of the
most fulsome and constant praise of·the idol, as Voltaire
was styled. A little piece sent her by .a friend she durst
not Ehow at Cirey till she herself had interpolated it with
some wretched verses .of her own in praise of the idol.t
"Sometimes, however, in spite of her idolatry," says the
Quarterly Review, " she lets us see, though obscurely, the
personal bigotry, the persecuting jealousy, the cruel and
tyrannical vanity of this great enemy of bigotry, persecu-
tion, and tyranny; and it is not, as we have already hint-
ed, the least instructive part of her work:which shows that
the bad passions, all that Voltaire, in his rage or his p/ea.
sa1it1',!t.+ attributes to priests and kings, actually raged in
his own breast, and were limited only by his power of ven•
geance whenever his personal·vanity or personal interests
were affected." The worthy pair were in use to open their
visitor's letters. (Conscientiousness !)-By this simple ex-
pedient having got at some correspondence of Madame
Grafigny, they loaded her with ·the most ferocious abuse,
• The reader will find an analYBill ofthia work in vol. xxiii.. ofthe
Quarterly Review, p~e 154.
t Love of.Approliat1on out of all bounds in the said idol.
t.Sell-eeteem, Destructiven~ and Wi~. . . .
-SS ,VO'LTAtRE.
continued for some hours in a joint irruption into her bed~
chamber in the .night, with a false accusation of having
stolen and sent to a friend a canto of that profligate poem,
•" The Pucelle d'Orleans;" and then drove her from the
.house. We cannot withhold another passage in the Quar-
terly R~view : " The latter half of the volume contains
some unpublished letters of Voltaire's ·of no kind of inte·
zest. They are addressed to the President de Hainault;
.M. de Richelieu, and M. d'Argental, in the same style of
.smart flummery which characterizes his letters to these per-
sons_which are already known. We have not met in
them a passage worth quoting. Voltaii:e was a man of as-
tonishing quickness, and extent and versatility of talent ; he
.had a great deal of worldly sense and of literary acuteness;
andin individual cases, where his personal vanity, his rul~
.ing passion, _was not compromised, he would sometimes
be friendly and generous; but his total want ofall princi-
ple, moral or religious, his impudent audacity, his filthy
sensuality, his persecuting envy, HIS BASE ADULATION, his
unwearied treachery, his tyranny, his cruelty, his profli~
·gacy, his hypocrisy, will render him for ever the scorn, as
his unbounded powers will the wonder, of mankind."
Let any one, even moderately skilled in Phrenologyt
look at the bust now before us ; and in the fearful develop-
ment .which it presents of the animal organs, with the la~
mentable deficiency of Conscientiousness, which best re·
strains from evil and prompts to good, added to one of the
finest endowments of intellectual and communicative ge-
nius which a human.being could possess, he will see the
most irresistible of all proofs that that bust is a genuine
cast from the head of Voltaire. '
TRAVELS IN PHRENOLOGA.STO.•
. .
• PHRENOLOGY has made a deep impression on this gene~
.-ation. It ,is .cense by the wise and learned to be a non-
sensical absurdity, a delusion, and every thing else that is
unsubstantial .or wicked ;' yet .they cannot ·let it calmly
await .its .fate, .but are stirred up, by secret fear and ill-
• Travels in ·Phrenologasto. Br .Don· Jose BalscoJJo. TranslateJ
from the Italian, 8Y.?> JlJ>• .126. ((alcuita, Sfnith and Company, 1825.
Phren. Jour~ Vol w. Nll.12, p. 639, · ·
----- ~ -
!!'RAVELS 1N PHRENOLOGAST~ 89
suppressed hatred, to give it importance by the magnitude
of their exertions to stay its progress, and root it out from
the public mind. For twenty years the press has been
labouring to accomplish its overthrow by ridicule, argu-
ment, and bold assertion ; and the task is still unfinished :
Mr Cruickshank caricatures it; Mr Jeffrey, at this moment
(1826), is printing a third anathema against it, from his
own pen, to be fulminated in the next number of the
Edinburgh Review 1 and even in Asia the press teems
with wit and allegory in ridicule of. the science. For the
credit of Asia, however, the work before us is by much the
best that has appeared on its own side of the controversy.
It is an imitation of Gulliver's Travels, and is executed
with very considerable humour and ability.
Don Jose Balscopo, a native of Padua, having construct-
ed a balloon on entirely new principles; presents himself
before the people of England, and ascends from the gar-
dens of Ranelagh, on the 5th of November, amidst the
waving of hats and the acclamations of .thousands. He
rises to a great height, falls asleep, awakes, and sees land
not .above six miles oTer his head. His balloon gently
touched the ground, and, after rebounding three times, he
alighted among the inhabitants. . This nation had the sky
below them instead of·above; and though he was perfectly
secure in walking with .his head downwards, he could not
but at first indulge some apprehensions on that score. ·The
people are a very wise and intelligent nation ; and he " was
afterwards taught, that this apparently perverted order of
things was only an optical deception, arisirig from the in-
verted position.ofobjects on.the retina of the eye, tO which
experience only makes us accustomed."
The inhabitants wore their hair very closely'shaven, had
their heads painted white, ·and the surface divided by black
lines into "a variety of little fields and enclosures."-
" .These divisions, among the bulk of the people, amounted
altogether to 33 ; but a .few gentlemen, dressed in ·1ong
black:gowns, who appeared to possess some. authority
among them, had extended them, by.fainter lines, .to a
much greater number."-The dresses of both sexes· were
'ornamented with skWls; and "one lady whose name I
refrain from mentioning, on whose dress was a.great pro-
fusion. of these. insignia, afterwards assured me, that they
H
01g11zedbyGoogle
90 .TBAVELS IN P.HBEMOLOGASTO.
represented the skulls of all her ancestors in a direct line
for fifteen -generations, and amounted to the enormous
number of 32,768."
The Lord Chamberlain hospitably entertains the author,
shews him the country, city, shipping, &c., and then nar-
rates the history of the island. " Signor Balscopo, said
he, the flourishing country which you here see is the fa.
mous kingdom of Phrenologasto, the capital of which, in
the Italian tongue, is Cranioscoposco. The origin of the
nation, as it has been recorded in all our most learned
works, and handed down by tradition through twenty-five
centuries, is highly curious and instructive. Our fore&·
thers, you must know, from whom the whole colony .is
descended, were originally twelve inhabitant.a of that part
of the globe to which you belong, which is called Egypt.
At the time when that country was renowned for the oc-
cult sciences, and had obtained a glory for learning and
philosophy which bas been since eclipsed by the pre-emi-
nence ofother states, there lived a sect of philosophers who
devoted their whole.labours to the study of craniology.
Start not, young man, he continued (for I began to be in~
credwous), start not at this information which I observe
was unknown to you, and from which I am perceive that
you look upon that -noble art ·as an invention of modern
days. Is it then indeed true, that this profound science,
which was once the glory of Egypt, has been again lostt to
the world? Holy fathers! can it be·80? No wonder that
the world is .in its present state of degradation and darJr..,
ness l Alas! alas! too truly did the wise Prooo, looking
through his telescope on the world below, allege; that the
art there had again aunk into oblivion !
" But to return to·my history :..-.So great .was the :pro-
gress which our ancestors made in this science, and 1udt
the success of their studies, that, by great care and peftle-
verance, they .at length brought the development of an
the faculties of the mind to .the very highest perfection ;
but.·being, from national tast.e, peculiarly addicted to the
st\ldy -Of mathematical learning, -they gave the principal
part of their attention to the cultivation of those ·organs
which gave birth to this science ; 80 that, in process uf
time, by the e:s:amination ofthe different gases; and certain
speculatiou.on the properties ~air, one ofthe.most learned
TRAVBLS IN PHRENOLOG.tSTO,· 91
ofmy cotintrymen succeeded in forming a ball~ in-which,
with.the help of a proper stock of provisions, he declared it
was quite practicable to make a journey to the moon. ·The
greater part of the people, who had no perfect idea of the
boundless extent of science, and the perfectibility of human
skill, treated the proposition as chimerical ; but our astro-
logers had.many years before predicted that such a journey
would be undertaken, and philosophers were ·more induced
to attempt it from the hope of obtaining some further in-
sight into their favourite study of astronomy. A commit-
tee was accordingly formed, a ·joint-stock -established, and
twelve of the most adventurous speculators in the kingdom
embarked with their wives ·and families in this balloon,
which was as large as a good-sized ship. Having laid in a
plentiful stock of provisions, the ·whole party, after three
months' voyage, landed· very comfortably on this island,
which we have since ascertained is only a terith part ·of the
distance to the planet they were in quest of.
" The noble science, which thus conducted our ancestors
to this delightful spot, became of course the peculiar study
and delight of their posterity. The elevation to which
they had ascended, gave; it is eaid, a superior elasticity to
their mental faculties, which,, as tradition records, is un•
known in the·land from which they came. Be that as it
may, they ·quickly ·perceived the important truth, which
before .was ver:ii imperfectly appreciated, that the basis of
all knowledge is virtually situated in the shape of. the skull.
This sublime discovery, which to us, by reason of a second
Dature, has now become an intuitive truth, in those days,
as historians declare, could only be understood by a train
of reasoning--an extraordinary fact, which ·of itself shews
the degenel'&Cy of the human mind in those dark ages of
the world, that a truth so very self-evident should require
any demonstrative reason to establish it.
" It is by the gradual.prosecution of this enlightened
philosophy, which our first parents thus introduced into
this island, that our present grandeur is founded. It is
this that forms the intellectual basis, from which those
wonderful discoveries have taken their rise, which have
raised our people to a pinnacle of glory fur above that of
any kingdom on the earth, and to a degree of wisdom b~
fore which the highest flights ·of terres,trial genius dwindle
into nothing. Itis this which has given .as it were a new
92. TRAVELS JN PHRBNOLOGASTO:
creation to.mind,.and, by teaching us the true method of
its cultivation, has given that grand and sublime expansion
to her energies, which has enabled us to penetrate into all
the secrets of nature, to trace the course of the most·dis-
tant stars, and to examine the internal economy as well as
the universal laws of all created matter."
Signor Balscopo makes a rapid survey of the manners
and institutions of the people of Phrenologasto ; and. in
touching upon appointments·to public offices, education,
philosophy, morals, religion, fatalism, criminals, insanity,
&c., the author ridicules, with no little talent, the supposed
consequences of phrenology when practically applied. The
work is exceedingly amusing to a phrenologist, from a
mixture of sound inference, which the author mistakes for
absurdity, with real nonsense, .the invention of his own
brain. We select the following ·as one of the happiest
sketches :-The Signor is sailing in a boat with Dr Nicho-
demos, an old man, and his petulant son. The old man
applies to the doctor to amend his son's dispositions ; on
hearing which the lad, in a fit of violent passion, throws his
father overbi>ard, who is drowned. " An early day was
appointed for his trial, which in this country generally takes
place within as few days as possible from the apprehension
of the prisoner. The judge and the lawyers of the town
were assembled in the court, and the philosopher, myself, .
and the countrymen, were brought in befere them. The
first part of the proceeding was to take down in writing our
several depositions. After this a certain·instrument was
produced, and our organs of veracity being all exactly mea-
sured, their dimensions were committed to paper, and com-
pared with .the statements we had already made. When
these preliminary arrangements had been completed, the
pris9ner himself was introduced. The examiner laid hold
of his head, and, measuring the destructive orgaQ, noted
down the particulars in a book. The form of the other
principal faculties being in the same manner ascertained;
the counsel for the crown began the prosecution. They
stated, that they had found in the heads of all the wit-
nesses, with the exception of that of Dr Nichodemos, such
satisfactory developments of the organ of truth, as left very
little doubt of the correctness of their statements. As for
the learned·Doctor, in whom that organ was less manifest,
since .his·testimony.teqded rather to exculpate the lad, it
ll'RAVELS IN PHRENOLOGASTO: 93 I
was on that account the further proof of the aggravation of
his crime. In conclusion, they observed, the truth of the
whole charge was still more fully corroborated by a very
large development of Destructiveness in the young man
himself.
· " The counsel for the prisoner denied the accuracy of
this conclusion. ·They admitted the fulness of the faculty
of truth in Signor Balscopo,, the principal witness ; but
they did not consider his testimony so deserving their credit
as that·of Dr Nichodemos, so well known in the world as
a man of great wisdom and penetration, and of the most
honourable and upright character. (The Doctor bowed
profoundly to the court.) As for the prisoner, the counsel
observed, that though the destructive propensity had been
ascertained to be three-fifths beyond the ordinary dimen•
sions, still the organ of Benevolence, being a full ·half
larger than usual, and that of Veneration two-tenths, the
above-mentioned organs conjointly bearing a preponder•
ance, proved, beyond a doubt, ·that the destructive power
could not have possibly ~ted in the manner asserted. He
referred to the statute-book, to the thirty-fourth act of his
late majesty, that two good organs, being conjointly larger
-than one' that was bad, disannulled the evidence of the
latter. In confirmation of.which, he begged to draw the
attention of his lordship to the case of Cardinivers Carda..
mum; by which he shewed, that the judges in a similar case
had entirely thrown aside the evidence of the witnesses,
finding that the good qualities of the prisoner exceeded in
the aggregate the veracity-bumps of all the witnesses put
together.·
." The. opposite party denied the conclusion, and main-
tained,. that the •case quoted by the learned counsel was
quite irrelevant to the present one. If the organs of Ve-
neratiQll and Benevolence exceeded that of Destructive-
ness, still.it was·only by one-tenth part; but ifthey would
examine the prisoner's head, they would find that this aP"
parent surplus of a good -disposition was fully counterba-
lanced by the organ of Anger, of which there was a very
great ·profusion, proving thereby, beyond a doubt, the
commission of the crime. A neighbour of the old man that
was drowned deposed, that his organ of Philoprogenitive-
ness was unusually large ; and the learned judge argued
very profoundly, that.this, from which,had _arisen.too mud\
94 TRAVELS IN PHRBNOLOGASTO•
parental fondne&s and indulgence, was therefore the neces•
sary cause of the boy's misdemeanour. His lordship, in
summing up the evidence, adverted, as usual, to the crimi-
nality of those. who, in the early youth of their offspring,
allow their irascible faculties to acquire so great an ascen..
dency. At the same time he very feelingly stated the in-
convenience which might result to society if the boy was to
be allowed any longer to go at liberty. He concluded,
therefore, by observing, that he was under the painful ne-
cessity of confining him in the town jail till he amended
his manners,--a sentence which he had the more regret in
pronouncing, as the old man himself, to whom the misfor-
tune had happened, was in fact the efficient cause of his
own death, the punishment of which had devolved on his
eon, who appeared to be, as far as he could observe, a youth
of promising genius and very commendable behaviour.
" .After the trial, the judge and Doctor Nichodemos
dined together, and talked very learnedly of free-will, phy-
sical necessity, and predestination. On the following day
my companion introduced me as ·11 friend, he said, of his, of
some natural talent, which, however, was sadly obscured
by a variety of prejudices and narrow-minded notions,
which, it was to be hoped, a longer residence in this coun-
try would speedily remove. We left this place the follow-
ing day, and as we went along, the conversation turning on
the result -0fthe trial, I expressed my astonishment at the
lenity of the sentence, as I had all along not the least doubt •
but that the villain would have been hanged. ' You must
be in great.ignorance,' replied the Doctor, ' not to know,
that no crimes among us are capital. The criminal code
of this country is remarkable for its simplicity, and its
adequacy to answer all the true ends of justice. 1t speci•
fies merely the tieveral species of crimes, and the particular
sum of money which is levied on each of them.'-'How !'
replied I, ' are all crimes then atoned for by a pecuniary
compensation?'-' They are so,' replied the Doctor: '300
dollars is the establi'shed sum for high treason ; 200 for a
murder, but 150 for manslaughter; 85 is the sum for rob-
bery on the highway ; 20 for a pickpocket, and 16 for a
$beep-stealer. I will tell you in what manner these fines
are levied. · It ·is an invariable maxim among us, as you
already know, that the skull, after a certain age, by the in-
'1uration of the pia and dura mater, and th~ conjunction of
TRAVELS JN PHRENOLOGA.STO. 95
the oua bregmatis et occipitis with the os ethmoida or cri·
briforme, acquir£s an unchangeable form, in which the
faculties of the mind are for ever afterwards fixed. All
actions, therefore, p~trated- after that age, are to be at-
tributed, not so much to ourselves, as to the preceptors of
our youth, who, having under their care the dispo11alof our
heads, before the above ossification takes place, are justly
answerable for the result. · If.any person, therefore, com•
mits, for example, a burglary, (for which the fine is 70 dol-
lars,) the government, in their wisdom, extending their
views to the primary cause from which the evil has arisen,
demand the sum, not from the person by whom the bur-
glary is committed, but from those who had the education
of him when a boy. In this manner ·the. greater part of
these sums are levied on the Universitv of Boldosbosko.•
At the same time, for the presen-ation of the safety of BO•
ciety, and to prevent the recurrence of a similar offence,
the immediate malefactor is confined in prison ; if it be a
murder, for life, but if a less serious crime, for a shorter
period. In the mean· while the penalty incurred by the
university is payable, half to government, and half to the
person who suffers through their neglect the inconvenience
of this imprisonment. He, however, (the misfortrme not
being attributable to·himself, and therefore no realstain on
his character,) is -
of course visited as usual by his relatives,
•and holds -the· same rank in- the estimation of society as
before."
On the whole, we wish all_our opponents were able to
shew.as much invention, wit, and ·real humour, as this au-
thor. He is really amusing, and shews great aptitude fur
this style of writing. We hazard the conjecture, that the
organs of Secretiveness, Individuality, Language, Compa·
rison, and ldeality, are all amply developed in his head,
with rather a respectable portion of Causality and Wit. ,If
the former organs are deficient in his head, this one fact
will give a severer blow to phrenology than the 126 pages
of goodly octavo which we have now noticed.
• There-is excelient humour in this'idea ;-butit isapplicab!e !Duch
more to the patrons Gf the old philosophy than to the phrenologists.
They hold, that education form• the mind entirely, and ought to pay
for not making perfect men. We admit Nature 811 setting limits to
art, and do not pretend to the power of controlling her entirely.-
Emroa.
01g11zedbyGoogle
. ( 96 ) ·
SCOLDING OF JURIES.•
IN the Scotch criminal courts, after the witnesses have-
b,een·examined, and the counsel for the crown and the pri-
soner have each addressed the jury, the presiding judge
recapitulates the statements of the dift'erent witnesses,
makes comments upon them, explains such matters of law
es require to be dealt with, and finally directs the jury
what verdict, according to his views of the case, they ought
to return. It sometimes happens, however, that they dif-·
fer from him in ·opinion, and give a decision opposite to
that which he has recommended. The verdict decides the
"
fate of the prisoner; but ifhe has escaped when the court
thought he should have been found guilty, it is not uncom-
mon for the judge to address the jury in a strain of rather
strong and vehement vituperation. We have heard jury-
men complain of this treatmer.t, and regard it plainly as a
scold for having decided according to their own conviction,
and not according to that of the bench.
. We shall endeavour to analyze phrenologically the ra-
.tionale of this proceeding.
First, the human mind has received a definite constitu-
tion, and its operations are governed by determinate laws.
A man believes that three times three are nine, in conse-
quence of his faculty of number perceiving the relations of
these quantities ; but if in him the organ be very small, and
the faculty in consequence weak, he may have great diffi-
culty in finding out now many 14 times 19 are. Suppose
we wish to convince him that the amount is 266, we must
lay before him the simplest elements of the calculation,
and advance step by step till he see it as we do. -Ifhe fail
in attaining the right result after all our pains, the proper
·inference is, either that we have not been sufficiently ex-
plicit in our demonstration, or that his faculty of number is
$0 w~ak as not to be able to comprehend the computation.
If the first has been the cause, we must bear the blame our-
i;elves ; if the second, we ought to avoid in future placing
.that individual in a situation where the power of calcula-
,tion is necessary to the discharge of hill duties : but in 11ei-:
• By George Combe.-Vol. iii. No. 10. p. :no.
.icor.DlNG OF .UJaUCa. ,97
·\her view ili it proper to scold him fut: the disapPOintment
that we meet with. ,
'. In judging of moral guilt or innocence, the laws that re-
-gulate the mind are analogous. I( the case is simple and
the evidence clear and strong, tl\e conclusion will be as
intuitively reached as in the calculation of 3 times 3 ; but
·if the circumstances are numerous and complicated, strong-
·er moral sentiments and intellectual faculties will be re-
lJUired to arrive at a sound judgment. If the major part
uf a jury happen.to be deficient in Conscientiousness and
reflection, they may, in such cases, experience a real diffi-
culty in detecting justice. After the witnesses, counsel.
Md judge, have done their best •to enlighten them, they
may still involunt.arily wander in error from sheer incapa•
t:ity to feel justly ;-we say to.feel justly, because Conscien~
tiousness is a sentiment, and justice must be felt, and can·
not be imparted by intellect alone, like a logical or mathe-
matical demonstration. If, on the other hand, the juryme11
possess an average endowment of the moral and intellec-
tual powers,-then, as evidence produces conviction·ac•
eording to regular laws, the cause of the verdict being er-
roneous must be sought for in the imperfection of the man-
ner in which the faculties have been addressed. Even pre•
jurlice itself, if it has been the occasion of the error, must
owe·its exist.ence, after the trial, to one or other of these
causes. Prejudice is a preconceived opinion of the guilt
_,r innocence of the party accused, taken up before enter-
ing the jury-box ; but every opinion, however formed,
must. necessarily yield to the force of evidence, i;inless the
natural capacity for recognizing truth be tQo feeble, o(thl;
evidence itself be deficient in strength and precision.
Whether, therefore, the disappointment of the judge
arises from natural incapacity in the jury, or from imper-
fection in the steps necessary ta prodµce. conviction, it ~
unphiloaophical to blame them for their verdict. They are
not entitled by law, even although .inclined, to recall ~eir
opinion, and adopt that of the bench ; so that, in the case
in which they are found fault with, it is impossible for
them to remedy the evil. The only effect of scolding
them, therefore, Jltu$t be to make them slavishly follow the
ilirection of the judge infuture trials, and not trust to the
impressions. made on their own minds-a reljult to be de-
~ I
·\
..i ;
.aGJ.DtNG OF n!Bl&8t
precated above every thing, aa defeating the v.ery end (L
their institution.
But farther, it is a poui.ble case, that a judge himself
may be deficient in the organ_and faculty of Conecieutiowt-
ness f and then the impressions.made on his mind by the
evidence and speeches of the counsel, would not be a C9r-
tect reflection of that which would arise in the .minds of
individuals in whom Conscientiousness was strong. Every
faculty has a natural language of its own, which i8 rec:og..
nised only by the same faculty in othel'll. An unconscjen•
tious witness may give evidence so feasible to the in~ec;t;
that a person with a deficient Conscientiousness JQaf not
det.ect imperfection in it ; while an individual with a lltt'Qtig
Conscientiousness might feel that the substance of tru•
was wanting. Suppose such evidence .contradicted by the
testimony of another witneu, in whoee tones and IPllDllef
truth spoke out in her native language, a person with CGA..
scientiousness strong would instinctively believe the latter.;
while another, in whom that faculty was weak,.would pro.
bably be led by sympathy to believe the former. Accord..
ingly, if a jury ~ss average intellect and moral senti.,.
ments, and a judge find them return an uuanimous verdict
in opposition to his charge, we think the philoeopbical ·in-
ference is, either that some obstacle in the way ofarriving
at a sound judgment has existed, which has ·not been re..
moved, or that his own impression is erroneous ; .and again
we arrive at the conclusion, that it is not proper to blame
a jury for expressing in their verdict the opinion which
they have actually formed, whatever its merits may appear
to the mind of another individual. to be.
CASES OF W~ C. M. OF EDINBURGH, AND MISS W. OF
LONDON, farther illustrati,-e, respectively, of the Phrenolo.
gical Explanation ofVSNTIULOQUISM and H1&TBJON1c PER80NA-
TfON.•
ONE of the most important ends of a periodical journal
fPr the advancement.Qf an inductive science, is to record
'By JameaSimpson.-Vol. ii. N~ 8. p.~
VINTRILOCWISM-JUVKNILB ACT.ING. 99
&.i\hfully all additionswhich are.made to die range and sum
of the induction. In fartherance of that purpose, we must
~ occasionally called to recur to particular subjects of in-
quiry-to proofs and reasonings on .which we hav.e already
written ; but if we shall bring with us fresh proom, &Mi-
tional illustrations, or yet more·conclusive reasoning¥. we.
do not fear thtit the recurrence will be tiresome ; but trust,
that it will .not only poseess inters i.n itself; but increase,
retrospectively, the value ofthe previous discussioq. .
Having lately met iwitb two inter.eating..and instructive
casea-.-the one eminently co~ ofthe theory ofven-
triloquism whidl we formerly efFered,*and.the other farther
illustrative of the view takE:D by. ou.r n.orthern school of the
elements ofa talent for dramatic perfQrmance---we feel that
ou.r readers have a claim:upon us for.au account of' them.
We appredate the first case Pi,e more, as it is one which
our publication attracted-one.which. we did not seek, but
which sought us. . .
W. (!. M.~ about seventeen .yeus of age, lea.ming the
business of an optician and mechanician .in Edinburgh, a
youth of curious and inquiring.habits, was .-ttr~ted to tbe·
v~ntriloquial pertormances of M• .Alex&uhe, whi.ch took
place last year in our city, and W.Bre for.mer}y noflced by us.
He repeated his attendance·sev.eraltimes, and.began to imi-
tate that celebrated ventriloquist. .He had made consider.
able progress in this curious v.ocal illµsion, when he read in
our third Number the paper .on the subject with which our
readers are familiar. , They :will recollect ~t the view
there taken of ventriJoquism is, that .it is the exercise of a
very high endowment of Imitation.as its .basjs, with great
Secretiveness, Tune, and Individuality, in.~ination ;- .
the first of these three auxiliaries giving the power of con·
cealment of self, which is essential tQ perfect JJlimickry ;
the second, perceiving the.. minutest modQlatiOB8 and gra.-
dations of sounds ; and the third, giving a qQick and re·
tcntive observation ; while the .more mecbani~ requisites
of flexible organs of speech and skilful management of
breath are the mere instruments ofthese enumerated powers
of mind. It was because we did consider the use of
these instruments as merely mechanical and ministerial,
that we objected to the proposition of Conrad Amman, p.
• Vol. i. p. 466. See p. 22 .
of the present Selectio~
100 YKNTRILOQUISM-JUVENlLB ACTtNO•'
Dutch doctor, that ihe whole ·mystery of ventriloqUism it
explained by the tact, ·that the performer speaks during
inspiraHon of the breath, and as it were swallows his words;
and because we felt, that all the apparent changes of direc-·
tion and graduation of distance remained to be accounted
for as much on the supposition of inspiration as of expira·
tion•
. W. c. M., however, finding that, in ventriloquiziog, he
often spoke during inhalation, very naturally fell into Con--:
rad Amman's error, and concluded, that that mere mode
of speaking is the wkole of ventriloquism. He forthwith,
of course, felt all that personal weight in the controversy
which belongs to a man who not merely has, but who is an
incontrovertible fact in the inquiry, and he owed it to the
eause of science to put "" right, that we might do no far-
ther mischief in that behalf, Mr George Combe, being
the fountain-head, in this country, of phrenological truth,
was justly h,eld by W. C. M. to be the principal in all ac•
cusations ofphrenological error,and, taking his hat, W. C. M.
was speedily in Mr George Combe's study, in forma im-
pugnatoris. Mr Combe, satisfied by a glance at his head,
that the objector was a waJAing fact in confirmation of
the truth of that theory which he was there to impugn,
waived all discussion, and sent the challenger to the author
of the papt>r objected to, who, in the same half-hour, was
arraigned for false doctrine in the joint names of W. C. M. ·
and Conrad Amman. There is no ·variety of that most
various of all things, the ludicrous, to be compared with
what a phrenologist quietly enjoys in his little-suspected
advantage over an opponent, or, better still, a disdainful
enemy, whose own cranium rises up in judgment against
his all-sufficient reasonings. Our inspirationist was the re-
verse of a scornful or uncandid·adversary ; for he stated
.his charge with much naivete and seriousness ; but his de-
velopment nevertheless was an amusing commentary upon
llis text. He happened to sit opposite to the windows,
and the light fell so unequivocallyupon Imitation, the
. salient
fore-ground of his head, that the incongruity was nearly as
intense as it is when the Great Mogul has his work-day
name, his address in the city, and his domestic situation a11
placarded on his back as he struts into the motley crowd
of a London masquera4e. . We.took for granted that Mr
y&NTBILOQUJSM-JUVBNILB ACTING. · ~01
Combe had put. his.hand on·tkat. part of·M.'s head.· He
said he had. . Observing a considerable development ot:
Secretiveness, Tune, and Individuality, we asked him if
~e was a ready mimick, botl.-of the gestures and tones of
voice of others, and of any sounds,...;....such 88 'the ·cries of
animals, and the noises of inanimate things, as saws,planes,
"8d·the like.• He answered, that he was not himself con-
ICious of imitating on any occasion ; .but his friends told
him, that he actually did imitate the voice and manner of
any person he met with. In farther proof of this .instinc-
iive operation of the faculty in him, he informed us, .that
110me years ago he was two years .in London, when insen..
&ibly he acquired the English accent, only to lose it again,
equally unconsciously, on his return to S~tland ; and as-.
suredly, as we can vouch, all traces ofit are now gone. This
automatical operation of Imitation is eqUally curious and
\mportant. . · · ·
Two of our phrenological friends, who had repeatedly
seen Alexandre perform, happening to come in, OUll visitoi:
was requested to exhibit his powers SI! a ventriloqui,t, H~
first -addressed a person suppoeed.to be at the top of the
chimney, and had scarcely spoken a dozen words when his
audience looked at each other, and all of them at the same
.instant exclaimed,-" Alexandre! tones of voice, broken
.English, and all." One person present who had not wit-
nessed the French ventriloquist's exhibition, at once ob-
served, that W. C. M. spoke with a foreign accent. His
performance proceeded, and it w~ Alexandre's through-:
out, the dialogue and incidents having been accurately
committed to memory. He was of course sufficiently aware
that he performed Alexandre's scenes, but declared him-
self quite unconscious that he imitated his accent and tones
of voice. The chimney-top dialogue,-that with a person
• It is worthy of observation, and Rome instances which we have
,met with seem to countenance the distinction, that the power to mi-
.mick aounds, and to mimick motions, are not both nece8811rily poeeeta-
ed bv the same person. The distinction will be at once apparent by
recollecting, that deafand dumb persona cannot mimick sounds, but
are often adepts in the imitation of gait, geitures, and expressions
of countenance. Even in those who hear, we conjecture that Tune
is neces.eary for the nicer discrimination of sounds. The case of
-Kiss W., in the sequel, will be found in point; her Tune being in.
-G>ntiderable. and her mimickry alm0&t entirely confined to action-.
io2 Ti:N'r'Iitt<JQursr.r-""'.roVEN1i..:e Acriifo~
supposed to be do'Wri in a cellar; arid asceridirig to it ~
door JioW apen and now shut,---and with another at the
same time in acloset, the door likewise sometimes open
and SOnietiines shut,..:.....as well as a communieation With s
person iri a quart bottle;-were all perfect, arid fully ~
in illmion to the same thing8 as done by Alexandre; · Iii"
deed with regard to tliat most difficult'feat in veritriloquii!M;
the perspective as we formerly tailed it-the gradual
change of sound to suit distances which are supposed·tO be
11arying, in consequence of the person seemingly conversed
with advnncirig ot receding; our aspirant was·quite Alex..
aridre1s equal. For the voice of a supposed stationary per"
son, one sound·witbout change is S'llfficient, and the difti..
culty is lessened; The graduation of the voice in the sup~
posed ascent an<;! descent in the chimney was so perfect;
that, after one or two trials, we could tell in what part of
the vent he intended his friend at any one moment to be;
We found it more difficult with him, when we made the
effort; t6 undeceive ourselves as to the direction of sounds;
than with Alexandre.
On paying particular attention to the use W. C. Mi
made of his breath, we observed that he did, ·for certain
effects,. but by no means always, speak during inspiration;
When a very distant or stifled sound was necessary, liS
thai ofa voice from the top of a chimney, or from the in-
side ofa well-eorked quart bottle, the words spoken during
inspiration resembled most that distant or stifled sound·;
bui the moment it Wa8 necessary to bring the sourid nearer,
or to uncork the bottle, the voice was imitated during ex•
pulsion of the breath. Indeed it is quite impossible tO
graduate the sounds by the inhaling method alone. W. C.M.
found, on trial, which he made before us, that he could
equally easily ventriloquize during expiration. In truth,
he ~d this unconsciously every time he changed the voiee ;
but he had given his attention to the inhaling effort alone,
as to him the inost new and remarkable. This·was eVi~
denily the origin of Conrad Amman's mistake. We do
not doubt that fur low stifled sounds, either close iat hand
or 'lery reintJte, the Amsterdam ol~ woman spoke during
inspiration, which singular effort was noticed, while her imj..
tation 'Of other sounds, which could· not be produeed der-
itJg.inhalltton;·'ltere stl:ll·imputed to the.same effurt. Mr
Alexandre 888Ut'ed us, that he never ventriloquiZed during
ihhalat.i.011,which shews thatit is not essential ; and W. C.M.
like the,Dutch woman1 resorted to this method as ~ wal
merely.of producing the illusion of change of direction cif
the voice; iii other.11rotds, as one:of the instruments of his
Imitation, Secretiveness, Tune, and ~ndividuality. Let any
one noi.t!O endowed try to ventriloquize,~d any one may
andcan sf>e&k during ingpiration,........and it will be found that
~·may speak during inhalation to suffocation, withoutimi•
tating:soundlJ which the bystander shall be forced to refer
tt) a distan~ the top of a chimney, or the inside of a
bottle. What W; C. M.'s case has thu8 called us to say is
aciarcely a modification of out former doctrine; for, in the
nrst volume of the Phrenological Journal, p. 473, we ob-
aerv~" It is admitted, that a low stifled sound may
be produced for a few seconds during inspiration ; but the
high and often strong voice of the ventriloquist can only
tesult from a brisk e:cpulsi<Jn of air from the trcrehea by an
increased action ofthe part. The Amsterdam woman spoke
high, but it was Conrad that concluded that she spoke dur-
ing inspiration. Besides, there is no reply to the objection,
that inspiration, no more than speaking with the belly, will
account fbr variations and distances."
One effect of our experiments with 'W: C. M. Wa8 hi•
own complete conversion to our views on the subject ot'.1.he
Ulie of the·breath during ventriloquism ; and the more mi-
nutely he has since attended to our explanationof the vocal
illusion called ventriloquism,-which attention has been
much aided by a slight acquaintance with Phrenology,-
the more he is satisfied that .that explanation ia in all its
par1:11·correct. . .
We .formerly described Alexandre's wonderful powers as
a personator-a talent which enabled him to concealltimself,
8IJ he expressed it, and assume another form and face before
out eyes. In this W. C. M.-for he attempted it-is im•
measurably Alexandre's inferior. We are at no loss to ·ae•
eount.fot this by comparing the degree in which each has
the secretive power. Alexandre's Secretiveness is marked
t1d!J larg~, while W. C. M.'s ia only rather large. M. Alex•
aildre's t:Qtal develtwment we formerly gave; W. C. M.'s ia
}(K 'llBMTJtlJ.OQ.UJS!llf-JUVBNJLS AQTJMOi'
•
now subjoined.• It ltould scarcelyl>e fair to eompare what ·
may be called the acting or scenic powe:r of.W. C. M. with
that of Alexandre, as the one is a practised perfonner, and
the other a mere boy and novice ; but it ·appeared to ·WI,:
that the same inferiority in Secretiveness which threw him:
behind the Frenchman in pel'80nation, will prevent ·.him~
from overtaking him in spirited acting. :
We have been led by certain characteristics of the case>
of W. C. M. to pay some farther attention to the faculty of,
Imitation in its higher endowments, and no one of its qu.-i
Hties has struck us more forcibly than its unconscious and:
almost automatic character. We have recently met with·
several instances ofa high degree of the power being pos-.
&e11sed unsu'Pected by the possessor. We lately predicat-1
ed Imitation in a person.who had the orgipt large. He fur.,.:
nished us with yet another example of the most .common:
of all things,-a well-educated, clever, thinking, grown-up:
gentleman, unacquainted with himself, however confidently:
be may scorn that imputation ; for he positively denied:
that he ever mimicked or imitated in his life. Some friends:
present, who knew him better, bore unanimous testimony.
that the gentleman actuallyfalls into the voice and manner:
of any Jne to whom he pays minute and continued atten-,
tion. This very quality of unconscious operation is suffi-;
cient of itself to demonstrate, that Imitation is a distinct
primitive impulse of our nature. The manifest purpose -0£
its .being bestowed; in a greater or less degree, upon the
whole human race, is to produce that general uniformity of
• l. Amativeness, rather full. · 19. Ideality, large.
·2; Philoprogcnitivenet!s,ratherlarge. 20. Wit, rather large•
.3. Concentrativeneea, rather large. 21. Imitation, large.
4. Adhesiveness, large. 22. Individuality, large.
!i. Combativenese, large. 23. Form, rather 11\rge.
·6. Destructivenete, full. 24. Size1 rather large.
7. Secretiveneea rather large. '25. Weight, lllJ'ge. -
8....J.cquisitiveness. rather large. 26. Colouring, rather latje. ·
9. Oon~tructiveness, rather large. 27. Locality, full. ·
10; Self-Esteem, rather large. 28. Number, rather large.
11. Lo\·eofApprobation, ratherlarge., 29. Order, full.
12. Cautiousne811, rather large.' 30. Event.uality,ratherlarge;
13. Benevolence, rather large. 31. Time, rather Iarge. '
If. Veneration, full. 3"2. Tune, rather large. •
1
5. Firmness, large. aa. Langu~e, rather large, .
6. Conscientiousne111, rather large. · 34.·comparison, rather foll. ·
17.,Hope, rather-
large.. . SS. Ca11sality, full. •
18. Wonder, large.
VZMTlllLOQUISN-IUV&MILB ACfUiq.. 1:06:·
. t . . . . . .
beingand actiegwhich is euentialtothe socialcharacter and~.
progressive improvement ofman. Imitation to that extent,,
no one can doubt, ia purely automatic-altogether indepen-1
deot of the will and the reasop ; and we have stated rea- ·
ljODS for concluding, .that the exercise of the·power in its.
~ghest endowment, which ventriloquism undoubtedly is,,
may be in several essentials of its exercise no~ less involun-'
tary. Dr Gall knew a deaf and dumb boy who had. from.
the moment he was received .into an instituti.on for the,
deaf and dumb, imitated every person he saw there, in a,
manner so exact, that each could be easily distinguished;-.
the ·gait and gestures of the director, the inspector, .the·
surgeon, &c. were not to .be mistaken. M. Pine) had a,·
young female idiot under .his ~e, who, he says, had the.
most resolved and irresistible propensity. to imitate every
thing that was done in her presence. " She repeats," says.
M. Pine], " automatieally all she hears said, and imit,ateil;
the gestures and actions of others with the greatest accu-:
racy, and without being at all embarrassed with respec~ for ·
persons."*· . . . ,
Cabanis relates the history of a man so excitable {84
tl&Obile'), that he felt himself impelled to repeat all the
movements and attitudes which he witnessed. " If at any
time they hindered him from obeying that impulse, either.
by constraining his limbs, or obliging him to assume con-.
trary attitudes, he experienced insupportable anguish ; here
~e facQ!ty of imitation W(IS aggravated to a degree of dis-
ease.f' .
. Dr Gall gives an accm.µ1t of a male idiot, in a madhouse,.
who was constantly occupied in counterfeiting the other
patients. Dr G. found the organ large in players, and
enumerates a great number of eminent actors in Germany~
Holland, France, and England, in whom he had proved
the fact ; and he concludes, " that that faculty ought to con-
stitute a con.riderahle.p<>rtion of the talent of an actoJ:,.:'t
This limitation left Dr G. at liberty to add other faculties,
which farther observation might shew.him to be necessari
• De l'Alie~ation Me~tale, 2d edit.'p. 99.
+Du Physique et du Moral de !'Homme, t. i. p. 19.5.
nel and Caban1s were not phrenologists.
• ;.s~r l~ Fon(1.tion8 du C!lneau,:tom. v. p. 330•.
l~ff VENTBILoQlll8M"-"-J'UVi£NILK ACTING• .
tO the histrionic art. Mr S~ott was the first to gi~e to Se£.:
cretiveness an equal rank,· at least, ·with Imitation, in the
endowment 'Of an actor.·· Of this combination Dr Gall
had no suspicion when he comJJl?sed his work above re..·
furred 'W; yei it is tO us matter of'fair analogical inference;
that every one of·the great actors whom he enumerates aw
being largely endowed with Imitation, must have possessed
Secretiveness in at least an equal degree. N-One of·the
Eiininent actors at present on the British stage offers an ex..·
c:!eption. Dr G., in ·one or two· instances; unconsciously
refates circumstances from which it is clear that some of
his examples were secretive as well as·imitative person!l'.
He told a robber, fur example, whom he saw in the house·
Of correction at Munich, on the strength of his organ of
Imitation alone, that he was an actor. The man av<>wed
that he had belonged to a company of strolling players, but
rum carefully concealed the fact, which was on that account
11tterly unknown in the establishment where Dr Gall found
him. The following passage from Dr G.'s work t is an•
other instance of his unconscious omission of the impori.
tant element ofSecretiveness:-
" I know many persons, especially women, who possess
at.a:lent ·for mimickry in a very high degree, and who are
never so happy as when ·an ·opportunity occurs for them
to nuuk themselves." Dr G. imputes in great painters the
power of expression to Imitation, as he found Imitation
largelt developed in the busts of Raphael;· Dominichino;
Rubens, Poussin, and Lesueur ; all particularly distin•
guished for power of expressiom Mr Scott has demon'"
strated that; in the imitative arts, Imitation ·alone will not
give that quality called expression, which is the result of
Secretiveness. " Imitation," sayil he, " seems to give the'
power of copying the externals, but Secretiveness is neces•
eary to give a life and soul to the performance." 'In 'what
manner Secretiveness confers this power in the artS of
painting and sculpture, Mr Scott does not, however; pre·
tend fully to explain. . •
Dr Spurzheim, although he has not said so in any of his
works, &tated to us latelyin conversation, thatto mimickcy,
where acting or personating is nece118afY, Secretiveneas·ia
•Phrenological Transactionr, p. 165, iii~ 't Tom. T.-.p. 3&\
• • .s.J_ ·
-·
e!S&ential. · Dr Gall, •hen he published his great w<>rk,
thought that Imitation alone constituted the talent of mi"
mickry and personation___.Vol. v; p. 33l. Dr G~ does not
&ll to observe what ·heealls the ir1e4istible impulse which:
supplies the stage with performers; and. st.ates, in coilfittn&4'
tion, that almost all the great aetors gave up other OCCU1J6'l·
tions for the theatre. Garrick left the counting-house of1':
tnerchant·to join a company of strolling players. Lekain·
was originally a·surgeon's instrument•maker. Claironwst
a coach-maker ; Moliere,. the son·of a valet de cekambre tu.
pWier ¢the king, and brought up to the same occupation,·
which he quitted, impelled by an irresistible passion for
the stage ; and Corneille was destined for the bar. In far,.
ther proof of this passion being the result of a primiti~
impulse, Dr G. adduces the curious though very commOJt'
cases of infant performers, who astonish us with their thea•"
1l'ical powers, when .they are notonly uneducated, but hav•
not nearly arrived.at the maturity of their intellectual fil•·
culties. He mentions Henry West Betty, the famoUtl
Young Roscius ; and we may add the still more wonderful
Clara Fisher. Nothing short of an instinct, which, with-
out the aid of reason, goes infallibly to its end, howe~r
arduous, can account for Clara Fisher's former perform-.:
ance of the character of Richard III. We say former 1
for, when we saw her last winter, her acting of that moit
difficult of parts was become a different and altogether m•
ferior exhibition. Betty, too, is no Roscius as a man. It
we were asked to account, on phrenological principles, for
this falling off,-the too common fate of precocious talent,
but most of all of the histrionic,-we should impute it to
the joint effect of injury to the organs by premature ex-
ercise, and distraction of their formerly undistracted and
instinctive app1i~tion, by the exercise of other powel,'8 to
which education is more immediately addressed.
What we have now and formerly said of the histrionic
results of the combination of Imitation and Secretive~
especially when operating by pure instinct at a very earJy
age, is so satisfactorily confirmed by the case of Miss W..
a. very young lady whom we lately. aaw in London, that
an account of it, we trust, will form an acceptable conclu-
1ion to this paper.
)~8'" V.BNT!llt.o.QUl8M-"4UVBNI1,B ACTING•.•
When visiting Mr·and Mrs· W.,·we ·were requested to•
look at the head of their eldest daughter, a child between:
ten and eleven years of age, and to say ifwe found in it·
an indication of talents or dispositions in any degree un- ·
c.ommon. In an admirable organization, both intellectual :
and moral,• and which we were right in predicating would·
give both excellent dispositions and abilities, Imitation and~
Secretiveness were toO prominent to leave us for a moment·
in doubt· as to the talent which must have most arrested·
the attention of her parents ; and .their surprise, in igno-:
l'Jallce of the simple signs which we read, may be judged ·
of, when we answered, that their daughter was a most per-·
f.ect mimick and imitator; and, more particularly, that, if'
ever she had been in the theatre, her· favourite imitations
would be dramatic. Impatient to verify this piece of ab-
aolute sorcery, our friends desired their little girl to give.
~ a specimen. With great readiness she took her station:
at the opposite end of the drawing-room, while he_
r mother:
eat down to the piano-forte, and played a recitative pre-.
lude. This indicated that we were ·to transport ourselves
to the Opera-house, and imagine the Prima Donna befote
us. The child was immediately in a series of the most
graceful and impassioned attitudes in the high tragedy
!Jtyle, while she vented her feelings in correspondingstrains
of recitative, with words to suit, which we were some mi-
nutes before we discovered to be her own imitation of Ita-·
lian,.,..-of which language she knew not a word,-but which,
in both sound and sense, would have been quite adequate
•i. Amativenees, rather large. 19. Ideality, large.
2. Philoprogenitiveness, large. 20. Wit, rather'large•
.3. Concentrativeness, large. 21. Imitation, very large. ;
4. Adhesivenll'lll, rather lai:ge. ·22. Individuality, .rather ,
5. Combativeness, rather full. large.
·6. ·Destructiveness, rather full. 23. Form full. ·
7. Secretiv1mess, large. 24. Size.full,orrather large.-
8. Acquisitiveness, rather large. 25. Weight, rather large.
9. Constructiveness, rather large. 26. Colouring, full.
JO. Self.Esteem, mod. or rather full. '¥1. Locality, full.
11. Love of Approbation, rather large. 28. Number, rather large. ,
12. Cautiousness, large. 29. Order, large.
13; Benevolence, large. 30. Eventuaiity,ratherlarge~
14. Veneration. moderate. 31. Time, full. .·
}5. Firmness, large. . 32. Tune, rather full. .
16. ConscicntiousneBS, very large. 33. Language, rather large. ,
17. Hope. moderate. 34. Comp1msan, larg~; •
18. Wonder, large. 35. Causality, rather large.
.VENT1ULOQUISM-JUVEN1L2 ACTlNO. 109
'"to all°the duty of the King's Theatre with nineteen-twen-
.tieths of the opera-goers. She advanced, knelt, wept, and
·supplicated,-then rapidly retreated, indignantly and hur-
.riedly rejecting, as it were, some unwelcome and unworthy
·proJfer ;-again advanced singing a bolder strain,• and ali·
suming the towering attitude of command, while the words
·were all of' the most magniloquent mouth-filling Italian.
·No praci;ised actress could have exceeded this child in dig-
·.nified, graceful, aild altogether suitable attitudes and oiove-
·ments, or in better adaptation Of the tones ofvoice to the
;pa8sion meant to be portrayed. Suddenly she changed
·her character, and advanced with all the tripping livelinese
-of Allegro herself,-danced in the most attractive opera
,manner,-and executed, with uncommon ease and grace1
·the steps and attitudes, and even pirouettings, of the bal-
'let. Her dancing, we were informed by her parents, had
·rather fallen off since she had been put into the hands of
the dancing-master for more regular training.t Our juve-
;nile performer had not confined herself to imitation of the
:Donnas and Figurantes of the Opera, for she now assumed
·the Buffo, and went through all the chatterings, and gri·
·maces, and contortions, of that impressive person, in a very
:superior manner. .
; It was now time to ask how such an infant"had come by
•all this, and we were informed that her operatic history was
this. :-She had, when scarcely nine years old, been one
1night taken to- the Opera, and was observed to give a very
·steady and fixed attention to the whole performance. The
.· impression was, however, never believed to be deep or last-
.ing, ·as she said little about what she had seen, and for
four months the Opera seemed·to be forgotten,·when it
·was reported from up-stairs that Miss W. had suddenly
·begun to start much, and throw her arms about, and mut-
.ter, and make faces,: and speak "nonsense words," and
"dance oddly-the which was all of equally novel occurrence
and bad example in the nursery, not to say.that it more-
,over called in que~tion the state of the wits of the said
. • Her Tune was the only imperfect part ofthe exhibition, and the
development of the organ we found to correspond.
· -t We were acquainted with a curious instance of the same thing
in a child in Edinburgh; indeed the reilult iii to be looked for.
01g11zedbyGoogle
·l l:() QNTR!LOQUJ,811...-,:JUVBNILE ACTING.
Miss W. When all this prov.ed to be a wonderfullyi!O•
feet imitation of what the child had seen and heard at.•
Opera four months before, the astonishment of her parenfl
may be imagined. They were tempted to take her to ~
Opera. again, and when we saw her she had seen that ptll;•
formance three or four times. ·
. Of this unaccountable interval of apparent meditative
_preparation, we have an instance from no less an authoriiy
.than Plutarch. Plutarch relates, that. a parrot belonging
to a barber in Rome :was remarkably talkative and amU&-
ing, and the nei~bours used to gather round to hear its
performances ; till one day a procession happened to pass,
.accompanied with a band of music, trumpets, cymbals, and
other noisy instruments, which .so .astonished the parrot,
that he continued silent for the space of three days. The
.barber and his neighbours were lamenting the want of their
.ordinary amusement, and began to fear that the parrot
.would never speak again, when all on a sudden, at the end
.of the before-mentioned period, Poll broke out into a most
correct imitation of the whole processional band, and gave
..the braying of the trumpets, the jingling of the cymbals,
with drums and all other accompaniments, in grand style.
Plutarch concludes, that during the period of silence,· the
bird had been employed in meditating, and preparing in his
mind, the extraordinary. exhibition which he afterwards
Jnade of his imitative powers.
Miss W.'s imitations were quite impartial. She had beeµ
present at a harvest-home, and had seen an Irish reaper
.and his daughter execute severally a pas-seul, in the form
.of a hornpipe or jig, in a highly-characteristic manner. She
gave us the .one after the other to the minutest inelegance
.which bad been perpetrated ; and it was quite evident
throughout both movements to which of the two perform-
ers every s.tep and bobble belonged. When the lady, she
wrapt up a handkerchief into a globular form, which ever
and anon she applied to the heated brow and importunate
. nose ; and, although allJresent ·were moved to lat1ghter,
not the slightest extern mark of it appeared on the fea-
tures of this curious child. This we could only impute to
the suppressing power of Secretiveness, for a very consider-
able development of the organ of Wit put insensibility to
VENTBJLOQU1s111...-.ruvENILE ACTING. I I:l
·th~ ludicrous in her quite out of.the question. There isno
emotion whose outward e¥pression is more difficult of col)-
cealment than laughter ; yet we all know the gravity with
which players go through the most ludicrous scenes. Lia.
l<Qn's solemnity, for example, which he generally pushes the
length of an idiotical, expression,• is in such mowitrous in-
congruity with the matter he has in hand, that it often
.overcomes the gravity ofthe other performers, whose sm:-
.reQder is always.a great additional amusement to the sp~­
tators. Liston's Secretiveness is uncommonly large. ··
Miss W. never witnessed the feats of a ventriloqui$t.;
but ifshe should, and should not produce the vocal illusion
of ventriloquism as perfectly as she would imitate all th.e
_gestures and movements. we should seek the reason in her
inferior endowment of Tune, without which, as we abovJ!
..obaerved, the distinctions of sounds are not sufficiently d~­
termined. She has every other.fuculty for the ventrilo-
quial accomplishment in equal endowment with W. C. l\{.
and M. Alexandre, with a reflecting development clecidedly
superior to that of either of them.
The above observations had just left our hands.for Ult!
printer's, when we received a letter from Mr Scott himself,
.whom we have more than once quoted as havi.J;ig done SP
.much to extend the range of Secretiveness, and who hap-
pened to be at the time travelling in England. .4,mong
other curious phrenological observations, he gives us the
• Tiie unknown painterof Cuddie Headriggbeforethe PrivyCoun~
.cil well knew_
pretended simplicitv to be tlie last J1tronghold .of Se-
cretiveness.-See likewise the ca.Se of J. G. in the Phrenological
Transactions, page 289, and of the Irish girl mentioned in our fifth
number.
We have seldom J!een a better secretive ~rtrait than Wilkin
Fhunmock, in the first tale of the Crusaders. l:Jis wily n_egociation
with Jorworth, the Welsh envoy, is a ahe/ d'amtn'e. "'What will
it avail you,' said Jorworth, 'to put us to tho toil au,d.trouble of a
.long siege when you can hope no rescue ?'
" '.And what will it availme more,' said Wilkin, answering in his
native language, and looking at the Welshman fixedly, yet with a.
countenance from which all expression seemed atudiou1lg banished,
and which exhibited upon features otherwise tolerable, a remark.able
compound ofdulness and Bimplicitg; 'what will it avail me whether
your trouble be great or small?'
" 'Come, friend Flammock,' said the Welshman, 'frame not thg,
1elffll(lf'e unapprehemive .
than Nature hath formed thee,' "
01g11zedbyGoogle
'112 'VENTRILOQUIS!lf.....;.JUVENILE ACTING.
·following communication from Cheltenham, which. wi'll.
·speak for itself. Certainly it could not ha11e come moril
perfectly a-propos :-
. " There is another of his Majesty's liege subjects here
·at present worthy of remark in a phrenological view-a
·Master Joseph Burke, aged six years, who leads the band
at the theatre in a long and intricate overture of Rossini's,
·plays the violin with very considerable power of expression
·and execution, and performs Lingo in ' The. Agreeable
.Surprise,' Murtoch Delany in ' The Irishman in London,'
·and various other parts. I went on Tuesday night to see
'him, and, after the overture, he came into the box where I
'. was sitting, along with his father and mother. He is one
of the finest little fellows I ever saw; not tall ofhis age-
·rather the reverse-hut with a head equal in size to that of
•fTl()St full-grown men. The breadth above the ear is parti-
.cularly great; I should think it at least six inches ; and, in
'putting my hand to it, I found Secretiveness quite pro-
minently large. The occipital region (Amativeness, Phi-
loprogenitiveness, Concentrativeness, Adhesiveness, and
Co~bativeness) is .very full, and Firmness is also large ;
'but it was a large head every way. I could not see the
·forehead well on account of his hair, but I plainly saw that
the lower part of his forehead was all full. His perform-
·ance on the violin is wonderful certainly for so young a
.child ;··but in musical precocity he has a rival in the Infant
Lyra. His acting likewise has a parallel in Clara Fisher's;
-but, as uniting the two talents, he must be allowed to be
the greatest wonder of the three. His acting is remark·
:able.for nothing so much as the determined gravity with
which he keeps his countenance, while the wliole audience.
and even the actors themselves, are convulsed with laugh-
ter. When in Lingo he makes love to Cowslip the dairy-
maid; the ·actress who performed that charactet was qui~.
unable ·to keep her- countenance, when he was straddling
up to a chair to seat himself beside her ; but all the time
be never moved a muscle. This is an additional instance
of Secretiveness being found in a talent for acting ; indeed
I am more and more satisfied that it is one of the most
e8senti~ ingredients of that talent.
"Master Burke, his mother informed us, is very fond-of
, V&NT.RlLOQUIS.M-\J'llVBNJLB ACTJN.G. · J1°3
.dntwing, ·and ·is also an excellent dancer r but ·in· other
matters, sue~ as reading and general information, he is quite
.a child, and ~ot more forward than other children of· his
age. He seems to have the best dispositions possible,'--r
.did every thing he was desired by his parents, and went to
.every body who wished to take notice of him with the ut-
most good humour. In short, I must end where I .began
:with saying, he is one of the finest little fellows I ever $aW.''
PHRENOLOGY APPLIED TO CRITICISM IN THE :FINE ·
ARTS.• . '
WF. have in various instances endeavoured to shew the
·application of Phrenology to criticism in that department
of literature which has relation to human character and
<manners ; an.cl we have given examples of this, both in th~
drama, in works of fictitious narrative, and in poetry. The
science is equally capable of being applied to criticism in
·the imitative arts of painting and sculpture ; indeed its
use in these .may be more easily apprehended by tho~e
'who have not'made any great progress in the study, th~
·in the former. It requires a well-established and connect-
·ed view of tl,ie system of mental philosophy founded on
·phrenology, to be able to see how it can be applied to i11us-
.trate the beauties of Shakespear or Fielding ; but no depth
·of knowledge is requisite to perceive that if there be truth
in the alleged correspondence between the form of the
·head and the character of the individual to whom it be-
longs, the artist who would exhibit a certain form of head
'in ·persons of a certain known charac:ter, must conform his
representations to the ·system, otherwise they will be out
·of nature. ·'
The ancient sculptors were accurate observers of na-
.t1ire; and to this accuracy, more than any thing else, fs
'owing the extraordinary merit and beauty of their perfor-
mances: Not to mention the statues of their gods, among
·whom Jupiter, the personification of the Supreme Intelli-
.gence, is conspicuous for the prominence of the upper part
. of the forehead, there is an evident difference between
.•.By GeorgeCombe.-VoL ii. No. 6, p. 201.
K
n 4 PRtlBN6LOGY A.Pi>LIBD 1'0 TAB ·l'Rm "'81'8.
their st.attiee, busts, and cameos, ·repregerrting ·uges, pld•
IOliopherBj and la•-givers, and those of the 1tVriorB and
victors in the Olympic and Isthmian games. The busta
of the Twelve Ciesars, who, with a few exceptions, were
among the most bloody and ferocious tyrants that ever
disgraced humanity, correspond with this character in the
most exact manner. Combativeness and Destructiveness,
particularly the latter, appear in them develeped in a re--
markable degree. We have seen an antique cameo of the
head of Nero, in which, even on a small scale, the organ of
Destructiveness appears conspicuously prominent. If any
doubt could occur as to the existence of that propensity in
-.n nature, the history of this monster, who caused his
own mother to be put to death, and for his amusement set
fire to his own imperial city, must have decided the qu..
tion for ever.
lt has been objected to the famous Venus de Medicis,
that the head is proportionally too small, so much so that,
phrenologically speaking, it does not indicate even an ordi-
nary degree of intellect. We believe it has been said,
though we do not at present recollect the authority, that
the head of that celebrated statue is modern ; in which case
the ancients stand absolved from the charge of this parti-
cular err.or. But, without taking this into consideration,
the sculptor, whether an ancient or a modern, may perhaps
be defended, even upon phrenological principles : for al-
though the beauty of Venus is universally celebrated by
the ancient Jloets, they say nothing of her wisdom ; and
we do not hear that any ancient sculptor has given a head
of this description to a statue of Minerva.
Modern artists have been often too little attentive to
truth of representation in the form of the head-and their
blunders are often severely felt arid deplored by phrenolo-
gists, In some cases, where the forehead has been r~
markable as a feature in the physiognomy, it has been re-
presented with tolerable accuracy, as we find it to be in
that splendid bust of Lord Bacon at Cambridge, a copy of
which forms one of the princip& omamentti of the Phreno-
logical Society's hall. But in other instances this has been
much neglected,-and the whole attention has been directed
to the less interesting and less instructive representation of
the lower features. Scarcely in any cue has a due regard
been beatowecl'osi the form oftfiecoional, lateral, and pos-
terior parts of the head, though -so import.ant in designating
ahe character..-...btltthese have been left either to capri~
or to eome fanciful rules of the picturesque or the beauti•
ful. We have seen a copy of a bust of Pope, said to be
1>y Rubilliac, in which so much brain is thrown behind the
ears, that the individual represented, had he really possess.i.
ed such a head, would have been the most brutal of m~
kind. · We are told of an eminent living sculptor, that, in
taking cast.II for the purpose of making a bust or statue, he
never ·
pa &rther than the mere ~k ; and that, for the
rest ofthe head, he has a general or average form, which
is applied to every individual. This is a grievous error,
and muat endrely destroy the value of this gentleman's
heads 88 repreaentations of nature He ought to reform hit
'practice altogether.
To this general carelessn~ however, there are some
honourable exceptions ; and we possess among ourselves
an eminent sculptor,• whose accuracy in this respect is not
inferior to the dignity, grace, and beauty with which he
.knows so well how t.o invest his figures. It has been well
said of him, by a brother artist, that " he infuses phreno.o
logy into marble.'' His studio is a treat to a well-infurmed
phrenologist ; and the study of his heads is only leas in•
structive than the observation of Nature herself; in all the
endless varieties which she daily presents to us.
We have also another artist,t and in another department
ofart, whom we are proud to own 88 a native of our north•
em metropolis. His pictures of the Cossack Banditti, the·
Circassian Captives, the Interview of John Knox with:
Queen Mary, and the Murder of Archbishop Sharpe, ha'\le
been much and deservedly admired in themselves, and in
ahe accurate and beautiful engravings which have been
made from three of them by another native artist of great
merit, and a zealous phrenologist, Mr James Stewart. We
notice them here for the purpose of stating, that Mr Allan
is not more accurate in his costumes, and in the admirable
character and expre111ion of his countenances, than in hi•
att.ention to the characteristic f0l'JD8 ofbis heads, which are,
generally speaking, phrenologically correct. In his Ban-
ditti, the low forehead is combined with a great develop-
• Mr JOllepJI; t Mr A1l8cDo
H6 J:IJRENOLOCJY Al'PLtEI> TO .TJJB FINE ABTS.:
ment·of the inferior lateral parts of the heaa, indicating a: .
predominance of Acquisitiveness and Destructiveness, and
Qf the lower propensities in general, with a deficiency in
intellectual and moral endowment. In the picture of the.
Captives, the superiority of the heads of the Circassians. (a·
free people, of the Caucasian race,) over those of the despot
and his attendant slaves, is quite evidently marked. The
beads of the latter are represented, what they doubtless.
would be found in nature, small and round, narrow in the
region of the intellectual organs, greatly defective in Bene..:
volence, and large at Amativeness. . The head of the male:
Circassian is decidedly larger than any of these, and in its:
form approaches to that of the European nations ; while
those of the females possess the same character, only
Qf a smaller size. Both the Turkish and Circassian heads
correspond remarkably with the specimens of the crania ·
of these nations in the collection of the Phrenological So-
ciety. ·
In the historical picture of the murder of Sharpe,. Mr.
Allan is no less true to nature. No one can look at the.
large well-developed heads which he has there given to.the.
Covenanters, without being struck with the extraordinary:
differences between them and the Russian banditti, on the
one hand, and the narrow contracted heads of the Turkish·
8laves, or the more favourable but still inferior development
of the Circassians, on the other. In Burleigh, and the other.
lnisguided perpetrators of this cruel act, we see broad and
well-developed foreheads, with a large and round coronaL
surface, indicating great Firmness, Conscientiousness, Ve-.
neration, Hope, and even Benevolence, joined to a consi-
derable Combativeness and Destructiveness. No one need
imagine that the former description of qualities is inconsis-
te!lt with the act which they are employed in committing;
as their creed would point out to them that, in putting the.
1>ppressor of their brethren to death, they were doing God
service• . Hackstoun of Rathillet, who was by, and took no
part in the murder, and who is represented in the picture
as. 'sitting on horseback, hiding part of his face with his .
cloak, has not only less expression of courage and determi-.
nation in his countenance, but the painter has given him ~
h!8d decidedly smaller and narrower than to the more ac-.
tive co~pi~t;ors., . We know not if th.is. hlU\ .been done
PBBE~OLOOY .A.PfLJ\CD T6 THE.FIN. ARTS. l l 'f.
intentionally ; but it eorresponds precitiely with the char~­
,t.e.-.- In another picture recently finished, (l.lld which ~
now exhibiting in this city-Queen Mary signing the Re:-
.signation of her Crown ·and Kingdom,..--the ·same min.ute
attention to phrenological truth is observable. In .th~
Queen, the high and ·polished.but slightly retreating ·fofe~
·head, of elegant form and proportion, is correctly in.dicativ,
of her acute and penetrating but showy and superficial i11r
.tellect. Her ·cap is raised on the left side, and under i.t ·
the region .of Ideality appears well developed. This.i_s
.p.-obably copied from authentic portraits, ·. and .it corres-
ponds. well with the Cbar$Cter. In the Lord Llnds,.y, th~
figure second in historiciU importance, but, in point ofpie..
torial effect, perhaps the first, tbe general character of the
head is like that of the Covenanters ;-in the region of the
intellect it. is, perhaps, better developed than was likely
to be the case in a noblemm of that age-of a ch.aract.er so
rude and uncultivated as that of Lindsay. The firinn'ess
and power of character, indicated by the height and general
size of the head, accords well with the eager grasp·with
which he holds the arm of the Queen in his mailed hand;
and the determination of his look and attitude in present.;
ing to.her the pen with which she is to sign the renuncia~
tion of her royal estate and title. The other nobleman ap-
pears shocked at this rudeness, and seems to remonstrate
with Lindsay, and to suggest a gentler mode of treatment ; ·
and his head, as well as his countenance, indicates a milder
and less determined character,
. .
PHRENOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT.•
CHATH..U«, ;January 6. 1827. .
S1a,-I have tJie honour to belong io a literary society
in this place, the members of which are .much divided Ori
the subject of phrenology. In a late debate I ventured to
assert, that ifa skull was forwarded for the consideration of
ihe Society of which you are the distinguished. President,
I had no doubt they would be able to detail the character
of the individual to whom it belonged. It was agreed that
ti Communicated by 'Dr Elliotson of London.-Vol. iv. No. 14.
p.2.58. .. : : . . -
4
its :PRBi!iot.oaiCAL ~na11&1Utti
1·sboUld do so by this day's coach. I have direcced to yaa
the skull ef a person With whose previous history tlaey- ate
acquainted.
May I beg you to submit the said skuJI to the inTestiga;o
>tion of the Society, and to favour me with the opinion they
·entertain· of it:S development. On receiving the same I
Shall in return forward you the history of the subject to
whoin the skull belonged. The Society is at liberty to
-take a cast of the skull: I beg;the original may be return-
~ to ·me. Requesting yoar indulgence fot an intrusion
which•has the promotion of the science f<>I' its only o~ject.,
I am1 Sir; your most obedient servant, A. R.
·Dr Et.t.xoTS!>N, President otthe London
Phrenologioal Soeiety.
To A. R., Esq., Surge°"' Chatham.
S1a,-I exhibited the skull, with which you favoured me,
t.o the London Phrenological Society at their last meeting,
and we were all perfec_tly agreed upon the character of its
~riginal possessor. The Society, however, never delivers
a judgment upon character on any phrenological point ; but,
when an opinion is desired, leaves any member, or private
individual, who may think proper~ to do so•.
.I take it for granted, that the deceased was of sound
mind ; but, to be accurate, we should likewise know how
far he had been educated, and whether his constitution was
active or indolent.
Ignorant of these particulars, I should say, that he wa8
a man of excessively strong passions,-that these were far
an overbalance for his intellect,-that he was pl"9ne to great
molence, but by rw means courageous,-that he was ex-
tremely cautious and sly, and fond of getting-his sexuoJ
dairu must have been strong, but kis love of offspring
very remarkable. I can discover no good quality about
him, except the love of his children, if he had any. The
most striking intellectual quality in him, I should think,
was.his wit. . This must have been not only great, but pro.
bably of. a dry cast. He might also have been a good
mi.Qlic-I have the honour to remain your obedient hum·
ble servant, JOHN ELLIOTSON.
G&APTON STRBET, LoNJ>ON, JanUMJI 29. 111'27.
na£N't1tts:olc.Ms nl'lta'f111ttrr• H9
To »r&uorsoir;
CHATHAM, Felwuary 3. 11121.
· S1a,-I had the honour to receive your letter of the 29th
ultimo, and much regret that I was unable to forward my
notes of the individual, whose skull you did me the favodr
to examine, at the date you requested; they will, however,
reach you before the next meeting of the Society. In the
mean time, I can assure you, that your explanation of m.
character is li:ngularly correct in every particular, affording
a new and powerful proof of the truth of Phrenology.
There are, however, some gentlemen unable to overtUIU
the facts of the case, who now turn round and say, that be·
tween the period of receiving my commwlication (6th J~
nuary last), and your answer, there w.as ample time for you
to inquire and find out that I had. the medical charge ot
the convicts at this place ; that you would naturally sup-,
pose that this was the skull of a felon ; and that you could
not err much if you ventured to assign to his character all
the baser passions. There is only one mode of replying
to such opponents, namely~ by a straight..forward question
and answer between us.. And, firat, until the receipt of this
letter, had you knowledge of my public professional em.
ployment? Sewndly, Is your detail of this felon's charac-
ter drawn solely and entirely from the shape of the skull ?
Thirdly, Had you any previous information whatever aa
to his past life, habits, or education ? . ..
The answer which I anticipate to these questions will; I
doubt not, afford us matter oftriumph.
I have the honour to be, Sir, your obliged servant,
A. R.
I beg the favour of' an early answer. . The lower jaw..
bone was not in the box. I am in hopes to be able to
present the skull to the P. S. It had better1 therefore,
not be lost..
To A. R., Esq.
Sm,-1·beg to assure you that I drew my conclusions
as to the character of the individual solely from the size
of the various parts of the skull ; and that, up to the mo-
ment of receiving your letter yesterday, I was totally un-
informed respecting him; and indeed ~~ting yourself,
12() · fJIRBNOLOGICAL E'll:PEtlIMENTf .
except that it appe~ed from your letter and your card,
that yo1:Jr name was R., and that you were a surgeon at
Chatham. I was ignorant of the existenc~ pf .cQnvic~, at
Chatham, and had had no communication with any person
upon any particular in the matter, nor indeed considered'
any circumstance for an instant, except the character of
the skull. ·
The delay in returning both it and my answer arose
from the circumstance of the box arriving the day after the
ineeting of our Phrenological Society, to which you re-
qu~ted me to show the skull, so that a fortnight elapsed
before I could execute your wishes ; and when I did so, of
a member requesting the loan of it to make a cast, and de-'
taining it nearly a fortnight. But for this I would have re-
turned it the same day ; for an examination of five minutes
would have been amply sufficient to enable me to draw the
<;onclusions I sent you. ·
The suggestion, that I had gained some knowledge pri-
vately of the individual, or had taken a hint from any cir-
cumstance whatever, might have annoyed me, were I not
unknown to the gentlemen, were I not conscious of detest-
ing every species of duplicity, and were there not some~
thing irresistibly laughable in seeing the plain facts ofphre-
nology give one such power as to produce an astonishment
in the minds ofthose ignorant of them, not dissimilar from
that which a little chemical or physical knowledge excited
in tjmes of darkness. In those days the power of know~
ledge was ascribed to the devi.l ; at the present time, such
agency being universally disbelieved, the manifestation of
power is pronounced a deception. The phrenologist, con-
scious of the truth, views the incredulity of the world as a
correct measure of the magnitude of his science.
Some gentlemen do not believe I could have drawn so
correct a c;haracter from examining the skull ; but they
will cease to wonder, ifthey find that they themselves can
with perfect ease do exactly the converse-,.pronounce upon
the size of the various parts of the skull from their know-
ledge of the individual. If they know the individual· to
have-been prone to acts of violence, they may assert, tha~
the skull should be very large at the organs of Destruc.,.
tiveness ; if very cautious, very large at the organs of Cau-
tiou.•mess; if very fond of children, very large at the organs
01g11zedbyGoogle
PHRENOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT, 121
of Philopr<>f?Cnitiveness, &c. In Mr G. Combe's excellent
Ekments ofPltrenology, the average measurement oftwenty
heads in severa! points is given. The average breadth at
Destructiveness is 5~g inches; at Cautiousness 5U inches;
the average length from the meatus auditorius externus to
Philoprogenitiveness 4i inches. These ·were taken from
heads covered with integuments, and, moreover, above the
common average, because amon11: these twenty were seve-
ral large heads, and not one small. Yet· similar measure-
ments on this bare skull will be found, 5t-5t-4t·
Allow me earnestly to recommend to the members of
your Society Gall's Fonctions du Cerveau. It is worth all
the other works on phrenology together, and full of splendid
truths for the metaphysician, the moralist, and the legisla-
tor, no less than for the physician and the physiologist. I
have the honour to remain your obedient humble·servant,
JOHN ELLIOTSON.
GRAFTON STREBT, LoNDON, Fehruarg 8, 1827.
P. S.-You will oblige me by sending, with the history
of the individual, a copy of my former letter, as it was has-
tily written, and I have no notes of it. The lower jaw was
forgotten, but is safe.
Account ofJ. L.
J-
. - L-- was received into the Dolphin convict-
hulk at Chatham in February 1824, from C--e, under
sentence of transportation for life. He was in person tall
and athletic, with a fine erect carriage, and a stem unbend-
ing countenance. He was born of respectable parents at
M-, and all his relations were of the class of yeomen.
His education, however, was limited to reading and writ-
ing. During his early life he evinced an ardent attachment
to every species of vulgar sensual enjoyment ; the alehouse,
games of chance, and particularly cock-fighting : of this
worst species of gambling he was for years the noted and
well-known supporter. He was also an active poacher, but
only of that class denominated hare-panyers or snarers. At
the period of manhood his friends, in the hope of reforma-
tion, placed him in a small farm. The vicious habits of a
previously bad life, however, were Jlot:be thrown off in a
L
122 PHRENOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT.
moment, nor was the monotony of farming calculated to
efface the vivid impressions of a dissipated youth. On the
contrary, being now his own master, his first consideration
was how they could be extended. Accordingly, he is re-
ported at this period to have sunk lower in the paths of
depravity, and to have formed an intimacy with persons
which gave a permanent and deeper shade to his character.
Living in the vicinity of the most extensive salt-works in
the kingdom, he with them resolved on the formation of a
band of smugglers for the plunder of that article, and the
sale of it throughout Cheshire, Lancashire, and North
Wales. Under this man's direction and command they
pursued this occupation for a long time without the suffer-
ers being able to detect them ; and even when he became
suspected by the r.lice and excise, he continued to elude
their vigil11J1ce, til , the duties being removed, it ceased to
be an object of contraband commerce.
If, at the age of twenty, he did not return to the paths
of rectitude, it might have been expected that maturer
years and the influence of a wife and children would have
quieted his evil habits ; but, these strengthened with time
and by long indulgence, he was now as restless as at the
moment of their first impulse. With some of the remains
of his former associates, therefore, he now commenced
plundering of grain,-n article not easily identified if once
fairly removed from the premises. "
This was sometimes
carried to his own fann, (which, it is worthy of remark, he
still held at the time of his conviction,) and sometimes
direct to the market-place. In this nefarious scheme, how-
ever, he was soon detected. In an attempt to plunder a
neighbouring farmer, his gang were surprised ; they fled to
the road, where he waa in waiting with·their horses, and all
escaped, except himself and one companion. They were
tried and sentenced to death ; but which sentence was ul·
timately transmuted into transportation for life.
Such are the general features in the history of a man
who was distinguished by the familiar nickname of Jack
Turpin ; and in contemplating the variety of scenes, and
the many singular adventures, into which it must have
thrown him, it becomes a matter of extreme regret that we
are not in possession of the knowledge of many particular
acts committed by him. Using his gang as serv~nts to hi&
PHRENOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT. 123
will, he more frequently directed than acted with them.
The disposal of his spoil being his chief concern, he had
often distant journeys to perform in order to arrange with
the purchasers ; so that, though the connexion between
them was close and intimate, still it had on his part much
mystery att.ached to it. This he maintained even at the
bar ofjustice, and though, after his eoll:vietion, an bftndred
guineas were offered him for a detail of the adventures of
his life, he rejected the bribe with scorn. • After sentence
of death was pronounced, he was seized with an alarming
illness, which continued for five months, and being appa-
rently on the verge of eternity, he still kept the same Te-
serve as to the minute details of his life. On his recovery
lie was removed to the convict-hulk, with the view of being
conveyed to New South Wales; but his age being deemed
too advanced for the voyage, he was detained to labour at
the public works. Here he was orderly, obedient, and
respectful to his superiors; but towards his fellow-prisoners
he was, with one exception, reserved,. keeping them at an
immeasurable distance. In May 1826, his infirmities in-
creasing on him, he was removed to the hospital-ship.
Here, by an unvarying system of kindness, the stateliness
of his mind unbent so as to induce him to exercise more
familiarity; still, however, with the same guarded avowal
as to facts, with the following solitary exceptions :-
lst, That though he had led a lawless life, he had never
committed murder.
2dly, That by his wife he had eight children ; that he
bad also a natural son in North Wales, and he had kept
several women in different parts, and at different times, up
to the period of his apprehension.
To this scanty detail of facts it only .remains to add the
manifestations of character he exhibited after he had be-
come familiar with the patients of the hospital.
In the first flace, he exhibited a severe sarcastic wit at
the expense o those around him. The manners and lan-
guage of the kind and benevolent clergyman who officiates
at the hospital were the frequent subjects of his mimickry.
In the second place, he exhibited a strong att.achment
to his children. He frequently spoke of them in the most
affectionate manner, and made his last moments respect.a-
12.4 .PHRENOLOGICAL EXl'ERIMENT.
hie by directing them to the disposal of his property among
them.
In the third place, he possessed a firm disbelief in the
existence ofa Deity and of a state of future rewards and
punishments, and sunk into eternity avowing his disbelief.
A.R.
To Dr ELLIOTSON.
SIR,-At the meeting of the Rochester Literary Club,
the enclosed resolutions were (on the motion of the Rev.
Dr Joynes) unanimously adopted, and, by their direction,
I have the honour to forward you the same. Permit me
to add the high gratification I feel in being entrusted with
the present communication. With great personal esteem,
I have the honour to be, Sir, your very obedient servant,
A.R.
CHATHAM, Feb'l'uary :10· 1827.
ResoluJions passed at a Meeting qfthe Rochester Literary
Club, held on Thursday, Fem-uary 15. 1827.
Mr R. having introduced the subject of Phrenology, by
an interesting correspondence between himselfand Dr El-
liotson, the President of the Lundon Phrenological Soci~
ty, upon the skull of J. L., it was continued by other mem-
bers till the usual hour of adjournment, when the following
resolutions were passed unanimously:- .
1st, That the character given of L. by Dr Elliotson,
from the inspection ofthe skull, corresponds so exactly with
his history, that it is impossible to consider the coincidence
as the effect of chance, but that it is an instance which, if
supported by many others, affords a strong foundation for
the truth of-Phrenology.
2d, That a copy of the above resolution be forwarded to
Dr Elliotson, with the thanks of the Club for his commu-
nication, and that Mr R. be requested to transmit the same.
H.P. Secretary.
°'9''"edbyGoogle
125
• DR THOMAS'S THEORY OF THE TEMPERAMENTS.•
In all ages mankind have been struck by the diversitieg
of character and of activity that accompanied, and were by
many supposed to depend on, differences of temperament
or natural constitution of the body. So far back as the
time of Hippocrates, we find a classification of tempera-
ments into four great divisions, which, more or less modi-
fied, have since been often set aside and often reproduced ;
but up to the present day, notwithstanding the most labo-
rious inquiries of physicians, physiologists, and philoso-
phers, we remain almost as ignorant as ever of the physical
causes on which these varieties depend, of the phenomena
by which they may be accurately distinguished, and of the
circumstances by which they may be modified and control-
led; and thus it may be truly said, that a rational, useful,
and co~sistent theory of the temperaments is yet only in
expectation. .
An approach to a better system has, however, been late-
ly made by a French physician, Dr F. Thomas; and whe-
ther he be correct or not in all his facts and conclusions, it
is impossible, we think, to read the exposition contained in
the work now before us without admitting, that, in princi-
ple, in simplicity, and in practical usefulness, his doctrine
excels all that have preceded it ; and that, whatever may
be its ultimate fate, Dr T. has succeeded in making at
least one step in advance in a difficult and intricate path ;
and that on that account he deserves the thanks 1md the
candid attention of the public.
On looking at the animal system, says Dr T.,.we find it
to consist of three great groups of organs, each group per-
forming distinct functions, but all the parts of ·each so far
analogous as to contribute to one general end. The first
group is that contained in the cavity of the cranium, and
the general function which it performs is to carry on, or
rather to manifest, all the operations of the mind, to con-
stitute the seat of sensation, and to supply nervous energy
to, and to direct the movements of, all parts of the body.
• Pbysiologie des Temperamens ou Constitutions. &c. ; par F.
Thomas, D. M.P.; Paril!t 1826.-Phren. Jour., vol. iv. No.15, p. 4311.
By Andrew Combe, M. v,
126 DR THOMAS ON TJIE ·TEMPERAMl<:NTS.
It is composed of many distinct parts, performing as many
distinrt functions; but al} .theser from a .general i;imilarity,
may be regarded as befonging to the same genus, and may
therefore be classed together. The second group is that
eontained ia the cavity of the thorax, and it includes chief-
ly the lungs and the heart, having for their functions the
processes of sauguification and c.irculation, which also have
a general l'ellemblance in their object. The third group is
that contained in the cavity of the abdomen, including the
!i~mach, liver, spleen, bowels, &c.; each also differing from
the other, but all concurring to effect the con.version of
fuod into chyle, and the separation and excretion of the
superfluous or injurious particles fram th~ system.
All other parts of the body-the limbs, and the parietes
of the head, thorax, and abdomen-are evidently.the mere
passive instruments or defences of these more important
·animal functions. The head, thorax, and abdomen, fbrm,
in fact, what is properly called the animal, while the extre-
mities may be wanting without diminishing the individua-
lity of a living being. From this we COllile to the natural
conclusion, that what.ever a temperament. or constitution
may be in itself, the causes which give rise to it must exist
in one or other or all of these three great groups of organs.
And, accordingly, this inference of reason is amply borne
out by observation, in a way that we shall now try to explain.
When an important natural truth is brought fully to
light, it is astonishing how many, how easy, and how fruit-
ful, are the applications of which it is susceptible. In our
last Number, we were at some pains to shew that the phre-
nological principle of organic size being, cceteri,s paribus, a
measure of functional power, so far from being either a
fancy ofa heated imagination, or peculiar to the brain alone,
was, on the contrary, a universal law, extending over every
created object, animate or inanimate. And now Dr Tho-
mu comes before the public with a new and distinct appli-
cation of this very principle, and not only demonstrates its
universal prevalence, but, by its means, elicits many other
important truths, and shows that differences of constitution
or temperament depend on the predominance in develop-
ment of one or more of the three great cavities relatively
to the others, and on the consequent predominance of the
class of functions which its organs perform.
·DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS. ·127
By phrenological readers, Dr Thomas's fundamental
principle of size being an element of power, will be readily
received; but as this extended application of it is new, and
as, on account of its favouring " the fantastical nonsense of
Gall and Spurzheim," it is not in general repute among
professors and established teachers, Dr T. wisely sets about
proving it, as if it had never been heard of before. Never-
theless he is actually praised by our most inveterate (we are
sorry that we cannot say most able) medical opponent, for
not lending any cauntenance to the phrenological doctrines.
Of the simplicity of this opponent, our readers will judge,
when they are informed, that Dr Thomas begins by ex-
pressing his astonishment that any one should still be re"
quired to prove so self-evident and so palpable a proposi~
tion, as that size in an organ is a measure of power in its
functions, and particularly that, now when it is plainly
stat.ed, any one should be found ignorant enough seriously
to contest its truth. In endeavouring to find out why so
plain a truth should have remained so long unknown, Dr
T. states, that, perhaps, the most powerful reason WjU! the
false idea entertained of the force or energy of an organ.
" Promptitude and facility of action," says he, " were ge-
nerally confounded with force and energy, without att.end-
ing to the fact that, most generally, these two dispositions
are not even indications of force ; for it is not, for example,
those in whom the pulsations of the heart are most frequent,
and the motions of the limbs · moat prompt and ea8Jf, who
have the heart and muscles most robust (lnd powerful: the
contrary is even observed on comparing the child and the
female with adult man ; and the observation is, besides,
applicable to all the organs, to the brain, to the stomach,
&c. But it is the degree of compknient Qf the functio('
which constitutes the degree of energy of Me organ wMclt
necula it ; and to understand this degree of CO'lllPlement
of action, we must bear in mind, that every organ has its
own particular and distinct mode of energy, according t.o
ita structure and relations with other organs ; that the brain
is energetic when it perceives, remembers, compares, and
wills strongly, or when the intelligence is powerfully deve-
loped, and the passions strong ; the lungs, when they are
the seat of a complete and abundant sanguification ; the
128 ·DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMEN'l'S.
heart, when. it precipitates with force a large quantity of
blood into an· the vessels which issue from it ; and the di-
gestive organs, when they form and separate much chyle."
P. 86. This, we think, is a pretty clear exposition of the
distinction between power and activity, to come from one
who is praised and esteemed by those who continue to con-
found them together. .
Having established the general truth, that the relative
size of an organ indicates the relative energy of its func·
tion, Dr Thomas begins with its particular applications,
and, first, to the brain, in which he shows (as we did in
our last Number) that all the methods hitherto tried for
discovering the functions of the brain, take for granted,
that size is, c<eterisparibus, an accurate measure of energy
· of function. But here we need not follow him, except to
subjoin a very important observation which is not always
kept in mind as it ought to be. In answering some o&jec·
tions, he says : " Although the structure and complication
of the brain be variable in individuals of very different spe-
cies, the mode of application of our principle is not at all
11.lfected, because it is applied only to the same individual.
to individuals of the same species," and to those of species
-so little different, that the structure and complication of
the organs are almost the same.
· " Thus, for example, if certain animals, monkeys, little
birds, and mice, have a cerebral predominance equally
marked with that of man,• the great differences in the or-
ganization of their brain give to that predominance very
different effects. The ganglions of intellect and of the
passions, so developed and so predominant in man, have
either no, or very &mall, convolutions in these animals; they
are only slightly developed, and their anterior, superior, and
lateral regions seem to be entirely wanting; while, on the
other hand, the ganglions which correspond to the nerves
of the senses, and of all the body, are very voluminous; the
eminences, nates, and testes, which are the principal gan-
glions of the optic nerves, form the greatest part of the
• " The cerebral organs, which in animals are an a88embla¥e of a
great number of separate and very distinct ganglion!, apJlear m man
to be formed only of two (the brain and cerebellum), which enve-
lope the ll&nglia of the senses so much as scarcely to allow them to
be seen."
DR THO,MAB ON THE TEMPERAMENTS. 129
brain in birds, and the olfactory and auditory ganglions
form the greatest part of that of the smaller mammalia. It
results from these organic dispositions, that animals expe-
rience certain sensations more energetically than man, but
that their sensations are fugitive, and can neither be com-
bined nor enlarged as in man; so that we may conceive
how much the effects of cerebral predominance ought to
vary in the different species of animals ; since, in some, it
indicates only extreme general sensibility; in others, the
great .delicacy of one or several senses; and in others,
again, the great energy of several faculties or passions.
Let us add, that, in individuals of the same species, where
the structure and complication of the brain are always the
same, those in whom that organ is predominant have more
intellect and passions than others. So that our principles
are rigorously applicahle to the brain, and we can establish,
without fear of being refuted by observation, that, in the
same individual, the more the brain predominates by its
volume over the other organs, the more will the faculties
and passions be energetic relatively to the other functions."
P. 93. The differences here noticed in the constituent
parts of the brains of animals of different species explain
many things to which we cannot now allude, but which of-
ten present themselves to our observation. Let it still
be remembered, that the author from whom we quote is
praised by our most inveterate medical adversary for his
talent and accuracy.
Dr Thomas proceeds to examine the ,thoracic organs,
&c., and states, that when the lungs are relatively large
and spacious, the numerous cells of which they are com-
posed place a large quantity of air in contact with a great
quantity of blood, from which results a complete and,abun-
dant sanguification; and that, in like manner, when the heart
is voluminous and robust, the circulation is active in all its
parts ; and, from these united, great ,animal heat, spread
equally over the body, is the consequence, and vice tJersa.
In infancy and in females, the thoracic organs are little
developed relatively to those of the head and abdomen ; in
them also the blood is more serous, the pulse softer, and
ihe animal .heat less high than in the adult, and especially
the athletic, in whom the blood is fibrinous and abundant,
the pulse full and strong, and the animal heat considerable.
13() DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS;
In equal accordance we find the thoracic organs in the
lowest state of perfection in cold-blooded animals ; while
in birds we find the lungs and heart most amply developed,
and the cells of the former extending to, or rather commu-
nicating with, the interior of the bones ; and this formation
is in many accompanied by a higher temperature than is to
be fuund in any other animal. Hence Dr ·T. regards it as
established, that the more voluminous and the more deve.
loped the thorax relatively to the rest of the body, the
functions of the heart and lungs are more energetic rela-
tively to other functions.
The same thing happens with the abdomen. In the lowest
animals, as worms and the zoophytes, the abdomen consti-
tut.es the whole animal. In insects, a nervous centre and
a respiratory and circulating apparatus are added, but the
abdomen still greatly preponderates. In reptiles and fishes
the proportion becomes smaller ; and in birds and the mam-
malia the abdomen becomes relatively still smaller, and its
functions less important.
The energy of the digestive organs must be measured
by the extent to which they perform their real function.
We must calculate how much they digest and convert into
ehyle, and not how much is eaten. This distinction is par-
ticularly necessary, because we often see persons eat a
great deal who fonn little chyle, and others eat little, and
form much chyle.
Herbivorous animals eat little, but often ; and their ab-
dominal organs are large and greatly develope~, and in a
continual state of activity. They fotm chyle in abund-
ance, and hence their natural fatness. Carnivorous ani-
mals, again, which are forced to seek their food, eat rarely
and in larger quantity, and exercise their thoracic organs
much more than their abdominal. Accordingly, they have
capacious chests and small bellies, and hence their vigour
and comparative leanness. Men in whom the abdomen
is predominant, or feeble, approach to the two extremes. .
.Abdominal men eat little at a time, but often ; they digest
continually, and sleep much, and their sleep is ·soft and
tranquil like that of the herbivori ; while, on the contrary,
those in whom the abdominal organs are moderately deve-
loped relatively to those of the head and thorax, eat with
avidity, and appear, like the carnivorous animals, to devour
01g11zedbyGoogle
DK THOMAS ON THE TEMPER.UlENTS. 131
their food ; but ·their digestion. is imperfect, and they re-
main dry and thin in spite of the aliment which they con-
4wne·
Having established the inliuence of organic size on ener-
gy of function, and pointed out the re!pective usea of the
three great classes of organs, Dr Thomas next shows, that,
during life, the size and configuration of the parietes or
walls of the three great cavities, afford an accurate index
of the size and form of the contained organs. .He devotes
some pages to prove that, generally speaking, the skull
takes its form from, and indicates the shape and size of, the
brain, and he refers to anatomical inspection for the evi-
dence. He mentions some sources of mistake, and adds,
·" 3dly, That the skull in childrea is thinner than in old
age, as, generally, .it then becomes thicker from the dimi-
nution of the size of the brain. 4th, The thickne11& of the
bones of the skull is also variable in every individual, with-
out regard to the age ; but in general it bears a relation
to the other bones ; so that, the volume of those of the
limbs or of the face being given, we know the thickness of
those of the skull: of this I have satisfied myself by a great
number of dissections of subjects differing in the degree of
development ofthe osseous system. 5tk, The d(Jf)(Jlopmn1t
of the fromal sinuses a1id of the orbitar camties is net7er
1>'ufficiently great to cause errors ofan!I magnitude.'' These
observations also are pretty phrenological to come from a
writer who has received the praises of our medical oppo-
nents.
That the form and size of the 'thorax and abdomen indi-
cate with equal certainty the form and dimensions of their
contained organs, is abundantly well established by Dr Tho-
mas ; but want of room obliges us to take this part for
granted, and to hasten to the application of these prelimi-
nary and fundamental truths to the elucidation of the te:m-
peraments.
From what precedes, our readers will easily perceive that
temperaments are considered by Dr ThOIIl8S as " varieties
in man and animals resulting from different proportions of
the three great visceral cavities." He divides them into
seven kinds: l. the mixed, in which the c.avities bear an
exact proportion to each other; 2. the cranial, or rather, we
t;hould say,the encephalic; 3.the thoracic; 4. the abdominal;
}32 DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS,
5. the encephalo-thoracic ; 6. the encephaio-abdominal.:
and, 7. the thoracico-abdominal. In describing each of
these, Dr Thomas takes, of course, a broadly-marked type.·
- I. The mixed temperament. Every body can tell in a
moment whether the head, the chest, and the abdomen;
are well proportioned. In this division individuals appa-
rently very dissimilar are classed. They may be tall or
short, stout or thin, beautiful or ugly ; but they all agree
in having a just proportion in the volume and energy of the
encephalic, thoracic, and abdominal organs. This is the
essential character of this temperament.
"The Apollo Belvidere," says Dr Thomas, "the immor-
tal work of the Greek chisel, is a beautiful variety of the
mixed constitution; for not only does none of the three ca-
vities predominate, but there is a just proportion in the
limbs as compared with the rest of the body and with each
other ; and the bones, muscles, blood-vessels, nerves, cellu-
lar tissue, and all the secondary parts, are also in beautiful
proportion. This chefd'reuvre ofart represents man in his
most perfect type ; there is nothing too strong and nothing
too weak; nothing in excess and nothing deficient. Phi-
dias, inspired, has created something celestial !-that brain
cannot be the seat of too violent or too impetuous passions,
although it can experience"them all. The intellectual fa-
culties, sufficiently developed, do not hurry him on to the
vagueness of hypotheses and conjectures; his blood is nei-
ther too fibrinous nor too much animalized ; his abdominal
functions are performed with facility; the chyle is sepa-
rated and absorbed in sufficient quantity for the nutrition
of his beautiful body ;· the limbs have all that is required
for exercising with the greatest facility all the.movements
necessary to the whole ; and the physiognomy represents
in all its features that perfect equality of the whole body."
- Some modern painters,;continues Dr Thomas, have given
to their Apollo the attitude, the majesty, and the beautiful
proportions of the limbs of the Apollo Belvidere; but they
have diminished the abdomen a little, and enlarged the
head and thorax, producing a figure which represents a
higher moral and physical force than the original possessed,
but without its harmony, health, and beauty.
The mixed temperament is common in France, and is
often met with from twenty to forty-five years of age. It
01g11zedbyGoogle
DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS. 133
is attended with enjoyment of existence, and with general
good health ; and it is, up to a certain limit,,fit for every
kind of exercise.
2. The cranial or encephalic temperament is distin-
guished by the relatively large head, open facial angle, mo-
deratelydeveloped thorax and.abdomen,and spare form ; de-
noting great energy of passion, sentiment, and intellect,
with less thoracic and abdominal activity. This variety,
according to Dr Thomas, ii> found highly developed in
those great men who have rendered themselves illustrious
either by their talents, their virtues, or their vices ; viz. in
the cruelest tyrants, chiefs of sects, great authors, Cata-
line, Tiberius, Brutus, Aristotle, Cicero, Pascal, Pope, Tas-
so, Moliere, Voltaire, Rousseau, &c., all of whom, accord-
ing to their historians, were meagre and spare, and remark-
able for £he predominance of the encephalic over the tho-
racic aod abdominal organs.
When this temperament is strongly marked, it is rare
that the thorax and abdomen also are much developed ; for
then it would require a truly enormous ericephalon to pre-
dominate. Accordingly, the decidedly encephalic are rarely·
robust and vigorous, or their digestion good. This consti-
tution of body is most frequent between seven years ofage
and thirty. In Pericles it was so strongly marked, that
Plutarch says, " Sometimes he was to be seen sitting in the
street, fatigued by the weight ofhis head, and not knowing
what part to take in the disorders of the state ; and at
other times thunder and lightning issued from his mon-
strous head with a tremendous noise." It is known that
his head was, in fact, so much out of proportion to an
otherwise handsome body, that the sculptors always repre-
sented it covered with a casque.
It is in this class of constitutions that we find men fitted
for great deeds, and who raise themselvesto eminence and
renown in spite of every disadvantage. But, says Dr T.,
we must not confound the essential with the oce&;ional,
and suppose that the encephalic are always remarkable for
great or noble pursuits. They may predominate either in
intellect, in propensity, or in sentiment; but although the
particular character will then be different, the essential al-·
ways remains, that mental energy of some kind will show
itself. Thus, one individual wi~ a very .powerful cerebral
01g11zedbyGoogle
134 DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS.
organization will pass.his days and nigllt1, and ,employ all
his faculties .and passions, on things of little importance ;
he will reason continually, cry, agitate, and write against
his brethren; while another engaged in oommerce will ex-
pend all his energy on details ; but both will be remark-
able for energy, and the difference will De merely, that it
is energy directed to different objects. If Dr Thomas had
been a phrenologist he would have added, that the direc-
tion of the mental energy would depend on the part of
the brain that was most predominant in relation to the
other parts.
The encephalic temperament is much more frequent in
the ,male than in the female ; it is more common in free
countries, and in those long agitated by political dissen-
sion, such as England, Germany, Switzerland, France, and
Spain, than in those long bent under the yoke of despot-
ism. It is more common in large towlls than in the coun~
try ; among artists, and among the scientific and educated,
than among the idle and the labourer.
3. The thoracic temperament is characterized by a small
head and a limited abdomen, contrasting with a voluminous
and powerful chest. The Farnese Hercules is the beau
ideal of this class; and it is not indifferently represented in
porters, bakers, ploughmen, and :other men employed in
the severer kinds of bodily labour. It is about puberty
that the thoracic organs begin to increase considerably.
The thoracic constitution fits a man for fatigue and labour,
and is seen in boxers in great perfection. Health with
this temperament is robust, and diseases are inBammatory.
4. The abdominal is easily recognised by the large pro-
tuberant abdomen, broad pelvis, and ahundant devel<~pment
of the cellular substance over the whole body .and limbs.
Chyle is formed in large quantity, and transformed in&o fat.
The individual is slow in his movements, and his strength
and mind are concentrated in his abdomen ; latamque tra-
hens inglorius alvum, he eats, drinks, and sleeps alternately.
When an individual originally encephalic passes into the
abdominal, he preserves something of his original state.
This variety is more frequent in large towns than in the
country, and in Germany, Holland, and England, than in
France.
5. The cranio-thoracic ~ kno'Wll .by the head and chest
DR THOMAS ON THE TEMFERAMi:NTS. 135
being relatively much larger than the abdomen, and by its
powerful dense muscles, and moral and physical force.
6. The cranio-abdominal presents the head and abdomen
largely developed, and a chest small and contracted. The
muscles are moderate in size, and plentifully interspersed
with cellular substance, whence arise the rounded wrm
and softness of the female.
7. The thoracico-abdominal presents the small head and
ample thorax and abdomen, with large muscles, bones, and
cellular membrane. It is well fitted for patient endurance
of fatigue. It is more frequent in Asia and Africa than in
America or Europe.
Such are the chief varieties of the temperaments, .and
such the physical marks by which they may be distinguish-
ed ; but in many cases, says Dr Thomas, we require to look
only at the face to discover the constitution. The fore-
head indicates the proportion of the encephalon ; the part
between the forehead and mouth is in general, in harmony
with the development of the thorax ; and the lower part;
including the mouth, chin, and inferior ,portion of the
cheeks, is in relation with that of the abdominal organs ;
and hence the relative proportion of these parts t.o each
other serves as an index t.o the particular temperament.
Having now pointed out the chief differ.ences of natural
constitution, let us inquire how far the classification at
which we have arrived coincides with the phenomena.
In infancy and childhood we observe a manifest predo.
minance of the encephalon and abdomen, with a email and
narrow thorax. In accordance with this, we observe the
healthy child display, relatively speaking, ast.onishing ener-
gy ofpassion, and greater power of seeking and acquiring
knowledge~ than is found at any other period of life. We
find it ahio restless and mobile, and in constant pursuit of
variety to gratify a number of faculties. Looking next to
the abdominal development, we find the child not only
eating often and much, but digesting vigoromily~ and ll'le-
riving strength and nourishment from its food. Hence the
diseases of infancy are almost peculiar t.o these two groups
of organs, viz. convulsioDS.and infl.~tiens of the braifl
or its membranes, epilepsy, affections of the bowels, worms,
diarrhcea, tympanites, &c.
In youth general growth take.s place, :a11d shortly the
01g11zedbyGoogle
136 DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS.
thorax begins to enlarge, the physical powers to unfold
themselves, and the voice to change; but the head still re-
tains its supremacy. From the age of twenty to that of
thirty, the cranio-thoracic is in its fullest sway; the moral
.and physical energy is then great, and a man shews what
he is afterwards to become. It is then that genius forces
its way against all obstacles. After thirty a kind of matu·
rity or equalization begins to take place between the three
great cavities, and from the gradual development of the
abdomen the temperament changes to the mixed, and in
old age becomes chiefly abdominal. Of.course there are
numerous individual exceptions, but this is the general or·
der.
In men the cranio-thoracic, and in women the cranio-
abdominal, are more frequent. In women the head and the
thorax are generally small relatively to the abdomen. But
it is not only to different ages and sexes, but even to dif-
ferent species of animals, that the preceding rules are ap·
plicable. We may compare the large head of the shep-
herd's dog with the smaller head, but enormous thorax and
small abdomen, of the greyhound ; or the relative propor-
tions of the three great cavities in the Flanders horse and
in the racehorse; and the striking differences in the size of
the organs will be not less apparent than the differences of
function or constitution. If we compare, in like manner,
the same cavities in the ox or in the sheep, the same coin-
cidence will arrest the attention in a moment.
Different temperaments enjoy very different degrees of
health, and are subject to different kinds of disease. The
marked encephalic is very prone to over-exercise the brain,
and to give rise to convulsive and nervous diseases, hypo·
chondriasis, and mania. From leaving the thorax and ab·
domen, naturally feeble, unexcited by a sufficient supply of
nervous energy, the encephalic is subject also to asthma,
bad digestion, and its numerous train of concomitant evils.
The marked thoracic, on the other hand, is subject to all
the diseases ofexcited circulation, such as inflammation and
·rheumatism. The abdominal enjoys, on the whole, good
health and vegetative existence, and his diseases are slow
and of long duration.
A knowledge of the constitutions or temperaments of
individuals is exceedingly advantageous, in regulating the
DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS; 137
choice of their profession, manner of living, and general
conduct. A due degree of exercise favours the nutrition of
an organ, and increases its power and facility of function ;
while deficient exercise leads to imperfect nutrition and
debility of function, and too much leads to an irritable and
unsteady action, speedily degenerating into disease. To
preserve the advantages conferred by a mixed tempera-
ment, therefore, a due balance must be preserved in the
exercise and repose.of all parts of the system, and none
must be left to languish in inaction.
The cranial or encephalic temperament is one of the
most disposed to excess and to disease ; and when very
marked, it is almost always accompanied by discontent,
melancholy, and sleeplessness. To obviate those incon-
veniences, we must moderate the exercise of the brain, in
never allowing study or thinking to continue to fatigue,
in removing all the exciting causes of great passions, and
in employing, on the other hand, the muscles in walking,
running, mechanics, hunting, gardening, &c. A cheerful
residence in a pleasant country, and avoiding solitude, heat,
and cold, are very effectual with the same view. The tepid
bath is most useful in moderating the dryness and inaction
of the skin, and thus diminishing cerebral excitement.
Vegetables, fruits, animal jellies, eggs, and all easily di-
gestible substances which furnish much chyle and deve-
lope the abdominal organs, are advantageous ; and tea, cof-
fee, and other stimulants are hurtful. Wine ought to be
sparingly used, and always diluted. The meal sought to
be small and frequent, and followed by repose and rest, as
thinking in the encephalic impedes digestion. Sleep is of
great consequence to preserve the health of the encephalic.
The thoracic temperament, although less liable to dis-
eases, requires to avoid excesses as well as the encephalic ;
for although the individual can undergo great physical la-
bour, yet, if he goes beyond his strength, the effects are
proportionally severe and speedy in their progress. He
thinks with difficulty, and when circumstances excite· and
keep up in him strong and violent passions, liis brain is
very apt to become affected. The thoracic development
ought in general to be encouraged by a proper attention to
exercise and diet ; when.in excess, it may be gradually
moderated by repose, by forcing study for a short time,
M
138 DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS.
and gradually extending it ; by exciting the brain and ab-
domen, in short, at the expense of the thorax. It is the
thoracic constitution that is peculiarly subject to inflamma-
tion, to rheumatism, &c., and that bears blood-letting with-
out injury.
The abdominal temperament is the most unfavourable,
and its subjects are generally inactive and feeble-minded.
When it is perceived in early life, it may be diminished or
remedied by removing abdominal, and employing thoracic
and cerebral stimuli. Frugality, slender repasts, fibrinous
meats, drinks which excite the brain, especially active phy-
sical exercises, short sleep, and forced study, properly ma-
naged, !produce the best effects. Every disease in this
temperament is complicated with abdominal disturbance.
The other compound temperaments may be estimated and
regulated from the preceding observations.
The length to which this article has already extended
prevents us from saying more than that it is an incalculable
advantage to arrive at the causes on which temperaments
and their varieties depend, as it is only then, for the first
ti~e, that we can adopt rational measures for securing the
advantages, and modifying the imperfections, attendant
upon each. Our own experience is strongly in favour of
Dr Thomas's accuracy ; and already we can perceive in-
numerable applications to be made of his principles to the
purposes of education, medicine, and philosophy ; and with-
out quarrelling at all with him for not being a phrenologist,
in the limited sense of that word, we cannot but express
our obligations to hint for much useful knowledge, and, in
terminating our analysis, transfer to our pages the follow-
ing practical remarks on the mode of changing one tem-
perament into another. They rest entirely on the principle
of exciting the weaker organs which we wish to predomi-
nate, and on condemning to repose those which are already
too strong. ·
I. The change of temperameI)t is most easily obtained
at the time when the period of life naturally modifies it.
In man, the cranio-abdominal child ea&ily becomes cranial
between 7 and 14, or cranio-thoracic between 15 and 25,
or mixed or thoracic between 25 and 35, or t.horacico-ab·
dominal between 35 and 45.
2. The development of a particular temperament is ob-
DR THOMAS ON THE TEMPERAMENTS. ] 39
tained with a facility proportioned to the natural proximity
of the one sought for to that already existing. It is diffi.
cult for us to make an abdominal become encephalic ; but
it is not so difficult to convert a mixed into a decidedly
thoracic.
· 3. The organs to be developed must be exercised gra-
dually, and in proportion to their natural force. If too little
or too much exercised, they become diseased, languid, or
exhausted. .
· 4. That one organ may be developed by exercise, all the
rest must be as much as possible in a state of repose. There
are even some organs that cannot be exercised freely if the
others are not in repose ; the activity of the encephalon,
for instance, deranges very speedily and powerfully the di-
gestive organs, when both are exercised at the same time,
and, if persevered in, soon induces disease.
5. The more numerous and powerful the causes which
favour or determine the exercise or repose of an organ, the
more will that organ be disposed to exertion er repose, and
consequently to develope itself or to diminish.
. Dr Thomas's theory, it will be observed, explains very
easily the changes that take place in the temperaments at
different periods of life. Thus the infant is said to be lym-
phatic. This arises from the predominance of the abdo-
minal organs, and the consequent activity of nutrition pro-
ducing a deposition of fat and cellular membrane. The
temperament of the same individual may at 18 be no lon-
ger lymphatic, but what is called sanguine. This would
arise from the thoracic organs having become relatively
more developed than the abdominal, and in the same way
all the other changes may be perfectly accounted for, and
connected with their physical causes ; whereas, on the old
system, we often have a person lymphatic in infancy, san-
guine in youth, and melancholic in mature age, and yet no
one could tell how or why all these metamorphoses have
happened.•
• Farther obserrntions on Dr Thomas's theory of the temJ:>era·
ments will be "'und in11 subsequent part ofthie volume ofselectaone.
140
RF.SULT OF AN EXAMINATION, BY. MR JAMES DE
VILLE, OF THE HEADS OF 148 CONVICTS ON BOARD
THE CONVICT SHIP ENGLAND, WHEN ABOUT TO
SAIL FOR NEW SOUTH WALES IN THE SPRING OF
1326.•
SEEING that no pretension of Phrenology has been more
derided than its direct application to the affairs of life, with-
out which it would be a barren and useless discovery, we
cannot do more good to the cause than by publishing ex-
amples of its practical application. When the male con-
victs, 148 in number, were assembled for transportation on
board the ship England in spring 1826, under the charge
of Dr Thomson, a navy surgeon,t Mr De Ville was in-
duced to go on board,and examine thewhole gangoverhead.
The experiment was suggested by Mr Wardrop ofLondon,
whom we are pleased to see adding a manly avowal of the
new science to his other claims to professional distinction.
Dr Thomson was not previously acquainted with the sub-
ject. Mr De Ville furnished him with a distinct memor-
andum of the inferred character of each individual convict,
and pointed out the manner in which the dispositions of
each would probably appear in his general conduct on the
passage. The desperadoes were all specifically noted, and
a mode of treatment to prevent mischief suggested. One
man in particular was noted as very dangerous, from his
energy, ferocity, and talent for plots and profound dissimu-
lation. His name was Robert Hughes.
The history of the voyage is minutely detailed in Dr
Thomson's Journal, deposited in the Victualling-Office ;
and, by the politeness of Dr Weir of that office, we were,
in compliance with our request, not only immediately pre-
sented with the Journal, but permitted to take extracts and
publish them. From different parts of a log of above four
months, we extracted all that concerned the conduct ofthe
convicts, as follows:-
• By James Simpson.-Vol. iv. No. 15. p. 467.
t This charg<', for the sake of economy, is committed to navy sur-
geons who will undertake it; and it embraces the entire manage-
ment as well as the medical treatment of convicts on the ,·oyage.
PHRENOLOGY lN A CONVICT SHIP. ·141
" Log and Proceedings of the Male Contrict Ship Eng-
land, during a Voyage to New South Wales in 1826.
148 Convict,s on Board.
" 9th May. Convicts disposed to be disorderly; read
to them my authority to punish ; and threatened t-0 act
.upon it, if they did not conduct themselves in a more or-
derly manner.
" 16th -· Same complaint,-and difficulty to get them
to keep their berths and clothes clean.
" 20th -. Punishment by flogging for plundering and
violently assaulting each other.
" 30th -· Symptoms of mutiny among the convicts.
"31st-. Received a letter from W. E. Taylor, re-
questing me to send for him as soon as possible, as he had
something to communicate to me privately of the utmost
·importance. I immediately sent for him, when he inform-
ed me, that John George Munns had that morning come
to him at the hospital very early, before he or the other
-eonvicts were out of bed, and told him privately that there
was a conspiracy formed to murder him (W. E.T.) to pre-
vent his giving any alarm, and then to murder me, and all
who would not assist them to secure the ship,·and.run her
into South America. That ROBERT HuGHEs and Thomas
Jones w~re at the head of it, and it was their intention to
carry it into effect the first tjme the ship was in a squall.
In consequence of this information, the following memoran.
dum w~ given by me to W. E.T. in the form of a pro-
tection, to be shewn to such men as he could trust. As
two-thirds of the convicts are the most depraved and des-
perate .of characters, and robust athletic men, in order to
prevent their- taking any alarm, and assassinating in the'
prison during the night, as they had threatened to do, or
at any future period, however distant, those convicts who
should divulge their wicked intentions, every necessary
precaution was privately taken, until the ringleaders could
all be discovered, and safely secured without violence.
Mem. 'Dr Thomson will thank W. E. Taylor and other
well-disposed men to be on their guard, and, if possible,
to get such evidence as will enable Dr T. to act against
the malcontents. Dr T. promises protection, and his best
services with the governor of New South Wales, to such
142 VHRENOLOGY IN A CONVICT SHIP.
men as may appear to him to deserve it.' Some of the
soldiers had heard in prison what induced them to expect
soon to be employed against the convicts. This they re-
ported to Dr Thomson.
" lst June. Hughes, for assaulting Daniel Dean, was
secured and double-ironed on deck under a sentry. Munns
applied for protection from being strangled or assassinated
as was threatened. He gave the names of those princi-
pally concerned ; Robert Hughes (al1Vays the first), Thomas
Jones, William Brown, James Hawkes, and James Nor-
man. Jones gave himself up, observing, he was not the
first bullock that had been sold, and hoped he would have
a fair trial. He was double-ironed and handcuffed. Brown,
Hawkes, and Norman, were all handcuffed, and placed
under the sentries. Other arrangements followed for safety.
Crew armed with cutlasses, &c.
" 29th September. Landed at Sidney. Court of in-
quiry on 24; Robert Hughes, Thomas Jones, &c."
We have not seen the evidence on the trial, but are in-
formed that the facts of the conspiracy, and the shock-
ing depravity of the mode of the intended murders, were
proved beyond all doubt, and that the share each person
had in the matter was in very close accordance with the
notandum of character affixed to each name by Mr De
Ville. Hughes was especially marked by him as a person
capable of ruthless murder and deep-laid plots. We have
not aeen Mr De Ville's memorandum, but subjoin with
great pleasure Dr Thomson's letter to Mr Wardrop.
Eztract from a Letter of G. Thomson, Esq. Surgeon of
the Skip Engkmd, to James Wardrop, Esq.
" SYDNEY, October 9. 1826.
" I have to thank you for your introduction to De Ville
and Phrenology, which I am now convinced has a founda-
tion in truth, and beg you will be kind enough to call on
Dr Burnett, whom I have requested to show you myjournal,
at the end of which is Mr De Ville's report, and my report
of conduct during the voyage; and likewise the deposi-
tions against some of the convicts, who you, with your usual
tactus eruditus, discovered would give me some trouble dur-
ing the voyage, and I think the perusal of them will make
CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERING. 143
you laugh, as they were going to rip up the poor doctor like
a pig. De Ville is right in every case except one, Thomas
Jones; but this man can neither read nor write, and, being
a sailor, he was induced to join the conspiracy to rise and
seize the ship, and carry her to South America, being in·
formed by Hughes, the ringleader, that he would then get
his liberty. Observe how De Ville has hit the real .cha-
racter ofHughes, and I will be grateful to De Ville all my
life ; for his report enabled me to shut up in close custody
the malcontents, and arrive here not a head minus, which,
without the report, it is more than probable I would have
been. All the authorities here have become Phrenologists,
and I cannot get my journals out of their offices until they
have perused and re-perused De Ville's report, and will not
be in time, I am afraid, to send them by the Fairfield."
We cannot conclude without bestowing a well-deserved
encomium on Mr De Ville, for so cheerfully undertaking
and so skilfully performing a task from which all buta zeal-
ous phrenologist would have shrunk with a mingled feeling
of disgust and fear. We regret that the details in the Log-
book are so meagre, and that Dr Thomson has not sent
home extracts from the evidence on the trial.
ON THE CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERING.•
STAMMERING has generally been ascribed to some phy·
sical impediment in the tongue, the palate, or some other
of the organs of speech ; but it is easy to show that its
cause is of a very different ori¢n, and that it rarely, if ever,
arises from simple malformation of the vocal organs.
It is justly observed by the author before us, who is (or
was) himself affiicted to a great degree with this defect of
speech, and who is therefore no very incompetent judge,
that the ~~tomical inspection of the vocal organs does not
demonstrate any vice of conformation. " The persons,"
says he, " that I have seen, and who, like myself, spoke
• Du Beizaiement,1esCauses, &c. et Moyens Tbera~utiquee pour
Prevenir, ltod_ifier, ou Guerir cette Infirmit~; par M. Felix Voisin,
M. D. P. Paris, pp. 47.-Phren. Jour., vol..1v. No. 15, p. 458.-By
Andrew Combe, M. D.
144 CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERIN.G.
with difficulty, had not, as is alleged, the tongue larger than
other people, nor its ligaments laxer, nor its frenum e.xces-
sively long, nor the teeth so placed as to present any ob-
stacle. It is incontestable, indeed, that all these lesions
exist, and I have myself seen every one of them ; but when
they do exist, they give rise to phenomena totally different.·
To be convinced of this it is only necessary to examine
the individuals in whom they present themselves. We
shall remark, it is true, a greater or less alteration of pro•
nunciation, but.never the chara,cteristic 8!/mpwms of stam-
mering."
Ifphysical malformation were really the general cause of
stammering, the effect would necessarily be perII)anent, and
would affect the same sounds every time they recurred : but
the reverse of tbis is the truth ; for it is well known that,
on occasions of excitement, stammerers often display a flu-
ency and facility of utterance the very opposite of their ha-
bitual state, and that, as Dr Voisin expresses it, " lorsqilils
se mettent en colere, ils blasphement avec une energie qui
n'a point echappee aux hommes les moins observateurs."
P. 4. But passion or excitement can never remove a phy-
sical cause, make a large tongue small, set crooked teeth
straight, or tighten the ligaments of the tongue, and then
let these imperfections return as soon as the storm is over.
Such causes may make a person speak thick, or low, or in-
distinctly; but his utterance will still be as equable and free
from stammer as before, and therefore the true stammer
must depend on a totally different antecedent.
Dr Voisin proves very clearly, that the real cause is irre-
gularity in the nervous action of the parts which combine
to produce speech. This is shewn by analyzing speech.
The &atural sounds, or vowels, are simple, and require only
one kind of muscular action for their production ; hence
they are almost always under command. The artificial;
or compound sounds (hence denominated con-sonants),
are complex, and require several distinct and successive
combinations of a v.ariety of muscles ; and it is they alone
that excite stammering. But it is the brain that directs
and combines all voluntary motions; and consequently every
disturbmg cause, not local and not permanent, can affect
the voluntary motions of speech only through the medium
ofthe brain ; and irregular action of the.brain must thus
CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERING. 145.
be the indispensable antecedent or c,ause of the effect-
stammering. This will be obvious on reviewing the excit-
ing causes of that infirmity.
First, It is no unusual thing to see-a person, who is per.
fectly fluent in conversation, and who has never been known
to stammer, become grievously affected with it, if called
upon unexpectedly to address a public audience. Every
one will admit that, in this case, there is no physical impe·
diment to utterance, but that the cause is in the brain, or
organ of the mind, and that it consists in an irregular ner-
vous impulse sent to the organs of speech, and proceeding
from a conflict between the desire to speak well, the fear .
of speaking ill, or perhaps a consciousness of a paucity or
bad arrangement of the ideas which he is expected to com-
municate, or it may be a dearth of words in which to clothe
them. In every instance the essential circumstance is a
conflict, or absence of co-operation among the active fa-
culties, necessarily giving rise to a plurality, instead of to ·
a unity of nervous impulses, and consequently to a plura..
lity, instead of to a unity, of simultaneous muscular com..
binations ; and the irregular plurality of purposes and of
actions thence resulting constitutes exactly what is called
stammering.
A striking illustration of the truth of this view is the
fact, that stammering, or irregularity of action, is an affec-
tion not peculiar to the muscles concerned in the produc-
tion of speech, but is common to these and to all the mus..
cles under the power of the will. Wherever two or more
diverging purposes of nearly equal power assail the mind,
and prompt to opposite courses of action at the same time,
there stammering appears, whether it be in the muscles of.
the vocal organs, or in those of the feet. We recollect a
ludicrous example of this in a boy at a dancing-l!chool ball
in the Assembly Rooms. He was dancing very easily and
gracefully,·and with much inward tranquillity and satisfac..
tion, when, on a sudden, raising his head, his wonder was
attracted and dazzled by the unusual splendour ofthe chan.
deliers, which he had not before noticed. His feet conti-
nued to move, but with evidently less unity of purpose than
before, and after making a few unmeaning and rather ec-
centric movements, or stammering wit/t his feet instead of
N
146 - CAUSES UID CURE OF STAMMERING.
with his tongue, he foll on his back on the floor, and awoke
from his reverie.
Secondly, A person unexpectedly beset by danger stam-
mers from head to foot, till his presence of mind gives him
an unity of purpose, and decides what he is to do. In this
instance, it is undeniably the simultaneous existence of op-
posite mental impulses that produces the effect. For the
same reason, the sudden recollection, during an animated
discourse, of something forgot ten, causes a temporary stam-
mer and unsteadiness of attitude. In short, a multiplicity
of impulses causes contrariety of action, and contrariety of
action constitutes stammering. _
" The influence which the encephalon exercises over _
pronunciation," says Dr Voisin, " is equally·established by
the observations continually furnished by orators, advocates,
and public speakers. If the intellectual operations are car-
ried on with rapidity, if the ideas are clear, numerous; and
well-connected, the pronunciation will be free, easy, and
agreeable; if, on the contrary, the march of intellect is
slow and difficult, and the ideas are confused and ill-ar-
ranged, the elocution will partake of the internal trouble, ·
and the orator; thus accidentally a stammerer, will soon
have fatigued his audience by his repetitions and disagree-
able articulations." We have seen the same thing arise
from a deficient supply of words to clothe the ideas that
presented themselves; the contrariety arising in this in-
stance from the ineffectual struggle of a small organ of
Language to keep pace with the workings of larger organs .
of other intellectual powers.
Thirdly, The effects of wine and spirituous liquors prove ·
the influence of the brain in the production and cure of
stammering. " Look at that individual, who, without com-
mitting any excess, is moderately excited by a few glasses
of wine: /,ately he was sad, silent, and spiritless ; now, what
a metamorphosis! he is gay, talkative, and witty. Let him
c.ontinue to drink, and go beyond the measure of his neces-
sities; his head will become embarrassed, and the fumes of
the wine trouble his intellectual functions. The muscles,
stJUected to the guidance ofa will withO'Ut power, contract
feebtu, .and the 11UJSt confused and marked stamTMring suc-
ceeds to the fluent pronunciation so lately observed, and
.CAUSES AMD CURE OF STAMMERING. 147
.which depended on the powerful action of the brain on the
organs of speech." ·
Fourthly, From the earliest antiquity accidental stam-
mering has been noticed by physicians as frequently the
precursor of apoplexy and palsy, which could happen only
from the preceding affection of the brain acting on the or-
gans of speech. •
Fiftkly, M. Voisin himselfremarks the well-known fact,
that stammerers are generally very sensitive and easily ir-
ritable, and, at the same time, timid and retiring ; thus af-
fording the essential contrariety of emotions in its strongest
degree. M. Voisin forcibly delineates this state; when he
says," I shall never forget that, in 1813, when I had finished
my studies, and was entering on life, my troubled counte-
nance (ma contenance mal assuree), my embarrassment and
monosyllabic answers, and the silence which fear and timi-
dity almost always enforced upon me, gave to many people
such an idea of my character, that I may dispense with
quoting the epithet which they were pleased to bestow
upon me." .
. Sizthly, Certain emotions, .by exciting the brain, direct
such a powerful nervous influx upon the organs of speech,
that it not only frees tl1e stammerer from his infirmity for
a time, but has even sufficed to deliver the dumb from
their bondage, aJ\d enabled them to speak. Esquir.ol gives
a curious example of this fact. A dumb man had long en-
dured contempt and bad usage from his wife ; but, being
one day more grossly maltreated than usual, he got into
1mch a furious rage, that he regained the use of his tongue,
and repaid with usury the execrations which his tender
mate had so long lavished upon him. This shews how
closely the brain influences speech. '. .
&11enthly, Speech is the conductor of ideas, and.is uae-
less where none exist. Accordingly it is noticed, that idioa,;
although they hear well, and have a· sound conformation of
the organs of speech, and a power of emitting all the natu-
ral sounds, are either dumb, or speak very imperfectly.
. Eigktltly, Under the influence of·contending.emotions.
as is well observed by M. Voisin, the tongue either moves
without firmness, or remains altogether immoveable. This.
he says, occurs most frequently when Cautiou;mess or fear
and Veneration or respect are the opposing feelings. Stam-
148 ·CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMEBINO.
mering from this cause diminishes perceptibly, and some-
times even disappears, in proportion as the individual re-
gains his presence of mind ·and masters his internal impres-
sion. " The observations," he adds, " which I have the
sad privilege of making on myself every day, confirm what
is here advanced. I have often intercourse with men for
whom I feel so much respect, that it is almost impossible
for me to speak to them when I appear before them. But
if the conversation, of which they at first furnish the whole,
·goes on and becomes animated, recovering soon from my
first emotion; I shake offall little considerations, and, raising
myeelf to their height, I discuss with them withoutfear,
and without the slightest difficulty in my pronunciation."
-This indicates the supreme influence of the nervous influx
on the movements of the vocal muscles, and it is curiouslv
supported and illustrated by a fact mentioned by M. ltard,
Qf a boy of eleven, who was excessively at fault whenever
he attempted to speak in the presence of persons ·looking
at him, but in whom the stammering instantly disappeared
as soon as, by shutting out the light, he ceased to be visi.
ble. This is eXplicable only on the theory of opposite men-
tal emotions.
Ninthly, As the individual advances in age, and acquires ·
consistency and unity of character, the infirmity becomes
less and less marked, and even frequently disappears alto-
gether. In the same way it is generally more marked in
the morning than in the evening ; because the brain has not
then assumed its full complement of activity, nor been ex-
posed to the numerous stimuli which ·beset it in the ordi·
nary labours of the day.
A late writer seems to us to mistake the effect for the
cause, when he says that stammerers, being deprived of
the means of communication with their fellows, become re-
servedand timid in society, and ofexquisite sensibilicy'; for,
according to the view we have been unfulding, the natural
timidity and sensibility, instead of being the result, are in
fact the chief causes of the stammer or defect in pronun-
ciation. And we think this confirmed by his own obser-
vation, that old age is generally a cure, and that " old men,·
when interrogated on the causes ofthe amendment, gene-
rally attribute it to their having become less.hasty, or muck
4
CA:USBS AND CURE OF SU.MMERING. 149
more moderate and considerate, and in a much less hurry
t.o force out their ideas."•
The cerebral and mental cause of stammering explains
the.effects of education and the rational mode of cure.
Speech being the vehicle of ideas, and of no use but t.o .
convey them, it is obvious that one important condition in
sect.iring a di~inct articulation is to have previously acquir-
ed distinct ideas. Idiots, having few ideas, never learn to
speak. For the same reason, children ought not to ·be
forced to speak in the way that is generally done. This
ill-timed haste has the oppoSite effect from that desired, for
the subjects of •it speak later and with greater confusion ;
and the extreme attention that is paid to d1eir every word,.
dispenses them from distinct articulation, and causes a bad
pronunciation for their whole lives. This is remarked very
often·in children brought up in towns. They speak earlier
but much less distinctly, than those reared in the country.
Leaming by rote is held ·by Dr Voisin t.o be very perni-
cious, as it accustoms the child to negligent and unmean...
ing·pronunciation in his repetition of the same words.
It is remarked, indeed, that those who are late of speak-
ing never speak so distinctly as the others ; but here the
effect is often mistaken for the cause, for the child is long
of speaking only because his vocal organs are naturall!J em-
barri&ssed, and not because they have lain idle from the
want of speech. If the organs were not constitutionally
impeded, why should any one child be longer of speaking
than another ? The child that stammers has quite as much
use for speaking as any other, and in general he is stimu-
lated to an infinitely greater degree to exert his power of
speech. Parents become uneasy, and, by their ill-judged
efforts at hastening improvement, often call$e the very de·
fect they seek to avoid.
From this view it will appear that the cure of stammer.
ing is to be looked for in removing the exciting causes, and
in bringing the vocal muscles irito harmonious action by
determined and patient exercise. The oppoSite emotions,
so generally productive of stammering, may, especially in·
early life, be gradually got rid of by a judicious moral tteat-
ment,-by directing the attention of the child to the exist-
• Dictionnaire de Medtcine, tome ill. p. 844.
150 CAUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERING.
ence of these emotions as causes,-by inspiring him with
friendly confidence,-by exciting him resolutely to shun
any attempt at pronunciation when he feels himself unable
to master it,-by his exercising himselfwlten al<»u! andfree
from emotiqn, in talking andreading aloud, andfor a length
eftime, so as to habituate the·mwcles to simf!itaneous and
systematic action--and, we may add, as a very effectual re-
medy, by increasing the natural <lijficulty.in such a way as
to require a STRONG and UNDIYIDED MENTAL EFFORT to llC•
complish the utterance ofa sound, and thereby add to the
amount of nervous energy distributed to the organs of
:;;peech. The practice of Demosthenes is a mo&t excellent
example. He cured himself of inveterate stammering by
filling his mouth with pebbles, aud accustoming himself to
recitations in that state, It required strong local action,
and a concentrated attention, to emit a sound without chok-
ing himself, or allowing the pebbles to drop from his mouth ;
and this was precisely the natural remedy to apply to op·
posite and contending emotions and dimded attention.
Demosthenes adopted the other most effectual·part of
the means of cure. He exercised himself al<»u!, and free
.from distracting emotions, to such a degree, that he con.:
structed a subterraneous cabinet on purpose for perfect re.
tirement, and sometimes passed two or three months with-
out ever leaving it, having previously shaven one-half of
his head, that he might not be able to appear in public
when the temptation should come upon him. And the per-
fect success which attended this plan is universally known.
His voice passed from a weak, uncertain, and unmanage-
able, to a full, powerful, and even melodious tone, and be-
came so remarkably flexible as to accommodate itself with
ease to the very.numerous and delicate inflections of·the
Greek tongue. But as a complete cure, or harmonious
action of the vocal muscles, can be obtained only by the
repetition of the muscular action till a habit or tendency to
act becomes established, .it is evident that perselJe'rance is
an essential element in its accomplishment, and that with-
out this the temporary amendment obtained at first by the.
excitement consequent upon a trial of any means very s<>on
disappears, and leaves the infirmity altogether unmitigated.:
M. Itard, whom we have already mentioned, recom-
mends very strongly, where it can b_e. qo1w1 t.Q force chi!-
C-AUSES AND CURE OF STAMMERING. 151
dren to speak in a foreign language, by giving them a fo-
reign governess or tutor; and the propriety of this advice
is very palpable when we consider that it requires a more
powerful and concentrated effort to speak and to pronounce
a foreign than a native tongue, and that it is precisely a
strong, undivided, and' long-continued mental effort that is
necessary to effect a cure.
· M. Itard regards weakness in the muscles of the voice
'as the cause of stammering, and he has invented, and used
with much success, a small forked instrument, which he
places under the· tongue, in order to give them support.
·We approve.highly of the practice, but think his explana-
tion of its efficacy likely to lead to error. To us.it appears
to serve the same purpose that the pebbles did in the mouth
of the Grecian orator, viz. to solicit such an amount of ner-
vous stimulus to the parts, and such an effort of attention
as shall absorb the mind, and prevent its unity of purp<>se
being divided by contrary emotions. And the proofs that
this is the true source of the muscular debility are, that for
all purpoaes except speaking, the movements of the lips and
tongue are as powerful and as perfect as in any other indi-
vidual, and that old age, which increases real debility, and
which, therefore, ought to increase stammering if it arose
from this cause, almost invariablv cures it. We think it
right to notice this mistake in principle, as, from M. ltard's
well-merited reputation, his practice is likely to be fol-
lowed ; and as every man will modify it according to his
own lights, many, viewing it as a mere mechanical sup.
port, might do so in a wrong way, and produce mischief
instead of benefit, and then blame him for misleading them.
It is scarcely necessary to add, that debility, in which
this, in common with many other forms of nervous disease;
oft.en originates in the young, must be obviated by a due
supply of nourishing food, country air, regular exercise,
and, though last, not lea&t, by cheerful society, kindn~s,
and encouragement. The use of Phrenology in enabling
a stammerer to understand his own case, or a parent to di~
rect the treatment of his child under this infirmity, is so
obvious, that we reckon it unnecessary to dwell on it. By
rendering the nature and modes of action of the mental
powers clear and familiar, it aids us in removing every mor-
bid aWection of which the origin lies in them.
152 CASE OF MENTAL DERANGEMENT.
CASE OF MENTAL DERANGEMR..""l'f, WITH GRADUAL
DIMINUTION 01'' THE SIZE OF THE HEAD.•
T-- D-- was intended for·the medical profession ;
but, when about eighteen or nineteen years of age, shewed
obvious aberrations of mind that unfitted him for any em-
ployment. His father having died, and left him a sum of
money, the interest of which, under economical manage-
ment, might suffice for his support, application was made
by his relations to the Court of Session, who appointed me
curator of his effects, it not being necessary to confine his
person. This power was conferred in 1819 ; and from
that •
time up to July 1827, when T-- D- died, he
continued under my superintendence.
In 1819, T-
·- D--'s head was fully of an average
iize ; the knowing organs were largely developed, the fore-
head rose high and rather perpendicularly, but was not
broad. The organ of Comparison was considerably larger
than Causality and Wit. The organs of the propensities
were developed in about an average degree ; Acquisitive•
ness and Secretiveness having rather the predominance.
The organs of Self-esteem and Love of Approbation were
decidedly large, the former much above an average. Imi-
tation and Firmness were large, and the moral organs well
developed. There was no circumstance in the size or shape
of the brain that indicated insanity, so that the disease was
obviously one affecting its internal constitution.
His alienation presented the following features :-He was
easily provoked, and fierce when irritated, but otherwise
free from all malevolence. He entertained an exalted opi-
nion of his own greatness, and conceived himself to be a
genius ofthe highest order, ·particularly in the drama, and
on,.this account adopted the name of Shakspeare. For
many years he subscribed his name " T-- Shakspeare
D--." He was fond of money, extremely alive to order,
and a great admirer of the fair sex. In other respects his
mind presented no particular appearances.
The notion of his own greatness was obviously referable
•By George Combe.-Vol. iv. No. 16. p. 495.
CASE OF MBNTAL DBRA:NGEMENT. 153
.tO his ample development of Self-esteem; and its qirec-
tion towards the drama is accounted for by the combina-
tion of large Secretiveness with Imitation and Comparison.
He was fond of frequenting the theatre, and imitated with
" considerable succe81! Kean and other striking actors. To
establish his title to the name which he had adopted, he
wrote a farce, presented it to Mr Murray of the Theatre-
Royal to be acted, and, in astonishment at his rejection,
printed it to convict the manager of deficiency of discrimi-
nation and taste. It was destitute of all coherence, aim,
1>r object; but replete with forcible conceptions .and odd
comparisons. One of his personages says, " I'll tell you
what, when the universe assumes .the form of a handker-
chief near falling out of a gentleman's pocket, that union
which you contemplate upon will happen." Another iii
described as " looking just like stupidity benumbed by
Covent-Garden tailors, and, when you talk, your teeth pre•
sent the appearance of rumps of hedges."-" 0 logger.
head, have I lost my wits, that you are arraying your force
with all the gravity of a lawyer taking a guinea-note when
he was entitled to a pound ?" A young fop is characterized
thus : " When he plays upon the piano, it's just discord-
ance dnmk,-impudence dressed like a puppy,-extrava•
gance and nonsense sitting at the fire, ·having been ban·
quetting and lounging there, being full gorged with the fat
luxuriance." His remarks on female beauty are frequent.
One of his characters addresses a lady who is in love with
him : " Go to-go to-take your plain feet hence ; more-
over, I ha~ plain feet. l have truly uttered my voice."
To another, whom he admires, he is more complimentary :
" Be thou great cozening Venus, madam, or the resem-
blance of the dawning day, ushering thy form and potent
.
quibbling.lips before our eyes, just as the light descending
do.
wn the skif)s." A lady who repeats a commendation on
herself as likely to make " a goodly wife," is told that it
is " as huge a lie as a man 1,mduring the massy weight of a
tan-yard on his back." He sold his farce among his friends,
enjoyed their praises of its merits, and ever after conceived
his equality with Shakspeare indisputable. In this produc-
tion his large Comparison is very conspicuous. In it, as
well as in his general conduct,' his knowing organs, propen-
sities, and sentiments, manifested themselves in tolerable
154 ·CASE OF .MENTAL DERANGEMENT.
sanity, while his reflecting intellect appeared greatly ~
·scured.
His appetite for money was so great, that he sometimes
nearly starved himself through aversion to pay for food.
He was fond of spirituo1,1s liquors, but fonder still of mo·
ney, and never drank when he required to pay ; so that,
except when unprincipled individuals filled him drunk to
render him a spectacle for their own amusement (which
was sometimes the case), he was habitually sober. This
shewed the activity of Acquisitiveness. -
His love of order was conspicuous. He was sometimes
oddly but always cleanly dressed, and his lodgings were a
pattern of arrangement.
It was not necessary to put him under confinement ; but
when a legal guardian became necessary, the puzzle pre·
sented itself how to get his own mind reconciled to it. To
have told him that he was insane, and required a curator,
would have rendered him furious, and aggravated his ma-
lady. This difficulty was overcome with complete success
by addressing his predominant faculties. I recalled to his
mind the poverty and ruin that had imbittered the lives of
men of genius, particularly poets, from Homer down to
Bums ; told him that his genius had been recognized ; that
to free him from every similar danger, and also to leave his
mind in freedom to take its loftiest flights unencumbered
by paltry cares, a curator of his pecuniary interests had
been appointed, who should metely collect his funds, and
be at all times accountable to him for their disbursement.
He was delighted at this idea, and submitted without the
least reluctance to my control.
Occasionally, however,·he met with persons who seemed
desirous of torturing his mind in the most vulnerable
points: they assured him that he was treated as insane,
that his guardian was not accountable to him, but held his
funds for the benefit ofhis relations; and that the expense of
management was enormous, and was a robbery committed
against him; and by such representations they wrought him
up to the fiercest indignation.
In this humour he regularly visited me, and poured out
astorm of abuse ; but in a few minutes, by addressing his
faculties in an agreeable way, he was calmed. I asked him
whether men of genius were not pursued by envy, and
CASE OP MENTAL.DERANGEMENT. 155
whether he was well al!Sured that the representations he
had receiv~ were not dictated by that spirit, and intend··
ed merely to detract from the: honour he· enjoyed This
was a view of the case highly gratifying to his Self:.Esteem,
and he readily seized upon it. Knowing his parsimony, I
· r4!<1uested him to make the experiment whether his funds
were not at bis own disposal, and desired him to write an
order for a donation of L.50 to the Infirmary, or any chari-
table institution, and see whether it would not be paid ; or to
take L.20, and amuse himselfwith an excursion in the coun•
try. Such was the con11titution and state of his mind, that
it"was just as impossible,for him to do either, as to convert
himselfinto a real Shakspeare; but, like many wiser persons,
he had no idea that his actions were controlled by his dis-
positions; he declined making these experiments as unne-
cessary, and retired quite satisfied that he possessed the
uncontrolled disposal of his effects.
Some of his productions shew strongly the state of his
tacnlties. The following note is dated 25th February 1823,
and, in the profusion of assumed titles in it, forms an am~
ing. illustration of the activity of his Self-Esteem and Love
ofApprobation:-" PresidentD- herewith transmits his
compliments to President Combe, W. S., and requests to
know why Mr T-- L- [my clerk] writes him a card
about some ·L.3 : 19 : 4, which afterwards be does not
acknowledge personally; Physician D--, A.M. LL.D,.
&c., &c. having previously chalked it down in his day-
book.-Yours, T-- D--, M.D., F.R.S.E."
In the month of May last he became seriously indisposed,
but could not be persuaded to follow medical prescriptions,
or even to take the necessaries of life. His landlady was
instructed to 1mpply him with every thing that could mi-
nister to bis comfort, as an indication ofher profound re-
8Pf!Ct for the /umou1- he had conferred on her by lodging
in her luw.se, but to be paid for privately by me. This took
effect a~ once. As long as he had to pay, he pretended he
bad no appetite, and that he could ,not eat; but when the
mark of respect was mentioned, he acquired vigorous pow-
ers of digestion, and ate readily. His complaint was in
the lungs, and one day, when very m,:he was met by a
friend at the head of the Vennel, a very steep lane in
Edinburgh, leading .from the Grassmarket to Laurieston,.
}56 CASE OF MENTAL DERANGEMENT•
and held the following discourse :-" I have had a sore
battle," said he. " With whom ?'' " With my body to he
sure. When at the foot of the Vennel there, it rebelled·
and would not mount ; but I assured it that I had never
yet submitted to my body, and was resolved it should not
conquer me now. I told it that it might take its time, bot ·
38Cend it should to the top. ,So," continued he, "I set out.,-
but had not got ten yards when m.y body rebelled again,.
and refused to mount; but I just replied, that up it must
go, and that it was in vain for it to try to get off; and so to
it again I went ; and here I am you see : I have forced it
µp, after half a dozen of stoppages. ·I am determined that
I shall never be beat by my body." The real cause of the
rebellion was weakness and want of breath. In this disse-
veration in personality of himselffrom his body, he reminds
us forcibly of_
the metaphysicians, some of whose discourses
about the mind's independence of its organs are not much
superior in sense to the foregoing dialogue.
Among the last acts of his life were, preparing to rise,
11ot that he might yield to his body, and desiring a chair<
that was out of its place to be put in its proper position.
His head decreased in •size during the progress of his in-·
sanity, and to such an extent that he observed the circum-·
stance himself, and said that he required a smaller size in
each successive hat that he purchased. His intellectual
fucul.ties were obviously feebler in the latter years of his
life, for he oecame incapable of collecting money by pre·
senting receipts, and performing some other little pieces of
b'usiness which in former years he had accomplished ; and
his forehead very perceptibly diminished and· retreat:ed.
during the corresponding period. He accounted for ·the
decrease in the size of the hats he required, by ascribing it
to the sublimation of his brain ; he said he was becoming1
purely ethereal, and that the grosser particles of his•head'
were evaporating daily. ··
" The body was opened forty-two hours after death. ~he1
small size of the fore~ead was remarkable. The integu-.
ments were very adherent, and the skull so dense as to :be '.
sawn with difficulty. It was of very unequal thickneSll v
and the forehead presented a large frontal sinus of great'
depth, which also extended backwards over the orbitar ·
plate nearly to the bottom of the socket. The du~a-materc
CASE OF MENTAL DERANGEMENT, 157
adhered firmly, but presented no unusual appearance, ex-
cept being, in common with the skull and brain, more high-
)Y' vascular on one side than on the other. One hemisphere
was turgid with blood, and, when cut into, presented nume-
rous red points, a very deep red brown corpus striatum;
and a little bloody serum in the ventricle. The other was
rather paler than natural, forming a contrast in every point
with its fellow. Nothing else remarkable was noticed in
the head ; and no sympt.om indicated, during life, this in-
equality of affection. The head was under the average
size, but high, particularly towards Self-Esteem and Firm-
ness."
These appearances, particularly the great density of the
skull, and the remarkable extent of the frontal sinus back-
wards over the eyes, shew the existence of long-continued·
morbid action in. the head, and afford a strong presumption
that the anterior region of the brain,·which is the seat of
intellect, had undergone a diminution even greater than
that indicated by the external surface of the bone. It is
also worthy of notice, .that the corpus striatum, which was
evidently much changed in structure from the healthy state,
serves t.o form, or rather to increase, the mass ofbrain cor-
responding t.o the organs of the intellectual faculties.
.CASE OF MORBID EXCITEMENT OF THE ORGAN OF
NUMBER. BY DR ALDERSON OF HULL.•
MASTER B., avery fine ingenious youth, about fifteen,
complained, on his return from school the last vacation, of
an intense pain over the outer angle of each ·eye, darting
obliquely through the eyeball t.o the root of the nose : there
was not the slightest appearance of inflammation in any of
the coats.of the eye ; his pulse full and hard, his .manner
highly excited, his tongue creamy; he was costive and"
chilly. ·
H:e had always shewn a decided preference for figures,
and was highly read in mathematics; but his father (him-
self eminent for the classics and mathematics, and a high ·
wrangler) was desirous that his son should persevere, and
lay aside h~ mathematics, in·order:t,o perfect himself in the·
•Vol;.iv. =No.. 16. p: 556•.
o;9;i;zed by Google
158 MORBID EXCITEMENT OF THE ORGAN OF NUMBER.
classics before he·went to Cambridge. To acccmplish this
wish of his parent, he bent the whole of his mind and fa-
culties during the session to this end, and at the vacation
he returned with every demonstration of having done his
utmost, to the entire satisfaction of the master, for he had
awarded him the prize for the first classic of the year; but,
alas ! this was not obtained without a high degree .of mor-
bid excitement in the brain, and that, too, precisely in the
places I have already pointed at, as far at least as can be
judged of by symptoms. I immediately forbade all appli-
cation whatever to those studies to which he had hitherto
addicted himself, and ordered employment in the trifling
amusements of his young brothers ; having put him under
the most decided antiphlogistic treatment, he recovered in
a few days, and was, to all appearance, perfectly himself
again.
In the course of a week I called upon him accidentally,
when he declared himself perfectly well; but I detected
him at his favourite pursuits ; he had got a new publica-
tion on mathematics, and I prognospcated a relapse ; the
very next day his pain, as intense as before, attended the
left eye at the outer angle. He submitted to his former
treatment, and was restored; he has remained well ever.
since, and has gradually returned to a well-regulated course
of study. ·
I have drawn the attention of the Society t.o this case,
because I have no doubt they will see this young man re-
turn from Cambridge with the honours that have adorned
so many of his townsmen at that University.
SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL, OBSERV-
ED BY AN EXPERIENCED HAT-MAKER OF LONDON.•
To the following curious and unexpected communication
we have more than ordinary satisfaction in giving a place.
It was read to the London Phrenological Society; and,
from the very extensive field of observation enjoyed by its
author, and from the manifest accuracy and even scrupulo-.
sity of his statements, we regard them as entitled t.o comi-
dence, and as really valuable t.o the extent of demonstrat-
ing the fact of different sizes of heads belonging not only.
•.Vol. il'. No. I~, p, ~· ·
SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL. 159
to different sexes and districts of country, but to different
classes of society. This is a great step towards connecting
general mental power with general size of brain ; but a
greater and more difficult still remains, viz. to determine .
the particular regions of the head in which the greatest re-
lative size prevails in different classes and in different coun-
ties. This cannot be accomplished by the efforts of one,
but by the multiplied and corrected observations of many ;
and we merely suggest it to our author, as a person likely
to interest himself in the inquiry, and qualified to conduct
it. We have made many observations on the relative de-
velopments of the different organs in heads of similar gene-
ral si?.e in different counties in Scotland, and only delay
publishing them to avoid falling into mistakes :>y too rash
an induction. We trust, however, that the foll .wing paper
will soon attract attention, and lead to the ac 1uisition of
abundant information.-EDITOR.
Having, in my avocation as a hat-maker, for some years
observed the various sizes of the human head, and satistiecl
myself that much peculiarity of shape exists not only in in-
dividual cases, but also in various classes of society, it may
be believed that, upon attaining a knowledge of the first
principles of phrenology, I became the more easily a con-
vert to its doctrines. My intention this evening is to pre-
sent to the Society some facts with regard to variations in
the size of the human head, the result of my own expe-
rience, confirmed bv all the aid I have been enabled to ob-
tain from others better-informed than mysel£ But I ·beg
to state, that I wish to confine myself to the detail of mere
facts, independent of phrenological inferences, an~cipating
that every information connected either with the form or
size of the human head will prove acceptable to the friends
of the science. I am nevertheless aware, that any conclu-
sions I might draw as a phrenologist from partial infonna-
tion would be liable to objection, as leading to dangerous
errors; for size to the phrenologist is but.one poi~t, and,
singly, is inadequate to furnish the means of judging of
mental capacity ; how much more partial and unsatisfac-
tory must be the mere measurement of a utter. In the
quality of general size, many of the most barbarous.nations
rank equally with, if ~ot superior to, the more cultivated
160 SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL.
and intellectual inhabitants of Europe ; while the Hindoo
head, although small, is known to indicate a much higher
intellectual capacity than that of many nations that are
above them in mere measurement. The quality of head as
well as the quantity must be attended to ; and it is only
in the proportions of the several regions joined to general
measurements that a knowledge of the latter becomes use-
ful. Mr Combe states, with regard to size, page 44, " Ge-
neral size is no indication of particular power ; an indivi-
dual may wear a large hat, indicating a large brain, and yet
have no scope of intellect, no ability in the general sense
of the term. If the large hat is requisite from the great
development of the animal organs, the individual may be a
powerful animal, and at the same time a weak man. It is
only when great size pervades the whole three Classes of
organs, propen3ities, sentiments, and intellect, that phreno-
logy authorises us to expect a character vigorous, compre-
hensive, and profound."
Inquiring into the general size of the head in some na-
tional cases, but more particularly confining myself to the
various classes of society, and to different provinces of this
kingdom, it will be necessary to state the mode of a hat-
ter's measurement, in order rightly to appreciate its value.
Various methods are adopted, but the most general is to
take the simple length and breadth of the head, which, al-
though inadequate to phrenological purposes, is sufficient
for ascertaining general size. The head being oval, the
length and breadth are taken, the medium thereof being
the diameter or hatter's measurement, from which the cir-
cumference is ascertained. For instance, a hat 8 inches
long by 7 broad, is 7~ diameter, or hatter's measure; 7
inches by 6 is 6~ medium, or diameter. Upon this prin-
ciple: blocks are used in the manufacturing and measuring
of hats to particular sizes, varying from 5 inches, the size
of an infant, increasing by the ! of an inch to 7£, the gene-
ral full size of men. In using the term size, or.large and
small heads, I must be understood to speak of hatter's
measurement, applying only to the circumference of the
head within the range occupied by the hat; comprehending
the reflective organs to the middle of the forehead, forming
an oval round the head, resting upon or covering a portion
of the basilar region on the sides and posterior portions, so
flZE OP BEAD, ·NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL. 161
tlaat the perceptive organs and the coronal'sUrtace are out '
of its contact;
By this mode of measurement the range ofthe male head ·.
in England, at maturity, is from 6~ to 7j, the medium and
most general size being 7 inches. The female head ·is •
smaller, varying from 6i to 7 or 71, the medium male size. '
Fixing the medium of the English head at 7 inches, I shall
be enabled.to distinguish the portions of society above from ·
those below that ·measurement. Commencing with Lon- ·
don, a perceptible difference will be. observed between the
higher and loftr classes of society. In the former, the ·
majority are above the medium, while amongst the latter
it is very rare to find a large head. This is easily proved
by the different qualities of hats in requisition by each, in ·
the manufacturing of which a distinct difference in the
scale of sizes is observed. Taking the two extremes of so-
ciety, this rule will be found invariable throughout the ·
country, the middle ranks oflife forming a medium between
the two. Establishments at the west end of the town, con-
fined exclusively to the service ofd1e higher cii:cles, require
more large hats in proportion than :other ·hatters whose ·
trade is confined to the middle ranks ; ·and again, the busi-
ness with the lower class presents the same relation to the.
class above them, requiring a greater proportion of small
hats than either of the other classes. These statements can .
be proved in a variety of ways. Take the average sizes of
livery-hats for servants, the scale will be found less than for
their masters. The sizes observed in furnishing a regiment .
of soldiers are easily ascertained. Seafaring men, and in~
dividuals connected with shipping and on the water, wear
a peculiar small hat ; and the japannedleather hat, the dog-.
hair hats worn by carters, waggoners, and the labouring
agriculturist, the round-crown-shoulder hats, .in use by coal-.
heavers, corn-porters, &c., and the common plated hats in
~eneral reg~est by the working classes, present great faci-
lity for judging of general measurements for the lower or-
ders, in all of which, as compared with the finest hat made,
there is a striking and manifest difference. In the lower
ranks of life, the majority are below·the medium of7 inches,
and the higher classes of society above it. Not only a dif-
ference in size is observed, but also a variation between the
two classes exists in the circle of the head coming in con·•
0
162 SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND :PROVINCU.U
tact with the hat, so as to influence the measurement. · The
upper portions of the head, comprehending the reflective.
organs, ldeality, and Caution, come in contact, to increase
the general circumference of the hat in the higher cla..~
of society ; but the same effect is not observed in the lower
walks of life ; the circle round the head in immediate con-
nexion with the basilar region, the hat resting upon or
covering the ear, will shew that the size is more to be as- ·
cribed to that fraction of the head than to the upper region.·
The slanting off of the ~teral superior circumference much
decreases the general measurement. The weaver& of Spi-
talfields have extremely small heads ; 6i, 6i, and 6f, are
prevailing sizes. In Coventry, almost excluaively peopled
by weavers, the same facts peculiarly are observed.*
Leaving London, to the north and north-east, in the
•This correspondence between size of head and class ofsociety, is
11fact af peculiar interest, and we earnestly recommend to the author·
to extend and systematize his observations upon it. It ia establish-
ed phrenological doctrine, .thl\t size of brain is just that power of
character which will extend \he influence and advance the rank of
its p088eesor. It is, or rather it was, by no means essential that the
eize shaJl be an intellectual, or even moral Jevelopment. As society
is constituted, a verv large endowment of the selfish sentiments of
S'elf-Esteem, Love of Approbation, and Firmness, added to the pro-
pensities of Acguisitivenesa and Secretiveness, which gives tact or
..voirfaire, with Combativeneas, and no very troublesome impedi-
ments from size in the regions of Conscientiousness, Benevolencef
and Veneration, all keeping in activity good knowing faculties, wil
be found the fittest endowment for what is called pashi'flll tbe indi-
vidual's fortune. In rude times, when. be it remembered, the most
valued hi~h rank was established, such were many of the heads
which achieved CTowns and coronets. Such were the heads of Bruce
and Napoleon. both far abol'e average size. By the universally ad"
mitted laws of propagation, the type of size is likely to remain with
the descendants of theMe larl{e heoos to an extent sufficient to mark
the cl888, although in many mdividool cases, intermarriage with in-·
terior beads may diminish the size. Such degenerate heilds, if not
supported by artifieial means, such as entails, .will descend 8f!8iD in
society, and are doing so every day; while larger heads are rising
from the lower to the middle, e.nd fr001 .the middle to the higher
ranks; " the descendants of thoee who rode in -ches are changing
places with the posterity of those who sat on the boxes." It would
be very interestmg to observe, on a minute examination into the
1¥ltual development or the middle classes, as compared with· the
higher and lower, whether there is gr<Nmd in superior moral endow-
ment for its proverbial moral superiority-keeping in mind .what
has already been said, that a very scrupulous rrwral endowment, as
society ill vet constituted, is rather an impediment to a great ascent
i11 life; and thi•, notwithstanding that great intciilectual ~wer, aa.'
in Napoleon, ill more in request than it w1111 in the days of Br11ce-
E11tma. .- · - . -
__..,,_
....,- - - .._.,_ - -- ......-
·.il'iE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL. · 163
~ounties of Hertford, Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, a greater
number of small heads will be found than in any other part
of the empire. Essex and Hertfordshire are the most re..
markable for requiring small-sized hats--,7 inches, the me-
diurri size givtm, is here, as in Spittalfields or Coventry, a
full size.-6f and 6! are prevailing sizes-and 6f, the usual
size for a boy of the age of six years, is here often to. be
met with in the full maturity of manhood. Crossing over
the Thames to Kent, Surrey, and Sussex, we observe an
immediate increase in size of the usual average ; and the
inland counties in general, I J>elieve, are upon nearly the
same scale ;- but, as I intend to confine myself to personal
experien~e, or information I can perfectly rely on, I ·shall
pass unnotioed thOSl' portions of the country of which un-
satisfactory report only has informed me of the existing pe-
culiarities, reserving fur a future period, and after a more
extended inquiry, the detail of these. Towards Devon-
shire and Cornwall the heads are quite of the full sizes-
many very large hats are required for both counties. The
Welsh heads are above the usual average ; and in the
county of Hereford, on the borders of Wales, they are
much superior to the London average.• I have been.. irt-
clined to the opinion that a difference exi11ts in point of
size between agricultural and manufacturing districts, fr.om
observing many parts of the country entirely devoted to
the former pursuits exhibiting small heads when contrasted
with those in many manufacturing districts. But further
inquiry has shewn the distinction objectionable ; as there
are many manufacturing towns and districts whose average
sizes are by no means superior to those of the tillel'S of
land ; while Devonshire and Herefordshire, which are
purely agricultural, .shew full-sized heads-the latter, in
particular, is remarkable for its average being above this
metropolis. Travelling towards the .north, a gradual .iq'-
crease will be observed, the counties of Lancashire, York-
shire, Cumberland, and Northumberland having more large
beads in proportion than any other part of the country ;
the largest sizes I could ever tl'.&Ce have had their origin
in the northern part of England, or Scotlai;id, .the neigh-
• The Welsh are Celts, and the Celtic bead, though 'long.'is not
lar,ge. That the Welsh head exceeds the usual average, .would re-
quire a wider and more accurate induction.
164 SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL.
bouring portion of the kingdom; and, on the contrary, I
have traced repeatedly the small head to the districts I
have before alluded to as exhibiting that peculiarity, Es.
•
sex, &c.
Entering Scotland, the full-sized head is known t.Q be
possessed by its inhabitants.• It is unnecessary for me to
say much upon the general measurements of the Scotch
head ; our friends in that country are far more competent
to give the information; I wish only to confirm the obser·
vations of the Edinburgh phrenologists, and acknowledge
their superiority, in point of size, over our more southern
region :-the full size of die English head I have before
fixed at 7i-but here an increase upon that.measuremen~
is to be met with to 7!, 71, and even 8 inch~s. Such ex-
treme size, no doubt, is rare. The contrast in the trade of
Essex and Hertfordshire with this country, in point of size
of hats, is very manifest ; 7 inches, the general medium,
being a large size in the former counties, is considered in
the north approaching to a small size. Large heads are
•There is a very common anecdote of an ostler at an inn, who was
·118ked·how he being Yorkshire, had never risen in the establishment,
.
who answered1 "Master's Yorkshire too, sir." "Too far north for
me" is a soutnem adage, meaning not only superior sagacity, but
superior power. These are very apt to be looked upon b)' Self.esteem
as mere craft and cunning ; hence the phrase has received a sort ofr&-
proachful meaning. The notorious rise of Scotch privates in English
regiments to the rank of non-commissioned officers may be theJOint
resqlt of relatively larger head and superior education. A profound
notion prevails in London, that Scotsmen are excluded from the di-
rj)ftion of the Bank of England-which, by the way, a large Scotch
head first projected-because, as bas happened in the India House,
when one !{eta in, the direction is apt to grow all Scotch together.
For.centuries, a population in Scotland, probably under half a mil-
lion, maintained their independenceagainst the ~eatl:ir-superjor po.
pulation and wealth of England, and, when once1t was lost, recover.
ed it by an exertion of tremendous energy. The most formidable
enemies of the Scots were their immediate neighbours in the north
of England. Marmion (himself still more a Southron), when lying
·wounded, thinks of the northern English to save the battle:-
" To Dacre bear my signet ring,
Tell him bis squadrons up tol>ring;
Bid Stanley charge with spur of fire,
With Chester char~e, and Lancashire;
Full upon Scot.land s central host,
O~ victo~y aru1•Engl8;,nd's !~st." •
"Charge, Chester, charge !-on, Stanley, on !
Were the last words ofMarmion."
En!TOR.
SIZE OP HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL, 165
no doubt to be found in Essex, and small heads in Scot-
land ; but they m~st be viewed as exceptions rather than
as the provincial or national sizes. The scale of measure-
ments in furnishing a Scotch regiment is larger than that
required for an English regiment ; and in my search for
information, I met with the following order, received by a
London military house from a correspondent in the north for
220 yeom:i.nry caps :-" Pray be particular in the sizes ;
let the majority be large, none less than 6-t, and a very few
of that size.'' In another letter, received by the same house,
there is this expostulation from the neighbourhood of Aber-
deen :-" Once more I must tell you, not to send hats 6£
or 6t without orders. I have now more than I can sell for
twelve months. Let.the order now enclosed be sent exact
in sizes,-
2-7i 6-7~ 12-7! }All above the English
2-7i 6-7i 8-7!'' medium. ·
Although this order cannot be taken as a criterion of na•
tional sizes, as it is eTidently given to make up for a pre-
vious consignment of small hats, it is sufficient to prove a
degree of measurement in the north which this country
cannot boast of.
The low-priced goods are supplied wholly from Man-
chester ; consequently my information with regard to that
trade is limited. But a circumstance connected with the
same trade came under my observation last year, which
will partly shew the relative sizes of the two countries :-
A manufacturer at Manchester received an order from a
London house to send off immediately a particular quality
of hats. Having the same description of order ready pack-
ed for Scotland, he sent off that package promptly to oblige
his London correspondent, without any regard to the sizes,
to the metropolis. To the mortification of the individual
to whom they were invoiced, they proved to be perfectly
unsaleable, from the whole ofthem being very large in sizes;
the consequence has been, that nearly the number of hats
sent, from their extra size for the lower trade, remain to
this day on hand.
Respecting the Irish head, it is stated in the second vo-
lume of the.Phrenological Journal, page 17, that the heads
of the educated classes in Dublin are generally small ; and
information is required by the writer from some London
166 SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL, ~
hatter as to the ave~e size of fine hats seni to ihafcity,
anticipating that they are inferior in sizes to those sold in
London and Edinburgh. In .so &r 88 I know, I am 11ot
enabled to confirm this statement, 88 the average sizes of
fine hats sent from this city to Dublin are superior to those.
in the London trade. My information is gathered from the
sales of the three first houses in Dublin. The general re-
quest in orders received in London from them is to send
large, and not small sizes, the latter remaining useless upon
the shelves; the scale always observed is above the Lon-
don average, and orders are sometimes received equal in
size to the full Scotch bead. The higher classes from Ire-
land residing in this country are likewise above the Eng-
lish average ; and the lower order of Irish resident here
exhibit a superiority in size to the English labourer. In so
far as I am experienced, I should say, that the Irish gene-
rally possess larger heads than the English ; but those per-
sons who have visited that kingdom are better able to de-
cide the point, as the individuals in this country cannot be
considered a fair national type, and as my opinion is form-
ed on grounds too partial to lead to a general conclusion.*
Respecting foreign nations, I am unable to speak with
much certainty ; I shall therefore confine myself to a very
fow remarks .on them. All northern nations have large
heads; the Norwegian sailor's is much superior in point of
size to the English sailor's, and the women's bonnets and
hats exported to that country are required larger than is ne·
cessary for the population at home.t Hats for the West
Indies are smaller than the English standard ; and hats ex-
• There is a great population in Dublin, and within the pale as it
was called, essentially English; still the prevalence of moderate·
Bized beads was tbereobeerved in the better classes. In the theatre,or
at an assembly, in Dublin, for example, the heads ofthe men apJ>ea1·-
ed to the e}'e'to be smaller than the heads of the same classes in Lo11-
don or Edmburgh. We are not aware of the extent to which Lon.
tlon hats are used in Dublin. If they are confined to a certain rank.
they will not afford a correct standard of the general aize. Farther
observations may reconcile the apparent discrepancy. Of the lower
Irish heads the author does not speak. Few orders for net0 hats t&
cover these will, we take it, reach London.-EDl'l'OR. ·.
+New blocks had to be made in France. of a larger size. for the
British army· and it was some years after the peace before Parisian
liatters could fit English gentlemen who apJ>lied to them, The
J<'rench head is known to be smaller than the English.-EDJTOR,
SIZE 'OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL. 167
j>orted to 01ir colonies can safely be stated to be generally
below the sizes of the average English head.
Dr Spurzheim, treating of national faces, says, " The
inhabitants ofthe south-west ofScotland, th<ise ofthe north-
east, and those of the Highlands, belong to three different
races. England and Ireland have been occupied by various·
nations, particular districts of each have a population ori-
ginally different. In the county of Norfolk, the same round·
and well·fed figures are seen which Rubens has transferred
to his canvass from natives of Holland." And Dr Abel of
Dublin stated to this Society some time since, that there
is a race inhabiting a portion of the south-west coast of
Ireland distinctly different from the general class of Irish,
both in features and cerebral development, whos.
e ances•·
tors are believed to have been originally from Spain. That·
race exhibits still several peculiar marks of the Spanish·
character. It is well known that national heads exist as
well as national faces, and that there is a possibility of
tracing one as well as the other ; I have confined.myself
to size alone, and have endeavoured to prove that'there:
exists not [only a national, but a provincial difference in
that particular ; but as a comparison has been made by
Writers on Phrenology between the size and cerebral de-
velopment of the conquerors· and of the conquered in vari-
ous parts of the world, so as to ·account upon the phreno- ·
logical principle for the superiority gained, it would be in-
teresting to ascertain, if possible, how far these principles
can be applied to our own country, by tracing the fonn and
size of head from which the several districts were originally
peopled, so as to shew, in those who so successfully overran
the country, a supe"riority of development over its primitive
inhabitants.
The Saxons, the Danes, and the Normans, have each, in
their turn, invaded and e&tablished themselves in England.
History also informs us, that the ancient·Britons were
·either exterminated by their invaders, the Picts, the Scots,
and the Saxons, or forced to take shelter on the confines
of Cornwall, or in the mountains of Scotland and Wales.
l am aware of·the difficulty of tracing, at this advanced
period, any vestige of the primitive inhabitants ofthis coun-
try ; but ifa possibility does exist, to Wales I should give
the preference for research. The remnant of Britons re-
168 SIZE OP HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL,
tiring to that country, the barrier formed 'by the range ef·
mountains separating Wales from England, and preventillg'
intercourse between the inhabitants, and the pecul~ pre-
judices, customs, and habits of the Welsh at this clay, tiwetW
the conjecture, that if the form or size of cranium of the .
ancient Britons can now be found, it will be in that counuy. -
Before I conclude, allow me to make a few observatiOll& .
upon the supposed increase and decrease of the head at .
various periods oflife after the age of maturity. As mudl
difference of opinion exists upon this point, I trust I shall
not be deemed presumptuous in differing &om writer& far
my superiors in the science, provided I shew a·consistency
in my objections. An impartial Phrenologist is an·admirer
of truth. We have all·the same aim t if we differ, nature
alone will put us right. ·Upon my first acquaintance with
the science, this subject, the increase in size at various
periods,so strenuous}yinsisted on byan experienced London
Phrenologist., cast a damp upon my zeal in its favour. Since
that time I have endeavoured to make every necessary in-
quiry which the interest of the- science so justly demands,
but cannot find one single well-attested fact to warrant me
in supposing that the head does either increase or decrease
after the period of full manhood ; and that the apparent -
variation in size of the skull, which is, after such period,
often observed, is to be ascribed solely to the integuments
and hair. The time I have occupied this evening prevents
my going much into particulars ; but I have heard it stated .
of a·certain learned judge, whose judicial knowledge was ao
enlarged, and practice so extensive, that his wig was no
longer able to cover the neceliSll.ry expansion of his skull !
Alteration, splicing, or remaking, w~ the inevitable conile-
quence, in order to render this said wig wearable. Nay, a
Phrenologist has asserted, that, in one of the campaigns of
Bonaparte, the increase of his soldiers' heads rendered their .
helmets useless ; but, upon their return into winter-quar-
ters, they assumed their former dimensions. If itwere pos· .
sible for such circumstances to occur, no experienced indiVi- ,
d.ual in the hatting trade could possibly doubt their consist-
ency; but the reverse is the fact. My own experience has
b.een to. this effect :-That the heads of infants increase
very rapidly the first and second years, the health and
vigour of tlie child influencing tlie development. In the
o,g,izedbyGoo,gle_
SIZE OF HEAD, NATIONAL AND PROVINCIAL. · l69
first seven years the head attains an increase, from its birth,
greater than in any seven years afterwards. It is needless
for me to reply to the several o~jectors to phrenology, who
asaert that the brain attains its full dimensions at this period
of life, and allege the increase afterwards to be carnied by
thickness of skull, hair, and integument. I can only uy,
that a great increase is observed in the head after the age
·Of seven years, the cause of which I leave the explanation
of to others more competent to decide than a hatter, who
is satisfied with his circumference. From seven years the
head undergoes a gradual increase until the period of ma-
turity. Great increase is sometimes observed at particular
periods, and likewise a total stand, for alength of time, is
tibserved in differen•youths; but upon this, without a know-
ledge of the general health, and every.circumstance likely
to affect the activity of the brain, it would be imprudent
in me to hazard mere conjecture. The head I have always
found to attain its'full dimensions in accordance with the
bodily frame. I fix the utmost limit my experience will
allow, at the age of 25 yearsi The more general period of
full attainment of size is between 17 and 23. Many heads
are at their full size at the age of 16 ; in confirmation of
which I can appeal, not only to my own experience, but to
every individual in the.trade who has devoted himself to a
just consideration of the subject, and also to a register of
sizes kept for the last 25 years by one of the most extensive
establisfimentsin BondStreet, for the sole rule and guidance
of its manufacturers ; wherein are numbered the names of
gentlemen of all grades of intellect, and men of all profes-
sions and pursuits, in the higher circles of society, where no
apparent increase can be found to warrant a conjecture at
variance with the opinion I have stated. The facts I could
adduce, the names I could enumerate of individuals who
havf' figured in the political world, and in the literary and
scientific, would trespass too much upon your time. I shall
appeal to one or two circumstances only. English gentle-
men, upon their appointment to settlements in India, leave
with their hatters the measurements of their heads before
their departure from this country, and annual exportations
are made of their several orders fqr ten, twenty, or thirty
years, during their residence. No difficulty is found by the
hatter in fitting ; no increase is tl1ought of. _The body re-
p
170 " ON TllE S1ZE OP HATS.
turns 80metimes emaciated; the head retains its usual size,
saving the consequent decrease a,rising from theloss ofinte-
gument or hair. At home, gentlemen residing wholly in
the country, and others occasionally in town, never see thei.-
hatter for years, nor is it ever considered necessary, .pro.-
vided an accurate measurement of the head has been taken.
·If variation in size did take place, such a circU111stance,
from the numberless instances of strong excitement and
increased action of the mental powers, .would be easily ma-
nifested, and renewal of measurements must be continually
necessary. The hatting trade in general would not be, as
·they now certainly are, entirely ignorant of the fact. But
the subject cannot remain long a matter of doubt. The
increased facilities of casting, the numerous characters in
'Various situations of life which are now annually added to
the catalogue of public and private collections, together
:with the interesting experiments, by a member ofthis So·
'ciety, in taking the curves and circles of the head, will soon
set aside all differences. I shall always be willing to ex~
·change error for truth, and, with a sufficient confirmation
:of facts opposed to my present ideas, hail its dawn, and ac-
·koowledge myself benefited by the correction. L.
,ON THE SIZE OF HATS USED BY THE DIFFERENT
CLASSES OF SOCIETY. BY A HAT-MAKER OF
DUNDEE.•
(To tk Editor ofthe Phrt1nological Journal.)
DuNDEK, June, 1828.
S1a,-It is with much pleasure I perused a paper by a
London hat-maker, in your Journal for November last; and
u it appears from your preface that you are desirous offur-
ther observations on the same subject, and as I have been
upwards of ten years in the same profession with your Lon-
don correspondent, and have been necessarily led by ob-
-servation to entertain the same ideas, I shall endeavour to
·supply you with a provincial corroboration of that gentle-
.man's statements ; trusting it may not be altogether unac-
.ceptable to the readers of your Journal, although found de-
ficient in that freedom ~d eloquence which generally adorn
·its pages.
. - .i •Vol. v. No. 18, p. 213.
ON .TH.Ii\ su:E QI' .HA'J'So 171
: ."In·aasentlng generally to the rorrectness of the observa-
tions contained in that article, I beg leave to notice one re-
IWU'.k at the top of page 541,* where, after stating the man-
ner in which hatters' measurement is given, the author says
,'"!r," Upon this principle, blocks are used in the measuring
.and inanufacturing of hats to particular sizes, varying from
·5 inches, the size of an .infant's head, increasing by the l of
an inch to 7i inches, the general full size of men." . With
respect to this latter observation, I beg leave to state, that
in this part of the country, so far from 7i being the genetal
full size of men; it may rather be regarded as the maximum;
at least, in the course of my business I have met with very
few demands for .hats of that size ; nor do l find, upon the
strictestinquiry, it has been otherwise with the most exten-
sive hatters and retailers of hats in this CQuntry : and, in
point of fact, the cases are so rare, that, in .a male popula-
tion of about 18,000, not more than 10, if so many, require
hats of a size from 7i to 7f, although I know of two ex-
treme cases of 8 inches being required. Nevertheless, a
vecy perceptible difference in point ofabsolute size between
those hats in general request among the higher classes of
the.community and those of the common and lower ranks,
must be obvious to every hatter who may choose to pay the
slightest attention to the subject. While we may state with
safety 71 to be the medium size of the latter, we are quite
certain of being within mark in stating the former to be 7t;
thus showing evidently the general size of the one class to
be a degree larger than that ofthe other. It is no difficult
matter to perceive that a head requiring a hat 6l, hatters'
measurement, is very small compared with one requiring
7i ; indeed the former is by the hatters here considered a
boy's hat, and is very seldom required for an adult; nor is
the latter size often required, as already mentioned. This
will be readily believed by those who are aware that it would
require a head equal in circumference to Dr Chalmers's to
fit it. Itis.the ignorance ofthe vast difference that l ofan
inch ofhatters' meaiurement gives on the .absolute size that
causes so many mistakes about the general size of heads.
Hence we are daily desired to send a hat half or even a
whole inch larger than another specified, or are requested
• P. 160 of this volume.
172 ON THE SIZE OF HATS,
to make this hat an inch larger, because it is too high ;
whereas l• or at most!• is all that is required.
Your correspondent, in speaking of the superiority ofthe
Scotch head, in point of absolute size, over that of the
English, recalls to my memory a circumstance which hap·
pened a number of years ago, and which shews that the
fact is not unfamiliar to those whe are in the practice of
sending large quantities of hats to Scotland. An agent for
one of the most extensive English houses was soliciting
fresh orders, when my father observed, that he had just re-
ceived a very large quantity from his house, which, from
their small size, were quite unsaleable. When the sizes
were mentioned, the agent observed, it was surprising the
house should so far forget itself, being well aware such sizes
would never do to send to Scotland. Obserutions which
I have made since have fully confirmed the truth of these
statements. . ·
· It is of some importance to observe, that it is the width
of the head at the basilar region, and its extreme length
from spine to Individuality, more than its absolute size, that
determines the size of the hat. Our weavers afford a strik-
ing proof ofthis ; their heads, generally speaking, are thin
and high, which enables us to fit them with hats ofa smaller
size than some who have, in point of fact, smaller heads,
but who, from having the greater part in the basilar and
occipital regions, require hats of a greater width. It has
often afforded me much pleasure to observe the striking
correspondence between the form of the weavers' head and
their mildness of character. I have heard this attributed
to their circumstances; but I believe that tiery turbulent
spirits, who find themselves unable to exercise that patient
endurance so necessary to a weaver, either never enter the
trade, or leave it after a very short trial. There are some
who cannot believe otherwise than that good conduct must
always be the result of necessity. No Phrenologist, how-
ever, would believe that, with Combativeness and Destruc-
tiveness large, they could manifest that patient endurance
ofprivation which is one oftheir characteristics. Nor is the
1correspondence between the cerebral development and the
.manifestationsofthose with the other conformations alluded
to leu striking, although less pleasant to observe. It is the
configuration that obtains among the lowest grades of so-
ON THE SIZE OF HATS; 173
ciety here, such as · our porters, carters, fish-drivers, and
scavengers, from whom nothing but the most vigorous
manifestations of animalism are to be found. Indeed, from
all the observations I have been able to make, I am con-
vinced that the situation of the individual in society is often
an index to his development ; at least, I often find the worst
configurations in the lowest offices, although the reverse of
this does not always hold good. .But no one can justly re-
~ the mere possession of that distinction which flows
from wealth alone as the only criterion by which to judge
of moral worth. A popular writer justly remarks, that
"Nobleness ofcondition is not essential as a school forrio-
bleness of character; nor does a man require to be high in
office ere he can gather around his pers0n the worth and
the lustre of a high-minded integrity. It is delightful to
think, that humble life may bejust as rich in moral grace and
moral grandeur as the loftiest places ofsociety;-thatas true
a dignity may be earned by him who, in homJiest drudgery,
plies his conscientious task, as by him who stands intrusted
with the fortunes of an empire ;-that the poorest menial
in the land who can lift a hand unsoiled by the pilferments
that are within his reach, m.ay have achieved a vict.ory over
temptation to the full as honourable as the proudest patriot
can boast, who has spurned the bribery of courts away from
him. It is cheering to know, that, among the labours of
the field and of the work-shop, it is possible for the peasant
to be as bright in honour as the peer, and have the chivalry
of as much truth and virtue to adorn him.n
This, phrenologically speaking, is often the case ; for it
is very conceivable that mild, and gentle, and unassuming
individuals are _easily ' '
"Checked bl the scoff of pride, by envy's frown,
And poverty s unconquerable bar;" . ,
and this they have often to encounter from those who hold
superior stations in society, which are as frequently gained
by powerful propensities and intellect, as by a predomi-
nance of the intelleetual and moral faculties. I have fre-
quently considered it would be very desirable to take notes
of the development of the diH'erent classes ofworkmen, and
then notice their mechanical and moral manifestations.
This I shall endeavour to accomplish as soon as my leisure
174 TWO iUtMARKABLE ·CASES OF
time .will ·permit. ·Semien, for example, have a character
quitetheirown, and whieh, in the·present state of my know•
ledge concerning their cerebral configuration generally;I am
aptto consider is in a great measure the result of their cir-
cumstances. On board they may be said to be a community
of equals, where Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness are less
frequently called into activity, whilethe daily perils to which
they are exposed, have a direct tendency to rouse their
Adhesiveness and Benevolence in the rendering of mutual
assistance; hence we find them open, generous, a.nd:atfec-
tionate;-strangers to that selfishness and dissimulation
which are but-too prevalent on shore. This, at least, so
far as my observation goes, is the prevailing character of
men bred from their earliest :years to the sea-service ; al.
though there .must be many exceptions in peculiar situa•
tions, and especially in time of war. ·
It would be easy to multiply observations such as the
foregoing in various classes of society ; but., being unwill-
ing to trespass too .much upon your indulgence in giving
these remarks a place in .your Journal, I shall conclude by
subscribing·myselfyour's, &c. · , T. 1.
TWO REMARKABLE CASES OF SPECTRAL ILLUSION.•
THE following very distinct and .interesting narrative
was read to the London Phrenological Society, and·kindly
communicated 'to us for insertion in the Phreiwl<Jgical
Jqurnal, by its learned author, a member of the English
bar•.
· In December 1823, A. was confined to his bed .by i,n..
flammation of .the chest, and was supposed by his medical
attendant to be in considerable danger. . One night, while
unable to sleep from pain and fever, he saw, sitting in a
chair, on the left side of his bed, a female figure, which he
immediately recognised to be that of a young lady who
·died about two years before. His first feeling was surprise,
and perhaps a little alarm ; his second, that he was suft'er-
ing from delirium. With this impression, he put his head
under the bedclothes, and after trying in vain to sleep, as a
test of the eoundness of his mind, he .went through a lcm~
· • Vol. v. No. 111, j>p. 210 and 819. ,
SPECTRAL ILLUSION• . 175
and complicated process of metaphysical reasoning. · He·
then peeped eut; and saw the figure in the same situation
and position. He had a fire, but would not allow a candle
or nurse in the room. A stick was kept by his side, to
knock for the nurse when he required her attendance.
Being too weak to move his body, he endeavoured to touch
the figure with the stick ; but, on a real object being put
upon the chair, the imaginary one disappeared, and was
not visible again that night.
The next day he thought of little but the vision, and
expected its return without alarm, and with some pleasure.
He was not disappointed. It took the same place as be.
fore, and he employed himself in observations. When he
shut his eyes or turned his head, he ceased to see the
figure; by interposing his hand he could hide part of it;
and it was shown like any mere material substance, by the
rays ofthe fire which fell upon and were reflected from it.
As the fire declined it became less perceptible, and. as it
went out, invisible. A similar appearance took place on
several other nights, but it became less perceptible, and its
visits less frequent, as the patient recovered &om his fever.
He says the impressions on his mind were always pleas-
ing, as the spectre looked at him with calmness and regard.
He never supposed it real ; but was unable to account for it
on any philosophical principles within his knowledge.
In the autumn of 1825, A.'s health was perfectly restor-
ed, and he had been free from any waking vision for nearly
eighteen months. Some circumstances occurred which
produced in him great mental excitement. One morning
he dreamed of the figure, which stood by his side in an
angry posture, and asked for a locket which he usually wore.
He awoke and saw it at the toilet, with the locket in its
hand. He rushed out of bed, and it instantly disappeared.
During the next six weeks its visits were incessant, and
the sensations which they produced were invariably horri:.
ble. Some years before, he had attended the dissection of
the body of a woman in a state of rapid decomposition.
Though much disgusted at the time, the Stlbject had been
long forgotten ; but was recalled by the union of its pu-
trescent body with the spectre's features. The visits ·were
not confined to the night,· but frequently occurred while
·several pei:sons. were_in the .same room. They were re-
176 TWO.REMARKABLE CASES OF
peated at intervals· during the winter ; bot he was able to
get rid of them by moving or sitting in an erect position.
Though well, his pulse was hard, and generally from 90 to
100.
A. is a per8on of good education and literary habits. I
have not the slightest doubt of his veracity. He neyer
supposed the appearances above mentioned other than il·
lusions. He has always had a propensity towards the su-
pernatural, without any belief in it ; and he ascribes these
effects of imagination to the perusal of the Tales of Won-
der, and other ghost-storieil, when a boy. He will not al-
low me to lay before .the Society an account of his head,
as connected with this statement, as he would not like to
be called a dealer in the marvellous. I may, however, say,
that Ideality is large, and the reflective fac.'Ulties very good.
J.B. C.
It is evident that the author was not aware, when he
wrote, of the cases recorded in our Journal, vol. ii. p. 290,
and rerrinted in the present volume of Selections, p. 57 ;
especia.J.ly of the light thrown, by the comprehensive in-
stance of Miss S. L., on the nature and immediate cause
of such illusions in the morbid activity, and of course in-
ternal action, sometimes but not alwayi. attended with acute
pain, .of the portions of the brain through which Wonder,
Form, Size, Colouring, and often others of the knowing
perceptions are produced. The communication is only the
more valuable, that neither the author nor his informant A.
can possibly be charged with suiting an instance to a
theory ; but have narrated appearances as they were expe-
rienced and described; and which, unknown to both, tally
so exactly with the other instances to which we have al-
luded, as to leave no doubt of their being the effects of the
same causes.
It is not said that local pain was felt by A.; but his pulse
was from 90 to 100, and the brain evidently in over-ex-
citement.• When such illusions occur to a patient quite
conscious and rational, they are not imputed to the inter~
• He was relieved by holding the bead in an upritfht p«11ture..
This was the experience of MiBS S. L. ; a proof of an intemal me-
chanical cause,.perhaps in the circulation or preBSure of the blood,
and almost suggesting a topical remedy, or alleviation.
SPECTRAL ILLUSION. 1 177
nal excitementof delirium, but to an external object. Even
Samuel Johnson is said to have believed in ghosts. It is a
rare instance of reflecting power to treat a real percep-
tion,-for the perception is real,-as A. did, as a mental il-
lusion.
We shall conclude the present paper, by relating a case
not less remarkable than that above detailed :
Happening, on a very recent visit to the country, to be
in company with Mrs D., the phenomena of spectral illu-
sions chanced to be mentioned. Mrs D. took an especial
interest in the discussion, as she had experienced both il-
lusions and local pain. She gave that pointed and clear
account of both which we should expect from a well-edu-
cated, intelligent,· and candid woman. In her waking hours
this lady was literally tortured with horrid faces glaring at
her, and approaching close to her in every possible aggra-
vation of horror. . She was making a tedious recovery in
childbed when these symptoms troubled her. Besides the
forms, which were of natural colour, though often bloody,
she was perplexed by their variation in size, from colossal
to minute. Mrs D. had also entire human figures; but th~y
were always as minute as pins, or even pinheads, and were
in great confusion and numbers, indicating morbid action
of Order and Number. Like Mr John Hunter, too, and
the opium-eater, Mrs D. had illusive perceptions in that
function of Weight which gives the perception of equili-
brium, or just relation to gravitation. She was dreadfully
annoyed with the sensation of descending without the
means of stopping. The opium-eater experienced falling
as if for millions of miles, and considered that illusion the
most insupportable of the many horrible ones which punish-
ed the insane debauchery of his pernicious habit. The
only other illusion suffered by Mrs D. was flashing light,
shewing, as in Miss S. L., over-excited Colouring. The
illusions did not, in her case, present entire spectres, re~
cognisable as known individuals ; but, like some of Miss S.
L.'s and the opium-eater's, were visitations of what the lat-
ter calls " the tyranny of the human face." ·
Mrs D. then described the pain which accompanied her
illusions, viz. acute .pain in the upper part, or root of the
nose, the seat of the organ of Form, and all along the eye-
brows, which takes in Individuality, Size, Weight, Colour-
ing, Order, and Number.
178
PHRENOLOGICAL ANALYSIS OF ELOQUENCE.•
Principal Campbell, in his work on the Philosophy of
Rhetoric, which has long been and still is a standard guide, ·
defines eloquence in its greatest latitude, " that art or talent
by which discourse is adapted to its end ;" and quotes Quin-
tilian, " dicere secundum virtutem orationis ;-scientia_
bene dicendi." Dr Campbell admits that his definition · is
much more comprehensive than the common acceptation of
the term eloquence, but, nevertheless, adopts it for two
reasons : Ist, It is best adapted to the subject of his essays
(scarcely a test of the absolute correctness of a definition) ;
and, 2dly, It corresponds with Cicero's notion of a perfect
orator, "qui dicendo, animos audientium et docet, et delec-
tat, et permovet." It is plain that Cicero does not warrant
Dr Campbell's very extensive definition ; for many a dis-
course is perfectly adapted to its end which neither in-
structs, nor delights, nor strongly moves. Cicero, how-
ever, calls that an eloquent discourse which, at one and the
same time, does all the three ; and, as will appear in .the
sequel, the Roman is more phrenological in his definition
tl>an the Scottish rhetorician.
Dr Blair adopts substantially Campbell's extensive de-
finition. " To be eloquent is to speak to the purpose;"
and " eloquence is the art of speaking in such a manner as
to attain the end for which we speak." This elegant writer,
however, soon limits his definition, which, he says, com-
prehends all the different kinds of eloquence, whether cal-
culated to instruct, to persuade, or to please. But as the
most important subject of discourse is action, the power of
eloquence chiefly appears when it is employed to influence
conduct and persuade to action. As it is principally with
reference to this end that it becomes the object of art, elo-
quence may, under this view of it, be defined the art of
persuasion."
Eloquence, etymologically interpreted, is speaking out ;
in other words, raising the voice to harangue a multitude :
and this its original characteristic has, by the figure of
speech senecdoche, continued to give it a name, whatever
degree of " image, sentiment, and thought," beyond what
•By James Simpson, VoL v. No. 18, p. 165.
ELOQUENCE. 179
belongs t.o common discourse, from the howling appeal .of
the savage, through all the st.ages of reasoning and.rhet.o-
ric, up t.o the impassioned yet clear and logical speech of
the. orat.or of civilization, is therein comprehended. But
the name eloquence has been extended yet farther ; it has
been borrowed t.o distinguish a mode of composition and
expression where there is neither haranguing nor speaking
out·; namely, that effusion of imagery and sentiment with
whieh the poet exalts and enriches even his prose, and t.o
which no 1>rat.or ever reaches who is not a poet. " ·Song,"
says one of the masters, " is but the eloquence of truth ;"
truth t.o nature, in ..the widest, the most eloquent sense of
that high ternt... . •
. .
.But the question recurs, What is eloquence in it:aelf-it
matters ·not whe~er written or spoken, said or sung,--as
-distinguished fropi all other kinds of discourse, each kind
presumed .fitted t.o its own end ? The grand advantage
possessed by a phrenological over every other test of the
soundness of a theory on any point of anthropology, con-
aists in its instant appeal t.o the primitive faculties of the
humae mind, to .which faculties the whole of nature bears.a
definiw and easily-observed relation. . It is for want of such '
a guide that the theories, even of the most venerated lead-
et'll of the old school, vanish in vague generalities. When
Campbell .says that eloquence is either " instructive; ima-
ginative, pathetic, or vehement;" tending " t.o enlighten the
understanding, please the imagination, move the passions,
or influence the will ;" when Blair writes, that .eloquence
" either instructs, pleases, or persuades," which is a trans-
lation of Cicero's " <kx:et et dekctat et permovet," but with
.the disjunction instead of the conjunction; the reader who
thinks phrenologically is left quite unsatisfied. He derives
.no definite idea from Campbell's enumeration ; .and on the
strength of the phrenological fact, that every faculty ofthe
mind is pleased in its own exercise, he is forced t.o reject
Blair's distinction between teaching and pleasing as nece8-
881ily different things ; for they are often most closely con..
nected. Cicero avoids this error by using the conjunction ;
but even Cicero's view is indefinite. The phrenologist in-
quire&, What is it t.o be instructed, t.o be pleased, or,t.o be
persueded? It is t.o have certain of ourjrimitive faculties
in a certain way affected or excited ; an a great step will
. ·.-·- -=-
180 ELOQUENCE.
be gained when, dismissing such generalities as instructiOn~
pleasure, and persuasion, we can say definitely, that elo-
quence is speech which is ultimately addressed to and ex·
cites certain of our primitive faculties in a certain way.
The faculties being all comprehended in the two cla1111e~
of the intellect and the feelings, eloquence must be addreea-
ed to faculties in both or either of these classes. There
seems no difficulty in now seeing our way. No one who
has listened to true eloquence, or seen its effect on others,
can for a moment doubt that it rouses feeling ; and that
speech which falls short ofthis effect is not eloquence, what-
ever may be its distinctive character and merits. But speech
which does fall short of exciting any of the feelings must,
nevertheless, of necessity put into greater or less activity
the intellect of the hearer ; in other words, furnish him with
ideas, or add to his knowledge, and there.stop. A prelec-
tion on the flk.'ts and phenomena of an inductive science,
however it may delight the knowing faculties, is both de-
livered and heard with all the tranquillity of the intellect,
and rouses nothing that can be called feeling. The same
is true of logical deduction and mathematical reasoning ad-
dressed to yet higher intellectual faculties, the reflecting ;
these also are listened to without the least admixture of
feeling. What, then, it may be asked, is the use to the
orator of the intellectual faculties of his hearers ? I would
answer, Of such use, that he would speak in vain if his
.hearers had no intellectual faculties ; but so he would if
they had no sense of hearing : without the ears and without
the intellect as the <fuannels, the speaker could not reach
the feelings. He must furnish ideas to rouse the feelings ;
but as the feelings do not form ideas, but merely and blind·
ly/HI, the speaker must approach them through the chan-
nel of the intellect. Now this is a distinction which phre-
nology alone clearly points out, and which removes the
difficulty under which the rhetoricians of the old school la-
bour. They make no distinction between addressing the
intellect ultimately, and addressing the intellect as a me-
dium of excitement of the feelings. When they speak of
addressing what they vaguely call the passions, there is no-
thing in their words, nor in those of the metaphysicians on
whose theories they found, to indicate that they even sus-
pected that the passions must be addressed through the
ELOQUENCB. 181
medium of the intellectual faculties. It is therefore they
hold, and hold erroneously, that one species of eloquence
does no more than instruct. They mistake the address to
the intellect as a channel to the feelings, for an address to
the intellect as the ultimate object of the address, and con-
clude that there is an eloquence which instructs the intel-
l~t, and goes no farther. Whenever it does so, we may
rely upon it, ,it possesses not one quality of eloquence. I
by no means deny, that a discourse ultimately addressed to
the intellect may have its own peculiar beauties of the
highest order ; I only contend, that these are something
different from eloquence. It has been well said of Euclid's
demonstrations, that in more, or fewer, or other words, or
words otherwise disposed, they could not have been so well
expressed. Such composition pleases ; but it pleases intel-
lectually, and moves no feeling. It has likewise been said
of Playfair's mathematical expositions, that there is in them
an exquisite adaptation to their purpose, which has induced
some to call them eloquent. They give intellectual plea-
sure, but they stir not a single feeling ; and therefore it is
to misapply a term meant for another thing, to call them
eloquent.•
If it be essential to eloquence to move the feelings of the
bearer, it is no less essential that the same feelings should
be active in the speaker, and be manifested by every means
of manifestation. " Si vis me jlere, dolendum eat primum
ipai tibi." .
If we have now arrived at a distinctive idea of that thing ,
called Eloquence, its definition follows naturally ; namely,
speech, prompted bu one ()1' m()1'e ofthe affictitJefaculties ()1'
feelings in vivid activitv in the speaker, calculated to e:rcite
to vivid activitg the same feelings in the hearers. Cicero
with much propriety uses the word permovere. Assuming,
then, that the affective faculties are both the sources and
the objects of eloquence, it obviously follows, that elo-
quence must exhibit varieties of character corresponding
not only to the number ofthese faculties, but to their greatly
• An ingenious friend has su~ested, that such admirably adapted
dillcOUJ'Bes delight Ideality, which feel. the exquisite and perfect. If
ihey owe their beaut.y to this feeling, then ·on the present theory,
they are so far eloquent. I am rather inclined, however, to think.
that the intellectually exquisite pleases the intellectual faculties
onlf, and that it ia rather t-0 extend the function of ldeRlitv to admit
ite mterfereuce. ·
182 ELOQUENCE.
more numerous combinations. It were in vain to follow
out the inquiry so minutely ; and it is needless ; inasmuch
as a twofold division of eloquence, corresponding to the
twofold division of the feelings into the propensities and
the sentiments, will suit our present purpose. One li-
cense only I shall use, and include in the class of the
propensities die lower and selfish sentiments of Self-esteem
and Love ·of Approbation ; a liberty this, rather with
phrenological classification than with experience ; for
these sentiments ·are, de facto, very close companions of
the propensities, and never fail to characterize the lower
species of eloquence. The propensities chiefly addressed
by eloquence are Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, Ad-
hesiveness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Acquisitive~
ness, and Secretiveness. The eloquenc~ of the sentiments
comes from and is directed to Benevolence, Justice, Hope,
Veneration, ldeality, and Wonder. Cautiousness and Firm-
ness have a hieratic character, and may be found acting
along with the propensities or with the sentiments, accord-
ing to circumstances.
As Phrenology has established an ascending scale of
dignity from the lowest propensities to the highest senti-
ments, ·we are at once furnished with a coincident meter
to estimate the rank of the eloquence which springs from
and is addressed to particular feelings. We are presented
with a critical gauge by which we can determine, a
priori, the kinds of eloquence which would respectively
.move savages, barbarians, civiliZed men ofantiquity, and ci-
vilized men of modem times ; for it is established phreno-
logical doctrine, that these respective grades of advance-
ment of human society, are terms convertible into others
that express the corresponding degree of prevalence, in a
given community, of the propensities or the sentiments.
The propensities, preponderating, we have barbarism ; the
sentiments, civilization. A speaker cannot manifest feel-
ings which he himself very weakly or scarcely at all eicpe-
riences ; while it is equally plain that an audience cannot
be moved unless feelings are addressed which they possess ;
and this is true not only with regard to different nations
and different ages, but with regard to different classes of
the same people. Witness the different character of
i!peeches uttered on the same day in St Stephen's Chapel
and in Palace-Yard. It is accordingly true, that we do
·ELOQUENCE. 183
find the character of the eloquence of any tribe or nation
precisely commensurate with its degree of civilization. We
are in possession of specimens of savage eloquence--of bar~
.barous eloquence-of ancient eloquence~d of modern
eloquence, and I shall now proceed to compare them.
I. The eloquence of the savage addresses exclusively the
propensities ; and, applying the simplest and most palpable
facts as the exciting cause, reaches the proprnsities by no
-higher intellectual medium than Individuality. In the
.very minute account of the Tonga Islands, given by Mari-
ner, who was long resident there, we have several of the
speeches of their warlike chief, Finou, and others of the
natives. The chief of Vavaoo was assassinated:
with the con-
nivance of Finou, and, as he lay dead, a young warrior, who
believed his father .had been killed by a conspiracy of the
deceased's, rushed forward, and striking the body several
times, thus apostrophized it:-" The time of vengeance is
come ! thou hast been long enough the chief of Vavaoo,
living in ease and luxury ; thou murderer of my father ! I
would have declared my mind long ago if I could have de-
pended on others ; not that I feared death by making thee
my enemy, but the vengeance of my chief, Toobo Toa,
was first to be satisfied ; and it is a duty I owe tbe spirit
of my father to preserve my life as long as possible, that I
might have the satisfaction to see thee thus lie dead." He
then repeated his blows several times. Savage Veneration
and Adhesiveness mark this picture ; but Self-esteem and
Destructiveness form its strongest lights. Counter-re-
venge, ·of course, animates the harangue ofthe adopted son
of the fallen chief, which is also given. Vengeance for
the same murder calls forth a female orator, who taunts the
men with their hesitation. I need not extract it.
2. The barbarian grade shows little or no improvement
in moral feeling. The speech of Adherbal the Numidian,
the brother of Hiempsal, who was murdered by Jugurtha,
is preserved by Sallust ; and is stated by that historian to
have been poured forth to the Roman senate, to move
them to assist him to revenge his brother's death, and de-
·throne the usurper. It is an effusion of unqualified fero-
city and selfishness. After inveighing against Jugurtha
with every epithet of.vituperation, and painting his own
"WF9llgs es an exiled prince, with, of course; a full detail of
his brother's gory wounds and bloody shroud, he thus con-
184 ELOQUENCB.
eludes :-" So far from having it in my power to revenge
his death, I am not master of the means of securing my
own life ; so far from being in a c:Ondition to defend my
kingdom from the violence of the usurper, I am obliged to
apply for foreign protection for my own person. Fathers I
·Senators of Rome ! the arbiters of the world ! to you I fly
for refuge from the murderous fury ofJugurtha. By your
affection for your children, by your love for your country,
by your own virtues, by the majesty of the Roman com-
monwealth, by all that is sacred, and all that is dear to you,
deliver a wretched prince from undeserved, unprovoked
injury, and save the kingdom of Numidia, which is your
oum property, from being the prey of violence, usurpation,
and cruelty." This concluding adjuration was well suited
to the Roman senate, and we all know the result ; but it is
evident, that in no part of it, with the exception of one al-
lusion to Veneration, such as it was among the Romans,
does the orator address a feeling of higher rank than the
propensities and lower sentiments. The touch was skil-
folly added to the picture that Numidia was the Roman's
own property ; but, above every other part of the adjura-
tion, that touch degrades at once the speech, the speaker,
and the audience.
Livy has preserved or composed-it matters not which
for our purpose-the speech of the elder Brutus over the
dead body of Lucretia. This ferocious effusion is too well
known to require to be quoted here. ·.
3. The third stage of eloquence is found in that degree
of civilization at which the Greeks and Romans arrived ;
namely, a high attainment of knowledge and advance in re-
flective culture, but still allied with a decided predominance
of the animal propensities and lower sentiments. Perhapi;
there is no better test of the true level of characteF of those
imposing communities, than is afforded by the kind of elo-
quence which suited them, respectively. That level is com-
prised in a word. They had advanced in Intellect, but
stood still in Sentiment ; they equalled the most accom-·
plished modems in philosophical acumen and didactic power,
while they were but a little beyond the Tonga islanders in
]>ractical morality. . . .
In the age of Pericles, the 'Athenians are held, by a sort
of habit of opinion, to have been a highly-refined and civi·
KLOQUENCE• 185
. )ized people ; but assuredly they were not civilized in mo-
ral feeling. Thucydides has· preserved an ·oration spoken
, by Pericles, at the public funeral of the first Athenians·who
fell in the Peloponnesian war; which lengthened and use-
·less bloodshed lies mainly at that orator's own door. Aft.er
expressing a fear, not unfounded, that the strangers pre-
sent might not assent to his high eulogies on his own coun-
trymen, the orator, this hazard notwithstanding, launches
out into the most extravagant praises of the Athenian
bravery, <>f the Athenian government-borrowed by other
states, but original at Athens-the grandeur of Athens,
the elegant luxury of Athens, the splendid beneficence
of Athens, the accomplishment of all Athenians-" I shall
sum up what yet remains by only adding, that our Athens,
in general, is the school of Greece ; and that every single
Athenian among us is excellently formed, by his personal
qualifications, for all 'the various scenes of active life, act-
ing with a most graceful demeanour,'' Then follows an
effusion of ultra-extravagant exaltation of Athenian prowess
and power. It needs no great phrenological skill to per-
ceive that suc;h dull nationality evinces nothing more than
the activity to abuse of the inferior sentiments of Self-es-
teem and Love of Approbation. Then follows, as may be
.expected, an eulogy on those who died valiantly for sµch a
country. They have various merits, but" one passion there
was in their minds muck stronger than these, the desire of
wngeance on their enemies. ·Regarding this as the m08t
honourable prize of dangers, they boldly rushed towards
the mark to seek retJenge, and then to satisfy those second-
arg passions!'*
. Such was the sum of Grecian virtue in the age of Peri-
cles; and it never reached higher. When we contemplate
the war, too, in which the heroes died, we find itorie sought
.. for and inflamed by Athens ; carried on by her with in-
justice, cruelty, and pride ; and ending in the most lament-
. able humiliation that ever visited such outrages on moral
sentiment. The other orators of Greece~for they were a
numerous corporation--sounded the same notes, all address-
ed to the war-making f3C!Jlties ; and it is curious that it
was always an article in the demands of a successful epemy,
• These, a•d the subsequent extract& from ancient OJatore, are
tak.en from Leland's ti:anslations. . .
Q
1~ XLOQU:&NCJI,
that the orators -should be delivered up to them ; a proof
that they were moat justly considered as the grand excitei:s
of the warlike propensities in so·exciteable a people as te
.·Athenians. It were tedious to cite ·examples from other
remains which have descended to 'our time, but we cannot
omit Demosthenes, who affordsa specimen of the eloquence
of Greece·about a century after Pericles harangued, cheat-
ed; and ruined the Athenians. The speeches against
Philip are manifestations of the highest intelkctual power.
They are models of political wisdom and just reasoning,
with a fertility:of resource for his country that must have
greatly strengthened his reasonings, and his appeals to the
reigning passions of his audience. With the intellectual
merit 'of his orations we of course have nothing to do; far-
ther than in so far as ·it confirms the positi<>n, that a people
who are highly enlightened intellectually, may still be low
.in moral ciVilization.·· These ·able reasonings, ·which come
through the channel of the reflecting faculties, attempt no
higher region ofthe Athenian head than Cautiousness, Love
ofApprobation; and Self-esteem. They frequently stoop
much lower, ·to Destructiveness, Combativeness, Acquisi-
tiveness; and Secretiveness; but they ne-
ver rise higher.
" When, therefore, 0 my countrymen I when will you ex-
ert your vigour? When roused by some event ( .When
fOrced by some necessity ( What, then, are we to think of
our present condition? To freemen,:the disgrace att.ending
our misconduct is, in my opinion, the most urgent neee&-
~ity. Or say, is it your sole ambition to wander through
the·public places, each ·il'tquiring of the other' What new
advices?' Can any thing be more new than that a man of-
Ma-
cedon shall conq~r the Athenians, and give law to Greece?
' Is Philip dead·? No, but he is sick.' How are you con-
cerned in these rumours? Suppose that he should ~t
some fatal stroke, you would soon raise up another Philip,
.if your interests are thus disregarded.'' After shewing, .in
many powerful ways, that the Athenians themselves were
the cause of Philip's success, and again reproaching his
.countrymen for believing in idle I'UJllOur&, instead of acting
promptly_
and vigorously, he says: " Let us disregard th~
nimoors ; let us be persuaded of this, tko,t he is ouf enemy,
that ke hath spoiledus ofotir dominions, that we have long
been subject to his insolence ; that whatever 'We expected
to be done for us by others_hath proved against :iis ; that illl
·BLOQUBNCL 187
the resource left us is in ourselves ; that if we are not in-
clined to carry our arms abroad, we may be forced to en-
gage here. Let us be persuaded of this, and then shall we
be freed from these idle tales. For we need not be soli-
citous to know what events will happen ; we may assure
ourselves that nothing good can happen unless you grant
the due attention to affairs, and be ready to act as becomes
Athenians." In these short quotations, we may say is com-
prised the germ of all the Philippics. It is amplified in
various ways, and presented in many forms, and with the
advantage of admirable logic; but the insult to the Athe-
nian name is the head and front of Philip's offending, and
is protruded at every point to the eyes of the multitude. It
is impossible to conceive a more powerful appeal to Self-
esteem, put in words, and to give it more exquisite point,
concentrated in one phrase, than " that a Macedonian-a
barbarian-should subdue Athens !" Athens, of whose esti-
mate of herself the oration of Pericles may serve to convey
some idea. No orator ever included more in a single ex-
pression than Demosthenes. " You would raise up another
Philip," might be dilated into several sentences, but with
what a loss of force and effect!
We shall search the orations of Demosthenes in vain for
higher morality than we have now alleged to belong to
them; therefore the high estimation in which they have been
held fur above two thousand years, must be looked for in
some other qualities. On these all critics are agreed. He
was, if possible, a more consummate pleader than even Ci·
cero ; his style had a kind of magic and music peculiar to
itself, even in the impressive and sonorous Greek, quite be-
yond the power of translation or description. Even when
he had not the best side of the question, his powers of
rhetorical deception were unrivalled : his delusive reason-
ing, when employed, was not detected till ithad already pro-
duced its effect ; by means of subtle insinuation, he steered
clear of committing himself by assertion; and he could
put a meaning into silence itself more powerful than words
could convey. Quintilian says of him, that he had a power
of arraying his subject in majestic terror which alarmed
and electrified, without stooping to aggravate, still less to
exaggerate. The most prepossessed against the insolence
and tyranny of Athens are hurried along as they read in
' ;
·188 ELOQU.ENCJI,
the original Greek a speech of Demosthenes against the
presumptuous barbarian of Macedon; and share, even'at
this day, that jealousy, disdain, and impatience fur action,
with .which the orator filled the bosoms of the Atheuian
multitude. Quintilian and Cicero are rivals in the eloquence
with which they even describe the powers of Demosthenes ;
and the moderns have written volumes on that gifted being.
But I will venture to say, that in all their pages that vital
truth remains undiscovered-at leastit is unnoticed-dlllt
the morality of his orations is not exalted, and that all the
witchery of this syren of eloquence-as his rival Eschines
called him &om the melody of bis language-was thrown
away upon the baser passionsofhuman nature. We do not
require to take part in the controversy about his honesty,
his gold cup &om Harpalus, his alleged bribes &om Persia,
or his cowardice at Cheronea. Admitting his good faith,
his eloquence would still want the essential element of ora-
tori$1 supremacy, namely, an appeal to the moral senti-
ments.
We come now to Cicero, and in his eloquence we shall
find .the same excellencies and the same essential defect-a
defect which stamps his rank in the scale of eloquence with
that of Demosthenes, no higher than intellectually-civilized
barbarism. The moral sentiments in their purity and su-"
premacy are not found in Cicero ; and even if they had in-
fluenced himself, they would not have commanded the sym- .
pathy.of the Romans. It has often been remarked, that
Cicero's orations are more agreeable to read than those of
Demosthenes. This proceeds &om their being higher efforts
of literature, embracing a greater variety of subjects, and.
having a richer apparel of rhetorical ornament ; but it is ge·
nerally held that Demosthenes must have produced themost
powerful effect on his audience. It is plain that it is loss of
tillle to compare these two orators, or to decide their pre-
eminence, when each was pre-eminent in his own way. The.
Greek was close, clear, terse, rapid, simple, majestic ; the
Roman was copious, correct, ornate, magnificent. The
Greek. carried the citadel by storm ; the Roman took it
afkr.a regular and most beautifully-conducted siege. The
p~ading of the latter for Milo. is one of the most perfect
structure» of circumstantialevidence which·have in any age-
beeaaddresaed,to a judge's ear. The chain, not only strong.
iLOQUENCB. 189
but bright in every link, whereby be proves C1odius the
intended murderer, and Milo the brave self-defender, gives
evidence of intellectual accomplishment of the highest·or-
der ; while, as he goes along, he artfully touches the pride
and mnity Qf the Romans, and directs their hatred against
Clodius. Pompey hefottera, and with great effect inter-
prets the guards·that were meant to overawe him into his
intended and efficient protectors. But he speaks not to
higher feeling; and when, in his peroration, he cannotavoid
an appeal to benevolence and justice, which, he observes,
bathed every face in tears, except that of the heroic disin-
terested Milo, there is an artifice, a getting-up. a scenic
character about it, which speaks too plainly against the easy
every-day excitement ofthese high feelings which we should
find in the breasts of a more moral people. " By the im-
mortal gods, I wish (pardon me, 0 my country ! if what I
shall say for Milo shall appear impiety to thee), I wish that
Clodius not only lived, but were pr~tor, consul, dictator,
rather than be witness to a scene like this. How brave a
man is that, and how worthy of being preserved by you !
By no means, he cries ; the ruffian had the punishment he
deserved, and let me, if it must be so, suffer the punish-
ment I have not deserved. Shall this man, then, who was·
born to save hi11 country, die any where but in his country?
Shall he not at least die in the service of his cowitry ? Will
you retai.D the memorials of his gallant soul, and deny his
bodya gra,ve in Italy?· Who will give his voice for banish-
ing fnim ·this city, him whom every city on earth would be ·
proud to receive within .its walls? Happy the country that
.shall receive him! Ungrateful this if it shall banish him!
Wretched if it shall lose him I But I must conclude; my
tears will not allow me to proceed, and Milo forbids tears to
be employed in his defence. You, his judges, I beseech
and adjure, that in your decision you would dare to act as
you think. Trust me, your fortitude, your justice, your
fidelity will more especially be approved of by him; who, in
his choice of judges, has raised to the bench the bravest,
the wisest, and the best of men."
Nevertheless Milo was banished. Pompey's guards spoke
Pompey's will in another sort of eloquence; and this skilful
andbrilliant appeal,-in which, although there is both fear
and ilattery, there i.a some right feeling, although much Se-
cretiveness, yet some justice and mercy,-found no justice,
190 ELOQUENCJI!,
no fortitude, no fidelity, in the already enslaved Fon1m <if
Rome.
Cicero's accusation ofVerres, who had been proconsul of
Sicily, a monster of injustice and cruelty, who might chal-
lenge comparison with the choicest, either in republican or
imperial Rome, is throughout, as it could only be, a torrent
ofaccusations, details of enormities, with their clear proofs,
and loud, and indignant, and destructive cries for punish-
ment. The climax is, however, topped with an appeal to
Roman Self-Esteem, even in such a case as this. Gavius
Cosanus had been bound, scourged with rods, and crucified,
merely for 888erting his privilege of Roman citizenship.
This is sufficiently shocking ; but Cicero's chief horror is,
that Cosanus was a Roman citi7.en t " 0 liberty ! 0 sound
once music to a Roman ear! 0 sacred privileges of Roman
citizenship l once sacred ! now trampled upon l Is it come
to this ? Shall an inferior magistrate, who holds his power
from the Roman people, within sight of Italy, bind, scourge,
torture with hot irons, and at last put to the infamous death
of the cross, a Roman citizen! Shall neither the cries of
innocence expiring in agony, nor the tears of pitying spec-
tators, nor the majesty of the Roman commonwealth, nor
the fear of the justice of his country, restrain the want.en
cruelty ofa monster, who, in confidence ofhis riches, strikes
at the root of liberty, and sets mankind at defiance?"
May not the thunder of Cicero, and the example of Ver-
res, have increased, all over the empire, that dread of
scourging, or even binding a Roman citizen, which alarmed
the chief captain who had bound St Paul, in ignorance of
his privilege ?
The storm from Cicero's lips which burst upon the head
of Catiline, when he impudently entered the senate, in the
beliefthat he was yet undetected, has, as a storm, certainly
no equal in the history of oratory. In a harangue reproach..
ing a wretch like Catiline, there can scarcely be a nook
where the higher sentiments can find shelter. The elo.
quence of high feeling would as little have suited Cicero's
overwhelming denouncement of such a criminal, asit would
in ~ur day suit Bow Street and the Old Bailey. It isneed-
less therefore to swell this paper, which threatens to be so
long, with specimens &om that unmitigated roll of thunder,
which, while it carried ·the propensities, the whole animal
ELOQUENCE,
brain, to fever and frenzy, broke on a lower region than th~
11eat of mercy, piety, poetry, and hope; like the war of
clouds we have seen midway below, when we have reached
the clear and serene region of the mountain's summit.
Cicero spent his exile in Greece (for which of their be-
nefactors did not the true barbarians of Rome, as well as of
Greece, capriciously exile, ·and sometimes as caprieiously
restore ?) in studying the various systems of Greek phil&-
sophy. He came back warm from the Porch, a professed,
if not a·real Stoic. Indeed, where is the example ofany of
these vague and impracticable theories really influencing a
single Greek or Roman to a course of conduct which the
higher sentiments would approve? The leaven of that mix-
ture of benevolence and pride, the Stoic philosophy, it· has
been observed, tended to refine his writings mo.re than his
speethes. Had he addressed Stoics in the Senate, the Fo-
rum, or the Campus Martius, his speeches would not have
been suited to his audience. But it is just because the vcr
luptoous, selfish, and cruel Romans had no sympathy with
the human sentiments, that he found himselfconstrained to
limit his address to the reigning inferior feelings. Even
-when he appeals to justice, to generosity, to compassion, as
he did for his old preceptor, the poet Archias, the offering
·is debased by so large a proportion of the garbage which is
·the proper food of vanity and pride, that there is a positive
profanation ofthe first-named elements, in placing them in
such alliance. " Nor ought we," says Cicero, and it forms
·the key-note ofhis pleading," to dissemble this truth, lfhich
cannot be concealed, but declare it openly ; we are all in:
11uenced by the love of power, and the greatest minds have
·the greatest passion for glory." . .
··So far Cicero; and so high, but no higher, Roman virtue.
· 4. We come now to· the civilization of modern times,
which excels that of Greece and Rome, much less in its
intellectual, than in its moral qualities. Christianity has
wrought this ; Christianity from the Reformation ; for it
was previously abused, in the grossest manner, in the ser-
vice of the propensities. It is a revelation of the supremacy
ofthe moral sentiments. It came when the earth reeked
with blood, when all was selfishness and cruelty. Its first
voice on earth was " Fear not ;" its first promise, " Peace
and good-will to men." It teems, in every line and every
. -
·· '· .....
192 ELOQUENCE.
precept, with the essential benevolence of it.8 Author. · It
has done much to mitigate the selfishnei;s of the propensi-
ties ; and it is only another proof of the strength of these,
that it has not done more. But justice and good-will and
veneration are now the foundations of many modern insti-
tutions; although still there is much to do; at least, how-
-ever, these feelings are exercised, and there is an acknow-
ledged delight in exercising them. They are recognised
quite ·sufficiently for the purposes of the orator, and are
the foundations of the highest rank of eloquence.
I wish it could be said with truth, that all modern ora-
tory were addressed to the higher sentiments. Many a ha-
rangue in the British senate is disfigured by the propensi-
ties yet; many an oration on glory, and victory, and ven-
geance, we yet hear; many more advocating national mo-
nopoly and individual selfishness, and not a few expounding
and defending diplomatic cunning, lamentably mistaken for
political wisdom. Nay, it should make a son of Britain
blush to narrate it, we have heard many a speech of sordid
Acquisitiveness and hard-heartedness, when not only mer-
cy, but sound policy, cried aloud on the other side of the
-question. Into such speeches, if the present theory be just,
we need not look for specimens ofeloquence. It would be
a moral solecism to do so. But the higher sentiments as-
sert their supremacy in many a speech in the British par-
. liament, and do irradiate the orator's brow with their own
· proper glory, a glory which never shone on the orators of
ancient times. Perhaps the most ample scope for the elo-
quence of the higher sentiments ever offered to a delibera-
tive body, was afforded to the British parliament, and near-
ly about the same time, by India and Africa. The inde-
pendence of America had just been wrung from England,
and the lesson thereby taught her, that the physical and
moral laws of nature will not bend to a senseless national
pride. The most enduring fame of Chatham was founded
on the splendid manifestations of the higher sentiments
which characterized his appeals in behalf of the injured
Americans, contrasted with the paltry selfishness, pride, and
-petulance of his opponents, who thought it became a great
people to persevere< in injustice because they had begun,
and redounded to the national honour to continue a con-
test, which for yearshad brought nothing but defeat andfdis-
grace. The present age could not tolerate the puerile bra-
ELOQUENCE. 193
-vadoes and senseless nationalities which were vented in par-
liament, not only in occasional effusions, but systematically
by the ministers of the crown, as the reas01l8 for prosecut~
ing the war, in the seventh year of defeat, and a victorious
French army actually in America. Events, however,-in
other words, the Creator's Eternal Will, · that injustice
shall not prosper,-had settled the question. The bellige-
rent generation were forced to swallow the bitt:er potion of
moral humiliation ; and their successors, who had none of
the blame, now reap the benefit.
There was then time to look to the East, which, forgot-
ten while all the selfish passions took the direction of the
West, presented a picture of misgovernment quite unequal-
led in modern times. Enormous fortunes were amassed,
or rather conjured up, in four or five years, by young men ;
who returned home young men to enjoy them. There was
then not that degree of reflection or of light in the public
mind to raise the slightest suspicion that such sudden wealth
could not be honestly come by ; that no adequate value
could be given by a half-educated boy in the situation of a
i:esident at a native court, for the half million with which
he returned to England ; and that India, no more than other
places, is paved with gold, but depends for its riches upon
its agriculture and manufactures. While there was thus
no sort of check upon public men in public opinion, it would
appear incredible to the present generation, in which the
sentiments have made a very considerable advance, not only
what things were done, but systematically done, in the last,
as allowable and sagacious policy, by every department of
the government, from the first lord of the treasury down to
the excise watchman at a soap-boiler's or a distillery. No·!
the jobbil)g,· the oppression ·and extortion, the knavery,
treachery, and falsehood, which were thought to be the very
essence of clever policy, the grosser outbreakings even of
which were sure to be screened by a vote of the legislature
itself, would not now be believed. In treaties with the na-
tive powers in India, what were called " vague article's"
were inserted systematically, as dexterous and laudable
strokes of policy, whereby the nullity of the whole treaty
was meant to be produced.
Mr Burke, in his memorable speech on :Mr Fox's India
bill, pledged himself, in parliatnent:. to establish, and did
R
194 BLOQU:&NCJI,
establish, three positions : 1st, That the India Company
had sold every prince, state, or potentate with whom they
had come in contact ; 2d, That there was not a single treaty
ever made by them which they had not broken ; and, 3d,
That there was not a single prince that ever put trust in
the Company who was not utterly ruined ; and that none
was in any degree secure or flourishing, but in the exact
proportion to his settled distrust of and irreconcilable en-
mity to the English name.
As it was the prevalence of the propensities that pro•
duced all this, the evil could yield only t.o powerful and
incessant appeals to the higher sentiments. The former
class of feelings were yet too strong to give a chance for
immediate improvement, and votes on votes cleared the
guilty, and thereby sanctioned the abuses. But the seed
was cast into the earth-and let this ever encourage the
upright legislator-the mustard-grain of justice and mercy
was then sown, which now, like a greattree, shelters India
from scorching oppression, and protects every family oiher
vast population. No more rapid fortunes! No more eva•
sive treaties ! No more plunder t. No more of the insolent
oppression of barbarous conquerors !
.But the pestilence was rife when Burke directed his
splendid eloquence against it. Quotation of isolated pas-
uges from his speech on the India Bill can neither do that
fine effort of oratorical talent justice, nor illustrate satisfac-
torily the doctrine of this paper. The whole speech must
be read to impress on the mind the superior sentiment
which pervades it, and gives it a resistless moral force over
all who are blessed with even an average endowment of
moral feeling.
Nothing can be finer than the passage in which the ora-
tor prefers the Tartar to the English conquest of India;
and adds, " Animated with all the avarice of age, and all
the impetuosity of youth, they (the English) roll in one af-
ter another, wave aft.er wave, and there is nothing before
the eyes of the natives but an endless, hopeless prospect of
new flights of birds of prey and passage, with appetites
c~ntinually renewing for a food that is continually wasting."
The orator sketches rapidly, but powerfully, the demo•
ralizing effect, even on young men of worth, of the means
then. held legitimate for amassing sudden and princely
BLOQUBNCB. 195
-wealth, and the change of character t.o social virtue, on
doubling the Cape homewards, " Here the manufaeturer
and husbandman will bless the punctual hand, that in India
bas t.oi'n the cloth &om the foom, or wrested the scanty
portion of rice and salt from the peasant of Bengal, or
1mlDg from him the very opium in whieh he forgot his op-.
ptessions and his appressor." Aller sho'Wing the difficulty
of a reform, arising from the deep-rooted and wide-spread
interests it would atFect:; he says, " You hurt those who are
able t.o return kindness and resent injury, while you save
those who cannot so much as give you thanks. All these
things show the difficulty of the work, btit they show its
necessity too." Certainly nothing approaching t.o the ex-
alted t.one ofjustice arid benevolence which pervades the
whole of this speech was ever addressed either t.o the mobs
or the councils of antiquity.
I am forced t.o refer t.o Mr Fox's puhtished speeches for
his share in the same animating debate.
T.be concern felt by Britaitl for her Asiatic subjects in-
dicated a great advance ofjustice and mercy ; but still the
inhabitants of Hindostan were the subjects of Britain, not
utter)}' beyond the sphere of her sympathies, and in some
measure associated with her interests. But justice and
metcy t.o Hindostan yielded in high character t.o justice
and mercy t.o Africa; :in the feelings and happiness of
whOse sable population Britain had no'.direct interest be-
yond the claims of pure benevolence and justice. It was'
a grand moral spectacle, a nation coming forward and con-
fessing a national crime ; vowing its cessatiOn, and offering
the most generous reparation. Greece and Rome have
nothing in their hist.ory like this national manifestation of
the supremacy of the moral sentiments. When Wilber-
torce achieved an immortal name by his magnifitent po·
sit.ion, " that the slave-trade is contrary t.o justice, bu·
manity, and sound policy," what aspirations of orat.oric.t
distinction, what ambition to manifest the higher senti-
ments, arrayed in all the pride and grace of hwnan speech,
must he not have excited in many a generous bosom in
that memorable senate! Mr Fox's speech may be called a
torrent of indignation at the impudent selfishness and in-
justice, and the merciless cruelty of the slave-trade. For
this also we must refer to his published speeches.
196 ELOQUENCE.
But no oration for the abolition surpassed Mr Pitt'~ de-
·livered on the 2d of April 1792, in the power and splen·
dour of the higher sentiments. It has been called insin-
cere, because he did not follow it up with his paramount
ministerial influence, and carry the measure he so elo-
.quently advocated. It has been defended, and well de-
fended, on the ground that it should never be said, that
the selfish feelings of political subserviency should have
,any share in a vote which should be the @pontaneous offer-
ing of the nation's representatives in the nation's name.
None can read the speech and for an ini;tant believe it in•
sincere. But, at any rate, that question has no place here ;
for, even were the speech separated from the speaker, it is
an oration throughout addressed by the highway of the re-
.fleeting powers to the noblest feelings of human nature. J
can only afford room for its conclusion.
· " If we listen to the voice of reason and duty, and pur-
sue this night the line of conduct which they prescribe,
.some of us may live to see a reverse of that picture from
which we now tum our eyes with shame and regret. We
may Jive to behold the natives of Africa engaged in the
calm occupations of industry, in the pursuits ofjust and le-
gitimate commerce. We may behold the beruns of science
and philosophy breaking in upon their land, which at some
·happy period, in still later times, may blaze with full lustre,
And, joining their influence to that of pure religion, may
- illuminate and invigorate the most distant extremities of
"that vast continent."
. 01,1r own immediate day finds no falling off in the high-
toned eloquence of the sentiments. I cannot withhold one
·instance, the magnificent peroration of Mr Brougham's late
speech on the sta.te of the law of England ; and I am glad
to be able to show, by means of the reports, not only the
orator's manifestations, but those of his hearers, from the
.reported effect upon them of the climax of benevolence
and justice which he brought to bear upon them.
" A great and glorious race is open before you ; you
have it in your power to make your names go down to pos·
• ·. t:erity with the .fame of more useful importance attached to
· them than any parliament that ever preceded you. (Cheers.)
Y,ou h;ive seen.the greatest victor of the age, the conque-
ror of ItaJy and.~ermany? who, having _
achieved triumphs
ELOQUENCE; 197
more tran&cerident than any upon record, said, ' I shall go
down to posterity with the Code in my hand.' (Loud
cheering.) You have beaten that warrior in the field-
try to rival him in the more useful arts of peace. ( Crie~
ofhear, hear.) The glories of the regency, gorgeous and
brilliant as they were, will be eclipsed by the milder and
more beneficent splendour of the king. (Great and con~
tinued cheering.) The flatterers of the Edwards and the
Henries compared them to Justinian; but how much more
justly may it not be applied to our own sovereign, when to
his other glories this shall truly be added. (Cheers.) It
was ~d by Augustus, that he found Rome of brick ~nd
left it of marble-an honourable boast, and one which
veiled many of the cruel and the tortuous acts of his early
course i-but how much higher and prouder would be the
boast of our king, to have it said, that he found law dear
and ·left it cheap,-(cheers),-that he fuund it a sealed
book, and left it an open letter,-that he found it the pa-·
trimony of the rich, and left it to the security ofthe poor,-
that he found it a two-edged sword in the hands of the
powerfuJ, and left it a staff for the comfort of the feeble
and the friendless.-(Loud and long-continued cheering.yr
There remains yet another eloquence, which appeals to
a yet loftier combination of the human sentiments than
the speaker at the bar or in the senate is almost ever called
to address ; an eloquence utterly unknown to the ancients,
and beyond all question paramount among the. modernS--
the eloquence of the PuJpit. There are stops in the })u..
man instrument upon which the pleader or the senator
rarely lays his hand ; but the preacher is familiar with the
whole compass, and falls short of the spirit of his message,
if he fail to avail himself of the entire of its magnificent
capacities. Ifhe mellow not the firm touch of Justice with
the full swell of Benevolence ; if he temper not the note
of Fear with all the melody of Hope; if he wake not the
loud peal of Wonder, or give not their turn to the milder
and richly-varied harmonies of ldeality ; if, in fine, he
dwell not on the solemn key of Veneration, to which all
the other harmonies respond as the r~gulating diapa&oif of
all their combinations, till the breathless listener thrill1 in
every nerve, and sheds the pure tear of elevated huma-
nity ; if he fail in aught of the~, the preacher does not
•
198 ~LO.QUENCB,
conumpci the whow range of that lptiy vant.ag~·ground,
the plllpit,
WJien we atteJMl t.o the misdirected and spurious VeQe..
ration which here l)Jld there deforms an oration of anti..
quity, it is at once clear to us that du) deep feeling of ge..
fll'itie Yeneratfon is a grand ~dition to the structure of
modern eloquence, and the chief corner-stone of that edi..
fice of progreuion iµ e:x.cellence, which it is the purpose of
this paper to develope. Venerati.on is the v()ry f!J}crum of
that Jever which the preacher wields ; and it is a power all
his own, whic1i, add€d to his command of all thllt other pra-
tors employ, gives its ascendency to his over all other di&-
course. From Veneration emanates the eloquent solem..
nity of his prayers, the power of his adjurations and ~s,
'1ld all that stillness and awe which directs every eye h•
venward, as if the Creator himself were speaking thrOtJgh
his gifted servant. " WheI1 the Mas~r speaks," said Mas..
11illon, as a thunder-st.orm almost drowned his voice, and he
paused till one pi;:al had passed, only to pimse again 116
another rolled qn ; " When the :Master speaks," said he,
dwing an interval of death-like stillness, " it b.ecomes th~
servant to pe silent." No one endowed with an average
' pQrtion of the fiiculty cal) he.ar this, and require to ask what
i$ the eloqueµce of Veneration ; that eloqµence which ai
OJ1Ce lifts the soul to God's throne, imd humbles it at his
foo~..stool ; points to Omnipoten,::e, and then marvels what
is man that Omnipotence " is mindful of him, and deigns
t.9 visit him !"
; This paper is already too long for either extended or
numerous specimens of pulpit.eloqqence, as varied by the
senti.lnents or combinations of sentimeQts addressed. A
very few from Chitlmers shall suffice. As he avails him,.
self of the whole powers of the pulpit, and to a pitch not
exceedt;id by any spe!lker in any other field of eloquence,
on the principles on which the analysis ia built,-notwith..
standing settled notions and great names, both of which
P)lrenqlogy is iipt to weigh,...-1 am led to esPnm!:e his com..
pqi;ition more highly than tha.t of any orator of whom l
have yet spoken.
'fhere is an elqquence of ldel!lity, and of ldeality and
Wonder, ilisti111;t froJD the eloquen~ of the other senP·
mimt,s. Some iij>eakers are, by their organiiatioP, d~~r,
..
ELOQUENCE, 199
mined to'the one and not to the other; but Chalmers, al~
though he sometimes appears to address ldeality alone, or
with Wonder combined, without the other sentiments, it!
virtually combining all the sentiments, and producing the
deepest moral and religious effect by the union. Of Ve.
neration, as the key-note, he never loses sight. Although
ldeality, for example, predominates, Benevolence, Hope,
and Veneration beamforth in every thought ofthe following
beautiful conclusion of a discourse on " the expulsive power
of a new affection," in which the preacher shows the insuf-
ficiency of arguments drawn from the common topic of this
world's worthlessness, and the necessity of offering another;
distinct, and much hi~er attachment : ·
" Conceive a man standing on the margin of this green
world; and that,~when he looked towards it, he saw abund•
ance smiling upon every field, and an·tqe· blessings which
earth <:an afford scattered in profusion throughout every
family ; and the light of the sun sweetly resting upon all
the pleasant habitations, and the joys of human companion-
ship brightening many a happy circle of society ; and that
on the other side, beyond the verge of that goodly planet,
he could descry nothing but a dark and fathomless um·
known. Think you that he would bid a voluntary adieu;~
&c. " But if, during the time of this contemplation, some
happy island of the blest had floated by, and there had burst
upon his senses the light of its surpassing glories, and ii.
sounds of sweeter melody; and he clearly saw ,that theye ~
clearer beauty rested upon every field, and a more hear!J
felt joy spread itself among all the families; and he could
discern there a peace, and a piety, and a benevolence, whicn
put a moral gladness into every bosom, and united the
whole society in one rejoicing sympathy with each other,
and with the beneficent Father of them all. Could he far~
ther see that pain and mortality were there unknown, and;
above all, that signals of welcome were hung out, and an
avenue of communication waa made for him ; perceive you
not that what waa before the wilderness would become the
land of invit.ation, and that.now the world would be the wiJ..
derness ? What unpeopled space could not do, can be done
by space teeming with beatific scenes and beatific society.
And let the existing tendencies of the heart be what they
may to the scene that is near and visibly around us, still,.if
. 200 ELOQUENCE.:
another stood revealed to the prospectofman, either through
the channel of faith or the channel of his senses, then,
without violence done to the constitution of his moral na•
ture, may he die unto the present world, and live to the
·holier that. stands in the distance away from it." ·
Ideality and Wonder, seasoned with Cautiousness, and
tinely sustained by Veneration, unite to shed a glory alio.
gether peculiar around those exciting productions, the As-
tronomical Sermons, which, when delivered, wound up these
engrossing feelings to rapture, in a crowded audience, in
which mingled a large portion of the rank, the talent, and
the taste of the land.* After expatiating in terms of the
sublimest eloquence on the immensity of creation as reveal-
ed by the Telescope,-eighty millions of fixed stars, .and
every star a sun with its retinue of planets ; and what is
discovered, bafHing imagination as it does, being in all pro-
bability a relatively insignificant part of the suns and sys-
tems that roll in infinity ; so insignificant, that it might be
annihilated without being missed in creation,-the orator
.changes the direction of his hearers' Wonder, and, by a
magic word, unfolds the yet more bewildering theme of the
minute in creation, unfolded, and inferred to be infinite~ by
the.discoveries of the Microscope ! It is 1Jaid by those who
heard him, that such was the delight excited by the pro-
spective grasp, which every mind took in, of a creation yet
to be displayed, when the microscope was announced, that
the solemnity of the place alone restrained a shout of aP4
plause. The pin-tall silence was for an instant broken by
.the stir of a new and unexpected and most intense emotion,
and all was again still and breathless attention. " About
the time of the Telescope's invention, another instrument
was formed, which laid open a scene no less wonderful to
reward the inquisitive spirit of man. This was the Micro-
scope. The one led m~ to see a system in every star ; the
other leads me to see a world. in every atom. The one
taught me that this mighty globe, with the whole burden
ofits people and·of its countries, is but a grain of sand on
·the high field of immensity ; the other ·teaches me that
• The substance of these discourses formed a sermon preached
before his Grace the Lord High Commissioner to the General As-
sembly; the Judges, Barons, and other public functionaries pre-
sent.
ELOQUENCE, 201
every grain of sand may· harbour within it the tribes arid
the families of a busy population. The one told me of the
insignificance of the world I tread on ; the othet redeems it
&om all its insignificance ; for it tells me, that in the .leaves
of every forest, and in the flowers of every garden, and in
the waters of every rivulet, there are worlds teeming with
life, and numberless as are the glories of the firmament.
The one has suggested to me, that beyond and abo_ve all
that is visible to man, there may be fields of creation which
sweep immeasurably along, and carry the impress-of the·
Almighty's hand to the remotest scenes of the universe ;:
the other suggests to me, that within and beneath aJI that
minuteness which the aided eye of man has been able t<>
explore, there may be a region of invisibles ; and that,
could we draw aside the curtain which shrouds it from our
senses, we might there see a theatre of as many wonders
as astronomy has unfolded ; a universe within the compass
of a point so small as to elude all the powers of the micro-
scope ; but where the wonder-working God finds room for
the exercise of all his attributes ; where he can raise ano-
ther mechanism of worlds, and fill and animate them all
with the evidences of his glory." -
The favourite sentiment of.the lofty and generous mind
of Chalmers is Benevolence ; and he loves to accompany it
with all the beatitudes and buoyances of Hope. Infinitely
varied by the endless illustrations and amplifications of his
inexhaustible genius, surrounded and aided and exalted by
the brilliancy of all the other sentiments, Benevolence
is the most cherished inmate of his bosom, and out of its
fulness his mouth speaketh the most eloquently. Kindli-
ness, gentleness, and mercy, are held by him to be the only
irresistible engines of man's power over man. A debate on
a.question where feeling ran high had been conducted and
concluded in the General Assembly of the Church of Scot•
land, with that mutual forbearance and courtesy which, of
all men, most become divines. The feeling expanded in its
most fitting receptacle the heart of Chalmers ; and, with a
flight of Ideality too high for any wing but his own, he
thus burst forth, in peroration of a splendid tribute to his
favourite sentiment: "Were there, Moderator, between
that side of the house and this a wall of brass, fifty cubits
high and fifty cubits broad, give me the courtesy and the
202 8LOQUENCE.
kindliness of benevolence, and I will oYerleap it or under-
mine it."
But the highest application of his principle of the power
of gentleness that gifted preacher reserved for the contem-
plation of the votaries of religious zeal. Polemical contro--
veniy had run high in the north of Ireland, and the odium
tkologicvm had, with its baleful influence, gone far to stifle
all the charities of neighbourhood, when Chalmers appeared
at Belfast ; and, at the opening of the Presbyterian ch3pel
there, the diaputants and their partisans flocked to listen
to the most powerful preacher the world has yet seen, as he
gave forth for his text the invaluable precept, " The wrath
of man worketh not the righteousness of God."
To illustrate " the way in which the great message from
heaven to earth may be darkened, and altogether trans-
formed out of ita native character by the conflict and .con-
troversy of its interpreters," he takes the analogy of a
message of free and unqualified kindness from some earthly
superior, handled by the bearers ofit in the same way. The
message of good-will is, moreover, put in writing for greater
security ; but this intended advantage raises up " a whole
army of expounders," who, " in the pride and heat and
bitterness of argument, fall out among themselves," to
the utter destruction of the mild and merciful emb&88y of
peace by which the contentions are stirred, and who pervert
it, each to a message of vengeance on all who do not inter-
pret it precisely as he does. " It is thus," he continues,
" that, by the angry and lowering passions of these middle-
men, an obscuration might be shed on all the goodness and
the grace which sit on the brow of their superior ; and
when stunned, in the uproar of their sore controversy, with
the challenge and the recrimination and the boisterous as-
sertion of victory, and all the other clamours of heated par-
tila.nship, that these may altogether drown the soft utter-
ance of that clemency whereof they are the interpreters,
and cause the gentler sounds that issue from some high seat
of munificence and mercy to be altogether unheard."
After shewing the undoubted character of benevolence,
of mercy, and oflove to man, with no limitation ofmen, with
which the Christian message is fraught, all which is " as-
8erted" in its very terms, the preacher continues, after his
manner of rich amplification, to contrast this serene and
BLOQUENCBo 203
kindly and inviting aspect with the cloudy turbulence and
forbidding frown of sectarianism. .
" It is thus that the native character of Heaven'• met-
sage may be shrouded, at length, in subtle but most effec-
tual disguise, from the souls of men ; and the whole spirit
and design of its munificent Sovereign be wholly miscon-
ceived by his sinful, yet much-loved children. We inter-
pret the Deity, by the hard and imperious scowl which sits
on ihe countenance ofangry theologians ; and in the strife
and the clamour of their fierce animosities, we forget the
aspect of Him who is on the throne, the bland and benig.
nant aspect of that God who waiteth to be gracious." Dr
Chalmers expresses his regret., " that men of highest re-
spect in the Chri&tian world have done grievous injury to
the cause;" that Calvin himself incalculably weakened his
own power, by declaring the message of mercy, '1 not in
the spirit ofgentleneas, but in the spirit of an incensed po·
lemic, and with that a&pect which sits on his pages of se-
vere and relentless dogmatism." That violence " and vi-
tuperation by which his institutes are so frequently deform.,
ed, never occur, we venture tQ affirm, but with an adverse
influence on the minds of his readeriJ, in reference to the
truth which he espouses. In other words, that truth which,
when couched in the language and accompanied with the
calls of affection, finds such welcome into the hearts ofmen,
hath brought upon its expounders the reaction of a stout
indignant hostility, just because of the inwlerance where-
with it has been proposed by them."
" Let u.s lift ourselves," he proceeds, " above these tur·
bid elements of earth, and be firmly and erectly confident
of benevolence in heaven. Yonder is the region of light,
and of undoubted love ; 81ld whatever the mist or the dark·
ness may be of this lower world, there is free, generous,
unbounded welcome to one and all in the courts of the
Eternal. The sun of our firmament is still gorgeowily
seated in fields of ethereal beauty and radiance, when veiled
from the sight of mortals by the lowering sky that is un-
derneath, And so of the shrouded character of the God~
head, who, all placid and serene in the midst of elevation,
is often mantled from human eye by the turbulence and
terror of thoae clouds which gather on the face of our spi·
ritual hemisphere." "There may be nought tQ gladden in
01g11zedbyGoogle
2o4 ELOQUENCE:
ihe wrathful and the warring contro~ersies of the men who"
stand betwixt us and heaven, but in heaven itself are notes
of sweeter and kindlier melody ; and well may we assure
ourselves of the gratulation that is awakened there over
every sinner who turns to God." " In a word, it is when
the bearer of this message from God to man urges it upon
his fellow-sinners in the very spirit which first prompted
that message from the upper sanctuary,-it is when he
truly represents, not alone the contents of Heaven's over-·
tures, but also that heavenly kindness by which they were
suggested,-it is when he entreats rather than when he
denounces, and when that compassion, which is in the
heart of the Godhead, actuates his own,-it is when, stand-
ing in the character of an ambassador from him who so
loved the world, he accompanies the delivery of his mes•
sage with the looks and the language of his own manifest
tenderness,-it is then that the preacher ofsalvation is upon
his best vantage-ground of command over the hearts of a
willing people; and when he finds that charity, and prayer,
and moral earnestness have done what neither lordly intoler•
ance nor even lordlyargument could have done,it isthen that
he rejoices in the beautiful experience, that it is something
else than the wrath of man which is the instrument of work-
ing the righteousness of God." "It was in love to man that
this wondrous dispensation was framed. It was kindness,
honest, heartfelt, compassionate kindness, that formed the
moving principle of the embassy from heaven to our world.
We protest, by tl1e meekness and the gentleness of Christ,
by the te6n! of Him who wept at Lazarus' tomb, and over
the approaching ruin of Jerusalem ; by every word of bless-
ing that he uttered, and by every footstep of this wondrous
visitor over the surface of a land, on which he went about
doing_ good continually,-we protest in the name of all
these unequivocal demonstrations, that they do Him injus-
tice who propound his message in any other way than as a
message of friendship to our species. He came not to con-
demn, but to save; not to destroy, but to keep alive. And
he is the fittest bearer, he the best interpreter, ofthese over-
tures from above, who urges them upon men, not with
wrath and clamour, and controversial bitterness, but in the
spirit of that wisdom which is gentle and easy to be en•
treated, and full of MERCY."
ilEllllARKS ON DR TllOMAS ON TEMPERAMENTS. .205
It were to weaken the eft'ect of such glorious manifesta-
tions of the highest sentiments of humanity, such truly
Christian exclusion of the propensities from the holy ground
of religion, to make a single co.mment upon them. Set
them but in contrast to the harangues of the Tonga Island-
ers, nay of the Greeks and Romans, and the theory of elo•
quence attempted in this paper is complete.
It was soon discovered, that the views now submitted
were far indeed beyond the limits of an essay. Selection
and exclusion, in the mass of matter that oft'ered, were the
chief difficulties. The compass of the subject is immense,
and involves, I would say, a revolution in the whole king-
.dam of literature; for it presents an instrument ofcriticism
which will work with the precision of the mathematics, and
bid away from its presence all the vague and ·inconsistent
verbiage which has hitherto passed by that name. Nay
.more, it may and will indirectly produce the most import-
ant moral effects on society, by adding to the practical ef-
ficacy of that chief glory of Phrenology, the doctrine of the
.Supremacy of the Moral Sentiments.
ADDITIONAL REMARKS ON DR THOMAS'$ THEORY
OF THE TEMPERAMENTS.•
We stated in a former paper,t that, by a new application
,ofthe universal principle, of size in an organ being a mea-
.sure of its energy of function, Dr Thomas ofParis had suc-
ceeded in developing a rational, and, as to us it seemed,
most important theory of the temperaments; thereby solv-
ing, in a clear and consistent manner, what had been so
long felt as a hiatus in medicine and in philosophy, and
.what had been so long a stumbling-block to the most zeal-
ous cultivators of mental and moral, as well as of physiolo-
gical and medical science.
Since that time we have very often tried Dr Thomas's
views by the test of experience, and have not hitherto met
with any exception, but, on the contrary, have found them
singularly felicitous in throwing light upon some previously
obs<;ure cases, and ofgreat value in estimating the relative
•By Andrew Combe, M. D.-Vol. iv. No. 16, p. 604.
t See page 125. ofthe present .volume.
206 l)Jl THOMAS18 TIU!IORY OP Tin& TEMPtRA!ldM'ts.
activity of the nervous system in different constitutions ;
and it is the con~ien of their great practical importance
that leads us to press them again on the attention of the
reader. That they have been partially appreciated is evi-
dent from some of our best newspapers-such as the Scots-
man, the H<Wning Chronicle, and the Englishman-hav-
ing copied them from our pages; but that they are not yet
sufficiently k:Mwn is obvious, from their still remaining un-
noticed in most of the medical and literary journals of the
kingdom.
Dr Thomas's principle is simply, that as size is a mea-
sure of power, and as the whole system is made up of the
nervous, the sanguineous,!Uld the digestive apparatuses, con-
tai11ed respectively in the head, the thorax, and the abdo-
men, so will the natural constitution differ in proportion to
the relatwe equality or predominance of all or any of these
three great divisions. Thus, a great size ofbrain and head,
with small thorax and abdomen, will give a constitution
characterized by a necessary predominance of the cerebral
over the thoracic and abdominal functions, viz. great net•
vous energy, activity, and force of mind, with little aptitude
for muscular efforts, and rather weak digestion ; and a large
arid capacious thorax, with sniall head and small abdom:en,
will give a constitution characterized by abundant sangui-
fication, powerful respiration, and vigorous propulsion of
the blood to the extreme points, and, consequently, by an
aptitude for mUSC\llar efibrts and active exercise, much more
than fut mental activity or active digestion. And, again, a
capacious abdomen, with small head and narrow thorax, will
give a constitution characteri:ted by great powers of nutri-
tion, plumpness, and sloth, much more than by mental or
bodily energy, or vivacity of motion. And the other com-
binations of them will produce constitutions participating
in the qualities of their ci>nstituent element.s--such as
the cranfo-thoracic, with large head and thorax and small
abdomen ; the thoracico-abdominal, with latge thorax and
abdomen, and small head ; and the cranio-abdominal, with
large head and abdomen, and small thorax, &c. ; as already
fully explained in our former paper.
Hitherto we have been greatly at a loss how to estimate
the degree of activity of the brain, except by observing the
manifestations ; but we are inclined to think that Dr Tho-
DB TllOMAS'S THEORY OP THB TEMPERAMENTS; 207
mas has provided us with the means of approximating, at
least, if not of positively deciding. Supposing the health
to be good, if the head and brain be large, and the thorax
and abdomen relatively small, we shall find not only pre-
dominance of cerebral power, but also, so far as our obser-
vation goes, cerebral activity. Or, if the head and thorax
are both large, with a small abdomen, we shall find mental
power and muscular energy combined ; but, as part of the
nervous energy will necessarily be expended in supporting
the greater demand ofthemuscularsystem, the mental power
will be less purely intellectual in it.s manifestations, and less
capable of long-continued efforts of thought, and, conse-
quently, the individual will make a less permanent impression
of intellectuality; and, in our conceptions of his character,
the thoracic and locomotive manifestations will also be felt
as constituting no small portion of the man. A big thorax
cannot brook confinement and sedentary occupations, and
is, consequently, not favourable to long-continued mental
efforts.
A large brain, again, with a large abdomen, and strong
powers of nutrition, will constitute another modification of
temperament, in which the vivacity and permanence of the
mental functions will be sl4bdtted still more than by a large
thorax ; and although the cerebral energy will still be felt,
it will appear much more in fits of exertion than as a dur•
able state, and. in our conceptions of the man, the abdo-
men will constitute a large proportiun of the figure, and
the animal appetites will be feft to consume at least as
much of the nervoua energy as the purely human or intel-
lectual powers. ·
The practical uses of these views are numerous and in-
valuable. Let us suppose that we want a man fitted to
make a good general. If we choose a decidedly encepha-
lic candidate, with small thorax and abdomen, we may find
in him every intellectual and moral qualification that heart
could desire ; but how would he withstand the bodily fa-
tigues of an active campaign ? The feeblenes of the tho-
racic functions, and the consequent inaptitude for active
muscular exercise, would induce a drain, upon his nervous
energy to carry his body through space, that would deprive
him, on emergencies, of half of his mental activity and su-
periority; whereas, if we select a man, like the Duke -0f
WeBington, with an ample thorax added to a large brain,
208 DR THOMAS'S THEORY OF THE·TEMPERAMENTS.
we have at the same time the power to endure fatigue
Without detracting too much from the nervous energy ; and,
consequently, we have the power of rapid mental combina-
tions, undiminished, ready to take advantage of every op-
portunity. Or, if we select a man with a small head, join-
ed to a large thorax and big abdomen, then we have the
mere animal force, with only a glimmering of mind to guide
and direct it.
·· ·Jn choosing a profession also, and we know not a more
important question, Dr Thomas's theory is admirably use-
fol. If the youth is remarkable for a fine broad chest, a
moderate-sized head, and a full abdomen, no phrenologist
would ever recommend to him a sedentary profession re-
quiring much conrinement, whatever might be, in other re-
spects, his cerebral qualifications ; because he would see in
this configuration the ·indelible stamp of nature, pointing
otit to him a more active field of usefulness, and threaten-
ing him with disgust and restlessness if he ventured on a
sedentary course of life, so much at variance with his na-
tural constitution.
If, again, the youth is remarkable for predominance of
the cerebral over the thoracic and abdominal functions,
t_
he phrenologist acquainted with the temperaments would
nev~r recommend a profession requiring much bodily ac7
tivity and strength, in addition to much intellectual supe-
riority; because he would at once foresee the inability of
such a frame to cope with the demands to be made upon it,
a~d the miseries to which it would lead. As an advoeate,
solicitor, or.banker, such a person might be happy and suc-
cessful ; whereas as an engineer, or in any other profession
requiring both mental and bodily vigour, he would be mi-
serable.
In education, the use of Dr Thomas's theory is equally
obvious. In early life the temperaments may be modified
more easily than at any future period, and hence the im-
portance' of attending to them in the young. A boy of
a thoracic temperament will be prone to.vfolent exercises,
and comparatively averse to mental occupation ; but, by a
judicious and persevering superintendence, and by gradu-
all1
y and proportionally extending the latter, and withdraw-
ing;the incentives to the former,·a very beneficial change
mari·there is every reason to believe, be ultimately accom7
~tiS11ed. 'And, again, the encephalic boy, with weak ch~t
. . '
GLASGOW BRIDEWELL. 209
and muscles, may in time, by withdrawing the incentives
to, and opportunities of, too much mental exercise, and by
a properly-regulated gymnastic training and muscular ex-
ertion in the open air, be greatly improved in bodily vigour,
and yet retain his mental powers undiminished. And,
lastly, the abdominal boy, whose belly is his grid, may, by
proper regulation of diet, and mental and bodily exercise,
be brought within the pale of humanity ; whereas, if left
to himself, animal indulgence and mental sloth would be
his portion for life.
In fact, while we write, examples of the applicability of
this theory to education, to professional purposes, to morals,
and to medicine, crowd in upon us ; and, if ·we refrain f'or
the present from· proceeding further, it is with the view of
securing the groundwork,·by earnestly recommending our
readers to go back to the analysis of Dr Thomas's book,
formerly given in our pages, and not to leave it till they
thoroughly·understand it.
GLASGOW BRIDEWELL•
We recently inspected this establishment, and were very
much pleased with the manner in which it is kept, and with
the intelligence, frankness, and practical good sense of Mr
Brebner the superintendent.
From 2d Au_gust 1825 to 2d August 1826, the total number of prison-
ers committed waa • . • • • • • • • 1389
The four great cl1111Bes of offences were the following, viz.-
I.·Theft, pocketpicking, and attempting to steal, • 390
2. Reset of theft, fraud, and swindlmg, • • . 77
3. Aeeaul~, ~utrages, breach of the peace, rogues, va-
gabonds, vagrants, and disorderly characters, fol.
lowing no lawful.employment, • • • • 275
4. Disorderly prostitutes; guilty of breaches of the
peace, • 3'i3
1065
Add returnillg from banishment, having been formerly
convicted of crime, • • . . • • • 194
l~
All other offences, •· 130
In surveying the heads of the offenders, the difference
between .the development of the thieves and swindlers,
Nos•. l and 2, and that of the individuals committed fur
•By George Combe.-Vol.iv. No. 16, p. M9,
8
- ---· ----- --
-.
2H)
outmges and l>reiwhes of the ~ Nos. 3. and 4, w#I ob-
vi1>q$ and stl'ikii\g, la the fonner, the or~ of Acquilli•
uveQe~ SC$'~tiven~, and Caut~usn~ predQIDW..Wd ; ia
the 1".ter, the base of the brain, vi3. Amativenes11, CQlllb!J.•
tiveness, and Destructiveness evidently held the ~­
dency ; in them there was great breadth across the head,
immediately 1J.bove ·the ear, with a, large portion of brain
behind thatmw. Ofcourse we speak ia general 1for amoft8
the prU!Qneni there ~re some whose development might
have led them into either class, according 8$ exteml\l
tempt:at.Wrni prompted them. In a few C!L9e8, especi$lly
ar;nqpg ~e young, the moral and intellectual (ll'gaµa were
SQ de6ci4!pt in pr~ion to the animal, that we •shouk\
despair of their reforqiation while they were left open t.o.
the sug~stion11 of their own min~, influenced by w11,11t and
proffiga\te s~ciety, ln JllllJlY ·of the criminal&, howi)ver,
the higher organ& were fairly developetl, although in con-
junction with a large base of thfl brllin ; aQd on them W•
struction and moral restraint might be expected to produce
a decided and salutary effect.
All criminals IMY be regarcled as patients. Their offen-
ces, when traced to their causes, appear to spring either
from e-.il dispositions, or extemal temptation too moo~for
them to resist. Every phrenologist knows that deprimfd'
tendencies are the accompaniments of animal organs ~
dominant in size over the organs of the moral aentlments ~
and th~, °"ind~vidull.l& thus CQns~ituted, temptatil')n elrel'tl
its greatest influence.. Until we shall practically $pply
these principles, we shall not succeed in prevel\ting, or
greatly diminishing, crime. At present, however, all we
can accomplish is to proclaim the truth, and record with
approl>ation whate.ver .appears to approach to it. The
Glasgow Bridewell, we are happy t,o say, is ~xcellently ma-
naged on the old system. With very few exceptions, every
prisoQef has a sleeping cell and a working cell for himself;
and all conununicatian with each other is completely pre:.
vented. They are employro in picking cotton, spinning,
winding yarn, weaving, making shoes, &c. ill solitude, dur-
ing the day, and are locked up in solitude during the night.
Ev~Q QJl Sundays they·are not perlllitted·t.Q assemble to-
geth~r, On week-days a regular teacher visits each cell
aQd communi<,:ates instruction. ii,I¥l 0n Sundays '°me piouil
individuals, t.ea<;h .i:e~jgion. T~~ m~i.tQtio~ porsons have
GLASGOW BRIDEWELL. 2ll
formed themselves into a llOciety, and all their members are
freely admitted to the prisoners : ladies visit the females
and gentlemen the males.
The effect of this treatment will obviously be to abate
the vivacity of the animal propensities, and to rouse the
moral and intellectual powers. Solitude and labour will tend
powerfully to accomplish the first end ; but the means em-
ployed for attaining the second are too limited. The ave-
rage number of pris.oners in confinement is 250, and it is
impossible that the teacher and visitor8 can remain with
each a length of time sufficient to make a deep or lasting
impression. The periods of confinement also are too short
to favour reformation by moral mea,ns. . While we approve
of the practice of preventing the criminals from associating
together, we think they would be greatl~ benefited by more
extensive social intercourse with moral characters. Human
nature demands enjoyment as its first and greatest want.
If the only experience of a state·of morality afforded to
criminals is characterized by severe privation of animal
pleasure, and the almost total negation of moral and intel-
lectual excitement, they must necessarily form a very un-
favourable opinion of the attractions of a virtuous life. We
should like to see them, if possible, made acquainted, from
experience, with the pure and vivacious joys that flow from
activity of the higher faculties of man.
Mr Brebner favoured us with the following tables ofcom-
mitments:-'-
CrimeR and Off~.
Year ending 31st
December 111516.
Males. Fema. Total. Maleo. Fema. Total.
------r--,--1--1-
Number of commitments dur-
ing the year, · . • • • • .558 708 1261 688 718 1401
Deduct recommitments of the
same individual in the cur-
rency of the year, • • • 101 2'19 380 124 281 40.5
Remains nett number of dif- --l-J--
ferent/'ersons, . • • • . 457 424 881 564 432 996
Whereo in custody for the :
first time, • • • • •. , • 360 209 569 444 ·18g 633
Old oft'enders, • • • ~m 312 120243j363
212 .GLASGOW BlUDEWELLl
He has observed that offenders committed for tlie ·first
time, for only a short period, almost invariably return to
Bridewell for new offences ; but if committed for a long pe·
riod, they return less frequently. This fact is established
by the following table, framed on an average of ten years,
ending 25th December 1825.
Ofpri1ooer1 1enl8nced/Of' thejirlt time lo
14 days' confinement, there returned for new crimes,
about • • • • . • . . • 75 per cent
30 do. do. 60
~ ~ ~ ~
00 ~ ~ ~
3 months do. 25
6 do. do. JO
9 do. do. 7!
12 do. do. 4
18 do. do. l
24 do. do. none -
During the ten years ninety-three persons were commit-
ted for the first time for two years, of whom not one re-
turned.
Mr Brebner conceives that punishment must never be
lost sight of. The effect of the two years' confinement he
attributes partly to the fear of punishment. and partly to
the habits of order and industry acquired during it. When
prisoners come back two or.three times, they go on return-
ing at intervals for many years. He has observed that a
good many prisoners committed for short periods for first
offences, are afterwards tried before the High Court ofJus-
ticiary, and transported or hanged.
These results confirm the doctrine, that individuals can-
not chang·e their character and conduct by a mere act of
volition, but that their minds must be operated upon by
long-continued influences, and gradually ameliorated; just
as -diSea.se cannot be removed from the body by a spell, but
by asanative process, requiring both attention and time for
its completion. The present practice is founded upon ideas
of punitiv~ jU$tice, which appeac, at first sight. natural and
beaeficial, but which do not stand the test of reason and
rigid,analysis. A boy picks a gentleman's pocket of a
handkerchief, and is sentenced to 14 days' confinement in
Bridewell ; which seems a moderate and just punishment
for a tiivial offence? and ifany ~ne w~e .to propose to im-
GLASGOW BRIDEWELL• 213
prison him·for two years, the extravagance of the irifliction,
in proportion to the crime, would startle the public mind,
and he would become the object of universal sympathy.
Yet, if the real welfilre of the boy be kept in view, and if
we believe the foregoing facts, we shall find it difficult to
resist the conclusion, that the sentence of 14 davs is, in iti!
ultimate results, attended with far greater severity, and
more positive injustice, than would aecompany confinement
for two years. The offender, in the'former case, becomes
familiarized with crime, almost invariably·returns to Bride•
well, and proceeds from step to step till he is transported or
hanged ; in the latter case, his whole habits are changed,
and so deep an impression is made on his mind, that he
rlll'ely re-appearsin the.criminal kalender. We say rarely;
because the circumstance of his not afterwards becoming
an inmate in Glasgow Bridewell, is no proof of hi.i entire
reformation : he may have removed to another territory,
where he thinks the law will be administered with less se-
yerity. But if the great majority of those confined for long
periods did not abandon their criminal pursuits, some would
undoubtedly find their way back to their old quarters ; and
·as none appear to return, we may safely infer that many are
permanently reformed.
It seems to us, then, that a sentence of fourteen days for
a first offence is, in its ultimate consequences, more preju-
.dicial to the welfare of the criminal than one for a long
period ; and yet th£:re appears an evident absurdity in pro.-
posing to punish a grave delinquency with imprisonment for
fourteen days, and a trivial one with confinement for two
years. But this just proves that there is an error in the
principle on which criminal justice is administered. · The
absurdity arises from this circumstance, that the criminal
law regards every offender as a voliintary devotee to crime,
and occupies iteelf exclusively in administering a certain
quantity of suffering foc a certain degree of guilt, without
the least referenceeither to the causes ofthe transgression,
or to the consequences ofits own treatment. Ifthis principle
were sound in nature, it would be successful in practice.
The infliction of fourteen days' confinement would not, in
its general effects, tum out m0re'severethan imprisonment
fur two :years. . Inshort; the facts contained in the table of
" prisoners returning'! c_ould not happen.
214 GLASGOW lUUDEWELL.
On the phrenological principle much greater consistency
is obtained. According to it, no man can become criminal
unless from predominance of the animal organs over the
moral and intellectual, or from strong external temptation.
Neither of these is a volunt.ary condition on the part of the
offender : he is therefore to be viewed 118 unfortunate ; and,
that he may be cured, the oause of his depravity must be
removed. On this principle, pocket-picking is one symp-
tom ofmoral dii\ease,'lift.ing tills another, house-robbery a
third, swindling a fourth, and so on. The extent and depth
of the disease are to be gathered from the whole symptoms
and condition of the patient, and the sanative process ought
to be conducted with reference to these. A boy whose
father is unemployed, and who has tasted no food for twenty-
four hours, may steal a loaf from a baker's basket standing
temptingly on the street; another boy, well fed, clothed,
and educated, may pick a pocket, and drink the produce of
his depredation. Both ofthese acts are thefts ; but the one
may happen with aboyofveryconsiderable natural morality;
who would be completely protected from offending again by
removal ofthe temptation-in other words, by being suppli.
ed with food. The other indicates a decided deficiency IX
natural morality, with great strength of depraved appetite1
and to protect the offender from repetition ofhis crime, his
mind would require to be subjected to a long course of
discipline, one part of which would necessarily consist of
measures for abating his evil tendencies, and another of
means for elevating his moral and intellectual principles.
According to this view, the treatment of each criminal
would bear reference to his depravity, and not depend ex-
clusively on the external form in which his evil qualities
manifested themselves. One man may fall senseless to the
ground through inanition, and another from apoplexy.
What should we think of a physician who should treat both
in the same way? The case of the mind is parallel ; and
it is only gross ignorance of mental philosophy that can
perpetuate the present system of criminal legislation.
We have been assured by an enlightened friend connect-
ed with the administration of the criminal law in Scotland,
that the imperfection of the practices now in use is seen,
felt, and greatly deplored, by almost every judge in the
country, from polic~m~istrates up to the president ofthe
EDllCATloN-MR WO()D'i SiCHOOL. 216
High Court ofJusticiary; "°d that, ifthe public mind were
enlightened, and brought to desire a thorough reformation
with the introduction of a rational treatment, the judges
would hail it with pleasure. Mr.Brebner admitted, that a
boy confined for a long period for his first offence was real:-
ly more fortQnate than one ~ed only for a few ,days ;
but he object,ed to the apP&l'ent injustice of long imprison-
ment for slight offences. The injustice, however, is ob-
viously only apparent; the real severity is in the short con-
finement. No doubt, as long as offenders are committed
with the view ofpunishment exclusively, Mr Brebner's ob-
jection is unanswerable ; and the principle of cure or re:-
formation must be adopted, before consistency between in-
tention and result can be obtained. In the Glasgow Bride-
_well, every thing that can be done, in the way e>fs~stnu
. .ning
,evil tendencies, appears to be accomplished. ·'.l;he solitary
confinement, regular employment, and mild. tr~ent of
'the prisoners, are well calculated to allay the excessive ac-
livity of the animal propensities ; but we repeat, that much
.is. wanting to elevate their moral and int.ellectual faculties.
·The effects, however, produced by long confinement, even
.with this deficiency, show forcibly how much good might
be accomplished by a well-conducted penit:entiary.
EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL.•
Te1s is a sensible, interesting, and instructive book.
Bating some errors in principle, to be noticed in the &e-
quel, the work is by far the best exposition of school-in-
struction we have read ; while the system expounded is in
itself the nearest to perfection, under the same qualifica-
tion, which has yet been practically exhibired.
The author, with becoming candour, disclaims the cha-
racter of an originator. He has taken the best of both
Lancaster and Bell ;~indeed he.found that b~is establish-
ed when he first volunteered to superintend the Edinburgh
• Account of the Edinburgh Se1&ional Sehool and Uie other Pa.
rochial Instit1ttions for Education, established in that city in the
vi:ar 1812; with Strictures on Education ~~gen.era!. !JY JoaN Woon,
'&q. Edinburgh: John Wardlaw, 1828.~eviewed 111 Phren. Jour.
,01. v.. No. :i-0. p. ~ by ,J~ &11P&ON'.
·216 EDUCATION-MR woon's sceooL.
Sessional School. But he has improved upon both sys-
tems, and produced results in the working beyond any
thing which they ever arrived at. The Sessional daily
·School was an accession tO the Parochial Sunday Schools,
and is attended by from 500 to 600 pupils, from six to fif:-
teen yeal'il of age. Mr Wood is a member of the Scottish
bar, and sheriff of a county ; and has no other connexion
·with this school than that produced by enthusiastic ama-
teurship ; which seems to have impelled him at first to at-
tendance, by degrees to assistance, and, ultimately, by con-
sent ofmas~ers ~nd direc~rs, to such unqualified supre~acy,
·as to identify hIS name with the school, and render 1t one
of the most noted lions of Edinburgh. .
Reading, writing, and arithmetic, are the elementary
branches of education taught in the Sessional School. Geo-
graphy is voluntary. The system is monitorial, the whole
directed by one master, and superintended by Mr Wood.
The arrangements are excellent ; and the whole presents
a model of order, punctuality, economy of time, and divi-
sion of labour, which renders the management of 600 chil-
dren as easy as that of a battalion of well-drilled soldiers of
the same number. But the boast of this school is the per-
fection to which the new system is carried, of rendering
reading the mere vehicle of useful knowledge. This is
called the EXPLANATORY method of school-instruction.
Reading is gained by the bye. That operation exercises
chiefly one faculty, namely, Language, or verbal memory ;
tinder an overload of which we have all groaned, in our
day, during the dull and tiresome hours of the old school.
But the Phrenologist can analyze the explanatory system
into its elements, and i;how that its attractions arise from
the delighted activity, not only of the knowing, but also of
the reflecting faculties and moral feelings. An able expla-
nator conveys ideas of individual existences and events;
also of·form and size, weights, colours, sounds, places, ar-
rangements, and numbers, with all the relations which sub-
sist among these qualities. He goes farther, and points
out the more extended relations of comparison, and even
those ·of necessary consequence. The moral sentiments,
also, of the pupils, may be kept in the most beneficial ex-
ercise. Phrenology tells us, that the activity of every fa.
culty is attended with pleasure ; how great, then, may not
-
·EDUCATION-MB WOOD'S SCHOOL. . 217
·be rendered that pleasure which is the fruit of the simul-
taneous activity of the whole ! Any one who sees Mr
Wood, and his eager and delighted pupils, engaged in a
spirited explanatory exercise, will cease to wonder at the
progress made under his tuition. Task is unknown, ex-
cept as a word in the course of explanatory definition ; and
we hope yet to hear it at Mr Wood's and all other schools
defined as " the forced exercise of one or of a few faculties,
·while the rest are kept under an unnatural restraint." Diffi-
culties disappear-all is.the zealous bustle of pleasurable
exercise.
Mr Wood's own account of the explanatory system is
this :-" Before entering upon the consideration of the
reading department," says he, " it may be .proper to pre-
mise some general observations ~n tl1at method of EXPLA-
NATION which has been so highly approved of in the Ses-
.sional School. Its object is threefold :-:first, To render
more easy and pleasing the acquisition of the mechanical
art of reading; secondly, To tum to advantage the parti·
cular instruction contained in every individual passage
which is read ; and, above all, thirdly, To give the pupil,
·by means of a minute analysis of each passage, a general
command of his own language. It is of great importance
to the proper understanding of the method, that all these
objects should be kept distinctly in view. With regard to
the first, no one who has not witnessed the scheme in ope-
.ration, can well imagine the animation and energy which
it inspires. It is the constant remark of almost every
stranger who visits the Sessional School, that its pupils have
not at all the ordinary appearance of schoolboys doomed
to an unwilling task, but rather the happy faces of children
at their sports. This distinction is chiefly to be attributed
·to that part of the 8l/Stem ofwhich we are here treating ;
by which, inp~e of'liarassing the pupil witk a mere me-
clwnical routine ofsounds and technicalities, his attention
is excited, his curiosity is gratified, and his fancy is 1m111-
sed." *
Our author, although a great improver of it, does not
pretend to be the first introducer of the explanatory sys-
tem ; and he rejoices, as we do, to see it not only prac-
• We have marked the concllllion in Italics for subsequent refer·
ence.
T
218 BDUCATION-,.MR WOOD'S SCHOOL.
t,ised in such'. schools u the Cir(IUS Place and the Davy
Street, but coming into very general adoption in pri~¥?
se~naries,-of course with very different degrees of •W:-
cess, according to the judgment, skill, and knowledge of
the teachers. With great propriety he applauds the intro-
duction ofexplanatory English reading into the High School
and Academy of Edinburgh as accessory (according to yet
prevailing opinion) to the moreimportant study of the dead
~guages. We hail it as the dawning of a wiser day, when
that remnant of monachism, th.
e engros..'ling culture of the
dead languages, will be very secondary to a comprehen-
sive and well-arranged system of explanatory English read-
ing.
The author proceeds to detail the a_pplica
. t.ion of the ex-
plana.tory method to the various grades .of pupils, begin-
ning with the .youngest.· " In explaining," says he, "at
this stage, it is a special instruction to the monitoi::s, never
to exact any regular definition, but to be satisfied with any
ex;planatiop given by the child himself, which indicates his
knowledge of the meaning, though it be conveyed in his
own ordinary or homely language, or by mere s.igns. The
gt"eat object, at this stage, is to enliven what would other-
wise have been intolerably dull,-to teach the child that
every word he reads has a meaning, and to form him to
earlf habits ofattention." N<>thing can be better than this,
llO far as it goes. Useful knowledge is at least verbally ti:x;-
tended as the pupil advances, and information in nature
and art, in so far as it can .be comprehended, is communi-
cated. We cannot follow Mr Wood through several chap-
ters ofthe~ interesting details, but can safely say, that the
r~er (especially the phrenological reader) will be highly
pleased with them. The system involves a very satisfactory
exercise of several, though not all the intellectual faculties.
This system, like every thing ne'w that t,ends to benefit
the species. has met with the opposition and been sub..
jected to the ridicule of µ,ninquiring, prejudging self-com-
placency, or disguised self-interest. " When, therefore,"
says the author, " we consider the strong tendency which
hu existed for years past to turn our proceedings into ri-
-dicule, and to expose to the public every slip (often so
called, we would add, from the sheer ignorance or unfair-
·ness of the exposer), which every individual pupil has hap-
EDUCATION:-MR wo.oI>'s SCHOOL. 219
.pened to make, the directors ma.y surely, without any ex.
'travagant boast, be entitled to congratulate themselves on
a result which they would certainly not have dared to an-
ti · te."
, c;-e have already said, that the explanatory system of
the Sessional School appears to us to stand a. phrenologinl
test, so far as it goes. This the reader must have inter•
preted into an opinion that there is some shortcoming.
There is a shortcoming, and it is very material. It is for-
tunately, however, of easy remedy, and one or two schools
in Edinburgh have already taken the lead.of Mr Wood in
applying it. His system makes no provision for auppfying
the most important of the observant faculties with its pro-
per food, without which all knowledge of the materialworld
must be shadowy and imperfect. This faculty of Indm-
duality, so essential to ·education that Dr Gall named it
the faculty of Educability, is the power whereby we cog-
nize and remember individual material existences, and
without which we could have no knowledge of the external
world. Ita organ, situated immediately over the nose, ia
.prominent in children ; and the faculty is manifested bJ
them in the ceaseless avidity with which they examine every
thing which comes in their way. Now every object, sim•
pie and complex, in nature, furnishes an idea to this fia..
culty, and.there can be no such idea without the object
being presented through the senses to the organ. The &-
culties of Form, Size, Weight, and Colour, will do their
part in affording perception of the qualities of the object ;
but the comprehension of them all in the individual object
is the ii:µportant function ot' the faculty alluded to. The
author's system, unfortunately, starves this faculty; no ma-
terial objects, not even their simulacra in drawings or,mo-
4els, ai:e presented to Mr Wood's pupils. Material object.a
are only described and talked about, but are not seen, heard,
weighed, touched, or smelled. This is one of the results
of neglecting Phrenology ; the ~istence of particular
faculties is not dreamt of, and of course no means are
used for their-exercise. This defect is particularly conspi-
cuous when the author appeals to nature as the foundation
ofhis method. " The more the system has been maturedt
and the better it has been understood, approbation of it baa
been the more increued. Its boast is not that it i& founded
:.~20 -.EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL•
.upon any newly discovered principle, but that it arises from
the first and most obvious dictates of nature. What judi-
cious mother, in teaching her child to read, would not be
at pains to shew him as early as possible the benefit ofread-
.ing ? Would she not, in picking out for him the smallest
words, when she came to the word o:x:, for example, tell him,
not by any regular definition, but in the simplest language,
.that it meant the animal which he had so often seen graz-
ing in the meadows ? Would she not naturally do the same
with regard to every tree or plant that happened to be men-
tioned? and as his capacities unfolded, would she not gra-
dually proceed to communicate to him such higher infor-
mation as his lessons might suggest ? The mere artificial
methods, which the art ofteaching has subsequently intro-
duced, however useful some of them undoubtedly are, have
had the unhappy effect ofbanishing, in a great degree, this
natural teaching, and of substituting, far too exclusively,
in its room a mere attention to the sounds of language."
; Now, we maintain, that when a material object, such as
an ox, a plant, a metal, or a liquid, is in question, unless,
as in the case of the ox in the meadows, it is already fami-
liar to the child, explanations about it, be they ever so cor-
rect and clear, can have in his mind no idea for a basis,
and must therefore be nothing better than " the sounds of
language." Hence the judicious mother, really teaching
according to Nature's dictates, would take care that every
object about which she talks to her child shall first
have been examined thoroughly by him, and fixed firmly
in his Individuality. The Infant Schools have decidedly
taken the lead in making judicious provision for this sub-
stantial exercise of the faculties. They have a complete
museum of material objects, consisting of specimens of sub-
11.tances, vegetable and mineral, drawings of animals, ma•
thematical figures, simple specimens of art and manufac-
ture, and of every thing that can lay a solid foundation of
elementary knowledge of the material world, for guidance
in after life.
The Circus Place and St George's Sessional Schools h~ve
adopted the same method, though less completely and sys-
tematically. As the pupils advance, mechanical powers
and instruments may be exhibited ; also chemical combina-
tions, anatomical drawings and preparations, and all objects
EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL.' 221
calculated to increase useful knowledge, and communicate
for life that invaluable accomplishment called resource.
The rule ought to be inexorable, never to talk of any ob-
jects that have not been previously seen and ·examined
by the pupil either in reality or in representation ; the molit
confused and erroneous notions are sure to be the conse-
quence of the contrary·practice.
Mr Wood's method of impressing history, both sacred
and profane, is unexceptionable. That species of know-
ledge, addressing itsclf to Eventuality, the faculty for ac-
tion, does J1Qt require sensible signs farther than the aid of
maps ; in the infant schools it is assisted by little historical
pictures. This enlists some additional faculties, and there-
by increases the pleasure to the children.
We have not time to detail, what will well reward .the.
perusal, the author's interesting account of his experimen-
tal, and completely successful, introduction of incidental
grammar. We know that other teachers, particularlyMr Ha-
milton, have taught the grammar <>falanguage in the same
natural and effectual method, without that penance called
an abstract grammar-book ; but we give the most implicit
belief to Mr Wood's statement, that the thought was to·
hiinself original. Ther& is no part of his system more ere-:
ditable to his talents. The arithmetic, too, is quite unsur-
passed, we may safely say, in the empire, for dexterity and·
despatch. In this department, Mr Wood refuses all the
honours of witchcraft which have been tendered to him;
and pretends only to haive encouraged rapid notation, leav-
ing each pupil to find out the easiest method of working
t.he rule for himself. In notative arithmetic other faculties
besides Number ·may lead to dexterity; for, with otir pen-
cil in -our hand, we cannot be doing more at one moment
than dealing with single figures, in adding, subtracting;
multiplying, or dividing. In this there is no Bidderi.am,
or mental operation. This last exercise, however, is like-
wise in use in Mr Wood's school,-the method also left to
the mental calculators ; and some of them perform very
creditable feats. Here the author, phrenologically enough,
observes, that there is considerable difference of endow-
ment among the pupils. We have not made the observa-
tion ourselves, but should much like to know Mr Wood's
experience, whedler some of the indifferent mental calcu-
222 EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL.
latora may not be good notators, and 'Dice fJersa f This
would aid our conjecture, that dexterous and prompt arith-
metical notation is not the result of a large endowment of
the faculty of Number alone, but depends on other facul-
ties or combinations.
Our author states, that the 6eeret, u it has been called,
of his arithmetical and literary display, is emulation; that
the zeal and business-like promptitude, in every depart-
ment, is produced by the intense desire of the pupils for
the distinctioos of places and prizes : and he agrees with
the Edinburgh reviewer (who advocates the old notions of
human nature, which will continue to mislead mankind and
vitiate human institutions till the phrenological discoveries
become the standard philosophy of mind and man), " that
a cook might as well resolve to make bread without fer-
mentation, as a pedagogue to carry on a school without
emulation : it must be a sad doughy Jump without this vi-
vifying principle."
Here we part company with both Mr Wood and the
Edinburgh reviewer ; taking, by the light of Phrenology,
the very opposite direction ;-confessing, however, that but
mr Phrenology we should probably have travelled on with
them very contentedly in the old road, and with them
soouted the idea of any other. We now, howe..-er, see too
clearly the specific action of well-distinguished human im-
pulses, and the effect of these on human weal or wCl, to be
misled any longer.
Some teachers are beginning to doubt the benefits of
badges and places and prizes at school. Some would even
dispense with them, were they not controlled ; but Mr
Wood is a zealous advocate for what, by aid of a solecism,
is called generOU8 emulation, and, treating the opposite opi-
nion with scorn, runs off, as if fresh from the Olympic
games, into all the accredited declamation on that yet un-
examined subject. For example--" What might be the
state of this question, if man, in his present imperfect con-
dition, and particularly in its earliest stages, stood in need
of no additional incentives to the pursuit of knowledge or
the practice of virtue than the pure love of either, it is very
unnecessary to inquire. Surely no one will contend that
this is now his actual condition ; and, in such circumstances,
can it be wiae in him to deny, either to himself or to those
EDUCATION-MR W-oon's SCHOOL. 223
intrusted to his charge, the aid of any of those additional
stimuli which Providence, in mercy, proffers to supply this
natural imperfection? or which of those incentives is more
noble or animating than the ardent desire implanted in our
bosom ofrising superior to our fellows? How many slum-
bering faculties has not this living principle roused into ac-
tion ! To how many days oftoil and wakingnights-to how
many splendid discoveries and inventions-to how many
deeds of virtue and exploits of heroism-to how much in•
·dividual happiness and social improvement has it not given
birth ! In place of being a base and sordid passion, it is
one which burns brightest in the noblest and most gene-
rous souls. Men may theoretically speak and write against
It, but he, and he only, who is incapable of excellence, will
ever refuse its aid.'' We would just reverse Mr Wood's
peroration, and aver, that he who is incapable of true ex-
cellence will take the aid of one of the most truly selfish
and mischievous ofall desires,-the mere desire of "rising
superior to his fellows.''
This high advocacy of systematized emulation comes of
the selfish morality of the dead languages, with which we
get imbued at school, andof which there have hitherto been
no ethics but those of practically-disregarded Christianity
to disabuse us. The set phrases, as above, have become
household words, and we reek not that we are calling
" good evil and evil good," with all the weight of the de-
nunciation of so doing on our heads.
We glanced at this subject incidentally before.• Mr
Wood has answered some objectioris stated by himself, but
he has not grappled with, for he is not aware of, the prin-
ciple upon which our objections are founded. The subject
is ofsuch vital importance in moral education, that we shall
a little more fully state our views. We do not expect to
convert Mr W., but we shall have done an important duty
If we shall shew that the question has two sides.
1. We shall assume, without admitting, that the desire of
mere " personal superiority over their fellows" does, in the
pupils of a school, contribute to intellectual progress, nay,
very materially increase it; and our thesis is, that this in-
crease, being at the expense of their moral sentiments, is a
loss and not a gain in their education. Among the feelings,
• Vol. iii., page 182.
01g11zedbyGoogle
224 EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL..
as distinguished from the intellectual powers, Benevolence.-
Conscientiousness, and Veneration, are supremeJ these feel-
ings alone go out of self, and desire higher objects,-the
rights and the happiness of our fellow-men, and the love of
our·God : they are, in short, the feelings addressed in the
Divine precepts, " to love God with our whole heart and
mind, and our neighbours as ourselves;" and again, " to do
justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with our God."
Creation is palpably constitut.ed in reference to supreme
control by these feelings ; and in proportion as they do or
do not mingle in and constitute the guidance of human
conduct, will be the happiness or the suffering that will re.,
suit from it. Dr Spurzheim, in his profound work on edu-
cation, says, that " human nature is so constituted by the
Creator, that morality is as necessary to the prosperity of
mankind as oxygen to combustion, or caloric to vegetation,
or respiration to life." Till we arrive at these exalted qua-
lities, we shall find that we are still in the inferior regions
of self. The propensities are selfish from their very nature,
and not less so are the inferior sentiments of the Love of
Approbation and Self-esteem, which in their abuse dege-:-
nerate into vanity and pride, love of glory, insolence, and
tyranny. With none of the selfish feelings in others can
man, by his constitution, sympathize ; and if we observe
for what qualities man is respected and loved by his fellow-
men, it is not for those qualities which enrich or aggrandize
himself, but for those which have the rights and happiness
of others for their objects : in other words, a man's moral
rank in society is commensurate with the extent of his Juw-
.tice, Benevolence, and Veneration ; and in exact propor-
tion as these high motives are alloyed by self-interest,-
whether the desire of wealth, or power, or praise,-is the
conduct debased and the character deteriorated. Again,
the selfish impulses are greatly more powerful than the
social, and differ from them in this particular, that the Prt?-
·per education of the selfish feelings is, in most individuals,
a repressive regulation, while that of the social is expansive
culture. Vanity and pride, for example, being abuses of
Love of Approbation and Self-esteem, need no encourage-
ment, but much discouragement ; while Benevolence and
Justice require to be drawn forth into activity by practical
exercise. Now, it ~as hitherto been the grand error of
o,g, ized by Google
EDUCATION~Mll WOOD'S SCHOOL, 225
our schools, that they have made no provision for the prac...
tical training of the social, and regulation or repression of'
the selfish impulses; nay, they have not contented them-
selves with merely leaving the selfish, as they have let\ the.
social, to themselves, but have actually made the positive
culture of the selfish feelings an essential part of their sys-
tems. Can we wonder, then, at the unmitigated self-seek-
ing of our social institutions and individual habits ? Can we
wonder that life is a scene where the selfish predominate
over the social feelings to the overwhelming degree which
we all so much deplore ? Every youth is carefully educated
(or the race of self-aggrandizement, to value and cherish
the " ardent desire to rise superior to his fellows" in wealth,
and power, and splendour, and fame, and to consider all
pursuits which cultivate the higher feelings as so much sick-
ly sentimentalism and reprehensible loss of time, quite un-
suited tQ man "in his present imperfect state.'' Now we
hold, that man)s present imperfect condition, the low state
of his moral-is greatly aggravated by the neglect of his
social, and the great zeal of his selfish education. Many of
the moral evils of society have their root in this grievous
miscalculation ; for crime itself is only intense selfishness.
Every institution is therefore morally wrong which leaves
unrepressed the selfish feelings, and much worse which po-
sitively encourages them. But the emulation of our schools
is liable to the latter heavy charge. A petty ambition is
the lesson taught at their threshold, and which continues
to be the ·leading incentive to their close ; and so aptly
is the lesson learned, that the places and the medals are
held out to be, and are felt to be, the ultimate advantages
of proficiency, to which the proficiency itself is but as a
means to an end. This is indeed inversion.
. We anticipate the answer, that we take the matter ur.
too seriously ; that the merely changing places at schoo ,
and competing for a medal or a book, are objects too insigni-
ficant to foster selfish feelings. No one who has engaged
in or witnessed a competition at school will make this an-
swer, or deny that such competitions have an importance
in them to the parties not exceeded by that of any object
ofambition in after-life ; and that they have only the more
moral power because the competitors are young, and the
more liable to receive strong and permanent impressions•
.-- - ~ -,.-.,.... .
226 EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOi..
There is something in the never-ceasing agitation ofphice-
taking, in particular, extremely noxious. It is a perpetual
restless scene of alternate glorying and repining, which has
a double effect in fostering the pride ofthe one and the re-
sentment of the other of the actors in it. We have watch-
ed its operation closely and with infinite disgust in a new
seminary, where, authority being at first a little lax, feel-
ings manifested themselves freely, which a better discipline
has outwardly restrained, but by no means eradicated. To
say nothing of that miserable perversion of the very pur-
pose of school which fills the mind of the pupil, that his
place in his class, to get up himself and get down his neigh-
bour, is the grand object of his exertions, as we have the
clearest proofs is the prevnlent idea, we have witnessed
very passionate excitement from place-taking, quarrels,
falsehoods, frauds, and even blows ; all coming from the
desire of rising superior to each other.• The possibility
of these at all is an immense evil,-the possibility of
them in even a few cases is an evil ; for, as Dr Spurzheim
reasons, these are just the cases where the selfish system
does most permanent evil, both to the children themselves
and to society. The children of to-day are the men and
women of to-morrow : and it is against all experience to
expect the selfish child to tum out, by mere lap~e of years,
a just, much less a generous man. Nothing can involve a
greater fallacy than the author's notion, that friendships are
formed at school, beca11,se ofa generous rivalry. They are
formed from other obvious causes of attraction in spite of
that cause of repulsion. Generous rivalry is generosity
when strong enough, which it rarely is, rising above rivalry.
Rivalry itself is unmingled self-preference ; and to apply
the epithet " generous" to it is a solecism. The rivalry is
selfish inherently and essentially, and is doing all its mis-
chiefin deteriorating the character of the parties, although
enough of Adhesiveness remains to attach them to each
other. This is not the only error with regard to the effect
of school on after-life, an error which proceeds from in-
discriminating views. Who has not witnessed the exulta-
• In the seminary alluded to, a stricter discipline has now banish-
ed these outbreaking&; but every day furnishes too unequivocal evi-
dence of those little spites and heartburning& which are inseparable
from this ceasele88 personal struggle for a paltry distinction, and
which have moral consequences that render the intellectual advan-
tages a dear purchase indeed.
•
'ltD'UCA'l'lON-lltR WOOD'S SCHOOt;, 227
tion of a teacher of Latin and Greek when his boy makes
a figure in the professional, the literary, or the political
\Vorld? These are specimens of pure want of Causality;
they mistake one element of human nature for another ;
and this will continue to be done till thinking and writing
are regulated by the clear views of Phrenology. ·
Of course, on the same general principles, we object to
prizes, as addressed to the selfish feelings, and as adding
another of these, namely, Acquisitiveness, to the combina-
tion which is excited by mere places and honorary badges.
Thus i11 made up any shortcoming of evil which results
&om these distinctions being less personal and irritating
than the never-ceasing alternations of place-taking.
Another demoralizing quality in the rewards of school
is their palpable injustice. There is gteat injustice in mak-
ing the evidence of merit to consist, not exclusively in the
manifestation of superior qualities, but in wearing a badge
or occupying a seat which can be possessed by one alone ;
and which, moreover, may of\en indicate, D'Ot so much the
intrinsic excellencies of the individual, glorying in mere
petsonal superiority, as the comparative deficiencies of his
class-fellows. It is as illogical as unchristian to reward na-
tural gifts, and degrade more slender endowments. We
dislike as much as Mr Wood can do the affectations of Mt
Malan ; but he is unanswerable on the principle.
We now recall the assumption, that this morally-hurtful
system of emulation necessarily produces, indirectly, intel-
lectual results which cannot be attained without it ; and we
call Mr Wood himself as our first witness to the contrary.
We marked his evidence in Italics on page 217 of this ar-
ticle, when we took him off his guard;and not theorizing
on emulation. He avers, that excited attention, gmtffied
cwriosi.ty, and amused fancy, are the inspiring elements of
his system. This is strictly phrenological, and strictly true.
All the phrenological books teach that each faculty's exer..
cise is a specific pleasure. The pleasure is a ditect and in-
dependent result from the presentation of the object fitted
by nature to excite it, and does not depend upon the acti-
vity of any other faculty. It were as reasonable, for exam-
ple, to predicate that we cannot see without touching, or
taste without. hearing, as to say that we cannot enjoy the
pleasures of intellect but through the channels ofthe Love
228 EDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL•
of Approbation and Self-esteem. There is a radical defect
in that intellectual education which is not made a source of
intense and ever-waking pleasure. We do not require a
bribe to eat wholesome food when hungry. Schools are
judged offrom the insufferable dulness and tedium of teach-,
ing mer,e words, and starving every other intellectual appe-
tite. This is that really doughy lump to which places,
prizes, and rods, are the necessary leaven. We grant this
necessity just as we grant the indispensability of severe
discipline in the navy, to force men to the disrelished du-
ties of an unnatural life. But what, we would ask, makes
Mr Wood's school to differ in all that constitutes juvenile
happiness from those heart-witherin.g houses of correction,
the -schools of the old system ? The/J carry emulation to
its utmost pitch, and yet how differentfrom Mr Wood's will~
ing and delighted labourers are these afllicted prisoners !
There must be other elements in Mr Wood's system, and
he himself has told what they are, to which mere desire of
rising superior is a superfluity, not a harmless, but a most
noxious superfluity. Mr Wood is just the person to make
the experiment of abolishing place-taking and prizes, to re-
pose a just and well-deserved confidence in his own system,
and fearlessly to let it bear its own weight. He has made
as bold experiments as this, and been surprised with his
own success ; and when he has thrown away these miser-
able crutches which deform him, our word for it, he will
6nd that he stands erect and firm without them, and while
he takes nothing from the intellectual advantages, will great-
ly elevate the moral character, of his system.
IfMr Wood should still ask, For what was the love ofdis-
tinction so strongly-implanted in the human breast, if it is
to be " eradicated" in this manner ?-we should answer,
that no Phrenologist talks of eradicating any of the primi-
tive impulses of the human mind ; but useful knowledge
and amiable dispositions, we remarked in a former Number,
constitute real excellence ; and we should teach children to
appreciate the intrinsic advantage ofthese attainments, and
practically to rely on the manifestation ofthem as the grand
sources of happiness, honour, and prosperity, through life.
To excel in these is the legitimate object of Self-esteem
and Love ofApprobation. But it is obvious, that every in-
dividual may abound in these gifts without limiting the_
--- ...,.,;-----
JIDUCATION-MR WOOD'S SCHOOL. 229
quantity attainable by his fellows ; and hence the most ar~
dent desire in one child to surpass all others in virtue and
wisdom, and thereby to gratify his desires of renown and
supremacy, does not necessarily imply a single pang of suf-
fering or the slightest degradation in those who run with·
him in the same race. There are here not one prize, but
prizes for all according to their degrees of merit. Such are
the ethics ofPhrenology, and snch, moreover, are the ethic~
of Christianity. The meagre gleanings, adduced by the
author, of a few incidental expressions in Scripture seem-
ing to favour his argument, are scattered to the winds be~
fore the overwhelming force of principle and of precept
wherewith the Sacred Volume teems, which stand opposed
t.o the abuse ofthe faculties desiring praise and power, which
condemn self-exaltation,and inculcate humility. Evenwhen
the Christian's progress is figuratively called a race, its prize
is essentially that very moral excellence which excludes
selfishness, and, without jostling, or hindering, or pulling
back, or getting down our fellow-competitors on the way,
may be won by ALL who run for it.•
In one part of his work, and one only, the author puts a
question to the votaries of our science. We were amused
with the question, and gratified by his own judicious though
not complete answer to it. When drawing a just and ob-
Vious distinction between the being learned and the being
'' apt to teach," between knowing much and successfully
communicating knowledge to the young, Mr Wood says,
" We know not whether to this faculty phrenologists have
assigned any peculiar region of the brain, but we are per-
suaded that it is a talent of a peculiar kind, which even fong
practice does not always confer." Dr Spurzheim almost
uses. these latter words. We answer, that every human fa-
culty, every mental quality, is and can only be manifested
·• Nothing is more promising in the system of early moral training
in the infant schools than an approximation to these views of social
in opposition to selfish feelings. There is no place-taking in these
happy and zealous seminaries; and when the firstlings of the flock .
aoout to be assembled in Edinburgh ehall come to Mr Wood'e more
advanced echool, he will be agreeabl,r eurprised to find how easily
thoee stimuli, which he at preeent thmke proffered in 'mercy, may
be dispensed with. We look forward to the pleasure of applying, in
a future Number, the phrenological test to Mr Wilderspm's infant
echool system, and we know that it will stand it well. When aaked
ifh,e encouraged place-taking, ~r Wilderspin answered, " .MY in- .
fante would scorn the baby practice."
280 EDUCATION-..MR WOOD'S SCHOOL.
through the medium of some region of the brain ; and that
phrenology can point to the region of the brain, or rather
regions (for, like most accomplishments, it is the result of
a combination of faculties), of this most important of any,
aptness to teach ; which Mr Wood is perfectly right in
concluding to be an innate talent, as phrenology has far-
ther demonstrated all talents to be. Of the combination
ef faculties in question, the author has, with .much sagacity,
hit upon some of the elements himself,-we would ha'le
almost said, but for the equivoque, without the aid of the
brain: lst, The master, says Mr Wood, must rule by love,
and seaure $he aft'ections of his pupils. This, we say, he
can only do by Benevolence and the most untiring Love of
Children. 2d, He must condescend to place himself in the
pupil's situation, and feel his difficulties. Phrenologice, his
Self-Eisteem must be under due regulation, and must net
have been pampered and inflated by scholastic ascenden-
cies and distinctions. 3d, He must have tact to choose-
t,imes, seasons,.and circumstances, the best to impress hia
pupils in their various conditions.. This savoirfaire phre-
nology has found connected with Intellect, Imitation, and
Secretiveness. Secretiveness gives the power of conceal-
ing all that would mar the intended effect, and thereby
bestows increased expression and interest on what is com-
municated. This, unknown to himself, is Mr Wood's chief
1ecret ; and if the organ is small in him, that part of phre-
nology would be in danger. Of this, however, there is no
risk; phrenological pathognomists, who have seen him in
ae'1I et astu docendi, concur in declaring, that it is impo&-
sible to ~agine the natural language of the faculty. in acti-
vity more unequivocally manifested. Although Mr W.
s1:4>ps here, phrenology.conducts us farther, and shews. u
that the combination for aptnesa to teach is yet. richer :
4th, Language, as a faculty, is necessary to adapt elqll'CI·
sions nicely to meaning and to the capacity of the learner ~
5th, A well-regulated Wonder, to· give increased interest
to the communication of a. knowledge of the works..-Of the.
Creator; 6th, Hope for cheerfolness; 7th, ldeality for
refinement; 8th, Veneration for religious impressiveness;
and, 9th, Conscientiousness for the most unswerving jus-
tice, candour, and impartiality. Now, phrenologists do u-
aign, or, more correctly, find assigned by the Creator of
EDUCATION-MB WOOD'S SCHOOL. 231
man, well-marked regions of the brain for each of these
elements of that invaluable talent called aptness to teach ;
a,nd more, they can point out, before he is even tried, the
teacher who is gifted with it. Such men cannot be too
highly prized and respected. Nothing argues worse for the
11taple of school..education than the fact, that its professors
hold a humble grade in public estimation. It is a tacit vili-
fication of the common curriculum, that its conductors are
ridiculed~as pedagogues and dominie8 ; that theirs is a si-
tuation to rise from instead of, as that of the instructor of
youth ought to be, to rise to. Many have been the sneers
~ Mr Wood's self-degradation, as it has been called, to the
despised rank of a schoolmaster. He. has nobly scorned
that ignorant prejudice of an imperfectly..educated but self-
11atisfied public, and is already towering above his detrac-
t.ors, the stronger in his moral attitude that he has so tri-
umphantly fought his way to that respect which, sooner or
later, truth and sense and public spirit must assuredly com·
mand. But it is just in such men that we most deplore a
share of that common prejudice and 1J1isdirected feeling,
the reproach of the present age, which reject without ade-
quate examination the truth of phrennlogy ; that instru-
ment of practical power in all human ct>ncerns, that science
which has thrown a flood of light on the previously dark
subject of the human mind, and is destined yet to elevate
every system and purify every institution which has to deal
with human nature.
Since this article was in types, we have been assured by
an experienced teacher, that he dailf deplores the effect of
place-taking on many tempers under his charge ; but, under
tlle prueAt 8!f8Um, knows not what to substitute for it. He
added, that we had not stated the evils too strongly.
Another, only the other day, declared to hi11 pupils, that
he was so much disgusted with their envyings and tears,
that he must abolish places and medals altogether I
In l!Ome schools moral merit, or good conduct, alone is
rewarded. This results fi:om ignorance of sound ethics.
¥orality is the highest pleasure of which man is capable,
and therefore, both naturally and scripturally, its own re·
ward. It is a solecism to stimulate to thia by addressing
aelfishneas.
( 232 )
ESTIMATE OF THE AUTHORITY OF CLEVER PRACTI-
CAL MEN IN THE PROFOUNDER AND MORE AB-
STRACT DEPARTMENTS OF SCIENCE.•
THERE are two orders of intellectual faculties-the krl()W-
·ing and reflecting. The knowing faculties, whose organs
afe situated in the lower and middle region of the forehead,
take cognizance ofthings that exist and ofoccurrences, with
their qualities and more obvious relations. A mind in which
;these faculties predominate is well adapted for becoming
learned by reading and observation, and also for attaining ex-
pertness in practical business. Accordingly, lawyers and
physicians ofextensive practice and no mean reputation, and
also skilful merchants, frequently possess these organs in a
predominating degree ; and, what is more to our present
purpose, editors of newspapers, magazines, and other pe-
riodical literary publications, are generally found to excel
in the practical department of their duty in proportion to
.the degree in which the knowing organs are developed, in
combination with a favourable endowment of the propen-
sities and sentiments. The knowing faculties give them ·
·that capacity for varied information, that ready tact in ar-
ranging and disposing of details, and that Argus-like power
of observation, which enables them to seize the passing oc-
currences of life, and present them in all the freshness of
actual existence to their readers.
The second order of intellectual faculties is the reflect-
ing,-comprehending Comparison and Causality, which
·take cognizance of the more recondite and abstract rela-
tions of objects and events. The relations perceived by
them are completely beyond the sphere of the senses and
the knowing faculties ; and one of the great distinctions be-
tween man and the lower animals is the want, or great de-
ficiency, in the latter, of the organs of these powers. Their
abstract functions may be illustrated by a simple observa-
tion. On one of the hottest days of last summer, we saw
a cow in a field in which ·there was no natural spring of
water, but in which a well had been dug, and a pump erect-
ed to supply the defect. The cow had enjoyed many a de-
licious draught from a trough placed beside the pump; but,
• By George Combe-Vol. iii. No._9, p. "':•
CLEVER PRACTICAi'. MBN. 233
olf the occasion alluded to, it waa empty, while the thirst of
the.animal was fiercely excit!l<l by a burning sun: she first
anxiously examined the trough, then put her nose to the
IJ>OUt of the pump, as if endeavouring to suck out the wa-
ter, which she seemed distinctly to know issued from that
aperture. This effort also was in vain : she then moved
round to the handle of the pump, which was so low that
she could have moved it with her teeth or by her horns ;
she laid her head along it, as if recollecting the fact that
water came when it was moved ; but, as Nature had denied
her organs of Causality, she was utterly blind to the rela-
tion between the motion of that piece of wood and the flow
of water, and she continued standing and suffering without
making the least attempt to perform the operation of pump-
ing. In this instance there was the strongest desire for
the water ; there were eyes and other.organs of sense capa··
hie of seeing and·feeling as acutely as those of man, and
there was an obvious manifestation ofobserving faculties--
for she had noticed and recollected the phenomena which
attended the supply of water~ but there was a complete
destitution of the idea of relation between the motion of
the handle and the effect which she so ardently desired.
Every human being, who is not an idiot, possesses all the
organs to a greater or less extent ; and, in the most defi-
cient, there is still enough of reflecting power to give rise
to the idea of relation between such obvious instances of
cause and effect as this, the moment the phenomena are _
presented in conjunction to the mind: hence there is an im-
measurable gulfbetween the lower animals and man, which·
the former can never pass without a fundamental change
of their natural constitution. _
. But, although the power of perceiving the relation of
cause and effect in simple occurrences is possessed by all,
the talent of tracing it in difficult and complicated pheno··
mena is bestowed on comparatively few ; and the more
numerous and intricate the causes are which combine to-
warda producing an effect, the more highly gifted in this
talent must the mind be which shall be capable of tracing
all their relations. In short, the highest development of
the upper portion of the forehead is then indispensably ne-
cessary to success.
It happens~ however, that individuals, who, by the pre-
u
234 Cl.BVBR PRACTICAL MB!(.
dominance ofthe knowing organs,are admirablyfittedfor ob--·
servation, and for handling details, are, &om th' very same
circumst:l\.Ilce, little ca1cu1ated to discover or appreciate the
more profound and difficult relations of causation. Hence
such "practica1 men," as they style themselves, have uni-
formly been the opponents of every new doctrine in science
that· required a profound and comprehensive.intellect to
trace its foundation, relations, and results. Abstract truths
appear to such minds vague and impalpable, and their con-
ception of them is at the best feeble and incomplete. They
imagine that this arises from the nature of the propoei~
themselves, and hence regard them as uncertain and,un-
safe. When at length abstract doctrines have been reduced
to practice, they are capable of appreciating them in their
results ; but., while they remain creatures of the mind alone.
their intellects canoot reach them.
The late clamour againsi Politica1 Economy, and the re-
peal of the combination laws, has, we have perceived, ema-
nated from these knowing hea$ alone. The speculation
which they have given forth on those topic!i, have been
characterized by a destitution of every thing resemMing
Causality: they have seized the surface-views ofthe quel!-
tions--the first results, as it were ; and, incapable of tracing
the distant consequences, they have dogmatized with all t.ke
arrogance of Self-esteem, u11enlightened by real penetra-
tion. Every judgment embraces two cireumstances--the
facts presented to the intellect, and the claaracter of the ;,...
telkct illelf. The latter element is almost uniformly over-
looked by persons who have not attained to the practical
discrimination conferred by Phrenology ; and yet it is near-
ly as important as the former. If every author were re-'
quired to print a correct account of his .cerebral develop-
ment in his preface, a great saving of discussion might be
·ei'ected. We wcmld then ackn0wledge as authorities only
such individuals as possess taleats calculatQll to co~
hend the subjects on which. they write.
( 235 )
ON THE EFFEC'.i'S OF OLD AGE ON '!'HE MANIFF.STA-
TIO:NS 01'' THE MENTAL l<'ACULTIES.•
To the Ediw.
Sut,-o.Sev~ral years ago I had occasion to visit an old and
venerable cletgyman, but who, from his extreme age, was
almost in a state ofsecond childhood.-Occasional gleams of
intellect manifested themselves ; but in ~eneral he appeared
illllMiible to every thing around him, and the contrast be·
tween what he ha:d been in the days of his vigour and use-
(nlness, and the mental imbecility to which he was now re-
duced, was as gteat as it was affecting. I was then at that
periOd of life when the intellect comes into activity ; and,
utterly unacquainted with the physiology of the brain, I be-
lieved that it was the mind, the immaterial principle itself,
which was thus hastening to decay-a consideration, how-
ever, which distressed and perplexed me, and gave rise to
thoughts and reflections, which the more I pursued the less
satisfaction I obtained. Often, since the period to which I
have alluded, have such thoughts obtruded themselves on
my mind, and stilJ I was unable to obtain any satisfactory
solution of the.difficulties which they presented to me. Ifit
is the mind or the soul which thus increases with our
strength, and decays as our body hastens to dissolution,-
Where; I asked, is the proud distinction of mind over mat-
ter, if both are thus subject to disease and decay? Where
the boasted difference between the body and the soul, if
disease and old age affect them both, and equally impair the
functions of the one and of the other ? I did not doubt the
immortality of the soul ; I believed, on the authority of
Scripture, that the soul at death fasses immediately into
another state of existence ; but stil I felt it difficult to con-
cei~e how it ahould at once recover all its pristine youth
and vigour, when in the instant before such fearful ravages
had been made on its faculties, so as afmost, if not altoge-
ther, to have destroyed them.
Phrenology has dissipated all these difficulties and per-
plexities. I no longer believe in t11e absurd, though popular
• Vol. it. No. 7, p. :r/5.
236 EFFECTS OF OLD AGE ON THE MIND.
error, that it is the mentalfaculties themselves which grow,
and which afterwards wither and decay~ The mind is a pure
immaterial substance, requiring indeed, in this life, corporeal ,
organs, on,which its power of manifestation depends, but
which remains the same pure essence whether its organs are
soft and flaccid, as in children,-hard and rigid, as in old
age,-or inflamed and diseased, as in fever and insanity.
The objections brought against Phrenology on the ground
of materialism are fast hastening away ; but I have thought
that hitherto Phrenologists, in refuting this objection, have
toooftencontentedlthemselveswith wielding theshield rather
than the sword. But why should they stand merely on the
defensive, and not carry the war into,the enemy's country ?
That in old age the mental faculties cease to manifest them-
selves with their former vigour is a fact, whether that fact is
to be explained according to the phrenological or the popular
theory. The mind, we are told, is degraded and debased
by its supposed close and intimate connexion with material
organs, so much so, that the step to absolute materialism
is almost imperceptible, if not necessary. But how much
more is the mind degraded by these objectors, who admit,
as they must admit, that it is susceptible of disease and de-
cay, and that its pure etherial essence is, like the body in
which it dwells, impaired by age and all its attendant' in-
firmities ? Error, indeed, is ever inconsistent; and you will
find men who talk about the body affecting the mind, and
the mind the body, who yet seem to start with instinctive
alarm at the idea of the mind possessing material organe.
and who forthwith, forgetting their own previous admissions,
launch forth into high-flown, unintelligible-I had almost
eaid nonsense, about the independence of mind upon mat-
ter ; and now our spiritual part is so little affected by its
alleged material organ, that the former can ,manifest its
p<>wers in all their energy, whatever may be the state or
cc;mdition of the latter.
I am well aware that there are few, if any, of the physio-
logists of the present day who dispute the connexion be-
tween the mind and the brain, or who do not believe that the
latter is the organ of the former. Our dispute with them,
therefore, is narrowed to the question, Is there apluralit!J of ,
organs in the brain ? But the public generally have by no
means arrived at this J:>Oint of the contr<Wersy. Let an indi-
JDIFECTS OP OLD 4GK ON THE MIND. 237
vidual maintain the opinion in general society, that the brain
is the organ of the mind, and he is instantly set down as an
undoubted Phrenologist, though he may utterly disbelieve
the doctrine ofa plurality oforgans, the beliefofwhich alone
conatitutes a Phrenologist.. The instance to which I have
alluded is not a hypothetical one, but one which actually
happened in my own experience. Such then being the po-'
pular opinion, and, I may add, the opinion of almost all of
our metaphysicians, let me again ask, Which system most
raises and ennobles our ideas of man's spiritual essence-
that which represents it as liable to change and to decay-
or that which believes it to be incapable of any change,
and refers the apparent loss or disease of the mental facul-
ties, not to the faculties themselves, but to the material
erganson which these faculties depend, in this life, for their.
manifestation ?
I know n.ot how others may feel, but I can state from
experience, that.the phrenological view has removed from
my own mind a thousand difficulties which used to distract
and perplex me. I lately called with a friend on a gentle-
man, who was in precisely the same state as the clergyman
whom I formerly mentioned. Though they had been on
~rms of the most intimate friendship for upwards of forty
years, the gentleman had lost all recollection of my friend,
and did not know him even after his name was mentioned.
I could not help contrasting the very different feelings I had
experienced on these two occasions;-now I had no occasion
lt"t<> distress myself with the endless unsatisfactory inquiry
which had formerly distressed me. I was fully aware of the
causes to which the effects were to be ascribed. It was not
his mind which was dected-that had remained, as it has
ever done, unimpaired ;-its material organ had become
stiff and rigid through age, and therefore its power of mani-
festation had ceased.
I know not if these remarks are worthy of a place in your
Journal. They have not the merit of novelty ; but some-
times the statement of our experience of the effects which
truth produces on our own minds may have an influence on
some whom a formal dissertation might fail to convince.-
I am, Sir, your most obedi~nt servant, G•
. ~ .
( 238 )
OBSERVA'rIONS ON THE FACULTY OF TIME, AND ON
THE DEA;F AND DUMB DANCING.•
WB understand that dancing is taught with perfect suc-
cess to such of the pupils of the Deaf and Dumb Institu-
tion of Edinburgh as can afford to pay for it. The number
at present enjoying this tuition is eight, and they are of
both sexes. To the followers of the old system of mental
philosophy, this project has appeared absurd ; but on the
principles of Phrenology it is as rational as it is benevolent.
·The question naturally occurs, Why is dancing one of
the pleasures of the human race ? The love of motion is no
doubt an instinctive and primitive impulse ofanimal nature,
for which it is probable that a cerebral organ exists, al-
though it has not yet been discovered. But the love of
motion does not account for that species o(measured 111QVe·
ment peculiar to man, called the dance. The pleasures of
dancing have been referred to the attractions of fair part-
ners ; but the South Sea Islanders disdain to dance with
females. Some persons are known to dance with much
zest alone; and Captain Parry's crew, when frozen up in
hyperborean darkness, danced with great glee. These in-
stances are fatal to that hypothesis. It will perhaps be
&aid, however, that Captain Parry's sailors danced to keep
themselves warm ! But why did they dance to keep them-
selves warm? why move in measured time, when less re-
gulat motion would have served the same end? It is likely
that some may take refuge in " the inspiring power of the
music," as the proper explanation. But, on the one hand,
music is a distinct pleasure, and can be, and often is en-
gaged in, without even suggesting the dance ; and, on the
other, the most precise and accurate dance may be per-
furmed without music. The South Sea Islanders dance
with perfect accuracy, and not without grace, to the beat
of a rude drum, as devoid of music as an inverted washing-
tub ; and who has not seen a party of soldiers dancing to a
drum, without even the accompaniment of a fife ? It is- im-
poBBible to dispute, that any person who can dance at all,
may do so with perfect truth and grace to the measure-
•By J&111e1 Simpaon.-VoL ii, No. I>, p. IM.
TIME.-DE.lF AND DtlMB DANCIMG. 239
fur music it is not-of a well-beat drutn. We are now ad·
vancing. In Shakspeare's days a dancing movement was
called a measure :-
"Ray to her, we have measured DlMY miles
To tread a rnecuure with her on this grass."
Looe'• Laboar wt.
" If any man doubt me, Jet him put me to my purgation. I baie
trod a -l&8Ur•. I have flatteied a lady;" etc.
As You IA"'8 ll.
•· " Now tread we a meamre, quoih the young Lochinvar."
. Mannion.
Why a measure ? what is measured ? Certainly not
space ;-and the only other subject of messurement is time.
Time, therefore, is measured in the dance by certain pul-
sations of the feet, and correspondi"Ng movements of the
body, repeated at certain intervals of accurate and regular
recurrence. This regulated measurement of time is called
rhythm, and is a source of pleasure in its application to
other movements besides those of the dance, namely, to
music itself; and to versification, of which it is the soul
and essence : a failure in rhythm, where rhythm is essen-
tial, is pa:nful ; and the dislike, amounting to horror, which
afftict.S a very sensifrve classical scholar when a false quan-
tity grates upon his ear, is only a confirmation of the truth,
that a desire ofjust rhythm is a law of his nature. Now,
the measure of a hexameter, iambic, or anapestic verse,
may, as mere measure, be separated from the poetry, and
beat on a drum ; and a good timist--to use a term known
to mnsicians...:.-will recognize and relish the movement.
Many persons, indeed, have a habit of amusing themselves
by marking time by beating or drumming on any object
neat them. The dance, then, as a peculiar species of move-
ment, appears to us to owe its origin to the natural appe-
tite fur rhythm, which, in the practice of it, is marked by
the movement of the feet and whole body : for the head
and h111ds are often busy in the same service ; and it is
notorious that the pleasure instantly ceases, and is changed
into pain, by a single false step in rhythm.
Now here is a pleasure, migeneris, wiresolvable into any
other. What, then, is it? At this stage all other systems
of human nature talee leave of us, and Phrenology appears
a our guide. This science teaches,fir.1~ tllat each primi-
240 TIME.-DEAP AND DUMB DANCING,
tive faculty or power has an organ in the brain; ~ ae•
eondly, that each faculty seeks its OW)l gratification;. in
other words, that there is a pleasure in the exercise of each
organ. A large induction of facts has rendered it highly
probable, that the part of the brain marked No. 31 on the
busts, is the organ of TIME, and that the exercise of this
faculty gives rise to the pleasure of dancing. We have
found the organ largely developed in those who,shew an
intuitive knowledge of the lapse of minutes and hours, so
as to name ihe time of the day without having recourse to
the clock ; and also in those who perceive those minuter
divisions, and their harmonious relations, which constitute
rhythm, and who, when they apply the tact to music, are
called good timists ;-a distinct power theirs from that.of
the mere melodist, and often wanting in him ; while it is
matter of the commonest observation, on .the other hand,
that this sensibility to .rhythm, called time, is marked in
many who have a very moderate perception of melody.
Such persons are invariably accurate dancers,. observing
delicately the time, though indifferent to the melody of the
violin. We have made many observations, both on per-
sons who have both Time and Tune large, and on. those
who have only one of them in large endowment; and.we
have never found the manifestations fail. Very lawly we
were struck with the uncommon prominence of the organ
of Time in a whole family of young people, .and inqtW"ed
whether or not they danced with accuracy 1md loved dan-
cing ? We were answered, that they did both in a remark-
able degree ; and as we lived near them ,for some weeks,
we observed that dancing was a constant and favourite pas-
time of theirs, even out of doors. Their dancing.master
informed us, that the accuracy of their time exceeded that
of any pupils he had ever taught. There was thus evident
in these young persons an intense pleasure in accurate
rhythmical movements. ,
Phrenology refers that pleasure to a certain organ as
its seat, in the same manner as the pleasure arising from
the perception of the relations of sounds, called melody,
is referable to another organ. But here Phrenology stops,
and does not pretend to give a reason why 'the per-
ception of the relation of measured portions of time is
pleasurable, more than why the perceptions of the rela~ .
TIME-DEAF AND DUMB DANCING. 24 l
tions of sound is so.• The reason is obvious why the plea-
sure is so much enhanced, as it is known to be, when both
Time and Tune are gratified simultaneously ; there .are
then two source& of enjoyment in activity in place of one.
In dancing also, especially with partners of the opposite
sex, a variety of other faculties are called into play, and ad-
ditional enjoyment results from this exercise. Hence Time
is only the fundamental power of this art, to which all the
others are accessaries ; but it is not the 11()/e cause of the
pleasure that attends it.
. If we have rightly referred the delight which human be-
ings take in rhythmical movements of the limbs and whole
body to the gratification of the organ of Time as its ba.na,t
we are in a condition to understand why this gratification
is not denied to the deaf.
If the Quarterly Review (vol. xxvi. p. 404) is to be be-
lieved, even the organ of Tune may be excited through
other channels than the sense of hearing. The case of Mr·
Arrowsmith, a young gentleman, deaf and dumb, is there
narrated, who, it is said, enjoyed most exquisite perceptions
of music, by placing his finger-nails on a piece of wOoden
furniture in the room in which glees were sung and played.
Whatever opinion may be formed of this case, there is no
doubt that the organ of Time may be excited through the
medium of different senses, but especially those of sight
and touch. That time may be marked with the utmost
precision to the eye, is a fact familiar to every one who has
seen a regiment of soldiers go through the manual and pla-
toon exercise without a single word of command, by obey-
ing the movement.'! of the fugle-man, who gives the time
to the eye ; and who that has seen this done by a practised
corps, il4 ignorant that there is great pleasure in witnessing
• It is true of both TuM and Time, that, in order to the percep..
tion of the harmoniou11 relations of portions of either seund or time,
these portions must be short. The longest note in music occupies a
minute portion oftime. There ie therefore no perceptible pleaaare
in the perception of very lengthened sounds, or lapllell of time. Thia
too may account for the popularity of brisk and rapid movements in
music. and especially in the beating of a drum.
1' The alliance of other faculties 'l"ith Time ia neceuary for per-
fect dancing, just as other powers, in addition'to Tune, are nec-
eary to perfection in music. In the opera. dancing ia carried to a
Yery· hish pitch of elegance, and eveft pf sentiment, "Jtfoh·T111•
alone will not produce.
x
242' TIME-DEAF AND DUMB DANCING.
the exquisitely timed movements of the exercise? Now
suppose a dancer, unaided by music, were to keep his eye-
on any person who marked dancing time to his sight, it
cannot be doubted that he could dance to it. A deaf per-
son could perform the manual exercise from the time given
by the fugle-man, and just as easily could a deaf person
dance with his eye upon the violin-bow or the player's
arm, or on the movement ofthe drumsticks.
It is unnecessary to go farther, and shew that the sense
of touch may be the channel through which the organ of
Time is excited, as well as the sense of hearing and sight.
No one will dispute that a soldier could perform the ma•
nual exercise to a succession of taps on the shoulder ; and
to time in the same way given might a person dance.
What we have said is confirmed by fact. It is well
known that the deaf and dumb do dance, taking the time
by the eye either from the violin-player's arm, or at second
hand, but instantaneously, from the other dancers. We are.
acquainted with a young lady and gentleman in England,
both of rank, who are deaf and dumb, and who, in addition
to many other accomplishments, dance with the greatest
grace and precision.
We were allowed, by the polite attention of Mr Kinni-
burgh, the excellent master of the Edinburgh Deaf and'
Dumb Institution, to see his dancing pupils. We did not
see them dance, as their lessons for the season had not·
co~menced, and their own violin-player was not present;
but Mr K. assured us, that although, like other children,
they vary in their respective merits as dancers, there is no
difference between their dancing and that of those who,
have their hearing. We observed, that the development
of the organ.of Time in all we saw corresponded with the
"'; account Mr K. gave us of their aptness to learn and skill in
performing the dance. The development was largest in
two sisters, Mary and .Katharine W--, the best dancers;
and smallest in William M-----, to whom it was found ex·
tremely difficult to teach dancing.
··Mr K. confirmed our conjecture, that the deaf dance by:.
the eye, which, he says, they keep steadily on the arm and
bow of the violin-player. He generally allows one of his
QW.Jl family to dance with the deaf pupils, which aids them ·
' '
TIME-DEAF AND DUMB DANCING. 243
by transferring their eye from the violin to their hearing
partner; but this course is by no means necessary.
Such instances are so common as t.o be knGllVD to every
one, and we have been habituated to hear them explained
by the ridiculous theory, that the dancer's movements are
watched by the musician, who adapts the time to them.
But while it would be impossible to attain, by so clumsy an
arrangement, time, not to say graceful movements, the hy- .
pothesis fails entirely when these dancers take their place,
as they often do, in the country-dance or the quadrille•.
There is but one way of accounting for the phenomenon:
they dance by the eye, and the fundamental faculty which
dancing gratifies, is excited through the sense of sight· as
well as through the sense of hearing.
By all means, then, let the deaf and dumb be taught to
dance ; taking care, as essential to the effect, that the
rhythm be rendered distinctly visible to them. To accom-·
plish this end, a drum, or tabor, struck very visibly with
well-marked motions, may be preferable to the use of a
violin or flute. The former will at once guide them by the
eye; and if in this, as in many other accomplishments which
depend on quick perception, they shall excel many who are
not bereaved as they are, we may soon see a quadrille
danced in the deaf and dumb school with as much truth;a&
much grace, and as much genuine glee, as at any gay ball
or etegant assembly. · ·
It is one beautiful feature of the science of Phrenology,
that whenever it elucidates any hitherto unexplained phe-
nomenon of human nature, it receives an addition to its
own evidence from the phenomenon explained. The pro~ .
priety of referring Time and Tune to distinct organs is de··
monstrated by the fact, that time can be marked by the
sight, while tune cannot, however such facts as that above tr
stated might lead to the probability that Tune <:an be ex-
cited by the sense of touch.
The brief sketch now offered, will have attained its ob-
ject, if it shall point out the way to farther observation .of
the function of the organ of Time, so aa t.o lead to its un~
questioned establishment as one of the primitive faculties
of man.
01g11zedbyGoogle
c 244 )
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS
AS l'l.LUSTRATED BY PHRENOLOGY.•
On seeing the title prefixed to this article, some of GUI"
readers may be disposed to ask, how a disquisition upon
Hypochondriasis, or any other disease, happeD& to find a
place in the pages of a Phrenological Journal? A sufficient
answer will, we hope, be found in the following considera-
tions.
H ypochondriasis, under its various forms of Vapolil'S,
Low Spirits, Ennui, &c. is of so frequent occurrence in Uiis
oountry, that it has been long known on the Continent by
the appellation of the Maladie Anglaise, first affixed to it
by Dr Cheyne.· It is indeed so generally prevalent, espe-
cially in times of public vicissitude and general adversity,
and is so often seen even in the midst of the greatest worldly
prosperity, that we question whether we have a single reader
who has not, either in his own person, or in that of some
near relation, tasted of its pains. In severity also, as well
1\11 in frequency, it is often sufficiently formidable. For the
misery which accompanies a serious attack, although ge-
nerally regarded by the ignorant as causeless and imaginary,
is, in reality, not inferior in poignancy to any to which man-
kind is liable ; and the dreadful suspicions and gloomy fore-
bodings with which it desolates the mind, and obscures
every feeling of happiness, are often so intolerable as to lead
their unhappy victim to self-destruction for relief.
· On adverting to these facts, the unprofessional reader
would be ·apt to suppose, that, in consequence both of the
numerous opportunities of investigation afforded by its ac-
knowledged frequency, and of the magnitude of the inte-
rest at stake, no disease could exist, the causes, nature, and
treatment of which would be more thoroughly understood
than those of Hypochoridriasis. . But when we state it as a
lamentable truth, that scarcely any one malady can be nam-
ed, in regard to which so much positive discrepancy ofopi-
nion obtains, and in the cure of which medical aid is ge-
nerally ofso little avail, it will readily be believed, tbiµ; some
great error in regard to the nature of the disease, or some
great defect in the mode of treatment, must have existed
• By Andrew Combe, M.D.-Vol. iii. No. 9. p. 51.
-
ON THE SBAT AND NATURE OP HYPOCHONDBIASIS. '245
.to impede the progress of the profession towards a happier
Tesult ; and it will then be readily admitted, that every ra~
tional attempt to expose the sources of that error, and to
provide a safer and a surer guide, ought not only to be re-
ceived with interest by the members of the medical profes-
&on, but to be welcomed in a still higher degree by the
public, who are themselves the chief sufferers from the pre-
vailing ignorance on the subject; and therefore, when w~
.add, that Phrenology, viewed as the true physiology ofthe
bra.Ht, alfords many facilities for the more successful eluci-
dation of.the real nature of this disease, we trust we shall
have said enough to satisfy even the most scrupulous reader,
that the subject is 11ot so foreign to our pages as he may a.t
first .have supposed. ,
The first point which demand!! our attention, in investi-
~ti11g the nature of any obscure disease, is to ascertain its
corporeal seat. Different external circumstances, and dif-
ferent remedies, act more directly upon one part ofthe body
than upon another ; some, for instance, act in preference
upon the brain, others upon the stomach, and others again
upon the kidneys or heart: consequently, as no method of
cure can be either judiciously or even safely employed, un-
less it is exactly adapted to the nature and functions of the
organ chiefly affected, it is with great justice held as an es-
tablished maxim in medicine, that the knowledge ofthe seat
of a disease is half its cure ; and, perhaps, no better illus-
tration of the truth and importance of this principle could
be wished for than that afforded by Hypochondriasis itself.
tr, for example, it is, as many have taught, a purely mel)tal
affection, having no corporeal seat, then it follows that cor-
poreal causes can have no share in its production, and that
<:<>rporeal remedies can be ofno avail in its cure. If, again,
..as wgenerally supposed, and as the name itself indicates,
.it has its seat in the digestive viscera lying under the.false
ribs, tl1en it as neceiSaI'ily follows, that such causes only as
.tend to act upon these viscera ought especially to produce
it, and that its cure ought to be effected by guarding, in
.an especial manner, against these, and by the administra-
tion of remedies calculated to improve the digestive func-
.tions. And, lastly, if, aa a few late authors maintain, and
as we shall endeavour to prove, it has really its seat in the
brain, then it ought to spring chiefly from phyaical or moral
246 ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASJS.
causes acting upon that organ, and through its medium up-
on the mind ; and a mode of treatment providing against
these, and adapted to the nature of the cerebral functions,
ought to be the most rational and successful,-while tonics
and stomachics, which, on the second supposition, are the
remedies chiefly indicated, ought, if this view is correct, to
be attended, if not with harm, at least with no conspicuous
benefit.
Important, then, as the consequences depending upon t\
right knowledge of the seats of diseases unquestionably are,
we shall not consider our time misspent if, in the following
pages, we can succeed in shewing that the symptoms, causes,
a:nd method of cure of Hypochondriasis, all concur in indi-
cating it to be an affection <?f the brain, and that the de-
rangement of the digestive and other functions, so frequent-
,ly 'attending it, are consecutive or secondary only, and n<Jt
·at all essential to its existence.
Dissection after death, taken in connexion with the ori-
gin and progress of any disease, is the surest method of de-
tecting its seat. In the present case, however, it is inap-
plicable, Hypochondriasis proving fatal so rarely as to at:.
ford very few opportunities of putting it in practice. Our
endeavours, therefore, must be confined to the only method
which is practicable during life,-namely, to an analysis of
the essential or constituent symptoms ; and this is fortu-
nately sufficient for the purpose.
. To arrive with certainty at a knowledge of the seat of
any malady by analyzing its symptoms, we must constanth·
.be guided by, and never for a moment lose sight of, a prin-
ciple in itself simple and undeniable, and in its results of
the highest importance, but which, nevertheless, is too of-
. ten neglected,-namely, that no function can be deranged
without a previous or concomitant derangement of the or-
gan which performs it. Vision, for instance, can never be
affected, unless the eye is disordered ; nor hearing, unless
the ear is diseased; nor digestion, while the stomach re-
mains unaffected ; and, consequently, when we perceive
any function impaired or exalted, we are as certain as ifwe
saw it with our eyes, that the organ which performs that
function is in a morbid state. From tl1is undeniable pro-
position it follows, that if, in any given disease, we can
prove that a particular fonction is the only one which i.~
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASJS. 247
INVARIABLY affected, we are entitled, by every rule oflogic,
to hold, that ihe disease must have its seat in the particular
organ of that function. Such, accordingly, is the princi-
ple, and such the mode of reasoning, by which we endea-
vour, at the bedside of the patient, to detect the seat of his
malady, and upon the soundness of which alone the choice
ofall our remedies in fact depends.
To the conclusiveness of this mode of proceeding may be
objected, first, our imperfect knowledge of the physiology
or functions of some part.s of the body-in consequence of
which we may, even after ascertaining what function is dis•
ordered, still be unable to say by what organ it is perform-
ed, and, of course, what is the seat of the morbid cause ;
.and, secondly, the occasional occurrence of deranged func-
tions, not from disease in their immediate organs, but from
.s!lmpathy with remote parts. The former obstacle is, in
fact, that which has so much retarded our medical know-
ledge of insanity, and for the effectual removal of which we
are highly indebted to Phrenology ; and nothing can de-
monstrate more clearly the importance of a sound physio-
logy to the progress of medical science than the very fact,
that the idea so long entertained, and still so generally re-
ceived, of Hypochondriasis being an affection of the diges-
tive viscera, arose solely, logically, and consmently from
the equally erroneous but long prevalent physiological no-
tion of the passions having their seats in the same part.s.
In admitting this idea, the error lay, not in the inefficiency
of the principle, or in the unsoundness of the inforence de-
duced from the premises, but in absurdly regarding the
premises themselves as physiologically true, when, as is now
known, they were altogether without foundation ; and, con-
sequently, had it been known to our predecessors, as it is
now to us, that the brain is the corporeal seat of the pas-
sions as well as of the intellect, the same principle which
led them in i~orance to place the seat of melancholy, hy-
pochondriasis, and other mental affections, in the viscera
of the abdomen, would, in knowledge, have led them as in-
fullibly to place it where it really exists, in the encephalon,
or brain. Besides, the functions of the brain, in so far as
it is the seat of mental emotions, being now pretty accu-
rately ascertained, this objection no longer applies to the
--'··--
248 ON ·ruE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYP'OCHONDRIASIS.
study of the particular·disease under consideration, and to
which we mean at present exclusively to confine ourselves.••
The second obstacle, when narrowly examined, proves to
be equally groundless with the first. It may be thus illus-
trated :-Blindness sometimes arises &om worms irritating
the intestinal eanal, and therefore here is an instance, it
may be said, in which the seat of the disease is not in the ·
eye or organ which executes the disturbed function of vi-
sion, but in a part widely distant, and in which, conse•
quently, the mere knowledge of the deranged function
does not lead to the true seat of the .malady ; and hence
the principle is of no practical value. But there is a double
fallacy in such reasoning ; for in this, as in every other in- ·
stance, the organ which performs the disturbed function is
actually the only one that is invariably affected ; and blind.
ness does not occur, except in ·consequence of a sympathe•
tic, but not less real, morbid state of the eye or of the Of>-'
tic nerve, both of which are essential to vision. This mor•
bid condition of these parts may no doubt result, in some
cases, from worms in the intestinal canal ; but that it does
exist is perfectly undeniable. If it did not, why does not
the same intestinal cause always produce the· same effect
upon vision ? for experience shews that it does not give
Tise to blindness in one out of a hundred cases. The only
nason·is, that in some constitutions the eye is naturally so
irritable, and so susceptible of diseased action, that it .suf,.
fers .from such slight causes as in sounder constitutions
·would have been altogether without effect ; and hence we
are still authorized to hold, that in every disease in whicli
vision is impaired or altered, the eye, or organ which exe-
cutes the function, must of necessity be disordered. This
disorder may arise from external causes acting immediately
upon the eye itself, or it may result from sympathy with
remote parts ; but still it must exist, and therefore it forms
110 exception to the principle above stated. The second
point of the .fallacy is this :-If the blindness arises from , ·
sympathy with the irritation produced by worms, the latter,
being the cawe, must necessarily exist.first, and manifeit
their presence by symptoms indicating derangement of the
digestive functions, and thus lead, by tlu! "el'fl pri~iple olr
jected to, to .the intestinal seat of the original malady, and
~~--
""""---
ON THE SEAT AND·NATUBB OP •YPOCHONDRIASJS, 249
to a treatment calculated te ~ its cure, and, of course,
also to remove the blindness, in 110 far as it has arisen from
sympathy. Accordingly, such is actually the fact in na·
ture. In the cases alluded to, worms first shew themselves
by variable appetite, impaired digestion, irregular bowels,
·&c. ; and then the blindness supervenes. In short, it stands
to reason to admit, that before we can ascribe blindness to
the influence of intestinal worms, we must prenOt1Sl!J have
had oome symptoms or proof of their existence ; so that,
even in the supposed exception, the p~ciple contended
for leads us straight to the true cause or seat ofeach disease.
Arguments like that just refuted have often been em-
ployed, and with the most pernicious effects, to shew that
all the varieties of mental derangement have their se{lts in
the chylopoetic or.digestive viscera, and not in the brain or
organ of mind. 'fhe attention·has thereby been diverted
from the investigation of the true causes, theory, and cure
of insanity, and countless miseries have thus been heaped
upon the heads of its unhappy victims. But the applica:-
tion ofthe same principle at once exposes their falJacy, and
proves that insanity never arises from such causes, unless
in individuals whose brains are, either from hereditary con-
stitution or accidental circumstances, strongly predisposed
to unhealthy action : and it shews, moreover, that dii!Order
of the mind, like impaired vision and every other function,
arises, in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, from causes
operating directly upon its material organ, the brain ; and
that, in a great majority of cases, the deranged digestion
and other secondary ailments are the effect, instead ofbeing
the cmue, ·of the dii;;ease in the organs of the mind.
From the preceding observations it follows, that had our
acquaintance with the functions or physiology of the brain
been a& complete as it is with the physiology of many other
less important organs, and had our inquiries and our prac-
tice been uniformly regulated by the principle above laid
down as the sole foundation of a sure diagnosis and safe
method of cure, no such diversity of opinion as that which
now exist&in·regard to the nature of Hypochondriasis, and
no such self-contradiction among ·the ablest and most
-esteemed authors, could have occurred. We could not then
have found such men as Dr Whytt, whose work on nervous
.diseases is still a standard treatise, in one place declaring
250 ON THE SEAT ..\ND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS.
Hypochondriasis and Hysteria to be affections of the same
kind, the one having its seat in the alimenta"!J canal and
the other in the uterus; and subsequently, in another place,
obliged, by opposingfacts, to add, that they have not alway•
their seats in these parts, but often arise ftom other un-
·known affections ofthe body-as ifthe disease could change
its seat, and still be .precisely the same, and manifest pre-
cisely the same kind of symptoms ! Neither could we have
found an able physician and accurate observer like M.
Louyer Villermay, who has lately written on this subject,
involving himself, as he will presently be seen to do, in the
most glaring contradictions, and cutting down his own opi-
nions at the root with the sharp and unsparing edge of his
own facts. Nor would Drs Gall, Spurzheim, Falret, Geor-
get, and a few others, have been the only men who, guided
by a sound physiology and strict adherence to principle, have
tr.avelled over the same vast field of uncultivated inquiry,
and advanced almost invanably consistent and useful opi-
nions founded on the solid basis of consistent facts.
The importance of the leading principle being thus de-
'monstrated, and the futility of the objections to which it is
liable being exposed, we proceed to make a practical appli-
cation of it to the study of Hypochondriasis, and, first, to
determine what function is the only one, a derangement of
which invariably attends, and therefore, we may say, alonR
constitutes, Jl.11Poclwndriasis. This point being ascertain-
ed, we naturally hold the organ by which that function is
performed to be the seat of the disease.
Fortunately little difficulty attends this first branch of the
inquiry ; for, on perusing the delineations of the disease, as
given by the most experienced physicians, or on carefully
examining the cases which come under our own observation,
we find that all the symptoms, without exception, which are
euential to its existence, point exclusively to the manifesta-
tion of the mind as the only function, a disturbance of which
invariably attends its occurrence ; and that even those wri-
ters who contend most strenuously for its abdominal seat
never describe any series or combination of symptoms as
indicative of Hypochondriasis, unless the mental uneasiness,
the " tristitia et metw ez catUis non a!tJUis," also be pre-
sent.
Thus Dr Cullen, whose authority in description few wiU
ON. THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 251
venture to dispute, characterizes the disease 88 a " state of
mimf' distinguished by a concurrence of the following cir-
cumstances :-Languor, listless1_1ess, or want of resolution
and activity, with respect to all undertakings ; a disposition
to seriousness and timidity ; 88 to all future events, an ap-
prehension of the worst or most unhappy state of them, and
therefore often, upon slight grounds, an apprehension of
great evil. From any unusual feeling, perhaps ofthe slightest
kind, they apprehend great danger, and even death itself;
and, in respect to all these feelings and apprehensions, there
is commonly the most obstinate belief and persuasion.• In
like manner, the celebrated Heberden, whose portraits of
·disease are such inimitably accurate copies from nature,
sums up a similar description of H ypochondriasis, by liken-
ing it to the " dream of a waking man, in which, although
perfectly well, he seems to be sinking under the symptoms
of every disease; and, although innocent, to be filled with
remorse, as if guilty of every crime."f
Such is a short summary of the only kind of symptoms
invariably attending and truly constituting Hypochondria-
sis ; and if to these be added what Dr Willis calls " atro-
cious" headache returning periodically, giddiness, obstinate
watchfulness, insufferable uncertainty ofmind and unsteadi-
ness of purpose, then we have the disease pure and com-
plete. It is, no doubt, frequently accompanied with symp-
toms indicating considerable derangement of the functions
of other parts of the body ; but these are merely accidental
complications, arising solely from the unequal distribution
of nervous influence, necessarily consequent upon a morbid
action going on in some part of the brain whence that in-
fluence is derived ; and, therefore, in attempting t.o deter-
mine the seat of the disease, we ought not t.o suffer our-
selves to be misled either by the frequency of their ap-
pearance or by their apparent urgency. Dyspeptic symp-
toms, for example, so generally accompany or follow an at-
tack of Hypochondriasis, that many writers regard the
mental despondency as the direct result of the dyspepsia.
But an attentive examination demonstrates that Hypo-
chondriasis may occur, not only unaccompanied by any
dyspeptic symptoms, but without any other organ than the
•Cullen's Practice of Physic, § 12"22. .
· t Heberden'a Commentaril de Morb. Hist. et Curat. p. 71.
252 ON THE SEAT AND NATVRB OF HVPOCHONDRIASIS.
brain being at all affected ; and, tJice versa, that dyspepsia
may occur without any hypochondriacal affection of the
mind necessarily following its attack. This fact, indeed,
constitutes the great diagnostic mark between the two
diseases. Dyspepsia, being simply a disease of the stomach,
is known by the presence of symptoms indicating disorder
i>f the digestive (unctions, but without any inordinate affe<:-
tion of the mind. Hypochondriasis, on the other hand,
being a disease of the brain, is known only by the presence
of symptoms indicating a morbid state of the functions of
that organ, while those indicative of deranged digestion are
C>ften very slight, and not unfrequently altogether absent.
That the manifestation of the mind is the only function
necessarily affected in Hypochondriasis is still further evi-
.dent from tile acknowledged difficulty of distinguishing be-
tween it and melancholia ; and, if our view of the former
is correct, then both diseases must be aft'ections of the same
organs and ofthe same functions, anti consequently, as symp-
toms are nothing more than derangedfunctions, both must
of necessity shew many symptoms in common : ·hence the
,·ery natural source of the perplexity, and hence why, as
Dr Cullen states, it is often impossible to distinguish be-
tween them. He adds, that when a distinction can be made,
." it is chiefly by dyspepsia being always present in hypo-
chondriasis, and often absent in melancholia."• But if, as
we have already shewn, dyspepsia is merely a common com-
plication of Hypochondriasis, and not necessary to its exist-
ence, it follows, that dyspeptic symftoms may be absent or
present il'l the one disease as wel as in tl1e other ; and
henee, their occasional presence in Hypochondriasis can
afford no just ground, either for distinguishing that from
any other disease, or for assigning to it a different seat.
.That this is really the case is evident from the statement.
of Dr Cullen himself, who mentions also, that Hypochon-
driasis often exists " with few or only slight symptoms of
dyspepsia; and even though tile latter be attending, they
seem to be rather the effects of the general temperament,
than of an9 primarg or 1-0cal affection of the stomach."
·Here Dr C. distinctly acquits Hypochondriasis of being a
•tomachic affection, and affords something like a reversal
• Culleni Synopsis Noeol. G. LXIV.
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 21)3
·of his own diagnosis-thus shewing how strongly facts con-
cur in proving Hypochondriasis to have the same corporeal
seat as melancholia, and in proving that seat to be the brain.
This conclusion is, in fact, so irresistible, that Dr Cullen's
eandour leads him, in another place, to " acknowledge, that
he is at a loss to determine how, in all cases, Hypochon-
driasis and Melancholia may be distinguished from one an-
other, whilst the same temperament is common to both."*
Had their seats, however, been in different parts of the
body, different functions must have suffered, and different
symptoms must have appeared, which would have led at
once to as easy and perspicuous a distinction as that al-
ready shewn to exist between these and dyspepsia.
Another circumstance, which might have led a refiecting
mind to the discovery of the cerebral seat of Hypochon:-
driasis, if it had not been for the soporific influence of esta-
blished error, is the ever-changing and innumerable host of
secondary symptoms which accompanies it. The celebrat-
ed Sydenham aptly declares, that the shapes of Proteus, or
the colours of the chameleon, arc not more numerous and
inconstant than the forms of hypochondriacal disorder ; Dr
Whytt repre8ents it as simulating all other maladies ; and
Villermay, again, speaks ofit annoying the patient, " depuii.
la plante des pieds, jusqu' au bout des ongles, jusqu' al'ex-
tremite des cheveux." The obvious inference to be drawn
from this is, that the disease must have its seat in some
part of the body which is intimately connected with ·and
exerts a strong influence over all other parts. Now, the
brain alone is such an organ. It alone is the fountain ofner-
rnus energy ; to it alone all sensations, from the soles of
the feet to the tips of the fingers, are referable, and it alone
has a constant sympathy with the state of all other parts:
the brain alone, therefore, can be the seat ofa disease whose
ia&ence extends over all other organs. ,
Amidst such a variety of secondary symptoms, we have
already seen that those which indicate derangement of the
dige8tive functions are the most frequently met with ; and,
on .the view of the disease being an affection of some part
of the brain, this fact admits of an easy explanation. It is
well known, for instance, that wounds and injuries of the
• Cullen'• Practice, § l~.
------- ----- ----·-
2.54 ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCUONDRIASIS.
brain often produce an immediate disturbance in the func-
tions of the liver and stomach, giving rise to nausea, sick-
ness, and vomiting. It is also well known that violent
emotions, intense grief, unexpected bad news, and even a
fit of anger, produce a sudden cessation and diminution of
the digestive powers, and give rise to actual loathing and
squeamishness. This is perfectly in harmony with the
idea of Hypochondriasis being a mental affection, and hav-
ing a cerebral seat ; since we know that a regular supply of
nervous influence is essential to the performance of the di-·
gestive process, and that whatever interrupts or vitiates this, ·
whether momentary passion, continued grief, or hypochon-
driacal despondency, thereby diminishes the active powers
of the stomach. That this effect results from the disturb-
ance of the nervous influence coming to these organs from
the brain, and not from the passions themselves having an
abdominal·seat, as was long supposed, is abundantly proved
by the interesting and conclusive experiments of Drs WiJ-.
son Philip, Magendie, Brachet, and others, but of which
our limits will allow us to state onlv the results.
lst, On dividing the pneumogastric nerve, which is the
chief medium of communication between the brain and the
stomach, and leaving the ends in contact, the process of
digestion is a little retarded, but still goes on.
2d, When the divided ends are separated; or a portion
of the nerve is excised, digestion ceases, or becomes ex-
L'eedingly slow.
3d, A eection or destruction of part of the spinal me-
dulla, or a removal of a portion of the brain, is said to have
the same effect.
4th, " Every thing that diminishes the sum-total ofner-
vous influence going to the stomach enfeebles pruportionally
the process ofdigestion in that organ."
5th, Narcotics, administered so as to produce coma,
equally diminish the power of digestion.
6th, When the process of digestion is stopt by the exci-
sion of the nerve, it is capable of being re-established by
means of galvanism applied to the nerve.*
After contemplating these results, does it seem at all
wQnderful that cerebral or mental disease, or even undue
• Medico.Chir11rg. Review; No. 16,'p. 968.
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIA.SIS, 255
exercise of brain, should give rise to dyspepsia ? Baglivi,
indeed, with great justness, assigns this very reason for the
generally deficient digestive powers of literary men. Vil.
lermay also tells us, that " les personnes qui exercent beau-
coup leur entendement ont ordinairement les organes ab-
dominaux faibles et tres sensibles; il semhle que l'activite
mentale ait lieu au prejudice des fonctions digestives. Un
mauvais estomac, dit Amatus, suit les gens de lettres commc
l'ombre suit le corps, et ii est egalement vrai du moins en
general, que l'homme qui pense le plus est celui qui digere
le plus ma!."*
The kind of secondary symptoms which occurs next in
frequency, is that denoting disordered circulation, or a
sympathetic affection of the heart. " You will not often
find," says Dr Heberden, "any real disease of the heart
itself, which gives rise to more violent palpitations than
Hypochondriasis, although in the latter the heart remains
sound and uninjured." This fact is equally consistent with
the cerebral and equally at variance with the abdominal seat
of the disease. Not only have we daily instances of purely
mental emotions influencing the circulating system through
the medium of the nerves, and giving rise, in this way, to
palpitations, fainting, and even death itself; but we know,
that if the mental agitation continues to operate, the affec-
tion of the heart, which was at first sympathetic, and unac•
companied by organic change, will, after a time, terminate
in irreparable lesion of structure.
Thus, we are told by Desault and Corvisart, that at the
commencement of the French Revolution, when the public
mind was in a state of insupportable anxiety and suspense
between dreadful realities and brilliant hope, H!JPOCh-0ndria..
sis and other affections ofthe mind became extremely com-
mon ; and that, being kept up for a length of time by the
.• Dictionnaire dee Sciences Medicales. t. niii. p. 113.
Since writing the above, the author has been consulted by a li-
terary gentleman from America, whose health wa~greatly impaired
in consequence of excessive mental application. Upon being asked
if be was in the habit of studying soon after meals, he answered,
that•• he dared not do so now;" and 1188ignoed as the reason, the re-
markable fact, that his " digestion was a11 much under bis command
as bis foot, for he could instantly atop it by intenae thinking." Thi•
subject is more fully treated of m the author's work on "The Phy-
Riology of Digestion considered with Relation to the.Principles or
Dietetics," Part ii. ch. 4. Edinb. 1836.
256 ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF RYPOCHONDRIASJS.
continued operation oftheir original causes, they gave rise
in many, not only to sympathetic functional disorder, but
also to actual organic disease of the circulating system.
Keeping these facts in view, can we be surprised that hy-
pochondriacal despondency, seated in the brain, should
disturb sympathetically the regular healthy action of the
same important organs ? ·
Sometimes, on the other hand, the secondary symptoms
assume the form of pulmonic disease ; but who that has
witnessed or experienced the convulsive sobbing, heaving,
and short irregular breathing, produced by grief, terror,
anger, and other passions, proved by Phrenology to be con·
nected with the brain, can have any difficulty in reconcil-
ing this with the cerebral seat of Hypochondriasis? The
passions, even of a child, often produce an effect upon re-
spiration, which seems to threaten instant suffocation.
All the other forms which Hypochondriasis is observed
to assume admit of an equally easy solution, on the suppo-
sition of its having a cerebral seat. The very fact of the
diversity of symptoms attending it proves its seat to be in
some part whose influence extends over all ; and where is
such a part to be found, if not in the encephalon or brain ?
and who, that knows how indispensable a due supply of
·nervous energy is to the performance of every function,
but perceives equally well how numerous may be the symp-
toms and evils arising from its unequal distribution ? In
short, there is not a single symptom which, on this view of
the nature of Hypochondriasis, does not admit of a simple
explanation ; while there are notoriously many at utter va-
riance with its having any other than a cerebral seat. That
seat cannot be in the digestive organs; because, in etJery
case of a disease, the particular organ in which it has its
seat must of necessity be alfected ; whereas we have the
concurring testimony of all authors-of Cullen, Willis, He-
berden, and Villermay himself-that in many well.marked
cases of Hypochondriasis there is no disturb'lnce of diges-
tion whatever. Neither can it be in the heart, in the
lungs, in the liver, in the spleen, or in the kidneys ; be-
cause, although palpitations, hurried respiration, and hepa--
t.ic arid other affections, sometimes occur in Hypochondria-
~is, yet they are not alway1 present, and seldom appear
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OP HYPOCHONDRU.SIS. 257
until the disease has made considerable progress. The
only.affection invariably present, and which really consti-
tutes the disease, is that of the mind ; and therefore the
organ of the mind can alone be the seat of its proximate
ca.
use.
Having nowdiscussed both the essential and the secondary
symptoms of Hypochondriasis, and found them all in accord-
ance :with the view ofits cerebral seat, we proceed to an exa-
mination of the causes which most frequently give rise to
it; and here, too, we shall find our theory confirmed and
supported by undeniable facts : For, on comparing those of
Hypochondriasis and dyspepsia, we invariably find the
causes which act most directly upon the mind, or its ma-
~rial organ the brain, to be most productive of the former,
and those whi:'ch act most directly upon the stomach itself
to be most productive of the latter ; thus obtaining another
safe and certain proof of the difference of their seats.
The principal predisposing causes of H ypochondriasis
mentioned by authors are the melancholic temperament and
mature age. When we look, on the one hand, to the quali-
ties which characterize the hypochondriacal state of mind,
and, on the other hand, to those characteristic of the me-
1,a.Qcholic temperament, we perceive at once that the latter
Is distinguished by the marked prodominance of those very
mental qualities, the morbid .activity of which constitutes
the former ; and hence the frequency of the disease in such
persons naturally explains itself. That this proclivity of
the melancholic to Hypochondriasis does not arise from any
natural wealmess of the digestive organs is evident from the
fuct, that dyspepsia occurs most frequently and severely in
youth, and in persons of a sanguine temperament,· who are
least of all subject to the invasion of this disease or of me-
lancholia.-the very reverse of .which ought to happen if
the disease were one of the stomach and not of the brain.
The paramount influence of mental character, as a pre-
disposing cause, is so admirably stated by M. Villermay;
one of the latest and ablest cbampions of·the .abdominal
seat of Hypochondriasis, that it is difficult to conceive how
he could see it so clearly, and yet be blind to its .conse-
quences.
" If we consider," says he, " the influence of char.acter;
as predisposi11g to this disease, we shall ~ .µi(l.gay, active,
y
258 ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS.
and courageous, little subject to its attack ; and, on .the
contrary, the morose, idle, and apprehensive, very frequent-
ly its victims. In like manner, and for the same reason,
whole nations and generatiom1 are much more susceptible
than others. Warlike nations suffer little from it, as do tho.se
of a frank, cheerful, and jovial character. But the Brit.on,
naturally sombre and pensive, the Spaniard, and the Italian,
who are more prone to jealousy and sloth, shew a much
greater tendency to this disease than the Swiss, the French,
and the inhabitants of the United States. Besides the na-
tional character," he continues, "the state of civilization,
the form of government, also have an influence. Polished
nations, which breathe only for liberty and glory, whose
feelings are more acute, and whose passions are mobile and
imperious, are exposed in a high degree to diAappointments
and sorrows, which .often give rise to this disease."•
Such is the literal account of the causes assigned by a
writer who contends for the abdominal seat of Hypochon-
driasis ! M. Villermay's descriptions and observations of
facts are remarkable for perspicuity and general fidelity ;
but such inferences .as the above are perfectly inexplicable,
except on the supposition of a deficient Causality, and a
consequent natural blindness to the connexion between
cause and effect. Under the present erroneous systems of
philosophy, when an author displays great superiority, in
observing, for instance, or in reasoning, he is immediately
held to be equally great in all other departments, and his
opinions and statements on every subject are received with
a deference to which he has no title on the ground of as-
certained excellence in one ; and in this way the errors of
principle committed by an observing, but not a reasoning
mind, are published and received by the public with all the
submission and respect which the individual has a right to
only as an observer; and thus the most hurtful doctrines
are often elaborated and diffused, to the great detriment of
the public. Whether M. Villermay is an author of this
kind, and also whether the influence ofcivilization, and of
dijferent f<Yrms ofgooernment, ought most naturally to shew
itselfupon;he abdomen and its contents, or upon the mind
and its organ the brain, we leave our readers to decide for
themselves.
• Diction. dee Sciences Med. tome s:xiii•..p. 112.
dN THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 259
The same author, we may farther observe, r·ves an ex-
planation of the more frequent occurrence o Hypochon-
driasis in mature than in early life, which, on our view of
its nature and seat, is equally conclusive and satisfactory.
He refers it, not, as might be expected from his own opi-
nions, to any difference in the condition of the digestive
organs, but solely and justly to a different state of the mind•
.The adult age, he informs us, is the period at which tlie
most tempestuous passions and the .most powerful interests
are at work, and at which all our resources are put in mo-
tion. It is the epoch of ambition, and of the storms and
disappointment which follow in its train. It is consequent-
ly, he adds, at that period of life that this disease ought to
be most frequent.-If Hypochondriasis is a disease having
its seat in the brain, or organ by the medium of which
these tempestuous passions, ambition, &c. manifest them-
selves, then M. Villermay's inference is unquestionably
sound ; but it is positively absurd when applied to his own
view of its abdominal seat. How can ambition, disputes,
or political revolutions, possibly reach the _stomach, except
through the medium of the brain ?
· M. Villermay goes on unconsciously adding strength to
the opinion which he disavows, and states, in glaring oppo-
sition to his own view, that Hypochondriasis chooses its
victims chiefly among literary men, poets, artists, and those
who are engaged in severe study, and who are remarka-
ble for an ardent and lively imagination. The mode of
life which such individuals habitually lead is itself a very
potent cause of cerebral disease. How often do we ob-
serve them, intensely absorbed in the creations of their
own fancy, engage in the severest and most protracted
study, especially towards night, .
allotted by nature for re-
pose, till the brain gets into a state of excitement and irre-
gular action, which ceases not with the removal of its first
cause, and effectually banishes that sleep and repose of
which they stand so much in need. Is it wonderful, then,
admitting the cerebral seat of Hypochondriasis, that such
causes should often give rise to the disease in its most i>b-
stinate and intractable form ? •
Among the exciting, also, as well as among the pred.u-
posi,ng, causes, thoae which act directly upon the mind and
its material organ stand pre-eminent, as is once more dis-
260 ON THB SBJ.T AND NATllRB OF .HYPOCBOMDRIJ.SIS,
tinctly proved by M. Villenn!lY· He gives the history of
about forty cases; and it is worthy of particular notice, that
there is scarcely one of them where the disease does not ap..
pear to have been, in part at least, produced by anxiety of
mind. We are therefore not surprised to find him, with his
usual accuracy of observation, enumerating mental. distress,
the torments of ambition, the loss of parents, of a darling
child, of a friend or benefactor, reverses of fortune, unre-.
quited love, the daily indulgence of anger, the torments of
envy and ofjealousy, political chagrin, the terrible effects of
foreign invasion, civil broils, &c., &c., as the most fruitful
soun:es of this and other nervous diseases; and we leave to
the reader again to decide whether such exciting causes
are better calculated to affect the brain or the abdominal
viscera. '
We have borrowed thus liberally from M. Villermay,
chiefly that we might not be suspected of.twisting facts to
support our own theory ; and we have left no room to add
any thing from our own experience, farther than to say,
that one of many cases which have come under our notice,
and which arose from grief and mental fatigue, .terminated
in apoplexy, after occasional attacks of epistaxis, and the
appearance of other symproms indicating an affection of the
brain, while the functions of digestion, &c. were scarcely
at all impaired; thus shewing .in the clearest manner the
true seat of the disease.
· Reading medical works is another very prolific cause of
Hypochondriasis, the chief action of which is undoubtedly
on the mind and brain. Few medical men escape a greater
or less degree of it on commencing their professional stu..:
dies; and as it.is in them purely a mental diS(;urbance, the
-subject oftheir alarm varies as they proceed from the study
t>f'one dangerous malady to that of.another. Thus, Falret .
tells us, that when the celebrated Corvisact fixed strongly
the attention of his pupils upon the organic lesions of the
heart, a true epidemic of Hypochondriasis was observed to
prevait ; the subject of which was in all of them a fear of
dying of disease of the heart; and that, when Bayle, on the
other hand, drew the earnest attention ofhis hearers to the
consideration -0f pulmonary ronsumption, they also became
.hypochondriacal, and fancied themselves dying of phthisis.•
• Fl\lret de l'Hypochendrie., et dll Suicide, p. 889,
ON THB SEAT AND NATURB OP HYPOCHONDBIASIS, 261
This fact also shews that the affection is truly one of the
organ of the mind, and not- of the subordinate parts of the
body, over whose functions the brain is known to preside.
It may, however, be alleged, that many causes which ex·
ert no immediate influence on either mind or brain, never•
theless sometimes occasion Hypochondriasis; and it may
be thence interred that its corporeal seat is noteerebral.
To this we answei:, that there are many i'!Ulirect causes of
this as of every other disease, which, taken alone, throw no
light upon its seat. Amo.ng these may be reckoned the·
sudden retrocession of eruptions, the suppression of accus-
tomed evacuations, sedentary life, abuse of spirituous or
vinous liquors, &c. ; all ofwhich are enumerated among the
occasional causes of Hypochondriasis, but might with much
greater propriety be ranked among those of disease·in gen·
eral, since they act not upon any part in particular, but up•
on that which is either eonstitutionally or accidentally the
weakest and most gusceptible of a morbid change : and as
the weak part dHFers in every individual, the same general
cause may give rise to a variety of-diseases. The suppres-
sion of hemorrhoids, for instance, will in one individual give
rise to apoplexy, in another to inflammation of the chest;
and in a third to dropsy ; but it is perfectly .evident that the
mere .keowledge of hemorrhoids being suppress.ed is not
sufficient to inform us what part is to suffer the conse-
quences. When such general causes, therefore, do pro-
duce Hypochondriasis, we can fairly infer, that there must
·be some weakness or predisposition to disease, either natural
or 111:1perinduced, in the organ which is its primary seat ;
but we cannot infer from them alone what that organ is, or
where it is situated.
So far as we have yet advanced, both the physician and the
physiologist. must have gone along with us ; but we propo11e
now to go a step further, and to shew, by means-0fthe very
same principle, hitherto so fruitful in valuable resulti!, that
the organ ofCautioU81lest is the individualpart ofthe brain,
an qffection <:Jfwhich is alone essential to H!JPocAondriasis;
and here, perhapg, we shall be followed by the Phrenolo~
gist alone-since, to those who are unacquainted with
Phrenology, the first obstacle still applies in its full force.
In point of fact, however, the reasons assignable for thil!
.aJlocation, are equal in kind, ·number, and cogency, to those
262 ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS.
already assigned for considering it generally as an affection
of the brain. Fear, or apprehension of some kind or other,
is the only never-failing symptom ; and the feeling of fear
is a function of the organ of Cautiousness alone, and there-
fore ought to become deranged only in consequence of an
affection of that·organ. Most of the causes too are such as
directly stimulate this faculty to its highest degree of in-
tensity ; sometimes it is the bodily health which is the sub-
ject of apprehension, at other times it is the fear ofdisgrace,
and at other times the suspicion of plots and nefarious de,.
signs. These phenomena are beautifully accounted for by
the situation of the organ of Cautiousness. Thus, on one
side of it, we have the organ of Conscientiousness, the mor-
bid activity of which, combined with that of Cautiousness,
gives rise to that form of the disease characterized by re-
morse and self-condemnation for the most atrocious crimes.
On the lower side of it we have the organ of Secretiveness,
which, when chiefly affected, gives rise to suspicion, and to
the apprehension of plots laid against life or happiness. At
its posterior part we find Love of Approbation, which, join-
ed to Cautiousness, gives rise to a third form characterized
by the fear of dishonour and disgrace. Adjoining it in
front we find the organ of Acquisitiveness, disease of which,
joined to that of Cautiousness, occasions that fear of po·
verty and ruin which is so often observed to distinguish
Hypochondriasis. These circumstances thus afford a strik•
ing confirmation of its peculiar seat.
Supposing the malady to be principally an affection of
the organ of Cautiousness, we perceive at once how it
happens that the intellectual faculties often retain their
vigour unimpaired and their functions unaltered, and that
the patient is as sensible and rational as ever on any sub-
ject unconnected with the ground of his apprehension ; and
we also see not only the inutility, but the positive mischief,
oftreating the patient as ifhis fears were purely imaginary,
when his own consciousness tells him so strongly that
they are real. But our limits being nearly exhausted, we
are obliged to pass on to the last branch of inquiry, and to
shew that the modus operandi of those remedies which
have been most successful in the cure ofthe disease, likewise
affords the most direct and powerful support to the idea·
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIA.SIS. 263
which we entertain of its seat. But here too we must be
brief.
The first and most indispensable requisite for curing Hy-
pochondriasis is the discooery and remO'l)Ql of the exciting
aausu. These we have already seen to be, in general, such
as act upon the mind and its material organ, rather than up-
on the viscera of the abdomen ; and it is of no small im-
portance to be aware of this fact, otherwise the exciting
ca.use may inadvertently be left in full activity, and conse·
quently the best devised remedies prove of. no avail. In
more than one instance which has come under our own ob-
servation, this mistake has actually happened. Tonics, bit-
ters, and exercise, were prescribed, but with little good ef-
fect ; and the general heaJth suffered severely, until acci•
dental change of circumstances relieved the mind, by re-
moving the cause, and then a cure speedilyfollowed. Which
of the two theories of the disease is more likely to lead to
the discovery of the true cause we leave the reader to de-
termine from the data already before him.
There is almost no disease in which the aid of medicine
has been of less use than in that now under consideration.
Lieutaud fairly advises the hypochondriac, as his best re-
medy, to fly from the physician and from medicine-Puge
medicos et medicamina ; and Tissot tells us, " At t1ero
morbus profecto rebellis et t1i.x curationi8 capa:e.'' Consi-
dering, however, the number ofcures accomplished by na-
ture alone, and the proof which this affords that there is no
intractable quality inherent. in the disease iti;elf, we cannot
but suspect that this want of success has arisen very much
from an erroneous method of cure, founded on mistaken
views of the seat and nature of the disease. If, for exam-
ple, it is, as we contend, a cerebral affection, and a physi-
cian has been accustomed to treat it as stomachic, his want
of success is easily accounted for ; and, on referring to me-
dical works in general, it will be seen that this has been
the case to a considerable extent ; and it will also be found
that, while solely stomachic remedies were of no use, those
which, either intentionally or accidentally, acted upon the
mind and brain, were invariably productive of the best ef-
rects.
It might be supposed that we should.here enter into a
discussion of the medical treatment in detail. This, how-
264 ON THB SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS.
ever, neither our limits nor our inclination will permit. We
are anxious that every educated person shouJd know enough
ofthe constitution of the human frame, and of the diseases
to which it is subject, to enable him more completely to
aecond the intentions of Nature in avoiding the causes of
disease, and in co-operating in the work of his own restora-
tion, and in the rational treatment of sick friends and de-
pendants ; but we are no advocates for dabbling in medi-
cine. The medical remedies for the present disease must
obviously be as various as the causes and KIND of mor-
bid action are different ; and to adjust their administra-
tion to particular cases, therefore, requires that know-
ledge of the adaptation of remedies to particular states
of the system which none but a professional man can
attain. The organ affected being the same, and the func-
tion disordered being likewise the same, whatever the
cause, it is obvious that the prominent symptoms must
be the 118me ; and, trusting to these, the unprofessional
reader might be apt to prescribe the same treatment for
an affection of the organ depending upon an inflamma-
tory as for one depending on a mere nervous excitement,
and hence much mischief might be done. This subject we
cannot now pursue, and therefore pass on to that part ofthe
treatment which is applicable to every case, since its effica-
cy depends only on avoiding any injurious stimulus to the
part diseased, which may in general be done if we are ac-
quainted with its functions and its relations to external na-
ture.
For example, if Cautiousness and Conscientiousness are
the organs chiefly affected, any one who is acquainted with
the functions of these and.the other phrenological faculties,
will not have much difficulty in avoiding every thing cal-
culated to excite these to activity, and to increase the pain-
ful remorse and contrition already so hurtful to the patient,
-or in gentlystimulating the other sentiments ofHope, Ve-
neration, andBenevolence,and also the intellectual faculties,
so as t.o leave those diseased as much as possible at rest, and
to sustain and cheer his mind by opposite emotions. If,
again, Secretiveness was joined in .diseased activity to Cau·
tiousness, and the patient spent his days and nights in sleep-
less anxiety and apprehension of conspiracies, the Phreno~
ON THE SEAT AND NATURE OF HYPOCHONDRIASIS. 265
logist would have no difficulty in avoiding the whole range
of these faculties, and in subduing their activity, by }eav~
ing them without external stimulus, and by exciting others
to a higher degree. And, in like manner, whatever the
diseased feelings are, he would be able to see their scope
and to avoid their excitement.
Another advantage which an acquaintance with the phi-
losophy of mind affords, is the facility with which it enables
us to avoid many other sources of irritation tending to in-
crease the disease. Thus, knowing the intimate connexion
and mutual influence existing between the mind and brain,
we perceive at once, that whatever in any way increases·or
keeps up the action of the brain beyond a proper degree,
:whether it is grief, fear, anxiety, reading, thinking, or writ-
ing at unseasonable hours, or the irritation of bad digestion,
or other secondary causes operating upon a naturally active
brain, must be carefully guarded against in attempting its
cure. In cases clearly arising from sympathy with deranged
digestion, it often happens, from inattention to this consti-
tution of the mind, and from an idea that the real disease
being in the stomach no harm can be done by leaving' the
brain to itself, that the affection of the latter is altogether
overlooked, and the disease aggravated by its·injudicious
exercise ; and thus actual organic disease of the latter is
often induced, ,where, with a little attention, it might have
been prevented.
In conformity with the cerebral theory of Hypochon-
driasis, we have the concurring authority of Dr Cullen, for
considering the treatment of the mind as " the most im-
portant article of our practice in this disease." He a4ds,
in talking of wateri~g-places, that they do greatly more
good by entertaining and relieving the mind, than by the
mere virtues of the mineral with which the water is im-
pregnated. This opinion is strongly supported by the well-
known fact, that there is no cure to be found for those
pretty numerous cases originating in sudden retirement
from occupation and activity to idleness and indolence, (as
in a person retiring from business, or a soldier at the end
of an active campaign,) unless some new stimulus to the
mind can be brought into play. When the rich merchant
retires from the toils of business to seek the otium cum
dignitate of a com\try life, it is not the stomach which first
z
266 HOW TO MAKE CONVERTS TO PHRENOLOGY.
complains of the change ; it is the weary mind alone which,
left without an objecton which to expend its energies, is be-
set with ennui and tedium 'Vita, and the bodily ailmentsare
the result ofthe universal sympathy of the brain with all the
other parts of the system. In allusion to this fact, Baglivi,
a celebrated Italian physician, exclaims-" Siquidem fateri
vix possem, quantum verba medici dominentur in vitam
iegrotantis, ejusque phantasiam transmutent : Medicus nam.
que in sermone potens, et artium suadendi peritissimus,
tantam vim dicendi facultate medicamentis suis adstruit, et
tantam doctrinre sure fidem in iegro excitat, ut interdum
vel abjectissimis remediis difticiles morbos superaverit ;
quod medici doctiores, sed in dicendo languidi, molles, ac
pene emortui, nobilioribus pharmacis prrestare non potue-
runt." •
Other observations occur to us ; but we must conclude
with adding, that travelling, riding on horseback, and other
kinds of exercise, have been found useful auxiliaries in ex·
act proportion to the degree in which they occupy and dis-
tract the mind, and that local remedies, applied to the head,
have not unfrequently been most effectual even in reliev-
ing the dyspeptic and other secondary symptoms.
ON THE BEST MEANS OF MAKING CONVERTS TO
PHRENOLOGY.t
EVERY person who is known to be capable of estimating
cerebral development, and drawing inferences from it, is
liable to be solicited to examine heads and draw sketches
of character ; and, in general, the request is prefaced by a
declaration, that the result, if successful, will greatly tend
to produce belief in him who desires the experiment to be
performed. We have always discountenanced this method
• Baglivus de Praxi Medica, p. 138. In English thus : "I can
scarcely express how much the conversation of the physician influ-
ences even the life of his patient, and modifies his complaints. For
a physician powerful in speech, and skilled in addressing the feel-
ings of a patient, adds so much to the power of his remedies, and
excites so much confidence in his treatment, as frequentlr to over-
come dangerous diseases with very feeble remedies, which more
learned doctors, languid and indift'erent in speech, could not have
cured with remedies of superior power." ,
t By George Combe.-Vol. ii. No. 5, p. 130.
HOW TO MAICE CONVERTS TO PHRENOLOGY. :267
of propagating Phrenology. While the principles on which
the phrenologist proceeds in forming. his sketch ve un-
known, the views at which he arrives must necessarily ap-
pear empirical ; and it is of no advantage to the cause te
induce mere belief, without rational ground;;, in any one,
however respectable he may be. It is sometimes replied,
that an exhibition of this kind will create a presumption of
the truth of Phrenology, and present a motive to inquire
seriously into its merits. But if the existence of numerous
phrenological societies, and the facts recorded in the publish-
ed works, do not appear, to any individual, to afford such
evidence of the probable truth and importance of the sci-
ence as to induce him to study it, then his mind must be
11<> constituted, or so engaged with other pursuits, as to
render his accession to the cause of no importance. It is
a great error to imagine that every man must necessarily
become a phrenologist before the truth of the doctrines
can be established. Phrenology, although interesting and
useful in a high degree, is not so simple a study as to lie at
the finger-ends·of every one who chooaes merely to look at
a bust or plate ; and the thoroughly informed disciple feels
not the slightest wavering in his faith, nor imputation on
his judgment, although some wise friend, in profound igno-
rance of the subject, shake his head, and complacently
smile, and declare that he does not believe in Phrenology.
Like every scienee, it requires a mind at once acute, pro-
found, and comprehensive, thoroughly to understand it in
all its bearings. Any ordinary individual, indeed, who pro-
ceeds impartially to investigate it.s merits,. may arrive at a
conviction of its truth, and be able to reap advantages from
its practical application ; just as men in general may work
in the arts with a moderate knowledge of their principles,
without requiring to become equal to Davy or to Watt.
To arrive, however, even at such an acquaintance with
Phrenology, ideas of its principles, of their application, and
of the facts by which they are elucidated and supported,
must be obtained. If, therefore, any one wishes to make
a convert of his friend, let him commence by explaining
the reasons why the functions of the brain were so long of
being discovered, namely, because they were studied by
dissection and hY. reflection on consciousness, neither of
which methods is capable of leading to valuable results ;
26$ ARMORIAL MOTTOS,
-let him next shew, that the phrenological m~e, by com-
paring mental manifestations with cerebral development, is
free from the objections which attend the former practices ;
-let him point out the possibility of instituting and follow-
ing up this comparison, by shewing the very great extent
to which heads differ in size and form in particular parts,
and the very decided differences which exist in the talents
and dispositions of individuals ;-next, let him direct the
attention of the inquirer to the numerous casts which are
exhibited as proofs and illustrations of the principles ;-
and, finally, let an appeal be made to nature. By this pro-
cess, the understanding will be enlightened ; and any be-
lief which may follow will be philosophic conviction, and
not blind credulity. The convert so made will necessarily
remain true to his faith, because it will be impossible for
him to doubt in opposition to evidence sufficient to produce
conviction. If the evidence should be found insufficient,
then by all means let the inquirer not only disbelieve, but
proclaim his disbelief, join the opponents, and endeavour to
disabuse mankind of the error attempted tO be imposed on
them.
PHRENOLOGICAL REMARKS ON THE MOTTOS OF
ARMORIAL BEARINGS.•
A HABIT of thinking phrenologically gives a tendency to
reduce all the phenomena of life and human affairs to their
elements in the primitive and well-distinguished springs of
human word and deed. Happening lately to notice the
motto of a coat of arms on a carriage in the street, which
spoke plainly a particular sentiment, it chanced to occur to
us, that, as it is likely that the chooser of a family motto
speaks out the prevailing feeling of his mind, the family
character, at least its founder's--in other words, the origi-
nal predominating family organization-might be inferred
from the armorial motto, and the accompanying crest, which
is generally a hieroglyphic or emblematical design, express-
ing the same sentiment with the motto itself. We thought
it probable that the books of heraldry would shew a great
•By James.Simpson.-Vol. v. No.18, p. 205.
ARMORIAL MOTTOS. 269
preponderance of selfish over social feeling in the earlier
mottos. The founders of families, in rude times, would of
course be proud of the qualities by which they rose ; and
although these were seldom just and merciful, the motto
and crest would hold out the laconic boast to the world.
We expected that next to the boasters would come the
worshippers, the preu:r:chevaliers of chivalry, who bent the
knee alike to their king, their mistress, and their God; and
that, of sentiments not selfish, Veneration would figure in
heraldic blazonry, and Hope, that never-failing impulse of
the ambitious. We did not expect more than a sprinkling
of Justice, and little, if any, Mercy at all.
With these anticipations, it was interesting ·to open
heraldic works, both English and Scottish, and observe
how far we were correct. · We were nearly so, and pre-
cisely in the above order. With the exception of Firm•
ness, which forms an element in many mottos,~d which
inay mingle in a combination of faculties for ill as well as
fur good,-the great majority ascend no higher in the scale
of dignity than the twelve lowest faculties, embracing the
animal propensities and lower sentiments. A considerable
number ascend to Veneration, not just so many to Hope,
more than we expected to Conscientiousness, and a very
few to pure Benevolence. ·
Beginning with the lowest class of feelings, we find these
in some mottos in their unmingled degradation. For ex-
ample, mere Destructiveness comes forth in such legends
as these-Strike-Strike hard-Spare 1U>U{Jht-Gripe
fast.• Destructiveness with Combativeness dictated-
Through--I dare-Fortiter-On bravely~ arrow for
crest, with It lacks not a bow-I make siccar, with a
hand and dagger for crest, adds Caution to Destructive-
ness, and was the murderous boast of Kirkpatrick, who re-
entered the church of the Dominicans at Dumfries tofinish
the Cummin, whom Bruce, under Veneration, said he
doubted he had killed.-" You doubt! I'll make siccar."
Acquisitiveness, Secretiveness, and Caution, suggested the
grovelling family motto of Lock siccar ; while, Thou sftalt
want ere I want, aspires to no higher than the ambition of
the strongest hog in a swine-stye. However this unseem-
• We give all the mottos in English, although many of them are
in Latin and French. · · ·
270 ARMORIAL MOTTOS.
ly motto may, as it must, have described the founder of the
noble family to which it belongs, we can answer for its con-
trast to the sentiments of the present representative. He
bas an easy course before him; let him reverse it, and mark
the time as a truly proud epoch in his family history. Forth
Fortune and fill the fetters would also be improved by a
change to Forth Fortune and break the fetters. Rising in
the scale, but still in the regions of selfishness, are most of
the boastful mottos of the warrior. Of course these mani-
fest Combativeness always in alliance with Self-esteem, va-
riously modified by Firmness, Love of Approbation, Cau-
tiousness, and Hope. I have decreed-is Self-esteem and
Firmness. I saw, I conquered-is Combativeness and Self-
Esteem ; as are, I advance-I am ready-Foremost if I
can-Stronger than enemies, equal to friends-To what
shall I not ascend.-Stand fast-In defence-Steadg-
arose from Combativeness and Firmness. Glmy mct<Yr!J's
reward-Never behind-Death rather than disgrace-Fear
shame-have reference to the world's opinion, and there-
fore spring from Love of Approbation, in combination with
Self-Esteem.
Cautiousness, when powerful, would not be concealed
even in a warrior's motto, as in On-slow-Beware the
bear-Bravely but cautiously.
Hope maywell be expected to predominate in minds sub-
jected to all the chances of war and consequent vicissitudes
offortune; accordingly we have-Ihope-While I breathe
I hope-Ilive in hope-Hope nourishes-By hope and la-
bour-They go high who attempt the summit. Self-Es-.
teem mingles largely in this last. We lately met with a
singular example of this motto expressing the ruling feel-
ing. A man rather below middle rank happened to come
to us often for professional advice. We observed in him
the qualities of unreasonable sanguineness and great love
of show. He died, and left a widow and children nearly
destitute. Among his effects there was a costly watch,
chain, an.d seals, almost new, worth not less than sixty
guineas, which it was perfect insanity for a person in his.
eircumstances to have purchased. Of course there was a
crest on one of the seals, and we were curious to·observe
the motto. It turned out to be, " Spero meliora-I hope
better things." Still with Self-Esteem for a basis, Secre-
ARMORIAL MOTTOS. ~71
tiveness lends its aid in some minds to constitute the fa-
vourite sentiment. For example-Never skew1/0'l¥1' rage-
] hide my time. This declaration of cherished revenge is
a singular melange of Self-Esteem, Destructiveness, Secre-
tiveness, and Cautiousness.
Veneration, as Veneration, if unmixed with the baser
feelings, which lead to bigotry and persecution, has no-
thing selfish in it ; and when expressed on the warrior's
shield, has higher claims to our respect. Its manifestation
in rude times was, it is true, for the most part superstiti-
ous, and for that reason it is not entitled to be classed with
Conscientiousness and Benevolence, unless it is found in
company with them-Salvationfrom the Cross-Gbwy to
God-While I l>reathe I will tru1t in the Cross-From
God, not from fortune-Worship God, serve the King-
-Aymer loyalty-Witk good-will to sertJe my King-One
God-011e King-One Heart. These and many others
were probably mere effusions of Veneration, and have no-
thing in them to shew that they were more. But we might
conclude true religious feelings to belong in addition to the
mind, where Conscientiousness prevailed so decidedly as to
appear upon the shield. For example :-To the lovers of
justice, piety, and faith-Boldly and sincerely-Be just
andfear not-Candidly and steadily-By courage, not by
craft-Every one his<non-Do right andtrust-Faithfully
-.fudge nought-Keep tryst (contract)--Probity the true
honour-Virtue the sole nobility-To be rather than to
seem-High and good-Sound conscience a strong tower
-Tke palm to mrtue. Last ofall comes Benevolence, and
it is like a gleam of sunshine in the midst of :i storm, to
see its mild and beautiful countenance in the ages of pride,
cunning, and ferocity ; but it is but thinly sown. Be
l>rmJe, notfierce- Clemency adorns the l>rafJe-Tkat I may
do good-Tkat I ma,y do good to others-Do all good.
And last, though not least, as a sentiment on· the blazon of
the warrior who fights for peace, a direct condemnation of
war in the motto, " Bella, horrida bella.'' .
In the continued struggle against power, which the his-
tory of both ends ofour island records, it would be strange
if on armorial bearings there were no expressions of the
love of liberty,-that fruit of a fine combination of Self-
Esteem, Conscientiousness, Benevolence, and Firmness.
272 ARMORIAL MOTTOS.
We have, accordingly, such mottos as, Liberty.:......Libertfl
• tmtire-Country dear, liberty dearer-I /to:l)e lif'ed free
and will die free.
· The mottos which indicate the reflecting powers, as
maxims of wisdom, were rare in rude times, unless we take
those for such as express the higher sentiments ; as, Virtue
the so/,e nobility, &c. We have, however, lighted upon
one which is purely intellectual, and we quote it, because
it happens, to be eminently phrenological. Nihil imnta
Minerva. It is vain to expect excellence without the ge-
nius from which it springs. ·
· It wo1.1ld greatly increase the interest of this communi-
cation, were it permitted us to compare the actual history
of distinguished families with their armorial legends. But
although public history is public property, family history is
not, and we are therefore denied that advantage, and must
be content with recommending to the reader to apply
such knowledge of private families as he possesses to the
very harmless end of making the comparison between it
and the family arms for himself. We do not entertain a
doubt that in many instances they will be found strikingly
coincident. :
PHRENOLOGY APPLIED IN THE EDUCATION OF A
YOUTH.•
To the Editor.
Sm,-The subject ofthis letter,when a child,was remark-
.able for an active spirit, combined with much good nature,
and the purest simplicity, amounting even to bluntness of
manner. When sent to school to learn to read, he made
the least possible progress, and afterwards, when an attempt
was made to teach him Latin, he stood absolutely still. His
father and mother were almost in despair, and feared that
he would turn out a blockhead, fit for the mortar-tub, or
the pick and shovel, but destitute ofcapacity for any liberal
pursuit. As a last effort, they sent him to board with a
celebrated teacher in the country, in the hope that the dis.
cipline of the seminary might rouse his latent faculties, if,
.in fact, he possessed any. Here, however, his progress was
• By George Combe.-Vol. i. No. 4, p. 506.
THB EDUCATION OF A YOUTH. 273
as little- Battering as before. He was made the fag of boys
older and stouter than himself, or even, I suspect, ofsome of
his own age ; and, as for learning, he could not be .brought
to comprehend a single rule of Latin, and scarcely was able
to master three sentences of French: in geography and
arithmetic he was very little more successful.
In this state of matters, Dr Spurzheim arrived in Scot-
land, and a gentleman who attended his lectures imagined
that the case might not be so hopeless as was conceived.
He examined the boy's head, and declared that the mys-
tery was cleared up. He found the organ ofLanguage very
decidedly deficient, and the knowing organs in general not
large ; while the reflecting organs were far above an ave-
rage in point of size for that period oflife. Combativeness
he foll.l)d rather small ; while Cautiousness, Conscientious-
ness, Self-esteem, Love of Afc>probation, Firmness, Adhe-
siveness, Benevolence, and deality, were all amply de-
veloped, and Destructiveness was not deficient. Tune al-
so was large. He pointed out that the boy's proneness to
active sports indicated a healthy condition of the brain;
ihat his softness of disposition arose from deficient Cornba-
tiveness joined with large Conscientiousness, Cautiousness,
Benevolence, and Love ofApprobation; that his inaptitude
for languages was owing to the small development of the
organ connected with the requisite faculty ; and that his
general dulness arose from the knowing or perceptive or-
gans being on the whole but moderate in size, while those
of reflection, which were decidedly large, did not come in-
to full activity till a later period of lite, ·and did not, till
then, meet with studies and pursuits suited to their gratifi-
cation. He advised, therefore, that the youth should be
taken from school, and sent for three or four years to learn
the trade to which it was intended to bring him up ; and
that, afterwards, at the age of seventeen or eighteen, his
education should be begun anew.
This accordingly was done, and with the happiest effects.
When he had passed the age of puberty his manner greatly
changed. Instead of the raw, blunt, timid boy, he acquired
a sedate,shrewd, and intellectual expression ofcountenance;
and, although he continued extremely bashful and embarras-
sed in company, it was easy to perceive that thought was
now active, and that the previout1 vacuity of mind, which
274 PHRENOLOGY APPLIED JN
had alarmed his relations, had entirely disappeared. Hie
studies were no\Y directed entirely according to his deve-
lopment. He was absolved at once from all drudgery with
Greek and Latin; but told that, as he was destined to move
in the rank of a merchant and manufacturer, it was indis-
pensable that he should be master of his own language, and
even know a little French. He, therefore, at seventeen,
set about learning English grammar ; and having now the
aid of his reflecting powers, he apprehended, as intellectual
perceptions, what as a child he was utterly incapable, ow-
ing to his deficient organ of Language, of learning by rote.
He studied French at the same time, and profited in his
apprehension of the English construction, by the stronger
illustrations ofconcord and government which thatlanguage
affords.. He soon 1mcceeded so completely as to write a
correct and precise English style ; and he could also read
a French author with facility. His other studies were geo-
graphy, algebra, and mathematics; and in these also he now
took pleasure,--stating distinctly, that he saw the principle
and application of them, and obtained from them food for
reflection. His next courses were chemistry,natural history,
natural philosophy, and anatomy; and the pleasure with
which he followed the lectures on these branches of know-
ledge was intense, and his improvell}ent proportionally
great.
Among other subjects, he was led to the study of Phre-
nology, and I shall allow him to speak for himself on this
topic. "As to Phrenology," says he, "I am convinced I
owe as much, ifnot more, to it than toanyother ofmystudies.
The extreme diffidence, which formed so remarkable a fea-
ture of my disposition, arose partly from natural timidity ;
but it was greatly aggravated by my being conscious of de-
ficiency in some intellectual powers, compared with other
persons ; and entertaining most exaggerated notions of the
impediments which these defects threw in the way of my
attaining even ordinary proficiency in any thing. In short,
before I knew Phrenology, I was persuaded that I was a
blockhead, and my whole character and conduct were on
the point of being formed and regulatetl on this principle.
When, however, I was told that my timidity arose from a
deficiency of Combativeness, joined with large Cautious-
ness, Conscientiousness, and Love of Approbation, I felt
THE EDUCATION OF A YOUTH· 275
the truth of the observation instinctively ; and as I have a
good Self-esteem, and no deficiency of Firmness, I felt as
if a mountain had been taken off my shoulders, and hoped
that I should yet be able to hold up my head in society.
The knowledge also, that the' confidence of many of my as-
sociates, whose presence of mind I had envied, and attri-
buted to great intellectual superiority, arose merely from
larger Combativeness and less Cautiousness than mine, gave
me additional courage ; and I found that this theory oftheir
dispositions was correct, not only by observing their heads,
but by comparing with it their manner and conduct when
boys, and discovering how beautifully it explained them.
I had a natural tendency to implicit belief in all that was
presented to my mind, and took every one's pretensions for
actual attainments ; and in this way could never feel that ~
was half wise enough to act on my own opinion, if any hu-
man being chose to call it in question. Phrenology gave
me an invaluable insight into character, and enabled me to
distinguish the chaff from the wheat ; and also to try my
own views by the standard of nature, and not by the mere
notions of other men. The knowledge ofcharacter which
it has communicated is as valuable as at. least ten years'
experience of the world would have been to a mind such
as mine. My timidity and want. of confidence are natur-
ally so great, that I can scarcely imagine the time when I
would have had courage to place myself in situations cal-
culated to afford experience. .Possessed of Phrenology, I
foe} myself invested with something like the invisible ring
of the fairy tales : I enter into society with an instrument
which enables me to appreciate individuals with truth and
accuracy ; this knowledge makes me know my real situa-
tion, and feel safe ; and then I am enabled to act without
fear or embarrassment. Phrenology has placed my mind
at peace also with itself. I know my deficiencies, and avoid
reliance on ·them ; while I know also the powers that are
given, and the purposes to which they may be applied ; and
gratitude to Providence, with a due feeling ofresponsibility,
have succeeded to fear and diffidence, which can never ex-
ist in a high degree without some portiQn of discontent.
Much, therefore, as Phrenology is despised, I must always
regard an acquaintance with it as one of the happiest cir-
cumstanc~ of my life ; and have no doubt that others will
276 CASE OF A MECHANICAL GENllJS.
entert.ain the same opinion when they are practically ac-
quainted with its truths."
CASE OF A MECHANICAL GENIUS.•
' WHEN engaged, several years ago, in the study of Phre-
nology, I had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with
Mr S., a gentleman whose cerebral development struck
me from the first as very remarkable, and the complete
accordance of whose manifestations with it strongly tended,
if not to satisfy me of the truth of the science, at least to
encourage me to undertake a very extensive series of ob-
!eivations, which ultimately ended in a perfect and sincere
conversion.
When I first saw Mr S., he was about sixty years of
age, of a 'short stout make, rather inclined to corpulencv,
but possessed of great natural activity. His head was al-
together of great size, broad in all its parts, and somewhat
higher than usual. In the situation of the organ1of Con-
structiveness, immediately above and behind the external
angles of the eyes, the temples projected so much out-
wards, as, at a little distance, to bring them into the line
of the forehead ; which presented that squareness of as-
pect adverted to by Drs Gall and Spurzheim as character-
izing the heads of eminent mechanicians, sculptors, paint-
ers, and artists. The forehead was broad, and the lower
part, or superciliary ridge, projected considerably over the
eyes, indicating a great development of Weight, Size, Lo-
cality, Form, and Individuality. These faculties, combined
with Constructiveness, constitute the essential elements
both of an inventive and an operative genius. This com-
bination was aided by greater than usual development of
Number and Tune, and by a very good Comparison and
fair Causality. The· external angle of the eye in the si-
tuation of the organ of Number, was depressed like that of
Jedediah Buxton in Dr Spurzheim's plates, and the fore-
head rose to a considerable height with a slight slope. The
organs of Ideality, Colouring, Order, and Language, were
• By Dr Andre" Combe.-Vol. i. No. 4. p. 509.
CASE OF A MECHANICAL GENIUS. 277
decidedly under an average, and Eventuality was only mo.
derate.
This statement of itself would enable any phrenologist
t.o predicate the kind ofintellectual character which the in-
dividual would display. For the sake of the less advanced
reader, however, I shall shortly state 1ww the faculties ma-
nifested themselves in point of fact.
Mr S. received almost no education. At a very early
age he was sent to school to learn to read ; but in-
stead of minding his letters, he began to shew a peculiar
talent and liking for mechanics and construction, of which
his parents highly disapproved, and which ·they did every
thing in their ·power to repress, but in vain. Finding the
continual restraint under which he was forced to live at
home becoming daily more irksome as his faculties conti-
nued to expand, he, while yet a boy, with a. confidence in
his own untried powers, which great size of brain so gene-
rally gives, forsook the paternal roof, and set out, he knew
not whither, to push his fortune. On his arrival at L--,
after various vicissitudes, he obtained employment in a
profession calculated to exercise those peculiar powers with
which nature had so liberally endowed him, and by his ex-
cellence in which he ultimately attained wealth and emi-
nence. But the regular calls of.business were by no means
sufficient to afford an adequate outlet for his mental acti-
vity. His leisure houri! were most actively spent in in-
venting and constructing models of all kinds of machinery,
in fruitless attempts to discover the perpetual motion, in
nmplifying the air-pump, in improving the diving-bell, in
making carriages to go by machinery, in attempting to re-
gulate the motion of balloons, and in ·innumerable other
things, upon which he expended much money and no less
labour, but with intense delight. At one of my visits he
shewed me a large garret-room filled with the collected
models of past years, the whole of which, as his great Con-
structiveness gave him the power, were made by himself.
His wife used often to mention, as illustrative of his hobby,
that tlte first time she heard of the existence of her " fu-
ture beloved," was one day in passing along the bridge of
...,....---., where she eaw a crowd gazing intently on tlte
water below. She inquired at what they were looking,
and was told that_it was " Mr S- at the b~ttom of the.
278 CASE OF A. MBCHANICAL GENIUS.
riwr in /W dimng-bell;" and she shortly after saw him
emerge.
In the works on Phrenology, it is stated that mathema-
tical talent depends on a combination of Size, Form, Loca-
lity, and Number, and that it does not require great Cau-
sality. In Mr S-, all these organs, except Causality,
were decidedly large. He was never taught mathematics ;
but, on coming to maturity, he studied them in books
with great success, and was ever afterwards in the constant
habit of applying them to determine the probable results
of such new or untried combinations of mechanical forces
as he was desirous of forming ; and he rarely failed to ob-
tain an accurate solution of the most complicated and no-
vel questions.
His Tune, as already stated, is large ; and it is a curious
fact, that one .of his first constructive efforts was made to
provide himself with an instrument by which he might
gratify it : he afterwards followed the profession of a
musical instrument-maker, in order to gratify Tune and
Constructiveness at once. When I last saw him, he had
just finished a small instrument like a piano in miniature,
but with only one string, upon which he was able to play
several airs. It was intended as a standard by which to
tune instruments in the country, as, from all the notes
being struck upon the same string, it could not go out of
tune. This instrument was entirely the result of an ana-
lysis of the causes of the difference of sounds produced
by strings of different lengths. I saw him when engaged
in the calculation, and expressed my opinion of the imprac-
ticability of the scheme ; upon which he explained the
principle to me, and said that he could not fail : 8.nd in a '
few days more he shewed me the instrument complete, and
allowed me to examine it minutely, so as to satisfy myself
of his perfect success.
With a great deal of enthusiasm and power of invention
in his favourite pursuits, Mr S. has extremely little of that
kind of imagination which is dependent on a great endow-
ment of Ideality, the organ of which is in him decidedly
deficient. The " beau ideal," and the glowing and co-
loured conceptions of the poet, are to him as empty sounds.
His intellect is plain, penetrating, and solid ; but with
somewhat of a tendency to vulgarity and grossness, the na-
CASE OF A MECHANICAL GENIUS. 279
tural result of ·an imperfect education upon such a brain.
Language is little developed, and he has always felt much
d.ifliculty in expressing his ideas. He feels great delight in
the practical study of natural philosophy.
The development of the organs of the propensities and
~timents in Mr S. is also remarkable ; but I have al-
ready encroached too much on the patience of the reader
to think it proper to enter into farther detail : I shall there-
fore only add, that the manifestations corresponded in every
point. I am not at liberty to publish the gentleman's
name; but the accuracy of the facts stated may be re-
lied on.
ADDREsS TO STUDENTS OF LOGIC AND MORAL
PHILOSOPHY.•
THE object of the Logic and Moral Philosophy Classes
is to make you acquainted with the elements of the human
mind, and to elucidate the practical duties deducible from
its constitution and relations to external objects. If these
classes realized the purposes for which they were instituted,
a young man of common capacity and diligence, who had
completed the course of study prescribed by them, should,
in every thing connected with mind, exhibit the same prac-
tical superiority·over the uninitiated, which is displayed by
an educated chemist over the common observers of physi-
cal phenomena. But nothing is farther from the truth than
that he possesses any such advantages. Every educated
man, when he enters into the business of life, discovers
·that, in judging of human nature, in directing it, or in re-
,gulating his own conduct, he can draw few practical prin~
ciples from the doctrines taught in universities, under the
names of Logic and Moral Philosophy. There are two
causes for this disseveration of knowledge from utility.
The first is the erroneous constitution of these classes, and
the second the want of a real philosophy ofmind; the latter,
however, attributable not to any deficiency of talent in the
respectable professors who teach these branches of know-
ledge, but to their misfortune in having been elevated to
their station before the philosophy of mind was discovered.
·professor Jardine, in his "Outlines ofPhilosophical Edu-
• By George Combe.-Vol. Ti. No. 22, p. 191.
280 ADDRESS TO STUDENTS OF
.cation, illustrated by the method of Teaching the Logic
Class in the University ofGlasgow," (Oliver & Boyd, 1825,)
gives the following historical account of the circumstances
which preceded and gave rise to the institution of classes
for teaching logic and metaphysics :
" The ancient history of the church informs us, that con-
11iderable differences of opinion, as to doctrine and ritual
observances, subsisted even among the primitive Christians.
In the beginning of the sixteenth century, however, when
letters had revived, and the Reformation had made some
progr~ the topics of religious controversy were gradually
multiplied ; and, as these topics, at the era in question,
were always more or less associated with speculations of a
metaphysical nature, the addition thus made to the number
of philosophical disputes formerly agitated, not only open-
ed a wider field for the exercise of the dialectician, but
suggested the expediency of paying more attention to the
manner in which the process of attack and defence might
be conducted. The combatants on either side, according-
ly, recurred with increased earnestness to the study of
Aristotle's Analytics, which, abounding in nice distinctions
and definitions, in abstract notions and general terms, sup-
elied them with the means of maintaining an interminable
disputation, without once entering into the merits of the
· subject upon which it turned: and thus the-controversialist,
although incapable of securing a decisive victory, was never
in danger of an irreparable defeat. As soon, therefore, as
the utility of the syllogism for this purpose was discovered,
the knowledge of its form and structure,.of predicablN, of
categories, of figure and m-0od, and the ready application of
~hat instrument to each particular case, became the chief
pbject of study in all seminaries of learning. The young
.academician pad no sooner entered college, than he was
taught to arrange all his notions in strict logical order, and
agreeably to the rules of art, for the purpose of syllogistic
exercises. Theses on controvertible subjects were regular-
ly proposed ; and the students, having taken their side,
~ere encouraged by the masters to display their skill in the
l)Se of this intellectual weapon, and to call into action the
various resources with which it supplied them. In process.
of time, the taste for this species of intellectual combat be-
C:ame very general. Disputations, no longer confuted with-
LOtllC AND MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 281
.in the walls of colleges, were frequently carried on in pub-
lic assemblies, convened for that express purpose, and con-
sisting of persons of the highest rank in church and state.
The immense numbers who attended these public exhibi-
tions would appear to us altogether incredible, did we not
recollect that we are speaking of occurrences which took
place before the invention of printing ; when such occasions
furnished the only opportunity which the learned enjoyed
for displaying their knowledge and talents, or which fell to
the lot of the uninstructed for receiving information on phi-
losophical and religious subjects. Like the knights-errant
of chivalry, or like the pugilists of our own days, the keen-
er disputants of those times went &om place to place in
quest of adventures; challenging, every where, those who
had obtained the highest reputation for success in syllogis~
tic competitions.
" The topics selected for those controversial disquisitions,
were naturally taken &om the favourite studies of the age.
A variety of abstract questions, on different subjects of phi-
losophy, employed, at that period, the attention of monks
and schoolmen, one of which was usually propounded for
discussion ; and, as the same views were constantly singled
out for disputation, and the same points repeatedly main-
tained in their debates, the logicians of every district, ac-
cording to the ·opinions which they severally supported,
were naturally arranged in different parties, and distinguish-
ed by different denominations. One of the most celebra-
ted of these philosophical controversies was that so long
maintained between the nominalists and realists, which, as
every one knows, was carried on with so much violence and
acrimony, as actually to threaten the public peace, and, on
that account, to call forth an edict&om Louis II. of France,
prohibiting all disputation on such inflammatory subjects.
In short, the restless and vehement passions of mankind,
which, in more recent periods, have found ample scope in
political agitation, and in religious controversy, were usual-
ly found, during the times in question, to exhaust their
strength, and gratify their malignity, in such abstracted and
frivolous discussions as those to which we have alluded.
" This literary phrenzy was still further increased by the
distinctions and rewards which were conferred upon those
who, as expert logicians, had signalized their zeal or ability
A&
282 .\DDRBSS TO STtlDBNTS OP
in defence of the church. The titles of Bachelor, Mater,
and Doctor, remunerated their first exertions in support
of the orthodox faith ; whilst a long line of preferment,
from the simple benefice to the papal chair, was opened up
to the more ambitious, to stimulate their ardour in repell·
ing the attacks of heretics, and in upholding the authority
of the ancient belief.
" It was during this triumphant period of Aristotle's au·
thority, that the plan of education in the principal academi-
cal establishments of Europe was reduced into some sort
of a system ; on which account it is not surprising that the
first place in it should have been given to his logic and me-
taphysics. Having once obtained this place in the scheme
of public instruction, our ordinary views of human nature
enable us to explain why, in certain circumstances, they
should have been permitted to retain their rank, as objects
of human study, long after the causes to which they owed
pre-eminence had ceased to exist. It may not perhaps be
so easy to account for the singular fact, that, even at the
present day, the treatises just mentioned are, in many se-
minaries of learning, allowed to hold an almost exclusive
possession of the schools, during the principal part of the
academical course."
When we consider that classes instituted under such cir-
cumstances were, from the first, destitute of all practical
utility, and that the manners and attainments of society
have greatly altered sinEe, we cannot doubt that they are
now farther than ever removed from all rational connexion
with the affairs of life. .
The second cause to which the absence of practical utility
in the classes in question may be attributed, is the want of a
real philosophy of mind. Professor Jardine observes that,
" among the causes which contributed to retain the meta-
physics and logic of Aristotle in the course of academical
study, we ought also perhaps to regard the difficulty ofwh-
slituting in their place any other more efficient system of
instruction;" which amounts to a confession, that no sci-
ence of mind deserving of the name existed when he wrote.
Professor Jardine, a man distinguished for good sense and
a sound practical understanding, was appointed to the chair
oflogic and rhetoric in the University of Glasgow in 1774;
.LOGIC AND MOB.AL PHILOSOPHY. 283
and he gives the following account of his own experience
of the logic class, both as a student and a profesaor.
" Having myself attended the logic class in this univer·
sity, I remember well the general impression which was
made upon my mind by the lectures then delivered ; and
also the opinion which was entertained of them by the more
intelligent of my fellow students. The sentiment which
universally prevailed among us was, that though the profes-
sor explained the subjects of which be treated with great
perspicuit.y and distinctness, yet no useful or permanent ef-
fects could possibly result from his prelections, .either in
the way of promoting activity of mind, or of establishing
sound scientific principles. So far from affording any in-
ducement to the study of philosophy, the ancient metaphy·
sics appeared to.us only to act the part of a Cerl>erus, in
guarding the approach, and in deterring the most resolute
from every attempt to enter. . Respect for the teacher, ra-
ther than any interest in the subjects which he brought be-
fore them, induced the more industrious of the students to
listen to the lectures with patience, and with a decent de-
gree of attention: yet tbe•well-known attainments of the
profeasor as a scholar, and the benign simplicity of man-
ners by which he was distinguished, could not prevent his
class from being emphatically, though rather rudely; de..
signated ' tke drmtJ8!1 shop oflogic and metaphysica.'"
" This conviction .of the general uselessness, and even
positively hurtful consequences, of spending six or ·seven
months in the study of logic and metaphysics, was not con-
fined to the youth within the walls of the college. From
the time that the lectures began to be delivered in English,
the eyes of men were opened to the unsuitable nature of
the subjects of which they treated ; and the defects of the
system, as embracing a very important part of·public edu-
cation, became every day more striking, and called more
loudly for a radical reform. It was observed by those who
interested themselves in this question, that the subjects in-
troduced in the logic class, even when perfectly understood,
had little or no connexion with that species of lµiowledge
which was necessary to prepare the student, either·for the
speculative pursuits o(science, or for the active business of
life. The local situation, too, of this university, in a,great
commercial city, where a quick ~rception of utiity, and a
284 ·. ADDRESS TO STUDENTS OF
clear insight int.o the adaptation of means t.o ends ·may"be
supposed to predominate, gave frequent occasion t.o anim~
adversions on our scheme of preparatory instruction. In-
telligent persons, who sent their sons to the logic class, al-
though not themselves proficients in literature, could not
fail to observe, that the subjects to which their attention
was directed had no relation to any profession or employ-
ment whatever ; that the diEcuss\ons connected with them
had no analogy to those trains of thinking which prevail in
the ordinary intercourse of society ; and, in short, that no-
thing could be derived from prelections on such topics,
which was likely, in the smallest degree, either to adorn
conversation, or to qualify the student for the concerns of
active life.
" About this time, accordingly, some ~evere strictures
were published in Glasgow ; the chief object of which was
to impress upon the public at large, as well as upon those
who were more immediately engaged in teaching, the con-
viction that universities adhered much too rigidly to the
principles on which they were founded, and to the limited
objects which they were meant' to serve in the scholastic
ages,--a period when education was confined to a few
churchmen, for whose purposes it was almost exclusively
calculated. ' Some of the classes in universities bear evi-
dent marks,' it was said, ' of their original design ; being.
either totally, or in part, intended for the disputes and
wranglings of divines, and of little use to the lawyer or
physician, and still less to the merchant and the gentleman.
Of this sort we reckon logic·and metaphysics. These arts
or sciences (for it is not agreed yet which of them they are)
'to the greatest part of students are quite unintelli~le ;
and, if they could be understood, we cannot for our life dis-
cover their use.' Lord Shaftesbury, in his Characteristics,
had previously given an opinion to the same effect. ' Had,'
says he, ' the craftiest men, for many ages together, been
employed in finding out a method to confound reason, and
to degrade the understandings of men, they could not per-
haps have succeeded better than by the establishing of this
11wck science.'
" During several sessions after my appointment, the for-
mer practice was regularly followed ; that is, the usual
course of logic and metaphysics was explained by me in the
01g11zedbyGoogle
LOGIC AND MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 285
most intelligible manner I could-subjected, no dotibt, to
. the same animadversions as my predecessor. Though every
day more and more convinced me that something was wrong
in the system of instruction pursued in this class ; that the
subjects on which I lectured were not adapted to the·age,
the capacity, and the previous attainments of my pupils ;
I did not"venture upon any sudden or precipitate change.
Meanwhile the daily examination of the students, at a se-
parate hour, gave me an opportunity of observing that the
greater number of them comprehended very little of the
doctrines explained ; that a few only of superior abilities,
or of more advanced years, could give any accou~t1n them
at all ; and that the greatest. part of the young men remem-
bered only a few peculiar phrases or technical expressions,
which they seemed to deliver by rote, unaccompanied with
any distinct notion of their meaning. Impressed with this
conviction, which the experience of every day tended to
confirm, I found myself reduced to the alternative of pre-
lecting, all my life, on subjects which no effort of mine
could render useful to my pupils, or of making a thorough
and radical change in the subject-matter of my lectures.''
He describes the consequences of this mode of teaching,
in the following appropriate terms :-
" The evil of persisting in the old system was not con-
fined .to the mere loss of a session, and to the sacrifice of
the useful knowledge which might otherwise have been ac-
quired by the juvenile student: the effect was of a much
more pernicious nature ; for, to require the regular attend- ·
ance of very young men two hours every day, during a ses-
sion of six or seven months, on lectures which they could
not \IDderstand, and in which, of course, they could take
no interest, had a direct tendency to produce habits of ne-
gligence, indifference, and inattention ; which, it is well
known, frequently terminate in a positive aversion to study
of every description.''
_ Professor Jardine made " a thorough and radical change
in the subject-matter of his lectures ;" and that he accom-
plished a vast improvement cannot reasonably be doubted.
But we proceed to shew, that even his philosc>phy is far
short of what is n~ for " young men destined to fill ·
various and very different situations in life."
286 ADDRESS TO STUDENTS OP
He has a just conception of the importance of the philo-
sophy of the mind. He says,
" To the elements of this science, therefore, I have re-
COUl'llC on the present occasion, as the motlier science, so
to call it, from which all others derive at once their origin
and nourishment. Thus, logic, metaphysics, ethics, juris-
prudence, law, and eloquence, have their common origin in
mind; while in all the branches of natural philosophy, the
powers of intellect are the instruments, at least, by which
knowledge must be acquired. However much these sciences
may diverge from one another, in their more adYanced
stages, and in the practical applications to which they lead,
there can be no doubt that they are closely allied in their
origin ; that they have common principles and a common
language; and, consequently, that an intimate acquaintance
with the phenomena of mind must form a suitable introduc-
tion to the study of every branch of human knowledge."
He accordingly proceeds to communicate his view of
mental philosophy :
" The particular department of mental science which I
have selected for the business of this class, is an analysis of
the powers of the understanding-perception, attention,
consciousness, reflection, memory, imagination, abstraction,
judgment, reasoning. The object of this analysis, I need
hardly observe, is to communicate distinct notions of these
original faculties-their operation and offices-their con-
nexion and intimate dependence upon one another."
The following are the subjects of which he treats, in fill-
ing up this outline. Under "Perception," he gives a defini-
tion ofpotDer,and discussesthe relation betweencauaeandef- -
feet, the distinction between the termspowerandfaculty, and
the meaning of the word acquire, when applied to the mind.
He treats of sensation, attention, consciousness, &c. in a si-
milar manner, and then proceeds to the application of tJwe
principles ofmind to the explanation of various phenomena
of human nature, viz. " The Origin and Progress of Lan-
guage, and the Principles ofGeneral Grammar ;" the " Ori-
gin and Progress of Written Language;" " Elements of
Intellectual Colture ;" " Improvement of Perception by the
Organs of Sense ;" " Improvement of the faculties of At-
tention and Memory, Culture of Imagination," &c. In the
LOGIC AND llORAL PHILOSOPHY. 281
second part of his work, he gives full details of themes for
exercising his students.
There is an analogy between the science of medicine and
the philosophy of mind, which will serve for an illustration
ofouropinion ofthe real merits ofProfessorJardine's course
of tuition. An acute and sensible man, uninstructed in
anatomy, physiology, and materia medica, but observing,
for a long period of life, the phenomena of disease, and the
effects of different means of cure, and recording his expe-
rience, would acquire a body of information in many re-
spects accurate, and in some instances useful, but wholly
devoid of scientific or philosophical principle, and bearing
the same relation to the science of medicine that the shep-
herd of Banbury's calendar of the weather will bear to me·
teorology, if ever the latter shall become a science. Pro..
fessor Jardine, under the guidance of his own vigorous un-
derstanding and good sense, arrived at many correct views
of mental phenomena, and sound principles in grammar,
taste, and other topics which formed the subjects of his
study ; but his whole writings betray the want of a truly
scientific view ofthe elements of the human mind, and of
their combinations, and application. His description ofthe
state of metaphysical science continues perfectly just and
accurate at the present day.
" It has, perhaps, arisen from the application ofa defec-
tive analysis, that authors of eminence, even in the present
improved state of philosophy, are found to use the various
terms, which denote the faculties of the human mind, in
meanings extremely different. Ever since the days ofAris-
toile, philosophers have attempted to found a distinction
of the mental powers upon the peculiar natureof their seve-
ral operations ; and yet, so unsuccessful have all their en-
deavours for this purpose hitherto been, that writers, at no
distant period, have disputed whether ideas were not a dis-
tinct substance, per se, ·different both from the faculty of
perception; and from the object perceived. One philoso-
pher has maintained, that perception and judgment are pre-
cisely the same faculty; while an eminent modem author
of thfa country has attempted to identify tl1e two inportant
faculties of conception and imagination. Another class of
writen, again, have descn"bed the powers of taste, and of
moral approbation, as internal senses, innate, and infallible ;-
01g11zedbyGoogle
288 ADDRESS TO STUDENTS OF ·
whilst others persist in considering them as nothing more
than modifications of intellectual energy, subject t.o the in-
fluence of education, of fashion, and of caprice. Surely, if
the analytical investigations of pneumatologists had been
skilfully conducted, the science of mind, after the exertion
of so much talent and industry, during nearly three thou-
sand years, could not have been found encumbered with
the numerous imperfections and deficiencies which still ad-
here to it. The astronomer has ascertained the true prin-
ciples of the solar system, given names to the stars, and
traced the paths of comets ; but the metaphysician has not
yet succeeded in even defining the limits of his inquiries,
or in opening up, by an intelligible division of his subject,
a way in which his successors might advance, with any
better prospect ofsuccess."
The summary here given of the attainments of " authors
ofeminence, even in the present improved state of philolo-
p/)g," bears out our assertion that, up to the present day,
the science of mind is unknown in universities.
Mr Stewart gives testimony t.o a similar effect, in the
following passage, cited by him, with approval, from Mon-
sieur de Bonald :
" Diversity of doctrine has increased from age t.o age,
with .the number of masters, and with the progress of know-
ledge ; ·and Europe, which at present possesses libraries
filled with philosophical works, and which reckons up al-
most as many philosophers as writers ; poor in the midst
of·so much riches, and uncertain, with the aid of all its
guides, which road it should follow ; Europe, the centre
and focus of all the lights of the world, has yet its phao8o-
phg only in expectation."
Is this state of mental philosophy, then, to continue for
ever ; or is human genius at -length destined to rescue the
most interesting of all sciences, from the miserable condi-
tion in which it has hitherto languished ? The achievement
has already been accomplished ; and Dr Gall's discovery of
the functions of the brain has, in our day, presented man-
kind with the true philosophy ofmind. On one point you
and.we are not likely t.o differ, after what has been cited
from the works of an eminent teacher, during fifty years, of
the old philosophy ; viz. that Phrenology can scarcely be
more useless as a science of mind, than the doctrines which
LOGIC ,um MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 289
are now taught under that name ; while there are many
chances of its being more valuable. But many of you will
experience a natural veneration for established authority,
lU;ld consider it your duty to study and embrace (so far as
a phantom can be studied and embraced} the science of
mind, such as it is presented to you by the talented and
virtuous men who now fill the chairs of logic and moral
philosophy, on the ground that, as they are the most pro·
foundly learned, and most d~ply skilled in that subject,
they must be the best guides to what is useful and true.
This inference, however, .is overturned by the experience
of all ages ; and, out of the mouths of professors them-
selves, we could shew you, that you ought to exercise your
own judgment in the pursuit of truth, and that your .esta-
blished teachers are the worst authorities possible on the
subject of the merits of discoveries which go to overturn
doctrines taught by themselves. We cited several ex-
amples to this effect in No. xxi. of this Journal, pp. 31-2;
and the following extract from Professor Playfair's disser-
tation is so entirely applicable to the case of Phrenology,
that it almost resembles a prophecy of the manner of its
reception and diffusion :-
" When one considers the splendour of Newton's dis·
coveries, the beauty, the simplicity, and grandeur of the
system they unfolded, and the demonstrative evidence by
which that system was supported, one could hardly doubt,
that, to be received, it required only to be made known,
and that the establishment of the Newtonian philosophy all
over Europe would very quickly have followe8 the publi-
cation of it. In drawing this conclusion, however, we
.should make much too small an allowance for the influence
of received opinion, and the resistance that mere habrt is
able, for a time, to oppose to the strongest evidence. The
-Oi.rtesian system of vortices had many followers ·in all the
countries of Europe, and particularly in France. In the
universities ofEngland, though the Aristotelian physics had
made an obstinate resistance, they had .been supplanted by
.the Cartesian, which beeame firmly established about the
.time when the foundation began to be sapped by the gene-
iral progress of science, and particularly by the discoveries
of Newton. For more than thirty years after the publica-
tion ()f those discovetjes, the system of vortices kept its
Bb
290 . ADDRESS TO STUDENTS OF
ground ; and a translation from the French into Latin, of
the Physics of Renault, a work entirely Cartesian, continu-
ed at Cambridge to be the text for philosophical instruc•
tion. About the year 1718 a new and more elegant trans-
lation of the same book was published by Dr Samuel
Clarke, with the addition of notes, in which that profound
and ingenious writer explained the views of Newton, on
the principal objects of discussion, so that the notes con-
tained virtually a refutation of the text ; they dtd so, how-
ever, only virtually, all appearance of argument and con-
troversy being carefully avoided. Whether this escaped
the notice of the learned doctors or not is uncertain ; but
the new translation, from its better Latinity, and the name
of the editor, was readily.admitted to all the academical
honours which the old one had enjoyed. Thus the strata•
gem of Dr Clarke completely succeeded ; the tutor might
prelect from the text, but the pupil would sometimes look
into the notes, and error is never s0 sure of being exposed
as when the truth is placed close to it, side to side, without
any thing to alarm prejudice, or awaken from its lethargy
the dread of innovation. Thus1 therefore, the Newtonian
philosophy first entered the university of Cambridge, under
the protection of the Cartesian.
" Ifsuch were the obstacles to its progress that the new
philosophy experienced in a country that was proud of
having given birth to its author, we must expect it to ad-
vance very slowly indeed among foreign nations.
" In France, we find the first astronomers ancl mathe-
maticians, such men as Cassini·and Miraldi, quite unac-
quainted with it, and employed in calculating .the paths of
the comets they were observing on hypotheses the most
unfounded and imaginary; long after Halley, folloWing the
principles of Newton, had computed tables, from which the
motions of all the comet.s that ever had appeared, or ever
could appear, might be easily deduced. Fontenelle, with
great. talents and enlarged views, and, as one may say,
officially informed of the progress of science all over Eu-
rope, continued a Cartesian to the end of his days. Mairan;
in his youth, was a zealous defender of the vortices, though
he became afterwards one of the most strenuous supporters
of the doctrine of gravitation."
Pr Chalmers also bears testimony, in the following elo-
LOGIC AND MORAL PHILOSOPHY. 291
quent terms, to the reception of the new philosophy, by
the learned and unlearned, on its·announcement :-
" Authority," says he, " scowled upon it, and taste was
disgusted by it, and fashion was ashamed of it, and all the
beauteous speculation of former days was cruelly broken
up by this new announcement of the better philosophy, and
scattered like the fragments of an aerial vision, over which
the past generations of the world had been slumbering their
profound and their pleasing reverie."-C/uzlmers' Astronoi-
mical Discourses, Disc. II.
In presenting you with the views contained in this ad-
.dress, we have no desire to manifest the least disrespect to
the excellent persons who now fill the chairs of logic and
moral philosophy in the Scottish.universities. Their situa-
tion presents obstacles almost unsurmountable to their
adopting the new philosophy ; not only because human na-
ture is not equal to the task of stripping itself, at a mature
age, ofits old opinions, and setting out in quest of new no-
tions, but because numberless theories are propounded in
all sciences, which, after enjoying a brief eclat, are proved
to be unfounded ; and established professors ought not to
be moved by every wind ofdoctrine, but to preserve steadi-
ness and consistency in their views, as essential at once to
commanding respect, and proving useful to their students.
Every sensible person, therefore, who is acquainted with
human nature, will admit that venerable teachers ought to
be allowed to maintain, or at least may be pardoned for
maintaining, the doctrines which they embracjld in the ma·
turity of their judgment, undisturbed by discoveries made
by younger men, which would totally subvert their sys..
terns. They have an equitable title to be allowed the life-
rent possession of their errors, while these constitute their
only stock ; and, just as government maintains sinecure or
useless offices until the decease of those who have been
fairlyappointed to them, and then abolishes them for ever,-
so would we allow established professors to continue during
life to teach the doctrines which they first embraced, and
leave these slowly to die out with themselves. The only
concession which can be demanded of these teachers is,
that they shall not obstruct the inquiries of the youth
committed to their charge into discoveries which they
themselves may be excused from embracing. By doing so
01g11zedbyGoogle
292 CHARACTER OP CROMWELL.
they perpetuate the reign of error ; because it is only after
the whole generation who had attained to maturity when
a discovery was made have been removed from the scene
by death, and been succeeded by younger men whose
minds were open to conviction, that new doctrines become
established ; arid every year of delay on the part of the
young to investigate is one added to the predominance
of error. Your imperative duty, therefore, is to inquire•
.Your teachers have every apology to offer for not studying
and embracing novelties in science; nay, if they even de-
cry and oppose them, their conduct, although not justifi-
able, may still be excused. But with you no such apologies
exist. Your minds are young, vigorous, and full of enter-
prise, and are not preoccupied by error ; you will soon
constitute the men of society ; and to you will the blame
be justly ascribed, ifanother generation shall be compelled
to endure the evils of the mystic speculations under which
you now suffer, and to grow up in ignorance of the most
important, because the most practical, doctrine of philoso-
phy that ever was presented to the human understanding.
SOME O.MERVATIONS ON THE CHARACTER OF CROM·
WELL, AS DELINEATED IN THE NOVEL OF WOOD.
STOCK.•
THE picture of Cromwell in Woodstock is strictly his-
torical, that is, in perfect accordance with what is known
of Cromwell's character ; and likewise strictly phrenologi-
cal. There is a certain force and weight in some charac-
ters-a moral momentum, to which ordinary minds,.by a
law of their nature, yield as necessarily as a less gives way
to a greater physical resistance. Without the slightest ap-
peal to physical force, " they overwhelm and take po88e8•
sion offeebler minds," says Mr Combe, " impressing them
irresistibly with a feeling of gigantic power."f Men who,
in the hour of political convulsion, rise from obscurity to
supreme power; adventurers who have or might have seat-
ed themselves on thrones, the Cromwells and the Napo-
leons, have always borne about them this commanding in.
•By James Simpson.-Vot iii. No. 11, p. 482.
t 'f'ide ~atem,3d edition, p. 104.
01g11zedbyGoogle
CHARACTER OF CROMWELL; 293
fluence. This is the secret of their rilie to power and their
security in it ; this is the spell which stifles plots against
them in the very breasts of those who imagine them ; quells
mutiny by mere presenee--opposition with a look; resumes
supreme power, iflet slip, without an army, nay, in the face
of one; serves as a panoply against assassination itself, sur-
rounding these master-spirits with a charmed circle, which
guards their unarmed persons from the hand of vengeance,
even when in careless contact with those whose fiercesi
passions are concentrated against them in mortal hatred
and hostility. .
A large induction has shewn, that an ample volume of
J>rain in all the three regions, animal, moral, and intellec-
tual, is essential to this influence and force. Bonaparte's
Jtead was unquestionably large, and all the likenesses of
Cromwell, to say nothing of an actual cast of his face and
forehead taken after death, render it certain, that his head
was of the same large class, if not of a yet larger. No
small head could have maintained for a day the mighty at-
titude of Cromwell or Bonaparte. .
. The author of Woodstock has of course passed by the
head of Cromwell, but has missed no lineament of his cha-
racter ; and even the reader is made to feel that he is a
" tremendous personage:" ·
" And there in lofty air waa seen to stand
The !Item protector of the conquered !And."
The authori.ntroduces him receiving Markham Everard's
packet from the hands of Wi.ldrake, in the court-of-guard
in Windsor Castle. "His demeanour," says he, "was so
blunt, as sometimes to be termed clownish; but there was
in his language and manner a force and energy correspond-
ing to his character, which impressed awe, if it did not in-
spire respect." ·
· Wildrake, whose Veneration was evidently none of the
largest, gets by degrees familiar, and more than once. at•
tempts, in very bad taste, to make a companion of the pro~
tector ; but one glance of his eye frowns him back to his
·comparative insignificance, and re-establishes that influence
from which it was in vain to attempt to escape. " His na-
tural boldness and carelessness of character," says the
suthor, " were home down and quelled, like that of the
falcon in the presence.of th.e eagle." .. . .. . .
294 CHARACTER OP CROMWBJ;t.;
When Cromwell in mistake turns round..the portrait or
Charles I. by Vandyke, Wildrake, at the sight, actually for
a moment compasses his death, in revenge of the king'-s.
" But this natural and sudden flash of indignation, which
rushed through the veins of an ordinary man like Wildrake,
was presently subdued, when confronted with the strong,
yet stifled emotion displayed by 80 powerful a character as
Cromwell. As the cavalier looked on his dark and bold
countenance, he found his own violence of spirit die away,
and lose itself in fear and wonder. So true it is, that as
greater lights swallow up and extinguish the display of those
that are less, 80 men of great, capacious, and overruling
minds bear aside and aubdue, in their climax of passion;
the more feeble wills and passions of others, as, when a
river joins a brook, the fiercer torrent shoulders aside the
smaller stream:
" Wildrake stood a silent, inactive, and almost terrified
spectator, while Cromwell, assuming a firm sternness of eye
and manner, as one who compels himself to look on what
some strong internal fe~ling renders painful and disgustful
to him, proceeded, in brief and interrupted expressions, but
yet with a firm voice, to comment on the portrait of the
kin "
g.
The effusion that follows is replete with strength of cha-
racter; while the same overwhelming greatness is admir-
ably pourtrayed, when Cromwell at Woodstock stations his
troopers, and shakes the dwelling of Markham Everard with
one determined unrepeated knock ; come, as he is, to pounce
on his prey like a eagle on a dovecot.
Another trait of human nature is strikingly illustrated
by this character, namely, the existence in the same indi-
vidual of dispositions 80 contrary, as, in their alternate ex•
citement, to present to us two distinct and, to all appear-
ance, incompatible characters. The idea was long treated
as incredibly absurd, that murderers, like Haggart and
Thurtel, could, even for a moment in their whole lives,
however quiescent their prevalent selfish and ferocious feel-
ings might for that moment be, experience one emotion of
kindness to their fellow-creatures, or do one benevolent
deed. The most able and popular historians of human na·
ture, however, distinctly recognise characters belonging to
this speciesas actual existences, and place them prominently
CHAUCTER OP CROMWELL. 295
on their canvass, as the most powerful touches in their pic-
tures. Cromwell, during the exciting transactions. at the
lodge of Woodstock, is positively two distinct beings; and
these he manifests, by appearing in. four several moods, two
of them ferocious, and two benevolent.
First, In a paroxysm of rage with Wildrake, who had
bearded him with insult, and attempred his life, he gives an
order to his troopers to shoot him instantly in the street,
and even refuses him spiritual consolation. This act of
vengeance appearing to him premature, he recalls his order,
and carries the party prisoners to the lodge of Woodstock.
Second, He has got time to calm;-in phrenological
terms, the activity of his Self-esteem, Combativeness, and
Destructiveness has gradually subsided ;-and his next
mood is benevolent. He tells Pearson, that he has to
force a really benevolent nature in the violent acts to which
he is destined.
"' Pearson, the world will hereafter, perchance, think of
me as being such a one as I have described-' an iron man
and made of iron mould'-yet they will wrong my memory;
my heart is flesh, and my blood is.mild as that of others.
·When I was a sportsman, I have weptfor the gallant heron
struck down by my hawk, and sorrowed for the hare which
lay screaming under the jaws of my greyhound ; and canst
thou think it a light thought to me, that the blood of this
lad's father lying in some measure on my head, I should
now put in peril that of his son ? They are of the kindly
race of English sovereigns, and doubtless are adored like
to demigods by those of their own party.' 'God be my
witness, that rather than do this new deed, I would shed
my own best heart's blood in a pitched field, twenty against
one.' Here he fell into a passion of tears, which he was
sometimes wont to do. His extremity of passion was of a
singular character. It was not actually the resµlt of peni-
tence, and far less that of actual hypocrisy,"-(so far we
agree with the author ; but consider what follows, another
added to many proofs, that his delineations of character are
.better than the philosophical expositions which sometimes
.accompany them,-) " but aro8e merely from the tempera-
ture of that remarkable man, whose deep policy and ar-
dent enthusiasm were intermingled with a strain of hypo-
,chondriacal ~on, which of\en leq ~ to exhibJt scenes
OllARACTER OF .CROMnLt.
of thl8 sort, 'though seldom as now, when called to the exe.>
cution of great undertakings." This vague and meaning•
less generality is the best philosophy which even tl1e author
of Woodstock can summon up to explain the simple pheno-
menon of an alternation of ferocity and kind-heartedness.
But the author sometimes, by a farther touch of his pencil,
does more to solve his own difficulty, than he ever achieves
.by a speculation, however solemn. He says elsewhere,
" and there were even times when that dark and subtle spirit
expanded itBelf so as almost to conciliate affection ;" phre-
nologice-when Cromwell was kind and generous, in other
words, benevolent; for no other faculty of man conciliat:es
affection.
Next, In his third mood, when the resistance again
rouses Self-esteem, Combativeness, and Destructiveness to
the fury of madness, he gives orders for the instant mas-
sacre of all the men, women and dogs, in the castle. Pear-
son had proposed to put to the torture the old knight and
DrRochecliffe; " 'by a whipcord twitched tight round their
forehead, and twisted with a pistol-but, I could make eithe~
the truth start from their lips or the eyes from their head."'
But even in the height of his fury this was too much far
Cromwell, and his benevolence gleams for an instant with
splendid effect on the dark cloud of his unsparing fury•
" ' Out upon thee, Pearson !' said Cromwell, with abhor-
rence, 'we have no warrant for such cruelty."' Then Hum-
gudgeon falls, and is half buried in the ruins of the tower.
Destructiveness is again in advance ; " with a quick and
resolute step, Cromwell approached the spot ; ' Pearson,
thou hast ruined me-the young man hath escaped. This
is our own sentinel-plague on the idiot I Let him rot be-
neath the ruin» which crushed him.'"
Fourth, Cromwell's last mood is that of mercy, and even
-generosity. He is informed that Pearson " had not fully
executed his commands touching a part of those malig-
nants, all of whom should have died at noon. ' What execu•
tion-what malignants ?' laying down his knife and fork ;
'Wretch!' said ~e, starting up, and addressing Pe8l'SOn,
' thou hast not touched Mark Everard, in whom there was
no guilt, for he was deceived by him who passed between
us ; neither hast thou put forth thy hand on the pragmatic
presbyterian minister?'" &c. He is told that they yet live,
oigilizedbyGoogle
·.
'CHARACTER OF CROMWELL~· 297
and orders their instant liberation. Rochecliffe is next en-
larged and supplied with money. " 'But you look darkly
at each other as if you had more to say than you durst. I
trust you have not done to death Sir Henry Lee?' " 'No
-yet the man,' replied Pearson, ' is a confirmed malig-
riant, and --' ' Ay, but he is also a noble relic of die
ancient English gentleman,' &c. ' Sir Henry lives, and
shall live for me. His son indeed hath deserved the death
which doubtless he hath sustained.'" He too is spared,
and that before Cromwell is told that it was in Albert's
power to have despatched him in the dark passages of the
castle. As to Joliffe, he was considered by the general as
deserving reward for ridding him of Trusty Tomkins, whom
he knew to be a double-dealing knave. Wildrake he de.-
dares not worth his while, in spite of his libellous poems ;
the man and" the very handwriting being drunk."
" ' There remains only one sentenced person,' said Pear..
son, ' a noble wolf-hound, finer than any your excellency
saw in Ireland ; he belongs to the old ·knight, Sir Henry
Lee. Should your excellency not desire to keep the fine
creature yourself, might I presume to be_g that I might
have leave?' ' No, Pearson,' said Cromwell, 'the old man
so faithful to himself shall not be deprived of his faithful
dog.-I would I had any creature, were it but a dog, that
followed me because it loved me, not for what it.could
make of me.'" He finishes this display of good feeling by
ordering decent burial, in consecrated ground, to Tomkins,
whose death he had so lately hailed ; and to Humgudgeon,
whose remains, in hot fury, he had doomed to rot where
they had fallen. Until Phrenology unfolded organs of
Self-esteem, Combativeness, and Destructiveness, co-exist-
ing, in the same individual, with others of Benevolence, Ve~
neration, and Justice, such moods of mind as are here de-
scribed were utterly inexplicable. To a feeling that they
are natural, which every one has, we now add an intellec-
tual perception of their truth ; and thus both our pleasure
and profit are increased by the light which this philosophy
sheds on the pages of the historian and novelist. ··
298 2ARLY OPINIONS ABOUT THE
HISTORICAL NOTICE OF EARLY OPINIONS REGARDING
THE FUNCTIONS OF DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
BRAIN.•
ARISTOTLE, with whom appears to have originated al-
m08t every theory that has divided the opinions of the
learned, taught, that the first or anterior ventricle of the
brain, which he supposed to look towards the front, was the
ventricle of common sense, because from it, according to
him, the nerves of the five senses branched off, and into it,
by the aid ofthese nerves, all smells, colours, tastes, sounds,
and tactile affections, were brought together. The second
ventricle, connected by a minute opening with the first, he
fixed upon as the seat of imagination, judgment, and re-
flection, because the impressions from the five senses are
transmitted from the first ventricle into it, as a second stage
in their progress through the brain. The third ventricle
was sacred to memory, because it was commodiously situat-
ed as a storehouse into which the conceptions of the mind,
digested in the second ventricle, might be transmitted for
retention and accumulation.
If we apply the principles of Phrenology·to these views,
we perceive them to be evidently nothing more than the
fictions of an exuberant fancy. Dissection, indeed, shews
that there are ventricles in the brain, but the keenest eye
can perceive nothing in them resembling either sensation,
imagination, or memory. Observation is never hinted at
as the foundation on which these opinions rest, and con-
sciousness throws no light upon the subject. The assign-
ment, therefore, of functions to the ventricles, connected
·with these faculties, is altogether gratuitous.
Passing on to a more recent period, we find the same
notions repeated by a great variety of authors, with some
iilight variations, but with few approaches to greater philo.
sophical precision. Bernard Gordon, a Scotch physician,
professor of medicine at Montpelier, in a tract entitled
" Affectus prretematuram curandi Methodus," written in
1296, (.as appears by his own words at the end of the in-
troduction,-" Statuta fuit hrec ordinatio in prreclaro stu-
• .By W. C. Trevelyan and George Combe.-Vol. ii. No. 7. p. 378.
."J'UNCTIONS W THB BRAIN. 299
dio Monti.spessulani anno ·Domini 1296, mense.Julio, die
Mercurij; post festum beati martialis, et quia aliqui ex so-
ciis volunt scire dandum est,")-gives very nearly the same
account of the functions of the brain. There are, says he,
three cells or ventricles in the brain. In the anterior part
of the first ventricle lies " Common Sense," the function of
which is to take cognizance of the various forms or images
received by the several senses, and to pass judgment upon
them. In the posterior portion of the first ventricle lies
4• Phantasia," the function of which is to preserve the spe·
cies received by the " Sensus Communis." Hence " Phan-
tasia" is the.treasury or storehouse of the latter. In the
anterior department of the second ventricle lies " Imagi-
nativa," which never rests in the whole course of life,
either in sleep•or in watching. Its function is to put ideas
together, and it is impossible to exist a moment without it.
The preceding faculties, common sense and fancy, com-
pose nothing, but only receive and preserve impressions.
They cannot co~pound a new object out of di1ferent af-
fections of the senses. But the imaginative fuculty com-
poses chimeras, &c. Hence it has two names. If it be
obedient to reason, and the objects imagined have a real
existence coinciding with the perceptions of the senses, the
faculty is called " Cogitativa." If, however, it does not
coincide with the perceptions of the senses, but obeys the
faculty next to be mentioned, called "JEstimativa," it is
properly named " Imaginativa ;".because then the things
conceived are false, and probably impossible. In the pos-
terior portion of the middle ventricle lies the faculty named
" .IEstimativa," the function of which is to judge of im-
pressions not received by the senses, as friendship. By
this faculty the lamb instinctively knows the wolf to be an
enemy, although it never saw c;me before. ".IEstimativa,"
therefore, is in animals the instinctive faculty which. re-
gulates their conduct, as reason regulates that of man.
Hence, when men are regulated by their instinctive facul-
ties, they err, and resemble the beasts in their conduct :
when they act by reason, they do not fail in their aim. In
the third or posterior ventricle, Memory holds its seat.
. Thus, continues the author, there are three faculties or
virtues,-" Imaginatio, Cogitatio, et Memoria ;" and all
300 EARLY OPINIONS ABOUT THE
these are natural and corruptible, and have organs. Above
them all, however, is another, a higher, a divine, and an in·
corruptible faculty or virtue, called Intellect, which has no
organ, although it makes use of the organs just mentioned
as media for acting on the external world.
These faculties, says he, may become imperfect through
diseases in the organs ; and, as the organs are distinct, one
may become affected while the others remain sound. " In
some Imaginativa is impaired while the other faculties are
sound. · In others, on the contrary, imagination is sound,
and the other faculties impaired. This is evident from the
circumstance of a certain deranged individual, who, having
struck his father, and being asked by fiim if it was becom.
ing in a son to lift his hand against his parent, fell upon his
knees on perceiving him, and entreated hisforgiveness. In
him the imaginative faculty was impaired, and he did not
know his father. Reason, however, was entire; and it cor~
rectly indicated that a father ought not to be struck." He
relates another instance of the same kind) which, from the
~uaintness of the style, we prefer giving in the words of
the author :-" Hippocrates dicit de quodam juvene, quod
tenebat unum puerum, et dixit vultis istum ? et dixerunt
sic, et projecit, et fractus fuit puer ; imaginatio non fuit
la?Sa, quia bene cognoscebat puerum. Sed ratio fuit la?Sa,
quia credebat ipsum impassibilem esse."-Particula Quarta
.de PrO!J110StU:is, Caput I. pp. 743-4-5.
Several other curious observations of the same kind will
be found in another work of the same author, entitled,
'' Lilium Medicinre," written in 1305,* in the section" De
Passionibus Capitis, particula ii. pp. 186-7, and 193, de
Somno lnnaturali." He says that sleep is, properly speak-
ing, an affection of the " Sensus Communis," the organ of
• " Ad honorem, igitur, agni crelestia, qui est splendor, et gloria
Dei patris, hunc librum intitulo Lilium Medicinm. In Lilio enim
·1111nt multi flores, et in quolibet flore suni septem folia candida, et
aeptem grana <J..U&Si aurea: similiter liber iste continet septem par-
tes, quarum pnma erit aurea, rutilans et clara. Tractabit enim de
·morbis plurimia universalibus, incipiens ~ febribus: alim autem sex
.partes erunt candidm et transparentes, propter earum grandem ma-
nifestationem. Inchoatus autem est liber iste, cum auxilio magai
Dei, in prmclaro studio Montispessulani, post annum vigesimum lec-
ture nostrie, anno Domini 1365, mense Julij. Lugduni, apud Gu-
.lielmum Rouillium, 1559."
.FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 301
which lies in the anterior part of the forehead, and therefore
all external impressions and animal functions are at rest.
Watching, he informs us, is caused by the introduction of
the animal spirits to the instruments of sense, thereby ex~
citing them to perform their functions. On page 200 he
gives a long list of prescriptions for removing excessive
watching, and adds-" :t:t si omnia deficiunt, incipiat di-
cere horas dominicas, et statim dormiet." On page 201 he
gives a theory founded on the supposed motion of the ani-
mal spirits, why the imaginative faculty rests neither night
nor day, but pursues a continual course of action ;-but.oUP
limits prevent us from entering upon it.
To these speculations, also, we must apply the phrenolo-
gical tests. They are not revealed by dissection, and not
1upported by observation or consciousness, and therefore
they are mere figments of the mind of the author, or of
those from whom he adopted them.
The animal spirits make a great figure in these disserta-
tions about the brain. It is therefore interesting to attend
to a few details concerning them. Andrew Vesalius, or
Wesel,• a celebrated anatomist of the sixteenth century, in
hil work ~· De Humani·Corporis Fabrica," informs us, that
the air which we breathe, penetrating through the cribri-
form process of the ethmoidal bone, and through the Eus-
tachian tubes, is by rarification rendered fit for the brain,
and then insinuates itself into the first and second ven-
tricles, where it is formed into animal spirits. These then
pass into the third ventricle of the brain, and thence into
the ventricle ·of the cerebellum. From this v~ntricle no
small portion of them is transmitted into the medulla ob-
longata, and ·into the nerves propagated from it. The
• Andrew Vesalius, or Wesel, was born at Brussels in 1514. His
paternal progenitors, for four generations, had been of some note in
the medical line. In 1564, he attended a Spanish noble, who died
while under his care, as he did not understand the nature of the
disease. Vesalius opened the body a~er death, when the heart was
observed to palpitate. This circumstance raised a great clamour
against VesiLlius; and, to save himself, he was qbliged to make a piL.
grimage to Jerusalem, to expiate his crime (as it was considered):
On his return thence he was wrecked on Zacynthus, where he soon
after died, in the se.ble year, 1564. ·
The first edition of his work on the Anatomy of the Hanian·Bodj
was printed at Basie in 15'2, in folio. It is a beautiful book, and
contains an excellent portrait of the author. : . '
302 EARLY OPINIONS ABOUT THE
other portion of the spirits, " ad divinas principis animre
operationes utitur," and is likewise transmitted from the
ventricles of the brain to the nerves of sense and motion.
This author very gravely observes,-" Hactenus sane ce•
rebri functiones in vivorum animalium sectionibus admo-
dum probabiliter et vere quodammodo possum assequi.,,
But., continues he, the theologians (Thomas Aquinas, Duns
Scotus, Albertus, and others) havGig divided the functions
ofthe mind into Imagination, Ratiocination, Cogitation, and
Memory, have also divided the brain, upon what principle
he cannot tell, into parts corresponding to those powers.
He refers to Aristotle's division, adopted by the theologi-
ans, and according to which Imagination and Judgment
were placed in the second ventricle, and Memory in the
third ; and confutes the hypothesis by the fact., that the
parts of the brain to which the rational faculties are given
by the theologians, are found in the lower animals to cor-,
respond very nearly to the same parts in man.•
In another chapter, Vesalius informs us, that the same
theologians conceived that the function of the vermiform
processes ofthe cerebellum is to serve as a medium ofcom~
munication, by which the phantoms of the mind·may pass
into the cerebellum, in which Memory is situated, and
thence, by stealth, into the middle ventricle, which is the
seat of Judgment. Against this opinion, however, Vesa-
lius brings the argument already noticed, that these venni..
form processes exist in the lower animals as well as in man,
and that., to these animals, both Judgment and Memory
are denied by the theologians. These processes, if such
be their functions, must in them have been' made without a
purpose,--a supposition not admissible when the Divine
Being was the contriver.* These processes derived their
name from their supposed resemblance to a worm or mag-
got ; and from their appearance, their functions in giving
rise to phantoms, whims, or maggots in the mind, seem to
have been inferred ; and hence the phrase " maggotty"
appears to have had its origin.
• Liber vii. caput i. Edition printed at Basl8f 1542. See alao ca..
put vi. "Ventr1c11lorum Usus.' ·
+Caput x., de cerebelli proceeaibua vermis imaginem experimenw
tibua, &c.
FUNCTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 303.
The notions now detailed seem to have formed the stand-
ard philosophy of the mind and brain in the middJe ages. ·
The same theories are repeated by every author who touches
on the subject ; but not one of them appears to have
thought it necessary to inquire into the evidence upon
which they rest. In a work upon the memory by Lodo-
vico Dolce, a Venetian, published in 1562, precisely the
same account of the divisions ofthe brain and of the mental
faculties as that by Bernard Gordon is given. It is unne-
cessary to repeat his words ; but we copy a sketch of the
head from his work, in which the seats of the di1ferent fa•
culties are marked out in a manner not unlike that of Dr
Gall. The work is entitled " Dialogo di M. Lodovico
Dolce, nel quale si ragiona del modo di accrecere e ·con-
servar la memoria,-ln Venetia, 1562." A theory and
plate somewhat similar are given by Robert Flud ; and
also by Peter Montagnana,• in a work published in 1491.
In a work by Dr Thomas Willis, Professor of Natural
Philosophy at Oxford, and Fellow of the College of Physi.,
ciaos and Royal Society in London, published in 1681,
there is a regular treatise upon the animal spirits, and an-
other upon the uses ofthe brain, chapter 9th. " De cere-
bri anatome ostenditur quo apparatu, et in quibus E'"'~.l>.11
locis, spiritus animales progignuntur. Item pi.re matris vsus
alii, et accidentia subduntur."
The lilftits of the present essay do not admit of a full ac-
count of this learned author's treatise on the animal spirits.
Suffice it to notice as specimetls the following observations.
The most volatile, spirituous, and active elements of the
blood, says he, ought constantly to rise towards the head,
partly from the natural qualities of the blood, and partly
from the natural structure ofthe parts. The vertebral ar-.
teries in all animals al!Cend in a right arid perpendicular
line, and thus in a manner cause the subtile and light par-
ticles of the blood to be carried upwards, while the thicker
parts as naturally descend into the less important arteries
and viscera. Accordingly, as the carotid arteries in men
rise most perpendicularly to the head, the purest and most
volatile spirits are in them carried to the brain ; whereas
in quadrupeds, which walk with their heads inclined, and
• See Gall aur lea 1''onctiona du Cerveau, ii. 355•.
304; EARLY OPINIONS ABOUT TRB
in which ·the blood is likewise more cold and watery, infe-
rior spirits reach the brain. In chapter 10th, entitled " De-
scription of the Brain, properly so called, and explanation
of its Parts and their Uses," it is observed, that the brain
is divided into two compartments, or distinct hemispheres,.
and that it, like the nerves ofsense, and the organs of va-
rious necessary functions, is double, to the end that any
defect in the one side may be provided against and sup-
plied by the other. He repeats the division of the brain
into organs very much in the style of his predeceseors. He
describes the convolutions of the brain, and mentions their
resemblance to the intestines of animals in their externai
appearance. Ifasked, what are the functions of the folds
and convolutions of the brain ? he would say, that the
brain is made in that manner, as well for the more abun-
dant reception of spirituous aliment as for the more com-
modious distribution of the animal spirits. The aliment of
ihe brain, he obsenes, would require to be very subtile
and highly elaborated ; and on this account the openings
ought not to be too large, but rather like the smallest pos-
sible pores and canals. The various folds and convolu-
tions of the brain, besides, act as cells and storehouses
where the sensible species are reserved, and whence they
can be called out as occasion requires. These convolu-
tions, says he, are larger and more numerous in man
than in any other animal, on account of the more various
and extensive action of his superior faculties. In chapter
15th, upon the cerebellum and the use of its parts, and
some of its processes, he mentions, that some of the an-
cients wer~ of opinion that the cerebellum was just another
brain. He observes, however, that if any individual·were
endowed with an insipid and soft brain, he has great doubts
whether he wou1d become wise, even although he should
obtain a larger and more solid cerebellum. Others,.says
he, have placed memory in this part, on the supposition
that the cerebellum resembles a cellar or storehouse, into
which ideas of things presently conceivied, or their images,.
might be crammed. But it is more probable that this fa-
culty is seated rather in the anterior convolutions of the
brain ; for, when we endeavour to remember an object
long forgotten, we rub the temples and the forehead, we
: l'UNCTJONS OP THE BRA.JN, :
endel\vour to move up the brain, and to exc~te the animal
spirits in that quarter, while·no sensation is experienced in
the back part of the head. The use of the cerebellum,
therefore, appears to be, to supply animal spirits to the
nerves of involuntary functions, such as the contraction of
the heart, respiration, and digestion.
This author disputes the idea, that the pineal gland is
-the seat of the soul, or that the principal. faculties spring
from it; because this gland is found .not only in man .and
-quadrupeds, but in birds and fishes ; and because animals,
to which imagination\ memory, and other import4nt facul-
ties of the mind, are entirely denied, enjoy a sufficiently
large and well-formed pineal gland.
: These authors, it will be obsenied, .do not pretend al-
most in any respect to found their theories upon observa-
1ion. To see clearly, however, the true extent and merit
of Dr Gall's discovery, it is proper to notice the efforts of
'SOme other authors who have attempted this course of phi-
iosophizing. Aristotle, we believe, may be ranked among
this class of physiognomists ; but, to come ne3rer to the
present time, we proceed to notice a work ofJohn :Saptista
Porta, a Neapolitan, entitled "De Humana Physiogno-
·mia." The first eqition, which was printed in 1596, at
Vico (now an inconsiderable town on the eastern coai;t ofthe
·Bay of Naples), is scarce. Editions of th~ work, however,
in octavo, are not rare in the catalogues of Naples ; and
the cuts are well copied. This author, in judging of a
·man's character, would examine every part of the body
·from the hair of the head to the nails of the toeS.. ( Vide
book iv., p. 229.) Besides his own ideas, he. gives those
·ofhis predecessors on the subject ofphysiognomy : amongst
whom are Aristotle, Adamantius, a Greek physician ofthe
fifth century; .Rhasis, or Rhazes, an Arabian physician,
·born in 852 ; with other Greek philosophers, &c. There
·are some very excellent observations .in the proremium to
·the first book, much more philosophical.than might have
•been expected from the character of the work itself. .On
·page.14 there is a curious catalogue by Aristotle ofthe qua-
'lities of the lower animals, which exist alsoin man. . Jµ the
·aecond book, " De Capite," he. .compares human. heads
"with·those -0fanima\11,.and.supposes the W.po!litjona o~..the
cc
306 EA.llLY OPINIONS ABOUT THB
former to resemble those of the latter when their hellds
agree. He gives sketches of the heads of Vitellius Cm.
/ sar and of an owl, as similar-of a spaniel dogand Plato, as
resembling each other-of a sow and an idiot--Of a crane
and·a very stupid man, as corresponding to each other-of
a lion and of a man of genius and sense-.-of a cow and a
phlegmatic individual-of a crow and a man insincere and
impudent. He.informs us, that Rhasis considered a head
of a moderate size and becoming rotundity, which rose
behind, and was compressed a little under each ear, as
the best. Albertus conceived that a head elongated be-
fore and behind, like a mallet, indieated.·a provident and
circumspect individual ; Pericles, the Athenian, is said to
have had such a head, and to have been a most excellent
·man. Albertus affirmed, that a round head was destitute
of memory and wisdom. It is a dogma, says he, of physi-
cians, that where the head ·is deficient, mental imbecility
is indicated ;-ifthe anterior part is deficient, tl}e percep.
tive power and imagination are impair~ ;-if the poste-
rior part, energy and memory are wanting ;-if the middle
part, reason and reflection. Aristotle, he says;mentions
that those who have the temples large or inflated, and the
cheeks full, are exceedingly irascible. In Porta's opinion,
those who are full round the neck, and have large veins
about the temples, are prone to anger. Albertus consi-
dered mental vigour and aptitude for learning to be indi-
cated by the length of the head before the ear, which he
calls " longa.frons." Plutarch informs us that Plato pos-
sessed such a head; and Neanthes, no despicable author,
userts, on the authority of Diogenes, that Plato received
this name on account of his large forehead and face,
" Hane frontem paulo ante ~nostra tempora Dantes Alag-
hierius habuit."
There is a great deal more curious matter in this volume,
which it is impossible here to notice. The observations,
however, which we have already adverted to, though evi-
dently founded on the loosest resemblances between man
and the lower animals, and not supported by observatUm,
shew, con~ to the assertion of an Edinburgh Reviewer,
that many authors have held the opinion, that different
s•s ofthe head indi~. dllferent qualities or affections
FUNCTIONS OF THE BJUJK. ·307
ofthe mind. It is curious also to observe, that on page 4th,
a portrait is given of the author's patron, a cardinal, whom
he seems determined to convince of the truth ofhis science,
at least by flattery, if he could not succeed in any other
way. See the chapter " De Heroici Viri Figura."•
The physiognomical work of Lavater is too well known
to require descriptidn here. It is well known that he en-
deavoured, by observing the forms of the forehead and fea-
tures, to discover the tendencies of the mind, but, from an
error in his mode of proceeding, he was as unsuccessful as
his predecessors. This great error lay in confining him-
self too much to the features of the face, and in seeking
signs of general character, instead of organs of particular
faculties. A11 many of his observations, however, were
drawn from nature, it is admitted that many of them are
well founded ; bu4 from his not reaching the true organs
of the mind, his views are of no utility as a system of phi·
losophical truths.
· It may be interesting also to take a view of the !>pinions
of metaphysical writers, ancient and ·modem, upon this
question. Des Cartes informs us, " that although the soul
is joined to the whole body, there is a certain part in which
it exercises its functions more immediately than in the
other parts. The common opinion," says he, " is, that that
part is the brain, or perhaps the heart; the brain, because
the organs of sense are referred to it; the heart, because
the passions are felt there. But, by careful examination,
I am led to believe, that I have ascertained that the 1'8rtin
which the mind particularly exercises its functions, is not
the heart, JlOr tlie whole brain, but only a certain small
gland (the pineal) situated in the middle of the sub~tance
of the brain, so suspended above the canal by whi'* the
spirits of the anterior portion of the brain communicate
with the spirits of the posterior portion, that the smallest
motions in it are able to produce a great effect in diver:ting
the course of these spirits ; and reciprocally the smallest
changes which take place in the course of these spirits pro-
duce a great change in the motions of this gland.
. • A translation of this work was published at Paris in 1798. The
~ Physiognomiai Veterea"were published together on the Continent
in 1780; but we have not had an opponanity ofqe>Jl!lulting theDJ.
•
;308 ·BARLY OPINION& ABOUT T·R£
. " The reaion," continues Des Cartes, " which indUcelt
me t.o think that the mind cannot have any other seat ha
the whole body where it can ilnmediately exercise its func-
tions, except this gland, is this, that I consider all the other
parts of our brain as double, as we have two eyes, two
hands, two ears; and, finally, as all the organs of our ex-
ternal senses are double, and as we h'll.ve only single and
simple consciousness of any one thing at any one tilne,
there must necessarily be some place in which the two
images which come from the two eyes, and the double im-
pressions which come from one object by the other, double
organs of sense may be united before they reach the mind,
teat they should present to it two images in place of one.
And it is easy tt> conceive, that these images and other
impressions unite by means of the spirits which fill the.ca-
vities of the brain in this gland, whereas there is no other
place in the l>ody in which11uch an union could take place."
He explains how the mind and body act on each other :
" Let us conceive," says he, " the mind to have its princi-
pal seat in the gland which is situate in the middle of the
brain, it sends out the impressions over the rest ofthe body
by means of the animal spirits, nerves, and of the blood it-
self; the latter, participating in the impressions of the spi-
rits1 is able to communicate tht!m, by means ofthe arteries,
to all the members."• ·
Dr Hartley .says : " What sensations or ideas are, as they
exist in the mind or sentient principle, we have no more
knowTedge of than we have of the mind or sentient princi·
pie itself; and, in this ignorance of ourselves, the busine&1
of philosophy will be abundantly satisfied, if we be able to
point out such a probable affection of the brain as will cor-
respond to all the variety of sensations and ideas, and the
affections of them, of which we are conscious. .
" And is it not most probable, not to say certain, that
since the impression is actually transmitted to the brain, it
must be by means of the same kind of motion by which the
nerve was affected, that is a vibratory one ? And since the
brain itself is a continuation of the same substance .w;ith
t.1¥:·nerves, is it not equally evident, .tha~ the affection of
the brain, corresponding to a sensation, and consequently
to -an idea, is a vibratory motion ofit.a parts ?. , .· ,;., .
• Dea Cartea de Paaaionibua, art. 30. 31, p. 3"2. and 34.
PUNCtJONS OP T'1B BRAIN, : 309
•• The differences 'of which vibrations affecting the bta1n
are sufficient to correspond to all the differences which we
observe in our original ideas or sensations.
" If these original differences in vibrations are sufficient
to correspond to all the varieties of our original or aimpk
ideas, the combinations of which they are capable must be
-equal in both cases ; so that the number of complex ·ideas
creates no peculiar difficulty."•
· Dr Darwin, in his Zoonomia, informs us, that an idea
" is defined,--a contraction, or motion, or configuration, of
the fibres which constitute the immediate organ of sense."
§ 2. 2. 8.
" Our ideas are also associated together after .their pro•
duction, precisely in the same manner as our muscular mo-
·tions, which will likewise be fully explained in the succeed..
-ing section•
." The time taken up in performing an idea is likewise
much the same as that taken up in performing a muscular
motion._" §3. 5. I. ·
Such, then, is a short abstract ofsome ofthe principal opi•
nions concerning the brain which had been entertained pre-
".iously to the time of Dr Gall. They .are so absurd in
them8elves, and so evidently unfounded, that the more phi.
losophical writers, both medical and metaphysical, during
the last century, have abandoned the subject in despair, ra-
ther than repeat such ridiculous puerilities. Dr Cullen ob-
serves ::" Although we cannot doubt that the operations of
:our intellect always depend upon certain motions taking
place in the brain, yet these motions have never.been the
~bject ofour senses, nor have we been able to perceive that
any.particular part of the brain has more concern in the
<>perations of our intellect than any other. Neither haye
we attained any knowledge of what share the several pa.rt&
of-the brain have in that operation; and therefore, in this
situation of our science, it must be a very difficult matter
td ·discover those states of the brain that may give occasion
to the various states of our intellectual functions." t
· Dr Reid, Mr SteWart, and Dr Thomas Brown, the great
· • Prie8tley's edition of Hartley's Theory of the Human Miad'.
Introductory Essays 1st and 2d; · · ·· ·
.'t.Pl!Mltice.ofPhysic, ToL L § 15119. ,..c
310 OPINIONS ABOUT THE FUNCTIONS OP THB BRAIN.
metaphysical writers of the present times, have abandoned
the subject ofthe brain in absolute despair, and make no in-
quiry into the influence of organization upon the mind. In
following this course, however, Mr Stewart at least could
hot proceed on the notion that such an investigation is un-
important, for he admits its utility whHe be neglects it.
·. Dr Brown's observations on the functions of the diifer-
ent parts of the brain are the following:-" In the brain
itself~ the anatomist is able to shew us, with perfect clear-
ness, many complicated parts, which we must believe to be
adapted for answering particular purposes in the economy
of life ; but when we have gazed with admiration on all the
.wonders which his dissecting hand has revealed to us, and
bave listened to the names with which he most accurately
distinguishes the little cavities or protuberances which his
knife has thus laid open to our view, we are still as igno-
nnt 88 before of the particular purposes to waich such va-
rieties ofform are subservient; and our only consolation is
-for there is surely some comfort in being only as igno-
rant as the most learned-that we know as much of the
distinct uses of the parts as the anatomist himself who ex-
hibits them to us, and teaches us how to name them."•
. We are now prepared to inquire how Dr Gall has ~c­
<:eeded in an undertaking in which so many distinguished
men had previously laboured in vain. Dr Gall did not
make use of his imagination, and form theories about ani-
mal spirits ; neither did he attempt, like Des Cartes, to fix
upon the portion of the brain which was most properfor the
l'eception of the mind, merely by contemplating its position
.or structure ; nor did he, like Hartley and Darwin, make the
smallest·inquiry, whether, in the operation of the mind, the
brain performed its functions by vibrations, by contractions,
or by any other motions. He saw that all such inquiries
:were absurd. Nor does he pretend to have arrived, by the
-exercise of a superior sagacity, at the discovery which he
elaims as his own. He.admits that it was accident alone,
the true author of so many important discoveries in human
aiFairs, which led him to the principle on which his whole
philosophy is founded. He perceived, that a boy, at the
school which he attended, had a peculiar development in
• • Lectures on the Philosophy. ofthe HW11an )(ind, vol. i. p. 429.
ADVANTAGES OP EDUCATION. SJ 1
.one part of the head, and he observed that he had a pecu-
liar mental power. This led him to compare development
of brain with manifestations of mind, and he soon arrived
at conclusions totally different from those of his prede-
cessors.
ON THE ADVANTAGES OF EDUCATION'.•
THE human faculties consist of animal propensities, moral
~ntiments, and intellectual powers: they have· a natural
tendency to activity, greater or less in proportion to the size
.of their organs ; and, being active, each serves to engender
certain desires, emotions, or intellectual conceptions, in the
,Wnd. The organs of the propensities, namely, Amative-
ness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Secretiveness, &c.,
are the largest ; those of the moral sentiments the next in
size, and the intellectual organs the smallest. Farther, the
propensities and sentiments are mere blind impulses, which
lead to happiness and virtue when well directed, and to
misery and vice when misapplied. Thus, Combativeness
and ·Destructiveness, when directed by Benevolence and
Justice, give boldness, enterprise, and energy to the cha-
racter, and fit a man for becoming the terror ofthe wicked
and the foe of the oppressor; when left unguided, they may
lead to furious contention, indiscriminate outrage, cruelty,
and murder, In like manner, the moral sentiments require
direction : Benevolence, unenlightened by intellect, may
.lead to hurtful profusion ; Veneration, unguided by re-
6.ection, may degenerate into superstition. Lastly, the in-
tellectual powers, having the smallest organs, possess the
least natural energy, and not only require the most assi-
duous cultivation to give them activity, but, being in their
.own nature mere general capacities of observation and re-
.6.ection, demand a vast store of knowledge as materials for
their exercise. Not only, for example, does the organ of
Language require to be vigorously exercised to produce
facility in writing or speaking ; but, as the mind is not in-
formed by instruction of the meaning of words,-labour and
attention must be bestowed to acquire a knowledge ofterms,
•By George Combe.-Vol. ii. "lfo, 7, p. 432.
Bl2 · ADVANTAGES OP EDUCATION.
as materials on which the faculty of Language may exer:.
·cist! its powers. In short, Nature, by means of this organ,
gives the mind a capacity to learn words, and, after they
·are learned, to use them; but she does not inspire us with
a knowledge of their signification, in the same way as she
implants in the bee an instinctive tendency to resort to par-
ticular flowers that contain honey. By means of the organ
of Causality she enables the mind to reason, and to antici-
pate results; but this also is a .mere general power, and reM
quires for its successful exercise an extensive observation
of occurrences and their effects : it does not intuitively an-
.ticipate the future ; but, 'after the mind has discovered, by
·observation, that fire applied to gunpowder produces ex·
plosion, it gives the feeling that the same train of occur-
rences will happen again, and enables the individual to re-
·guiate his conduct by the knowledge of this result.
· An uneducated mind, therefore, is one in which animal
impulses run riot,-strong, vivacious, and undirected ; in
which moral sentiments sometimes shed the benign influ-
ence of their proper nature, but oftener suggest wild wan-
derings by their misdirected energy; and in which the in~
tellectual powers are obtuse through want of exercise, and
inefficient in consequence ofthe absence ofknowledge.
This is a correct picture of a mind entirely in a state of
nature. In civilized society some extent of education is
forced upon every individual by the intelligence and exam-
'ple of others ; but in proportion to the scantiness of his
cultivation is his approach to the condition now described.
· An educated mind presents a different picture. Happi-
·ness results from the legitimate use of all the mental fa~
·culties ; and the constitutions of the moral and physical
worlds, when thoroughlyunderstood,are so admirably adapt-
.ed to each other, that full scope is afforded in nature for the
:legitimate gratification of everyfaculty of the human mind.
The first effect of education then is to present the intellec-
tual faculties with materials on which they may act ; that
is, persons who have received stores of hereditary informa-
lion, and acquired additional ideas by experience, commu-
nicate to the young mind a knowledge of the objects and
·creatures which exist, and which are the sources of good
and evil to mankind. ·This knowledge ~nstimtes the ma-
ADVANTAGES or EDUCATION. 313
terials on which the faculties of the young may act. Thus;
a description ofparticular kinds ofindustry, or ofcertain in-
ternational laws, or of certain domestic institutions, being
communicated, the mind, by means of the organ of Causa-
lity, takes delight in knowing these, and tracing the good
or evil produced by them, and it anticipates the result of
new combinations. The intellect, thus provided with know-
ledge, and strengthened by exercise, is in a condition to
discover what form of indulgence is· fitted to afford the
highest and most lasting gratification to the propensities
and sentiments, and it guides and directs them according-
ly. Thus, the propensitres of Amativeness, Philoprogeni-
tiveness, and Adhesiveness, have large organs, and at an
early period oflife act with intense vivacity. The indivi.:
dual whose mind is unenlightened by knowledge, whose in-
tellect is unexercised and unaccustomed to control or guide
his desires, and whose moral sentiments are not directed
to practical objeets, will yield to the first impulse, and either
resort to the haunts of vice, or marry, regardless of the
future and all consequences. Another individual, who
has been instructed in the nature of his own physical and
mental constitution,trained to perceive distantconsequences
and to regulate his propensities·with a view to the future,
and whose moral sentiments have been accustomed to act
in concert with, and to support by their dictates the con-
clusions of his intellect, will have a vivid perception of de-
gradation, disease, and misery, as the result of illicit indul-
gence; and ofpoverty, anxiety, and depression, as the con-
sequence of injudicious marriage; and will be fitted, if not
in every case to resist effectually, at least to withstand a
far higher degree of temptation than the other.
Not only so, but there is a prodigious difference between
the actual pleasures enjoyed by the educated and uneducav
ed. The unregulated gratification of the lower propensi-
ties is short-Jived, coarse, and ·unsatisfactory ; and when
the impulse of excitement is over, the moral sentiments
enter into activity and condemn the conduct, so that no
agreeable emotion arises from reflection on the past. The
indulgence of these, on the other hand, under the guidance
ef the m9ral sentiments, is pleasing at the time, and not
painful on retrospe<:tion ; while the direct exercise of the
Dd
314 CASE OF ANN ORMEROD.
higher sentiments them1elvesand intellect affords the high-
est present delight, and the most lasting satisfaction in fu-
turity. The practice of benevolence in the daily duties of
life, avoiding all occasions of giving pain to others, and
manifesting a warm and sincere regard for their happiness
in the little offices of kindness for which the private circle
affords so delightful a theatre ;-the exercise of Conscien-
tiousness, in curbing our humours and desires so as not to
overstep the boundaries ofjustice, and permitting and en;.
couraging every indulgence and gratification consistent
with duty, to those who are dependent on or connectedwith
us ;-the practice of Veneration tn piety towards God, and
in habitual deference and respect to our fellow-men, bear-"
ing with their weaknesses, and avoiding irritating and hu..
miliating conduct towards them ;-the exercise ofldeality,
in appreciating and luxuriating amidst the beauties of na.-
ture and ofart ~d the exercise of Individuality in be-
coming acquainted with the countless objects which exist
around us, and their various properties,--0f Reflection in
tracing their wondrous combinations,--0fthe minor Know.;
ing organs which are conversant with forms, colours, nwn-
bers, music, l).Dd their countless products ;-the delight, we
say, which the educated mind is capable of extracting from
the legitimate exercise of all these faculties, leaves the un-
cultivated mind immeasurably behind in the very article of
pleasure, even supposing enjoyment to be the sole objeCt
of human .existence. ·
Let us never hear, then, ofa state ofignorance beingone
of .innocence, of purity, and of happiness, or of education
unfitting individuals for the practical duties oflife•
.. CASE OF ANN ORMEROD, A GIRL WITH GREAT
DEFICIENCY OF THE ORGAN OF TUNE.•
To the Editor ofthe Phrenological Journal.
S1a,-I beg leave to send you the mask of 'one of the
pupils "f the School for the Blind at Liverpool, whose head
exhibits a remarkable deficiency in the organ of Tune.
Ann Ormerod, aged 14, was admitted into the Asylum
• Vol. ii. No. 8, p. 642.
·;.i
01g11zedbyGoogle
CASE OF ANN ORMEROD. 315
about two years ago, where she has since remained, with
full credit for general good conduct and uniform industry.
It is one of the chief objects of the directors of this ex-
cellent institution to teach the pupils music ; and indeed
this department of the establishment attracts the admira-
tion of strangers, and reflects the highest credit on the
talents and ingenuity of those gentlemen who regulate this
elegant branch of instruction.
Such is the high degree of perfection at which the blind
choir have arrived in the correct performance of the most
difficult pieces of music, that their hall on music days, and
their church on Sunday, is crowded ·with fashionable peo-
ple and strangers, who are principally assembled together
by means of this attraction. unaer these circumstances,
it may well be conceived, that no means are spared to cul-
•tivate and improve, in the highest possible degree, any
musical talent which the pupils may happen to possess. In
the present case, all these means were unsparingly employ-
ed, but with such decided want ofsuccess, that her teachers
(who have allowed me to use their names in this testimony,
Mr Handford and Mr Platt), men of unceasing persever-
ance, and constantly accustomed to the most stubborn per-
verseness,'were, at last, ·under the necessity of abandoning
the attempt altogether. This they did the more slowly,
that the girl was by no means deficient in any other re-
spect; on the contrary, she is a general favourite both
with governors and pupils.
I shall shortly mention the circumstances connected
.With my observation of this particular case.
I had naturally concluded that there are few fields so
well adapted for phrenological investigation as where indi-
viduals, from birth, have been deprived of the use of the
sense of sight. There is only one of the primitive powers,
viz. Colour, which,:for its practical education, depends com-
pletely upo.n this sense ; sight, although not essential, is,
however, useful in the education of all the Knowing facul-
ties, which may be perhaps as appropriately termed the im-:
plements of the two great powers, Causality and Compari-
son, as the external senses may be in the same manner
subservient to the Knowing organs. The only power, to
the exercise of which it seems to be apposed, is that of
316 CAS.E OF ANN ORMEROD.
Concentrativene11!! (whether that be a special faculty or
not). Sight often diverts the thinking power from one
topic to another ; thus rendering some minds incapable of
proceeding long in one channel, or of allowing Causality to
exercise its functions continuously, and without disturb-
ance. Amongst the blind, therefore, who are not subject
to this source of distraction, and ·in whom one power is
much developed, I have· often found it more highly culti.-
vated, c<eteris paribus, than in those individuals who had
the use of their eyes. I have particularly noticed the blind
of the lower classes greatly to surpass their equals in rank
in judicious conclusions upon affairs which do not often at
all rouse the reasoning ability of the poorer classes.
Hence I have found, in the School for the Blind, an ex-
haustless source of observation, and consequently of con-
firmation of our science. I owe these advantages to my
friend Mr Hay, the able surgeon of the charity, who has
enabled me to prqcure the accompanying mask ; who has
furnished me with every facility of seeing the blind at all
times, and who has favoured me with remarks on their
manners and habits, of the most interesting nature to the
Phrenologist.
On one of'our visits to the Asylum, when the girl Or-
merod was brought to Mr Hay for his professional advice,
I was so much struck with the formation of the forehead,
that I immediately addressed the matron, Mrs L--, with
the following remal'.k :-" I should think you would have
considerable difficulty in t~aching this girl music ?" Her
answer was, " We were obliged, sir, to give her up in des-
pair." I called the attention of my friend, Mr Hay, to this
very strong fact, when it appeared to him of so singular a
nature as to induce him to suggest that a mask might be
procured. The girl, with her usual good sense and docility,
consented to have it done, and I have much pleasure in
transmitting to you an example of no ordinary force.
With regard to her own account of this deficiency, she
says that she hears the most beautiful pieces of sacred
music, and grandest choruses of the Creation or Messiah,
accompanied by one of the finest organs in the kingdom,
as if she heard a simple noise ; sometimes with complete
distaste, often with impatience and pain.
Ifyou think this communication ofsufficient importance,
CASE OF ANN ORMEROD. 317
I shall esteem it a favour to have it published -in the pages
of your admirable Journal. I have the honour to be your
obedient servant,
GEORGE DouGLAS CAMERON, M.D.
Auguat 6. 18"25. ·
4, Gnat George Square, Liverpool.
We are much indebted to Dr Cameron for his attention
in procuring and transmitting a mask of this curious case,
and also for the preceding communication in regard to the
manifestations. The mask shews the greatest deficiency of
the development of the organ of Tune which we have ever
observed. On the left side, particularly, a very remark-
able depression, equal to the points of two fingers, exists.
Facts like these are so striking that he who runs may read;
and-they are valuable, as depriving prejudice and indolence
of every excuse for neglecting inquiry.-EDITOR.
EssAY ON THE QUESTION,-DOES .PHRENOLOGY AF-
FORD A SATISFACTORY EXPLANATION OF THE MO-
RAL AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN?•
Mr PRESIDENT,
A late writer in the Edinburgh Review, in speaking of the
mode of inquiry which appeared to hitn best calculated to
advance the progress of mental philosophy, observes, that
" speculations regarding the natttre of mind seem now to
be universally abandoned as endless and unprofitable ;"t
for we have at last practically discovered, that the investi-
gation of mind detached from matter is wholly without the
sphere of our faculties. This is one great step in the ac-
quisition of knowledge ; but there is yet another and a
greater, which, although a direct consequence of the for-
mer, seems to have been long overlooked, and is even now
•By Andrew Combe, M. D.-Vol. i. No. 3, p. 337.-Read to the
Medical Society of Edinburgh, November 21. 18"23, and published by
permission of the Society.
The author begs leave tp state that the following Essay was writ-
ten solely in obedience to a law of the Medical Society, which obliges
each member, in his turn, to write a Dissertation for discussion on a
subject selected by "committee appointed for the purpose, and not
with the slightest view to publication. He 1188, therefore, made a
few verbal alterations, but no change of matte? or ideae.
t No. xlviii. p. 439.
3}8 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
scarcely ·attended to, namely, the necessity this lays us
under of studying the human mind as it exists in nature,
united with and influenced by its material organ. To the
neglect of this important consequence, the slow progress of
the philosophy of mind is mainly to be attributed•
•This oversight is the more astonishing, that it has been
so clearly perceived and.pointed out by the very persons
who have committed it. For while, among other meta,.
physicians, Mr Stewart himself explicitly states,• " That
among the difficult articles connected with the natural his·
tory of the human species, the laws of union betwixt the
mind and body, and the mutual influence they have on one
another, is one of the most important inquiries that ever
engaged the attention of mankind, and almost equally ne-
cessary in the sciences ofmorals andofmedicine ;" yet, by
some strange fatality, he, as well as the rest, uniformly pro-
ceeds, in the face of this admission, to investigate the laws
which regulate the operations of the mind with as little re-
gard to the influence of the organization as if it had no ac-
tual existence. Laying aside the legitimate objectofinquiry,
so clearly laid down by themselves, these philosophers tell
us elsewhere, " that the objects of metaphysical specula-
tion are the immaterial properties of an immaterial being ;"t
and aware, as they are, that our senses and powers of ob-
servation are totally inadequate to the perception of " im.,
material properties of immaterial beings ;" they have re.,
course to a mode of investigation, in contradistinction to
the ordinary one by observation, which they conceive to
be more efficient, namely, reflection upon consciousness.
" As all our knowledge of the material world," says Mr
Stewart, " rests ultimately on facts ascertained by obser-
tlation, so all our knowledge of the human mind rests ulti-
mately on facts for which we have the evidence of consci-
ousness."t And, in his Essay,§ he says, " I have accord-
ingly, in piy own inquiries, aimed at nothing more than t.o
ascertain, in the first place, the laws of our constitution, AS
FAR AS THEY CAN BE DISCOVERED BY ATTENTION TO THE
SUBJECTS OF OUR CONSCIOUSNESS, and afterwards to apply
•Stewart's Preliminary_Dissertation, part ii. pp. 199, 200.
t Edinburgh Review. No. !xviii. p. 391.
t Outlines of Moral Philosophy. § P. 2.
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN? 319
chese laws as priitciples, for the synthetica.l explanation of
the more complicated phenomena of the understanding."
From these quotations no one could have the smallest
doubt of the adequacy of consciousness to afford us that
information " concerning the laws of union and the mutual
" influence of mind and body," which Mr S. justly declares
to be so necessary in the sciences of morals and .medicine.
- What, then, must be our astonishment on finding, that, so
tar from consciousness throwing any light upon the connec-
tion between different states of the mind and different con-
ditions of the material organ, it does not inform us even of
the existence of the latter? This fact, however, furnishes a
very simple and satisfactory explanation of the cause of the
constant failure which has ever attended the efforts of the
most profound and ingeniom men, whose talents and indus-
try have beeb expended during so many ages in the barren
fields of metaphysical research; and it explains perfectly the
superior success which hasattended the labours of Gall and
Spurzheim, conducted as theywerewith the most scrupulous
and constant reference to the effects of the material organ~
It was a deep conviction of the necessity of always keeping
in view the influence of the organization, that induced Dr
Gall to devote so much time and attention to the observation
of the effects of different forms and conditions of the brain
upon the power of manifesting individual mental faculties ;
and it was the extensive application to nature of this better
mode of investigation, that ultimately enabled him to esta-
blish the following principles, the most important of those
upon which the new system is founded :-
I. That the mind is endowed with a plurality of innate
faculties.
. 2. That each of these faculties manifests itself through
the medium of an appropriate organ, of which organs the
brain is a congeries.
3. That the ~wer of manifesting each faculty bears a
constant and umform relation, cO!teris paribus, to the size of
the organ, or part of the brain with which it is more imme-
diately connected.
4. That it is possible to ascertain the relative size of
these different organs during life, by observing the different
forms of the skull to which the brain gives its shape.
Hence, if these principles are correct, by adopting the
32(). bOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAllt THE MORAL '
inode of inquiry to which they naturally give rise-by com"'·
paring development of brain with manifel'tation of mind-it·
becomes possible to discover the. nature'and number of the
primitive faculties, with a degree of certainty absolutely un•
attainable by any other method. For, besides avoiding the
great error of neglecting the influence of the organization,
we also avoid another equally great, into which the meta-
physical philosophers have fallen in prosecuting their in-
quiries by reflection on consciousness alone.• It is that of
ea<;h taking his own mind as the standard or type of those
of the human race, and thus regularly beginning the erec-
tion of his own theory by the demolition of that of his pre•
decessor; because, on account of the natural and undeni-
able differences between the mjnds of different individuals,.
consciousness does not and cannot present the same results
on the presentment of the same object to any lwo of them;
and much less can the consciousness of any one individual
agree with that. of all others at one or at different times ;
which it must necessarily be shewn to do, before laws or
principles, applicable to all, can be deduced from the con-
sciousness of one. Phrenology, on the other hand, expli-
citly lays down these differences in disposition and talents
as natural ; and one of its chief objects js to ascertain, by
observation, the causes upon which they depend.
Some have been led to deny the truth of the observations
-of the/hrenologists, because the results at which they have
arrive often differ so widely from the opinions entertained
by the most esteemed metaphysical writers, whom they have
been accustomed to revere as the only legitimate authorities
in the science of mind. But he who contemplates for a
moment the fundamental difference of the two modes of
inquiry, will pause before rejecting the phrenological doc-
trines on that ground alone, and will feel any thing rather
than surprise at a considerable difference of result. Phre-
nology is a science of observation, and its principles are a
direct inference from facts in nature, while those of the me-
taphysicians are derived solely or chiefly from reflectiun in
the closet. No wonder, then, that the phrenological mode of
investigation should have Jed to the discovery o.fmuch that
must have remained unknown to the metaphysician. It is
like a new agent in chemistry, or a new power in mecha-
nics, the results of which can be ascertained by experience
AND INTELLECTUAL P.ACULTIES OP MAN? 32f
alone, and not by deductions from the analogies of things
essentially different. .
It is so far fortunate for the new system, that, to dis-
prove a science founded on observation, it is not sufficient
merely to deny its truth ; we must commence our opera-
tions on the facts upon which it is built, and, by confirming
or undermining these, support or undermine the super-
structure. This mode ofproceeding ought invariahly to
be followed as the only one which is either philosophical or
conclusive; and it is that which I would adopt on the pre-
sent occasion, if it were in my power to do so. Unfortu-
nately, however, in as far as Phrenology is concerned, it
can be followed only in the wide and varied field ofnature,
and not within the limits of a hall like thisr I ·might, no-
doubt, go over a long detail of facts observed in that field
by myself and others ; but to the minds of those who are·
not practically acquainted with the principles of Phreno•
logy, so many sources of fallacy immediately present them·
selves, and so much calm reflection is, at first, required to
perceive the relation of the facts to the principles, that
such a detail would be tedious and uninteresting, and would
probably seem inconclusive. The committee who selected
this question for discussion seem to have been aware of
this. · They do not ask if Phrenology is founded on fact;
because the affirmative or negative can be proved only by
repeating the observations and verifying the facts them-
selves. But they very justly suppose, that if it has a foun-
dation in nature, its doctrines must be consistent with, and
explanatory. of, the known phenomena of mind. They)
therefore, ask simply if Phrenology affords a satisfactory
explanation of these phenomena, trusting to the consist-
ency or inconsistency which shall be shewn to exist be-
tween them for the strongest presumptive evidence of its
truth or erroneousness which it is possible to obtain. To
the examination of this kind ofevidence, theref9re, I shall
strictly confine myself, and the order which I shall adopt
is as follows :-
Taking for granted, what almost nobody now thinks ofde-
nying (and which those who do will find demonstrated in Mr
M'Farlane's excellent paper, read to this Society about two
years ago), that the brain is the organ of the mind, I shall
.endeavour .to shew that all tJ.te mental phenomena are ex.o.
322 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
plicable by, or consistent with, the fundamental phrenologi~
cal principles already mentioned as established by Dr Gall ;
while they are at variance with every theory which regards
the organ of the mind as single, or tl1e mind itselfas a single
power existing in different states. And, to prove that the
individual faculties admitted as ascertained are really ne•
cessary ar).d original powers, I shall give a few examples of
their application to the analysis of the moral and intellec-
tual nature of man, as exhibited in the varied characters
of individuals and of nations. I shall dwell most upon the
proof of the principles, because they lie at the root of the
whole science, and, if once admitted and acted upon, will
soon lead to the demonstration of what are primitive fa-
culties and what are not.
In endeavouring to shew that the mental phenomena are
explicable by the principle of a plurality of faculties and
organs, I shall begin with the consideration of the intel-
lectual, and then proceed to that of the moral nature of
lll8Jl.
The first order of intellectual phenomena, for the expla-
nation of which the admission of the principle is necessary,
is that of the successive development ofthe different powers
of the mind in infancy and youth. At birth, the infant
mind seems nearly insensible to surrounding objects. The
powers of observation are then gradually developed, and
existence is recognised long before ideas are formed of all
the qualities of objects. The powers of perceiving colour
and form, and also the relative position of objects, are de-
veloped while yet there is no idea of distance, size, or
weight; and an object is thus grasped at when far beyond
the reach of the infant. The faculty which, by comparing
objects with each other, enables us to perceive resemblances,
then comes into play, but long before that which leads us
to attend to the distinguishing differences ; so that one
thing is often confounded with another to which it bears a
very slight resemblance. It is only about the age of pu-
berty that the reasoning power is possessed in much acti-
vity, and it is not till adult age that it arrives at maturity.
That this is the general order of the development of the
mental powers, is proved by the progress of language, which
is known to take its character from the nature of the pre-
dominant faculties of those by whom it is used. At first,
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN .
? 323
it is merely a collection of nouns, of words denoting eXist-
ence and qothing more, as man, horse, tree. To these
are so0n added words expressive of qualities, and those ex-
pressive of colour and form are generally understood, and
t.Ued with intelligence, before those of size, distance, or
weight ; those expressive of resemblance precede those of
differences ; and those of individuals, those of :ibstracts or
classes.
The same rule of successive development is observed to
hold with regard to the moral sentiments $Dd propensities,
although it is more difficult to trace the order of their aP-
pearance, A single instance, however, is sufficient to prove
the fact ; and, as that is !lll we want at present, I shall mere,.
ly mention it. It is that of the late development of the
sexual propensity, which, however strong it may become
in after life, is rarely perceptible before the age of puberty,
and bears no constant relation to any other quality of mind
at any period of our lives.
The fact of the successive development of the different
faculties of the mind is indeed admittedby all philosophers.
But if we try to explain it, as is generally done, by the sup..
position of gradual improvement or some general change
in the constitution of the whole brain, as the single organ
of mind, we meet with nothing but contradiction. The or..
gan ofmind, being single, and serving for the manifestation
of all the faculties, ought, on this supposition, to be equally
fit for the operation of all at the same time, which we have
seen it not to be. If we admit the phrenological,principle,
however, nothing can be more simple, or true to nature,
than the explanation we then have. According to this
principle, each mental faculty, like each of the five senses,
will depend, for the power of manifesting itself, upon the
healthy condition of a particular organ. So that, just.18
the power of vision is, caJterisparibus, always proportioned
to the perfection of the eye, or organ of vi11ion, the energy
of each mental faculty may be proportioned to the state of
its own organ ; and as, from the sense of sight being exer-
cised by an appropriate organ, we sometimes find it sooner
and more perfectly developed than that of hearing or of
smell, in like manner we can easily conceive how the fa-
culty of Individuality, which disposes to observation, may,
from having also an appropriate organ, be sooner and more
324 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
perfectly develoi}ed than that of Causality, or of Tune, or
of Number, or more in one person than in another. In-
deed, the moment we admit the plurality of mental facul-
ties and organs, the explanation of the early or late, suc-
cessive or simultaneous, perfect or imperfect development
of one, of several, or of all the mental powers, becomes so
simple and easy as to present itself to the mind of every
inquirer. ·
In proof of the fa,ct of the later development of some por-
tions of the brain than of others, I have only to state what
iB well known to anatomists,-lst, That, in infancy the
cerebellum bears a much smaller proportion to the rest of
the cerebral mass than it does in after life; in the former,
being only about one-fifteenth, and in the latter, one-sixth
or one-eighth-which corresponds precisely with the func-
tion ascribed to it, of being the organ of the amative pro-
pensity ; and, 2d, That, in infancy and youth, the middle
and central parts of the forehead are generally so much
more prominent than the upper lateral part$, as to give a
kind ofroundness, compared to the square appearance which
it afterwards assumes, upon the farther development of
those portions of the anterior lobes of the brain which form
the organs of the reasoning powers. In relation to this
fact, it may be worth while to add, that the parts first de-
veloped are known to he the organs of Individuality and
Eventuality, wliich are said to observe and to know; while
the latter are those of Causality, or reflection ;-thus in
strict accordance with nature.
The differences in the mental constitution of the two
sexes are also inexplicable on other than phrenological
principles. It is admitted, that the female generally differs
from the male in character, dispositions, and talents. In
their earlier years, the boy and girl can scarcely be distin-
guished, except by their dress ; but a difference gradually
shews itself, while yet external circumstances remain the
same, and proceeds till the distinctive character of each is
broadly marked. That this is the course of nature, and
not of art, is manifest from the change happening while cir-
cumstances are unaltered-from its occurring at an earlier
or later period in different individuals similarly situated-
and from some individuals of one sex retaining through life
most of the mental qualities of the other. If we attempt to
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN ( 325
explain the difference by the supposition of some original
difference in the animating principle, uninfluenced by the
organization, we are refuted by the occasional occurrence
of females possessing all the mental attributes of the male,
and, vice versa, males with all the mental qualities of the
female. But the moment we admit the phrenological prin-
ciple of plurality of organs and faculties, the difficulty va-
nishes. We have only to suppose, that the parts of the
brain which constitute the organs of the love of young, of
attachment, and of the other faculties which predominate
in the female mind, by some mysterious law of nature be-
come more fully developed relatively to the others in the
female than in the male brain ; and the natural result will
be a greater degree of strength of these faculties. The
female intellect is like that of youth, more remarkable for
acuteness, readiness, and extent of memory, and a percep-
tion of qualities and resemblances, than for depth of reflec-
tion or solidity ofjudgment. The female forehead, there-
fore, if this explanation be the true one, should, more than
that of the male, resemble the youthful brow ; and a mo-.
ment's reflection will satisfy every one that, in point of
fact, it does resemble it ; and the proof is, that that very
roundness and sloping away of the upper lateral parts has
always been regarded as a point _of beauty in the female
forehead.
Another order of intellectual phenomena--those of ge·
nius-are of themselves sufficient to prove the plurality of
mental faculties and organs ; for genius, in almost every in-
stance, is partial, or limited to the possession of one or a few
strong faculties only, which it could not be if the organ o(
mind were single. Thus, an individual may now and then
be met with, who possesses much genius for poetry, for
music, for reasoning, for inecha~ics, or the fine arts ; but .
we very rarely meet with one who is able to excel in all or
in several of these at the•same time, however anxious he
may be to do so, and whatever efforts he may make. We
are told, indeed, by some authors, such as Mr Stewart, that
"a genius for poetry, for painting, for music, or for mathe-.
matics," is "gradually formed by particular habits of study
or of business ;"• and that " invention in the arts and
ticl.ences is the result of acquired habits, aided by favourable ·
• :Moral Philosophy, p. 16.
326 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
circumstances, and not the original gift of nature."* But
if we consult a yet higher authority than Mr Stewart,
namely, Nature herself, we find these opinions contradicted
by facts: for genius most frequently appears at such an
early age as to put habits of study or cultivation as a pro-
ducing cause entirely out of the question. We are t.old,
for instance, that at three years of age Mozart's great
amusement was in finding out concords on the piano ; that
nothing could equal his delight at,discovering an harmoni-
ous interval ; and that, before six, he had invented several
pieces of some extent and intricacy. We are also inform-
ed, that Haydn distinguished himself before the age of
twelve ; that Handel, before the age of fourteen, produced
an opera which had a run of thirty successive nights; and
that, so far from his habits of study being the result of
great cultivation, they were formed in the retirement of a
garret, and in spite of every species of discouragement.
Miss Paton, too, who in her late visit to Edinburgh af-
forded so much delight, was remarkable.as a performer at
the age of eight.t
Among the poets again, the same early appearance of
genius occurs where cultivation could not possibly have had
time t.o operate. Dr Johnson, in his Lives of the Poets,
tells us, that Cowley, Milt.on, and Pope " might be said to
lisp in numbers," " and to have given such early proofs not
only of powers of language, but of comprehension ofthings,
as t.o more tardy minds seem scarcely credible." Cowley,
for instance, wrote a tragedy in his tenth year. Miss
Clara Fisher, also, in her seventh year manifested amazing
powers of comprehension and of dramatic talent ; and yet
so little were her parents aware of any laborious studies on
her part, that they simply affirm, that these talents appear-
ed all at once after seeing a play. Mr George Bidder,
when still a child, manifested his prodigious calculating
powers, and invented rules for himself- which his teachers
could never discover, and which, consequently, he could
not have derived from them. Again, turning our attention·
to invention in the arts and sciences, which we are told is
not a gift ofnature, but the result qfacquired hahits, aided
bvfavourable circumstances, equafly contradictory instan-
. .
• Stewart's Elements, 1st vol. !soth ch. part l.i_!!_ect. 4.
+Edinburgh Review, No. !xvi. May 1820, p. i)ll(I.
AND INT&LLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN? 327
ces occur. , Dupin, for example, speaks of two brothers,
journeymen bakers, whom he saw in Glasgow-" deux
freres boulangers, qui, clans l'intervalle d'une cuisson a
l'autre, s'occupent afaire des machines et des instruments
de physique. Ils ont coule, tourne, ajuste toutes les pieces
d'une petite machine avapeur, dont la modeste bouilloire
chauffe acote du !Our aux petits pates. Elle sert a faire
aller un tour en l'air, a}'aide duquel nos deux artistes tour~
nent les metaux et fayonnent des lentilles pour des instru-
ments d'optique. Ils ont construit un petit appareil pour
eclairer par le gaz leurs boutiques et leurs appartements,
&c. &c."* One would expect, that in such a case,, if Mr
Stewart's theory be true, the combination of circumstances
must have been very favourable indeed to produce such an
effect on men ofa profession which is universally considered
as any thing but intellectual. Monsieur Dupm, however~
in expressing a hope that " they will one day quit their pro-
fession to cultivate with success the natural sciences," adds,
" Mais leur fortune depend d'un oncle qui prifere de beau-
C()Up la boulangerie et la patisserie ala gazo'!Mtrie et a
l'astronomie, et qui, jaloux du ti.tre bereditaire de sa fa-
mille, veut transmettre ases arriere-neveux le petrin de ses
ancetres." And so little is he satisfied with the uncle's
mode of encouraging science, and of forming habits of
study, that he immediately exclaims--" Helas ! combien
d'hommes sont parmi nous, sans s'en douter, l'oncle des
deux patissiers !" And that there are men who have even
a still more oblique perception of what constitutes " favour-
able circumstances," I shall presently shew.
During my residence in Paris, I had the pleasure of
knowing intimately a man remarkable for " his powers of
invention in music and in mechanics," and who had raised
himself to riches by the exercise of these powers. I was
at that time studying phrenology, and looking about for
information. I therefore eagerly embraced the opportu-
nity of asking him; whose house was filled with the results
of his own inventions, by what habits of study he hacl
formed his genius, and what " favourable circumstances"
had aided him in ~ career of excellen~. He gratified
my curiosity, and gaye ~e the history o(his, life, which
seemed, .however, iO provp that in this case, as in the
. "
, • Memoires aur.la ~ine, p. 69.
01g11zedbyGoogle
328 DOBS PBRBNOLOGY BXPLA.lN THB MORAL'
others, his genius had formed bis habits, instead ofhis ha-
bits forming his genius. Instead of being encouraged to
follow those occupations ih which he was ultimately so
successful, he pursued the~ in the face of opposition from
his relatives, so violent as to make him leave.his father's
house.• He was never happy when not exercising his in-
ventive powers ; and many a time have I heard him regret
the want of education in his youth, as· he was thus left to
waste much of his time and talents in ducovering the first
principles of a science, which a few weeks' study would
have taught him. To the uninitiated, it is difficult to con-
ceive in what the fuvourable circumstances of this gentle-
man's lif~ consisted, if not in Nature herself having be-
stowed upon him energies calculated to rise superior to
every species of repression and discouragement. If indeed
any one could acquire a genius for poetry, for music, or for
any thing else, by forming any habits of study, or by any
sort of training, then we need not go to phrenology for an
explanation of the phenomena of genius. But as the fact
is notoriously the reverse, let us see if the new system re-
veals any conditions which are not under our control, and
:which limit the power of' forming habits or of acquiring a
genius for any pursuit.
From such observations as the preceding, the phrenolo-
gists contend, that genius is the gift of nature, and not the
result of even the most favourable combination of external
circumstances; and that it is in general partial, or limited to
one or several only ofthe mental faculties. Experience shews
also, that a certain condition of the brain or organ of mind
is somehow or other necessary for its manifestations ; for,
besides the occasional appearance of genius during disease,
where none was possessed before, we uniformly see the
power of manifesting the faculties vary with every change
in the state of their material organs, and reach their great-
ost degree of vigour when the brain arrives llt its full
growth. We see them constantly disturbed by its inju-
ries, and varying with its changes ; from which, and from
innumerable other observations demonstrative of the fact,
the phrenologists affirm, that·genius is alw!lys accompanied
by a certain condition of the brain, without which condi-
tion it cannot possibly appear. They farther contend, that
•See hia history, p. 276 ofthia volume.
01g11zedbyGoogle
·- .;; - - •
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN ? 829
the phenomena are not reconcileable with the idea of the
brain, or any other part, as a whole, being the single organ
of mind, as it is generally stated to be when referred to by
the metaphysicians. For if the organ of mind were single,
genius ought ALWAYS to be. general, and a man should be
equally great in every department, or at least should have
equal power of becoming great in every department-or,
to use Mr Stewart's words, " of forming any habits he
chooses, if aided by favourable circumstances,"-since the
single organ ought to be equally fitted for manifesting one
faculty as another. In some instances, indeed, such as
the Admirable Crichton, Michael Angelo, and a few more,
genius seems to be general. But the puzzling question for
the metaphysician comes to be, Why is it not so in every
instance? To the phrenologist, the explanation of both
cases is extremely easy; for in general genius, he finds the
organs of all the intellectual faculties largely developed,
whereas in partial, one or a few only are extremely large. In
the portraits ofthe Admirable Crichton, this is strikingly dis-
played ; and in an excellent bl,ISt of Michael Angelo, which
I have seen in the church of the Santa Croce at Florence,
the same extraordinary development of all the intellectual
organs is extremely remarkable. With regard to partial
genius,-on .the principle of the different mental powers
being connected with and depending for their manifesta-
tions upon different cerebral parts, we can easily conceive
how these may be differently proportioned to each other,
not only in different individuals, but in the same indivi-
dual at different periods of his life ; or how one man may
have a natural power or facility of forming habits of a
certain kind, which is denied to another, while he may be
excelled in his turn with: respect to the power of forming
habits of a different kind. In such cases as those of Mo-
zart, Handel, and Haydn, the cerebral organs upon the
size of which a great endowment of the faculties of Tune,
Time, and ldeality depend, may on this principle be easily
conceived to ha'C'e existed without bearing any necessary
relation to the degree of endowment of the other faculties.
In Pope, Milton, and Cowley, the cerebral organs, with
which the faculties of ldeality, Language, &c., are con-
nected, might easily have existed in large development, al-
E e
330 DOBS PBllBNOLOGY EXl'L41N THB MORAL
though those of Tune, of Constructiveness, or of Number,
might be possessed in a much smaller degree. In Addi-
son, who disliked music, the organ of Tune might thus be
very small, although that of Ideality was large. And in
my Parisian friend, the organs of Constructiveness, Tune,
Number, and Causality might be, and I can say from
observation were, largely possessed, although those of Lan-
guage or of Colouring were small. The same must have
been the case with the bakers ; and each might thus easily
be able to form habits which the others could not have
formed under any circumstances.
On the same principle, the peculiarities of genius are
easily explicable. No two persons, for example, write
poetry, cru:npose music, or paint or draw, precisely in the
same style. ThQmson, Cowper, and Byron, are all of them
poets, but they all differ from each other. Ideality is es-
sential for a poet, Tune and Time for a musician ; but
according to the combinatioo of these with other faculties,
will be the character of tihe production. Much Ideality,
with a full development of Adhesivene!!S, ~Benevolence,
Hope, Conscientiousness, Veneration, and Cautiousness,
produce the poetry of a Cowper. A large endowment of
Tune, with the same combination, produces sw~t, soft,
and plaintive notes, which IJ¥!lt the soul. The same Tune
or Ideality, combined with much Destructiveness, Comba-
tiveness, Self-Esteeµi, and Firmness, will produce warlike
music or poetry. It is thus an easy matter fOJ; the plue110-
logist, after ascertaining the relative developD\ellt of the
organs of the different faculties of an author, to tell tlie ge-
neral character of his productioni>, or, after reading the lat-
ter, to infer wha~ are the pr,edominantfaculties in the mind
of the author. ,An instance of this k~nd will be fQund i,n
the New Edinburgh Review, in a phrenological critique of
Tennant's poetry. .
Having now shewn that the phenomena of intellect ad-
mit of an easy explanlltion on phrenological principles, I
proceed to the differences observable in the moral disposi-
tions of individuals, which also are the reimlt of their na.,
tural constitution, as they are perceptible from their earliest
years, and often continue through life, unchanged under
every variety of circumstances. On the one side we see.
01g11zedbyGoogle
AND INTELLICTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN? 331
many whose moral principles it seems almost impossible to
contaminate, and who have grown up unspotted in the
midst of temptations and of bad example. On the other
there are too many whose every motion was watched, and
who received the most complete moral training which it is
possible for man to bestow, and who, notwithstanding, ma~
nifested a ferocity and baseness of character which it is
painful to contemplate. These qualities cannot be said
to be in any degree proportioned to the power of intellect
which the individual possesses ; for " we find," says that
accurate observer, Dr Rush,• " the moral feeling in a state
of vigour in persons in whom reason and taste exist in a
weak or in an uncultivated sfate. I once saw a man," he
adds, " who discovered no one mark of reason, who pos-
. sessed the moral sense or faculty in so high a degree, that
he spent his whole life in acts of beneficence. He was not
only inoffensive (which is not always the case), but he was
kind and affectionate to every body. He took great de-
light in public worship, and spent several hours a day in
devotion." Similar instances are so frequently met with,
that no one can deny their truth.
The explanation of tllese phenomena, which have puz-
zled philosophers in every age, is easily found in Phreno-
logy. On its principles, the cruelty manifested by the
Count Charolois, by Louis XI., and by the Neros and Ca-
ligulas of more modern times, is naturally referable to an
excessive and uncontrolled activity of the organs of the
animal propensities, which, in these instances, ~ay easily
be conceived to have been very large in proportion to
those of the moral or restraining powers, ~der the control
of' which Nature had destined them to act. The moral
faculties may thus be present with every degree of intel-
lect. They may be powerful where the intellect is weak
or where it is strong, just as the sense of sight may be
acute when taste and hearing are either al8o acute or al-
toget.her gone. Let us t.ake, for instance, the two opposite
historical characters of Louis XI. and Henry IV. ofFrance.
Both possessed .a large endowment of intellectual ~wer ;
but how di(ferent in their moral nature ! In Louis the·in-
tellect was made subservient to the gratification of power-
• Medical Inquiries,,vol. ii.
01g11zedbyGoogle
332. DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
ful faculties of Destructiveness, Secretiveness, Acquisitive-
ness, and Self-Esteem, uncontrolled by justice or benevo-
lence. In Henry, again, it was guided by strong facul-
ties of Attachment, Benevolence, and Love of Approba-
tion, unbiassed by the dark workings of Secretiveness, sel-
fishness, and cruelty. The one was abhorred and detested,
the·other loved and admired. The proof of this explana.-
tion being the true one, is the fact of similar characters
being met with in private life; whose sentiments, propensi-
ties, and intellect, a.re analogous, and produce correspond-
ing effects, but on a scale proportioned to their rank and
power, and the progress of civilization. On the same prin-
ciple, the moral and devotiorull tendencies of the idiot men-
tioned by Dr Rush are easily accounted for.
The pheno.mena of dreaming and of somnambulism are
also equally embarrassing for the met.aphysicians, '.and
equally consistent with Phrenology. Indeed, the unpreju-
diced mind can scarcely ask a more convincing proof, than
that afforded by the phenomena of dreaming, of the exist-
ence of a plurality of mental faculties and organs. Ouring
that st.ate several of the mental faculties, moral and affec-.
tive, as well as intellectual, are evidently active, while the
r.emainder continue dormant; just as we sometimes retain·
the sense of hearing awake when sight and smell no longer
transmit ordinary impressions. This must be admitted-
because if all our mental powers are awake, there can be
no sleep ; and if they are a.II dormant there can be no
dream. And if some can be awake waen others are dor-
mant they must of necessity have different organs. The
natural result. of such an arrangement is, that we some-
times imagine ourselves engaged in actions, which, in our'
waking moments, we should never have undertaken, be-
cause, in the latter st.ate, our decision would have been in-
fluenced by feelings or faculties now dormant. Thus, a ·
person with a large and activ_
e endowment of Combativ~­
ness, but in whose waking hours it is regulated and kept m
check by the higher sentiments and intellect, may, when
these are inactive during sleep, frequently dream of being
engaged in broils and battles. The restraining powers
being dormant, and the propensity active, it t.akes its full:
swing. · It happens occasiona.lly, and in a similar way, that
a person whose reW10ni.ng powers are naturally very great,
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN ·? 333
will dream of philosophy and serious reflection, as is re-
corded of Condillac and Franklin, and that reflection then
going on undisturbed by other emotions or states of the
mind will produce better ideas than they could have in-
vented when awake.
The phenomena of somnambulism admit of a similar ex-
planation, as it is merely a variety of dreaming, in which
one or more of the external senses are in simultaneous ac-
tivity with some of the internal faculties, and in •hich the
power of voluntary motion is possessed. .
After having thus exposed the consistency and harmony
which obtains .between the principles of Phrenology and
the sound phenomena of mind, we ought next to try their
consistency with those of the diseased state, as the true
theory of mind must always be consistent with nature. It
has ever been a grievous defect in the theories drawn from
the closets of the speculative philosophers, that not one of
them was ever applicable to actual life, and that any at-
tempt to reconcile their opinions with diseased fhenomena
of mind instantly laid their systems in the dust. It is the
peculiar excellence of Phrenology that its doctrines have
been drawn, not from the consciousness of individuals,
erected into standards of the race, but from observations
made upon the mi11cls of thousands and of tens of thou-·
sands, and that they not only are found consistent in all
their parts and in all their applications, but explain simply.
many of what were formerly considered the most intricate
phenomena in the philosophy of mind. I regret, there•
fore, that want of time prevents me from entering minutely
upon this point, and forces me to confine myself to a very
general outline. .
In partial idiocy, for instance, the individual is exceed-
ingly deficient in most of the intellectual powers, and fre-:
quently in some·of t11e moral sentiments, and yet possesses
a few of them in considerable vigour. Thus an idiot may•
have a talent for imitation, for drawing, or for music, and
be incapable of comprehending a single abstract idea ; or
• Hill, tbe well~known writer on insanitv1 seems to be impre88ed
with the same idea, when be says, at page ~11, that" the Scotch phi-
losophers, who may hereafter wish to detect the fallacy of aome of
tbe most imFtant tenets contained in their creed,must explore with
unpl'ejudiced zeal the history of the disel\8es ofman, which are pro-·
ductive of Dementia." • ·
334 DOBS PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MOllAL
he may manifest the sentiments of Veneration, or of Bene•
volence, or the feeling of Destructiveness or Amativeness,
and yet possess no other power of intellect or of feeling in
a perceptible degree. And in the state of partial insanity,
the very name equally implies derangement of a limited
number of faculties, while others remain sound. Thus, in
melancholy, the whole intellectual powers seem sometimes
to remain unimpaired, while sentiments only are diseased.
Neither of these states could occur did all the faculties of
the mind manifest themselves through the medium of a
single organ, as is generally supposed. Even dissections,
vague as they must yet be considered in reference to in-
sanity and to Phrenology, confirm the truth of the funda-
mental principles of the latter ; for Morgagni• tells us, that
there is no more striking characteristic of the brains of the
insane than that of the variety of the states of their diffe-
rent parts ; some being soft while others are hard, some of
one appearance and some of another : and, when we recol-
lect that madness is generally partial, this will be admitted
to -correspond in a remarkable degree With what a phreno-
logist would expect a priori. If the organ of mind were
single, partial madness-madness limited to certain facul-
ties only-would evidently be.impossible, unless we admit
-0f disease of the immaterial principle. On that supposition
each faculty ought to be affected to an equal degree, and
insanity could have no permanent or fixed character.
Having now shewn that the phrenological principle of
a plurality of faculties and organs is indispensably neces-
sary to explain the phenomena of either sound or diseased
mind, I come next to inquire, whether the phrenological
mode of investigation, namely, that of comparing develop-
ment with manifestations, seems to be founded in reason,
and to be adequate to the attainment of the end in view.
Philosophers of every creed now so generally admit the
existence of natural differences in the talents and disposi-
tions of individuals, that I shall, on the present occasion,
and after what I have already said, take it for granted.
Theee diffei'.ences can depend only on one of two causes :
Either, 1st, they are inherent in the nature of the immate-
rial principle ; or, 2d, they are caused by corresponding dif-
ferences in the condition of the brain, as the organ of mind,
• De Sedibtu el Ca4lril MOf'borum.
.tND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES Ol" MAN ? 335
1'.low, ~though we are entirely ign()rant of what the immate-
rial pnnciple or mind is in itself, yet we have many weighty
~easons for not believing the differences to be so inherent in
1ts.nature as to be uninfluenced by the organization. The
chief of these, as mentioned in the beginning of this paper,
~e the successive development of the faculties correspond·
mg to that of the brain, and the great changes produced
by disease. As the immaterial principle is held to be un•
s?Bceptible of change, and as these phenomena can be
simply accounted for by the changes in the state of the
brain, which we observe to accompany the changes -in the
constitution of the mind, it seems much more philosophi-
cal to satisfy ourselves with an explanation which comes
within the cognizance of our faculties, than to have recourse
to one entirely hypothetical and incapable of proof; more
especially, when the former accords strictly with facts which
daily and hourly present themselves to our notice.
Admitting the principle then, that each primitive mental
facmty manifests itself by means of an appropriate and
distinct cerebral organ, and that the energy and activity of
its manifestations vary with the changes in the condition of
the material organ, we have next 'to inquire, to what or.
ganic cause the natural facility which we possess of mani-
festing one faculty, or set of faculties, more powerfully
than another is to be attributed ? Even reasoning a priori~
we can see no other than that of size. General size of the
brain, it must be observed, is distinctly recognised by the
physiologist as an indispensable requisite for sound and
vigorous manifestations, and the degree of general power
is admitted to vary with the degree of size, from the small
brain of the idiot up to the large brain of a Bacon or a
Shakspeare. Now what applies to the brain as a whole
must be equally true in regard to its parts. Ifwe suppose
each organ, or part of the brain, to be equal in activity
~nd equal in perfection of structure, it is difficult to see
how there can be any natural inequality of function, or any
possibility of manifesting one faculty more powerfully than
another. But let us suppose one organ to be of greater
size than the other, and all the other things to be equal,
we see at once, on the principle above stated, a possibility
of its performing its functions with more energy.
To this it may, perhaps, be objected, -that a fa.eulty is
336 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
8ometimes Vel"/I tJigorousl!J manifested during disease, al-
though the size of its organ has undergone no change.
This is perfectly true ; but it is no less true, that if an
organ of a larger size be subjected to the same degree of
morbid excitement, its functions will be performed with
still more energy. An import.ant condition is changed. A
small muscle, for instance, suffering from diseased excite-
ment, will often operate more powerfully than a larger mus-
cle in its healthy state ; but no one doubts that, upon ex-
citing the latter to the same pitch, it will operate with a
greater degree of power exactly proportioned to its greater
size ; so that it may be safely admitted as a truth, that,
c<l!teris paribus, the larger organ will always produce the
greater result. Hence, the principle of size exerting an
influence upon the energy of the mental manifestations is
perfectly consonant to all the known laws of nature, and is
no new and idle proposition started to serve a particular
purpose.• ·
• This principle, I am perfectly aware, is ridiculed by many as too
absurd to be entertained for a moment, and variou.e authors are
-<JUOted to prove it to be so. For the sake of such persons I beg
leave to subjoin a p888age from a Report, by the celebrated Cuvier,
to the .lo'reneh Institute, in 182'2. Speaking of the cerebral ·lobes
being the place " where all the sensations take a distinct form, and
leave durable impre88ions," he adds, " l'anatomie compart:e en offre
une autre confirmation dans la proportion constantedu 11olume de r.es
lobe1 a11ec le degre tf'intelligence de1 animau.r;"-thus admitting as
distinctly as Dr Gall himself, the influence of me of the cerebral
organs UJ>On the power ofmanifesting the mental faculties. And it
must farther be remarked, that Cuvier here speaks the sentiments
of Portal, Berthollet, Pinel, and Dumeril, who, along with himself,
formed a commission to examine and re)lort upon the experiments
of Monsieur Flourens. This statement, however, taken m detail,
is not sufficiently precise, for, in point of fact, the degree of intelli-
gence is not in relation to the size ofthe whols hemisplieres, but only
to that of their anterior Jobes; when I quote it, therefore, in support
of the principle, it is not because it makes the fact either clearer or
atronger to those who have observed for themselves, but because it has
been much the fashion to refer to and hold up the opinionl ofeminent
men against Phrenolog:y,even although they had not studied it, as de-
servina of far more weight than the oble"'ation1 orfacts of those who
liad; and because many are willing to yield to authority, in order
to save themselves the trouble of consulting nature. Had this tea-
t,imony ofCuvier and his learned associates, however, been merely
an opmion, I would not have brought it forward; but, as it contains
the unbi888ed expre88ion of fact, the result of immense observation
under the most favourable circumstances, I do think it merits atten-
tion. In his Comfatative Anatomy also, the same author distinctly
states the size o the nerves to be an indication of the energy of
their function ; and, if this were the ,Place, it would not be difficult
to shew that, to be consistent with himself, he must be a phrenolo-
gist in principle.
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN? 337
Assuming, then, that the mind manifests each faculty by
means of an appropriate organ, and that the varieties in the
power of manifesting the different faculties observable in
the same individual, may, even reasoning a priori, be phi·
losophically explained by a difference in size ; if the phre·
n~logists can shew, that it is possible during life to deter·
mn~e the relative size of the different organs or parts of the
brain, we can no longer with a shadow of reason call in
question the truth of their premises, and the importance of
~heir mode ofinvestigation as compared with those hitherto
in use. The possibility of doing so is easily proved•
. Nobody now thinks of denying that it is the brain which
~ves the form to the skull; and any one may easily satisfy
hunselfhoweasyit is todistinguish, through the integuments,
the shape of every part of the skull except the internal parts
of the base, of which, during life, the phrenologists do not
pretend to know any thing. So that, if the brain gives the
form to the skull, and we are able to ascertain during life
what that form is, we must at once admit the possibility of
solving the question. The want of entire and absolute
parallelism of the two tables of the skull, has sometimes
'been proposed as an insuperable objection to this mode of
proceeding; but even admitting that it does sometimes oc·
cur, when we know that, while the whole thickness of a
skull seldom exceeds from one to three lines, the differences
in the development of brain extend to inches, this objec·
tion falls to the ground. Besides, these inequalities are
confined to mere points, and seldom extend to the whole
surface of an organ. But this has been so clearly demon·
strated in the elementary works on Phrenology, and is so
generally assented to, that it would be a mere waste of
time to say a word more about it.
Having now adverted to the three essential points-1st,
the plurality of rrlental faculties and organs ; 2d, the in-
fluence of size upon the power of manifesting the faculties ;
and, 3d, the possibility of ascertaining during life the rela~
tive size of the different organs-and shewn that it is ab-
solutely. necessary to admit these principles in order to re·
concile the phenomena with the ordinary laws ofnature--it
follows as a necessary consequence, that if the discovery
of the primitive powers of the mind is ever to be attained
by man, it must be by the application to nature of the .
., f
338 DOES PHRENOl.OGY EXPLAIN TH& MORAll
mode of investigation di&covered by·Dr Gall ; and that'the
only way to ascertain whether the phrenologists are correct
in receiving such and such faculties as primitive and esta-
blished, is to examine nature, and to verifyor refute the facts
upon which the phrenological doctrines stand. But, as al-
ready mentioned, this can be done only in the great field of
nature. All that we can do here, is to offer presumptive evi-
dence of their truth, by shewing how far they go to explain
the varieties ofmoral and intellectual character ofindividuals
and of nations. If they seem to explain these satisfactorily,
they may then be regarded as resting upon the basis oftruth,
and to have at least this one great advantage over other sys-
tems of the philosophy of mind, none of which tl1rows any
light upon this interesting subject. In proceeding to try
the primitive phrenological faculties by this standard, we
must however never forget, that it is by observation alone
that their actual existence must ultimately stand or fall
As an example of the application of Phrenology to tile'
analysis of character, I shall select a few sketches from the
J,ife of Dr Samuel ,Johnson, prefixed to the 12mo editioa
of his works, published at Edinburgh in 1806.
That commanding energy and force which pervaded
every part of his character in such a remarkable degree,
and which impressed themselves so strongly on inferior
minds, are now known to phrenologists to be accompa-
niments of a very large brain only, almost every part of
which must have in his instance been largely developed.
Power indeed is one of the most remarkable qualities of his
111ind. His biographer says, " One of the most striking pe-
ruliarities in his character was a tendency towards melan-
choly." By him the Creator was "feared as an awful
judge," and " not contemplated as the beneficent Author
of a system ofimprovement and felicity ;" and " death was
ever/resent to his mind." We are told also, ".that he ad-
here through life to his early religion of the nursery, from
a: want of sufficient intellectual intrepidity to investigate
any part of it by the force of his own understanding ; and
that he could never witness the slightest symptom of reli-
gious incredulity without being filled with ' rage and hor-
ror."' His biographer very justly observes, " that these
distempered symptoms could not have exhibited themselves
in a man whose belief was founded upon conviction result-
__.._ ---- ~
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN f 339.
ing from the investigation of evidence." Had he been a
phrenologist, he would have added, that these feelings arose
from large Cautiousness, Veneration, and Wonder.
Upon consulting any of the works on Phrenology, Mr
Combe's Essays, for instance,• we find it stated, that " the
internal and involuntary activity of the faculty of Cautious·
ness in those in whom it is too powerful, produces emo-
tions of dread and apprehension, without an adequate ex-
ternal cause, and which are often exceedingly distressing
to the individual." Dr Spurzheim says, that "when very
powerful, it produces doubts, hesitation, uneasiness, melan-
choly, and hypochondria."
The sentiment of Veneration, which I have stated as
strongly manifested, is said, in the works on Phrenology,
" to predispose to religious feeling; but not to judge what
ought to be venerated." " It gives the feeling of respect,"
says Dr Spurzheim, " and leads us to look upon some things
as sacred ; it venerates old age and whatever is respectable,
and it adores God." Besides the proof already afforded
us of the activity of this feeling in the mind of Johnson,
we are expressly told, that the tendency was so strong as
to prevent him exercising his intellect in determining the
objects of worship. " His veneration," it is stated, " for
every thing connected with religion was extraordinary ; he
pulled off his hat when he entered within the walls of ruin-
ous Catholic churches in Scotland ; and he regarded the
bishops and dignified clergy of the church of England with
great reverence ;" and he displayed a high admiration of
whatever seemed ancient and venerable, so as to give him
"wam ofha1·dilwod in the exercise ofhis understanding."
It is mentioned in the Outlines of Phrenology, that thia
sentiment " leads to a reverence ofancestry and ofsuperiors
in society." This, then, was clearly the source of those feel-
ings in Johnson's mind.
Nothing lias excited more astonishment in the minds of
philosophers, than that a man of Dr Johnson's mighty intel-
lect should have been so credulous and superstitious as to
believe in supernatural agency, ghosts, second sight, lucky
-days, &c. ; for, says his biographer, " though a jealous exa-
miner of the evidence of ordinary facts, yet his weaknesa
on the side of religion, or where any thing supernatural
• F.eeaya on. Phrenology, p. 164.
340 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAX.
was supposed to be concerned, rendered him willing to
give credit to various notions with which superstition im..
poses upon the fears and the credulity of mankind.'' " Io
his conversations concerning ghosts, he appears to have
been aware of the ridicule attached to credulity·; but hUJ
actual beliefcan scarcely be doubted."-P. 70. But Phre-
nology again shews its superiority in the simplicity with
which it explains thi11 singular feature. Dr Spurzheim,
for instance, in speaking of the faculty of Wonder, 1ays,
that he has observed that a large endowment of the organ
" gives the tendency to seek and see the supernatvral in
every thing," " and to believe in inspirations, forewarn-
ings, phantoms, derrums, visions, witchcraft and astrolof1!1,
and such like ;" and that " it contributes m'UCh to religiOfU
faith, by a beliefofmysteries and miracles." This tenden-
cy, depending on an appropriate organ, may thus exist with
any degree of intellect from the highe11t to the lowest. And
so correctly does Spurzheim, in the above passage, por-
tray this peculiarity in Dr Johnson's character, that it al-
most seems as if the latter had sat for his likeness.
We are told also, that " he was proud and extremely
conscious of the talents with which he was endowed;" that
" the independence of his mind, and the sense of his own
worth, gave rise to an asperity ofmanners," during his lesa
prosperous days, which often made his company disagree-
able.-P. 76. " He not only asserted his opinions in a pre-
sumptuous and dictatorial form, but he considered so little
the trouble which he gave to others, that he was usually an
unwelcome visitor to the mistress of everv house." He was
likewise remarkable for an· impatience of restraint, and a
desire to engross the attention of the company. These pe-
culiarities are easily referable to a large endowment of the
phrenological faculty ofSelf-esteem, which is said to " lead
to/ride, arrogance, and disdain,"* and, when very large
an not dtily regulated, " to induce the impression in
others, by an unreserved and authoritative manner, that
the individual considers himself as infinitely elevated above
his fellow-men. The expression which it gives to the tone
and manners is cold and repulsive." His biographer, .after
iaying that he was a man of " violent passions," informs us,
that " he was extremely fond of disputation, and as he could
• 011tlines, p. 72. Combe'• Essays, p. 159.
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN? 341
never endure to be outdone, he uniformly contended for
victory at whatever cost, and he did not hesitate in the
strife, to ·make reason turn traitor to herself, and to sup-
port sentiments altogether opposite to what he himself se-
riously judged to be true and rational. He rose into the
most boisterous vehelllfnCe of voice and manner, and used
the utmost asperity, or even gross rudeness and insolence
of language," so as to receive from Garrick, who loved and
respected him, the name of a" tremendous companion."•
To shew how easy it is to analyze character phrenologi-
cally, and to refer every manifestation to its simple ele-
ments, I shall again quote a few sentences from the works
on Phrenology. Mr Scott, in his account of Combative-
ness, says,-" He who is endowed with this power dashes
through obstacles and struggles on to the last," and those
who have much of it are great arguers. " The spirit ofcon-
tention and opposition is so strong in them, that they can-
not prevail upon themselves to assent to the simplest propo-
sition, and ' even though vanquished they can argue still.'"
Joined to large Destructiveness, it is stated " to give the
tendency to rage," and the form in which this combination
manifests itself when opposed, or not duly restrained by the
higher powers, seems to be the " passion of anger:" " it
excites to loud threatening," and "imparts a bitterness and
force to every kind of vituperation and sarcasm."t This
was then, undoubtedly, the source of the violent passions
of Dr Johnson. The prejudices which beset his mind were
the effect of this large endowment of propensities and sen-
timents, which made it impossible for him to use his intel-
lect in every instance with proper effect. His judgment
was biassed by these feelings, just as that of a man in lo.ve
is with regard to the object of his attachment, whose bad
qualities he cannot discern, although he may be very sharp-
sighted in regard to those of other people•.
The misery in which the life. of Johnson was constantly
involved, arose from a want of harmony in the proportiQns
flf his most powerful faculties. The animal propensities
were in a state of continual warfare with his higher senti-
• Goldsmith baa said, " There is no arguing with .Johnson ; for
when his pistol miBSes fire, he knocks you down with the butt end
of it.''
t Tranaaetiona of the Phrenological Society, p. 140;.rt 6rq.
342 DOES PHRENOl.OGY EXPLAI'.11 THE MORAL
ments, which we know to have been powerful, from the ge-
neral tendency of his writings towards virtue, from his reli-
gious feelings, and from many acts of "generosity and hu•
manity" which he performed, "when not under the influence
of personal pique, of pride, or of religious or political pre-
judices ;" all of which interested hijl predominant faculties
too strongly to allow his Benevolence alone to work against
them. Unfortunately for his happiness, society was the
very field for still farther exciting faculties naturally too
active, in a degree that his moral and religious sentiments
made him feel keenly was improper, but which they were
unable to restrain. Their effect was aggravated by large
and almost deranged sentiments of Cautiousness and Won-
der, which added a gloomy and superstitious despondency.
When placed in circumstances in which his Self-esteem,
Firmness, Combativeness, and Cautiousness could find no
object to contend with, as when writing in his closet on
general subjects, his moral sentiments and intellect main-
tained a complete ascendency, and infused a spirit of bene-
volence and justice into all his productions. Even in so-
ciety, when " listened to with reverence," he was " placid
and instructive." But when his Pride, his Combativeness,
and his Firmness, were excited by opposition, they all
worked in one direction, with an energy proportioned to his
large brain and mighty mind, and made him in reality a
" tremendous companion." If he had possessed a smaller
share either of moral sentiments or of animal propensities,
·he would have been happier. In the first case, his happi-
ness would have been allied to that of the brutes, indulging
their propensities without any feeling of remorse; in the
second, it would have been the happiness ofthe good man,
whose tendencies rarely lead him into temptation.
His favourite intellectual pursuits, we are told, were
those of metaphysical discussion, moral theories, biography,
&c. ; but he was never svstematical. He knew little, and
cared less, about history or the natural sciences. This is
explained phrenologically, by a larger endowment of Cau-
sality and Comparison, " which give deep penetration, and
a perception of logical consequence in argument, and are
large in metaphysicians," &c. than of Individuality and
Eventuality, which give a "capacity for observation and
detail," and for "natural history, botany," &c.; for "know-
AND INTELLECTUAL P'ACIJLTIES OP' MAN? 343:
ing something ofalmost all sciences and arts," with ease to
the poBBessor.
In this short analysis, I have confined myself entirely to
the more prominent features in the character of Dr John-
son; because many of those whom I now .address, being
unacquainted with Phrenology, would be unable to under-
stand the explanation of the more delicate shades into the
composition of which a combination of faculties enters. In-
stead of pursuing it farther, I therefore prefer a short exa-
mination of some peculiarities in the character of Pope, a.-.
given in Dr Johnson's Lives of the Poets, and which are
equaliy inexplicable on any metaphysical theory with which
I am acquainted. But in this, as in the former, it must he
kept in mind that I do not mean to embrace the wholc,
but a part only, of the character.
Dr Johnson tells us, that Pope was remarkable for
" great delight in artifice, and that he endeavoured to at-
tain all his purposes by indirect and unsuspected methods;"
that "he hardly drank tea without a stratagem ;" that" if he
wanted any thing in the house of a friend, he never asked
for it in plain terms, but would mention it remotely, as
something convenient." He practised his arts on such
small occasions, that Lady Bolingbroke used to say, in a
French phrase, that he played the politician about cabbages
and turnips." Dr J. adds, that he, Pope," was afraid of
writiag, lest the clerks of the post-office should know his
secrets," and then speaks of his general habits of secrecy
and cunning.
· There is no metaphysical principle to which this pecu-
liarity of Pope's character can be referred; but, upon open-
ing the first book on Phrenology, we see at once that it
comes precisely within the domain of the faculty of Secre-
tiveness. Mr Combe, for instance, tells us in his Essays,
that those in whom this organ is " largely developed, are
fond of throwing a dense c<nJeTing of secrecy over all their
sentiments and actions, even the most trifling and unim-
portant, and conceive that the eye of the world (in Pope's
case, the eye of the clerk of the post-office) is always look-
ing into their breasts, to read the purposes and designs
there hatched, but which discovery they are solicitous to
prevent." This faculty was clearly the moving principle
in such conduct.
344 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
. We are next told, that he had a great deal of vanity~
" and felt great delight in enumerating the men of high
rank with whom he was a<,'quainted ;" and that " he was so
extremely sensible to praise and censure, that every pam-
phlet disturbed his quiet, and his extreme irritability laid
him open to pe_
rpetual vex11tion." This comes precisely
within the limits of the phrenological faculty of Love of
Approbation, which is said to " make us attentive to the
opinions of others," and " to give the capacity of being de-
lighted with applause and grieved with censure."
The extent to which this paper has already run, forces
me to omit other points in Pope's character, which admit
of as easy an explanation as the above. What I have said,
however, is sufficient to shew how every diversity of moral
and animal character may coexist with every variety of
intellectual powers, and admit of a simple and consistent
explanation on the principles of the new philosophy. In
farther illustration of this part of the subject, I beg leave
to refer to some beautiful and interesting specimens, con-
tained in the Transactions of the Phrenological Society, of
the successful application of Phrenology to the analysis of
the talents and dispositions both of virtuous and of vicious
individuals. The first of these, by Mr Scott, on the natu-
ral talents and dispositions of King Robert Bruce, as com·
pared with the cerebral development indicated by his skull;
will be read with intense interest by every lover of niture.
Nor are the reports on the natural characters of Mary
M•Innes, Gordon, Bellingham, and others, of Jess interest
or importance to the philosopher whose object is the im-
provement and happiness of the human race. Indeed, I
may safely affirm, that that single volume contains evidence
sufficient to settle for ever the question now under con-
sideration.
If the peculiarities of individual character are so easily
referable to, and explicable by, the principles of Phreno-
logy as I have shewn them to be, it is natural to suppose .
that those of national character will admit of as simple a
reference and explanation. This point I ,now propose
shortly to discuss.
Many philosophers, mistaking the effect for a cause, at-
tribute the varieties of mental constitution which distinguish
nations from each other, to a difference of customs, habits,
.&ND INTBLLBCTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN? 345
laws, and govemment ; which, although not without a con-
siderable reactive effect, are, strictly speaking, the result
and not the cause of the former. Phrenology will be found
to afford us much assistance in investigating this interest-
ing subject, as will be seen by a reference to a paper on
the Phrenology of Hindostan by Dr Paterson, read to the
Phrenological Society, and published in their Transactions.
His conclusions are drawn from the actual examination of
upwards of 3000 Hindoo heads, of every tribe and of every
province, and from the careful study of many native crania,
which he took the precaution of measuring to prevent mis-
takes. He thence explains, most satisfactorily, the weak-
ness of the character of the Hindoos, taken as a nation, and
their subjection to a few thousand Europeans, and also their
stationary state of civilization ; for the average size of the
adult Hindoo head does not exceed that of a European at
fifteen, and consequently the mental energy and capacities
are proportionate. They are very remarkable as observers,
which he found to be uniformly connected with a large de-
velopment of Individuality. The mildness and passive
softness which characterise them, h~ found to arise from
deficient Combativeness and Destructiveness, and their
.•.~.mning from a large development of Secretiveness. Dr
/ l'aterson's paper, in short, affords a novelty in the philoso-
r phy of mind-the spectacle of different individuals, in diffe-
rent parts of the world, totally unconnected with each other,
studying the phenomena of mind, and uniformly referring
them to the same general principles or faculties-a thing
utterly unknown to the old sc'hools, and of itself a strong
proof of the soundness of the principles of the new philoso-
phy. . .
Among the barbarous and uncultivated nations of Ame-
rica, Asia, and Africa, the differences of cerebral develop-
ment are more perceptible to the inexperienced eye, and
the traits of character are, in general, more broadly mark-
ed, than among the civilized nations of Europe, and they
consequently are more easily appreciated by those who are
on the spot. Notwithstanding all these advantages, how-
ever, I shall not select them for examination ; because the
difficulty.of obtaining accounts of the fair average form of
head from travellers who have paid no attention to it, and
of becoming acquainted with their motives and modes of
346 DOES PHRENOLOGY Ji:XPLAIN THE MORAL
thinking, from unacquaintance with their language, might.
be urged, however unjustly, against the strongest evidence
which they could afford. Having resided for a consider-
able time in France, and made many observations on the
development and manifestations of that nation, both in its
capital and provinces, I shall content myself with a short
and necessarily imperfect phrenological analysis and com-
parison of some of their natural talents and dispositions with
those of the English. I choose these, because, if wrong in
any one respect, I can most easily be confuted by other
observers now present, who can speak as to the character
at least, if not as to the development of brain.
The French are universally admitted to be more ingeni~·
ous than we are in the invention and construction of gew-
gaws, trinkets, and such trifling contrivances .as require
more neatness of workmanship than depih of reflection. It
is r1lso admitted, that they have greater quickness of per-
ception, and a greater talent for observing, acquiring, and
retaining a knowledge of facts, phenomena, and details ;
without, however, having so much power of tracing links of
causation, and arriving at general principles. Thus, while
they are extremely ingenious in making new observations
and isolated discoveries in physical and natural science1 it
is frequently left to the English, or to the Germans, to find
out the principle which connects them togetl1er, and to
render them available to the purposes of life. Even a
slight acquaintance with Phrenology would lead us at once
to ascribe this peculiarity of mental constitution to the
French having a larger endowment of Constructiveness,
Individuality, and Eventuality, and a smaller endowment
of Causality, than the English have ; and I may add, that,
from observation, I know this to be the case. The pro-
pensity to construct is greatly aided by, but is by no means
a constant accompaniment or result ot; intellectual power;
for many idiots manifest it in a great degree. Fodera knew
several, who taught themselves the " repairing of watches,
and the construction of some pieces of mechanism ;" and he
expressly adds, " that this could not be attributed to the
intellect, for these individuals not only could not read books
which treated of the principles of mechanics, but. they be-
came confused if they were mentioned, and never made
farther progress."
·AND INTBLLBC'rUAL FACULTIES OF MAN? 347
The superior quickness of perception, and talent for the
observation and recollection of facts and phenomena, which
the French possess, are easily explained by large Indivi-
duality and Eventuality, which give rise to this kind of
cleverness. The same faculties, combined with Construc-
tiveness, account for their ingenuity. Their inferiority to
us in the discovery of principle, and in the useful applica-
tion of their knowledge, is to be ascribed to a smaller endow-
.mentof Causalityor reasoning power. " When Causality is
weak," we are told,• " there is a difficulty in perceiving the
connexion between premises and conclusions ; an incapacity
of thinking deeply ; and a mental blindness to all abstract
and philosophic disquisitions. It gives a genius for meta•
physics, and for deep reasoning of every kind." Now, it
is well known, that the French have never excelled as me-
taphysicians, while our own countrymen have always been
Temarkable for metaphysical writing. It is from this great
endowment of Individuality, Eventuality, and the other
perceptive powers, joined to moderate Causality, that the
French are fond of knowledge without .any great regard to
its utility ; and that they excel in natural history, chemis•
try, botany, and in tho&e departments of science and of art
whi«h require an accurate observation of the qualities and
changes of bodies rather than depth of reflection. It is
this combination also which fits them for excelling in anec-
·dote and biography, and in the delineation of individual
existences; while ~hey want the power of taking profound
or comprehensive views. Hence it is also, that, while their
literature abounds in " Memoires [J()Uf' servir al'histoire,"
it can scarcely boast of a history itself. The English again,
with more Causality and less Individuality, are more con~
stantly in pursuit of causes and principles than of mere
facts. They endeavour to penetrate motives as well as ac-
tions, and to take deep and extensive views of nature; and
hence, with fewer Memoires pour servir a l'histoire, they
have more of history itself.
The French and English differ extremely in another re-
spect. In the company of strangers of whom he knows
nothing, a Frenchman will begin to talk of himself and his
own affairs without reserve, in a way which at first asto-
nishes .our wary countrymen, and leads them to suspect
• Combe's Essays, p. 202.
348 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
there is a design under it.• The true Briton, in the same
circumstances, maintain11 a long silence, or talks a little
about indifferent subjects, and makes his own observations
on the company ; and it is only when his scruples are satis-
.fied that he will allow a word about himself to escape his
lips. This is often remarked by the French, and by them
is falsely ascribed altogether to pride. Self-esteem is no
doubt one of the ingredients, but it is much assisted by
our great endowment of Secretiveness and Cauti~u.
The former is said to "give an instinctive tendency to con·
ceal, which, according t-0 its degree of intensity, and the
direction it receives from the other faculties, may produce
slyness or cunning ;" and " those in whom it is deficient"
are said " to be too open for the general intercourse of so-
ciety." "It is essential to a prudent character," and en-
ables us to suppress thoughts or feelings, the expression of
which.might be injurious to ourselves and others. Cauti-
ousness, again, as the name expresses, constantly bids us
"beware." It is the want of these two which produces a
rattle-pate. It is their activity which tempts the Scotll-
man to answer one question by asking another, which a
true Frenchman never does. It gives what may be called
tact, which our countrymen possess in a higher degree tban
the French. The latter, even when most anxious to please,
will often say things which would give offence, if we did
not know that none was meant. This the Frenchman is
very apt to do in the company ofthose whose habits ofthink-
ing di1fer much from his own. ·
The doubts, and hesitations, and dismal forebodings,
•The French are thus described by Dr Heylin in 1679 :-"The
present ~'rench, then, is nothing but an old Gaule moulded into a
new name; as rash he is, as headstrong, and as hare-brained. A
nation whom you shall winne with a feather, and lose with a 11traw;
upon the first sight of him, you shall have him as familiar as your
1leep, or the necessity of breathing: in one hour's confidence you
may endear him to you, in the second unbutton him, the third pmttpa
him drtf of all hiB .ecrets, and he gives them as faithfully as ifyou
were his ghostly father, and bound to conceal them sub sigillo con-
fe11ionis. When you have learned this, yon may lay him aside, for
lie Is no longer serviceable."-" He hath said over his lesson now
unto you, and now must find out somebody else to whom to repeat
it. Fare him well; he is a garment whom I would be loath to wear
above two days together, for in that time he will be threadbare."-
.. In a word (for l have held him too long,, he is a walking vanitie
in a new fashion."
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OP MAN ? 349
which l~ the Englishman to look towards the future, and
to consider thoroughly the consequences before resolving
:i;°n action, are plainly referable to a larger Cautiousness
a~ that possessed by his more vivacious neighbours, who
hab~tually look to the present more than to futurity. This
f~Img is the source of that tinge of melancholy which has
0 •len been remarked in us, and when very active it leads
to despondency. Joined with much Secretiveness, it gives
a suspicious cast to the mind, and makes us attend to the
motives more than to the mere act ; for we think there is
som_ething hidden which we ought to see. None of these
feelings predominates in the mind of a Frenchman. He
acts more on the sf.ur of the moment. If good come of it,
ta_nt mieu.r,-ifevi , tantpis ; but he does not afllict himself
"'.1th the reflection that he might have done better. "Suffi-
cient for the day is the evil thereof" is his principle.
The love of praise, and the consequent vanity of the
Frenchman, are clearly referable to a great endowment of
the phrenological faculty of Love of Approbation, the er-
gan of which I know to be larger in them than in the head&
of our countrymen, and more especially when compared to
that of Self-esteem, of which we have undoubtedly the
greater share. It is the greater Self-esteem which, joined
to other faculties, gives that nice sense of dignity for which
the English are remarkable, and which, to the Frenchman,
often appears somewhat ludicrous. To the latter, no mode
of enjoyment, h,owever trivial or childish it may seem to be,
is ever, on that account, rejected• . His dignity takes no
offence. But with the Englishman it is widely different.
He often rejects an amusement harmless in itself, from a
sense of offended dignity, although, in other respects, he
rnay have a relish for it. His Love of Approbation is sway-.
ed by his Self-esteem, whereas the love of praise is the
ruling passion of the Frenchman, and forms no small in-
gredient in that politeness for which his nation has long
been celebrated. It is the source oftheir vanity, oftheir love
of finery and of novelty, and of that ever-to-be-repeated
and never-ceasing sound in the mouth of a Frenchman,
" Glory."• It is also the origin of many of their noblest
• "It is not," eays a lively writer, "the love of fighting that leads
a French army from Paris to Moecow,but la gloire. The philoaophe
who site at hiai midnight lamp, cannot co11template hill triumph and
350 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
institutions, and, joined to a certain portion of Veneration,
is the chief source of that intense admiration of courts and
courtiers, red ribbons and crosses, by which they have al-
ways been distinguished.
That compound feeling of the mind, which is almost un-
known to the French, but which they have kindly denomi-
nated "mauvaise honte," arises from a combination of the
faculties which I have just said mark our character. Mau-
vaise honte is merely an excessive desire to attract notice,
and to please, arising from Self-esteem and Love of Ap-
probation, the former of which gives a kind of feeling of
deserving it.,-joined to an excessive fear of not succeed-
ing in our o~ject., arising from Cautiousness,-and a strong
·desire to lie half:.COncealed, and to advance with a measur-
discoveries without mixing them up with la gloire of another kind-
the scientific reputation of la grande nation. And when a French-
'lllan hurries to the Theatre Franfau, to witness' the representation
of a comedy of J\1oliere1 or a tragedy of Racine or Voltaire, a view
to 'his own gratification 1s not the sole impelling motive; he fancies
-nay be ia sure-that la c0f1ledie Franfaue is the most perfect in the
world; that there never was but one Racine, or one Voltaire; and
that it is a duty to uphold and patronise that which so nearlv con-
cerns the glory o~ his country. The national vanity of the French
is boundless and mcµrable. It embrace& the whole range of the art&
and scienceS-Bll that in which men contend for pre-eminence. or
pride themseh-es in. It is this that carries a Frenchman to the
Academie de Mu.fique, to listen to the worst music in the world-
thia that crowds the gallery of the French achoo! of painting, and
leaves the Italian school neglected-this that produces a thousand
copies of David, and not one of Raphael, or Titian, or Murillo-this
that endured the despotism ofLouis XIV, because he was the vainest
of kings, and loved la gloire-this that tore down the Bastile, mur-
dered a king, and abjured Godt because such things were a sp~cta­
cle for the world to gaze at-tnis that received the yoke of Napo-
leon, because the spectacle ofrevolution was no longer new, and be-
cause his ambition and la gloire Franraue went hand in hand-tbia
that encouraged industry, commerce, and manufactures during fif-
teen yeal'ff, because France could not be great without them-and,
iinally, this that now threatens to desolate Europe with the scourge
of war, because la grande nation is beginning to be forgotten."-
Switt1erland, the South of France, ana the P!lf'enee1, in1830. Bg
Derwent Conway, vol. ii. p. 67. ·
Dr Burrow~, in his work on Inaanit7, speaks of the " national
taste" in the mode of committing suicide in different countries.
" The English," says he, " prefer shooting, the Prussians hangin3"
while the French, fond of effect in all thmga. shew it even in tbn
last act, and prefer making an exit from some elevated or con1pic11·
ous place, such as a high column, monument, or bridge, the time
mid-day, and in the presence ofa multitude. This is then• plu
vltra, and gives great eclat to the character of the suicide."
AND UoiTELLBCTUAI.. FACULTIES OF MAN? 351
.
ed pace, step by.step, as we feel ourselves becoming more
and more secure, arising from large Secretiveness. The
full blaze of instant attention cannot be endured without
as instant confusion, and the very fear offailure often pro-
duces it.
In point of firmness, perseverance, and steadiness, the
French are much our inferiors ; indeed, fickleness has long
formed a part of their character. This is to be ascribed to
a powerful faculty of Firmness, which the English possess
in so high a degree as often to produce stubbornness and
obstinacy, which may be well or ill applied, accorping to
circumstances. " Grace aux Anglais," 'said the Professor
Fattjas St Fond, in allusion to this part of our character,
" qui $obstinent apenetrer dans les pays les plus steriles et
les plus barbares," the boundaries " of science were daily
enlarged. It is not alone," said he, " in the flowery paths
of science that you find them ; but, at one time, broiling
under the meridian sun of Africa, and, at another, frozen
amidst the polar ice.'' It is this strong perseverance, com-
bined with the faculties already mentioned, which fits the
English for difficult enterprise. From their active Cauti-
ousness, they seldom act until they have formed a pretty·
correct estimate of the good or bad consequences likely to·
result from or accompany the intended action. This they
are enabled to do by their larger Causality, or power of
tracing cause and effect ; and hence they act upon princi-·
pie, and must, before beginning, be satisfied of the ade-.
quacy of the means to the end proposed. Such prepara-
tion, joined to large Self-esteem and Firmness, produces a-
rational feeling of independence and perseverance, that is
superior to almost any circumstances. .
The Frenchman, on the other hand,·buoyed up by a
great endowment of Hope, unassailed by the useful though
at times gloomy foresight of Cautiousness, and with no re-
markable portion of reasoning power, dreams not of ob-
stacles until they actually start up befote him. If easily
surmounted, all is yet well ; but if they seem to be insur-
mountable, or so formidable as to require a long-sustained
effort to overcome them, then his confidence, not being
founded on any estimate of what he had to hope for or.
fear, or on a feeling of his own superiority to the circum-
stances, as suddenly fbrsakes him as it was suddenly gene~
rated. If indeed he is in a situation where the /qve ofg/orv
352 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE MORAL
may still affect him, where he knows that the eyes of his
country or his king are upon him, he may still bear up ; but
not if thrown entirely upon his own resources, and upon
the native energy of his own mind. Many historical facts
prove the truth of these remarks ; and the conduct of the
crews of both nations, on the loss of the Alceste and Me-
dusa frigates, is in itself an excellent illustration.
The lively gesture and vivid natural language of the
French proceed from this difference in their mental con-
stitution, aided by more fmitation than we have. Every
faculty, when active, has a language of its own, easily intel-
ligible to those who have the same in an ordinary degree.
Now the natural language of Love of Approbation is the
display of every quality to attract notice, and the vivid and
unrestrained emission of every thought as it rises in the
mind. The natural language ofSecretiveness, on the other
hand, is that of the cat watching the mouse ; it is quiet and
concealment : that of Cautiousness is attention and seri-
ousness. In point of fact, therefore, we exhibit the natu-
ral language of the different faculties quite as correctly as
the French do. The only difference is, that the faculties
which predominate in us are only secondary in the mind
of the Frenchman, and mce versa. So that an Englishman
meeting a stranger, with a grave face and silent tongue,
exhibits the natural language of his predominant feelings,
quite as much as the more vivacious Frenchman with the
&iendly smile, polite bow, and shrug of the shoulders.
The French have long excelled as elemental writers in
natural history and physical science, from the clearness and
precision withwhich they apprehend and communicate their
ideas. This is to be explained, partly from their large In-
dividuality enabling them to perceive and to retain for use
what they have once acquired, and partly from a large
Concentrativeness, which aids in enabling them to sepa-
rate what is essential from what is of no importance, and
merely to. state what bears upon the point. Individuality
furnishes them with a ready command of the ideas which
they have in store. Hence the perspicuity and fluency of
many of their lecturers, Gay Lussac and Thenard for in-
stance, who never use written discourses or even notes.
There is another general but important difference which
Phrenology has more clearly brought to light and explain-
AND INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES OF MAN ? 353
ed, and which I beg leave to describe in the words of the -
Edinburgh Review,* lest it be imagined that it is a diffe-
rence perceptible only to oculi interni. " To their ability
in the art of war, the French have joined considerable
glory in literature, in the fine arts, and much ingenuity, but
hardly any of those things which denote or constitute dig-
nity of intellect, or energy of character, or vast and com-
prehensive capacities ; in short, they are d¢cient in m<>st
ofthe features which the large pencil ofhistory would paint
as exalted. In painting true and general nature, in deli-
neating great features of mind, and strong emotions of the
soul, they cannot be compared to us, because they have an
imperfect original of these things before their eyes." Some
of these peculiarities are referable to the particular combi-
nation of faculties already mentioned, but the general et:.
feet is to be attributed to a smaller size of the brain, as a
whole, than is found in England. It is general size alone,
joined to a favourable combination, which gives a com-
manding power and energy to the mind, and fixes the at-
tention and makes an indelible impression on the minds of
others ; and it is in such cases that every tone seems to an
inferior mind the natural accent of command. In our own
profession, Gregory was an excellent instance of this effect
ofsize, and Abernethy is.another. The French have not
this quality. They have greater activity of brain ; they
work more cleverly, and go over a great deal of !natter in
a very pleasing manner and in a short time ; but there i:<
no overpowering sense of greatness to weigh down the
hearer, or make him feel his inferiority. Such are a few
of the distinguishing features of the French and Eng-
lish characters, and such is the explana,tion of them afford-
ed by Phrenology : it is for you to judge how far it is sound
or satisfactory.t
Having now shewn as clearly as my own abilities and
the narrow limits of an essay would admit, that Phrenology
has a real foundation in nature, and that it does afford a
• Edinburgh Review, 1821, p. 176.
t I need scarcely add, that although the development here stated
a~ characteristic of the French, is the result of numerous observa-
tions made both in the capital and provinces, on the dead as well as
on the living, I do not by any means, laY. it down a1 as0e1'1ained.
The shades ofsome of the organs may be different, but I believe the
outline will be found correct. The subject ill too extenaive for one
individual.
354 DOES PHRENOLOGY EXPLAIN THE FACULTIES OF MAN?
satisfactdry explanation of the moral and intellectual nature
'Of man, I will scarcely be asked of what use or importance
it can be to the medical man to be acquainted with its doc-
trines. For when we consider our almost total ignorance
of the nature of insanity, and the assistance to be,derived
in our future inquiries from a knowledge of the primitive
mental faculties and of the organs by which they act, in
enabling us to distinguish what is merely symptomatic from
what is essential, and in enabling us to conduct the moral
as well as the medical treatment on the soundest principles,
we cannot look without a feeling of admiration on the la-
bours of the two distinguished men who have done so much
to fill up one of the greatest deficiencies which,ever existed
in medical and philosophical science. This is only one of
its numerous and beautiful applications. In every branch
of knowledge in which man is the object of our inquiries,
its uses are infinite, because it furnishes the only sound
principles upon which we can with safety proceed to edu-
cate, to enlighten, or to legislate. I have already tres-
passed too long on the time of the Society to admit of my
saying more, by way either of illustration, of obviating ob-
jections, or of prov\Dg its utility. The objections I must
leave to the debate, and have now only to apologize once
more for the length to which this essay has run, for the
time which I have consumed, and for the imperfect way in
whic~ I Jiave treated the subject, which, indeed, is by far
too extensive to be judged of or comprised in an essay,
even had my powers been equal to my wishes. If I have
succeeded in stating the question so as to elicit a full and
candid discussion of its merits, and to incite to observation
those who are still unacquainted with it, my object has been
completely attained. I now, therefore, leave the essay,
with all its faults, to the indulgent consideration of my fel-
low-members.
( . 355 )
INDEX.
AcQUISITlVBNBSS, illustration of, 37.
Actor, sources of the talent of an, 20, 98.
Alderson, Dr, case of morbid excitement of the organ of Number, re-
ported by 157.
Alexandre, Mons., a ventriloquist, 2'2.
Allan'sJ>ictures, ll5. .
Apollo Belvidere, proport.ions of the, 132.
Apparitions explained, 54. See Spectral Jlluriotu.
Anstotle's philosophy, 280. His opinions of the functions of Jifter-
ent parts of the brain 298.
Arithmetical tuition at Mr Wood's seseional school, 221.
Armorial bearings, phrenologieal remarks on the mottos of, 26:;.
Bacon's ldeality strong, 74. Hiabust, U4•
.Barbarians, eloquence of, 183.
Baahfulnesa analyzed, 350. ·
Brain, its shape discoverable i>Y inspecting the skull, 4, 131. Its in-
fluence on digestion, 254. Historical notice of early opinions re-
specting_its fiinctions, 298. Plurality of the cerebral organs illus-
trated, 322. Powerful minds of persons with large brains, 292, 353.
Bridewell, Glasgow, 209.
Brougham, Lora, eloquence of, 196.
Brownt Dr Thomas, quoted on the ignorance of anatomists concern-
ing tne uses of the different parts of the brain, 310.
Brutes deficient in the reflective faculties, 232.
Burke, Edmund his eloquence, 193. .
Burke, Master Joseph, a juvenile actor, 112.
Busts, ancient, 113.
Causality, 232, 358. 347.
Cautiousness, illustrations of, 38, 348. Its organ the seat of hypo-
chondriasis, 261.
Cerebellum small in childhood, 324.
Chalmers, Dr, his eloquence, 198. Quoted on the opposition at first
made to the Newtonian philosophy, 291.
Character, comparativeinfluence of nature and circumstances in the
formation of, 47, 95, note, 331. Opposite phases of, in the same
individual, 294. Natural differences of charactert ~dividual and
national!.explained by differences of brain, 334, 344.
Chatham, LOrd, his eloquence, 192.
Children, temperament of, 135. Size of their heads, 168. Succes-
356 INDEX.
sive development of their facult.ies, 322. Small size oftheiI cere-
bellum, 324.
Christianity a Jlromoter of civilization, 191.
Cicero, analysis of his eloquence, 188.
Circassian head 116.
Clever practical men, estimate of their authority in the profounder
and more abstract departments of science, 23"2, 258.
Combativeness powerful in Dr Johnson, 341. ·
Combe, Dr Andrew, papers by, 125, 143, 205, 244, 276,317.
Combe, George, papers by, I, 47, 69, 96, 113, 152, 209, 232, 266, 272,
279, 2981311. .
Conscientiousness, 98,
Constructiveness, illu.atrations of, 37, 43, 276, 327.
Convicts, Mr Deville's examination of heads of, 140.
Criminals, treatment of, 209. To be regarded as patients, 210.
Punishment of, 212. Tendency to crime can be removed only by
removing its cause, 214.
Cromwell, observations on the character of, 292.
Cullen, Dr, quoted on hypochondriasis, 252 ; on the connexion of
the mind and the brain, 309.
Cuvier quoted on the relation between the intelligence of animals
and tlie size oftheir cerebral lobes, 336, note.
Dancing, 238.
Darwin, Dr, on ideas, 309.
Deaf and dumb dancing, 238.
Demosthenes, how cured of stammering, 150. Estimate of his elo-
quence, 186.
Derangement, mental, case of, with gradual diminution of the size of
the head, 152. 'l'akes·place only when organs are diseased, 246.
See Insanity.
Descartes on the seat of the soul, 307.
Destructiveness, illustrations of, 35, 86, 341.
Deville, Mr James, his examination of the heads of 148convict.a.,140.
Dialo~e b.etween a philoeopber of the old school and ~ phrenolo-
~t, l.
Digestion, influence of the brain on, 254.
Diseases to which different temperaments predispose, 136.
Dissection does not reveal vital functions, 2. .
Dolce, Ludovico, mapped head given by, 303.
Dreaming, phenomena of, indicate a plurality of cerebral organs,
332.
Education, how far influential in the formation of character, 51, 9.5,
note, 3.'\l. Ought to be modified according to the temperament
of the child, 208. Method of1 at the Edinburgh &esional 8chool,
215. Explanatory method or, 216. Individuality too much ne-
glected in, 219. Lessons on objects, 2"20. Infant schools, ib. In-
struction in history and arithmetic, 221. Whether emulation i~ a
useful stimulant m, 222. Qualifications of a successful teacher;
230. Phrenology applied to the education of a youth, 272. On the
advantages of, 311. .An educated and uneducated mind compar•
ed, 312.
Elliotson, Dr, case where dispositions were inferred by him from a
skull, 117.
Eloquence, phrenological analysis of, 178. Defined, 181. Of uva-
INDEX. 357
ges And harbarians, 183; of the Greeks, 184; Romans, 188; British
senate, 192; the pulpit, 197.
Emulation, its merits as a stimulant in education discussed, 222.
England, size of heads in different parts of, 161. EngliHh and French
character and brnin compared, 346.
~uilibrium, power of, deranged, 58, 64.
xperiment, phrenological, 117.
Faculties, perceptive and reflectivei!1istinguished, 332, 258. Effects
of old age on the.faculties, 235. Their successive development in
youth, 322.
F!lmale head and character, 324.
FF!ne arts, phrenology applied to criticism in the, 113.
1rmness strong in the English, 351.
French and English character and brain compared, 346. Vanity of
the French, 349. Their heads smaller than thoee ofthe English,
353. .
Gall, Dr, his discovery of phrenology, 310, 319.
Garbutt, a ventriloqu1st, 21.
General, requisites of a, 207. ·
Genius usually partial, 325. A gift of nature, 326. Peculiarities of,
explained, 330.
Ghosts ex_plained, 54. See Spectral Illruions.
Glasgow Bridewell, 209.
Gordon, Bernard, his opinions of the functions of different parts of
the brain, 298.
Grecian eloquence, 184.
Happiness, 86, 313, 342. ·
Hartley quoted on the connexion of the mind with the brain, 308.
Hats, different sizes of, in different countries and provinces, and
ranks of society, 158, 170. Hatters' measurement explained, 160.
Head, size of, in different countries and provinces, 168, 170. Does
its size increase or decrease after the period ofmaturity ? 168. Site
of heads of children, ib. Impressive and/owerful minds of per-
sons with large heads, 292, 353. Male an female heads compar-
ed, 324.
Hindoos, their character and cerebral development, 345.
Historical notice of early opinion& respecting the functions of the
brain, 298.
History, talent for writing, 347.
Hubard, Master, a juvenile artist, case of, 41.
Hunter, Dr John, curious derangement of his mind, 64.
Hypochondriasis, on the seat and nature of, 244. An 11ffection of
the brain, 246 ; but more particularly of the organ of Cautious-
ness, 261. Method of cure, 263.
ldeality, 72, 74.
Idiocy, partial, a proof of the plurality of cerebral orga.ns, 333.
Imitation, faculty of, necessary to ventriloquists, 30, 104.
Individuality too much neglected in education, 219.
Infant schools, 2"29.
Infidelity compatible with strong Veneration, 82.
Insanity, its phenomena destructive of many philoeophical tenets,
333, note. Partial, 334. See Derangement.
Irish head, size of the, 165. ·
(
358 INDEX.
,Jardine, Profeeeor, on the method of teaching logic, 280•
•Joseph, Mr Samuel, accuracy of his busts, 115.
J. L. a Chatham convict, case of, 117.
Johnson, Dr Samuel, phrenological analysis of bis character, 338.
Juries, scolding of, absurd, 96.
Lavater'll Physiognomy, 307.
Localitv deranged in John Hunter, 66; in drunkard!, 67.
Locke and Milton, their genius compared, 72.
Logic and moral philoaophy, addreM to studenui of, 279. Inutility
oflogic and metaphysics, 284.
Love of Approbation, strong in Voltaire, 85, Pope, 344, and the
French, 249.
Low spirits, 244.
Materialism, 236.
Mechanical genius, cases of, 276, 327.
Melancholy, 244, 338, 849.
Mengen, Baron, a ventriloquist, 18.
Mentalphilosophy, its imeortance as the foundation ofothersciences,
286. Diversity of opimone in, 287. True mental philos1phy un-
known before the discovery of phrenology, 288.
Metaphysics, scholastic, 280.
Milton's Garden of Eden, faculties necesMry for the conception of,
69. Genius of Locke and Milton compared, 72.
Moral philosoph;r, address to students of, 279.
Mottos ofarmorial bearings, phrenological remarks on, 268.
National character, diversity of, explained by diversity of cerebral
d11velopment, 844. ·
Natural language, 352.
New discoveries, slow progress nf belief in, 8, 289.
Nominalists and Realists, controversy between them, 281.
Number, case ofmorbid excitement of the organ of, 157.
Old age, its effects on the mental faculties, 235.
Opposition to new discoveries, 8, 289.
Organs cerebral, pluralitv of, 322. Size of an organ, cateris parib111,
tbe measure ofits power, 126, 162, 33.~.
Ormerod, Ann, caae of defective Tune,' 314.
Owen, Mr, his views of the formation of character opposed, 47.
Pain in the situation oforgans ofderanged ~ulties, casesof. 56, 157.
Percttptive faculties distinguished from the reflective, 232, 258.
Pericles, his large head, 133.
Phrenologasto, Travels in, 88. .
Phrenology, how to be tested, 5. Objection that no first-rate men
are phrenologists, answered, 7. Practical application of phreno.
logy on a voyage, 33. Applied to criticism m the fine arts, 113.
Phrenological experiment, 117. Objection that phrenology leads
to materialism, 236. Best mode of making converts to, 266. Ap..
plied to the education of youth, 272. Utilitv of a knowledge of,
274, 3.1;4. Essay on the question, Does Phrenology afford a satis-
factory explanation of the moral and intellectual faculties ofman?
317. Principles of, 319.
Physicians, their conversation beneficial to patients, 266.
Physiognomy, 305. ·
INDEX. 359
Pineal gland supposed by Descartes to be the seat oftbe soul,307.
Playfair, Professor, bis account of the slow progress ofthe Newtonian
philosophy, 289.
Pope's powerful SecretiveneBB, 343.
Porta, J.B., his work on Physiognom)', 305.
Power and activity of the faculties distinguished, 127. Power o.
mind conferred tiy a large brain, 292, 353. Power of an organ in-
creases with its size, 126, 162, 335.
Profeeaion, choice of a, with reference to temperament, 208.
Pulpit-eloquence. 197.
Ranks, dift'erent sizes of' hats worn by dift'erent, 161, 170.
Reflective and perceptive faculties distingui11hec.l, 23'2, 258.
Religious faculties, 76. 338.
Roman eloquence, 188.
Sailon..t their characteristic dispositions, 174.
Saint uille, a ventriloquist,feats of, 19.
Savages, eloquence of, 183.
Scholastic metaphysics, 280.
Scotch head, size of the, 164.
Secretiveness, illustrations of, SO, 111, 343. Large in actors, 106.
Weak in the French, 347. Strong in the British, 348.
Self-esteem, illustrations of, 35, 152, 185, 224, 340, 349.
Simpson, James, papers by, 14, 54, 75, 98, 140, 178, 215, 238, 268, 292.
Size of an organ, C<Bteria paribu&, the mearnre of its power, 126, 16'2,
335.
Skull e1thibit1 the shape of the hrain, 4, 131, 337. Relation of its
tbickneea to the siie of the other bones, 131.
Slave-trade, 195.
Spectral illusions, phrenological explanation of, 54. Case of Miss
S. L. 57. Additional cases, 174.
Stammering, causes and cure of, 143.
Stewart, Dugald, remarks on bis analvsis of' the faculties nccC!ISary
for the conception of Milton's Garaen of Eden, 69. Quoted on
the importance of inquiries into the laws of union of body and
mind, 318.
Students, low spirits of, 259. Address to students of logic and moral
philosophf, 279•
.Suicide, national taste in the mode ofcommitting it, 350, note.
Sympathy, disorder.of functions from sytiipathy with remote parts
diseased, 247.
T. D., case of, 152.
Teacher, mental qualifications ofa successful, 230.
Temperaments, Dr Thomas's theorl' of the, 125, 205. Importance
of a knowledge of the, 136, 207. Disea.ees to which different tem-
peraments predispose, 136.
Tliomas1 Dr F., his theory of the temperaments, 125, 205.
Time, ob8ervat1ons on the faculty of, 238.
Travels in Phrenologaato, 88.
Tune, case of Ann Ormerod, in whom it was very deficient, 314.
Turnip story, the, 11. .
Vanity of the French 349.
Veneration strong in Voltaire, 76. Not incompatible with unbelief,
360 INDEX.
82. A chiefaource of pulpit-eloquence, 198. Strong in Dr John-
son, 339.
Ventriloquism, phrenological explanation of, 14, 98.
Venus de Medicis, head of the, 114.
Vesalius; his opinions respecting the uaee of different parts of the
br!lin, 301. ..
Villermay, Dr, his view of the seat of hypochondriaaie combated,
258.
Viscera of the chest and abdomen, not the seat of bypochondriasis,
247.
Visions explained, 54. See Spectral Illusions.
Voisin, Dr, on the causes and cure of stammering, 143.
Voltaire, his bust and character compared, 75.
Voyage, practical application of phrenology on a, 33.
Watering-places, visits to, why so beneficial to hypochondriacs, 26.';.
W. C. M. a ventriloquist, case ot: 98.
\Veavers of Dundee, size of their hats, 1i2.
Willis, Dr Thomas, his opinions concerning the uses of different
parts of the brain, 303.
Wonder, sentiment of, strong in Dr .Johnson, 340.
.Wood, Mr John, his svstem of education at the Edinburgh Seeaional
s,hool, 215. •
THE END.
Pllll''fl!D II\' l'IEIJ.I. &, co.• 01.D FJSHlUllKET. EDll'IBl'llGH.
This dog upuhlilMd, in royal 800, pp. 110, doubk columra1, price
11. 6d., tlu Fifth imprBUioft of
"THE PEOPLE'S EDITION" OF
THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN
CONSIDERED IN RELATIOM' TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
BY GEORGE COMBE.
.Eiehteen thoU88Jld copies of this edition have been sold since the
llllddTe of October 1835. The work haa gone through six editions
in America, amountingin all to I0,000 copies; and liasbeen trans-
lated into several of the Continental Languages of Europe.
" Mr Combe inculcate• the topics discuued in thia volume with the
fervour of philauthropical eloquence, and with the solemnity due to in-
veatigationa imtitnted for the genero111 end of distinguishing and purifying
the elemente of everlasting truth."-Medico-CAirargical Retiiew, Oct.
1835.
" h (The People'• Edition) ii a miraele of cheapne11. We have
here the contenlll of a pretty thick and cloeely printed duodecimo, con-
taining nearly u much matter u a fashionable novel io three volume.,
comp?e818d into 110 pegee, aad sold at eighteenpence I It contai111 the
moat clear aad lldiafactory e:splllitioa of the nature of man, nnd hia rela-
tione to the uternal world, that we have ever met with; and we rejoice
to·- it brought within the reaeh of all clau-."-Scotman.
" A work of great originality-bounding with nlaahle information
and reaeoninga the moet. admirable ; conveyed iu a etyle 10 plain aa to ht>
level to the meanest eapacity, and yet eo eloquent, from the force of it•
arguments, u to go home equally to the undentandinga of the most illi-
terate and the molt leamed.''-COMrifr•
. " Evidently the production of a very 111perior and highly cultivated
mind."-Glaagow Argiu.
" Some tho111&Dde of volumes on metaphyeics and morals might be
enumeruad, beginning with thote of Plato and ending with those of the
preeent century, which would not, were they all moet carefully studied for
yean, convey into the mind one quarter of the number of true ideas of
the conetitution, condition, and moet advantageous conduct of man, that
are to H obtained by one thoughtful reading ofthil little book."-Dundee
Adoerti8er.
" If there is a single parilh horary without it, we would call that
library incomplete, and under the direction of penons of bad tute."-
Glaagow Free Preu.
" We cordially congratulate our le11 wealthy countrymen that a book
on IO important a 111bject hu 1-n made eo eaay of ace- to them."-
Doncamr Geutu.
Lately publillhed, the F1FTB EDITION, l 2mo, pp. 382, price 4~.
w. & R. CHAKBEU, MACLACBLAJI' & STEWART, and .ToaK
ANDERSON Jun., Edinburgh; LoNGXAJI' & Co., 81HP&n1, M.t.n-
BBALL & Co., and Ona & Sx1TB, London; GzoaeE YonNo,
Dublin ; JouN MACLEOD, Glugow; and sold by all Boobellers.
BOOKS PUBLISHED.
Latelg published,
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. By GEORGE
Co.HBE. 8vo, pp. 33. Fifth Edition. Illustrated by Engrav-
ings on Wood. Price ls.
LECTURES on POPULAR EDUCATION; deli-
vered to the Edinbu~h Association for Procuring Instruction in
Useful and Entertainmg Science, in April and November 1833;
and publi~hed by request of the Directors of the Association. By
GEORGE CoxBE. 8vo, pp. 80. Price ls. 6d. ·
A LETTER from GEO~GE COMBE to FRANCIS
.JEFFREY, Esq, In answer to his Criticism on Phrenolo~ in
the 88th Number of the Edinburgh Review. Second Edition.
8vo. pp. 81. Price ls. 6d.
TESTIMONIALS in favour of PHRENOLOGY, as
the SCIENCE OF MIND and the true PHYSIOLOGY of th"'
BRAIN; presented by George Combe, on becoming a candidate
for the Chair of Logic in the University of Edinburgh. Also,
Testimonials in favour of Phrenology, presented by Sir George
S. Mackenzie, Bart., to the Right Hon. Lord Glenelg, Secretary
for the Colonies, shewing its Application to the Discrimination of
the Natural Dispositions of Convicts, with a view to retaining
Dangerous Characters in Confinement in this Country, instead or
sending them to New South Wales. 8vo. pp. 167. Price 28. 6d.
These Testimonials form one publication, and afford the most
authentic and extenaive evidence of the truth, utility, and pro-
gress of Phrenology, that has yet been offered to the public.
Inth8 Pru1,
A SYSTEM OF PHRENOLOGY. By GEORGE
CoKBE. Fourth Edition, improved and enlarged. In one thick
volume, 8vo. With Numerous Cuts.
OUTLINES of MORAL PHILOSOPHY, founded
on PHRENOLOGY. By GEORGE CoJIBE.
ELEMENTS OF PHRENOLOGY. By GEORGE
COMBE. Fourth Edition. 12mo.
l\fA.CLACHLAll & STEWART, and JouN AllDERSON Jun., Edin.
burgh; Lot1GHAll & Co., and S1xPJtIN, MARSHALL, &. Co.,
London.
Jull Publi1h8d, 12mo, pp. 19t, Price a.. 6d.,
THOUGHTS on PHYSICAL EDUCATION, and
the True Mode of Improving the Condition· of Man; and on
the Study of the Greek and Latin Languages. By CHAii.LES
CALDWELL, M. D., Professor of the Institutes of Medicine and
Clinical Practice in Transylvania University. With Notes by
RoBEll.T Cox, and a Recommendatory Preface by GEOllGE
Co11BE.
A. & C. BLACI, Edinburgh ; LoNGJUlf & Co. London.
BOOKS PUBLISHED. 3
Pu/Jli1hed Quarterly, Price 28. 6d.,
The PHRENOLOGICAL JOURNAL and MIS-
CELLANY.
MACLACHLAN & STEWAB.T, and Joux ANDEBsox Jun. Edin-
burgh; 8111P1t1x, MAB.SHALL & Co. I.ondon.
In the Pre11, •Second Edition of
The PHILOSOPHY of EDUCATION, with its {\p-
plication to a. System and Plan of Popular Education as a Na-
tional Object. By JAKES SrxPso>r, Advocate.
" To theee reasoners (against Popular Education) we ay, Read this
book. We have read many books which beget feelings of elevation and
pride for the dignity of man, which improve him morally and 1oeially,
hut never any, no not one, which letl in 1uch a ftood of hope for the fu.
ture terreetrial improvement and happine91 of the univenal species. •••••
It mult become the text-book of all enlightened educationiltl."-
MonthlyR~.
" His thoughta form themselvee into words with the precision and
brilliancy of crystallization."-Mevopolitan Magazine.
" The humane •nd intelligent must hail such a work as that of Mr
SJMPS<IM with a pure and unmixed delight."-Glaagow Fr•e Prua.
" He is devoid of prejudice, ia clear and comprehensive in his views ;
and his pages not only embody the moet advanced opinions of the day,
but present them to the reader in 1uch a connected form, u to add much
to their practical value. We therefore earnesdy recommend thia Trea-
tiae to public attention, and cannot doubt that it will materially contri-
bute to promote the important object of ita publication."-Scotmwn.
A. & C. BLACK, Edinburgh ; LoNGHAN & Co., OaB. & S111TH,
and SHERWOOD & Co. London; and JoHN Cuxxn10, Dublin.
Jult pu/Jluhed, in one 1Jo/. po1t 800, pp. 33"2, price 7a. 6d.
The PHYSIOLOGY of DIGESTION, considered
with RELATION to the Pa1NC1PLEs of DIETETICS. By AN-
DB.EW Co11BE, M.D., Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians
of Edinburgh, and Physician to their Majesties the King and
Queen of the Belgians. ·
" This may be considered aa a contionaaoo of the anthor"• very po-
pular work, • The Principle• of Phyaiology applied to the Preservation
of Health.' and is executed with the ame talent and learning displayed
in tbac publication."-Medico-Chirurgical &tnew.
" Dr Combe must be placed in the first rank of the popular expound.
era of science.••••• He seems to ua to atand alone in the power which
he possesses of imparting interest to the ma&ten that employ his pen,
withont deviating from the aobriety and gravity proper to philoeophic es.
poaition,"-Spectator.
MAE:LACBLAW & STEWART, Edinburgh; and 81HP1t1N, MAR·
. SHALL, & Co., London.
4 BOOltS PUBLISHED.
Bg urlaom ii }tut publilhed, in one tlol. poll 8vo. pp. 438, price 71. 6d.
a Fo14rth Edition, reviled and enlarged, of ,, 1
The PRINCIPLES of PHYSIOLOGY applied to the .
PaESEBVATJON of HEALTH, and to the IMPROVEMENT of PHY·
81CAL an.d MENTAL EDUCATION. By ANDU:W f'..OJIBE, M.D.,
&c. &c.
" The object of the prnent volume is to lay before the public a plain
and intelligible deacriptiou of the etrq,ct11re and uses of some of the more
important organa of the body, and to ebew bow information of this kind
may be ueefully applied both to the preeervatioa of health and to the U..
provemeut of physical and mental education."-(Preface.) By explaia·
iug in detail the oondit:ione of the healthy action of the different orgau,
and their inB.uence on each other, and exhibiting in a clear puiat of view
th• beet means of ful&lliug tboee conditiona, it follows up the general
principlee of moral, intellectual, and physical education, unfolded in Mr
Combe'1 " Comtitution of Mui," and renders them of more easy appli·
catioR by individuala, u well u by eommunitiet. The eale of upwards of
fifteen tlwtuand copiea in England and America, within twenty-aemi
montbe from the publication of the firet edition, ia some evidence of the
ueefulneea of the work.
" A book which ought to be in every family, and in every medicel
library."-London Med. and Surg. Journal.
" This little work, tbouitb uot designed (or the medical profeuion,
may prove very useful to the medical student-perhaps to many medical
practitionen. Be that as it may, it is calculated to prove of emiuenl 161'·
vice to the reading and more intelligent portione_of the public at Jarge."-
M edico-Chirurgical Retiiew.
" It ia far auperior to any work of the kiud that we have met with.-
it ought to be familiar to every ecboolmaater and 1choolmi1treu, aad
caanot be too generally read."-Dr Clark ia Cyclop. of Pract. M"1i·
ciM, Part XXXIII.
LaUlg publilhed, in one tJol. poBl &o, pp. 428, price 71. 6d.
OBSERVATIONS ON MENTAL DERANGE·
MENT; being an Application of the Principles of Phrenology to
the Elucidation of the Causes, Symptoms, Nature, and Treat-
ment of Insanity. By ANDREW COMBE, M.D., &c. &c.
Dr CoHB&'s " work upon iaaanity ia abort, and aound, and mode•t,
like all that gentleman'• writinga, and richly deserving the peruaal. of
eyery educated peraon, whether in the profeaeioa or not."--Dr EIUot-
-·. Cliaical Lecture on Jnaaraity U. Med. Gazette, No. CLXXIX. ,.
" The work ia not au~ by any one of ite kind in medics! science.
-Medico- Chirurgical Rmew, No. XXXI.
" We have peruaed no other book containing ao much of ~-mon
aerue ou the subject of madaeaa, or which presents such striking. inltfUC•
ti.,., and practical analogies between that and the disease• of other ~rte
of the ayatem, and which renden the reader eo familiar with the compl~t.:
by demonstrating ite affinity to other aHectione intimately known to him·
-The Medical Magazine of Bolton,for July 1833.
MACLACHLAN & STEWART, Edinburith; LoNGlllAN & eo., and
SnsPuN, MARSHALL & Co., London.
o,g,izedbyGoogle
