{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__fowler___phrenology_proven_illustrated_and_applied.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenology Proven Illustrated And Applied","mylang":"de"}
PHRENOLOGY
PROVED, ILLUSTRATE{), AND APP~IED,
ACCOMPANU:D BY •
A C.HART;
EMBRArinfG AN
ANALYSISpF THE PRIMARY, MENTAL PO~
.·:·.·~~t.- IN THEIR
VAlllOl!S I)EGREES OF DEVELOPMENT,
'I'BII
PHENOMENA PRODUCED BY THEIR COMBINED ACTIVITY,
AND 'I'BE
LOCA.TION.THE PHRENOLOGICAL ORo&JfS IN THE HEAD:
'I' TOOBTJIBR WITH A
l '
VIE 0~ THE MORAL AND THEOLOGICAL BEARING OF THE IICIENCE.
BY
0 . S. & L. N. FOWLER,
JIB.t.OftOAL PBRIIBOLOOiBTS, •
.1.88111TED BY
SAMUEL KIRKHAM,
AUTHOR OF '1 B.NGLIBB OR.UIJIAR JlC LBCTUUS,u .AND AN
"·B81AY OR BLOCUTION.u
NEW-YORK:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHORS, BY W. H. COLYER,
CORNER OF PEARL AND BBBIUU~ ITRIIJ:TS,
1836.
•
•
ENTBUD,
Aeeordi11110 Act of Co111ress, in the year 1831, by
L.•• FOWLER. & 8. KIRKSAM, 6
Jn the Clerk's Olllce ofthe District Court of the 8outheJWistrlet of
NBWTOR&.
S'I'BtiBOTYPBD BY P. P. IUPL8Yr
lQIW YOU.
- ·
I
.---J
co;::;;pe • A .... •
PREFACE.
To Amerieanize whatever in science and the arts, is capable ef
improving or adorning the mind, or of otherwise benefiting mankind,
is no less the dutyI tb.an it would prove the gloryI ofeverr American
citizen. Americans have had the genius and the mora courage to
point out to the world the landmarks of civil liberty, and the trne
form and principles of free government, and, also, the highroad to
national prosperity by improving and promoting agriculture, com-
merce, and the arts; but, with a deep sense of humility and abase-
ment, it must be acknowledged, that hitherto they have rendered to
foreign literature and foreign science, a far more degrading homage
and submission than that ilemanded of our forefathers by political
tyrants at the period of our Revolution. We have nobly burst the
Ji. bands of despotick rule, and raised a proud beacon of liberty and in-
.. dependence whose light has penetrated and illumined the remotest
corners of the earth; and yet, it cannot be denied, that we have too
generally been content to receive our literary and our scientifick sup-
plies by foreign importations-that we have too long degraded our-
selves by tamely submiuing to the dictu:m of transatlantick writers,
and by servilely. copying the!r works; or, in other words, that ·our
literary and scientifick ~ has brought a blush upon our po-
litical independence.
In nothing bas this spirit of literary servility been more strikingl.f
manifested than in the works of our countrymen upon the science of
Phrenology. Hitherto, no American work has appeared UJlQD this
subject, stamped with originality of thought, or presenting new and
comprehensive views, or even imbodying, to any considerable ex-
tent, facts produced by the soil and climate ofequal rights; but every
thing phrenological m this country, has been either are print, or a
substantial copy, of some foreign work. .
Why this dearth of talent in American authorship upon Phrenolo-
gy1 Is it because foreign writers have exhausted the subject; orbe-
ea'nse it is an exotick plant which no man of genius and learning
dares to touch 1 or because we have not among ns, minds sufficiently
gifted in logical and critical acumen, to grapple with the subject, and
to imbody and analyze the enormous mass of facts presented by the
peculiar condition of the country in which we live1 Surely, if the
genius of science ever demanded an advocate-if ever nature held
tpt her hand, and invited her worshipper to sit down by her side and
,..,.,.; tlke her picture, here the votary of the one and the amateur of the
~
other have inducements and allurements to step forth, which were
never before prolfered to mortal genius. In this land of plenty and
equal rlghts1 conscious of its liberty to exercise any and all of ill
~
powers, the unman mind marches forth unfettered and free. Here
human nature dl!!plays itself in all its varying hues of light and
·. sbde. Here, then, if anywhere, we might expect to find, not only
'-"' ~e greatest variety, but, also, the greatest extremes, of character anil
I z
'
,
'
t
1
iv PJlJ:FACB,
talents, as well as the most striking specimens oforiginal genius, and
all accompanied with corresponding phrenological developments.
Among th011e who have become identified with the American soil,
we find tkree of the five varieties of the human race, namely, the
Anglo-American, the Aboriginal American, and the African · be-
sides an innumerable multitude of every C>ther nation, kindred,
tonguj!, and people, who are every day landing u~n our prolifick
shores: and, in short, here we have all the matenals necessary for
the most ext~nsive, and interesting, and instructive phrenological ob-
servations and experiments. Since, then, the grand basis of the
Jlhrenological system has been laid by Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, in ·
the Old World, does it not behoove some Am.erican genius to step
forward and lay hold of these ample materials thus placed by ProVI-
dence within his reach, and complete this beautiful structure, and
thereby identify the American name with a monument which is des-
tined to become the admiration of all future ages ·1
· Phrenology, it is trne, is yet in it~ infancy; and its wannest 'advo-
cates do not deny, that, for years, it must totter along in its leading-
strings. They do not expect, that, like the birth of Minerva from
the brain of Jupiter, a science of so vast importance can spring at
once into perfect form and maturity. They do not imagine, that, in
the freshness of its tender youth, it can JlOSSess all the strength, and
vigour, and compactness of manhood. They are not unaware, that
centuries have rolled up their rich fioods of discovery to aid in rear-
ing to its present growth, the science of astronomy; and they believe
that the fertilizing efforts of other centuries will be required to per-
fect it: and they are sensible, too, that the same is true pfbotany1 chym-
istry, medicine, and, indeed, of all other sciences. Hence, tney are
not so unreasonable as to suppose, that two or three intellects, however
gigantick, are capable of discovering and perfecting so comprehen-
sive and profound a science as that of Phrenology; but they do be-
lieve, that Phrenology is a noble and thriving plant-a genne oftnu
stience, which has already taken deep root, and which r~>quires noth-
ing lllOre than the fostering care of men of genius and learning to
increase it to a stately tree, whose branchtiS will wave over all na-
tions, and whose fruit will gladden the heart'! af all people.
Of all the subjects in philosophy, that which pertams to the mitt.d
of man, is undoubtedly t!le most interesting ana important. E1ery
discovery, therefore, in this imperfectly-explored regi(lll--every fresh
ray of light cast upon this clouded tract, ~hould be bailed w1th joy
by every votary ofscience and by every friend of mau. This volume
is not designed to supersede the invaluable writings of Drs. Gall and
Spurzheim, and of Mr. Combe, nor does it profess to be10hoUy original;
but it does lay claim to ma7tY important ifllprovement3 in the science
of Phrenology. These consist mainly in presentin~ many Dew and
(a'lthe Authors conceive) useful views upon the subJect; in bringing
forward many new facts and the result of many observations and suc-
C6Sful experiments, which serve as new proofs of the truth of the
science and illustrations of its principles and utility; in supplying
many gross deficiencies of the other writers upon the subject; and,
above all, in presenting the subject in a far more practical form than
it has been heretofore given. These several improvement!', how-
ever, will be more clearly understood by giving a definite, numeri-
cal Hatement of them.
..
o'g''"•d by Coogle
-::-cz-·~
PHRENOLOGY
PROVED, ILLUSTRATED, AND APPLIED.
GENERAL REM.ARKS IN PROOF OF PHRENOLOGY.
PHRENOLOGY professes to point out a connexion between
certain manifestations of the mind; and particular conditions
and de'Delopments of the brain. It asserts, for example, that
\ ' the feeling of benevolence or kindness, is always manifested
:iii/ and indicated by means of, and in proportion to, a given por-
!11" tion of the brain; (see cuts;) and that the same is true of
cautiousness or circumspection, of lD'De, hatred, and reason,
and of all the other mental faculties and feelings ; and, vice
versa, that the relative developments and various conditions
of given portions of the brain, manifest and indicate the
character and talents of individuals; so that the one can be
always ascertained by an observance of the other.
Phrenology also claims to be a new and complete system
·of intellectual and moral philosophy, and professes to devel-
op and illustrate the fundamental principles of human nature
-principles which are inseparably connected with man's im-
provement and happiness, and which embrace every thing
,pertaining to him as a phrsical, moral, and intellectaal be-
mg. It rests for support, m part, upon the truth of the fol·
lowing propositions.
I. TAe brain is the orgo:R. of the fllind, or that corporeal
instrument which the mind employs in the exercise of
thought and feeling. This proposition is established by the
following arguments.
First. How impossible soever it may be for us to compre..
· bend the connt.xion between mind and matter, it is, neverthe-
less, indisputably true, that we have no knowledge of the
operations of the mind, except through the medium of its
physico.l organ, the body. This fact admits ofthe most am-
ple proof; but, without proof, it must llc obvious to every one
8 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
who reflects at all-obvious that we know nothing of mind,
in this life, as a separate entity, or a thing that acts indepen-
dent of its organick apparatus.
Second. Since the body is the instrument of the mind, it
follows, that the mind must act upon the physical world,
either directly through the whole body, or by means of some
particular portion ofit. But it would be absurd to suppose,
that the mind employs the whole body as its corporeal organ;
for it is well known, that the -oariOUI parts of the human
frame, with the exception of the brain,• such as the limbs,
the lungs, the heart, the liver, the stomach, the viscera, &c.,
are exclusively occupied, each in performing its particular
class of functions. Hence it may be inferred, analogically,
that some particular portion of the body is allotted to the
exercise of the mental functions-il class of functions im·
mensely more important than all those which fall to the lot of
the whole body besides: and inasmuch as all the other parts
of the body are known to be employed in the perfonnance of
the other functions, it follows, that the brain must be devoted
to the performance of the intellectual functions.
Third. Another and, perhaps, stronger evidence that the ·
brain is the organ of the mind, may be derived from its im-
portant location in the human frame, and the extreme deli-
cacy of its wonderful structurB. Look at its commanding
position, in the superiour and crowning portion of this ma-
Jestir.k structure called man I See the J!~atchless skill of the
Divine Architect displayed in protecting, from external in-
jury, this exquisitely-wrought instrument; first, by the scull,
so elegantly and wonderfully shaped, and so judiciously di-
vided into its various frontal, lateral, and occipital portions ;
and aH these so ingeniously and so strongly joined together
by their respective suturts! And in order still farther to
strengthen this bulwark of the intellect, we find the scull
again divided into its external and internal tables; and these
tables supported and united by an intervening, spongy sub-
stance called diploe, which renaers it less liable to be cracked
or broken. This ossifick ball is also strengthened by the
scalp or skin; and this, again, is both protected and adorned
by a thick coat of flowing hair. But, when we talcc a view
of the interiour of this "dome of thought," this "palace of
the soul," and survey its beautiful chambers, so superbly
• The •J1ktn may at.o be COD8idered anolher ezcepclon; bU\ it Is too anlm·
pol'lallt to be DOtieed In tbe IJ'IIIIDOUI.
-·
THE BR.UN THE ORGAN OF THE XIND. 9
lined with the dura mater-when we look at the pia mater.
which envelops the brain, and at the ingenious contrivance
of that secreting membrane, the tunica amchnoidea, placed
between the dura and the pia mater to lubricate and soften
both-when we examine the partition walls of these cham-
bers. formed by the falciform process of the dura mater, and
the connecting fibres of the two hemispheres of the brain,
styled the corpus collosum-when we scrutinize the cineri-
tious substance of which the brain itself is composed, and
notice the beautiful convolutions in which it is deposited-
when we observe that this organ is the grand centre of all
the most delicate and intricate machinery of the human frame,
the origin of the spinal marrow, and of the whole nervous
system, and, moreover, the recipient of, at least, one-third of
the vital flood propelled by the heart-when we look at all
- - this, the conviction is forced home upon us, that the Great
Architect would not be likely to make such a display of wis-
dom and skill in the formation.l9cation,and protection of the
brain, unless, in doing so,· he had .SOJOC important end in
view-unless, in short, he designed the brain to perform tb~ -­
menta.l functions.
Fourth. It ha~ been fully proved by anatomical demonstra-
tions, that the nerves of feeling, seemg, hearing, smelling,
&c., have their origin in the brain, and even compose a por-
tion of that organ; and the functions of these nerves, consti-
tute a portion of the intellectual operations. Now, since a
po·rlion of the mental functions, is performed by a part of the
brain, it is a log-ical induction to infer, that the remaining
mental operations are performed by the remaining portions
of the brain ; and, without' first showing by what organ or
organs the other intellectual phenomena are performed, no
one can logically call in question this induction.
Fiftk. An inflammation of the brain produces a derange-
ment of the mental faculties; and its debility causes mental
weakness, and sometimes even imbecility ; but no. such effects
are produced by the inflammation or debility of any other
portiOn of the body. A suspension ofthe action ofthe brain
by pressure, or other causes, produces a suspension of the
action of the mind, while the animal functions continue to
operate. The destruction or injury of even a portion of the 1
brain, (when it reaches an organ on both sides of the head,)
causes a derang£'ment of some of the mental faculties; but
the mutilation of any other part of the body, such, for exam-
10 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
ple, as the amputation of a limb, produces no such effect.
How can these things be accounted for on any 'ot~er princi-
ple than that which recognises the brain as the organ of the
mind~
Sixth. There is found to exist a reciprocal proportion be-
tween the power and qualities ·of the mind, and the size;
activity, and shape of the brain. An observation of the va-
rious classes of animals, will illustrate this position. The
worm has little or no brain, and (except .sensation) little or
no intellect or passion. The frog, the toad, the turtle, &c.
have a contracted and flattened brain, and the mental powers
proportionally weak. The dog, the monkey, the elephant,
&c., possess a cerebral development far superiour to those
animals last-named, and an intellect equally superiour. Idi-
ots are found to possess brains vastlv inferiour to those be-
longing to men of ordinary talents·; and these, again, a
development of this organ far inferiour to that of a Frank·
lin, a Bacon, a De Witt Clinton, a Webster, a Bonaparte, a
Sir Walter Scott, &c. : in other words, as we rise in the
scale of ~nimnted· being from the lowestgradetothe highest,
at every ascending step, we invariably find, particularly in
the coronal and frontal regions of the head, (in which,
according to phrenology-. the intellectual and moral organs
are located,) an additiOnal amount of brain. Are these
things merely the result of chance ; or do they show de-
sign ?-are they merely accidental; or are they the result
of fixed and immutable laws?
Other arguments in favour of the proposition that the
brain is the organ of the mind, might. easily be adduced;
but, since it is generally admitted by the great naturalists,
anatomists, physiologists, metaphysicians, and philosophers,
it might fairly be assumed, and the burden of proof thrown
upon those who call it in question. _
II. The mind consists of a plurality of innate and inde-
pendent faculties-a congregate of separate, primary pow·
ers. The truth of this proposition may be shown by the
following arguments.
First. The mind performs different clams of functions,
or various kinds of operations, such as love, hatred, fear,
reason, sensation, &c. ; and, throughout all nature, different
classes of functions are always performed by different in·
struments. It is admitted, that seeing and hearing are men·
tal operations, and, also, that they are performed by different
~
o'g''"•d b,Google
lUND A PLURALITY 01' FACULTIES. 11
faculties. (See second argument under this proposition.) It
is likewise admitted, that the functions of love, hatred, rea-
son, &c., are intellectual functions, differing in their nature
and qualitieS no less than those of seeing and hearing. If,
then, the economy of'nature requires, that the mental opera-
tions of seeing and hearing, should be performed by ·differ-
ent faculties, why should not the same economy also demand,
that the mental operations of loving, hating, reasoning, &c.
should also be performed by as many different faculties 'l
The mind, therefore, consists of as many different faculties,
or primary powers, as it performs different classes of func-
tions.
Second. The mind is capable of doing several things at
the same time-of seeing and loving a friend, of reasoning
and feeling upon a subject, of talking, walking, looking,
thinking, hearing, &c., and all simultaneously; which could
not possibly be done by a single faculty. According to the
theory of Dr. Thomas Brown,• the mind is but a single
faculty o.· power, and all the various mental operations are
the product of this single faculty in different states, or modes
ofaction :--seeing, for example, is the mind, or, what is the
same thing, the man, in a state of seeing; hating, the mind,
or the man, in a state of hating; reasoning, the man in a
state of reasoning, &c. If this is so, how can the same
mind, or, what is equivalent, the same man, be in two or
more different states at tke same instant? How can an in-
dividual, at one and the same time, be wliolly engrossed in
seeing his friend and in loving him 'l How can n ~ker
carry on, simultaneously, a train of tkougkt and a pt&ess
of feeling? or how can he reason better when excited than
when not excited 'l If this theory were true, while looking
at a wound we could not feel its pain, but, with perfect ease,
We might relieve its pain by simply looking at the wound,
o~ at any other object, or by engaging the mind in the exer-
Cise ?f any other function; for, inasmuch as it would be im-
possible for us both to see and feel at the same time, the
Instant we should begin to look, or tkink, or do any thing
else,.we should cease to feel. But since we can see the per·
fo~tmg needle whilst we feel its smart; can see our friend
whilst loving him ; can be, at the same instant, both devisin&'
and executing; can be walking, and talking. and seeing, an<l
• Brown'a Philosophy of the Human Mind.
........._..
12 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
reeling, ·and reasoning, &c. simultaneously, and as these
require each the exercise of the mind, it follows, that these
various classes of functions, and, by a parity ofreasoning, that
all the different classes of mental functions, are performed
by as many different faculties, several of which can be in
simultaneous action.
The supporters of Dr. Brown's theory, maintain, indeed,
that the mind can perform but one class of functions at a
time; but this can eusily be shown to be incorrect; for, if ,
this position were true, the moment one should begin to
walk, which requires the exl.'rcise of the mind, and all the
time he is engaged in walking, he must necessarily cease to
perform any and all other functions; and so of seeing, hear-
lng, feeling, &c. Suppose, for example, an orator is deeply
engaged in addressing an audience : according to this the-
ory, he must be engaged one moment in thinking, the next,
in feeling, the next, in looking at his audience, the next, in
gesticulation, and so on through the whole round of mental
operations which it is necessary for him "to perfon.a, before
he can rec.ommence the circuit of the various functions en-
tering into the delivery of his discourse; but, it is evident,
that he may be, at one and the same time, beholding his au-
dience, gesticulating, and pouring forth a powerful current
'Of thought commingled with deep· emotion; or, in other
words, at one and the same time, exercising all the various
faculties necessary to the performance of his oratorical
effort.
But, sny the supporters of this theory, in such instances,
the mind does not perform several classes of functions at the
same time, but its transition from one class to another, is so
rapid as not to be observable. Let us look at this argument.
It cannot be denied, that an organ which performs any por-
tion (l( a class of functions, always performs the whole of
that class-that, for example, the organ of vision does all
the seeing, and that no sel.'ing can be effected without its
agericy and action; that no digestion can be performed with-
out the action of the stomach; that no sensation can take
place except by the instrumentality of the nerves of feeling;
no motion, except by the muscles, and .so on; and that this
principle holds good throughout all the operations of nature:
;and hE>nce it follows, that the action of the brain, (which has
been proved to be the organ of the mind,) is just as neclll!-
.sary in every, as in any, operation of the mind ; and, conse-
I
.,
1
lUND A PLURALITY OF FACULTIES. 13
quently, that there can be no operation of the mind without
a corresponding action of the brain : and, moreover, that a
dw;R-ge m the operations of the mind, must nee~~rily pro-
duce a change in the action of the brain. Jf, then, the mind
were a single faculty, and, consequently, the brain a single
organ, their united transition from one elass of functions to
another, could be no more rapid or instantaneous than that of
the eye, the finger, or any other corporeal organ, and, of
course, not so instantaneous as not to be obsereable ; and, if
not observable, (which all will admit,) it cannot exist: and,
therefore; the mmd cannotbe a single faculty. .But according
to the principle, that the mind consists of a plurality of faeul·
ties, any, or even all, of these faculties may be in simultane-
ous and harmonious action--a principle as remarkable for
beauty and consistency, as the old theory is for deformity
and absurdity.
7'hird. The diversity of human character and talents,
proves the plurality of the mental faculties. If the mind
were a sing}~ faculty, all minds must be exactly alike in
their nature, their qualities, and their modes of action, and
could differ only in their strength and activity; which is
by no means the case: but, if different minds possess the
various faculties in different degrees of development, they
must, like the primary colours mingled in various propor·
tions, differ accordingly ; which is the fact. If the mind
were a single faculty, it could work just as well in one har·
ness as in another--could perform all classes of mental op·
erations with equal facility and success ; and every man
could succeed equally well in any and in every pursuit-
equally well as a poet, a painter. a musician, a logician, an
orator, a mathematician, a linguist, a mechanick, a naturalist,
a divine,and, in short, in every calling, and in everydepartment
of literature and science. Partial genius, or a taste and tal·
ent for doing particular things, striking instances of which
frequently occur, could not then exist; but all men would be
equally capable of succeeding equally well in any thing and
in every thing. This, however, the experience of almost
every individual, even from thevery cradle, proves to be erro-
neous. Those who are idiots. in some thmgs, are often re-
markably gifted in other things ; which proves that such,
and, by a parity of.reasoning, that all mankind, possess dif
ferent mental faculties, and in various degrees of strength .
and activity.
2
----- ~~
- - '- --~ . ~-==--
14 PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
Jbvrt.l According to the principle, that the mind consists
of 1everal fael!ltiea, it is evident that, in a given time, it can
perform, \)Ot oQly a greater n11.mber, but also, a greater vari· .
dy, of operation:~, which would render it proportionally the
more perfect and useful, In order to show the force of this
argument, let us suppose that the body were so constituted
as to be incapable of performing more t~n one class of
functions at a time, so that, whilst performing the function of
respiration, for example, it would be incapable of exercising
any other function-whilst executing the function of seeing,
that of bearing, of feeling, of digestion, and of every thing
else, must cellae. How infinitely inferiour must such a ma-
chine be, to the magnificent structure which we now pos·
leSs--3 structure capable of proceeding, in the most easy
and elegant manner, in the simultaneous performance of
many widely different classes of functional As, in the op·
erations of the body, scarcely any thing important is ever
effected which does not requ1re the cooperatwn of several,
different organs, so is it with respect to the operations of the
mind, for we rarely meet with any of its products that do not
evince the combined efforts of several of its faculties. If
we look into an author, for example, we can seldom proceed
fin without meeting with a thought that displays the com-
bined action of reason, wit, fancy, and so forth.
Fifth. That the mind consists of a plurality of faculties,
may be proved, in the fifth pklce, by a reference to the men·
tal exercise of memory, by which we are to understand, a
f'tminiscence of the operations of the mind. It has been
ehown, that, if the mind were a single faculty, its operation
would be just as powerful in all classes of functions, as in
any class. In this case, it could not only remember, judge, in-
Yent, construct, copy, &c., with equal success, but its memory
would be just as strong when exercised upon one class of
&cts, as when upon any other class; and, consequently,
every one would be able to remember every class of ,facts
with equal ease and tenacity. But this is seldom, if ever,
the case. Almost every individual is a living witness to the
opposite state of things. in proof of which, it is necessary
only to appeal to observation and experience. Most persons
find it as easy to remember some things, as it is difficult to
remember others: they often find that their associates rec·
ollect what they forget, and forget what they remember.
It is both natural and t>asy for some persons to remember
'·
lUND A. PLU&.A.LITY OJ' FACULTIES. 15
faces, but to forget names; whilst others forget faces, but re·
collect names. The same holds true of size, weight, col·
ours, dates, tunes, places, incidents, &c. Hence, there are ·
.any kind1 of memory ; but this could not be the case if the
mind were a single faculty: therefore, if we admit-what,
indeed, the phenomena of memory compel us to admit-that
· there are many kindt of memory, we must also admit, that
there are, at least, as many se']Jarate intellectual faculties, as
there are sorts of memory: ergo, the mind consists of a
plvrality of faculties. ·
Sixth. A plurality of the mental faculties, is also eata&-
lished by the phenomena of dreaming. If the mind were a
unity, it would act or repose, be asleep or awake, as a wlwle;
that is, one portion of it could not be awake and active,
whilst the remainder slept; and, consequently, all its phe-
nomena, so far as produced at all, would be in perfect har-
mony with each other. But this would entirely preclt£tl4
the phenomena of-dreaming; or, at least, that kind of dream•
ing so very common, in which numerous vivid emotions,
such as joy, grief, terrour, fear, affection, &c. arise, succeed
one another, and depart, without the control of the reason·
ing faculties. These phenomena, however, perfectly har·
monize with the doctrine of a plurality of faculties, some ot
which, being awake and excited to action by some stimulus
which does not affect the other faculties, present those di•
ordered ideas and feelings which constitute a dream, whilst
the repose of the others, permits this disordered action.
Se'!Jent/l.. Partial insanity, or monomania, is utterly at va•
riance with the idea that the mind is a single faculty, em·
ploying in its operations but a .single organ. A derange·
ment of the mind can be caused only by a deran~ement of
the brain. Now, if all classes of the mental funct10ns, were
performed by a single organ, it is evident, that a derange•
ment of this organ, would cause a corresponding and uni·
form derangement of all the operations of the· mind :
whereas, cases of monomania, or a derangementthat extends
to only one or two classes of the mental operations, whilst
all the other classes are performed with perfect sanity and
projiJ.jay, very frequently occur. This, indeed, is the moat
eont- form in which derangement appears, many instances
of wltfeh have fallen under the author's own observation.
We often meet with persons deranged in the matter of love,
or hatred, or on the subject of re)igion, or with respect to
!6 PHRENOLOGY PROYBD.
property, &c., whilst they are perfectly rational on every
other subject ; but, if one and the same faculty exerci11ed the
various functions of love,. and hatred, and religious feeling,
&c., and, also, all the other mental functtons, it would be im-
possible for this single faculty to be deranged in the perform-
ance of these first-named functions, whilst it was perfectly
sane in the exercise of all its other functions : consequently,
it is impossible for the mind to consist of only a single fac-
ulty.•
Eighth. The relief, and even refreshment, afforded to the
mind by a change of thought, study, feeling, &c., furnish
another evidence of a pl-urality of the mental faculties; for,
if the mind were but a single faculty, this single faculty
would have to perform all the mental operations, llnd, con-
aeqttently, would be just as much exhausted and fatigued by
its exercise in performing any Cine class of fUnctions, as in
any otR.er class; and, lherefore, when fatigued by exercising
one class of functions, it could, not only, not be relieved or
refreshed, but would be still farther exhausted, by dropping
that class, and taking up another. But what is the language
of facts touching this subject 'l How is it that the mechan-
iek, when fatigued by hard labour in his shop, experiences
relief and refreshment by taking a smart walk to h1s meals 'l
Not, as has been intimated by some, by the mere no·oelty
presented by the change, but, by giving rest to the fatigued
organs, and by bringing into exercise another set of organs.
What is here predicated of the physical phenomena, holds
equally true when applied to the intellectual phenomena.
The student, for example, when suffering great fatigue of
mind from a long and continued pursuit of mathcmaticks, or
metaphysicks, often turns to chymistry, history, the study of
language, of geography, or, perhaps, a work of imagina-
tion, with new vigour and fresh delight, although his fatigue
of mind is too great any longer to continue the first study.
The fact that a cluJ,nge of subjects or studies, affords relief
and refreshment to the mind, .is too familiar to n~d farther
illustration; and the inference to be drawn from 'it, is per-
fectly obvious, namely, that this change which presents an-
other subject of study, calls into exercise another stt of fac-
tdties.
• For a farther illustration oC tbl• point, see Dr. A. Combe, and aleo Dr. Spur.
belm, upo11 ln~~a~~lty.
. ~
-___...----- ----
o'g''"•db,Google _j
It .
TB.E BRAIN A PLURALITY 01' ORGANS. 17
Thus it would appear, that the various arguments under
this second proposition, namely, that the mind performa dif·
ferent classes of functions-that it is capable of performing
several classes of functions at the same time-that different
individuals possess the various mental faculties in different
degrees of strength and power, constituting what is called
partial genius-that the perfection of the mind requires that
it should be composed of many faculties-that the phenom·
ena of the various kinds of memory, C{)uld not be produced
by a single faculty-that the phenomena of dreaming could
not result from the operation of a single faculty-that partial
insanity is inconsistent with the idea of but a single mental
power-and that the relief which the mind experiences by a
change of subject, is owing to the exercise of another set of
:fitculties, one and all, clearly demonstrate the truth of the
proposition, that the mind is a plurality of innate and inde·
pendent facultiea, and that this is a fundamental and consti·
tutional principle of the human mind. Many other argu·
mente in proof of this position; might readily be adduced;
but it is believed that the foregoing are abundantly sutficieot.
In the general argument in proof of the truth of phrenol·
ogy, this proposition is all·i•portam, and eTenjtti1Ulameual.
It 11, indeed, the tut and tovdutom of the truth of the sci-
ence. If this proposition should be disproved, phrenology
would fall, "like the baselen fabrick ofa vision, and leave not
awreck behind ;" but if, in connexion with the preceding
proposition, it be established, there can be no such thing as
evading the inference, that pltrenology is TRtJB: and when ·
we prove that phrenology is true, we ~weef away, lik~ spi·
dere' webs, all the okl and crude theories o mental phalOIIO-
phy, and, in their stead, establish, upon an immoveable basi8,
the beautiful and splendid superstructure of phrenological
science.
',t...HI. The BRAIN consists ofIUfiCIMJ different PORTIONS or
··6ROANS, as tlte KIND does of FACULTIES. Throughout all
nature, different classes of functimu are always performed
by different instruments; and no single organ is known to
perform more than one class of functions. It has already
been· stated, that the organs of seeing, hearing, sensatioa,
&c., have been proved each to perform its respective, intel·
leetual function exclusi'l7ely by means of a partleularporlion
of the brain ; and hence it follows analogically, that all the
2•
18 PHRENOLOGY PRO't':&D.
otlu-r mental faculties muat also perform their functions by
means of the othlr portiou of the brain. .
In support of this third proposition, innumerable jtuts havt.
heretofore been brought forwsrd by phrenologists, in addi-
tion to which the author takes the liberty of presenting a
few of the many that have fallen under his own observation.
He once examined the head of a lady who was deranged
in the matter of conscience, but perfectly sane in every other
respect. He found the organ of conscientiousness to be very
large, and much hlated, or much warmer than any other por-
tion of the head. At the rE'<juest of the author, other per-
sons present who were disbelievers in phrenology, applied
.their hands to the head,and very readily perceived, and bore
testimony to, the fact.
While /ractising phrenology in Brattleborough, Vt., a
lady calle upon the author, stating that she laboured under
a great difficulty in expressing her ideas. He remarked that
her organ of language was large, and asked if it had al-
wa,yr been so. She replied, that, until she had an inflamma-
tion of the brain, which was particularly severe about the
-e~r. (above which, this organ is located,) causing excruci-
ating pain in those parts, she could talk with fluency; but
since that time, she often hesitated for words in which to ex-
press the most commonplace ideas. The or~n of language
heing· situated upon the superorbiter plate, Its inflammation
might easily be mistaken for an inflammation of the eyes. ·
· A little girl of Washington, D. C., received a fracture of
the scull in the region in which the organ of tune is localed.
Whilst confined with this wound, which had become irri-
tated, she experienced, what had never been manifested be-
fore, a strong and involuntary propensity to ring. . Thus
the phenomena of muaick was produced by what, under or-
dinary circumstances, we should expect to prevent it, viz. a
wound; and the only solution of the case, seems entirely to
turn upon the fact, that the inflammation was connected with
the phrenological organ oi tune. This case was stated to
the author in 1835, by Dr. Miller; at the house, and in the
presence, of Dr. Sewal, a distinguished physician and anti-
phrenologist.
Several cases of monomania, pt:oduced by wounds and in-
flammation in the cerebellu~. in which the feeling of ama-
tiveness was deranged, have been related to the author. One
·was that of a gentleman in the west, who had to submit to
THE BRAil'f A PLURALil'Y OF ORGANS. 19
the discipline of the straight-jacket, and who died the ninth
day of the disea8e, reported to the author by a Mr. C. An-
.,ther case of the same kind, was reported by Dr. Mille-;- of
Baltimore, and another by Dr. Jackson of Boston; which,
together with 'the thousands of similar ones stated by Drs.
Gall, Spurzheim, and others, all tend to confirm the truth of
the proposition, that the brain consists of a plurality of or-
gans.
The author saw a man in Hatfield, Mass., who possesses
good talents, but who is deranged in the matter of l(fl)e, while
he is sane in other respects. He is often complaining of a
compressed sensation, and of a buzzing sound, exactly in
that portion of the head in which the organ of adhesivenus
is located. Many other cases in which the individuals were
rational, but whose attachments had been interrupted, have
fallen under the author's observation, and in all of which
they complained of a soreness in the same place. In one of
these instances, the individual was unable to rest the back
part of the head upon a pillow, and suffered so much from
the presence of pain as to call in a physician :• meanwhile
the mental suffering, caused by the absence of the object of
attachment, was almost insupportable.
Did the proposed limits of this work permit, many more
similar facts would be presented, hut those given are doomed
sufficiently numerous to prove a reciprocal connexion be-
tween the diseased condition of certain portions of the brain,
and a derangement of particular classes of the mental func·
tiona. Here, then, we rest the argument. If the brain is a
unity, a disease of any portion of it, must affect it as a whole;
and, consequently, (on the supposition that the brain is the
organ of the mmd,) equally affect every function of the
mind; yet, since this is not only, not borne out by facts, but
even in direct opposition to them, the only remaining con-
clusion is, that, instead of the whole brain's being employed
by each, separate faculty of the mind, one portion of it is
employed by that faculty, for example, which performs the
function of anger, aMther portion by that which exercises
fear, and aMther by that which exercises reason, and so of
all the other mental functions. The contrary supposition is
• Through Ignorance of the real cause of the diaease, the mode of treatment
adopted In this case, was very injurious and highly repreheru>ible. Instead ofal·
laying the excitement, by remo~lng the lrallamrnation, a bli8ttr was applied, wbleb
creatly increased the dlaease.
m '"edbyGoogle
PBB.E50LOGY PROYED.
as absurd, and as much opposed to all analogy, both physical
and intellectual, as to suppose that the whole body should be
employed in seeing, the whole in hearing, in digestion, in
respiration, and in every other particular function : and if
this connexion between the faculties of the mine! and par·
ticular portions of the brain, exists at all, it follows, that there
can be no exercise of the one, without a reciprocal action of
the other ; or, in other words, that there can be no exercise
of a faculty, without the exercise of its corresponding or·
gatl; and, vice t~ersa, no exercise of an organ, without the
exerdse of its corresponding faculty. The great Author of
nature would not have established this mutual connexion,
unless the economy of nature required it; and if this econ·
omy requires it in any oM instance, it must, for the same
reason, equally demand it in ttJeTY instance.
It may also be added in this connexion, that, according to
the theory of the unity of the brain, each faculty must, of
necersity, use the brain as a whole in succession, which pre-
cludes the possibility ofthat common and necessary phenom-
ena of the mind, namely, its simultaneous exercise of swtral
faculties.
IV. The variourfactdtier ofthe mind are po11t1sed, orig-
inally, in differtnl dtgrtes of :strength hy different indi-
tJid1J,Q,ls, and also by the sa1ne individual. There exists a
toto celo difference between a Shakspeare and a Franklin, a
Howard and a Nero, a Raphael and a Washington, a Ben-
- jamin West and a Patrick Henry-a difference which nei·
ther education nor circumstances could create, nor even
essentially modify. So strong was the passion for painting
with West, that he bid defiance both to the corrections of
his school-teacher, and the frowns of his parents, and seclu-
ded himself in his garret merely to indulge it; and even
while a mere child, and without instruction, he conceived
and executed some of his most beautiful designs. Diversi·
ty and variety characterize the intellects and the feelings of
men, at least, as much as they do their countenances, and
that, even from the first dawn of the mind, and not unfre-
quently in opposition to circumstances. This diversity of
human intellects, dispositions, predilections, talents, &c., is
too common and too striking to need illustration. EtJery'
individual, in a greater or less degree, furnishes an illustra-
tion of this fact. It has even passed into a proverb, that " a
poet must be horn, and not made;" and this applies equally
1
(
··r;;(rM'
SIZE TBB K:&ASURE OJ' POWER. 21
to the artist, the orator, the meehanick, the divine, the natu·
ralist, the accountant, and even to all who excel in any par·
ticular calling. The happiness ofsociety, and the improve-
ment of mankind, absolutely demand this variety of talqnts
and character ; and, in accordance with this demand, the
Creator doubtless intends, and, therefore, qualifies, one man
for one sphere of action, and another, for another sphere.
If this diversity and variety did not exist, it is evident from
the principle, that like causes produce like effects, that, in
all eases, the same circumstances would form similar char-
acters, and opposite circumstances, opposite characters ; or,
rather, that the character and talents of men would vary in
exact proportion to the variation of their education, circum·
stances in life, &c., so that, the one could always be estima-
ted from a knowledge of the other; but the fact is, similar
circumstances often produce opposite characters and tal~ts,
and opposite circumstances, similar characters and talents.
The conclusion, then, both a priori and from facts, is, that
the various faculties are imparted to different individuals, and
even to the same individual, originally, i1• different degrees
of strength. The force of education, however, in impro·
ving or perverting the faculties, as originally bestowed, in
modifying their relative power, and in changmg their diree·
tion, is not intended here to be denied.
V. There exists a reciprocal proportion be#weert the rel-
ative.strength and power of the 1.1arious mentali'ACULTIB&,
and the size of those portions of the brain, or those ORGANS;
by which they are severally manifested. It has already been
shown, that each mental faculty is exercised, exclusively, by
means of one particular portion of the brain; and, upon the
principle, which holds good throughout all nature, that,
other conditions being equal, size is always the measure of
power•-a principletoo familiar to require proof-it follows,
that the stronger a faculty is, the larger must be its organ;
and, vice versa, the larger an organ, the stronger its faculty.
This proposition is also rendered evident from the estab-
lished and familiar, physiological principle, that the exercise
of any corpore11.l organ, causes its inc.rease. The exercise
of the arm of the blacksmith, causes its enlargement. Those
who spend their lives at the oar, thereby greatly a"gment
the size of their arms and chests, while the lower extremi-
• See Combe'• Sr•tem of PbreDOIOI)', JIRIU 23 to 29, and 90 to 98.
PHRKNOLOOY PROVJ:D.
ties are comparatively feeble. Labouring men generally
possess much larger bodies, nod much smaller heads, than
literary and scientifick men. Give a child no exercise, and
you thereby make him a dwarf. Cease to exercise any por·
tion of the body, and it diminishes in size and strength.
Now, since the brain is one of the corporeal organs, jt
follows, (until the brain is shown to form an exception to
the action of this law,) that the same common law of increase
by exercise, and of decrease by inaction, which has been
shown to govern the other corporeal organs, equally governs
the organs of the brain, causing their increase in proportion
to their exercise. And, since it has been shown, that the va·
rious faculties of the mind manifest their functions by means
of as many organs of the brain-that these faculties differ
in their strength-that the exercise of these organs must be
proportionate to that of their corresponding facultiu-and
that the increase of these organs must be proportionate to
their exercise, it necessarily follows, that the increase of each
organ, must be proportionate to the txercise of its faculty;
that, for example, if, in the exercise of the function of con·
scientiousness, an individu.al calls into action a given portion
of the brain, (see cutt!,) and in the exercise of benevolence,
another portion, he must exercise, and, of course, i11crease,
the organ of benevolence more than he does that of consci.
entiousnesa, i11 proportio1e as he is more benevolent than he
is conscientious; and that the same holds true with respect
to all the other faculties of the mind, and their corresponding
organs of the brain. Hence, a proportion between the two,
must necessarily exist. .
VI. 7'he sk.tvpe of the b-rain may generally be ascertaiH-
ed by the form of the 1ctdl; or, in-other words, an increase
of the various portions of the brai?&i causes a corresponding
increase of the portions of the scull above them ; for, inas·
much as the scull is moulded and adapted to the brain, the
conformation of the brain determines the shape of the scull,
and, with a few unimportant exceptions, corresponds with it.
The scull is merely the protector of the brain, and sub-
servient to it; that is, the scull is formed for the brain, and
not tbe brain for the scull. How unreasonable, then, to
suppose, that the scull should throw any obstruction in the_
way of the development of the brain I This would be like
assuming, that men are made for the houses they occupy,
and not the houses for the men. What I one operation of
,. wa
•
IIBAPE OF THE BRAIN. 23
nature interfere with, and prevent, another operation of na·
ture I Does the bark of a tree obstruct the growth of the
tree 'I Does the shell of the oyster, the lobster, or the turtle,
prevent the increase of, or give shape to, the body of these
animals~ As well might we a~sume, that the skin gives
shape to, and prevents the growth o( the arm, the hand, or-
the scull, as to suppose that the scull controls the size and
shape of the brain.
lt is brought forward as an objection to phrenology, that
an enlargement of the scull can.take place, only by the me-
chanical pressure of the brain, and that the brain is too soft
a substance to produce such an influence upon the scull.
This objection is fully answered by an appeal to that general
law of nature which accounts for the gradual expansion
of the scull as the individual advances in years, by the anal-
ogy of growth and formation as displayed in all her works.
Are not the gradual growth and formation of the wood and
bark of the tree, both mutual and natural? And does not
the same hold true of the hard and soft parts of the shell-fish,
and of every thing analogous in nature~ Can we conceive .
any thing more mysterious or difficult in this, than in any
other operation of nature ~ Is there any thing more unac-
countable in the formation and growth of the brain and scull,
than in that of the wood and bark of a tree 1 The clear
voice of facts speaks in the language of dtmonstration upon
this subject; and from its decision, there is no appeal. Not
only does the whole head, which, of course, includes the
scull, and all the various parts of the head, increase up to
the age of thirty or more, but the form of the head changes.
r.Jore or less, "from the cradle to the grave."
In children the cerebellum (organ of amativeness) is
commonly very small. In middie aged persons (when the
vig-our of the passion is greatest) its· proportionate size is
grt>.atly increased; and in aged persons, again diminished;
an~ the scull adapts itself to this increase and decrease. The
middle of the foreheads of children and youth, is, in general,
extremely full and rounded, while that of men is generally
depressed.
Nor is this the only class of facts bearing upon this point.
Numerous instance~ of the increase of various portions of
the scull, while other portions remained stationary, might
be cited; yet, why should we consume time upon the prop-
osition, that the external surface of the brain and scull, m
PHllJ:NOLOGY PllOVJ:D.
general, correspond-a proposition which is n9t only a mat·
ter of observation, and which is demonstrated by almostevery
scull upon which we ean castour eyes, but which is already
proved to our bands by such men as Cuvier, Magendie.
CharlesBell,• and others ofequal learningand authority,ar
morwver, which is susceptible of physical demonstratior
It remains, then, for the phrenologist merely to ascertl.
what portions of the brain are employed to manifest the van·
ous faculties, and. also, what are the indications upon the
scull of the relative size of these organs, (which, indP .
has already been done by the most critical and exten
observation,) and then he will have sufficient data fu
which to determine even the minutire of the character ar
talents, and of the various mental qualities, of. any and
every individual.
In this conne:rion may be mentioned the fact, that tl·
thicknus of the scull may be determined by its vibrations
speaking, the tones of the voice, &c.
VII. The history, of the DISCOVERY of phrenology, fu.
nishes ample demonst·ration of its truth. Like all the othe1
exact sciences,t every portion of it was discovered, and
brought to its present state of perfection, entirely by induc-
tionr-by an observation and a classification of facts. It
originated with Dr. G~ll. a celebrated physician of Vienna,
who noticed, in the first place, a uniform connexion between
full and prominent eyes, and a talent for committing to mem-
ory. By this happy circumstance, he was led to look for
• In Charles Bell's Anal. II. 390, we are furnished with the followins passage :
"Thus we find, that the bones of the head are moulded to the brain, ond the pe.
euiiar shapes of the bones of the head, are determined by the original peculiari·
111n the shape of the brain." Ills also added in a note, "I have seenone striking
Instance of the sr.ull's decreasing with the brain. II occurred in an individual
who dl~d at tho a,;e of thirty-two, after having laboured under chronick insanity
for upwards often years, and wh~• ""'ntnl weakiii'.RS augmented inproportion to
tlie diminution of the brain and tlie •hn"
nking 'If hi.. scull. The dinnnution or
hia bead in size, attracted his own attention during life." CuviP.r is still more e
pliclt upon the same point. He says, "In all mammlferous animals, the brain
moulded in the cavity ofthe cranium, which it fills enctiy: so that the descriptl·
of the osoeous psrt, atr.,rds us a knowledge o~ at least, the ezternal form of •
meduUarg mass within., Magendie says, '1 The only way of estimating the voluaj
of the brain in a living person, is to take tlie dimensiom 'If th6 acuU," &e. Other
authors might be quoted; but these are sudlcient f"r our vurpose ; sothat anat-
<nnUts and phyBiciam, at least, cannot, with any appearance ofconsistency, quea.
tlon this proposition : and no others have any right to do so. Ita correctness
lltanda, then, unshaken.
t So many phrenoiogleal facta, ai~ like the converging rays of the concave mlr·
ror, tending to the same focu~ all •stabliahin( and confirming the same gener>
principles as the great law or nature, have been collected and ciasaified, th:
until their opponents, upon whom the burden of proof is thus thrown, expl•
these facta upon other than phrenological prfnciplea, phrenoiogillta have an t
dlaputed right 1D number it &mODI the "other enct aeiencea."
DiJ•izedbyGoogle
----
DISCOVERY OF PHRENOLOGY. 25
other signs of.intellect, in other portions of the head, and,
accordingly, when he ascertained that a certain servant-man
was pre-eminent for his kindness and goodness, he took a
·~cast of hi~ ~ead, _and afterwards, the c~ts of several other
·~ersons distinguished for the same trait of character. He
::\en made a careful examination and comparison of these
': !feveral casts, and found, that, although they differed in every
other respect, there was one protuberan<:e, upon the upper
·.nart of the frontal portion of the head, (see cuts,) common
~'- them all. . ·
.' ~The following is the method adopted by Dr. Gall in the
~scovery of combativeness. After collecting a promiscuous
r;~ompany of ordinary persons from the streets, he ascertain-
\ld from them which were cowardly, and which, courageous.
. He then placed the former by themselves and the latter by
'tltemselves, and proceeded to examine and compare the re-
ipective developments of the different portions of their heads,
until he ascertained, that, notwithstanding the great diversity
'· ""of shape in other parts, yet the heads ofthe courageous ones,
e~i ·all displayed a fulness and thickness just behind the top of
n the ear, (see cuts,) and thatthe heads of the cowardly were
W all thin and deDressed in that particular region. This dis-
It: covery-as we I as that of benevolence--was then applied
18•' to innumerable other subjects, until its correctness was fully
en established.
m· The same plan was afterwards pumted by Drs. Gall and
for Spurzheim in the discovery of every other organ. They
travelled through many countries of Europe, visiting the va-
.ge:
pe· rious hospitals, prisons, and other places where extreme cases
;.%'; of character might be found, and examined the heads of all
dual the remarkable persons within their reach, and thus, slowly
~% ; but surely, confirmed the discovery and location of about
:"/ :}hirty of the phrenological organs.: and in this way_ t~ey
,~ •t~ollected an amount of facts sufficient to fasten conviction
~ti )pon every philosophical mind that will examine them.
u~• .:'fhus, in the discovery of phrenology, nothing was theo-
:;!'::.1 rized; but every organ was discovered, and that by observ-
;ue•· ing, that certain manifestations of the mind, are always ac-
tn•.... companied by particular manifestations of the brain. Phre-
m:;·:,nology rests its claims to respect and belief upon the same
'~, :r.,rounds with the sciences of chymistry, mineralogy, botany,
f1~ 1-cllectricity, anatomy, and all the other sciences which are de-
l duced from an observance and classification of natural facts.
I $
m '"edbyGoogle
•
PBRBNOLOOY PROVBD.
VIIL Tke t"'th of pkrenology is maiflly 6'l¥flt10'rl~"
, an appeal to tke demonstrative etndence of PHYSICAL f
In this place an allusion can be made to only a few
innumerable facts that have already been observed in 8\ '
of phrenological science. Throughout the whole a
kingdom, they abound; but, more especially, and in tbf:
striking manner, are ther found to be manifested in that
important and wonderfu of the animal species-man.
The human head generally presentfl a large developt•
of the frontal and coronal portions of the bra'in ; and, ace<.
ing to phrenology, the former of these portions, is the sea
the intellectual, and the latter, of the tnoral, organs.; but,
the brains of animals, these portions are almost entir
wanting, as their heads manifest scarcely any traces of th
organs : and does not this perfectly correspond with t
mental qualities of these different classes of beings1 T
European race (including their descendants in Amf!ri
possess a much larger endowment of these organs, and al
of their corresponding faculties, than any other portion
the human species. Hence, their intellectual and moral
periority over all other races of men. Franklin, Lock
Bac.on, Browne, Edwards, \Vebster, and Drs. Richard a
James Rush, and, indeed, all deep and profound reasone
all original and powerful thinkers, without a solitary exce
tion, possess really immense causality and compariso
Among all the heads examiped and noticed by the. autho
he has never seen one with so very high, broad, and deep
forehead, or, in other words, in which the reasoning organl
are developed in so extraordinary a manner, as in that d
Daniel Webster ;• and where do,we find his superiour fo1
displaying those faculties of the mind which are irnparte~~
by these organs 1 (See comparison and causality very large.
Men of ordinary talent, possess a respectable endowment o
these organs. The Hindoos, Chinese, Am~rican Indian~
and the African race, still less, but much more than the low
er order of animals. Idiots, scarcely any; and the lowe
order of animals, none, or next to none at all. (See illus•
tration by cuts.) 1
The monkey possesses immense philoprogenitiveness,
• In the dllf'erent parta of thle work, tbe author oeeasionally takes the liberty I
tiC referrill,( to indlv[duals whose permiaritm to do ao, he baa n<>t had the oppor·
tlmlty to aak. He truata, however, tbal the cauee of science will be aubaerved
by thia lieenae, and t.hat thia will be reeerred aa a auflleient apoiou. for blm.
PJiaENOLOGY 01' AlUKAI.B. 27
·· c'H.iveness, and individuality, and large secretlveness, com·
··" "41less, &c., and but very little language, -causality, c:om·
· ,.n,• and moral organs; which perfectly ·corresponds
. :llhe character of the animal. The crow has very large ,
•
.•ousness and secretiveness, and large combativeness; the
:.he fox, the weasel, and all those animals which employ
~: -~cy in catching their prey, possess large cautiousness,
·:·. retiveness, and destructiveness; the tiger, the lion, the
11 ~rd, and the panther, or the feline species generally, the
:t:>.ar, the wolf, the fox, the hawk, the owl, the eagle, and all
"'nimals which destroy other animals and live upon their
1~teSh, possess, without an individual exception, large com.
ino.tivenesa and immense destructiveness; while the deer, the
:half; the sheep, the hen, the dove, the pigeon, and all those
1 mimala which eat no flesh, and are not savage in their na.
'Inre, have small combativeness and very little destructiveness.
rif The dog has very large locality, and, accordingly, is able
aiD pursue the deer for successive dsys through tile deep for-
on!ISt. making almost innumerable turnings and windings, ancl
J fel, when he gives up the chaae, can pursue a direct line to
Jchia home. The bear and the awine po88e88 the same organ,
1at.nd also the same faculty, in a remarkable degree. The
neiuniliar fact of tying up a pig in a bag, and of transporting
<Cihim, in this condition, to a distanee, is directly in pomt. It
isllis well known, that as soon as he is released, if he has the
thi.Opportuni~y. he will draw a bee-line for his home. Secre-
epaiveness is 10 extremely developed in the head of the cat ancl
fa4he fox, that the protuberance assumes the appearance of &
tt lf.ittle horn, while destructiveness,though large, comparatively
· f~ires; but in the dog and the bear, destructiveness is much
rte4.arger than secretiveness: and this exactly corresponds with
ge.,he character of each. In the gambols of the kitten, and in
at olthe generat ·diaposition of the cat, we see a great deal more of
anssecrecy and alyness than of destructiveness; but in the dog,
oWj-we see the disposition to bite and tear in pieces without the
wei
!us~ •In ihe monkey, the snperorbiter plate, upon .which lan«uage Ia .oeated, and
the portion of the scull beneath which cauality Ia situated, are joined together,
... tbUJindkallng a waot of these orpna. Their waot of the correapondlngfo.W.
-
"""' liu, i1 equally etrlldJII. In the Indian and African raoes, these portions of tbe
_ eeuUaro aepo.rated, perhaps, one Inch and a half; whiLitin the miniature biUl of
: Fl'lllklln, which Is probably not one-tenth the tlze of hla bead, these oame por.
,er!Y tiona are separated nearly as far aa In the full ~town Indian and African headl.
apor· The heJch\ of this mlnialure bust, li"om the e.nernal openi111 of the ear, Ia J}8o
.(fed nearly u creat aa that of the full·el.led Indian head; whach atrlclly t.ornaponcla
. with the moral character-ofeach.
28 PBlllUfOLOGY PROVED. lden•
use of artifice or cunning. In the head of the monkey, the tc\t
robin, the bluebird, the partridge, and other animala which 1
1 \n~
show an extreme fondness for their young, as well as in fe. fu.t
males generally, the organ of philoprogenitiveness is very to
large; while in the male dog, which is a stranger to this .;::
feeling. no traces of it are to be found. The strength of this
feeling in the female bear, which, as is well known, will ' of
fight so desperately for her cubs, corresponds exactly with ob
the development of the organ in a scull of the bear now in fet
the author's possession.• st1
Facts which sbow the correspondence between the known a
characteristicks of the various classes of animals and their sc
phrenological developments, might be added to almost anr. Ia
eJltent, and their correctness demonstrated by the author s 1a
collection of the sculls of animals. Every menagerie in Cl
the country affords numerous and striking evidences and tb
illustrations of the. truth of phrenology. All animated na· ti
ture teems with facts in its favour: and no striking instance 1
1lu been, or, the affirmation may be ventured, can be, pro- a
duced, through all the gradations and classes which compose ti
the animal kingdom, from the worm up to man, and even d
througll all the different races of men, which can show a e
discrepance between the known and marked characteristicks n
of an animal, and the phrenological developments and con- tl
ditions of his brain ; but, on the contrary, the coincidences
between the two, are invariably found to be the most striking
and satisfactory. Inasmuch, then, as the phrenological
phenomena, from one end of the chain of animated beings
to the other, arc uniformly found to accord with the characters
of these beings, it follows, that the same phrenological law
governs all animals, · and, consequently, causes this uni-
formity.
Yet, after all, it is the human species that furnishes the
most varied, the most striking, and the most copious evi-
• The following anecdote ia well authenticatell Recently a farmer In Allegany
Co., N. Y., on rlsillfln the worniD«, discovered that a sow of his had been k!Ued
In the sty, and that her liueruf pigs wu misal111: and from the tracks of a bo;ar
around the pen, tOJether with copious traces of blood, he conduded that the ptga
bM all bt.eo eaten by the bear. Some time aRer, however, the Iarmer encoun-
tered, in the wuodl, a lai'Je female bear, havlnr In ber charge and keeping hls141et
littu o/'pip. A aharp conlllct ensued. The farmer, determined to recover hia
atnleo property, displayed hia eombatlveneasln a herolck manner; and bruin, &e·
tuated by the atlll ltronJer pasalon of.phlloprO!lenitlveoel8, showed unwonted
prowesa In defendiOK ber paternal ~ht to h~r adopted nfl'aprlng, nntil, at le!lllb.
OO'ercome by the aldH of her human antaa:oniat, she took to llf&ht, carryillf off one
of the l'ttle ~· In her mouth. Thla liniJUlar locldeot clearly a!lowa, !hal
Che bear poaened Jarcer pbllopfOJeniUveoeu than alimentiYeoeu.
,-
UIDU.N DI:VELOPMBNTS. 29
dences and illustrations of the truth and principles of.this
science ; because it is man alone that is capable of perform-
ing the greatest number, and the most complicated kinds, o(
functions-man, whose mind can grasp the great, and attend
to the minute--man, in short, who is lord over all other ter·
rial beings.
A great number of Indian heads and sculls, from many
he different American tribes, has fallen under the author's
observation and inspection ; and he has found, as a general
feature common to them all, an extreme development of de-
structiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness, together with
a large endowment of individuality, eventuality, tune, con-
scientiousness, and veneration, ·and, sometimes, firmness ;
large approbativeness or self-esteem, and sometimes bolll.
large; moderate acquisitiveness, benevolence, causality,
combativeness, amativeness, and constructiveness: and, m
the female, extremely large adhesiveness and philoprogeni-
tiveness ; but in the male, philoprogenitiveness moderate.
This combination of organs indicates just such a character
as the Indians generally possess. Their extreme destruc·
tiveness would create a cruel, blood-thirsty, and revengeful
disposition-il. disposition common to the race--which, in
connexion with their moderate or small benevolence, would
make them tum a deaf ear to the cries of distress, and steel
them to such acts of barbarity as they are wont to practi8e
in torturing the hapless victims of their vengeance. 'fheir
extremely large· destructiveness combined with their large
secretiveness and cautiousness, and smaller combativeness,
would cause them ·to employ "cunning and stratagem in
warfare, in preference to open force;" would give them less
courage than cruelty; cause them to be wary, extremely
cautious in advancing upon an enemy, and to lurk in am·
bush ; and, with high firmness, admirably fit them to endure
privation and hardship, and even the most cruel tortures;
and, at the same time, render them unconquerable: and il
to these \Ve add large approbativeness, we may expect them
to glory in dark deeds of cruelty ; in scalping the fallen foe,{
and io butchering helpless women and children.
Their large conscientiousness would make them grstefu
for favours, and, according to their ideas of jpstice, (which, ill
consequence of their small causality, would be contracted,)
honest, upright, and faithful to their word; and these consti~
tute the principal sum of their moral virtues; but when we
a•
=~~.....~ -
--- --~--
30 PRJlENOLOGY PltOVJ:D.
adl their high veneration and marvellousnesa, we find them
credulous, religious, and superstitious. Their small amollDt
of brain in the coronal region of the head, when compared
with their immense development of the animal passions and
selfish feelings, would bring them chiefly under the domin-
ion of the animal nature of man, and render them little aus-
ceptible of becoming civilized, humanized, and educated:
hence, the rugged soil which they present to the labours of ._
the Christian missionary. Their very large individuality
and locality, and full perceptive organs generally, with their
large destructiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness, would
cause them to delight in the chase, and admirably qualify
them to succeed in it; whilst their small causality, would
render them incapable of producing many inventions and im·
provements, or of reasomng profoundly. Their small ac·
quisitivene88 would create in them but little desire for pro~
-erty ; and this would result in a want of industry, and }eaye
the1n, as we find them, in a state of comparative destitution
as regards the comforts, and even the necessaries, of life.
The very large philoprogenitiveness of their females, admira·
bly quahfies tbem to protect and cherish their offapring undu
the peculiarly disadvantageous circumstances in which they
are placed ; whilst the small endowment of thia faculty iR ·
tlleir males, would cauae them to be comparatively indifkr-
ebt to their children, and to throw the whole burden of taking
tare of them while young, upon the other aex. Their large
tun&, and very large destructtvenesa, would give them a pas-
sion for war-songs and war-dances; and these combined with
their large eventuality. would cause them to adopt this meth·
od of perpetuating their warlike -exploits.
In Washington the author exammed the heads of about
twenty Indians of the Cherokee delegation to Congress, ia
which he found the animal portion of the brain relatively
smaller, and the human and reasoning organs much larger,
than in Indian heads genenlly ; and this perfectly harmeD-
ilea with, and accoonta for, the fact, that this tribe is less
nvage, and more intellectual, than any other. Indeed, the
phrenological developments of some of the Aalfbreedl, were
decisively superiour. 'l'hose examined from Indiana, pas-
leased a much larger development of destructiYeness, and
wem lees talented and civilized. Those, again, from the
Osage tribe, poase98ed a development still more infer.iou.
,..
•:
.A.I'R'IC.A.N BB.A.DS. 31
and a corresponding character. A ecull• from a tribe of
cannibals, located near the isthmus of Darien, which was
examined by the author, presented altogether the worst
phrenological developments of any scull he ever saw. In
shape, it bore a strong resemblance to that of the monkey,
except that destructiveness, secretiveness, and veneration,
and, perhaps, conscientiousness, were larger. Of intellect,
of course, these beings possess very little; and no descrip--
tion can adequately set forth their barbarity and brutal fero-
city, no pen describe their degradation. And thus it appears,
that, in passing from the European race to t_he Indian, and
from one tribe of Indians to another, we find, in every in·
stance, a striking coincidence between the phrenological de·
velopments of brain, and the known traits of character.
The African race as found in America, furnish another
instance of the striking correspondence between their known
character and their phrenological developments. They pos·
sess,t in general, either large; or very large, adhesiveness,
philoprogenitiveness, hope, language, and approbativeness,
or self-esteem, and sometimes both; large veneration, mar·
vellousness, individuality, locality, and tune; with moderate
cauaality, constructiveness, and mirthfulness. Combative·
neas, destructiveness, secretiveness, acquisitiveness, and, per·
haps, conscientiousness, unlike these organs in the Indian
head, vary in size, being sometimes very large, and in other
instances, moderate or small. The size of their heads, is
~Uy moderate or small. Their extremely large hope,
would make them very cheerful, and little an.xioua about the
future; and, with their large approbativeness and small ac-
quisitiveness, extravagant, and predisposed to lead a life of
ease and idlenees. Their very large hope and language,
with amall secretiveness and mirthfulness, would give them
hilarity and garrulity, without much pure wit.
Their large, or very large, tune, which inspires them with
melody, with their smaller reasoning organs, which give
them but few thoughts, and their large language, would fur-
• A cut of thill ecoll, the a~ ben--, le for eale. •
t Individual exceptions to tbia description, are frequently to be met wllh, but
tbe author Ia eoofldent that Ita pneral ffllllo...,a wRI be foaad to be cbaraeterlltlell:.
What the nqroeaare capableof attaiDID& to by edoeatioa and coltlvallon, be doea
not pretend to say, nor is It necessary t'l bls &~"!foment that he should do 1<> ; for be
Ia ~ru~rely pointing ont the coincidenc.ea between their,we- cllani'.tM", aad their
pbrenolOJieal developmenta. Thie, however, be bu observed, that the ID&eUec·
lllalorpoa are, ill g.oaeral, mueh better de.-eloped In coloured cllildr• tban In
~. .
32 I PHRENOLOGY PROVED.
nish exactly such composition as we meet with in negro
songs, doggrel rhymes glowing with vivacity and melody,
and containing many words and repetitions with but few
ideas. Their small reasoning organs would give them but
little depth and strength of intellect, and a feeble judgment,
with very little talent for contriving and planning. Their
'·ery large pbiloprogenitiveness, adhesiveness, and inhabi·
tiveness, would make them extremely attached to their fami·
lies and the families of their masters, and pre-eminently
social.
Their excessively large approbativeness and self-esteem
would create in them that fondness for dress and show, and
that pride and vanity, for which they are so remarkable.
Their large religious organs would produce those strong
religious emotions, and that disyosition to worship, for which
they are distinguished, as wei as those rare specimens of
emment piety sometimes found among them. Their variable
selfish organs would cause those extremes of temper and
character which they display, sometimes running into cun-
ning, thievishness, and general viciousness and cruelty, and
sometimes showing the opposite character. Their large
marvellousness accounts for their belief in ghosts and super-
natural events so often manifested among them ; whilst their
very large language, combined with their large perceptive
organs generally, would create in them a desire to learn, and
enable them to succeed well in many things.
The phrenological developments and characteristicks of
the Hindoos, are no less striking. In them the organs of
destructiveness and combativeness, are generally small;
which renders them less cruel and warlike than the Amer-
ican Indians, or even the European race. Their extremely
large veneration and marvellousness produce that religious
enthusiasm and superstition for which they are so noted ;
and their large acquisitiveness and small conscientiousness
often make them thievish.
Another important argument in favour of phrenology,
mav be drawn from the difference i.n the conformation of the
heads of the two sexes. In the female character, fondness
for children, and general attachment, are undoubtedly pre-
dominating and controlling passions, much stronger, indeed,
than the same passions in the male sex; and, accordingly,
we find the organs of adhesivene.ss, and, particularly, philo-
progenitiveness, so strongly developed in the female bead as
BJ:AD8 OF THE IIEXJ:tl. 33
to elongate, and even deform, the middle portion of the back
part of the head, affording a sure sign by which to enable
the phrenologist to distinguish the female from the male
head. ·
The timidity, trepidation, and anxiety of the su, is pro-
verbial; in accordance with which. in their heads we find
the organ of cautiousness much larger tb.an in the male, and
combativeness and de.structivenesa much smaller: and this
perfectly harmonizes with the iiu:t, that they are more amia·
ble, and less cruel, than the other sex. Man possesses more
dignity, sternness, and force of character than woman, and
has less to do with trifles ; and we find in his head, not only
a superiour endowment of cdmbativeness and destructive-
ness, but also of self-esteem and firmness. The moral and
religious organs are generally much larger in the female,
than in the male, head; and we knowthat women are much
more inclined to religious worship than men. Ideality is
commonly larger in females ; and in harmony with this, we
find them more refined anddelicate in feeling, and possessed
of better taste.
The sympathy and kindness of woman is also proverbial
She will go much farther than man (with reverence, and to
her everlasting honour, be it recorded) in herassiduities and
unremitting attentions to the sick, the needy, and the atllict·
ed ; she will do, she will suffer, she willSI\Crifice any thing
and every thing to relieve distress, to bind up the broken-
hearted, and to pour the oil of consolation into the wounds
of a troubled soul : and all from pure motives of kindness,
affection, love, and duty. The phrenologist alone, is capa-
ble of developing and· explaining this interesting mystery.
He can place his finger upon her superiour organs of benev-
olence, conscientiousness, adhesiveness, and philoprogeni-
tiveness.
But the justice of the Great Giver, would not allow the
sex to lay claim to all that is superiour. The reasoning or-
gans are not so strongly developed in the softer, as in the
nobler, sex; (whether from a want of cultivation, or from
some other cause, the author does not pretend to decide;)
and, accordingly, we find the former leas distinguished for
originality and power of thought than the latter.
If the mind were a single faculty, and the brain a single
organ, and, of course, phrenology a farce, we might expect
to find a uniformity in the shape of the heads of the two
o;J,izedb,Google
,~.c
t~a
;.cl
~el
tl>l
e:O
::7e
o\;
p
:fj<
~
~
-1J
~
E
1
34 PHRENOLOGY I'ROVBD.
sexes, and, also, uniform developments in the head~
various individuals of the same sex; that is, e:xactJ
verse of what we find to exisl. Now, this maTJ.
ence in the conformation of the heads of the diff'e1
of men, of the sexes, and of different individuals, m1
be designed for some wise purpose, or it must be at
That it is accidental, no rational mind can believe;
is the result of design in the great Author of it. th1
sion is obvious, that it must have a direct refererict
different qualities of mind known to be possessed b
different races, Se.J{{)s, and individuals.
Thus far, then, the author has presented only a few
numerous clMses of facts which go to prove the tru
phrenology. Should he descend to particulars, vol~
would be required to enumerate even the striking insta
which, in the course of a few years' practice in the scieCJ
have fallen under his own observation. Many additi<
facts will be interspersed through the following pages of
work.
Phrenology is either wholly true or wholly false. If
phenomena which support it, are fortnitolls or accidental,
truth of phrenology may be doubted ; but if they are
result of fixed laws-of the unalterable principles of natu
it must be true. But the uniformity and harmonyobserva:
in these phenomena, render it impouible that they are 1
mere product of chanc~ : hence it is impouible that phren
ogy can be untrue. Phrenology, then, is consistent in tl
ory, and, by an appeal to nature and to facts, susceptible
PHYSICAL DEMONSTRATION. Let judgment be prODOUnC
upon it, then, at this tribunal alone, and let it stand or f
accordingly. It boldly challenges the most scrutinizi
examination. They who question its truth, are called UJ
to disprove the foregoing propositions, and to account for
facts which support it, on other than phrenological prin
ples : and th.
e importance of the subject, makes this call
reasonable one.
The author is willing that the truth or falsity of this sc
ence, should wholly turn on his oton ability to apply tb
principles in describing the character and talents of indivio
uals by an examination of their heads. For several ye8l
• Should the present work be favourably received by the pnbliek, It Is the d·
sign of the author soon to publish a larger work upon tbe subjeel, In which ma
more individual facts will be stated. _
e heacr ··~·
ezactl .,tal.,
marl ; [1.
dilfe1 .l•M·
!s,m1 ..,:'f' ·:
be at id1et'
Jve; '{I~.
ir, tht '.,.,
BEADS OJ' TBB SEXES. 36
· Ml oeeasions, and under every disadvantageous cir·
l~ven when opposed by prejudice, by envy, by
··+ridicule-he has boldly challenged thosa who
"!le truth of phrenology, to te.st him in any and in
·3' which their skepticism and their ingenuity could
renct
;sed it
) ind, although, at first, whilst he lacked experience,
' some mistakes, yet, he can appeal to more than ten
f living witnesses, who have been present at his pub-
•tpinations of heads, (as well as to the testimonials
·I ., :~d at the close of this work,) who will bear evidence
. . great and wonderful accuracy with which, in ninety-
a few ·· ."~ases in a hundred, he has described, even in minute
the tru · 4f; the character and talents of those examint:d-notwith-
rs, .vol: ·:!flog very many of these examinations were made by the
lg 10~18 · ·llj of touch alone, the author's eyes being covered. Obser-
he SCI.e~ :Jn and experience, in short, have as thoroughly convinced
r addltfJ.c.l. r~author of the truth of phrenology, as he is satisfied of
ages o t · ~truth of chymistry, electricity, or any other of the natu-
lf ~
sciences, and by the same kind, and an equal amount, of
1~. t . deuce.
~Jdental, tJ •Phrenology, then, demands assent to the following series
ey are th~ropositions, namely, that the brain is the general organ
' ofnatu the mind-that the mind consists of a plurality of facul-
observa~lt
. that each of these faculti~s is exercised by means of a
lY ahre 1 · icular portion of the brain-that these several faculties
t P.reo• ;_
~ possessed in different degrees of power by the same in-
mt .m th ~dual, and also by rlitferent individuals-that the size af
epuble r.'t-se several portions of the brain, or organs, is proportion-
moun1 . ·~~. t~ the power and exercise of their respective fac~lties'-
d. 0.r . ~. m general, the shape of the scull corresponds w1th that
tdzzt ~he brain-that phrenology was discovered, and thus far
efiUI · ~red, wh.Jlly by induction-and that the whole animal
t m: :-;'1gdom, and especially the human species, both prove and
prln ~strate the truth of this science.
s call ,"' But, as phrenology claims to be supported by facts, they
. ,.[tose opinions are valuable, will neither form nor express a
thiS ~ ,,,~ision upon its merits, uniil they ha!e examined a.suffi·
plY. . ·· nt number of these facts to decide understandtngly.
JOdJVl' · elf-conviction," observes an able, phrenological writer,
1 yea! .• ust depend upon self-observation." As the field is open
- - ;
1
· ·:every one, and is easy of observation, all are invited ·to
fc~b:. -.unine and judge for themselves. In this work will be
I
l
86 TEMPERAMENTS.
found our rules ; and all, into whose hands it may fall, will
be able to apply them to the characters and developments of
their friends and acquaintances, and thus either prove or dis·
prove phrenology.
,
··~
..
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
TEMPERAMENTS.
As the illustration and application of the principles of
phrenology, necessarily combine with them much evidence
of the truth of the science, it is impossible to treat these sev-
eral branches of the subject in a manner wholly distinct and
separate.. At every succeeding step of the author's progress,
therefore, he will be able to present additional proofs of the
correctness and importance of the science.
Since the brain is the organ of the mind, and its action
necessary in every operation of the mind, we may naturally
expect a most intimate relation to exist between the two, and,
also, that this relation is reciprocal. Through the nerves
there likewise exists 'a most intimate and close connexion
and sympathy between the brain and every other portion of
the human system ; hence, it is evident, that the various
conditions of the brain, and of the several parts of the body,
must effect, in the most direct manner, the manifestations of
thought and feeling. This, indeed, is a well-known fact;
but, nevertheless, one that is not appreciated nor acted upon
in any due proportion to its real value.
It is well known that, after the excitement produced by
drinking ardent spirits, has subsided, their effect is to lethar-
gise the powers of the intellect, and leave them in a similar
state of torpor with that of the body-that a given amount
of opium, or calomt>l, or arsenick, will drive from its throne
the feeling and thinking principle-that, in short, the ex-
haustion and the rt>freshment ofthe body and of the mind, are
proportional and reciprocal. Yet, how little are the natural
laws of this mutual relation between body and mind, regard-
ed or attended to I The phenomena of the earth and its
surrounding elements, the mechanical principles, the laws of
numbers and proportion, and of the various branches of phys-
ical science, are studied with the greatest assiduity, and apo
plied with the greatest care as far as they tend to promote
our physical \vants and comforts, whilst the laws and condi·
4
•
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tion:t which regulate the mental manifestations, are nearly
overlC?oked. Mens sanis in corpore sano, is, to be sure, an
adage often repeated, but seldom undt'rstood.
Every day's observation confirms and deepens the convic-
tion the autlior has long entertained, that much more is de-
pending upon the physiology of the body and tbfo qualities
,-.of the brain, or, what is the same thing, upon the tempera-
ment, than upon the size and combinations of the organs-
that the depraved manifestations of the organs, or those vices
which everywhere abound, and which pour forth such a
flood of corrupti,on among men, originate not in the nature
or the combinations of the organs or of their faculties, but in
the disordered physiology of mankind. For example: it is ad-
mitted that the size of the organs is not directly changed by
an impropE>r use of ardent spirits; but who does not know,
that the vices of an individual, may be easily augmented a
hundred-fold by habits of intemperance1 And why isthis 1
Simply b£'cause his physiology is deranged. Now, why
should not every derangement of the body, whether brought
about by the use of alcohol or wine, or an improper quality
or quantity of food, or by any other cause, produce the saine
result 1 And is not the conclusion just, that the ocean of
sin, and consequent misery, which swallows up nt'arly all
that is lovely, and elevated, and desirable among men, is
produced by the same cause 1 This portion of the expan·
sive fit'ld of phrenology, and, also, its kindred one, viz. that
containing the laws of propagation and its accompanying
phenomena, and which are undoubtedly the most fertile
parts of the whole phrenological soil, art', as yet, compara·
tively unexplored. With the open volume of nature in one
hand, and the torch of truth in the other, phrenologists alone
have entered upon this immense and valuable tract. The
Wotks of A. Combe upon this subject, are valuable above all
praise.
These digressive remarks, which, were they carried outto
the extent their importance demands, would require volumes,
will enable the reader to understand what the phrenologist
m~abythe
TEMPERAMENTS.
The word TEMPERAJIIENTsis here used to denote certain
~us or co7Ulitions of the body, or the relative activity of
particular clas&es of \he corporeal organs.
TEMPERAMENTS. 39
Other conditions being equal, the strength and power of
the various fa<fulties of the mind, are in proportion to the
size of their corresponding organs of the brain. Yet, since
much depends upon the quality, organization, and. activity of
the brain, and this upon the quality, organization, health,
habits, and activity of the body, or, in other words, upon the
temperament, a small bmin often gains, in these respects,
what it loses in size. All great men are found to possess both
a favourable temperament and a large brain.
The temperaments are divided into four kinds:
1. The lymphatick, or phlegmatir.k, in which the secreting
glands are the most active portion of the system; indicated
by soft and abundant flesh, and languor of the pulse, and of
all the corporeal and mentnl functions; by a dull, ease;seek·
ing, inefficient, indolent, .disposition, and nn aversion to cor-
poreal and intellectual effort. Great excitement is necessary
to arouse one with this temperament to effort, yet the action
may then be a powerful one. This temperament is often
found among the Pennsylvania Germans, and also io ne-
groes.
2. The sangu.ine, in which the arterial sgstem, and the
organs which circulate the various fluids, particularly the
blood, are most active i indicated by light or sandy hair, fair
skin, a fresh and flond countenance, light or blue eyes, a
strong and rapid puh>e, strong animal passions, and more ar-
dour, enthusiasm, activity, and zeal, than strength and power
of mind or body.
3. The bilious, in which the muscular portion of the sys-
tem predominates in activity; characterized by a more ath·
letick form ; by strong bones and muscles, black hair, a dark
skin, and dark eyes; a strong and steady pulse, hardness,
strength, and power of body, accompanied with considerable
force and energy of mind and character.
4. The "ervous, in which the brain and the nervous sys·
tem are much more active than the other portions of the
body, which gives rise to, and is accompanied by, the highest
degree of excitability and activity of the corporeal and men·
tal powers; vividness and intensity of emotiqn ; clearness
and rapidity of thought, perception, and conception; spright-
liness of mind and body; light, fine, and thin hair ; a fair,
clear, and delicate skin and countenance; and more activity,
vivacity, and intensity, than power and ~ndurance, of mind
an~ body.
40 J'HRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
These teaperaments are generally compOunded: the ner·
vous-sanguine gives the highest degree ofactivity and inten·
sity of thought and feeling; the nervous-bilious, activity,
accompanied with power and endurance, constituting one of
the most favourable temperaments, especially when united
with a little of the sanguint1 ;• the'bilious-lymphatick gives
mental and corporeal indolence, accompanied with pOWer
under strong excitement ; the sanguine-lymphatick, is less fa-
vourable to intellectual, than to corporeal, manifestations, &c.
But since these temperaments, and other conditions, ex-
cept the size of the respective organs, are alike ir' the same
head, it follows, that the power and energy of each faculty,
are proportionate to the size of its organ ; so that this work
will generally present a comparison between the different
faculties of the same individual, rather than between the
various faculties of different individuals.
INFLUENCE OF EDUCATION.
The influence of education, which is admitted to be very
great, is exerted chiefly in directing and modifying the op·
erations and the manifestations of the various faculties, rath·
er than in increasing or diminishing their strength and
power, or the size of their respective organs. The function
of combativeness, for example, when trained in the ruder
states of society, manifests itself chiefly in physical combat,
family feuds, personal prowess, and hatred as manifested by
open violence and force, bodily exposures to danger, &c. ;
while the same amount of the same faculty, even with a
similar combination of the other faculties, when the subject
is educated in refined society, and placed under the restraints
of law and religion, manifests itself chiefly in intellectual
and moral courage and resistance, in sarcasm, hatred, &c. ;
and yet, the primary function of resistance and opposition,
in both instances, is the same in its nature, degree, and aims. ·
1'he same is true of all the other faculties ; so that, in de-
scribing character correctly, it is necessary for the phrenol-
ogist to know under what injl:umcts, and in. what circum·
stances, the individual examined, has been placed.
The author does not intend, in this connexion, to touch
upon the influence of education in radically changing the
• Henry Clay.
-
IBAPW 01' TBE ORGANS.
relative power and activity of the various mental faculties.
or in moulding and materially changing the character of in-
dividuals, but he will reservl} for a future chapter, some re-
marks upon its importance, its influence, and the proper
method of conducting it.
SHAPE OF THE ORGANS.
Each mental faculty, as has been already shown, is mani-
fested by means of two organs, occupying a cGrresponding
portion of each hemisphere of the brain. The same princi·
ple of double organs obtains bert>, as is exemplified in the
case of the eye, the ear, &c., and, doubtless, for the same
good rt>ason, namely, that when one organ is injured, the
other may perform the function. In shape, the organs are
conical, their apex being at the medulla ablongata, and their
base at the skull. The medulla oblongata is situated at the
base of the brain, or, rather, forms thq capital of the column
of the spinal marrow. A straight line drawn from the open·
ingofone ear to that ofthe other, would pass nearly through it.
A more particular account of the anatomy of the brain, as
connected with phrenology, may be found in Dr. Spurzheim's
Phrenological Works, and in G. Combe's "System of Phre-
nology." As the limits of the present work, do not give the
author sufficient space to do justice to this subject, it is left
comparatively untouched, and, as it has been so fully and so
ably presented by these authors, it is the less necessary that
he should enter mto an examination of it.
It has already been shown, that the power of each faculty,
and its tendency to action, are proportionate to the size of
its respective organ. In order to determine the size of the or·
gans, it is necessary to ascertain their length and theil'
breadth. The length of the organs may be determined by ob-
serving the distance from the external opening of the ear to
that part ofthe skull in which they terminate; and the breadth.
by the surface of the skull they occupy. It is supposed th.u
the portibn of an organ which is nearest to the skul~ ~
chiefly used in the exercise of the mental functions.
In some heads, the organs are sharper and more elongatecl
than in others, thus presenting a greater prominen.ce; ia
others, they are shorter and broader. The shape of the
former; denotes greater activity and quickness, and less,PO'IO"
er; that of the latter, greater i~en~Uy and strength•
••
42 PBREKOLOOY lLLUSTilATED.
TEST OF THE FACULTIES.
Before we enter 'upon the classification or description of
the several faculties, it will be necessary to lay down some
rules by which to test each supposed faculty, that we may thus
be able to decide correctly, not only upon the claims of the
faculties as now laid down by phrenologists, but also upon
all that may be hereafter proposed as discoveries.
What is a faculty 1 The test which was proposed by
Spurzheim, and which is generally followed, is that
1. 'Vhich exists in one kind of animals and not in another ;
2. Which varies in the sexes of the same species ;
3. Which is not proportionate to the other faculties of the
same individual;
4. Which docs not manifest itself simultaneously with
the other faculties; that is, which appears or disappears ear·
lier or later than they ;
5. Which may act or repose singly; .
6. Which individually is propagated ip a distinct manner
from parents to children ; and,
7. Which singly may preserve its proper state of health,
or be affected by disease. ·
These seem to be descriptions of the phenomena of a fac·
ulty, rather than a definition of its nature. A more simple
and comprehensive test seems to be,
That power of the mind which {lerforms one, and but one,
distinct and homogeneous classor kmd offunctions,and which
is manifested by means ofa given portion ofthe brain. When·
ever, therefore, we ascertain that there is exercised a distinct
class of functions, having for their end one important objert,
we may infer, tliat there exists a distinct faculty which per·
forms it ; and, vice versa, that the existence of a faculty pre-
supposes,and necessarily implies, a corresponding .w.i generi1
class of functions which thts faculty produces. Upon sub·
mitting the faculties as laid down in this work, to this test, it
will be found that the functions ascribed to amat., combat.,
acquis., benev., hope, firm., caus., and all the rest, constitute
each a distinct, homogeneous class directed to a specifick end,
and exercised by so many distinct portions of the brain ; and
each supposed discovery of a faculty, which does not con•
form to these requisitions, is spurious.
CLASSIFICATION OF THJ: FACtJLTIES. ~
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES.
No permanent classification of the faculties has yet been
generally adopted. That last adopted by Spurzheim, and
followed by G. Combe, and all American phrenologists, is
unquestionably the best now in use. In its general divisions
and fundamental principles, it harmonizes very well with the
generick character of the faculties, and the grouping together
of the organs in the head. So far as this is the case, it is per-
feet; yet, in its details, it is evidently defective, because it
often groups organs together which are located in widely
different parts of the head,and also classifies faculties togeth-
er between which there is a generick difference. A more
perfect classification of the faculties than that adopted by the
great Author ofnature in the respective locations of their cor·
responding organs, cannot be imagined, and could have been
inTented only by that all·wise Being who r.reated these fac-
ulties; and yet, to draw lines of demarcation between these
organs, is often extremely difficult. Concentrativeness, for
example, is mi generis in its character, and t~ much unlike
any of the other faculties to be properly classed with nny
subdivision of them, whether it be the propensities, the sen·
timents, or the intellectual faculties of Spur2heim and others,
or the domestick, selfish, human, or intellectual faculties of
t~e author. The function of ideality is not exclwively an
emotion, nor yet wholly an intellectual operation, but is evi-
dently a compound of both ; and. accordingly, we find its lo-
cation to be between these two classes of faculties. Still, it
is evidently kuman, in its character, and is classed accord-
ingly.
The same is true, except in a degree still more striking,
concerning mirthfulness, tune, imitation, and constructive-
ness. Is there not quite as much inttllect displayed in a
truly pungent and appropriate witticism, or a splendid con-
ception of the imagination, as there is in musick 1m a bon mot,
and th~ inspiration of poetry and oratory, as in a tune 1. and
is there not quite as much emotion in a musical, as there
.js in a pot.>tical, performance 1 There is evidently as little
generick difference between firmness and self-esteem, as there
is between any other two organs. Both evidently belong to
the same species; yet, Dr. Spurzheim,and all succeeding phre-
nologists, have grouped firmness among the religiO'UI organs.
Why should destructiveness be placed before amativeness 1
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTJL.A.TED.
Certainly not because it comes first in the order of nature,
nor in its position in the head. How much more of senti-
ment is there in imitation,than there is in attachment~ Wom-
en are considered even more sentimental than men, and
chiefly because they manifest so much stronger attachment.
What reason or philosophy is there in grouping construc-
tivent>.ss among the animal propensities, when it unquestion-
ably displays as much of intellect, and as little propensity,
as almost any other faculty ~ Its location also borders upon
that of the intellectual faculties.' Similar remarks will apply
to the subdivisions of the intellectual faculties.
Enough has already been said to induce the reader to
suppose, that the author, in common with most other phre-
nologists, considers the present classification of the faculties,
if not every classification that can be made, very imperfect
For his own, though widely different from that generally
adopted, and, he ho~ as materially improved, he is far from
claiming pt>rfection. Phrenology is not a man-made theory.
All that we can know about it, is learned from an observation
of nat"re. Why not, then. in the clmsijication of the fac-
ulties, as well as in their phenomena and analysis, follow
nature? or, in other words, why not let the faculties clas.-
ify tkeflml.,es according to the grouping together of their
respective organa in the head 1 In the classifir.ation of the
faculties, the author has endeavoured, as far as his ingenuity
and observation enable him, to follow this arrangement of the
organs, as the fundamental principle upon which his divis·
ions are based.•
• it will be aeen that thla dlocrepance between the author and other phrenolo-
1(11118, baa a direct reference, not to the fula or prlnclplea which involve the trulh
of phrenology, nor I<> the nature or the maoifeaiallona of the faculties, butolmply
to the numerical arra..,._, and the ~ of the facultiH, or 10 the
f101M11datwre of the science i and cannot, therefore, be citedaa an inatanc~ of a
ndicaldillllfl'eemenlamoJII pnrenolotl8ta.
•
·..
-
CLASSIFICATION OF THE FACULTIES. ·~
He will then submit the following
OLASSIFICATION OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL FACULTIES
AND ORGANS.
The Faculties are dimded into two Classes, or Orders,
and these are subdimded into stt1eral Genera, and
these again into 11arious Species.
ORDER1. Aft'eetlve Faeoltles, orFeelings.
From these faculties originate the propensities, desires,
emotions, sentiments, and the whole range of those mental
operations denominated feelings. They constitute by far
the largest, most vivid, and most powerful class of the men-
tal operations, and, whenever their legitimate stimuli are
presented, rush into involuntary activity, and frequently
without awaiting the mandate of reason, or listening to the
voice of propriety; and, although the internal excitement
necessarily produced by the presence of these stimuli, can-
not be avoidr.d, yet, an open expression of this excitement,
need not take place ·I or, in other words, we are not always
obliged to exprus al that we feel. The organs of these fac-
ulties, occupy that portion of the head commonly covered by
hair, or the space enclosed by the lines D.J. l G. C. in the cuts.
GENUS I. PaoPBNsmi:a.
These embrace those mental functions which pertain to
man as an animal, or to his physical relations. They stim-
ulate the o.ther faculties; impart efficiency, impetus, and phys-
ical force to the whole character ; originate the various ani-
mal impulses, instincts, desires, passions, and propensities to
act; and are located in the inferiour posterior, or back and
lower, portion of the head, (see the figure D. C. F. H. J. in
the cuts,) causing, when large or very large, great breadth
and fulness between, behind, and over the ears, as in the cut
of Pope Alexander VI. ; but, when small, this portion of the
head is thin and narrow, as in the head ofMelancthon. Near-
ly all the brain of animals is developed in this region, as
will be seen by a reference to their heads or the cuts ; and
their characters are made up, chiefly of tl~e functions per-
taining to the corresponding faculties. ··
PBRENOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
Species 1. DOMzsTI<:K PROPENSITIEs.
They are,
1. AMATIVENESS,
2. PHILOPROGENITIVBNESS,
3. ADHESIVENESS,
4. INHABITIVBNESS,
Abbrevlaled.
amat.
philopro.
adhes.
inhab.
These constitute man a gregarious animal ; lay the found-
ation for his civil institutions; make him a social and dc-
mestick being; create his family attachments and relations;
have a direct reference to the marriage state, and originate
most of its duties, its relations, and its pleasures. When
large or very large, they cause an elongation and fulness
in the middle and lower portion of the back part of the
head; (see the figure D. B. E. C. in the cuts, and, also, the
female and Aurelia Chase;) but when they are small, this
partofthe head presents a depresst>d and flattened appearance,
as in the skull of the male Indian represented in the cuts.
· 5. CoNCENTRATIVENJ:ss, concent.
This is sui gt7Uris, or, unique in character ; and, therefore,
referable to no specified class Gf faculties, but acts as a kind
of regulator or modifier of all the other faculties.
Species n. SELFISH PROPENSITIES.
The selfish propensities are,
Abbreviated.
f VITATIVENESS,• vitat.
6. CoHBATIVENE&s, combat.
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS, destruct.
8. ALIM:ENTIVENEss, aliment.
9. Ac~uisiTIVENEss, acquis.
10. SECRETIVENESS, Secret.
These provide for the various animal wants ; have a di-
rect reference-to the necessities, desires, and gratification of
the individual possessing them ; and terminate upon his in·
terests, wants, and happiness. They are located upon the
aides of the head, around the ears, and, when large or very
large, give it a thick and rounded appearance, and make
• From the Umlted number oftbe author'a e~rlmenta, he Ia dlspoaed to repttl
~:O:.W" of t1111 OI'JUI aa uncerwla, yet Gl eq>erimeDIII COIIIU'ID, ill prelall
I
4
CLASSJI'JCATJON OF THE FACULTIES. 47
the sides .of the head spherical, but when moderate or small,
the head is.thinner and more flattened in this region.
These propensities, as will be seen by referring to the
combinations of the various classes of faculties, receive their
direction and their modification mainly from the relative in-
fluence of the sentiments and intellect.
·GENUS II, HuMAN, MORAL, AND RELlGious SENTJMEli'Ta.
These are feelings of a higher order than the propensi-
ties ; are more eleYating and ennobling in their character,
and more humanizing in their influence. They are located
together in the toronal or upper portion of the head, and,
when large or very large, elongate, widen, elevate, and ex·
pand this part of the head; but when moderate or small, the
head is lower, shorter, and narrower. In the cuts this por-
tion is enclosed within the lines C. E. F. H. I. G. See the
contrast b~tween the heads of Tardy, or the Indian, ~nd that
of Frankhn or Melancthon.
Speelesl. SELFISH SENTIMENTS.
'
They are,
11. CAUTIOUSNESS,
12. APPROBATIVENESS,
Abbreviated.
cautious.
approbat.
self-e.
firm.
13. SEJ.F·ESTEEM,
14. FIRMNESS,
These, like the selfish propensities, also terminate upon
their possessor, and, by disposing him to seek his own indi-
vidual interest and happiness, make him selfish; yet their
character and manifestations are far superiour to those of the
selfish propensities, especially when the religious and rea-
soning faculties are strong. They are located together in
the superiour posterior, or back part of the upper portion
of the head, which is represented in the cuts by the portion
enclosed between the lines C. E. F. G. When these organs
are large or very large, this portion of the head is extended
upwards and backwards, and, when the remaining sentiments
are deficient; is rendered conical, as in the cut of Pope Alex-
anderVI.
48 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Speeles II. MoR.U. AND RELIGious SENTnrENTs.
They art>,
15. CoNsCIENTiousNEss,
16. HoPE,
17. MARVELLOUSNESS,
18. VENERATION,
19. BENEVOLENCE,
Abbreviated.
conscien.
hope.
marv:el.
ven.
benev.
These fac,ulties create those moral, religious, and devo-
• tiona! feelings and emotions which enter so largely into the
human character ; humanize, adorn, elevate, and soften the
nature of man ; constitute man a moral and accountable b~ing,
and connect him with the moral government of God; create
those moral duties and relations which exist between man
and his Maker, and also between man and man ;·and pro·
duce those characteristicks commonly attributed to angels,
and {except in a vastly greater degree) to the Supreme Be·
ing. They are located in the superiour anterior, or the
frontal, portion of the upper part of the head, and, · when
large or very large, throw a proportionally large amount of
brain into this region, elevating and elongating it in this di·
rection, as in the case of Franklin, Melancthon,and the pious
female in the cuts ; but when small, this portion of the head is
low and slopes rapidly, as in the cut of Pope Alexander VI.
Speeles III. SEMI-INTELLEcTuAL SENTIMENTs.
They are,
20. CoNSTRUCTIVENEss,
21. IDEALITY,
22. IMITATION,
23. MIRTHFULNESS,
Abbreviated.
construct.
ideal.
imitat.
mirth.
These faculties are of a mixed nature, participating the
properties both of the human sentiments and of the intcllec·
tual faculties. They tend to the adornment and perfection
of the human mind, by creating in it a taste and a talent for
the fine arts and polite literature, for constructing, manufac·
turing, copying, and the like. They are located partly be-
tween the forehead and the portion of the head covered by
hair, and partly within the latter, giving, when large or very
r
~ ~
.,
CLASS~FICATION OF THE FACULTIES. 49
~arge, a fulness and breadth to this portion of the head; but
when small, the head where the hair begins to IY'pear, is
narrow and flattened.
ORDER 11. Intelleetual Faculties.
These faculties have to do ,exclusively with objects and
things, their physical qualities, and abstract relations. They
create a thirst for information, and furnish the ability to ac-
quire knowledge in general; take cognizance of facts and
conditions, and remember them, and constitute what is com-
monly cnlled the intellec~, understanding, or judgment.
GENUS I. PERCEPTIVE FACULTIES.
'fhese perceive natural objects and their physical quali-
ties, together with some of their relations. They constitute
the direct medium of communication between the other fac·
ulties and the material world, and convey to the mind all the
pltys~al information it is capable of acquiring.
. \
Speeles 1. ExTERNAL SENsEs.
They arc,
SENSATION,} (that is, feeling or touch.)
SIGHT, In accordance with the usage of his
HEARING, predecessors, the author bas· left these fac-
T ASTE, ulties unnumbered ; but, inasmuch as they
SMELL. occupy each a given portion of the brain,
and are also mental faculties, there evidently exists no good
reason why they should not, in like manner, be numbered.
These perform the first portion of the process of observ-
ing the physical qualities of material objects. The eye, for
example, may be perfectly good, yet the individual be utter-
ly unable to distinguish between the colours of objects, or
some of their otlter qualities; so that. in observing a colour,
the faculty of sight performs the first portion of the process,
~tnd that of colour, the second. Hence, neither, acting sepa·
rately, can take cognizance of the colour of objects. This
example will also furnish an idea of the difference existing
between the other external senses, and the other perceptive
faculties. Their perfection materially assists the other intel-
lectual, and even the affective, faculties; yet, there is no ab-
:~olute dependance of the functions of the one upon the func-
tions of the other.
5
I
50 · PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
Species II. OBsERVING AND KNowxNo FAcuLTIEs.
They are,
24. INDIVIDUALITY,
25. FoRM,
26. SIZE,
27. WEIGHT,
28. COLOUR,
29. ORDER,
30. CALCULATION,
31. LocALITY,
Abbreviated.
individ.
form.
size.
weight.
colour.
order.
calcu.
local.
These store the mind with individual facts ; furnish a gene·
ral knowledge ofthings, their conditions, and qualities; collect
statistical information; create a desire and a talent propor-
tionate to their size, for observing and knowing; and thus
render very great assistance in doing every kind of business.
'fhf!y are located directly about the eyes-their principal
medium of communication with the external world-and,
when large or very large, cause the lower portion·of the
forehead above the eyes, proportionally to protrude, as in the
cut of Lafayette, of the Indian, of Pope Alexander VI,
the bust of Washington, &c., (see the figure K. J. M. in the
cuts;) but, when they are moderate or small, this portion is
proportionally depressed, as in the cut of Franklin.
Species III. SEMI~PERCEPTIVE FAcuLTIEs.
They are,
32. EVENTUALITY,
33. TIME,
34. TUNE,
35. LANGUAGE,
Abbreviated.
event.
time.
tune.
lang.
These constitute a class of faculties intermediate between
those which perceive objects and their physical qualities, and
those which comprehend the abstract relations of things,11nd
have to do with a class of fucts which are not necessarily of
a physical character. Some of these faculties are much
stronger in children than in men, and their corresponding
organs proportionally larger: hence, the depression general·
}y observaie in the middle of the foreheads of the latter, and
tb.e fulness and roundness in that of the former.
'·
I
!_.
COMBINATIONS OF THE FACULTIES.
GENUS II. REFLECTIVE OR REASONING FACULTIES.
They are,
36. CAUSALITY,
37. CoMPARisoN,
Abbreviate<
L
caus.
compar.
Th~se form ideas ; reason ; superintend the operation of
the other faculties ; perceive abstract and metaphysical rela·
tions, the connexion between cause and effect, proposition
and inference, &c. ; form judgment; discover truth and ab-
surdity, &c. They are located in the superieur and frontal
portion of the forehead. When they are large, or very
large, the upper portion of the forehead is very high, broad,
and deep, as well as prominent, as in the cut of Franklin;
but when they are small, this portion orthe forehead is low,
narrow, and depressed, as in the cut of the Indian.
. COMBINATIONS OF THE CLASSES 0.
FACULTIES.
That portion of the he~~-d represented in the cut by the~·
ure D. C. G. F. H. J., is hUed occipital, and is exclusivefr
occupied by the organs of the propensities and selfish sent1•
ments :, the remaining portion is called frontal, and is devoted
to the organs of the sentiments and the intellect. The por·
tion represented by the figure D. C. E. F. H. N.K., is called
basilar, and the portion above it, coronal; the former being
allotted to the organs of the selfish propensities and percep-
tive faculties, which constitute the principal faculties possess·
ed by animals, and the latter, to those of the sentiments and
reasoning faculties.
.' The influence of the various combinations of facultiell
upon the character, constitutes one of the most important fea·
tures of phrenology ; and in nothing is this influence more
manifest than in those more general combinations of the va·
rious classes of f!lculties already ~eutioned. One in whom the
occipital region, (or the organs of the propensities and pro·
pelling powers,) 1s much larger than the frontal, will have
proportionally more of feeling than reason ; of passion, than
intellect ; of propelling, than directing, power; of efficiency,
than depth and strength, of intellect ; of mental sail, than
ballast; of zeal, and energy, and action, than judgment; of
the animal, than of the intellectual and moral, qualities : but
........ org•t"ed by Coogle
\ PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
·~when the u•:cipital portion is larger than the frontal, the char·
acter will be directly the opposite.
One in whom the basilar region greatly predominates over
the coronal, will possess great force and efficiency of char-
acter; a ready talent for business and study; and strong pas-
sions applied to selfish purposes, but accompanied with less
morality 'and elevation of character and feeling; less ~pth of
intellect, with less of the moral, religious, and human senti-
ment:!; and yet, with full comparison and causality, may be
capable of conducting and effecting important operations.
This ponion of the brain is generally large in men who dis-
tinguish themselves in the world.
One who possesses a much greater development of the
moral and intellectual organs, 'than of the propensities, will
have goodness, with less greatness or force, of character;
morality and virtue, joined with want of impetus, if not of effi-
ciency; will have fine talents and a Jove for moral and in-
tel.ual pursuits, accompanied with so much modesty and
de.(Adance, if not actual tameness, of character, that he will
not be likely to rise in the world, unless pushed forward by
others, but may then distinguish himself; will be amiable
and sentimental, if not eminently pious, yet effect but little.
This organization is but poorlt adapted to the exigences of
the nineteenth century.
One having large or very large organs of the propensities
and of the religious sentiments, and reasoning faculties only
moderate or full, may struggle bard against the current of
his propensities, yet will be liable to be often overcome by
it; may endeavour to live a virtuous, Christian life, yet will
he sometimes guilty of gross inconsistenc.ies, and apt to take
contracted views of religious subjects, and indulge, alternate-
ly, both classes of organs; but, with the moral and reasoning
organs equally large, will be obliged to struggle hard, yet
will generally struggle sucoessfully, against "his e~sily be-
setting sins," and, in general, be consistent in his religious
belief and practice.
One having the propensities well developed, wita 1,·ery
large moral and intellectual organs, will combine great
strength of mind witli·g~eat energy of character, directed by
the human sentiments, and applied to the advancement of
moral and benevolent objects, and be a talented and useful
member of society, yet have many faults.
One· with the propensities and the intellectual organs
• I
J
...
':
COMBII!IJATION8 OP THE FACULTIES. ~53
large or very large, and the moral deficient, will combi11e
great power and energy of mind with great depravity of
character, and never lack means by which to gratify his self-
ish passions.
One having some of each class of organs large or very
large, will present seemingly contradictory phases of char-
acter; will often do what he afterwards regrets, and be sub-
ject to a constant and severe " warfare between the flesh and
the spirit."
One h~tving the perceptive organs generally large or very
large, and the reasoning organs only full, will have a mind
well stored with facts, and a desire to see and know; a thirst
for general information, and a factlity in acquiring it; an
ability to attend ta details, and a popular, practical, business
talent, but will lack depth, judgment, originality, and pene-
tration of mind; may execute well, but cannot adapt means
to ends, nor superintend complicated operations; may pos-
sess versatility of genius, be a good scholar, and pass for a
man of talents and learning, yet will not think profwdly,
nor readily c.omprehend first principles, nor bear sounMng.
One with the reflecting organs large or very large, and
the perceptive onlv moderate or small, or with the upper
portion of the forehead much larger •than the lower, will
think more than he observes. or communicates; will have
much more to do with "ideas thun with fads; with fvrultr
mental principles and the general hef!-ring of things, than
·with their details and minutire; with the abstract relations,
than with the qualities, of things; with the analytical and
demonstrative sciences, than with the natural; with thoughts
than words; may..have great strength, shrewdness, and pen-
etration·of intellect, and be a deep and profound reasoner,
but will lack versatility of talent, and be unable to employ
his powers to good advantage, or show what he is, except in
a certain sphere, yet will wear well, have a fund of import-
ant ideas, and excellent judgment, and shine in proportion
as he is tried. One having the perceptive and reasoning or-
gans both large or very large, and a large and an active brain.
will have a universal talent, and a mind well balanced and well
furnished with both facts and principles; will be a generfll
scholar, and, witha respectable developmentofthe propensities,
posse!!s a decidedly superiour intellect, and be capable· of ri-
sing to e11~inence; will not only possess talents of a very high
order, but also be able to use them to the best advantage, and
5•
m '"edbyGoogle
I'BilENOLOOY ILLUITllATED.
•Qtb devise and execute projects, and succeed in whatever he
undertakes, eTen when most of those around him, fail. ,
·' One with an even head, in which all the parts are re-
spectably developed, will have few prominent traits of char-
acter;.and few excesses or deficiencies; will do a fair J:msi-
m;ss, take his ch.uracter from surroundingeircumstances, a~d
PB's -quietly through:life; but, if the brain ill large and very
active, and external circumstances are favourable, he will be
a universal genius-great in every thing, and without any
weak points of character, and capable of swaying a general
and a commanding influence.•
One with an uneven and peculiar head, will possess a sui
gene·ris character;· will be notorious for hill peculiarities or
talents and di11position; for his excesses and deficiencies; his
strong and weak points ; will often present opposite phases
of character; cut a bold and commanding figure wherever
he moves; and often effect something important.
The combined action of the several organs, has, also, a
vefAimportant influence upon tbe character and the mental
mail'ffestations, particularly in directing them. Self-esteem
large or very large, for eXIlmple, combined with still larger
moral and reasoning organs, and with smaller propensities,
impll.rts a dignity, manliness, nobleness, elevation, and high-
mitidedness, which scorn every thing mean, low, and de-
grading, than which no trait of charaCter is more useful or
commendable : while the same degree of self-e., joined with
weaker moral and reasoning faculties, and stronger selfish
propensities, makes its possessor proud, conceited, haughty,
domineering, forward, impertinent, and most disagreeable.
The same principle applies to·amat., combat., destruct.; se-
cret., firm., approbat., &c. ; and, in determining character, is
as important, at least, as any other.
The larger organst control and direct the smaller ones,
and also give the stamp and direction to the whole char-
acter, while the smaller organs, in proportion to their
atrength, modify the action ofthe larger. Thus, one having
combat. and destruct. large, with large or very large self-e.,
will emplqy t~e former to avenge personal injuries ; promote
aelfish interests; domineer over others, &c. ; but, with self-e.
• Napoleon Bonaparte.
I In this work tbe term "organP" ia often used as synonymous with "faeuhiee,"
aDd Ia Intended to refer to bOth the organs and tbe faculties, colketi11ely; jWit as
Mlf.e- meana both tiM Wllf'fl aad lbe.fiHvllr ot aelf.e.
____Jz•·-••• -a(Cl;z~,.C~
A
w
l·
COMBINATIONS OF THB J'.ACVLTIES. 55
onli moderate o~ full, and benev. and c:on1cien. very large.,
wil seldom resent personal injuries, yet will be very spirited
in maintaining the cause ofjustice, truth, and humanity; in de-
fending suffering innocence, puni11hing the aggressor, driv.
ing forward moral and pbilanthropick causes, &c. ; with
l~rge or very large acquis., will employ these organs in de-
fending his- property, and in prosecuting, ,.,;th energy, his
money-making projects ; with ·large or very large intellectu·
al organs, in the yigorous pursuit of intellectual acquire-
ments, in spirited debate, or th!l fearless declaration ofopinion;
with moderate self-e. and large or very large adhes. and be·
nev., in the defence of friends, while he himself patiently
endures oppression, &c. The combinations of the phreno-
logical faculties, are almost innumerable, especially when
taken in connexion with the varieties of temperament, educa-
tion, habit, external circumstances, &c. of different individu·
als--suffir.ient, at least, to produce that endless diversity and
ever-changing variety which exi!t in the manifestat~ons of the
mind. Hence, here is opened the most extensive fieldJm·
aginable for philosophical research-a field embracing the
whole range of the mental phenomena, and also every thing
pertaining to human nature.
m '"edbyGoogle
•
•
56 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
ANALYSIS OF THE FACULTIES.
The reader will bear in mind t.hat, in the following anal-
ysis of the various faculties, the author has left ample room
for him to exercise his own judgment and discrimination,
particularly in ascertaining the influence .of some of the
combinations. For example: he bas described the influence
of the organ of amat.large, when acting in conjunction with
other organs ; yet as the influence of amat. very large upon
the other organs, is the same in kind with that of amat.
large, and differs only in the degree or a1nount of that influ-
ence, the reader is left to ascertain this by a reference to the
combinations under amat. large. The same is true of amat.
full, and of all the other organs very large or moderate.
Under amat. moderate, again, the organ is described be-
low par, with its combinations. Yet these same combina·
tions will also apply to amat. s·mall, after making the neces·
sar~ allowance for the diminution of the mere quantum of
the amative feeling.
ORDER I .-AFFECTIVE FACULTIES OR FEELINGS.
GENUS I.-ANIMAL PROPENSITIES.
SPECIES 1.-DoMEBTlc,K AND SociAL PaoPENSmEs.
Al\;I.ATIVENESS.
Recip1·ocal attackment'and love of the sexes.
This facult:f prompts many of those kind attentions
and obliging manners which the sexes are accustomed to
show to each other; greatly increases their mutual attach-
ment and tenderness ; gives correct reciprocal ideas of taste
and propriety in whatever concerns the other sex, and se·
cures to them a kind and genteel treatment-thus promoting,
as much as any other faculty, general politeness, urbanity,
refinement, kindness,and social happiness. The proper ex-
ercise and expression of this faculty, so far from being the
least gross or indelicate, is as perfectly inoffensive as that o(
any other ; and is so far from being the least exceptionable,
as to be even indispensable, to a virtuous character, especial·
ly when modified by large adhes., approbat., benev., ern·
scien., ideal., mirth., and the reasoning faculties. The influ·
ence of this faculty in the intercourse of the sexes, is highly
AMATIVENESS. 57
advantageous to both, inasmuch as it has a tendency to make
man civil, courteous, cleanly, and humane, condescending,
polished, affable, &c. ; and woman agreeable, graceful, and
elegant, accomplished, sensible, and elevated in character,
feeling, and purpose. .
LARGE.-One in whom amat. is large, is extremely
fond of the other sex, and of their company, and alive to
their charms ; is a favourite with them, and readily ingrati-
ates himself into their good will, even t)lough he may be
possessed of some qualities that ~re disagreeable; has a
great influence over them; easily kindles in them the pas-
sion of love, because he is himself so susceptible to the
same passion; and, when in circumstances calculated to ex-
cite the faculty, finds its re:;traint extremely difficult.
One having large amat. with large or very large adhes.,
is an ardent and devoted lover; and, with ideal. also large,
adds to his love that warmth, and fervour, and intensity which
make it romantick, and kindle it to a passion ; with firm.
also large or very large, will be constant ; but with these or-
gans large or very large, and firm. moderate or small, will
be liable to be inconstanl, and possess an attachment by no
means exclusive: with ideal. and approbat. very large, se-
cret. and destruct. large, benev., adhes., and caus. oncy full,
and conscien..moderate or small, will sometimes act the part
of the coquette, and seek the general admiration of the other
sex, .rather than be satisfied with individual attachment : with
large or·very large adhes., philopro., benev., and conscien.,
will be inclined to marry, and be pre-eminently qualified to en~
joy the family and social relations, .and will also highly ap~
preciate the joys and pleasures of home, family, and friends;
p.nd, with large combat. and destruct.,will defend them with
boldness, protect their rights with spirit, and punish with se-
verity those who injure them: with large or very large ap-
probat. and ideal., will be over-anxious to obtain the approba-
tion, and avoid the disapprobation, of the other sex, and
exceedingly sensitive to their praise or censure, and too eager
to follow the fashions demanded by the taste of the other
sex: with moderate acquis., and large approbat. and benev.,
will spend money freely for their sakes: with large or very
large secret. &nd ndhes., will feel much stronger attachment
than express; keep his heart much to himself; affect com-
parative indifference; and, even wheu the fire of love is
burning fiercely within, will express it equivocally, especial·
•
58 PIIRENOLOOY ILMJSTRATED.
ly at first; but with secret. mode&te, will express it without
reserve; throw the portals of the heart wide open ; and, with
self-e. moderate, the more readily give up to the dominion of
the passion rbut, y;ith self.e. and firm. large or very large,
and large intellectual organs, though he may be deeply in
love, will have too much pride to be subdued by ,this passion :
wiU! very large adhes., ideal., approbat., and mirth., and caus.
. - full, will prefer the company of the beautiful, the gay,
atll'.the accomplished of the other sex, and love them·
' best : with very large 'Uihes., benev., ven., and conscien.,
will choose the virtuous, the devout, the religious, &c.: with
large intellectual organs in addition, the religious, the refin-
ed, and the highly intellectual, and almost adore them, but
be disgusted with those first described: with conscien. small,
caus. only full, and acquis. and ideal. large or very large,
will be less particular with regard to their moral qualities :
with large or very large ideal., approbat., mirth., hope, ali-
ment., and lang., and moderate or small acquis., conscien.,
and marvel., is given to joke with and about the other sex ;
and inclined to profligacyand revelry: with large or very large
conscien., ideal., mirth., benev., and the reasoning organs
large, will express this passion in a very delicate, refined,
witty, and acceptable manner ; but, with moderate or small
ideal. a~td. mirth., in a coarse and vulgar man~r: with con·
scien.la-ia strongly tempted, but strongly resists; and, with
firm., cautious., and caus. also large, will not yield to the solie·
itationsofthe passion; but, with firm., cautious., and caus. only
full, may sometimes sin, yet will deeply repent of it; and, with
approbat. large, suffer i.lerably from shame and remorse:
with conscien. small and caus. moderate, will be extremely
liable to abuse and pervert this faculty, &c.
· VERY LAROE.-One having arnat. very largt, experiences,
at times, the goadings of the propeJ¥ity to a degree almost
beyond endurance; can govern it only by the aid of large
or very large firm., conscien., and reasoning organs, and by
avoiding the causes calculated to excite it; and possesses ex-
traordinary depth, strength, and power of this passion. One
having very large amat., with large or very large conscien.,
firm., benev., and reasoning organs, will exercise towards
the other sex, strong feelings of kindtless and love ; is ever
ready in his attentions to them ; is but ill at ease without their
society; and enjoys intercourse with them in the greatest
possible degree : with conscien. moderate or small, and the
Qogle • ~--J
AMATIVENESS. 59
reasoning organs only full, is strongly inclined and urged to
profligacy, licentiousnt>ss, vulgar allusions, indelicate ex·
pr~ssions and jt>sting; to the relation ofobscene anecdotes, &c.
See combinations under amat. large. '
FuLL.-One having amat. full, with adhes. and ideal. large
or very large, will place a high estimatt> upon the other St'X;
eagerly st>ek their company, and take grt'8t delight in it;
be ardent as a lover, and not insensible to their charms;
with good health and an active temperament, !lxperienct',
in a high degree, the influence of this passion, yet will pos-
sess more activity than power. The descriptions of amat.
fulJ, when combined with the other organs, will be found
much the same, except in degree, with those given u'nder·
amat. large, and will be between those under amat. large and
amat. moderate.
MoDERATE.-One having amat. moderate, is not particu-
larly partial to the other sex, nor very fond of their company;
may. enjoy the society of a few select persons of the other
sex, but will dislike their promiscuous society, unless his
adhes., approbat., ideal., mirth., or other organs, create attach-
ment to them, and fondness for their society: with self.e. and
mirth. moderate or small, large·or very large secret., appro-
bat., cautious., cofiscien., and ven., will be extremely diffident
and reserved, if not awkward and affected, in their company.
and ill qualified to shine in parties of amusement, and will be
rather deficient in the strength and power of this passion.
One having moderate amat., with large or very large adhes.,
benev., and conscien., and full compar. and caus., will exercise
more of pure love and virtuous affeetion towards the opposite
sex, than of the mere amative passion-of chaste Platonick
affection, than of sexual love- of pure and sentimental
friendship, than of merely animal feeling; anc!, with large
or very large ideal. and conscien., will manifest this passion
in a peculiarly refiued and delicate manner, and be exceed-
ingly disgusted with vulgarity, particularly in tire other
sex. This is the kind of attachment generally exercised by
females, in whom adhes. is commonly altogether larger
than amat. 'When the size of these organs is reversed, they
produce the opposite kind of love, or that which is less
sentimental and exclusin•, and more promiscuous and sexual.
SMALL.-One having small amat., is not partial to the oth·
er sex as $Uch ; does not pay them so much attention, nor
wait upon them so genteelly, nor sacrifice so much for their
..
60 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
--
,1
.
ll8 ke, nor f'Xcite their love so easily. ns if possessed of J
large amat., but IS rather cold, coy, distant, unacceptablS
'
less inclined to marry, unless induced to do so by phil
adhes., npprobnt., benev., acquis., the intellectual orga
some other motive than his sexual de~<ire. ~
VERY SMALL.-One having amat. very small, is in
hie of sexual attachment or intercourse; seldom, if ever,
periences the workings of this feeling; and is given to t
r:ive continence. 'fhis organ is always very small in 11
young children, and the passion proportionally weak; if
tams its full size in the meridian of life, when the passio~
stroqgest; is generally larger in married, than in single, ~
:~ons; and decreases in old age, when the passion becon
weaker. Phrenology deteiminenhe strength and power~
this passion, and its liability to be perverted, 'l'ather than t
virtue or licentiousness of the subject. Education and c
cumstances determine this question oftener than the streng
of the faculty.
The depraved exercise of this faculty, in one or anoth~
of those ten thousand forms which it assumes, is unquef
tionably one of the most prolifick sources of depravity, cor
ruption, and misery, with which mankind are afflicted; anc
it becomes the philanthropist, the Christian, and especially
the phrenologist, to inquire, why is this 1 for, until we can
discover the root of this tree of vice, and attack the evil there,
it is in vain to attempt to lop off its branches. This faculty
1s found to exist in animals, as well as in man, and that, too,
unrestrained by morality or intellect, and, consequently, far
more liable to perversion, than in the human species; yet,
instances of its perversion in the brute creation, are exceed-
ingly rare. Now, why is this1 The nature of thefaculty,
and the character of the function, are the same in both, so
that its depraved manifestation cannot be attributed to any
natural cause. It must, then, depend upon the education, or
training, of this faculty. And no wonder that it is thus
perverted; for the nature and the proper function of the fac·
ulty, not being generally understood, it has been regarded
chiefly in its perverted manifestation. Hence, that false
modesty, that sickly delicacy, that double-refined fastidious·
ness which pervade every civilized community in regard
to it, and which are far more detrimental to virtue and purity,
than any thing and every thing else could be. It is not too
much to add, that nearly all the licentiousness which per•
-
PHJLOPllOGENJTIVENBSI. 61
,. ed ades our country, and yearly ruins scores of thousands,
-~ ~Jiginates in the false training of this faculty.
'befll!,·The question, then, becomes a most important one, How
/ ~p.n this faculty be so trained that this 'growing evil may be
1 01''becked and remedied 1 This question will be answered in
1 ... subsequent portion of this work. One grand answer is,
··-)5 ~~ the dictates of nature-of simple, undisguised, unpolluted
1 e~)llture, be followed-let the phrenological analysis of tile
~fn.'0~culty be fully given, and thoroughly understood, and, in-
.mlead of pointing the finger of shame at the proper manifes-
'ilk •.~
1 tion of a faculty which the Great Author has Implanted in
laSS/Il d . . f d f .
1 . e very ·nature an const,tutlon o man, an o suppressmg
~ e,~by every possible means, let it follow where the finger of
lcco : eaven, in the indications of nature, points out the path of
)IVer.,, rtue.
an tbl . Th" · l ted · h bell
d . LOCATION.- 1s organ 1s oca m t e cere um,
. c:,:r between the mastoid processes behind the ear: and, when
ng Jrge, it causes this portion of the head to appear broad and
lthe)tk.k; when small, the neck is thin and narrow.
•ues·
COT··
2. PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
mdr:>arental affection and {enderness-love of offspring, and of
lily. children generally-fondness for pets, especially young
:an animals, and for the infirm and ltelpless.
~~~ If there existed no particular attachment to children as
10 such, the burden of raising and of educating them, would be
a; intolerable, and seldom submitted to; whereas the effect of
this faculty is, to make them to their parents the dearest of
j~ all objects, their richest treasure, and their greatest delight,
Y
, a source of their greatest anxiety and solicitude, and, in short,
the direct and main object of one of the strongest of the hu-
man pas~ions, as well as the indirect object of many others ;
and this casts entirely into the shade the trouble, and pain,
and expense which they cause, and induces the parent to do,
and to suffer, whatever is deemed necessary, and often what
is entirely unnecessary, to promote the happiness and .the
best interests of his child, especially the young child. While
children are yet too young to be regarded as friends-the
very time they require the greatest attention-they cannot
be the legitimate objects of adhes., and, for a similar r~on,
they cannot come under the exclusive care of benev., of con-
-scien., of reason, or, indeed, of any other faculty j ~9 that, if
6
62 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
there were no faculty excl•sively devoted to them, they would
never receive that care, and those unnumbered attentions,
which the-ir helpless condition demands even to maintain
them in existence. •
Without this faculty, the action of the other faculties would
be less vigorous towards children than towards others ;
whereas, their wants demand a much more vigorous exer-
cise of them in favour of children. But, with philopro. to
direct and stimulate their action towards children, their pro-
tection and nursing, difficult and even painful as they may
be, are abundantly secured.
It is, moreover, evident, that the duties and the circum-
stances of woman require of her a much greater endow-
ment of this faculty than is required of the other sex. Ac-
cordingly we find, that she possesses a much larg-t>r organ of
philopro. than man. This adaptation of the organ in females
to the far greater power of the passion, and of both to the far
greater demand made upon them by their offspring, is cer-
tainly no unimportant argument in proof of the truth of
phrenology.
LARGE.-One having large philopro., is deeplY. interested
in children; delighted with their company and playfulness,
and even sports with them; generally nolices them, and ea-
sily gains their affections, by which their government·and
educ.ation are greatly facilitated; and, if a parent, willingly
endures paternal care and toil; spares no pains in educating
them; and considers them the richest of treasures: with
adhes. very large, experiences poignant grief at the loss of
children; and, with concent. large, will pour incessantly
over it, but with concent. moderate or small, will feel keenly
for the time being, yet frequently be relieved by a change of
the subject of feeling : with large amat. and adhes., feels
powerfully the reciprocal attachment of fathers and daugh-
ters, of mothers and son~. and of adults and children of op-
posite sexes : with full combat. and destruct., and large or verv
large adhes., benev., consciim., firm., and intellectual organs,
punishes children when their own good demands it; js kind,
yet strict ; governs them with decision mingled with mild-
ness and affection, and, with self-e. full, speaks with the au-
thority necessary to secure their obedience; but, with combat.
and destruct. large, is by turns too indulgent and too severe;
and, with self-e. moderate, fails to secure their obedience and
respect, and allows them to trample upon him : with large
m '"edbyGoogle
=
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 63
or very large adhes., benev., ven., firm., conscien., hope,
compar., and caus., and moderate approbat. and ideal., will
regard their religious, moral, and intellectual character as of
primary importance; their usefulness, rather than their dis.
tinction; and endeavour to give them a practical and sub-
stantial, rather than an ornamental education.
VERY LARGE.-One having very large philopro., is pas-
sionately,fond of children, and has them always around him ;
and, with ,·ery large benev., and moderate destruct. and caus.,
is in danger of spoiling them by excessive fondness and over-
indulgence; is extremely fond of pets of some description,
such as pet dogs, pet horses, and the young and tender of
animals generally; is willing to endure the greatest priva-
tions if he can thereby promote their happiness; values them
above every thing else, and almost idolizes them ; and, with
adhes. very large, grieves immoderately at their loss, or is
overcome by it: with moderate or small destruct. and con,
scien., "spares the rod and spoils the child:" with very largE»
approbat. or self-e., and only moderate or full conscien. and
caus., indulges parental vanity and conceit; thinks his own
children much smarter than those of others; delights to ex,
hibit their great attainments, &c. ; and, if very large ideal.
be added, would be likely to educate them for show and tj[ect
-to teach them the ornamental and fashionable, to the ne-
glect of the more substantial, branches of learning-the fine
arts, rather than useful learning; thus making them self-im-
portant fops, and vain and guady belles, rather than useful
members of society: with very large cautious., indulges a
multitude of groundless fears and unfounded apprehensions
about them, and borrows a world of trouble on their account :
with benev. very large, and acquis. only moderate, makes
them many presents ; with the moral and intellectual organs
also large ·or very large and well-cultivated, has a happy
talent for instructing them, and delights in it.
FuLL.-One having philopro. full, will take considerable
interest in children, especially when they begin to .walk and
prattle; bear ,much from them, particularly when combat.
and destruct.· are only moderate; and, when they are pos-
sessrd of high intellectual charms, will often notice and play
with them, and generally please them; and, if he has chi!·
dren of his own, will make strenuous efforts and great sacri-
fices 'to provide for, and to educate, them; but, with combat
~ destruct. larger than philopro., will be rather impatient
be
-w'Pt
cise
dirE
teet.
be:.
J
sUI-4
we
cot•
ph~
tOt.
crre
D.
tal
pt
in.
at!
si'
e
c
PHRENOLOGY ILLVITRATI.D.
-
when troubled by them, and sometimes severe "
with large or very large adhes., benev., conscien.,
reasoning organs, and self-e. and combat., at leas\
love children, yet be far from spoiling them by ,
gence, and generally secure their obedience, yet
harsh towards them.
MoDERATE.-Onehaving philopro. moderate, i:
fond of children., and cannot bear much from th·
sometimes take some interest in them, yet does not li.
children; may love his own, yet does not fancy those,
One with philopro. moderate and adhes. large, may l
dren as friends rather than as children ; and, with lx
conscien. also large, will take all needful care of th
feelings of kindness and duty, without being partia1 1
drcn as such. ·
SMALL.-One haYing philopro. small, with combat. ~
struct. large, is generally severe, and easily vexed, w1 1
dren; and, with self-e. also large, and benev. onl. ;
erate or full, is domineering, haughty, and arbitrary t w
them, and thus extremely unpopular with them, and d!li
to torment and tease them.
VERY S•ALL.-One with philopro. 1Jtry small, will ·,
stranger to this passion, and deal with children entirely IU
other organs dictate.
LocATION.-This organ is located in the centre of
hind head, just above the sharp point of the occipital b
and back of the top of the ears. When the lobes of ad
are large or very large, and philopro. is moderate or sn
a depression will be found between the lower portion of
two lobes of adhes., but when/hilopro. is also large or •
large, this portion of the hea will be elongated, as in
cut of Aurelia Chase. When philopro. and adhes. are
large, and inhab. is small, it assumes a sharpened appean
running horizontally between the two lobes of adhes.
3. ADHESIVENESS.
Swceptihility ofa.ttackment-'jW<Jptnsity to a.ssociate-)
ness for society-inclination. to l01Jt, and desire to be lO't
The chief office of this organ is to create those stl
ties of social and, with amat, of conjugal affection, w.
bind mankind together in families, societies, commun:
ADHESIVENESS. 65
"and from which probably flows as much happinees, if
jirtue, as from any other source. Thie facultr is very
'·,,.g, and generally a ruling one, in females; and its in-
..:.;pce upon society, is incalculable. _
.t-AROE.-One having adhes. large, exercises strong and
<
.mt attachment ; is eminently social and affectionate ·
~te is 1 .;..severy opportunity to enjoy the company of friends, and
0 'the~ . tiis very unhappy when deprived of it; does and sacrifices
tOt like ~uch for their sake j sets much by them, and goes far tO
10se of0 1ffe and help them; and makes a real, true, warm-hearted,
nay lov· .:. ~d devoted friend. One having adhes. large, with combat.
ith bent. :'.d destruct. large, readily takes the part of friends; resents
of tbem ,and retaliates their inju~ies; protects the~r rights, intere~ts,
artial to tfharacter, &c., as read1ly as he does h1s own; and, with
self-e. only moderate or full, even more so; and yet, with
mbat 8011self-e. large or very large, will occasionally fall out with
d with c them : with acquis. large, may love strongly, and be very bos-
~nly a pitable and kind, yet unwilling to gi\'e his money; but, with
ar tom approbat. and benev. also large, may be liberal among his
10Jdelig friends, and sometimes forward to dischar~e the social bill,
yet will be as affectionate as he is liberal; IS very emulous to
lre witl
~ien., .6
least, 1·
by ov.
yet st
ll, will b excel among friends, and cut to the heart by their reproach~
irely as es; and, if approbat. or self-e. is very large, and caus. only
full, is jealous of those that excel him, and forward among
otre of 1 friends ; assumes the lead ; and must be first or nothing:
pita} 00 with moderate combat., destruct., and self-e., and large or very
of adb large approbat., benev., conscien., ideal., mirth., and reasoning
! or sml organs, will have many friends and few enemies; be amiable,
:0n of ~ and gain the good will of all who know him: with large
e or Vel ideal., will express his affection in a refined and delicate
ss in ti manner, and with mirth. large, in a pleasing, jocose, and
are boc lively manner : with large or very large event., will recol-
earanct lect, with vivid emotions of delight, by-gone scenes of social
cheer and friendly intercourse : with large reasoning organS;.
will give good advice to friends ; lay excellent plans for
them; rightly appreciate their character;· and, with cautious.
also large, be judicious in selecting them, &e. ,
VERY LARGE.-Those who have adhes. very large, or
e-fo/IJ- predominant, instinctively rer.ognise it in each other; soon
dotei. become mutually and strongly attached; desire to ding
around the objects of their love; take more interest and de.
light in the exercise of friendship than in any thing else~
are unwilling to think or believe ill of their friends; sym-.
6•
o'g''"•d by Coogle
66 PHRENOLOGY fLLVt'I'JU.'I'J!J),
~hize in their misfortunes;. dread an interruption of friend-
shtp as the greatest of calamities; and willingly sacrifice
ease, property, happiness, reputation,and sometimes even life
for their sakes. Their friends may befew, but will be dear,
and their attachment mutual, ardent, strong, and, with firm.
large, constant; their joys, hopes, fears, trials, &c. one; their
social intercourse delightful beyond description ; their sepa-
ration, painful, in the extreme ; their loss, agonizing, almost
beyond endurance; and the interruption of friendship, a fre·
quent source of partial derangement.
One having very large adhes., with large or very large
destruct., combat., self-e., firm., and benev., and only mode-
rate or small approbat., secret., and conscien., will be a most
ardent friend and an equally bitter enemy; will never forget
11 favour or an injury, till the one is rewarded, and the other
avenged or confessed; cannot do too much good to his friends,
nor evil to his foes ; and will make all his acquaintance ei-
ther ardent friends, or bitter enemies : with very large phi-
lopro. and large amat., sets every thing by his family, and
Illmost idolizesthem; takes more delight in home and friends
than in any thing, if not in every thing, besides; cannot en-
dure to be absent from home; is pre-eminently domestick;
and, with very large benev. and consc.ien., promotes their
happiness by every effort. and by every Sllcrifice in his pow-
er, and deeply sympathizes in their distress; and, with
moderate combat. and destruct., regards the peace and
quiet of the fireside as the greatest of pleasures, and family
dissension as the worst of evils ; and does every thing in his
power to promote domestick quiet and happiness, &c. One
having large or very large adhes., loves those best, and
chooses them for his friends, who most nearlv resemble him-
self; and gratify the largest number of his organs: with '
large or very large approbat., hope, ideal., and mirth., and
only"moderate conscien. and caus., the gay and witty, the
fashionable and showy, &c. : with large or very large mor-
al organs, the eminently devout and religious, the sedate and
the sentimental : with large or very large ideal. and intellec-
tual organs, those who are highly talented, intellectual, and
literary, but avoids t&e ignorant: with very large conscien.,
requires, first of all, that his friends be perfectly moral and
honest, but with conscien. moderate, is not particular in this
respect.
FvLL.-One having adhes. full, will make a social, com·
o;J,izedb,Google
ADHESIVENKSS. 67
panionable, warm-hearted friend, who will11acrifice much at
the shrine of friendship, yet sacrifice his friendahip on the
altar of the stronger passions; his friendship, though strong
and ardent, will be less glowing and intense than that
produced by large adhes. One having adhes. full, with
large or very large combat., destruct., self-e., approbat., and
acquis., will serve himself first, and his friends afterwards;
form attachments, yet break them when they come in con-
tact with the exerci!e of these organs ; and, with large se-
cret. and small conscien., will not be at all desirable as a
friend, yet, after all, set considerable by his friends: with
very large benev., large conscien., approbatrand firm., only
moderate or full combat, destruct., and secret., and moderate
or large intellectual organs, will be very good company;
desirable as a friend; liberal, well-disposed, true to his friends,
and always ready to do them a favour. Many of the com-
binations under adhes. large, will apply, except in degree, to
ndhes. full, in the selection of which, as in many similar
cases, the reader will use his own compar.
MoDERATE.-One having adhes. moderate, may be some-
what fond of society, and exercise some attachment to his
friends, yet will sacrifice it upon unimportant considerations,
and, though he may have many acquaintances, will have no
intimate and very dear friends : with large combat. and de-
struct., will become easily offended with friends, and seldom
retain a friend long: with large benev., will bestow his ser-
vices, and, with moderate acquis., his money, more readily
than his affections ; and, with the selfish organs large, take
care of himself first, making friendship subservient to sel-
fish purposes.,_
SMALL.-One having adhes. small, thinks and cares little
· about friends ; takes little delight in their company ; prefers
to live and act alone; is cold-hearted, unsocial, and selfish;
has few friends, and, with large or very large selfish organs,
a great many enemies, because he is himself so inimical to
others. See combinations under adhes. moderate.
VERY SMALL.-when adhes. is very small, its influence is
not observable, and the subject,a perfect stranger to friendship.
While amat. is generally much smaller, adhes., philopro.,
benev., and conscien., are commonly very much larger in fe-
1\lales than in males, by which the former are qualified, in a
pre-eminent degree, ~o enjoy the domestick and social rela-
tions, and to discharge the duties of their station.
m '"edbyGoogle
68 PBR.KOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
LocATION.-The location of this organ is outward and
upward from philopro., and above amat., and ita shape near-
ly oval.
4. INHABITIVENESS.
Love oflwme and CotJ,ntry-desire to locate and remain in
one spot-attachment to the place in which one has li-oed.
That there often exista a partiality towards particular
place.s, and for no other reason than that one has lived there,
IS a very common phenomenon, and even necessary to man's
happiness and well-being. This class of functions must be
produced by some faculty ; and the fact that its organ is
found adjoining philopro. and adhes., the objects of which
it directly and essentially aids, affords presumptive and ana-
logical proof both of ita existence and of the correctness of
its location.
LnoE.-One having inhab. large, will have a very
strong desire to locate himself in a single spot which he can
call his home, and to remain there; leaves the place of hta
nativity and abode with the greatest reluctanre, and returns to
them with delight; soon becomes stronglyattached to his house,
his office, his garden, his fields, &c., and is generally satis-
fied with them; thinks a great deal of his native town, state,
and country, and, when away from them, of those that have
lived in them, &c. One having inhab. large, with philopro.,
adhes., ideal., individ., and local. large or very large, will be
extremely fond of travelling, yet too fond of home to absent
himself long at a time; in early life, will have an insatiable
desire to rove about and see the world, and afterwards to set·
tie: with approbat. and self-e. large or very large, will have
high ideas of his country, of national honour, national ad-
vantages and privileges, &c.; and, with large or very large
combat. and destruct., will be eminently patriotick and ready
to sacrifice all, even life itself, in defence of his country's
rights and honour, and of his own fireside ; and, with large or
very large ven., will look with great reverence to those de-
parted worthies who have served and honoured their coun-
try, and also to the national relicks of past ages.
VERY LARGE.-One having inhab. 11ery large, will be
sometimes homesick, especially if philopro. imd adhes. are
also very large; will suffer almost any inconvenience, and
o'?''"•d by Coogle
INHABITIVENESS. 69
forego bright prospects of acquiring wealth, &c.,sooner than
leave his home; and experienr.e, only in a proportionally
higher degree, the feelings attributed to this organ large.
FuLL.-One having this organ full, will prefer to live in
one spot, yet, when his interests require it, can change the
place of his abode .without much regret; and, with large
philopro. and adhes., will think much more of his family
and his friends, than he will of his home as suck.
MoDERATE OR SMALL.-One having inhab. moderate or
small, with large or very large hope, individ., ideal., and lo-
cal., will be very apt to change his location either in hopes
of improving it, or to see the world; will have an insatiable
desire to travel in foreign parts; unless prevented by strong
reasons, will be likely to live, at different times, in several dif·
ferent places; and, with philopro. and adhes.large, will regard
his home not for its own sake, but for the sake offamily and
friends, and will not, by his mere love of home, be prevented
from going where his interest or business leads him, nor
be likely to suffer from a want of home.
VERY sMALL.-When this faculty is very small, its oper·
ation has no perceptible influence upon the character.
The author has seen numerous, striking developments of
the organ in conjunction with a proportionate strength of the
faculty; and also many other instances of the deficiency both
of the organ and of the faculty. One of the most striking of
the former, is the case of Judge Tucker of Williamsburgh,
Va.,half-brother of the lateJohn Randol,h, who, while yet in
the prime of life, left a very lucrative and honourable pro·
fession for the sole/urpose of living and dying where his
fathers had lived an died. The organ is extremely large in
his head, and also the organs of adhes. and philopro. The
author might mention hundreds of others equally in point.
Between Spurzheim and Combe there exists a difference
of opinion concerning this faculty and that of concent. Dr.
Spurzheim gives the location and analysis of inhab. similat
to that contained in this work, but maintains that the organ of
concent. does not exist; while Mr. Combe maintains, that the
organ of concent. (which will be next analyzed) occupies near-
ly the same position. But from the numerous and marked
cases of a development of each organ in the absence of the
other, and the perfect coincidence between the strength of
these faculties and the size of their respective organs, of
which, in no instance, has he seen a failure, the author is
70 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATE~
thoroughly convinced· that both. arc substantially correet-
dtat there are two organs as analyz~d and located in this
work.
LocATION.- The location of inhab. is directly above phi-
lopro., and partly between, and partly above, the two lobes
of adhes. Where it is large or very large, and c'*cent,
moderate, ·an angle is formed near the union of the lambdoi-
dal sutures, between which and the occipital bone, there will
be considerable distance, but when it is smal~ no such organ
will be found.
5. CONCENTRATIVENESS.
Tile power of mental concentration and continuity.
The object of this faculty is to continue the oferations of
the other faculties upon any given subject, unti they have
thoroughly acted upon it, and presented the result. The
nature of the faculty may not yet have been fully analyzed,
yet, of the phenomena ascribed to it, there can be no question.
LARGE.-One having large concent., is thereby enabled
and disposed to keep his whole mind patiently fixed, for a
long time, upon a single thing; to continue the existing train
of thought, feeling, &c., and to exclude every other; to iJll-
part unity and mutual dependence to propositions, arguments,
paragraphs, parts of a sentence, &c.; to dwell patiently on
any subject of interelil, and, with large intellectual organs, to
go to the bottom of subjects; to investigate them thoroughly;
to run out processes of reasoning, and chains pf thought, &c.,
in all their bearings and consequences; to give his whole
mind to one, and but one, thing at a time; and to hold his
mind to a train ofthought, subject ofstudy, piece oflabour, &c.,
till they are entirely completed. It imparts a unity and con-
nectedness to all the conceptions and operations of the mind,
and yet, in doing this, prevents that intensity, and rapidity,
and variety which are manifested without it. One having
concent. large, with large combat. and destruct., will prolong
the exercise of anger: with cautious. large, that of fear:
with ideal. large, flights of imagination, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having concent. very large, is con-
fused if several things claim attention at once; requires a
long time to fix his mind upon any particular subject, or to
divert it when once fixed; in conversation, is apt to be prolU:
and tedious, and wear his subjects threadbare, and, if inter-
·.
..
•
,.
•
·CONCENTR.\TIVENESS. 71
rupted, is greatly disturbed, ifnot vexed: with individ. moder·
ate or small, and the reasoning organs large or very large, is
frequently abstract, absent minded, and so deeply buried in
meditation, as to be unconscious of what is transpiring around
him, and often dwells so long upon a subject as to distort it,
and ~rsue it into absurd extremes. The style of Dr.
Chalmers, and also of Dr. Thomas Brown, will serve as il·
lustrations of the effect which this faculty produces upon the
manner of communicating ideas.
FuLL.-One having concent. full, will be inclined to dwell
upon a thing to which his attention has been called, and also
to impart as much perfection as may be to the operations of his
mind, yet, when ocr.asion requires, can change, without much
difficulty, from one subject to another, and thus attend to a
variety of objects within a limited time, and will preserve a
happy medium between two great prolixity, and too great
brevitv. ·•
MO'DERATE oR sMALL.-One with concent moderate or
~all, is able and inclined to pass rapidly and easily from
;foe kind of studv, book, conversation, thought, feeling, busi·
ness, occupation:&c. to another, from point to point, in argu·
ment, without connecting or arranging them; does not sys·
tematically arrange his subjects; fails to impart mental de-
pendence to his sentences, paragraphs, propositions, and
parts of a discourse, so that many of them could be omitted
without affecting the rest; throws out his thoughts in con·
cise and distinct propositions, rather than in long paragraphs;
stops when he has finished, and even before be has suffi·
ciently illustrated, his ideas, passes to others, and again re·
, turns; abridges his anecdotes and sentences by the omission
of important particulars; drops one sentence, subject, anec·
dote, &c. to commence another, and forgets what he was be·
ginning to say; wanders, in contemplation, through a great
variety of different or opposite subjects; throws off care and
trouble easily, and kt•eps no organ long in connected action
unless it is powerfully excited.
One having concent. moderate or small, with adhes. small,
thinks of his friends for the time being with vivid and intense
emotion, but only for a short time at once, yet is not, there·
fore, inconstant in his attachments: with combat and des·
truct large, may get angry quickly, but, unless the injury is
deep and intended, cannot retain his anger: with the intellec·
tual organs generally large or very large, will be mofe lihly
70
thorougl
tbat the
work.
Loc
lopro.,
of adht
modeTa
dal sat\.
be cons
will be
TJo
ThE
the ot
thorou.'
nature
yet, o£
LA--R
and di
long ti
of thO'
part u1
para.gl
any st:
goto t
to run
in aU.
mind ~
mind"'I
till tb(
nectel
and;{>
;~;1
fused'~
long i
dive~
and t
I
72 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
to make rather a general, than a critical, scholar, an•
apt to have a smattering of all the sciences, than a pr·
knowledge of any ; soon gets weary of one book, stud
takes up another, and then returns to the first, thus stt
by piecemeal; prefers short pieces upon various subj
long ones upon any~ newspaper to a book, &c. : wil
par. large or very large, may have bold and original
upon a variety of subjects, yet will not, without great
or great excitement, have a chain of connected thought!
any, and will make rather a striking and immediat~. t
lasting, impression: with ideal., imitat.,mirth., individ.,'
lang., and the reasoning organs large or very largt
make a better extempore speaker than writer, may give
ety, but will never give copiousness, to conversation an
course ; will lack the requisite patience to prepare his
for critical reading, and yet possess great versatility oft
• For the merchant, accountant, superintendent, and tboet
are called upon to attend to a great many different person1
things, moderate or small concent. is indispensable, and I
or very large concent., extremely detrimental. ·
VERY SMALL.-One having concent. very small, hu
great a thirst for variety, and change of occupation, ar
so restless and impatient, that he cannot continue long enc
at any one thing to effect much, and will experience, onl
a still greater degree, the phenomena described under
head of concent. moderate or small.
In the American head this organ is generally modera1
small, which perfectly coincides withthe versatilityoftheiJ
ents, and variety of their occupations. Thf'y often pursue
era! kinds of business at once, while the English and ~
mans, in whom the organ is generally large, experience
greatest difficulty in pursuing any other calling or occ·
tion than that in which they were educated. The wa1
this organ constitutes a great defect in the American cha
ter, which is still farther increased by the variety of stu
pressed upon the attention of~ach student in our schools
seminaries. This, indeed, constitutes one of the greatest
fects in the present system of education. It is generally
or large in those who spend their lives in doing a sit
thing, such as factory tenders : and this furnishel! an im
tant hint to those who wish to cultivate the faculty.
generally, though erroneously, supposed, that a large end
ment of this faculty is necessary to great power of m
r
'ED. VITATIVENKS8. 73-
scholar, anf a transcendant genius. The fact is far otherwise.
s, than apr:t.nklin evidently possessed but a small portion of it; and
~ book, studJilaps the majority of eminent men whom it has been the
rst thus s~rie of the author to examine, have possessed but an in-
ari~us sub_ikrent endowment of this faculty. When it is weak, the
: &c.: wii!Dd seizes at onee what it seizes at all, and acts with so
1
'd oriuinall<'.h rapidity, that a second subject is introduced before the
bout greali1t is completed, or, at least, before these operations are
•d tbough~iy presented and illustrated ; so that !:!UCh persons are lia·
1mediate, to be frequently misunderstood from a want of sufficient
individ.,eolanation. Concentration of thought, style, and feeling,
~ery larg~ensity and power of mind, in which there is produced, as
may gire were, a focus of feeling or of intellect, is the result, uot, as is
rsation andberally supposed, of concent. large or very large, but, of
lpare hisi cent. moderate or small, an active temperament, and
:tility 0[1a~e or ver large intellectual faculties. Large concent., as
and tbosetlvere, dilutes or amplifies the mental operations. ~
nt personsll'he difference between concent. and firm. is this; con·
tble and Ia t. bears upon the particular mental operations for the
' e being, while large firm. has reference to the general
;mal4 bas nions, plans, &c., of life. For example; one having con·
ation, an t. small, and firm. large or very large, will naturally pre.
Jong eno~ an occupation in which his attention would be rapidly call·
nee, only to successi\•e things, all of which would have reference
1under his grand object of pursuit, and from which he could not
ily be diverted. If he were a merchant, he would pursue
rnoderateF~ mercantile calling with perseverance, yet he would be
·oftbeirlle, without confusion, to wait upon many different custom-
pursue.lljS within a short time, &c. · •
1 and ad LocATJos.-This organ is located above inhab.and adhes.,
!rience ~d below self-e. 'Vhen it is large or very large, a general
1r occu~lness of this region will be observable, but no p·rot1J.berance
1e want'ill be apparent; but when it is moderate or small, a r.ro-
m charak>rtionate semicircular depression will be very percept1ble,
Jf studith part encircling adhes. and inhab., and followmg the lamb-
bools a~idal :sntures. When inhab. is also small, the depression is
eatest d•idened at the union of these sutures.
rallv fuJ
8 slnglt t-VITATIVENESS.
~- imho~ L()'l)e of life as such--t£nwillingness to die.
endow·· It is evident that a desire to live, disconnected with any of
· mind,he comforts of life, and, also, with all the objects to be secur-
7
m ,,edbyGoogle
t
74 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRAT.&D.
ed by living, constitutes a strong passion, not ooly in maa,
but, likewise, in.some classes of animals. In some, this in·
atinctive love of life, and this fearfuL shrinking from death,
amount to a passion, and nothing is regarded with more ter·
rour than dying.. Hence the necessity of a faculty whose
office it is to .perform this class of functions•.and, also, of a
portion of the brain, by means of which it can manifest these
functions.
The author became acquainted with Dr. Gibson, one of
tbe editors of the Washington Telegraph, in whom the or-
gan is very small, and who, when seemingly at the point of
death, in consequence of a 'wound ·he had received, not only ,
felt very little desire to live, or fear of death, but even exer·
cised h1s mirth., which is large, in a high degree, although
in the expectation that each hour would be his last.
, LARGE.-One having vitat. large, aside from the enjoy·
ment of life and the fear of death, will look upon life as one
of the most desirable of all objects, and upon death as "the
king of terrours." This desire to live will also be increas-
ed by the desires of the other faculties. One having vital.
large, with the domestick faculties strong,.will desire to live,
not only because he looks upon his existence here as a most
desirable object, but, likewise, on account of his family and
friends : with acquis. large or very large, for the purpose of
am:1ssing wealth: with the intellectual organs large, to ac-
quire knowledge: with approbat. and self-e. large, to gratify
his ambition, &c. ; but, when these organs are interrupted or
disappointed-when adhes., for exampl~:>, is wounded by the
loss of dear friends, acquis., by the loss of property, appro·
bat., by disgrace, &c., the sufferings thus caused, may be so
much greater than his love of life, that the individual may
wish to die, and, by the aid of destruct., seek relief in self·
destruction.
VERY LARGE.- To one with this faculty fJerylarge, even
the thought of dying will be dreadful, and he will most te·
naciously cling to life, even though it be most miserable.
The combinations under this head, except in degree, are the
same as those under vitat. large..
FuLL.-One having vitat.full, with other organs large or
very large, will desire to live,but rather as a secondary, than
a primary, object; and on aecount of his other faculties,
rather than on account of his vitat•
.MoDEI!.AT£ OR SMALL.-0ne with vital. moderate M
COMBATIVENESS. ?5
lt~~all, will seldom think of dying, and when he does, will
be much more affected by the consequences of d\lRth, than
by a love of life; be less careful of his health, and those
means calculated to lengthen life, than he would be with vitat.
large. In this case, death will be preferred to trouble, and
life desired rather as ameans, than as an end, nod for the
objects sought to be accomplished.
VERv SMALL.-When vitat. is ve·ry small, a desire to live,
and a shrinking from death, as suck, and per sese, will never
be thought of. '
LocATION.-Vitat. is located nearly beneath the mastoid
proce.,s, and partly between amat. and destruct. See cuts,
6. COMBATIVENESS.
Propensity to defend, resist, and oppose.
The influence of combat. upon the other faculties, and,
i11deed, upon the whole character, manifests itself, not only
in physical, but also in moral and intellectual, opposition.
Ita action is nece.ry whenever, in the execution of a diffi-
cult project, any thing is to be resisted or overcome. It acts
upon animate, as well as upon inanimate, objects, and impart,s
to its possessor that nerve and determination which induce
him to grapple with all his undertakings, as though he could
and would effect his purposes.
The direction of this facultr, and the character of its man·
ifestations, are determined chtefly by its combinations, and
the education or breeding of the individual. When it is
under the control of the higher sentiments and of reason,
and directed to its proper objects, no manifestati<!n of the
mind is more virtuous or more praise-worthy; but when not
thus controlled and directed, its manifestation is odious and
vicious in the extreme. It was by this organ, directed, aided,
and stimulated by conscien., self-e., the dqmestick fac.ulties,
reason, &c., that our ancestors achieved our ever-glorious
Independence; and yet, from this organ in its perverted
manifestation, originate those party strifes, family and village
dissensions, bickerings and quarrels, mobs and physical
combats which disgrace humanity.
LARGE.-One having combat. largt, with self-e. full, and
firm. large, will be eminently qualified to meet difficultiesi
overcome obstacles; brave dangers ; endure hardships; con.
m '"edbyGoogle
\
76 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tend for privileges; maintain and advocate opinions; resist
encroachments; resent injuries and insults, &c.; will defend
his rights to the very last; suffer no imposition ; seize upon
whatever he undertakes with the spirit and determination re-
quisite to carry it through all opposing difficulties ; rather
glory in opposition than shrink from it; be always ready, if
not glad, to act upon the defensive, if not upon the offensive;
inclined to call in question, and oppose, the opinions and the
proceedings of others, and partly from pure love of opposi-
tion ; will often urge his own opinions ; generally take
sides upon every contested question; and, with approbat. also
large,will seek to distinguish himself: with a full or large
brain, will possess energy and force of character in an emi-
n61)t degree ; and, with an active temperament, unless restrain-
ed by large benev., conscien., and caus., will be naturally too
violent and too hasty in his temper, .and subject to sudden
ebullitions of passion.
One having combat. large, with large destruct., will unite
harshness, and severity, and a kj.nd of fierceness with his re-
sistance, and frequently show quite too much spirit, and, with
an active temperament, will not only be quick tempered, but,
also, very severe and vindictive when roused; but, with de-
sti'uct. moderate or small, may be quick to resent and resist,
and cool and intrepid in the onset, yet will inflict as little pain
as possible; will conquer, yet spare the vanquished, and can
never punish one who has surrendered, espec1ally if conscien.
and benev. ·are large or very large; is more courageous than
cruel ; more petulent tbltn violent; more passionate than
harsh; and, when anger is manifested, will not add to it that
fierceness, and that spirit of revenge, which give it a threat.
ening aspect, and make it dreadful : with very large self-e.,
large destruct., and the selfish propensities stronger than the
moral and reasoning faculties, will protect himself and his
own exclusive privileges first of all; seem to claim the ser-
,·ices of others mt>rely upon the ground of his own superiori.
ty, and without thinking of returning an equivalent, and,
perhaps, abuse those who infringe upon his rights, and, with
conscien. moderate or small, those also who do not render him
all the service and honour he claims; will seldom e\'ince
gratitude for favours received, because be will feel that they
of right belong to him ; will be naturally selfish and jealous.
and apt to treat his fellow men, except tbos.} whom he con·
de.11cends to make his particular friends, with a kind of con-
COMBATIYENI!SS. 77
tempt, and if they cross his path, with scorn : with acquis.
large or very large, self-e. large, and caus. only full, will de-
fend his property ; stand out for every farthing that belongs
to him; and be very angry at those through whom he may
'have sustained any pecuniary Joss; but, with acquis. only
moderate, and self.e. or approbat. large or very large, will
permit the injury of his property with comparative impunity,
yet boldly sustam his injured honour, and preserve his chn.r.
acter unsullied to the last, cost him what it may: with self-e.
only moderate, and adhes. large, will suffer others to impose
upon himself, yet will take the part of a friend with a great
deal more readiness and warmth of feeling than hr- would
his own part: with amat. large, will defend the other sex
sooner than himself or his own sex-the character, the,er·
son, &c., of a lover, sooner than of himself, &c.: with ccncent.
and destruct. moderate or small, and an active temperament,
will be subject to sudden bursts of passion, which will contiti.
ue but for a moment, and then leave him as calm as before,
and, perhaps. vexed with himself because he cannot suppress
his anger: with~ng. and the reasoning organs large, is
extremely fond of'debate; very much inclined to start objec-
tions to what has been said ; to argue on the opposite side of
the question, even in opposition to his real belief, merely from
love of argument; and, with large firm., though vanquished,
will argue still.
VERY LAROE.-The manifestations of combat. very large,
are much the same with those under the head ofcombat. large,
except when it is combined with large or very large self-e.
or approbat., firm. and destruct., and only moderate or full
c:onscien., secret., benev., ven., and caus., in which case
it actuates one to attack and provoke others without suffi.
c:ient cause; to dispute and quarrel with those around him;
crowd himself forward; push his opinions on others; create
disturbance; kindle strife; encourage quarrels and engage
in them; and creates a quarrelsome, combative, contentious
spirit. One having very large combat., with large destruct..
is terrible and desperate in the onset; andfights with fierceness
and determination : with large amat., philopro., and adhes.,
will fight for his family, yet quarrel with them himself: with
large acquis., will quarrel for a penny: with large or very
large benev., conscien., and reasoning organs, will be able
to regulate his anger only by turning abruptly from his op.
ponent, and by avoiding every thing calculated to excite his
7•
78 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRAT.ED.
combative spirit; find extreme difficulty in governing his
anger, and, when really roused, be desperate.
FuLL.-One tlaving combat. full, is always ready, when
opposition i~ called for, to engage in it, and, with a nervous
temperament, soon excited to resent and resist, and natural-
ly quick-tempered; will possess all necessary boldness and
efficiencyofcharacter, and rather court opposition than shun it;
yet will be far from being quarrelsome, or seeking opposition
for its own sake. One having combat. full, with conscien.,
firm., benev., and caus. large or very large, though his anger
is strong, will generally govern it; will be mild, kind, well-
disposed, and peaceable; avoid quarrelling and contention, .
and yet possess a large share of moral courage, and owe the
cofibative spirit he may manifest, more to the powerful stimu-
lus he may experien<'.e, than to the natural activity and
power of the ·,passion; will show this feeling more in his
business, and m moral and intellectual resistance, than in
quarrelsomeness or physical combat; and seldom employ
physical force, except when powerfully excited; but, with a
predominance of the other selfish facultie!Ja. will possess an
unenviable temper. The combinations utftler combat. large,
will apply, except in degree, to combat. full.
MoDERATE.-One having combat. moderate, will contend
no more than the case really demands, and sometimes not even
as much; will not tamely allow himself or others to be really
abused and trampled upon,and yet, will bearlong before he will
manifest resistance, and be quite as forbearing as manliness
and virtue will allow; will dislike qu·arrelling an<i avoid it
a$ long as possible; may be irritable from the irritability of
his temperament, yet is by no means contentious; will not be,
in reality, tame and cowardly, nor yet very efficient; will·
exercise but little indignation, and be amiable, peaceable,
easy with all, quiet, and inoffensive.
One having combat. moderate, with self.e. moderate or
small, and large or very large philopro., adhes., acquis.,
benev., and conscien., will contend for children, family,
friends, the oppressed, his religious opinions, moral princi-
ples, &c., with much spirit, and yet, suffer personal abuse
with impunity: with large or very large self-e., firm., con-
scien., and the reasoning organs, will maintain his opinions
with stability, and pursue his plans with firmness, and yet,
do it in a quiet, but firm and effectual, manner; seek to ac-
ttomplish whatever he undertakes without opposition; act
COJIBATIVENB&S. 79
chiefly upon the defensive; make but little noise or bustle,
yet hold on and persevere till his purposes,and plans are
carried through; and, with cautious. also large, will take the
castle rather by siege than by storm; accomplish considera·
ble, and in the best manner, but must take his own time for
it; and wiii be distinguished for his stability, judgment,
and success : with large or very large caus. and compar.,
and large intellectual organs generally, will not distinguish
himself in argument or debate, unless when powerfully ex·
cited, yet, if his head is large, will then be original and logical,
and express many important ideas; be characterized more by
perspicuity, and force of reason, than by passion and fervour
of fefAing, &c. .
SIIIALL.-One having rombat. small, will be unable and
unwilling to encounter his fellow men; be mild, amiable, in·
offensive, and rather inefficient; lack spirit, and presence of
mind in time of danger; quail too quick under opposition,
and shrink from it ; love peace and seek it, even at a great
personal sacrifice; avoid quarrelling; endeavour to reconcile
the contending; surrender rights rather than contend for
them ; endure oppression rather than shake it off; take
abuse in good part; .be forbearing, and generally beloved; and,
with destruct. moderate, whatever may be his other qualities,
will be unable to effect any thing of importance, or cut a figure
in the world ; and, with large or very large domestick, moral,
and intellectual organs, will seek his chief gratification in re-
tirement from the noise and bustle ofactive and publick life,in
literaryand scientifickacquirements, religious exercises, &c.;
and, though be may have a high endowment of natural
talent, will have nothing to stimulate and bring it out; and,
with cautious. large or very large, will be timid, irresolute,
cowardly, and easily overco~e by alarm.
VERY SMALL.-One having combat. 'IJtry Jmall, with
cautious. very large, is passive, tame, cowardly, chicken·
hearted, weak, destitute of spirit, force and energy.of charac.
ter, and may be abused.with impunity; is excessively timid;
does not stand his ground; never ventures ; will never mani·
fest anger, and be utterly unable to withstand opposition.
When the author was in the town of Milton, Pa., in 1836,
one of the editors of that place, who was a decided opponent
of phrenology, for the purpose of testing the science, brought
forward a lad who was distinguished for his talents, his
shrewdness, high-toned, manly feeling, and for his apparent
80 .l'HRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
boldness and daring in horsemanship. To make the experi.
ment the more satisfactory, the author was blindfolded. The
lad was described as possessed of extraordinary talent, and
high moral feeling, joined with some cunning, but with small
combat., and so extreme a development of cautious. as to
make him timid and cowardly-too timid to run any risk, or
venture near the brink of danger. All present allowed that
the description, throughout, was very correct, except that the
most marked feature of his character had been re'IJersed.
He was considered the most daring and reckless youth in
the whole Tillage. Many instances, however, were soon
cited, of his unwillingness to mount' horses with which he
was not fully acquainted, and which were considered frac·
tious. His brother also stated, that he was excessively afraid
in the dark; and only a few days previous, his father had re·
marked to some one present, that, altl:lough he affected great
daring, bravado, and willingness to fight, &c., yet, when
brought to the sticking point, he always contrived, and some-
times very ingeniously, to get out of the scrape without com.
ing to blows. Still the YC?uth affected to be as courageous
and as daring as ever, until, at supper, in the evening after
his examination, when his mother, who .doubtless knew best
his real character, accosted him substantially as follows:
"My son, you know that you are a coward: why, then, do
you persist in denying it~ You know that I can never
make you, old as you are, go to bed alone ; and that, whenev·
er you are left alone in bed, you will get up and come down."
" I know it, mother," replied the humbled boy, "but I did not
wish the other boys to find out that I was a coward, because,
when they do, they will call me out to fight."
The real explanation is this. His very large self-e. and
larg-e approbat. created the demand for apparent bravery, and
his very large intellect. and large secret., enabled him to
devise this method of supplying his want of native courage
with this ctmnterfeit bravery; while his predominating cau-
tious., which caused his excessive fear, kept him from expos-
ing himself to any real danger; and his self-e. gave him the
self-confidence necessary to carry out the ingenious expedient
which his intellect had devised.
The following anecdote was related to the -author. A
Mr. S., in a certain engagement with the Indians, fought des·
perately, even with a bravery which greatly astonished those
who had known his father, who was always branded and
--·~
COMBATIVEN.&SS. 81
ridiculed as an arrant coward. He then confessed, that his
fear was almost insupportable, and that he fought thus brave-
ly only to wipt: out the disgrace of hie father.
These facts, with ten thousand others which might easily
be cited, clearly show, that what is generally considered bra·
very, is more frequently produced by approbat. or self-e.,
than by combat. Hence, great cowards often appear to be
men of real courage.
The way is thus opened for the remark, that the amount
of combat. manifested, depends, in no small degree, upon the
stimulus under which it acts. For example; suppose two
young men, pos.~essed of an equal share of combat., and alike
in every respect, except, that one possessed a very large
share of approbat. and very small adhes., and the other only
a small degree of approbat., but very large adhes. Now,
under given circumstances, the former would be as much
more indignant at an insult offered to him, and touching his
honour. than the latter would be, as his approbat. was larger
than r 1he latter j whereas, the latter .would take up the
qua< friend as much quicker than the former, and
1igh< ~ harder, as his adhes. excelled that of the form-
er. ,dustration presents a general principle, which
applies ,.,.th equal force to the combinations of any of the
other &:eulties with that of coml,lat., an<l to !ill the combina-
tions 'lfthe organs. ·
'l'he application of this principle, will most satisfactorily
explain, how a man may be perfectly honest in some things,
and quite dishonest in others, as well as ten thousand other
interesting phenomena of the human mind. It will explain
to us, how the timici and delicate mother, in rescuing her
darling child from imminent danger, can assume the boldness
of the hero, nay, the fierc.eness of the tiger.
In this last case, the phenomenon is explained thus: Very
large philopro., very powerfully excites what combat. there
is, but for which excitement, timidity would take the place of
boldness, and cowardice, that of courage.
Loc.,.TION.-In a common sized head, combat. is located
about an inch and a half behind the top of the ear, and ex-
tends itself in a perpendicular direction. When it is very
large, and thE> surrounding organs large, it will cause a
thickness of this part of the head, which may be the more
easily observed by placing the thumb upon the organ on one
side, and the fingers on the opposite side; but when it is
m '"edbyGoogle
•
Si PURENOLOOY lLL11'tiTRATED.
JOO<lerate or smal~ there will be little protuberanee orb~
in this region.
7. DESTRUCTIVENESS.
Propensity to destroy, exterminate, and inflict pain.
In the economy of human society, many things are to be
deatroyed to make life even tolerable. Death and destruc·
tion enter largely into the great law of nature. Hence, the
necessity of some faculty to exercise this propensity to de-
stroy. We often see it in the child, which, long before it
" knows how to choose the good and refuse the evil," mani·
feats an innate and strong propensity to tear in pieces, break,
and destroy whatever comes in its Wliy. As it advancea
in life, it even makes a pastime of tormenting and killing
flies, and all such animals as fall into its power. When a
little older, it delights in hunting, and indulges ~a.-ot·
hatred and revenge. · ;i"'l4a -
We, moreover, see that this aame charae ~ck of de-
struction, enters into every department of or ed matter,
and forms no unimportant feature, as well of .. ~oral, aa
of the natural, government of God. The exer~se of th.W
function, must therefore be both right and necess..ry. else,
why should it be exercised by the Creator Z And the.;e evi·
dently exists, not only no reason why this class of funcr!ons
should not be performed by a distinct mental faculty, but
there certainly exists every reason for supposing that this is
the case. It is homogeneous in its kind, and unlike any
other in its character; and, consequently, demands a distinct
faculty for its exercise, and upon the same ground with any
other class of functions. ·
LAROE.-One having destruct. largt, with large combat.,
firm., &~~d self-e., possesses that sternness and severity of char;
actcr, which make others fear to provoke him, and that force
of character which enables him to prostrate and surmount
whatever obstacles oppose his progress; accompanies his
mandate with a threat, either implied or expressed; is point·
ed and sarcastick, if not bitter, in his replies; feels strong
indignation towards those that displease or injure him, and
is disposed to persecute them by injuring their feelings, repu·
tation, or interests, or by treating them with entire contempt
and neglect; experiences a feeling of revenge and bittemea
BKSTJ.11CTIVJ:NB88. 83
which, unless restrained by secret., conscien., benev., &c., he
does not fail to show.
One having destruct. large, with large adbes., loves his
friends dearly, yet often injures their feelings by saying bit-
ter things to them, which, with conscien. large, he often
afterwards regrets : with combat. moderate, is slow to wrath,
but bitter and vindictive when once roused, and will have
satisfaction before he can be appeased: with secret. large,
and conscien. moderate or small, watches his opportunity to
take vengeanc~. and strikes in the dark ; but with se.cret,
small, warns before be strikes : with bcnev. large or very
large, may be sometimes harsh in his efforts to do good, and
thus often cause needless pain, but will do this more by his
manner than from any cruel design; will be kind, and sym-
pathetick, and sensitive to the su.fferings of others, and yet,
very harsh and severe when provoked; and generally exer-
cise this faculty upon inanimate, rather than upon animate,
objects: with conscien. and combat. large, and secret. small,
is apt to find considerablefault, and that in a very harsh man-
ner: with large or very ·large compar., 11pplies disgusting
epithets to his enemies, and compares them to some most odi-
ous or disgusting object; is pre-eminent for his sarcastick
comparisons, which always fit the one for whom they were
made,• &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having destruct. very large, with
large or very large benev., conscien., and caus., may be en-
abled so to govern and restrain his indignation, that it will
seldom carry him beyond the bounds of reason and justice,
or break out into ungoverned rage and violence, yet \vhen
roused, will be dangerous, and like a chafed lion, and be
• obliged to avoid the causes of excitement; will be fond of
teasing, and also of hunting, and the warlike array of a gen-
eral muster, &c. ; and, with large or very large combat.,
self-e., approbat., firm., and hope, will excel as a soldier, &c.
For other combinations, S('e destruct. large.
FuLL.-One having destruct. fitll, with large firm., and
full combat. and self-e., has sufficient harshness and severity
of character to keep off and punish those who would other-
wise injure him; to take the rough and tumble of life, and
push his own way through it; and to destroy or subdue
whatever is prejudicial to his ,happiness, yet is neither mo-
• John Randolph.
84 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rose nor cruel; when driven to it, can witness and 'inflict
pain, but does it reluctantly, and causes as little suffeting as
he consistently can; "When his anger is not highly exci-
ted, is mild in his disposition ; and, excepting occasional
flurries of passion, which are produced by irritability of
temperament, seldom shows strong indignation.
One having destruct. full, with large benev., conscien.,
ideal., and adhes., will possess uncommon sympathy and ten-
derness of feeling, mingled with little sternness and harsh·
ness; will secure obedien'ce, and accomplish his wishes by
kindness and persuasion, more than by threats and passion,
and be beloved more than feared : with large or very large
benev., cannot bear to see pain or punishment inflicted, ex-
cept when he is angry, and then may inflict it with delight;
yet, with large combat. and mirth., delights to tease and tan-
talize others ; will not be wanton and cruel in the infliction
of pain, yet will seldom allow his indignation to slumber
when his own interests, or those of his friends, or the cause
of justice or humanity, demand it; in ordinary circumstan-
ces, will inflict but little pain, yet will manifest strong dis-
pleasure towards his enemies, and, when his indignation is
fully kindled, show even more severity and bitterness than
the occasion demands ; will not readily forget the objects of
his displeasure, and will be far from possessing a tame and
insipid character.
MoDERATE.-One having destruct. moderate, will mani-
fest only a moderate share of indignation and severity of
character; often spare what should be destroyed or punish-
ed; and, with large or very large benev., will be unable to
witness suffering and death, much less to cause them; and will
not possess sufficient force ofmind or fierceness ofcharacter to
drive through important undertakings : with benev. and the
moral organs genel'ally large or very large, will be beloved
more than feared ; will possess an extraordinary share of
sympathy, so much so as sometimes to overcome him, and
amount to o. weakness; and will secure his wishes more by
persuasion and mild measures, than by threats or harshness.
SMALL.-One having destruct. small, manifests his anger
in so feeble a manner, that it effects but little, and provokes
a smile, rather than fear : with benev. very large, possesses
too little hardness of heart to inhabit a world of suffering
and endure its cruelties and hardships, and cannot himself
~ndure physical sltffering. , -
.. .,...
.,
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 85
In its perverted exercllle, this faculty creates a vindictive,
bitter, r~vengeful, over-bearing spirit; delights in tantalizing
and tormenting; produces cruelly towards beasts, and those
in its power; gives a relish for hunting, killing, destroying,
witnessing publick executions, and such amustments as the
fighting of men, dogs, and fowls, in bull-bating, bear-bating,
&c.; produces a propensity for war, murder, violence, 1lood-
shed,· &c.; instigates children and others to stone, catch, tor·
ment, and destroy birds, insects, and such animals as fall in
their way, and also to stamp, strike, tear in piec&s, and ex·
hibit other signs of rage, violence, &c. ; and, with approbat.
and self-e. very large, to engage in duelling, &c., and pur·
sue enemies till revenge is fully satisfied.
That the class of functions here described, constitutes a
very extensive and a very influential portion of the mental
operations, no attentive observer of human nature can enter·
tain a doubt. Every,page of·the history of man, from that
which records the murder of Abel by his own brother, to
that which closes with the wars of Florida and 1'exas, is
written in characters of violence and blood. Even the most
favourite at/Lusements of men have always been sanguinary:
a specim~n of which are the theatrical representations and
gladiatorial shows which have alWBfS delighted mankind.
Every publick execution is crowded with eager spectators of
all classes and ages, and of both sexes, who attend mainly to
gratify their destruct. -by witnessing the violent death of a
fellow mortal. Almost every newspaper is stained with the
horrid details of SOIJ2e cold-blooded murder, duel, or suicide,
or some other act of violence or destruction in !lome of the
unnumbered forms it assumes. If phrenology did not make
provision for this class of functions, this omission would be
prima facie evidence of its destitution of truth, and inconsis-
tency with nature.
Its exercise is either virtuous or vicious, according to the '
circumstances in which, and the obj~cts upon which, it is
exercised. Perhaps no organ is more liable to be abused
than this, or productive of more misery; and yet, this is by·
no means oJVing to the nature and the origioal· character of
the faculty, but solely to its pe"'ersion. Hence the import·
ance of its proper education.
LocATION.-'fhis organ is located beneath the temporal
bone, and, when large, extends from three to six eighths of
an inch above the top of the ear. When it is very large, it
8
86 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
thickens the middle of the base of the head, and makes the
ears stand out from the head. When it is Jarge,pr very
large, and secret. is small, it produces a horizontal ridge
which extends about half an inch above the top of the ears.
8. ALIMENTIVENESS.
Appetite for sustenance--desire for nutrition.
This faculty creates a relish for food, drink, &c. ; renders
important assistance in selecting the kinds of food best
calculated to nourish the body; when the system needs a
further supply of food and drink, produces hunger and
thirst, and, when it is unperverted, a~d the stomach is in a
healthy state, is a sure directory as to the quantity and the
quality of food necessary for the puzposes of nutrition and
health.
LAROE.-One having aliment. large, is very fond of the
good things of this life, and frequently eats more than health
and comfort r<.."quire; partakes of food with a very keen rel-
ish; sets a very high value upon the luxuries of t~e palate;
and, according to his ~eans, is a good liver.
One having aliment. large, with acquis. also lallge, will in-
dulge his appetite, when he ca'n do so without too grest ex-
pense ; but, when good eating is costly, will sometimes suffer
hunger rather than pay a high price to appease it, except
where he is ashamed not to eat; will expend money reluctantly
for sweetmeats, &c., unless his aliment: is stimulated by a
favourite dish, or, _to him, favourite sweetmeats, but will, nev-
ertheless, find it hard to keep from eating whatever delicacies
may be in his way : with acquis. moderate or small, will
spend his time and money freely for rich viands and rare
liquors; and, if large or ¥ery large adhes. be added to this
eombination, will not only take the greatest delight at the
convivial board and the social meal, but will spend money
even more lavishly than is nece!!5ary to entertain his friends:
with conscien. large or very large, will feel guilty whenever
he Gver-indulges his appetite, and will endeavour to regulate
his eating according to his ideas of duty, yet will be obliged
.11o struggle hard against this as "an easily besetting sin," by
which he will, nevertheless, be often overtaken : with eon•
acien. and ven. large or very large, will be thsnkfuJ for his
..... r±
ALUIENTIVENBSS, 81
food as a bountiful gift from the hand of his Maker :• with
lang., u~irth., and adhes. large or very large, and secret. only
moderate, will be conversalional, social, and humorous at the
festal board: with the intellectual organs generally large,
will prefer conversation upon rational and scientifick sub·
jects: with ideal. large or very large, must have his food
prepared in the nicest manner, and in elegant and fashion·
able dishes; but, with ideal. moderate, thinks more of the
food and of the cookery, than of the ceremonies or the style~
of the table; with self-e. large, and acquis. only moderate or
full, will be satisfied only with the first and the best table,
even if he is obliged to pay a high price for it: with large
approbat. and ideal., will be very ceremonious at table; but
with ideal. only moderate, and self-e. and caus. large, will
despise ceremony, yet, with large or very larg~ benev., will
provide bountifully, and show great hospitality at table, with·
out.much splendour •r ceremony, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having aliment. very large, will be too
much given tothe indulgence ofa vo:-ncious appetite; too ready
to ask " what he shall eat and drink;" will think as much
of his meals as of almost any thing else, and be strongly in·
dined to act the epicure or the gormand. The combinations
of ·aliment. very large, are analogous to those produced by
aliment. lfrge, except that its manifestations will be greater in
degree, which thejudgment of the reader will readily supply.
FuLL.-One having aliment. full, partakes of food with
a good relish, yet'is not a gormandizer, nor very particular
in regard to what he eats and· drinks; can endure a poor
diet, yet is very partial to a variety of rich dishes, and some·
times overloads his stomach. The combinations of aliment.
full, resemble those of aliment. large, except in an infel'fuur
degree. ·
MoDERATE.-One having aliment. moderate, is by no
means destitute of a relish for food, yet, when in health, is
not particular as to what he eats; prefers a plain, simple diet
to that which is highly seasoned and very rich, &c.
One having aliment. moderate, with acquis. large, will
grudge the money he pays for his meals, and frequently suf..
fer hunger rather than pay the customary price for them;
will prefer to take up with a poorer meal or a cold bite at a
lower price, than to pay well for the best: with conscien,
• Hence, the custom of"asking a ble118iog" upon fuod, andof" reiUnlioc lllar!klll'
j)r it.
o;J,izedb,Google
.---.,
88 PHRENOLOGY ILLV8TRATBD.'
large or very large, finds little difficulty in governing his
appetite, because he has so little to govern, &c. . .
8MALL.-0ne having aliment. small, will have but an in-
different or a poor appetite; will care little about what he
eats, or when he eats; and, with acquis. large~ go long with-
out food, and live very poorly, rather than part with his
money to pay for food.
Gluttony, gormandizing, luxurious Jiving, intemperance in
all its forms, and the unnatural cravings of the stomach, are
the perverted exercises of this faculty. To see the pains
taken, and the preparations made, and ·the time and money
worse than wasted, merely in gratifying this propensity, is
most astonishing : and, above all, to see the monstrous per-
versions of it which everywhere abound, to the. reflect-
ing, sober mind, is humiliating in the extreme. That man,
made in the image of his God, and endowed by nature with
such transcendent powers of thought and feeling, that man
should thus "make a god of his belly," and, for the mere
purpose of indulging to excess this animal passion, thus de-
mean and degrade himself so far below the brute creation-
thus clog the wheels of this wonderful machine which we
call mind,exhibits, in a most mortifying light, the depravity
into which human nature is capable ofbeing led. Yet such
is the deplorable fact, and such is likely to be tht character
and condition of man, so long as he "lives to eat," instead of
.. eating to live," and thus continues to indulge his animal
propensities at the expense of his moral and intellectual fac-
ulties.
The experience of all mankind shows that there exists a
reciprocal and most intimate connexion between the faculty
of aliment. and the stateof the stomach, and, also, between the
state of the stomach and the conditions of the brain j and still
further, between the state of the brain and the mental opera-
tions; or, between the state of the stomach and tht> operations
of the mind. . But this subject will be enlarged upon in a
subsequent chapter upon physiology.
LocATION.-Aliment. is located just before, and a little
below, destruct., in front of the top part of the ears, above the
back part of -the zigomatick process, and beneath the anteri-
or portion of the temporal bone. It may be distinguished
from destruct., by its being situated farther forward than de.
struct., and a little below it. It is generally large or very
largo in children.
MSH"
ACQUISlTIVJ:NESS. 89
9. ACQUISITIVENESS.
Propensity to acquire substance, and to appropriate it to
one's self-love of property-desire to amass toealtk, lay up,
own, possess, keep, etc. ·
This faculty loves money as an end, and not as a means;
money for its own sake, and not for what it will purchase;
gives ideas of exclusive right, and personal ownership and
possession ; creates that feeling of meum et tuum, or that im·
pression that certain things are our own, and that other
things belong to others, which is so universally manifested
among men, and upon which the law, and, indeed, all our
claims to proj>erty, are founded, &c.
This faculty, in its operation, brings within our reach most
of the necessitiea, and ail the comTorts and luxuries, of life; is
the great nerve of commerce, manufactures, inventions, and
husines1 in all its multifarious forms; and is the great mov-
ing cause of husbandry, trade, the arts, and the improve·.
ments with which mankind are blessed. We little realize
how much we owe to this faculty, The making ofbooks,
and apparel, and houses, the cultivation of farms, the
building.of villages, and cities, and stores, and canals, and
the possession of nearly all that prevents life from being one
dreary waste, may be traced, through the helps afforded by
the other faculties, directly to the influence of this love ol
money. Without this faculty, man, like those beasts which
are destitute of it, when he had satiated his hunger, and
slaked his thirst, would wander. on till again.overtaken by
these cravings of his nature; would not provide, in health
and the vigour of life, for sickness and old age, but, like the
11avage of our western wilderness, in whom it is generally
small, would live " from hand to mouth," providing nothing·
for a rainy day, and idling away his life.
That this feeling exists, and even manifests itself in bold
reliefin the human character, every observer ofhuman nature
will at once admit; and that, while, in some, it amounts to a
ruling passion, in others, it is scarcely perceptible. Here.
then, we have a distinct, a sui geniri1, and a homogeneoua
c:lase of functions ; and we must hence con.clude, that there
exists a. distinct power of the mind which performs it. .
L&aoE.-One having acqnis. larg~ is stimulated by hiJ
s•
90 . PHREKOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
love of money, to use arduous and self-denying efforts in
order to acquire wealth ; takes delight in aceumulating prop-
erty of every description; spends his money reluctantly for
things to be consumed ; cannot endure to see waste ; enters
upon his money-ma~ing plans in good earnest, or, perhaps,
makes them his main object of pursuit; unless he is accus-
tomed to handling large sums of money, has a watchful and
eager eye upon thesmall change, both inmaking and in spend-
ing money; thinks much of becoming rich; seems to place
his heart upon what property be may possess; and seeks,
with nvidity, to obtain all that belongs to him.
One having acquis. large, with self-e. only moderate, and
eonscien. and caus. only full, will occasionally discover a
penuriousness, littleness, and closeness in his dealings, and
also banter for trifles, if not for the half-cent : with hope large
or very large, not only has strong desires to accumulate prop-
erty, but also views every project of acquiring it,through the
magnifying medium ofhope, and thusexaggerates every pros.
pect for making money; and, with firm. and self.e. also large
or very .large, is eminently enterprising; devises bold
schemes for acquiring property, and enters upon them with
great determination and energy, cheered on by seemingly
bright prospects ofsuccess: with the perceptive organs also
large or very large, is a first rate judge of propertyl prone
to trade and speculate; and, with secret. also large, will ex-
eell in negotiating, and in conducting a trade; is seldom taken
in, and generally gets the best of the bargain : with hope
Yery large, cautious. only moderate, and concent. small, will
be disposed to enter so largely into business as to endanger
an entire failure; to venture beyond his means and capabili-··
ties; tospeculatetoo largely; to acquire his money hy traffick,
or by investing it, expecting thereby greatly to increase
it; and, with large combat. and "destruct. in addition,
will be likely to prosecute his money-making operations
with great vigour and energy; and with firm. also large Ot"
•yery large, to drive them throu~h all opposing difficultieR,
and either to " make or break;' will be subject to reverses
of fortune, and sometimes lose by imprudence what he has
gained by enterprise ; but, with combat., cautious., self.e.,
hope, and the reasoning orens large br l'e'J large, and the
perceptive at least full, wtll com1Siae uncC)mmon tntrg,
with _
uncommon p'f"Udence; may eneer.largely into businees,
yet will be so careful and judiei~ as generally to secure
.......... w 0 -
ACQUISITIVENESS. 91
hims~lf against losses and accidents; will generally havefor-
turie upon his side; and, with a large and active brain, un-
less prevented by his friendship, his benev., or his conscien.,
or by accidents, against which no carefulnessor sagacity could
provide, will doubtless be rich ; but, vJith hope moderate, and
cautious. large or very large, will desire to enter largely
into business, yet fear to do so ; frequently be " a day after
the fair;" and deliberate so long before he decides what to
do,as to lose the most favourable time for action; yet will
sustain fewer losses, and, in what he does undertake, will be
more ~rc of success; will not invest his money unless he
can foresee the necessary result of the undertaking ; to
acquire property, sa1:es rather than speculates ; and prefers an
income that is more sure, though it may be more slow, to one
that is more promising, yet more precarious; takes all availa-
ble security against losses by fire, by accidents, by dishon-
esty, or in any other way; makes every thing as safe as pos..
sible; and is over-careful in all his pecuniary transactions,
&c. : with hope very large, concent. small, and firm. only
full, will be likely frequently to change his plan of operation,
or, it may be, his businestt, hoping thereby to get rich the
sooner ; will never be satisfied to "let well enough alone,"
nor to pursue one steady occupation long enough to reap
much profit; but, with firm. large or very large, and hope
less than firm., will be likely to pursue one steady business
and plan of operation through life, unless literally compelled
to change it by duty, or judgment, or friendship, or some oth--
er powerful motive: with cautious. very large, through fear
of consequences, may waver in business, and will labour un-
der the greatest anxiety about his property; and, with hope
amaH, in the midst of wealth, friends plenty,-e:nd the fairest
prospects, may really apprehend poverty and even starvation:
with compar. and caus. large or very large, intuitively per-
ceives what means or causes put in operation, ore naturally
calculated to effect certain ends ; what property will be likely
to increase in value; lays jm4icious plens; makes shrewd cal-~
culations as to what will be; and, with cautious. also large, so
calculates as gE>nerally to succeed, &c. : with conscien. large
or very large, though he may be very eager in his desire for
money, and tax all his powers to accumulate property, yet
will acquire it only by1 hontst means; despise the "tricks
of trade," and can be safely relied upon: with large
or very large intellectual organs,. will prefer to make
....
. .
92 PHRENOLOGY ILLlJSTRATED.
money by some intellectual, scientifick, or literary. pur-
suit, &c.
Acquis. merely deRires propeny, but the kind of propertyse-
lected for acquisition, is.determined by the wants and the tastes
of the other faculties. One having acquis.large, for example;
with philopro. also large, will desire property both for its own
sake, and, also,on account ofchildren, or, with all the demes-
~ick faculties energetick, for his family, and will spend it freely
for their sake.: with approbat. large or very large, will seek
money both to lay up, and also to obtain approbation by dress,
equipage, elegant furniture, &c., and expend it freely for
these purposes, yet may show penuriousness in other respects:
with benev. very large, will love money, yet give it freely to
relieve suffering, and also to do good to his fellow men:
with large or very large moral and religious organs, will be
likely to "be diligent in his business," economical and, per·
haps,close in money matters, yet will give freely to benevo.
lent, missionsry. and religious obiects, and for the purpose
of converting men to Christianity: with ideal. and ven. very
large, will be likely to lay up ancient coins, paintings, books.
&c., and be an antiquarian: with the selfish faculties strong
and vigorous, will lay up such things as will gratify his va.
rious selfish passions: with the intellectual organs large,
books, philosophical apparatus, and other assistants to intel.
lectual pursuits ; and, with ideal. also very large, books
that are el£>gantly bound. and embossed, minerals, curious
specimens of nature and art, &c. : with several of these or·
gans large or very large, will desire money for its own
sake, for the sake of family, for purposes of personal aggran·
dizement, for benevolen.t and literary objects, &e., all com·
bined. Hence,.this universal scrambling for the "root of all
evil," which is the bane of human happiness and moral virtue.
This analysis of "the love of money" is certainly most
beautiful. Phrenology. shows us not only how strong the
love of money is in every man, but, also, the character
of this love, and the ultimate ends sought to be reached by it.
VERY LnoE.-One having acquis. very large, makes
money his idol; taxes, to the utmost, all his powen! to ama111
wC'llth; makes every sacrifice, and endures every hardship
to secure this object, and allows nothing to divert him from
it ; spends money grudgingly, and if so penurious and close-
fisted as to deprive himself of many of the comforts, and of
all the luxuries, oflife; is covetous and miserly, unless beneT.
..
ACQUISITIVENESS. 93
apd conscien. are equally large, and can never be satisfied
with adding field to field, house to house, &c.•
One having acquis. very large, with combat. and desuuct.
also large, and benev. and tonscien. only moderate or full,
will " grind the face of the poor t' practice extortion ; take
every advantage of his fellow men; make all the money he
can, both by fair and foul means ; and is light fingered.
The combinations under this head will coincide with those
under the 'head of acquis. large, with the modification pro-
duced by the mere increase of acquis.
FuLL.-One having acquis. full, will be likely to be in-
dustrious, frugal, anxious to acquire possessions, both from
love of money, and also to secure the comforts of life; will
be zealous, if not quite eager, in all his money·makin~ur­
suits; and unwilling to spend his money except when his
stronger faculties demand it for their gratification; will be nei-
ther prodigal nor penurious, unless made so by circumstances,;
will be likely to save enough to live comfortably, but live
well upon what he has, yet, as a general thing, will find it
very difficult to keep money byhim, and seemtobe extravagant.
So far as the nlaking of money and the class of substan-
ces selected for acquisition are concerned, the selections
under acquis. la1fe, wilJ apply to acquis. full ; yet, in
the spending of money, there may be a diffcrt"nce. One
having acquis. full, with approbat., and ideal., &c., large or
very large, will be industrious in making money, and quite
anxious to become rich, yet will spend it too freely for fash-
ionable and ornamental articles of convenience, dress, equi-
page, &c., or to make a show ; with ideal. and local. very
large, in travelling; with adhes. and benev. large or very
large, for the purpose of assisting his friends; with the reb.
gious organs very large, in promoting the cause of religion
and advancing the benevolent objects of the day, and will
take much more delight in spending his money in this way,
than in laying it up ; with large or very large intellectual
organs, in such things as will gratify these faculties; with
a~everal organs large, in such a manner as to gratify tli&
greatest number of them; with amat. and adbes. large or
very large, in supplying the wants, and augmenting the
pleasures, of the other sex, &c.
This same principle q[spending money, applies to acquis.
• Stephen Gerard. of Philadelphia, whose picture abows ll very lareo
clevelapment of acquit.
•
..
•
94. PHRENOLOGY lLLUSTJlATED.
largt, whenever the larger organs require it, at whoseDl&Ddate
acquis. will unlock her treasures, and may evenpermitextrava-
gance. The additional combinations of acquis. full with the
other organs, will be found to ~be ip,termediate between those
under acquis. lar{!e, and acquis. moderate.
Mo»ERATE.-One having acquis. moderate, desires mo·
ney more as a means than as an end, more for its usts than to
lay up; will pay too little attention to.small sums, spend his
money too freely, so tlte.t he can ,hardly account for the
amount spent; does not grudge what he spends, or gives, or
sees given; though he may be industrious, will not be suffi-
ciently economical ; will as soon purchase things to con.'Ume
as to keep ; and prefers to take the good of his money as he
goes along, instead of laying it up. '
One having acquis. moderate, with the domestick organs
verylarge, will be likely to spend his money for the prest.nt,
rather than reserve it for the future, wants of his family :
with the selfish faculties strong, and the moral and reasoning
deficient, will spend his money upon the gratification of his
passions, and seldom accumulate property: with approbat.
and ideal. very large, and caus. only full, will be extrava-
gant; likely to run into debt for the purpose of dashing out;
and will be foppish: with combat., destruct., self-e., and firm.
large or very large, will almost throw away money to gratify
his will : with ideal. and self-e. large or very large, never
purchases a poor article, and pleases his fancy, compara-
tively regardless of its cost ; and, with hope r.lso large
or very large, will be too apt to run into debt; spend
money in anticipation of future income; and be too prodi-
gal. One having acquis. moderate, may have a very
strong desire to make money, but not upon .its own account:
with the domestick organs large, when he comes to have a
family of his own, will love money much more than before,
on their account: with the intellectual organs generally large,
will desire it to facilitate his literary pursuits, &c. Hence,
the amount of one's acquis. can seldom be determined, either
by the eagerness with which he seeks it, or the manner of
his spending it; and hence, also, some appear to be spend-
thrifts at one period of their lives, and misers at another.•
• The lluthor is acquainted with a Mr. H. who, until within five years,
was accustomed to Ppend an annual income of several thousand dollars,
laying up nothing; but whoii since that timlfttas acted up to a determina-
~tion to make, and save, all t e money he can, not because he loves mo·
ney, per sue, any better now than he did then, but from other motina•
. Hts f~ow citizens call him penurious.
;;;;.
r--- - - -
ACCl1li8ITIVENE8S. 95
SMI.LL.-One having acquis. small, holds money loosely;
spends it without · sufficient consideration, and often without
receiving its full Yalue; is thoughtle~s how his money goes,
and, with hope very large, will live on, ~njoying the present,
thiuking that the future will provide for itselt; will spend
his last dollar as freely as his first; is wasteful, or at least,
does not save the fragments; and, with approbat. and ideal.
very largo., and r..aus. only full; will be a spendthrift; lay out
his money to very little advantage; run into debt without
making a provision for payment, &c. For additional com·
binationt:, see those under acquis. moderate. ,
. VERY SHALL.-One having acquis. very small, neither
knows or considers the value of money; cares not how it goes,
nor how expensive things are, provided they take his timcyJ·
will have no idea of laying up property and, with ideal. an
approbat. very large, will spend all he can command ; every
.~. pertaining to money being determined by his other
.rae..tltJeS. ·
·In females, this faculty is generally weaker than in males,
·while ideal. and approbat. are g<:>nerally much larger, which
accounts for the fact, that they spend money so much more
freely than men, especially, for ornamental purposes.
The author has observed, that the sons of rich parents
Jrenerally possess the organ (as they do the faculty) develop·
.ed in an inferiour degree. This IS doubtless owing to the fact,
· that, having an abundance of money at command, they have
had nothing to stimulate, and thus increase, this faculty, so
that, from mere want of exercise, it becomes weak and
feeble. This likewise accounts for the fact, that the children
of men who have made themselves rich, generally make a
very poor use of their fathers' earning~>, and often fall into
dissipated habits. A deficiency of this faculty is one cause
of their idleness; and this, the cause of their dissipation,
. and this, frequently, thecause of their ruin.
.,. Thus it is, that full acquis. is an important inducement to
.rindustry, and, therefore, highly promotive of virtue and
moral worth; whilst a deficiency of this faculty leaves open
the floodgates of temptation and dissipation. If this is so,
the lesson thus taught mankina, by phrenology, is invalua·
.ble. We are thus taught the importance of a proper cuhiva·
tion of acquis., and, als~ what that proper education is. ·we
are farther taught, that the exercise of acquis. is virtuous o'
\'icious, not in itself, nor in its medium exerci~, but
96 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
in its extremes of manifestation. This fi1culty certainly needs
to be educated no less than caus., event., calcu., or any other
faculty of the mind.
The perverted manifestations ofacquis. are, theft, cheating,
extortion ; with construct. and imitat. large, forgery, cougter·
feiting, burglary;penuriousness, meanness, a miserly, sordid,
money-loving, covetous feeling, &c.
Lot:ATION.-This organ is located just before.secret. and
above aliment. ; or, upon the sides of the head, and a little
farther forward than the fore part of the ears; or, in the mid-
dle of a line connecting the organs of cautious. and calcu.
It seldom causes a protuberance, but, when it is large, the
thickness of the head just in front, and a little above the tops
of tbe ears, will be conspicuous, even to the eye.
10. SECRETIVENESS.
Propensity .and ability to secrete, to conceal, and to sup·
press the exprusion ofth.e other mental operations.
We often think and feel what it would be very improper
for us to express. Hence, the necessity of some faculty, the
office of which is to suppress the open manifestation of the
various mental operations, until the reasoning faculties,
eonscien., benev., &c., have decided upon the propriety an<J.
the utility of their expression. The legitimate office of this
organ is not, as has generally been supposed, to keep the
secrets intrusted to the individual, but to enable him success-
fully to keep his o·wn secrets, and eoriceal his own plans from
general observation. It is even unfavourable to keeping the
secrets of others; because, inasmuch as it has to do with
secrets, it creates an anxiety, not only to ascertain the secrets
of others, but also to reveal them as secrets, but with the in-
junction of secrecy.
A good endowment of this organ is essential to prudence
of chara::ter, particularly in speaking of, and exposing, one's
business, &c., and also to etiquette and modern politeness. It
removes the· blunt, unpolished edge from the manner of ex·
pression, appearance, &c.; assists in covering many weak
points of character; and prevents exposures, not to physical
dangers, (for this is the office of cautious.,) but to the machina·
tions of the designing and the envious, to the impositions of
the crafty, and the false constructions of all.
LAaoE.-One having secret. large, will generally keep
) o,g'''"·d by Coogle
- ..-· -- - "'------.:~-•
Sli:CaBTIV:ENBSI. 97
his thoughts, feelings, business, plans; opinions, &e. chiefly
to himself, except when they are drawn from him ; will
effect his purposes indirectly, and without detection; will
govern his feelings, and restrain the open manifestation of
anger, joy, grief, &c.; can banish from his countenance and
appearance the indications of his real feelin~, and, with
imitat. large, seem to feel as he does not : w1th firm., and
self-e., and destruct. also large, will suffer pain and sickness
without showing or complaining much of it; is prudent
about speaking; careful in what he says; reserved; slow to
communicate, form attachments, make acquaintances, &c.;
does not make the first adva:1ces to strangers; is not free in
expressing his feelings, but does it equivocally, and by piece-
meal; with conscien. moderate, is suspicious of the intentions
of others; wary, and always on the alert; generally answers
questions, expresses opinions, &e., inan ambiguous, equivocal,
evasive, or indefinite manner, which willbeardifferent interpre-
tations, so that he seldom commits himself; hesitates, and re-
commences his sentences as thoughafi·aid to speak out plainly
just what he thinkll; can employ cunning, art, management,
and manreuvre, and act the double part; says but little, yet
thinks the more; pries into the secrets of others, yet keeps
his own to himself, or, at least, sounds others closely; gen-
erally · judges correctly of character, especially if mdivid.,
<'aus.,and compar. are large or very large, and so success-
fuHy conceals his own character and purposes, that but little
is generally known of him except by a long and intimate
acquaintance.
One having secret. large, with arlhes. large or very large,
may sometimes communicate his feelings freely to his nearest
friends, yet will seldom do this, and exercise more attach-
ment than he expresses: with amat. also large, may love
strongly, but will express his -
love in asomewhat doubtful
and equivocal manner: with combat. and destruct. large,
unless the excitement is very sudden, and his temperament
very irritable, may restrain, for a long time, the expression
of anger, and cover up the fire which is burning in his bo-
som, yet, when he does give vent to it, will boil over in
good earnest: with self-e., or approbat., or both, large or
very large, caus. only full, and conscien. moderate or small,
will be inclined to employ cunning and deception in advan-
cing his reputation; operate indirectly, and through the agen·
cy of others; be given to eye-service, and will do many things
9
98 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.'
merely for effect, and "to be see~ of men I' with cautioua.
large or very large, will be very careful, not only about
what he says, but also about what he does; and, with the
reasoning organs large or very large, be pre-eminently dis·
creet and judicious, and never venture an opinion, unless he
is very certain that it is perfectly correct, and then generally
with a but, an if, or a 'perhaps; and will drop no word, and
give no clew, by mea~s of which he can be detected : with
conscien. only moderate or small, and self-e. and caus. only
full, and approbat. large or very large, will be deceitful, and
inclined to employ cunning and artifice in accomplishing his
plans ; contrive to throw the ignominy of his evil deeds upon
otherg; be very apt to say one thing in your presence, and quite
another in your absence; cannot be confided in as a friend ;
and, with a.dhes. only full, and imitat. large or very large, can
carry on his malicious designs under the garb of friendship:
with combat., destruct., self-e., and approbat. large, benev.,
firm., and caus. only ful~ an,d conscien. only moderate or
small, will be obsequious to superiours, and domineering to
inferiours : with acquis. large or very large, and conscien.
only moderate or full, will practise the" tricks of trade;" a.nd
malce a good bargain whenever he can, even though he is
obliged to use some misrepresentations : with destruct., self-e.,
and firm. large or very large, will possess great fortitude,
and endure severe, corporeal suffering without flinching or
complaining: with conscien. large or very large, may some·
times equivocate and employ deception in cases in which he is
under no moral obligation to communicate the facts, and, also,
in which his interest dem1:1nds secrecy, but will neYet' know-
ingly deceive others to their injury, f'specially if his duty re·
quires him to tell the whole truth : with adhes., benev., and
conscien. large or very large, and self-e. full, will be frank
and candid in telling a friend his faults, yet will never re·
prove, unless his sense of duty compels him to do so : with
firm. and self-e. very large, will seem to yield, yet will do so
ooly in appearance; will say but little, and make very little
ado about the matter, yet, in acting, will be immoveable
and inflexible, &c.
Vnv LARoE.-One having secret. very large, will be
Tery apt to keep every thing pertaining to himself wrapped
up in profound secrecy, and disclose his feelings to no one;
be generally dark, secret, and mysterious in his movements;
seldom accomplish his purposes, except in an indirect and in-
_..rr
....
·'
IIKCRKTIVENESS. 99
triguing n'l:anner ; and be so crafty reserved, and mysterious,
that no one will know much of h1s real character ; and, with
combat., destruct., and the selfish faculties genera!Jy large,
the moral and reflective only full, and conscien. only mode.
rate, will be "a snake in the grass;" practise art, cunning,
and deception, &c.: with aliment. large, will steal pies, cakes,
and sweatmeats : with acquis. large, will take and conceal
money, property, clothing, &c.: with approbat. and destruct.
large, and conscien. only moderate, will lie in ambush, plot
and execute his plans of injuring his rival, in secret; and
yet, apptar to be his friend, &c. For farther combinations
under this head, see those under secret. large, which are
equally true with secret. very large, except in degree, and
this the judgment of the reader will enable him to adapt to
secret. very large. ·
FuLL.-One having secret. full, will be able to keep his
tho"ughts, feelings, and business to himself when occasion
really demands it, yet will commonly express them without
reserve; unless somewhat excited, will not be rash or blunt in
the expression of his feelings, yet, when any of the faculties
that are more energetick than secret., or when those that are
not, become suddenly or considerably excited, will give a
full, and frank, and strong expression to them, because, al.
though secret. may be sufficiently active to •hold even the
larger organs in check when they are but little excited, it
will not be powerful enough to do so when they are roused to
more energetick action, so that he will fail to preserve an equa.
nimity of feeling and conduct; is generally free in conversa.
tion and discourse, yet seldom commits himself; is not hypo·
critical, nor yet remarkable for saying all he thinks; and
will generally govern his feelings, except when excited, but
will then throw them out freely and fully; is somewhat re• .
served and suspicious, especially upon a first acquaintance,
and yet, will generally be found to .be sincere, unless strong·
ly tempted by interest to act a double part, and even then,
will not be really dishonest, especially if conscien. be large
or very large; will know well how to keep dark upon pointa
which he may wish to conceal, and also know how to ascer-
tain the intentions and the secrets of others ; and will be r&
served to strangers and partial acquaintances, yet frank and
open among his intimate friends.
One having secret. full, with conscien. large, will never
knowingly practise deception to the injury of another, yd..
m '"edbyGoogle
~ .
I
I
100 PHRENOLOGY lLLVSTRATED.
may practise it in self-preservation, and in doing busim
especially when urged to it by other selfish faculties, 1
when it .ill unrestrained by the moral and intellectual fac
ties : with acquis. large or very large, and conscien. roo
rate or small, will bear, and even need, to be watch•
sometimes give a false colouring to things in order to mak
good bargain; and occasionally take the ad\'antage, '
The additional combinations under secret. full, will be inI
mediate between secret. large, and secret moderate.
MoDERATE.-One having secret. moderate, is genera
frank, candid, and openhearted in his disposition and int
course with men, and so ingenuous and undisguised as ofi
to expose himself to imposition and deception ; chooses
plain, direct, and unequivocal manner of expressing 1
thoughts and feelings; has few secrets of his own which
wishes to keep, and cares little about learning the secrets
others, and, when things are told him with the mJuncti
"not to tell," he scarcely thinks of them again; and gen4
ally despises secrecy wherever he finds it.
One having secret. moderate or small, with combat. a1
destruct. large or very large, tells others just what be thin
of them'; expresses his hatred and his love freely ; is often u
derstood as saying more than he really intended to say ; a1
frequently expresses his anger in a harsh, blunt, and offensi·
manner; but, with conscien. equally large, and concet
moderate ?r.sm~ll, soon.recovers his wonted .serenity of ter
per, and, 1f he 1s conscious that he has sa1d or done ar
thing wrong, is soon very sorry for it, and ready, if not gla
to make uny reasonable acknowledgment or reparation d
manded : with conscien.,at least,fuU, firm., self-e., benev.,a11
caus. large or very large, will take an open, fair, honest, ho1
ourable, dignified, and high-minded course, and heartily d·
spise every thing like low cunning or management; emplo
none but fair means; and do nothing behind the curtain : wit
self-e. only moderate, or full, benev., ven., and adhes. large c
very large, is naturally upright and honest himself, and ope
and fair in his dealings, and thinks others equally so ; is to
ready to trust others, and E-specially those who call him thei
friend; presumes too much UJ>C!n the integrity and honest
of others, and relies too implicity upon their word, so tha
he is extremely liable to be deceived and imposed upon
with self-e. or appJ'Obat., or both, 'and hope very large, o
even large, is given to egotism; apt tQ talk too much of him
S&CRBTlVENESS. toa
. .jelf; becomes enthusiastick in telling what he has done or·
nng b~ll!an do;· is often the hero of his own .tale; and too forward to.
facultlfl..isplay himself: with cautious. large or very large, manifests
!J~tua ~reat care and deliberation in his business, yet is very incau.
scJen. ~ ~ous in his manner of speaking; is judicious in laying his·
~e watc ~
r lans, and providing against a time of need, and very de-
er to mak "berate and prudent in making all his arrangements, yet is
a.ntage! ery imprudent in the expression of his feelings.
·Jil bewt SMALL.-One having secret. small, acts just·as he feels;
e. peaks just what he thinks; is so blunt and direct in his
gede.ral anner of expression as often to give needless offence; speaks·
an m~e)ut his whole mind without due regard to time, circumstan·
~d as 0 1es, or manner; communicates his ideas in plain and un~
ch.oose~ quivocal language, and prefers natural and forcible, to-
!ssm.g blegant, expressions ; is natural and open in his manners,
which nd, with lang. full or large, generally ready to enter into
.s~cret~ conversation with his friends, and even with strangers, and
lllJUnCtl 0 COmmunicate to them his busine15, history, opinions, feel·
nd geo ings, concerns, &c.; and can deceive only by means of his
reasoning faculties, or by taking those steps which are cal-
>rnbat.. culated to cause deception.
he thJD One having secret. small, with conscien., benev., and the
s often 1ll reasoning organs large or very large, will be incapable of
say; ~deception; abominate and censure hypocrisy, concealment~
j otfensJr and mere outside-show in all those ten thousand forms in
l conce~ which they are practised in society; keeps nothing back;-
ity oftee gives away almost entirely to his feelings unless they are
done 8!1: checked by his other faculties; and has a window in his
r not gla~ breast, through which all that is passing in his heart, can be
ration d
, plainly seen. Additional combinations wi!l be found under-
mev., an' secret. moderate.
nest, ho~ VERY SAlALL.-One in whom this organ is very small, is
·artilydt a total stranger to the function and the influence of this fac-.
empl.
o
: ulty.
in : wrd A deficiency of this faculty, by exposing at once whatever
]argeor excesses or defects of, character one may possess, is apt to
,nd opeD leave, at first, a very unfavourable impression of a person up-
'; is 1~0, on the minds of others, yet, if it exposes the more disagreea..
:m therr ble traits of character, it equally reveals the virtues; so that~
bonestY,if the agreeable traits of ch~ra~t~r greatl.y predomin!lte over
so that the more disagreeable, the mdlVIdual wlll appear still mor&
upon: .amiable in consequence of this deficiency; and, vice ~ersa.
ge,. or , This faculty, in its perverted exercise, produces lying, de-
f bun· · g•
~~ PHRENOLOG.J ILLUSTRATED.
ceit, hypocrisy, and those ten thousand artifices in dress, fur-
niture, equipage, &c., the chief object of which is to create
false appearances, and,also, the innumerable arts and make-be·
lieves whichenter intothe very frame-work ofsociety as it now
is. From this faculty, also, with large or very large appro-
bat., self-e., destruct., and combat., unrestrained by the moral
or intellectual organs, arises that tattling, backbiting, scan-
dalizing disposition which is by no means uncommon, and
which does such immense mischief.
In the New England head, this organ is generally large :
hence, that reserve in communicating things about them-
selves, and that tact in prying into the affairs of others, for
which they are so noted; but, in the Southern head, it is
small, which produces that frankness and openness which
characterize Southern gentlemen.
LocATION.-Secret. is located just above the organ of de-
struct., and runs nearly parallel with it', the centre of it being
about an inch above the top of the ears. Or thus : let a
person, standing behind one that is seated, place the third fin-
ger horizontally upon the head, so that the lower side of it
will just touch the tip of the ear, and it will rest upon de-
struct.; then let the second or middle finger be separated from
it about three eighths of an inch, and it will rest upon secret.;
or, if the organ be small, fall into a depression : then let the
first finger be separated from the second about five-eighth!! of
an inch, and it will rest upon cautious., which, however, will
he a little farther back than secret. When it is large or very
large, with cautious. and destruct. also equally large, there
will be no prominence, but all of the side-head above the ear
will be full, rounded, and thick.
GENUS II.-MoaAL, RELIGIOUs, AND HuMAN SBN-
'l'IKEHTs.
The character of the sentiments is much higher, more
elevated, and more humanizing than that of the propensities,
and, when not under the dominion of the propensities, is
IJlOre virtuous and more praiseworthy than perhaps any oth-
er class of the mental functions. A very corrt•ct idea of
tbe nature and character of these sentiments, may be derived
from a comparison of civili4ed man with savages and barba·
rians, or of man with the brute creation.
Dr. Spurzheim, George Combe, and phrenologists gener-
t to ae 1 ' 1 '
CAUTlOU81'iES8. ' 103
ally, define the sentiments as distinguishable from the pro-
pensities, by their uniting a propensity to act with an emo-
tion; but the author is unable to discover the reason why the
Jlii:SSion of love, for example, is not as much "an emotion
Joined with a certain propensity to act," as the function ascri-
bed to benev. Nor does the distinction that the propensities
·"are common to men and animals," designate them with suffi-
cient accuracy, because benev., approbat., imitat., and some
of the other sentiments, are found to belong to some animals
of the brute creation, as well as to man.
SPECIES I.-SELFISH SENTUIENTS.
These·seem to be intermediate between the propensities
and the moral sentiments, partake, in part, of the na-
ture of both, taking their direction, and the character of
their manifestation, from the propensities when they pre-
dominate, and from the moral sentiments, in case they are
the more cnergetick. Like the propensities, they greatly in-
crease the propelling power, and the efficiency of the charac-
ter; yet they terminate upon self, being blind impulses de-
signed to secure selfish interests.
11. CAUTIOUSNESS.
Solicitude ahottt consequences--apprehension of danger-
instinct offear-care-anxiety.
So numerous and so great are the dangers with which
mankind are surrounded, so many evils beset his path, and
so many things are to be provided against, that, unless there
were implanted in the human breast by the hand of nature,
some faculty which, upon the least intimation of danger,
should sound the tocsin of alarm, and thus save him from
accident, and, also, which should give him consideration and
forethought, he would be liable to be frequently overtaken by
impending dangers, and, also, would make, comparatively,
Jittle preparation for future wants. Of the necessity of the
faculty, then, there can be no question i nor that the function
of sohcitude constitutes a very large class of the intellectual
functions. Hence, the inevitableconclusion is, that there exists
a faculty which exercises this class of the mental operations.
But when we find that the strength and activity of this facul-
ty, when compared with the other feelinga, are proportionate
104 PBRENOLOG1' ILLUSTRATED.
to the size of a given portion of the orain, reason and philos-
ophy join in admitting cautiousness to be a separate faculty of
the mind. Its office is, to provide against present danger, to
cast up a bf.!.lwark of defence against danger in the dis-
tance, to watch over the interests of the individual, and to ex-
cite, repress, and direct the operations of the other faculties.
LARGE.-One having cautious. large, looks at every plan
and project with a careful, anxious eye before he concludes
upon the course to be pursued, and hesitates Jong before he
finally decides; turns the whole matter over and over again
in his mind; is very often.in suspense, and remains too long
undecided; fully considers every chance against him ; takes
all necessary, and, often, even unnecessary, precaution; too
often reconsiders, and manifests a pains-taking, careful, anx-
ious, provident disposition in all he does.
One having cautious. large, with combat. and destruct.
also large, is slow in commencing, yet when once interested
in any project, pushes it with great spirit; may be timid and
fearful till his courage is once excited, but will then be bold
and fearless; may be nearly overcome with fear before he
commences acting or speakmg, and where effort is unavail-
ing, yet is full of courage, and spirit, and determination
when he has once commenced, and where effort is required ;
combines discretion with valour; intrepidity with carefulnes~;
prudence with ·determination, &c.; in case of danger, will be
perfectly self-possessed, and yet have forethought enough to
do just what the occasion demands; cannot be soon worked
up to the sticking point, but is determined, if not desperate,
when once kindled; may drive forward with some fury, but
will steer clear of every thing that can upset his vehicle or
obstruct his progress ; and, with hope also large, will enter
so largely into business, and push his projects with so much
energy and zeal, as to seem to be very rash, and nearly des-
titute of caution, yet come out about right in the end : with
compar. and caus. large in addition, will very seldom entire-
ly fail in his projects, though he may be sometimes obliged
to retrace his steps ; will present seemingly contradictory
points of character, sometimes appearing to be rash, and at
others fearful ; and, with a nervous temperament, will be
either "in the garret or in the cellar;" when circumstances
are favourable, or excite his hopes, and quiet his fears, will be
in high hopes and spirits, and promise himself too much ; but
when bis fears are awakened, and nothing excites his hopes,
Digitized b
& n zrr 'J?? W'
CA'OTIOVfNESS. 105
be cast down, discouraged, and exceedingly anxious, and sub-
ject to extremes of hope and fear : with very large compar.
and _
caus., and large perceptive organs, will generally COJ!le
to a correct decision, yet take his own time for it; will act
understandingly, and make every effort tell directly on the
object in view; take hold of things judiciously and in the
right place ;seldom retrace his steps, change his decisions,or
undo what he has done; in general, will be eminently suc-
cessful, and seldom subject to accidents or disappointments;
consider well the pros and cons on both sides of all questions,
and investigate the whole matter in hand thoroughly be-
fore decision or action.
VERY LAROE.-One having cautious. very large, is so
doubtful, fearful, uncertain, and apprehensive, so irresolute
and inefficient, that he is disqualified for prompt, enterprising,
vigorous effort, and wastes the day of action in fruitless de·
liberation; indulges-
groundless and unfounded apprehensions;
anticipates danger when there is little or no cause; is unwill-
ing to run any risk, and much more alarmed by sickness
and trouble than the occasion really demands, &c.
One having cautious. very large, with combat., self-e., and
hope moderate, will be irresolute; easily discouraged; un·
willing to engage in any important undertaking for fear of
experiencing a failure ; is timid, easily frightened, destitute
of decision and energy, and unable to effect any thing im-
portant ; but if hope, firm., and self-e. are also very large,
and combat. is large, cautious. will not prevent action and
effort, but will simply take care, that every thing is provided
for, arranged, and seen to : with hope, caus., and compar.
very large, and the perceptive organs large, may take some
seemingly bold .measures, but they will be dictated by a cor-
rect judgment, rendered the more acute by the strong ex·
citement caused by cautious.: with hope and combat. mode.
rate or small, looks always on the dark side of prospects;
borrows a world of trouble, even in prosperity ; apprehends
the worst rather than the best; indulges gloomy, dismal,
melancholy feelings, and often suffers intolerably from them ;
pores constantly over misfoltunes; magnifies every difficulty;
diminishes advantages; fears much more than hopes; does
not venture, or run any risk ; shrinks from difficulty, and,
by his terrour and alarm, is easily overcome, so that he cannot
act on occasions of danger.
FuLL.-One having cautious. full, will possess a suffi-
10~ PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
cient degree of this faculty to aecure success, and provide
again& accidents in ordinary cases, yet will frequently seem
' to be very imprudent; does not net without care and fore·
thought, yet does not consider so long as to let pass the day
for action; and cannot be called rash or careless, except
when rendered so by his other faculties.
One having cautious. full, with hope and combat. large or
very large, will not possess sufficient circumspection to regu-
late and prevent the precipitate action of these faculties, and
thus be hurried headlong by them into projects without suffi·
cient caution or forethought, and will seem to be much less
cautious than he really is.
·when full, large, or very large, cautious. .acts with a
vigour reciprocally proportionate to the power of this faculty
and the strength of the desires of the other faculties. For
example; one having cautious. full, large, or very large, with
philopro. very large, and acquis. small, will experience but
little solicitude concerning his property, but feel the greatest
anxit1ty concerning his children; but, with the same degree
of cautious., and acquis. very large, and philopro. smldl, will
expend his anxiety upon his property, and feel little for his
ch,iJdren: with approbat. very large, will be over-anxious
about his ch,aracter and his standing: with conscien. very
large, upon every point of duty, &c. This accounts for the
phenomena, so frequently occurring, of an extreme anxiety
concerning some things, and·a want of it in other things--6
class of phenomena which no other system of mental phi-
losophy ever has accounted for, or ever can explain.
MoDERATE.-One having cautious. moderate, will discov·
er a want of forethought and discretion. yet the extent of this
d!3ficiency will be greater or less according as his other facul-
ties do,or do not,expose him to danger. One having cautious.
moderate, for example, with hope and combat. also moderate,
will need but little cautious. to restrain the excesses produced
by these faculties ; with combat. and hope large or very large,
will be hasty, inconsiderate, and improvident; with caus. and
compar. very large, when not blinded by passion or preju·
dice, mar, be judicious,and lay goed plans; with acquis. very
large, wtll take good care of his property, yet be careless in
other respects, &c. The remaining combinations of cautious.
moderate, will be intermediate between those under cautious.
full, and cautious. small.
SMALL.-One having cautious. small, will decide and act
m '"edbyGoogle
______._____________________~-~~--~
APPROBATITEN:£88. 107
without due deliberation i· be careless, pr('Cipitate, imprudent,
and, consequently, often unlucky, and subject to frequent acci·
dents; will fail to perfect his plans, and therefore, often be
obliged to undo what he has done; proceed without fore-
thought or care, and thus labour to the greatest disadvantage;
will sustain repeated and heav)' misfortunes; and, with com-
bat. and destruct. large, will dnve forward in a furious, reck·
less manner, so as often to defeat his plans, and frequently
be in hot water; will know nothing about fear; but, with
large or very large reasoning organs, may proceed so habit-
ually under the influence of reason as to sustain few losses,
yet will lack solicitude, &c.
VERY SMALL.-One with cautious. very small, will be
destitute of fear, of forethought, of discretion, &c., and, con-
sequently, rash, heedless, headlong, regardless of consequen-
ces, unfortunate, and governed by his other faculties.
This faculty is generally much more active, and the organ
much stronger, in females than in males; while combat.
and distrust. are much smaller. Hence, the irresolution,
fear, terrour, groundless alatms, and uncalled for anxiety,
which they so often manifest: and also the superiour discreet-
ness and propriety they generally possess over the other sex.
In children, too, this organ is much larger than in adults,
doubtless because their dangers being greater, the protection
demanded is proportionally greater.
LocATioN.- This organ is located just above, and partly
behind, secret. Or thus : when the head is erect, cautious.
will be found upon the sides of the head, just back of a per·
pendicolar line passing through the opening of the ears.
12. APPROBATIVENESS.
LO?Je of the approbation of men--seme of character-
desire for the fav(lUrable estimation, and the good opiniotl,
of others-ambition for distinction and popularity--l01Je
of fame, '.tc. •
Certain actions are considered praiseworthy, while otheTB
are considered disgraceful, which proves that the mind is so
constituted as to approve of some things, and disapprove of
others. Hence, we infer the existence of a distinct faculty
which exercises this class of functions, and the facts that the
strength of this class of functions is various, being energetick
in some, anrl weak in others-that it is manifested in propor·
-.......-....-.........
108 PBRlCNOLOGY ILLUSTJtATED.
tion to the development of a certain portion of the brain-
and that it is an instinctive and intuitive, and not secondary,
exercise of the mind, and that it is unique and homogeneous
in its character, establish the condusion, that it is the pro-
duct of a distinct faculty of the mind. ·
This faculty does not dee!de what actions are praisewor-
thy and what are not, but only arraigns the actions before
such a standard as may have been settled upon by custom, by
the dictates of the other faculties, by the passions, &c., and
praises or blames, according as they do, or do not, conform to
this standard. This standard has more or less refeli€nce to
the moral q11alities of actions, and, doubtless, if left to act in
conjunction with a full and egual development of the other
faculties, particularly of consc1en., and if it were not warped
by education, or the customs of society, would approve those
actions which are moral, and frown upon those that are
immoral. Yet such is the influence of custom and of "the
fashions" in this matter, that the decisions of this faculty are
not, in the least, to be relied upon as a standard of virtue.
Properly trained, it would promote decency and propriety of
appearance and manners; yet, as now manifested, it oftener
produces the most disagreeable, not to say, sinful, actions,
under the sanction of/ashion. Its influence, however, in
.promoting morality an refinement, and in preventing vice
by censuring it, is very great.
LARGE.-One having approbat. large, is extremely sensitive
upon e;ery point connected with his honour, his character,
his reputation, &c., and, in all he does, will have an eye to
the approbation and the disapprobation of his fellow men;
frequently asks himself, if not others, what do, or what will,
people think of this or that performance, course of conduct,
&c.; is very de.sirous of being thought and spoken well of,
of being noticed and commended, esteemed, praised, and ad-
mired ; instinctively shrinks from whatever is considered
disgraceful; will be affable, courteous, polite, and mindful of
appearances, and frequently experience, in a very high de-
gree, the feelings of mortification and shame.
One having approbat. large, with adhes. large or very
large, will be extremely sensitive to the approbation and the
disapprobation, particularly of his friends; and with self-e.
moderate, and firm. only ful~ will be disposed to act in con·
formity with their wishes, lest he should mcur their censure
or ridicule, which. have a withering effect upon him; and,
APPROBATIVBNESS. 109
with combat. and destruct. large in addition, will be too
quickly offended by any coldness or apparent neglect, and
too ready to construe any want of attention into dislike ; will
avenge his injured honour, and never allow any disgrace to
be attached to his character: with self-e. only full, benev., at
least, large, combat., destruct., and secret. only full, individ.,
event., lang., imitat., ideal., and compar. large or.very large,
will be a perfect gentleman: with secret. large, and consci'en.
moderate or small, will do things in secret which he would
not, for the world, have divulged; be governed far more
by the voice of publick opinion, than by the dictates of jus·
tice and conscience, and make the former, rather than_the
latter, his code of morals; but with conscien. larger than ap-
probat., will fall in with publick opinion so far as he con-
siders it. right, but no farther, and, with combat. also large,
will not only breast publick opinion with boldness, but will
glory in facing the frown of men while engaged in what he
cons1ders a righteous cause: with benev. large, will add to
his strong desire to please those around him, a strong desire
to make them happy, which together will make him doubly
obliging and attentive to the wants of others : with cautious.,
secret., ven., and conscien. large or very large, and self-e.
small, will have a very strong desire to please, and, also,
great anxiety lest he should not succeed in pleasing; feel a
great deference, especially for superiours in age, talents, &c.;
possess a feeling of his own unworthiness and inferiority ;
and also of reserve, which together produce extreme diffi-
denc.e and backwardness; a natural shrinking from exposure;
and a bashful feeling, from which, when he is among stran-
.gers, he will suffer intolerably: with combat.; destruct., self-e.,
·.firm., ideal., individ., event., and lang. large, and compar.
;and caus. -.cry large, will possess, not only a high order of
.,talent, but, also, that restless ambition for distinction and fame
'·which will spur him on to use his utmost efforts to attain pre-
:eminence, and thus enable him to distinguish himself, par-
.ticularly for his intellectual qualities: with cautious. and
- conscicn. very large, secret. full, and the intellectual organs
large, will fear to be noticed, lest he should be reproached;
appear before the publick with extreme reluctance; shrink
from the popular gaze; sometimes feel almost compelled.Jt
abandon any undertaking in which he may have been~·
gaged, and shrink from the thought of publick responeibUit7;
with self-e. full or large, )lope very large, combat., ideal., m-
. 10 •
110
•
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
•.
divid., lang., and compar..large, and conscien., ven., and caus.
only full, will take the other extreme; be likely to put him-
self forward in convflrsation, debate, publick meetings, socie·
ties, parties, &c., be officious, vain, and conceited, and too apt
to meddle in affairs which belong to others: with ideal. very
large, caus. only full, and a smaller sized brain, "·ill be a fash-
ionable dandy, who will devote himself chiefly to dress, eti-
quette, and tea-table talk, which will be wit):10ut sense or point,
and, though he may pass well in fashionable society, will
be unable to think or reason upon subjects, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having approbat. 7-'e?·y large, will re·
gard his chamcter as the a;pple of his ey~. and the approba-
tion of his fellow men as the idol of his heart; will be with-
ered by the finger of scorn or the breath of slander; unable
to bear up under ridicule, and be ever goaded by a morbid
sensibility to shame and reproach. One having approbat.
very largo, with self-e. large, caus. only full, and a brain of
only ordinary size, will be both proud and vain; inclined to be
very ceremonious, merely for effect, and for the sake ofappear-
ances; affected in his manners; excessively eager for fame,
and ever fishing for popularity, yet destitute of the talents re-
quisite to obtain his desires; and, with ideal. very large, will
be a gay, dressy, showy, affected, ceremonious fop or belle,
floating upon the surface, or following the wake, of popular
applause and fashion, and a perfect index of both, shifting,
like the weather-cock, with -every changing breeze of pub-
lick opinion, &c. Under approbat. large, will be found ad-
ditional descriptions and combinations, which will apply to ·
approbat. very large., except that they are not sufficiently in•
tense.
FuLL.-One having approbat. full, wiU place a high esti-
mate upon his character, and be by no means indifferent as to
what may be thought and said of him, yet will sacrifice his
honour upon the altar of his stronger passions; will possess
sufficient approbat. to create ambition, and a high sense of
honour, if not a strong desire to gain popularity, and yet, from
this motive alone, will not materially i11jure himself, nor will
he turn aside from the object he may be pursuing to pluck
the wreaths of popular applause; may seek distinction, and,
indeed, manifest a strong desire or m'nke great sacrifices to
obtain it, yet he will seek it, not chiefly as an end, but partly
as an end, and partly as a means; will not be governed by
the voice of publick opinion, yet will not, by ony means, be
j
APPROBATJVENESS. Ill
insensible to its dictates; and will so conduct as to secure the
good will of all, at least, as far as he can do so consistently
with the gratification and the demands of his other faculties,
yet no farther.
One having npprobat. full, with ndhes. large, will seek to
please his friends, and, to escape their displeasure, in doing
this, will sometimes even go farther than he ought: with
large or very large firm., self.e., and conscien., and full com-
bat., will first }llease himself, faithfully discharge his duty,
and seek honour as a secondary object; will be sufficiently
condescending and affable to please all, and yet be too firm
and independent ever to be enticed from the path of rectitude
by the syren voice of popularity, or driven from it by the
lowering frown of popular proscription, or by the hoarse
voice of publick censure; will not eagerly adopt all the ridic-
ulous whims of" fashion," because "everybody else does so,"
nor yet be so inattentive to what is generally approved as to be
singular, and, without cause, to incur the displeasure of any
one : with combat.,destruct., amat., self-e., and ven. full, benev.,
cooscien., ideal., adhes., mirth., imitat., lang., and the rea·
soning organs large or very large, will be a favourite, go
where he will ; will please all, and yet command respect from
all; be neither stubborn nor obsequious ; will be pleasing, dig-
nified, and popular in his manners, and reasonably condescend-
ing, yet sufficiently independent ; and, without attempting to
do so, will readily enlist the good will and the affections of
all, and especially of the other sex. The combinations under
approbat. large, modified by a diminution I){ the influence of
approbat., will apply to approbat. full. They will be inter-
~ mediate between those under approbat. large, and approbat.
· moderate.
The di~ction taken by approbat. full, large, or very large,
avd the objects upon which it fastens, are determined by its
.. combinations, and, also, by the circumstances in which the
.individual has been educated. For example; approbat. full,
:e::large, or very large, combined with large or very large com-
"bat. and destruct., and educated in a warlike community,
would fasten, for its object, upon warlike exploits, upon intre-
pidity, bravery, and, perhaps, even upon acts of bloodshed,
or create in 1ts possessor, a desire to he considered the best
boxer, pugilist, wrestler, &c.: with aliment. very large, to be
noted for the quantity he can eat ot drink: with lnrge con-
struct., ideal., and imitat., to be considered the best mecban-
..
.:..t
112 PHRENOLOGY ILL'UITRATED.
ick, or create a 1nechanical ambition : with large or very
large moral organs, will create a moral ambition, and desil.:e
to be distinguished for 1norality, for piety, for honesty,
and for a correct, if not religious, walk and conversation:
with ideal. moderate, and conscien. and ven. large or very
large, will create no desire to obtain the kind of distinction
and approbation awarded to fine clothes, splendour of equi-
page, the pomp of riches, &c., yet will place the highest es-
timate upon the approbation awarded to a moral, virtuous,
and religious life: with very large ideal., mirth., compar.,
and caus., the perceptive organs generally large, and the
propensities only full, will seek distinction as a wit, a poet,
an orator, a scholar, a writer, or for his intellectual, rather
than his physical or animal, qualities, &c.
MoDERATE.-One having approbat. moderate, will not be
materially influenced by what others may think of him or
his actions; will not be particularly emulous nor ambitious,
nor care much for reproach and ridicule, &c. One having
approbat. moderate, with firm. and self-e. large or very large,
and ven. moderate, will be too austere and too independent
to give general satisfaction, and lack the condescension requi-
site to become popular and be generally beloved, and, even if
his talents are such as to place him in stations of trust and
publick observation, he will have many enemies, and, when-
ever duty, or judgment, or interest demands it, will do just
what he chooses to do, whether his condur.t be approved or
censured, even thou~h he knows it will bring down publick
odium upon his heacl.
SMALL.-One having approbat. srnall, will experience but
little shame; be comparatively insensible to ridicule and re-
proach; and indifferent whether his conduct, appearance, ex-
pressions, &c., please or displease. One having opprobat.
small, with large intellectual and simi-intellectual organs,
may possess commanding talents, yet will have too little ambi-
tion, and too little love of fame, to exert and apply his powers,
&c. The combinations under approbat. small, will be the
reverse of those under approbat. full, large, or very large, so
far as these phenomena are the product of these several states
of its development.
Perhaps no faculty is more frequently perverted, or more
injurious in its operation, especially upon the virtuous poor,
than approbat. The rich, in order to gratify this passion,
"have sought out many invC'ntions" by which to distinguish
a a m
SELI'•EJITIIBM. 118
themselves from the poor, and attract attention ; and the poor
exhaust all their powers to follow in the footsteps of the
rich, and in doing this, they even take their bread out of their
mouths. The rich, finding themselves partially imitated,
change the fashion, and are again followed by the poor-.
Thus it is that a yast amount of time, and labour, and com-
fort, and, it might be safely added, of virtue, too, is worse
than wasted. This evil is daily augmenting, and the pros-
pect of a reform daily diminishing. It holds an equal sway
in the church and in the state, polluting the holy garments
of the one, and destroying the liberty and the virtue of the
other. The tyranny with which it rides over the necks of
men, is a hundred fold more despotick than ever tyrant sway-
ed over its subjects ;and nowhere does it hold so cruel a des-
potism, and rule with such an iron sceptre, as in this our boast-
ed land of freedom and equal rights. Here, one must not
speak out boldly his honest sentiments-must not do this, and
must do that, because, forsooth, to do otherwise will be u?t-
popular, and whatever is unpopular, is proscribed, and visited
with a frown as deadly and as withering in its effects as the
samiel winds of the Arabian desert. But, so long as men
will follow, and submit to, so fickle and so tyrannical a dame
as fashion, they need not complain of "hard times," and of
the ten thousand miseries which she heaps upon the devoted
heads of her subjects.
LocATION.-Approbat. is located between cautious. and
self-e. See location of self-e.
13. SELF-ESTEEM.
Self-respect- self-confidence- self-complacency a1ul 1at•
isfaction-kigk-mindedness-independence-noblenes,.......Wv~t
of liberty and freedom.
The proper office of this faculty is to create, in the bolom
of its possessor, a good opinioll' of himself; of his own char·
acter and opinions, and of whatever belongs to, or proceed&
from, himself; to beget an esteem and re~:~pect for himltllf;
to feel satisfied with himself, and unwilling to change hi•
identity ani mental qualities for those of another ; to giYe a
manly tone to the character and tum to the conduct, aod a
dignified, erect attitude and bearing to the person, and thus,
· to exert an important influence in elevating and ennobling the
character of man. And what is still more important, it gift~
tO·
PHRENOL001' .ILLUSTRATED.
that innate love of personal liberty and independence, and of
religious freedom, so deeply seated in the nature of man, and
.so conducive to his virtue and happiness, which constitutes
the sole foundation of his free institutions, civil rights, and
religious privileges, and inspires him with an aversion to
every thing connected with arbitrary authority, despotick ·
r11le, or religious intolerance, and gives him that spirit of re·
sistance to such things, which no despotism can destroy, no
arbitrary authority crush or long subdue.
The proof of the existence of this faculty, as a separate
and primary mental power, ·is derived from the same data
which establishes the existence of the other faculties.
LARGE.-One having self-e. large, will be independent,
and place a high value upon himself; feel that whatever he
thinks or does, is well thought and done; throw himself back
upon his own unaided resources, and rely 11pon his own j11dg·
ment and strength; will never knowingly degrade or demean
himself; aspire at something commanding; never be content
to be dependent or to serve, but rather aspire to be himself a
leader and commander of others; will despise and detest
meanness, and shrink from it; and assume an appearance of
dignity and manliness, calculated to command respect.
The manifestations of self-e. take their character chiefly
from the co1nbinations of this faculty with the other facul·
ties. For example; combined with large or very large com·
bat., destruct., and firm., and with only moderate or full con·
scien., ven.,, benev., and reasoning facu hies, it makes one
haughty, domineering, overbearing, dogmatical, arbitrary,
egotistical, arrogant, authoritative, conceited, and extremely
selfish, while the same amount of self-e., combined with only
full combat. and destruct., and with very large benev. and
reasoning organs, large conscien., ideal., ven., and perceptive
faculties, and a large brain, will impart to the character a
commanding dignity, a nobleness. a high-toned sense of hon·
o11r, an elevation, and authority which cannot but command·
universal respect and admiration ; which scorn a vulgar,
common, or trifling act or expression; and impart an air of
&'realness and magnanimity to the whole man.
One having self.e. large, with amat. and adhes. large, may
love strongly and tenderly, especially when his love is in
harmony with his ideas of propriety, yet will never sacrifice
his independence to his love, nor break down under the pres·
sure of blighted affections : with the domestick organs gene-
J
·~
-~- . -~ ·--- ---
8EL~,E8TEE& 115
mlly lllrge, will love his family, yet make them obey him:
with acquis. full or large, will place a high estimate upon
what he possesses, upon his horse, !tis farm, his etcet.: with
combat. large, and firm. large or very large, will pursue his
own straightforward course, and will not be dictated to; is
disposed •to lead, and to push himself forward; feels that
he is as good and as worthy as anybody else: with cautious.
large, in order to form his own judgment, may sometimes
ask advice, and then follow it or not, according as it does, or
does not, coincide with his own viPws ; and will be so solicit-
ous abont e\•ery thing which is likely to affect him, and so
fearful lest, in some way, he should lower himself down,
that he may, at times, be disr.oncerted, and diffident, and ap·
pear awkward and unbending in his manners : with combat.
and destruct. large, and conscien. only full, will experience
strong indignation at every word or deed calculated to throw
him into the shade, or derogatory to his character; and will
guard, with a jealous eye, his liberty, his personal preroga-
ti\•es, and whatever belongs to him, &c.: with compar. and
caus. only full, will make greater pretensions to knowledge
and talent than he is in reality able to sustain and fulfil ; and,
with only a middling sized brain, thinks and tall!s much
more of himself than others do of him; pushes himself for-
ward where be is not wanted; and is proud, egotistical, and
self-important : \Yith combat. and destruct. full, benev., hope,
ideal., individ., event., and lang. large, and compar. and caus.
very large, accompanied with a large and an active brain,
will not only possess talents of a high order, but will so em-
ploy them. as to cut a bold and commanding figure wherever
he moves, and add to it that might and force of character,
that dignity, and magnanimity of feeling, which will com-
mand an extensive influence in the world ; advance him to
some commanding station, and enable him to sustain himself
in it with great ability and dignity; will place such unbound-
ed confidence in himself, and also have such towering ambi-
tion, that he will attempt great things, and also have the tal-
ent requisite to carry them through; will not be satisfied with
ordinary attainments, but will grasp at some great, some itn-
posing object, and aspire to p1·e-eminence; will aim high ;
never trifle with himself, nor allow others to trifle with him;
and be emphatically magnanimous, yet not manifest pride or
haughtiness, merely because he has too much good sense to
Digitized by GoogIe
•'
116 t~ PHRENOLOGY I~USTRATED.
. do so. The same combination of other organs, witli self-e.
very large, will produce the same result.
VERY LARGE.-One having self-e. TJery large, willingly
assumes the responsibility, will think too much of himself,
of his opinions, plans, judgment, &c.; and, with combat.
large, and caus. and conscien. only moderate, will be likely .,.._.
to be regardless of the frown and of the favour of men i•
i'
deaf to reproof; liable to have many .·enemies ; intractable, · ·
bold, proud, haughty, domineering, forward, conceited, jeal-
ous,'austere, and repulsive; to be blind to his faults, ~d un-
able to see his errours, be they ever so glaring, because be
will feel that he is·well nigh infallible; will look down with
a kind of contempt upon the great mass of his fellow ~.
and treat even his equals as though they were his inferiours;
will be extremely ambitious to obtain power, and also arbi-
trary in its exercise ; insensible to the shafts of ridicule,
thinking that surely he cannot be intended; by his manner
and expression, will give an air of consequence and import-
ance to what he says; with approbat. moderate or small, and
firm. large or very large, will be..Perfectly independent; will
go straight forward in his ow~ay, follow his own judg-
ment, and defy the consequences, &c. Many of the combi-
nations under self-e. large, will apply to self-e. very large.
FuLL.-One having self-e. full, will think well of him-
self, yet, when benev., conscien., and caus. are large or very
large, his self-e. will manifest itself in creating a manly, no-
ble, self-respectful feeling, which will prevent him from do-
ing any thing beneath himself; will be sufficiently conde-
scending, yet not servile, and enabled and disposed to pay a
due respect, not only to himself, .but also to his fellow-men;
will possess sufficient force and weight of character to do a
good business and sustain himself; to mingle dignity with
condescension and talent, and so conduct himself as to be
generally respected; will neither assume too much to him-
self, nor yield too much to others; and will maintain his
rights and his self-respect, so that others can have no face to'
trifle with or trample upon him, and yet, will not be haughty
nor conceited.
MoDERATE.-One having self-e. moderate, places too low.
an estimate upon himself, upon his own judgment, and is too
ready to give in to.the judgment of others; wiil lack the re-
quisite independence, manliness, higb-mindedness, and ~~elf­
confidence to beat his own way through life, and will auffer
1 sn
------------~
SELF·BSTBBM. 117
from a feeling of unworthiness; will fear to trespass upon
the attention of others, and not possess an influence equal to
his character and talents, merely because he does not as-
sume enough to himself. One having self-e. moderate, with
combat, firm., and conscien. large or very large, will possess
" genuine firmness of character, and much moral courage, yet
will seldom manifest them in bold relief, e.~cept when under
excite!Jlent, or in the defence ofmoral ptihciple, or the cause •
of vir8le, or in dting what he considers to be his duty: with
firm. only full, may be.too e~ly le~way, lll!d too ready to
ask and to follow advice, ana too obsequious, especialfy if
cautious. is )arge or very-4arge-: with ··large hltellectllal
faculties, may possess talents of a high order, yet, from. want
of self-confidence llnd boldness to pretend tQ considerable, and
in consequence .of occasionally letting hill)self down in his
expressions a~ appearance, and trifling with himself and
with others, wffi bave much . le~ influence than .he might
have if poss~sSed of more self-e., &c.
SlllALL.-One having self-e. smallt will sink into compar·
ative insignificance in his own estimation, an~ be tor~ented
with a feeling of unworthiness and inferiority; lm feel too
humble and submissive, and too deJ>\l.ndant and diminutive,
which will still l:llil increased' by large ven. and conscien.;
will underrate himself, his judgment, his talents, &c., and,
therefore, be undervalued by other!!; "·ill make himself too
common and familiar, and associate so much with inferiours,
·that he will fail to command general respect and confidence;
will be too trijling in his manners and expressions; more apt
to follow than to lead,; and too modest and backward to ap-
pear well; and will not be likely to advance himself to some
bold and commanding position, and maintain himself in it,
even though, with large ideal. and intellectual organs, and a
large brain, his talents may be abundantly sutfir.ient for that
purpose; yet, with firm. very large, will nevertheless be de-
termined, perseYering, &c. ..:· :.:.,·
.vERY SlllALI::;-One havitl~~ very small, ~ith . con-
SCIen. and cautious. very larg~ Wlfl be ,&!.ways dissatisfied
with, and ha-re a miserabl61 opinion of.'bim~l£ and all h~
does; and, with hope only modera(e, f~;ar · to attemP.t any
thing which involves~BJI6ns1bi}ij~ Jest he shoutd fad to do
all tl!at may be.~~..P.f ~'l wi_ll feel ashamed to hold
up his bend, oi'JkitA.11He,Tow·men 10 the face; and be al-
ways coni:lebming himsel£
118 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
LocATION.-Self-e. is located on the mesial line of the
head, about half an inch above the union of the lambdoidal
sutures, aa<l directly back of firm.; or, in the middle of the
superiour-inferiour portion of the head, at an angle of about
forty-five degrees with the plane of the base of the skull.
Approbat. is located on the two external sides of it, and cau-
toius. beyoad ap11robat., in the same range. , .
• The existence of this faculty demonstrates the posit-ion, that
the feeling or principle of liberty and of tftual right~ is in-
alienable, anti illheren-.in the ~ry nature and constitution of
man; that, therefore, it can no more be destroyed than hunger,
or love; that a purely republican and democratick form of
goverpment i!l the only one adapted to the nature of man, and
the.only one calculated to secure universal satisfaction and
happiness; and that the subjugation of man by his fellow-man,
is an open violation of the principles of huJtllll nature. If
our ftd~,r~ only understood this principle of our nature, and
if all the landmarks and all the regulations of. government
only proceeded 'upon it, subjection and servitude, in all those
ten the~aQL! forms which they assume in society, would be
at onr.e abo1ished. By creating every man free to choose or
refuse the evil or the good, Go.tf, allows every man to govern
himself; and, surely, then, men ought to allow one another to
govern themselves, subject, however, in the latter case, as they
are in the for.mer, to those regulations which are necessary
ro the general. good, and, also, to be " rewarded according to
their deedo~."~ -'
There is no. danger that this feeling will ever be extin·
guished; but. irr case the subjugation and servitude of man, in
any form, should be carried to a very great length, there
is danger, ay, a moral certainty, of a revolution, and a rev-
olution, too, attended witltt a violence proportionate to the
pressure laid upon it. In this country, there is no likelihood,
nor scarcely a possibility, of a despotick form of government,
but there is danger of a mon-eyed despotism-of aristocratick
monopolies, and of the powerful's tyrannizing over the weak,
and because they are poor or friendless. This same love
of being free ourselves, and of ruling ourselves, reaches still
farther, and desires to govern others. Slowly but surely, as
it were, in the insinuating, yet resistTess, folds of the Boa
Constrictor, is this serpentine·aristoerlley "Su91Juing llnd sub-
jugating, by piece-meal, particul!irly thE!' 'l!'trtuous and tlu
talented poor of our country; and, should things progress,
~- , - ~--
PIJlJINEBB. 119
for sixty years to come, as they have done since the Revolu·
tion, th1s nation, the birthplace and the cradle of liberty,
will be ruled by an aristocracy, not of government, but of
monopoly, of wealth, &c., far more tyrannical th~n imy na·
tion under heaven. But, thanks to the great Author of our
being, man's nature is unalterable; the spirit of Sen•nty·six.
and the love of liberty, will live and will increase, and wo be
to those that ride over it. The great doctrine of human
rights-of liberty-of free government-of" INDEPEND-
ENCE," will live and spread, and root up, and trample
down, every vestige of tyranny, of aristocracy, and of ser·
vitude.
14. FIRMNESS.
Stability-decision of cltaracter-fixedness of purpose--
tlesire to continue-av~rsion to change.
The necessity of some faculty, to which to refer that stead·
fastness, perseverance, and unwillingness to relinquish what
has been undertaken, which are so indispensable to success,
and so common phenomena of the human mind, is too ob-
vious to need comment; and the frequent instances of down-
right obstinacy, and of blind adherence to what has been
adopted, and solely because it has been adopted, afford con·
elusive evidence of the existence of .firm. as a primary faculty
of the human mind. 1
LARGE.-One having firm. large, 'Yj)) be so stable, de·
dded, determined, &c., that he may be relied upon; and
be very unwilling to change his plans, opinions, purposes,
course of conduct, or whatever he undertal<es or u.dopts. One
having firm. large, with combat., destruct., and self-e. full
or large, will add perset·erance to stability, and not only hold
on to his plans to the last, but, also, drive them forward with
great determination through opposing difficulties: with self-e.
large or very large, is so sure and certain that he is right,
that there will be the greatest difficulty in convincing him
that he is wrohg. or in turning him from his purposes; yet,
if the reasoning organs are very large, he may listen to
strong and conclusive arguments: with cautious. large, may
seem to waver, and to·la<rlc decision of purpose, but this will
be the case only before he has fully decided, and openly com·
mitted himself, and wiJen his fear is so active as to overcome
llis firmness: with hope very large, and enutious. only mode- ·
120 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rate, may start on foot so many 'new projects as to appear
fickle, yet the phenomena will proceed ra~her from an excess
of hope, than from a deficiency of firm.: with adhes. and
benev. very large, may be easily persuaded, or led, espe-
cially by friends, yet cannot be driven the least: with com-
bat., destruct., self-e., hope, and caus. large or very large, not
only holds on to his own opinions and plans with great tena-
city, but also drives forward whatever he undertakes with
great energy, and can be turned aside or driven from his pur-
poses only by compulsion or impossibilities; is pre-eminently
persevering, if not really obstinatf', and is well qualified to
complete what he undertakes: with the perceptive organs, at
least, full, the reasoning organs very large, and cautious.
large, will lay his plans for a long time t!J come, and pursue
a preconcerted, systematick course of action, and thus effect
important objects; may take some time to make up his mind,
yet will seldom change it; will be slow in undertaking, but
unchanging in executing; and may always be relied upon:
with combat. and self-e. large, ven. moderate, and the reasoning
organs only full, will not be open to conviction, nor feel the
force of reasons urged against him, but will blindly and tena-
ciously adhere to his opinions and determinations, and seem
to be much more firm than he really is, &c. ·
VERY LARG·E.-One having firm. very large, will be
likely to be obstinate, if not really stubborn; and, with self-e.
• large, will be unbending, and yield only to dire necessity or
compulsion; and, when he has once committed himself, will
turn comparatively a deaf ear to the voice Jf entreaty, of
threatening, of reason, and even of interest, and all for no
other reason than because he will or toill not ; with hope
and combat. also large, will boldly rncounter the greatest
difficulties; " hope against hope;" and possess the greatest
fortitude, and the most unbending determination: with self. e.
large, cautious. moderate, and caus. only full, will make up
his mind at once, and upon a partial view of the subject,
and then absolutely refuse to change it; will think himself
willing to see his errours and listen to rrasonable advice, while
the doors of his mind will be barred and bolted against every
thing designed or calculated to convince or turn him ; and
may be called blindly obstinate and mulish: with the reason-
ing organs large, will be loath, and even sometimes refuse, to
change, when his reason tells him that he ought to do so, yet
may be influenced by very strong motives, and very urgent
'
m '"edbyGoogle
J
FIRMNESS. 121
reasons: but, if the moral and reasoning faculties predomi-
nate over the selfish, firm. will seldom manifest itself in
downright obstinacy. The combinations under firm. large,
modified by an increase of the influence of firm., will apply
to firm. very large.
FuLL.-One having firm. fidl, will possess, except in a
less energetick and apparent degree, those qualities ascribed
to firm. large, with this important exception, that he will be
much more liable to abandon his purposes, and appear to be
changeable, not because firm. is absolutely deficient, but be-
cause the other more powerful faculties cause it to yield to
their demands. When, therefore, his other faculties which
are large or very large, act in conjunction with his firm.,
he will be so firm as to be thought obstinate, but, when his
larger faculties act in opposition to firm., he will manifest
fickleness. For example; one having firm. full, aided by
large combat. !lnd self-e., (which add self-confidence andre-
sistance to firmness,) and, also, by bright hopes of success, will
show a great amount of decision and perseverance, especially
when his feeling of resistance is awakened; but, when hope
is very large, he will be likely to become dissatisfied with
his present situation and success, and to grasp eagerly at any
new object to which his hope may allure him: with cau-
tious. very large, and combat. only moderate, will often fear
to proceed, and be irresolute, because he fancies there is
"some lion in the way:" with self-e. small, wiJJ·have so lit-
tle confidence in himself, that he will be unwilling to trust
his own judgment, and thus too often listen to advice: with
approbat. very large, may frequently vary his course in order
to adapt himself to publick opinion : with cautious. large, and
caus. and compar. very large, will generally decide and pro-
ceed so judiciously as seldom to need to change; yet, in almost
any combination, the individual will maintain his opinions,
however he may change his plans and course of conduct.
Firm. full, large, or very large, acts with the greatest
vigour in combination with the other faculties that are most
energetick. For example; one having fir.m. of a given size,
with adhes. very large, and acquis. small,' will be more con-
stant in his adherence to friends than to money·making pur-
suits in proportion as his adhes. is more vigorous than his
acquis.: with combat. large and philopro. small, will have
very little patience or perseverance with regard to children,
yet will manifest great determination, and even obstinacy,
11
'
""..
122 PHREXOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
when his spirit of resistance is kindled: with the intellectual
organs large and self-e. small, will persevere in his literary
pursuits, yet will be too easily made to believe that he 11
wrong, and too easily led,•&c.
MoDERATE.-One having firm. moderate, will be likely to
be inconstant, changeable, and fluctuating in his character; to
be doing one thing to-day, and another to-morrow, and can-
not be depended upon. One having firm. moderate, with ad-
hes. large or very large, will love his friends ardently for the
time being, yet frequently change friends for slight causes,
loVing those who are last and untned.the best: with combat. and
destruct. large, in the prosecution of his plans, may drive all
before him for awhile, yet will soon change his course; may
be bold and courageous in the onset, yet will fail to carry the
matter out, or execute his threats: with approbat. large, and
self-e. only moderate, will do much as he is told to do; follow
the advice of every one; and be always shifting to adapt him-
self to circumstances: with calltious. large or very large, will
be always "halting betweP.n two opinion~." and always unde-
termined as to his plan of operation : with the intellectual
organs generally large, may be a rapid, but will not be a
persevering, scholar; will have a thorough and profound
knowledge of no branch of -science; and allow trifles to di-
'·ert him from his purposes.
SMALL.-One having firm. small, will begin many things,
yet complete very few; cannot be depended upon~ will he
fickle, unstnblE', inconstant iu every thing, &c.; may sow
much, yet will not remain to reap the fruits of his labours,
and thus bring to pass VE'ry little. The combinations under
firm. moderate, modified by a still farther reduction of the
influence of firm., will apply to fir~. small.
VERY SMALL.-'When firm. is very small, the subject will
be the sport of the other faculties.
LocATION.-Firm. is located in the back part of the top
of the head. When the head is erect, a perpendicular line,
drawn from the e~ternal opening of the ear to the top of
the hE'ad, will pass through the anterior portion of the organ.
It is usually the tighest portion of the American and the
English head. In the cut of the head of Aurelia Chase, it
is vf!ry large. ·
-
~ORAL AND RELIGIOUS :FACULTIES. 123
SPECIES H.-MoRAL AND RELIGious FACULTIEs.
Man has always been considered "a religious animal."
It will hardly be denied that, aside from his "love of money,"
and the means employed to obtain it, religion of some kind.
and religion in some form, have constituted, and still consti·
tute, one of the leading, pot to say, all-absorbing, objects of
• human contemplation and pursuit. Scarcely a single nation
or tribe of men has ever been known to exist, whose religion
did not enter into, if not even ·constitute, the very texture of
all the habits and the character of that nation or tribe. Take
away the religion. of the Hindoo, of the Asiatick nations, of
the Ethiopian race, of the tawny sons of our western wilds,
of the European nations or of their descendants in America,
or, indeed, of any other "nation, or kindred, or tongue under
heavcn," and, with Micah, they would at once exclaim, " Ye
have taken away my gods: what have [ more1" And, so·
]ong as the nature of man remains unchanged, there is no
possibility of his being less religious than he always has been.
We have to fear only that his religious doctrines will beer-
roneous, and his religious life and practices therefore incor-
rect; or, in other words, that his moral faculties will make
him immoraL To avoid this evil, and to secure one of the
greatest of blessings, namely, a correct religious belief and
practice, let him fully analyze his religious faculties, and
adopt those practices which they clearly point out.
Now, reason teaches us, that the nature of man must neces-
sarily be in perfect harmony with the moral government of
God, and with the moral constitution of the univ.
erse; and, if
phrenology is true, the morality it inculcates, must necessarily
be in perfect harmony with the nature of man: so that, upon
the principle that any two things which are each like a third,
are, therefore, like each other, it follows, that the moral prin·
ciples of phrenology must be in perfect harmony with the
moral principles and constitution of the universe; because
each is in harmony \\ ith the nature of man. And, as the
moral government of God must be in harmony with both the
moral 'Character and attributes of the Deify, and, also, with.
his natural ,kingdom, it follows. that phrenology, if true,
must be in perfect harmony with the natural and the moral
government and attributes of the great Creator nnd Governour
of the universe. And if revelation is also true, its doctrines
and precepts must be in harmony with those taught by phre.
m '"edbyGoogle
'I
I
r
124 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
nology. In other words; if revelation and phrenology ar'
both true, there must be a perfect harmony and coincideDCl
between the theology of phrenology, and the theology ~
revelation. In this case, each would assist to explain and im
terpret the other, and both together, would give a far mor
perfect view of theology and religion, than either can d
separately. And if, through prejudice, or blindness, or wid
edness, any one should pervert either, he may readily b
corrected by the other.
The authors are free to acknowledge, that they ha\·e mor
hope that their fellow men will be brought to a corre1
knowledge of the only true religion, and, also, to a right ur
ders~anding and .a proper applicationof revelati~n, throug
the mstrumentahty .of phren~logy, t~an by any, 1fnot. everJ
other means now m operat1on. 1 he grounds of th1s hop
will be more fully presented in a subsequent chapter, i
which the theology of phrenology will be compared wit
that of revelation, the phrenological answer given to th
question, " In what does true religion consist~" and the mon
and religious bearings of phrenology will be considered an
presented.
15. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
Moral principle-sense of justice-regard for duty-
feeling of moral accountability, incumbency, arid obligQ
tio71r---perception of the right and the wro7tg of feeling
and conduct.
The proposition that man is a moral and accountabl·
agent-that he is governed by moral laws, and is capable 0 1
taking cognizance of the morality, or the right and th
wrong, of feelings and conduct, and of performing actions an1
exercising feelings which ore virtuous and vicious, and, a
such, rewardable and punishable, is susceptible of demonstra
tion by an appeal to the moral feelings of almost every in
dividual of the human race. How often do men. when the,
are consciOui! of .haviqg done wrong, feel guilty and con
demned, and deserving of puni~hment ~ This cannot be tht
result of. education, nor of circumstances, for, without a fac
ulty for exercising this class of functions, men could no mor•
be tauglt.t to feel guilty than they could be taught to sec
without eyes, or to breathe without lungs. And, since thi:
elass of functions is entirely distinct from every other claas
- r+
CO!Ii'SCIEXTIOtTSNESS. 125
hrenologyl homogeneous in its character, and has for its end a very
d coinciJ~portant object, and, above all, since it is always found ta
e theolo~ manifested in proportion to the development of a given
·xplaina~IOrtion of the brain, it follows, that it is performed by a dis-•
:e 8 far~ct faculty of the mind, or by a mental power which is in·
•ither canll£te, and which forms a constituent part of the human mind.
~ess, orIll This being the case, it follows, that man's mind is consti.
y readily'ted with a direct reference to certain abstract and first
1
1rinciples of right and justice. This is rendered evident
'Y hare nJOm the fact, that every portion of the. universe of God, is in
'10 a cor~rfect harmony with, and also adapted to, every other por·.
a riuht IIJDn of it. Now, since the mind of man forms a part of this
~ n througJliverse, and is, therefore, in perfect harmony and consist-
···r~ot everPCY with every other part of it, and since this same mind is
~f this 00~ewise moulded an~ constitut:d .with dire?t referen<:e t~, an~
bapter #'Oceeds upon, certam first prmc1ples of nght and JUStice, It
c rCd ~~!lows, that the whole system of things, or the whole uni·
n:n 10 ~rse of God, is also constituted with direct reference to, and
~d the roo#oceeds upon, these same principles of right and justice
1 'deredarAP<>n which the human mind proceeds, or, in other words,
1
81 hat the universe is a moral universe-that God's govern-
nent recognises the morality and the immorality of feelings
nd conduct, and that its Governour rewards the one, and
1unishes the other. ,
r
0r dvtr If there were no such thing as right and wrong, as virtue
nd obls~d vice, as morality and immorality, why should the great
f Jeeli•l\uthor of nature tell us that some things are right, and
tthers wrong, by implanting in our very nature this moral
nta~ibunal of right and wrong, and thus knowingly and egre·
~co\Jedfiously deceive us1 If there exist no first principles of
;apand t,Wight and wrong, why should the mind of man be so formed
! .a sa.P to receive any such impressions 1 or why should the bu.
;tJo~d ,nan mind be adapted to that which does not exist 1
1• 11n~~ Thus, by physical demonstration, and the language of
:mory iJI.cts, we are inevitably brought to the conclusion, that God's
ove . l h 1 .
b tbeJ'!:overnment IS a mora government-t at, consequent y, Its
ed cotl"riovernour. is a moral Governour, and that mankind ar~ hi.•
10be tbenoral subjects. These are great and fundamental prmcl·
Jt (ac·•les of morality and of'ethicks, and, farthermore, principles
111 ~0revhich have never before been fully established, unless, in·
10 see leed, it should be maintained that a revelation which is
10 this tnown, comparatively, to only a few, and believed in by fewer
ce u•
' cl118So
126 PHRENOLOGY iLLUSTRATED.
still, has established it by assu7ning it, and making it an
article of faith.
LARGE.-One having conscien.large, will have a clear and
an acute moral eye, and a ready perception of what is right
and what is wrong, both in himself and in others, and will
frequently, if not generally, direct his attention to this quality
of actions and feelings; will consult duty rather than expe·
diency, and pursue the course which he con!iders right, even
though it may be in opposition to his interest; will endeavour
to be honest and faithful in the discharge of his supposed ob-
ligations; will often feel guilty, and unworthy; be ready to
acknowledge his faults, and condemn himself for them ; will
strive to lead a moral, virtuous, and upright life; and possess
a thankful, and grateful heart.
One having conscien. large, with firm. also large, will
manifest firmness upon all occasions, but be particularly de-
cided and determined in every case of duty, or justice, or
right; will take a firm stand upon the side of duty and
moral principle, and maintain it, even to extremity; and, with
combat. also large,' will possess great moral courage, great
boldness to go forward in advocating· and urging on the
cause of virtue or morality, and will also resolutely oppose
whatever he considers to be wrong or unjust; with large de-
struct.. and self-e. added to this combination, will not only
quickly notice, but be inclined severely to censure, whatever
he considers wrong; and, with self-e. very large, will be cen-
sorious, and severe in his reflections upon others : with firm.,
caus., and compar. large, will regard the claims of duty and
justice as of primary importance, and discharge them at al-
most any hazard; can be induced only with the greatest dif-
ficulty, and by the strongest temptations, knowingly and wil-
fully to violate them; will make strenuous efforts to restrain
his immoral, and excite his moral, feelings; though he may
sometimes be overcome by his still stronger faculties, and led
into sin by them, yet will generally maintain the ascendancy,
and experience deep remorse and repentance when he is sen-
aible of having swerved from the path of duty; and, unless
self-e. is very large, will readily acknowledge his faults: with
adhes. and benev. large or very large, secret. only moderate,
and destruct. and combat. only full, will mildly, yet faithfully,
reprove his friends; tell them their faults in a plain and can-
did, yet in a mild and feeling, manner, so as to do them the
greatest amount of good, and yet injure their feelings as lit·
€:0NSCIENTIOU8~ESS. 127
tie atr poSBible; closely watch over their moral conduct; have
their good at heart, and, therefore, affectionately reprove
them; but, with combat., destruct., and self.c. large, will be
rather harsh and censorious in his manner of administering
reproof; and, with secret. moderate or small, will find fault
w1th others when they do not conform to his own standard of
duty; and, if firm. and self.e. are very large, and caus. and
benev. only full, will set up himself or his doctrines as the
on)y correct standard of truth and rectitude; pronounce judg-
ment upon the character of others; be censorious and rigid
in his moral and religious views and practices, &c. : with be-
nev. large, and combat., caus., compar., hope, and self-e., at
least, full, will possess great moral courage; will never tem-
porize upon questions of duty, but will stand up boldly and
resolutely in defence of morality and truth; and, let con.:!e-
quences be what they may, will never abandon them; and
ne\'er fly from persecution in the cause of virtue and' benev-
olence, but will boldly meet and face all opposition; will not
forsake his ground; will drive forward moral, and religious,
and benevolent enterprises with great energy; go all lengths,
and make any sacrifices, in defence of moral principle, and
in securing or maintait~ing what he considers right, chiefly
on account of the principle involved in the matter, even
though the thing itself may be unimportant; and, if compar.
and caus. are very large, will be admirably qualified to distin-
guish himself as a moral and religious leader; to fill stations
of responsibility and trust; where judgment ond talents are
required to be combined with integrity and energy of mind
and character : with large or very large selfish propensitit's,
and only moderate or full firm. and reasoning organs, will
struggle hard against his "easily besetting sins," yet be often
overcome by them; will do many tl>ings of which he will
bitterly repent; will reso]\"e on amendment, but again yield
to temptation; and alternate between sinning and repenting:
with l'ery large cautious., in every case where he is not certain
what his duty is, will be so fearful of doing wrong as often
not to act at all. and thus fail to do rig·ht; will frequently
tremble for fear of apprehended punishment; and, with large
or very large ven. in addition, will have high ideas of the
majesty, and holiness, and justice of the Deity; be filled with
dread and awe while contemplating his character nnd works;
have great fear of incurring his displeasure, and of beinf
visited with his judgment; and, with hope moderate or smal
128 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
little expectation of' pardon, or, at least, ·many "doubtS and
fears" concerning his salvation and future condition; be given
to religious melancholy; and have but feeble faith; but, with
hope large, will look upon his Maker, not only as a sin-pun-
ishing, but also as a sintorgiving God; generally have
strong Christian faith, an be solaced by hopes of pardon
tprough a Redeemer, yet experience occru.ional doubts: with
philopro. large, will love his children, yet their moral char-
acter and conduct will be the chiefobjects of his regard and
anxiety j and, if benev. is large, and destruct. full, will
faithfully reprove, if not chastise, them for their faults: with
large caus. and compar., will first investigate subjects in ref-
eren~e to their moral character and bearings; will take gT€'8t
delight in tracing out the connexion between moral causes
and their effects-in reasoning upon the relations ofman to his
Maker, of man to his fellow-man, and of man in all his rela-
tions as a moral and accountable being, &c.; in investigating
the attributes and the character of the Deity, especially as ex-
hibited in his works; in inquiring into the moral relations of
things, &c.; and will appreciate the full force of moral infer-
ences : with compar. and caus. very large, will be a profound
and acute theologian, and with large concent., will take orig-
inal views of subjects, and be unable to leave any subject of
moral inquiry or research until he has run it out in all its bear-
ings; will be exceedingly interested in moral philosophy, in
metaphysical and theological studies, &c.: with' large or very
large combat., compar., and caus., will delight in discussing
religious and moral questions, &c. : with large self-e., and
,·ery large firm., will reluctantly open his eyes upon his
faults, yet will then freely acknowledge them, and endea\'our
to reform: with only full secret. and acquis., and large firm.,
self-e., benev., and caus., and a large and active brain, will
never be guilty of either a mean, or a dishonest action; will
be just, obliging, and faithful to his word, and possess true
moral worth in a high degree; and, with only full combat.
and destruct., will be amiable: with approbat. very large,
will experience a morbid sensibility to shame, and, with large
ven., and only moderate self-e., will often suffer intolerably
from mingled feelings of guilt, unworthiness, and shame, and
be unable to look his fellow men in the face: with large or
very large benev. and adhes., and only full selfe., will be .
very grateful for favours received, and glad of an oppor- ~
tunity to return them; will feel strong attachment towards ·
CON8Cili:NTIOV8NE811. 129
his benefactor!!, and think of them only with-lively emotions
of gratitude and love; will be thankful to those who will
point out his faults to him; be forgiving in his disposition,
especially when forgiveness is asked; sincerely repent of
his sins, both of omission and of commission, weep over them,
and strive against committing more sin, &c.
The functions of the other faculties are oftt>n mistaken for ·
those of conscien., yet a close analysis will point out a radi·
cal difference between them ; and, since those who have the
least conscien., are the least sensible of their deficiency, and,
also, of the functions ascribed to it, they will be likely to give
themselves credit for much more conscien. than. they actually
possess. .
VERY LARnE.-One having conscien. 'IJery la1·gt, will
make morality and duty the pole-star of his life, and the
only guide of his conduct; will not, for the world, knowing·
ly do wrong or injure another; will make almost any sacri·
fice sooner than incur guilt; is tormented with the mere sus•
picion of having done wrong or injured another ; frequently
experiences the fep)ing of remorse for things that are even
right; bitterly repents and loathes himself when he is appre·
hensive that duty has been violated or neglected, and feels
miserable until he is sure that all is right again ; is even
scrupulously and unnecessarily exact in all hi:J dealings;
is constantly tormented and harassed by the goadings of a
guilty conscience; and, when he has failed to fulfil any prom·
ises, feels condemned and unhappy, even though to have ful·
filled them was impossible.
One having conscien. very large, with benev. and ven.
large or very large, will experience the liveliest emotions of
gratitude to his bountiful Creator for favours received, and.
with adhes. large, to his fellow-men for acts of kindness,
and feel strong attachment to his benefactors: with approbat.,
acquis., &c., only fulf, will sacrifice ease, property, happiness,
and friendship, if not every thing else, sooner than violate
his conscience: with large combat., will do what he consid-
ers right, regardless of consequences; will be as bold and aa
fearless as a lion in every case of duty, and in defending any
moral principle; and will make every thing in which he IS
concerned, bend to his ideas of duty, and to those moral
principl('S by which he himself is governed: with moderate
or small self-e., shrinks from publick responsibility : with
ven. and cautious. very large, and hope and self-e. very small,
130 PHRENOLOGY ILLUIITllATBD.
contemplates the character of the Deity with the most pro-
found awe, mingled with dread and terrour, and himself as
sinful and unworthy in the extreme; will tremble in view of
thc,punishment he believes to await him; have few and feeble
hopes of pardon, and be driven to actual despair and religious
melancholy or mania, &c.
The combinations under conscien. large, modified by an
increase of the influence of conscien., will apply to conscien.
very large. It might also be added, that words cannot do
full justice to the character of this faculty, or to its influence
upon the moral conduct and feelings of its possessor.
FuT.L.~e having conscien. full, will desire and en·
deavour to do right, and feel condemned when convinced ~f
having done wrong; will recognise the claims of duty ; feel
his moral obligations, both to God and man; and, unless his
temptations, or, in other words, the solicitations of his strong-
er faculties, overcome the remonstrances of eonscien., will be
honest and faithful, and live a virtuous, moral life,/et his
conscien. will have a great deal to struggle with, an some-
times lose the ascendency.
The manifestations of conscien. full, are governed by the
following general principle, namely, that one having con-
scien. full, with such an organization as would be favourable
to virtue and morality, or with the selfish faculties under the
control of the moral and reasoning faculties, especially if
placed in circumstances calculated to promote virtue, will be
likely to possess a high standard of virtue, and of moral feeling
and principle; but, with the selfish faculties generally larger
than conscien. and the other moral and the reasoning faculties,
especially if placed in circumstances calculated to urge him
into excesses, or to create defects, will possess conscif'n. too
feeble to turn the current of his strongf'r passions into a vir-
tuous channel, or to supply his defects. Thus, one having
conscien. full, with large combat., and only moderate secret.,
will be subject to ebullitions of passion, yet, as soon as the
excitement of combat. has subsided, consc1en. will create pun-
gent remorse and contrition : with large combat. and destruct.,
and only moderate acquis., may be often led into sin by his
an~er, yet will be perfectly honest in all his pecuniary trans·
actions: with large or very large acquis.. adhes., and secret.,
and only full caus. and self-e., may frequently take the ad·
vantage of stranger~, and be even dishonest in his pecuniary
transactions with mere acquaintances, yet will never wrong
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 131
a frie"d, and will be likely to be honest in all his transac-
tions where love of gain does not entice him astray: with
only moderate acquis., and large or very large destruct.,
combat., approbat., and secret., may defame his rivals with-
out a strict regard to truth, yet possess a moral character;m-
exceptionable in other respects, &c. Accordingly, we find
many persons to be perfectly moral in their general charac-
ter, yet addicted to some grossly immoral, if not even vicious,
propensity-some "easily besetting sin:" and this one fauh
1s too often allowed to throw into the shade all their virtuous
qualities.
The combinations and descriptions under conscien. large,
modified by a diminution of the influence of Cinscien., will
apply to conscien. full.
MovERATE.-One having conscien. 'moderate, will expe-
rience fewer and"feebler compunctions of conscience, and jus-
tify himself more than one with larger conscien.; will con·
sider the moral qualities of actions far less than he will their
dfects upon himself; will frequently indulge his other facul-
ties to excess, and, also, fail to do his duty,and will not be
very particular 1o govern his feelings and his conduct by
any fixed standard of moral principle; will consult e;rpedi·
ency rather than duty; and be less sensible of his faults, less
open to conviction, less c)ear in his discernment between
right and wrong, less correct in his reasoning upon religious
subjects, the character of God, and the moral relations of
man to man, and of man to his Maker, and will appreciate
these inferences less, than one with larger conscien.
One having conscien. moderate, with very large self-e.,
and large selfish organs generally, will be likely to make
such demands upon others as his interest may dictate, without
su.fficient regard to what really belongs to him; and will not
. experience lively emotions of gratitude for favours received,
because the feeling will be implanted in his mind that others
are under a kind of obligation to do whatever he may choose
to require of them: with large or very large self-e., adhes., and
benev., and only moderate secret., may be perfectly honest
and unexceptionable in his moral conduct, yet will be so from
feelings of kindness or friendship, or because it will be mean
and degrading to do wrong; will govern his conduct by prin-
ciples of nobleness, and do the honourable and the manlything,
yet will seldom feel guilty, ·or to do right from conscientious
scruples:· with large or very large approbat., will do right
132 PHRENOLOGY lLLtJBTRAT:&D.
when to do wrong, would injure his 1·eputation, or tarnish
his honour, yet, will do that which is wrong, and which large
conscien. woqld forbid, when such things are generally
approved; and do what is popular, without thinking orca·
ri~ whether it is right or not: with very large adhes., and
benev., may be very kind, very affectionate, very willing to
do favours, &c.; feel a great deal of sympathy for distress,
and show much tenderness of feeling, whieh are liable to be
mistaken for conscien., yet these feelings will not be ac·
companied with a deep sense of duty, of obligation, of grati-
tude, of moral principle, &c. : with large or very large
ven. and n religious education, may be devout, religiously
inclined, an~ with cautious. large: fear to offend his Maker,
and, with the selfish faculties only full, may live a blame-
less, Christian life, yet will lack those nice moral qualities
imparted by conscien. ; but, with small marvel., and with-
out a strict; religious education, will be likely to \le irreli·
.gious, if not skeptical: with large or very large secret and
npprobat., will he likely to do wrong in secret, and when
there is little risk of detection; and, with only moderate self-e:,
will be deceitful, if not hypocritical, yet, with ven. large,
may even profess religion, but will be a Pharisee : with large
or very large reasonin!5 organs, may govern his condnct by
the dictates of reason, feel the full force of philosophical con·
elusions, and reason clearly and forcibly upon all subjects
disconnected with morality and duty, yet will not appreciate
the force of moral truths, &c.
SMALL-One having conscien. small, will have but lit·
tie idea of right and wrong in the abstract; even when guilty,
will be comparatively a stranger to the feelings of peni·
tence, and to tim compunctions of conscience; will have but
little regard for moral principle, and little concern whether
his character conforms to its requisitions or not ; or care
whether be is moral or immoral as such; will have few cqn·
scientious scruples, and, perhaps. ridicule those who have;
will lack that regard for isolated justice, that desire to do
right, and that tenderness of conscience, which this faculty
alone can impart, and be nearly destitute of moral acumen
and discrimination.
The combinations under conscien. moderate, modified by
a reduction of the influence of conscien., will apply to con·
acien. small. Other combinations, deduced from the princi-
ples there illustrated, may be added by the reader.
CONSCJENTI0118NE88. 133
VBRY BK.&.LL.-One having conscien. TJery small, will,.
neither know nor feel the difference between right and wrong
in themselves, nor hav~ any moral discernment; will have
no eonscientious scruple!'; deny the doctrine of rewards and
punishments, and the whole system of moral account~bility;
be a stranger to the feelings of responsibility and repentance i
and, being unrestrained by the influence of conscien., do just
what his other faculties dictate.
'fbe faculty of conscien. does not decide as to what is right
or wrong, nor create that moral standard or tribunal by
which the feelings and the conduct are tried, but merely ar-
raigns them before such a tribunal as may have been settled
by tbe combined influence of the other faculties, of educa·
tion, of circumstances, &c. Suppose, for example, that two
individuals, A. and B. possessed an equal share of conscien.,
while A. possessed very large acquis., and B. only small ac-
quis. Let both be rlaced in given circumstances, and the
conseien. of A. wil allow him to take an unjustifiable
amount of money, and even to demand it; while the same
degree of conscien. in B., would not allow him to take the
same amount, even in case it should be offered to him; yet,
should A. possess a large endowment of ven., and B. but
small ven., although the conscien. of A., might allow him
to take more money than belonged to him, this same con-
scien. might even compel him, out of a sense of duty, to attend
upon certain religious observances, go to meeting, &c., more
strictly than the sqme amount of conscien. would require of B.
Ifthe reasoning organs of B. were much larger than those of
A., his views of right and wrong would be much more cor-
rect and reasonable than those of A. The conscien. of the
Indian doubtless urges him on even to com]nit'deeds of cru-
elty and vengeance upon that race which, he conceives, has
wronged him. The conscience of the Catholick might re-
quire him always to attend mass, an:l torment him for tasting
meat on certain days, or for visiting a Protestant place of wor-
ship., while that of a Protestant, might condemn a visit to a
Catholick church as a heinous sin.
This illustration will furnish a perfect and most beautiful
solution of the otherwise inexplicable phenomena, that the di-
versity of opinion as to what is right and what is wrong, and
u to what constitutes the test and standard of virtue and ofvice,
is well nigh infinite, or, at least, receives a different modifica-
tion from almost every individual-that some approve as virt-
12
o;J,izedb,Google
134 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATE~.
f<JUS, what others condemn as wicked, and what others still,
regard as neither-that almost every vice has been considered'
a virtue, and practised as such, and many forms of virtue con-
demned as sinful-that a very conscientious man may be a
very wicked man, and be even made the more wicked by his
perverted or "seared" conscience, and that a mii'U with but
feeble conscien., may be comparatively virtuous, &c.
The decisions of conacien. alone, then; form no criterion
as to what is right or wrong; yet, in conjunction with the
full develo.Pment and unprevented exercise of all the other
faculties, it constitutes a great moral form·ula by which every
feeling of the heart, and every action of the life, may be tried,
and its moral character determined. So that phrenology, in
fact, teaches us, "what most we need to know," WHAT Is
RIGHT AND WHAT IS WRONG. By a reference to a subse-
quent chapter, the reader will see this point fully illustrated
and applied.
The diversity of opinion just alluded to, as to what is con-
sidered right and what wrong, does not, in the least, affect any
of the arguments under this head, because they are predicated
merely upon the existence of some standard of right-upon
some code of morality, which standard and code actually ex-
ist, though modified in their application.
The influence of conscien. upon the conduct and the char-
acter, is so great and so peculiar, as, in a measure, to baffle
description. A person with little conscien., may be as honest
a man, as kind a neighbour, as warm a friend, as trusty and as
honourable in his dealings, &c., as another is who has large
conscien., but from very different motives; yet a deficiency of
conscien. c.onstitutes a palpable and a radical defectof charac-
ter, a defect which is more observable in a want of moral feel-
ing, and in a comparative destitution of moral principle, than
in the mere conduct and dealings of the individual.
The larger this organ, the more guilty will the individual
feel. The reason of this is, that large or very large con-
scien. being always awake, arraigns all the actions, and
feelings, and motives before this moral tribunal, and brings
them to a much more heart-searching trial, and thus creates
a much greater sense of guilt and sinfulness than would be
done by weaker conscien., even though the conduct, feelings,
and motives, from which this feeling ofguilt is derived, should,
in both cases, be alike.
This faculty, then, while it actually prevents the truly con-
• 72
•
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS• 135
scienti~us man from committing as much sin as he would
probably commit with but feeble conscien., makes him feel
the more guilty, and allows those who have but little con-
scien., and are therefore the less restrained from commit·
ting sin, to live on, comparatively insensible to their faults.
dead to the reproach of a guilty conscience, and justified in
their own eyes.
This fact refutes the doctrine that the goadings of a guilty
conscience in this life, constitute th~ only punishment for
sin : for it is a plain dictate of reason and of conscience, that
the punishment of sin must always be proportionate to the in-
iquity committed. Yet we here sec that the punishment in· .
flicted by conscien., is lightest upon those who sin the most, and
most severe upon tho3c who are least deserving of it, and that
it is often inflicted when the actions punished ore even virtu-
ous. (See conscien. very large.) Conscien. has been shown
to be merely the judge of sinfulness, and not its executioner.
Now, by proving that the principle of accountability,
which necessarily implies accompanying rewards and pun-
ishments, enters into the very nature and constitution of man-
that men are punishable for their sins, and punishable in
proportion to their guilt,-and, that conscien. inflicts the
lightest punishment upon those who are the most guilty, pbre-.
nology proves that there is some other punishment for sin
than the goadings of a guilty conscience, which, taken in
conjunction with the fact, that those who sin most, often suffer
least in other respects, and that the righteous are often se-
verely ntfiicted in this life, brings us to the inevitable conclu-
sion, that these rewards and punishments, which must be in-
flicted somt.where, are reserved for administration in another
state oftxistr.nce.
.Not that rewards and punishments, as such, are not ad-
ministered in this life; for we know, indeed, that obedience
to the laws of our corporeal organization, produces health,
and with it, a great degree of happiness, and that the viola-
tion of these laws, produces severe punishment, examples
of which are to be found in those pains caused by cut-
ting, bruising, burning, poisoning, or otherwise injuring oul'
bodies; but that the present state is not the ONLY state of
retribution. And since the administration of rewards and
punishments in the present state of existence, is not only not
mcompatible with the benevolence and the government of
the Deity, but is even demanded by both, why should not the
136 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
'-1ame admiqistration of rewards and punishments in '11Mther
state of existence, not only not be incompatible with the same
character and government of the same unchangeable Being,
but be even demanded in another world, in like manner as
it is in this~ All sectarian prejudices aside, are not these r-
fair inferences from phrenological principles 1
In children and in females, this organ 1s generally found to
be much larger (as the faculty is much stronger) than in males.
Indeed, in children below ten years of age, it is almost invari-
ably large or very large, while in men, especially in some
sections of our country, the deficiency is quite common. We
may hence· conclude, that it constitutes a leading feature of
the human character, and that its deficiency is wholly owing
to a want of culture. A deficiency of conscien., then, implies
a neglect of its cultivation; and this want of cultivation im-
plies the guilt consequent upon burying so important a talent
m the earth.
LocATION.-Conscien. is located upon the two sides of
ihe posteriour portion of firm. Its protuberances are at right
angles with those of firm., and parallel to those of hope. Its
development can generally be determined without difficulty,
yet, as hope is located by its side, it is sometimC!I difficult
to determine with certainty to which a given protuberance
belongs.
16. HOPE.
Expectation-anticipation-tendency of mind to contem-
plate the future with bright expectations of happiness and
success.
This faculty expects to obtain and enjoy what the other
faculties desire. This it does w1thout basing this expectation
upon any other grounds than the mere impression that things
will happen as the individual desires that they slwuld hap-
pen. By promising the continuance, and even the increase,
of present enjoyments, by diminishing the quantity and the
bitterness of present sufferings, and by predictin~ that the
burden will be lightened, or that sorrows wilt be turned
into joys, it adds greatly to the sweetness and the fullness of
the cup of human happiness; and by representing things
as much more desirable, and more easily obtained, than
they really are, it contributes greatly to enterprise and ef-
fort. How many things do the fair promises of hope induce
HOPE. 137
us to undertake, and firmness, to carry through, when, with-
out hope, the undertaking would be scouted, and, without
1irmness, abandoned. · ,
This faculty not only embraces within its range, the present
state of existence, but, leaping the dark chasm of death, it
revels in the prospect of bliss beyond the shores of time, u
those in whom it is large, generally believe in a future state
of existence. ,
Its function is, expectation in general--a vivid .and intense
glow of delight in the mere anticipation of future happiness
and success: and the beau.ty of its manifestation is, that the
individualplacesalmostasmuchconfidenceinthepromises and
allurements of this faculty, as he does in the conclusions of
reason or experience.
LAROE.-One having hope large, will contemplate tb&
future \Vith· high expectations of happiness, and dwell upon
his projects and his prospects with sanguine anticipations of
success; will magnify advantages, and diminish obstacles;
will dwell upon the fairer side of prospects, and take only a
slight glance at discouraging circumstances; will be likely
to promise himself and others much more thnn is reasonable;
will be cheerful, lively, and sanguine; will feast upon the prom-
ises of hope; will overlook past and present disappointnaents
and troubles, in.the brighter visions of the future; and, though
subject to frequent discouragements, will still indulge hi&
hope, forgetting the past, and pressing onward to the future.
One having hope large, with only full cautious., will hope
much more than fear, yet, with -caus. large; will seldom al·
low his hopes to hurry him into imprudent measures; but,
with the addition of large or very large combat., firm., self~.•
and ideal., will Reem to be imprudent, especially when in
pursuit of some most desirable object, yet his forethought
and judgment will not only guard against misfortune, but
secure success, even though he will seem to be very impru~
dent, and when hope is excited, even hazardous: with only
moderate caus. and cautious., may sometimes attempt imros·
sibilities, and, with only full caus. and cautious., improbabili.
ties: with very large cautious., will never expose himself
to anv of those dangers or losses which can be fore-seen or
provided against, even though he might thereby gain tbt-
more; will keep upon the safe side of things, and risk but
little, yet will anticipate and attempt considerable: with finn.
and self-e. larg.e or very large, will rise above trouble and
12.
l38 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED,
advers1ty, confidently expecting that d~e scale will soon tum
in his favour; will lay many new plans; form many new pro-
jects; and be prone to try experiments; yet, if concent. is small,
will frequently change or vary them : with self-e. large or
very large, and only full caus., will feel himself capable of
attempting and effecting great things; think that he can sue.
ceed much better than others; and thus often attempt what
he cannot accomplis~; yet will not learn, even by repeated
disappointments, that be can do no more than othe,rs; but,
with very large caus. and compar., and large intellectual or-
gans generally, will hope for great things, yet hope within
the bounds of reason ; ltke De Witt Clinton, will be capable
of projecting some stupendous work, and, also, of devising
the means for accomplishing it; and will seldom or never
fail in his projects, &c.
VERY LAROE.-One having hope 11ery large, will literally
revel in the bright anticipations of those enjoyments which
he fancies are before him; and view the future with so high
expectations as to be dissatisfied with thE> present, be it ever
so satisfactory; will always live in the future, and long for
its arrival; and thus often misimprove the present.
One having hope very large, with cautious. and caus. only
fulL will be always in chase of some new and desirable
object in prospect; will _have too many irons in the fire at
once; attempt too much, and things which are even chi-
merical; will look upon even difficult attainments as very
easy; be subject to frequent disappointments, yet neither disap·
pointments nor misfortunes will damp the ardour of his hope;
will be always upon tiptoe of expectation-always sanguine,
cheerful, and lively, and, with large mirth., merry; be con·
stantly building castles in the air; and hazardous in his un-
dertakings: with large self-e., will think himself adequate to
almost any undertaking: with large or very large benev., will
promise much lnore than he can fulfil, yet, with large conscien.,
and onlymoderate secret. will make his promises with the best
intentions, and feel sorrr that he cannot fulfil them: with
very large cautious., wil be tantalized with hopes and fears,
and have the highest anticipations, accompanied with suffi-
cient solicitude to cause him to proceed with great r.are and
· deliberation, yet, with large combat., will combine discretion
'lith energy: with only moderate acquis.< and onlv full cau-
.itioua., will live on, enjoying the present, and think that the
~uture will tak~. .·care of itself; and that plans will
---
HOPE. 139
succeed to his utmost ·dt'Sire, even with very little effort, so
that he will be predisposed to a life of eas.e, and idleness, and
pleasure j and, with very large ideal., amat., and adhes. added
to this combination, will be disposed to revelry and profii·
gacy, and will be a spendthrift.
The combinations under hope large, modified by an in·
crease of the influence of hope, will be found applicable to
hope very large. In this case, as in many other similar
ones, the reader is requested to exerclse his own organ of
comparison.
FuLL.-One having hope full, will be reasonable in his
expectations, and yet be spurred on by them to attempt import-
ant undertakings; will be cheerful. yet seldom elated with
hope, &c. One having hope full, with large or very large cau-
tious., will forebode more evil than good, and endure pre·
sent troubles well. yet live in dreadof apprehended misfor-
tunt'S; but, with the addition of large or very large caus. and
compar., will be pre-eminently judicious; calculate with accu-
racy; realize about what he expects; seldom be led astray
by favourable prospects; rely more upon the dictates of rea·
son than the promises of hope; and, in the long run, succeed
far beyond his expectations, and accomplish more than most
others : with large or very large ocquis., may make great·
calculations upon amassing wealth, because his love of riches
will be so great; and so of the other faculties that are large.
Tile additional manifestations of hope full, will be inter·
mediate between hope large, and hope moderate, nnd the op-
posite of hope small. Sec combinations under hope large,
modified by a diminution of hope.
MoDERATE.-One having hope moderate, will expect too
little rather than too much ; make few promises, either to
himself or to others; will not be sanguine, nor have a high
flow of animal spirits, &c. One having hope moderate,
with large or very large cautious., will anticipate the worst
rather than the best; fear much more than hope; generally
realize more than he calculates upon; dwell more upon the dis-
couraging features of the case,than upon its encouraging pros-
~cts: with large or very large conscien., yen., and cautious.,
1f a professing Christian, will have many doubts and ftoars
as to his future condition, and lack Christian faith: with the
propensities only moderate, will not be likely unaided, to un-
dertake and prosecute with vigour, every important pro·
ject, yet, with large firm., may hold on and persevere when
PBRBNOLOOY JLLUS'fRA'fED.
he is once finally embarked, and is fully committed: with
largt~ or very large caus. and compar., may be sure of ob-
taining his ends, but will be so because he sees by what
means they are to be brought about, &c.
8MALL.-0ne having hope stnall, in addition to the man-
ifestations described under hope moderate, will be hardly
capable of having his hopes raised by the brightest prospects,
and take little deligQt in contemplating the future : with
large or very large cautious., and only moderate or full com·
bat. and self-e., will be easily discouraged j generally fancy •
that he sees some lion in the way; dwell chiefly upon the
darker shades of the picture; brood over misfortune; borrow
a great deal of trouble, eveo in prosperity j fear to undertake
or risk much, lest he should fail; lack enterprise, and elas-
ticity and buoyancy of"spirits; indulge, and even delight to
indulge, melancholy feelings, &e.: with only moderate mirth.,
and large ven. and conscien., will be sober, sedate, and often
cast down, if not ascctick : with large or very large combat.,
firm., self-e., and caus., may manifrst a high degree of sta·
bility and energy of character when once fully embarked in
an undertaking; yet, unless actually obliged to undertal!e
important operations, will shrink from them : with very large
cautious., conl!cien., and ven., and only full self-e., will look
upon the Deity with tht~ strongest impressions of his justice,
and holiness, and majesty,' and be in great fear of offend-
ing him, accompanit~:l with little hope of the pardon of his
sins, and with the most pungent feelings of remorse, and the
most dismal forebodings, and fearful apprehensions, of future
punishment, if not with actual despair. Thus we perceive,
that they who have the most to fear in this matter, actually
fear the lf'ast, and that they who. have the least to fear, fear
the most. The additional manifestations and combinations of
hope small, will be found under hope moderate, and others
may be ascertained by reversing the description of hope large.
VERY SMALL.-When this organ is vr.ry small, its func-
tions are too weak and too feeble to have very perceptible influ-
ence upon the character, or to be experienced by the subject.
The objects upon which hope f~tstens, will be determined
by its combinations. One having full, large, or very large
hoP,«~, for example, with small acquis., and hlrge or very large
phJlopro., will indulge the highest expectations concerning his
,apJ.ilaren, yet exercise very little about property as such: with
""1arge approbjlt., and only moderate or small religious orgaDaa
·.·;/·
..·.
MAR'f•LJ.OUII'I.II, 141
will hope for distinction and fame; yet his ho~ will be con-
fined chiefly to this life, and he will be skeptical concerning
another state of existence, &c. 'fhus it is, that hope acts with
the greatest vigour upon those things which are the objects
of the desires of the other faculties. HencE', some individuals
are very sanguine about some things, while their hope1 flag
in relation to other things.
LocATION.-Hope is located upoa the two sides of the
anteriour portion of firm., in front of conacien., and behind
marvel., being elongated in the direction of the cars.
17. MARVELJ..OUSNESS.
Wonder-credulity-di•po•ition to belie11e what i1 not
proved, or what are conJiderrd 1upernatural rnanifutationl,
4'c.-to regard with wonder and astoni•hmtnt that which i•
101newhat 1trange or lingular.
There are things, the evidence of which the human mind
ia incapable of grasping, and which must therefore be taken
upon trust, or, what it the same thing, which must be the ob-
jects of credulity. Hence the peceeaity of •ome fnculty,
throuiJh the door of which such truths as are beyond the
reach of reason or of observation, can be admitted to the
mind.
It catmot be denied, that there exists a tendency in the hu·
man mind to view things, as it were, through the medium of
extravagancP and wonder; to magnify uncommon phenome-
na, or to regard them as supernatural; to believe the mere
declarations of othere, even though they may be strangers,
&c. This tendency of mind is more apparent in chil·
dren than in adults. They listen with delightful astonish·
ment to tales of wonder, and impliritly believe what is told
them, even after they have been repeatedly deceivtd. With·
out this faculty, they could be instructed no farther than their
extremely limited observation, or their still feebler reasoning
faculties, could demonstrate the truths presented to their
minds.
It is by no means certain that this faculty is not adapted,
among other things, to a belief in thoee portion11 of Revela-
tion which are attributed to a supernatural agency, and that
it is calculated to increase religious zeal and fervour. At
least, it prepare• the mind for a reception of some of thote
cloetrines taught in the Bible, which reason cloet not teach,
o;J,izedb,Google
PHRENOLOGY lLLUSTJl.A.TI:D.
'because it cannot comprehend, and which can be beliel'ed ·
only "by faith." By creating a Jove of the wonderful and
the novel, marvel. is calculated to lead the way to many
valuable improvements.
LARGE.-One having large marvel., with large ven., will
readily believe in special providences, the interposition of di-
vine agency, &c., and regard many things as providential
which ean be readil)ll' accounted for upon other principles :
with full or large ideal., will gaze with surprise upon mag-
nificent objects, and possess a wondering frame of mind:
with large event. and ideal., will be passionately fond of
hearing or perusing marvellous accounts, hair-breadth
escapes, and such mysterious relations as are contained in
Sir Waker Scott's writings, and in works of fiction gene-
rally, and be liable to be greatly injured by this kind of read-
ing: with large or very large ven. and conscien., will be
naturally inclined to believe in supernatural manifestations,
in .dreams, signs, lucky and unlucky days, &c.; plar-e impli-
cit confidence in every part of Revelation, and in what is told
him by his religious teachers; will cootemplate the charao-
iet- and the works of the Creator with mingled emotions of
awe and aatonishment; be zealous and enthusiastick in his
religious belief and practice, if he is not bordering upon re-
ligious enthusiasm and extravagance ; and, with the addition
of large cautiou1., will be afraid of ghosts, of ataying in
house8 llllid to be hannted, &e.; may even fancy that he haa
soon supernatural appearances, and, with only moderate se-
cret.added, can be easily hoaxed and imposed upon by stories
about witchcraft, &c. : with large or very large approbat.,
lang., event., and imitat., will be even entbusiastick in re-
lating wonderful anecdotes concerning himself and .his rela-
tions; in narrating hair-breadth escapes, astoniEbing feats of
dexterity, &c., &e. ; and will describe even common occurren-
c~ as Tery extraordinary: with large or very large conseien.
and benev., and only moderate secret., will place perfect con-
fidence in what is told him, even though it be extravagant;
pin his faith upon the sleeve of others; seldom doubt the
word of others; and take things for granted without exam·
ining them for himself: with large or very large conscien.,
ideal., compar., and Ten., will be likely to fancy that he dis-
covers a striking resemblanee between the prophecies of
Scripture and particular events; and also between spiritual
and temporal things; will imagine that he sees the special
,.
KARVELLOUINE88. 143
hand of divine Providence in almost evC>ry event of his life;
believe that God often manifests his will in a miraculous
IJY~,nner'; be likely to experience what seems to him a re·
markable, religious conversion, attended with many subse·
quent religious impressions which are extraordinary; and will
have wonderful and ecstatick Yiews of the character and the
works of the Deity, &c. ; and, with large caus. added to this
combination, like Swedenburgh, will adduce wonderful theo·
ries to account for curious natural phenomena, and reason in a
very extravagant manner: with large or very large cautious.
and individ., will be likely to experience optical illusions,
fancying that he sees ghosts, spectres, hideous shapes, &c.,
when the appearance may be caused by an indistinct vision
of some natural object: with large or very large hope, ideal.,
imitat., lang., event., and compar., will delight and excel in
relating marvellous stories, wonderful tales, "fish.stories,"
&c., which he will generally augment, and always adapt to
the occasion.
VERY LARGE.-One having verglarge marYel., with only
moderate secret., will take for granted whatever is told him,
however inconsistent it may be; seem greatly astonished at
almost every thing which is a little uncommon, as though
romething mysterious had happened; will religiously believe
.in supernatural agents and interpositions, the doctrijle of
ghosts, witchcraft, and in signs, the fulfilment of dreams, &c.
Additional descriptions and combinations of very large mar-
. vel., will be found under large marvel., especially when they
have been modified by an increase of the influence of marvel.
In Sir Walter Scott, this organ was large, accompanied
with a very large and an active brain, very large imitat.,lang.,
compar., and local., and large or very large intellectual, mo·
ral, and domestick organs generally. which gave him those
unequalled powerS' of conception and description which he
possessed, and thus furnishe!l an additional proof of the truth
of phrenology, \Vhilst his writings afford one of the very best
illustrations of such a combination of faculties anywhere to
be found.
., FuLL.-One having full marvel., will have a mind open
to conviction, and possess sufficient credulity in what is pre·
sented to his mind, to give it an examination, yet cannot be
satisfied without considerable proof; will require a good de-
gree of evidence in order to produce entire conviction, yet
will rest satisfied with less evidence, both 'in degree and
; #
144 PHRBNOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
amount, than he would if possessed of smaller marvel., and
will not so thoroughly canvass the evidence present~d to his
mind : with only full caus., will frequently advance insuffi-
cient reasons for his belief, and believe without fully under-
standing the grounds of his belief: with the religious organs
generally full, large, or very large, may possess much relig-
ious faith, and unhesitatingly believe in the truth of Reve-
lation, in special, ~ivine providences, &c., and also be quite
zealous as a Chnstian: with large or very large caus. and
compar., on the first presentation of a subject, may believe
upon insufficient data, yet will afterwards more closely exam-
ine why and wherefore he believes as he does, investigate the
proof upon which his belief is founded, and reject that which
will not stand the tt•st of close investigation : with large or
very large ideal,, will feast his fancy, and revel in such fairy
tales as the Arabian Nights' Entertainments, in the novels
of Sir Walter Scott, and in fictitious works generally; find it
difficult to divest himself of a partial belief in them, and be
liable to be injured, not only by perusing works of this class,
but, also, in the revcllings of his own fancy.
The descriptions and combinations under large marvel.,
with a reduction of the influence of marvel., will apply to
full marvel., as will also those under moderate marvel. when
they are reversed. . :••
MonERATE.-One having moderate marvel., cannot yield
a full assent to things which a:re a little extraorqinary or un:
accountable, unless they are supported by evidence whic.li is
quite satisfactory, both in kind and amount, and will have
many doubts as to the truth of what he hears. One having
moderate marvel., with large or very large caus. and com-
par., will be hard to be convinced of the truth of that for
which a satisfactory reason, or full explanation, cannot be
rendered; ean be,readily convinced by appeals made to his
u_n4erstanding; and: with on!y moderate. perceptive facul-
tle8( may even questiOn the ev1dence of h1s own senses, or,
at least, attempt to account for uncommon phenomena upon
such principles as are already admitted; and, with the addi·
tion of large or very large firm. and self-e., can be convinced ....
only with extreme difficulty; will, in a measure, ·close the
doors of his mind against the admission of new facts or
truths, and, with only moderate ven. added to. this combina·
tion, will not be likely to believe in the authority of great
aames, nor admit the correctness of .opinions or customs
ea. a.
XARVELLOUIN:£88. 145
upon the ground that they have been long established; nor
make "ipse dixits" a part of his creed : with large or very
large conscien., v-en., and hope, may believe in the existence
of a God, in the forewarnings, and interposition, and guidance
of a special, divine providence, in a future state of existence,
in Revelation, and the doctrines of Christianity, because his
moral feelings will harmonize with these views; and, with
the addition of. large or very large compar. and caus., may
believe in the doctrines of Christianity, because they seem
cotuistent and reasonable, yet not because he has been told
that the one or the other doctrine is true; upon religious
subjects, will have views of his own, and think for himself;
in common matters, which are disconnected with religion,
will belitlve no farther than can be consistently explained, but
may believe in the doctrines taught by religion, as articles of
faith merely : but1with only moderate conscien. and ven., will
no sooner believe the doctrines of religion, farther than he can
see them proved, than he will any other doctrines; be natu·
rally skeptical, if not infidel, as to his religious creed; trou-
ble himself little abo11t matters of this kind ; and consider zeal
in religion as fanaticism, &c. : with only moderate secret., and
large or very large adhes., benev., and conscien., will implicit-
ly believe what is told him by a tried friend, and place quite
J.oo much confidence in the integrity and honesty of his fel·
low men, yet not believe reports of common fame, nor those
11ew doctrmes or statements which seem to him improbable;
will put no confidence in signs, dreams, or supernatural ap·
pearances, and will even ridicule those who do; thus seeming
to himself, and to others, as both credulous and incredulous :
with large or very large ideal., individ., and event., may be
extremely fond of reading works of fiction, yet will not be·
lieve them, &c.
SMALL.-One having small m11-rvel., will reject as untrue,
whatever things are presented to his mind unsupported by
demonstration, or, at least, by an abundance of the strongest
kind of proof; will be very incredulous in regard to almost
e'IJery thing new or uncommon ; and will receive facts and
tmtbs into his mind chiefly through the door of his other
·:faculties. One having small marvel., with large or very
large caus., must know upon what principles of reason, or
of cause and effect, those things are to be explained, of the
truth of which he is to he convinced; will scrutinize closely
every point of the argument, and be convinced only by an
13
146 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATBJ).
overwhelming mau of evidence; and even then, for a long
time, his mind will refuse its full assent: w1th large or very
large individ., will wish to possess some tangible evidence
upon which to rest his belief; and, with the perceptiYe facul-
ties strong, to see before he can believe: with large or very
large self.e., and moral and reasoning organs, if religiously
educated, may; perhaps, believe in Revelation, and the funda-
mental doctrined of Christianity, yet will often have his
doubts as to the truth of these matters; will have religious
views peculiar to himself; put no more confiden~e in what
he is taught by religious instructers, than he does in what
he is taught by other men; and have a religious creea of his
own, especially in its details : with only moderate or small
conscien. and ven., will have no door to his mind for there-
ception of moral and religious truths; doubt the truth of
Revelation ; reject the doctrines of Christianity; and be natu-
rally inclined to skepticism, fatalism, and deism, if not athe-
iem, &c.
The descriptions and combinations under marvel. mode-
Tate, will generally apply to marvel. small, especiallv after
a diminution of the influence of man·el. The descr1ptions
and combinations under marvel. large, reversed, will also
apply to marvel. small. The same principle holds good in
reference to all the other organs. •
VERY SMALL.-One having marvel. -eery small, will
doubt almost every thing, and fully believe scarcely any
thing; will even doubt the evidence of his own senses, and
be almost unwilling to say that he positively knows any
thing, and much less any thing pertaining to religion, &c.
LocATION.-Marvel. is located on the two sides of ven.,
between imitat. and hope. It runs lengthwise in the di-
rection of the coronal sutures, and lies nearly under them.
Very large imitat., throws it as far back as the middle of the
head.
The authors have seen many interesting examples of ex-
treme developments, and ofextreme deficiencies, of this organ,
some of which will be presented in a subsequent portion of .
the work. In the American head, it is generally moderate 01'
small, while in the English head, it is frequently large. In
many very zealous preachers, they have found it large. In
Methodists, this organ, and ven., and adht.'S., are generally full,
large, or very large, while in Camf.belites all these organs
1\re generally only moderate or smal . In the so·called new
TBNERATION. 147
measure Presbyterians, it is generally small, while conscien.
and benev. are generally large or very large. In Roman
Catholicks, marvel. and ven., arc generally large or very
large.
17. VENERATION.
Sentiment of adoration and worship for the Supreme Be-
ing-reverence for what is considered above us-respect for.
superiority, 4-c.
That there exists in the human mind a disposition to "wor-
ship God," and that this disposition constitutes one of the
strongest of the human passions, are matters of universal his-
tory and observation. Strike from the page of history, and
from the customs ofsociety, every thing pertaining to religion,
'or, rather, every thing connected with the worship of deified
beings, and the unity, and even identity, of the whole would
be destroyed. In producing this religious feeling and wor-
ship, education, doubtless, has its influence; but still they must
be the exercise of sotne faculty of the mind. Education evi·
dently cannot create this feeling. As well might we attempt
to educate R man to speak who possessed no organs of speech,
or to see without eyes--as well try to teach the brute crea-
tion to worship God, as to attempt to teach man to worship
when destitutt: of a faculty by which to exercise this feeling,
or even to conceive what it means.
This class of functions is distinct and homogeneous ; and
if the mental economy requires a separate faculty for the
exercise of any distinct class of functions, analogy shows
us that this class, equally with any and every other claf'S,
must also be exercised by a distinct faculty. The history
and the manifestations of this faculty, yrove that the functions
ascribed to it, are always reciprocal y proportionate to the
developments of a given portion of the bram. If, therefore,
there is any truth in phrenology, the sentiment of worship
for a Supreme Being, must be admiited to be the exercise of a.
distinct mental faculty--a faculty which is innate, and which,
~erefore, forms a .constituent portion of the human mind.
1'hat the worship of a Supreme ··Being constitutes the pri-
mary, the legitimate, and the chief object of this faculty, ia
rendered abundantly evident by a reference to its nature, ita
discovery, its history, and the whole tenour of its manifesta-
tions; and that a reverence for those who are considered sil·
148 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
~riours, such as parents, the aged, the talented, the titled, &c.,
1s only an incidmtal manifestation of ven., is rendered equal· ,
ly evident by a similar reference.
This faculty also throws •he mind into a deferential frame,
and creates a feeling of respect for all. .
LARGE.--,-One having large ven., will think of the Deity
only with feelings of awe, if not of devotion; has a strong
religious tendency of mind, and, indeed, can hardly be con-
tented without some kind of religion; pays great respect to
the religious opinions of others; always treats those whom
he considers his superiours in age, standing, talents, &c.,
with deference, and his equals with respect; and will never
make light of what he considers true religion, nor of the
Supreme Being.
One having large ven., with large or very large adhes.
and conscien., will experience a high degree of enjoyment in
social meetings for religious worship and exercises; will ear-
nestly desire the conversion and salvation of his friends, and,
with large philopro. added, of his children, and will pray
earnestly for these objects; and, with the addition of mode-
rate or small concent., will be exceedingly annoyed in his
devotions, bY. the intrusion of wandering thoughts, against
which he w1ll strive, and for which his conscien. will con-
demn him ; will find it exceedinglydifficult to keep his mind
fixed upon the prayer or sermon; greatly prefer short pray-
ers and sermons, and greatly dislike those that are /rolix;
and will give variety to his religious exercises, an detest
those that are monotonous or tedious: with large combat.,
will defend his religious opinions with great warmth and
spirit, and contend earnestly for their advancement; and, with
destruct. also large, will be liable to employ considera-
ble severity and harshness of expression ; with the addition
of large or very large firm. and self-e., and of only full be-
nev., will be much set, and somewhat bigoted, in his religious
opinions and practices; esteem his own sect, creed, and forms
of worship, far more than he does any other, and evEln blindly
and tenaciously adhere to them, and denounce those who
differ from him : with only moderate firm., large ideal. and
hOpe, and full or large marvel., will be apt frequently to
change his religious opinions and connexions, yet will be
zealous as a Christian: with large secret., acquis., and appro-
bat., and only moderate conscien., if he pay any regard at
all to religio~'l, will be likely to make great pretensions to
o;J,izedb,Google
VENERATION. 1~9
piety; put on a fair outside show of reli~on; and connect
himself with some popular religious denomination, yet will
possess very little practical piety and every-day religion·
will have the "form of godliness without its power;" will
neglect duty, disregard justice, violate moral principle, and
take shelter under the cloak of his religious pretensitnu;
will be a worldling all the week, yet a very strict Chri[ltian
on the Sabbath, &c.: with moderate conscien. and small mar-
vel., will not be likely to experience much religious venera·
tion; and may be even infidel in his religious creed; but his
ven. will be directed towards his parents, the aged, the tal-
ented, the patriotick, or, it may be, his superi'lurs in rank,
office, and station: with large or very large conseien.• benev.,
caus., and compar., will delight to study the character and
the works, and contemplate the perfections, of the Deity;
will be a· consistent, every-day Christian ; rejoice to see the
advancement of true religion, and labour zealously and ju-
diciously to effect it; impart an uncommon degree of fer·
vour und warmth of feeling to his religious exercises, and
take great delight in them; adopt consistent religious opin·
ions and practices, and be an honour to the Christian name,
both in life and doctrine, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having 'Cery la·rge ven., with con·
scien. large or very large, will make every thing subservient
· to his religious views and feelings; will experience great
awe upon the contempla,tion of God, and manifest great fer-
vour and intense feeling while engaged in religious worship
and exercises, and take hifl chief delight in them ; be 'J'f'e·
etninent for piety and religious fervour; will make the wor•
ship and the service of his Creator the paramount object of
his life, and be liable to become over-zealous, if not enthuai·
astick, in his religious feelings and views.
. The combinations under large ven., modified by an in•
crease of.the influence of ven., will apply to very large vec. 1
and the combinations and descriptions under moderate or
small ven. re11ersed, will also apply to it.
FuLL.-One having full ven., will pay a suitable respect
: to religion, and will worship his Creator with sinc-ere dew.
tion, yet will not be particularly devout. One having full
ven., with large or very large conscien. and benev., will be
pre-eminently religious, and, perhaps, make religion the
great object of his life, yet his religion will be characterized
by a regard for moral principle, a desire to do good, &c.,
13•
150 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
more than by a regard for religious worship, creeds,
ceremonies; will place a much higher estimate upon tht
ties and the first principles of religion, than he wiJ l 1
any external observances : with conscien. and marvel. «
moderate or small, will not be likely to pay much regar
religion of any kind, or, if he does, will be satisfied with
name and the forms of religious worship, &c.
· The additional manifestations and combinations of full v
may be inferred from those under large ven., by diminish.
the influence of ven.
MoDERATE.-One having 1noderate ven., will not l>e p
ticularly religious, nor very zealous in his religious obse
ance ; will not manifest a great deal of deference towar
superiours, nor impart a great degree of warmth or fervo
to his devotional performances. One having moderate vel
with large or very large conscien. and benev., if religiousi
educated, will maintain a consistent, religious walk, and "ri
wo1·ks meet for repentance," yet will pay comparative!
little regard to religious creeds and observances; will b
likely to be very zealous in reforming the world, and i1
"converting men from the errour of their ways," yet wil
despise sectarianism, and regard only the "1oeigktie1· matter~
of the law;" will make great sacrifices in order to do gMd,
promote pure morality, and prevent sin, yet will not be par-
ticularly devout; will make the chief burden of his petitions
to the throne of grace, consist in confessions of sin, and suppli-
cations for his fellow men, rather than in adoration and wor-
ship; will follow the dictates of his own conscience, even
though they oblige him to forsake "the good old way,"
and adopt new measures; will think more of doing good
than of attending religious meetings ; will live an upright,
and consistent, Christian life, and perform. all the essentials
of religion, yet will pay little or no attention to meats and
drinks, &c.
SMALL.-One having small ven., will experience but lit-
tle feeling of devotion, or love of religious worship, as such ;
will manifest little feeling of deference or respect for pa-
rents, teachers, or superiours; and be deficient in the heart,
and soul, and fervour, of devotion; will not be very pious,
nor at all particular in observing religious ceremonicR, nor
particularly impressed with a feeling of solemnity and awe,
while engaged in religious exercises, &c.
One having small ve,n.., with moderate or l!mall consciea·
...
DiJiizedbvGoog\e
...__ .
T
YBNBilATIOK. 151
]ip, creeds Imarvel., will have very little regard for religion; seldom,
~te upon tb~ ~ver, attend religious meetings; and when he does attend
he will ulfD• will go from other than devotional feelings; will be
1marreL on{Y little affected by solemn or religious exercises, or by ap-
uch regardUs to his co_nscience, or to hi~ fear of oa:e~cling God; be in-
isfied with t)lnced but bttle by the restramts of rehg10n; doubt almost
~ry thing connected with religious belief; be irreverent,
ns offull v#'ligious, unprincipled, and skeptical j ana, with large mirth.
vdiminisbi4d imitat. added, inclined to ridicule religious people and re-
~ious services by imitating or mocking them ;. and, with
1not t>e ~rge combat., destruct., and self-e. also added, will oppose
·ious obserfery thing pertaining to religion; denounce it either as a
Jce towanelusion, or as a humbug, by which designing men impose
1 or fervo pon the simple and the unsuspecting.
derate ve The descriptions and combinations under moderate ven.,
rl:'liD"iousJ fter due allowance has been made for the diminished influ-
k a~d oo,pnce of ven., will apply to ven. small. .
lparativelr The office of ven. is simply to reverence and worship that
s . wiJlfi'hich the other faculties select as the proper objects of its
ld and jn-lXercise.
" 'yet wiJ~ It has been already remarked, tbat its primary and legiti-
er mattersmate object is, the worship of a Supreme Being, yet, as in
, dogMd.the case of conscien., the other faculties, education, &c., modify
Jt be par~th~ notions entertained of the char.acter of the being to be war-
petitions sh•pped. For example; one havmg full, large, or very large
dsuppli- ven., with a deficiency of the intellectual faculties, will be
nd n'OI· likely to regard the Deity as exercising the various human
·e even passions, and swayed by human prejudices, and to worship
· ;vay:" him accordingly: with large or very large self-e. and firm.,
'{ good as an omnipotent Sovereign, clo~hed ~ith authority, imm~ta­
~right, ble and unchangeable, and ruling hlS creatures ••accordmg
·ntials to his own will :" with full or large destruct., firm., and self-e.,
~s and and large or very large conscien., benev., and adhes., will re-
ut Jit-
mcb;
rpa-
!art,
·ous,
nor
JVe,
gard him as "a God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering,
and abundant in goodness and truth, and who will by no
means clear the guilty;" as perfectly holy himself, and, also,
as requiring holiness of all his creatures ; as creating and
governing his moral subjects with a special reference to their
greatest ultimate good, and, in doing this, as rewarding those
who obey his commands, and punishing such as disobey; as
blending mercy with justice; or. rather, a, infinitely benev-
olent, r,et as a God who will "not let the .Wicked go unpun-
ished : ' with very large benev., only moderate or full con-
lq2 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
acien., combat., and destruct., will consider the Deity too
benevolent and too merciful to punish the wicked: with large
ideal., will fancy that he sees him clothed with splendour,
and, while contemplating the beautiful, the perfect, or the
sublime in the works of nature, will worship him with a fer·
vid glow of devotion :. with large or very large individ., form,
size, an~ local., will contemplate the Deity as possessed of
form and size, a !~cal habitation, &c. : with large or very
large caus. and compar., will view God as the great first-('ause
of all things, and as effecting his purposes by means of causes
and effects; and, with the intellectual faculties generally
large, as possessed of all possible wisdom and intelligence, ·
and as governing his universe in accordance with the great
principles of reason: with very large adhes. and benev., as a
God of great sympathy and love; and, with very large phi·
lopro. added, as acting the part of a tender parentto his crea-
tures, and as entering, with a feeling of tenderness, into all
their little joys and sorrows: with very large destruct. and
combat., and educated in uncivilized society, as capable of
being propitiated by the sacrifice of human or animal vic-
tims, &c.
According to this principle of phrenology, (which is con-
sidered as established,) one with the moral and the intellertu·
al organs large or very large, and the propensities full, and
all unperverted in their education and exercise, will form cor·
rect views of the character, attributes, and government of
God, and worship him with pure and acceptable worship.
This is rendered the more evident from the fact; that the views
entertained of God bv different nations and different individ-
uals, with the exceptfon of the influence of association and
education, generally correspond with their phrenological or·
ganizations. Consequently, if an individual possesses a
well-balanced, and a perfectly developed, phrenological organ-
ization, his views of the character, the attributes, and the gov-
ernment of God, must therefore be proportionally the more
consistent and correct. ;
· This same conclusion is also strengthened bythe principle
of adaptation already alluded to. The mind of man must be
constructed in perfect accordance with those great principles
Which regulate the structure of the whole universe, and the
moral faculties of man's mind, in accordance with the moral
ec;nstitution and relations of things. Consequently, the mind
of man must be so formed as naturally to view his Creator
o;J,izedb,Google
BBNBVOLBNCB. 153
through the medium of truth, and to form only correct no-
tions of him.
This harmonizes perfectly with the doctrine taught by the
great Apostle of the Gentiles, when he says, that "the Gen·
tiles, who have not the law," that is, who are destitute of Rev·
elation, "are a law unto themselves," and "show the works
of the !a'w written in their hearts, their conscience also bear-
ing them witness." Not that a divine revelation i:~ unneces-
sary, but, that phrenology opens up to our view another rev·
elation, to wit, a revelation of natural theology, which per-
fectly harmonizes with that which is given by inspiration-
a volume which every man carries, or should carry, within
his own breast, and which " he that runs may read."
LocATioN.-Ven. is located anteriour to firm., in the mid-
dle of the top of the head, and nearly beneath the union of
the coronal sutures.
19. BENEVOLENCE.
Desire for the happiness of others-sympathy, compassion-
kindness, fellowfeeling, benignity.
• By creating in the breast of man, an interest in the welfure
of h1s fellow-men, this faculty prompts its possessor to per-
form those innumerable acts of kindness and generosity
which, by gratifying his benev., greatly increase the hsppi·
ness of the giver, and, bl adding new comforts to those al-
ready possessed, proportiOnally enlarge the enjoyments of the
receiver. Though it is blessed to receive, it is still "more
blt:SSed to give than to receive."
Let us suppose, for a moment, that every vestige of this
feeling were blotted out from among men-let us suppose the
human breast to be callous to the cries of suffering innocence,
steeled against the wants and miseries of the world, anil per·
fectly insensible to the happiness or unhappiness of all cre-
ated beings, and what a picture of moral desolation-what a
frigid region of sufferin~ and sorrow, should we have pre-
sented to our view! . Wrapped in his cold cloak of selfish-
ness, man might, perhaps, endure existence, but an existence
to which annihilation would be preferable. Never to give,
or receive, a favour, to say nothing of the mutual advantage
accruing to mankind from the principle of helping one anoth-
er, he would, of course, be a perfect stranger to the delightful
and thrilling emotion of gratitude, either to God or man.
154 PHRENOLOGY ILL118TRATED.
Let us suppose, in addition, that none of this feeling had
entered into the Divine Mind, and that, in the construction
of our bodies, and in the arrangement of the physical and
the intellectual world, he had made no reference to, ond in-
stituted no adaptation of, anything that concerns the happi-
ness either of man or of the brute creation,· and existence
must have been the greatest of curses. But, on the contra-
ry, we perceive that every possible arrangement and adapta-
tion which could be devised by infinite wisdom and skill,
prompted by infinite benevolence, and aided by infinite pow-
er, have been contrived by that 'adorable Being whose benef-
icence knows no bounds. Every work. of God is a perfectly
benevolent work, planned and executed evidently with a view
to sectilt.tJle greatest amount of happiness to his creatures:
and this fact incontestably proves, that the feeling of benet-
. olence enters largely into the Divine Mind. Even those
pains which follow the burning, bruising, or otherwise in-
juring of the body, whilst they are so many instances of di-
vine punishment for sin, are, at the same time, a most benev-
olent ordination, evidently designed and calculated to prevent
those injuries and mutilations which would otherwiae mar
the beauty, and destroy the utility, of our corporeal frame :
and if these punishments are a benevolent ordination, anal-
~ sanctions the inference, that all punishments are equally
~vol«lt; and, if even punishments are benevolently de-
lllned, surely every other institution throughout the uni-
·.v-n,must be formed for benevolent ends. This brings us
tiftle important conclusion, that all the miseries which man-
kind endure, are brought by themselves (collectively) upon
themselves, or, that they "give themselves the pains they
feel."
Since, then, this principle of benevolence thus enters into
the character and the works of God, and, also, into the whole
constitution of things, it is evident, both a priori, and upon
the principle that the human mind is adapted to that universe
of which it forms a part, that the human mind must be so
constituted as to appreciate and exercise the function of be-
nevolence, or, in other words, that there must be some innate
faculty of the mind adapted to the exercise of this class of
feelings. That same train of argument which has .been
previously employed to show that other classes of functions
are exercised by distinct faculties, proves that this clasa of
o;. '"edbyGoogle
BENBVOLBNOE, 155
functions is likewise exercised by a separate, primary facul·
ty, created expressly and solely for this purpose.
Of all the moral organs, this occupies the most prominent
portion of the head, and has allotted to it the greatest surface,
thus apparently implying, that its function is designed to be
one of the cardinal, human virtues, and that to do good to
those around us, is both our privilege and our duty. Yet
how frequently is the soothing voice of benevolence drown·
ed in the din of business, of pleasure, and of fashion ! In·
deed, to learn to live in, and become a part of, society as it
now exists, is to learn to be supremely selfish; and to "ac·
quire a knowledge of the world," is to become acquainted
with the maxims and the practices dictated by selfishness.
In the little child, we sometimes see the feeling of benev.
manifested in its pure state; but, in adults, how seldom do
we behold it unadulterated by the selfish passions, or un·
stifled by their hoarse clamoursI Every thing can be had,
and every thing done, for money; but he who is dependent
for support or for happiness solely upon the benevolence of
mankind, runs but a poor chance of enjoying even the ne·
cessaries of life.
This faculty originates that feeling of sympathy which
manifests itself in an obliging disposition, and in reciprocal
interchanges of kind offices, and, also, that feeling of hu·
manity which willingly makes a sacrifice of personal hap-
piness in order to relieve the miseries, and promote the
enjoyment, of others.
LARGE.-One having benev. large, in the expression of
his countenance, in his manners, and in all his intercourse
with his fellow-men, will manifest a warm anq glowing feel-
ing of kindness and good-will; enter into th~ interests of
others, and do much to advance them; " rejoice with those
that do rejoice, and weep with those that weep;" and expe-
rience that strong desire to witness and promote the enjoy·
ment of his fellow-men which will make him willing, and
even g~d. to sacrifice his own ease and interests in order to
alleviate the sufferings, or to augment the comforts, of his
fellow·men, and even of the brute creation.
One having benev. large, with large or very large adhes.,
will manifest this feeling to all, and be particularly kind and
obliging to his friends; will sympathize deeply in their dis·
tresses or misfortunes,and, with acquis. only moderate, add lib·
erality to friendship ; be pre-eminently hospitable; willing tq
156 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
do and sacrifice much for those he loves, in serving whom he
will often injure himself; and, with large or very large philo-
pro. added, will be extremely kind to children, to the infirm,
the aged, and the destitute, and ready to perform those acts of
kindness which they require, and which sympathy, mingled
with affection, alone can prompt: with moderate a<'quis., only
full approbat. and self·e., and large or very large secret.,
ideal., and <'Onscien., will proffer his favours in a manner pe-
culiarly modest and delicate: with very large approbat., and
only full conscien. and caus., will do and give partly on ac-
count of the approbation awarded to benevolent aetions: with
large or very large approbat., conscien., and adhes., will give
partly to please others, and partly to make them happy,
which union of motives will greatly increase the manifesta-
tions of benev. : with large acquis., will be more kind than lib-
eral; unless a case of distress strongly excite his benev., will
give sparingly and grudgingly, yet freely bestow his time,
services, and whatever does notdraw directly upon his acquis.;
in his sympathy and kind feeling, (which, after all, are the
better manifestations of this faculty,) will show a large share
of pure benevolent feeling, yet will generally be considered
very far from being benevolent; but, with large or very large
adhes., and only moderate or small acquis., will be ready to
help his fellow-men, and particularly his friends, with both
his services and his substance, and be quite too generous for
his own good: with full or large acquis., and large or very
large ven. and conscien., may give freely to religious and
pbilanthropick societies; to the advancement of missionary
enterprises; and in cases of real distress; but not upon
other occasions: with only moderate destruct., cannot endure
to witness sufiering or death, nor see pain inflicted without
experiencing a pang himself: with large combat. and de-
struct., and an active temperament, will manifest a gene1al
spirit of mildness and kindness, and, when these organs are
not excited, will be much moved at the sight of pain, yet,
when his anger is thoroughly roused, \\-ill even inflict pain
with deli!5ht; except in a fit of passion, will not cause corpo-
real suffering, yet will be extremely bitter and sarcastick in
his expressions, and manifest strong indignation and resist-
ance towards his enemies, and those whom be thinks would
impose upon him: with large or very large cautious., full
secret., and only moderate or full destruct, will br careful
not to do or say any thing designed or calculated to wound
BJUlRVOLBNOB. 151
the feelings of ·oth~; yet, with only moderate secret., will
often speak before he reflects, and speak in such a manner
as to injure the fe<>lings f'Ven of his best friends, but will
soon be sorry for it: with large or very large adhes. and
firm., when he undertakes to help a friend out of trouble,
will help him effectually; but, with only moderate or full
firm ., will espouse the cause of a friend with great warmth
of feeling, which, however, will soon become cool, and leave
him in a worse predicament than he would have been in
without his help : with large or very large conscien. and
caus., will be actuated to do good both by feelings of genu-
ine benev., and, also, by a sense of duty; endeavour to make
men happy by first reforming them and making them virtu-
ous; and, with large ideal., and only full self-e. added, will
manifest his benev. in so refined and delicate a manner as
not to oppress the recipient with a sense of obligation : with
large or very large mirth., will endeavour to augment the
enjoyment of all around hitn by his mirthful effusions, and,
except when provoked to it, will not be sarcastick: with
large or very large self-e., and only moderate or full consci-
en., will show favours to those who acknowledge their obli-
gations to him, and render him all the tribute of respect he
may claim, yet will bestow but few favours upon those who
wound his pride: with large or very large caus, compar.,
and individ., will lay judicious plans, and employ the best
means for doing good and relieving distress; take hold of
benevolent enterprises in the right way, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having benev. very large, with large
or very large consc.ien., will possess, as it were, a deep and
an overflowing fountain of kind and tender feeling, and have
a heart full of sympathy and goodness; cause trouble to
those around him with great reluctance; grieve over the
miseries of mankind, and sacrifice almost any personal com-
fort and interest upon the altar of his benev.; be pre-eminent
for his philanthropy and his real goodness of heart, and all
from feelings of disinterested benev. ; and, with large ven.
added, will gladly devote himself and spend his all in pro-
moting the salvation of his fellow-men, and in advancing the
cause of humanity and religion: with large or very large
adhes., will be likely to ruin himself by assisting his friends,
and will ask what they want, rather than what he can afford
to give; and, with larg!' or very large philopro. and consci-
en, will be pre-e1ninently qualified to endure the fatigues of
14
168 PHRBNOLOOYILLVITRATBn
attending upon the sick ; watch, with the utmost anxiety,
over a sick friend, and perform ten thousand acts of kindness
which nothing but the strong~t feelings of benev., increased.
by the tenderest feelings of friendship, could suggest or sup-
port him under; with only moderate or full destruct. added,
will be nearly overcome by the sight of suffering or death,
&c.
The combinations and descriptions under benev. large,
modified by an increase of its influence, will apply to benev. .
very large.
FuLL.-One having benev. full, will experience, in a good
degree, the phenomena described under large benev., yet
will manifest less active benev. ; not be very willing~o make
personal sacrifices,• or waive his own interests, in order to
oblige others, yet will experience considerable benevolent
feeling; and will be more apt to give from selfish motives
than one with large benev. For example; one having be-
nev. full, with several of the selfish faculties large or ,·ery
large, and conscien. only full. in general, will first gratify
these larger organs, even though he must do so at the ex-
pense of his benev. ; will be habitually more seliilh than be-
nevolent, and seek his own interest, though he thereby in-
fringe even upon the rights of others : with other large or
very large organs acting in conjunction with benev., may
manifest a large share of generosity and·liberality; yet, with
these same, or any other, organs, acting in opposition to his
benev., will appear to be comparatively destitute of these
qualities: with approbat. very large, and conscien. only full,
may give " to be seen of men," and take some pains to show
others what he has done : with approbat. or self-e., or both,
large or very large, may give even lavishly, but it will be
from selfish or mercenary motives: with large or very large
combat., destruct., firm., and self-e., or approbat., to guin his
will, may assist in building churches, and in advancing good
objec.ts, yet the feeling of pure benev. will be only secon-
dary.
MoDERATE.-One having benev. moderate, will, perhaps,
do favours which cost him little or no self-denial, yet will
exercise but little sympathy for his suffering fellow-men, and
seldom step aside from his own selfish pursuits in order to
relieve their distresses, or increase their enjoyment; and ex-
perience but few benevolent remonstrances or promptings.
The manifestations and the combinations described under
- - ----------- - ~...---------
SEJII·INTELLECTUAL SENTII!lENTS. ' 159
benev. large, reversed, will apply to benev. moderate, and,
also, to benev. small ; and those under benev. small, due a.l-
)owimce being made for the increase of benev., will also ap-
ply to benev. modt>rate.
SMALL.-One having benev. small, will seldom disoblige
himself in order to oblige others; selctom think or care how
much loss or inconvenience he subjects others to; and, with
any or all of the selfish· organs large or very large, be selfish
in the extreme; and seek, exclusively, the gratification of his
own selfish passions, regardless of the consequences to oth-
ers: with large or very large combat. and destruct., will not
only, not be moved to pity by the sight of suffering and
death, but even take delight in witnessing and causing
them: with large or very large adhes., may love ardently,
yet will never add kindness to affection, &c. ·
The combinations and descriptions under benev. large or
very large, re~;ersed, will apply to benev. small.
VERY sMALL.-One having bencv. -very small, will never
feel his heart beat wi~h the emotion of pity; never heed the
most heart-rending cries of distress; and, with the selfish
organs large or Yery large, and the reflective only moderate
or full, will be literally a fiend incarnate.
This faculty is generally much stronger in females than
in males-, and creates, in the former, a much greater mani-
festation of sympathy, of tenderness, of" the milk of human
kindness," of benignity, of pure sensibility for suffering and
desire to relieve it, than is manifested by the other sex. From
this fountain spring those innumerable acts of kindness, and
those ten thousand attentions to the wants and woes of oth-
ers, for which woman is so pre-eminent.
LocATION.- Benev. is located in the anterior superiour
portion of the hE>ad, just forward of ven., and of the union
of the coronal sutures, and beneath the posterior superiour
portion of the frontal bone. (See cut of the female head,
and contrast it with the scull of Aurelia Chase.)
SPECIES "111.-SEMI·INTELLECTUAL SENTIMENTS.
IMPROVEI!lENT seems to be the watchword of our race,
and its spirit is manifested in those almost innumerable in-
ventions and contrivances which so greatly augment our
160 PBJlBNO..OGY ILL171TitATBD.
comforts, multiply our conveniences, and give new charms
to our existence. These improvements result from a clasa
of faculties which partake of •
the nature and qualities of
both the sentiments and the intellectua1faculties, constituting,
as it were, a stepping-stone between them.
20. CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
Jfedta•ical ingenuity and talent-ability to make, build,
corutr~ct, and manufacturt.
Well has the philosophick Franklin observed, that" man
is a tool-making animal;" and with equal propriety he might
have added, .. and the only tool-making and tool-usipg ani·
mal, because the only animal which unites constructivene113
with cau!!ality." Unquestionably man is calculated for liv-
ing in houses, wearing apparel, and, by the aid of machinery,
effecting objects which are even necessary to his well-being.
.Mechanical principles, by the application of which vast
additions can be made to the sum total of human happiness
and human improvement, are also found to exist, and,
likewise, to pervade the physical world. Now, .Wee man
forms a part of this physical world, and is, in part, under
the dominion of these laws, there exists an absolute necessi·
ty for him to possess somt~ innate and primary faculty, the
offict~ of which is to take cognizance of these principles,
and, also, to exercise this class of the mental functions. In-
deed, without such a faculty, man would not be adapted to
that physical state of existence in which he is placed, but
would be imperfect, and perish. This· faculty is found in
construct.
Men are not made skilfy,l me.chanicks and artisans sole-
ly, nor even cltiifly, by instruetion ; far, if they were, (other
conditions being equal,) their skill and dexterity would always
be in proportion to the amount of instruction received. But
such is by no means the case; for we frequently observe
that some who have every advantage of instruction, make but
indifferent workmen, whilst others seem intuitively to un·
derstaBd the art of manufacturing. Proper instruction may,
indeed, improve the natural talents even of the latter, and
greatly facilitate their operations, yet they possess a natural
l".apability of being taught to make--a docility which often
manifests itself very early in life, and of wh1ch others are
comparatively destitute. Who taught Michael Ane-elo how
CON8~RVCTIVBNB8L 161
to. build, or Canova how to use the chisel, or Benjamin West
hQw to paint while yet not nine years old, and entirely ig-
Jlorant of the art of painting1 Nature, mainly. Their
powers were irmate, or, in other words, they possessed ex-
traordinary construct., aided by other faculties.
Imperfe.:tion in this faculty, and, also, a want of it, exist
in combination w.itb almost every conceivable variety of
character and talents. Men of feehle intellects often possess
it in a remarkable degree, whilst others who have gigantick
minds, are sometimes almost entirely destitute of it. The
conclusion, therefore, is inevitable, that a talent for mak:nK
4W building, must depend upon a distinct and primary,
mental power. ·
LAaoB.-One having construct. large, will possess a high
degree of natural skill in making, building, rontriving, re·
pairing, &c. ; be prone to whittle and scribble; be delighted
with mechanical operations; and, with large imitat., aided
by some practice, can become an excellent mechanick.
lb effecting mechanicaleperations, other organs contribute
• -llugely aa construct. For example; one having large
conatr!J~~._with large or very large imitat., will be uncom-
~;noolr ·Ciftterous in making after a patttrn, and can readily
learo tO llo with tools what he sees otherr do; with large or
very large form and ideal. addt>d, will give a peculiar finish
IUid neatne.sa to his work,andsuccet>d in making fine and fancy
articles, such as combine utility with richness and elegance~
but, with ideal. only moderate, will succeed only in making>
commonand useful things: with large firm. and self-e., large or
very large form, size, ideal., caus., and compar., and only mOO..
erate imitat., will excel in superintending mechanical opera•
tions ; in directing others what to do and how to do it, anct
in judging of the qualities of work, and will be a first-rate.
foreman, yet will not himself excel as an operative mechan•
1ck; can plan and oversee much better than execute; but.
with large or very large imitat. added, will excel in bothi~
be a natural mecbanick or artist of a very high order; be
capable of turning his hand readily to almost any branch et
mechanical business; and frequently contrive new methods ot
accomplishing his work; with large or very large conscien.
added, will never alight his work; with large weight and ind~
vid. added, be hig.hly delighted with the operations ofmacbiner.
ry ; able to comprehend it and judge of its adaptation; aa4
poa~eas an extraordinary talent for drawing, draughtiDS't
14•
161 PBRJ:NOLOGY ILLUI'I'RATBD.
modelling, planning, and probably for inventing; be remark•
ably ingenious, and very successful, in every branch of me-
cbanicks which he may undertake: with large or very large
concent., will dwell patiently upon any piece of work until
it is entirely completed, and rendered as perfect as possible;
and will be able to engage in only one kind of labour at a
rime; but, with moderate or small concent., will leave much
of his work unfinished ; generally have on hand several
pieces of work at a time, and feel a desire frequently to
change from one to the other; be rather "a jack at all trades"
tha\ perfect in any, &c.: with large or very large combat.
and destruct., and only full conscien., when his work does
not please him, will become angry with it, and feel like
breaking or tearing it in pieces: with very large self-e., hope,
and ideal., will be induced to try many mechanical experi-
menttl; to engage largely in heavy operations, and even
speculations ; and be likely to spend much time in endeavour-
ing to invent: with very large ideal., imitat., mirth., form, size,
eolour, local.,and compar., can imagine and execute ludicrous
pictures or drawings, burlesque representations, caricatures,
&c.; copy hand-writings; draw after a pattern; recollect,
for a long time, the shape of faces, landscapes, !nacbines.
• &c., which he has 8t!en, and make their f(jC sittailtl, or draw
and make &om memory; and, with large or very large caus.
and compar. added to this combination, can readily adapt
mechanical principles to the accomplishment of desired'me-
chanical objects; readily detect the faults in machinery and
remedy them ; invent and improve machinery, &c. : ~
large or very large imitat., individ., form, size, weight, ordero
and ealcu., and fullor large compar. and caus., will make a
first-rate engineer, surveyor, &c.
VERY LARGB.-One having construct. 11try large, with
Tery large ideal., imitat., individ., form, size, colour, and
compar., will literally possess a pa~sion for the pursuit of
the fine arts ; be able to perform almost any operation be-
longing to mechanicks or the arts with wonderful and intui-
tive skill, and with extraordinary facility and success; to
aake almost any thing within the attainment of human in·
genuity; to become an artist or merhanick of the very first
order; and will be likely to break away from all hinderance&,
and to surmount every obstacle,in order to indulge this pas·
lion ; will be able to impart a peculiar beauty and a richness
to all his worka, and combine perfect accuracy with taste.
OONBTil VCTlVJiiNESS. 163
and will excel in every undertaking ofthe kind, even though
obliged to use indifferent tQols. ·
The descriptions and combinations under large construct.,
due allowan~e being made for·the increase of the construc-
tive power, will apply to constru~t. very large.
FuLL.-One having full construct., with large imitat., will
possess a respectable share of mechanical ingenuity; and,
with the addition of large or very large form and siu, and
full individ., have all the natural talent requisite for becom·
ing an excellent mechanick, especially in those branches
which require but little more than making after a patter"-;
can leal"n to use tools with tolerable dexterity, yet will re-
quire considerable practice, but with it, will become quite sue·
ccssful; can repair articles that break, and "fix up" such
things .as he may have occasion to use in his family and his
business; yet his success will defend as much upon art as
nature: with imitat. only full, wil seem to possess this fac·
ulty only in an inferiour degree, especially if circumstances
do not imperiously urge its exercise, and w~ll be dependant,
in some degree, for any mechanical skill or success which he
may manifest, upon his other faculties, such as form, size,
local., idea:l., compar., caus., &c.
The additional descriptions and combinations ~mder con-
struct. full, will be found under construct. large, after due
allowance has been made for the diminution of construct.
M&DERATE.-One having moderate construct., with only
moderate imitat., may learn, with considerable effort, some
of the less difficult "trades,'' yet will never be eminent for
lWtskill in any; may, perhaps, learn to construct those plain
anieles which are often called for in the family and in busi-
ness, yet will show but litde skill and dexterity in such op•
erations, and prefer to pay a mechanick for executing them;
will dislike to use tools, and c·hoose some occupation which
is not mechanical : with imitat. and form large or very large,
~ay succee~ w~ll in ~aking after ~ pattern; manifest con·
stderable skill m copy1ng, and easily learn to do what he ·
sees done by others, yet will owe his success mainly to these
last-named faculties; and, with large o·r very large compar.
and caus. added, may, perhaps, direct others,and improve their
inventions, and even invent, yet will not.possess much inde·
pendent, mechanical talent, &c.
SKALL.-One having small construct., with only moderate
imitat., will be able to learn to perform even simple mechan-
164 PHJlENOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
ical operations only with great difficulty, and then merely
as an automaton j will manifest but little skill or dexterity in
the use of tools or the pen ; dislike a mechanical occupation
more than almost any other; do every thing in which the
exercise of this faculty is requisite only by·main stre11gtlt.,
and without contrivance or ingenuity; and be a mere bungler
in almost every thing of the kind which he undertakes.
The additional combinations and descriptions of small
construct., will be found under moderate construct., the intlu·
ence of construct. being diminished.
VERY SMALL.-One having tJtry small construct., will be
apparently destitute of all mechanical ingenuity and incli·
notion.
In the sculls and casts of several North American Indi-
ans, in the scull of a New Zealander and of a Charib Indi-
an, examined by the authors, this organ is either small or
very small, which harmonizes perfectlr. with the fact, that in
every mechanical art and effort, these tnbes are quite inferiour
to many races of men.
LocATION.-Construct. is located just above the middle
of a line connecting the top of the ear and the external cor·
n£'r of the eye; or, just below ideo!., and a little forward
of it.•
'Vhen both organs are large or very large, they form an
obtuse angle, ideal. extending in a nearly horizontal direc·
tion, and construct. uniting with it in nearly a perpendiC'ular
direction. When the intellectual organs are large and ·l011,g,
it spr~ds ilself upon the sirles of the head, and thus presents
but little promincnee. This, together with the temporal
muscle, which passes over it, and varies in thickne~ causea,
except in the case of children, an occasional miatake. It
may likewise be added, that many individuals who possess,
by nature, no small share of the constructive pow£'r, think
they have but little, because they have never been so aituated
08 to call it forth, and, also, because they suppose that COD·
struct. applies exclusively to the use of tools as employed by
n prokslied ineehanick, yet, when oeeasion requires, they ue
found quite skilful in executing repairs, and have a whitdiag
and tinkering propensity.
• It may be pro~r here to r~mll"k, that, In the larre cut, acqula. and e.~netrao&.
are located too W:f~ and aliment., too """·
ID~ALITY. 165
21. IDEALITY.
Im4'finatio11t-fancy-love of t/,e exquisite, the beautiful,
Ute splendid, tlte tasteful, and the polished-that impas·
i,oned ecstacy and rapture of feeling which give inspi·
ration to poetry and oratory, and a conception of the sub-
lime.
That there exists in the human mind some faculty, the
function of which is to inspire man with a love of the beau-
tiful and the exquisite--a fondness for the sublime, the ele·
gant, and the tasteful, will appear evident when we compare
man with the lower order of animals, or civilized man with
the savage, or the refined inhabitants of a city with the com-
mon population of the country. Were it not for the influ-
ence of this faculty, these things would be held in no higher
estimation by man than by the brute, or by one man than by
another. Were it not for its influence, mankind would have
no higher relish for the exquisite, the tasteful, the beautiful,
and the sublime, than for the insipid, the dull, the homely,
and the vulgar. Were it not for this faculty, we should no.
more highly prize the bold images, the glowing flights of
fancy, the daring thoughts, and the impassioned bursts of
eloquence which characterize the productions of Homer, of
Shakspeare, of Milton, of Byron, of Addison, of Irving, of
Chalmers, of Patrick Henry, and of Daniel Webster, than
we.do the plainer and dryer style of Locke, Dean Swift,
}V~Uiam Cobbett, and many other still more homely writers.
Without ideality, the splendid productions of a Raphael. a
Corregio, a Canova, a Phidias, and a Praxiteles, woold find
ne more favour in our eyes than the rudest paintings, and
the roughest carvings, of the most uncivilized nations.
Although poetry is one form in which this faculty mani-
fe~~ts itself, yet it is by no means exclusively confined to a
relish for the inspirations of the muses. Though essential
to the poet, it takes a wider range. It adds to the delight
we take in viewing an elegant statue, an exquisite painting.
a splendid temple, or any other finished production of art.
It causes and increases the glow and rapture experienced in
beholding the beautiful landscape, the rugged eliff, the bold
promontory, and the lofty mountain. It now loves to see ,
the "wilderness and the solitary place" made glad, and "the
desert rejoice and blossom as the rose;» and "at thepeepof
;as
·~
i.~
~
~..
l
I
l
~
,
•
166 PHRENOLOGY ILLUITRATED.
dawo," when fair Aurora "sprinkles with rosy Hr
dewy lawn," it delights to see "old ocean smile;" a
".to ride upon the wings of the wind;" and then" 1 .
circle of the heavens;" and then, again, to see the
winds
•"rake the ruffian billows b)' the top,
Curling their monstrous he~ds, and hanging them
With dea!'ning clamours in the slipp'ry clouds."
ideaiity gives elevation, and fervour, and polish, tc
m1nd; inspires man with a love of improvement and rt
ment, and assists him in forming and realizing splendid
oe~tions and undertakings. With approbativeness lar~
often manifests itself in a fondness for splendour in app;
equipage, houses, and pleasure-grounds, and is an impm
element in gayety, fashion, and elegance of manners.
LARGE.-One having ideal. large, will possess refinen
and exquisiteness of taste and feeling, a ·lively imag
tion, an1 a brilliant fancy ; an admiration of the elegant,
beautifal, the gorgeous, the ornamental, the perfect, and
sublime; of the fine arts and polite literature; of poetr~
of a high order, and of eloquence; and will relish ev.
thing fanciful and exquisite wherever it is to be found.
One having ideal. large, with colour, form, and size Jar
will gaze, with int~nse delight, upon a splendid and w
proportioned painting, and be able to appreciate its meri
and, with form and lora!. large or very large, upon a be
tiful landscape, cascade, flower, &c. : with lang. and comi
large or very large, will employ manr metaphors, hn
boles, and other figures of speech ; wil express himself
a glowing and elevated style, and, with a full-sized and
active brain, have the natural talents for becoming quite E
quentin the expression of his thoughts and feelings: w
hope large or very large, will have high flights of fan
delight to indulge in the revellings of his imagination, f
be enraptured with his own contemplations; yet, if conct
is only moderate, his flights will be vivid and intense, ·
not long-sustained, and he must dash them off at the I
ment, or they will vanish: with self-e. and compar. lar
will not often allow an uncouth or a low expression to escl
his lips, but will be disgusted with vulgarity : with onl_y
moderate·sized head, and only full caus. and compar., "
:tnanifest more of refinement than solidity ; of so~d th
o.g•t•zed by Coogle
----.,...,.....
•
1D. l~EALITY. 167
1 rosy liyL ~ pf rhetorick than logick; of sickly delieacy than
nile;" a ea intellect; of finely turned periods than importanL
then •;, · :~nd overload his style with figurative expressions :
see the ftJ. "· tilbat. and destruct. large or very large, throw invec-
hem
t. the form of poetry : with large or very large indi-
' 1" •ent., and lang., may make a good speaker and writer,
• ,. opular lecturPr, yet will be indebted for these quali-
,ore to his manner than to his matter-to his style than
.•Js ideas; may please the fancy, and communicate many
olish to · \ yet will not reason closely or clearly: with amat. and'
t and ref. ;..;s. large or very large, will take a special interest in sen-
;plendid dottfntal poetry which breathes much of the passion of love,
ess large, '? fires t~e fancy, and in roma.ntick ~nd dramatick compo-
' in appar~!On: w1th mirth. large, w1ll rehsh humourous poet-
.n im rtaJ, such as John Gilpin, the Dunciad, Beppo, &c.: with
nerspo m. and conscien. large, devotional and religious poetry:
~ reti~emeiith the reflective faculties large or very large, will despise
I imagilllght and trashy poetry, or even that which, though beautiful
Y
1 ~ ~~ expression, is deficient in power of thought; will relish
5."
.e tegand 1
,r
nly that which, while it flows in smooth and equal num-
ec an ~ b . b . h f . 'd
f ' I r rs, ears upon J!S OSOm a f!C cargo 0 Important I eas,
1
oj 'phoe ry..nd sound, moral sentiments; and, if he attempt to compose
- JS eve.. '\l · b · · h h d · 1 d
. d loetry, w1 1m ue It w1t muc soun , pract1ca sense, an ,
o~n j .\so, prefer those authors, both in poetry and prose, who em-
SJZde ar~~1loy a glowing, elevated style, but pay far more attention to
an well' h h · &'
. 'ts he arrangement and the argument t an tot e expressiOn, c.
1ts men 0 h · 'd 1 z ·n
JD a beau· YEhRYdLAlRG~.-~ ne avdmg 1 e~. very a~ge, WI posses_
s
d 1 nc an g owmg .ancy, an expenence emotwns accompam-
. c~mpar_!d with a kind of rapture and enthusiasm, or, rather, ecstacy ;
s, ypelf
.r>e disQ"usted with that which is commo!lplace or imperfect;
Jmse lD - . 1 r d f d fi . h . . k
d d Je excess1ve y .on o poetry an chon; an ent usmsttc
~tn Jan tdmirer of the fine arts ,
· and revel with ecstacy in the re-
UJ e eo- .
,5 . with wns of fa?cy.. . .
f ·fi One havmg very large 1deal., With very large adhes. and
anc~ ompar., and full lang., can make poetry of a high order,
on, anL hich will breathe forth the tenderest feelings of friendship ;
:oocbnt Jnd will consider the common standard of friendship so very
'se, u low, and its exercise so imperfect, as to make him dissatisfied
]e mo· with life, becl\use he will be able to find few minds of kin-
large, ·dred sympathy and pathos with his own ; will long for a
escape world where friendship will be pure and perfect, and unmix·
.nly a ed with. the least alloy; and mourn deeply over the imper·
·., will fections of human nature : with large perceptive organs,
ltban
- ..
168 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
large or very large reflective organs, and full or large mor·
nl organs, accompanied with an active and a full-sized brain,
will be possessed of a deep fund of thought, which will flow
in a style, rich, but not gaudy, copious and powerful, but not
low or commonplace, splendid, but not bombaFtick; will be ...
admired for his talents, and beloved for his amiable qualities;
will produce the best of sentiments, and yet manifest the
most exquisite feelings; and rise far above his fellow-melt,
both in genius and virtue; be devoted to belleslettre, the fine
arts, and polite literature, and also to the more substantial •
branches of learning; and, with full self-e., firm., and com-
bat., will be qualified to become n splendid speaker; will ·•.
make almost any sacrifice in order to listen to a splendid or-
atorical performance; and will possess the feeling and the
power of eloquence and poetry in the highest degree.
The manifestations nnd descriptions under ideal. large,
modified by an increase of the qualities imparted by it, will
apply to ideal. very large.
FuLL.-One having ideal. full, will possess considerable
·refinement of feeling, and some poetick fancy, yet they will
be exercised only in a subordinate degree; will be fond of
poetry and the fine arts, yet not by any means devoted to
them; may relish poetry for its sentiment or its argument,
or the love it describes, the history or philosophy it imbodies,
&c., more than for its glowing imagination or vivid fancy.
One having ideal. full, with large or very large perceptive
and reasoning faculties, will confine his attention chiefly to
matters of fact, and to the investigation of first princ.
without reference to the splendour or the drapery of ~"1
express his thoughts in a straight-forward, plain, and forcible
manner, with less reference to elegance and finish of style
than to the faets and arguments ; prefer those speakers who
do the same, and possess much more of the eloquence of
tft9tl,sM than of diction ; prefer plainness and utility to
beauty nnd ornament ; and seem, at times, to possess less
taste: and refinement, and delicacy of feeling, than is com-
mendable.
MoDERATE.-One having ideal. moderate, will seldom
experience the glow and elevation of feeling which ideal.
imparts, nor manifest a great share of refinement of feeling,
110r express himself with elegance and taste; will regard
poetry, belleslettres, the fine arts, polite literature, works o(
imagination, painting, sculpture, &c., with less enthusiasm,
'
IMITATION, 169
and prefer plainness to ornament, and be rather plain and
awkward, than polished and refined, in his manners, dress,
&c., and, with self-e. moderate, take up with inferiour arti·
des.
• Th~ combinations and descriptions under ideal large, re-
'Dtrsed, will convey to the mind of the reader a corr~t idea
of the additional descriptions and combinations of moderate
or flmall ideal.
SMALL.-One having ideal. small, will be coarse and vul·
• gar in his manner of expression ; have but poor ideas of
taste, of propriety, and beauty, and little relish for poetry or
oratory, or fine writing, and be but a miserable judge of any
thing of the kind ; will be coarse and uncouth in his man·
ners, and very awkward, plain, and oommonplace in every
thing he says or does.
The combinations and descriptions under ideal. full, and,
also, those under ideal. large and very large, reversed, will
apply to ideal. small.
VERY SMALL.-One having ideal. 'Dery small, will be
nearly destitute of the feelings and manifestations described
as pertainil1g to this faculty.
LocATION.-Ideal. is located upon the sides of the head,
about the spot in which the hair begins to appear, upwards
and backwards of construct., beneath the temporal ridge,
and near its union with the parietal bone, and nearly in a
line with compnr., caus., and mirth. When large or very
large, the sides of the head, where the hair makes its ap-
pearance, are widened and heightened, but when it is small,
they are narrow and depressed.
22. IMITATION.
Ability to represent, r.opy, describe, and do what tDt see done
-tAt pO'IJJer of imitation and copying in general.
Man is emphatically a creature of imitation. In perform·
ing nearly all the actions of his life, the power of imitation
is more or less important,and a want of it exhibits an essen-
tial deficiency of character. In learning to speak or write
either a foreign language, or our vernacular tongue, the fac·
ulty of language furnishes us with words; but it is imitation
alone which enables us so to enunciate them as to make our·
selves understood.
15
170 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
The skill of the mechanick depends, in a very great de-
gree, upon the extent of his imitative powers; and the ges·
ficulations of the orator, by means of which he often ex-
presses more feeling, and makes a stronger impression, than
words could possibly convey, are the promptings of this fac- .
ulty. So vastly diversified, indeed, are the feelings and the
practices of men, that, without 111me faculty to direct them
into even the common usages of society, different individu· •
als would hardly be recognised as belonging to the same
race; yet, with this faculty to give a degree of uniformity to
most of their habits and practices, and thus to attract them
towards a common centre, it is easy to determint>, not only
in what country, but, frequently, in what section ofthe coun-
try, the manners of an individual have been formed. Hence
we infer, that man must be possessed of a primary faculty,
the ~xclusive function of which is imitation in gene·ral.
The experiments of the authors upon this organ, have been
both numerous and satisfactory.
Lu.oE.:....One having imitat. large, will find it easy and
natural for him to copy and represent, and possess both the
ability and the disposition successfully to exercise this fac-
ulty, either in his gesticulation, his manner.of description,
his talent for drawing and writing, his desire to adopt the
manners of others, or in almost any thing else demanded
by his circumstances in life, and his other faculties.
One having imitat. large, with construct. and the per·
ceptivll organs also large or very large, will manifest his
imitative power in making after a pattern, in drawing, en-
graving, writing a copy-hand, &c. : with secret., ideal., and
lang., only moderate, cannot mimick, nor describe, nor act
out any thing well; but, with secret. full or large, and ideal.,
individ., event., lang., and compar. large or very large, has
~ .bappy talent for description ; can relate anecdotes to ad·
~n, a fund of which he will have always at command,
~t he ean always tell one story to match another j can
reprwat things whlCh be wishes to describe, in so clear a
manner, and act them out so naturally, that the hearer will
seem to seejust what the speakerwishes to convey; by the ear·
ne.stness of his manner, his attit*s, gestures, the expression
of his countenance, the apparen \hos of his feelings, &c.,
will make a far deeper impression than language alone could
produce, and be able to heighten the effect by the addition
of elegant, and even eloquent, delivery : with.form, size, COD•
brt .••
IliUTATION. 171
struct., and ideal. large, will be capable of becoming an ex-
cellent penman: with self-e. full, and ideal., individ., and
lang. large, can readily adopt the manners and customs of
those with whom he associates; talk and act as others do;
and make himself easy and acceptable in almost any society
in which he may be placed, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having imitat. very large, has are-
markable talent for imitating almost every thing he under-
takes to imitate : with large secret., can conceal his real feel-
ings, while he appears to feel what he does not: with large
mirth., and moderate or small ven. and conscien., will have a
propensity to ridicule religion by imitating the peculiarities
of its professors: with large adhes., can assume the manners
of a friend : with large or very large combat., destruct.,
·self-e;, and ideal., can mimick and portray the several pas·
sions of haughtiness, of indignation, of revenge, of anger.
contempt, &c.: with any of the other selfish organs large
or very large, can imitate the several passions exerci!:led by
those faculties: with laJge or very large event., will noti.c•
all the actions and peculiarities of others, and be able to.
mimick them perfectly; with large ideal. added, can ima-
gine and represent the action appropriate to any given senti-
ment, and express it to admiration; and,· with large or
·..very large lang. and event. added, can carry on a dialogue
in sev.e~ voices, and adapt the expression ofhis. countenance
to the 'feelings represented; can imitate the accents and
brogue of the Englishman, the Scotchman, the Irishman,
the Frenchman, &c., and even imitate the forms of expres-
aiibh adopted by these different countrymen ; casiJ,; learn
both to read and to speak foreign languages : with farge or
verr large ideal., mirth., individ., event., lang., compar., and
adhes., and full or large secret. andcombat., is capable of be-.
coming a first-rate mimick and play-actor, and will have a
predominant passion, and a remarkable talent, for the lliliage,
and find it extremely difficult to avoid imitating the actions,
conversation, style, &c., of others.
FuLL.-One having imitat. full, will manifest this faculty
only in a subordinate degree, which will seldom amount to
mimickry; still, its infiuetee upon the whole character will
be considerable, and may be inferred from the descriptiona
and combinationa of imitat. large, by diminishing the infiu.
ence of imitat. ..
MoDERATB.-One having imitat. mockrate, will poasee&
172 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
this power in only an inferiour degree, and experience some
difficulty in copying and describing; fail to impart a natural
expression and accuracy to his attempts at copying, and, with
- self-e., caus., and compar., large or very large, will disdain
to copy others; prefer to strike out,and pursue,a path of his
own ; fail to adapt himself to the customs of the society with
which he is not familiar ; and will be original, if not eccen-
trick, in his manner of thinking and acting : with secret.
only moderate or small, can never seem to feel otherwise
than he really does.
Other combinations and descriptions may be inferred from
those under large and very large imitat. reversed. .
Sl!IALL.-One having imitat. small, will have but little
ability to imitate or copy, and none to mimick; fail in his
attempts to describe or represent, and will almost spoil a
story by attempting, in relating it, to act out the several parts;
will not be at all natural in his gestures, and be a poor
penman, and experience great inconvenience from the defi-
ciency of this faculty.
The combinations and descriptions under imitat. moderate,
the influence of imitat. being still farther diminished, and
also the descriptions and combinations under imitat. large or
very large, reversed, or negatived, will generally apply to
imitat. small.
VERY SliiALL.-One in whom unital. is very SJRall, will
manifest .none of the power in question, and be utterly unable
to imitate or copy.
LocATION.-lmitat. is located upon the two sides of be-
nev. When large, it extends nearly as far back as the organ
of benev., and the coronal sutures, and causes a protuber-
ance, especially when marvel. is small, which runs down-
ward from benev., and towards ideal. and construct.
23. MIRTHFULNESS.
That faculty of the mind whiek looks at things thrO'Ugk a
ludicrO'U!I medium, and thus forms humo·rous ideas and
conceptions-a quick and lively perception of the ridieu.
lous and Ike absurd--faeetioumeSI, pleasantry, humour,
toit,fun. • •
That certain conceptions, ideas, opinions, and occurrences
m life, are in themselves absurd and ridiculous, is a position
that will readily be admitted. This being the case, it natu-
•
llliRTHFULNE88, 173
rally follows, that the mind should be possessed of some pri-
mary power or faculty, the office of which is to detect such
absurdities, and expose their ridiculousness: and this office
is performed by the faculty of mirthfulness. Its legitimate
function seems to be to aid caus. and compar. in determining
what is true, by intuitively discerning whatever in thought
or argument, is ridiculous or absurd : and the fact, that
mirth. is located by the side of caus., an·d in the same range
with compar., caus., and ideal., appears to strengthen the pro-
bability of the correctness of this supposition.
Unless we admit, that there is some primary faculty, the
proper operation of which is to detect that which is absurd
and ridiculous per se, how are we to account for the prone-
ness of mankind, when attempting to show the fallacy, or
expose the sophistry, of arguments, to endeavour to make
them appear ridiculous ?-how account for the very common
method of reasoning by the reductio ad absurdum, the prin-
cipal ingredient of which is, mirth.? The facti~. the mind
rests assured, that what is ridiculous, cannot be true; or,
that the enlightened operation of mirth. is always in harmo-
ny with the principles of reason and analogy.
The existence of such a faculty as mirth., is rendered still
more evident from a consideration of that general tendency
of the human mind to make sport, to jest, joke, and seek for
something that will raise a laugh; and, also, from the utility
of such a faculty; which may be inferred from the fact, that
indulgence in laughter, merriment, lively conversation, hi-
larity, and rational amusements, by promoting respiration,
digestion, appetite, and the circulation of the fluids, contri-
butes greatly to health and bodily vigour, and, likewise, by
imparting buoyancy and elasticity to the spirits, greatly aug-
ments the power and activity of the mind. The old adage,
"laugh and be fat," though quaint, accords both with tho
philosophy of human nature, and the experience of mankind,,
and, moreover, with man's phrenological developments. It;.
then, according to the vulgar notion, "every sigh drives a
nail into ourcoffin," this argument shows, that "every laugh
should draw one out."
Religionists often consider the exercise of this faculty as
wrong, nay, as wicked; but the mere fact of its existence,
sanctions its exercise, and even makes it!! proper exercise a
virtue.
LARGE.-One having mirth. large, has a quick and hvely
15•
·..
o;J,izedb,Google
174 PHRENOLOGY lLLUSTJlATED.
I
perception of the ludicrous, and a strong propensity to tum
singular remarks and incidents into ridicule, and to make
sport in various ways; laughs heartily at any thing humor-
ous or funny, and enjoys it with a keen relish.
One having mirth. large, with large compar., destruct., and
combat., and caus. full or large, will mingle the sarcastick,
the pungent, and the bitter, with the purely humorous; and,
with compar. very large, hold the object of his displeasure
up to ridicule by comparing him to some most disagreeable,
or even loathsome, object; and be pre-eminent for his dry,·
terse, witty, and appropriate comparisons, which will be al-
ways in point, and very laughable, and sting while they
tickle : with large or very large secret. and imitat., will
hdve a happy faculty of saying a witty thing in a peculiarly
witty and laughable manner, and, with large lang., compar.,
and event. added, can work up the feelings of the hearer by a
most agreeable suspense, and mingle so much ofthe cunning
and the sly in his manner of expression, that his humorous
effusions will take admirably, and create a large amount ofreal
sport; will be able to make fun of others without their seeing
it, and to keep those in whose company he is, in a roar of
laughter, and yet appear perfectly sober himself; to employ
insinuations and the double-entendre with effect; to hoax,
and quiz, and play his cunning pranks upon those around
him; will make very happy allusions to ludicrous incidents;
and be very quick and opportune in his mirthful sallies:
with compar. large, approbat. very large, and caus. only full,
may say witty things, but will generally spoil them by laugh-
ing at them himself: with large or very large adhes., appro-
b~t., benev., hope., ideal., imitat., event., lang., and compar.,
will make a social, obliging, cheerful, companionable, and
pleasant friend, who will be full of good cheer, humorous
anecdote, and entertaining conversation: with large or very
large ideal., will express his mirthful effusions in a pecu-
liarly refined and delicate manner, and, with secret. large,
can say even a vulgar thing without giving offence: with
secret. and imitat. moderate or small, will have a fund of lu-
'dicrous ideas, and a ready conception of the truly ridiculous,
but will generally fail to give them so ludicrous an expres.
sion as to make others laugh; will relish a joke, yet spoil
his own jokes, and those of others which he attempts to re-
late, by his defective manner of expressing them ; but, with
imitat. large or very large, even though secret. is only mod·
__....,_______.- -
o.g''"•d by Coogle
-
- ..J
IIIRTHI!'ULNE88. 175
eJ&te, will be able to express himself in so blunt, and dry,
and eccentric.k, and even comick a manner, as to cause a
burst of laughter: with lang. large, and compar. very large,
will be a ready punster; have a happy talent of reasoning
by the reductio ad absurdu1n, or, by carrying out, and apply-
ing, the arguments of his opponents in such a manner as to
make them appear supremely ridiculous: with hope large
or very large, will be both cheerful and witty, and mingle a
high flow of Sj)ir;ts, with a happy talent for humour; but,
with hope only moderate or small, even when borne down
with melancholy, may say many witty things; with appro·
bat. and cautious. very large, and self-e. small, exc.ept among
his f!lmiliar acquaintances, will have too little self-confidence
to venture a joke, or will show so much fear in his manner
of expressing it as to spoil it: with ven. and conscien. large
or very large, will be frequently annoyed by the intrusion
of ludicrous thoughts, even upon solemn occasions; feel
guilty upon this account, and endeavour to banish them from
his mind, yet, in spite of all his efforts, they will frequently
arise: with compar. and caus. large or very large, like
Franklin, will express important ideas, containing a great
amount of practical sense, in a witty manner, and imbody
many moral lessons, and much practical philosophy, in his
mirthful effusions; and, whenever he attempts to joke, will
be dry, sententiou:!, pithy, aqd always in point, &c. "Poor
Richard's Almanack" furnishes an admirable illustration of
the combined manifestation of very large caus., compar., and •
mirth. ; whic.h combination is most strikingly exhibited in
all the busts of Dr. Franklin.
VERY LARGE -One having very large mirth., will look
at almost every thing, -as it were, in a ludi~rous light; man-
ufacture fun out of almost every passing incident; find it
difficult to restrain that strong current of humorous emo-
tions which sweeps through his mind, and which will be
likely to burst forth, both upon proper and improper occa-
sions ; and be unable to express himself without a strong
mixture of facetiousness with sober thought, and often car-
ry his jokes too far.
The descriptions and the manifestations of mirth. large,
modified by an increase of the power and the influence of
mirth., will apply to mirth. very large.
FuLL.-One having mirth. full, may have a good share
of humorous feeling, and enjoy the mirthful effusions of
176 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
others, yet, without the aid of other faculties, will not him-
self be remarkably quick to turn a joke : with large or very
large destruct., combat., and c.ompar., will be cogent and bi-
ting in his attempts at wit, yet his wit will sting more than
it will tickle, and be too harsh, and severe, and personal to
please, and, consequently, will often give offence; will, per-
haps, frequently indulge his teasing and pestering propen-
sity, yet his muthful effusion will not be characterized so
much by pure humour, as by satire and raillery; may be
eminent for his sarcastick and appropriate, if not ironical,
comparisons, yet the whole point and ludicrousness of his
jokes will turn upon the aptness of the comparison: with
hope very large, may have a large share ofglee apd hilarity, a
cheerful, lively disposition, and a sprightly mind; enjoy a fine
flow of spirits, and be exceedingly fond of amusements, yet
the pure "attick salt" will not highly season his mirthful
effhsions: with the assistance of other faculties, particularly
of imitat., lang., secret., hope, and compar., may express what
ludicrous ideas he has in so laughable a manner, act them
out so naturally, and accompany them with so much quaint-
ness, as to create a great deal of sport, and pass for a real
wit, yet he will owe more of this celebrity to his manner of
communicating his witticism, than to the witticisms them-
selves, or to the faculty of mirth; but, with secret., self-e.,
lang., individ., and event. only moderate or full, will be un-
able to give half the jest to his mirthful expressions which
is contained in his ideas, and thus be generally considered
as comparatively destitute of the faculty.
MoDERATE.-One having mirth. moderate, will generally
look at things through the sober medium of fact; seldom
succetd well in his attempts at wit; generally think of his
jokes too late to make them; and be more sober than jovial.
One having mirth. moderate, with cmnpar., combat., and de-
struct. large, may be sarcastick, yet his jests will be too un-
kind and harsh to please; be more biting than humorous,
and often give offence: with approbat., combat., and destruct.
large, will be unable to take a joke in good part, and, when
rallied, frequently become angry: with self-e. and caus. only
moderate or full, approbat. large or very large, and secret.
large, will frequently labour under the false impression that .
he is the object of ridicule when he is not; will be quite too
jealous upon this point, and easily offended by jokes, espe-
cially if they bear upon facts, &c.
PERCEPTIVE FACVLTIB~ 177
SMALL.-One having mirth. !mall, will be likely to con·
sider wit as either impertinent or silly ; will rather lack
sprightliness and vivacity in conversation and appearance;
be slow to take a joke, or to appreciate a witticism, and
slower still to make or turn one : with ven. and conscien.
large or very large, and hope only moderate, will seldom
smile, and probably think it wicked to do so: with appro-
bat. and adhes. large or very large, will be extremely alive
to the lashes of ridicule, and the finger of scorn, and greatly
tormented by them; and be completely confused and routed,
when the battery of this organ is opened upon him.
VERY SMALL.-One with this organ very small, will never,
in any perceptible degree, manifest the functions exercised
by this faculty. .
LocATJON.-Mirth. is located beneath the temporal ridge,
externally from caus., but a little }ower, and nearly in the
range of compar., caus., and ideal.
ORDER 11.-INTBLLBCTVAL F ACULTIBS.
These faculties constitute what is commonly termed intel-
lect, as contra-distinguished from feeling, or emotion ; and
have to do with three classes of things, the physical, the
metaphysical, and the abstract; or, in other words, with the
various conditions, relations, and qualities of things, and
with the physical, mental, and moral phenomena that are
produced by the operation of those first-principles or causes
by which these thinga and their respective phenomena are
regulated and governed, as well as with the principles them-
selves.
They consist of two genera. The first genus embraces
the Perceprive Faculties; and the second, the Reasoning
Faculties.
GENUS 1.-PBRCEPTIVB FAOULTIEI.
These bring us into communion with the external world
through the medium of the senses; perceive natural objects
and their conditions, physical qualitiea, and phenomena, and
some of their relations, and collect facts and statistical infor·
mation for the use of the other faculties.
178 PHB.ENOLOOT ILLVSTKATIIID.
SPECIES I.-THE F•cuLTIES OF THJ: ExTERNAL
SENSES.
SENSATION OR FEELING.
Cognizance of the impression.' made, and of the effects prD-
duced, upon the body by the contact ofphysical objects witll
the ntrves of sensation.
· Without a faculty of the mind whose legitimate office it is
to perform this class of functions, the contact of physical ob-
jects with the body, could produce no sensation-without
this ever-watchful sentinel of our corporeal frame-whose
organ (through the medium of the nerves of sensation) per-
vades the whole external surface of the body, including the
intestinal canal-placed, as it is, to guard from external in-
jury, this delicate machine-to keep in tune this harp of a
thousand strings, its safety would be put in constant jeopar·
dy, and its organization, liable soon to be destroyed. Negli-
gence here, even for a moment, might exrose the body to ir-
reparable injury, and render this citade of life liable to be
taken by the first rude hand that should assail it. Hence
we infer the necessity of a distinct faculty whose exclusive
office it is to perform the function of sensation.
The principle, that such a contact of physical objects with
the body as is calculated to injure it, causes pain, which pain
warns us of danger, and that such a contact as is beneficial
to it, produces a pleasurable sensation, will generally hold
good, and bear the scrutinizing test of experiment. To man,
then, as a corporeal being, this faculty is indispensable. It
is, in short, the natural instinct in him which intuitively
comprehends those principles that regulate the preservation
of the body from external injury, and is likewise in perfect
harmony with those principles.
The mediate function of the sense of feeling, is common-
ly called touch, of which the sphere of activity is very con-
siderable and important. The nerves of this faculty are
closely combined with those of voluntary motion ; and the
two kmds together, may assist the functions of all the inter-
nal faculties, as well the affective as the intellectual. Hence
the reason why the nerves of feeling and the nerves of mo-
tion are so int1mately connected with the orga1ll of the af.
fective and the intellectual faculties.
SIGHT, 179
This faculty is much more active in some animals than in
others; and we find that the nerves of sensation are much
larger in the former than in the latter. In combination with
large cautiousness, this faculty produces that dread of pain,
which is often worse than the pain itself, and that instinctive
shrinking from corporeal suffering, which it endeavours to
avoid.
For a more extensive analysis of this faculty, as well as
of the other external senses, the reader is referred to the ex·
cellent remarks upon the subject in Dr. Spurzheim's work
upon Phrenology.
SIGHT.
Vision--p010er of taking cognizance of the appearance of
physical objects by means of the optical organs.
There exist in nature certain optical laws, the object of
which is to furnish animated beings with a knowledge of
the phy$ical world by means of the eye and its accompany·
ing apparatus. Mankind intuitively understand and apply
these laws or principles of vision, and see just as well with·
out any theoretical or scientifick knowledge of them as with.
Since, then,·this power of vision is possessed intuitively, and
is exercised by a given portion of the brain, the induction is
obvious, that men, and, indeed, all animals that see at all,
possess an innate, primary power, the proper function of
which is to let.
The fact that new·born infants possess the power ~f vision
but imperfectly, does not at all militate against the foregoing
conclusion, for, it is well known, that, at the birth, their eves
are in an imperfect state, and are not able to receive, modify,
and transmit strong impressions of light, until they are
about six weeks old. Hence, it is only by degrees that the
_eye of a child becomes fit to perform its natural function
with full power ; but, as soon as the powers of this organ
are fully matured, a child can see, and without either habit
or education, just as well and as accurately as the greatest
philosopher. The same argument will apply to all animals
whose organs of vision are imperfect at the birth.
It is, moreover, a singular fact, that that portion of the
brain in which the optick nerve terminates, or. in phrenolog"
icallanguage, the organ of seeing, is found, in different an·
jmals, to be proportionate to their power of vision-is found,
180 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRAT.D.
for· example, many times larger in the eagle and the hawk,
than in other animals of a corresplmding size in which the
power of vision is much weaker.
Defects in noticing and recollecting the form nnd colour
of objects, are often attributed to the power oJ vision, when,
in fact, they belong exclusively to imperfections in the facul-
ties of form and colour. For example; one whose sight is
perfectly good, and who is deficient in the faculty of form,
but possessed of a large organ of colour, often finds it ex-
tremely difficult accurately to ascertain by the eye, and to
recollect, the configuration of an object, when, at the same
time, he gets a•distinct idea of its colour ; but, with form
large, and colour small, can readily judge of its shape, but
illOt of its colour. Many cases illustrative of these points,
have fallen under the observation of the authors, some of
which will be stated in another part of this work.
Allusion is here made to these facts as clearly showing
the necessity of the mind's possessing the faculties of form.
and colour, as distinct from that of vision, in order perfectly·
to perform some of its ordinary functions.
HEARING.
P01/Jer of taking cognizance of sounds by tneans of the au-
ditory apparatus.
It cannot be denied, that the principles of ncousticks ex-
ist in nature, nor that all animals possessed of an auditory
apparatus, are capable of perfectly applying these principles,
unaided by habit or instruction : and hence it follows, that
the faculty of hearing is a primary power of the human
mW ·
As has been shown in regard to the sense of vision, that
seeing is its sole function, so can it be proved with reference
to the auditory faculty, that hearing is its only function. The
common and prevailing opinion, that an individual possesses
the faculty of tune or melody of sounds, and the gift of
speech, in proportion to the acuteness and perfection of his
auditory apparatus and the excelience of his voice, can easily
be shown to be erroneous. The question may be put to the
most superficial observer, 'whether all those who have equal-
ly good hearing and fine voices, possess an equal talent for
" musick, or equal fluency of speech. Indeed, the authors are
.prepared to prov(\ by many fucts thnt they have witnessed,
HBAlUNG. l81
that many individuals whose voices and hearing are excel·
lent, but who are defective in the organ of tune, are not ca·
pable of distinguishing one tune, or one note, from another.
How is it, that, among birds, the song of the male is far more
melodious than that of the female~ Can it be, that the au·
ditory or the vocal apparatus of the one is less perfect thaa
that of the other~ .
But, that the sense of hearing cannot produce musick, is
evident from the fact, that the auditory apparatus is excited
solely by sounds from without, whj!reas, mueick must pro-
ceed from an internal impulse given by a primary faculty of
the mind, for it is impossible that the first musician could
have previously heard the sounds which he produced. It is
well known, too,. that musicians who have lost their hearing,
continue to compose. Singing birds, also, when hatched by
strange females, instead ofemploying the notes of their adopt·
ed parents, sing naturally, and without any instruction, the
song of their species.
In regard to the faculty of speech, we know that the nat-
ural language of every animal, is that which is peculiar to
its species, and that its perfection does not particularly de-
pend upon the perfection or imperfection of its faculty of
hearing. A duckling reared by a ben, does not adopt the
language of the hen; nor does the young robin hatched by
the bluebird, learn the chirp of the bluebird. A kitten rais-
ed with a dog, does not learn to bark; nor does a lamb rai•
ed among cattle, learn to low: but each animal naturally
adopts the language of its species. · ·
So,in artificial language, as there is no natural connexion
between the names or sounds employed to denote certain ob-
jects, and the things signified, it is evident, that, in the for-
mation and use of words, some other faculties of the mind
are more intimately concerned than the sense of hearing.
When we pronounce the word book, the sound suggests to the
hearer the idea of the thing signified; but it would be ab-
surd to suppose, that either his auditory apparatus, or his
organs of speech, conceived the idea of a book. The con-
ception was formed by his internal faculties alone. The
reason why the monkey cannot talk, is not because it is
d~stitute of the faculty of hearing, or of the proper organs
of the voice; but because it has not the faculty of language,
and certain other internal faculties, which are necessary tc)
16
.•,j/1'
l '- oigitizt.dbyGoogle
182 PRRENOLO&Y ILLUSTRATED. •
&he formation of- words, and the application of them to the
-.rious conceptions of the mind.
Thus it is obvious, that the function of the sense of hear-
ing, is confined to the production ofimpressions called sounds;
and that the production of melody and language, depend upon
ether intellectual faculties.
TASTE.
Gustatory sensation produced by food, and, also, by other
substances.
This faculty differs materially in its function from that of
alimentivencss, to which it seems to be but the handmaid.
Alimentiveness produces hunger, and a t·elish for food, and,
without the assistance of taste, would be but a blind instinct,
producing merely the desire to feed ; while taste, acting as
the caterer for alimentiveness, is capable of being exercised
upon 11ubstances which can, and which cannot, be converted
itlto food, and of selecting the one, and rejecting the other.
That this faculty, in its ordinary state in civil society, does
BOt, under all circumstances, inform us what is, and what is
not, adapted to the nourishment and health of the body, will
readily be admitted ; but that, unpampered by luxury, and
unperverted by cookery, it would be capable of doing so, is
highly probable. Among the lower order of animals-in
heasts, birds, and fishes, where it is unperverted, it secures
dlis object to perfection, abundant evidences of which are
furnished by natural history. Why, then, should it not, in
its natural state, be equally perfect and serviceable in man1
Analogy would certainly give an affirmative answer to this
illtenogatory.
SMELL
Olfactory sensation--cognizance of the scent or odour of
, objects. ,
By means of this faculty, the material world acts upon
man and animals from a distance. When detached, odor-
ous particles come in contact with the olfactory nerve, they
inform us of the existence, and some of the qualities, of the
bodies from which they are separated. Taste has been de-
ICribed as the purveyor of alimentiveness; and smell may
be_
denominated the pioneer of taste, and assistant handmaid
INDIVIDUALITY. 18a
of alimentiveness; for it often acts as the guide to taste in
selecting food, and frequently decides upon what is good,
and what is bad, without the assistance of taste.
But the office of smell is by no means confined to the se•.
lecting of food. Its function decides upon the agreeableness
or disagreeableness of the sensation produl·ed by all odour8
that are wafted tothe olfactory nerve; and here its office ceases.
It may be remarked, however, that the pleasurable or opposite
sensation produced by an odour, depends much upon the habit
of the individual, or the training of the faculty; for odoura
that are delightful to some individuals, are· unendurable to
others. Some persons take great delight in scenting tbem·
selves and their clothes with musk, burgamot, cologne, &e.;
whilst to others, these smells are an abomination.
Some of the lower animals excel man in the acuteneee of
their smell, as their olfactory apparatus is larger.
Odours act powerfully upon the brain. Hence, the appli·
cation of stimuli to the olfactory nerves, often revives eensi·
bility in cases of suspended ammation.
MOTION.
The existence of a mental faculty, the exclusive office or
which is to superintend and direct the action of the muscles,
has not yet been demonstrated, but is considered as quite
probable.
SPECIES 11.-0BsBRVIKO AND KNOWING FACUL'fllUJ.
For a description of these faculties, see page 50.
24. INDIVIDUALITY.
P011Jer of noticing single objects as separate existences, and
of considering each as a distinct identity and inditndv-
ality-desire to see and know, and to examine objects-
curiosity to see things-power of observation.
The material world is composed of single objects, arrange«
and combined into one grand whole; but without a faculty
who!!e function it is to individualize these objects, and take
cognizance of them one by one as distinct and separate ex-
istences and entities, mankind would perceive them only 88
a confused and indistinct mass, and be unable to distinguish
184: PHRBNOLO&Y ILLUITJUT&D.
one sil1gle thing from another. lt is doubtful, indeed, whether,
without such a faculty, we could form clear notions, or dis-
tinct ideas, upon any subject .
This faculty gives the desire, accompanied with the ability,
to become acquainted with objects as mere elCistencE>s, without
reference to their qualities, such as form, size, colour, weight,
&c., or to their modes of action; and, inasmuch as it leads
to observation, it becomes~ important element in a literary
taste and talent.
LAROE.-One having individ.large, has a great curiosity
to see and examine whatever comes within the range of his
observation; is deeply interested in the mere examination of
individual objects, aside from their causes, uses, relations,
and conditions; is quick to see what is passing around him,
and allows few things that come within the range ofhis vision,
to escape his observation; is a close and practical observer
.of men and things; and, by associating his thoughts and
arguments with some visible object, and by thus giving them
a distinct identity and individuality, imparts to them a pecu-
liar clearness and definiteness, and seeming tangibility.
One having individ. large, with event. also large or very
large, will not only be quick to see what is passing around
him, but, also, h11ve an excellent memory ·of what he has
aeen ; with large or very large compar. added, will not only
have the ability of comparing things together, and noting
wherein they resemble, or wherein they differ from, each
other, but will also take great delight in this exercise; with
good advantages, will possess a rich fund ofgeneral and partic-
ular knowledge; a ready command of facts, and a great fond-
ness for reading and study, and havethe requisite talent and
disposition to become a superiour natural scholar; yet, to
become a finished scholar, he must also possess form, local.,
ideal., and caus. large or wry large: with largt\ caus.,
will first notice things in their individual capacity, and then
investigate their relations of cause and effec(, their design
and utility, and the effects they are capable of producing; or,
in other words, will be a close observer of things, and, also,
strongly inclined to philosophize upon them; and, with the rea·
eoningorgans very large,will observeclosely, yet reason more
than observe ; have excellent ideas, and also impart to them
a clearness and tangibility that will render them essy to be
understood, and thus grE'Btly add to their power; and, with
the addition of large form, will be an enthusii\Stick and a
INJ>IVIJ>11ALITY. 185
euee888ful investigator of human nature, and generally fiarm
correct opinions of the character and talents of men by tbeir
physiognomy, conversation, dt>portment, &c., and can auc·
cessfully apply himself both to details and general princi-
ples: with 1deal. IarKe or very large, will regard objects
as clothed with pecuhar splendour, natural beauty, high per·
fection, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having individ. very large, will pos·
seas an uncon9.uerable desire to see, see, SEE-whatever it is
possible for h1m to see; before he is aware of it, will take
up things and look at them, even when propriety would re-
quire him to leave them untouched; have a prying curiosity
to become acquainted with things as mere existences ; can
hardly rest satisfied without thoroughly exploring and sur·
veying every thing within the reach of his observation i is
a real looker, and even given to gazing, or, perhaps, to sta-
ring: with caus. only full, looks much more than thinks, and
is so much devoted to the examination of objects, that his
power of abstract thought is thereby weakened, or, at least,
frequently interrupted by the operation of this faculty; finds
it difficult to confine his attention to abstract contemplations, .
because it is so frequently arrested by physical objects; will
be given to· personification, and, with compar. large, to met·
aphor, simile, &c., and be apt to consider mere abstract ideas
or notions, such as yirtue, viet>, justice, reason, &c., as per•
sonal identities i may readily learn tkings, but will not pos•
sess an unusual share of depth of intellect, &c.
The additional manifestations and combinations of indi·
vid. very large, may be inferred from those described under
individ. large, th,e compar. of the reader being allowed to
supply the increased influence of individ.
FuLL.-One having individ. full, with the reasoning or·
gans large or very large, will reason much more than ob-
serve, think more than look, and examine objects chiefly as
connected with their causes, relations, effects, qualities, Ullell,
&c.: with moderate event., will be liable to forget things,
and have but an indifferent memory of facta; will manifest
some curiosity to examine objects, and see whatever comes
in his way, yet not be at much pains mt>rely to gratify his
looking propensity, and will not be distinguished, either tor
his observing powers, or for the want of them.
MoJ>ERATE.-One having moderate individ., will be!Mbne-
what deficient.in his powers of observation ; have rather iudl.
16•
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
tinct ideas of things, and describe them rather in a summary
and general, than in a particular, manner, and, with the rea-
soaing organs large or very large, be much more engrossed
with general principles than with their details, and more in·
terested in investiguting the causes, reasons, and relations of
things, than with their physical qualities.
8MALL.-0ne having individ. small, will fail to observe
what is passing around him; take little interest in the mere
examination of objects; have little of that prying curiosity
to see and handle things, which is imparted by large indi·
vid.; often have but indistinct notions of objects which he
has seen; fail to identify particular things, be vague in his
descriptions of them, and find attention to details and the mi-
nutim of business, unpleasant, and not suited to the character
of his inteUect.
The descriptions and combinations mentioned under indi-
vid. large, re'IJerstd, or read with a negative added to them,
will apply to individ. small.
VERY sllALL.-One having 'IJtry small individ., wiU re-
gard things, as it were, in a mass; see nothing which is not
forced upon his attention; seldom regard objects io their in-
dividual capacity, and, with marvel. small, may be led to
doubt even his own personal identity.
LocATION.-lnd1vid. is located at the root of the nose,
and when large, it separates the eyebrows from each other,
and,causes them, as they approach the nose, to arch; but,
when small, the eyebrows nearly· meet, and are nearly hori·
zontal.
The organ of individ. is generally much larger in children
than in adults; which goes far to show, that it is highly
useful in the process of forming ideas : indeed, aided by
compar., whose office it is to compare things together, and by
event., which remembers what is observed and compared,
(and both of which are found highly developed in children,)
n constitutes the great medium of intellectual converse with
tbe material world, and assists us in treasuring up most of
the knowledge which we acquire.
25. FORM.
That m.ental pO'Wer wkick take~ cognizance of tke shape or
configuration of objects, and recollects tkem.
A Mr. Gibson, of Washington, D. C., suggested to one
of th& authors, the idea that the superficea, or shape. of ob-
•
J'ORH. 187
jects, consists of nothing more than angle• _
connected by
straight or curved lines, and that these constitute the form of
objects; and, moreover, that the faculty of form observes and
recollects these angles, and size, the length of the lint'S con-
necting them. This view of the subject, is, at least, ingen.-
ious, and worthy of examination.
That no material object can exist without possessing the
proper_ty of form or shape, is a self-evident proposition ;
and without some mental power the function of which is
to convey to the individual a distinct idea of the forms of
different objects, no such idea could possibly enter the mind,
any more than could the idea of the colour of an object
without an organ of vision and a faculty of colour, or that
of a savour or an odour without the faculty of taste or of
smell. To the perfection of the human mind, then, some
faculty whose office it is to take cognizance of the various
forms of objerts, becomes absolutely necessary.
The nature and operation of this faculty, may be inferred
from the principle which proves the necessity of its existence.
LuoB.-One having form large, finds it easy to observe
and retain forms; readily catches the di$tinct appearance of
things, and recollects them for a long time ; generally at-
tributes certain shapes to particular things which he hears
described, and even to immaterial objects, &c.
One having form large, with individ. large, both notice.,,
and recoUects, the faces and countenances of those whom he ·
sees, and thus is enabled to know a great many persons :
with individ. only moderate, does not notice the shape or the
physiognomy of persons with sufficient accuracy to obtain a
clear idea of their appearance, but, when his attention is once
arrested by any thing special, and he bas obtained a distinct
impression of its looks, he seldom forgets it : with individ.
and local. large or very large, when he sees a person a second
time, will generally be able to identifyand locate.him, though
he may be unable to call his name, and, with event. large,
will not only recollect that he has seen him before, but
often, where he has seen him, and also many incidents which
transpired at the time, and yet may feel mortified that he
cannot call him by name : with imttat. very large, will be
able to copy from memory: with large or very large indi-
vid.. size, local., order, and compar., will have all the talent re-
quisite for becoming a good naturalist, botanist, anatomist, and
ehymist, and, with ideal. also large or very large, will ~xpe-
188 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
rience the greattlst delight in the pursuit of these branches
of science: with construct., size, and imitat. large or very
large, will be able to give the proper shape to the articles he
may make, &c.: with size large, can read writing that is in-
distinct, and, with individ. also large, easily learn to read cor-
rectly, and seldom miscal a word.
To the mechanick, the artist, the naturalist, the anatomist,
the botanist, and all those in publick life who have to trans-
act business with many individuals, a large development of
this faculty, is not only of the greatest utility, but even indis-
pensable to success.
VERY LAROE.- .One having form very large, obtains, as
it were, by intuition, a distinct impression of the form of the
objects he sees; will very seldom forget the shape or the ap-
pearance of things he has once seen; if he once fairly looks
at a person, will almost always know him when he meets
him again; be able to recognise individuals even by a par-
tial view of their face, by seeing them at a distance, &c. ;
can readily disco¥er family resemblances, and also detect dif.
ferences in the looks of persons and things; frequently re-
collects the name of a person by remembering its appear-
ance U{X?n paper ; can readily detect typographical errours,
llnd, w1th lang. large, easily learn to spell corrrctly; can see
things that are very minute or indistinct, or at a great dis-
tance, and, with size and individ. large or very large, can
read very fast and very correctly, and at a diStance which
would enable ordinary form and individ. hardly to perceive
that there were letters : with large or very large local., will
be able to study botany, mineralogy, geology, anatomy, and
all the natural sciences with remarkable ease and success, &c.
The additional descriptions and combinations under form
large, modified by an increase of the quality imparted by
form, will apply to form very large.
FuLL.-One having form full, after seeing an individual
several times, and becoming somewhnt familiar with his
looks, will be able to recollect his physiognomy and appear-
ance, yet cannot be considered as remarkable for this power;
will have a respectable memory of faces and countenances,
yet a long interval will weaken, or, perhaps, nearly obliter~
ate, his recollection of them, especially of those with whom
he is but partially acquainted; upon meeting those whom he
has before seen, will have an indistinct recollection that he
has seen them, but will be less certain and distinct in his re-
I'ORM. 189
collection, than if it had been produced by large or very
large fQJ'm.
One having form full, with individ. large or very large,
will have'a very good recollection of the countenances, form,
and gait of persons, and partly because he is so great an ob-
lervcr; but, with individ. only moderate, will have but an
indifferent memory of such things, partly because he will
fail to notice them so particularly as to obtain a clear and
fixed impression of their shape, appearance, &c., and partly
because his memory of those which he does observe, is not
remarkably tenacious.
MoDERATE.-One having moderate form, retains only an
indistinct and confused memory of persons, animals, and
different objects, and must see them several times in order to
know them again, especially after a considerable lapse of
time; is often quite uncertain whether he has, or has not,
seen individuals whom he meets ; is capable of making but
moderate progress in the study of the natural sciences; can·
not clearly distinguish· forms at a distance, nor certainly
identify a person or an object until he is near it, or has a
full view of it; will make many miStakes in reading; find
it difficult to read hand-writing, especially if it is not very
plain, &c.
The additional manifestations and combinations of form
moderate, may be inferred from a negative of those under
form large. · ·
SMALL, or VERY sMALL.-One having form small or very
1mall, will be exceedingly troubled by forgetfulness of per·
sons; may meet an individual one day, and even coRverse
with him, and not recognise him at a subsequent meeting,
even though it may be very soon after: with approbat. large,
will feel mortified on account of this deficiency, and endeav-
our to notice and recollect shapes, yet his efforts will be una·
vailing; in reading,will miscal many words, especially if the
print is fine or indistinct, and hardly be able to decipher
hand-writings: with indivi..t. large, will see those whom he
chances to meet, but will seldom notice the expression of
their countenance, appearance, &c., and, therefore, not often
recollect .them ; but, with individ. small, neither sees nor no-
tices those whom he meets ; so that, even those with whom
he is quite intimate, are sometimes not recognised by him.
The descriptions and combinations under form moderate,
modified by a diminution of the power of form, and also
190 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
those under form large and very large, re11ersed, will apply
to form small or very small.
LocATION.-Form is located upon the two sides of the
crista galli, and, when large or very large, causes great
breadth between the eyes, and sometimes turns them out-
wards; but, when small, they more nearly approach each
other.
26. SIZE.
That fnental power whiclt takes cognizance of magnitude
and proportion-ability to judge of length, breadth,
height, depth, distance, t;J-c.
Since no material object can exist without occupying
space, it necessarily follows, that magnitude or bul~ is a nat·
ural property of matter : and hence it also follows, that the
human mind would be defective, were it not possessed of a
distinct fRculty the proper function of which is to distinguish
this property of matter. Without such a faculty, man could
not distinguish the difference between a mountain and a
mole-hill, a river and a rill, an ocean and a fountain.
That the faculty of form cannot execute the function at·
tributed to size, is dearly shown by the fact, that there exists
no proportion between the shape of an object and its magni·
tude or bulk. The configuration of certain things. may be
the same, but their size widely different. Nature would be
at fault, therefore, did she not endow man with a separate
faculty adapted to the cognizance of each of these properties
of matter.
Again, the place, position, weight, and colour of objects
are conditions or properties each demanding a separate fac·
ulty of the mind to judge of it.
LARGB.-One having size large, will be able to judge
very correctly of the height, length, distance, middle, centre,
magnitude, &c., of objects ; to determine with considerable
accuracy, whether given points are on a water level ; to
judge very nearly of the weight of animals, men, and
other objects by their size, ascertained merely by looking at
them ; by a cast of the eye, can readily determine about how
much is, or can be, enclosed in a certain spacei whether a
given thing is in an exact perpendicular or horizontal posi·
tion, and will, in this way, always measure objects with a
view to ascertain these and similar points; will judge qui&e
__.......,
IIIZE. 191
accurately in regard to the centre of a circle, the size of an
angle, and proportion generally, &c.
One having size large, with form and construct. large, will
have a very correct, mechanical eye, by which he will be
often guided instead ofby measuring·instruments; with imitat.
and local. added, can draw by the eye mathematical and
other figures with great accuracy; dec1de correctly upon the
qualities of proportion and magnitude,. and impart these
qualities to his drawings and mechanic.al operations; and,
with weight added, is naturally a first-rate marksman, and
will need comparatively but little practice to make himself
quite expert with fire-arms, &c. In Col. Crocket, these or·
gans were all developed in an remarkable degree.
VERY LARGE.-One having size very large, will possess
the powers described under the head of size large, in an ex·
traordinary degree-be able to form his judgment of the
magnitude, distance, &c. of objects with surprising accuracy,
and, as it were, by intuition ; seldom need to employ instru-
ments to measure with, because he will be able to measure
so accurately by the eye, and calCulate size correctly where
no instrument can be employed; seemingly without an effort,
will be able to detect even a slight deviation from a hori-
zontal, a perpendicular, or a rectangular position, and be
greatly annoyed by it; .and not only perform all those func-
tions described under size large, but execute them with llS-
tonishing llCcuracy and facility.
The combination!.' under size large, will hold good when
applied to size very large, except that the dPgree of the pow-
er of the organ, must be much increased.
FuLL.-One having size full, will possess a respectable
share of the power described under size large, yet will not
be distinguished for this talent ; will manifest a d=ficiency of
this faculty only when he is called upon to measure either
long distances, or short ones with considerable precision ;
and possess a sufficient share of this power for all ordinary,
practical purposes.
MoDERATE.-One having moderate size, will be able, by
practice, to measure short distances by the eye, especially
1n those things with which he is acquainted, yet will not be at
all distinguished for his acr.uracy in doing it; find considerable
difficulty in comparing different magnitudes, and will have
but an. indifferent, mechanical eye.
SMALL.-'-One having size small, will be decisively defi·
192 PHRENOLOGY lLLUS'rRATED.
eient in the power and qualities described under size large;
be very inaccurate in his judgment of distance and propor-
tionate bulk; and entirely fail in his descriptions and com-
parisons of the size of objects.
'l'he descriptions and combinations under size large and
very large, when reversed, or read with a negative, will ap- ·
ply to size small. ·
VERY SMALL.-One having size very small, will form ex-
tremely inadequate ideas of proportionate size, and, indeed,
of size generally, and hardly understand the meaning of the
term. ·
LocATION.-Size is located at the internal termination of
the eyebrows, and develops itself on the two sides of the root
of the nose. When it is large, it causes the internal portion
of the eyebrow to project, or shelve, over the internal portion
of the eye nearly an inch; but, when moderate or small, it
is nearly perpendicular from the inner corner of the'eye to
thatoftlle eyebrow. By inserting the thumb into the angle
formed by the arch of the eye and the noS!}, when the organ
is large or very large, and weight only moderate, a protu-
berance will easily be observed, in shape somewhat resem-
bling a bean.
27. WEIGHT.
Intuitive perception and application of the principles of
specifick gravity-ability to judge ofthe force and resist-
ance of bodies, and of equilibrium-to preserve the cen-
tre of gravity, cj-c.
The whole physical world (including man, of course) is
under the influence of the laws of attraction or gravitation.
By their all-pervading influence, these laws bind together
the whole material universe. They hold the sun, the moon,
the stars, and the planets in their orbits as they perform their
respective journeys through the trackless fields of space;
cause the winds to blow, the waters ·to flow, the seasons to
return, and chain to the earth ail things that rest upon its
surface. They·also bind together those innumerable parti-
cles of matter which enter into the composition of all the
different material substance.s that exist; and but for their op-
eration, these various particles of matter which compose the
universe, could never have been held together for a moment,
WEIGHT. 193
but must have been promiscuously scattered and adoat
throughout the illimitable tracts of immensity. But for the
operation of these laws, the earth would still be "without
form and void," and no animate or inanimate thing would
have existence.
By some philosophical writers, a distinction has been
made between the attraction of cMelion, and the attraction
of gravitation; but, unless it can clearly be shown, that
there is a difference between that primary power which
brings the particltJS of matter together, and that which ltolds
them together, this distinction between the two kinds of at-
. traction, will prove a dis!inction without a difference, and,
consequently, not a proper one. Can such a difference be
shown? or can it be shown, that the principle or power
which brings together the larger masses of matter, differa
from that which binds. together the particles of the smaller
masses?
The object of these remarks, however, is. not so much to
prove, or disprove, a difference between the laws of cohesion
and the laws ofgravitation, as to throw out the general idea,
· that for every set of laws in nature, and their accompanying
phenomena, with which man has to do, he requires a distinct
faculty of the mind, adapting him to these laws and phenom-
ena ; and that, therefore, if the attraction of cohesion is gov-
erned by one set of principles, and the attraction of gravita-
tion, by another, each of these sets requires a separate faculty
of the mind.
The faculty of weight has to do, mainly, with those prin-
ciples which relate to the specifick gravity of bodies, in
judging of the consistency, density, softness, hardness, light-
ness, and heaviness or resistance of bodies-qualities which
cannot be decided upon by the mere sense of feeling or touch.
LARGE.-One having weight large, will seldom lose his
balance, even in difficult positions, and the instant he has
lost. the centre of gravity, be warned by this faculty, and di-
rected to the muscular effort requisite to regain it; seldom
slip or fall; readily adapt himself to the laws of specifick
gravity generally, and apply them to the accomplishment of
his designs; can sling a st.one, pitch a quoit, &c., very near
the mark; will naturally and intuitively understand the laws
of momentum, staticks, and resistance; if much accustomed
to riding on horseback, can be thrown only with great diffi-
culty; will easily learn to skate, and take great delight in
17
I '- 4> ..,-
194 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED. ~1flt'
the exercise, and seldom fall upon the ice~~
ease, can balance things which those with weight small, can-
not, and perform other feats of a similar nature with appa·
rent ease and intuition ; will walk upon a pole or a spar
stret<~hed across a stream, the frame of a building, a fence,
&c., without falling, or fearing to fall, especially if self-e. is ,
la~ge. ; M:<i: with construct., form, and caus;large oryery large,
WJllmtuihvely understand the power and the prmc1ples of
machinery, and skilfully apply them to effect mechanical op-
erations; is capable of becoming a good machinist, and, with
large or very large size, individ., local., and calcu. added, a
fint-rate engineer, or superintendent of machinery ; can, at
once, comprehend and apply the principles of hydraulicks,
hydrostaticks, pneumatii:ks, &c., and judge of powers and
projectile forces with uneommon facility and accuracy.
VERY LARGE.-One having very large weight, will pos-
sess the pow-,rs described under weight large, but in a much
higher degree, so much so as to stand out alone, and excite
lhe astonishment of those who witness his skill :-and all
this he will be able to do seemingly by intuition, and with-
out effort.
FuLL.-One having weight full, will apply the principles
Gf weight, balancing, equilibrium, and resistance, with suffi-
Client facility and correctness to get along with the ordinary
l.usiness of life, but will not be remarkable for this quality;
aided by con!!iderabiE~ practice, may possess those powers
described under the head of weight large, yet they will be
the result of practice more than of nature, &c.
MoDERATE.-One having weight moderate, where only a
moderate share of this faculty is required, os in the case of
walking, running, &c., may manifest little, if any, deficiency
in this respect, yet will not possess those powers described
under the head of weight large; will be liable occasionally
&o lose his balance, to stumble, and, perhaps, fall, and to be
thrown from a skittish horse; to experience dizziness, espe-
cially over mnning water, or from heights ; will not be
able to throw a quoit, stont>, or other missile, just high enough,
or low enough, just far enough to the right or left, and with ex·
actly momentum enough to hit the mark, &e. One having
weight moderate, with large or very large imitat., form, and
construct., will be able to use tools with great skill, yet will be
no machinist, and will not readily and intuitively understand
\be operation and the powers ofmachinery, &c. The probabil-
- -
OOLOVB.. 196
U, ia, that shoeting running or flying game, depends more
upon weight than upon any other faculty.
SMALL.-One having smaU weight, will be decisively d•
1icr.mt in those qualities described under weight large and
very large; can be t:asily thrown from his balance, or from
a horse; frequently stumbles, and, with large or very larg"
cautious., will fear to trust himself where he is liable to fall,
beca11se he will feel unsaft:, &c.
VERY SMALL.-One having weight very small, will be
extremely deficient in all those functions which belong to
this faculty, and be liable to be thrown to the earth by slight
causes.
LocATION.-Weight is located adjoining to size, and a
little internally from the middle of the arch of the eye. It
i$ generally moderate or small in the American head.
28. COLOUR.
Ability to perceive and recollect the various colours of ob-
jects, to compare them, and judge of the harmony or dis-
cord of their different shades when mingled.
In speaking of vision, it was remarked, that the eye could.
perceive the rays of light, and be agreeably or disagreeably
affected by their various modifications or colours, but, that
an ability to conceive the relations of colo'lrs, and compare
them, to judge of their harmony or discord, and remember
their teints, mu$t depend upon another faculty of the mind;
otherwise, all painters who possess equally good eyesight.
and who have had the same amount of practice, would be
equally happy in colouring: but this is by no means the
case.
The organ of colour is larger and more active in womea
than in men, and in some nations, and some individuals, than
in others. Indeed, the authors have seen many persons who
were possessed of excellent powers of vision, but who were
utterly incapable of distinguishing (except black and white)
ont\ colour from another. Many other similar cases are also
on record-ell of which go to prove, that nature, in perfect-
ing her own handiwork, has seen fit to bestow upon the hu-
man mind, a primary faculty whose sole function it is to per·
ceive, and judge ot: colours.
LAao:&.-One having colour large, will readily notice
~ remember. and be able to compare, different colours, and
196 PBRBMOLOGY ILL'USTR.A.TBD.
even their various shades and teints ; will often notice the
colour of a person's'eyes, dress, hair, &c. ; manifest uncom·
mon taste and skill in selecting, arranging, comparing, and
mingling colours, and, as far as a natural talent for applying
them is concerned, be will excel : with large or very large
ideal., will be highly delighted with splendid paintings both
as regards their colours and the composition, or imaginatio•
and taste displayed in them, and, with large form and imitat.,
can easily learn to paint, and that with uncommon skill; and,
with very large form, size, imital., and construct., aided py
practice, may be an excellent portrait or miniature painter;
and, in examining and purchasing articles ofdress, furniture,
&c. will have a particular reference to their colour. .
VERY LAROE.-One having colour very large, notices the
colour of objects as soon as he does any other quality, and
recollects it as long; is a natural and original colourist, and
capable of painting with extraordinary skill and facility :.
with compar. and ideal. large or very large, is a first-rate
judge and critick of colours, and has a passionate fondness for
employing the pencil or brush; and is highly delighted with
rich and lively colours: with caus. only full, and approbat.,
individ., and ideal. large or very large. will be excessively
fond of gayly coloured and gaudy anicle.s of dress and furm·
ture, and even run into extravagance in this respect: with
very large form, and lar&"e or very large ideal., construct.,
imitat., size, order, and mdivid., is capable of becoming a
portrait painter of the first class, and, with event. and com·
par. also large, a historical painter; of using the brush
with wonderful effect; and of transferring to canvvss both
the conceptions of his imagination, and real characters. .
FuLL.-One having colourfull, by considerable practice,
~ill be able to distinguish colours readily and accurately, yet
this talent will be the product of an more than of nature, or,
rather, of nature greatly improved by culture; will notice
colours that are striking, or that are very well or very ill ar·
ranged, yet will seldom pay much attention to those that are
ordinary: with ideal. large or very large, may display much
taste and good judgment in mingling and arranging colours,
and, with imita:t. ·}a(ge, be able to learn to paint well, yet the
mere col~mring~ form a less imponant feature in his pro-
ductions ; will gaze with enthusiasm upon a splendid paint·
-ing, but will be more interested in the imagina.tion and la$te
displayed in it, than in the' mere colouring ; but, with id.J.
COL01JJL. 197
moderate, will not be at all partial to pictures or paintings,
and only an indifferent judge of colours.
MoDERATE.-One having modtrate colour, will not take
much interest in colours, unless something special calls his
attenti<>n to them, and will seldom notice or recollect tht.>m;
can seldom describe persons by the colour of their eyes.
dress, &c.; and can learn to select and match colours only
with considerable practice and effort: with ideal. large or
very large, though he may be highly delighted with splendid
paintings, will generally be more gratified with some of tht>ir
other qualities and beauties, than with the mere arrangement
of their colours; may distinguish one colour from another, but
will not be able to distillguish their nicer shades and teims.
SIIALL.-One having small colour, will very seldom no-
tice the colour of ~ople's eyes or hair, or of any article of
their dress,and eventhough familiar with them, will be unable
to describe them by these indications; will seldom notice, or
take any interest in, colours, regarding them all as amount-
ing to about the same thing; will find great difficulty in dis-
tinguishing their different shades, and, perhaps, between the
different primary colours ; occasionally mistake one for an·
other, and be comparatively insensible to the beauty produced
by the arrangement and blending of different colours.
The additional combinations and descriptions of colour
small, may be inferred from those under colour large or very
large, reversed, or read with the addition of a negative.
VERY siiALL.-One having colour very small, e'fen
though his eyesight and his ability to distinguish form and
other qualities of objects, may be excellent, will be able to
form little or no idea even of the primary colours, and, much
less, of their shades ; can perceive very little, if any, differ-
ence between the colours of different cloths, or even those of
the prism or rainbow, as an indistinct, whitish appearance
will seem to him to characterize the whole; and can distin-
guish between those objects only that are black or white, or
bordering upon this appearance. .
LocATJON.-Colour is located under the arch of the eye-
brow, a little externally from the middle, and between the
organs of weight and order. In ascertaining it, there is
occasionally some difficulty in consequence of the thiclmeee
of the bone that covers it.
17• .
198 PIIRENOLOGY ILLtJSTR.A.TBD.
29. ORDER.
System-sense of physical arrangement-desire to have
things in their places. ·
"Order is heaven's first law." AS far as our feeble powers
are capable of ascertaining, the whole universe is found to
be a perfect system of tl•ings. Perfection of arrangement
and perfect order characterize every part of it, .the most mi-
nute details not excepted. In the marshalling of "the heav-
enly hosts," and appointing to each its time and plact>, in
limiting the growth ofthe various kinds of vegetation to differ-
ent portions of the earth's surface, in the arrangement and
structure of the r.onstituent parts of even a flower, in the
formation of every portion of the human body, the system-
lltick order displayed, is wonderful and perfect. In short,
throughout the whole kingdom of nature, every thing has
assigned to it a particular place, and can be expelled from
that place only by doing violence to the system of nature.
Can we suppose, then, thllt the infinitely wise Architect
of the universe, would institute such a harmonious and
beautiful arrangement, without adapting man to it by creating
in him an ability both to appreciate and practise it1 Indeed,
we are conscious of possessing, to a great extent, a delight
in order, and a desire to practise it.
This, then, brings us to the inquiry, whether this class of
functions is exercised by a faculty devoted exclusi,•ely to
this office or not. The obvious answer is, that, inasmuch
as the other classes of the mental functions, are each per·
formed by as many separate and innate mental powers, this
class is also exercised by a distinct, primary faculty.
This faculty has nothing to do with the logical arrange-
ment of ideas, (if we except the physical signs employed to
express them,) the structure of an argument,.or the taste dis·
played in expression; nor does it singly produce taste in
dress. At a recent, publick examination, one of the authors
observed of an individual, that he was remarkable for his
order and arrangement, but defective in taste and niceness:
and this proved to be the fact. He also knowA a lady who
is uncommonly neat and tidy in her dress, and one of the
nicest of housekeepers, andlet she possesses only moderate
order, is often troubled to fin her needle, thread, gloves, &c.
Such instances are even quite common-the first kind being
OB.DBR. 199
accompanied with only modeJBte ideal, and the last, with
this organ large or very large.
LARGE.-One having order large, with local. large or
· very large, will have a particular place for every thing, and
every thing in its place; instead of leaving his tools, books,
papers, clothes, and whatever he has occasion to use, where
it happens, he will return them to their re.spective places;
can readily find what he wishes, provi<ied it has not been
disarranged by others; will be systematick in his business;
not only precise himself to keep things in place, but partie·
ular to have those under him, do the same; and, with ideal.
also large, be exceedingly annoyed by disorder, and thus
possess an indispensable requisite for regularity, correctness,
and despatch in whatever he undertakes.
One having large order, with large combat. and destruct.;
will be rendered as impatient and as angry by disorder, as
by almost any thing else, and thus manifest much more pee·
vishness of disposition, and appear more passionate and
harsh, than he otherwise would : with ideal. latge, will be
always cleanly, and tidy, and very nice and particular about
hia person; greatly annoyed by a rent in his garments, or a
spot upon them, or by their being soiled, not clean, or their fit·
tlag badly; by a longbec.rd, disordered hair, or a dirty or disor·
dered room; or by any thing irregular, contracted, or broken,
even though it mar have been repaired, &c., and will often
overdo in order to serve this faculty; and, with ideal. very
large, will be even fastidious in these respects, and take
many an unnecessary step on this account; but, with ideal.
onlymoderate, though he maybe systematick, and have a place
for ~very thing, and every thing in its place, and always able
to lay his hand on such things as he uses, and about as quick
in the dark as in the light, yet will be neither nice nor par·
ticular in. his personal appearance; will, perhaps, seem to
others to have his things in utter confusion, and yet, what
will appear disorder to them, will be order to him: with time
large, will fulfil his appointments punctually, and have a
time, as well as a place, for every thing.
VERY LARGE.-One having order very la¥ge, will know
just where to lay his hand, both in the dark and in the light,
upon any article he wishes to use, provided no on~ has dis·
placed it; when he pnts off his clothes, or has done using his
.things, he lays them away in the particular places assigned
to them j in ,all he dotlS, is perfectly systematick and precise j
m '"edbyGoogle
200 PBRBNOLOO\' JLL'OSTRATED.
and, in the maUer of order, ia what is termed "old-maidiah." <#
instantly notices the least disarrangement, and is annoyed be-
yond measure, if not rendered perfect!y miserable, by con-
fusion, disorder, &c.
One having order very large, with adhea. large or very
large, will love the company of his friends sincerely, but be
so much disturbed by one thing and another about their per- -
son, their furniture, bouse, &c., and by the disarrangement
they cause him, that he will almost dread to visit, or receive
a ,·isit from, them, and, on this account, frequently feel vexed
at tl.ose he really loves ; in the selection of his friends, will
have a special reference to this quality in them, and be unable
to endure the company of the slovenly or the negligent:
with combat. and destruct. large, will frequently be angry at
those who leave things out of their places, and st>verely rep-
rimand, and even scold, them, though they may be his best
friends; and, with ideal. large or very largt>, will be so extreme-
ly fastidious and over nice as to cause a great deal of trouble
to those around him, and be even a \rouble to himself and a
slave to this faculty; and, to gratify it, will frequently do
much more than there is any need of doing, or than his
strength will bear; and, if a woman, will. scrub her finger-
nails off, and the nail-heads from her floors; worry her ser·
vants to death ; scour the paint off the ceilings and mould-
ings, the si~ver off the door-knob and knocker, the brass off
the andirons, the tin from her pl\ns, and the hoops from her
churn ; and still scrub and wash, and wash and scrub, till
she scrubs the patience out of hq husband, and washes the
threads out of his lmen.
The descriptions and combinations which apply to o!'der
large, modified by an increase of order, will apply to order
very large.
Fuu.-One having order fidl, will be pleased with ar-
rangement, and, if brought up to habits of system and order,
will seem to possess a high endowment of the qualities de-
scribed under order large, yet much will depend upon his
education and his ideal. ; will possess enough of this faculty
to get along well in business, yet not enough to make him
fastidious, or cause him to make ~ny great sacrifices upon
this account; and generally: preserve order, partly from an
innate love of it, and partly from the neceaaity and utility
of it.
' OB.DEB.. 201
a
The combinations under.order large, modified by a di0i·
aution of the power of order, will apply to order full.
.MoDERATB.-One having order moderate, though, per·
haps, a little disturbed by disorder, and rather fond of seeing
things in place, will .not possess enough of this faculty to
prompt him to much effort in order to keep them properly
arranged; will generally leave his things at loose ends; be
less systematick in his business than would be to his advan·
tage; may preserve something like system and arrangement
in his affairs; but will do so more from the necessity, than
the love, of them: with ideal. large or very large, though he
will be neat and nice in his person, dress, &c., will leave
things where it will trouble him to find them, often forget
where they ar~. and manifest taste and cleanliness without
system or arrangement: with self.e., combat., and destruct.
large.or very large, will possess enough of this faculty to
command others to preserve order, and will even scold them
for allowing disorder, but will not keep things in order him-
self, and, perhaps, disarrange the things of others, as well
as his own.
SMALL.-One having order small, will be apt to leave
things where he happens to use them, or anywhere else,
either in, or out of, their proper places, and, consequently, be
greatly troubled to find them again when he wants them,
thus subjecting himself to much inconvenience and delay;
will operate without system, and, ofcourse, without despatch,
and thus consume much time in accomplishing but little·
but, notwithstanding, will fail to amend, or to feel troubled
with disorder, or to appreciat~ the importance of order and
system ; and, with time only moderate, will seldom appor-
tion his time to specifick objects, and generally be behind·
hand in fulfilling his engagements, plans, and appointments.
The descriptions and combinations under order large and
very large, reversed, will apply to order small.
VERY BMALL.-One having order very small, will be al-
most insensible to the beauty and utility of systematick ar·
rangement ; will scarcely notice the difference between order
and disorder, and leave whatever he may have occasion to
use, scattered about in utter confusion.
LocATION.-Order islocated underthe arch ofthe eyebrow,
at the external corner of the eye,' and beneath the origin of
the superciliary ridge. When it is large or very large, the
external angle of the lower portion of the forehead, appears
----- -----~-- - . -~ -- ---- .
202 PHRENOLOGY ILL1JSTRATED•
•
projecting and full, the eyebrow, at the union of the temponl
ridge, arched and elongated, and sometimes sharp; but,
when it is moderate or small, the external portion of the eye-
brow will appear straight and shortened. The thickness of
the bone in this portion, increased by the temporal ridge,
causes an occasional mistake in deciding upon the size of
this organ.
30. CALCULA'flON.
Intuitive perception of the relations of numbers and pro-
portions-ability to reckon figures in the head-nume·
rical
computation.
In addition to the other qualities and conditions of things
which exist in nature, we naturally attach to them numerical
relations, such as are denoted by numbering them with the
signs one, two, three, and so on
1
. adding them together; as
four and three make seven ; mu tiplying them; as four times
three are twelve, &c.: and, for the purpose of facilitating
such calculations, mankind have instituted arbitrary signs,
by combining which, in various ways, they are enabled to
express these numbers with great accuracy and brevity.
Since, then, these relations expressed by numbers, actually
exist in nature, it is a fair induction to suppose, that the hu·
man mind requires a primary faculty the sole· function of
which is to comprehend them, and apply them to the prae·
tical purposes of life.
That the mental faculty which perceives, comprehends,
and applies these numerical principles, is intuitive, and de-
voted exclusively to this class of functions, is moreover evi·
dent from the fact, that extraordinary, calculating powers, are
ofhm found to be possessedbyindividuals whosetalents,in other
respects, are quite ·ordinary; whilst, on the contrary, men of
extraordinary reasoning and other faculties, are frequently
found to be deficient in their computing powers. Many
striking eases of both kinds have fallen under the observa·
tion of the authors, ·some of which will be stated in the
chapter upon facts. ·
LARoB.-One having caku.large,will be quick to compute
figures, and be able to perform numerical and arithmetical
calculations, even in his head, with accuracv, facility, and
despatch, and will delight in the study of figures; and be
an expert ar.eountant.
CALCULATION. 203
One having calcu. large, with caus. and compar. also
large, will be able to seiz!! even the abstract relatmns Clf num·
, hers with intuitive ease, and to solve difiicnlt problems in his
head, as well as on the slate, and will succeed well in the
higher branches of arithmetick and mathcmaticks ; be quick
to detect errours in the calculations of others, but seldom
make them himself, and excel both in the reasoning, and the
figuring, parts of arithmetick ; and be able to study with
success, the higher branches of mathemnticks ; with large
order, individ., event, and imitat. added, is capable of be·
coming a good accountant and book·keeper, and of casting
up accounts in his head, which others would be Clbliged to
do upon the slate ; and, with local. and construct. added, will
possess all the natural talents requisite for the study of sur·
veying, geometry, algebra, mensuration, navigation, astron-
omy, conick sections, &c.; will be deeply interested, and
gre.atly delighted, in studies of thts description; possess a
remarkable talent for prosecuting and practising them; and
be a natural mathematician : with caus. only moderate, and
individ., local., and form large, though he may be good in
arithmetick, and quick in jigu?·es, will be poor m the higher
branches of mathematicks.·
VERY L.&nox.-One having calcu. very large, will intui-
tively comprehend, and be able, at once, to solve, almost any
arithmetical problem proposed ; go tbr.,ugh with difficult
and a!lstruse arithmetical problems with great ease and perfect
correctness; cast up accounts, even though they may consist
of several columns of figures, and substract, divide, and
multiply with several figures at a time; calculate chiefly in
his head without a pen or pencil, and even without the aid
of rules; seize, by mtuition, and with perfect certainty, upon
his conclusions, and be impatient at the errours and dulness
of those with only moderate calcu. : with caus.,compar., indi-
vid.. form, size, and local. large or very large, will be a natural
mathematician of the first order, and be unrivalled for his
mathematical and astronomical powers; can solve, in his head,
the most abstruse qut>stions even in the higher branches of
mathematicks, and will be passionately fond of these stud-
ies; can perform, with wonderful ease, both the figuring, and
the rea.foning, parts of these studies, and wiD excel both in
·the principles and the details of mathematical science; be
great in the dem011strations, and in the principles involved,
and, with mane!. moderate or small; believe nothing which
204 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
be cannot .~u. or see mathematically demonstrated: with
these last-named organs only moderate or full, may be, like
Zera Colburn, unrivalled in his arithmetical or calculating
powers, nnd readily solve all nutlltrical questions propounded
to him; yet will be unskilful in those branches of the math·
ematicks which demand the higher powers of reason and of
thought, &c.
FuLr..-One having full calcu., though he may be re-
spectable, will not be extraordinary, for his quickness and
correctness in performing numerical calculations; and,
though practice may make him rather expert in the ordinary
I"Olltine of calculations, yet he will not succeed remarkably
well out of this line;. will not be able mtuitively to grasp
the results of complicated sums or probl~ms; may succeed
in the pursuit of arithmetick, but will be obliged to study in
order to succeed well; and, with a high degree of culture,
may bt'come, not only expert, but even eminent, as an arith·
metician and accountant.
The influence of cnlcu. 'full in combination, may be infer·
red from the combinations under calcu. large and very large,
modified by a diminution of the influence of this faculty.
· MoDERATE.-One having calcu. moderate, from habit and
much practice, may, perhaps, become respectable as an ac·
countant, and in arithmetical calculations generally, yet will
not readily come at the result of new and abstruse questions;
be obliged to perform his calculations with his pen or pencil
in his hand, and progress slowly and carefully, and then
make an occasional mistake; and, upon the whole, will dislike
numeriral calculations and the study of arithmetick : with
very large caus. and rompar., though he may be highly de·
lighted with the reasonings and the demonstrations contained
in the mathematicks, will be by no means partial to the mere
figuring part, and will make his nume·rical calculations
chiP-fly by the help of reason, nod the cause and effect by
which they are governed ; though he can at once see the
force and application of the ·rule.•,.and comprehend the prin·
ciples of arithmetick and of mathematical science generally,
will consider figures rather a drudgery than a delight; with
large br very large individ., form, size, local., imitat., and
construct. adaed, will be naturally a first-rate matlwnaticia~&,
but a poor aritkmetir.ian; be·passionately fond of the study
of geometry, surveying, mensuration, navigation, astronomy,
&e., in case his atteution be called to them, and capa·
LOCALITY. 205
ble of excelling in them, yet, in every thing in figures dis-
connected with reason and demonst·ration, his talents will be
inferiour.
SMALL.-One having calcu. small, will have a strong
aversion to figures; succeed in them but poorly, and do that
only with great labour; be slow, and often incorrect, in cast-
ing up accounts; can add, substract, divide, and multiply,
only by rule, and with his pen or pencil in his hand; and,
though he may go through a mechanical course of arith-
metical calculations, will not advance rapidly, nor without
great effort One having calcu. small, with large or very
large individ., event., lang., ideal., and compar., and caus.
only full, will be exceedingly fond of reading, of poetry, of
works of fiction, and of polite literature, and, with large or
very iarge form, size, and local. added, of the study of natu-
ral histdry, geography, botany, chymistry, &c., yet dislike
aritbmetick exceedingly.
VERy SM.\LL.-One having very small calcu., will be un-
able to perceive numerical relations, or even to perform sim-
ple, arithmetical calculations ; will find extreme difficulty
even in common adding and substracting, multiplying and
dividing, and be almost unable to count.
LocATION.-Calcu. is located externallv from order, and
a little lower, at the external termination o"
f the arch of the
eye.
31. LOCALITY.
Cognizance of the relative p(lsition of objtcts-recollecti01l
of the looks of places-knowledge of the geographical
position of things, the points of the compass, <J-c.
Location, or relative position, like form and size, enters
into the constitution of things. That a material substance ·
should exist without any !oration, or relative position with
respect to other things, is both inconceivable and impossible.
Hence the necessity of some faculty the exclusive funr.tion
of which is to perceive and apply this property to the objects
of the physical world; and the same train of argument
which proves that form, size, weight, or any of the other
faculties, is a separate power of the mind, likewise proves
that local. is also an innate, primary mentaJ faculty.
LARGE.-Onc having local. large, will retain, for a long
time, a dear and distinct impression of the looks of the places
he has seen, and, with imitat. and lang. also large, be able to
18
PHRENOLOGY JLLVITRATED.
give a correct description of them ; can form correct ideu
of places which he has not seen by hearing them described;
will seldom lose himself, especially if he has seen the place
before, and easily retrace his steps; can calculate, with un·
common accuracy, the relative positionll and bearings ofdiffer·
ent placesi find his way in the dark with ease; is very fond
of travelling, of visiting places, and of viewing natural
acenery, and, with acquis. only moderate, and ideal. largE\
will spend his money very freely for this purpose; but, with
acquis. large, and ideal. only moderate or full, will 11till seek
to gratify this propensity, though at a cheaper rate; will
travel in indifferent and cheap conveyanres, and take up with
inferiour fare: with self-e., approbat., and ideal. large or
very large, and acquis. only moderate or full, will be even,
extravagant in his travelling expenses, and always journey
in the best style he is able to reach: with ideal., imitat., com·
par., and lang. large or very large, will recollect places, and
be able to give a correct and a picturesque description of
scenery, roads, &c. : with large or very large inhab., will
call to mind, with vivid and intense feelings of delight, the
mountains, hills, dales, fields, groves, streams, &c. which
he was wont to gaze upon in his childhood or juvenile
days, and have a strong desire to revisit them : with event.
full, or even deficient, will often recollect incidents by re·
membering the place in which they transpired, and also
what he has read, by calling to mind its location upon the
e;· ··. page, and will discover uncommon tact in finding particular
.... ·, passages: with large or very large individ. and form, will
nOtice, and also recollect, the houses, trees, rocks, and other
objects near the road which he has travelled, and not only be
very fond of the study of geography, "Bnd make rapid ad·
vances in it, but, with large or very large form, size, and
imitat., be able to draw, with great accuracy and skill, maps,
sketches of natural scenery, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having local. very large, with large
or very large form, will retain in his mind, a distinct and
perfect recollection of the appearance of nearly every place
he has ever seen, and, with large or very large 1Mg., give a
·"':lively and correct description of each, and, with event. also
large, be excelli?Jely fond of reading travels, voyages, &c. ;
can. recal to his mind, not_only ~he general aspect of places
wh1ch he has seen, ·but wlll distinctly remember the geogra·
phy, roads, scenery, rocks, houses, and other things, and,
m '"edbyGoogle
LOCALITY. 207
also, the position even of insignificant objects;· will have a
fine taste and talent for pursuing the study of geography, ge·
ology, &c., and will be likely to break from every restraint
to indulge his roving, strolling desire.
The 'combinations and descriptions under local. large,
modified by an increase of the power and desires imparted
by local., will apply to this faculty very large.
FuLL.-One having local. full, will be able to recollect
places with considerable distinctness, yet not be remarkable
for this power; will understand the relative bearings of
places, and the position of objects, and, unless a long absence
has obliterated the impressions which they have made upon
this faculty, will seldom be troubled by a deficiency of it;
yet he will not distinctly recollect objects which he may pass,
unless, from some cause, they particularly arrest his atten-
tion; may notice and recollect important things, yet be apt
to forget little things: with large or very large individ., will
have a strong desire to travel in order chiefly to gratify his-
strong propensity to examine 1Jhysic.al objects, and partly to
see places, &c.
The combinations and descriptions under local. large,
modified by a reduction of the influence of local., will gen~
erally apply to this faculty full.
MonERATE.-One having moderatelocal.,.will not pay par-
ticular attention to the location of objects, nor form or retain
very distinct notions of the aspect of places, roads, &c., and,
consequently, be often at a loss to find such places as he ~
wishes, to go a second time to obscure places, or return by a •·
given road; will frequently lose his way, esP,ecially in cities
and forests, and sometimes experience considerable inconven·
ience and delay from the want of a stronger development of
this faculty. One having local. moderate, with individ. and
ideal. large, will appreciate the beauties of splendid natural
scenery, yet will not retain a clear and correct impression of
the appearance and beauties which produced the delightful
impressions: with very large inhab. and only full ideal., in·
divid., and hope, will seldom go from home unless compelled
by urgent business, and will then see but little on his jour·
ney, and dread the fatigues of travelling, and long to be at
his journey's end: with acquis. large, will dwell pathetically
upon the expenses incident to journeying: with individ. and
form only moderate or full, will have but a very imperfect
idea of the places which he has seen, and, if living in a
208 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
city, frequently pass his own door without knowing it; and,
with only full lang. and imitat., wi~l be utterly incapable of
giving even a tolerably correct description of places which
he may have seen many times.
SliiALL.-One having local. small, will find it very diffi·
cult to recollect, or return to, places; often lose his way, es-
pecially in woods, cities, or streets; can become familiar with
places only by seeing them many times; will form only con·
fused and incorrect ideas of the geography of a country, or
the nppearanc·.e and localities of places described to him ; be
often uncertain and incorrect as to the points of the compass;
con!!ider travelling a burden, rather than a pleasure; have
but little curiosity to see different places, &c. One having
local. small, with form and individ. small, will seldom notice
places, and then not distinctly recollect their appearance; will
seldom observe or.re.collect such objects as he may pass upon
the road; and fail to remember a road which he may have
often travelled, and also to find his way back, &c.: with form
large or very large, will frequently recollect the countenances
ofpersons, but will be utterly unable to locate them: with large
or very large event., will recollect distinctly that he has read,
or heard of, certain occurrences, yet will not be able to call
to mind the place in which· they occurred, or where he read
them, &c. ·
'fhe combinations and descriptions under local. moderate,
modified by a reduction of the power of local., and, also, those
under locaL large, reversed, will apply to thi~:~ faculty small.
VERY SMALL.-One having local. very small, will find
it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to form any clear
ideas of the relative position of objects, to keep the right
road in travelling, or to follow the same road back when
returning ,on his journey; be greatly perplexed to find
any particular spot, tree, rock, or other obje::t, even on
the second or third visit to it; and be very apt to lose him·
self, especially in the woods, in a city, &c. ; and find his
abilities in the exercise of this faculty, directly the opposite
of his in whom local. is large or very large.
LocATJON.-Local. is located directly over size and
weight, and nearly above the internal orbit of the eye. It •
tu:tends diagonally in the direction of mirth. The frontal
ainus sometimes increases the apparent size of this organ ;
but this subject will be more fully presented in another por-
\ion of the work.
EVENTUALITY.
SPECIES 111.-SBMI·PBRCEPTIVB F ACULT.IBI.
'fhese faculties perform a class of functions intermediate
between those exercised by the perceptive, and those by the
reasoning, faculties ; and the location of their organs cor-
responds with their character. The perr.eptive faculties take
cognizance of mate·rial objects and their various physical
properties, such as their form, size, weight, colour, &c.;
whereas, the semi-perceptive are of a more subtle nature,
having to do with facts, and the various phenomena produced
by physical objects, and form, as it were, a stepping-stone to
the reasoning organs. Eventuality, for example, takes cog·
nizan!!e o~ not physical objects themselves, but their actions,
aud the incidents and events thus produced; time, of the par-
ticular period in which the.se events occur; language, of the
vocal sounds employed to name these objects ; and tune, of
the melody of sounds produced by them : and thus, both the
perceptive and the semi·perct'ptive faculties are employed as
the subordinate agents of the reasoning faculties, furnishing
them with materials to scan, digest, and reflect and reason
upon. Hence it would appear, that, in the mental economy,
the f11nctions of the semi-perceptive faculties, are no less im-
portant than those of the perceptive, especially if we consi4-
er, that they constitute as essential a part of the intellectual
machinery when viewed as a whole.
32. EVENTUALITY.
Memory of events--pOteeT of calling to mind those circum-
stances, occurrences, incidents, historical facts, 4-c., which
have previously come to the knowledge of the individual..
It has been shown, that to notice the existence of materia}
objects and their various qualities, requires a set of faculties
whose various functions correspond with those ascribed to
individuality, form, size, and the other perceptive powers;
and that this requisition is the imperative demand of Mt-
ure-which must be answered. But it is not only true
that things exist, and possess various propertit>.s, but equally
so that they act. lf, then, the human mind requires facultiea
whose proper functions are to notice the existence, conditions,
and properties of material substances, it follows, that it alao
requues a faculty whose function it is to take cognizance of
ts•
210 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
their various actions, and other phenomena. In phrenolog-
ical language, the faculty that performs this portion of the
mental operations, is called Eventuality.
The importance of such a faculty as eventuality, in the
mental economy, as well as of individuality, and, indeed, of
all the other perceptive and semi-perceptive faculties, may be
farther illustrated by noticing some points in the process of
forming ide11s. In order successfully to apply the principle
of causation, the antecedent cause and the consequent effect
must necessarily both be before the mind at the same time,
otherwise a comparison of them would be impossible. In
the language of phrenolo~, then, individuality notices and
recollects the physical obJect that acts, or the procuring
cau.
st, and eventuality, the consequent action, or phenomena
produced ; and then comparison and causality compare, con-
trast, analyze, and draw deductions from, the materials thus
furnished by individuality and eventuality : 'and this consti-
tutes tltinking or reasoning. The same principle applies to
the modus operandi of individuality and eventuality with
benevolence, adhesiveness, and all the other mental faculties.
Again, this view of the subject is strengthened by a refer-
ence to the intellectual developments, and the intellectual ad-
vancement, of children. In them the organs of individuality
and eventuality early appear largely developed and exceed-
ingly active; and almostas early,comparison; and soon after,
causality. Individuality, aided by sight, is found to be very
busy in noticing objects; eventuality, equally so in remember-
ing all their various actions and other phenomena; compar-
ison, in combining and comparing these things or notions
brought forward by the first two'; anti causality, in prying
into their nature and reason: and thus the process of form-
ing ideas, or of thinking, goes fol'ward at a rapid rate. And
this process is still farther extended and perfected by the pro-
gressive increase and activity of the organs of form, size,
colour, calculation, &c.
LARGE.-One having event. large, will have a cle?.r, a
distinct, and a retentive memory of what he sees, hears, or
reads; according to his advantages, will possess a mind well
stored with historical ar.d scientifick facts, with the news of
the day, and narrative and historical information generally;
will seldom be troubled with forgetfulness, or with an indif·
.ferent or indistinct recollection of circumstances, incidents,
&e. ; will treasure up a rich fund of anecdotes upon such
o;J,izedb,Google
I·
....
EVBNTUALITY. 211
subjects as arc interesting to the other stronger faculties, or
of such of them as have come within the range of his
knowledge; and, with large lang. added, in relating them,
will not fail to mention all the particulars; and, with large
concent. also added, will present them all in their proper or·
der; but, with concent. moderate or small, will fail to conn~t
the several circumstances which compose a story so as to
give it unity; will frequently omit important particulars, or
state them in a wrong connexion, and thus create confusion,
and lessen the effect of his narrative : with individ., lang.,
and compar. large, will show a marked partiality for read-
ing and study, and succeed well as a general scholar; will
be able, also, to make a good use of what information he
may possess, and have a happy faculty of communicating it
to others: with large or very large ideal., individ., form, size,
local., and compar., and full, large, or very large caus., will
possess a literal passion for Study, reading, the pursuit of
chymistry, mineralogy, geology, geography, botany, natural
history, and every thing pertaining to the treasuring up of
facts; according to his advantages, will be a superiour schol-
ar; will allow nothing to divert him from literary and scien-
tifick pursuits; will be even enthusiastick, remarkably suc-
cessful as n student, and have a great amount of circ:umstan-
tial information upon matters and things in general ; with
large lang. added, can converse sensibly and fluently upon
almost any subject; with full concent. also added, will have
a happy talent for compiling and arranging facts, for investi-
gating subjects, and attending to any complicated operation;
but, with caus. only full, will appear to know a great deal, yet,
when held down to a close, logical or metaphysical process
of reasoning, will betray a deficiency of mental strength and
power, and of logical acumen: with compar. large, will
notice, recollect, and be able to compare, the operations of his
own mind : with lang. very large, will be able to repeat con-
versations with great accuracy and clearness.
VERY LARGE.-One having very large event., will pos-
sess a remarkably clear, distinct, and retentive memory of
events and transactions, and even of all the minute, and
seemingly unimportant, circumstances connected with them;
seldom allow any thing to escape his recollection ; have at
command more facts than he can manage to advantage; have
an insatiable desire to learn all that is to be learned ; be
given quite too much to narration, and thus frequently
ig<tized ,YGoogle
212 PBRBXOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
weaken his arguments ; make a short story long, and a long
one, very long, by relating all the little particulars : with
caus. and compar. only full, will have a great fund of infor·
mation, which, however, will not be well digested; be rather
a bookworm than a deep thinker; attend much more to facts
and details than to general principles, and attempt to prove
his positions rather by narrating facts, than by logical infer·
ences : with large or very lnrgP individ., will see all that
passes around him, and remember all he sees, and thus know
a great deal, &c.
The descriptions and combinations under event. large,
modified by an increase of the power of event., will apply to
this organ very large.
FuLL.-One having event. full, will have a respectable
memory of incidents, and a distinct rPCollection of those oc-
currences to which his attt'ntion has been particularly di·
rPCted, yet will seem to be deficient in his knowledge of those
things which have not made a distinct impression; when he
ha& an occasion to adduce facts, will rPCur to them with tolera-
ble correctness and facility, and seldom manifest a striking de-
ficiency in this respect: with caus. and compar. large or very
large, will generally be able to command and coller.t a suffi-
cient amount of facts by which to substantiate and illustrate
his arguments, but will reason rather than narrate ; regsrd
phenomena chiefly in connexion with those principles which
produce them; and remember generals much more than
particulars : with lang. and imitat. large, will be able to relate
anecdotes in a happy style, yet, with only moderate lang.,
imitat., and concent., will relate them very poorly, and have
a better memory in reality than he seems to have; will re-
collect the substance and the main features of whatever has
passed before his mind, &c., better than the particulars.
MoDERA.TE.-One having event. moderate, will be less
distinct and certain in his recollPCtion of incidents and cir·
cumstances than one with large event.; have rather n general
than a particular memory of facts and events, and, with
caus. and compar. large or very large, may recollect distinct·
ly the points of an argument, and the substance of what he
hears or resds, yet will deal more in general principles than
in phtnomena, and argue much more than narrate; find
considerable difficulty in summinl( up, and in calling to
mind particular incidents, or in going into details.
BVBNTtJUITY. il3.
The descriptions and combinations of full event. dimin·
ished, will generally be found applicable to event. moderate.
SMALL.-One having event. small, will often fail to recol-
lect incidents and facts, and, consequently, to do important
things which he wi11hes to accomplish; have a poor, indis-
tinct, and confused memory of occurrences of which he bas
heard or read, and even of those which have fallen under
his own observation; will seldom, if ever, enter into the par·
ticulars, and have great difficulty, and little success, in at·
tending to details; find it hard to command the knowledge,
or apply the talents, he really possesses ; can learn things in
general only with great labour and apr.lication, and even
then, with caus. and compar. large, w11l learn principles
much sooner than phenomena; and be often greatly troubled
to call to mind facts which he wishes to employ.
The descriptions and combinations under event. moderate,
modified by a diminution of the power of event., and also
the descriptions and combinations under event. large or very
large, reversed, or read with the addition of a negative, will
describe this faculty small. _
. VERY SJKALL.-One having very small event., will forget
almost every inCident or phenomena which he has seen,
heard of, or read of; be extremely confused and uncertain in
attempting to call to mind almost any occurrence, and suffer
very great loss and inconveniElnce from a deficiency of this
fuculty.
LocATION.-Event. is located about the middle of the
forehead. When the surrounding organs are large and
event. only full, there will be an evident depression just above
individ. and between the two lobes ·of local., which will re-
sult rather from the size of the surrounding organs, than
from an absolute deficiency of event. In children, the organ
is generally large or very large, and gives a full and spher·
ical form to this part of the forehead, while the correspond·
ing depression often observable in men, is an evidence of a
deficiency of it. The tenacious memories of children, com-
pared with the more obscure memories, and palpable forget·
fulness, of men, furnish both a strong proof of the truth of
phrenology, and a happy illustration of the faculty in ques-
tion.
PBBBNOLOOY ILLUIITBATBD.
33. TIME.
Cognizance of mccession--that mmtal pO'UJer which M-
tices and recoll~cts the lapse of time, and the retatiu
distance of time, and order of succe11ion, in which events
transpire.
The phenomena of succession, or the lapse of time, com-
pose a part of that system of things to which man is adapted,
and enter into that condition in which he is plac~d on earth.
Day and night follow each other in quick succession, and
approaching seasons tread upon the heels of their predeces-
sors, and, in their turn, retire to make room for their suc-
cessors. Generation after generation passes away, and
sleeps with those beyond the flood. The present instantly
becomes the past ; and, were it not for thts wonderful ar-
rangement, there would be but one eternal, monotonous now,
(a thing impossible, and, to us, inconceivable,) without any
change or succession, either of birth or death, or days, sea-
sons, years, or ages.
The wisdom which devised this arrangement of chrono-
logical succession, is too obvious to need comment; and the
necessity of some filculty in man by which he is qualified to
perceive this state of things, and enabled to adapt himself to
it, is equally apparent. In deciding upon this point, how-
ever, we are not left to the guidance of any uncertain a pri-
ori inferences, but, by the unerring evidence of facts, are
assured of the existence in the human mind, of such a fac-
ulty as time.
In common with all others who have inquired at the shrine
of nature touching this subject, the authors have seen many
individuals who, seemingly without an effort, are able to tell
the rear, and even the day, of almost every birth, death, or
parttcular event which has come to their knowledge; how
old every person is whose age they have ever learned; what
time every house in their neighbourhood or town was erer.t-
ed i and the exact time of the occurrence of nearly all their
village affairs and business transactions. They have also seen
hundreds of others who, without consulting the family record,
could not tell either their own ages, or those of their brothers
and sisters, or even those of their own children. Though
they might have a distinct recollection of certain occurrences,
they could never recollect tchen they took place.
TIMB. 215
On the other hand, they know a gentleman who is accus·
tomed to relate many anecdotes, and who is always particu-
la·r to mention the year, month, and day of the month, and,
sometimes, even tht! time of the day, on which the event re-
lated, took place: and this is done because it is perfectly
easy and natural for him to do so-his organ of time is very
large. They were recently in company with a lady in whom
this organ was decisively small, and who, when asked how
long she had been married, replied, with perfect honesty,
"about three years;" but, upon reflection, she concluded it
was only two. Not quite confident, however, of her correct-
ness, she appealed to her husba~d. and ascertained that it was
only one: and even then she could not tell the month in
which their marriage took place. They know persons who
can waken at any time of night which they may choose to
appoint, and also tell very nearly the hour of the day with-
out the aid of the sun or a time-piece; and others, again, who
are almost entirely unconscious of the flight of time even
when awake. For these effects there must be some cause;
and, since this power of observing and recollecting the chro-
nological relations of events, the time occupied by sounds,
&c., is found to be proportionate to a certain development of
the brain, the induction that time constitutes an innate and
primary mental power, seems to be perfectly logical.
LARGE.-One having time large, will notice and remem-
ber very accurately, the relations of time in which certain
occurrences stand with each other, or how long one thing
happened before or after another ; without the aid of a time-
piece, be able to tell very nearly what time of the day or
night it is; can waken from sleep at such an hour, or, per-
haps, minute, as he may wish; will generally be in season,
recollect his appointments, and, if possible, fulfil them; set
apart certain days or periods for doing particular things, and
be likely to perform them at the appointed time; be regular
at his meals, and in all his business operations, &c. ; and
excellent in chronology.
One having time large, with large event., will have a dis-
tinct recollection both of particular circumstances, and, also,
of the chronological order in which they occurred, and, with
large calcu. added, will have a correct knowledge of the
chronology and dates of such events as have come to his
knowledge, the ages of persons, &c.: with large or very
large lang., ideal., and compar., will pay particular attention
o; izedb,Google
.. - ·~
216 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED,
to the rhyme and measu·re of poetry, and be exceedingly an·
noyed if either is imperfect; and, with only fnll caus. added,
will look more to the drapery of poetry than to the more
enduring qualities of sense and substance; if he attempt
to compose poetry, may make good rhymes, yet his produc-
tions will be ephemeral and gaudy, rather than substantial
and excellent; but, with large caus. added, will excel in sen·
timent, measure, style, rhyme, and power of thought: with
tune large, will keep the heat in rnusick, and be very fond
of dancing, and, with imitat. also large, will easily learn any
partir.ular figure, and keep the step perfectly, &c.
VERY LARGE.-One having very large time, will possess
a wonderfully accurate and precise memory of the time
when certain things occurred, of dates, ages, business trans·
actions, &c. ; how long one thing happened before or after
another; the state of the weather upon certain days; the pre-
cise period of historical events; and, in short, will be a real
chronologist, to whom a reference will be had by all who
know him for the purpose of ascertaining the chronology of
events, &c. ; and will manifest, only in a still higher degree,
all the qualities described under time large.
The combinations and descriptions under time large, mod-
ified by an increase of the power and manifestations of time,
will apply to time very large.
FuLL.-One h~ving time fidl, will have a respectable
memory of dates, and yet, with event. large, be much more
correct and certain in regard to the minute particulars of the
occurrence itself, than of the precise time ofthe occurrence;
will ordinarily be punctual to his appointments, and seldom
discover a deficiency of this faculty, and yet, seldom manifest
this power in a very high degree.
The descriptions and combinations of time large, modified
by a diminution of time, will apply to time full.
MoDERATE.-One having time moderate, though he may
remember short intervals of time very well, will forget those
that are longer, or have rather an indistinct idea of the chron·
ological order and relations of time in which c.ertain events
occurred; forget dates and ages, and be unable to tell with
much a<'curacy the time of the day or month: with event.
largt>, though he may remember certain c.ircumstances with
perfect accuracy, will not have a distinct or positive recol·
lection ofthe time when they occurred, or how long one event
. .
TUN:&. 217
happened before or after another; and will have only a getr- •
eral idea of the intervals between certain events.
SMALL.-One having time small, will be very forgetful as
to the ti1ne when; find it difficult to remember the ages in
his own family, or even his own age, and be frequently
obliged to consult family and other records in order to ascer·
tain thP.se and similar points; have only a genE>ral, and a
very incorrect, memory of dates ; can seldom tell the time
of the day without the sun or a time·piece, or even the day
of the month or week; will be the reverse of one with time
large: with aliment. large, may calculate the time of the
day quite correctly by his appetite, and be punctual to his
meals; or punctual when some other faculty quickens the
action of time, yet, in general, will discover a marked defi·
ciency in this respect; and will be poor in chronology.
VERY SMALL.-One with time very small, will seldom, if
ever, notice the chronological order of events as they pass;
have a most imperfect idea of every thing pertaining to suc-
cession and dates: with aliment. only moderate, will even
forget the time of his meals: with event. moder!l.te, will have
a most miserable memory both of circumstances and of dates;
forget his own age, and most of the circumstances connected
even with his own history, and thus be a constant sufferer
from this cause.
LocATION.-Time is located directly above colour, and a
little externally from locality.
34. TUNE.
Seme of melody and harmony ·of sounds-ability to learn
tunt.s and detect discords.
In another part of this work it has been shown, that htar-
ing cannot produce musick, any more than seeing can give
a just conception and judgment of colours, but that a con·
ception of the melody arising from a succession of sounds,
must depend upon another distinct faculty of the mind. That
those, indeed, who possess an equally perfect auditory and
vocal apparatus, differ widely in their musical talents, :s prov-
ed by every votary of harmonious sounds, as wellas by every
common observer, from the days of Orpheus down to those
of Haydn, Handel, Mozart, and Catalini.
That the fu.culty of musick is innate and primary, and man•
ifests its power in different individlfals in proportion to a par·
19
' ..
t18 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
ticular development of the brain, iiJ a filet fully eatabliahe4
by the observations of phrenologists. They have examined
the heads, busts, or portraits, of Glack, Zumsteg, Dussek,
Mozart, Viotti, Rosini, Crescentini, and Catalini, Handel,
and Haydn, and of many other celebrated musical per·
formers or singers, and have found an extreme development
of the organ of tune in all of them. The authors have seen
many children, even, in which the organ was largely devel·
oped, that were able to catch and turn tunes soon after they
began to talk; and, on the other hand, adult& in whom the
organ was small, that, after the most laborious efforts under
the most able instructers, were utterly unable to turn a tune,
or even distinguish one tune from another.
The natural language of musick is universaL or, in other
words, soundsthat are melodious to one nation, are meaEurably
ao to another; which shows not only, that the principles of
musick exist in nature, but, that the human mind, in order to
adapt itself to these principles, must necessarily possess an
innate faculty whose pro_per function it is to perceive and ap-
ply them : and hence it 1s, that what constitutes melody and
harmony of sound to the Englishman, is no less so to the
Swede, to the wild rover of the desert, and to him who in·
habits the islands of the sea. Some nations, however, as
well as individuals, are more musical than others, and are
distinguished by a larger development of the organ of tune.
In this respect, the Italians and Germans excel the Span-
iards, Frenchmen, Englishmen, and Otaheitans; and th~
authors have noticed, that this organ is generally very large
in negroes; which exactly corresponds with their \vonderful
musical propensity and talent.
These remarks will show the utter folly, not to say ab-
surdity, of that modern, fashionable prejudice which demands
that musick shall be taught to young ladies indiscriminately,
and without the least regard to the natural talent, or defect,
of the individual in this respect, and which condemns many
a lovely female to waste years of precious time in what is to
her an intolerable drudgery, and one that nature never plan·
ned for her.
LARGB.-Onehaving largetune, willbe able easily to catch
tunes by hearing them sung a fe\V times over, and to strike
correctly their key note; has a correct musical ear, and,
with a good voice, can easily become a good singer, or a good
pe,rformer upon musical instruments ; delights to listen to
---,'"
T11NE. 219
good musick, and can easily detect a discord, &c. One hav-
ing large tune, with large 1deal., will not only be extremely
fond of good musick, but wiU impart a richness, and pathos.
and melody to his musical perf(lrmances which are cal ulat·
ed to move the heart; with large time added, will be a me-
lodious singer, and add ne.w charms to his musick by keep-
ing the beat correctly; but, with time small, will have an
excellent musical ear, accompanied with much melody and
good taste, yet will fail greatly in time, and, when singing in
company, generally sing too slowly : with combat. and de-
struct. large or very large, will delight greatly in martial
musick, and be highly excited by the stirring notes of the
fife, the drum. the bugle, &i. : with adhes. and ideal. large,
will be very fonEi of songs, and be ablu to sing them to ad-
miration ; and, with large or very large time and hope add-
ed, will be highly delighted- with dancing tunes, and, in
danei,ng, precisely keep the step, and be gay and cheerful iil.
the .. assembly room," and enjoy the cotillon party, &c., be·
yond measure: with hope small, and ven.,_conscien., and
adhes. large or very large, will prefer plaintive airs, minot·
moods, solemn, devotional mueick, &c. ;.and; with hope largo-
even, will stitl prefer solemn tunes, yet select those of a.
cheerful, lively air: with large or very large lang., can easi-
ly associate tun.
es with the words set to them, and tbus read-_
ily commit songs, hymns, &c., so as to sing them by rote.
In learning tunes, and in singing them with words, the or-
gan of lang. renders very important assistance. The same-
is also true of imitat., which giv·es the prope:n expresnon to.
a musical performance, ellablea-the performe11 to imitate dif·
ferent kinds of style, &e.
VERY LARGE.-One having tune very large, will be able-
to learn tunes by hearing them .once or twice repeated, and!
will never forget them ; is filled with ecsta$y, or completely
carried away, with good musick, but cannot endure a discord,
or an awkward or artificial singer or player; produces a
powerful impresaion upon the feelings of those who listen to
his performances, and literally charms them, &e.
One having tune very large, with large or very large ad·
hea., ideal., ven., hope, imitat., time, lang., individ., weight,
and compar., will be ~ natural musician of the first order;
be pre-eminent for his musical taste and talent j pour forth
his wlwle 1ovl in the most melting and voluptuous strains of
melody and harmony, so as often to overcome the hearer;,
220 PHRBNOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
learn, u it were, by intuition, to play upon any musical in-
strument ; perform to admiration all kmds of musick, par-
ticularly sentimental pieces, Irish airs, Scotch melodies, and
other p1eces of kindred sympathy and pathos; and will be
able to compose musick characterized by sentiment, pathos,
and the soul of melody.
FuLL.,-.One having tube full, will be able, with consid-
erable practice, to. Jearn tunes both by note, and also by the
ear; may be called a good,.and even a superiour, singer,/et,
for any musical talent he may possess. will be indebte as
much to art and science as to nature; with the aid of notes,
and a. good knowledge of th.e principle~, may be able to read
musick correctly, and even sing, at first sight, almost any
piece of musick presented to him, yet his musical perform-
ance~ will be characteriz,ed more by accuracy than melody
and pathos. One having tune full, with large or very large
ideal., will be highly delighted with good musick, and have
a correct musical ear, and impart' peculiar softness to his
singing, and, with large imitat. added, be capable of becom-
ing a good singer, if not a superiour musician; can' r~adily
imitate different kinds of style, &c. : with the moral senti-
ments large, may experience-much fervour of devotion while
singing, and impart this feeling to his musical disflays: with
lang. large, in calling to u1ind various tunes, wil be greatly
assisted by recollecting th.e words set to them, and will find
it somewhat difficult to learn tunes d.iseoonected with words:
with lang. moderate or small, will :receive, in learning tunes,
very little aid from lang., andfail somewhat in applying words
to musical sounds:. with compar. large or very large, will
readily decide between what tunes and words a harmony of
aentiment exists i. and,. with large ven. added, when a hymn
is given out, wil be able to select the most appropriate tune,
and, with imitat. also large, to sing it in such a manner as to
convey the sentiments and feelings expressed in t.l!e words,
&c.
The additional combinations ad descriptions of tune full,
may be inferred from those under tune large, the power and
the manifestations of tune being diminished.
MonERATJ:.-One having tune •otk'l-&le, may, perbaJ18,
learn to read musick readily by note, but will be obliged to
labour hard to effect even this ; be obliged to hear tunes
many times repeated before he can learn them by 'l"ote, and
will then forget them unless he sings them frequently i may.
T171!flt 221
perbaps, oo a respectable singer, but will be indebted for this
talent much more to science and application than to nature i
will sing more by the rules of musick than by his ear, an4
be·generally obliged to have his book before him; will be
rather a mechanical than a natural singer·; and will fail to
impart melody and pathos to his musical performances, and
to kindle or melt the soul.
One having tune moderate, with ideal. large or very large,
will listen with rapture to good musick, yet none will please
him except musick of the first order; will be very unpleas-
antly affected by discord, and perhaps be a good judge of
musick, yet will not be a good or a great performer himself.
S•ALL.-One having tune small, with happy effort, may
learn to sing and play tunes; yet will be only an automatick,
mechanical, indifferent, and unsuccessful musician, and will
be unable to make melody, or to learn tunes by the ear: with
large or very large ideal., will listen with delight, to good mu·
sick,yet be slow to distinguish one tune from another,andgen·
erally be insensible to the higher charms of excellent musick.
The combinations and description$ under tune moderate,
modified by a reduc.tion of the influence of tune, and those
under tune large or very large, re1Jersttl, or read with the
addition of a negative, will generally apply to this organ
small.
VBav s•ALL.-One having tune 'IJery s.all, will be un--
able to strike a note correctly, and even to distinguish one-
tune or one note .from another : with mirth. large, will bft.
likely to ridicule a musical taste or an amateur in musiclc.
or be, at least, in4ifferent to musick, if not really disguated.
with it.
LocA'l'ION.-Tune is located, in adults, about three quu•.
t11rs of an inch above the organ of calcu., and ·within the-
arch of the superciliary ridge. The location. of tune ia 80•
much affected by the stze of the surrounding organs, and its<
exteTnal appearance,. by the temporal muscle which passes'
over it, that, except in the case of children, the authors are·
not always able to decide correctly upon its size. It may·
also be added, that a good 1Joice adds greatly to good• muaick.
and is therefore frequently mistaken for a musical eM or ~al­
ent. Others, again, in whom the organ ill only moderate, are
tolerable singers, but are indebted for this talent chiefly to
science and practice. Hence many correct d~isioDB UpoA·
tune, are consi:fered erroneous.
19•
PBRBNOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
35. LANGUAGE.
PfJ1/Ier of comm,,nicating ideas .by means of particular
signs-memory of words-recollectiM ofarbitrary signs
as expressive of ideas.
In the plenitude of his wisdom and goodness, the Great
Author of our being has seen fit, in various ways, to distin-
guish man from " the beasts that perish ;" and one of these
distinguishing eharacteristicks, is most strikingly displayed
in his power of spetch. Without a faculty by means of
which to communicate to his fellow-men, h1s thoughts, feel-
ings, and desires, man would be incapable of any consider-
able degree of cultivation and refinement, and of carrying
on those vast schemes and projects by which the face of the
earth is subdued and cultivated, and the beasts of the field
brought under subjection to him-by which the forest bows
to his mandate, and, in its stead, the cultivated farm blooms
like a garden-by which science and the arts fiour!sh, com-
merce springs into life, and cities, kingdoms, and republicks
burst forth in all their magnificence and glory.
The signs of language are of two kinds, natural and arti-
ficial. .The natural signs are common both to man and the
lower order of animals, and are understood by each species
of animals by the operations of the instinctive principles of
its nature. In brutes, these natural signs are employed, for
example, in the bleating of a lamb, the neighing of a horse,
and the chirping of a bird ; and in man, in that expression of
voiee and feature which he uses in sighing, groaning, laugh-
ing, crying, and in the use of all that class of semi-articulate
· 10unds called interjection•. But the grand diatinction be-
tween the faculty of' language in man and the same faculty
in the brute creation, consists in the ability of the former to
make use of distinct, articulate sounds, wh1ch we call speech,
as signs of his ideas, whereas, the ability of the latter is eon-
fined to the use of inarticulate sounds.
For the more extensive and perfect transmission of thought,
the superiour wisdom and ingenuity of man have also ena-
bled him to invent, and employ by common consent, various
8ets of artificial sounds called words, or vocal or artificiOJ,
language; and, moreover, to institute certain arbitrary ngns
by means of which to represent these words to lhe eye, call-
ed written language.
LANGUAGE.
That the power of speech in man, or his copia 11erborum,
1s primitive, and depends upon a distinct faculty ofthe mind,
is evident from the fact, that it greatly differs in different in·
dividoals, and cannot, therefore, be the result of education
alone, but must originally be possessed by them in various
degrees of strength. Were it no~ so, eaclt individual would
display this power in proportion to his cultivation of the fac-
ulty~ but such is by no means the case. We often see child·
reo that have received little or no instruction, learn the use
and application of words with a facility and accuracy alto-
gether wonderful ; and others again upon which a supera·
bundaot amount of instruction bas been bestowed, that re·
main extremely deicient in this respect, and find &Teat diffi-
culty in commanding words enough to express their ideas
with even common propriety.
We see persons, also, who have studied many languages,
received all the advantages of instruction from the greatest
linguists, and wasted long nights over the midnight lamp,
and yet, when they come to express themselves in their mo·
ther tongue, often display a style marked with barrenness,
stiffness, and impropriety; whereas, others who have enjoy·
ed no such advantages, are able to speak and write in a style
both copious and eloquent.
Some persons are able to repeat a page verbatim after
having read it but two or three times over; whilst others,
again, cannot repeat it after having read it as many hundred
times.
And now let us ask, whetherthese facts at all accord with
the metaphysical notion of some, that language is w/,olly ar·
ti.ftcial, or con11tntional. If so, language should display it·
self, in individuals of equal talents, in an exact proportion to
its cultivation : but this has clearly been shown not to be the
case. We must therefore conclude, that the power of Ian·
guage or speech, depends upon a primary faculty of the
mind, and that i~ is as natural for man to employ language,
as it is '!Jision, or hearing, or any other faculty of the mind.
Many remarkable instances of an extraordinary manife."l·
tation of this faculty, as well as of it3 extreme deficiency,
have fallen under the observation of the authors. From a
multitude of cases, they will select,and present, only the two
following.
They know a little girl in whom the organ of language
is eztremely large, and who hll8 beet;l brought up in a family
o; izedb,Google
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
in which there is no child but herself; consequently, she
seldom has any one tO talk with. But this deficiency abe
has managed to supply, ever since abe was two or three years
old, by almost incessantly talking to her doll or to herself;
for tallt abe must, although it often consiate in nothing more
than the utterance of articulate sounds without meaning.
She often even conducts a long dialogue in two or three dis-
tinct voices, being assisted in this by large imitation ; and
has, moreover, a wonderful propensity to invent, and apply,
names to all objects she sees ; and, when these are few,
she gives many .names to the same object. Her organ of
tune is also large; and this she frequently gratifies by com·
posing allP singing tunes extempore, and sometimes, too, in
rhyme.
In the family of profe.ssor Eaton, the distinguished botan·
ist and naturalist, one of the authors saw a servant-man in
whom the organ is extremely small; and it is with the ut·
most difficulty that he can command. wends enough to hold
a conversation upon the most familiu subject :-in proof of
which, many striking anecdotes were related by the professor.
The following is one of them. Being very anxious to learn
to read-a thing he found it next to impossible to accom·
plish-he was sent to school ; and, in attempting to relate to
his master the pains taken by his tutor in instructing him,
when he got to the word teaching, he stopped, and hesitated
for a long time, not being able to think of it, or of any other
word that would express the idea ; but, at last, he got it out
by saying, that "my tutor keep- jawing me how to read."
LARGB.-One having lang. large, will find it easy and
natural to learn and remember words, and to call to mind
such words as fully express his ideas; possess, in a high
degree, copiousness, freedom, fluency, and power of ex-
pression; have at command a multitude ef words and phrases
from which he is able to make 811ch a selection as may be
dictated by his other faculties ; will fill out his sentences
. well,. and leave but few ellipses to be supplied by the reader;
will be able to write with ease and facility, and give a copi·
ousness, and richness, and variety to his style, and hne 11.
great desire to talk and read, as well os to hear others do so;
and can easily commit words to memory..
One having lang: large, with large or very large individ.,
fo.m, local., and event., can learn Yerbatim with great rapid-
ity and very little effort~ has s. remarkable talent for remem·
LANGUAGB.
bering the precise expressions used by others in conversa-
tion, and for relating accurately what was said by a speaker;
will be able, in school or in college, to learn his lessons, as
it were, by intuition, or, at least, by reading them two or
three times over; will make very rapid advances as a schol-
ar, far outstrip those who have lang., event., and individ. only
moderate, and appear to understand his lessons much better
than he really does, and thus gain great credit for his reci-
tations; when he attempts to speak, will have a copious flow of
words, and display a remarkable talent for making quotations;
with only moderate or full caus. added, will talk much, and
fluently, upon subjects without instructing the hearv. or pre-
senting many new ideas, or profound observations; with
large or very large ideal. and compar., and full concent.
added to this combination, is capable of becoming quite in-
teresting, and even eloquent, as .a speaker; will be chaste
and finished, if not polished and graceful, in his language
and expressions, and, with imitat. also large, decisively pop-
ular as an extempore speaker; will be perspicuous and ap-
propriate, and easily and fully understood; possess extraor-
dinary facility and felicity of expression, and, whenever he
becomes animated in speaking. will quote poetry with ease
and correctness, yet will have a better command of words
than of ideas; may please the- fancy, yet will not greatly
instruct, or enlighten the understanding: with individ. large
or very large, will use many adjectives and qualifying
phrases · and yet employ words with considerable definite-
ness anJ precision: with large secret., cautious., approbat.,
conscien., and ven., may be taciturn and reserved before
strangers or ~rtial acquaintances, or, in consequence of his
bashfulness or modesty, yet, when among his familiars and
equals, will talk very freely : with large or very large se-
cret., will generally say but little, and, with cautious. also
large, frequently hesitate in speaking, but this will arise
from the fear of committing himself, or of saying what he
does not intend to say, rather than from a want of words ;
but, with secret. moderate or small, will not only have a
great command of words, but be free to express his thoughts
and ieelings, and, with benev. and adhes. also large or very
larfe, this propensity to unbosom himself to others, will be
etil ~ increased, and he will be a downright talker:
with larpindivid., combat., and destruct., will have a great
command of severe and bitter epithets, and, when excited, be
DigitiZt!d~·:Coogle
PHRENOLOGY JLLUSTRATBJ>.
extremely pointed and sarcastick in his expressions, and, with
compar. also large, can pour out a torrent of abusive words,
or scold with a vengeance : with adhes. anq benev. large
or very large, will have a great command of words express·
ive of eympathy, affection, endearment,tenderness of feeling,
&c.; and, with imitat. also large, will accompany his verbal
communications with appropriate gesticulation, and speak
through his action, the expression of his countenance, &c.,
as well as by his words : with compar. large or very large,
will have a critical knowledge of the precise meaning of
words, of philology, synonymies, &c., and be prone closely
to critici~ both his own expressions and rhose of others, and,
with large or very large individ. and event. added, is capable
of becoming a first-rate linguist : with large or very large
caus. and compar., and only moderate or full ideal., will be
bold, original, and powerful in his expressions, but not fin-
ished, elegant, or polished, and, if large combat. and destruct.
and moderate or small secret. be 11dded, will speak out his
ideas in a plain, strong, blunt, and frequently uncouth style ;
will despise the flowers of rhetorick and finely turned peri-
ods,1and present the facts and the argumeD18 of his subject
without embellishment: with ideal large instead of mod·
erste, will be a nervous, strong, and also polished writer
and speaker; have a full flow of ideas, and also of words in
which to expre81 them ; will combine power of thought with
copiousness and fluency of dietion, and, with a good educa•
tion, be capable of becoming an accomplished and a power·
ful publick speaker; will express important ideas and strong ·
arguments in a peculiarly felicitous and happy style, and'
have thoughtsenough handsomely to fill the channel through
which they flow.
VERY LARGE.-One having lang. 11ery large, will possesa
remarkable copiousness of speech and a great flow of words;
talk with perfect ease and the greatest delight; and, with se·
cret. only moderate and approbat. large or very large, among
his acquaintances, will be, perhaps, too forward in conversa-
tion, and an incessant, not to say intolerable, talker: with
concent. full or large, will be able, and much inclined, to
throw out the same idea in a great many different forms of
expression, frequently amounting to tautology; will often
weary the hearer with tedious repetitions and circumlocu·
tion, and not unfrequently bury vp his ide.os in a multitude
of words : with individ., form, and local. large or very large.
LANGUAGE. 227
will be able to commit to memory page after page, even at a
second reading; will be excessively fond of reading, and of
hearing and relating anecdotes ; after listening to an inter-
esting speech, oration, or sermon, will be able to repeat 'it
nearly verbatim, giving not only the ideas and the general
tenour of the discourse, but e\·en many of the precise ex-
pressions of the spea,ker ; with large or very large ideal. and
upitat., and only full caus. added, will be bombastick in his
style, and present more bathos than pathos or sublimity;
make a great display of eloquence and splendour in his lan-
guage, and yet be destitute of real eloquence and power of
thought; will be loquacious, flippant, and verbose, yet im-
body but little sense or argument in what he says: with very
large compar., caus., individ., event., ideal., and combat.,
will be able to engross the whole attention of the hearer, and,
by the clearness and power of his reasoning, combined with
the superiour elegance of his diction, and the frequent and
well-sustained bursts of his overpowering eloquence, enchain
him for hours to the subject; will be rich, copious, flow-
ing, vehement, and energetick in his style and manner,
but a much better extempore speaker than writer, because,
in writing, he will be apt to employ too many words for his
thoughts.
The descriptions and combinations of lang. large, JD()difi-
ed by an increase of the power and desires imparted by lang.,
will apply to lang. very large. ··
FuLL.-One having lang. full, will have a reapectable
command of words, yet, in order to become fluent, will re-
quire considerable excitement; will not be barren in style or
expressions, nor yet employ many new-coined or redundant
words; with some effort, may commit to memory, yet, unleas
individ., form, and local. are very large, will not be eminent
for this talent. One having lang. full, with compar. and
caus. large or very large, will have a rich fund of important
ideas~ but they will lose some of their force when expressed,
in consequence of their calling more loudly for words than
can be answered by the speaker, who, unless considerably
excited, will hesitate for words; will seldom be guilty of
circumlocution, but will be rather brief and compact in his
style: with large or very lnrge ideal. added, will be clear,
elegant, and forcible as a writer, but, though he may get on
tolerably well as a speaker, will not be very fluent, and even
PHRENOLOGY JLL111TRATED,
when excited, will by 110 means manifest verbosity, and will
employ no more words than the sense demands.
The additional descriptions and combinations of lang. full,
due allowance being made by the reader for the diminished
power and manifestations of lang., will be found under lang.
large. .
MoDERATE.-One having lang. moderate, will be some-
times at a loss for words in which to express his ideas, and
particularly so for happy and appropriate words ; when an
idea is presented to his mind, often be obliged to wait for the
organ of lang. to supply the proper sign by which to ex-
press it; generally ei;nploy too few, rather than too many,
words; and, instead of adding to the force and energy of
his thonghts by the ease and power of his expressions, will
fail to give them even their just due from the province of
language.
One having lang. moderate, with very large compar., will
be very critical in the use of words, and seldom employ one
.which is not fully expressive of the mt-aning intended to be
conveyed; with large or very large ideal. and individ. add-
ed, may be a first-rate linguist, and a clear and elegant wri-
ter, but will not be a fluent speaker-may command words
enough for the use of the pen, but not for use of the tongue ;
will adopt a style more clear than copious; will not be lo-
quacious, but, in what he says, will employ but few words.
SMALL.-One having small lang., in communicating his
thoughts and feelings, will employ but few words, and those
of every-day use; in speaking, will frequently hesitate for
words, and possess very little variety or copiousness of ex-
pression; so far as style is concerned, will be barren, dry,
and common-place; find extreme difficulty in calling to mind
the particular words required to express his meaning; con-
sider talking as rather a burden than a pleasure, and, conse-
quently, will generally say but little, and find it very difficult
to commit to memory.
One having lang. small, secret. large, and mirth. only full,
will be likely to pass whole days, and sometimes even weeks,
in which he will speak scarcely a word unless there is an
absolute necessity for it; will not be at all interesting in pro-
. miscuous conversation, and his thoughts will lose much of
their force and point in consequence of the defidency in Ms
power of expression : with combat. large and excited, or with
.a nervous temperament, may speak in ~ rapid, though some-
aBPLBCTJVE J'ACULTIBB.
what incoherent, manner, but will use only common-place
phraseology, and generally exprf't!S similar ideas in nearly
the nll?e set of words: with very large caus. and compar.;
will have many more thoughts than words, and make every
\Vord express some imponant idea; can think much better
than communicate; say a great deal in a few words;· cannot
command a sufficient stock of words with nearly similar
meanings from which to make happy selections ; and will
thi11k and reaso1J much more than read or talk.
The combination:! and descriptions of lang. moderate, mod-
ified by a diminution of the power of lang., and, also, those
under lang. large and very large, reversed, or read with a
mgati-oe, will generally apply to lang. small.
VBRY SliiALL.-One having lang. very small, will find the
utmost difficulty in recollecting the arbitrary signs used to
express the simplest and most common ideas; from actual
poveny of lang., will be obliged to employ words in a sense
widely different from their common and legitimate significa-
tion, and will often express his ideas in very inappropriate
terms ; cannot commit to memory at all, nor Jearn to read
with any thing like tolerable facility and accuracy, and will
be able scarcely to understand others, or express himself so
that they can understand him.
The combinations and descriptions under lang. smalL
modified by a lessening of the power of lang., and those un-
der lang. full, re·oersed, will apply to this faculty very small.
LocATION.-Lang. is located upon the superorbiter plate.
When large or very large, by pressing down the upper orbit
of the eye, it pushes the eye outward and downward, giving
a fulness to it, and a swollen appearance to the under eyelid.
When the organ is small, the eyes will appear small and
sunken, and the under eyelid small. The bust of the dis-
tinguished Thos. Addis Emmit, affords a striking specimen
of a large development of this organ.
GENUS III.-RBFLBCTIVB OR REASONING F ACULTJES.
These faculties impart to the haman mind an intellectual
power of a higher order than that given by the perceptive
and semi-perceptive faculties. They enable man to invent, to
think, and reason-to ascertain those abstract relations and
bearings of things which neither observation, nor any other
mental power, can reach. Most of the other intellectual fac·
20
i30 PHRENOLOGY ILLtJITRATED.
ulties, are possessed, in a greater or less degree, by some
1pecies of the lower order of animals, and some of them, to
a far greater extent than by man. Yet, none of these an·
imals can invent, or, to any considerable extent, adapt means
to ends. Neither can they improve upon their mere animal
instincts, for they are manifestly destitute of what, in man, is
called contrivance. From generation to generation, they
~ovel in the same beaten track, and, as far as improvu"er&t
18 concerned, remain stationary; whilst soaring, reasoning
man is always advancing, and improving upon the discov-
eries and inventions of his predecessors. At the present day,
the sparrow builds its nest, and the beaver its hut and dam,
in precisely the same manner that their progenitors did four
thousand years ago; but, when we compare the ten thousand
improvements in manufactures, agriculture, commerce, sci-
ence, and the arts, of the present English and Am~rican
race, with the rude huts and implements of their Saxon fore-
fathers, we behold the striking and wonderful effects of cul-
tivated reason.
This subject also enables us to advance understandingly
to another important characteristick of man, by showing us
Juno it is that he becomes, not only a rational, but, likewise, a
moral and an accountable, being. Unaided by the reason-
ing faculties, conscience would be lame and blind ; but, with
their assistance, it is enabled to lay hold of the first princi-
ples of right and justice, and to point out to man the path of
rectitude and moral duty. Unaided by the reasoning facul-
ties, the other moral faculties would also wander in obscure
twilight, and often stumble upon the dark mountains of er-
rour ; but, with their help, veneration is enabled to look at
the attributes of the great Jehovah, and successfully to study
his divine character, and the moral relations that exist be-
tween man and his Maker, as well as between man and his
fellow-man-relations equally important and sublime with
any others which the reasoning powers are capable of tra-
cing. With their assistance, hope wings its flight intO the
bright regions of futurity,and there expatiates rationally upon
that· state of being which awaits us when we shall have
passed thP- bourne of mortality.
Philosophers of all ages, have been agreed upon the fact,
that man is the onlv animal endowed with the moral and
reasoning faculties;· but it has been left to phrenologists io
observe, and point out, the fact, that man is also the only an-
.....
CAUSALITY, 23(
imal that possesses a high and broad forehead, and an el&- .
'Yilted, coronal portion to the head-in which the organs of
• ·these faculties are located. And yet, without fully compre-
hending, or duly appreciating the importance of, the fact,
mankind have always been aware, as all history amply
proves, that a high, bold, and prominent forehead is neces-
sary to a great and profound reasoner. That there really
exists a reciprocal relation between the reasoning powers and
the expansion of the upper portion of the forehead, will be
made fully manifest by comparing the heads of any deep
thinkers and strong and bold reasoners with those of individ-
uals who possess these intellectual qualities in a lower de-
gree--by comparing, for example, the foreheads of Franklin.
Washington, Clinton, Gall, and Melancthon, with those ofJ
Aurelia Chase, the New Zealander, Indian, Carib, idiot, &e.,
8Jkt·lh&-heads of animals, in the cuts upon the Chart. Now,
aaeh:i1oincidences as these, are too striking to be the result
of mere chance, and must, therefore, be produced by deaign;
and.if by design, they constitute a page in the book of na-
ture, worthy the perusal of every student of nature.
36. CAUSALITY.
PO'IIJer of perceiving and applring the principle~ of causa-
-ion--ability to discover, anll trace out, the connexion and
1'elations existing between causes and effects ; to plan, in--
vent, and adapt means to ends ; to draw conclusions fro•
given premi~es ; to reason-disposition to investigate, a111l
ask, whyl-key-.done of common-sense.
It is an axiom in philosophy, that "every effect must have
a cause;" and, also, that "every cause must produce an ef-
fect:" and, again, that, "under similar circumstances, like
causes produce like effects :" and, farther, that "all the phe-
nomtlna throughout universal nature, pror.eed upon the prin-
ciple of cause and effect, or antecedent and consequent.'
But let us inquire from what source it is that philosophers
gather these maxims. That they are not the product of the
observing faculties, is evident from the fRet, that these facul•
ties are possessed, more or less, by the brute creation, and
yet, we know that brutes do not ·reason--that they are not
capable of comprehending the relations of cause and effect-
at any rate, beyond the narrow limits of their experie11ce ;
and this can scarcely be considered as reaching the princi-
ple of causation. Hence, we infer, that man is endowed
282 PJIRBNOI.OGY 1LL118TR.TBD.
with some faculty of the mind of which t!:e lower.order o~
IUlimals is destitute, by which he is enabled to reach thia
principle. . ·
That the faculty in man'which regards every phenomenon
or result in nature aa the product of some lllltecedent cause,
ia innate. and ita operation, intuitive, may, moreover, be justly
inferred from the fact, that he is naturally pron~ to demand a
reason for every thing-to ask wi'JI it is so : and that this dis·
position in man is more or leas strong in proportion as a cer-
tain part of the brain (catuality, see cuts) is largt'ly or other·
wise developed, is equally proved by the observations ofphre-
nologists, as well as of mankind generally :-for here is one
point in phrenology in which mankind, in all ages, have be·
lieved.
. That this faculty in man is innate, is still further evident
from the fact. that thi" cause-seeking disposition is strikingly
evinced in children. Almost as soon as they begin to make
observations, they also begin to inquire, why things are so-
to investigate the cau1e1, reasons, and tuts of things.
As this faculty is designed for, and adapted to, the princi· '
pie of causation alluded to, it is evident, that, when strongly
or fairly developed, and furnished with proper data upon
which to operate, it will always decide correctly concerning
causes and effects: for if, under such circumstances, it should
not always teach us the truth, or give us correct information
as to those first principles or truths which. exist in nature, it
would not act in harmony with nature's laws, nor fully per-
form the function for which it is originally designed.
What should we think, for example, of an eye that would
present objects to the mind double, triple, or quadruple, or
give the image of a horse when it looked at a man, or of an
ass instead of a metaphysician 1 What should we think of
a. faculty of colour that would make green appear yellow, or
black, white? Undoubtedly, we should consider them de-
ilctive or perverted. If, then, we have a right to expect, that
the perceptive faculties, in conjunction with the external
~eDSes, when uninjured and unperverted, will furnish U$
with correct information concerning physical objects and
tM.ir qualities, it is equally reasonable to suppose, that, un-
der sim1lar circumstances, the reason~ng faculties will make
11-lnu: report of the abstract relations and causes of thing•,
Consequently, all that we have to do in order to ascertai'-
tlle tro\h in and given matter, is to lay before causality the
CAUSALITY.
~ed meta in the ease, and all the facta, and ita decision will -
be the truth required: and the only reasons why the opitl·
jons of men so frequently and so widely differ upon the same
subject, and stray so far from the truth, are either that the
data upon which the decisions of causality and comparison
are predicated, are incorrect or insufficient, or because the
reasoning organs are too feeble to bear up against the clam·
ours of prejudice or passion.
L~RGE.-One having caus. large, will be able intuitively
to perceive, and readily to apply, the principles of causation;
to lay g~ plans, and.successfully !each desired end~:~ by the
applicatiOn of appropriate means; wtll have a strong destre to
aaeertain the why and the wherefore of things; to investigate
their nature and relations, and ascertain their origin, uses,
and procuring causes; will consider facts and phenomena
only'lia connected with their principles and causes; perceive
aelf.erident truths, and draw inferences from them; possess
an inquiring, investigating turn of mind ; with proper cul-
ture of this faculty, be able to originate good ideas, and rea-
son correctly upon the data furnished by the other faculties;
by the intuitive application of the principle that like causes
Will always produce like effects, be able to predict what will
be, from what has been; to tell wherein one result will differ
from another, and, also, what will be the effect of. given meas-
ures; will intuitively perceive the various bearings and the
abstract relations of thing~-; naturally possess a large en-
dowment of sagacity, pentltration, good sense, judgment, and
ori&inality; and be disposed to give, and require, not only a
retUon for every thing, but, also, a satisfactory explanation
of all its phenomena.
One having caus. large, with the perceptive organs full
large, or very large, wilt be quick to perceive the first trutha
or axioms of natural philosophy, to draw infereoces from
them, and to apply them whenever occasion demands : with
compar. and conscien. large or very large, to perceive th&
force of moral truths and inferences, and to admit moral ax·
ioms, and be able to reason dearly and correctly from them ~
with the selfish faculties strong, wilt be able to provide foP
·his selfish wants, and secure selfish ends : with acquis. full
or large, or even only moderate or smal~ to lay excellent
plans for accumulating wealth : with the perceptive organs
only moderate or full, will be more delighted with the 1'ritt-
cipks and the philosophy of natural science, than with the
20•
·28· PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
mere facti, and seldom contemplate.facta apart from the kws
concerned in their production : with individ. and event. only
moderate or full, will be guided much more by the rea10A
of things, and by general principles, than by experience; but,
with individ. and event. large or very large, will be influenced
both by experiments and facts, and also by the principles in·
volved in them; have a superiour talent, not only for col-
lecting facts, but, also, for drawing correct deductions from
them; devise .and execute with surprising sagacity and tact,
and possess an excellent talent for turning things to his own
advantage-for seeing just what ought to be done in order
most successfully to obtain the desired end, and will possess
a very large share of practical sense and sound judgment :
with large or verr large compar. and only moderate percep-
tive faculties, wil deal much more in that which is abstract
and metaphysical than in facta and details, and possess much
more intellecrthan he appears to have; be too abstract, and
think too deeply, to be properly appreciated, especially by ·
those who have large perceptive, and only full reasoning,
faculties; will have an excellent memory of thoughts and
first-principles, but forget circumstances and particulars;
have a distinct rf'.collection of inferences, yet be apt to forget
the premises from which they were drawn; be able to think
and reason clearly and strongly, yet, in presenting his ideas,
will fail to do them justice, or give them the force necessary
to produce the conviction to which they are justly entitled:
with the selfish faculties generally large or very large, and
the moral only moderate or fulL will make his reason Rub-
servient to the mandates of his selfish, not to say vicious and
depraved, animal desires and gratifications; and prostitute
this noble gift to the injury both of himself and his fellow-
men : with the moral organs large, and the selfish also large,
will have a vigorous intellect propelled by energetick, selfish
passions, and modified by a strong current of moral feeling,
yet his moral and religious opinions and practices will be
strongly tinctured with hisanimal feelings-his religious gar·
menta often defaced with spots and patehes ofselfishness and
ain ; and his reason turned to a good or bad account according
as his education,external circumstances, &e., excite more pow•
erfully either the one or the other class of faculties : with
the moral organs large or very large, the propensities full or
large, but less than the moral and reasoning organs, and the
perceptive, at least, full, will posse'S8 great intellectual power
·CAl18ALlTY.
and superiour talents, '!Yhich will be called into energetick
action, and urged forward by strong feelings, and directed
by high-toned, moral principle, to the advancement of some
noble and important object; and have enough of the propen-
sities to impart efficiency to his intellectual and moral facul·
ties, which, however, will maintain the ascendency: with
combat. large. will warmly defend and advocate ~is opinions,
and engage in debate wtih spirit and delight, &c. ·
Caus. acts with a power and success reciprocally propor·
tionate to the size of the organ and the stimuli which excite
it. These stimuli are supplied by the other faculties, and
vary according to the intensity with which these faculties
desire those objects procured by the·aid of caus. For ex•
ample; one having caus. large, with very large domestick
organs, and only moderate selfish propensities, wilt seem to
lack wisdom in conducting his own selfish interests, because
he will be comparatively indifferent to them, but, in reference
to his children, his family, his friends, &c., he will plan
with uncommon judgment, and manifest great foresight:
with acquis. small, and approbat. or self-e., or both, very
large, will be likely to manifest great mental vigour in hts
efforts to secure distinction, yet, in the mere accumulation of
wealth, may discover a decisive want of tact and judgment,
and ability to plan ; but still, if any of the other faculties de-
sire money, caus. will do its utmost to supply them, and
devise means admirabl;r calculated to secure this object:
with the selfish propensities only moderate or full, compar.
and conscien. large or very large, ven. full or large, and the
perceptive organs only moderate or full, will reason clearly
and forcibly from correct moral premises, and successfully
prosecute ethical and theological investigations, yet be less
distinguished for his delight and success in pursuing nat·
ural philosophy, and be likely to make but inc:!ifferent calcu·
lations in regard to his pecuniary affairR, and manage them
rather poorly ; but, with the perceptive organs large or very
large, conscien. small, and ven. only full, while he will rea-
son clearly and correctly upon natural philosophy and mat-
ters which have no moral bearing, will commit the grossest
errours in reasoning upon the character of the Supreme Be-
ing and religious subjects generally, his duties to his fellow-
men, and of their obligations to htm, &c. The same prin-
ciple applies to cans. in combination with any of the other
organs. in their various states of development.
236 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
VERY i.AR'OE.-One having caus. vert~ large, with a large
head and an active temperament, in addition to the maniks·
tations described under caus. large, will be pre-eminent for
the correctness of his judgment, the clearness, originality,
and importance of his ideas, the extent of his understanding,
and the power of his intellect; be distinguished for taking
new views, even of the most ordinary subjects, and for pre-
senting them in a striking light; for discovering new me-
thods of effecting certain objects; be able to calculate, with
certainty, what effects will be produced by the application of
particular means, and, also, the most judicious method of
applying these means; clearly perceive the full force of ar·
guments; be able to explain, or "clear.up," abstruse points
and difficult subjects ; to carry conviction to the mind by his
irresistible arguments, and always to present them in a man·
ner perfectly intelligible; will grasp, as it were, with a giant
intellect, those great and fundamental principles which enter
into the nature and constitution of things ; and possess ex·
traordinary greatness of mind and vastness of comprehen·
sion.
One having caus. very large, with compar. large or very
large, will be extremely delighted with metaphysical and
abstract studies ; attempt to pry into the nature and first·prin·
ciples of every thing; will speculate and theorize, and, with
large conscien. added, will excel as a metaphysician, and es·
pecially as a moral and intellectual philosopher; with large
individ. added, will not on'y display extraordinary depth and
power of thought, but, also, be able to express and illustrate
his ideas in a manner so simple and intelligible as to make
himself t'88ily and fully understood even by feeble minds; if
he fail in any part of his projects, will readily supply the
deficiency by a resort to the most happy expedients, and thus
generally succeed in his undertakings; never bent a loss for
resources, and be wonderfully ingenious in calling them up
and applying them ; and possess extraordinary intellectual
power and acumen.
The combinations and descriptions of caus. large, modifi·
ed by an increase of the power of cans., will apply to this
organ very large.
FuLL.-Onc having caus. full, will have a strong desire
to ascertain the reason of things, and to investigate their na·
ture and procuring.causes, yet his views. of the ~elations of
cause and effect, wtll be less clear, and his mduct1ons from a
o;J,izedb,Google
..
C4'084LITY. 237
gi1t!n amount of data, less correct, than they would be if
caus. were large or very large; with proper culture, will be
respectable as a reasoner, yet the cast of his, mind will not
be strikingly original or logical, nor his judgment first-rate:
with large or very large perceptive faculties, may be qualifi·
ed to do a fair business, yet will not excel in planning or in
conducting ~great business, nor be distinguished for employ·
ing the best means to effect desired ends; with large imitat.,
individ., and approbat., and moderate or small self-e. added,
will lack independence and originality of thought and char·
acter; adopt the views and opinions of those with whom he
most associates, and thus have no marked character or plans
of his own, and, with ven. and conscien. large, will not de-
sire, or hardly dare, especially in religious matters, to think
or act for himself; niay pass for a man of considerable talent
and intellect, yet much of his knowledge will be borrowed,
and his disposition and ability to apply his mind closely to
an argument or process of thought, will be weak and limit·
ed, and his judgment, not very profound: with compar., in·
divid., and event. large, will not be distinguished for the
superiority of his judgment, nor yet for the weakness of it;
will possess considerable practical talent, and understand
himself well, yet be somewhat superficial, and manifest more
discrimination and tact than originality and depth, and fail
to prest>nt arguments in a clear, cogent, and convincing man·
ner, as well as to appreciate the full force of the reasonings
of others.
MoDERAT'E.-One hav,ing 'CRUS. 11&oderate, will not be
very clear or correct in apprehending the principles of
causation, nor reason clearly or closely; with individ.,
event., and lang. large, and compar. full or large, may pass
through the ordinary routine of life with tolerable success,
yet, when called upon to think, or plan, or call up resources
-to devise means, or originate any thing, will manifest
weakness and inability; may learn well, and, with imitat.
also large, do what he sees others do, and gain something
from experience, yet will be unwilling to apply his mind to
any subject which requires close investigation and research,
and will not be able to reason strongly or deeply, or to ap-
preciate the arguments of those who do; and will not be at
ull distinguished for quickness of comprehension or depth of
understanding: with the selfish faculties strong, will be sway·
ed chiefly by his animal propensities, and yet be shrewd in
238 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
many' things, although his shrewdness will result more from
inl'tinct than reason : with secret. large, and conscien. only
full, by art and intrigue may succeed well for awhile, yet 1t
will not be difficult to penetrate his designs, and discover his
intentions, and, consequently, to defeat his purposes.
SMALL.-One having caus. small, will be decisively defi-
cient in discernment and understanding; fail to comprehend
the reasons, principles, causes, and the general bearing of
things, as well as the force of logical arguments; be injudi-
cious in planning, and unable to see the end from the begin-
ning, or comprehend the result of certain measures; be un-
able to think, and dull in comprehending a subject, even
when clearly and fully explained to him; slow to draw in-
ferences, and unskilful in adapting means to the accomplish-
ment of desired ends; possess feeble powers of ratiocination,
and a judgment that cannot be relied upon; and have no talent
for metaphysicks, or moralizing, and very little" hard sense."
One having caus. small, with secret. large or very large,
may manifest considerable tact and ingenuity in laying plots,
yet have too little depth or strength of intellect to carry
-- --thTougb his manreuvres: with very large individ., may have
an extensive knowledge of matters and things in general, yet
will not be able to invent, or improve upon the inventions of
others, to devise " wavs and means," and create resources.
The combinations·and descriptions under large or very
large caus., reversed, will apply to caus. small.
VERY BMALL.-One having caus. very small, will utterly
fail to appreciate or apply the principles of causation, or to
comprebend the relations of cause and effect; be unable to
reason, or to understand the arguments or explanations of
others, be they ever so clear and simple, and will be appa·
rently destitute of the qualities ascribed to caus. large.
Of all the human faculties, eaus. is undoubtedly the most
useful and important, (if, indeed, a preference may be given-
to one faculty over another,) as it gives that depth, and
strength, and solidity to the mind so necessary to the proper
guidance and direction of the other facul~ies, and without
which, man could scarcelybe accounted a rational being. It
is, in fact, that faculty which, above all others, so pre-emi·
nently distinguishes man from the brute, and enables him to
stand forth in majestiek dignity as the lord ofthis lower cre-
ation. With this faculty largely developed, (and aided by
eompar.,) man ia capableof thinking, reasoning, rising, soar-
o;J,izedb,Google
COXPAIUSOM.
ing-of looking, with an intelligent eye, into the works of
the Deity, and of penetrating the mighty mysteries of hia
divine government. Without it, what would be man ~-a
helpless, unintelligent creature-a feeble, grovelling thing,
scarcely elevated above the meanest reptile.
LocATION.-Caus. is located in the upper and lateral por·
tions of the forehead, externally from compar., and gives
height and breadth to the forehead proportionate to the size
of the organ.
37. COMPARISON.
Disposition anfl ability to compa1·e various things for tke
purpose of ascertaining tlteir points of resem.blance and
of dijfert::nct-ptJwcr of classijicatio11r-perception and
application of the pri1tciples of analogy-ability to dis-
coDer trttths that are unkniJum, by discerning their resem·
bla1tce to thou that are already ascertaiTted, and also
errou·r from its incongruity with truth-power of illus·
tratio11r-critical acumen.
On account of the resemblance which one thing, orono
set of things, bears to another, most of the phenomena of
the natural world, are capable of being grouped together
into classes. The causes of these phenomena, or their rela·
tions of cause and effect, as has been observed, are sought
out by causality; their resemblances and analogies, and their
rlissimilarities, are recognised by comparison. Form may
compare different shapes; tune, different notes; and colour
may contrast different shades; but comparison can compare
a colour and a shape, a tint and a note, an idea and a sub-
stapce; which cannot be done by these other faculties alone:
and thus it is, that comparison embraces within the legitimate
sphere of its function, the whole range of nature. It some·
times discerns resemblances between things apparently the
most distant and unlike; and often traces out analogies be·
tween the qualities of mind and matter : and is the grand
agent in producing similes, metaphors, and allegories, par·
abies, and fables.
As was predicated of causality, that, when furnished with
correct data, it would always draw just conclusions, and
teach us what is true; so may it be of comparison, that, in·
asmuch as it is primarily adapted to take cognizance of cer·
tain resemblances and arrangements in nature, it, also, when
240 PDRBNOLOOY ILLUSTRATED.
furnished with proper data, will give us the truth concerning
these arrangements. In other words; the legitimate conclu·
aions drawn by comparison in accordance with the principles
of analogy, may be relied upon with as much certainty as
those drawn by causality, or experience. For example;
· there is a resemblance, more or less striking, in the anatomi·
cal structure of all the various orders, genera, and species of
animals, and, also, in the structure of different individuals
of the same species. Renee, comparison h!ls a right to in·
fer, that, as far as this anatomical analogy extends, these dif·
ferent animals are governed by 11imilar physiological laws.
In other words; as far as an analogy actually exists between
any two things, \\'e have a right to conclude, that what is
true of the one, is equally so of the ot•r. If, for instance,
we discover an animal whose species is unknown to us, we
immediately compare it with some animal of a known spe·
cies which it most resembles; and, as far as this resemblance
holds good, we at once, and justly, conclude the animals are
alike in their nature and habits. If the strange animal is
furnished with the organs which we know belong to herbiv·
orous animals, we conclude that it is herbivorous; if, with
the organs of carnivorous or granivorous animals, we infer
that it is carnivorous, or granivorous, as the cnse may be: if
the animal is furnished with legs and feet, we conclude that
its nature is to walk or run on land ; if, with wings, we say
it flies in the air; if, with fins, we judge it swims in the wa·
ter, and so on: and we naturally rely upon the justness of
these conclusions, though drawn entirely from analogy, as
confidently as we do upon the truths taught by the most rigid
induction. Indeed, the human mind is so constituted, that it
cannot avoid making comparisons, and then relying upolt
their result.
That the prinr.iples of analogy really exist in nature, is
demonstrated by every day's observation and experience;
and hence we infer the necessity of a primary power of the
mind whose proper function it is to perceive these principles,
and, by their application, to discover truth and detect errour:
and hence we may also infer, that arguments which are
baSed upon correct analogie!!, are f>trictly true. This being
the case, then, the 9nly reason why arguments drawn from
analogy, are so often unsound, is, that the comparisons upon
which tbey are predicated, are not, in all respects, just: for,
if the resemblance upon which the argument is founded,
' . Orp .
COliiPARISOM. 241
holds good in ninety-nine cases in a hundred, and differs iu
one, this difference, provided the analogy from which the
conclusion is drawn, reaches this point, will destroy tho
whole force of the analogy, or as far, at least, as the argu·
ment is concerned, and, of course, render the conclusion
false; but, conclusions drawn from any points in which the
analogy holds good, are correct, and may be relied upon.
Here, then, we have arrived at the source of that great fioocl
of sophistry and false reasoning which sweeps through the
popular discourses and discussions of the day.
LARGE.-One having compar.la·rge, will readily discover
analogies, resemblances, differences, &c., and .be able, and _
dispo&ed, to classify those thoughts, phenomena, and things
of which the other i¥ul~ies have taken cognizance; possess
a happy talent for generalizing, illustrating, and reasoning
, from similar cases; frequently employ figurative expressions ;
readily discover the point and the application of arguments;
make nice discriminations; possess a criticising, comparing·
turn of mind, and readily detect fallacies in arguments, and
inaccuracies, and improprieties in the use of words, &c.
The objects compared by this faculty, are determined, in
part, by its combinations. For example; one having com·
par. large, with full, large, or very large event. and individ.,
will have a happy talent, and a passionate fondness, for com·
paring different phen01nena, and classes of phenomena, in
the natural world, as well as various historical accounts,
scientifick facts and experiments, &c., and be quick to dis·
cern those resemblances and differences which obtain between
them, and, also, between the various sciences themselves;
with a view to make himself easily understood, will be
strongly prone to illustrate his ideas by a reference to some
fact or phenomenon with which the auditor is supposed to be
familiar ; with form, size, and local. added, will be very
skilful in comparing those things which come under the
colrnizallce,..9_f these faculties respectively, as well as in draw·
from them : with ven. and conscien. large
draw religious instruction from natural
principles and phenomena of natural
ua·vzsJ·,~~u world generally, to the investi·
religious subjects; compare spiritual
things with and temporal with spiritual, and be
predisposed to receive, and convey, religious instruction by
means of parables, allegories, &c., and, in reasoning upon
21
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
moral subjects, make a great many nice distinctions, &e.:
with ideal. and individ. large or very large, will make many
elegant and elevated comparisons; employ many metaphors,
similes, and other figures which will glow with the fervour,
and be enlivened by the brilliancy, of a lively imagination,
and serve the purpose of argument and ornament united ;
yet, with only full caus. added, there will be very little rea·
son or sound logick in his metaphors and illustrations: with
caus. large, in investigating causes, will be greatly assisted
and often lea to his conclusions, by the light of comparison ;
in thinking and reasoning upon subjects, and especially in
deciding upon the force of arguments, will employ his caus.
as much as his compar., and probably more, yet, in commu-
nicating his ideas, will manifest mor& compar. than caus.,
and illustrate them copiously and forcibly: with concent.
moderate or small, will frequently employ mixed metaphors,
and seldom sustain, or carry out, his comparisons: with
ideal. only moderate or full, will totill emplor. metaphors,
similes, and copious illustrations, but they will be argu-
men.tatit•t, rather than ornamental; and, though they may
be clear and in point, they will not be glowing or elevated
in character, nor always in good taste: with secret. moderate
or small, and lang. and combat. full or large, will be so much
inclined to criticise the expressions of others, as often to get
their ill will, yet, to exercise his critical acumen, will be so nat-
ural to him, that he will find it difficult to avoid it: with ideal.,
imitat., individ., form, size, order, local., event., and lang.
large or very large, and caus. only full, will have a popular
and decisively practical talent, which will appear to be much
greater than It really is, but his judgment will be much more
the result of experience and observation, than of reflection;
have a superiour, natural tact and talent for doing business,
and getting along well in the world; acquire knowledge very
easily, retain it for a long time, and also apply it to very good
advantage; speak and, perhnps, write well upon subjects
which require no great depth of thought; be .likely to pass
for a person of superiour mental powers, y ·•:
he 'vill not
often bear sounding, nor reason closely nor' dly, nor
take original or comprehensive views of •.f but, with
caus. large or very large, will be able to com . ·.·· uncommon
theorttical, with extraordinary practical, talents; according
to his advantages, will have at command a great amount of
facts upon a great variety of subjects, and, alsQ, be able to
..
J
1
I
apply his knowledge to the best advantage, both in reasoning,
and in accomplishing his purposes; will be naturally both
learned and profound, and capable of excelling in the natu-
ral, metaphysical,and demonstrativesciences; bepre-eminently
talented, and calculated both to devise and execute, and thus
to conduct a great busineas; and, with combat., firm., hope,
and self-e. large or very large, be abundantly able to rise far
above the common level of mankind, and to turn his hand
successfully to almost any undertaking; and will add to su-
periour natural talents, great energy and perseverance.
VERY LARGE.-Onc having compar. very large, .will be
able, readily tocompare, and perfect!y analyze, almost any sub-
ject which may be presented to his mind; will instantly and
intuitively detect the fallacy of analogical arguments, and
the misapplication o( words or facts; present his ideas in a
manner so perfectly clear and simple, aud accompanied with
illustrations so ropious and appropriate, that they can be
fully and easily understood: with lang. and individ. large,
will pour out a superabundant flood of figurative expressions;
be.strongly inclined to criticise every thing he sees, hears, or
rea4s; and, with moderate conscien., will be likely, by his
wonderful power and copiousness, and seeming appropriate-
ness; of comparison and illustration, to make the better side
appear the worse, and the worse, the better-to employ sophis-
try, put false constructions upon things, and make wrong ap-
plications of them, and thus knowingly mislead the common
mind, &c.
The influence of compar. ¥ery large, acting in combina-
tion with the other organs, has been described under the
other organs respectively. It may also be added, that the
combinations and d'escriptions given as appliesble to compar.
large, modified by an increase of the influence of compar.,
will apply to this organ very large.
FuLL.-One having full compar., will be respectable for
his discrimination and ability to compare, analyze, and illus-
trate things, yet will not be particularly distinguished for
this power ; frequently resort to illustrations, .yet they will
not manifest the quality of versatility, nor be always in
point; not at once discover whether a comparison is just and·
appropriate, and, though he may be able to trace out plain
and striking analogies, will not so readily discover the more
obscure and subtle resemblances, analogies, differences, &c. :
with caus. large or very huge, will have good ideas, but
244 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
they will often be less applicable to the subject, and more
imperfectly illustrated, than is desirable: with the perceptive
faculties generally strong, will not discover any marked de·
feet in this particular, nor any peculiar talent for compari·
san, &c.
The additional manife~~tations ofcompar. full, may be in·
ferred from those of compar. large, modified by a decrea4e
of the power of this faculty.
· MoDBRATE.-One having compar. moderate, may be able
to discern the plainer and more obvious resemblances and
differences which exist in the phenomena of nature, but will
fail to discover the more obscure points, and nicer shades, of
resemblance and difference; may perceive the force of com·
parisons and illustrations presented by others, yet will not
be happy in discovering them himself, nor readily perceive the
application of arguments, nor give point to his own : with full
or large caus., will make many sensible remarks,/yet they
will frequently lack point, and be inapplicable to the subject
in hand : with lang. full or large, will talk much, but not be
able to write with perspicuity, nor to use words with propri·
ety and accuracy: with individ. and event. large or very
large, will have an excellent memory of facts, but, instead
of arranging and classifying them, he will be likely to pre·
sent them in a confused state, and, as it were, en tnasse: will
not make nice distinctions between the various passions and
other mental optnations, and fail to make critical discrimina·
tions in matters and things generally, or to adduce many
appropriate illustrations. ·
The descriptions and combinations of compar. full, dimin·
isked, will apply to compar. moderate.
SMALL.-One having compar. small, will be dull and slow
in perceiving the force of comparisons and analogies, and
possess but little discernment or discrimination, and be un·
able successfully to compare, classify, arrange, illustrate, or
generalize; be almost destitute of critical acumen ; and fail
to perceive analogies and differences, even when they are
.pointed out tp him.
VERY SMALL.-One having compar. very small, will be
apparently destitute of all those qualities ascribed to com·
par. large and very large, and nearly so of those attributed
to compar. full.
LocATION.-Compar. is located in the middle and upper
portion of the forehead, between the two lobes Dfcaus., with
COXPARJSON. 245
event. below, and benev. above it. Its shape resemble$ an
inverted cone.
It has already been remarked, that the class of functions
performed by the reflective faculties, is of a far higher order
than any other, and, also, that, when fairly developed, and
furnished with correct data, if allowed to operate in an un-
perverted and unbiased manner, they will always form cor-
rect conclusions, and furnish us w1th the truth. But the
great misfortune to mankind is, that these faculties arc sel-
dom allowed to assert their own proper/rerogative, and ~ay
that influence over human actions an human conduct for
which they are originally designed. Hence it is, that we
so much more frequently see men guided by feeling, by pas•
sion, or by prejudice, than by reaso".
This great and deplorable evil generally arises, either from
a neglect to cultivate the reasoning faculties, or from a per·
versio'/f, of them. It cannot be denied, that the animal and
selfish passions in man, frequently occupy the greater portion
of the brain ; but yet, on a close examination, it will generally
be found, that the moral and intellectual faculties, if properly
cultivated, are sufficiently powerful to keep in cheek, and to
control, the feelings an<'. the passions. At present, however.
we have to consider the neglect and perversion of the reflec-
tive faculties only. ·
. Aa society is now constituted, even in what is called civil-
ized and Christia1~ communities, men are often taught to
fight, to covet, to cheat, lie, and scandalize, to gormandize
and be lascivious; but how rarely are they taught to think I
In proof of this, we have only to look abroad upon the face
of society. How often do we see our beautiful system of re-
ligion debased and degraded, and made subservient to the
vilest and most selfish purposes-her sacred vestments tatter-
ed and torn·by sectarian strife and party discord-her holy
altars polluted by base hypocrisy and sordid iniquity-her
&ublime doctrines perverted, and her righteous laws trampled
under foot I How often do we see the unprincipled pretend-
er, gaining his selfish objects by practising upon the ignorance
and the credulity of his fellow-men-the ambitious, rising
to high places of power ar.d profit by making use of the
basest duplicity and the most heartless intrigue-by fostering
the pride, flattering the vanity, pampering the luxury, and
gratifying the selfish passions of those around him I Now,
it is evident, that, if men were taught to think-if their rea-
21* .
.cltt •., . rex
•
PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
soning faculties were properly cultivated, and trained to per·
form their legitimate functions with energy, these things
would not-these things could not, take place; because, in
the first place, aided by the moral organs, they would restrain
the sinful passions and desires and the unhallowed ambition
of the designing; and, secondly, so enlighten the minds of
the common people as to prevent their being thus deceived
and imposed upon. .
But the vices and follies of mankind grow out of the per·
ver1ion of the reasoning faculties more frequently, perhaps,
than out of their neglect : and when this is the case, their
tendency is to make man even worse than the brute, for they
are then under the dominion of the selfish passions, and are
rendered almost wholly subservient to the gratification of
their wants-they are then actively employed in searching
~rnewobjects uponwhichthe indulgence of the passionsmay
be expended, and new excuses for such indulgence--they are
energetick in seeking out, and presenting, artificial, improp-
er, and unnecessary stimuli to the selfish propensities of
which the brute can never form any conception, and, of
course, upon which it can never exert or debase its mental
functions.
Again, munkind are not .only, not taught to think, but
they are frequently mis-taught to think; that is, they are
often taught to think in a particular way-taught to believe
.certain doctrines, and to disbelieve others-taughtto believe,
whether reason approves <Jr disapproves; and all this is
brought about by a kind of ratiocinative legerdemain, or by
causing the eye of reason to look at all objects through the
dim spectacles of prejudice. This point may be illustrated
by a reference to children., Before their reasoning faculties
have become perverted, they frequently reason more clearly
and accurately upon some subjects than their tutors or their
parents; for, in the simplicity of their honest hearts, they
deduce from the premises presented to their minds, the con·
elusions which naturally flow from them. Hence, many
would do well to take the hint, lay aside their bigotry and
their prejudice, bow their stubborn pride, and, in reasoning,
adopt the simplicity of the child.
OiJiiZPdh .Coogl~ "
--·--:;
'UNASCERTAINED ORGANS.
UNASCERTAINED ORGANS.
It is admitted by phrenologists generally, that certain por·
tions of the brain remain, as yet, terra incognita; and, be·
lievin_g, that every portion of the human frame, and every
part of the universe, is made for, and adapted to, some useful
purpose, and, more especially, since they have ascertained,
that every other portion of the brain is occupied by some
organ whose office it is to perform the functions of some one
of 'the mental faculties, they cannot resistthe conclusion, that
each of these unascertained portions, is occupied by a phren-
ological organ adapted to the performance of the functions
of some important, though unknown, faculty of the mind.
One of these portions occurs between the reflective organs
upon the one side, and benevolence and imitation upon the
other : and one of the authors (L. N. Fowler) having made
numerous observations and experiments upon it, is disposed
to believe, that it is occupied by an organ whose function
it is to furnish its possessor with an intuitive knowledge of
human nature; or, to enable him readily to perceive the
state of mind or feeling possessed by others, and thus sue·
cessfully to adapt himself to, and operate upon, the minds
and feelings of his fellow-men.
The authors are not unaware, that the functions here as·
cribed to this supposed organ, are commonly distributed
among the other organs; or, rather, that they are generally
supposed to be the product of the combined action of many
organs whose functions are already ascertained. But this
view of the subject, however plausible it may be, certainly
carries no great weight of argument with it; for it is based
upon the same ground of reasoning which was formerly oc·
eupied by the metaphysicians, who attempted to account for
all the phenomena of the human mind without admitting it
to he constituted of distinct, separate faculties.
The existence of the faculty here sup{X'Sed, is rendered
somewhat probable, however, by the a pnori inference, that
the class of functions attributed to it, does not belong excl11r
sively to any one of the other organs. That our ability to
judge of human nature, and adapt our actions to the foolings ·
and views of others, receives important aid from caus., com·
par., ca~;~ious., secret., ideal., imitat., individ., event., &c., and
from experience, is readily admitted; but that this ability whol-
248 PHRENOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
z,:de}lends upon these faculties and experience, remains to be
proved. The authors have received much evidence calculat-
ed to convince them that it is not wholly dependant upon
them, but that it depends more upon intuition. They do not
profess, however, to have settled this point, hut have thought
proper to suggest it to the consideration of phrenologis~.
leaving it to be confirmed or rejected·as shall be decided by
future observations and experiments.
In reference to the spa.ce left unmarked in the cuts and
busts of G. Combe, and, also, of the authors, located between
cautiousness and ideality, and represented by Mr. Combe as
unascertained, but as probably occupied by an organ whose
function it is .to impart the feeling of vastness, sublimity,
g randeur, &c., they would merely remark, that, although
they have made numerous observations upon it, and are daily
adding to the number, they are still unprepared to offer any
suggestions different from those of the excellent writer just
alluded to. They are unable, however, to coincide in opin-
ion with Dr. Powell, who is very positive in asserting, that,
in this place, he has discovered an organ of watchfulnus.
To this organ he attributes, not only the function ascribed by
the authors to the unascertained portion of the brain previ-
ously alluded to, but, also, that of alertness, which they con-
ceive to be one of the manifestations of cautiousness aided
by secretiveness. But, however this may be, theauthors gladly
embrace the privilege of submitting this, and all similar
points, to the decisions of the unerring tribunal of facts.
REMARKs UPON THE WoNDERFUL WtsDOM AND BEAUTY
DISPLAYED IN THE LOCATION AND GROUPING OF THE
ORGANS.
Throughout the works of nature, we find perfect simplici-
ty and perfect arrangement combined with perfect harmony
and perfect adaptation : therefore, if phrenology is true, the
impress of the Deity must he stamped, not only upon the na-
ture and functions of the various faculties themselves, but,
also, upon the location and grouping together, or classifica-
tion and arrangement, of their respective organs in the head.
If, then, we find, that this perfection of arrangement and
adaptation which is everywhere displayed in nature's works,
holds good in the location and classification of thf. phreno-
logical organs, we infer that this is the handiwork of the
o; ''sdh C.oogle ];~
GROUPING OF THE ORGANS. 249
great Creator, and a part of his great system of things, or,
that llhrenology is true ; and, viet versa, if we find imper-
fection and a want of adaptation in the location and arrange-
ment of the various organs, the fair inference is, that the
whole is a man·made theory, stamped with inconsistency and
inco<1gruity, or a mere chimera of an infatuated brain.
Let us look, then, at the .real facts in the case. The an-
imal passions and propensities unquestionably constitute the
most inferiour class of the mental functions; and, according-
ly, we find the organs of these faculties all grouped together,
and occupying the lower and back portion of the head, or,
if we may be allowed the expression, the least honourable
portion of the brain: whilst, on the other hand, the organs
of t~ moral and religious sentiments and of the reasoning
faculties, the functions of which are of a far higher order
than any other classes of the intellectual operations, and
even constitute the crowning excellence of man, are grouped
together, and occupy the highest portiottof the brain.
Again, the organs of the intellectual faculties are located
together in the anterior portion of the head, or in the fore-
head-a portion better fitted for the abode of the intellec-
, tual organs than any other. And not only so, but the ar-
rangement of the several classes of the intellectual organs,
is most wonderful and systematick. The eye forBIS one
great medium of communication with the e.x~.-.al :World,
and is almost the only instrument which the perceptive fac-
ulties employ in the performance of their appropriate func-
tions. Accordingly, all the organs which take cognizance
of physical objects and their qualities, are grouped together,
and located about the eye-their principal and most obedient
servant.
The reasoning organs, again, are located between the per-
ceptive organs upon the one hand, and the moral upon the
other, being thus prepared to reason, either 'Upon the natural
facts and phenomena which may be observed and collected
by the perceptive faculties, or upon moral and theological
subjects presented by the moral organs.
The beauty and perfection of this arrangement, are dis-
played in a mann('r no less striking when considered with
respect to the individual organs. The organs of all the
/
faculties, for example, which are directly concerned in per·
forming any of the domestick functions, are clustered mto
one neighbourhood in the lower portion of the hind head.
250 PHRENOLOGY JLLtrSTRATJ:D.
Amat., which takes the lead in the animal economy, is lo-
cated in the lowest portion of the brain, and philopro., which
comes next, and greatly assists in carrying out the designs
of amat., is located by its side. Adhes., which, in its nature
and object, is closely allied to the two preceding organs, we
find located in the same group; and inhab. completes both
this group of organs and this class of functions. Thus we
have presented to us the interesting picture of all the social
and domestick organs grouped together in, as it were, a
family circle.
The organs of the selfish propensities are likewise found
linked together, with secret. in their midst,as if for concealing
and scheming, and occupying the central portion of the side
head. Combat. anddestruct., twin-brothers in character and co·
equalsas heroes,are seen marching up side by side. Moreover,
one imP<'rtant object of destruct. is to supply aliment. with
food. Hunger greatly increases the action of destruct, but,
when aliment. is f~fly satiated, ev~n be~ of prey, except
whea provoked, will seldom exercise thiS organ. Accord·
ingJy, infinite wisdom has placed these organs side by side,
and thus greatly facilitated their reciprocal intercourse. If
eeeret. had been located among the moral or intellectual or·
gana, which seldom, if ever, require its aid, it would have
been out of place, but, instead of this, it is found among the
propenaiti-. which frequently and mainly require its action.
And is there nothing superhuman in all this 1 Cautious.,
like a faithful sentinel, takes its arpropriate stand between
the domestick, animal, and mora organs--a most advan·
tageous post, from which to overlook them all, and warn
them of approaching danger. Between the functions of ap·
probat. and self-e., and, also, between those of self·e. and firm.,
there exists, at least, a family resemblance, and, accordingly,
we find approbat. and self-e. located side by side, and self-e.
an!l firm. adjoining each other; and, moreover, the location
·of firm. near the moral organs, which so frequently demand
its action, is certainly an admirable arrangement.
See the moral organs, also, all grouped together like a
band of brothers, illustrating the yrinciple, that "union is
strength," constituting a great mora phalanx, and occupying
a pol!litiQD between the selfish organs upon the one hand, and
the intellectual upon the other, in order that they may purify
and sanctify the action of both.
Construct., which often demands the assistance of the per-
I
I
' I
·I
,.-
DIRECTIONS TO EXAllliNERB. 251
ceptive and of the reasoning faculties, and is itself, in part,
intellectual, is accordingly located near its kindred, the intel-
lectual organs. The same is true of ideal. Mirth., also,
which assists reason in detecting errour, is located next to
the reasoning organs. Event., again, the reservoir or great
intellectual warehouse of the facts collected by the percep-
tive faculties, and upon which the reflective organs are _
obliged to make frequent and copious draught~. is located be-
tween the reflective and the perceptive faculties; and, last of
all, compar. and caus., torch-bearers of all the other mental
faculties, occupy a position most advantageous for the per-
formance of their appropriate functions.
Now, it must be recollected, that one organ was discover-
ed in one portion of the head, and another, in another por- '
tion, and at periods widely different, but, on examination,
each propensity is found to be in the group of the propensi-
ties, each sentiment among its kindred sentiments, and all the
intellectual faculties together in the forehead, and, in fact,
not a single organ straggling abroad at random. If acquis.,
for example, had been found among the woral organs, con-
scien. among the rropensities, any of the intellectual organs
among the anima or seJfish organs, or amat. in the fore-
head, this irregularity would have shown a radical defect in
the system, and proved its origin to be human; but, as it is,
we find all its·parts perfectly arranged, and uniting in a per-
fect whole, affording a new proof of the truth, and illustra-
tion of the principles, of this sublime science, and evincing
that it is the handiwork of infinite wisdom.
DIRECTIONS TO EXAMINERS.
1N ascertaining the character of indiv\duals from their
phrenological developments, the general size of the whole
head should first be observed, and then, the relative size of its
seveml parts, according to the classification adopted in this
work. The temperament, health, habits, education, &c., of
the individual, should be next attended to. After these, the
relative size of each o·rgan may be observed; and then the
effect of the combinations as described in this volume. This
last point is of paramount importance.
In applying the fingers to the head, the balls should be
used instead of the ends.
Digitized by GoogIe
CONTENTS.
P.&.GB. PAGB.
Phrenology defined and proved. 1' 2. Pbiloprogenitiveness, ••· · • 61
1
The Bram the Organ of the 3. Adhesiveness, .. . .. •.. ••• 64
Mind, ..................... ib. 4. Inhabitivenese, •. · · · · •• •· 68
Mind a Plurality of Faculties, 10 6. Concentrativeness,· ••. · •.• :"0
The Brain consists of as many t. Vitativeness, ............ • 73
Organs as the Mind does of 6. Combativeness,. ·..... · ... 75
Faculties ... · .. ·········· .. 17 7. Destructiveness, · · · · ·,. · •• 82
The Facultlcs differ in power, 20 s. Alimentiveness, .... · •.. •. 86
Reciprocal proportion between 9. Acquisitiveness, · .. ·... . .. 88
the strength of the Faculties 10. Secretiveness, _. · ... ·... ••. 96
and size of the Organ't· ••· 21 11. Cautiousness, .... •. · .. •.. 103
The Scull sha~ed to the rain, 22 12. ApWobativeness, •••...... 107
Discovery of hrenology, .... 24 13. Se f-Esteem, •.......... . . 113
l''acts in proof of Phrenology, 26 14. Firmness,..... •.......... 119
Phrenology of Animal~ .•.. •· 27 16. Conscientiousness,· . · . ••. . 124
Indian Heads and Scul s, · •· · • 29 16. Hope,· .................. 136
African do. do., •.. · • 31 11. Marvellousness, . ••.•••.•• 141
Phrenological difference of the 18. Veneration, .............. 147
Sexes, ............... . .... 32 19. Benevolence, ........ · .. ·· 153
Phrenology Illustrated, •· · · •• 37 20. Constructiveness,· •· •. ••.. 160
Temperaments, · · · ·. •· · ••· · .. 38 21. Ideality, ............. •... 165
Influence of Education, . •· · •· 40 22. lmitatton, · ....... •....... 169
Shape of the Or~ans, · · •· · •· · 41 23. Mirthfulness, ............ 172
Test of the Facu ties, · · •· · · · · 42 Sensation or Feeling,· •·... •.. 178
Classification of do., · •· · ••· · 43 Sight, ...................... 179
Affective Feelings, or .F!lcul- Hearing, ................ . .. . 180
ttes, . • .. . .... •.. ••.. •.. 46, 66
§~;n·:::::::::::::::::::::::·182
Animal Propensities,········ ib. ib.
Domestick do., •· ·•. •• 46, 66 24. Individuality,······ ••· · ·.' 183
Selfish do., ......• 46, 73 25. Form, ................... 186
Human, Moral, and Religious 26. Size, .................... 190
Sentiments, · · · ·· · · · · ·. · 47, 102 27. Weight,.................. 192
Selfish do., .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 47 103 28. Colour, •.. · · .. · •.. · · .. · .. 195
Moral and Religious do., ·. 48; 123 29. Order · ................. · 198
Semi-Intellectual do., · ·· · 48, 169 30. Calcu)ation, .. ••· · •·· · · · · · 202
Intellectual Faculties-Percep- 31. Localityll ............... · 205
live do., .............. · 49,177 32. Eventua 'ty,......... ,.... 209
External Senses, •. •. · · · · · 49, 178 33. Time,··· · · · · ·· •· · •· · · ••·· · 214
Observing and knowing Facul- 34. Tune,· ...... . ............ 217
~
ties, ............. · · .... 50, 183 35. Language, •....... •..... • 222
Semi-Perceptive Faculties, 50, 209 36. Causality,................ 231
Reftective or Reasoning Facul- 37. Companeon
0·............ 239
~
ties, .. •·..... •.. •.. · .. •· 61, 229 Unascertained ~s, ••· · ••. 247
Combination,s of the Faculties, 61 Grouping of the ana, ••••. • 248
1. Amativeness, .......... •· • 56 Directions to Exammers, ••· . • 251
PHRENOLOGI_CAL
CONTROVERSY.
BY 0. s. FOWLER,
WITH OTHER PHRENOLOGICAL MATTER.
MY POLE-STAll 18 TRUTH.
BALTIMORE:
PRINTED BY JOHN W. WOODS,
No. I, Light street.
1835.
f\
,,
!
PREFACE.
When the following "answers to Vindex" were first
written, the author had no distant idea of presenting them
in· a pamphlet form. He derived his first suggestion of
the kind, from the following editorial article in the SATUB.·
DAY MoaNING VISITOR.
PBB.ENOLOGY.-The discussion on this subject by Vin-
dex and Mr. Fowler, .through the medium of the Chroni-
cle, seems to have excited a good deal of attention in other
cities, and as the articles are pretty generally copied, it is
a proof that the subject is one which the public are desi-
rous of investigating-we ag~e with the following remarks
of the Telegraph, as to the mode by whi~h such investi-
gation is most likely to be fairly made. "We are surpris-
ed that Mr. F. does not see the suspicions whiCh the com-
munications of VINDEX are calculated to excite. Many
persons will believe-mistakenly we are certain, that VIN-
DEX writes in collision with Mr. Fowler, and that his ob-
jections are purposely made in such -a form that they may be
easily answered. We say to Mr. Fowler, let us have a
pamphleton each side: they will instruct and amuse. They
will sell well; for the intelligent part of the community are
interested in the subject. The large books on the subject
are too expensive for extensive diffusion."
The discussion, thus hastily prepared, is accordingly
published, with the hope that it may remove some of the
oft-repeated objections made against one of the most sub-
lime and useful sciences ever discovered.
4
The editor of the Telegraphis right in supposing that Vin-
dex writes as he thinks-that he is really, and not seeming-
ly, opposed to Phrenology. It is to be regretted, however,
that he did not better embody, and more clearly present, the
objections and arguments of anti-phrenologists.
Instead of presenting the discussion as it at first appear-
ed in the Chronicle, the author has, for the sake of unity,
placed together all the paragraphs that appeared on a sin:
gle subject, though some of them appeared in different
numbers. Some of the replies to Vindex have been en·
larged, and other points taken up that were not noticed in
the Chronicle. Miscellaneous matter has also been added.
To mere literary merit, and elegance of style, the author
makes no pretensions. His chief effort is to present
STRONG ARGUMENTS in a PERSPICUOUS MANNER.
Particular attention is invited to the objections so gener-
ally urged against Phrenology, on the grou!ld that it leads
to fatalism, destroys moral responsibility, favors material- .
ism, and is anti-christian in its tendency.
The author lays no claim to perfection, and hopes his com-
parative youth and inexperience will account for most of
his errors. He will be thankful for any valuable sugges-
tions by way of criticism.
Baltimore, July 15th, 1885.
l.!p_
Phrenologioal Controversy.
FOR THJ: CHRONJCLJC,
PROPOSAL FOR A PHRENOLOGICAL DISCUSSION.
Mr. Barnes-As Phrenology has many enthusiastic votaries,
and also violent opposers, and is sharing largely the attention
of all classes, a properly conducted discussion on this subject
may, perhaps, furnish some very interesting matter for your
paper. If you feel disposed to open your columns to such a '
discussion, the pole-star of which shall be TRUTH, rather than
mctory, please to give the following an insertion.
There are those that see many, and very strong, reasons for
believing that Phrenology is true, who yet stumble at some
seemingly insurmountable objections to it. There are others,
especially among professors of religion, who, fearing that its
tendency is to infidelity and fatalism, and being apprehensive ,
that its influence is immoral and irreligious, have honest and
deep-rooted prejudices against it. There are others,again, who
ridicule and scout the very idea, as "the hallucination of a moon-
struck imagination.''* Now, if any one, or more than one,
of either, or of all the abovenamed classes, or of any other
class of objectors or opposers to Phrenology, will state their -
objections to it, in as strong, yet concise, terms, as they please,
through the columns of the Chronicle, they will be answered
through the same medium by the subscriber.
0. S. FOWLER.
P. S. As for those fun-lovers, who propagate their humorous
anecdotes, at the expense of Phrenology, merely from their love
of jokes--why, do let them enjoy their frolic, as we indulge
other sportive, but harmless insects. And let those who endea-
vor to put down Phrenology by ridicule, instead of argument,
proceed; for they thus merely betray the weakness of their
cause, inasmuch as ridicule is the last resort of a weak and
vanquished opponent. 0. S. F.
PHRENOLOGICAL DISCUSSION.-It will be seen by ll commU•
nication in to-day's paper, that Mr. 0. 8. Fowler challenges
the opponents of Phrenology to a fair and temperate discussion
*Dr: Annau, before lhe Hedical-Faculty or llarylaud•.
t•
6
of this science. To such a discussion our columns shall be
freely opened-for, if there be no truth in the science, it should
be at once exposed and put down as an imposition-whilst, on
the contrary, if its advocates shall be able to demonstrate that
it is founded on truth, it should receive that credit and .support
to which it will be entitled from its importance. At all events,
the discussion may affurd amusement, if not instructi~n, to our
readers. We therefore invite both sides to make Ull8 of our
columns.---[Ed. Ch.
REPLY OF VINDEX.
Mr. Editor-In your paper of yesterday, a challenge was
' given to Anti-phrenologists to maintain their opinions through
your columns. This challenge I am willing to accept, pro-
vided I can understand Mr. Fowler's opinions on certain points.
As each Phrenologist has a system of his own, I would like to
understand what Mr. F's. system is, and for that purpose I pro-
pourid the following questions:
Is there an organ for each faculty of the mind?
Are there as many nerves leading from the junction of the
spinal marrow and brain to the surface ofthe brain, as there are
organs appointed by Phrenologists, or are there more?
Is not the skull liable to bony excrescences, and may they not
be mista!ien for phrenological organs? _
Can a Phrenologist, by examining the cranium, pronounce
drcisively, whether a_ man is a liar, a thief, or a murderer,
without reference to Physiognomy?
Is an organ increased in size by constant activity, and can
that increase be observed by examining the cranium?
As conscience is a faculty of the mind, according to Phre-
nologists, and as I have near me the autobiography of ~:~everal
criminals of both sexes, who observe that the first step in crime
was taken with great reluctance; that their minds were troub-
led for some time afterwards; but, that in time their conscience
ceased to trouble them: did their otgan of conscientiousness di-
minish in size as they progressed in crime?
As soon as an answer is made to these questions, I shall have
10me foundation on which to commence a series of argnmenta
against the system. . VINDEX•
.ANSWER TO VINDEX.
S1a.-ln auerting that each Phrenologist hasa systeniofhia
own, you presuppose what is oot true; for in the ~al
-~--
- - ~ ....... m '"edbyGoogle
-
...._
. ·~
·---........
principles of Phreaology, there is perfect unanimity, except c.... ~
points that are considered by all as not yet fully settled. It is ~
not true that "each Phrenologist has a system of his own," any
more than it is true that each physician has a medical system,
each theologian a theologic.al system, and each botanist a' bo-
tanical system, of his own-although, it is true, that di.ffurent
phrenologists have different methods of explaining the same
thing, and that some carry out points farther than others, be-
cause, perhaps, they have more extensively examined them.
In the naming and numbering of some of the organs, and in
their analysis of some ofthe faculties, Phrenologists differ some-
what; but in thefacts and the fundamental principles of Phre-
nology, there is at the present time, greater unanimity among
them than among the teachers of any other doctrine or science
within my knowledge. Yours, &c. 0 . S. FOWLER.
REPLY OF VINDEX.
Mr. Editor,-Much as I admire Mr. Fowler's tact in an-
. swering questions propounded to him, I am not yet disposed
to consider his answers satisfactory.
My assertion that each Phrenologist has a system of his own,
was not a mere supposition. lnSpurzheim's works on Phrenolo-
gy and Physiognomy, he distinctly admits that there was a dif,.
ference of opinion between Dr. Gall and himself on certain
material points, which led to their separation. In Combe's
Phrenology, we find several pages taken up in opposition to
Spurzheim, on the organ of lnhabitiveness, and on other points,
which Mr. F. can ascertain on perusing those works. The
only fundamenta.l principle Phrenologists agree upon with
"great unanimity" is, that the brain is the seat of feeling and
of thought-a principle, which few of their opponents will dis·
pute.
I am not disposed to elwell any longer on the disagreement
of Phrenologists. To do that effectually it will be necessary
to state what are the fundamental principles, and whereih the
di.ffurent writers are at issue. But it will take up too much of
your columns, without advancing the object of these papers.
I have conversed with inany Phrenologists and I find that few
will admit u a fundamental principle "that the vigorous exer.
eise of any particular faculty causes a protuberance in a par·
ticular part of the brain" [cranium?] I suppose Mr. F. will
not call any man a Phrenologist, unless he believes every thing
that Gall, Spurzheim and Combe have written on the subject.
. VINDEX.
8
ANSWER TO VINDEX.
. .
Allow me a word more about the alleged difference among
Phrenologists. True, Drs. Gall and Spurzheim did differ; but
not aboutfundamental principles. But I repeat, and without
fear of contradiction, that this difference was in the naming and
numheTing of the organs, their analysis, or some similar point,
which was notfundamental. In every case of their disagree-
ment with which I am acquainted, the points in dispute were
considered by both as unsettled. You m
_
ention the difference
between Corube and Spurzheim on lnhabitiveness. The dis-
covery of that organ is comparatively recent, and considered
by all as doubtful. One has one opinion, another, another.
Now, sir, I believe they may both he right-that there may be
two organs, the one that of Spurzheim, the other that of Combe.
By the way, this is the only instan<:e of the kind, you could
have cited from these two authors. ·
You also assert, that between Combe and Spurzheim there
are differences "on other points" than the organ of Inhabitive·
ness. Combe himself says, "To the best of my knowledge,
there is no material point of doctrine on which Spurzheim and
I differ,except concerning theorgan oflnhabitiveness." (Preface
to Combe's System of Phren!>logy-which 1 take pleasure in
recommending.) Whether Combe or you are right, I leave to
the decision of those who peruse the works of Combe and Spurz-
heim.· The probability is, that Combe knows as much about
this subject, at least, as yourself, and that he would not, know·
ingly, misrepresent it.
· You say "the only fundamental principle that Phrenologists
agree upon is, that the brain is the seat of feeling and thought
-a principle which few of their opponents will dispute."
Now, sir, I do not say that your assertion is not true, but mere·
ly ask you, do not all Phrenologists agree; and that with "greo.t
unanimity," not only that the brain is the organ of the mind.
but, that the mind is a congregate of faculties-that each fil.
culty is exercised by means of, not the whole brain, but a cer·
tain part of it-that the vigorous exercise of any particular
fu.culty, causes a corresponding exercise of its organ, and that
- this exerciseof the ·organ causes its enlargement-that, conse.
quently, traitsofcharacter and peculiarities ofdisposition and tal·
ent, are accompanied and indicated by certain protuberances of
the brain;andofcourse ofthe skull, so that a man's character, tal·
ents, &e. cali be discovered by the size and shape of his headT.
.And are not .thesefundamental principles-as much so as the
·
.
9
bne you mention1 Ifyou answer in the affirmative, you contra· ; .··
diet yourself; if in the negative, the concurring testimony of all
Phrenologists, and of all acquainted with these points, contra-
dicts you. Answer it as you will, thefact is indisputable that
Phrenologists do agree in other fundamental principles than
the one you mention. Ergo, your statement is erroneous.
I have yet to learn, that between Dr. Spurzheim and all
succeeding Phrenologists, there exists the least opposition on
any fundamental, or even material point. On the contrary, the
utmost unanimity prevails, not only in their objects,and feelings,
but also even in the most minute details of Phrenology.
True, as the science is advancing with unparalleled rapidity,
some suppose they have made improvements, which others, not
having made sufficient observations, a1·e not prepared, either to
admit or deny. This explains almost every point of difference ...
between Gall and Spurzheim. But in all this there is no oppo-
.sitiO'TI of views. Gall originated the science, Spurzheim im-
proved it. When these improvements were first suggested by
the latter, they were questioned by the former, but before his
death, Gall fell in with many of the views suggested by Spurz-
heim. A single illustration on this point will suffice. Dr.
Gall observed that a particular portion of the head was large in
haughty individuals, and called it the organ of haughtiness.
Spurzheim observed that sometimes one part of that region
was small, and the other large, that when the upper part was
large, and the lower part small, the individual had a feeling of
highmindedness, superiority, and self-respect, and no love of
ho "',and that when the otherpart was large,and thissmall,there
was·a propensity to locate, and a strong attachment to home.
He a:,cordingly called the upper partSelf-Esteem, and the lower,
lnha itiveness. My own observation convinces me that the
sar 1
m true of the difference between Combe and Spurzheim
on t ~ abitiveness, though I have hardly sufficient confidence
in h /'fQWn observations even to venture the suggestion.
T 'e same is true of Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness. Dr.
Ga ~.>und that a certain part ofthe head was very large in invet-
erate thieves,and, as was perfectly natural, named it the organ of
thl:lfl. Dr. Spurzheim discovered that in this region two organs
were loeated, that when one part was large and the other small,
there was a propensity to acquire and hoard up, but no propen-
sity to conceal, and vica versa. He therefore named one
Acquisitiveness, and the other Secretiveness. B9th are neces-
sary to adroit thieves, yet persons are often found with one
J
o;J,izedb,Google
~
- - _
.....- --""P""'"
\
I
I
A.\\o~
Pbten~l.
not a.l>O\
fear of"' r
:=:-J
ment~
considE!
betwee
covery
by all .
Now, •
twoorl
Bytht
have<
Yo1
are d~
ness.
there
I diff~
to cd
recon
th~ d:
he1m.
this s
ing.}~
agre•
--a
Now
ly as
unan
but,
cult:
tain
fucu
-this
que1
ent;
the'
enf.&
Anc
10
t.rr, and tbe other IJIIlall. TIWI di.crepence w•• o
by a new discovery, ..d does not .Ill all in"raalclato thE
Phrenology. The same ia true of every mate}ial c
between the two authors, with which I am acqwLinte
dlat about the aoalysis and oaming of the orgu•
covered the organs whea. in excess, and COIUieCJtuenl
tbem from their abuse, and as hia chief attention was
to the tKteOfH!1'Y of organa, and the observation of fac
course paid little regard to the analgtit of the orgaw
iog collected a great abundance of materials, and th•
deep and unimperishable fOundation for the most beau
stupendous of the sciences, Spurzheim enters the fiel<
a fuw valuable discoveries, and by his extraordinary p
dlscrimination, Clftaly.e• tlaefacultiet, and erects a ma,
aaperatructure, which is destined to be the admiratio
coming ages, as the richest boon ever yet bequea~
JM.n to his fellow men. In doing this, it wu ttece
ebaoge the namu of some of the organs. To this Gall
netural, atfirst objected, but gradually yielded point aft•
till, at his death, there was much less disagreement thl
bad formerly been.
This is the amount of the difterenoe amoog Phren
The assertion, then, that ''each Phrenologist has a sy
his own," has no foundation in fact. I however regret 1
had DOt yourself stated wher-ein Phrenologists disagree,
our readers might be sure that the best anti-phrenologi
struction might be put upon it that could be.
I closed my remarks on this point, with this questio..
I understand you to urge this as an objection agaiDl't ~
ogy1 If so, I will meet you on that ground, whe1
bve stated your argument." You have never ans" '
question. Had you answered it in the affirmative, T
have replied, then why adduce it1 If in the negative .
have said, if your argument proves any thing, it p
rauch; for it would equally prove that the sciencesof M
ofChymistry, of Botany, ofMineralogy, of Mechanic,;-
tricity, of· mental and moral Philosophy, and even ot
...eict and AstrCJIIWff&y, are all untrue. The most ernino
taematicians dispute, to this day, whether or not the ciJ
lie completely equated; even though this is one of the
111111 ooe of the deaonttratiN sciences. But does thi3
tau the sublime principles of astronomy are uotrue-tl
aDd two do DOt make four? Just as much~ adifterence
Q: :.2_ed bv G_Qo
'-"
g
3-'l=-=
e=----...,......•
....
~------
n
u ~renologists dispi'OV88 Phrenology. Between Franklin and
tbts tntl f·Fay there wasafimdamentaldifference about electricity,-
ll diJ18!4Kformer maintaining that there were two electric fluids; the
1ted, e..a:ftter, that there was but one. But does this prove that there
Gall df no such thing as an electric fluid, or even that its supposed
oJy .~s are merely ''the hallucination of a moon-struck imagina-
s di.reo:•1n?" Mqst certainly; ifyour·argument is sound. Your ar-
llCts, h. · ff~Jeat, if it proves any thing, applies with -a lhouaand-:foltl
llBo h •;~e, to the science ofMedicine. It is proverbial that scarce
In~ l~_;:rffl two DoctOI'S can agree, in a single case, either in regard
tuttful eiS. the disease or its remedy. And not only do indimduala di&-
•ld, n · 'lli:l and backbite each other, but there are conflicting ay.-
po~l' :· ~. diametrically opposed to each other. The diffureiKle
utgr --~ )'Ilia fundamental-is hea"en wide? And yet is there flO
.tio :.t' ••) 1ft all in any part of the healing art1 Not a bit, ifyour
ed ;_ _' -~·'' "Ltllent has the least weight. But enough. With this ar-
lCel' --1\' .,'.l<~t, stated in the form of your much praised syllogism,I can
rall, ,., ' '~that there is no God, no future 1tate, no science, no any
afte1 '~ '""l•f for, difrerent men take different views of almost every
t tbb \""""'·: i!l. If all men thought just alike, no new discoveries
·•is ...-j be made. This argument is certainly too weak to be ad-
•renoi. '!llt.•.J,especially in a cause so strong as that of Anti-phrenology.
a sy&ter ·~- 'Vou ask, "Are there as many nerves leading from the june-
ret th •t r _:-'M the spinal marrow and brain, to the surface of the brain,
:ree, •· ·~re are organs appointed* by Phrenologists, or are there
•logic~>· ;~-- '-f4" I answer, no such nerves have, to my knowledge, yet
.nd)llt · :~overed; but this no more proves that such nerves do
1/IVt•· ~h0': exiSt, than ignorance of the laws of chymistry, of astrono-
•• P,',. was.:..-t, • --.fphysiology, prove that these laws do not exist. Nor
''" He a;· · ~ material point; for we ne"er rely on the dissection of
• '"· lnhan•g~ for a discovery, or even proof, of its function. :My
T sar "'1«._~the anatomy of the brain, agree entirely with those of
1 .,In ?D Ir_
• ~.n-zheiin, who, by the unanimous consent of all the first
1 tn Iil' 'l;~l!!ts in the world, made most valuable discoveries rela-
M ,;1 · 1''· lQTthe anatomy of the brain, and, at his death, knew more
F :1 Ga' ; 'i·l,:.tJrgan than any other man. This conclusively proves
ot · '1\.era'"-'Hle anatomy of the brain, so far from disproving Phrenol-
lineL.'lthe :','is greatly indebted to it.
circle•• ;~· I shall discuss the anatomy of the. brain no farther Jhan is
the ·.;~u·-''\Ojsary to answer those objections which may be urged
thi• ·(Ji~_,. •last Phrenology, on anatomical principles; for very few of
,.-tbb·o!c• .L'readers would take the least interest .in such a discussion.
~nee ' ·,a.r 16
•l'llreDololiell have ,._ "appointed," bat merely tlilc:owt'ed, OIJIUUI·
m '"edbyGoogle
' J
,-,
They are chiefty pmctical menf and would care little aboliilt \
tlt.e0f'11, especially the theory of the brain, which, without t. ,
'
aid of Phrenology, is little understood, even by its ablest teaea- .J
ere. Yours, &c. 0. S. FOWLER.:••
REPLY OF VIND~X.
\
r
J.
Mr. F. is more willing to give up the consideration of the
anatomy of the brain, than I am. As our readers are practiccl.._~ •
men, they can easily learn what has .been observed by pract~b ~\
cal anatomists. If there be any t'Mory in considering the sub',.
ject, it is on the part of Mr. F., who argues that the fact ofnone>: .
of the nerves of tbe difiercnt organs, having, to his knowledge,
been discovered, is no proof that such nerves do not exist. Now,
when an affirmative is stated, it must be proved by facts, other-
wille it js only a t'Mory. It is not incumbent on us• to prove
. that such nerves do 11ot exist-that they have not been diiJeov-
ered is sufficient proof of that fact. We all know that the
nerves of the organs of seeing1 hearing, smelling, &c., have
been discovered, and their course has been traced to various
portions of the brain.
It is well known that nerves have been discovered of the or•
gans of seeing, hearing, smelling, &c. These are c.m-poreGl
organs. Mr. F. calls all the organs, as laid down by P}jreool·
ogy, corporeal organs. Now, if that be true, why have not
nerves been discovered leading from each organ to the J;-'' a~·
the brain? Mr. F. in his second number, says--"Nt..•a-
nerves have, to my knowledge, yet been discovered.:. ..;,..:a}
have they not been discovered? would not such ~~: .~ent,
prove the. fundamental principles of Phrenology t>trL:; ..'ng,
mere conJecture?. A,re the nerves so small as norto P,tOOn.
QOVered by a microscope? They must be small in<l .. these
Lyonet has detected not less than four thousand and ;1,.· the
nerves in the mere larve or caterpillar of a cossus, ol\~ .·.se
approaching to a butterfly. VINDE')i· .
'u-:. , "
ANSWER TO VINDEX. "i~·
You charge me with assuming the existence of the neft:. ·-se
the organs, from their non-disc01)ery-with arguing on thatwl
sumption, and with calling on you to disprove it. Now, sir,'l
neither 48Sume nor defly their existence, nor do l predicate ~
argument whatever on it. I simply say, that the point is JHt
. ·~
• Ut! (t aeems, lllcn, ll1at "Vn<DU"- ia in the plural number; of which this ~h.
lbe onl~ e'lidence.
I.
:1
I
..
o'g''"•~b,Google __,
'
l'mft.~iia.t, and aSBign the 1-eason. Yom argument i& thiS: ·~.
~Such nerves have been diilcovered; theretore, no such nerv~
ezist-therefore Phrenology is not true. This syllogis!Jl lae"'
foundation. ·You must _first prove, that these nerves are a sine
qua non-anindispensa·ble requisite to the truth of Phrenology.
You assume this: I deny it. Your whole argument has notthe
weight of a feather, till you prove this point; for it is an eBBett·
•ial one. After you have proved this (which you will find a
:1ry difficult task,) you will ·be obliged to prove that the non·
. •:actmery of such organs, establishes their non-existence; which
·ou certainly cannot do. They may exist, and yet not be dis-
coverable; not from their smallness, but from the nature of
their substance and texture. The "nerves of the larve," you
mention, are nerves of motion; and, as the function of these
nerves differ 80 widely from thE' function of the nerves of the
organs, (on supposition that such nerves exist,) it is· primtJ
facia evtdent, that their nature and texture as widely differ.
Their discovery, then, may be, and might be expected to be,
altogether impossible by human instrumentality, inasmuch aa
theirfunction is 80 subtle. If you had only stated your argu-
ment in that syllogistic form, which you so highly recommend,•
you might have saved me, and the reader, all this trouble.
You plainly intimate that I am afraid to discu!'ls the anatomy
of the brain-that Phrenology is lame here-that I wish to
~m~e_,. this lameness under the plea that our readers will take
~-:'~';.terest in the discussion of its theories. In this, sir, you
~ · ~atly mistaken. Do I not state that I am ready "to an-
'l)o;··· ' objections that ma:v be urged against Phrenology on
·;pm,'..'l principles?" Why then charge me with being
-, • wtlling to ~ive up the anatomy of the brain than your-
·
'«! ' No, sir, Phrenology, !'lo· fur from being lame here, is
~· ' · home, and perfectly invulnerable; and, so far from
A,' g to evade this point, I am even anxious to take it up.
j"A··~· your anatomical objections, and see if I leave them un·
•·t ~·- _
ered. It is not for me to prove that anatomy does not con-
)&; _:.:t Phrenology, but for you to prove that it does. When
I"''1
.) this, you will do what no other man .has ever yet done.
r ·st I mistake, or yours will be emphatically a herculean task,
-·J ;o point out any discrcpance between the r.n:tt0my of the brain
1
.. ·1d Phrenology. Almost every expert anatomist adopts that
node of dissecting the brain which was discoYered by th•
..:"· 1x:overers ofPhrenology, and alon~ with it. Medical school•
.-n·; medical authors, are universally adopting the phrenolo~P.·
..,,, '
,... . . •Pap!». - .
..,_ , 2
""
..
o,,.,."(j Or - oogle
a
eal anatomy of the brain; and the best dissectiOI.lS of tIre b
are those.that proceed on phrenological.prinCiples. I w&.s;- ··
fo~med not three days since, by a former anatomical dissec~
in the .Medical College of Maryland, that Phrenology had th:tqw
more light on the anatomy of the brain, than had ever ~¥len
thrown on it before. Horner, a standard medical author, says,
on the 76th page of his anatomy: ••Theirs (Drs., Gall .-pd
Spurzheim's) is a very improved and simplified method of st~·
ing the anatomy of the brain, and of the nervous system." "It ·•
is an obvious matter of fact, and, for the most part, as su~p·
ible of demonstration as the contents of the thorax." The ~
tDhole world have long since been challenged to shew any c®·
tradiction between Anatomy and Phrenology. The ablest.an-
atomists of christendom have tried it, and failed. If you try
it, you will also fiLii. The fact is that anatomy is JUJture-
Phrenology is also nature, and each will support the o~r.
This is evident from the fact, that the only clear and ratiODal
anatomy of the brain, is that which was discovered by ~lwe­
nologiats, by means of Phrenology, and aloog with it, thereby
proving that they are the twin sisters of truth and nature. . If I
you attempt to disprove Phrenology by anatomy, you will only
spit in the wind, and of course,In your own face.
I really thought, by your manner of br{)aching this subject,
that you intended something more than mere bravado. You ~
"'Y "M .... """'"' .... proctical "''"· they <Bn ....ly I~
what has been observed by practical anatomists;" and ye . .
not proceed to state the observations of these practical ana , 1
mists, nor show how these observations clash with phrenologlr.-' •
.
principles. True, you say, unfortunately for your IV'!Na 1
"It is known that the nerves of the organs of seeing, hearT.
smelling, &c. have been discovered, and their course has b, . ·.J
traced to various parts ofthe brain." It is also known that,_ · ·
nerves have been traced EXCLUSIVELY (am I not right~) to....... ' I
BA!IE of the brain-the very part allotted by Phrenology to t~ J:
functions which are common to men and animals. This pa1·
of the brain, as well as these nerves, is common to men and ar
imals. The base of the brain, or that part to which th~J
nerves have been traced, is the same part to which Prenolog~
has assigned the organs of the animal functions, and compre- ,
bends the whole of the animal brain. The organs of the sen-
timents peculiar to man, together with the reasoning organs
are chiefly wanting in the animal brain, but occupy a large por· ·
tion of the human brain. To this portion of the human brain,'111!
none of the nerves of the animal functions have been traced. ·
This fact, so far from disproving Phrenology, is totally ine:r-l
lr---
1
lw-
par•
Ia•·
hc.·j
lo~
pre·
lieD·
>811S
' ·-
)()t•
lin,
ed.
er·
i5
"Jllicable ori any odie!' tba:n phrenological principles, and goow
far fo e!ltliblish thei!e principles. Unless Phrenology is true,
'1Dhy is it that the animal portion of the brain, in animals, ac·
1
cording to Phrenology, i!j alone developed? Unless Phrenolo-
gy-is true, why is it that the nerves of the animal functions
~rigi.nate in the animarl portion of the brain? Unless Phrenol-
ogy is true, why is it that in the part of the human brain, allotted
by Phrenology to the moral and reasoning organs, where
·such nerves, not only are not necessary, but would be out ·of
.place, no such nerves are to be found? I put these questions
home to you, and ask how they can be satisfactorily answered,
only by admitting that between anatomy and Phrenology there
·elli~w'a-striking coincidence. 'l'he only statement, then, which
yOUila~·made respectiiig the anatomy of the brain, bears
llt~y,·if not c011clusi"ly against you, and as eonclusivly in
'Cavm"bfPhrenology. So It is with etJery anatomical argumein ·
·whieh Anti-phrenologi~l ahatomists have· yet adduced, or, I
1venture to say, can addute. '
."_· ,. . · ExcBESCEXCJ;s. , " .,-
;~.;·_ 1
To your third qoostion, "whether the skull is not liable w
_
«?Qny excrescences, whic.h roay be mistaken for phrenolog~
~rgJ~.D.S,~' I aosw~t no--and certainly not by any experl _
Phre-
nologist. True the skull i~ liable to bony excrescell(le8, such
~as the mastoid process, the occupital bone, the frontal sinuses,
an~, perhaps, some others. But these seldom need be ~~t~istaken
for phrenological orgims; for we know their location and sh.Jl(',
and can _
ascertain their size by their shape. And since they sel-
~om cover the wlwle of any organ, we c,an calculate the·siae
of that orgap, by the part that is unaffected by ·them. No, sir,
~ ezpert "PhreQologist wjll mistake an ex"rescence, fur an OJt-
gan. m~re seldom than an e.qually expert physiciiUl will nua-
tak~ a disordered. stomach for an affecti()n of the liver. A quack
niay misake in both cases. Yo~ &c. 0. S. FOWLER. .
REPLY OF VINDEX.
•.·The writer of th1s ~88 seen bony excrescences in parts of
·the· Skull,where ··"Cautiousn~ss," "Firmness," "Hope," and
•<Ideality," are·loca(Eid. In some cases there were cavities Qf
'three quarters of an inch and as broad as any phrenological
wgan• · Yet .~o Phrenologist, however·eZpert, could, have.dis-
~red ·that they were mere ·excrescences. - ' ·
.: . . ANSWE.R TQ VINDU. -~
, .l:Xtna.aDil aU othec 4nti-phtenologista carp a grea~ d$tabout
D•g•t•zed by Coogle
11
the"IIMJ ucrerctftcu,': as though because the ek.U ia liable to
,a occasional excrescence, there could be no truth in phl'eno-
logical principlea. Suppoee the skull were wlwlly cuoered with
cheae excrescences, the phrenological organs might e~, and
perform their functions, just u well with as without them. . If,
then, your argument were stronger by a bWMired fold than it
now is, it would not at all invalidate the truth of the prinei-
plee of Phrenology: and thi1 is the point we are diacusaing.
On the supposition that such excrescences were numerous, they
would throw in the way of correct phrenological aheervatioDSy
~ difficulty proportionate to theirsize and number. This is the
moet your argument can claim.
But 8o far from these excrescences being numerous, nOt one
occurs on an average, in filly heads, or in 3.500 organs, (there
being 35 organs on each side of the head.) And even when
an excrescence does occur, it is at least fifty chances to ooe, if
it cover the whole of one organ, but generally a part of 1ewral:
end a hundred more chances to one if its 1hape correspooded
eRCtly with that ofthe organ: and thenstill another hundred,ifit
be just as large. So that the necessary chance of error is ~
00& to 1.730.000.000. Have I underrated this difficulty? And
·euppoae it is a million times greatet than my estimate, the rte•
·euHry ebanee tOr mistaking an excrescence for an organ is u
•thousanda to one. And el'ta the~~, it is hardly supposable tbat
·two excrescences ahould occur on preci1ely oppolite ride• of
·4e 1a.ae head, so that one side would correct the other. Why
tiben should I waste words on so diminutive an argumeotT
You say "no Phrenologist, however ezeert,could bave discov~
·erect that they were mere excrescences. ' On what ground do
you hazanl this assertion? On the failure of an e~ri Phre~
-.ologistT or do you ·say of yourael.f, that no Phrenologist, bow~
·ever ezpert, could havediscovered what you could not discover?
1 appeal whether such a·declaration does not indicate a high
dtwelopemtmt of self-esteem. Whether there is the cones-
~iog organ, is opea for furtber ~~tion.
The same general rem&Fks apply to _
the "cavities," ~y.
these are still mpre ·~asily detected. .In ,my public eumioa-
tions in this city l b!Jve detected three cavities, occasioned by
:blows on the head, in New York, at least two; in Albany,aud
Troy,eeveral; one ill Brattleboro', Vt.,and · ~ n1,1mber in other
"places. I now k11ow of but a single. mis~e, in all PlYt~~
tions, occasioned by l=!l-Vities, and ~h!l-t was in this city. By a
wbeequent ~xamifta:ti~, tit~ error'was'ai once detected.
l''-ane.,~~--· ~·, ~ ..........1
..
- - 17
in the way, especially of the unpractised Phrenologist, I admit;
but their shape is so irregular, and their knotty appearance dif-
fers so widely from tl-te regularswell of the phrenological organs,
that the Phrenolooist must be comparatively a tyro in observa-
tion, whatever he may be in theory, who mistakes the one for
the other. The difficulty seems to be far greater in theory
than it really is in practice, especially to those who look at it,
through the magnifYing glass of prejudice.
But knowing Phrenologists are influenced far less by "ex-
crescences'-' and "cavities" tj).ldl by the general fullness of the
head in the parts observe¥ Take a familiar instance from the
busts of Franklin and Washington. In the latter, the organs
located just above the eyes, are very large. Individuality,
Form, Size, Order, Eventuality, Locality, and Comparison, are
immenselylarge, whileCausality is comparatively retiring. Ac-
cording to Phrenology, these organs would make their possessor
just what Washington actually was-a matter-of-fact man,would
give a popular, business talent, discrimination, observation and
great tact. In Franklin, these organs were relatively much
smaller, and while Causality and Mirthfulness were enormously
large,making him, according to Phrenology, what he in fact was
-a most profound thinker-an eminent philosopher. His Jar e
Mirthfulness would dispose and enable him to express his ro-
found philosophical deductions in a humorous manner. Con-
trast the American with the Indian head-the El!glish ith the
Hindoo-the African with the European-indeed contrast al-
most any two heads you see, and you cannot fail to discover
an astonishing difference, not so much in their "protuberances"
and"cavities" as in theirgeneralconformation,and theiroutlines.
Some heads are round and smooth; others, very uneven. In
some, the mass of brain lies in the bassilor region, in others in
the coronal, in others still, in the frontal. Some heads are long
and narro\v, others, shorter and broader. Look at the head of
Aurelia Chase, the colored wretch that was executed in Balti-
more in 1834, after having murdered seven individuals. The
phrenological developement of the whole animal region, especi-
ally of Destructiveness, Combativeness, Secretiveness, Firm-
ness, Self-esteem, and Amativ~ness are as large as almost any I
have ever seen, whilst Benevolence and the reasoning organs,
are comparatively mere pigmies. She met death with all the
imaginablehaughtinessand fortitude ofa hardened wretch, regret-
ing only that she could not glut he1· still greedy thirst for blood,
and wreak her vengeance on others who were obnoxious to her
displeasure. Contrasther head, phrenologically, and her char·
2*
o~""ed by Coogle
"
~:
u!
llt
nt
tr·
I
tq
tt
t\
\\
t\
i\
· a
l
\
(
'4
I
~
# '
,
,.
7
the
an '
lOf
tho
pe.
th·
no
ph
OJ
,(
.(..
JD~
18
acter too, with tJM.e oCLord :a.coo,Nt
any other great pef1001lg8,and their pbr
great aa that of their characters, aDd ec
Now, for everr eflect there iseome Cllll
this dift"erence m the 8hape of heads.
tingk organ. uo.logy proves that its lhGJ
o.ll ~. The eye, the ear, the noee, tt
the liver, &c. unless distorted by diseas
IUAPB in diJJerent individual& But ecarce
the same shaped brain. Now WRY is tb
tioo that the brain is a single orgaa, this 1 l
iaezplicabk-is contrary to the unifm i
ADif the fact that a certain shape of the he ~
cea and cavities excepted, is int1ariahly ace• >Ill
taio developements of the mind, makes the a oi
Cftclruioe. It amounts to a PBYBICAL DEll n o \
.
truth of Phrenology. Yours, &c. 0. . i
,......, M£)[0RY.
You ask, "Is there·an organ for each f&eu y at_
I .....er, yes, 110 far as these faculties have, as ,_
cOYered. Youthensay,as"Mr.F.admits,tha the•..
for eeoltfaculty of the mind, will he state wh( re tb
UleliiOry is located; and what uame Phrenologists
to •t'f" ·
Pray, eir, whatam I tOunderstand by the faculty
I deoy that there ir such a separate faculty. One
remembers a friend, (Adhesiveness large,) but 8001
eoemy; another always remembers an enemy, (Des
large,) but eoon forgets a friend; and some never fo
Oae remembers his debtors, (Acquisitiveness larg
Iliacreditors, (CoDIIC.ientiousnesslarge.) In listening
er, one can repeat whole speeches, almost verbatim,
large,) but retains scarce a 11ingle idea; another will
ry important idea, (Causality large,) but cannot re
gte' •ntence. One can commit whole pages of mer
characters, from which be gets not a single idea,
reading it oaly twice; another might read a ~
ti.melft "';tbout being able to repeat it. But let him
..........._ IIIO!Uiraliolll, or the idea, and he will ttef1er forget
I appeal to each reader, if he does Qot find it ae
membet' 110ma things as- it is difficult to remember c
hia partner rem.eutbers what Jte forgets, $lld forgets
~DG~Gben. Ooe never forgets a priociple, bat ne
O.Otaa..dato., wordl. tace., ptaoe., fi~ &c., wl
19
~N~H~t,~ tbe11et but· _:... ~ prilaqip&eil. There 111e
llllp6reoo~
· · y difterent kinds ofmemory as tllere are di&rent
llldcol'l'e8p0Dit .those kinds of memory difier ·as much from each
meCIJIIIt. •. head does nom the fOot--«s ftlueh. as reaon. does
~eada. If the · .g. I repeat it-What do ~ou meuby "IM fot:ully
Ita IMpe lllll8l be ujy?"-Memory of WHAT1-of faces, plaees, ideas, lito·
noee, the stomach, · , enemies,size, worc's1-memory l!f WR.\T1 Just de-
disease, aH hue -
kind of memory you mean, and I will describe ita
SCii1l.'e aoy tiPo · name. Till then I cannot.
r is tlll81 On t1Je phenomena of memory is Dot the produet of a .m.
~. IbispbeliODielll te thculty, )s demonstrated by the faet that there
unif01'11 kzrDI y lcinda of it. If it were a ri"{fle faculty, itcould
the head, mere as well in one harness as .anothel'-Could remember
1/y •ccompaoied · es, words, ideas, &c. all eqwally-well. This is not
slheil'gllmellt . • Memory then, is not a single, separate iacnlty.
LDuonn4~ are there as many dtjfertmt facultiett of memory as--
0. 8. Fo · · different kinds of it. ·
: .· t then i·s Memory1 Simply the reminiscence of the op-
hll It f th of the faculties. One faculty has to do with wo.-ds,
bacu yo 1
6 ~r with ideas and principles, a third \Yith facts, &c.; aad
ts ~~e~~ye! bt\culty recollects those things with which it·has.to do. I~
I ' h
a e~Jfas~~>ne's faculty which has to do with principles, (Causality,)
e IV ere'"" cw: h h h' h h d . h . 'd (E ··-'
I . h ~er t ant at w 1c as to o w&t mc1 ents, vent.-..
reno oaJSis ave~· -11 b · · 1 h be h he ..l---
" •te WI remem er prmC!p es as muc tter t an UUUB
li It f as his Causality is stronger than his Eveqtuality. So-of
le acu Y0 menx other faculty. ·
Y
b One mflan aJ , you not see, sir, that you put your question too 800111
ut soon °'r11should have first demonstrated, that the phenomena of
~y, (~strucll~~ory was the product of a distinct mental faculty, and then
nevr orr:)et eJI1nded the phrenological name and location of that faculty.
~ss _arge, 811011repeat--<lescribe the kind of memory you mean, and I
:~mg(t;:s!X\ell you its name and location; or bring me a child, and.I
11,~ ~~tell y~u what kind of memory it possesses, an~ where the
erll rel:wl~-t kmds are located. But ask me, "where (m the head)
~~ re~~~ ·. culty of memory is located1n and I must·answer you as the
mere "'6" ~ ee answered the question, where he was born. "\Vhy,n
dea,lll(/ tba he, "at"Bamstable, Cape Cod, and all olong shore." Mem-
~getah::pf something is located, at least all over the forehead. Un.·
11m. '"ltand me to introdu<'e the yankee answer, flot because I
et Jt. to 11 to ridicule you, or your question; for it is put to me.daily,
as;:" ~ is proper enough-but because it is too indefinite .to.admit
rot l'I,W a definite answer. The same is true of every other. mculty
"'hat!;every .other system of mental philosophy. This very- point
.:rI11IJl1wQWa. bo&a.&lle weakaese.ao4 obscurity ii(,.every other sy~
o'g''"•d by Coogle-
""""!!!:::.._
<' 20
·~~~!~~~·~~~:~ 'i
I wiU go with you into the.family whe~ you llJ'8-IJlOat • ·
liar, aud ask you, ~Has that.ehild ,a ~ me.~ory1" .You sa.y
yerP-no child has a bettet one. I say to tbe ~ot~er, ~·can this
·cltiutremember.tile countenance$ .00.dress of those that.~ ~
at meeting1" "No, sir, Out be ~ re~ei,Dber the whole of tJte
t&ermon." · I ask you if the ~nd has.a goqd .meJDOry1 ,Y~ J
say no. I ask the mother if she annot;rec9llect, -.vi~b.re~i· 1
able. acc111'1lcy;:tbe facee apd dress Qf ~.lihe saw a~ rn~~ing7
~Yes/' says the mother, "hilt she ~ot re<:Qilecta w~ of~e
·aeriJlOII,.",:, Now, sir, you we~ bQth .right, and also wrong, in
;both your answers. A third child-<:an remembe~ only. the"ub·
'dance ofthe serJDOll; .a fourth, neither the.su.bstance of the SCf·
.moo;·aor:its expression, nor t~e dress of those tl~a.t were t~,
·but can siag, with perfectaceuracy, all the bmes she hear4t.,
and will never forget them. But you ask.meif this .
or.th.at child
bas.a good memory, and I will tell you in et1~t:!/. inB!taJ~P.e,, and
.with unerring certainty, just what .kind of mernOI'y the. ~
.possesses.• I will do the sa,me by every otherfaculty.t~ cbi.Jd
.possesses. If you wish occular de11U)nBtration instead of .my
·usertio&l, choose your time, place, children, witnesses, :SCribe,
&c.-.with the understanding that the result is to be publi,8h00.
Let the true cbaracre.r of the children be previously written, -
~and their physiognomy covered. Invite Dr. Annan,.aJ¥)-let qs
see whether Phrenology be "the hallucination ofa moon-struck
'imagination'!' Since I appeal to such a test, my declaration
:must be admitted till itis disproved.
Yours, &c. 0. S. FOWLER. ,,
·;; .
.
It is rortuaate that I proposed the question aboqt .memory.
Many will learn what they never conceived of before. CoDt'la·
ry to the universally received opinion, memory is not to be calhMl
a faculty ofthe mind. Because Phrenologistsc!lllllot~a biJ${>
fur it to repose on; they have thrown it outofthe fraternity of•·
culties. They deny that it is a faculty because it manifests i.t-
eelf in a variety of ways. One man remembers persons, aQOth·
er colors, another friends, another enemies and therefore mem-
ory is aot a faculty. Let us place this in tl~e form ofa syllo-
gism. . . . . . ..
Mqjor-That is not a faculty which dQes.not manifest · ~
.in the same way in every: ~rson;
. • Bee the aceount of 'the e1aminati~n .of .two bi'Othen, .le.ently Publ'l.bea In \fie
·emo.awe;·..a aJoo,• ediiGrillllil $be L11Cbcia~• .8ee:App8Dti&,... ·~ -
.... --·--~
I
)
·I
i
•
........-
21
·.Jlf.,_Memoiy ~,._ iblelf' ia oee penoa, and he re.
members eolors; in another, and he remembers frienda; iD
11110ther~ and be remembers enemies: which manifustation DOl.
.being alike in all three, therefore:
~ Conclusion-Memory is not a faculty,
Now let us BOO how this will arply to some of the facultiea
which belo~ to Phrenology. In Mr. F's. chart we find "Des-
truetiveness' a faculty of the mind. Mr. F. defines it thwr.
-"PropeDSity to deltroy what is hurtful, to exterminate nuisancea;
to witness and inflict pain, corporeal and mental." According
to the above syllogism, based on Mr. F'a. arguments, "l>estruc.
.tivenesa" is not a taculty, because, like memory, it is manifested
difterently in durerent persons. One penon will "~xterminate
nuisancea," and_
another will "witness and inflict pain, coporeal
abd mental.'' I might, by a like process, prove that ewry
organ laid down in Mr. F's. chart, is no faculty of the miotL
Mr. F's. illustration of the operations of memory is a little
amusing; ''oDe man always remembers a friend, (Adbesivell888
large,) but 80011 for~ts an enemy; another always remembers
a enemy (Destructiveness large,) but soon forgets a friend, and
eome never forget either. One remembers-his debtora, (Ac-
..-tiveoess large;) another his creditors, (ConecientiOUIIDell8
.. Juge,)"-1 have referred to Mr. F's. chart but cannot find that
these are the functions of "Adhesiveness," "Destructiveness,"
"Acquisitiveness," and "CODBCientiouSRe~J~J."-It seems that ·
large organs not only cauae memory but they cause forgetful.
~• If one have large •'adhesiveness," he will remember
friends but forget enemies. A man must have large «Con..
ec~ntiousness" to remember his creditors. Some men remem-
ber their creditors though they do not pay their debts. Others .
remember creditont becauae they fear a prosecution-othera
contract debts and pay the bills when presented, yet they"do
not keep their creditors in mind. Again, the thnction of l>es-
truetive.,eia is to destroy, nt i(eau9es destructive men tore-
member enemies.and forget friends.• A man who sends in hia
biD to his debtor, bas jarge "Acquisitiveness," and consequent-
ly, accordipg to1\f:r. P's. chart, is predisposed "to aYarice, cov...
etousness, 8tingines9, cheating, fraud, .theft, &c.'' What •
blessing it would be to debtors if Phrenology be established~
No man will then become a dun for fear of beinQ; thoueht at
ebeat,or_ athie£_. ~ .· . : ,. ,: .
· . :; ;;; · ~VIND~~~•.r;
. , :· ANSWER TO.'VlNi>n~ ••"·'·•r. ;,,,rt>;fl ,,1
•·~·~·:l'par fourth number seems to me~· .,...,..Of
• IIIOWIIwe pY~ 11M lellll ._, fer RCII aa lllllmtlce,
tt
aotice. Your syUogiatie, scbola&tic ~od ot: ~.be­
longed to the dark ages, and bas long ago been acouted, by &H
correct logicians. By it can be proved directly opposites.
Your criticisms on my chart really seem to me silly-like a
child jingling the rattle. If a thinking communityjudge them
strong, manly, conclu3i.ve, and calculatedtoovertluow Pbrenol-
.ogy, I greatly mistake. . . ·
If Phrenology is not true, it is col'ITJt.utY ':tO NATIT.RE-.-to
the WHOLE SY8TBK of things--cont~ry to ALL THE ·SCIENCBS
contrary to RBVBLA'rloN, on supposition ·that revelatioo is 1
true-contrary,in short, to ecery thing. It can then be oppos-
ed OD the GRAND AND FUNiiA.XBNTAL PRINC1PLB8 of t.bing&-
those principles which regulate all things, and which all admit.
Why then do you attack Phrenology with mere quibbles'!. Why,
if.yours is the strong side, do you not take broad growd, and
argue on GE])IEBAL PIUNCIPLES? It must be, either because you
are incapable of grasping and presenting those principleS, or
else beeauso they are against you-beeause Phrenology is trw,
is rnllUTe, and therefore consistent, in its gtme£al priRCipl&, with
the natuN! of things, and with jact1. It can be attacked· by un-
iOundsyllogisms, by sophistry, by ridicule, hy mere quibbles, but
.sir,.by JWthing eZ.e. Thus far you have not yet. pret~ented G
~ngle general principle, neither an anatomical, physiological, ..,
pathological, nor any other principle. Why ·do.we hear no
. more about the anatomy of the brain, about which yon atfect te
:worry me so much? , And let us hear oo more about meliiOIJ"•
~ill.]?U have put me to the test I proposed. Tkat t~stwiltcom­
pletely answer. your syllogism. ·
Yours, &c. 0. S. FOWLER,
REPLY OF VINDt:X.
Mr. F. is in error whim he states that syllogisms ar~ scou~ed
by all correct logicians. He has not .meutioned one who ~~
scouted it. I am not disposed at this time to defend_,s;yllogisms.
Though they may not discover truth, they will detect sophis\ry,
and for that purpose I used one. If Mr. F. will analyse his J
·own mi.qd, when he attempts to reason, he will find. that he uses ~
the syllogistic process, though not the form. .It is related of
an eminent English barrister, afterward a distinguished judge, •
that, on one occasion he was completely puzzled by an arg11·
ment adduced by his opponept. in an important case, and that
he did not detect the·fallacy till he went home .and put it in the
~1'01 ofa eyltegism. · . · : ·• '¥1ND&~.
\
,...
I
I
f
I
28
ANSWER ·ro VINDEX.
: As ·you still insist on the validity of your syllogism, I will
:Show its fallacy. My argument is not that "that is not a faculty
which does not manifest itself in the ~me way in every per•
son,"-but that that cannot be a single faculty which produces
different kinds of manifestations. Now a "propensity to de·
stroy what is hurtful-to witness and inflict pain," &c. are only
_
different manifestations of the same primitioe feeling or pro·
pensity; whereas, to recollect a tune, and a mathematical t,
heo-.
rem, are as toto celo different manifestations of memory, as a
tune is from a mathematical problem. The "destroying what
is hurtful, witne,;sing and inflicting pain," &c., show themselves
in the same person, and, other conditions being equal, with equal
strength; whereas, memory of tunes, and memory of thcughts,
do not appear with equal ~trength, other things being equal, in
. the same person, but appear in different persons. And their
strength is always proportionate to the size of certain parts of
the brain. There are not different kinds of Destructiveness, of
Combativeness, of Acquisitiveness, &c. as there are different
kinds of memory; although the same primitive function is ex-
ercised in reference to different objects. The following illus-
tration will convey my idea. The '·organ of color recollects
green, red, orange, violet, &c. and the innumerable shades and
tinges .produced by their combination. This is exactly anala-
gous to the organ of Destructiveness, "destroying what IS hurt-
ful, exterminating nuisances," &c., but is not analagous to a
single faculty remembering a thought and a tune. Having thus
overthrown your major premise, your whole syllogism falls.
One faculty has to do with thoughts, ana another with CO·
lors. It is t~atural-ii is an a priori inference, that the faculty ·
which has to do with thoughts, should remember thoughts; and
that which has to do with colors, should remember colors. This
theory is also perfectly coincident with facts. l challengedyou
to settle this point by an appeal to facts. One fact is better
than a thousand syllogisms. Why do you not accept this chal·
lenge1 Are you afraid of this test? Or do you think the
point unworthy your notice1 You make a great noise about
Mem.ory, and .then either dare not test it, or consider it un·
worthy of testmg.
I was not in error when I stated that syllogisms, as such-
syllogisms in a syllogistic form, are scouted by all correct lo·
gicians-that they belonged to the dark ages. Where do we
see the 81Jllogistic form employed, the "major" and "minor"
"'
terms, the ''eoncl~" cbe "8eqniwr" the "aon-eequite:r1
They are a thousand times more likely to "puzzlen than ~.
puzzle, the inquirer after truth,-to fortify, than udetect
phistry.'' Yours, &c. . 0. S. FO"\.VLEli
l here insert a collateral discussion between an' author sig
C., a coadjutor of "Vindex," and myself.
FOR TJUI: CRROMCJ.JI:,
Mr. Editor-1 have been very much amused by the doubli
and twisting exhihited hy your phrenological Controversy. ll
there is one point in Mr. Fowler's communication of yesterd1
morning, that I wish to have a little better understanding<
I allude to his observations on Memory. For instnnce, he say
"What, then, is Memory1 Simply the reminiscence of th
operations of the other faculties.''
Here Memory is designated as the ''fac_
ulty"'*' that simplJ
calls up the reminiscence of the other Jacr;ltiea. Now, if thi~
means, and only means, that by l\1eiJlQry the mind retains in a
great degree the results of past mental operations-to my vie1t;
it is in con$0nance with the principbs of sound philosophy. It.
this paragraph, Memory is held up with truth, as a distinct
operation of the mind__;_qy the exercise of one of its faetdliet~.
But how am I to reconcile this do<'trir.e with that contained in
the rest of the paragraph which reacis thus:
"One faculty has to do with words, another with ideas and
principles, a third with facts, &c.; and ench faculty recollects
those things with which it has to do. If, then, one's faculty
which has to do with pr·inciples, (C'ausality,) is stronger than
that which has to do with incidents, (Eventuality,) he -will re.
member principles as much better than he cloes facts, as his
-causality is stronger than his Eventuality. So of any other
faculty.''
Here, from Memory's being one f,'lcnlty that "simply calls up
the reminiscence of other facult.ies," it would seem that each
principle of the mind keeps a distinrt chronicle of its own
deeds-and thus instead of there being one only, there is at
least thirty-threP. fdculties for Memory. Memory nt best is
but a negative operation of the mind, and yet for it there are
3:1 faculties,-while Reason and Imagination, from whence ori-
ginate those scintillationsofgreatneSI:Ithat ennoble our race, have
but one poor faculty apiece been allotted to them! How is this?
there is something rotten in Denmark, or this would not be.
Mr. Editor, my object is not controversy; far from it. IrPbnr
• JaoorrccL
~iaology be true, all men ought to believe in it;-if fhlse, it ·is
rzzi'IAroto-....my what thousands of equally plausible..schemes have been
~lllll ~ ',~·lefore. I have quoted Mr. Fowler correctly, and have endeav-
' FOWLER. ored to draw honest conclusious therefrom, and if they have
nUIJxip! been unfavorable to Phrenology, I am not to blame;-ooly he
atii¥f
w,iftbi
air.fill
nrFit 1
~j. bi
1*1'
.I
~in ~
laM '
a:ts /
ulty
han
re·
his
let
'P
b
I I
and other Phrenologists must not be surprised if we will not
give up the philosophy of our fathers, for whose promulgation
so many mighty geniuses have lived and died,-for his, merely
because it is the latest fashion, and without due investigation.
c.
l>OR THB CHRONICLE.
PHRENOLOGY.
Mr. Editor-In your paper of the 18th inst. there appeared
a good f'erbal criticism on one of my former numbers, signed C.
It was, however, merely verbal, and founded wholly on my use
of the term "other faculties," instead of mental faculties. Ex-
'cept this mere tJerbal mistake, occasioned by a reference to the
~old theory of Memory, I make no allusion whatever to Memory
as a distinct faculty, nor do I any where "designate Memory
as the faculty that calls up the reminiscence of the other facul-
ties." Here C. misquoted. Mere verbal criticism is compar·
atively an easy task, and, in this instance, is substituted for logi-
cal criticism. He commits as great a verbal blunder in the
phrase "and only means," as I do in the phrase "other fac-
ulties." Here, "only," qualifies means, when it should qualify
the following phrase.
His criticism would have been more just-more conclusive
against Phrenology, had he picked in pieces my ooalysis of
Memory, or overthrown my argume11t on that point, instead of
"doubling and twisting" to show that the lap8V8 lingtttB of the
term "other faculties," was inconsistent with my principle, that
Memory is not a faculty.
Allow me a word about the phenomena called Memory. If
it be the product of a sing\e faculty, that faculty must of neces·
sity be just as strong when exercised in reference to one class
of facts, as when exercised in reference to another; and conse-
quently, every one could remember every thing equally well.
Is not this a fair inference? The hand is just as strong to raise
a pound of wood, as a pounil of lead; and why should not Mem-
ory, if it be a separate faculty, be just tliJ strong to retain one
class of facts or things, as another? But this is seldom or
never the case. Almost every individual is a living witness to
the contrary. Now, if Memory be a singk faculty. there could
3
26
not be ditlCrent £:ind.-could not be difterent de~ee1 of Mem•
ory; which is not tbe ease. But if it be the p;:;;duct of ~WCerul
filculties, each remembering ita particular operations, there
could, and naturally would, be as many difterent kinds of Mem·
ory as there were different faculties, and their degree ofstrength
would correspond with the strength of the facultiea, and conse-
quentlywiththe size ofthephrenologicalorgans Thisisuoiform-
lythe case.• Now,how happensit that theman who hasone phre-
nological organ large, can recollect one class of facts, and the
one who has that organ small, cannot remember that class of
facta. If C. doubts that this is the case, I stand ready to de-
monstrate its truth or falsity. Let him put me himself to the
test I offered to "Vindex," in the number he criticised. That
tut is my argument, and will be worth more than all the philo·
110phical theories about Memory, ever broached since the days
of Aristotle. I repeat--put me to the tut of actual experi-
ment. Let us have poritive facta, rather than vague and old
theories. If C. will not meet me on this ground, I shall not
notice the point further-if he wtll, let him settle preliminaries,
call a meeting, if he pleases, and let my success or failure be
as public as possible. Is not this fair, honorable, conelusitH:
argument? Will C. meet me, or give up the point, that Mem-
ory is a single faculty? for one he must do.
0. S. FOWLER.
VINDEx's CaiTIOISil oN THE CHART.
In Mr. F's. printed chart, we find that "Acquisitiveness,"
when large, "predisposes to avarice, covetousness, stinginess,
cheating, fraud, theft, &c." All these traits of character be-
long to one organ.-But were are we to draw the line. A
man may be avariciou!l, or covetous, or stin,oy, without resort-
ing to cheating, fraud, orthieving. We may take two individu-
als, each having large ''Acquisitiveness," and yet theircharac-
ters will be different-one will be avaricious, and the other
will be a thief or a cheat. If Phrenology can come no nearer
a man's character, than to say, he is either a thief, or an ava-
ricious man, the system is of no value at all.
"No. !-Amativeness-physical love. It originates and
stimulates the sexual desire and prompts those kind attentions
·and obliging manners which the sexes show to each other;
thus greatly promoting politenes'l, urbanity, refinement and
sor.ial happiness.'' This is a faculty common to animals of
every class. Naturalists inform us that many animals have
their season of love. According to Phrenology, the organ must
be larger at those seasons than at others. From Mr. F's. defi·
.;«.l
I
27
nition we find that the same faculty, which has led sol<{iers to
cpmmit ·outrages upon the unprotected females of their ene-
mies, is the faculty that "prompts those kind attentions and
obliging manners which the sexes show to each other." Prob.
ably Romulus thought, when he permitted the outrage on the
Sabine women, that he was "thus greatly promoting politeness,
urbanity, refinement, and social happiness."
No. 2-Philoprogenitiveness. Love of offSpring, fondness
for children generally. It also creates a fondness for dolls and
domestic animals, generally much larger in females than in
males. Thus we learn ·that the same faculty which makes a
·mother Jove her ofiSpring, makes her also lovedomestic animals.
Perhaps that is the reason why females of a certain age, are fond
of cats. As the organ is larger in females than in males, the
former ought·to be more fond of domestic animals tha~ the
latter. As a general rule, men are more fond of horses and
dogs than women. These inconsistencies appear to be irrecon-
cileable.
Upon looking at Mr. F's. chart, I find that though each
organ is distinct from the rest, and occupi€8 a separate por-
tion of the brain, yet they act in companies-for example he
says, •<Concentrativeness, with Adhesiveness large, continues for
a long time, feelings of friendship; with Combativeness or De-
structiveness, full of anger or revenge; with Cautiousness, full of
apprehension; with Benevolence, full of kindness, and with
Comparison or Causality full, a process of reasoning." Del!·
tructiveness is a propensity to destroy-Benevolence makes
one charitable. Suppose these two organs were of a size, how
can a Phrenologist tell which will predominate? Organs of an
equal size are not at the same time in activity. Destruct·
iveness may be more active than Benevolence, and lead to mur-
der-yet Mr. F. cannot say, beforehand, that a man with such
a conformation will be a murderer. Acquisitiveness and Con·
scientiousness may be of the same size; the former may be
. more active than the latter, and lead to stealing-yet Mr. F.
could not detect the thief beforehand. It is the same with
many other organs, and yet Mr. F. says that a Phrenologist
can "pronounce decisively whether a man is a murderer, a thief,
or a liar."•
Mr. F. says, my "criticisms on my ~art seem to me silly
-like a child jingling the rattle." I am not disposed to jin-
gle with the rattle any more. I have pointed out the mode,
and any one with the disposition can take up the rattle, exam-
ine it and find out inconsistencies enough in every organ to sa-
•v~~~n~e,
28
tisfy hi1D88lf, that Phreoology,aslaid down by Mr. F., ia the
most uncertain of all sye&ems.
VINDEX.
ANSWER TO VINDEX.
You say, "IfPhrenologycancomeno nearer a man's charac·
ter than to say he ia either avaricous or a thief, the system
is of no value at all." I ask what is an avaricious feeling,
but a desire for property, and what is a thievish disposition but a
desire for property1 One is a certain desire expressed in
act; the other, the same desire suppressed. The two can hardly
exist separately. Now I can tell you how strong a man's bJt,e
of property is, and is this of no value? Phrenology goes deep.
er than mere acts. It goes into the secret recesses of the soul,
and measures the depth and strength, of the very springs
ofhumanthought and feeling. It discovers the rel~tive strength
and power of the faculties thelnseltJes-of the fountains o(
emotion and action. This is the peculiar prerogative-the in-
imitable beauty of Phrenology.
That it is the same primitive impulse which makes man kind
to woman, and which leads to licentiousness, is perfectly evident
-the former being the proper, the latter the perverted ex.
crcise of the faculties. It requires no great power of ~ 1
analysis to show that the same fuculty can be exercised on the
child, the doll, (its representative,) the lap dog, and the kit-
ten. Of these animals, as well as ot children, females are
more fond than males. Men love their horses rather as as..c;o.
ciates than as pets. You carp about the "phrenological organs
acting in companies." Who walks without using, at the same
time, his feet, legs, toes, eyes, lungs and even hands-without
calling into action almost every organ and nerve belonging to
the body. Innumerable instances might be adduced of a like
character. Indeed we perform scarce an act of our lives with-
out the co-operation of severa.l organs. Is it strange, then, that
the phrenological organs should "actin companies?" It would
be wery strange, would be contrary to the whole analogy of na.
ture, if these organs did NOT "act in companies." ~
On supposition that the seemingly opposite organs of Des- -
tructiveness and Benevolence are equally large, you ask, which
will predominate1 I answer, the one which circumstances ex-
cite most, When there is nothing to exCite the fOrmer, and
much to excite the latter, kindness is the result, but when in-
justice, or personal abuse excites Destructiveness, severity,~d
sometimes rage, are the consequences. This akmt, will explain
the c~ter of thoee who t.re ~llr "iod, obliging,
.29
sympathetic, &c.: but who, when thoroughly provQked,. ~
terrible-are truly fiendlike, and entirely beside themselves. · It
is thus that Phrenology, and Phrenology alone, analyzes, most
perfectly and beautifully, those characters, and mental phenome-
na, which can be explain~d in no other 10ay-which no other
system of mental philosophy can explain.
The chart, which you efrect to criticise, has been pronounce
_ ed, by competent judgea, ••the best abstract of Phrenology
extant," and described as "havingan uncommon share of mathe-
matical precision, clearness, and definiteness," as "embodying
an immense amount of th~mght. in a condensed form, and in a
perspicuous manner," as conveying a more clear, and defi-
nite idea of the phrenological organs, than can be any where
else found, except in the large works on Phrenology. Except
yourself, not a single person has, to my knowledge, said a sin-
gle word against it, and a great number have re.:ommended it
in the highest terms. It speaksfor ittJelf. Take this chart in
one hand, and ariy bioghraphy you please in the other, and I haz-
ard the assertion that not a single act in the individual's lifu,
nor trait of his character, can be found which cannot be properly
classed under one or more ofthe organsas described in the chart.
I am aware that it has its defects, and am now preparing one alto-
.- gether its superior. It was not delligned as a system of mental
philosQphy, but merely to enable me to indicate on it, by means
of figures in the margin, the stronger traits ofcharacter, to save
the labor of writing 'them.
DISAGREEMENT IN MY ExAMINATIONs.
You say, "I have known Phrenologists, and e:eptrt ones too,
.who, with all their expertness, speak with considerable hesi·
tation on some points of the system. I am not disposed to
allow Mr. F. the monopoly of expertness. There is an indi-
vidual jn thii city, who had his head examined by Mr. F.
. in New York, and received a clui.rt with the relative size ofthe
organs marked upon. it. When Mr. F. came to Baltimore, the
same gentleman had his bead re-examined, and received a new
. chart from Mr. F. On.comparing the two together, it was
.found that they agreed only-in four or five organs, some of the
organs were marked four and six numbers different on the.two
charts. Surely Mr. F. cannot be considered an exact Phrenolo-
gist, if he diffur so widely within a month. Mr. F. has an
ezpert assistant here. I )mow a gentleman who was examined
..by Mr. F•. Yet, I will ~enture to assert that his assistant can-
' IIMM&ive••l~ ~which the size of the organs will agree in
. ,Q8e.e_., out of three•. This p~vea tbat the •rate~ C8DDOl be
practically sustained." · · '
a• - ~,. ..,·· . .; .. ..., L.. ~.
m '"edbyGoogle
--- _.........__
3e
.. Thia ~ :.fu ·dou~ make- a ltrOOger irilptessl('ia
lbua.·uy thing you have yet said. But l?t us examin! it. ,·
. 'rbe aoly object of the figures I place m the margm of my
chart, ia to indicate, as nearly as may be, the relatitie size of •
the. organs. The figures in one chart may be higher Ulan those
in uotber, and yet the proportiomJt~ size remain much .the
IJIUile. If I mark one organ 12, another 14, &c. and again
mark the tirst organ 14, the second 16, &c. their proportionate
11ize J, the sa.me, and thi1 is aU that my e<hart prcifea~s to give,
(~ .-u;planatioo.) . In order to prese.nt the strong points of
cb~tqr in more bold relief, I mark the high organs higher,
and the lOw ones lower, here than in New York.
On the organs of Constructiveness, Coloring, Tune, and Cal-
~ulation, 1 sometimes make mistakes, except in the case of
cbildl'Oil,.llthere l seldom or never fail. This I have said pub-
licly, and 4lf course, any mistake occurring on these organs
bave no weight. I then propose two questions. Were not the
chief mi.atakes on one or other of these organs? and were not
'those org~~ns that were marked high in New York,.marked high-
er bere1 and those that were marked low there, marked )ower
.here1• If you answer these questions in the affirmative your
argbment has no weight; if in the negative, why I have made
a 1ingle mistake. That is all.
You invite. me to let my assistant try the head of a Criend of
yours. If he were here, I would do so, with all the readiness
and confidence imaginable. When in Albany I described pub-
licly the character ofan individual, in the absence of my part-
ner. He then deseribed the same bead, before the lame audi-
ence. Our descriptions were, in all respects, precilll!lyalike,
exeept that be touched on a: single point more than I did.
· While my partner was in Richmond,twO gentlemen staked t40
that hi9 second eJmmination, would diffur three figures in one of
the orgabtl frorri hiS' fim. He was blindfolded before the indi-
. vidual was introduced. E?Jeryfigure on the Mtctmd claart tMTeB·
ponded exactly'tvitlt ~eryfigure onthep.t,except thatoDe organ
was tnarked onefigure higheron the <me chart than on the other,
It would be impossible to conceive of much greater ~etnees.
YOil doubt whether I can de!!eribe the same character twice
alike. 'I'ry me. I propose this evening to examine, publicly,
ll number of heads. I give you the priYilege of producing aJIY
pe\'Son you 'please, whose bead I hate already examined, ud
let him $iiy befure the audience, whethel' the two tleeeriptions
or chta'Cte'r -agree. Ifyou tlo not ·cb~ to Iea•e the eurtaio,
you can aet fb.tougb aa 'agent; "
ol!ly the audie~ m1iR ..._.•
• lllaft ..... ,_..lila& botlr.,. "".-.u,-(11/ lbe ht'O,~
...
·-
81
lltand tbat you choose the subject. · If /ou will·not try me, yoa
must give up your ground.•
My examinations in New York were much 11»1'8cunory.;
and of course less perfect, than here. I ha-.e also materially
improved. I have beentested inthis way himdredsoftimes, and
amwillingto be hundreds more. I always give the •ameducrip·
ti011 ofcharacter, the second time,that I did the first, and, in gene~
raJ, nearly the118me 11Ulmbera. While readingyour last, a gentle·
man, whose name I can give, entered my office, whom I bad
examined three weeks ago. I gave him a new chart, and oa
dividing the sum total of the two charts by the total diftereoce,
the diffurence was only as one to fifty. A gentleman of Bal-
timore lost his chart, and after giving him the seconll, be d&-
clared, in the presence of a distinguished author of this city,
that er;ery number of the 1ecood chart agreed !Dith efH!'I"!! tlflm·
ber of thefirst, with butone exception. The difference hetween
them was as 1 to 125. A Mr. S. Smith, merchant in Troy,
staked the price of an examination, that the diffurence·between
the first and second examinati0118, weuld be as one to eight.
It was as 1 to 85. All the numbers, except fiye, were alike in
both charts. How much more accurately is surveying done by
mathematical instruments1
Now, if disagreement in ORe case goes to disprove Phrenol·
ogy, this agreement in four.cases gQeSfour timesas far in proof
of it.
Allow me now, to try your "ex~rtness." Take promiseu-
ouel.y from the stream, 35 pebbles, and give me, by the senses of
seeiag ud feeling, their relative f!ize, in a scale of numbe~
from 1 to 20. Do the same one hour, or three months, after-
wards, as was the case in 1he instance you cite, and if your
numbers do not differ ten time& as much as mine,· I will own-
not that Phrenology is nol trot-but simply, that I am not ten
time• as "expert" as you are. Will you try it, or acknowledg~,
without trying, that your argument is weak1 though you have
the advantage of ten t~ ooe.. ,.
As the numbering ofthe organs is no necessary part ofPtu-e.
nolo8J• I may give.two descriptions of character, both per(oot,
and precisely alike, aod yet not put. down t~ same ntunheri in
both cases. It is much easier to describe the. character then ·
to transter it accurately to the chart. Yet the chart is very
pseful for pJ'l¥1Crviag, as nearly as may be, the result of the
description given. Ask your friend-tWt whether the numhe,-,
• At the meetilll meDdoned I was thorouchly tried, boib wltb and withftt ID)'
·ttea ellftred, auclln 111e nn,. or a hundred "'Pill that I remembered, tllere ....._
aaterlal didermce~eept In nne Ol'll'lR· In e.very cue, but two, the t.ize or the orpa
,... the oame, or 4W110t d!AtOftf t wo-nreatiedla.from &bat prni41..1)'rt•o•
DJiizedb,Google
--~ --
......_____.
32
• 1M liDo chart• ag~, but whether the ·two de1criptiou of
cluJraeter agree; for thi1 is tbe only thing with which Phrenol~
3. u ~ has to do. I venture this assertion, that be-
tween tbe two de1cription.1 of character there is a striking, not
to -.y rwr(ect, similarity. 1• it twt 101 If I should differ in
11~ which I seldom or never do,.it would prove only that I
wu not so expert the first time as the second, or that I was
more espert tbe secoo.d time th1U1 the first,• but it would scarce-
ly touch the great question we are arguing-viz. whether
Pht'opolOfiY is.true or false. ·
A physician often prescribes ditlerent, and sometimes oppo-
site, remedies, to the same patient, under similiar circumstances.
Now your argument, if it proves any thing, prove that, if C11er
a lingle pAglician, has, at different times, prescribed different
- remedies to the same patient, in similar circumstances, the
.,}wle ~eience of medicine il fa.lBe-a position which no phy-
sician will admit, for scarce a single practitioner has not done
the like. I doubt whether a single man of common sense would
ever admit, much less addU!:e, such an argument in disproofof
medicine, not to say Phrenology. Now the two cases are paral-
lel. If they are not, please toshow wherein the parallelism fails.
INCRBASB oF TBB OaoANS u ExBKCISE.
You ask, "Is an organ increased in size by coostaat .activity,
and can that increase be observed by aR examination of heads1"
I answer yes, to both parts of the question, and this increase can
·be measured by instntments, or seen oo busts taken at different
periods of life. And this theory is in perfect accordance wi~
the whole process of nature, and with the fundamental prinei-
.pies of physiology. I should like to see tbe position; that the
exercise ofany corporeal organ, does not increase its size, ques-
tioned. .
You also ask, whether, in the case of those criminals you
mention, whose consciences tormented them at their fint eD·
trance on a course of crime, but afterwards ceased to trouble
them, their organs ef Conscientiotmtess diminished as they pro-
.greased in crime? I answer, unquestionably; and oo precisely
the same physiological principle, that the arm, wben it,is awimg
up, diminishes, both in size and strength. BrJerg corporeal or-
gan is increased by exereise, and diminished .by inaction.
YOUJ'S, &e. 0. 8. FOWLER.
REPLY OF VINDEX• .
Again, Mr. F. states that an organ is increased in size by
activity, and the increase can.be obs.erted by examinatioo; aocl
• "llltraDJe that •11eh a dllft:reiiCe tbat lheN lholl.l• M,
· · 'Twat twlil4le-,_ Ul4 tw~.r.." ·
..
33
then in continuation, says: "I should like to ~ the poe1t1on,
that the exercise of any corporeal organ does not increase its
size, questioned." Does Mr. F. mean that the mental organs
are corporeal1 Ifso, then the activity of the brain causes ac-
tivity of the mind, and hence we have a reason why some par.
ents shake their children for stupidity, instead ofwhipping them.
By the latter mode they excite the feeling; by the former, the
mind! Violent passions of the mind <•ertainly do afiect the
body, and quicken or retard the circulation; yet we do not find
that the veins and arteries are increased or diminished in size.
But it is not true that a violent action of the body increases the
activity of the mind; or if it be true, then we must look for a
great activity of the mind in those whose whole time is spent
at the treading mill. Mr. F. says his "theory is in perfect ac-
cordance with the whole process of nature, and with the funda.
mental principles of physiology." Comparisons drawn from
material objects, to prove the principles which govern the im·
material mind, cannot be relied upon. It is not ·a principle of
physiology, that the strength of an organ depends upon its size.
An organ that is small, may be more powerful than one that is
large. We know that by exercise, continued for a long time,
the muscles of a blacksmith's arm, are first hardened and then
increased in size; but this is the work of years, and the increase
in size is assisted by the weight of the hammer. But the brain,
which is composed of a substance different from the muscles
of the arm, is not. proved to be susceptible of violent motion,
neither is it assisted by an external agent like the blacksmith's
hammer. The brain is a soft substance which can produce
but little, if any, change in the cranium, which is a hard bone.
It is computed that the body undergoes an entire change once
in seven years, therefore an organ must be in constant activity
the whole of that period, or it will make no change in the scull.
VINDEX.
ANSWER TO VINDEX.
You ask, if I "mean that the mental organs are corporeal!,
The brain is certainly a corporeal organ. Corporeal means,
belonging to the body. The brain belongs to the body, and is
therefore a corporeal organ, and of course governed hy the
sil.me laws of increase and decrease that govern tither corporeal
organs•. It is also the mental organ, or the organ of the mind.
Yousay it iii not true that the violent action of the body, increases
the action of the mind--that exercise does not increase, nor in·
activity diminish, the size of the veins and arteries. I say
it i• tfUe, and appeal both to the penooaJ ezperienc;e and ob-
o,g'''"·d by Coogle
..... --
'"-·'~
34
eervation- of each reader, whether, when his body is vigoroult .
and active, his n&ind is not proportionably so; and whether, when
his body is sluggish or drowsy, his mind also is not eqlUJ.lly so;
and whether the shaking ofa drowsy child does not quicken his
mental, as well as corporeal action'! Never give a child any
exercise, and see how fast his veins and arteries will grow.
You say "thlJ muscles ofa blacksmith's arm are first hardened,
and then increa9ed. 1say the two proceBSes of hardening and in-
creasing are sim'.lltaneous. You say that "comparisons drawn
from material objects do not apply to the immaterial mind."
J say that the brain, about which we argue, is just as much
material, as the blacksmith's arm, and is governed by the same
laws,one ofwhich is, that its exercise causes its increase. It isfor
you to prove either that the powerful action ofthe mind does not
produce a corresponding action of its corporeal organ, the
brain, or else that exercise, while it increases the size of every
other organ of the body, does not increase the size of the brain.
AU analogy is point blank against you, and with me. ,
You say, "that a mental organ is increased in size by con-
stant activity, and that it• can be observed by examination, re-
quires to be proved. Assertion alone is not sufficient. There
is not a single case recorded by Phrenologists, of a head having
undergone any change so as to prove that one organ has in-
creased or diminished in size, compared with the other organs
in the same head. It is now forty years since Gall first un·
folded his theory to the world; and if any change had taken
place in the relative size of the organs, we would have been in-
fomted of it long before thi!l."
It is a universal principle ofnature, that er:Jery "organ is
increased in size by constant activity, and this increase of the
brain can be determined just as weU as that of any other cor-
poreal organ. If "aBBertion alone is not sufficient," analogy
and physical demonstr~tion are allsufficient. Your "assertion
1llone is not sufficient" against IIUCh evidence. A certain hatter,
in London, observed that educated and literary men generally
required hats a size larger than those of laboring men. But
the bodies of such men are generally smaller than those of la-
borers. Why this difference1 We know that the e~tercise of
any organ increases it-that thinking men exercise the brain,
or mental organ, proportionably more than laborers; and that
laborers exercise the body proportionably more than the mind,
and ofcourse, than the brain. The fact could not be otherwise,
unless nature's laws should vary. It would require but a little
Causality to demoostrate, thatsince the exercise of all the men.
• "!&." Wba& ''Mae" or "aaealal orpaf"
o;J,izedb;Google .r.
35
tal faculties causes the ~xercise, and of course enlargelnent,
of the whole brain1 the exercise ofa single faculty, must cause
an enlargement of that particularpart of it by means of which
it is exercised.
"you say that Phrenologists have never recorded the caae of
a single organ having increaaed or diminished in size, comparecl
with other organs in the same head, though they have had the
observation of forty, (nearer sixty,) years. This "mere auer-
tion" is both gratuitous and incorrect. Phrenological works
abound with caaes exactly in point. I take the following
from the many "recorded" in the Phrenological Journal.
The Causality of an eminent English aatronomer, within
five years after he commenced his astronomical observations.
increased nearly half an inch in length, and propor i
tionately in breadth, more than the surrounding organs. An-
other English gentleman had a cast of his bead taken,annually,
for five snccess1ve years. Meanwhile he stimulated some of
t1Je' phrenological faculties, and avoided exercising others. Ev-
ery successive cast showed an increase of those organs that
were exercised, and a decrease of those that were restrainerl.
The first and last casts differed so much that they would not
have been recognized as casts of the same head. I had this
fact from a gentleman, (an editor) who e.umined the busts al-
luded to, to whom I can refer you. Numbers more might be
quoted. And yet you say Phrenologists have never recorded
a ease of the kind. If you have not read all the phrenological
works, why do you make this "assertion?" if you have, why
- misrepresent them in this manner? This proves, to a demon-
stration, that you know comparatively nothing of the doctrine
you oppose. Ignorance of this subject is, however, common
to all Anti-phrenologists.
Several instances, both of increase and decrease, have fallen
under my own observation. While examining the head of a
gentleman in Philadelphia, I noticed that the organs on one side
of it were larger than those on the other. He then stated that,
for two years, that side of the head on which the organs were
smaller, had not perspired, while the other,perspired very freely.
This proves that the organs on that side which had not per-
spired, had not been active, and that those on the other side,
had been. Jt follows then, either that the smaller organs be-
came so in consequence of their inactivity, or else, that the
larger ones had, in conseq11ence of their activny, out-grown
them. Either s1•pposition proves that a mental organ is in-
creased by constant activity, and decreased by inaction. An
eminent Phrenologist examined the head of a distinguished
86
female editor, whosewho1e liCe had been chiefty occupied v
books, and severe application to the ah~tract sciences. ·
course, her phrenological organs of Causality, Compari~l
Mirthfulness, Ideality, Language, and Eventuality, were l
large, and her observing organs, very small. She was advi
to leave her abstract studies, and take up Botany, Mineral<
Phrenology, &c. in order to exercise a new elass of facult
the organs of which are located about the eye. This she
cordingly did with all her might, and in three months there j
a perceptible increase of the organs thus exercised.• I h_l
·references for the last two cases. I am also perfectly cer~
that since I commenced the practice of Phrenology, several
my own org:m11, which have thereby been called into "const
activity," have very perceptibly increased, while others, t
are now exercised comparatively less than before, are cc
paratively smaller. This point, then, is fully settled, both
o:nalogy, and by PHYSICAL DIBIONSTRATION, that the e:rer
of a particular mentalfaculty, catUes the exercise, and c01i
quently enlargement, of the brain, and of course of the sk
above it, so th11t the strength ofany faculty can he determir
by the 8ize of its cerebral organ, and the size of the cerebral
gin, by the external shape of the skull. Phrenology is the
fore true. If thJR is so, of what m()mefltous importance-
what immense utility a knowledge of Phrenology might be
parents and teacherR. They might cultivate or restrain-mi
stimulate or allay surh organs as the Ca!'e demanded, and tl
make their chi!.lren what they chose. Not, however, that t
nature of children could thus be changed, but exce~
could be prevented, and the hand of the parent directed
the identical point of excess or defect. Yes, sir, Phren
gy is destined to he of greater practical uttlity to mank
than any-than EVE:RY other science-greater than any f1
mintl can imagine. And yet you oppose it! But yo~
pardonable; for a~ has been shown, you do it ignorantly. il<-
yours, &c. 0. S. FOWLE~
'
PHRENOLOGY DEPENDENT ON PBYSIOGNOHY.
You ask, "can a Phrenologist by examining the cranium, pro-
nounce decisively whether a man is 11 liar, a thief,or a murderer,
without reference to physiognomy?" I answer.jnst as well with·
out physiognomy as with it. I will also refer you to the cer- 1
tificates given by the keepers of most of the prison!;! in Europe.
which affirm that Drs. Gall and Spurzheim, in every attempt,
' classified the prisoners with perfect accuracy, according to their
crimes. Ifyou wish it, I will publish a few facts on titissubject,
or you may put me to the test, by accompanying me toa prisoo.
31
·upioon You reply, that Gall could easily determine that persons were
~need rosues, when he saw them in prison. True--but he could not
omparil thereby determine the class oftheir crimes-whether they were
were!! se,nt there for stealing, for assault and battery, for murder, &c.
1as adrif and this is what Dr. Gall did. You intimate that Phrenologists
finerakt determine character by the physiognomy. You know that from
f facu~ the time I first came to Baltimore, to this day, I have challeng·
\issbei ~disbelievers to cover the physiognomyof the subject. I have,
rberell tn this city, repeatedly examined subjects before large audi-
1 1bll ences, with my eyes blindfolded, and according to the testimo-
iy certi ny of die subjects themselves, according to the testimony ofall
severalI "!ho knew them, there was a perfect coincidence of my descrip·
"coi!Jit tton of the character, and of the character itself. One gentle-
hers, tk Ill~, to whom I gave large Constructiveness, stated that I had
are cot llllssed him there, but liis wife said that this was the most correct
both 1part of the description, and he said that he had collected a great
1 ererii number and variety of tools, and was distinguished for his abil-
dCOli ity to draw, draught; &c. This coincides with the definition of
~ sk
JConstructiveness given in my chart. I re-examined, blindfolded,
1eminJ befure the Baltimore Lyceum, the head ofthe editor ofthe Chro-
.e: aliJ nicle. .He then stated that it corresponded, in efJerypoint, with
~ ;herethat previously given before an audience, at my first lecture. The
18ce-dfirst time, be was a perfect stranger to me, and the second, I
~~be 1,knew nothing whom I was describing. And yet it is a matter
migtf'fpublic notoriety, a fact substantiated, by the public testi-
dth·~ nony of Mr. Barnes himself, that the two discriptious agreed
:~at tli n erJery 'fespect, both with each other, and with hiR true char-
' cesi ,cter. After the lecture, a gentleman produced a little boy.
xl d• said he was a thief-was eunning, deceitful, lying, haughty,
·c e{'.·llbbom, proud, ungovernable, &c. The gentleman said, "your
,ren · · · ..J.'. I T 'll 1 h bee
,~sen phon ts penect y accurate. 1 now ave n a.
nan ,-'ptic.'' You see that I can.detect a rogue as well in a church
ny .. ··1 a prisoo. While-discussing, before the Baltimore Lyceum,
Yt --- question ''whether Phrenology ought to be tanked among the
cf Y·, _6·tCt sciences," my opponent, after ·adducing precisely the
nfl..,...une objections that you adduce,..and in the same style, wrote
the 'character of· a Mr.· Woll, in the form ·of answers to
· questions. These-queations he put to me.··· My answers were
ium,l - recorded, and compared with his, before the audience. The two
nurH agreedferfectly, except that he said Mr. W. had no imitation
.ell' at aU; said he had it large. A gentleman who had been inti-
' 1~ mate with for him fifteoo years, said he had it large. Appeal wa~
fl' thenlliade to Mr. W. who said, that though he was no mimic, yet
a11 be could draw, sketch, draught, ta:ke profiles, &c. with much
::o: 1110re thim ordinary fa~ility. I did not 86Y he could mimic, for
,~; 4
J~
- ~ ,
Be
he bad but little.Secretiveness. Tbecheeri~Jg was tm~s,
and the Lyc.eum decided, not only that Phrenology was one of~
1ciences, but that it was one even of the uact sciences. I
can detail thousands of cases in wbi® I have not only co,;:rect-
ed person's opinions of each other, but even of themselves. I
gave to a certain gentleman in this city, small Eventuality, aDd
large Ideality, telling him that he could write poetry. He said
that though he loved poetry, he had no talent at all for writing
it. He however, tried it. His effort was completely success-
ful, and his poem full of poetic fire. He remarked that this
was his first effert, but a friend of his youth reminded him.
that while young, he had written several pieces, which we,ve
c9pied and admired throughout the neighborhood. His small
Eventuality had let the incident slip from his mind. I have hilt:
certificate that I described the character of his nephew, who is·
living with him, as well as, or even better than, he himself could.
have done.
I have said it publicly, and often repeated it, and here 8gaifl
repeat it, that I had even rather the physiognomy of the 8\lb-
ject would be covered; and.am perfectly willing to examine
even with my own eyes blindfolded,. So that, even if I do.tell
by the physiognomy, the argument tha~ I do, has no weight;
because I challqe you to remove .allpoaBibility.of my dete.r-
mining character except by Phrenology.
FATA.LISJII.
You charge me with sayiogj that ''a Phrenologist could pJ';Oo
nounce deciaively whether a men is a liar, a thief, or a mur-
derer;" and hence argue, that if Phren9logy is true, Deity is
not benevolent,--that moral accountability is destroyed,--tbat ..~
. a child is a murderer, liar, thief, &e. before he can lift a table ·..
knife, &c. I have never made such a statement. If l have, .
quote the passage, and t1te vonte:rt. Your whole argument., then,-.
about Phrenology militating against the goodness of Deity;--
destroying moral responsibility,-a child's being a murderet.
while yet in the cradle-falls; for its foundation is removed.··-_.
The paragraph of "VINDBX," on thissubject, is·tbe.onlyone
I do not quote entire. I omit it only because the objection-be
professes to state
. , is not stated in.so stro
. ng ~d tangible a m&Do
.ner as I hope to~ able to stllte it mfself. See if I do not do
it ample justice.
Phrenolqgy, says the objector, necessarily destroys all frea
agenc)l, and with it all DlOI'8,} and religious ·accou11tability.
The leading d~trine of this science is, that moral action aDd
condu.ct are the result of,or at least conform:and agree with, the
physical form of the cranium. This conformity, then, must be
· o'g''"•db,Google
... ~.::!:.-:. -
-
If~
~o I
reel·
• 1
81111
said
ling
ess-
thil
im,
ere .
,aJI
lliJ
iJ
Jld
'
••
"
89
6te relatioil of eaae and e.ffect-aeeuBO.ry and net accidental.
Therefore every moral agent IDUit be ruled by this relation, and
has DO power whatever of deviating &om it, which amounts
to a full denial of free agency.
The objection, illustrated, amounts to this:-lf God created
one man with those organs very large, which, when large, le«d
to stealing, lying, quarreling, fighting, licentiousness, murder-
ing, or vice of any kind, he is 1hereby forced to commit the
corresponding crimes. He is not, therefore, blameable for his
vices, and consequently not punishable for them, since he C8Jl-
not help biDlllelf. If God created another with the moral, or
intellectual organs large, no thanks to him, that he is kind, lib-
eral, just, virtuous, intelligent, &c. for he is made so by the
mape ofhishead, and not by his own free choice. The blood-
thirs~ Nero, and the philanthropic Howard, are alike virtuoue,
alike vicious, since each acted in conformity with the-physical
formation of his head-as God designed and created him to
act. Ifanother is created destitute of the organs of Venera'tion
and Conscientiousness, how can he worship his Creator, or deal
justly, or resist temptation, without these organs!~nd how can be
be blamed for not doing what he cannot do? Therefore, Ph~­
nology, if true, destroys all free agency, destroys all power of
voluntary choice, and with them aU accountability, aU virtue,
. all vice, all future rewards and punishments, all morality; for De-
ity created the organs, and the organsproduce the actions, so that
sinful man is forced to do just what he does do. Deity is,
therefore, the author of all sin.
To this objection, it is answered-
1st. It is a MATTER oF FACT, that one man iB a Nero, and
anotner a Howard-that one has a strong propensity to steal,
another to deceive, another to murder, and another to give. One
i1 timid, another quarrelsome--one talented, another foolish, one
inclined to virtue, another proneto vice,and others again are pre-
- eminent, both for their virtues and their vices. That certain
vicious propensities do e:rist, and are f>ef"!J wtrong is an A:880·
LUTE XATTER oF FACT-a fact that every where stares every
etiaenrer of human nature, foil · in the face. Almost every
_ newspaper is blackened with the horrid detail of some cold.
blooded murder-'-Of some futal duel, or a manslaughter, or a
robbery, or a rape, or some other shocking, or disgusting crime.
A gentleman recently entered my office, desiring me to tell him
the tDitok tmth. At the close, he remaked that the description
wu perMe~ only that one marlced, one predominGnt tnit of
character had been omitted. "And I can tell yt)\1 what that
il, sit," aid I, ~'You ha..e a very ittong propensity to Steal."
o'g''"•d by Coogle
- -· -..:::....
40
"You are right, air," replied he, "yet you aad I are the only
peJ'801J8 that know it. Notwithstanding all my etfOJrta 110 rid
myself of it. the propensity still exists, and is well nigh in-e-
!listable." A lad was recently brought me, whom I described
as a lump of wickedness, yet talented. Hit~ uncle remarked,
that he never saw his equal, either for depravity or talent. I
bave seen--every obsener ofhumannature muet also hilve seea,
llimilar cases in abundance. Indeed, is there a single individ-
ual who is not himself an instaoce-that is, who h88 not some vi-
cious propensity-some "easily besetting sin'!'' I repeat that
the objection lies against ABSOLUTE HATTERS OF FACT. Now
what difference does it make whether a certain vicious propen-
sity is,or is not, always accompanied with a certain prominence
on the head, and another virtuous or vicious propensity, accom-
panied with another prominence on another part of it.~ The
objection lies, not against one's having the phrf!!Jological
orgartl, which are mere physical 1ign1 of the propensities
but against his having the VICIOUS PROPBNSITIES TIIJ:lllSELVEIJ-
not against the phrenological explanation of these filets, but
against the FACTS TIIEilSBLVES--&g&IDSt the ltjltefnOj natUTe-
against the goeern~nt ofGod. Since then your objection really
liesagaiJWt the nistem:e ofmriou1 propen&ities, and since daily
observation, ifnot persoaal experience, forces you to admit the ..,
existence of the&& propensities; yoo are obliged to admit tbe
very thin~ to which you object. And since you admit,
equally w1th myself, the very thing to which you object, it be-
longs to you to answer your own objection, rather than to me.
But further. If Phrenology did rwt decide that one man is a
liar, another a thief, a third virtuous, a fourth talented, &c., it
would not correspond with facts, aDd therefore could not be •
true. This correspondence with facts, rather proves than dis-- ~
proves, Phrenology. .
How man came by these propensities, how filr be is depraY·
ed, in what the-essence of depravity consists,&e. are theologieal
rather than pbrenologi.eal questions. I say nothing about them.
2d. Divine agency either does or does not infiueROO human
actions--either is or is not concerned in bringing about events.
Ifthis is 110t the ~. Deity does not rule, and bas ao band at all
in any thing that transpires among men. But if Deity t/Ms ~
Jlllle,-if Difln& agency is efficient in forming hu019.11 charac.
ter and briDging abo~o~t events, just so tar as this is the case, so
far human agency cannot be efficient. Tt.at is, so fal' as Cod
rules, so f~:- man canool rule; se far as Dimne ageaoy forms
human character, and influences human eondact, so far, free
ogency cannot do it. So far, then, as your objection lies:at all
. o'g''"•db,Google
~.E.r
tbe aa·
S te II
igb irn
~scrire
nadeJ.
ent. I
1
e
ndil'id.
•mer~
t tllu
!'lOll
Opell·
oor.,;
COIJI.
'fbe
-ieti
rities.
!:S-
bult
·e-.
lilf.
Ul;
:if
1il
be
'II
,,
·,
4.1
·~· ~ainst Phrenology, it also lies, and with equal weight, against
I eity's having any hand at all in any thing that concerns hu-
man character and conduct. It makes not the least difference
whether Deity forms human character, and influences human
conduct by direct supernatural agency, by circumstances, or by
means of phrenological organs, Your objection lies against
Deity's having any hand at all, either in forming human charac-
ter, or in influencing human condttct, or in bringing about events.
What, then! Mr. objector, do you really design wholly to re·
ject Divine agency in the formation of human character, and
in the management of human concerns? and, by denying that
God gives any bias whatever to human character, virtually de-
ny that he rules? If you answer no, drop your objection at
once; if you say yes, it is horrid blasphemy, and downright
atheism. One of these you must do. Choose for yourself.
But if you admit fi·ee agency, ~hich your objection presupposes;
and also that God rules, which you must do or be an atheist,
then answer your own objection: for it lies just as much against
what you admit, as it does against Phrenology; and an objection
is always considered as fully answered, when shown to lie
against what the objector himself admits,
"But," you reply, "you do not answer the objection by
throwing it back at me-you do not get yourself out of the
snare by getting me into it." True, sir, but I thereby shut
your mouth. First get out of your own snare, which you have /
laid for me, and you will thus get me out of it. That is, an·
swer your own objection as it applies to matters offact,-to the
superintendence of Deity, and you will haveanswered it as it ap-
plies to Phrenology. Till you do thus answer it, it belongs to
you to drop it, since by urging it at all, you virtually urge it
also against the works and the government ofGod, and may set·
tie your difficulty with your Maker. But read on, and see how
handsomely Phrenology will help us both out ot'the snare.
3. These phrenological organs are only the corporeal instru-
ments by means of which the mind exercises various mental
functions. As the brain is the general orgaJTof the mind;-so
these several portions of the brain are the particnlar organs of
the several faoulties. These organs grow and increase by exer-
cise, just as the hand, and every other corporeal organ does. The
right hand is generally larger than the left, only because it is
exercised more. And, as by seeing how much the right hand
is larger than the left, you can determine how muoh more
it has been exercised; so by seeing how much the organ of
Benevolence is larger than the organ of Cautiousness, you
can determine how much wore the organ, and of course &M
4'*'
L __···· o.g''"•d by Coogle
- ·· ~ .... ------
I .
42·
faculty of Benevolence, has been exercised more than the or•
gan, and consequently faculty, of Cautiousness. These organs,
then, are only EFFECTS of the exercise of certain mental facul-
ties, and not their causes-and the size of each organ is only
a physical index, showing how much the free agent has chosen
to exercise the corresponding faculty or propensity. Large
Acquisitiveness, instead ofjorcirys its possessor to steal, is only
an external sign, showing how much the subject has chosen to
exercise a thievish propensity. Large Destructiveness, instead
of compelling, or even urging, its possessor to murder and re-
venge, only shows the strength of h_
is murderous" revengeful
feeling. The size of any organ, then, is itself determined by
the strength ofthe correspondingfaculty, instead ofthe strength
of the faculty being determined by the size of the organ.
True, if an organ is very large, its corresponding faculty or
propensity is proportionably and spontaneously more active, and
often well nigh uncontrollable. But the subject had no right
whatever to indulge it, and thus increase its strength. In this
chiefly lies his guilt. The strength of the depraved propensities
is in proportion to their indulgence. His guilt is also in pro-
portion to the same indulgence-that is, his guilt is in pro-
portion to the strength of his depraved propensities. Are .-:l
.1
the desires of the libertine, the thief, the murderer, &c. the
less criminal because they have been stimulated, and indulged,
and thus increased, till they are now too clamorous, too power-
ful to be controlled? By no means; but the stronger-these de.
praved desires, the greater their possessor's guilt. So it is with
the phrenological organs. They are not inordinately large
unless the corresponding faculties have been inordinately in- ,
dulged, and this indulgence is the clearest, the strongest possi- ~
ble proof, of the subject's guilt. It follows then, that very large
Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, Secretiveness, Amativeness,
&c. so far from excusing the murderer, the thief, the hypocrite,
the libertine, &c. are only !'HYSICAL WITNESSES of their guilt.
If an individual wishes to reduce the size of an organ, let ~,
him cease exercising the corresponding faculty, and it is done.
Swing up your arm, which you have made large and strong by
exercise, and it will soon become small and feeble, by inaction.
So, swing up any orgun, that is, cea~e to exercise the corres-
ponding faculty, and the pressure of the air on the skull,
which equals fifteen pounds to the square inch, will soon remove
the protuberance. This is not all theory. It is proved by ac-
t~tal experiment, by physical demonstration. One of the fucts
stated on page 35, is in point. It is a matter of C'tct, that as
old age advances, the feeling of Amativeness generally decreas.
es, and disappears sooner than the other faculties. The same
t
)f·
}S,
,].
lv
·n
e
0
! •
L
> -
43
is alao true of the phrenological organ. Both the function,
and also the organ, appear later, and disappear so<iner, than
thlM!e of the other faculties, and ·their appearance, strength, and
departure, keep pace with each other.
And if an organ is small, say that of Conscientiousness, or
Veneration, this deficiency only proves, not that the free agent
oould not be just, or worship hjs Maker, but simply that he did
not and tMtdd not do it. Every individual has more or less of
every organ given him. He can then, by exercising what Cc>n-
scientiousness and Veneration he has, obtain more-can, by
"occupying one talent," increase it to "five.talents." But if he
neglects to exercise what Conscientiousness and Veneration he
ha&--if he "buries his one talent in the earth," "even what he
has, wiU be taken from him," and he, for his guilty misimprove-
ment ·of the one talent, be justly "cast out into outer darkness."
True if he has but small Veneration, and another has the
organ large, he c.-annot worship his Creator with all the fervor,
and heart-felt devotion that the oilier can. Nor is this requir·
ed of him; for "to whom much is given, of him much will be
required."
Every individual, then, is guilty, twtfur any excess or defi~
ciency of his phrenological organa, but the excess or deficien-
cy of the corresponding propensities; and of course, for the
OVet' indulgence or neglect of those propensities. As the or-
gaBS grow by exercise, and are the effects rather than causes, of
the exercise of their corresponding faculties and propensities,
all individual is just as guilty for having depraved propensities,
and witb them large corresponding phrenological organs, which
are mere physical signs, showing how much he has chosen to in-
dulge these depraved propensities, as for having these depraved
propensities, without the corresponding organs. So far as Phre-
nology is concerned, he is left just as free to act with organs as
without tbem--to cultivate one organ, or elMs of organs as
another; and perfectly free to cultivate any organ to any extent.
What greater scope can ~he most strenuous advocate of free
ageney'desire1 This corresponds exactly with your own favor·
it& doctrine of free agency, since it leaves every man free
to determine ·his own character, and puts into his hands the
power of giving, to a greater or less extent, just such a shape to
his head·as he chooses. l entirely mistake, or this objection is
fairly stated and fuHy answered.
''But," ·continues the objector, "did not God originally im·
part to one individua~ more of one faculty and less of another,
to that the exereise ofthose faculties inthat proportion in which
it ,.. originally given, caused, ia ODe', a large development of
t8e ~ of Beoevoleaee, and a small dMelopllWnt of the or·
"
gan of Destructivenesa; and in another the cornracy organiza-
tiOD? Did not the Creator,for instance, originally impart to tlle
pirate Gibbs, a large measure of tile facahies of Destruct.iven~
and Acquisitiveness? to Howard, of BeneYOlence1 to New,l~ of
CausaJity and Observation? 10 that each became what, he was,
and' had the corresponding phrenological organization, in COll'-
sequeoce of exercising his faculties in that proportion in which
they were originally given? You thus only throw the objec-
tion stiU farther back tban the exercise of the faculties, but do
not yet fully meet it." . -
How much more of the faculties of Destructiveness and Ac-
quisitiveness were originally given to Gibbs,--of Benevolence
to Howard,-of Causality and Observation to Newton, &c.,
Phrenology does not pretend to decide; u it nowhere attempts
to account for the origin of phenomena, but only to explain
_them. That there exists among mena heaven-wide ditfereoo~,
and that this difference embraces every cODceivable variety of
eharacter, dispoiition, and talent, is an allsolute maUer ()j fact.
Now this difrerence mun be either inherent in our nature, and
tht- original design and creation of the Deity himsfllf, or else
the product of circumstances. If you admit that in the
creation of man, God makes this difference, you urge, againat
the works of Deity, the very difficulty which you urge agaiD&&
Phrenology, and may therefore settle it with your Mak~.
~ut .if you say that it is the product of cirwmst~, you
must allow that these circumstances are under the control or
the Deity: so that, say what you will, it lllUl!t be allowed thl.l
this ditference among men--this endless diversity ofcharacter,
is the product, either directly, or through the medium of eiil-
cumstances, at least in part, of Divine agency-that, either at
the original creation of the faculties, cw by circumstao(l88r-
by means of phrenological organs, or in some other way, Ged
gives more- or less bias to human character. To urge thisob-
jeetion, then, is to quarrel with the government of God, Yoq
may urge it, then, as much as you please. But if this difti!lw-
ence were all the product of circu~, similar eil'COIP·
lltances would always produce similar eharacters; aod opposite
circumstances, opposite characters--on the principle, that lik~
causes produce like effects. Yet the reverse isoften true. Simi-
lar cireumstances often produce opposite characters aod tale~
and opposite circumstances similar characters. Youmut tun
admit that this difterence is made t.mder the superintendinrdi-
~tion of Deity, And if you admit this, you admit the vel'¥ ·
theory to which you object. So fu- u Deity bas- any haoll· u
all, either directly 01' throoglt the mediumofciftu~ m
produoing tbia ditltreoce,...,. ar Din. agt~DCJ ~ lllld
_____
....,___
_
_ _________ _ _::
o::.::
;'':,::,
ize
o:::,
d.:::_
b,qoo~[L _ -.J-
45
eramps human agency, and so far your objection Ires, but ~
farther. That is, just so far as God rules; so far yoor objec·
tion lies against his ruling, but no farther, and again...'lt noth-
ing else. So far, then, as you mge this objection, so far you
«eharge God foolishly," and may settle it with your Maker.
And mark this, that your objection lies with as much weight
against Deity's making this difference by means of circum-
stances, as by means of developments on the cranium. It
lies against Deity's making- ANY difference among men.-..
against his giving ANY bias in any way to human character-
against his having any influence at all among men-that is,
against his ruling.
That there should be an original difference among men, is
perfectly coincident with the whole system of nature. D() you
ever see two faces, or even features precisely alike1 Search
throughout the immense foliage of the forest, the waving fields
-:-indeed, search throughout all nature, and can you find in it
two leaves, two twigs, or any two substances exactly and pre-
cisely alike1 Diversity and variety, characterise all nature.
And is man an exception1 By no means. His features, his
talents, his inclinations-indeed all things pertaining to him,
show both an original difrerence, as weli as similarity, in the
formation ofhis mind. lfthere were no difrerence among men--
if all were cast in the same mould, and disposed to think alike,
and act alike, and talk alike, and do every thing alike, what
a stagnant sea, life would be! No variety! no diversity of
character! That must be a most unenviable world in which
there was no variety, against which your objection did not lie!
4. "But," you eay, "since we see every shade ofcharacter, and
every degree of depravity; and vastly more of virtue than
vice-of wickedness than purity-and since Deity made aU this
difference,- the con..clusion is inevitable that he, at least, laid the
i>undation of all the wickedness that exists; that he made all
the ditrerence between a Howard and a Gibbs, and as he made
.tbis ditreren<'..e, there is no more vi'rtue, no more vice, in the one
than in the other. Thus far you have only admitted the objec-
tion, and that in all its bearings. You admit that which destroys
free agency, and moral accountability."
And so do you, Mr. objector, that is, if I do. According to
the rules of debate, it is your duty, since you urged the ob-
jeetion, and admit what you urge it against, to answer it. My
aext reply will however, help us both entirely out of the fog.,
, 5•1 rely claif'jly on the following, as the conclusive reply to this
- oijeetion• It is a fundamental principle of Phrenology; that
:JIVBllt- FAOBLTY · U ORIGIIULLY· &OOD, and .its PROPER EXBR•
. -1 v~ow. Then all vi~ ancl ·aH sin~ a~ the neelt ot
46
~ of some good facultg. I will instance the '
C8ll8 that can be found. The faculty ofDestructiveness, w
when perverted, leads to murder. On analysing it, we fi
to be simply a propensity to destroy, and inflict pain. Wit
this propensity, man could never fell the forests, destroy t
plants and animals that are prejudicial to his happiness, exti
nate nuisances, punish the guilty, make himselffeued, an<
fund himself. Without this, he would be a tame milk-.
water sop, so tame, so chicken-hearted, that he could be ab1
with impunity. But this organ, so useful, so absolutely ne
•ry,even to man's exi8ltmee, degenerates, when perverted,
eternness, harshness, violence of temper, rage, revenge, 1
der, &c. Yet these are the al11ues, and not the legitimate
of the faculty. Now, no matter how strong the propeosit
pr~ided it is properly employed and controlled.
An illustration. There lives beyond a certain marsh, w
is infested with beasts of prey, a poor starving family.
oevolence prompts you to carry them food, to relieve their
tl'tlllfl. But without a weapon of defence, the wild beasts
destroy the food, and you with it. There is then put into :
hands a sword, wh1ch is analagous to the organ of Destruc·
ness. Now, as you are not obliged, because this sword is '
so sharp, ever so destructive, to thrust it through the heaJ
every one you meet; so be the faculty of Destructiveness c
80 powerful, you are not therefore obliged to abuse it to the
jury ofothers. By no means. Let your sword rest in its 8C
bard, till circumstances demand its exerci-till yOW' foo
attacked, and then mow down those savage beasts, or still m
aavage men, that would rob you. And as, when the exerciSI
the sword is demanded, the keener and more destructive il
the better; so the more powerful the organ of Destructiveru
the better: provided you make a proper use ofit. Indeed i
often, if not generally impossible to be benevolent without ·
aid of Destructiveness. The happiness of society absolut'
demands the punishment of those that disturb it. But you Cl
not punish without the exercise of I>Mtructiveness. Then
just as much virtue in punishing the guilty, as in relieving:
distressed-in the exercise of Destructiveness, where it is Cllli
JOr, as in that of Benevolence, where it is called for.
So of Acquisitiveoess, which desires property. With(
&his desire, who would lay up in health, for sickness; in t
vig~r of life, for old age! Who woutd build cities,enclose 81
ClUittvate fields, engage tn commerce, make books, or aecum
late property of any k.ind1 It .is thi'i organ that brit;lgs with
our reach most of the comfurts,.1Uid even la:mriea, of lite.
ia more from pwre U.Wincl;.thtw reaaoo~ that a.tlafB •P tb1
I
4.7
e ,pE'<9perty which eDables him to feed the poor, relieve dist1'61M,
wl!!'pread religionraod promote human happiness in ten thotJSIUld
. ful!"By& But this same propensity to acquire, also leads to steal-
r;~• covetousness, and, withlarge Destructiveness, to oppression.
r/JfY.et these are the abuses of a faculty, the proper exercise of
imtJ..,hic.h is both highly beneficial, and
. even absolutely neceuary,
Iii;!:-<>- the. weU being, B.lld even existence, of society. The same is
)iait~ of;every other organ; so that virtue and vice consist, not io
- r ~ jactdties themseltJes, which God made, nor in their relative
~ ~gth, but ia their proper or improper exercise, awl this de-
l \~s on the volition of the free moral agent•
•'\1\111 And not.only is every faculty originally good, but every fee•
.,\eplty•cau be turned, either to a .good or to.a bad account, ae·
~ peNing to the volition of the subject; and one organ just aa
well as another. Any small organ cu be abused, any large
wbiPne perverted, and vice "er.ra, according to the volition of the
1' Ji;rub.iect. Small or large reasoning organs can be employed to
f•ir c~PFOW Infidelity, or Christianity-in the nobler pursuits of sci·.·
1~ ,FOOO, or in gratifying mere sensual appetitea. Veneration em
s J!e,employed as well in Pagan, as in Christia.a worship, and pro. · :
l\O ~~uces both bigotry and sincere devotion. Benevol
.ence, Coo,./
~e~81ltiowmess, andevery otherorgan, can be perverted, and.thea.
19 Jtsexercisef becomes vice. A good-endowment of the propeosi·
~,Jies, is a aine qua n~R-an indispensable ~quisite to a ~irtuot111 ·
ss'oe j,:haracter. One wtthout them IS so effemmate; so puenle~ that .
·t seal' Jif. cannot be efficient oJ' energetic, though possessed of higa
ts
Ood •~llectual and moral endowments. A man may be as virtu-
1f1110.~ 1 in the exercise of the propensities, as in that of the moral
.98 · • t4tllties or intellect. True, the virtue.arising from the proper
'C\~. ;cereise of. the propensities, may not be so elevated in ita char-.
;::_· '~ter, yet is virtue stilt. The proper exercise of love, be it
'd 't i · ~r so strong, is equally as virtuous, as that ofdevotion, alms·
: 1
1
1~; ·iJtjng, or any Iogioal ilwestigatiop.. Who does not admire the
u 1 ( rllDgth and tendernElSs.of woman's love, as the most virtuo\fs
,Ju~•.. ::t.f£inhercharacter1 Asevenmorosotha.nkiDdnessor intellect1
:Tf_... !~tl this view of the sa~ect, Deity never did make, and, till
' . J MJlature of.the fuculties are changed, never can make a bad
,g ·~ .WI, or create a bad man. Phrenology, then, while it wholly
;&I•· •:11:onerates ]i)eity, throws- the whole guilt of sin upoo the com.
thoU .'Wtter of it, ~· .instead of excusing t~ .~ral ngent, weig~
the ium down with tmmeasumble respousthihty. Instead•of dto
1 end miniahing~ it greaU, mk~Mces the gW.It of the sinner. He
~ 1akes goocl•organs and makes a bad U88 ofthem; and is thellefore
'·,;i. . .,hundredfold the. lDOre guilty. He has.norightto penerthia ·
~1 It <!atare,· aaa prostirute heav.en's richest gifts. Let hinr aet aa
't~te~ ~ ~-ity made him to< act, .aad be is pencct, be his head.of any
J~ .. ··- ~--> ·~ .. - -
4~
Bb1lpe whatever. In this view of the subject, Phrenolagy 1101
only does not diminish moral responsibility, and the guilt ofsin·
ful aetions--not only does not lead to fatality, but even furnish
es an answer to those that urge this objedion against tb
Christian religion. Suppose the following interview betwee1
a Christian, an Infidel, and a Phrenologist.
The Deist names the most depraved character imaginable-
say that of the pirate Gibbs-who murdered 400 human au\
jects, ravished, and then horribly murdered, those defeneele~
imploring females that fell in his way;-and says to the Chri.
tian, "Did not God make this wicked wretch, and make hi
too, with all his vicious propensities?" "Yes," must be the r
ply. "And does he not, according to your doctrine, punish hi
for his crimes?'' "Certainly." "That is, Deity creates ma·
kind depraved, and then punishes him eternally for being d
praved. Surely the licentious Jupiter of the Romans, is f
praferable to the tyrannical God ot the Christian. Away wi'
a Deity and a doctrine so revolting to common sense and cor
mon justice." The Christian appeals to revelation; but tli
the Deist rejects. Letthe Christian say what he will, it is utter
imp&ssibleto wrenchthispowerful weaponentirely from theha1
of the Deist. But the Phrenologist doe2 this effectually a1
completely, by saying, "True, God gave to Gibbs large Cor
bativeness, Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, &.c.; yet these <
gans,so far as God is concerned, were created good,given fo1
good object, and areabsolutely necessary to his happiness. E
he prostrated these originally good faculties, to a bad purpo!
shamefully a.bused and perverted them, and instead of empl<J
ing them as his Maker designed, in promoting his own hapJ
ness, and that of others-he so abuses them as to make hima.
depraved, and others most miserable. He had no right,whatev,
to turn his originally good faculties, to a bad account; and f
doingthis, he, and he alone, is guilty,and ofcourse punishablE
The objector may now carp as much as he pleases; but I
him remember, that either of the above answers complete
·shuts his mouth. Let him remember, that his objection lit
not only against matters of fact, but against one having the o
pra"ed PROPENSITY, or rather against any man having ANY pr
pensity whatever, either good or bad-that so far as it lies
aU, it lies against God's ruling; against his having any·ageo
at all in fonning human character, and that because he has t}
agency-that every man is perfectly free to give to his he:
any shape he pleases,-and that every organ is good~ and
J>roper exercise, virtuous. Now if Phrenology's leading to j
talism, would proveit untrue-its leading from fatalism, prov
)T TRUE. The objeelion is then favorable to its truth;
Yours, &.c. 0. S. FOWLER.
o;J,izedb,Google
-..
