{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__hahnemann___organon_of_homeopathic_medicine.pdf","mytitle":"Organon Of Homeopathic Medicine","mylang":"de"}
HOM<EOPATHIC MEDICINE.
·.
BY SAMUEL HAHN:EMAN~. /
-
Aude opere.
...
FIRST AMERICAN,
JJtom tile 1St£Us~ el:tanslatron of tbe jjouttll 6etman ElJCtron,-
WITH l!UitOVII:IIIENTS AND ADDITIONS 1"1\0JI THE FIFTH, BV THE NOJtTH AJIII:IUCAN
ACADEMY OF THE BOIII<EOPATHIC HEALING ·ART.
ALLENTOWN, PA.:
PUBLISHED AT THE ACADEMI.CAL BOOKSTORE.
, . PHILADELPHIA :
FOR BALE BY KAY & BROTHER, ~ CHESNUT STREET,
AND l. G. WESSELHOEFT, BREAD STREET.
Digitized by Coogle
. ..... ...
•.
· I '.J i\l{
• :.: ::>;.A.RY
572066
•!(f .' :'. L~-., r, x _.NO
TILOf.,. F0VM) A f~
A 10 ·2 L
ENTERED, accordiDg to the aet of congress, in the year 1836, by TaE
NoRTH AMERICAN AcADEMY or TBE HoMIEOPATBIC HEALING ART, in the
clerk's office of the district court for the eaatem diatrict of Pennsylvania•
.a.. WALDIE, P&.
o;gilized by Coogle
-
ADVERTISEMENT.
.
One of the first occasions which Jed to the publica-
tion .of the present edition of the Organon, was the
express desire of Ha.bnemann that an enlarged and
improved English version of i't, from the fifth German
edition, might appear in the United States. With the .
view of fulfilling, as much as possible, every just de-
. mand, the Academy entrusted. the revision of.the fol-
lowing work, to several gentlement and would here
express their particular obligations to Constantine
Hering, M. D., Chas. F. Matlack, M. D., of Philadel-
phia, and to Messrs. J. Radcliffe. and A. Bauer, for /
services rendered In its preparation.
JNO. ROMIG, M. D.,
Chairman ofthe Board ofDirectflr•.
Academy of the Ho~pa&hic Healing Ait, l
. Allentown, Pa. October, 1836. {
Digitized by Coogle
l
DigitizedbyGoogle II
. '
PREFACE TO THE BRITISH EDITION.
An accidental interview with a Russian,physician, in the. year .
1828, made me acquainted for the fi~st time with the medical
doctrine of homreopathy; the pri11ciple of which is, that certain
medicines when administered inter~ally in a healthy state of
the system produce certain effects, and that the same medicines
are to be used.when sympioms similar to those which they give
rise to .occur in disease. This doctrine, directly opposite to .
that which hitherto formed the basis of medical practice in
these countriElS, attracted my attention. I immediately procured .
Hahnemann's Materia Medica Pura, in which the doctrine is
partially explained, with the view of investigating the system
experimentally, and reporting my observations thereon, free
from theory, prejudice, or party. The first enquiry was, whe-
•ther the proposition similia similibus curentur was true. This
investigatio~ was confined to a single subsmuce at a time. To
aseertain the effects of sulphate of quinine, healthy individu~
were selected, to whom grain doses of the medicine were admi.
nistered three times a day. After using it for some days, sto-
mach-sickness, loss of appetite, a sense of cold along-the course
ofthe spine, rigour, heat of skin, and general perspiration suc-
ceeded. Effects similar to these arc often observed when this
medicine is injudiciously.selected.in the lreatment of disease.
It sometimes happens, that the symptoms of ague are aggravated
by the prolonged use of sulphate of quinia, and soon after it is
withdrawn the disease gradually subsides. The result of ex-
periments and observations on this remedy elucidate its homreo-
pathic action.
Mercurial preparations, when· ad~inistered interna1ly~ pro-
Digitized by Coogle
vi
duce symptoms local and constitutional so closely resembling
thE> poison of lues venerea that medical practitioners who have
spent many years in the investigation of syphilis find it very
difficult, nay, in some instances, impossible, (guided by the
appearances,) to distinguish one disease from the other. Of all
&he med~cines used in the treatment of lues, mercury is the only
one that has stood the test of time and experience. Let us,
then, compare the effects of syphilis with those of mercury:-
The venereal poison produces on the skin, pustules, scales, and
tubercles. Mercury produces directly the same defredations of
the skin. Syphilis excites inflammation of the periosteum and
caries of the bones. Mercury does the same. Inflammation of
the iris from lues is an every-day occurrence; the same disease
is a very frequent consequence of mercury. Ulceration of the
throat is a common symptom in syphilis ; the same affection
results from mercury. Ulcers on the organs of' reproduction
are the result of both the poison and the remedy ; and furnish
another proofof the doctrine similia similibw.
Nitric ac.id is generally recommended in cutaneous diseases ;
the internal use of this remedy, in a very dilute form, produces
s~ly eruptions over the surface of the bod.y; and the external
applica~ion of a solution, in the proportion of one part acid to
one hundred and twenty~ight parts of water, will produce
inflammation and ulceration of the skin. These observations
would lead to the conclusion, that nitric acid cures cutaneous
diseases by the faculty it possesses of producinga similardisease
of the skin. Nitrate of po~ administered internally in small
doses, produces a. frequent desire to pass water, accompanied
with pain and beat. When this state of the urinary system
exists as a ~onsequence ofdisease, or the application of a blister,
_
a very dilute solution of the same remedy has been found ~ne-
ficial. · ·
'rhe ordinary edects of hyoscyamus niger are vertigo, deli-
Digitized by Coogle
vii
rium, stupefaction, and somnolency. Where one or other of
these diseased states exists, it yields to sruall doses of the tinc-
ture ofthis plant. The internal use of hyoscyamus is followed
by mental aberration, the leading features Of which are jealousy,
and irascibility. When these hallucinations exist, this remedy·
is indicated.
Opium in general .causes drowsiness, torpqr, and deep sleep,
and yet this remedy in small doses remov.es these symptoms
when they occur in disease.
Sulphur is a specific against itch; notwithstand~ng which,
when it.is administered to healthy individuals it frequently ex-
cites a pustular eruption reselbbling itch in every particular.
These obaerva~ions corroborate the statements of our author
as to the value and importance of homreopathy, and were not
the limits of a preface too confined I could bring forward the
actual experiments from which these deductions have been
drawn.
On the subject ofsmall doses of medicines a few observations
will suffice. ·
A mixture composed of one drop of hydrocyanic acid and
eight ounces of water, administered in a drachm dose, has pro-
duced vertigo and anxious breathing. Vomiting has followed ·
the use of the sixteenth of a grain of emetic tartar ;.narcotism,
tile twentieth of a grain of muriate of morphia ; and spirit of
ammonia, in doses of one drop, acts on the system as a stimu-
lant. '
On the hommopathic .attenuation of medicines, many are
sceptical, and presume that the.quantity of the article extan.t in
the dose, cannot produce a medicinal effect. I refer to the
pages of the Organon for ah elucidation· of th.is proposition,
,.
Digitized by Coogle
viii
and will relate an experiment which may serve to explain the
degree of dilution substances are capable of. One grain of
nitrate of silver dissolved in 1560 grains of distilled water, to
which were added two grains of muriatic acid, a gray precipi-
tate of chloride of silver was evident in every part of the liquor.
One grain of iodine dissolved in b. drachm ofalcohol and mixed
with the same quantity ofwater as in the preceding experiment,
to which were added two grains ofstarch dissolved in an ounce
ofwater, caused an·evident blue tint in the solution. In these
experiments the ,grain of the nitrate of silver and iodine must
have been divided into nh~ ofa grain.
A few ·particulars connected with the discoverer and fou\}der
ofthe hommopathic system of medicine, cannot but proye inte-
resting to the readers of t~is volume. SAMUEL HAHNE.MANN
was born in 1755, at Misnia, in Upper Saxony. He exhibited
at an early age traits of a superior genius ; his school education
being completed, he applied himself to the study of natural phi-
losophy and natural history, and afterwards prosecuted the study
ofmedicine at I,eipsic and other universities. A most accurate
observer, a skilful experimenter, and an indefatigable searcher
after truth, he appeared formed by nature felr the investigation
aad improvement of medical science. On commencing the
study of medicine he soon became disgusted with the mass of
contradictory assertions and theories which then existed. He
found every thing in this department obscure, hypothetical and
vague, and·resolved to abandon the medical profession. Hav-
ing been previously engaged in the study ofchemistry, he deter-
mined on translating into his native language the best English
and French works on the subject. Whilst engaged in translat-
ing the Materia Medica of the illustrious Cullen, in 17901 in
which the febrifuge virtues of cinchona bark are described, he
became fired with the desire of ascertaining its mode of action.
Whilst in' the enjoyment of the most robust health, he com-
menced the use of this substance, and in a short time was
Digitized by Coogle
ix
attacked with all the symptoms of intermittent fever, similar in
every respect to those which that medicine is known to cure.
being struck with the identity of the two diseases he immedi-
ately divined the great truth w~ich has become the foundation
of the new medical doctrine of homceopathy.
Not contented with one experiment he tried the virtues of
medicines on his own person, and on that ofothers. In his in-
vestigations he arrived at this conclusion : &h~t the substance
employed possessed an inherent power of excit~g in healthy
subjects the same Sy-mptoms which it is said to cure in the sick.
He compared the assertions of ancient and modern physicians
upon the properties of poisonous substances with the result of
his own experiments, and found tllem to coincide in every
rE'spect ; and upon these deductions he brought forth his doc-
trine of homceopathy. Taking this law for a guide, he recom-
menced the practice of medicine, with every prospect of his
labours being ultimately crowned with success.
In 1796 he published his first-dissertation on homceopathy
in Hufeland's Journal. A treatise on the virtues of medicine
appeared in 1805, and the " Organon" in 18LO. Hahnemann
commenced as a public medical teacher in Leipsic, in 1811,
where, with his pupils, he zealously investigated the effects of
medicines on the living bo_
dy, which formed the basis of ~he
Materia Medi~a Pura which appeared.during the same year.
Like many other disco.-erers in medicine, the author of the
Organon has been persecuted with the utmost rigour ; and in
1820 he quitted his native country iu disgust. In retirement
he was joined by several of his pupils, who formed themselves
into a society for the purpose of prosecuting the homceopathie
system of physic, and reporting their observations thereon.
Several fasciculi detailing their labours have been sinte pub-
lished.
b
Digitized ~YCoogle
:;
lrt 1824 the homceopathic doctrine was embraced by Rau,
physician to the Duke of Hesse Darmstadt ; by Bigelius, physi-
cian to the Emperor of Russia ; by Stegemam1, and many
other names celeb1ated in medicjne.
We find, from a published letter of Dr. Peschier of Geneva,
that Hahnemann resides at Ccethen, (capital of Anhalt-Ccethen,)
in the enjoyment of perfect health and spirits. He is consulted
by patients from almost every nation, who have been attracted
by his fame as a physician.
Of the doctrine of homceopathy generally, I have little more
to add in this place ; time will develope t~e truth or fallacy of the
principle on which it is founded ; but in the mean time let us
not lose sight of the fact, that this new system of physic is
spreading throughout the continent of Europe with the rapidity
of lightning. Germany, Austria, Russia, and Poland, have
already done homage to the doctrine, and physicians have been
appointed to make a specific trial of its effects, the results of
which are unequivocally acknowledged to be of a favourable
nature. The writings of the illustrious Hahnemanu have ap-
peared in five different languages, independent of the present
version of his " Organon ;" and in France alone, a translation
of this work, from the pen of A. J. L. Jourdan, member of the
Academie Royale de Medecine, has reached a fourth edition.
Convinced, from re1lection and observation, of the value of
homceopathy, the first step in the propagation and dissemination
of this doctrine, in Britain, was to obtain ~n English version of
the " Organon."
SAMUEL STRATTEN.
Dublin, Jun~ 14th, 1833.
Digitized by Coogle
- ~ -
-
------1!!0'!!!1::111~----~
PREFACE •ro THE AMERICAN EDITION·.
First impressions commonly determine our judgment of books
as well as men. If, on a first interview, a person be repulsive
to us, and those who for years have had familiar intercourse
with him, admit that we are exeusable for first impressions, but
nevertheless assure us that he is possessed of very valuable ·
qualities, and that a nearet acquaintance with him may be use-
ful to us,-when, in addition, our informants give us a key to
a more correct judgment, we are no longer justifiable in main-
tainingour original impressions. Still more would our opinions
be intluenced, if, before seeing the person, we were furnished in
advancewith a short and impartial representation ofhis character
by one who knew him intimately. If this rule of judgment be
applicable to persons, wherefore should it not apply to books 1
The Organon contains much that is peculiar and different
from the views hitherto entertained by the prevailing school of
medicine. Most readers of the medical profession, therefore,
conceive prejudices against it, and fall into the vulgar error of
rejecting the whole, merely because they do not justly regard it
as a whole,-they reject the main propositions_, because they are
offended at the subordinate.
The reader needs no elaborate introduction to the following
work, and it is requisite, perhaps, only to apprise him of the
different dasses into which its several paragraphs may be
divided ; and this being done, we shall submit each separate
class to his own judgment.
The entire contents of the Organon may be easily arranged
under the four following divisions, which, indeed, do not occur
in the order in which they are here given, but they might easily
have been designated in accordance to it, by causing them to
Digitized by Goog e
xii
be severally printed in a different type. They consist,-I. Of
discoveries-experime,ntal propositions, or the resutts of actual
experiment. 2. Of directions or instructions. 3. Of theoreti-
cal and philosophical illustration. 4. Of defences and accu-
sations.
I.-OF DIEICOVERIES.
Among men of deliberate and acute 'reflection, no di1ference
of opinion·can exist relative to the truth of a discovery-which
rests upon the basis of actual experiment. When the ·author
appeals to such experiments, they must be led to a repetition of
them, and not oppose their own opinions to the dictates of
experience; in fine, they have no other way in forming a judg-
ment, than that of accurate and eareful experiment.
It may be said that every charlatan in extolling his nostrums
in like manner appeals to experience, and no one is required tor
that reason to investigate the merits of his compounds ; but it
will not be denied that, although the person of the quack may
deserve little forbearance, yet the remedy with which he dupes
the public, may in some cases prove beneficial. The old school
has received many remedies, mercury among others, trom ·the
hands of the quack. ·
But, in the Organon, experience is not referred to for the pur-
pose of lauding any individual remedy ; far more, it has rela-
tion to an entire method of cure. None but a vulgar dealer in
calumny of the grosser sort, would attempt to degrade Hahne- ·
mann to a leyel with the charlatan; because he promulgates his
views and the peculiarities of "his method, as a learned physi-
cian, and in a manner that is sanctioned by custom, and fully
recognised in the history of medicine.
· But his method, as we have already intimated, appeals to
experience. Not to mention the example of Brown, we need
only refer to that of Broussais, and the reports receive~ strik.
ingly iu favour of his doctrines, or even to the contra-stimulus
of the Italians, which incessantly appeals to the same expe-
rience ~ the test of its value.
It is, indeed, desirable that every learned physician-profes-
Digitized by Coogle
.xiii
sors, hospital physicians, and others in prominent stations
'
should carefully study, and so far as the experimentS are inno-
cuous, prove his new method; nay, Hahnemann and his adh~­
ents often and ardently desire that every physician would learn,
investigate, and prove hommopathy for himself.
But lwmreopathy is not only a ntW method, but much more.
This method does not rest up<)n new views, like every other
hitherto promulgated, bat upon nem ducO'Oeries, mhich appertain
to the tkpartmentl of natural plt.ilosophy, the natural sciences,
physiology and biology.
'J.1he doctrine that e~ery peculiar substance-every mineral,
plant, animal, in fact every part of them, or every preparation
de~ived from a preceding one, produces a series of peculiar
effects upon the human organism, manifestly belongs to the
natural sciences, and only so far to the .materia mediea as the
latter calls these properties into requisition. But it is a science
in itsel~-a science which treats of the e:tfect of a diversity of
substances upon the human frame. Whether such a science,
in point of fact, be capable of formation, and whether it have
any value, can be determined only by experim~nt. It were
equally foolish to deny this without trial, as it was formerly to
deny, without exploring, the way which Columbus opened to the
west. It would be inexcusable in the present condition of the
materia medica, confessedly imperfect, and deficient in all the ·
attributes ofa science, to despise this new way of Hahnemann,
before knowing, by careful experiment, that it conducts to no-
thing better.
The doctrine of the preparation of the remedies into the so
called dilutions, belongs to natural philosophy, in common with
the doctrines of magnetism, electricity, and galvanism. Nor is
it more a subject of wonder than the latter-except that these
sooner came under investigation by the natural philosopher.
The repetition of the new electro-magnetic experiments requires
great accuracy ; those concerning the operation of minute
doses require just as much, nay even more. To deny tl.Je re-
sults of the electro-magnetic experiments, previous to repeating
them, were ridiculous, and it is equally so to deny the {esults of
Digitized by Coogle
xiv
theSe. But no hasty, superficial, partial, or wholly perverted
experiments, must be instituted.
The doctrine that such dilutions or potences are capable of
curing diseases according to the law " similia similibus," is a
proposition which belongs to biology, and there finds its con·
firmation; it likewise can only be investigated by experiment,
and cannot be estimated without it.
The cautious investigator will not pass judgment upon all
these discoveries, until he shall have performed a series of
rigorous experiments. Then only will he be prepared either to
reject or accept the method founded thereon, or, .at least, learn
the useful part of it.
11.-DIRECTIONS.
These appertain to the method of cure: are derived from the
long continued application of the law previously referred to,
and acquire their principal value from its truth. No one can
judge of them but he who has tested the truth of the experi-
mental propositions, and in doing so, adhered to these directions.
By this means only can he become convinced of their great
value, which is entirely lost on those who deny the discoveries.
We enumerate under this head, directions for the examina-
tion of the sick, for the preparation of the medicines, for trying
them on the healthy subject, for the selection of the remedies,
dietetics, and directions for the psychical treatment.
III.- ILLUSTRATIONS.
Hahnemann has appended certain theories to the laws of .
nature discovered by him, by which these laws are illustrated
and brought into unison with other laws already acknowledged,
or with other theories reeeived as true. This has never been
reckoned a subject of reproach to any discoverer. Man will
and must seek to illustrate the phenomena which he observes,
and .bring individual parts into co-aptation-the new into har-
mony with that previously known. In this endeavour, not only
· i!S he liable to err, but actually does err in the great :majority of
cases; accordingly, few hypotheses and attempts at explanation
Digitized by Coogle
XV
·have endured long, and it is a fact of daily acknowledgment1
that one hy-pothesis gives place to another in all sciences.
Columbus himself entertained numerous .conjectures which
time has verified -or overthrown. Whether the theories of
Hahnemann are destined to endure a longer or a shorter space;
whether they bEt the bes~ or not, time only can determine ; be it
as it may, however, it is a matter of minor importance. For my-
sel~ I am generally considered as a disciple and adherent of
Hahnemann, and I do indeed t\eclare that I am one among
the most enthusiastic in doing .homage to his greatness ; but
nevertheless I declare also, .that since my first acquaintance
with homreopathy, (in the year 1821,) down to the present day,
I have never yet accepted a single theory in the Organon as it
is'there promulgated. I feel no aversion to acknowledge this
even to the venerable sage himself. It is the genuine Hahne-
mannean spirit totally to disregard all theories, even those of
one's own fabrication, when they are in oppositionto the results of
pure experience. All theories and hypotheses have no positive
weight whatever, only so far as they lead to new experiments,
and afford a better survey of the results ofthose already made.
Whoever, therefore, will assail the theories of Hahnemann, or
even altogether reject them, is at perfect liberty to do so ; but
let him, not imagine that he has thereby accomplished a me-
morable aehievement. In every respect it is an affair of little
importance.
IV.-DEFENCES.
Opinions upon this head are also things ofsecondary conside-
ration, inasmuch as the entire polemical matter i~ of subordinate
estimation in forming a judgment concerning new discoveries.
Had Hahnemann the right to defend himself as he has done7
and thereby promote the progress of his doctrine, or had he
not 1 We cannot judge concerning it, but justly commit the
decision of the question to future history. The entire polemical
partmay be stricken out, without in the slightest degree changing
the principal matters, or without having any influence either to ·
ratify or invalidate the doctrine itself.
•
Digitized by Coogle
xvi
Is there a physician who feels that individual expressions
will apply to him, let him take heed to the truth ; but if they do
not reach him, th~n is he unaffected by them. He who is
· offended at the polemical part, let him reflect that it is the ti.rst
step towards an unjust estimate ofthe rest.
A just judgment is all that we wish from every reader-of the
Orgaaon, and to contribute something to this end was the de-
sign of these preliminary remarks.
CoNSTANTINE HERING.
Academy at Allentown, Penn., AufUIIt 10, 1836.
Digitized by Coogle
CONTENTS.
INTRODUCTION.
Pale
A view of the prevailing allc:eopatbic and palliative medical treatment to the
present time.
Examples ofhomooopathic cures performed unintentionally by pbysicio.DSofthe
old school of medicine. •
'
Persons ignorant ofthe science of medicine, discovered that the hoiUOOOpathic
treatment was the most rational and efficacious.
Some physicians of an early period suspected t~at this curative method was
superior to every other.
ORGANON OF MEDICINE.
§ 1, 2. The sole duty of a physician is, to restore health in a mild, prompt,
and durable manner.
N.,e, It does not pertain to his office to invent systems, or vainly attempt to
9
73
75
account for the morbid phenomena in diaease. 79
§ 3, 4. Tbe physician ought to search after that which ia to be cured in disease,
and be acquainted with the curative virtues of medicines, in order to adapt
the medicine to the disease. He must also be acquainted with the meuls
of preserving health. ~. 80
§ 5. In the cure of disease it is necessary to regard the fundamental cause and·
otller circuiJillto.nces. ib.
§ 6. For- the physician, the totality of the symptoms alone constitutes the
diseas& . w.
Note. The fruitless endeavours ofthe old school to discoYer the essence of the
disease, the prima causa morbi.
§ 7. To cure disease, it is merely requisite to remove the entire symptoms,
duly regarding, at the same time, the circumstances enumerated in 95. 81
Not'- 1. .The cause which evidently occasions and maintains the disease must
likewise be removed. w.
Note 2. A symptomatic palliative method of treatment, or that directed
against an individual symptom, ought to bo rejected. 82
§ 8. When all the symptoms are extinguished, the dil6ase is at the same timli
internally cured. ' ib,
Note. This ia ill'norantly denied by the old school..
c
~igitize~ by Coogle
xviii
,.
~. 9. During health, the system is animated by 11 spiritual, Mltmoved, vital
power, which preserves it in harmonious order. 83
~ 10. Without this vital, dynamic power, the organiam ia dead. ib.
~ lJ. In disease, the vital power only is primarily disturbed, and exp,_ ita
auffuring& (internal changee> by abnormal alterations in the een~ationa and
actions of the system. • • • • • • • • • • ib.
Nott. To know how the aymptoma are produced by the vital power, ia uone-
cel88ry for the purposeP of cure.
~ 12. By the extinction of the totality of the sympto011 in the proceaa of cure,
the sufFering of the vital power, that is, the entire morbid a1l'ection, inwardly
and outwardly, ie removed. ib.
~ 13. To. preeume that disease (non-chirurgical) ia a peculiar and distinct
10metlling, residing in mao, is a conceit, which baa rendered alkeopathy .a
pernicious. 84
~ 14. Every curable disease is made known te the physician by ita symptoms. ib.
~ 15. The sufferings of the deranged vital power, and the morbid symptums
produced thereby, as an invisible whole, one and the same. ilr.
~ 16. It is only by means ofthe spiritual influence ofa morbific agent, that our
spiritual vital power can be diaeatoed, and in like manner, only by the spi.
ritual (dynamic) operation of medicine, that health can be reetored. 85
~ 17. The physician has only to remove the totality of the aymptoms and be
bae cured the entire diaeaee. • ib.
Nole 1, 2. Explanatory examples.
~ 18. The totality ofthe symptoms is the sole indication in the choice of the
remedy. 86
~ 19. Chaogee in the general state, in diseaee, (symptoms of disease) can be
cured in no other way, by medicines, than in so far aa the latter poseeA the
power, likewise, of affecting changee in tho ayatem. ib.
~ 20. 'fhis faculty which medicinee have of producing changee in the ay«tem,
can only be known by observing their efFects upon healthy individuals. a.
~ 21. The morbid symptoms which medicines produce in healthy peraons are
the sole indications of their curative virtues in diaeaae. • ib.
~ 22. Ifexperience prove that the medicinee which produce symptoms aimilar
to those of the disease, are the therapeutic agents that cure it in tho moat
certain and permanent manner, we ought to ielect these medicines in the
cure ofthe diaeaa& If, on the contrary, it proves that the m011t certain lind
permanent cure is obtained by medicinal subatances that produce •Jmptoma
directly epporite to thoee of the disease, then the latter a~ots ought to be
eelectod for this parpoac. • • • . • • • • • 31
Nolt. The use of medicines, wboae symptoms bear no peculiar (afFective)
relation to the morbid symptoms, but influence the body in a different way,
is the exceptionable alleof«thic mode oftreatment.
~ 23. Morbid symptoms that are inveterate CUinot be eured by medicinal
symptoms ofan opposite character (IIJJii1f1thic method). SS
~ 24, 25. The homaopathic method, or that which employe medicines producinr
symptoms similar to those of the malady, is the only one of which experi-
ence proves the certain efficacy. ib.
~ 26. This is grounded upon the therapeutic law of nature, that a weaker
dynamic afFection in man is permanently extinruisbed by one that is •imi-
lar, of greate~ intensity, yet ofa dilferent origill. 89>
Digitized by Coogle
xix
Pap
Note. Tbis law applies to physical as well moral affections.
§ 27. The curative virtuea of medicines depend solely upon the resemblance
that their symptoms !lear to those of the diseate. 90
~ 28, 29. Some explanation of this therapeutic law of nature. ib.
Nott. Illustration ofit.
~ 30-33. The human body is much mow prone to undergo derangement from
the action of medicines than from that ofnatural disease. 91, 92
~ 34, 35. The truth of the hom(B()pathic Iaw is shown by the inefficacy of non.
ho111420pathic treatment in the cure of diseases that are of long standing,
and likewise by the fact that either of two natural dissimilar diseases co-
exiating in the body, cannot annihilate or cure the other. 92, 93
~ 36, I. A diaeaae, existing in the human body, prevents the aet'ession of a new
and diuimilar one, if the former be ofequal intensity to, or greater, than the
latter. ib.
~ 37. Tbua, non.hommopathic treatment, which is not violent, leaves the
chronic disease unaltered. ib.
~ 38, II. Or, a new and more intense di&ease suspends a prior and dissimilar
nne, already existing in the body, only 110 long aa the former continues, but
it neYer cures it. 93-95
~ 39. In the aame manner, violent treatq~ent with all(B()pathic remedies neYer
corea a chronic disease, but merely suspends it during the continuance of
the powerful action of a medicine incapable of exciting symptoms similar
to those of the di8e&.BC, but afterwards, the latter reappears even more inten10
than before. 95-97
~ 40, III. Or, the new disease, after having acted for· a considerable time on
the system, joins itself finally to the old one, which is dissimilar, and thence
results a complication of two different maladies, either of which ia incapable
of annihilating or curing the other. 97, 98
~ 41. Much more frequently than a superadded natural diseue, an artificial
one, which is occasioned by the long continued use of violent and unsuitable
albopathic remedies, ia combinod with the disaimilar prior and natural
disease (the dilllrimilarity consequently rendering it incurable by means of
the artificial malady), and the patient becomes doubly diaea~~ed. 98
~ 42. The diseases thus complicated by reason of their dissimilarity, auume
. diffetent places in the organism to which they are severally adapted. 99
~ 43~ 44. But very llifferent is the result, where a new disease that is similar
and stroorr is auperadded to the old one, for in that case the former anni.
hilatea and cures the latter. 100-101
~ 45. This phenomenon explailted. ib.
~ 46. Examples of the cure of chronic diseuee, by the accidental aceesaion or
another disease, aimilar and more intense. 101-103
~ 47-49. Ofany two di&eUea, which occur in the ordinary courae of nature,
it is only that one whose symptoms are similar to the other, which can cure
or deatroy it. This faculty never belongs to a diseimilar disease. Hence
the phyaician may learn whllt are the remedies with which he can eft'ect a
certain cure, that is to aay, with none but such u are hom<eopathic. 108, 104
~ 50. Nature aft'ords but f~w instances in which one disease can bom<eopathi.
cally destroy another, and her remedial resources in this way are encum.
bered by many inconveniences. ib.
Digitized by Coogle
XX
Pare
§ 51. On the other hand, the physician is poasesscd of innumerable curative
agents, greatly preferable to those. 105
§ 5!l. From the process employed by nature, to which we have just adverted,
the physician may deduce the doclrine of curing diseases by no other reme-
dies than such as are hommopathic, and not with those of another kind,
(allceopathic), which never cure, but only injure the patient. ib.
§ 53, 54. There are only three possible method• of employing medicines in
disease, viz.
I. The homOJfiPIJfhic, which only is salutary and eflicacioos. 106
§ 55, II. The allcBopathic or heteropathic. ._ ib.
§ 56, III. The antipathic or enantiopathic, which is merely palliative. 107
Note. Remarks on Isopathy, so called.
§ 57. An exposition of the method of cure where a remedy producing a eon.
trary effect (contraria contrariis) is prescribed against a single symptom of
the disease.-Examples. ib.
~ 58. This antipathie method is not merely defective because it is directed
against an individual symptom only, but also, because in chronic disea!ICII
after having apparently diminished the evil for a time, this temporary abate.
mentis followed by a real aggravation of the symptoms. 108
Note. Testimonies ofdifferent authors•
.§ 59. Injurious consequences of some antipathic cures. 109-111
§ 60. Where a palliative is employed, the gradual increase of the dose never
cures a chronic disease, but renders the state of the patient worse. ib.
§ 61. Wherefore, phyHicians ought to have inferred the utility of an opposite,
and the only beneficial method, namely, that ofh01nceopathy. ib.
§ 62. The reason that the palliative method is so pernicious, and the homll!O-
pathic alone salutary. 112
§ 63. Is fouiiCied upon the difference which exists between the primary action
ofevery medicine, and the reaction, or secondary effects, produced by the
living organism (the vital power). ib.
§ 64. Explanation of the primitive and secondary effects. • ib.
§ 65. Examples of both. 113
~ 66. It is only by the use of the minutest hommopathie doses, that the reae.
tion of the vital power shows itself simply by reatoring the equilibrium of
l.ealth. , ib.
§ 67. From these facts, the salutary tendency of the homceopathic,.as well aa
the adverse effects of the antipathie (palliative) method, become ma~est. lt4
Note. Cases in which only antipathic r~medies are yet only useful.
§ 68. How far these facts prove the efficacy ofthe homceopathic method. ib•.
§ 69. How these facts confirm the injurious tendency of •the antipathic
method. 115-117
Note 1. Contrary sensstions cannot neutralise each other in the sen•orium of
man; they do not react upon each other like chemical substances that are
endowP.d with opposite properties.
Note 2. Explanatory example.
§ 70. A short analysis of the homceopathic method. 117
§ 71. The three necessary points in healing, are :-1. To a~acertain the malady;
2. The action of the medicines; and 3. Their appropriate application. 118
472. A general view of acute and chronic diseases. • ib.
'''!lET
• Digitized oy Googl,
e
xxi
Page
473. Acute diseaeea which are isolated-sporadic, epidemic, acute mlnema. 119
§ 74. The worst epecies of chronic diseues are those produced by the unakiJ.
ful treatment of all<eopathic physicians. 120
§ 75. These are the most difficult ofcure. ib.
§ 76. It is only as there is sufficient vital power yet remaining in the ayetem,
that tbe injury inflicted by the abuse of allceopathic medicine• can be re-
paired ; to restore the patient often requires a long ti01e, and the aimulta.
neous removal of the original malady. 121
§ 77. Diseues that are improperly termed chronic. ib.
§ 78. Dieeaaea that properly claim that appellation, and which all arise from
chronic miasma. ib.
§ 79. Syphilis and eycosia. 122
§ 80, 81. Psora is the parent of all chronic diseases, properly so called, with
the exception ofthe syphilitic and sycosic. • 122-125
Note. The names given to diseases in ordinary pathology.
§ 82. Every case of chronic disease demands the care~ selection ofa remedy
from among the specifics that have been discovered against chronic miasma,
particularly against psora. 125
§ 83. Qualifications neceasary for comprehending the iwage ofthe diseaee. ib.
§ 84-99. Directions to the physician for discovering and tracing out an image
of the disease. l!l6-132
§ 100-102. Investigation ofepidemic diseases in particular. 133
§ 103. In like manner muat the source of .chronic dieases (not eyphilitic) be
investigated and the entire image of peora be brought into view. 134
§ 104. The utility of noting down in manuscript the image of the disease at
the commencement and during tbe progreaa of the treatment. 135
Note. How physicians of the old achool proceed in their uamination of the
morbid eymptolll&
§ 105-114. Preliminaries to be obaened in investigating the pure efFects of
medicines in the healthy human subject. Primary efFect. Secondary
effect. • 135-139
§ 115. Alternative efFects of medicines. ib.
§ 116, 117. Idiosyncrasies. 140
4118, 119. Every medicine produces efFects dift'erent from ~ther1. 141
Note. One medicine cannot be substituted for another.
§ 120. Every medicine must therefore be carefully tried as to the peculiarities
of its eft'ects. 142
§ 121-140. Course to be adopted in tryin&' medicines upon other indivi-
duals. 142-149
§ 141. The experiments which a physician in health makes in hie own penon
are preferable to others. ib.
§ 142. The investigation of the pure etl'ecta of medicines by their adminietra-
tion in disease, is difficult. 150
§ 143-145. It is by investigating the pure efFects of medicines in the healthy
IIUbject only, that a true materia medica can be framed. 150, 151
§ 146. The most appropriate remedial employment of medicines whose pecu-
liar eft'ecta are known. 152
§ 147. That medicine which is the moat homlllopathically adapted, is the m•t
beneficial, and ia the specific remedy. ib.
Digitized by Coogle
. j
xxii
Pap
§ 148. Intimation how a hoi1KBOpllthic cnre Is probably eft'ected. 153
§ 149. The hommopathic cure of a diseue of rapid origin it quickly eft'ected,
but the cure of a chronic one requires proportionably a longer time. 153, 154
Note. The distinction between pure hoiiKI!Opathy and the doctrine~ of the
mongrel flit.
§ 150. Slight indispositions. 154
§ 151. Severe diseuee exbibit a variety of eymptomt. ill.
§ 152. A dieeese with numerou• and striking symptom• admits of finding the
homCEOpathic remedy with more certainty. 155
§ 153. What kind of eymptoma ought chielly to be regarded in ~electing tbe
remedf. ib.
§ 154. A remedy that is perfectly bomCEOpathic, curet the dileue without any
accompanying ill ctJ'ects. ib.
§ 155. The reaeon why homc:eopatbic curet are thue etrected. 156
§ 156. Reuon ofthe few exceptions tb~reto. ill.
§ 157-160. The medicinal.Jieeeec, closely resembling, but rather morc in.
tense than the primitive one, called also latmaatopatAic aggratJOtitm. 156, 157
§ 161. In chronic (peoric) diaeasea, the aggravation produced by bomCEOpathic
remedies (anti.psorica), occurs from time to time, during eeveral dayt. 158
§ 162-171. Meuuret to be pursued in the treatment, when ' the number of
known medicines is too small to admit of6nding a remedy that ie perfectly
homCEOpathic. 158-161
§ 172-184. Meuuret to be taken in the treatment o( di- that have too
few symptoms, (einaeitige krankheiten). 161-163
§ 185-203. The treatment of diseases with local symptoms ; their cure by
means of external applications is always injurious. 163-169
§ 204, 205. All diseuea properly chronic, and not arising or being 11upported
merely by bad modes of living, ought to be treated by homCEOpathic reme-
dies appropriate to their originating mium, and solely by the internal ad.
ministration of thoee remedies. 170, 171
§ 206. Preliminary search after tho simpl11 miasm which forms the bui11 of
the malady, or of ita complication with a second (eometimet even with a
third.) • ib.
§ 207. Enquiries to be made respecting the treatment previously adopted. 172
§ 208, 209. Other enquiries neceasary to be made, before a perfect image can
bo formed ofa chronic dieeeee. 172, 173
§ 210-230. Treatment of mental diseues. 173-180
§ 231, 232. Intermittent and alteraating diseuee. ib.
§ 233, 234. Typical intermittent diaeasee. 181
§ 235-2-U. Intermittent fever~. 181-186
§ 245-251. The modo ofadministering the remedies. 186-192
Note. Repetition ofdo&eR.
§ 252-256. The signs of incipient amendment. 193-195
§ 257,258. Blind predilection for favourite remedies, and uojuet aversion to
llthers. 198
§ 259-261. The regimen proper in chronic dileUCI. 195-196
Note. Thinp that are prejudicial therein.
§ 262, ~. Regimen in acute diseuea. 196
§ 264-266. On the choice of the purest and most energetic medicines. 197
Digitized by Coogle
xxiii
Pace
Note. Changes produced in aome aub8tancea in the pr-of preparing them
for food.
~ 267. Tbe modo of preparing the moet energetic and durable medicinea from
freah berba. 198
~ 268. Dry vegetable aubataocea. 19!1
~;.269-271. The hom£80pathic method of preparing cru4e medicinal aub-
atancea, in order to obtain their greateet medicinal power. 199, 200
Note. Preparation of powder for keeping.
~ 272-274. Only one rimple medicine is to be administered at a time. 201
~ 275-287. Strength,of the doses used in hom010pathic treatment. The man-
ner of graduating them, or of augmenting or diminishing their power.
The d~m~lopement of their powera. 202-208·
~ 288-292. What parts of the body are more or leM 10111ible to the action of
medicinea. ib.
Nou. Receiving tbe highly developed medic:inea by inhalation or smelling,
is the prefer11ble mode ofllling them.
~ 293,294. Animal mi(JIOtiam (Mtmatrism). On the application of poaitive
and neptive.Jae~~meriam. 210, 211
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Google
-------=
··..;:-.;..,--
,___----
.~
INTRODUCTION.
A VIEW OF THE PREVAILING MEDICAL TREATMENT, ALL<Eo-
P.ATHIC AND PALLIATIVE, TO THE PRESENT TIME.
From the earliest period of time, mankind have been liable
to disease, individually and collectively, arising from causes
natural and moral. In the rude and simple forms ofprimitive
life, few maladies appeared, and little skill was requisite to
remove ·them ; but as society became more dense, alid men
formed themselves into states, diseases multiplied, and medical
aid became, in the same degree, necessary.
Thenceforward, at least after the days of Hippocrates, during
a lapse of nearly two thousand five hundred years, men have
fondly supposed, that these multiplied and c~mplicated mala-
.dies were to be removed by methods originating purely in
scheming and conjecture. Innumerable opinions on the nature
and cure of diseases, have successively been promulged ; each
distinguishing his own theory with the title of system, though
directly at variance .with every other and inconsistent with
itself.
Each pf these refined productions dazzled the reader at first
with its unintelligible display of wisdom, and attracted to the
system-builder crowds of adherents, echoing his unnatural
sophistry, but from which none of them could derive any im-
provement in the art of healing, until a new system, frequently
indirect opposition to the former,appeared,supplantingit, and for
a season acquiring celebrity. Yet none were in harmony with
nature and experience-mere theories spun out of a refined
imagination, from ap.Parent consequences, which, on ·account
of their subtilty and contradictions, were practically inapplica-
ble at the bedside of the patient, and .only fitted for idle dispu-
tation.
By the side of these theories, but unconnected with·them all,
a mode of cure was contrived, with medical substances of un-
2 .
' Digitized by Coogle
10
known quality compounded together, applied to diseases arbi-
trarily classified, and arranged in reference to their materiality,
called ./Jllreopathia. 'fhe pernicious results of such a practice,
at variance with nature and experience, may be easily imagined.
Without seeking to detract from the reputation which many
physicians have justly acquired by their skill in the sciences
auxil~ry to medicine, such as Natural Philosophy, Chemistry,
Natural Histoty in all its branches, and that of man in particu-
lar, Anthropology, Physiology, Anatomy, &c. &c., I shall
occupy myself here with the practical part of Medicine only, in
order to show the imperfect manner in which diseases have
been treated till the present day. It is also far from my
intention to pursue that mechanical routine by which the
precious lives of our fellow creatures are treated according to
pocket-book recipes, volumes ofwhich are still daily appearing
before the public, and show, alas ! how frequently, and to what
extent, they are resorted to even at the present time. I turn
from these, as undeserving of notice1 and as a lasting reproach
to the Faculty of Medicine. I shall merely speak of the Medi-
cal Art, such as it has existed till the p,resent day, and which,
on account of its antiquity, is su}>posed ~o be founded upon
scientific principies.
It was the boast of the former schools of medicine, that their
doctrine alone deserved the _
title of "rational art of healing,".
because ·it was pretended that they alone sought after and
removed the morbid cause, andfollowed the traces of nature her-
self in diseases. .
Tolle caU!am! cried they continually; but that was all: they
seldom went farther than that vain exclamation. They talked
of being able to discover the cause of.disease, without succeed-
ing in their pretended attempts; for, by far the greater number
of diseases being of dynamic origin, as well as of a dynamic
nature, arid ,their cause, therefore, not admitting of discovery .
to the senses, they were reduced to the necessity of inventing
one. By comparing, on the one hand, the normal state of the
parts ofthe dead human body (anatomy) With the visible changes
which those parts had updergone in subjects that had died of
disease, (pathological anatomy,) and on the other, the function&
of the living body (physiology) with the endless aberrations to
which theyare subject in the various stages ofdisease,(semeiotics,
Digitized by Coogle
-
11
pathology,) and drawing from thence conclusions, relative to
the invisible manner in which the changes are brought about
in the interior of man; .when in a diseased state, they succeeded
in forming ari obscure and imaginary picture, which theoretic
·medicine regarded as the prima causa morbi," which aft~rwards
became the uearest cause, and, at the same time, thtJ immediate
usence of the cliaeaee, and even the disease itself; although com-
mon sense tells us, that the cause of any thing can never be, at
the same time, both the cause and the thing itself.
How was it then possible, without deceiving themselves, to
pretend to cqre this yet undiscovered internal eause, or ven-
ture to. prescribe for it medicines, whose curativ.e tendency
was equally for the most part unknown to them, and m6re
especially, to mix up several of those unknown substances in
what we..term prescriptions 1
However the sublime project, of discovering, a p1·il)r~ some
internal invisible cause ofdisease, resolved itself (at least among
some self-conceited physicians of the old school) into a search,
* It would have been far more suitable to the good sense of mankind,
and to the nature of the case, had they, in order to cure, attempted to
discover as the causa morbi the originating cause of the disease itself,
and bad applied a method of treatment which they bad found available
for diseases springing from that originating cause, and for others of a
like origin. For example, the same hydra~gyrum is properly applied to
every ulcer on the glans penis, after an impure coition, as hitherto with
every venereal chancre_;if they, I say, had discovered the originating
cause of every other chronic {non-venereal) disease, either from a recent .
or a former infecti<>a in a ·psoric miasm; if fOr all these they had found
a method of cure, with a therapeutic reference to each particular cass,
by which the whole and each separate chronic case could have been
healed; then might they with justice have gained renown, that they
in the treatment of chronic diseases were familiar with the only useful
and successful causa morborum chronicorwm {non vencreorum,) and
~dopting it as a basis, were capable of treating such cases with the best
l'esults. But they were incapable of curing the numberless ·chronic
diseases in ages past, as their psoric origin was unknown to them, (a
discovery which the world owes to hom~opatbia, as well as for an effec-
tual method of treatment which it has provided,) and nolwitbstanding
their vaunting that,they alone had the primam causam in view in their ,
proceeding; after all their boasted science they had not the remotest sus-
picion of their psoric origin, and consequently every chronic disease
bas been mangled.
· Digitized ~yGoogle
.£1JJJiQijj
•
12
guided onward by the symptoms, after that which they might
presume to be the generic character of the existing malady.*
They endeavoured to find out whether it was spasm, debility,
or paralysis, fever or inflammation, induration or obstruc-
tion) in' some one of the parts; excess of blood, (plethora,) or
increase or deficiency ofoxygen, carbon, hydrogen, or nitrogen,
in the fluids ; exaltation or depression of vitality in the arterial,
venous, or capillary system ; a defect of relative·proportion in
the factors of sensibility, of irritability, or ofnutrition. These
conjectures, honoured by the existing school with the name of
Causal Indication, and regarded by them as the only rational
part of medicine, were too hypothetical and fallacious, to be
of any permanent utility in practice, and insufficient (even if
they had any just foundation) to point out the best remedy in
any particular case of disease. It is true, they were flattering
to the self-love of the learned inventor, but acting on them only
led him farther astray, and showed that there was more of
ostentation in the pursuit than any reasonable hope of being
able to profit by it, or arrive at the real curative indication.
How often has it occurred, that spasm or paralysis appeared
to be in one part of the system, while inflainmation seemed to
be in another? ·
On the other hand, where should we be able to procure cer-
tain remedies against each ofthese pretended general characters
of diseases? There could be none, save those which are termed
apecifica, that is to say, medicines homogeneous to the morbid
irritation, (now called homooopathic,) and whose application has
been prohibited·by the old school of medicine, as being highly
dangerous,t because experience proved that the use of them in
* Every physician adopting a treatment of such a general character,
however unblushingly he may affect to be an hom<eopathist, is and will
always remain a generalising all<eopathist, as without the most special
individualisation, homalopathia has no meaning; ·
t "In cases where experience had revealed the homalopathic efficacy
of medicines, whose mode of operation, however, was inexplicable, the
physicians made use of them, and relieved themselves from all further
embarrassment by declaring them to be apecijic. Thus, by an unmean-
ing name that was applied to them, all necessity for further reflection
was superseded. But homogeneous excitements, that is to say, specifics
or homalopatbics, had, for a long time previously) been forbidden, as
exercising an extremely dangerous influence." Rau, Ueberdaalr,omaop.
Hri/;oerfah.ren Heidelberg, 1824. p. 101, 102.
Digitized by Coogle
13
such powerful dos.es as had been usually administered was
pernicious in maladies where the aptitude to undergo lwmreoge- ·
neous irritation existed to a great extent. Besides this; the old
schopl never once thought of administering thostl medicines in
very small or in extremely minute doses. ~hus, no one ven-
tured to cure in the direct and most natural way, by using
homogeneous and specific medicines, nor was it possible to do
so, because the fullest extent of their effects was unknown, and
in that .state·remained, and had it been.otherwise, it would have
been impossible to have guessed out remedies so very applica-
ble by_
such generalising opinions.
However, the old school of medicine, aware that it was more
consistent with reasop to pursue a straightforward path than
attempt a circuitous btie, still imagined they could arrest disease
by a remo11al ofthe supposed morbid material cause. ln the theo-
retic researches after the image which they were to form to
themselves of the disease, as well as in their pursuit of .the
curative indication, it was almost impossibla for them to divest
themselves of this idea of materiality, or be induced to consider
the natqre not only of material but spiritual organism, as beiPg
so potent in itself that the changes in its sensations .and vital
movements .(which are called diseases) are principally, and
almost solely, the result ofdynamic influence, and could not be
produced by any 9ther cause.
The old school regarded all the solids and fluids which had
become changed by disease, \those in-normal substances, tur-
gescent or .secreted,) as the exciting cause of the disorder; or,
at least, on account of their supposed reaction, they were con-
sidered to be the cause which kept up dise.ase, a~d this latter
opinion is adhered to, even at the present day. ·
This theory first inspired them with the idea of accomplish-
ing causal cure, by using every means in the,ir power to expel
from the body that imaginary and supposed material cause of
disease. Hence arises the continual practice of evacuating bile
in cases of bilious fever* by emetics,-the system of prescribing
*The Court Physician, Rau, (Zoe. cit. p. 176), at a time when he was
not yet fatly initiated into homreopathic medicine, but when, however,
he entertained a perfect conviction of the dynamic origin of these fevers•
was in the habit of curing them without any evacuating medicines what-
ever, merely by one or two small doses of homreopathic. medicines. In
.his work, he relates two remarkable instances of cure.
Digitized by Coogle
14
vomits in the so·named foul stomach,*-the diligence in purging
away mucus and intestinal worms, where there fs paleness ofthe
countenance, ra-venous appetite, pains in the stomach, or intu-
* In a sudden affec.tion of the stomach, with frequent nauseous eructa-
tions, as of spoiled food, (sulphuretted hydrogen,) accompanied with
depression of mind, cold at the feet, hands, &c., physicians, till the pre-
sent time, wer~ in the habit of attending only to the_degenerated con-
tents of the stomach. A powerful emetic must fetch .it out entirely.
This object was usually effected by the use of tartrate of antimony,
with or without a mixture of ipecacuanha. But did the patient recover
his health as soon as he had vomited 1 No! these gastric. affections of
dynamic origin are commonly produced by a disturbed state of mind,
(grief, fright, anger,) cold, exertion of the mind or body immediately
after eating, and sometimes even after a temperate enjoyment of food.
Neither the tartrate of antimony, nor the ipecacuanha, are suited to the
purpose of r~moving this dynamic aberration, and the revolutionary
vomiting which they excite is eq1,1ally unserviceable. Besides provoking
a manifestation of the symptoms of disease, they strike one blow more
at the health of the patient, and the secretion of bile becomes deranged;
so that if the patient did not happen to be of a robust constitution before,
he must feel greatly indisposed for several days after the pretended
causal cure, notwithstanding the violent expulsion of the entire contents
of the stomach. But if, instead of those powerful and oft injurious
encuating medicines, the patient should only smell once to a globule
of sugar the size of a mustard seed, impregnated with the thirtieth
dilution of pulsatilla, which infallibly restores the order and harmony
of the whole system, 81ld that of the stomach in particular, then he is
cured in the space of tW'b hours. lf any eructations still take place, they
are nothing more than air, without taste or .smell; the contents of the
stomach are no longer vitiated, and at the next meal the patient recovers
his accustomed appetite, his health, and his air of repose. This is what
ought to be denominated "real cure," because it has destroyed the cause.
The other is an imaginary one, and only fatigues and does injury to the
patient. · ·
Even a stomach overloaded with indigestible food ne"er requires a
medicinal emetic. In such a case, nature knows full well how to dis-
encumber herself of the excess, by the spontaneous ~vomitings .which she
excites, and which may at all times be aided by mechanical provocation,
such as tickling the. fauces. By this means we avoid the accessary
eftects which result from the operation of emetics, and a little coffee
(without milk) afterwards suffices to hasten the passage of any matters
into the intestines, which the stomach may still contain.
But if, after having been filled beyond measure, the stomach does not
possess, or has lost the irritability necessary to produce spontaneous
vomiting; and the patient, tormented by acute pain of the epigastrium,
does not experience tqe slightest desire to vomit, in .such a state an
Digitized by Coogle
15
mescence of the belly in children,* the lettingof blood in cases of
hemorrhage,t and especially bleeding of all kinds,t as th~ir chief
indication in inflammatory cases, and, in imitation of a blood-
emetic would only cause a dangerous or mortal inflammation of the
intestines; whereas, slight and repeated doses of a strong infusion of
coffee, would reanimate the depressed irritability of the stomach, and
place it_in a condition to evacuate of itself, either upwards or down-
wards, the substances contained in its interior, however considerable the
quantity may have been. Hei'e, again, the treatment which ordinary
physicians pretend to direct against the cause, is out of place.
It is the custom, at the present day, :when gastric acid becomes super-
abulidant, (which is frequently the case in chronic diseases,) to adminis-
ter an emetic to relieve the stomach of.its presence. But the following
morning, ora few days after, the stomach contains just the same quantity,
if not more. · On the other hand the pains cease of themselves, when
. their dynamic cause is attacked by an extremely small dose of dilute
sulphuric acid, or with another antipsoric remedy, homreopathic with
the various symptoms. lt is thus that, in the plans of treatment, which
the old school say are 4irected against the morbific cause, the favourite
object is to expel with trouble, and to the great detriment of the patient,
the ·material product of the dynamic disorder, without exerting them-
selves in the least to find out the dynaw.ic source of the evil, in order t& .
vanquish it homreopathically, as well as to annihilate every"thing that
might emanate from it, and thus treat the disease in a rational manner. "
* Symptoms that depend solely upon a psoric diathesis, and which
easily yield to (dynamic) mild antipsoric remedies, without either emetics
or purgatives.
t Though most morbid hemorrhages depend solely on a dynamic _
change of the vital power~, still the old school assign a superabundance
of blood as their cause, and never fail to prescribe-bleeding, in order to
relieve the body of this supposed excess of the juice of life. The dis-
astrous. consequences which frequently result from this mode of treat-
ment, such as prostration of the powers, tendency to, and even typhoid
state itself, they ascribe to the malignity of the disease, which, they are
then often unable to 8Ubdue: in short, though the _
patient may fall a
sacrifice, they, nevertheless, consider that they have acted in conformity
to the adage, causam tolle, that is, according to their common remark,
"we have done every thing that could possibly be done~Iet the conse-
quence now be what it may! !"
t Though the living human body may, perhaps, never have contained
one drop of blood too much, stil~ the old school regard a supposed
plethora, or superabundance of blood, as the principal material cause
of hemorrhages and in.ftamrilations, and which ought to be attacked by
bleeding, clipping, and leeches. This they call a treatment of the
cause, and a rational mode of proceeding. In fevers with an inflamma-
tory character, as well as in acute pleu~isy, they even go so far as to
Digitized by Coogle
16
thirsty physician of Paris, the application to the parts affected, of
a frequently fatal number of leeches. By this mode of proceed-
ing, they think they pursue the causal indication, and treat the
regard the coagulable lymph that exists in the blood, (and which they
call the huffy coat,) as the peccant matter, which they do their best to
evacuate, a,; much as possible, by -:epeated bleedings, although it often
occurs that this crust becomes thicker and tougher in appearance, at
every fresh emission of blood. In this manner, when inflammatory
fever cannot be subdued, they often bleed the patient till he is neu
death, in order to remove this huffy coat, or the pretended plethora, witb.·
out ever suspecting that the inflamed blood is nothing more than the pro-
duct of the acute fever, the inflamJDatory immaterial (dynamic) irrita-
tion; and that this latter, the sole cause of the disturbance that has taken
place in the vascular system, may be arrested by a bom<BOpathic remedy,
such, for example, as a globule of sugar impregnated with the juice of
aconite of the decillionth degree of dilution, avoiding the vegetable
acids; so that the most violent pleuritic fever, with all its attendant
alarming symNoms, is cured in the space of twenty-four hour• at far-
thest, without los• of blood, or any amiphlogistic what~er, (if a little
blood, by 'way of experiment, be now taken from the vein, it will no
longer exhibit any traces of inflammatory crust,) whereas, another
patient, similar in every respect, and treated according to the pretended
rational mode of the old school, if he escape death after numerous
bleedings and unspeakable suffering, often languishes yet entire
months, reduced and exhausted, before he can stand upright, if he is not
taken off in the interval (as is frequently the case) by a typhus fever, a
Jeucophlegmacy, or a pulmonary consumption, the common result of this
mode of treatment.
He who feels the steady pulse .of a patient an hour before the shivering
comes on,.which always precedes ~Jeute pleurisy, will be much surprised
when, two hours after, (the fever having set in,) they try to persuade
him that the violent plethora which then exists,_ makes repeated bleed-
ing necessary ; and be asks himself, by what miracle could those pounds
()f blood, which are now to be taken away, and which he bad, two hours
before, felt beating with a tranquil movement, have effected an entrance
into the arteries of the patient '1 There could not be an ounce of blood
more in his veins than he possessed two hours before, when he was in
good health. Thus, when the allmopatbic physician prescribes venesec-
tion, it is not at all superfluous blood that he draws from the patient
attacked with acute fever, because this liquid could not possibly exist in
too great quantity; but he deprives him of a portion of the normal blood
necessary to his existence, and to the re-establishment of health ;-a
grievous loss, which it is no longer in his power to repair, and be thinks,
notwithstanding, to have acted according to the axiom tolle cau.am, to
which be gives so wrong an interpretation, whilst the sole and true
cause of the malady was, not.a superabundance of blood, which could
Digitized by Coogle
---------------------~--------~--~
17
patient in a rational manner. They likewise suppose, that by
removing a polypus by ligature, extirpating a tumefied gland,
or destroying the same by suppuration, produced by local
irritation, by dissecting out the insulated cyst of a steatomat9us
or meliceretous tumour, operating for aneurism, fistula lachry-
malis, or ·fistula in ano: amputating a cancerous breast, or a
linib where the bone had become· carious, &c. &c. to have
cured the maladies in a radical manner, and destroyed their
cause. They imagine the same thing when they make use
of their repellent remedies, and dry up old ulcers in the legs,
by astringents, oxides of-lead, copper and zinc, accompanied, it
is true, with purgatives, which only weaken, without diminish-
ing the fundamental evil ; when they cauterise chancres, de-
stroy condylomata locally, drive back itch from the skin, by
sulphur ointment, lead, mercury, -or zinc; and, finally, when
they cure ophthalmy, with solutions of lead or zinc, and drive
away pain from the members by the use of opodeldoc, volatile
liniment, or fumigations of cinnabar and amber. In all such·
cases, they think they have annihilated the evil, triumphed
over the disease, and performed a rational treatment directed
against the cause. But mark mhat foll07Ds ! New forms of
diseases, which infallibly manifest themselves sooner or later,
and which, when they appear, are taken for fresh maladies,
being almays morse than the primiti11e affection, evidently refute
the theories of the old school. These ought to undeceive
never exist, but a dynamic inflammalory irritation of the vascular system,
as is proved by the permanent and speedy cure which may' be effected in
similar cases, by-administering one or two incredibly minute doses .
of
the juice of aconite, which is homc:eopathic with this irritation. The
old school err not less, in recommending partial bleed.ings, and still more
so, in the application of leeches in great numbers, when treating local
inflammation, after the manner of Broussais. The palliative relief
which they afford at first, is not crowned by a rapid or perfect cure ; the
weakness and valetudinarian,state to which the parts, that have been
thus treated, remain !l prey, and sometimes even the whole body, suffi-
ciently prove how eirOne~us it is to attribute local inflamruation to local
plethora ; and bow ·deceitful are the consequences of such bleedings,
when this inflammatory irritation, apparently local, can be destroyed in_
a prompt and permanent manner, by a small dose of aconite, or, accord-
ing to circumstances, of belladonna, a mode by which the malady is
speedily and effectively cured, without having recourse to blt>edings,
which nothing can justify.
3
Digitized by Coogle
18
them, and prove that the evil has au immaterial cause, the
deeper concealed, because its origin is dynamic, and it cannot
be destroyed but by dynamic power.
An hypothesis, which the schools of medicine generally
, entertatned until a recent date, (and, I might even say, until
the present time,) is that of morbid or peccant matter in
diseases, however subtile that matter may be supposed to be.
The blood and lymphatic vessels were to be disencumbered of
this matter by the exhalants, the skin, the kidneys, and the
salivary glands ; the chest was to be freed from it by the
trachial and bronchial glands ; the stomach and the intestinal
canal by vomiting and alvine dejections-to be able to say that
the body was cleansed of the Diaterial cause which excited the
disease, and that they had accomplished a radical cure accord-
ing to the principle-toile causam !
By incisions made in the diseased body, in which, for years
together, foreign substances are inserted, producing tedious
ulcers (issues and setons), they would draw off the materia
peccans, from the (purely dynamically) diseased body, as dregs
escape by a faucet from a filthy eask. By perpetual blisters
(cantharides and mezereum), they also think to abstract this
peccant matter, and thus thoroughly purify the system. By
such inconsiderate and unnatural treatment, the exhausted
patient is commonly brought into a condition totally incurable.
I grant it was more convenient for human incapacity to sup-
pose, that in the maladies which presented themselves for cure,
there existed some morbid principle, of which the mind could
conceive the materiality, especially as the patients willingly lent
themselves to an hypothesis of this kind. By admitting this,
they had nothing further to do than to administer a sufficient
quantity of medicines capable of purifying the blood and the
fluids, of exciting urine and perspiration, promoting expectora-
tion, and scouring out the stomach and intestines. This is the
reason that all the authors on materia medica, who have
appeared since Dioscorides up to the present day, say nothing
of the peculiar and special action of individual medicines, but
content themselves, after enumerating their supposed virtues in
· o;gitizedbyGoogle
----------------------~r-------~~~
19'
any particular case of disease, with saying, whether they pro-
mote urine, perspiration, expectoration, or the menstrual fiow,
and particularly if they h;~.ve the effect of emptying the ali-
mentary canal upwards or downwards, because the principal
tendency ofthe efforts of practitioners has, at all times, been the
expulsion of a morbid material principle, and of a quantity of
acrid matter, which they imagined to be the cause of disease.
These, however, were vague dreams, gratuitous suppositions,
hypotheses destitute of foundation, skilfully invented for the .
convenience of therapeutic medicine, which flattered itself that
it would have an easier task to perform in contending against
morbid material principles. (Si modo essent I)
But the essence of diseases, and their cure, will not bend to
our fancies and convenience; diseases will not, out of deference
to our stupidity, cease to be dynamic aberrations, mhich our
apiritual existertce undergoes in its mode of feeling and acting-
that is to say, immaterial changes in the state of health.
The causes of disease cannot possibly be material, since the
least foreign substance• introduced into the blopd vessels, how-
ever mild it may appear to us, is suddenly repulsed by the vital
power, as a poison ; or, where this does not take place, death
itself ensues. Even when the smallest foreign particle chances
to insinuate itself into any of the sensitive parts, the principle
of life which is spread throughout our interior, does not rest
until it has procured the expulsion of this body, by pain, fever,
suppuration, or gangrene, And, in a skin disease of twenty
years' standing: could this vital principle, whose activity is
indefatigable, suffer patiently, during twenty years, ·an exan-
themic material principle (the poison of tetter, s~rofula, or gout)
to exist in the fiuids 1 What nosologist has ever seen one of
those morbid principles, of which he speaks with so much con- ' .
fidence, and upon which he presumes to found a plan ofmedical
treatment1 Who has ever been able to exhibit to the view, the
principle ofgout, or the virus of scrofula 1
*Life was suddenly endangered by injecting a little pure water into
a vein. See Mullen, in Birch, Hi.8tury ofthe Royal Society, Vol. IV.
Atmospheric air introduced into the veins has occasioned death. See
J. H. Voigt, Magazin for den neusten Zustand der Naturkunde, Vol.
I. iii. p. 25.
Even the mildest liquids, introduced.into the veins, have placed life in
danger. See Autenrieth, Phyliologie, 11. § 784.
Digitized by Coogle
\.
'
/
/
20
Even when a material substance, applied to the skin, or
introd~ced into a v.rotmd, has propagated disease by infection,
who can prove (what has so often been affirmed in our Patho-
geny) that. the slightest particle of this material substance pene-
trates into our liquids or becomes abSorbed 1* It is in vain to
wash the genitals with care and promptitude, such precaution
will not protect the system from the venereal virus. The least
breath of air emanating from a patient labouring under small-
pox is sufficient to produce that formidable disease in a healthy
child.
How much of this material principle-what quantity in
weight-would be requisite for the liquids to imbibe, in order
to produce, in the first instance, syphilis, which will continue
during the whole term of life ; and, in the second, the small-
pox, which often rapidly destroys life amidst a suppurationt
almostgenera11
* A young girl, of Glasgow, eight years of age, having been bitten by a
mad dog, the surgeon immediately cut out the part, which, nevertheless,
did not save the child from an attack of hydrophobia thirty-six days after,
of which she died at the end of two days. Med. Comment. of Edinb.
Dec. 2, vol. ii. 1793.
t In order to account for the great quantity of putrid fcecal matter, and
fetid ichorous discharge, which arises in disease, and to represent these
substances as the cause that calls forth, and keeps up, the morbid state,
although, at the moment of infection, nothing materiai had been seen to
enter into the body, they had recourse to another hypothesis, which ad-
mitted, that certain very minute contagious principles act upon the body
as a, ferment, bringing the humours into the same degree of corruption
with themselves, and converting them in this manner into a similar fer-
ment, which keeps up ,the disease. But, by what purifying decoctions
do they expect to free the body from a ferment that is constantly
renewed, and expel it so completely from the mass of fluids, that not a
11ingle particle may remain, which, according to the admitted hypothesis,
if any did remain, would infallibly corrupt the humours afresh, and re-
produce, as at first, new morbific principles 1 'fhus, according to the
manner of the old school, it would be impossible ever to cure these
diseases. Here we see to what absurd conclusions the most artful hypo-
thesis will lead, if founded in error. The most firmly rooted syphilis,
when the psoric affection, with which it is often complicated, has been
removed, may be cured by one or two small doses of a solution of mer-
cury, diluted to the decilliooth potence, whereby the general syphilitic
corruption of tae humours is (dynamically) corrected in a permanent
and constitutional mannet. ,
Digitized by Coogle
..
2l
Is it possible in these two cases, ot in others which are
analogous, to admit that a morbific principle, in a. material
form, could have introduced itself into the blood 1 U has
often happened that a letter: written in the chamber of a
patient, has communicated the same contagious disease to the
person who read it. Can we entertain the opinion, that any
thing material entered into the humours in this instance 1
But why all these proofs 1 How often have we seen that an
offensive or vexatious word has brought on a bilious fever
which endangered life ;-a superstitious prophecy of death,
actually occasion death at the very epoch predicted ; afflicting
news, or an agreeable surprise, suddenly suspend the vital
powers 1 Where is there, in any of these cases, the morbific
material principle, which entered, in substance, into the body,
which produced disease and kept it up, and, without the expul-
sion or _
destruction of which, by medicines, all radical cure
would be impossible 1
The supporters of an hypothesis so gross, as that of morbific
principles, ought to blush, that they have so thoughtlessly
overlooked and disregarded the spiritual nature of our life, and
the spiritual dynamic power of morbific agents, and have thus
reduced themselves to mere scouring physicians, who, instead
of curing, destroy life by their attempts to drive out ofthe body
peccant matters which never had an existence there. -
In diseases, the excretions which are often so disgusting,
could they be the actual material which produced the malady,
and which kept it up 111 Are they not rather the product of the
disease itself; that is to say, of the pttre dynamic ·derangement.
which the constitution has undergone.
With such erroneous ideas of the material origin and essence
of disease, it is by no means surprising, that, in all ages, the
obscure as well as the distinguished practitioner, together with
the inventors of the most sublime theories, should have for .
their principal aim, the separation and expulsion of a supposed
morbid material, and that the indication most frequently
established, was that of dividing this material, rendering it
movable, and expellin~ it by the saliva, the bronchial mucus,
*If this were true, it would be sufficient to blow the ~ose, and wipe
it clean, to effect a speedy and infallible cure of all species of coryza,
even the moat inn~erate.
Digitized by Coogle
.22
the urine, and perspiration ; purifying the blood by the action
of herbal decoctions, (which are supposed to effect this process
at the command of the physician,) thus unloading it of acrid
matter and impurities which it never contaimd; drawing offthe
imaginary principle of the disease mechanically, by means of
setons, cautel'ies, permanent blisters; and above all, by the
expulsion of the peccant matter, as they termed it, through the
intestinal canal, by laxatives and purgatives, and to add to
their importance they were dignified with the high sounding
titles of aperients and dissolvents. All of these were so many
attempts to remove a hostile material principle which never did
and never could have existed.
Now, if we admit that-which is an established fact; namely,
that with the exception of those diseases brought on by the
introduction of indigestible or hurtful substances, into the
alimentary canal and other organs,-those produced by foreign
bodies penetrating the skin, &c.,-there does not exist a single
disease that can have a material principle for its cause-on the
contrary, all of them are solely and always the special resuk
of an actual and dynamic derangement in the state of health ;
how contradictory, then, must that method of treatment, which
depends upon the expulsion* of this imaginary principle, appear
*There is, apparently; some necessity for the expulsion of worms in
the so called worm-disease. But even this appearance is false. A few
lumbrici are found in some children, and ascarides in a greater number.
But the greater part of either one or the other is owing to a general affec-
tion (psoric) connected with an unhealthy mode of living. If the•regi-
men be ameliorated, and the psoric affection homreopathically cured,
which is easier to be performed at this age than at any other period of
life, there will remain but few: or no worms at all, or at least; the children
are no longer incommoded by them; whereas, on the other hand, they
promptly apJlear again, in great numbers, after the administration of
mere purgatives, even combined with worm seed. "But the tape-worm,
. this monster, created for the torment of human nature, must certainly be
driven out with all manner of force." Yes, at times, he will be driven
out, but beneath what aufferings and danger ! I should not like to have
upon my conscience the death of all those who have fallen sacrifices to
the violence of purgatives directed against this WOlm, or the long years
of debility, which they, who escaped death, must have dragged out.
And how often does it not occur, that after having repeated these purga-
tives, so destructive to life ~nd health, during several years successively,
the animal is either not driven out at all, or is re-produced ! How
Digitized by Coogle
23
to every reasonable man, since no good can result from it, in
treating the principal diseases of mankind, viz. the chronic, but, ·
on the contrary, much mischief1 ·
No one will deny that the degenerate and impure substances
which appear in diseases, are any thing else than the mere pro-
duct of disease itself, which the system can get rid of, in a forci-
ble manner, frequently too forcible, without the aid ofevacuating
medicines, and that they are re-produced so long as the disease
continues. These substances often appear to the true physi-
ciAn, in the shape of morbid symptoms, and aid him in dis-
covering the nature and image of the disease, which he after-
wards avails himself of, in performing a cure by means of
homooopathic agents. ·
then, if there be no necessity at all for seeking to e:rpel and destroy
the trenia, by means so violent and cruel, and which place the life
of the patient in such imminent danger ! The different species of tamia
are only found in patients labouring under a psoric affection, and when
the latter is cured, they instantly disappear. Until the cure is accom-
plished, they live, without being a source of great inconvenience to the
.Patient, not exactly in the intestines, but amid the residue of the
aliments, where they exist without doing injury, and find ~hat they
r.equire for.their nourishment. As long as this state of things continues,
they do not touch the coats of the intestines, or do any .harm to the body
that contains them; but the first moment that an acute disease attacks
the patient, the contents of the intestines become insupportable to the
animal, which turns itself about and irritates the sensitive part of the
entrails, exciting a species of spasmodic cholic, which adds greatly to
the sufferings of the invalid. In the same manner, the child is restless;
turns and pushes, while the mother is sick, but floats quietly in the
amniotic fluid, without inconvenience to her, when she is well. It may
be observed here, that the symptoms which manifest themselves at this
epoch, with persons who have the solitary worm within them, are of
such a nature, that often the smallest dose of tincture of male-fern-root
(file:r: mas.) speedily effects their eradication in a homceopathic manner,
because it puts an end to that part of the malady occasioned by the dis-
turbed state of the animal: the tape-worm, finding itself once more at
ease, continues to exist upon the intestinal substances\ without incom-
moding the patient in any very painful degree, until the anti-psoric cure
is so far advanced that the worm no longer finds the contents of the
intestinal canal fit for his support, and he voluntarily quits it for ever,
.without any purgatives being employed.
Digitized by Coogle
24
But the most skilful among the present followers ofthe former
school of medicine do not wish it to be known, that the chief
aim of their mode of treatment, is the expulsion of material
morbid principles. To the numerous evacuants which they
employ, they apply the name of derivatives, and in so doing,
pretend that they do nothing more than imitate the nature of
. the disordered system, which, in her efforts to re-establish
health, distinguishes fever by sweats and urine; pleurisy by
bleedings at the nose, perspiration, and mucous expectoration ;
other diseases by vomiting, diarrhrea, and hemorrhoidal flul ;
articular pains, by ulcers on the legs; angina by salivation,
&c., or by metastasis and abscesses which she forms in parts
distant from the seat of the disease.
Accordingly, they think they can do nothing better than
imitat~ nature, and thus they adopt an indirect mode of treat-
ment in· the majority of diseases. They follow the traces of
the diseased vital power left to itself, and proceed in an indirect
manner," by applying stronger heterogeneous irritation to parts
distant from the seat of the <Ji.sease, exciting and keeping up
evacuations by the organs dissimilar to the tissues affected, in
order to turn the course of the evil, in some degree, towards
this new position. ·
This derivative system ma~, and still continuet, one of the chief
curative indications ofthe prevailing school.
By this imitation ofself-helping nature, vis medicatrix naturre,
as it is termed by others, they try to excite by forcible means
(in the parts least affected, and which can best support the
malady which the medicines_provoke) fresh symptoms which
extinguish the primitive disease,f by assuming the appearance
of a crisis, and thus allow the powers of ~If-helping nature to
operate a gradual resolution.t
* Instead of extinguishing the evil promptly, and without delay, as in
the homreopathic mode of treatment, by the application of dynamic
medicinal powers directed against the diseased parts of the system.
t As if any thing immaterial could be drawn off! Yet they suppose
a morbid material, be it as subtile as it may.
t Dise!lSes that are moderately acute, are the only ones that terminate
quietly, when they have reached the natural term of their career, whether
weak allreopathic remedies be applied to them or otherwise: the vital
powers, when reviving, gradually substitute the normal state in the place
Digit zed by Coogle
25
They recommend diaphoretics, diuretics, venesection, setons,
and cauteries, and above all, excite irritation of the alimentary
canal, so as to produce evacuations from above and more espe-
cially from ·below, all of which were irritatives, and to these
they applied the names of aperients and dissolvents.•
·In aid of this derivative system they likewise employ another
which bears great affinity to it, and which consists of counter-
irritants: lamb's-wool applied ~o the bare skin, foot·baths,
nauseants, the cure by infliction of the torments of hunger upon
tlie intestinal canal, (abstinence,) applications that excite pains,
inflammation, and suppuration in the neighbouring or distant
parts, such as armoracia, sinapisms, blisters, mezereum, the
seton, Autenrieth's ointment, (ointmf:)nt of emetic tartar,) the
moxa, actual cautery, the acupuncture, &c. And in this, they
again follow the example of pure nature, which, left to herself,
endeavours to get rid of the dynamic disease by pains which
she causes to arise in the distant regions of the body, by metas-
tasis, and abscesses : by cutaneous eruptions or suppurating
ulcers ; but all her efforts, in this respect, are useless, where
· the disease is of a chronic nature.
Thus it is evident that it was no well-digested plan, but
merely imitation, that led the old school to these helpless, per-
nicious, and indirect methods of cure, both derivative and
counter-irritant; and induced them to adopt plans of treatment
so inefficacious, debilitating, and injurious, in ameliorating
and dissipating disease, which arouse another and worse evil to
occupy the place of the former. Can we call that healing
which rather deserves to be called destroying1 for the name of
cure could never be applied to sueh a result. They were con-
of the in-normal. But in every' acute disease, and in those that are
chronic, which constitute the great majority of diseases to which man
is subject, this resource no longer comes to the aid of simple nature, and
the old school of medicine. The efforts of the vital powers, and the
imitative attempts of aliC:eopathy, are not potent enough to effect a resolu-
tion; and all that results -from them is a truce of short duration, during
which the enemy gathers his forces to re-appear, sooner or later, in a more
formidable shape than ever.
* This very denomination likewise announces a supposition on their
part of the presence of some morbific substance which was to be dissolved
and expelled. ·
4
Digitized by Coogle
26
tented to follow nature in the efforts which she makes, and
which are only crowned with partial success" in acute diseases
of a mild form.
* The ordinary school of medicine regarded the means which the
organism employs to relieve itself, in those patients who make no use.of
medicines, as perfect models of imitation; but they were greatly mi8-
taken. The miserable and very imperfect attempts which the vital
powers make to assist themselves in acute diseases, is a spectacle that
ought to excite man to use all the resource3 of his learning and wisdom,
to put an end, by a real cure, to this torment which nature herself in-
flicts. If nature cannot cure, homreopathically, a disease already exist-
ing in the system, by the production of a fresh malady Bimilar to it,
(sec. 43-46.) a thing not often in her power to effect, (sec. 50.) and if
the system, deprived of all external succour, stands alone to triq,mph
over a malady that has just brok~n out, (her resistance is totally power-
less in chronic miasms) we see nothing but painful and often dangerous
· efforts of the constitution to save itself at all hazards, efforts of which
death is most frequently the result.
Just as little as we can witness what is passing in the interior of
our bodies in a healthy condition, and as certainly as these processes
remain concealed from us, as they lie open to the sight of Omniscience-
just so little can we perceivE; the internal operations of the ainmal
frame, when life is disturbed by disease. The action that takes place in
diseases manifests itself only by external symptoms, through the me-
dium of which alone, our system expreues the troubles that take place
in the ·interior; so that, in each given case, we never once discover
which are those among the morbid symptoms, that owe their origin to
the primitive action of the disease, and those which are occasioned by
the re-action of the vital powers endeavouring to rescue themselves' from
danger. Both are confounded before our eyes, and only present to us,
(reflected on the exterior) an image of the eatire malady within; since
the fruitless efforts.which nature, abandoned to herself, makes, to put
an end to the malady, are also sufferings which the whole frame under-
goes. This is the reason why those evacuations which nature usually
excites at the termination of diseases, that have. been rapid in their
attacks, and which are called crises, often do more harm than good.
What the vital powers do in these pretended crises, and in what manner
they are accomplished, are mysteries to us, as well as every other inter-
nal action which takes place in the organic economy of life. One thing,
however, is certain, which is, that in the course of these efforts, there
are particular parts that suffer mdre or less, and which are sacrificed to
the safety of others. These operations of the vital power proceeding to
combat an acute disease, solely in conformity to the laws of the organic
constitution, and not according to the inspirations of a reflecting mind,
are, for the most part, merely a section of allreopathy. In order to free
Digitized by Coogle
-----~·· . . • - - . ..,.~ .'-J
27
They did nothing more than imitate the preserving vital
powers abandoned to their own resources, which depending
solely upon the organic laws of the body, only act in virtue of
these laws, without reasoning or redecting upon their actions.
'I'hey copied nature, who could not, like an intelligent surgeon,
bring together the gaping lips of a wound, and reunite them
by the first intention ; who, in an oblique fracture, can do
nothing, however great may be the quantity of osseous matter
which exudes, to adjust and attach the two ends of the hone ;
who, not knowing how to tie up a wounded artery, suffers a
man full of strength and health to bleed to death; who, igno-
rant of the art of reducing a dislocation, re~ders its reduction
in a very short time impossible, by reason of the swelling
which she excites in all the neighbouring parts; who, in order
to free herself from a foreign body that had penetrated the
transparent cornea, destroys the whole eye by suppuration ;
who, in a strangulated hernia, cannot break the obstacle but
by gangrene and death; who, finally, in dynamic diseases, by
changing their form, often renders the state of the patient worse
than it was before. Besides, this unintelligent 'Oitat power admits
into the body, without hesitation, the greatest scourge ofour earthly
existence, the source of countless diseases which have afflicted
the·human species for centuries past-that is to say, chronic
the organs primiiively atfected, by means of a crisis, it increases the
activity of the organs of st!cretion in order to lead off the evil from the.
former to the latter: thence result vomiting, diarrhcea1 plentiful flow of
urine, sw~ats, abscesses, &c., and the nervous powers, attacked dynami-
cally, seek in some degree to. unload themselves by mate1ial products.
The animal economy, abandoned to its own resources, cannot save
itself from acute diseases, but by the destruction and sacrifice of one
part of the system itself; and even where death does not ensue, the har-
mony of life and health is restored only in a ·slow and imperfect
manner.
The great debility of tlwse organs which have been exposed to the
attacks of the malady, as well as that of the entire body, after this spon-
taneous cure, meagreness, &c., are· sufficient testimonies of the truth of
what we have asserted. ,
In1hort, the whole proceedings by which the system deliver~ itself
from the diseases with which it is attacked, only exhibit to the observer
a tissue of sufferings, and show him nothi~g which he can, or ought to,
imitate, if he truly exercises the art of healing.
Digitized by Coogle
28
miasms; such as psora, syphilis, and sycosis. And, far from
being able to relieve the system of any one of these miasms,
she does not even possess the power of ameliorating them; but,
on the contrary, suffers them quietly to continue their ravages
until death comes to close the eyes of the patient, after long
years of grief and suffering.
In a matter so important as that of healing,-in a profession
that requires so much intelligence, judgment, and skill, how
could the old school (which was accounted rational) blindly
take the vital power for its best instructor 191d gnide; how could
it venture, without reflection,·to imitate the indirect and revo-
lutionary acts which the vital power performs in disease-and,
finally, follow it as the best and most perfect of models, whilst
reason, that magnificent gift of the Deity, has been granted to
us, in order that we may go infinitely beyond it, in the aid
which we are t~ bring to our fellow mortals?
When the prevailing school of medicine, in the accustomed
application of their repellent and derivative systems of cure,
(which have no other basis than an inconsiderate imitation of
the natural, automatic powers of life,) attack the healthy or-
gans, and inflict on them pains more acute, than those of the
disease itself against which 'they are directed-or, what hap- .
pens more frequently, force evacuations, which dissipate in
pure loss the strength and the juices;-their aim is to direct
towards the parts which they irritate, that morbid action which
life d~veloped in the organs that were primitively affected, and
thus violently uproot the natural disease, by exciting a stronger
heterogeneous disease in the more healthy parts-that is to say,
by making use of indirect and circuitous means, which exhaust
the powers and occasion great suffering.~
* Daily experience shows us how unsuccessful these manceuvres are
in chronic diseases. In 11ery few cases is a cure effected. But can they
call that a victory, where instead of attacking the enemy in front, hand
to band, and terminating the difference by his death, they content them-
selves with setting every part of the country behind him in flames, cut-
ting off retreat and destroying all around. By such means they may
certainly succeed in breaking the courage of their adversary, but their
object is still unattained ; the foe is not destroyed, he is still there; and
when his magazines are replenished, he again rears his head, more fero-
cious than he was before.-The enemy, I say, is not destroyed, but the
Digitized by Coogle
29
It ·is true, that by these heterogeneous attacks, the disease,
when it is an acute one, (and consequently cannot be of long
duration,) transports itself to parts distant and dissimilar to
those which it at first occupied; but it is by no- means cured.
There is nothing in this revolutionary mode of treatmeat that
has a direct or.immediate connection -with the organs primi-
tively diseased, or which deserves to be called a curt. By
abstaining from such gt·ievous attacks upon the life of the other
parts of the system, the acute disease would often dissipate
itself even more rapidly, leaving less suffering behind, and
without occasioning so great a consumption of the powers.
Besides, neither the mode of proceeding which is followed by
simple nature, nor its allreopathic imitation, will bear a compa-
rison with the direct, dynamic, homreopathic treatment, which,
without wasting the vital powers, extinguishes the disease in a
prompt and rapid manner.
But in the great majority of diseases, and in chronic affec-
tions, these stormy, debilitating, and indirect treatments of the
old school scarcely ever produce any good. All that they can
effect is, a suspension, for a few days, of some inconimodious
symptom or another, which returns ·immediately, when nature
has become accustomed to the distant irritation ; the disease
then returns more grievous than before, because the repellent
pains* and the ill-advised evacuations have lessened the energy
ofthe vital powers.
poorinnocent country is so ruined that it will scarce recover itselfin a long
lapse of time. This is precisely what happens to allooopathy, in chronic
diseases; when, without curing the malady, it undermines and destroys
the system by indirect attacks against innocent organs, which are dis-
tant from the seat of the latter. These are the results of sueh injurious
attempts.
* What favourable consequences have ever resulted from issues, so
frequently established, diffusing their fetid odours around '1 Even though
they appear during the first fortnight, by their irritating power, slightly
to diminish a chronic disease as long as they continue to keep up con-
siderable pain, they afterwards, when the body is accustomed to the pain,
han no other effect than that of weakening the patient, and thus open-
ing a still wider field to the chronic affection. Or, arc there yet physi-
cians in the nineteenth century who could regard these issues as outlets
for the escape of the peccant matters '1 It appears that some such prac-
titioners do exist !
Digitized by Coogle
30
While the greater number of allceopathic physicians, in their
general imitation of the salutary effects of nature, abandoned to
her own resources, thus introduced into the practice of medi-
cine those derivative systems which they termed useful, and
which every one varied according to the fancied indications
suggested by his own ideas ; others, aiming at a still higher
object, promoted with all their skill the tendency which the
vital powers exhibit in diseases, to relieve .themselves by evacua·
tiona, and opposing metastasis, and endeavoured in some degree to
aid them, by promoting these derivations and evacuations,
imagining that by this mode of treatment they might justly
arrogate to themselves the names ministri natur~B. Because it
often happens, in chronic diseases, that the evacuations which
nature excites, bring relief in cases where there are acute pains,
paralysis, spasms, &c., the old school imagined that the true
method of curing disease was by favouring, keeping up, or
even increasing the evacuations. But they never discovered
that all those pretended crises, those evacuations and deriva-
tions produced by nature abandoned to her own exertions, only
procure palliative relief for a short period, and, that far from
contributing towards a real cure, they, on the contrary, aggra-
vate the internal primitive evil, byconsuming the strength and
the juices. No one has ever seen those efforts of simple nature
effect the durable recovery of a patient, nor have those evacua-
tions, excited by the system,* ever cured a chronic disease. On
the contrary, in llll cases of this nature, after a short relief, (the
duration of which gradually diminishes:) the primitive affec-
tion is manifestly aggravated, and the attacks return stronger
and more frequent than before, although the evacuations do not
cease.
In the same manner, nature, abandoned to her own resources
in internal chronic diseases which threaten life, can only bring
relief by exciting the appearance of external local symptoms,
in order to turn away danger from the organs indispensable to
existence, and transport it, by metastasis, to those which are
not so ;· such attempts of an unintelligent, inconsiderate but
energetic vital force, have a tendency towards any thing but a
r~al cure ; they are nothing more than palliatives, short stag-
* Not more effectual are those artificially produced.
·•
o;g;t,zed by Coogle
...
31
nations imposed on the internal disease, at the' sacrifice of a
great portion of the liquids and strength, without the primitive
affection losing any thing of its intensity. Without the aid of
homceopathic treatment, all they can do, at farthest, is to delay
for a time that death which is inevitable.
The Allceopathy of the old school greatly exaggerated the
efforts of pure nature. Falsely judging them to be truly salu-
tary, they sought to promote and develop them still farther,
hoping, by these means, to destroy the entire evil and effect a
radical cure. When, in a chronic di8ease, the vital power
appeared to improve this or that grievous symptom of the in-
ternal state, for example, by means of a humid exanthema, then
the self-styled minister of nature applied a blister, or some other
exutory, upon the suppurating surface, to draw (duce natura)
a still greater quantity of humour from the skin, and thus assist
nature in ·the cure, by removing from the body the morbific
principle. But sometimes, when the action of the remedy was
too violent, the humid tetter already old, and the body too sus-
ceptible of irritation, the external affection increased consider-
ably, without any advantage accruing to the primitive evil, and
9te pains, rendered still more acute, deprived the patient of
sleep, diminished his strength, and often brought on a bad de-
scription of feverish erysipelas. Sometimes, when the remedy
acted with more gentleness upon the local disease, (which was
perhaps yet recent,) it exercised a kind ofexternal homceopathy
upon the local symptoms which nature had produced upon the
skin, in order to relieve the internal malady; thus renewing the
latter, to which still greater danger was attached, and exposing
the vital powers by the suppression of the local symptoms, to
the excitement of others ofa graver nature, in other and more
noble parts. The patient then was attacked with a dangerous
ophthalmy, deafness, spasms in the stomach, epileptic convul-
sions,suffocation,fits ofapoplexy, mental derangement,&c.* The
same pretext of assisting the vital powers in their curative efforts,
led the minister of nature, when the malady caused an afflux
of blood into the veins of the rectum, or the anus, (blind piles,)
* These are the natural results of repelling such local symptoms~
resuIts, which the allc:eopathic physician often regards as diseases that are
perfectly new and of a different character. ·
Digitized by Coogle
32
to have recourse to the repeated application of leeches in great
numbers, in order to open an issue to the blood in that quarter.
The emission of blood procured an amendment, sometimes so
slight, as to be scarce deserving of notice ; but, at the same
time, it weakened the body and gave rise to a yet stronger con-
gestion towards the extremity of the intestinal canal, without
effecting the slightest diminution of the primitive malady.
In almost every case, where the diseased vital powers
endeavoured to evacuate a little blood by vomiting, expectora-
tion, &c., in order to diminish the severity of a dangerous
internal affection, they immediately hastened (duce natura) to
give all the assistance in their power to these pretended salu-
tary efforts of nature, and blood in abundance was extracted
from the vein ; which never failed to prove injurious in the
end, and to weaken the body to a manife~;;t extent.
And still more frequently, with the intent of assisting nature,
in chronic nausea, they excited powerful evacuations of the
stomach and administered plentiful emetics; but never with
any good result, and seldom without frightful and even dan~
gerous consequences. To appeaSe the internal malady in a
slight degree, the vital powers sometimes excite indolent
enlargements of the external glands. The minister of nature
thinks he is serving the divinity to whom he is devoted, by
bringing these tumours to a suppuration, by the use of frictions
and warm applications, in order to plunge the knife into the
abscess when it is arrived at maturity, and cause the peccant
matter to fiow~ externally.(?) But experience has a thousand
times proved the interminable evils that always result from this
mode of ireatment. -
Because the allreopathist has often seen severe sufferings, in
chronic diseases, somewhat relieved by spontaneous nocturnal
perspiration, or by certain natural dejections of liquid matter,
he thinks himself bound to follow these indications of nature;
he likewise thinks it his dnty to second the labours which he
sees carried on in his own presence, by prescribing a complete
sudorific treatment, or the continued use, during several years,
of what he calls genile laxatives, in order to relieve the patient
of the disease that torments him with more speed and certainty.
But this mode of treatment never produces any thing .but.a
Digitized by Coogle
33
contrary result, that is to say, it always aggravates the primi-
tive disease. '
Thus the alkeopathist, yielding to the force of this opinion,
which he has embraced without scrutiny, notwithstanding the
absence of all foundation, persists in seconding• the efforts of
the diseased vital powers, and augmenting the derivations and
evacuations, which never lead to the attainment of his object,
but rather to the ruin of the patient. He never discovers that
local affections, evacuations, and apparent derivations, (which
are effects excited and kept up by the vital powers abandoned
to their owri resources, in order to afford some slight relief to
the pr~mitive disease,) are of themselves a constituent part of
the ensemble of the signs of the malady, against the totality of
which there could be no real, salutary, and curative remedy,
save a medicine whose ·effects were analogous with the pheno-
mena occasioned by its action upon man when in a state of
health, or, in other terms, a hommopathic remedy.
As every thing that simple nature performs to relieve herself
in acute, and more particularly, in chronic diseases, is highly
imperfect, and is actually disease itself, it may readily be
conceived that the efforts of ·art labouring to assist this imper-
fection do still greater injury, and in acute maladies, at least,
* The old school, however, often permitted themselves to follow an
inverse method of treatment, that is, when the efforts of nature, tending
to relieve the internal malady by evacuations, or by exciting local external
symptoms, manifestly injured the patient, they employ against them all
the powers of repelle)ltS; and thus combat chronic pains, insomnolency,
and diarrhrea oflong standing, with strong and hazardous doses of opium;
vomitiJlgs, by effervescing mixtures; fretid perspiration of the feet, by
cold foot-baths and astringent fomentations; eruptions of the skin, with
preparations oflead and zinc; uterine hemorrhages, by injections of vine-
gar; colliquative perspirations, by alum curd; nocturnal seminal emis-
sions, by the use of camphor in large quantities ; sudden glow of heat
over the face and body, by nitric, sulphuric, and vegetable acids; bleed-
ings at the nostrils, Wi\h dossils of lint dipped in alcohol or astringent
liquids; ulcers on the lower extre.tnities, by oxides of lead, zinc, &c. But
thousands of facts attest the melancholy consequences that result from
this mode of tt:e;ttment. The alleopathist, both.in speaking and writing,
boasts of being a rational physician, of searching out the latent cause
of disease, and always of effecting radical cures; but it is evid~nt that a
treatment founded on isolated symptoms must always be detrimental to
the patient.
- 5
Digitized by Coogle
34
they cannot remedy that which is defective in the attempts of
nature, because the physician, incapable of following the con-
cealed paths by which the vital power accomplishes its crises,
could only operate upon the exterior bymeans ofenergetic reme-
dies, wh<Jse effects not only do less good than those of nature,
abandoned to herself, but on the contrary, are more perturbating
and destructive to the powers. Even this imperfect relief, ·
which nature effects by means of derivations and crises, he
cannot attain by following the same path ; do what he will,
even the miserable succour which the vital powers can procure,
when abandoned to their own resources, is infinitely beyond
the skill of the allreopathist.
By a scarification of the pituitary membrane, it has been
tried to produce bleeding at the nose, in imitation of natural
nasal hemorrhage, to relieve, for example, an attack of chronic
cephalalgy. In such a case, a quantity of blood might be drawn
from the nostrils sufficient to weaken the patient; but the relief
would be far less than that afforded at another time, when the
vital instinctive powers, of their own accord, caused only a few
drops of blood to flow.
One of those so called critical perspirations or diarrhreas,
which the incessant activity of the vital powers excites; after
any sudden indisposition arising from vexation, fright, cold, or
injury from improper lifting, is far more efficacious in allaying,
momentarily at lea8t, the acute suffering of the patient, than
all the nauseous sudorifics or purgatives, contained in th~
shop ofan.apothecary. This is proved beyond a doubt by daily
experience.
However, the vital power, which is devoid of intelligence
and judgment, and which cannot act of itself, but according to
the organic disposition of our bodies, was not given oo us, that
we should follow it as our best guide in the cure of diseases,
much less that we should imitate, in a servile manner, its
imperfect attempts to restore health by joining to it a treatment
more opposed than its own to the object it has in view, for no
other purpose than that of sparing ourselves the study and
_
reflection necessary to the discovery of the tme art of healing,
and finally to place a bad copy of the inefficacious aid which
nature affords when abandoned to her own resources, in the
room of the most noble of all human arts! What reflecting man
Digitized by Coogle
•
35
would copy the efforts of nature in curing,disease 1 These very
efforts are the disease itself, and the morbidly affected vital en-
ergy is evidently the source of the malady. It follows then, that
to imitate or to suppress these efforts must in one case augment
them, or in the other, render them dangerous by suppression,
and the allreopathist does both ; these are their pernicious
doings, who boast of f9llowing the rational plan of healing.
No; that innate power of man which directs life in the most
perfect manner whilst in health, whose presence is alike felt in
every part of the .system, in the sensitive as in the irritable
fibre, and which is the indefatigable spring of all the normal
functions ofthe body, was not created for the purpose of aiding
itself in disease. It does not exercise a system of cure that is
worthy of imitation, that is to say, a work of rtjlection and judq-
mimt, and 1JJhich, 1JJhen the automatic and unintelligent vital powers
have be,
en disordered by disease, and in-normal action produced,
knows h01JJ to modify them by appropriate remedies, so that after
the disappearance of the new disease produced by the medicine,
(1JJhich soon takes place,) they return to their normal state, and
to their appointed function of maintaining health in the system,
1JJithout having undergone, during this conversion, any painful or
debilitating attacks. Homreopathic medicine teaches us the mode by
which 1JJe are to arrive at this result. , •
A great number of patien~ treated accordi~g to the methods
of the old.school, which have just passed in review before us,
escaped from diseases, not in chronic disorders, (non-venereal,)
but in those maladies that were acute, and which are less dan-
gerotiS. This, however1wa8 effected by such painfully circuitous
means, and frequently in a manner so imperfect, that no one
could say the ·cure was performed by the influence of an art
th8.t acted mildly in its mQ\:le of treatment. In cases where
there was no imminent danger, acute diseases were sometimes
repressed by means of venesection, or sometimes by the sup-
pression of one of the principal symptoms, by a palliative
enantiopathic remedy (contraria contrariis), or sometimes sus-
pended by irritants and revulsants applied to parts removed
from the diseased organ, until the course of their natural r~vo-
Digitized by Coogle
36
lution was ended-that is to say, theyopposed them by indirect
means, exhausting the strength. and the juices ; so that the
greater part of what was necessary to be done, in order to
remove the'disease and repair the losses which the patient had
undergone, remained to be performed by the self-preserving
vital power. The latter, then, had not only to subdue the
acute natural disease, but also to overcome the results of an ill
directed mode of treatment. In casual cases, this vital power
was to exercise its own energies to bring back the functions to
their normal rhythm, which could only be effected imperfectly
and slowly, and with great difficulty.
In acute diseases it is doubtful whether this treatment, of the
existing school, really facilitates or abridges the cure by the aid
of nature, since neither of them act but in an indirect manner,
and their derivative and counter irritating modes of cure,
wound the system more profoundly, and lead to a still greater
dissipation of the.vital powers.
The old school practise yet another method of cure, which
they call " exciting and strengthening,"'" (by excitantia, ne"'ina,
tonica, confortantia, roborantia.) It.is surprising that they should
boast of this mode of treatment.
Has it ever succeeded in removing the weakness which a
chronic disease so often engenders, augments, and keeps up, by
prescribing (as it has so frequently done) etheric Rhine wine,
or spirituous Tokay1 As this treatment was not able to cure
the chronic disease, (the source of the debility,) the strength of
the patient decreased in proportion as they made him take more
wine, because the vital powers, in their re-action, oppose
relaxation to artificial excitements. ·
Did cinchona, or any of the mistaken, ambiguous and perni-
cious substances, which collectively bear the name of .!lmara,
ever restore strength in these cases which are of such frequent
occurrence 1 These vegetable products, which they pretended
were tonic and strengthening in all circumstances, together
"' This method is, properly speaking, enantiopathie, and I will again
touch uponit in the course of the Organon, (sec. 69.)
Digitized by Coogle
37.
with the preparations of iron, did they not add fresh sutlerings
to the old ones, by reason of their peculiar morbific action,
without being able to remove the debility which depended on
an unknown malady of long standiug 1
The so called unguenta nervina, or the other spirituous and
balsamic topical applications, did they ever diminish in a dura-
ble maruier, or even momentarily, incipient paralysis of an arm
or leg, (which arises, as is frequently the case, from a chronic
disease,) without curing the cause itself1 Or have electric and
galvanic shocks ever produced, in such cases, any other results
than those of gradually increasing the paralysis of the muscular
irritability and the nervous* susceptibility, and finally rendering
the paralysis complete1
Have not the highly boasted excitantia and aphrodinaca,
ambergris, smelts, tincture of cantharides, truffles, cardamoms,
cinnamon, and vanilla, constantly ended with changing the
gradually declining power of the virile faculties (which is
always caused by some unobserved chronic miasm) into total
impotence1
How could they boast of an acquisition of strength, and ex-
citement, which lasts only a few hours, when the results that
follow bring on an opposite state (which·is lasting) according
to the laws of all palliatives 1
The litt~e good that the excitantia and roborantia did to the
patient treated for acute maladies, according to the old method,
was a thousand times overbalanced by the ill effects which the
use of them produced in chronic diseases. .
The all03opathists not unfrequently commence the treatment
of a chronic disease, by blindly administe~ing their so called
• An apothecary (in Jever) had a voltaic column, the gradual strokes
of which gave temporary relief to persons aftlicted with deafnetSs. Soon
these shocks caused no more effect, and it was necessary, ia order to
produce the same results, to render them yet stroD.ger, until, in their
turn, they likewise became inefficacious : after this, the most powerful
shocks only had the faculty, at the co~mencement, of restoring the
hearing of the patient for a few hours, but finished by leaving him
a prey to total deafness.
Digitized by Coogle
38
alterative remedies (alterantio.), among which the mercurials
(calomel, blue pill, corrosive sublimate, mercurial ointments)
occupy a conspicuous· place. These sovereign remedies of
theirs, even in cases'not ven~real, are often given in large and
long continued doses, until their deleterious tendency becomes
manifest in the ruined health of the patient. Great alterations
are certainly produced by the destructive operation of mercury
upon improper parts, but they are such as finally exhaust the
constitution of the patient.
Cinch.ona, in all genuine marsh intermittents, is a homceo-
pathic remedy, and when not prevented by pre-existing psora,
a specific. But by prescribing it in large and long continued
doses in every epidemic intermittent, the ignorance of the old
school is abundantly shown ; for, the disease almost every year
assuming a different character, requires for its removal a dif..
ferent homceopathic remedy, which in a single dose, or, at most,
a very few minute doses, effects a radical cure in the course of
a few days. Now, because such epidemic fevers have their
periodical attacks (type of the disease), while it is these which
an allceopathist chiefly regards in an intermittent, and while
the bark is considered as the only remedy for its removal, if he
can but suppress the type of the disease by means of enormous
doses of that medicine, or its mo:t:e costly extract, quinine, he
supposes, forsooth, that the patient is cured. But he is really
left in a wor8e condition after such suppression ofthe periodical
returns of his fever, than before. We behold him moving
slowly along, his countenance sallow, his breathing asthmatic,
the hypochondres distended, the abdominal viscera diseased,
frequently. the abdomen ' itself and limbs in a bloated copdi-
tion,-without healthful appetite or refreshing sleep, weak and
dispirited, he is discharged from the hospital in this state of
complicated suffering~as cured ! not unfrequently years of
elaborate homceopathic treatment are required, we will not say
to restore his health, but to rescue this radically vitiated, this
·artificially cachectic patient from an Q
.ntimely death.
It is cause of gratification to the old school, when by the
antipathic virtues of valerian, they can convert the stupor of
nervous fever into a degree of exhilaration for a few hours.
But this transient excitement being once over, it can be repro-
duced only by a repetition of still larger doses of the same
Digitized by Coogle
39
medicine, and even the largest soon Jose their effect. Their
primary operation being that of a stimulating palliative, the
entire vital energies, during the secondary effects of the medi-
cine, become paralysed, and thus, by means of the rational ·
treatment of the old school, the speedy dissoJution ofthe patient
is rendered inevitable. As certainly mortal as is the issue of
the case, the followers of the old system do not perceive it, and
the patient's death is ascribed by them to the malignity of his
di8ease.
Digitalis purpurea is a still more formidable palliative in
chronic diseases, and its virtues are highly extolled by the old
school for allaying the rapid and irritated pulse (purely symp-
tomatic) in these maladies. Though the use of this potent
enantiopathic medicine, may, at first, in many instances, abate
the frequency bf the pulse for some hours, yet it will shortly
afterwards become more frequent than ever. To retard its
velocity again, the medicine is repeated in a larger dose ; it is
again availing, yet for a shorter period; until by frequent repe-
tition, even in augmented doses, it loses its effects altogether.
The pulse not now being restrained by the secondary or con-
secutive efft!ctS of digitalis, becomes more rampant than before
its use, and too rapid to be reckoned. Among'the train of con-
sequences may also be observed,. loss of sleep and appetite and
diminution of strength, until, finally, if these disasters do no~
terminate in incurable mania, death becomes the patient's only
refuge! .
Such, then, was the treatment which the allreopathic physi-
cian practised on his patients. The latter, therefore, were
obliged to yield to necessity, since they could derive nothing
better from the other physicians who had drawn their informa-
tion from the same fallacious source.
The fundamental cause of .chronic diseases, (non vene-
real) 1111d the mode by which they could be cured, remained
• Notwithstanding all this, Hufeland, the representative of the old
school, with great self-complacency, in his pamphlet on homreopathia,
p. 22, praises the digitalis for the purpose of repressing morbid fre-
quency of the pulse: his words are, "None will deny" (but experience
does) "th11t a.too vehement circulation can be removed by digitalis" (1}
permanently 1 does he mean rerruY~Jed? what! by the use of an heroic:
enantiopathic remedy 1 Poor Hufeland !
Digitized by Coogle
40
unknown to these practitioners, who prided themselves on
their own remedies, which they said were directed against the
cause. How was it possible for them to cure the immense
number of chronic diseases by their indirect methods, their im-
.perfect imitations of the efforts of. an automatic vital power,
which were never destined to become models of a treatment to
be followed in medicine 1
They regarded that which they believed to be the character
of the malady, as the cause of the disease itself, and accordingly,
directed their pretended radical cures against spasm, inflamma-
tion (plethora), fever, general or partial debility, pituita,
putridity, obstructions, &c. which they imagined they could
remove with the aid of their antispasmodics, antiphlogistics,
tonics, irritantsrantiseptics, dissolvents, resolutives, derivatives,
evacuants, and other·repellent mediciries, known to themselves
only in a superficial manner.
But indications of so vague a nature were insufficient to dis-
cover those medicines which are of real utility, particularly so
in the materia medica of the old school, which, as I have else-
where shown,* depended mostly upon mere conjecture, and on
false conclusions ab tlSU in morbis, mixed up with fraud and
falsehood.
They continued to act with the same degree of coldness in
matters that were still moro hypothetical; against the deficiency
or superabundance of oxygen, nit10gen, carbon, and hydrogen
in the fluids; against the exaltation or diminution of irritability,
sensibility, nutrition, arterial congestion, venous congestion,
capillary congestion, astheny, &c., without being acquainted
with a single remedy by which they could reach so visionary
an object. It was ostentation that induced them to attempt
these cures which could not be advantageous to the patients.
Every appearance of treating disease effectively and to the
purpose, disappears in their manner of associating various
medicinal substances to constitute what they call a prescription,
and time has not only rendered this association sacred, but has
converted it into a law. They place at the head of this recipe,
under the name of basis, a medicine that is not at all known in
"'In the treatise "Qn the Sources of the Old Materia Medica," in the
third part of my Materia Medica.
Digitized by Coogle
41
regard to. the extent of its medicinal. effects, but .which they
think ought to subdue the principal character of the disease
admitted by the physician ; they add to this, one or two sub-
stances equally unknown in respect of their operation on the
system, and which they destine either to fulfil some accessory
indication, or to increase the action of the basis ; they then add
a pretended corrective, of whose special medicinal virtues they
have no better knowledge; they mix the wh"le together, some-
times adding either a syrup, or a distilled water, which likewise
possess distinct medicinaL properties, and imagine that each
ingredient of the mixture will perform, in the diseased body,
the part that has been assigned to it by the imagination, with-
out allowing itself to be disturbed or led astray by the other
articles that accompany it :-a result which no one could
reasonably expect. One of these ingredients destroys, either
partly or wholly, the operation of the other, or gives to it, as
well as to the remainder, a different mode-of action altogether
which had never been thought of, so that the effects calculated
on could not possibly take place. This inexplicable enigma of
mixtures of~en produces that which neither was nor could.have
been expected, a new modification of the disease, which is not
observed amidst the tumult of symptoms, but which becomes
permanent by the prolonged use of the prescription. Conse-
quently, a factitious malady, joining itself to the original one,
aggravates the primitive c;lisease i or if the patient does not use
the same prescription for along time, if one or several be
crowded upon him successively, composed of different ingre-
dients, greater debility will at least ensue, because the substances
which are prescribed in such a case have generally little or no
direct reference to the principal malady, and only make a use-:
less attack upon those points against which its assaults have
been the least directed.
Though the action of every medicine on the human body
should already have been discovered, still the physician who
writes the prescription does not often know the effect of one in
an hundred. Mixing several drugs together, some of which
are already compounds, and their separate effects imperfectly
known, in order that such a confused mixture should be
swallowed by the patient in large and frequent doses, and then
6 .
Digitized by Coogle
42
to expect from it a certain curative effect, is an absurdity
evident to every unprejudiced~ and reflecting individual. The
*Even among the ordinary schools of medicine, there have been
persons who discovered the absurdity of mixing medicines, although
they themselves followed this eternal routine which their own reason
condemned. Marcus Herz expresses himself (Hufeland's Journal, II.
p. 33,) on this subject in the following terms:-" When we wish to
remove inflammation, we do not employ either nitre, sal ammoniac, or
vegetable acids, singly, but we usually mix up several antiphlogistics, or
use them altogether at the same time. If we have to contend against
putridity, we are not content-with administering, in large quantities, one
of the known antiseptics, cinchona, mineral acids, arnica, serpentaria,
&c., to attain the object we have in view; but we prefer mixing up
several of them together, having a greater reliance upon their combined
action; or, not knowing which of them would act most suitably in the
existing case, we accumulate a variety of incompatible substances, and
abandon to chance the care of producing, by means of one or the other
of them, the relief we designed to afford. Thus, it is rare that, by the
aid. of a single medicine, we excite perspiration, purify the blood, (1)
dissolve obstructions, provoke expectoration, or even effect purgation.
To arrive at these results, our prescriptions. are always complicated ;
they are scarcely ever simple and pure : consequently they cannot be
regarded as experiments relative t,o. the effects ofthe various substances
that enter into their composition. In fact, we learnedly establish, among
the medicines in our recipes, a hierarchy, and we call that one the ba.u
to which we (properly speaking) confide the effect, giving to .others the
names of adjuvants, corrigents, .
&c. But it is evident that mere arbi-
trary will has, for the most part, been the occasion of such a classifica-
tion. The adjuvants contribute, as well as the basis, to the entire effect,
although, in the absence of a scale of measurement, we cannot determine
to what degree they may have participated. The influence of the cor-
rigents over the virtues of the other medicines, likewise, cannot be
wholly indifferent; they must either increase or diminish them, or give
them another direction. The salutary change which we effect by the
aid of such a prescription, ought then always to.be considered as the
result of its whole contents taken collectively, and 10e can never comt
to any certain conclusion upon the individual t;fficacy ofany one ofthe
ingredients of 1ohich it is composed. In short, we are but too slightly
acquainted with that which is essential to be known of aU medicines,
and our knowledge with regard to the affinities which they enter into,
when mixed up together, is too limited for us to be able to say, with any
degree ofcertainty, what will be the mode or degree ofaction ofa sub-
•tance even the most insignificant in appearance, when introd~ed into
the human body, combined with other substances."
Digitized by Coogle
.. -
•W!'ffl'l"i! • .·· •m•-l ,)JHf'J : o .-.&&. t tWO . & _ . ~J42 j . . .£3
43
result is consequently the reverse of that which they expect to
take place in so precise a manner; changes certainly take
place, but not one among them is either good or conformable
to the-object that is to be attained.
I should like very much to see that which is called a cure,
by a man working thus blindly in the bodies of his fellow-
creatures.
The restoration of health is to be expected only by cherish-
ing the due activity of the vital principle yet remaining with
the patient, by means of remedies suitable for that purpose, and
not by debilitating the system, secundum artem, almost to the
extinction of life. This is a method, however, not unfrequent
with the old school on commencing the treatment of chronic
diseases : they operate by means of medicines which harass the
patient, expend the animal fluids, exhaust the strength, and
shorten life ! can they be said to save while they thus destroy 1
and can they be said to exercise any other than a hurtful art 1
They act, lege artis, as contrary to their professed aim as possi-
ble, and practice h.>.oi", that is to say, the very reverse of what
they ought to do. Can they deserve commendation 1 In
modem times, indeed, this schopl have gone to great excesses-
in frustrating the end of all true medical treatment, as every
impartial observer must acknowledge, and as physicians of
their own, (when their consciences are awakened, like that of
Krueger Hansen,) will confess before the world.
Observation, reflection, and experience, have unfolded to me,
that, in opposition to the old allreopathic method, the best and
true method of cure is founded on the principle, similia similibus
curentur. To cure in a mild, prompt, safe, and durable
manner, it is necessary to choose in each case a medicine that
will excite an affection similar (ol"o•o• •"9os) to that against
which it is employed. ·
Until the present time no person has ever inculcated this
Digitized by Coogle
44
homooopathic mode of treatment, and yet more, no one has
ever put it into practice. But if this is the only true method,
(of which every one may be convinced with myself,) we ought
to discover sensible traces of it in every epoch of the art,
although its true character may have been unknown during
thousands of years. And such has, in reality, been the
case.*
In all ages, the diseases which have been cured by medicines,
in a prompt, perfect, durable, and manifest manner, and which
were not indebted for their cure to any accidental circumstance,
or to the accomplishment of the natural revolution of the acute
disease, or to the circumstance of the bodily powers having
gradually regained a preponderance by means ofan allreopathic
or antipathic treatment, (for being cured directly differs greatly
from being cured indirectly;) these diseases, I say, have yielded,
although without the knowledge of the physician, to a homreo-
pathic remedy, that is to say, to a remedy in itself capable of
exciting a · morbid state similar to that whose removal it
effected.
Even in an effectual cure that had been performed by the
aid of mixed medicines, (of whi,ch there are but few examples,)
it has been discovered, that the medicine whose action domi-
nated over that of the others was always of a homreopathic
nature. But this fact presents itself to us still more evidently
in certain cases, where physicians performed a speedy cure by
the aid of a single remedy, in violation of the c~stom that
admitted n9ne other but mixed medicines in the form of a pre-
scription. Here we see, to our astonishment, that the cure was
always the effect of a single medicinal substance, capable of
itself to produce an affection similar to that under which ·the
patient laboured, although the physician did not know what he
was doing, and only actec:l thus in forgetfulness of the precepts
* For Truth, like the infinitely wise and gracious God, is eternal.
Men may disregard it for a time, until the period arrives when .its rays,
ac~ording to the determination of Heaven, shall irresistibly break through
the mists of prejudice, and. like Aurora and the opening day, shed a
beneficent light, clear and inextinguishable, over the generations of
men.
Digitized by Coogle
45
of his own school. He gave a medicine, where, according to
the established laws of therapeutics, he should have adminis-
tered exactly a contrary one, and by these means alone his
patients were promptly cured.
I shall here relate some examples of these homreopathic
cures, which find a clear and precise interpretation in the
homreopathic doctrine now discovered and acknowledged, but
which ,we IU'e by no means to regard as arguments in favour of
the latter, because it stands firm without the aid of any such
support.*
The author of the treatise on epidemic diseases (i,.J,,.uz,)
(attributed to Hippocrates), at the commencement of lib. 5.
mentions a case of cholera morbus that resisted every remedy,
and which he cured by means of veratrum album alone, which,
however, excites cholera of itself, as witnessed by Forestus,
Ledelius, Reimann, and many others.t
• If, in the cases which will be cited here, the doses of medicine
exceeded those which the safe homreopathic doctrine prescribes, they
were, of course, very naturally attended with the same degree of danger
which usually results from all homreopathic agents when administered
in large doses. However, it Often happens from various causes whtch
cannot at all times be discovered, that even very large doses of hommo-
pathic medicines effect a cure, without causing any notable injury;
either from the vegetable substance having lost a part of its strength, or
because abundant evacuations ensued which destroyed the greater part
of the effects of the remedy; or, finally, because the stomach had received
at the same time other substances, which, acting as an antidote, lessened
the strength ofthe dose. ,
t P. FousTus, xviii. obs. 44.-LEDELJUS, Misc. nat. cur. dec. iii. ann.
i. obs. 65.-REIMANN, Bresl. Samml. 1724, p. 535. , In this, and in all the
examples that follow, I have purposely abstained from reporting either
my own observations or those of my adherents upon ,the special effects
of each individual medicine, but merely those of the physicians of times
past. My object for acting in this manner, is to show that the art of
curing hommopathically might have been discovered before my time.
Digitized b; Coogle
It
·'
~ '.
lbfl"
4.6
The English smeating sickness, which first exhibited itself in
the year 1485, and which, more murderous than the plague
itself, carried otf in the commencement, (as testified by Willis,)
ninety-nine patients out of a hundred, could not be subdued
until such time as they had learned to administer sudorifics to
patients. Since that time, as Sennertus• observes, few persons
died of it.
A case of dysentery, which lasted several years, threatening
the patient with inevitable death, and against which every
other medicine had been tried without success, was, to the
great surprise of Fischer,t (but not to mine,) cured iii a speedy
and permanent manner by a purgative administered by an
empiric.
Murray, (whom I selected from numerous other authorities,)
together with daily experience, inform us, that among the
symptoms produced by the use of tobacco, those of -oertigo,
nausea, and anxiety, are the principal. Whereas Diemerbroeck,t
when attacked with those very symptoms of vertigo, nausea,
and anxiety, in ~he course of his close attendance on the vic-
tims of epidemic diseases in Holland, removed them by the use
of the pipe.
The hurtful effects which some writers (among others
Georgi§) ascribe to the use of the agaricus 7nuscarius, by the
inhabitants of Kamtschatka, and which consist of tremors,
con-oulsions, and epilepsy, became a salutary remedy in the
hands of C. G. Whistlingll, who used this mushroom with suc-
cess in cases of convulsions accompanied with tremor ; likewise
in those of J. C. Bernhardt,** who used it with success in a
species of epilepsy.
* De Febribus, iv. cap. 15.
t In Hufeland's Journal fiir Practische Arzneikunde, vol. .x. iv. p.
127.
t Tract. de Peste, Amsterdam, 1665, p. 273.
§ Beschreibu~ aller Nationen des Russischen Reichs, (A Descrip-
tion of all the Nations of the Russian Empi~e,) pp. 781 267, 281, 321,
329,352.
II Diss. de Virt. Agaric. Muse. Jena, 1718, p. 13.
** Chym. Vers. und Erfahru~en, Leipzig, 1754, obs. 5. p. 324. GRu-
NER, De Viribus Agar. Muse. Jena, 1778, p. 13.
•
.. ·i
Digitized by .ogle
-
47
The remark . made by Murray,* that oil of aniseed allays
pains of the stomach and flatulent colic caused by purga-
tives, ought not to surprise us, knowing that J.P. Albrechtt
has observed pains in the stomach produced by this liquid,
and P. Forestu~ -oiolent colic likewise caused by its adminis-
tration. .
If F. Hoffman praises the efficacy of millefoil in various
cases of hemorrhage; if G. E. Stahl, Buchwald and Loseke
have fo\lnd this plant useful in excessive hemorrhoidal flux; if
Quarin and the editors of the Breslauer Sammlungen speak of
the cure it has effected of hemoptysis; and finally, if Thoma-
. sins (according to Haller) has used it successfully in uteriue
hemorrhage; these cures are evidently owing to the power
possessed by the plant, of exciting of itself hemorrhage and
hematuria, as ob8erved by G. Hoffman,§ and more especially of
producing epistaxis, as confirmed by Boecler.ll
Scovolo,** among many others, cured a case where the
urinary discharge was purulent, by arbutus u-oa ursi; which
never could have been performed if this plant had not the pro-
perty ofexciting heat in the urinary passage mith discharge of a
mucous urine, as seen by Sauvages.tt
And .though the frequent experience of Stoei'ck, Marges,
Planchon, Du Monceau, F. C. Junker, Schinz, Ehrmann, and
others had not already established the fact, that colchicum
autumnale cures a species of dropsy, still this faculty was to
have been expected from it, by reason of the particular power
which it possesses of diminishing the urinary secretion, and of
exciting at the same time a continual desire to pass mater. ·It like-
wise oa.uses the flow of a small quantity of urine of a fiery red
colour, as witnessed by StoerckH and de Berge.§§ The cure of
* Appar. Medic., 2d edit. 1, p. 429, 430.
t Misc. nat. cur. dec. ii. ann. 8, obs. 1a9.
f Observat. et Curationes, lib. 21.
§ De Medicam; Officin. Leyden, 1738.
II Cynosura Mat. Med. Cont. p. 552.
•* In Girardi, de uva ursi. Padua, 1764.
tt Nosolog., iii. p. 200.
U Libellus de Colchico. Yienna, 1763, p. 12~
§§ Journal de M6decine, xxii.
'.
Digitized by Coogle
48
an asthma attended with hypochondriasis, effected by Goritz*
by means of colchicum, and that of an asthma complicated
with an apparent hydrothorax, performed by Stoerckt with the
same substance, were evidently grounded upon the homreo-
pathic property which it possesses, of exciting by-itself a1thma
and dyspnf£a, as witnessed by de Berge.t
Muralto§ has seen what we may witness every day, viz. that
jalap, besides creating gripes of the stomach, also causes great
uneasiness and agitation. Every physician acquainted with the
facts upon which hoiiKBopathy rests, will find it perfectly
natural, that the power so justly ascribed to this medicine by
G. W. Wedel,ll of allaying the gripes, restlessness, and scream-
ing which are so frequent in young children, and of restoring
them to tranquil repose, arises from homreopathic influence.
It is also known .and has been attested by Murray, Hillary,
and Spielmann, that senna occasions a kind of colic, and pro-
duces, according to C. Hoffmann"" and F. Hotfmann,ttflatulency
and agitation of the blood,H ordinary causes of insomnolency. It
Wa.IJ this innate .homreopathic virtue of senna, which enabled
Detharding§t to .cure with its aid patients affticted with violent
colic and insomnolency.
Stoerck, who had so intimate a knowledge ofmedicines, was
on the point ofdiscovering that the bad effects ofthe dictamnu.s,
which, as he observed himself, sometimes provokes a mucous
discharge from the vagina,IIII arose from the very same properties
in this root by virtue of which he cured a leucorrhea of long
standing.•..
• A. E. Buchner, Miscell. Phys. Med. Mathern. Ann. 1.728, Jul. pp.
1212, 1213. Erfurt, 1732.
t Ibid. cas. 11, 13. Cont. cas. 4, 9.
t Ibid. loc. cit.
§ Misc. Nat. Cur. dec. ii. a. 7, obs.ll2.
II Opiolog. lib. 1, p. 1, cap. ii. p. 38.
** De Medicin. Officio. lib. 1, cap. 36.
tt Diss. de Manna, § 16.
tt Murray, loc. cit. ii. p. 507. 2d. edit.
§§ Ephem. nat. cur. cent. 10, obs. 76.
1111 Lib. de Flamm. Jovis. Vienna, 1769, cap. 2.
*** Ibid.
~.
-
-
49
Stoorck, in like manner, should not have been astonished
when curing a general chronic eruption (humid; phagedimic
and psoric) with the clematis,* having himself ascertainedt that
this plant has the power of producing a psoric eruption over t"M
mhole body. .
If, according to Murray,t the euphrasia cures lippitudo and a
certain form of ophthalmy, how could it otherwise have pro-
duced this effect, but by the faculty it possesses of exciting a
kind of inflammation in the eyes, as has been remarked by
Lobelius?§ ·
According to]. H. Lange,ll the nutmeg has been found effica-
cious in hysterical fainting fits. The sole natural cause of this
phenomenon is homreopathic, and can be attributed to no other
circumstance, but that the nutmeg, when given in strong doses
to a man in health, produces, according to J. Schmid** and
Cullen,tt suspension of the senses and general insensibility.
The old practice ofapplying rose-water externally in ophthal-
mic diseases, looks like a tacit avowal, that there exists in the
leaves of the rose some curative power for diseases of the eye.
This is founded upon the holll(.eopathic virtue which the rose
possesses, of exciting by itself a species of ophthalmia in per-
sons who are in health, an effect which Echtius,U Ledelius,§§
and Rau,IIU actually saw it produce.
If, according to Pet. Rossi,*** Van Mons,Ut J; Monti,ttt
Sybel,§H and others, the Rhus toxicodendron and radicam have
the faculty of producing pimples which gradually cover the entire
* Lib. de Flamm. Jovis. Vienna, 1769, cap. 13.
t Ibid. p. 33. -
t Appar. Medic. 11, p. 221. 2d edit.
§ Stirp. Adversar. p. 219.
II Domest. Brunsvic. p. 136.
*"' Misc. nat. cur. dec. ii. attn. 2, obs. 20.
tt Arzneimittellehre, ii. p. 233.
tt In Adami, Vita Medic. p. 72.
§§ Misc. nat. curios. dec. ii. ann. 2, obs. 140.
1111 Rau, uber den Werth des Homaop. Heilverfahrens, p. 73.
u* Observ. de Nonnullis Plantis, qure pro venenatis habentar. Pisis,
1767.
ttt In Dufresnoy Ueber den wurzelnden Sumach, p. 206.
ttl Acta Instit. Bonon. sc. et art. iii. p. 165.
§§§ In Med. Annalen, 1811, July.
7
Digitized by Coogle
50
boc(tf, it may be easily perceived how it could effect an homreo-
pathic cure of various kinds of herpes, which it really has
done, according to information furnished by Dufresnoy and
Van Mons. What could have bestowed upon this plant (as in
a case cited by Alderson•) the power of curing a paralysis of
the lower extremities, attended with weakness of the intellectual
organs, if it did not of itself evidently possess th~ faculty of
depressing the muscular powers by acting on the imagination of
the patient to such a degree as to make him believe that he is
at the point of death, as in a case witnessed by Zadig.t
The dulcamara, according to Carrere,t has cured the most
violent qiseases emanating from colds, which could result from
no other cause but that this herb, in cold and damp weather,
frequently produces similar affections to those which arise from
colds, as Carrere himself has observed§ and likewise Starcke.ll
-Fritze**· saw the dulcamara produce cont~ulsions, and De
Haentt witnessed the 'Otry same ':ffects, attended with delirium;
on the other hand, convulsions attended with delirium, have
yielded to small doses of the dulcamara, administered by the
latter physician.tt-It were vain to seek amid the vast empire
of hypotheses the cause that renders the dulcamara so effica-
cious in a species ofherpes, as witnessed by Carrere,§§ Fouquet,llll
and Poupart."** Nature, which requires the aid of homceopathy
to perform a safe cure, sufficiently explains the cause, in the
faculty possessed by the dulcamara of producing a certain
• In Samml. aus. .
Abh. f. pr. Aerzte, xviii. 1.
t In Hufeland's Journal der Prakt. Arzneik. v. p. 3. ·
t Carrere (and Starcke,) Abhandl. ueber die Eigenschaften des Nacht-
schattens oder Bittersuesses. .lena, 1786, pp. 20-23. (Treatise on the
Properties of the Woody Nightshade or Bhter-sweet.)
§ Ibid.
II In Carrere, Ibid. p. 140, 249.
** Annalen des Klinischen Instituts, iii. p. 45.
tt Ratio Medendi. Tom. iv. p. 228.
H Ibid. where he says: "Dulco-amarm stipites majori dosi convul-
siones et deliria excitant, moderata vero spasmos, convulsionesque sol-
vunt." .How aear was De Haen to the discovery of the law of healing
the most conformable to nature I
• §§ Ratio Medendi. Tom. iv. p. 92.
1111 In Razouz, Tables Nosologiqaes, p. 275.
:"** Trait6 des Dartres. Paris, 1782, pp. 184, 192.
· o;gitizedbyGoogle
51
species of herpes. Carrere saw the use of this plant eJ!¢te
herpetic eruptions which covered.the entire body during a fort-
night;* and on another occasion where it produced the same
on the hands,t and a third time where it fixed itself on the labia
ptulenili.f
Rucker§ saw the solanum nigrum produce swelling of the
mtire body~ This is the reason that Gatackerll and Cirillo*" •
succeeded in curing with its aid (homreopathically)a species of
dropsy.
Boerhaave,tt Sydenham,tt and Radcliffe§§ cured another spe-
cies of dropsy with the aid of the sambucus niger, because, as
Hallerlllfinforms us, this plant causes an redematous swelling when
applied externally.
· De Haen,•.. Sarcone,ttt and Pringlettt have ren~d due
homage to truth and experience, by declaring freely, that they
cured .pleurisy with the scilla maritima, a root, which on ac-
count of'its excessive acrid properties, ought to be forbidden in
a disease of this nature, , where, according to the received
method, only sedative, relaxing, and refrigerant remedies are
admissible. The disease in question subsided, nevertheless,
.under the influence of the squill, on homreopathic principles;
for rr. C. Wagner§§§ formerly saw the action of this plant alone
produce pleurisy and inflammation of the lungs. .
A great many practitioners, D. Crueger, Ray, Kellner, Kaaw
Boerhaave, and others,llllll have observed that the datura stramo-
* Traite des Dartres. Paris, 1782, pp. 96.
t Ibid. p. 149. t Ibid. p. 164.
§ Commerc. Liter. Noric. 1731, p'. 372.
II Yersuche & Bemerk. der Edinb. Gesellschaft, Altenburg, 1762, vii.
pp. 95, 98.
** Consult. Medichi. Tom. iii. Naples, 1738, 4to.
tt Historia Plantarum, P. I. p. 207. +! Opera, p. 496.
§§ In Haller, Arzneimittellehre, p. 349.
1111 In Vicat, Plantes veneneuses, p. 125.
*** Ratio Medendi, P. I. p. 13.
ttt History of Diseases in Napfes, vol. i. §. 175.
tH Obs. on the Diseases of the Army, ed. 7, §. 143.
§§§ Observationes Clinicre. Lubec,·17~7.
111111 C. CJUeger, in Misc..Nat. Cur., dec. iii. ann. 2, obs. 88.-Boerbaav,
lmpetum Faciens...-Leiden, 1745, p. 282.-Kellner, in the Bresl. Samml.
172.
Digit zed by Coogle
52
mum excites a singular kind of delirium and con-oulliom. It is
precisely this faculty that enabled physicians to cure with its
aid, demonomania• (fantastic madness, attended with spasms
of the limbs) and other convulsions, as performed by Sidrent
and Wedenberg.t If in the hands of Sidren§ it cured two
cases of chorea, one of which had been occasioned by fright,
and the other by mercurial vapour, it was because it possessed
the faculty of exciting involuntary movements of the limbs, as
observed by Kaaw Boerhaave, and Lobstein. Numerous
observations, 41.lld among others those made by Schenk, have
shown us that it can destroy consciousness and recollection in
a very short time; therefore, it 90ght not to surprise us, if,
according to the testimony of Sauvages and Schinz, it possesses
the faculty of curing a weak memory. By the same rule,
SebmalzU succeeded in curing with the aid of this plant a case
of melancholy, alternating with madness, because, according to
aCosta," it has the power of exciting such alternate mental
aberrations when administered tD a person in health.
Percival, Stahl, Quarin,tt and many other physicians, have
observed that cirtchona occasions oppre1sion of the atomach.
Others, (Morton, Friborg, Bauer, and Quarin;) have seen this
substance produce 'Domiling and diarrhrea, (D; Crueger and
Morton) S!Jncope; some an excessive debility, many (Thomson,
Richard, Stahl, and C. E. Fisher) a kind of jaundice; (Quarin
and Fischer) bitternes1 of the mouth; and yet others~ temion of
the belly. Aud it is precisely when these complicated evils
occur in intermittent fevers, that Torti and Cleghom recom-
mend t11e use of cinchona alone. The advantageous effects of
• this bark in cases ofexhaustion, indigestion, and loss ofappetite
resulting from acute fevers, (particularly when the latter have
been treated by venesection, evacuants and debilitants) are
founded upon the faculty which it possesses of depressing exces-
* Veckoskrift for Laekare, iv. p. 40, et seq. .
t Diss. de Stramonii Usu in Malis ·convulsivis. Upsal 1793.
+ b'd '
+ I 1 • .
§ Diss. Morborum Casus, spec. i. Upsal, 17~5.
• II Chir.. und Medic. Vorflllle, Leipzig, 1784, p. 178.
** In P. Schenck, lib. 1, obs. 139.
tt Quoted in my Mat. Med. iii.
Digitized by Coogle
53
liTJtly tM TJital p07Ders, producing mental and bodily exhawtion,
indigestion, and .loss of appetite, as observed by Cleghorn, Fri-
borg, Crueger, Romberg, Stahl, Thomson, and others.•
How would it have been possible to stop hemorrhages with
ipecacuanha, as effected by Baglivi, Barbeyrac, Gianella, Dal-
•berg, Bergius, and others, ifthis medicine did not of itself possess
• the faculty of exciting hemorrhage homceopathically?-as Mur-
ray, Scott, and Geo:tfroyt have witnessed. How could it be so
efficacious in asthma, and particularly in spasmodic asthma, as
it is described to have been, by Akenside,t Meyer,§ Bang,ll
Stoll,.. Fouquet,tt and Ranoe,tt if it did not of itself produce
(without exciting any evacuation) asthma, and spasmodic asthma
in particular, as Murray,§§ Geoffroy,llll and Scott*** have seen it
call forth 1. Can any clearer hints be required, that medicines
ought to be applied to the cure of diseases according to the
morbid effects which they produce 1
It would be impossible to conceive why the Faba Ignatia
could be so efficacious in a kind of convulsions, as we are
assured it is, by Hermann,ttt Valentin,ttt and an anonymous
writer,§§§ if it did not possess the power of exciting similar
con'Dulsions, as witnessed by Bergius,llllll Camelli,"... and Du-
rius.tttt
Persons who have received a blom or a contusion, feel pains
in the side, a desire to vomit, spasmodic, lancinating and.burn-
ing pain in the hypochondres, all of which are accompanied
with anxiety, tremors, and involuntary starts, similar ~ those
• Mat. Med. iii. t Ibid. pp. 184, 185.
t Medic. Transact. I. No.7. p. 39.
§ Diss. de Ipecac. refracta dosi usu, p. 34.
II Praxis Medica, p. 346. ** Prrelectiones, p. 221.
·tt Journal de MMecine, 'tom. 62, p. 137.
tt In Act. Reg. Soe. Med. Hafn., ii. p. 163, iii. p. 361.
§§ Medic. Pract. Bibl., p. 237.
hll Trait6 de Ia Matiere M6dicale, ii: p. 157.
••• In Med. Comment. of Edinb. iv. p. 74.
ttt Cynosura Mat. Med. ii. p. 231.
ttt Hist. Simplic. Reform. p. 194, §4.
§§§ In Act. Berol. dec. ii. vol. x. p. 12.
llftll Materia Medica, p. 150.
•••• Philos. Trans. vol. xxi. No. 250.
tttt Miseell. nat. cur..dec. iii. ann. 9, 10.
Digitized by ~00gle
54
produced by an electric shock, formication in the parts that
have received the injury, &c. As the arnica montana produces
similar symptoms, according to the observations of Meza, Vicat,
Crichton, Collins, Aaskow, Stoll, and J. C. Lange,• it may be
easily conceived on what account this plant cures the effects of
a blow,· fall, or contusion, and consequently the malady itself
occasioned by such a contusion, as experienced by a host of
physicians and even whole nations for centuries past.
Among the effects which bel/adona excites when adminis-
tered to a person in sound health, are symptoms, which, taken
collectively, present an image greatly resembling that species
of hydrophobia and rabies canina which Mayeme,t Munch,:
Buchholz,§ and Neimike,ll cured in a perfect manner with this
plant homreopathically.•• The patient in vain endeavours to
sleep, the respiration ·is embarrassed, he is consumed by a burning
thirst, attended with anxiety; the moment any liquid& are presented
to him, he ,rejects them with violence; his countenance becomts
red, his eyes fixed and sparkling, (as observed by F. C. Grimm;)
he experiences a feeling of suffocation while drinking, with
excessive thirst~ (according to E. Camerarius and Sauter;) for
the most part he is incapable of swallowing any thing, (as affirmed
by May, Lottinger, Sicelius, Buchave, D'Hermont, Manetti,
• See my Mat. Medica, i.
· t Praxeos in Morbis internis Syntagma alterum. Augustll! Vindelico-
rum, 1697, p. 136.
:j: Beobachtungen bey angewendeter Belladonne bei den Menschen.
Stendal, 1789.
§ Heilsame Wirkungen der Belladonne in ausgebrochener Wuth.
Erfurt, 1785.
II In J. H. Munch's Beobachtungen, Th. i. p. 74.
.. If belladonna has frequently failed in cases of decided rabies, we
ought to remember that it cannot cure in such instances, but by its
faculty of producing effects similar. to those of the malady itself, and
that, consequently, it ought not to be administered but in the smallest
possible doses, as will be shown in the Organon, (§ 275-283.) In gene-
ral, it has been administered in very large doses, so that the patients
necessarily died, not of the disease, but of the remedy. However, ti)ere
may exist more than one degree or species of hydrophobia and rabies,
and consequently (according to the diversity of the symptoms) the most
suitable homc:eopathic remedy may be sometimes hyosciamus, and some-
times stramonium.
Digitized by Coogle
55
Vicat, and Cullen;) he is alternately actuated by terror ar1d a
desire to bite the persons who are near him, (as seen by Sauter,
Dumoulin, Buchave, and Mardorf;) he spits every where around
him, (according to Sauter;) he endeavours to make his· escape,
(as we are informed by Dumoulin; E. Gmelin, and Buc'hoz ;)
and a continual agility of the body is predominant, (as wit-
nessed by Boucher, E. Gmelin, and Sauter.)* Belladonna has
also effected the cure of different kind1$ of madness and melan-
choly; as in the cases reported by Evers, Schmucker, Schmalz,
the two Munches, and many others, ·because it possesses the
faculty of producing different kinds of insanity like those mental
diseases caused by belladonna:, whi"ch are noted by Rau, Grimm,
Hasenest, Mardorf, Hoyer, Dillenius, and others.t Henning,t
after vainly endeavouring, during three months, to cure a case
of amaurosis with coloured spots before the eyes, by a variety
of medicines, was at length struck with the idea that this
malady might perhaps be occasioned by gout, although· the
patient had never experienced the slightest attack ; and upon
this supposition ·he was by chance induced to prescribe bella-
donna,§ which effected a speedy cure free from a~y incon-
venience. He would undoubtedly have made choice of this .
remedy at the commencement, had he known that it was not
possible to perform a cure but by the aid of a remedy which
produces symptoms similar to those of the disease itself; and
that, according to the infallible law of nature, belladonna could
not fail to cure this case homreopathically, since, by the testi-
mony of Sauterll 'and Buchholz,** it excites, of itself, a species
of amaurosis with coloured spots before the eyes.
· The hyosciamm has cured spasms which strongly resembled
epilepsy; as witnessed by Mayerne:tt Stoerck, Collin, and others.
It produces this effect by the very same· power that it excites
convulsions similar to those of epilepsy, as observed in the writings
* The places from these authors are referred to in my Mat. Medica, i.
t Ibid.
t In Hufeland's Journal, xxv: iv. pp. 70, 74.
§ Mere conjecture alone has led physicians to rank belladonna among
the remedies for gout. The disease which could, with justice, arrogate
to itself the name of gout, never will nor can be cured by belladonaa.
II In Hufeland's Journal, xi.
*"' Ibid: vol. i. p. 252. tt Prax. Med. p. 23.
· DigitizedbyGO gle
56
of E. Camerarius, C. Seliger, HUnerwolf, A. Hamilton, Plan-
chon, Acosta, and others.*
Fothergill,t Stoerck, Hellwig, and Ofterdinger, have used
hyosciamus with .success in certain kinds of mental derange-
ment. But the use of it would have been attended with equal
success in the hands of many other physicians, had they con-
fined it to the cure of that species of mental alienation, which
hyosciamus is capable of producing in its primitive effects, viz.
a kind of derangement with stupefaction, that Van Helmont,
Wedel, J. G. Gmelin, La Serre, Hiinerwolf, A. Hamilton, Kier-
nander, J. Stedmann, Tozzetti, J. Faber, and Wendt saw
produced by the action of this plant.:
By taking the effects of hyosciamus collectively, which the
latter observers have seen it produce, they present a picture of
hysteria arrived.at a considerable height. We also find in J.
A. P. Gessner, Stoerck, and in the Act. Nat. Cur.~ that a case
of hysteria, which bore great resemblance to the above men-
tioned, was cured by the use of this plant.
Schenkbecherll would never have succeeded in curing a
vettigo of twenty years' standing, if this .plant did not possess,
in a very high degree, ,the power of creating generally an
analogous state, as attested by Hiinerwolf, Blom, Navier, Plan-
chon, Sloane, Stedmann, Greding, Wepfer, Vicat, and Ber-
nigau.**
A man, who became deranged through jealousy, was for a
long time tormented by Mayer Abramsontt with remedies that
produced no effect on him, when, under the name of a sopo-
rific, he one day administered hyosciamus, which cured him
speedily. ' Had he known that this plant excites jealousy and
madruss in persons who are in heahh,U and had he been
acquainted with the homceopathic law, (the sole natural basis
of therapeutics,) he would have been able to administet hyos-
ciamus from the very commencement with perfect confidence,
• See my Mat. Medica, vol. iv.
t Memoirs of Med. Soc. of London, i. pp. 310, 314.
: See my Mat. Medica, vol. iv. § IV. oba. 8. ·
II Von der Kinkina, Schierliog, Bilsenkraut, &c. Riga, 1769, p. 162.
•• See my Mat. Medica, vol. iv.
tf In Hqfeland'a Journal, xix. ii. p. 60.
H See my Mat. Medica, vol. iv.
Digitized by Coogle
57
and thus have avoided fatiguing the patient with remedies
which (not being ho:rrtreopathic) could be of no manner of
service to him..
The mixed prescriptions which were employed for a long
time with the greatest success by Hecker* in a case of spasmodic
constriction of the eytlids, would have proved· ineffectual, if
some happy chance had not included hyosciamus, which, ac-
cording to Wepfer,t excites a similar affection in persons who
are in sound health.
Neither did Witheringt succeed in curing a spasmodic con-
striction of the pharynx, with inability to swallow, until he
administered hyosciamus, whose special action consists of
causing a spasmodic constriction of the throat; with the impossi-
bility of mal/owing, an effect which Tozzetti, Hamilton, ·Ber-
nigau, Sauvages, and HUnerwolf; have seen it produce in a
very high degree.
How could camphor produce such salutary effects as the
veracious Huxhamll says it does, in the so-called slow nervous
fevers, where the temperature of the body is decreased, where
the senS,ibility is depressed, and the vital powers greatly dimin-
ished, if the result of its immediate action upon the body did
not produce a Blate similar in every re'Bpect to the latter, as
observed by G. Alexander, Cullen, and F. Hoffman 1**
Spirituous wines, administered in small d,oses, have cured,
homceopathically, fevers that were purely inflammatory. C.
Crivellati,tt H. Augeniue,tt A. Mundella,H and two anonymous
writers,llll have afforded us the proofs. Asclepiades**' on one
occasion cured an inflammation of the brain by administering a
nnall quantity of wine. A case of feverish deliri.um like an
• Hufeb,nd's Journal, d. pr. Arzneik. i. p. 354.
t De Cicuta Aquatica. Basil. 1716, p. 320.
t Edinb. Med. Comment. Dec. ii. B. vi. p. 263.
§ See my Mat. Med., vol. iv. pp. 38, 39.
II Opera, t. i. p. 172, t. ii. p. 84.
"'* See my Materia Medica, vol. iv.
tt Trattato dell' uso e modo di dare il vino neUe febri acute. Rome,
1600.
tt Epist. t. ii. lib. 2. ep. 8. §§ Epist. 14. Basil, 1538.
1111 Eph. nat. cur. dec. ii. ann. 2, obs. 53. Gazette de Saot~, 1788
••• Ca~l. Aurelianus, Acut. lib. i. c. 16.
8 .
Digitized by Coogle
58
insensible drunkenness, attended with stertorous breathing,
similar to that state of deep intoxication which wine produces,
was cured in a single night by wine which Rademacher• ad-
ministered to the patient. Can any one deny the power of a
medicinal irritation analogous to the disease itself (aimilia limili-
bus) in either of these cases 1
A strong infusion of tea produces anxiety and palpitation of
the heart in persons who are not in the habit of drinking it~ on
the other hand, if taken in small doses, it is an excellent remedy
against such symptoms when produced by other causes, as
testified by G. L. Rau.t · .
A case resembling the'agonies.of death, in which the patient
was convulsed to such a degree as to deprive him of his senses,
alternating with attacks of spasmodic breathing, sometimes also
sobbing and stertorous respiration, with icy coldness ofthe face
and body, lividity of the feet and hands, and feebleness of the
pulse, \a state perfectly analogous to the whole of the symptoms
which Schweikert and others saw produced by the use ofopium,)t
,was at fi:t;at tr~ated· unsuccessfully by Stiitz§ with ammonia,
but afterwards cured in a speedy and permanent manner with
opium. In this instance, could any one fail to discover the
homreopathic method brought into action without the know-
ledge of the person who employed it1 According to Vicat, J.
C. Grimm, and others,ll opium also produces a pO'lJJeiful and
almost irresistible tendency to sleep, accompanied by profuse per-
JJJiration and delirium. This was the reason why Osthoff** was
afraid to administer it in cases of epidemic fever which ex-
hibited similar symptoms, for the principles of the system which
he,pu:rsued prohibited the use of it under such circumstances.
(The poor system!) However, after having exhausted in vain
all the known remedies, and seeing his patients at the point of
death, he resolved, at all hazards, to administer a small quantity
of.opium, whose effects proved salutary, as they always must,
according to the unerring law of homreopathy. ·
* In Hufeland's Journal, xvi. i. p. 92.
t Ueber den Werth des Homreopathischen Heih·erfatbren11. Heidel-
berg, 1824, p. 75.
t See my Mat. Med., vol. i.
§ In Hufeland's Journal, x. iv. II See my Mat. Med., i.
*"' In the Salzburg Med. Chirurg. Journal, 1805, iii. p. 110.
·- Digitized by Coogle
59
J. Lind* likewise avows that "opium removes the complaints
in the head, while the pe~spiration tediously breaks forth
during the heat of the body ; it relieves the head, destroys
the burning febrile heat of the skin, softens it, and bathes
its surface in a profuse perspiration. But Lind was not
aware that this salutary effect of opium (contrary to the
axioms of the school of medicine) is owing to the circum-
stance of its producing analogous morbid symptoms, when
administered to a person in health. There has, nevertheless,
here ·and there been a physician, across whose mind this
truth has passed like a flash of lightning, without ever
giving hirth to a suspicion of the laws of homceopathy.
For example, Alstont says that opium is a remedy that excites
heat, notwithstanding which, it certainly diminishes heat where
it already exists. De la Guerene: administered opium in a
case of fever attended with violent head-ache, tension and
hardness of the pulse, dryness and roughness of the skin, burn-
ing heat, and hence difficult and debilitating perspirations,
the exhalation of which was constantly interrupted by the-
extreme agitation of the patient; and was successful with it,
because opium ·possesses .the faculty of creating a feverish
state in healthy persons, which is perfectly analogous, aa
asserted by many observers,~ and .of which he was ignorant.
In a fever attended with coma, where the patient, deprived of
speech, lay extended, the eyes open, the limbs stiff, the pulse
small and intermittent, the respiration disturbed and stertorous,
·(all of which are symptoms perfectly similar to those which
opium excites, according to the report of Delacroix, Rade-
macher, Orumpe, Pyl, Vicat, Sauvages and many others,ll) this·
was the only substance which 0. L. Hoffman** saw produce
any good effects, which were naturally a homeopathic result.
Wirthenson,tt Sydenham,tt and Marcus,§§ have even succeeded
• Versnch iiber die Krankheiten denen die Europler in heissen Kli-
maten unterworfen sind. Riga and Leipzig, 1773. (Treatise on the
Diseases to which Europeans are subject in Warm Climates.)
t In Edinb. Versuchen, v. p. i. art. 12.
t In Romer's Annalen der Arzneimittellehre, I. ii. p. 6.
§ See my Mat. Med., vol. i. II Ibid.
** Von Scharbock, Lustseuche, &c. Mitnster, 1787, p. 295.
tt Opii vires fibras cordis debilitate, &c. Munster, 1775.
tt Opera, p. 654. §§ Magazin ftlr Therapie, I. i. p. 7.
Digitized by Coogle
60
in curing lethargic fevers with opium. A case of lethargy of
which De Meza.. effected a cure, would yield only to this sub-
stance, which, in such cases, acts homceopathically, since it
produces lethargy of itself.
C. C. 1\latthai,t in an obstinate case of nervous disease, where
the principal .symptoms were insensibility, and numbness of the
arms, legs, and belly, after having for a long time treated it
with inappropriate, that is to say, non-homceopathic remedies,
at length effected a cure by opium, which, according to Stutz,
J. Young, and others,t excites similar symptoms of a very
intense nature, and which, as every one must perceive, only
succeeded on this occasion by homceopathic means. The cure
of a case of lethargy which had already existed several days,
and which Hufeland performed by the use of opium,; by what
other law could this have been effected, if not by that of
homceopathy, which has remained disregarded till the present
time1 In that peculiar species of epilepsy which never mani-
fests itself but during sleep, De Haen discovered that it was not
at all a sleep, but a lethargic stupor, with stertorous respiration,
perfectly similar to that which opium produces in persons who
are in health; it was by the means of opium alone that he
transformed it into a natural and healthy sleep, while at the
same time he delivered the patient of his epilepsy.ll
How would it be possible that opium, which of all vegetable
substances is the one whose administration, in small doses,
produces the most powerful and obstinate conatipation, as a
primary effect, should notwithstanding be a remedy the most to
be relied upon in cases of constipation which endanger life, if
it was not in virtue of the homceopathic law, so little known-
that is to say, if natUre had not decreed that medicines should
subdue natural diseases by a special action on their part, which
consists in producing an analogous affection 1 Opium, whose
first effects are so powerful in constipating the bowels, was dis-
f.l()vered by Tralles*" to be the only cure in a case of ileus,
"'Act. Reg. Soc. Med. Hafn, iii. p. 202.
t In Struve's Triumph der Heilk. iii.
t See my Mat. Med. vol. i.
§ In Hufeland's Journal, xii. i.
II Ratio Medendi, V. p. 126.
•• Opii usus et abusus, sect. ii. p. 260,
Digitized by Coogle
61
which he had till then treated ineffectually with evacuants and
other unappropriate remedies. Lentilius" and G. W. Wedel,t
Wirthenson, Bell, Heister, and Richter,t have likewise con-
firmed the efficacy of opium, even when administered alone in
this disease. The candid Bohn§ was likewise convinced by
experience that nothing but opiates would act as purgatives in
the colic called miserere; and the celebrated Fr. Hoffman,II
in the most dangerous cases of this nature, placed his sole
reliance on opium, combined with the anodyne liquor called
after his name. All the theories contained in the two hundred
thousand voluines that have been written on medicine, would
they be able to furnish us with a rational explanation of this
a~d so many other similar facts, being ignorant of the thera-
peutic law of homooopathia. Have their doctrines conducted
us to the discovery of this law of nature so clearly manifested
in every perfect, speedy, and permanent cure-that is to say,
have they taught us that when we use medicines in the treat-
ment of diseases, it is necessary to take for a guide the resem-
blance of their effects upon a person in health, to the symptoms
of those very diseases 1
Rave"" and Wedekindtt have suppressed uterine hemorrhage
with the aid of sabina, which, as every one knows, causes
uterine hemorrha!(e, and consequently abortion with women
who are in health. Could any one, in this case, fail to perceive
the homreopat~ic law which ordains that we should cur~ similia
-imilibus?
In that species of spasmodic asthma designated by the name
of Millar, how could musk act almost specifically, if it did not
of itself produce paroxysms of a spasmodic constriction of the ·
chest without cough, as observed by F. Hoffman 7tt
• Eph. nat. eur. dec. iii. ann. i. app. p. 131. t Opiologia, p. 120.
t Anfangsgtilnde der Wundanneikunde, V. §328.-Chroniscbe Krank-
heiten. Berlin, 1816, ii. p. 220. (Rudiments of Surgery, V. § 328.-
Chronic Diseases, Berlin, 1816, ii. p. 220.)
§ De Officio Medici.
II Medicin. rat. system. T. IV. p. ii. p. 297.
•• Beobaehtungen und SchHisse (Observations and Conclusions), ii.
~~ .
tt In Hufeland's Journal, X. i. p. 77.; and in his "Aufsaetzeh," p. 278.
HMed. ration. system. iii. p. 92.
Digitized by Coogle
62
Could vaccination protect us from the small-pox otherwise
than hommopathically1 Without mentioning any other traits
of close resemblance which often exist between these two
maladies, they have this in common-they generally appear
but once during the course of a person's life; they leave behind
cicatrices equally deep ; they both occasion tumefaction of the
axillary glands ; a fever that is analogous ; an inflamed areola
around each pock; and finally, ophthalmia and convulsions.
The cow-pock would even destroy the small-pox on its first
appearance, that is to say, it would cure this already existing
malady, if the intensity of the small-pox did not predominate
over it. •ro produce this effect, then, it only wants that excess
of power which, according to the law of nature, ought to cor-
respond with the hommopathic resemblance, in order to effect a
cure (§. 158). Vaccination, considered as a hommopathie
remedy, cannot, therefore, prove efficacious except when
employed previous to the appearance of the small-pox, which
is the stronger of the two.
In this manner it excites a disease very analogous (and con-
sequently, hommopathic,) to the small-pox, after whose course,
the human body, which, according to custom, can only be
attacked once with a disease of this nature, is henceforward
protected against a similar contagion.*
It is well known that retention of urine 'Zilith ineffectual t.fforta
to urinate is one of the most common and painful evils which
the use- of cantharides produces. This point has been suffi-
ciently established by J. Camerarius, Baccius, Van Hilden,
Forest, J. Lanzoni, Vander Wiel, and Werlhoff.t Cantharides,
administered internally, and with precaution, ought, conse-
quently, to be a very salutary hommopathic remedy in similar
cases of painful dysury. And this is in reality the case. For,
without enumerating all the Greek physicians who, instead of
• This mode of hom<eopathic cure in anteceaaum (which is called
preservation or prophylaxy,) also appears possible in many other eases;
For example, by carrying on our persons sulphur, we think we are pre-
served from the itch which is so common among wool-workers; and by
taking as feeble a dose as possible of belladonna, that we are protected
from scarlet fever.
t See my Fragmenta de viribus medicamentorum positivis. Leipsic,
1805, i. p. 83.
Digitized by Coogle
'63
our cantharides, made use of meloe cichorii, Fabricius ab Aqua-
pendente, Capo di Vacca, Riedlin, Th. Bartholin,• Young,t
Smith,t Raymond,§ De Meza,ll Brisbane,** and others, per-
formed perfect cures of very painful ischury that was not
dependent upon any mechanical obstacle, with cantharides.
Huxham has seen this remedy produce the best effects in cases
of the same nature i he praises it highly, and would willingly
_have made use of it had not the precepts of the old school of
medicine (which, deeming itself wiser than nature herself, pre-
scribes in such cases soothing and relaxing remedies,) prevented
him, contrary to his own conviction, from using a remedy
which, in such cases, is specific or holll(2opathic.tt ·In cases of
recent inflammatory gonorrhea, where Sachs von Lewenheim,
Hannams, Bartholin, Lister, Mead, and chiefly Werlhoft;
administered cantharides in very small doses with perfect
success, this substance manifestly removed the most severe-
symptoms which began to declare themselves.tt
It produced this effect by virtue of the faculty it possesses
(according to the testimony of almost every observer) of
exciting painful ischury, urinary heat, in&.mmation of the
urethra (Wendt), and even, when applied only externally, a
species of inflammatory gonorrhea (Wichman§§).
The application of sulphur internally very often occasions,
in persons of an irritable ~isposition, lenesmw, sometimes even
* Epist. 4, p. 345. . t Phil. Trans. No. 280.
t Medic. Communications, ii. p. 505. . .
§ In Auserlesene Abhandl. fur pract. Aerzte (Select Treatises for
Practical Physicians), iii. p. 460.
II Act. Reg. Soc. Med. Hafn. ii. p. 302. ·
** Auserlesene FAile (Selected cases), Altenburg, 1777.
tt Opera, edit. Reichel, t. ii. p. 124.
U I say "the most severe symptoms which began to declare them-
selves," because the subsequent treatment demands other considerations;
for, although there may have been cases ofgonorrhea so alight as to dis-
appear very soon of themse~ves, and alinost without any assistance what-
ever, still there are others of a graver nature, especially that which is
become so common since the time of the French campaigns, which
might be called gonorrhea sycotica, and which is communicated ·by
coition, like the chancro11S disease, although of a very different nature.
§§ Auswahl ana den Nurnberger gelehrten Unterhaltungen, i. p. 249,
note.
Digitized by Coogle
64'
attended with 'Domiting and griping, as attested by Walthf!r.•
It is by virtue of this property which sulphur exhibits, that
physicians have been ablet to cure with its aid, dysenteric
attacks, and hemorrhoidal diseases attended with tenesmus, as
observed by Werlhoff,t and according to Rave,§ hemorrhoidal
eolies.
It is :well known that the waters at Treplitz, like all other
warm sulphurous mineral waters, frequently excite the appear-
ance of an exanthema, which strongly resembles the itch, so
prevalent among persons employed in fDool-fDorking. It is pre-
cisely this homreopathic virtue which they possess that removes
various kinds of psoric eruptions. Can there be any thing
more suffocating than aulphurom fume~? Yet it is the vapour
arising from the combustion of sulphur that Bucquetll disco-
vered to be the best means of reanimating persons in a state of
asphyxia produced by another cause.
From the writings of Beddoes and others, we learn that the
English physicians found nitric acid of great utility in salivation
and ulceration of the mouth, occasioned by the use ofmercury.
This acid could never have proved useful in such eases, if it
· did not of itself excite salivation and ulceration of the mouth.
To produce these effects, ·it is only necessary to bathe the sur-
face of the body with it, as Scott" and Blairtt observe, and the
same will occur if administered internally, according to the
testimony of Aloyn,tt Luke,§§ Ferriar,llll and G. l(elly.***
Fritzettt saw a species of tetanw produced by a bath impreg-
nated with carbonate of potash, and A.. von Humboldtttt by the
*Progr. de Sulphure et Marte, Lips. 1743, p. 5.
t Medic. National-Zeitung, (National Med. Gazette), 1798, p. 153.
t Observat. de I<'ebrihus, p. 3, § 6.
§ In Hufeland's Journal, VII. ii. p. 168.
II Edinb. Med. Comment. IX.
•• In Hufeland's Journal, IV. p. 353.
tt Neueste Erfahrungen, (Most recent discoveries), Glogau, 1801.
tt In the Ml!moires de Ia Soc. Med. d'Emulation, I. p. 195.
§§ In Beddoes.
1111 In the Sammlung auserles. Abhandl. fiir pract. Aertze, (Select
Treatises for Practical Physicians), XIX.·ii.
•n Ibid. XIX. i. ttt In Hufeland's Journal, XII. i. p. 116.
Ut Versuch iiber die gereizte Muskel-und Nervenfaser, (Treatise on
the Irritability of the Muscles and Nenes,) Posen and Berlin, 1797.
Digitized by Coogle
65
application ofa solution of wlt tJjtartar increased the irritability
of the muscles to such a degree as to excite tetanic spasm.
The curative power which caustic potash exercises in all kinds
of tetanus, in which Stutz and others have found it so useful,
could it be accounted for in a more simple or rational manner ·
than by the faculty which this alkali possesses of producing
homreopathic effects 1
Arsenic, whose effects are so powerful upon the human·
economy that we cannot decide whether it is more hurtful in
the hands of the fool-hardy than it is salutary in those of the
wise,..,.-arsenic could never have effected so many remarkable
cures of cancer in the face, as witnessed by numerous physi-
cians, among whom 1 will only cite Fallopius,* Bernhardt,t
and Roennow,t if this ·metallic oxide did not possess the
homreopathic power of producing, in healthy persons, 'Dety
painful tubercles, which are cured with difficulty, as witnessed by
Amatus Lusitanus ;§ very deep and malignant ulcerations,
according to the testimony of Heinreichll and Knape ;** and
cancerous ulcers, as testified by Hejnze.tt The ancients would
not have been unanimous in the praise which they bestowed
on the magnetic arsenical plaster of Angelus SalaH against
pestilential buboes and carbuncles, if arsenic did not, according
to the report of Degner§§ and Pfann,IIU give rise to inflammatory
tumours which quickly turn to gangrene, and to carbuncles or
malignant pustules; as observed by Verzascha*** and Pfann.ttt
And whence could arise that curative power which it exhibits
in certaiq species of intermittent fevers (a virtue attested by so
" De Ulceribus et Tumoribus, lib. 2. Venice, 1563.
tIn the Journal de Medecine,chirurg. et pharm. LVII. March, 1782.
t Konigl. Vetensk. Acad. Handl. f. a. 1776.
§ Obs. et. Cur., cent. ii. cur. 34. II Act. Nat. Cur. ii. obs. 10.
"'"' Annalen der Staatsarzneikunde, I. i. '
tt In Hufeland's Journal for September, 1813, p. 48.
H Anatom. Vitrioli, t, ii. in Opera Med. Chym. Frankfort, 1647, pp.
381, 463.
§§ Act. Nat. Cur. VI.
1111 Annalen der Staatsarzneykunde, loc. cit.
"'"'"' Obs. med. cent. Basil, 1677, obs. 66.
ttt Samml. Merkwiird. FAile. (Collection of remarkable cases.)·
Nuremberg, 1750, pp. 119, 130. ·
9
Digitized by Coogle
66
Dl8l!Y thousands ofexamples, but in the practical application of
which, sufficient precaution has not yet been observed, and
which virtue was asserted centuries ago by Nicholas Myrepsus,
and subsequently placed beyond a doubt by the testimony of
Slevogt, Molitor, Jacobi, J. C. Bernhardt, JUngken, Fauve,
Brera, Darwin, May, Jackson, and Fowler,) if it did not
proceed .from its peculiar faculty of exciting fever, as almost
every observer of the evils resulting from this substance has
remarked, particularly Amatus Lusitanus, Degner, Buchholz,
Heun, and Knape.* We may confidently believe E. Alexan-
der,t when he tells .us that arsenic is a sovereign remedy in
some cases of angina pectoris, since Tachenius, Guilbert,
Preussius, Thilenius, and ,Pyl, have seen it give rise to very
strong oppression ofthe chest; Greselius,t to a dyspnaa approach-
ing even to suffocation; and Majault,§ in particular, saw it pro-
duce sudden attacks of asthma excited by walking, attended with
great depression ofthe vital powers.
The convulsions which are caused by .the administration of
copper, and those observed by Tondi, Ramsay, Fabas, Pyl, and
Cosmier, as proceeding from the use of aliments impregnated
with copper; the reiterated attack. of epilepS!f, which J.
Lazermell saw result from the accidental introduction of a
copper coin into the stomach, and which Pfiindel** saw pro-
duced by the ingestion of a compound of sal ammoniac and
copper into the digestive .canal, sufficiently explain, to those
physicians who will take the trouble to reflect upon it, how
copper has been able to cure a case of chorea, as reported by R.
Willan,tt Walcker,tt Thesussink,§§ and DeJarive,llll and why
preparations of copper have so frequently effected the cure of
epilepsy, as attested by Batty, Baumes, Bierling, Boerhaave,
*See my Mat. Med. vol. ii.
t Med. Comm. of Edinb. Dec. t. i. p. 85.
t Misc. Nat. Cur. dec. I. ann. 2, p. 149.
'§ In the Samm1ung Auserles. Abhandl. filr Aerzte, VII. 1.
II De morbis internis capitis. Amsterdam, 1748, p. 253.
** In Hufeland's Journal, II. p. 264; and according to the testimonY-of .
Burdach, il). his System of Medicine, i. Leip. 1807, p. 284.
tt Samm1ung Auserles. Abhandl. XII. p. 62.
tt Ibid. XI. iii. p. 672. §§ W aarnemingen, No. 18.
II~ Ill Kiihn's phys. med. Journal, January, 1800, p. 58.
Digitized by Coogle
67'
Causland, Cullen, Duncan, Feuerstein, Helvetius, Lieb, Ma-
gennis, C. F. Michaelis, Reil, Russel, Stisser, Thilenius,
W'eissmann, Weizenbreyer, Whi!hers, and others.
If Poterius, Wepfer, Wedel, F. Hoffmann, R. A. Vogel,
Thierry; and Albrecht, have cured a species of phthisis, hectic •
fever, chronic catarrh, and mueous asthma, with stannum, it is
because this metal possesses the faculty of producing a species
of phthisis, as Stahl* has observed. And how could it cure
pains of the stomach, as Geischlager says it does, if it was not.
capable of exciting a similar malady. Geischlager himself,t
and StahU before him, have proved that it does possess this
power.
The evil effects of lead, which produees the most ob1tinate
constipation, and even the iliac passion, (as Thunberg, Wilson,
Lazuriaga, and others, inform us), do they not also give us to
understand that this metal possesses likewise the virtue of
curing these two affections 1 Like every other medicine, it
ought to subdue and cure, in a permanent manner, the natural
diseases which bear a resemblance to those which it engenders,
by reason of the faculty which it possesses of ·exciting morbid ·
symptoms. Angelus Sala§ cured a species of ileus, and J.
Agricolall another kind of constipation which endangered the
life of the patient, by administering lead internally.. The
saturnine pills with which many physicians (Chirac, Van
Helmont, Naudeau, Pererius, Rivinus, Sydenham, Zacutus
Lusitanus, Block, and others) cured the iliac passion and
obstinate constipation, did not operate merely in a mechanical
manner by reason of their weight; for, if such had been the
'sources of their efficacy, gold, whose weight is greater than .
that of lead, wo~ld have been preferable in such a case ; but
the pills acted particularly as a saturnine internal remedy.and
cured homceopathically. If Otto Tachenius and Saxtorph
formerly cured cases of obstinate hypochondriasis with the aid
of lead, we ought to bear in mind that this metal tends ofitself
to excite hypochondriasis, as may be seen in the description of
its ill e«eets given l>y Lazuriaga.** ·
• Mat. Med., cap. 6. p. 83. t In Hufeland's Journal, X. iii. p. 165.
t Mat. Med. loc. eit. § Opera, p. 213:
If Comment. in J. Poppii chym. med. Lips. 1638, p. 223. .
•• Reeueil p~riod. de Litt~rature, i. p. 20.
Digitized by G'oogle
68
We ought not to be surprised that Marcus* speedily cured
an inflammatory swelling of the tongue and of the pharynx
with a remedy (mercu'Y) which, according to the daily expe-
rience of physicians, has a speeific tendency to produce
inflammation and turnefac,ion of the internal parts of the mouth,
phenomena to which it gives rise when merely applied to the
surface of the body in the form of ointment or plaster, as
experienced by Degner,t Friese,t Alberti,§ Engel,ll and many
others. The meakening ofthe intellectual-faculties (Swediauer-*),
imbecility (Degnertt), and mental alienation (LarryU), which
have been seen to result from the use of mercu.':'f, joined to
the almost specific faculty which this metal is known to
possess of exciting salivation, explain how W. PerfectH was
enabled, with the use of mercury, to cure in a permanent
manner, a case of melancholy alternating with increased secre-
tion of saliva. How does it happen that preparations of mer-
cury proved so successful in the hands of Seelig,llll in the
treatment of angina, .accompanied with purpura ; in those of
Hamilton,•.. Hoffman,ttt Marcus,ttt Rush,m Colden,lllll
Bailey, and Michaelis,..*• in the treatment of Qther kinds of
malignant quinsy 1 It is evidently because this metal brings
on of itself a .species of angina of the worst description.tttt It
* Magazin, II. ii. t Act. Nat. Cur. VI. app.
t Geschichte und Versuche einer chirurg. Gesellschaft. (History
and Experiments of a Chirurg. Soc.) Copenhagen, 1774.
§Jurisprudentia Medica, V. p. 600.
II Specimina Medica. Berlin, 17811 p. 99.
** Traite ltes Malad. Vener. II. p. 368. tt Loc. cit.
U Memoirs and Observations in the Description of Egypt, vol. i. .
§§Annalen einer Anstalt filr Wahnsinnige. (Annals of an Institute
for Mad Persons.) Hanover, 1804.
1111 In Hufeland's Journal, XVI. 1. p. 24.
**"' Edinb. Med. Comment. IX. 11 p. 8.
ttt Medic. Wochenblatt, 1787, No. 1.
ttt Magazin fur Specielle Therapie, II. p. 334.
§§§ Medic. Inquir. and Observ. No. 6.
111111 Medic. Observ. and Inquir. 1, No. 19, p. 211.
****In Richter's Chirurg. Biblioth. V. pp. 737-739.
tttt Physicians have likewise endeavoured to cure the croup by means
of mercury ; but they generally failed in the attempt, because this metal
cannot prod!lce (of itself) in the mucous membrane of the trachea, a
Digitized by Coogle
69
is certainly by homreopathic me::ms that Sauter• cured an
ulcerous inflammation of the mouth, accompanied with aphthre
and fretor of the breath, similar to that which occurs in saliva-
tion, when he prescribed a solution of corrosive sublimate as a
gargle, and that Blockt remove'd aphthre by the use of mercurial
preparations, since, among other ulcerations of the mouth, this
substance particularly produces a species of apkthre, as we are
informed by Schlegelt and Th. Acrey.~
Heckerll used various medicinal compounds successfully in
a case of caries succeeding small-pox. Fortunately, a portion
of m~rcury was contained in each of these mixtures, to which
it may be imagined that this malady will yield (homceo-
pathically) because mercury is one of the few medicinal agents
which excites of itself caries, as proved by the many excessive
mercurial courses used against syphilis, or even against other
diseases, among which are those related by G. P. Michaelis.••
This metal, which becomes so formidable when its use is pro-
longed, on account of the caries of which it then becomes the
exciting cause, exercises, notwithstanding, a very salutary
homreopathic influence in the caries which follows mechanical
injuries of the bones, some very remarkable instances of which
have been transmitted to us by J. Schlegel,tt Joerdens,U and
J. M. Miiller.H The_cure of caries (not venereal) of another
kind, which has likewise been effected by means of mercury
by J. F. G. Neullll and J. D. Metzger,••• furnishes a fresh proof
of the homreopathic curative virtue with which this substance
is endowed.
change similar to that particular modification which this disease en-
genders. Sulphuretum calcis, which excites cough by impeding respi-
ration, and still more so, the tincture of sponga tost~ act more homreo-
pathically in their special effects, and are consequently- much more
efficacious, particularly when administered in the smallest possible
doses. _
(See my Mat. Med. -vi.)
* In Hufeland's Journal, XII. ii.
t Medic. Bemerkungen, (Med. Observations), p. 161.
tIn Hufeland's Journal, VII. iv. § Lond. Med. Journal, 1788.
HIn Hufeland's Journal, i.·p. 362. ** Ibid. June, 1809, vi. p. 57.
tf.Hufeland's Journal, v. pp. 605, 610.
U Ibid. X. ii. · §§ Obs. Med. Chirur. ii. cas. 10. ·
1111 Diss. Med. Pract. Goettingre, 1776.
*** Adversaria, p. ii. sect. 4. .
Digitized by Coogle
70
In perusing the works which have been published on the
subject of medical electricity, it is surprising to see what
analogy exists between the morbid symptoms sometimes pro-
duced by this agent, and the natural diseases which it bag
cured in a durable manner by homceopathic influence. Innu-
merable are the authors who have observed that acceleration of
tlu pulse is among the first effects of positive electricity} but
Sauvages," Delas,t and Barillon,t have seen febrile paroxynn•
excited by electricity. The faculty it has of producing fe-oer, is
the cause to which we may attribute the circumstance of
Gardini,i WilkinS(ln,ll Syme,"" and Wesley,tt curing with it
alone a tertian fever, and likewise the removal of quartan
fevets by Zetzelt: and Willermoz.H It is also known that
electricity occasions a contraction of the muscles which resem-
bles a con-oulsi-oe mo-oement. De Sansllll was enabled to excite
even continued con-oulsions in the arm of a young girl as
often as he pleased to make the experiment. It is by virtue
of this power which electricity develops, that De sans••• and
Franklinttt applied it successfully in convulsions, and that
Thedentu cured with its aid a little girl ten years of age who
lost her speech and partially the use of her left arm by light-
ning, yet kept up a constant involuntary movement of the
arms and legs, accompanied by a spasmodic contraction of the
fingers of the left hand. Electricity likewise produced a kind
of ischias, as observed .by Jallobert§§§ and another; lllfll it has
also cured this affection by similarity of effect, (homceopa-
thically,) as confirmed by Hiortberg, Lovet, Arrigoni, Daboueix,
Manduyt, Syme, and Wesley. Several physicians have cured
a species of ophthalmia by electricity, that is to say, by means of
the power which it has of exciting of itself inflammation of the
• In Bertholon de St. Lazare, Mediciniscbe ElectrisitlU, von Kabo.
(Medical Electricity.) Leip. 1788, t. i. pp. 239, 240.
t Ibid. p. 232. t Ibid. p. 233. § Ibid. p. 232.
II Ibid. p. 251. •• Ibid. p. 250. tt Ibid. p. 249.
tt Ibid. p. 52. §§ Ibid. p. 250. 1111 Ibid. p. 274. .
**• Ibid. p. 274. ttt Recueil sur l'Electr. Medic. ii. p. 386.
ttt Neue Bemerkungen und Erfahrungen, iii. (Recent Observations
and Experiments.)
§§§ Exp~riences et Observations sur I'Electricite.
111111 Philos. Trans. vol. 63.
Digitized by Coogle
71
eyes, as observed by P. Dickson* 'and Bertholon.t Finally,
it has in the hands of Fushel cured varices ; and it owes this
sanative virtue to the faculty which Jallobertt as((ribes to it
6f producing varicose tumours.
Albers relates, that a warm bath at one hundred degrees of
the thermometer of Fahrenheit greatly reduced the burning of
an acute fever, in which the pulse beat one hundred and thirty
to the minute, and that it brought back the pulsation to the
number of one hundred and ten. Loffier found hot fomenta-·
tions very useful in encephalitis occasioned by insulation or the
action of the heat of stoves,§ and Callisenll regards affusions of
warm water on the head as the most efficacious of all remedies
in cases of inflammation of the brain.
If we except those cases where ordinary physicians have dis-
covered (not by their own· research but by vulgar empiricism)
the specific re~edy for ·a disease which always retained its
identity, and by whose aid they could consequently cure it in a
direct manner ; such, for example, as mercury in the chancrous
venereal disease, arnica in a malady resulting from contusions,
cinchona in intermittent fevers arising from marsh miasmata,
sulphur in a recent development of itch, &c. ;-1 say, if we
except ali these cases, we shall find that those which they have
cured promptly and permanently by the bounty of Providence
alone, are to the mass of their other irrational cures in the
prol>ortion of one to a thousand.
Sometimes they were conducted by mere chance to a homceo-
pathic mode of treatment;"* but yet they did not perceive the
* Bertholon, loc. cit. p. 406. t Loc. cit. ii. p. 296.
t Loc. cit. § In Hufeland's Journal, iii. p. 630.
II Act. Soc. Med. Hafn. iv. p. 419.
*• Thus, for example, they always imagine they can drive out the per-
spiration through the skin (which they say stops up the pores aftercatch-
ing cold) by administering, in the cold stage of the fever, an infusion of
the flowers of the sambucus niger, which is capable of subduing such
fevers hom<BOpathically, and restores the patient to health. The cure is
most effectuaiJy and speedily performed, without transpiration, when the
patient drinks but little of this liquor and abstains from all other medi-
Digitized by Coogle
72
law of nature by which cures of this kind are and ever must
be performed.
It is therefore highly important to the welfare of the human
race, that we should examine how these cures, which are at remark-
able for their rare occurrence as they are surprising in their effects,
are performed. The result is one of the deepest interest. The
examples which we have cited, sufficiently prove, that these
cures have never taken place but by homreopathic means, that
is to say, by the faculty of exciting a morbid state similar to
cines. They often apply repeated warm catapla&IDB to acute tumour&
whose excessive inflammation, attended with insupportable pain, pre-
vents suppuration taking place. Under the influence of this treatment
the inflammation soon diminishes, the pain decreases,·and the abscess is
quickly formed, as may be discovered by the fluctuation and appearance
of the surface. They imagine that they have softened the tumour by the
moisture ofthe cataplasm, while they have done nothing more than destroy
the excess of inflammation hommopathically by the stronger.heat of the
cataplasm, and promoted suppuration. .Why is the red oxide of mercury
(which forms the basis of the ointment ef St.Ives) of such utility in cer-
tain cases of ophthalmia, when of all substances there is none more capa-
ble of producing inflammation of the eyes 1 Is it difficult to perceive that
in. this case its action is bomreopathic 1 How could the juice of parsley
procure instantaneous reliefin cases ofdysury so frequent amongchildren,
or in ordinary cues of gonorrhea, which are principally distinguished by
painful and vain attempts to pass water, if this juice did not cure homreo-
pathicaUy by the faculty which it possesses of exciting painful dysury in
healthy persons 1 The saxifrage, which excites an abundant mucous
secretion in the bronchire and pharynx, is a salutary remedy for the so-
called mucous angina ; and certain kinds of uterine hemorrhage are
stopped by small doses of the leaves of sabina, which bas ·the property of
exciting metrorhagia: in both instances these remedies are applied with-
out any knowledge of the therapeutic law of homreopathy. Opium,
which produces costiveness, has been found, in small doses, to be one of
the principal and most certain remedies in constipation from incarcerated
hernia and ileus, without ever1eading to a discovery of the homreopathic
law which is evident in such cases. Ulcers in the throat (not venereal)
have been cured homreopathically by small doses of mercury. Diarrhrea
has frequently been stopped by the use of rhubarb which produces alvine
evacuations; rabies has been removed by means of belladonna, which
excites a species of hydrophobia; and finally, coma, which is so danger-
ous in acute fevers, has been cured, as if by enchantment, by a small
dose of opium, a substance which occasions heat and stupefaction. And
after all these examples, which speak loudly for themselves, there are
still physicians who repulse homreopathy with disdain !
Digitized by Coogle
- -
73
the disease that was to be cured. They have been performed
in a prompt and permanent manner by medicines, upon which,
those who prescribed them (contrary to all the existing systems
of therapeutics) have fallen as it were by chance, without well
knowing what they were doing or why they acted in this man-
ner. Contrary to their inclinations, they by this fact confirmed
the necessity of the sole law of nature in therapeutics, that of
homreopathy; a law, which medical prejudices, till now, would
not permit us to search after:notwithstanding the infinite num-
ber of facts and visible signs which ought to have pointed
towards its discovery.
· Even in the practice of domestic medicine by persons igno-
rant ofour profession, but who were gifted with sound judgment
and discerning minds, it was discovered that the homreopathic
method of cure was the safest, the most rational, and the least
subject to failure. .
Frozen sourcrout is frequently applied to a limb that is
recently frozen, or sometimes it is rubbed with snow.
A cook who has scalded his hand, exposes it to the fire at a
certain distance, without heeding the increase of pain which it
at first occasions, because experience has taught him that by
acting thus, he can in a very short time perfectly cure the burn,
and remove every feeling of pain.*
Other intelligent individuals, equally strangers to medical
science-such, for example, as the lacker-workers, apply a
substance to burns' which excites of itself a similar feeling of
heat, that is to say, hot alcohol or the oil of turpentine,t and by
* Femel (in his Therapeutics, book vi. cap. 20,) considered that the
best means to allay pain, was to expose the part that was burnt to the
fire. John Hunter (in his work on the blood, p. 218) mentions the great
inconvenience that results from the application of cold water t9 burns,
and prefers' the tnethod of exposing the parts to the fire. In this he
departs from the traditional doctrines of medicine, which prescribe cool-
ing remedies in eases of inJlammation (contraria contrariis); but expe-
rience proved to him that a homceopathic heat (similia nmilibus) would
be most &f.lutary.
t Sydenham (Opera, p. 271) says that repeated applications of alcohol
are preferable to all other remedies in burns. B. Bell (System of Sur- •
gery, 1789) expresses himself equally favourable with regal'd to the effi-
cacy of homceopathie remedies. These are his words : "Alcohol is
one of the best remedies for burns of every description : on the first
lO
Digitized by Coogle
these means cure themselves in a fe\V hours, well knowing that
the so-called cooling ointments would not produce the same
application it appears to increase the pain, (see § 160), but the latter is
soon allayed and gives place to an agreeable sensation of calm and tran-
quillity. This method is never more efficacious than when the whole
part is plunged into alcohol ; but where the immersion is not practicable,
it is requisite to keep the burn continually covered with pledgets imbibed
with this liquid." I further add, that warm, and el'en very hot alcohol,
affords still more prompt and certain relief, because it is far more
homreopathic than alcohol that i8 cold. This is confirmed by every
experience.
Edward Kentish treated several men who were often dreadfully
burned in the coal mines by the explosion of fire-damp ; he made them
apply hot oil of turpentine or alcohol, as being the best remedies that
could be used in severe burns. (Second Essay on Burns, London,
1798.) No treatment is more homreopathic than this, nor can there be
any more efficacious. The worthy and skilful physician Heister also
recommends this practice from his own personal experience, (Instit.
Chirurg. Tom. I. p. 333) ; he praises the application ofthe oil of turpen-
tine, of alcohol, and of cata:plasms as hot as the patient can bear them.
But nothing can more strongly exhibit t.he surprising superiority of the
homreopathic method (that is to say of the application of substances that
excite a sensation of heat and burning, to parts that are burned) over
the palliative, (which consists of cold applications), than those simple
experiments, where, in order to compare the results of these two oppo-
site proceedings, they have been simultaneously tried upon the same
patient. and on parts that were .burned in an equal degree. Thus J.
Bell (Kuhn's Phys. Med. Journal for June, 1801, p. 428) having to treat
a lady who had scalded both arms with boiling liquid, covered one with
the oil of turpentine, a~J,d plunged the other into cold water. The
first was no longer painful at the expiration of half an hour, while
the other continued so during six hours: the moment it was withdrawn
from the cold water the patient experienced far greater pain, and it
required much longer time to cure this arm than it did to heal the other.
J. Anderson (Kentish, loc. cit. p. 43) likewise treated a woman who
had scalded her face and arm with boiling fat. "The face, which was
very red and painful, was covered with oil of turpentine a few minutes
after the accident : as for the arm, the patient had already plunged it of
her own accord into cold water, and expressed a desire to await the
. result of this treatment for a few hours. At the expiration of seven
hours the face was better, and the patient relieved in this part. With
regard to the arm, around which the water had been several times
renewed, it became exceedingly painful whenever it was withdrawn
from the water, and the inflammation had manifestly increased. The
next day I found that the patient had suffered extreme pain in the arm;
Digitized by Coogle
75
result in an equal number of months, and that cold water*
would only make the evil worse.
An experienced reaper, however little he may be accustomed
to the use ofstrong liquors, will not drink cold water (contraria
contrariis) when the heat ofthe sun or the fatigue of hard labour
have brought him into a feverish state: he is well aware of the
danger that would ensue, and therefore take8 a small quantity
of some heating liquor-viz. a mouthful of brandy: Experi-
ence, the source of all truth, has convinced him of the advan-
tage and efficacy of this homreopathic mode of proceeding.
The heat and lassitude which oppressed him, soondiminish.t
Occasionally there have been certain physicians who guessed
that medicines might cure diseases by the faculty which they
possessed of exciting morbid symptoms that resembled the dis-
ease itself.t '
inflammation bad extended above the elbow, several large blisters had
burst, and a thick eschar had formed itself upon the ann and hand, which
were then covered with a warm cataplasm. T be face was no longer pain-
ful, but it was ~;~ecessary to apply emollients a fortnight longer to cure the
arm." Who dces not percei11e, in this instance, the great superiority of
the hommopathic mode oftreatment (that is to say, ofthe application of
agents 11:hich produce effectsresembling the e11il itself) o11er the antipa-
thic prescribed by thP- ordinary physicians ofthe old school ofmedicine1
· "']. Hunter is not the only one who bas pointed out the evil results
that attend the treatment of burns with cold water. Fabricius de Hilden,
{De Combustionibus Libellus. Buil, 1607, cap. V. p. 11) likewise
· assures us that cold applicatioos are very hurtful in such cases, that
they produce the most disastrous effects-that inflammation, suppuration,
and sometimes gangrene are the consequences.
t Zimmerman (Ueber die Erfahrung, II. p. 318) tells us that the
inhabitants of warm countries act in the same manner, witll the most
beneficial results, and that they usually drink a small quantity of spiritu-
ous liquors when they are much heated.
t In citing the following passages of writers who han had some pre-
sentiment of homreopathy, I do not mean to prove the excellence of the
method, (whfch establishes itself without further proof), but I wish to
free myself from a reproaoh ,of huing passed them over in silence to
arrogate to m·yself tbe merit of the 4iscovery:
Digitized by Coogle
76
Thus the author of the book ...el -r~,...,, -rti• ,u,T' l,9c.,..o,,*
which forms a part of the works attributed to Hippocrates, ex-
presses himself in the following remarkable words: .J,. T• ~140'~
•oiiO"o~ ,;,.T.,, xt:~~l .J,.:.. ..-.:.. ~f'o'"" ,..eo(T~•eof'"" ix •oO"r6n.,, ii'Y'"t"'T"'•-
.J,• T~ if'flll lf'ITO~ 1rlll6tTI&I, .
Physicians of a later period have likewise known and pro-
claimed the truths of homreopathy. Thus B. Boulduc,t for
example, discovered that the purgative properties of rhubarb
~ere the faculty by which this plant cured diarrhrea. ·
Detharding guessedt that the infusion of senna would cure
the colick in adults by virtue of the faculty which it possesses
of exciting that malady in healthy persons.
Bertholon§ informs us that in diseases, electricity diminishes
and finally removes a pain which is very similar to one which
it also produces.
Thouryll affirms that positive electricity accelerates arterial
pulsation, also that it renders the same slower where it is
already quickened by disease.
Stoerck** was struck with the idea that if stramonium dis-
turbs the senses and produces mental derangement in persons
who are healthy, it might very easily be administered to
maniacs for the purpose of restoring the senses by effecting a
change of ideas.
The Danish physician Stahltt has, above all other writers,
expressed his conviction on this head most unequivocally. He
speaks in the following terms :-" The received method ·in
medicine, of treating diseases by opposite remedies--that is to
say, by medicines which are opposed to the effects they pro-
duce; (contraria contrariis),-is completely false and absurd. f
am convinced on the contrary, that diseases are· subdued by
agents which produce a similar affection, (similia similibw) :-
burns, by the heat of a fire to which the parts are exposed ; the
• Basil; Froben, 1538, p. 72.
tMem. de I'Acad. Royale, 1710.
t Eph. Nat. Cur. cent. x. obs. 76.
§Medic. Electricit. II. pp. 15, 282.
II Mem. lu A l'Acad. de Caen.
**Libell. de.Stramon. p. 8.
t tIn J. Hummel, Comment. de Arthritide tam tartarea, quam sc()#'-
butica, seu podagra et scorbutico. Budinp, 1738-in 8, pp. 40, 42.'
Digitized by Coogle
77
frost-bite, by snow or icy cold wate'r ; and indammation and
contusions, by spirituous applications. It is by these means I
have succeeded in curing a disposition to acidity of the stomach,
by using very small doses of sulphuric a.c¥1 in cases where a
multitude of absorbing powders had been administered to no
purpose."
Thus far the great truth has more than once been approached
by physicians. But a transitory idea was all that presented
itSelf to them ; consequently, the indispensable reform which
ought to have taken place in the old school of therapeutics to
make room for the true curative method and a system of medi-
cine at once simple and certain, has, till the present day, not
been effected.
Digitized by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
ORGANO_
N. OF MEDICINE.
§ 1. The first and sole duty of the physician is to restore
health to the sick.* This -is the true art of healing.
*His mi!lsion is not, as many physicians (who wasting their time and
powers in the pursuit of fame) have imagined it to be, that ofinventing
systems by stringing together empty ideas and hypotheses upon the
immediate essence of life and the origin of disease in the interior of the
human economy; nor is it that of continually endeavouring to account
for the mor})id phenomena with their nearest cause (which must for ever
remain concealed) and confounding the whole in unintelligible words
and pompous observations which tpake a deep impression on the minds
of the ignorant, while the patients are left to sigh in vain for relief. We
have already too many of these learned reveries which bear the name
of medical theories, and for the inculcation of whieh, eten special pro-
fessorships have been established. It is high time that all those who
call themselves physicians should cease to deceive suffering humanity
with words that have no meaning, and begin to act-that is to say, to
afford relief, and cure the sick in reality.
§ 2. The perfection of a cure consists in restoring health in
a prompt, mild,- and permanent manner; in removing and
annihilating disease by the shortest, safest, and most certain
means upon principles that are at once plain and intelligible.
§ 3. When the physician clearly perceives the curqti'l)e indi-
cation in each particular case of disease-when he is acquainted
with the therapeutic effects of medicines individually-when,
guided by evident reasons, he knows how to make such au
application of that which is curative in medicine to that which
is indubitably diseased in the patient (both in regard to the
choice of the substances, the precise dose to be administered,
Dig:tized by Coogle
80
and the time ofrepeating it) that a cure may necessarily follow
-and :finally when he knows what are the obstacles to the
. cure, and can render the latter permanent by removing them;-
then only can he accomplish his purpose in a rational manner-
then only can he merit the title of a xenuine phy•ician, or a man
skilled in the art ofhealing.
§ 4. The physician is likewise the guardian of health when
he knows what are the objects that disturb it, which produce
and keep up disease, and can remove them from persons who
are in health. ·
§ 5. When a cure is to be performed,: the physician must
avail himself of all the particulars he ean learn, both respect-
ing the probable origin of the acute malady and the most signifi-
cant points in the history of the chronic disease, to aid him in
the discovery of their fundamental cause, which is commonly
due to some chronic miasm. In all researches of this nature,
he must take into consideration the apparent state of the phy-
sical constitution of the patient, (particular)y when the affection
is chronic,) the disposition, occupation, mode of life, habits,
social relations, age, sexual functions, etc. etc. ·
§ 6. The unprejudiced observer, (however great may be
his powers of penetration,) aware of the futility of all elaborate
speculations that are not confirmed by experience, perceives
in each individual affection nothing, but changes of the state
ofthe bodyand mind, (traces ofdisease, caiualties, symptoms,) that
are discoverable by the senses alone,-that is to say, devia-
tions from the former sound state of health, which are felt by
the patient himself, remarked by the individuals around him,
and observed by the physician. The ensemble of these avail-
able signs represents, in its full extent, the disease itself-that
is, they constitute the true and only form ofit which the mind
is capable of conceiving.•
*1 cannot, therefore, comprehend how it was possible for physicians,
without heeding the symptoms or taking them as a guide in the treat-
ment, to imagine that they ought to search the interior of the human
economy· (which is inaccessible and concealed from our view), ·and
that they could there alone discover that which was to be cured in
Digitized by Coogle
81
disease. I cannot conceive how they could entertain so ridiculoUI
a pretension as that of being able to discover the internal invisible
change that had taken pl~ce, and restore the same to .the order of
its normal condition by the aid of medicines, without ever troubling
themselves very much about the symptoms, and that they should have
regarded such a method as th'et only means of performing a radical and
rational cure. Is not -that which manifests it.self in diseaae, by symp-
toms, identified with the change itself which has taken place in the
human economy, and which it is impossible to discover without their
aid 1 Do not the symptoms of disease, which are sensibly cognizable,
represent to the physician the di.;ease itself? When he can neither see •
the spiritual essence, the vital power which produces the disease, nor
yet the dist>ase itself, but simply perceive and learn its morbid effects,
that be may be able to treat it accordingly 1 What.would the old school
St>arch out farther .from the hidden interior for a prima causa morbi,
whilst they reject and superciliously despise the palpable and intelligible
rt>presentation of the disease, the symptoms which clearly announce
themselves to us as the object of cure 1 What is there besides these in
disease which they have to cure 1**
•• The physician who engages in a -reb after the hidden springs of the inter-
nal economy will hoilrly be deceived ; but the bomceopathist, who with due atten-
tion seizes upon the faithful image of the entire group of symptom•, posse•aea
himself of a ·guide that may be depended on, and whon he bas sqcceeded in
destroying the whole ofthem, be may be certain that he has likewise unnibilated
the internal and bidden cause ofdisease." (Rau, loc. cit. p. 103.)
§ 7. As in a disease where no manifest or exciting cause
presents itself for removal, (causa occasionalis1 ) we can perceive
nothing but the symptoms, then must these symptoms alone
(with due attention to the accessory circumstances, and the
possibility of the existence of a miasm) (§ 5) guide the physician
in the choice of a fit remedy to combat the disease. The
totality of the symptoms, this image of the .immediate essence of
the malady reflected externally, ought to be the principal or sole
object by which the latter could make known the medicines it
stands in need of-the only agent to determine the choice of a
remedy that would be most appropriate. In short, the ensem-
ble' of the symptoms is the principal and sole object that a
physician oug~t to have in view in every case of disease-the
power of his art is to be directed against that ~lone in order to
cure and transform it into health. .... · ·
· 1 It is taken for granted that every intelligent physician will com-
mence by removing this cawa occtuioi&alu; then the indispositioD
usually yieldsof iteelf. Thus it is neceuary to remoYe flowera from the
11
Digitized by Coogle
82
room when their odours occasion paro:ryiDll of faiJltiDg and hysteria, to
extract from the eye the foreign substance which occuioos ophthalmia;
remove the tight bandages from a wounded limb which threatens gan·
grene, and apply others more suitable; lay bare and tie up a wounded
artery where hemorrhage produces fainting; evacuate the berries of bel-
ladonna, &e. which may have been swallowed, by vomiting; extract the
foreign particles which have introduced themselrea into the openings of
the body, (the nose, pharynx, ears, urethra, rectum, ngina); grind down
a stone in the bladder ; open the imperforate anus of the new born
infant, &c.
• Not knowing at times what plan to adopt iQ disease, physicians have
till now endeavoured to suppres:J or annihilate some one of the various
symptoms which appeared. This method which is known by the name
of the symptomatic, has vert justly excited universal contempt, not only
because no advantage is derived from it, but because it gives rise to
many bad consequences. A single existing symptom is no more the
disease itself, than a single leg constitutes the entire of the human body.
This method is so inuch the more hurtful in its effects, that in attacking
an isolated symptom, they make use solely of an opposite remedy, (that
is to s'ay, of antipathies or palliatives,) so that after an amendment of
short duration the evil bursts forth again worse than before.
§ R It is not possible to conceive or prove by any ex-
perience, after the cure of the whole of the symptoms of a
disease, together with all its perceptible changes, that there
remains or possibly can remain any other than a healthy state,
or that the morbid alteration which has taken place in the intE;-
rior of the economy has not been annihilated."
• In one who has thus been restored from sickness by- a genuine phy-
sician, so that no trace of disease, no morbid symptom any longer
remains and every token of health has again durably returned, can it for
a moment be supposed, without offering an insult to common sense, that
the entire corporeal disease still resides in such an individual1 and yet
Hufeland, at the head of the old school, makes this ideatical assertion
(in his work on Homceopathy, p. 27, l. 19) in the following words, viz.
"The homceopathist may remove the symptoms, but the disease will
still remain." He affirms this partly out of mortification at the progre$1
and salutary effects of homceopathy, and partly because he en.ttttaina
wholly material ideas of disease, which he is unable to rt'gard as an
immaterial change in the organism, produced by the morbid de~ement
of the vital power; be does not consider it as a changed condition of>
tM
organism, but as a material something, which, after the cure it oomo .
·pleted, may yet continue to lurk in some internal corner of the bcXty; in
order one day or other, at pleasure, and during a period of bloom•
ing health, once mqre to burst forth with it11 material pre~nce ! So
Digitized by Coogle
83
ahocking is atill the delusioa of the old pathology I That such a 9~e
only could produce a therapeutica, solely intent upon cleansing out the ·
poor P,Uient, is not surprising.
t 9. In the healthy condition of man, the immaterial vital
principle which animates the material body, exercises an abso-
lute sway and maintains all its parts in the most admirable
order and harmony, both of sensation and action, so that
our indwelling rational spirit may freely employ these living,
healthy organs for the superior purposes of our existence.
i 10. The material organism deprived of its vital principle,
is incapable of sensation, action, or self-preservation• ; it is the
immaterial vital principle only, animating the former in its
healthy and morbid condition, that imparts to it all sensation
and enables it to perform its functions.
. * It is then dead and subjected to the physical laws of the e:rtemal
world; it suffers decay and is again resolved into its constituent ele-
ments.
§ 11. In disease this spontaneous and immaterial vital prin-
ciple pervading the physical organism, is primarily deranged
by the dynamic iniluence ofa morbific agent which is ini~cal
to life. Only the vital principle thus disturbed; can give to the
organis~ its abnormal sensations ·and incline it to the irregular
actions which we call disease ; for as an invisible principle
only cognizable through it& operations in the organism, its mor-
bid disturbances can be perceived solely by means of the ex-
pression of disease in the sensations and actions of that side of
the organism exposed to the senses of the physician and by-
'ltanders, in other'words, by the morbid symptoms, and can be
ind~ted in no other manner.
§ 12. It is solely the morbidly affected vital principle which
brings forth diseases,* so that the expression ofdisease, percepti-
ble by the senses, announces at the same time all the internal
ehange, that'is, all the morbid perturbations of the vital prin-
ciple ; in. s~, it displays the entire disease. Consequently,
after a cure.~~ft'~ted, the cessation of all morbid expression,
and of all sen,aible changes which are inconsistent with the
-~· ' .. .;_
Digitized by Coogle
84
healthy performance of the functions, necessarily pre-supposes,
with an equal degree of certainty, a restoration of the vital
principle to its state of integrity and the recovered health of·
the whole organism.
• In what manner the vital principle produces morbid indications in
the system, that is, how it produces disease, is to the physician a use-
less question, and therefore will ev&r remain unanswered. Only that
which is necessary for him to know of the disease, and which is fully
sufficient for the purpose of cure, has the Lord of life rendered evident
to his sen.es.
§ 13. Disease,· therefore, (those forms of it not belonging
to manual surgery,) considered as it is by the allreopathists as
something separate from the living organism and the vital prin-
ciple which animates it, as something hidden internally, and
material, how subtile soever its nature may be supposed, is a
non-entity, which could only be conceived in heads of material
mould, and which for ages, hitherto, has given to medicine all
those pernicious deviations which constitute it a mischievous
art.
; 14. There is no curable malady, nor any invisible morbid
change, in the interior of man, which admits of cure, that is
not made known by morbid indications or symptoms to the
physician of accurate observation-a provision entirely in con-
formity with the infinite goodness of the all-wise Preserver of
men.
; 15. The sufferings of the immaterial vital principle which
animates the interior of our bodies, when it is morbidly dis-
turbed, and the mass of symptoms produced by it in the
organism, which are externally manifested, and represent the
actual malady, constitute a whole-they are one and the same.
The organism is, indeed, the material instrument of life ; but
without that animation which is derived from the instinctive
sensibility and control of the vital principle, its existence is as
inconceivable as that of a vital principle without an organism;
consequently, both constitute a unit-although, for the sake of
ease in comprehension, our minds may separate this unity into
two ideas.
Digitized by Coogle·
85
~ 16. By the operation of injurious influences, from 'Without,
upon the healthy organism, influences which disturb the har-
monious play of the functions, the vital principle, as a spiritual
dynamis, cannot otherwise be assailed and affected than in a
(dynamic) spiritual manner; neither can such morbid disturb-
ances, or in other words, such diseases, be removed by the physi-
cian, except in like manner, by means of the spiritual (dynamic
virtual) countervailing agency of the suitable medicines acting
upon the same vital principle, and this action is commnnicated
by the sentient nerves every where distributed in the organism;
so that curative medicines possess the faculty .of restoring, and
do actually restore health, with concomitant functional harmony,
bya dynamic influence only, acting upon the vital energies, after
the morbid alterations in the health of the patient which are
evident to the senses (the totality of the symptoms) have
represented the disease to the attentive and observant physician
as fully as may be requisite ~o effect a cure.
917. As the cure which is effected by the annihilation of
all the symptoms of a disease removes at the same time the
internal change upon which the disease is founded-that is to
say, destroys it in its totality1-it is acccordingly-clear, that the
physician has nothing more to do than destroy the totality of
the symptoms in order to effect a simultaneous removal of the
internal change-that is, to annihilate the disease itself. ' But
by destroying disease we restore health, the first and sole duty
of the physician who is sensible of the iinportauce of his
calling, which consists in affording relief to his fellow mortals,
and not in discoursing dogmatically/"
• A dream, a presentiment resulting from a superstitious imagination,
a solemn prediction, impressiilg a person with the belief that lie wiJl in-
fallibly die on a certain day and at a certain hour, have often produced
the embryo uf the growing disease, the signs of approaehing death, and
even death itself at the hour prognosticated. Such effects could never
take place without some change having been operated in the interior of
the body, correspon~ing with the state which manifested itself externally.
In cases of this nature, it has also sometimes happened, that by deceiving
the patient or insinuating a contrary belief, it has succeeded in dissipating
all the morbid appearances which announced the approach of death, and
suddenly restored him to health : circumstances· that never could have
Digitized by Coogle
86
taken place w1thout annihilating at the same time, by this moral remedy,
the internal morbid change of which death was to be the result.
• The wisdom and goodness of the Creator in the cure of disease to
which man is subject, could not be more manifest than in developing to
the physician the incidents, in the malatly to be removed, openly to the
observation of the physician in order for their removal and the conse-
quent restoration of h~alth. But what would be thought of those divine
attributes if (as the prevalent school of medicine, hitherto affecting a
supernatural insight of the internal nature of things, have pretended,) he
had veiled what is to be cured in disew in mystic darkness, wrapt it
in concealmeat within, and thus rendered it impossible for man to know
distinctly the malady, and the cure equally impossible.
; 18. From this incontrovertible truth, that beyond the
totality of the symptoms there is nothing discoverable in
diseases by which they could make known the nature &r the
medicines they stand in need of, we ought naturally to conclude
that there can be no other indication whatever than the enatmbh
of the symptoms in each individual case to guide us in the
choice ofa remedy.
§ 19. As diseases are .nothing more than changes in the
, general state ofthe human economy which declare themselves by
symptoms, and the cure being impossible except by the conver-
sion ofthe dileaaed state into one of health, it may be readily con-
ceived. that medicines could never cure disease if they did not
possess the faculty of changing the general state of the system,
which consists of sensation and action, and that their curative
virtues are owing to this faculty alone.
§ 20. By a mere effort of the mind we could never discover
this innate and hidden faculty of medicines-this spiritual
virtue by which they can modify the state of the human body
and even cure disease. It is by experience only, and observa-
tion of th~ effects produced by their induence on the -general
state of the economy, that we can either discover or form to
ourselves any clear conception of it.
; 21. The curative powers of medicines being nowise
discoverable in themselves, a fact which few will venture to
dispute, and the pure experiments which have been made even
by the most skilful observel'8 not exhibiting any thing to our
Digitized by Coogle
87'
view which could be capable of rendering them medicines or
curative remedies, except the faculty which they possess of
producing manifest changes in the general state of the human
economy, particularly with persons in health, in whom they
excite morbid symptoms of a very decided character ; we ought ·
to conclude from this, that when medici• act all fe~edies
they cannot exercise their curative virtue but by the facultyt
which they possess of modifying the ~eral state of the \
economy, and giving birth to peculiar symptoms~ · Conse- 1
quently, we ought to rely solely upon the morbid appearances '
which medicines excite in healthy persons, the only possible..
manifestation of the curative virtues which they PQJSCSS, in ,
order to learn what malady each of them produces individually, ':
and at the same time what diseases they are capable of curilli· I
§ 22. But, as we can discover nothing to remove in disease .
in order to change it into h~alth, except the ensemble of the '
• symptoms ; as we also perceive nothing curative in medicines
but their faculty of producing morbid symptoms in perS()ns
who are healthy, and of removing them from those who are
diseased, it very naturally follows that medicines assume the
character of remedies, and become capable of annihilating
disease in no other manner than by exciting particular appear-
ances and symptoms ; or to express it more clearly, a certain
artificial disease which destroys the previous symptoms-that
is to say, the natural disease which .they intend tQ cure. On
the other hand, if we wish to destroy the entire symptoms of a
disease, we ought to choose a medicine which has a tendency
to excite similar or opposite symptoms, according to that
which experience may point out to us as the easiest, safest, and •
most permanent means of removing the symptoms of the j'
disease, and of restoring health, whether it be by opposing to
the latter medicinal symptoms that are similar or contrary.*
• Besides these two, there is no other mode of applying medicines in
disease but the allreopathic, and in this latter, remedies are administered
which produce symptoms that bear no reference whatever to those of the
disease itself, being neither similar nor contrary, but wholly heteroge-
neous. I have already shown, in the INTRODUCTION, that thi$ method is
an imperfect imitation ofthe still more imperfect attempts made by the
unintelligent vital powers (when abandoned to their oten reaour<;es) to
Digitized by Coogle
88
•a"e tltemBel"u at all hazards, a power to which the organism was
confided merely to preserve its harmony so long as health continued.
However inapplicable this method may be, it has for so long a time
been practised by the existing school of medicine, that the physician
can no more pass over it unnoticed, than the historian can be silent on
the oppression to which mankind has been subject for ·thousands of
years beneath the absurd rule of despotic governments.
§ 23. From pure experience and the most careful experi-
ments that have beim tried, we learn that the existing morbid
symptoms, far from being effaced or destroyed by contrary
medicinal symptoms like those excited by the antipathic,
enantiopathic, or palliative methods, they, on the contrary,
re-appear more intense than ever, after having for a short
space of time undergone apparent amendment. (Vide § 58-
62, and 69.)
§ 24. There remains, accordingly, no other method of
applying medicines profitably in diseases than the horn<Bo- •
pathic, by means of which we select from all others that
medicine (in order to direct it against the entire symptoms of
the individual morbid case) whose manner of acting upon
persons in health is known, and which has the power of
producing an artificial malady the nearest in rt:semblance to
the natural disease before our eyes.
§ 25. Plain experience,* an infallible oracle in the art of
healing, proves to us, in every careful experiment, that the
particular medicine whose action upon persons in health
produces the greatest ~umber of symptoms resembling those of
the disease which it is intended to cure, possesses, also, in
reality, (when administered in convenient doses,) the power of
suppressing, in a radical, prompt, and permanent manner, the
totality of these morbid symptoms-that is to say, (§ 6-16.)
the whole of the existing disease ; it also teaches us that all
medicines cure the diseases whose symptoms approach nearest
to their own, and that among the latter none admit of exception.
• I do not mean that kind of experience acquired by our ordinary
practitioners after having long combated, with a heap of complicated
prescriptions, a multitude of diseases which they never examined with
eare1 and which (true to the errors of the old l!Chool) they regar4ed as
Digitized by Coogle
89
being already included in our pathology, thinki.og that they perceived in
them some imaginary morbific principle, or some internal anomaly not
less hypothetical. In fact, they were in the habit of seeing something,
but they knew not what they saw, and they arrived at conclusions
which a deity alone could unravel in the midst of so great a concourse
of diverse powers acting upon an unknown subject, a result from which
no information was to be gained. Fifty years of such experience are
like fifty years passed in looking through a kaleidosNpe, which, full of
unknown things of varied colours, revolves continually upon itself:
there would be seen thousands of figures changing their forms every
instant without a possibility of accounting for any one of them.
§ 26. This phenomenon is founded on the natural law of
homreopathy-a law unknown till the present time, although
it has on all occasions formed the basis of every visible cure-
that is to say, a.dynamic disease in the living economy of man is
extinguished in a permanent manner by another that is more
poweiful, when the latte~, (without being of the same species,)
bears a strong r~semblance to it in its mode cif manifesting itself.•
* Physical and moral diseases are cured in the same manner. Why
does the brilliant planet Jupiter disappear in the twilight from the eyes
of him who gazes at it 1 Because a similar but more potent power, the
light of breaking day, then acts upon these organs. With what are we
in the habit of flattering the olfactory nerves when offended by disagree-
able odours'? With s~utf, which affects the nose in a similar manner
but more powerfully. Neither music nor confectionery will overcome
the disgu$.t of smelli.og, because these objects have affinity with the
nerves of other senses. By what Pieans does the soldier eunningly
remove from the ears of the compassionate spectator the cries of him
who runs the gauntlet 1 By the piercing 'tones of the fife, coupled with
the noise ofthe !~rum. By what means do they drown the distant roar
of the enemy's cannon, which carries terror to the hellrl of the soldier'I
By the deep-mouthed clamour of the big drum. Neither the compassion
nor the terror could be suppressed by reprimands or a distribution of
brilliant uniforms. In th1! same manner, .mourning and sadness are
extinguished in the soul when the news reach us (even though they
were false) of a still greatet misfortune occurring to another. The evils
resulting from an excess of joy are mitigated by coffee, which, of itself, .
disposes the mind to impressions that are happy. The Germans, a
nation which had for centuries been plunged in apathy and slavery by
their princes-it was not till after they bad been bowed to t,he dust by
the tyranny of the French invader, that a sentiment of the dignity of
man could be awakened within them, or that they co~ld once more ariae
from their abject condition.
12
Digitized by Coogle
90
927. The curative powers of medicines are therefore
grounded upon Ule faculty which they possess of creating
symptoms similar to those of the disease itself, but which are
of a more intense nature. (9 12-26.) It necessarily follows,
that disease cannot be destroyed or cured in a certain, radical,
prompt and permanent manner, but by the ai~ of a medicine
which is capable of exciting the entire group of symptoms
which bear the closest resemblance to those of the disease, but
which possess a still greater degree of energy.
§ 28. As this therapeutic law- of nature clearly manifests
itself in every accurate experiment and research, it conse-
quently becomes an established fact, however unsatisfactory
may be the scientific theory of the manner in which it takes
place. I attach no value whatever to any explanation that
could be given on this head ; yet the following view of the
subject appears to me to be the most reasonable, because it is
founded upon experimental premises. ·
'
§ 29. E-oery disease (mhich does not belong exclwi-oely to
surgery,) being a purely dynamic and peculiar change of the -oital
pomers in regard to the manner in mhich they accomplish sensation
and action, a change that expresses itself by symptoms mhich are
perceptible to the senses, it therefore folloms, that the homaopathic
medicinal agent, seledted by a skilful physician, mill con-oert it into
another medicinal disease mhich i& analogous, but rather more
intense." By this means, the natural morbific power mhich had
pre-oiously existed, and mhich mas nothing more than a dynamic
power mithout substance, terminates, mhile the medicinal disease
mhich usurps its place lJeing of such a nature as to be easily sub-
dued by the -oital pomera, is likemise .extinguished in its turn, lea-o-
ing in its primiti-oe state of integrity and health the essence or sub-
stance mhieh animates and presenes the body. This hypothesis,
which i:s highly probable, rests upon the following facts.
'
• The brief operation of the artificial morbific powers, which are
denominated medicinal, although they are stronger than natural diseases,
renders it possible .that they may, nevertheless, be more ea11ily over-
powered 'by the vital energies than the latter, which are weaker.
Natural d,iaeases, simply because of their IDOre tedious and burthensome
operatiOD. (as p.,ra, •yphilis, syeoail), c:_annot be overeome or extw-
Digitized by Coogle
,91
guished by the unaided vital energies, until these are more atro.nglr
aroused by the physician, through the medium of a very similar yet
more powerful morbific agent (a hommopathic medicine). Such an
agent, upon its administration, urges, as it were, the insen~ate, instinc-
tive vital energies, and is substituted for the natural morbid affection
hitherto existing. The vital energies now become affected by 'the medi-
cine alone, yet transiently; because its effect (that is to say, the natural
course of the medicinal disease thereby excited,) is of short duration.
Those chronic diseases which (according ,to§ 46) are destroyed on the
appearance of small-pox and measles, (both of which ru11 a course of a
few weeks only,) furnish similar instances of cure.
§ 30. Medicines (particularly as it depends on us to vary
the doses according to our own will), appear to have greater
power in affecting the state of health than the natural morbific
irritation; for natural diseases are cured and subdued by
appropriate medicines.
§ 31. The physical and moral powers, which are called
morbific agents, do not possess the faculty of changing the
state of health unconditionally ;* we do not fall sick beneath
their influence be:ti>re the economy is sufficiently disposed and
laid open to the attack of morbific causes, and will allow itself
to be placed by them in a state where the sensations which
they undergo, and the actions which they perform, are different
from those whic~ belong to it in the normal state. These
powers, therefore, do not excite disease in all men, nor are.they
at all times the cause of it in the same individual.
* When I say that disease is an ab~rration or a discord in the state
of health, I do not pretend by that to give a metaphysical explanation of
the immediate essence of diseases generally, or of any morbid case in
particular. In making use of this term, I merely intend to point at that
which diseases are not, and cannot be; or to express what I have just
proved, that they are not mechanical or chemical changes of the material
substance of the body, that they do not depend upon a morbific material
principle, and that they: are solely spiritual and dynamic changes of the
animal economy.
§ 32. But it is quite otherwise with the artificial morbific
powers which we call medicines. Every real medicine will at
all times, and under eTJery circumstance, work .upon eTJery
living individual, and excite in him the symptoms that are
Digitized by Coogle
92
peculiar to it, (so as to be clearly manifest to the senses when
the dose is powerful enough,) to such a degree, that the whole
of the system is always (unconditionally) attacked, and, in a
manner, infected by the medicinal disease, which, as I have
before said, is not at all the case in natural diseases.
' . .
t 33. It is therefore fully proved by every experiment,* and
observation, that the state of health is far more susceptible of
derangement from the effects of medicinal powers than from
the influence of morbific principles and contagious miasms ; or
what is the same thing, the ordinary morbific principles have only
a conditional and often very subordinate influence, while the medi-
cinal powers e:tercise one that is absolute, direct, and greatly supe-
rior to that of the former. ·
• The following is a striking observation of the kind directly in point :
previously to the year 1801, the genuine smooth scarlet fever of Syden-
ham prevailed epidemically among children, and attacked all, without
exception, who had not escaped the disease in a former epidemic;
whereas, every child who was exposed to one of the kind which came
under my observation in Konigslutter, remained exempt from this highly
infectious disease, if it had timely taken a very small dose of belladonna.
When a medicine can thus evince a prophylactic property against the
infection of a prevalent disease, it must exerdse a predominating influ-
ence over the vital power. ·
, § 34. In artificial diseases produced by medicines, it is not
the greater degree of intensity that imparts to them the power
they possess of curing those which .are naturaL In order
that the cure may be effected, it is indispensable that the
medicines be able to produce in the human body an artificial
disease, similar to that which is to be cured; for it is this resem-
blance alone, joined to the greater degree of intensity of the
artificial disease, that gives to the latter the faculty of substi-
tuting itself in the place of the former, and thus obliterating it.
This is so far a fact, that even nature herself cannot cure an
existing disease by the excitement of a new one that is dissimi-
lar, be the intensity of the latter ever so great; in the same
manner the physician is incapable of effecting a cure when he
applies medicines that have not the power of creating in healthy
persons a morbid state, resembling the disease which is before
him.
Digitized by Coogle
93
§ 35. In order to ill~strate these facts, we will exaQiine
successively in three different cases the proceedings of nature
where two natural diseases that are dissimilar meet together in
the same patient, and also the results of the ordinary treatment
of disease with allceopathie medicines which are incapable of
exciting an artificial morbid state, similar to that of the disease
which is to be cured. This examination will fully prove, on
the one hand, that it is not even in the power ofnature herself .
to cure an existing disease by one that is dissimilar, be the ·
intensity of the la~ter ever so great, and on the other, that even
the most energetic medicines, when not homceopathic, are inca-
pable of effecting a cure. ·
§. 36 I. If the two dissimilar diseaees which meet. together
in the human body have an unequal power, oi' if the oldest of
them is stronger than the other, the new disease will be re.(lulsed
from the body by that which existed before it, and will not be
able to establish itself there. Thus a person already afflicted
with a ~vere chronic disease, will never be subject to an attack
of slight autumnal dysentery or any other epidemic. Accord-
ing to Larry,* the plague peculiar to the Levant never breaks
out in places where scurvy prevails, nor does it ever infect
those who labour under herpetic diseases. According to
Jenner, the rickets prevent vaccination from taking effect, and
Hildebrand informs us that persons suffering under phthisis are
never attacked with epidemic fevers, except when the latter are
extremely violent.
* Mem. and Observ. in the Description of Egypt, tom. i.
§ 37. In the same manner, a chronic disease, of long stand-
ing, will not yield to the ordir~ary mode of cure by allaopathic
remedies, that is to say, by medicines which are incapable of
producing in healthy person& a state analogous to that by which
it is characterised. It resists a treatment of this kind, provided
it be not too violent, even prolonged during several years.
Practice verifies this assertion, it therefore requires no examples
to support !t·
§ 38. II. If the new disease, which is dissimilar to the old,
be more powerful than the latter, it will then cause•its suspension
Digitized by Coogle
94
until the new disease has either performed its own course or
is cured ; but then the old disease reappeara. We are .informed
by Tulpius• that two children having contracted tinea, ceased
to experience any further attacks of epilepsy to which they had
till then been subject ; but as soon as the eruption of the head
was removed, they were again attacked as before. Schmpf
saw the itch disappear when scurvy manifested itself, .and
return again after the cure of the latter ~se.• A violent
typhus has suspended the progress of ulcerous phthisis, which
resumed its march immediately after the cessation of the
typhoid disease.3 When madness manifests itself during a
pulmonary disease, it effaces the phthisis with all its symptoms;
but when the mental alienation ceases, the pulmonary disease.
again rears its head and kills the patient.• Where the measles
and the small-pox exist together, and have both attacked the
same infant, it is usual for the measles, which have already
declareci themselves, to be arrested by the small-pox which
bursts forth, and not to resume their course until after the cure
of the latter ; on the other hand, Manget• has also seen the
smal1-pox, which had fully developed itself after inoculation,
suspended.during four days by the measles which intervened,
and after the desquamation of which, it revived again to run
its course. The eruption of measles on the sixth day after
inoculation has been known to arrest ·the inflammatory opera-
tion of the latter, and the.small-pox did not break out until the
other exanthema had accomplished its seven days' course.' In
an epidemic, the measles broke out among several patieftts four
or five days after inoculation, and retarded until their entire
disappearance the eruption ofthe small-pox, which subsequently
proceeded in a regular manner.7 'fhe true scarlet fever of
Sydenham,• with angina, was arrested on the fourth day by
the manifestation of the cow-pock, which went through its
natural course ; and not before its termination did the scarlet
fever manifest itself again. But as these two diseases appear
to be of equal force, the cow-pock has likewise been seen to
suspend 4tself on the eighth day by the eruption of genuine
scarlatina, and the red areola was effaced until the scarlatina
had terminated its career, at which moment the cow-pock
resumed its course, and terminated regularly.' The cow-pock
was on the point of attaining to its state of perfection on the
Digitized by Coogle
95
eighth day when meaeles broke out, which immediately
rendered it stationary, and not before the desquamation of
which did it,resume and finish its course; so that, according
to the report of Kortum,10 it presented on the sixteenth day the
aspect which it usually wears on the tenth. The vaccine
virus has been k,nown to infect the system even where the
measles had already made their appearance, but it did not
pursue its course until the measles had passed away; for this
we have also the authority of Kortum.11
· I have myself had an opportunity ofseeing a parotid angina
disappear immediately after the development of the cow-pock.
It was not till after the cow-pock had terminated, and the
disappearance of the red areola of the vesicles, that a great
swelling, attended with fever, manifested itself in the parotid
and su,b-maxillary glands, which ran its ordinary course of
seven days.
It is the samt in all diseases that are dissimilar; the stronger
one suspends the 'IDeaker, (except in eases where they blend
together, which rarely occurs in acute diseases}; but they ne11er
cure each other reciprocally.
1 Obs. lib. i. obs. 8. • In Hufeland's Journal, XV. ii.
1 Chevalier, in Hufeland's neuesten Annalen der franz. Heilknnde.
ii. p. 192. .
' Mania phthisi superveniens ellm cum omnibus suis phmnomenis
aufert, verum mox redit phthisis et occidit, abeunte mania. Reil,
Memorabilia Fasc. III. v. p. 171.
6 Edinb. Med. Comment. T. I. i.
eJ. Hunter on the Venereal Disease.
T Rainey, Edinb. Med. Comment. iii. p. 480.
a It has also been very accurately described by Withering and Plenciz,
and differs greatly from purpura, to which they often give the name of
scarlet fever. Only within the last few years have both, originally very
different diseases, approached more or less to each other in their
symptoms.
• Jenner, in the Annals of Medicine for August, 1800, p. 747.
10 In Hufeland's Journal, XX. iii. p. 50. 11 Loc. cit.
§ 39. The ordinary schools of medicine have witnessed all
these effects during whole centuries. They have seen that
nature .was never in any instance capable of curing a disease
by adding another, whatever degree of intensity the latte.-
Digitized by Coogle
96
might possess, if it was not similar to the pre~xisting disease.
What opinion, then, ought we to form of these schools of
medicine, which continued, notwithstanding, to treat chronic
diseases with allreopathic remedies-that is to say, with sub-
stances which were scarcely ever able to excite any thing else
but a disease dissimilar to the affection that was to be cured 1
And though physicians had never before regarded nature with
a due share of attention, would it not still have been possible
for them to discover, from the miserable results of their mode
of treatment, that they were pursuing a wrong path, which
could only lead them still farther from their purpose 1 Could
they not see that in having recourse (according to their usual
practice) to violent allreopathic remedies in chronic diseases,
they did nothing more than provoke an artificial malady
dissimilar to the primitive disease, which certainly had the
effect ofextinguishing the latter so long as the other continued
to exist, but which suffered it to reappear as soon as the
diminished powers of the patient could no longer support the
vigorous attacks of allreopathy on the vital principle 1 It is in
this manner that strong purgatives, frequently repeated, cause
eruptions ofthe skin t~ disappear pr~tty quickly; but when the
patient can no longer endure the dissimilar disease that has
been violently kindled in the vitals, and is compelled to discon-
tinue the purgatives, then the cutaneous eruption either
flourishes again in its former vigour, or the internal psoric
affection manifests itself by some bad symptom or another,
while, in addition to the primitive malady, (which is not in the
least degree diminished,) indigestion ensues, and the vital
powers are exhausted. Thus, also, when ordinary physicians
insert seions, and excite ulceration of the surface of the body,
for the purpose of destroying chronic diseases, they net~er
accomplish the object they have in view-that is to say, they
net~er perform a cure, because those factitious cutaneous ulcers
are perfectly foreign and allreopathic to the internal disease ;
but the irritation produced by many cauteries being often a
more powerful disease than the primitive morbid state,
(although at the same time dissimilar,) it frequently has the
power of silencing the latter for a short time, which is nothing
more than a suspension of the disease obtained at the expen¥ of
the patient, whose powers are thereby gradually diminished.
Digitized by Coogle
97
An epilepsy which had been suppressed during several years
by issues, constantly re-appeared more violent than ,before
whenever the exuditories were allowed to heal up, as attested
by Pechlin* and others. But purgatives are no more allreo-
pathic in regard to psora, or issues in respect of epilepsy, than
the compounds of unknown ingredients employed till the
present time in ordinary practice are so in relation to the other
innumerable·forms of disease. These mixtures do nothing
more than weaken the patient, and suspend the evil for a very
shorrspace of time without being able to cure it, while their
continued and repeated use, as it frequently happens, adds a
new.disease to the old one. •
• Obs. Phys. Med. lib. 2, obs. 30.
.§ 40. III. Or it sometimes occurs that ~he new disease, after
having acted for a considerable period upon the system, joins
itself finally to the old dissimilar one, presenting together a
complicated form of disease, but in such a manner that each of
them, notwithstanding, occupies a particular region of the
economy, installing itself in those organs with which it sympa-
thises,·and abandoning the others to the diseases tqat are
dissimilar. Thus a venereal affection may turn to .one that is
psoric, and 'Vice 'Dersa: These two dinasea being dissimilar, they
are incapable of annihilating or curing each other. Venereal
symptoms are effaced and suspended, in the first instance, as
soon as a psoric eruption commences ; but, in the progress of
time, the venereal affection being at least quite as powerful as
the psoric, the tw!> unite together1-that is to say, each seizes
merely upon those parts oHhe organism that are appropriate to
it individually, by which the patient is rendered worse, and the
cure more difficult than before. In a case where two con-
tagious acute diseases meet together, bearing no analogy to
each other, (such as, for example, the small-pox and the
measles,). one of them ordinarily suspends the other, as before
stated. However, there have been some extraordinary instances
in violent epidemic diseases, whe_re two dissimilar acute
maladies have simultaneously attacked the body of the same
individual, and become, so to express it, complicated for a short
time. In an epidemic where the small-pox and the measles
13
Digitized by Coogle
98 .
reigned together, there were about three hundred cases in
which one of these maladies suspended the other, and in which
the measles did not break forth until twenty days after the
eruption of the small-pox, and the latter till from seventeen to
eighteen days after that of the measles-that is to say, until
after the first disease had run its entire course ; but there was
a single instance in which P. Russell2 met with these two
dissimilar maladies simultaneously in the same patient.
Rainer saw the small-pox and the measles together in two
little girls; and J. Maurice• remarks that he never met with
more than two instances of this kind in the whole course of his
practice. Simill!r examples may be found in Ettmuller,' and a
·few other writers. Zencker8 saw the cow-pock pursue its
course in a regular manner conjointly with ll).easles and
purpura ; and Jenner likewise observed it pursue its course
tranquilly in the midst of a mercurial treatment directed
against the venereal disease.
• The cures which I performed of these kinds of cpmplicated diseases,
together with the accurate experiments which I have made, have con-
vinced me that they do not arise from an amalgamation of twodiseases;
but that the latter exist aeparaJely in the organism, each occupying the
parts that are most in harmony with it. In short, the cure is effected in
a very complete manner by administering alternately, and at the proper
time, mercurials and antipsorics, each according to its approriate dose
and preparation.
a Transactions of a Society for the Improvement of Med. and Chir.
Knowledge, vol. ii.
a Med. Comment. of Edinb. iii. p. 480.
• Med. and Phys. Journal, 1805.
6 Opera, ii. p. i. cap. 10. • In Hufeland's Journal, xvii.
§ 41. The complication or co-existence of several diseases
in the same patient, resulting from a long use of medicines that
were not homceopathic, is far more frequent than those to
which nature herselfhas given birth. The continued applica-
tion of inappropriate medicines finishes by adding to the
natural disease which it is intended to cure, such fresh morbid
symptoms as those remedies are capable of exciting according
to the nature of their special properties. These symptoms not
being capable of curing by analogous counter irritation, (that
is to.say, homceopathically,) a chronic disease to which they
Digitized by Coogle
99 '
bear no similitude, gradually associate themselves to the latter,
and thus add a new factitious disease to the old one, so that the
patient becomes considerably worse, and far more difficult to
cure. There are ,many observatio!ls and cases cited in the
medical journals and treatises that support this assertion.
One proof of it is also to be met with in the frequent cases of ,
the venereal chancrous disease, especially when complicated ,
with psora, and even with gonorrhea sycotica, which,
far from being cured by considerable and repeated doses of
, inappropriate mercurial preparations, station themselves in the
organism alongside of the chronic mercurial disease which
developes itself gradually,• and form together a monstrous
complication generally designated by the name of masked
. syphilis (pseudo-syphilis), a state of disease which, if not
absolutely incurable, cannot at least but with .the greatest
difficulty be changed to that of health.
• For besides the morbid symptoms analogous to ihose of the venereal
disease, which would be capable of curing the same hommopathically,
mercury produces a crowd of others which bear no resemblance what-
ever to those of syphilis, and which, when administered in large doses,
especiaUy where there is a complication with psora, as is frequently the
case, engenders fresh evils, and commi_ts terrible ravages on the body.
9 42. Nature, as I have before said, someti_mes permits the.
coincidence of two. and even three spontaneous diseases in one
and the same body ; but it must be observed, that this compli-
cation never takes place but in diseases that are dissimilar, and
which, according to the eternal laws of nature, cannot anni-
hilate or cure each other reciprocally. Apparently this is
&xecuted in such a manner that the two or three diseases
divide, if we may so express it, the organism between them,
and,each takes possession of the parts that are best suited to it
individually ; a division which, in consequence of the want
of similitude between them, can very well take place without
doing injury to the unity of the vital principle.
'
§ 43. But the result is very different when two diseases that
are similar meet together in the organism-that is to say, when
an analogous but more- powerful di~ase joins itself to the pre-
existing mal~y. It is true that we here see how a cure is
572066
Digitized by Coogle
100
performed according to nature, and how man is to proceed in
effecting the same object.
§ 44. Two diseases tbat resemble each other closely can
neither repel (as in the first of the three preceding hypotheses,
1.), nor suspend each other (as in the second, II.), so that the old
one re-appears after the cessation of the new one; nor, finally,
(as in the third, III.), can they exist beside each other in the
same organism, and form a double or complicated disease.
§ 45. No! Two diseases that differ greatly in their
species,' but which bear a strong resemblance in their develop-
ment and effects-that is to say, ·in the symptoms which
they produee, always mutually destroy each other when they
meet together in the systell). The stronger annihilates the
weaker ; nor is it difficult to conceive how this is performed.
Two dissimilar diseases may co-exist in the body, becatise their
dissimilitude would allow of their occupying two distinct
regions. But, in the present case, the stronger disease which
makes its appearance, exercises an influence upon the same
parts as the old one, and even throws itself, in preference, upon
those which have till now been attacked by the latter, so that
.the old disease finding no other organ to act upon, is necessarily
extinguished.2 Or to express it in other terms, as soon as the
vital powers, which have till then been deranged by a morbific
cause, are attacked with greater energy by a new power very
analogous to the former, but more intense, they no longer
receive any impression but from the latter, while the preceding
one, reduced to a state of mere dynamic power without matter,
must cease to exist. ·
' See the note attached to §26.
11 In the same way that the light of a lamp is rapidly effaced from the
retina by a sunbeam which strikes the eye with greater force.
§ 46. Many examples might be adduced where nature has
cured diseases homceopathically by other diseases which
excited similar symptoms. But if precise and .indisputable
facts alone be required, it will be necessary to confine .our-
selves to the few diseases which arise from some permanent
Digitized by Coogle
101
miasm, and constantly preserve their identity, for which reason
they ought to receive a distinct appellation. '
The foremost that presents itself among these affections is
the small-pox, so famous for the violence and number of its
symptoms, and which has cured a multitude of diseases that
were characterised by symptoms similar to its own.
Violent ophthalmia, extending even to the loss of sight, is
one of the most ordinary occurrences in the small-pox ;
whereru,; Dezoteux' and Leroy3 have each reported ,cases of
chronic ophthalmia which were cured in a perfect and perma-
nent manner by inoculation.
A case of blindness of two years' standing brought on by the
metastasis of tinea, was, according to Klein,3 perfectly cured by
the small-pox. How often has the small-pox cured deafhess
and oppressed ·respiration 1 J. F. Closs• has seen it cure both
these affections when it had reached its highest state of
intensity.
Considerable _
enlargement of the testicle is a frequent
~ymptom in small-pox, and, according to Klein,S it has been
known to cure homceopathically a large hard swelling of the
left testicle, the consequence·of a contqsion. Another observer'
has seen it cure a similar swelling of the testicle. .
Dysentery is one of the bad symptoms which occur in
small-pox-for this reason it cures the former disease homceo-
pathically, as in a case reported by P. Wendt.7
The small-pox which comes on after vaccination destroys
the latter immediately, and does not permit it to arrive at per-
fection, both because it is more powerful than the cow-pock,
and bears a close resemblance to it. By the same feason,
when the cow-pock approaches to its term of maturity, it·
diminishes and softens, in a very great degree, the small-pox
which has just broken out, and causes it to assume a milder
form, as witnessed by Miihry8 and many others. .
The· cow-pock, in addition to the vesicles which protect
from ~niall-pox, excites also a general cutaneous eruption of
another kind. This exanthe!Jla consists of sharp-pointed
pimples, usually sniall, seldom large and suppurating, dry,
resting u.pon a small red areola, frequently interspersed with
small round spots of a red colour, and sometimes attended with
severe itching. In many children it precedes by several days
Digitized by Coogle
102
the appearance of the red areola of the cow-pock. But most
often it manifests itself afterwards, and disappears in a few
days, leaving small hard red spots on the skin. It is by r.eason
of this other exanthema, and the analogy which it bears to the
same, that the cow-pock, the moment it takes, removes in a
permanent manner those cutaneous eruptions which exist in
some children, _and which are often troublesome and of long
standing. This has been attested by numerous observers.'
Vaccination, whose special symptom is a swelling ofthe arm,10
cured, after its eruption, the tumefaction of an arm that was
half paralysed.U
The vaccine fever, which takes place at the period of the
formation of the red areola, has, according to the information
of Hardege,12 cured two cases of intermittent fever hommo-
pathically; which confirms the remark formerly made by J.
Hunter,13 that two fevers (or diseases that are similar) can
never exist together in the body.t
The measles and hooping cough resemble each other both in
regard to the fever and the character of the cough. This was
the reason that Bosquillon14 observed, during an epidemic of
measles and hooping-cough, that·among the children who had .
the former there were many entirely free from the latter. All
of them would have been exempt from hooping-cough for ever
after, and also beyond the reach of the contagion of measles, if
the hooping-cough was not a disease that only resembled the
measles partially-that is, if it produced an eruption of the
skin analogous to that of' the latte~: ; thus the measles are
able to preserve but a certain number of children hommo-
pathically from the hooping-cough, nor can th'ey do this for a
longer period than during the continuance of the reigning
epidemic.
But when the measles come in contact wfth a disease that
resembles them in the principal symptom, viz. the. eruption,
they can beyond a doubt annihilate and cure it hommopa-
thically. It was under such circumstances that the eruption
of measles cured a chronic tetter16 in a prompt, durable, and
perfect manner, as observed by Kortum.18 A miliary eruption
that covered the neck, face, and arms, during a period of six
years, attended with insupportable heat, and which returned at
every change of weather, was reduced to a simple swelling of
Digitized by Coogle
103
the skin on the appearance of measles ; after the cessation of
the latter, the miliary eruption was eured and never re-
appearedP
1 Traite de !'Inoculation, p. 189.
1 Heilkunde fiir Mutter (Medical Treatis~ for the use of Mothers),
p. 384. .
a Interpres Clinicus, p. 293.
4 Neue Heilart der Kinderpocken (New System for the Cure of
Small-pox), Ulm, 1769, p. 68. and Specim. Obs. No. 18.
6 Loc. cit. 8 Nov. Act. Nat. Cur. vol. i. obs. 22.
., Nachricht von dem Krankeninstitut (Directions of the Medical
Board) at Erlangen,·1783.
s hi R. Willan on Vaccination.
s Particularly Clavier, Hurel, and Desormeaux, in the Bulletin des Sc.
Med. de l'Eure, 1808. Journal de Medecine continue, xv. 206.
10 Balhom, in Hufelilnd's Journal, X. ii.
u Stevenson, in Duncan, Annals of Med. Lustr. ii. vol. i. sec,. 2.
No.9.
•• In Hufeland's-Journal, xxiii.
"Ueber die venerische Krankheit, (on the Venereal Disease), p. (.
t In the former editions of ·the Organon, I have cited cases where
chronic diseases have been cured by psora, which, according to the dis-
coveries I have made known in the first part of my Treatise on Chronic
Disea8es, can only be partially regarded as homreopathic cures. The
great affections which werethus obliterated (such as suffocating asthma
and phthisis of many years' standing,) already owed their origin to some
psoric cause. The symptoq1s of a psoric eru,Ption of long standing,
which were completely developed in the system, and threatened the life
of the patient, were reduced by the appearance of a psoric eruption
caused by ,a new infectionf to the simple form of primitive psora, by
which means the old disease, with its alarming symptolils, were
removed. This return to the primitive form cannot, therefore, be re-
garded as a homreopathic cure of the old psora but in this sense, tb,at the
new infection places the patient in a much more favourable way of being
subsequently_cured of the entire psora by antipsoric medicines.
14 Cullen's Elements of Pract. Med. part. ii, I. 3, ch. 7.
16 Or at least thi11 symptom was removed.
18 In Hufeland's Journal, XX. ii. p. 50. 17 Rau, loc. cit. p. 85.
~ 47. No instructions can be more simple and persuasive
than these, to direct the physician in the choice of the sub-
stances- (medicines) which are capable of exciting artificial
diseases, in order that he may be·enabled to cure in a prompt
and durable manner according to the course of nature.
§ 48. All the preceding examples prove to us that neither
Digitized by Coogle
104
the efforts of nature, nor the skill of the physician, have ever
been able to cure a disease by a dissimilar morbific power,
whatever energy the latter may have possessed; also, that a
cure is not to be obtained but by a morbific power capable of
producing symptoms that are similar, and, at the same time, a
little stronger. The cause of this rests with the eternal and
irrevocable law ofnature, which was hitherto not understood.
§ 49. We should have met with a much greater number of
those truly natural horrireopathic cures, if, on the one hand,
observers had been more attentive to the subject, and, on the
other, nature had at her disposal more diseases capable of
effecting homreopathic cures.
§ 50. Even nature herself has no other homreopathic
agents at her command than the miasmatic diseases which
always retain their identity, such as itch, measles, and small-
pox.* But of these morbific powers, the small-pox and the
measles are more dangerous and terrific than the maladies
which they cure; and the other, psora, demands itself, after
the performance of a cure, the application of a remedy that is
capable of annihilating it in its tum: both ofthese are circum-
stances that render their use as homooopathic remedies difficult,
uncertain, and dangerous. And how few are the diseases to
which man is subject, that would :find their homreopathic cure
in psora, measles, or small-pox! Nature can, therefore, cure
but a very limited number of diseases with those ·hazardous
remedies. Their 'use is attended with considerable danger to
the patient, bec~use the doses of these morbific agents cannot
be varied according to circums~ces, as in the .case with
doses of medicine, and in curing an analogous disease of. long
standing, they weigh down the patierit with the dangerous
burden of psora, measles, and small-pox. Notwithstanding
this, we have many examples where their favourable junction
has produced the most perfect homreopathic cures, which are
a living commentary upon the sole therapeutic law of nature-
cure with medicines that are capable of exciting symptoms ana-
logous to those of the disease itself.
*And the exanthematic miasm which is contained in the cow-pock
lymph. ·
Digit zed by Coogle
105
§ 51. These facts will more than suffice to reveal to the
understandings of men the great law which has just been
declared. And behold the advantage which man has here
over rude nature, whose acts are not guided by reflection !
How are the homreopathic morbific powers multiplied in the
various medicines which are spread over the creation, all of
which are at his disposal, and may be brought to the relief of
his suffering fellow-mortals ! With these, pe can create
morbid symptoms as varied as the countless natural diseases
which they are to cure. With such precious resources at his
command, there can be no necessity for those violent attacks
upon the organism to extirpate an old and obstinate disease,
and the transition from the state of suffering to that of durable
health is effected in a gentle, imperceptible, and often speedy
manner.
§ 52. After such evidence and examples, it is impossible
for any reasonable physician to J>ersevere in the ordinary
allreopathic treatment, or continue to apply remedies whose
effects have no dire~t or homreopathic relation with the chronic
disease that is to be cured, and which attack the body in the
parts that are least diseased, by exciting evacuations, counter-
irritation, derivations, &c.* It is impossible that he can persist
in the adoption of a method which consists in exciting, at the
expense of the powers of the patient, the appearance of a ·
morbid state entirely different from the primitive affection, by
administering strong doses of mixtures which are for the most
part composed of drugs whose effects are unknown. The use
of such mixturescan have no other result but that which.pro-
ceeds from the general law of nature when one dissimilar
disease joins itself to another in the animal economy-that is
to say, the chronic affection, Jar from being cured, is, on the con-
trary, always aggra'Dated. Three different effects may then
take place :-1st. If the allreopathic treatment, though of long
duration, be gentle, the natural disease remains unchanged,
and the patient will only have lost a portion of his strength,
because, as we have seen before, the disease which already
exists in the body will not permit a new dissimilar one that is
weaker to establish itself there likewise. 2d. When the
14
Digitized by Coogle
106
~conomy is attacked with violence by allreopathic medicines,
the primitive disease will yield for a time ; bnt it re-appears,
with at least the same degree of vigour as before, the moment
this treatment is interrupted, because, as before stated, of two
concurrent diseases, the new one, which is the stronger,
destroys and suspends for a time that which existed before it,
which is weaker and dissimilar. 3d. Finally, if large doses of
allreopathic medicines be continued for a length of time, this
treatment only adds a new factitious disease without ever
curing the primitive one, and renders the cure still more
difficult, because, as we have already seen, when two dissimilar
chronic affections of equal intensity meet together, one takes
up its station beside the other in the system, and both are
simultaneously established.
* See the introduction, "A View," ete., and my book-Die Allreopa-
thie, ein Wort der Warnung an Kranke jeder Art.-Leipzig, bei Baum-
gArtner.
§ 53. These cures are, as we see, performed solely by
means of homreopathy, which we have at length attained to,
by consulting reason and taking experience for our guide
(§ 7-25). By this method alone can we cure disease in the
most speedy, certain, and permanent manner, because it is
grounded upon an eternal and unerring law of nature.
§ 54. I have before remarked (§ 43-49) that there is no
true method but the homreopathic ; because, of the only three
modes of employing medicines in disease, this alone leads in a
direct line to a mild, safe, and durable cure, without either
injuring the patient or diminishing his strength.
§ 55. The second mode of employing medicines in disease,
is that which I term the allreopathic, or heteropathic, which has
been in general use till the present time. Without ever
regarding that which is really diseased in the body, it attacks
those parts which are sound, in order to draw off the malady
from another quarter, and direct it towards the latter. I have
Digitized by Coogle
107
already treated of this method in the Introduction, and therefore
will not s~ak of it farther.
§ 56. The third and last mode of employing medicines in
disease is the antipathic, enantiopathic, or palliative. By this
method, physicians have, till the present time, succeeded in
affording appar~nt relief, and gained the confidence of their
patients by deluding them with a temporary suspension of their
sufferings. We will now show its inefficacy, and to what
extent it is even injurious in diseases that run their course
rapidly. In fact, this is the only feature, in the treatment
employed by allreopathists, that bas any direct reference to the
sufferings occasioned by the natural disease. But in what
does this reference consist1 In precisely that which ought
most to be avoided if we would not delude and mock the
patient.
§ 57. An ordinary physician who proceeds upon the anti-
pathic method, pays attention to one symptom only-that of
which the patient complains loudest, and neglects all the
others, however numerous. He prescribes against this symp-
tom a medicine that is known to produce the very opposite
effect; f~r, according to the axiom contraria contrariit laid
down fifteen hundred years ago by the old schools of medicine,
it is from this remedy that he expects the most speedy relief
(palliative). Accordingly, he administers strong doses of
opium in pains of every description, because this substance
rapidly benumbs the feeling. He prescribes the same drug in
diarrhrea, because in a short time it stops the peristaltic move-
ment of the intestinal canal, and renders it insensible. He
administers it likewise in cases qf insomnolence, because it
produces a state of he~de and stupor. He employs purga-
tives when the patient has for a long time been tormented with
constipation. He plunges a hand that bas received a burn
into cold water, because its icy quality appears suddenly to
remove the pain as if by enchantment. When a patient com-
plains of a sense of cold and loss of vital heat, he places him in
a warm bath, whereby heat is immediately restored. Any one
complaining ot habitual weakness, is ·advised to take wine,
which immediately re-animates and appears ro refresh him.
Digitized by Coogle
108
Some other antipathies-that is to say, medicines opposed to
the symptoms-are likewise employed ; but independent of
those I have just enumerated there are not many, because
ordinary physicians are only·acquainted with the peculiar and
primitive effects of a very small number of medicines.
§ 58. I will pass over the defect (see the note to § 7) which
this method has in attaching itself to but one of tke '!fmptomB,
and consequently but to a small part of the whole, a circum-
stance from which nothing could evidently be expected for the
amelioration of the entire disease, which is the only thing the
patient aspires to. I will now ask, if experience can show me
a single case where the application of these antipathic remedies
in chronic or permanent diseases, and the short relief which
they have procured, has not been followed by a manifest
aggravation, not only of the symptoms thus palliated in the
first instance, but what is more, of the entire disease 1 Every
one who has paid attention to the subject will concur in saying,
that after this slight antipathic amendment which lasts only for
a short time, the condition of the patient in-cqriably becomu
zoorse, although the ordinary physician endeavours to account
for this too. palpable augmentation, by attributing it to the
malignity of the primitive dise~, which, acoording to his
account, only then began to manifest iU!elf." ·
* However unaccustomed physicians may have been till the present
time to make correct observations, it could not have escaped their
notice, that disease infallibly increases after the use of palliatives. A
striking example of this nature is found in ·J. H. Schulze, (DUs. qua ,
corpcri8 Aumani momentanearum alterationum specimina quada1n
expenduntur. Halle, 1741, §28). Something similar to this is attested
by Willis (Pharm. rat. sec. 7. cap. i. p. 298) :-Opiata dolores atrocis-
simos plerumque sedant atque indolentiam•.... procurant, eamque .•.•
aliquamdiu et pro stato quodam tempore continuant, quo spatio elapso,
doloru mox recrudescunt et brelli ad soU'tam ferociam augentur.
And p. 295 :-Exactis opii "iribus illico redeunt tormina, nee atroci-
tatem tuam remittunt, nisi dum ab eodem pharmaco rursus incantan-
tur. J. Hunter (in his Treatise on the Venereal Disease, p. 13) says
that wine increases the energy of persons who are weak without bestow-
ing on them any real vigour ; and that the vital powers sink afterwards
in the same proportion as they have been stimulated, so that the patient
gains nothing by it, but, 'on the contrary, loses the greater part of his
strength.
Digitized by Coogle
109
§ 59. No severe symptQm of a permanent disease has ever
been treated by these opposite remedies and palliatives, where
the evil did not re-appear after a few hours, more aggravated
than before. Thus, to cure an habitual tendency .to sleep
during the day, coffee was administered, the first effects of
which are excitement and insomnolence ; but the moment that
its :first action was exhausted, the propensity to sleep returned
stronger than ever. When a person was subject to frequent
waking at night, without any regard being paid to the other
symptoms of the disease, opium was administered at bed-time,
which, by virtue of its primitive action, produces sleep, stupor,
and hebetude; but on the following night the evil only became
still more aggravated in consequence. Alike ·regardless of the
other symptoms, opium was administered in chronic diarrhrea,
be~ause its primitive effect is to constipate the bowels ; but the
alvine Jlux, after having been suspended for some time,
re-appeared more grievous than before. Acute and frequent
pains of all descriptions were momentarily calmed beneath the
influence of opiwn, which blunts and benumbs the feeling ; but
they never failed to return with greater violence than before,
or they were even sometimes replaced by another disease of a
worse description. The ordinary physician knows no better
remedy for a cough of long standing, which bec~!fles worse at
night, than opium, whose first effects remove all kinds of
irritation ; for the first night it may very well happen that the
patient experiences some relief, but on the succeeding nights
the cough returns more distressing than ever ; and if the
physician persists in combating it with the same palliative by
gradually increasing the dose, nocturnal perspirations and
fever will then be added to the previous complaint. It has
been imagined, that tincture of cantharides, which stimulates
the urinary passages, would remedy a weakness of the bladder,
and the retention of urine which results from it; it may, indeed,
effect some forced emissions ofurine, but in the end the bladder
is only rendered less irritable and less susceptible of contraction,
while paralysis of the bladder is likely to foliow. Physicians
have flattered themselves that they could subdue an inveterate
tendency to constipation by purgatives admin.istered in large
doses, which provoke frequent and abundant alvine evacua-
tions; but the secondary effect of this treatment is generally
Digitized by Coogle
110
that of constipating the bowels in a still greater degree. An
ordinary physician prescribes wine as a remedy in chronic
debility ; but it is only the primitive action of this agent that is
stimulating, and its definitive results are those of reducing the
powers still more.
It has been imagined that bitters and spices would warm and
strengthen the cold and inactive stomach ; but the secondary
effect of these heating palliatives is to increase the inactivity of
the gastric viscera. Warm baths have been prescribed in cases
of rigors and an habitual deficiency of the vital heat ; but on
coming out of the water the patients are still weaker, more
incapable ofreceiving warmth, and more subject to rigors than
they were before. Immersion in cold water instantly relieves
the pain occasioned by a severe burn ; subsequently, however,
this pain is increased to an· insupportable degree, and the
inflammation extends to the neighbouring parts.• To cure
grav:edo of long standing, sternutatories are prescribed, which
excite the pituitarysecretion ; and it has not bee~ perceived
that the final result of this method was always that of aggra-
vating the evil which it was intended to cure. Electricity and
galvanism, which at first exercise great influence upon the
muscular system, quickly restore activity to members that have -
for a long time been feeble and nearly paralysed ; but the
secondary effect is absolute annihilation of all muscular irrita-
bility and entire paralysis. It has been said that venesection is
a fit remedy to stop long continued congestions of blood in the
head; but this mode is always succeeded by a still greater deter-
mination of blood to the upper parts of the body. The sole
remedy that physicians in ordinary know to apply in cases
where the moral and physical powers are inactive and half
paralysed, which are predominant symptoms in different kinds
oftyphus, is valerian, administered in strong doses, because this
plant is Qne of the most powerful excitants they are acquainted
with; but it escaped their notice, that the excitement which vale-
rian produces is merely its primitive effect, and after the re-action
of the organism, the stupor and the incapability of motion-that
is to say, the paralysis of the body, and the debility of the mind,
increase-they have not observed that the' patients on whom
they lavished doses of the antipathic valerian, are precisely
those who have suffered the greatest mortality. In short, the
Digitized by Coogle
111
former schools of medicine have never calculated how often
the secondary effects of antipathic medicines have tended to
increase the malady, or even bring on something that was still
- worse, of which experience has given us examples that are
enough to inspire the soul with terror. ·
"' See the close of the Introduction.
§ 60. When these grievous consequences (which naturally
might have been expected from the use of antipathic remedies)
begin to manifest themselves, the ordinary physician imagines'
that he will be delivered from his embarrassment if he adminis-
ters a stronger dose each time that the evil grows worse. But
from this also, there results nothing but momentary relief,
while from the necessity in which he selils himself of constantly
augmenting the dose of the palliative, it sometimes follows that
a still severer malady declares itself-sometimes that life is
endangered, and even ~hat the patient falls a sacrifice. A
disease of long standing or of inveteracy has ne11er been cured
by such means.
§ 61. 1fphysicians had been capable of reflecting upon the sad
results of the application of antipathic remediesy they would long
ago ha11e arri11id at the great truth, that ·a path directly opposite
would lead them to a method of treatment by '11Jhich they might cure
disease perfectly ~nd permanently. They would then have
discovered, that if a mec:licinal effect, contrary to the symptoms
of the malady (antipathic treatment), only procures momentary
relief, at the expiration of which the evil constantly grows
worse; by the same rule the inverse method-that is to say, the
homreopathic application of medicines, administered according to
the analogy existing between the symptoms they excite and
those of the disease itself, substituting, at the same time, for the
enormous doses that were in use, the smallest that could possi-
bly be applied-must necessarily bring about a perfect and
permanent cure. But notwithstanding all these arguments-
notwithstanding the positive fact, that no physician ever per-
formed a permanent cure in chronic diseases but in proportion
as the prescriptions included some predominant homreopathic
medicine-notwithstanding another fact no less clear, that ,
Digitized by Coogle
112
nature never accomplished a speedy and perfect cure but by
means of a similar disease which she added to the old one
O 46); notwithstanding all this, physicians have, during so
many centuries, never arrived at a truth on which alone
depended the safety of the patient.
9 62. The source of all these pernicious results of palliative
antipathic treatment, and the salutary effects proceeding from
the reverse method, the hommopathic, will be sufficiently
explained in the following observations, which are drawn from
experience, and a number of facts that have hitherto escaped
the notice of every other physician, although they were imme-
diately before the view, perfectly evident in their nature, and
of the deepest importance to the medical art.
; 63. Every agent that acts upon the human economy,
every medicine produces more or less some notable change in
the existing state of the vital powers, or creates a certain
modification in the health of man for a period of shorter or
longer duration : this change is called the primitive effect.
Although this is the joint effect of both a medicinal and a vital
power, it belongs, notwithstanding, more particularly to the
former, whose action is exercised upon the body. But our
vital powers tend always to oppose their energy to this influence
or impression. The effect that results from this, and which
belongs to our conservf~,tive vital powers and their automatic
force, bears the name of secondary effect or re-action:
9 64. . So long as the primitive effects of artificial morbific
agents (medicines) continue their influence upon a healthy
body, the vital power appears to play merely a passive part, as
if it were compelled to undergo the impression of the medicine
that is acting upon it from without. But, subsequently, this
also appears, in a manner, to rouse itself. Then, if there
exists any state directly contrary to the primitive effect, (a) the
vital power manifests a tendency to produce one (b) that is
proportionate to its own energy, and the degree of influence
exercised by the morbid or medicinal agent ; and if· there
exists no state in nature that is directly contrary to this primi-
tive effect, the vital power then seeks to gain the ascendency
'
Digitized by Coogle
113
by destroying the change that has been operated upon it from
without (by the action of the medicine), for which it substitutes
its own natural state (re-action).
§ 65. Bxarnples of (a} are before the eyes of every one.
A hand that has been bathed in hot water has, at first,
a much greater share of heat than the other that has not
undergone the immersion (primitive effect); but shortly after it
i.s withdrawn from the water, and well dried, it becomes cold
again, and in the end much colder than ·that on the opposite
side (secondary effect). The great degree of heat that accrues
from violent exercise (primitive effect), is followed by shivering
and cold (secondary effect). A man who has overheated him-
self by drinking copiously of wine (primitive effect) .finds, on
the next day, even the slightest current of air too cold for him
(secondary effect). An arm that has been immersed for any
length of time in freezing water, is at first much paler and
colder than the other (primitive effect); but let it be withdrawn
from the water, and carefully dried, it will not only become
warmer than the other, but even burning hot, red, and inflamed
(secondary effect). Strong coffee in the first instance stimuiates
the faculties (primitive effect), but it leaves behind a sensation
of heaviness and drowsiness (secondary effect) which continues
a long time if we do not again have recourse to the same liquid
(palliative). After exciting somnolence, or rather a deep
stupor, by the aid of opium (primitive effect), it is much more
difficult to fall asleep on the succeeding night (secondary
efftlct). Constipation excited by opium (primitive effect) is
followed by diarrhrea (secondary effect) ; and evacuations pro-
duced by purgatives (primitive effect) are succeeded by costive-
ness which lasts several days (secondary effect). It is thus
that the vital power, in its re-action, opposes to the primitive
effects of strong doses of medicine which operate powerfully on
the healthy state of the body, a condition that is directly oppo-
site, whenever it is able to do so.
9 66. But it may be readily conceived that the healthy state
will make no perceptible re-action in an opposite sense, after
weak and homceopathic doses of agents that modify and change
its vitality. On due attention, it is true that even small 4ioses
15 • '
•
Digitized by Coogle
114
produce primitive effects that are perceptible ; but·the re-action
made by the living organism never exceeds the degree that is
requisite for the re-establishment of health.
§ 67. These incontrovertible and self-evident truths which
nature and experience have laid before us, explain, on the one
hand, why the homreopathic method is so beneficial in its
results, and prove, on the other, the absurdity of that which
consists in treating diseases by antipathic and palliative
remedies." ·
* It is merely in urgent and dangerous cases, or in diseases that have
just broken out in persons who were previously in health, such, for
example, as in asphyxia, especially from lightning, suffocation, freezing,
drowning, &c., that it is either admissible or proper, in the first instance
at least, to re-animate the feeling and irritability by the aid of palliatives,
such as slight electric shocks, injections of strong coffee, stimulating
odours, gradual warmth, &c.** As soon as physical life is re-animated,
the action of the organs that support it resumes its regular course, aa is
to be expected from a body that was· in the full enjoyment of health pre-
vious to the accident. Under this head are also included the antidotes
to several poisons, such as alkalis against mineral acids, liver of sulphur
against metallic poisons, coffee, camphor (and ipecacuanha) against
poison by opium, &c.
We must not imagine that a homreopathic medicine h~s been badly
selected in a case of disease, because a few of the symptoms of this
remedy correspond antipathically with some morbid symptoms of minor
or less importance. Provided the other symptoms of the disease, those
which are the strongest and the most developed, and finally those which
characterise it, find in the remedy similar symptoms which cover, extin-
guish, and destroy them, the small number of antipathic symptoms that
are visible disappear of themselves after the remedy has expended its
action, without retarding the recovery in the slightest degree.
•• And yet the new mongrel sect appeal to these remark., though in vain, in
order to find a pretext every where for such exceptions to the general ruie, and
very conveniently to introduce their allmopathic palliatives, accompanied with
other mischief of a like character, merely to spare themselves the trouble ofsearch-
ing for suitable hommopathic remedies for every case of diseue,~ne might •Y•
to save themselves the trouble of being hommopathic physicianS, though they wiah
to be considered such. But their deeds wiU follow them-they are of little
moment.
§ 68. We find, it is true, in homreopathic cures, that the
very minute doses of medicine (§ 275-287) which they
require to subdue and destroy natural ~eases by analogy to
DigitizedbyG ogle
' -·----
115
the symptoms produced by the latter, leave in the organism a
slight medicinal disease which outlives the primitive affection.
,But the extreme minuteness of the dose renders this disease so
slight and· susceptible of dissipating itself, that the organism
has no need to oppose to it any greater re-action than that
which is requisite to raise the existing state to the habitual
degree of health-that is to say, to establish the latter. And •
all the symptoms of the primitive disease being now extinct, a
very slight effort will suffice to accomplish this(§ 65. 6.)
§ 69. But precisely the reverse of this takes place in the
antipathic or palliative method. The medicinal symptom
which the physician opposes to the morbid symptom (such as,
for example, stupefaction, which constitutes the primitive effect
of opium, opposed to an acute pain,) is not wholly foreign and
allreopathic to this latter. There is an evident affinity between
the two symptoms, but it is in'Derse. The morbid symptom is
to be annihilated here by a medicinal symptom opposed to it.
This cannot possibly be· accomplished. It is true the anti-
pathic remedy acts precisely on the diseased part of the
organism, just as certain as the homreopathic ; but it confines
itself to covering, in ~ certain degree, the natural morbid
symptom,, and renderitig it insensible for a c~:~rtain length of
time. During the first moments of the action of the palliative,
the organism undergoes no disagreeabla sensation, neither on
the part of the morbid symptom, nor on that of the medicinal
one, which appear to be reciprocally annihilated and neutralised,
as it were, in a dynamic manner. This, for example, is what
takes place in regard to pain and the stupifying powers of
opium, for, during the first moments, the organism feels as if it
were in health, alike free from the painful sensation and the
stupefacti9n. But as the medicinal symptom that is opposed
cannot occupy in the organism the place of the pre-existing
disease, (as is the case in the homreopathic method, where the
remedy excites an artificial disease similar to the natural one,
but merely stronger,) the vital power consequently not being
affected, by the remedy employed, with a disease similar to
that which had previously tormented it, the latter does not
become extinguished. The new disease, it is true, keeps the
organism insensible, during the first moments, by a kind of
Digitized by Coogle
116
dynamic neutralisation,' if we may so express it, but it soon
dies away of itself, like all medicinal affections; and then it not
only leaves the malady in its forn1cr state, but still more (as
palliatives can llever be administered but in large doses to
afford apparent relief) it compels the organism to produce a state
contrary to that excited by the palliative medicine, and creates
an effect opposite to that of the remedy-that is to say, gives
birth to a condition analogous to the natural disease which is
not yet destroyed. This addition, then, which proceeds from
the organism itself, (the re-action against the palliative), does
not fail to increase the intensity and severity of the disease.s
'rhus the morbid symptom (this single part of the disease)
becomes worse the moment the effect of the palliative ceases, and
that, too, in a degree proportionate to the extent of the dose of the
palliative. And, to continue with the same example, the
greater the quantity of the opium administered to suspend the
pain, in the same degree does the pain increase beyond its
primitive intensity when the opium has ceased to act.3
1 Contrary or opposite sensations in the living economy of man cannot
be permanently neutralised like substances of opposite qualities in the
laboratory of the chemist, where we may see, for example, sulphuric acid
and potash form, by their union, a substance that is entirely different, a
neutral salt that is no longer acid or alkal~ and which not even fire will
decompose. Combinations like these, producing something that is
neutral and durable, can never take place in the ·organs of sensati9n
with regard to impressions of an opposite nature. There is, indeed,
some ·appearance of neutralisation or of reciprocal destruction, but this
phenomenon is of short duration. The tears of the mourner may cease
for a moment when there is some merry spectacle before his eyes, but
soon the mirth is forgotten, and the tears begin to flow again more freely
than ever.
1 However intelligible this proposition may be, it has nevertheless
been misinterpreted and an objection made to it, that a palliative would
be just as well able to cure by its consecutive effect, which resembles the
existing disease, as a homreopathic remedy by its primitive effect. But
in raising this obstacle, it has never been considered that the consecutive
effect is by no means a product of the remedy, that it always arises from
the re-action exercised by the vital powers of the organism, and that
consequently this re-action of the vital powers, by reason of the applica-
tion of a palliative, is a state similar to the symptom of the disease
which this remedy failed to annihilate, and which consequently was
aggravated by the re-action of the vital power against the palliative.
1 As in a dungeon where the prisoner scarce distinguishes \he objects
o;g;zedbyGoogle
--~-- ---- ---
117
that are immediately before him, the flame of alcohol spreads around a
consolatory light; but when the flame is extinguished, the obscurity is
then greater in the same proportion as the flame was brilliant, and now
the darkness that envelops him is still more impenetrable, and he has
greater difficulty than before in distinguishing the objects around him.
§ 70. From all that has been here stated, the following
truths must be admitted :-
1st. There is nothing for the physician to cure in disease
but the ~offerings of the patient ; and the changes in his state
of health which are perceptible to the senses-that is to say,
the totality or mass of symptoms by which the disease points
out the remedy it stands in need of; every internal cause that
could be attributed to it, every occult character that man might
be tempted to bestow, are nothing more than so many idle
dreams and vain imaginings.
2d., That state of the organism which we call disease, cannot
be converted into health but by the aid of another affection of
the organism, excited by means of medicines. The experi-
ments made upon healthy individuals are the best and purest
means that could be adopted to discover this virtue.
3d. According to every known fact, it is impossible to cure
a natural disease by the aid of medicines which have the
faculty of producing a diSiimilar artificial state or symptom in
healthy persons. Therefore the allreopathic method can never
effect a real cure. Even nature never performs a cure, or
annihilates one disease by adding to it another th.at is dis-
similar, be the intensity of the latter ever so great.
4th. Every fact serves to prove, that a medicine capable of
exciting in healthy persons a morbid symptom opposite to the
disease that is to be cured, never effects any other than
momentary relief in disease of long standing, without curing
it, and suffers it to re-appear, after a certain interval, more
aggravated than ever. The antipathic and purely palliative
method is, therefore, wholly opposed to the object that is to be
attained, where the disease is an important one, and of long
standing. .
5th. The thiro method, the only one to which we can still
have recourse (the homreopathic), which employs against the
totality of the symptoms of a nJtural disease; a medicine that is
capable of exciting in healthy persons symptoms that closely
•
Digit zed by Coogle
118
. resemble those of the disease itself, is the only one that is really
salutary, and which always annihilates disease, or the purely
dynamic aberrations of the vital powers, in an easy, prompt,
and perfect manner. In this respect, nature herself furnishes
the example when, by addin~ to an existing disease a new one
that resembles it, she cures it promptly and effectually.
§ 71. As it is no longer doubted that the diseases of man-
kind consist merely of groups of certain symptoms which
cannot be destroyed but by the aid of medicines, and the
inherent faculty which those substances possess of exciting
morbid symptoms similar to those of the natural disease, the
points to be considered in the mode of treatment are the three
following :-
1st. By what means is the physiciiln to arrive at the neces-
sary information relative to a disease, in order to be able to
undertake the cure 1
2d. How is he to discover the morbific powers of medicines-
that is to say, of the instruments destined to cure natural
diseases 1
3d. What is the best mode of applying these artificial
morbific powers (medicines) in the cure ofdisease?
§ 72. Relative to the first point, it will be necessary for us
to enter here into some general considerations. The diseases
of mankind resolve themselves into two classes. The first are
rapid operations of the vital power departed from its natural
condition, which terminate in a shorter.or longer period oftime,
but are always of moderate duration. These are called acute
diseases. The others, which are less distin~t and often almost
imperceptible on their first appearance, seize upon the organism,
each according to his own peculiar manner, and remove it by
degrees so far from the state of health that the automatic vital
energy which is destined to support the latter, and whic}l is
called vital power, cannot resist but in a useless and imperfect
manner ; and not being potent enough to extinguish them her-
self, she is compelled to allow them to grow l}ntil, in the end,
they destroy the organism. The latter are known by the
appellation of chronic diseases, and are produced by infection
from a chronic miasm. ·
Digitized by Coogle
119
§ 73. As to acute diseases, they may be classed undet two
distinct heads. The first attack single individuals, and arise
from some pernicious cause to which they have been exposed.
Immoderate excess in ~ither eating or drinking, a want of neces-
sary aliment, violent impressions of physical agents, cold, heat,
fatigue, &c., or mental excitement, are the most frequent causes.
But for the most part they depend upon the occasional aggra-
vation of a latent psoric affection, which returns to its former
sleep and insensibility when ihe acute affection is not too
violent, or wheii it has been cured in a prompt manner. The
others attack a plurality of individuals at once, and develope
ihemselves here and. ihere (sporadically} beneath the sway of
meteoric and telluric influence, of whose action but few persons
are at ihe moment susceptible. Nearly approaching to these
are those which attack many individuals at the same time,
arising from similar causes, and exhibiting symptoms that are
analogous (epidemics) ; and usually become contagious when
they act upon close and compact masses of human beings.
These maladies or fevers' are each of a distinct nature, and the
individual cases which manifest themselves being all of ihe
same origin, they invariably place the patients every where in
one identical morbid state, but which, if abandoned to them-
selves, terminate in a very short space of time, either by a cure
or death. War, inundations, and famine, frequently give rise
to these diseases, but they may likewise result from. acute
miasms, which always re-appear beneath the .same form, for
which reason they are designated by particular names ; some
of which attack man .but once during life, such as the small-
pox, measles, hooping-cough, the scarlet2 fever of Sydenham,
mumps, &c., and others which may seize him repeatedly, such
as the plague, yellow-fever, Asiatic cholera, &c.
1 The homreopathic physician, who does not share the prejudices of
the ordinary sc;hools of medicine-thal is·to say, who does not, like them,
fix the number of those fevers to a certain few, forbidding nature to pro-
duce any others, nor affiXes particular names to them in order that he
may follow this or that mode of treatment-he does not acknowledge
the appellations ofjail fever, bilious fever, typhus, putrid fever, pituitous
fever, but cures all these diseases individually by a treatment suited to
the symptoms they present.
• Subsequent to tbe year 1801, a putple miliary fever came from the
west of Europe, .which physicians have confounded with scarlatina,
Digitize~ by Coogle
120
althoqgh the signs of these two affections are entirely different, and
aconite is the curative and preservative remedy of the first, and bella-
donna of the second, while the former always ast~umes the epidemic
character, and the latter is mostly sporadic. Of late years, both these
two affections appear to have been combined into a particular $pecies ot
eruptive fever, against which neither of these two remedies were found
perfectly homreopathic.
~ 74. Under the class of chronic diseases, we have unfor-
tunately to reckon those numerous factitious maladies of
universal propagation, arising from the long continued
administration, by the allreopathists, of violent heroic medi-
cines in large and increasing doses, from the abuse of calomel,
corrosive sublimate, mercurial ointments, nitrate of silver,
iodine and its ointment, opium, valerian, bark and quinine,
digitalis purpurea, hydrocyanic acid, sulphur and sulphuric
acid, long cor:ttinued evacuants, venesection, leeches, setons,
issues, &c., by which the vital power is either unmercifully
weakened, or, if it be not indeed exhausted, gradually becomes
so abnormally altered, (in different manners, according to the
particular medicine administered,) that, in order to support life
against such hostile and destructive assaults, it must effect
changes in the organisation, and either deprive this or the
other part of its sensibility or irritability, or exalt these pro-
perties to excess, produce dilatation or contraction, relaxation
or induration" of parts, or else totally destroy them, and here
and there induce organic changes, both internally and exter-
nally, (maim, as it were, the interior and exterior of the body,)
in order to protect the organisation against the entire destruc-
tion of life, from the reiterated assaults of such hostile and
destructive influences.
; When, at length, the patient sinks, his physician who had prescribed
such a course of treatment, takes care, on a po8t mortem examination, to
exhibit to the disconsolate relatives, these internal organic derangements
(which are due to his own unsk.ilfulness) as the original and incurable
complaint.
~ 75. The most distressing and unmanageable chronic
maladies affecting the human system, are those which have
been superinduced by the unskilful treatment of the allreopa-
thists, (in modern times most injurious;) and I regret to say,
Digitized by Coogle
121
that when they have attained a considerable height, it would
seem as if no remedy could be discovered or devised for' their
cure.
§ 76. The Dispenser of all good has granted us aid, by.
means of homceopathy, for the removal of natural diseases only;
but those which have been superinduced by a false art-those
in which the human organism has been maltreated and crippled,
both internally and externally, by means of pernicious medi-
caiion, the vital power'itself, provided, indeed, ifit be not already
too much enfeebled by such assaults, and can employ, unin-
terruptedly, whole years to the.serious process, the vital power
must remove those factitious diseases, (assisted by appropriate
aid directed against a chronic miasm, which probably still lies
concealed within). An art of healing, intended for re-establish-
ing to their normal condition those countless morbid changes
of the body, which are often induced by tl?.e mischievous arts
ofallceopathy, does not, nor cannot exist.
§ 71. · The name chronic is very improperly applied to those
diseases which attack persons who are constantly exposed k>
baleful influences.from which they might have screened them-
selves......,persons who constantly make ·Use of aliments or drink
that are hurtful to ·the system-who commit excesses that are
injurious to health-who are every moment in want of the
articles necessary to support life-who inhabit unwholesome
countries, and, above all, marshy places-who live in cellars
a,nd other confined dwelli_
ngs-'-who are. deprived of air and
exercise-who are exhausted by immoderate labour of the
mind or body~who are consull,led by perpetual ennui, &c.
These diseases, or rather these. privations of health, brought on
by individuals, disappear of themselves by a mere change of
regimen, provided there is no chronic miasm in the body, but
they cannot be called chronic diseases. . ,
§ 78. The true natural chronic diseases are those which are
produced by a chronic miasm, making continual progress in the
body when no specific curative rem6dy is opposed to them, and
which, notwithstanding all imaginable care both with regard to
. the regimen of the body and mind, never cease tormenting the
16
Digit zed by Coogle
122
patient with an accumulation of miseries that endure till the
latest peri~ of his existence. These are the greatest and
most frequent scourges of the human species, since the most
robust constitution, the best regulated life, and the greatest
energy of the vital powers, are insufficient to extinguish them.
§ 79. Hitherto, syphilis only was in some measure known
as one of these chronic miasmatic diseases, which, being
uncured, continued to the end of life. Sycosis, which likewise
cannot be subdued by the vital powers alone, has never been
regarded as a distinct species of chronic disease depending on
an internal miasm ; and it was supposed to be cured when the
excrescences on the skin were destroyed, while no attention
was paid to the source which still continued to exist.
§ 80. But a chronic miasm that is incomparably greater
and far more important than either of the two last named, is
that of ·psora. The two others disclose the specific internal
affection whence they emanate-the one by chancres, and the
other by excrescences in the form of a cauliflower. It is not
until the whole of the organism is infected, that psora declares
its huge internal chronic miasm by a cutaneous eruption
(sometimes consisting only in a: few pimples) that is wholly
peculiar to it, accompanied by insupportable tickling, volup-
tuous itching, and a specific odour. This psora is the sole
true and fundamental cause that produces all the other count-
less forms of disease* which, under the names of nervous
debility, hysteria, hemicrania, hypochondriasis, insanity, melan-
choly, idiocy, madness, epilepsy, and spasms of all kinds,
softening of the bones, or rickets; scoliasis and cyphosis, caries,
· cancer, fungus hrematodes, pseudomorphre of all kinds, gravel,
gout, hremorrhoids, jaundice and cyanosis, dropsy, amenorrhea,
gastrorrhagia, epistaxis, hemoptysis, hematuria, metrorrhagia,
asthma and phthisis ulcerosa, impotency and sterility, deafness,
cataract and amaurosis, paralysis, loss of sense, pains of every
kind, &c., appear in our pathology as so many peculiar,
distinct, and independent diseases.
• It has cost me twelve years of study and resear.ch to trace out the
source of this incredible number of chronic affections.:.._to discover this
great tru.th which remained concealed from all my predecessors and
Digitized by Coogle
123
cotemporaries-to establish the basis of its demonstration, and fin4 out,
at the same time, the principal antipsoric remedies that were fit to com-
bat this hydra in all its different forms. My observations on this subject
' have been given to the world in the TreatiBe on Chronic Diseaau
which I published in the year 1828-30, iv. vols. Dresden, by Arnold.
(Second edition. 1835.) - ·
Until I had examined the depths of this important matter, it was
impossible for me to teach the..mode of subduing all chronic diaeases but
as isolated and individual affections by the medicinal substances that
were till then known according to their effects upon healthy persons ; so
that the followers of my method treated each case of chronic disease
separately as a distinct group of symptoms, which, however, did not pre-
vent their cure to such an extent that suffering humanity had good cause
to rejoide at the newly discovered systeQl of medicine. But how much
more satisfactory must it be, now that remedies have been discovered
which are still more homceopathic for the cure of chronic d.iseases that
.owe their origin to psora ! from among which the physician, who is truly
skilled in his art, will select only such whose medicinal symptoms cor-
respond best with thoae of the ehronic disease which it ia intended to
cure.
; 81. The progress of this ancient miasm through the
organisms ofmillions ·of individuals in the course of sorne hun-
dreds of generations, and the extraordinary degree of develop-
ment which it has by these means acquired, will explain, to a
certain extent, why it is able at present to make its appearance
beneath so many different forms, especially if we contemplate
the multiplicity of circumstances1 that usually contribute to the
manifestation of this great diversity of chronic affections,
. (secondary symptoms of psora), besides the infinite variety of
their individual constitution. It is, therefore, not surprising
that such different organisms, penetrated by the psoric miasm,
and exposed to so many burtful influences, external and
internal, which ofte,n act upon them in a permanent manner,
should also present such an incalculable number of diseases,
changes, and sufferings, as those. which have, till the present
time, been cited by the old pathologr as so many distinct
diseases, describing them by a number of particular namu.
• Some ofthese causes, which, in modifying the manifestation of psora,
give to it the form of a chronic disease, evi<tently depend, in a certain
degree, either on climate and the natural situation of the dwelling, or on
the diversities of the physical and moral education of youth, which haa,
in some instances, been either neglected or too long delayed, and in
Digitize~ by Coogle
124
others carried to excess, or on the abase of it in respect to regimen,
passions, morals, customs, and habits.
• How many are found among them whose names bear more significa-
tions than one, and by each of which very different diseases are desig-
nated, that have no connection with each other but by a single symptom 'l
Such as ague, yello1D jaundice, dropay, phthiaia, leucorrhrea, Aamorr-
hoida, rheumatiam, apoplexy, apaama, hyateria, hypoclwndriaaia,
melancholy, inaanity, angina, paralyaia, &c., (tr::T in tf\ia country,
dyapepaia, lit~er complainl, diaeaae of the apine, and other fashionable
terms,) which are represented as fixed diseases that always preserve
their identity, and which, by reason of the name they bear, are always
tr.
eated upon the same plan. How can we justify the identity of medical
treatment by the adoption of a name 'l And if the treatment is not
always to be the same, why make use of an identical name, which also
supposes a coincidence ill the manner of being attacked by medicinal
agents 'l Nihil aane in artem medicam peatiferam magia unquam
irrepait malum quam generalia quredam nomina morbia imponere
iiaque aptare t~elle generalem .quandam medicinam: it is thus that
Huxham, a physician as enlightened as he is admired for his candour,
has expressed himself. (Op. Phys. Med. t. i.) Fritze likewise com-
. plains (Annalen, i. p. 80) that the same names have been given to
diseases that are essentially different.
Even epidemic diseases, which are probably propagated by a specific
miasm in each particular case of epidemy, receive names from the exist-
ing medical school, as if they were fixed diseases, already known and
always returning under the same form. It is thus they speak of hoapital
Jet!er, jailjtt~er, camp fever, biliouajtt~er, nen:ouafet~er, mucouajtt~er,
&c., although each epidemic of these erratic fevers manifests itself
beneath the aspect of a new disease that never existed before, vatying
considerably both in its course and in the most characteristic symptoms,
and also in its whole department. Each of them differs so widely from
all the anterior epidemics, whatever names they bear, that it is overturn-
ing every principle in logic to give to diseases so manifestly different
from each other one of those names that have been introduced into the
pathology, and then to regulate the Uledical treatment according to a
name that has been so abused. Svdenhamalone discovered the truth of
this (Oper. cap. 2, de morb. epid. p
.43); for he insists upon the neces-
sity of never believing in the identity of one epidemic disease with an-
other that had manifested itself before, or of treating it according to this
affinity, because the epidemics which exhibit themselves successively
have all differed from each other. Animum admiratione percellit,
quam diacolor et aui plane diaaimilia morborum epidemicorum faciea;
. qure tam aperta horum morborum dit~eraitaa tum propriia ac aibi pecu-
liaribua aymptomatia, tua etiam medendi ratione, quam hi ab illia dia-
parem aibi tlindicant, aatia illuceacit. Ex vuibua conatat morboa
epidemicoa, utut e~tema quatantenua apecie et aymptomatu aliquot
utriaque pariter con,enir~ paulio incautioribu• trideantur, re tamett
Digitized by Coogle
.. ~ ~
196
i~a, •i bene adtJerteria animum aliena Ule admodum indolil et dil-
tare ut ara lupinil. .
·From all this, it is clear that these useless names of diseases, which
are so much abused, ought to have no influence whatever upon the plan
of treatment adopted by a ·true physician who knows that he is not to
judge of and treat diseases after the nominal resemblance of a symptom,
but according to the totality of the signs of the individual state of each
patient; his duty is, therefore, to search scrupulously for diseases, and
not to build his opinion upon gratuitous hypotheses.
Should it, however, be thought sometimes necessary to have names
for diseases in order to render ourselves intelligible in a few words to
the ordinary classes when speaking of a patient, let none,be made use of
but such as are collective. We ought to say, for example, that the
patient has a species of chorea, a species of dropsy, a species of nervous
fever, a species of ague, because there certainly do not exist any diseases
that are permanent and always retaining their identity, which deserve
these denominations or others that are analogous. It is thus we might
by degrees dissipate the illusion produced by the names given to
di~eases.
§ 82. Although the discovery ofthis great source of chronic
affections has advanced the. science of medicine some steps
nearer to that of the nature of the greater number of diseases
that present themselves for cure, still the hoiD<llopathic physi-
cian, at every chronic disease (psoric) that he is calleq upon to
treat, ought not to be less careful than before in seizing upon
the perceptible symptoms, and every thing that is connected
with them ; for it is no mor:e possible in these diseases than in
others to obtain a real cure without particularising each
individual caile in a rigorous and absolute manner. It is only
necessary to distinguish whether the disease is acute or
chronic, because, in the first .case, the principal symptoms
develope themselves more rapidly, the image of ihe malady is
found in a much shorter time, and there are far fewer enquiries
to be made, because the grea~t part of the signs are of them-
selves more evident to the senses• than is the case in chronic
diseases of several years' standing, whose symptoms are ascer-
tained with greater difficulty.
~
• According to this, the method I ,am about to point out for the dit-
covery of the symptoms is only suited in a partial degree to acute
4iseases. ·
§ 83. This examination of a particular case of disease,
Digitized by Coogle
126
wi*h the intent of presenting it in its formal state and indi-
viduality, only demands, on .the part of the physician, an
unprejudiced mind, sound understanding, attention and fidelity
in observing and tracing the image of the disease. I will con-
tent myself, in the present instance, with merely explaining the
general principles of the course that is to be pursued, leaving
it to the physician to select those which are applicable to each
particular case.
§ 84. The patient details his sufferings ; the persons who
are about him relate what he has complained of, how-he has
behaved himself, and all that they have remarked in him.
The physician sees, hears and observes, with his other senses,
whatever there is changed or extraordinary in the patient. He
writes all this down in the v~ry words which the latter, and the
persons around him, made use of. He permits them to con-
tinue speaking to the end without interruption,• except where
they wander into useless digressions, taking care to exhort
them, at the commencement, to speak slowly, that he may be
enabled to follow them in taking down whatever he deems
necessary.
• Every interruption breaks the chain ofideas of the person who speaks,
and things do not afterwards return to his memory in the same shape he
would at first have described them.
§ 85. At each new circumstance related by the patient or
the persons present, the physician commences another line, in
order that the symptoms may all be written down separately,
and stand one beneath the other. By this mode of proceeding,
he will be 'enabled to add to that which has, in the first
instance, been related to him in a vague manner, any thing he
may subsequently acquire from a more ac_
curate knowledge of
the case.
§ 86. When the patient and those about him have finished
all they had to say, the physician then asks for more precise
information with regard to each individual symptom, and pro-
ceeds as follows :-He reads over all that has been communi-
cated to him, and asks at each particular symptom, tor
example-At what epoch did this or that circumstance occur 1
Digitized by Coogle
127
Wa.S it previous to the use of the medicines wQ,ich the patient.
has taken till the present time, or while he was taking them, or
only a few days after he had discontinued their u~e 1 What
kind i>f pain, what particular sensation was it that was felt in
such or such a part of the body 1 Which the precise spot that
it occupied 1 Did the pain come on in separate attacks at
intervals, ·or was it lasting and uninterrupted1 How long did
it continue 1 At what hour of the day·or night, and in what
part ofthe body, was it most violent, or where and when did it
cease entirely? .What was the precise, nature of this or that
particular circumstance or symptom 1
§ 87. Thus the physician causes all the indications which
were given ip the first instance to be described to him more
closely, without ever appearing, by his manner of putting th~
question, to dictate the answer,* or place the patient in such a
position that he·shall have nothing to reply but yes or no to his
question. To act otherwise would only lead the person inter-
rogated to deny or affirm a thing that is false, or only half true,
or even wholly different from that which has really occurred,
according as it may suit his conveniencer or for the purpose of
gratifying the physician. An unfaithful description of the
disease would then result, and, consequently, an inappropriate
choice of the curative remedy.
* For instance, the physician ought never to say-" Did not such or
such a thing take place in this manner 1" By giving this turn to his
questions, he puts a false reply into the mouth of the patient, and draws
from him a wrong indication.
§ 88. If in this spontaneous narrative no mention is made
of several parts or functions of the body, and of the state of
mind of·the patient, the physician may then ask if there is not
something more to be said respecting this or that particular
part or function, or relative to the disposition .and state of
mind,t taking care, at the same time, to confine himself to
general terms, in order that. the person who furnishes the
explanation may, thereby, be constrained to answer categori-
cally upon these various points.
t For example-Has the patient had an evacuation from his bowels 1
How does he pass water-freely or otherwise 1 How does he rest by
Digitized by Coogle
12S
day and by night J What is the state of mind and temperof the patient1
Is he thirsty 1 What kind of taste has be in the mouth1 What kinds of
food and drink are most agreeable to him, and which are those he dis-
likes 1 Do the different articles taste as usual, or have they another
taste that is wholly different 1 How does he feel after meals 1 Hue
you auy thing more to tell me relative to the head, belly, or limbs 1
. § 89. When tbe patient (for it is to him we are to refer, in
preference, for every thing that relates to the sensations he
experiences, except in diseases where concealment is observed)
l1as thus personally given the necessary details to the physician,
and furnished him widl a tolerable image of the malady, the
latter is then at liberty to question him more specifically if he
finds he is not yet sufficiently informed on the subject.•
*For example-How often have the bowels been evacuated, and
what was the nature of the discharges 1 Did the whitish discharges
consist of mucus or f~eces 1 Were they painful or otherwise 1 What
was the precise nature of these pains, and in what part were they feh1
What dJd the patient throw up 1 Is the bad taste in the mouth putrid,
bitter, or acid, or what kind of taste is it 1 Does he experience this
taste before, during, or after eating or drinking 1 At what part of the
day does he feel it in particular1 What kind of taste was connected
with the eructation 1 Is the urine turbid at first, or does it only become
so after standing a while 1 Of what colour was it at the time of emis.-
sion 1 What was the colour of the sediment 1 ·Is there any peculiarity
in the state of the patient when he sleeps 7 Does he sigh, moan, speak,
or cry out 1 Does he start in his llleep 1 Does he snore in inspiration
or expiration 7 Does he lie on his back only, or on which side does he
lay himself? Does he cover himself up close, or does he throw off the
bed covering 1 Does he easily awake, or does he sleep too soundly 1
How does he feel on waking 1 How often does this or that symptom
oceur, and on what occasion 1 Is it when the patieot is sitting up, lying
down, standing up, or when he is moving about 1 Does it oome on
merely when he has been fasting, or at le~t early in the mof&ing, or
simply in the evening, or only after meals, or if at oth~r times, when 1
When did the shivering come on 1 Was it merely a sensation of cold,
or was he actually cold at the time 1 In what part of the body did the
patient feel cold 1 Was his skin warm when he complained' of being
cold 1 Did he experience a sensation of cold without shivering'1 Did
~e.feel heat, without the face being flushed 1 What parts of his.body
were warm t.o the touch 1 Did the patient complain of heat without his
. skin being warm 1 How long did the sensation of cold, or that of heat,
continue 1 When did the thirst come on 1 During the cold or heat 1
Or wu it before or aft!r 1 How intense was the thirst1 What did the
patient ask for to drink1 When did the perspiration co$1le on 7 Was
Digitized by Coogle
129
it at t)le commencement or at dre expiration of the heat 1 What apace
of time elapsed between the heat and the perspiration 1 Was it when
sleeping or waking that it manifested itself? Was it strong or other-
wise 1 Wa!' the per!!piration hot or cold 1 In what parts of the bqdy
did it break out Y How did it smell? What did the patient complain
of before or during the cold, during or after the heat, during or after the
perspir~tion, &c. 1
§ ·90. All the answers being committed to writing, the
physician then notes down what he himself observes in the
patient,* and endeavonrs to ascertain if that which he observes
existed or not when the latter was in health.
*For example-How he behaved during the time of the visit 1 Wu
he irritable, peevish, quarrelsome, hasty, grieved, anxious, despairing,
sad, calm, or resigned 1 Did he appear overcome with sleep, or lost in
reverie 1 Was he hoarse 1 Did he speak low 1 Was his discourse in-
coherent, or how was it 1 Of what colour was the countenance, the
eyes, and the skin, gP,perally 1 What degree of vivacity was there
visible in the face and eyes 'I How was the tongue, the respiration, the
smell from the mouth, or the hearing 1 Were tJie pupils of the eyes
dilated or contracted 1 Did they contract and dilate quickly in light and
darkness, and in what degree 1 What was the !!tate of the pulse 'l
What was the condition of the abdomen 1 Was the skin moist and
warm, cold or dry, upon this or that part of the body, or was it so all
over? Did the patient lie with his head thrown back, with his mouth
wholly or half open, with his arms crossed above his head ; was he on
his back, or in what position was be 1 Did he raise himself with diffi-
1 culty 1 In short, the physician is to keep notes of every thing .be has
observed that is strange and remarkable.
§ 91. The symptoms which appear, and the sensations of
the patient during the use of medicine or shortly after, do not
furnish a true image of the disease. On the contrary, the
symptoms and.the inconveniences which exhibited themselves
pre-oious to t!te use of the medicines, or se-oeral days after their
discontinuance, give the true fundamental notion of the original
form of the malady. These are, therefore, to be noted do~n
in preference by the physician. When the disease is of a
chronic nature, and the patient .has already made use of
remedies, he may be allowed to remain some days without
giving him any medicine, or at least without administering
any thing but substances that are not medicinal. A rigorous
examination may likewise be deferred for the same space of
17
Digitized by Coogle
130
time, because it is the means ofobtaining permanent symptoms
in all their purity, and of being able to form a true representa-
tion of the disease.
§ 92. But where an acute disease is to be treated, so
dangerous in its nature as not to admit of delay, and the
physician can learn nothing of the symptoms that manifested
themselves previous to the remedies, then he is to view the
whole of the existing symptoms as they have been modified by
the latter, in order that he may at least be able to seize upon
the present state of the disease ; that is to say, be enabled to
embrace in one and the same image the primitive disea.Se and
the medicinal affection conjointly. The latter of these being
most frequently rendered more severe, and at the same time
more dangerous than the former, by the application of remedies
that are generally the very opposite of those which ought to
have been administered, they often demand immediate assist-
ance, and the prompt application of the appropriate homreopa-
thic remedy, in order to prevent the patient falling a sacrifice
to the irrational treatment he has undergone.
; 93. If the acute disease has been caused recently: or if
the chronic one has been so for a longer or shorter period of
time by some remarkable event, and if the patient or the
parents, when interrogated secretly, do not disclose this cause,
the physician must then use his .address and prudence in order
to arrive at a knowledge of it.*'
*Should there be any thing humiliating in that which has given birth
to the disease, so that the patient, or those about him, hesitate in avow-
ing the cause, ·or at least in declaring it spontaneously, the physician
ought then to seek to discover it by questions that are skilfully turned,
or by secret enquiries. In the catalogue of these causes are ranked,
poisoning or attempts to commit suicide, onanism, ordinary or unnatural
debauchery, excesses at table, or in the use of wine, cordial!!, punch, and
other spirituous drinks, riotous eating generally, or.especially unwhole-
some food, venereal or psoric affection, disappointed love, jealousy,
domestic disappointments, anger, grief, occasioned by a family misfor-
tune, bad treatment, repressed vengeance, injured pride, embarrassment
in pecuniary affairs, superstitious fear, famine, defect of the organs or
reproduction, hernia, prolapsus, &c.
Digitized by Coogle
131
i 94. On enquiry into the state of n chronic disease, it is
requisite to weigh the particular circumstances in which the
patient may be placed in regard to ordinary occupation, mode
of life, and domestic situation. All these circumstances ought
to be examined, to discover if there is ·any thing that could
give hirth to and keep up the disease, so that by its removal
the cure may be facilitated.*
• By chronic diseases in the female sex, it is, above all, necessary to
pay attention to pregnancy, sterility, amorous desire, accouchement, mis-
carriage, lactation, and the state of the catamenia. As regards the
latter, it is always necessary to ask if it returns at too short intervals, or
at others that are too distant, how long it continues, if the blood flows
uninterrupted or only at intervals, if the flow is copious, if it be of a dark
colour, if leucorrhma appears before or after ; what is the state of the
body and mind previous to, during, and subsequent to the menses; if
the female is attacked with leucorrhcea, of what nature is it; in what
quantity does it appear, and under what circumstances, and on what
occasion did it manifest itself.
i 95. In chronic affections, the symptoms before enu-
merated, and every other appertaining to the malady, ought to
be examined as rigorously as possible, going into all their
minutire. In short, it is in these diseases that they are most
developed, and least resemble those of acute affectidns ; they
also require to be studied with the utmost care if the treatment
is to succeed. On the other hand, the patients are so accus-
tomed to their long sufferings; that they pay little or no atten-
tion to the lesser symptoms which are often very characteristic
of the disease, and decisive in regard to the choice of the
remedy; they look upon them as though they were in a
manner belonging to their physical state, and constituted a
part of that health, the real sentiment of which they had for-
gotten during the_ fifteen or twenty years their sufferings have
endured, and never entertain a suspicion that there can be
any connection between these symptoms and the principal
disease.
§ 96. Added to this, the patients themselves are of such
very opposite tempers, that some, particularly the so called
hypochondriacs, and others who are sensitive and impatient,
depict their sufferings .in . lively colours, and make use of
Digitized by Coogle
132
exaggerated terms, to induce the physician to relieve them
,promptly.*
• Even the most impatient hypochondriac never invents sufferings and
symptoms that are void of foundation, and the truth of this is easily
ascertained by comparing the complaints he utters at different intervals
while the physician gives him nothing at least that is medicinal; it is
merely requisite to retrench a part of his exaggeration, or at least ascribe
the energy of his expressions to his excessive sensibility. In this
respect, even the exaggeration he is guilty of in describing.his sufferings
becomes an impo~tant symptom in the list of those which constitute the
image of the disease. It is a very different case with maniacs, and those
who feign disease through wickedness or other causes.
§ 97. Others, on the contrary, either through indolence,
mistaken modesty, or finally by a sort of mildness and timidity,
·are silent with regard to many of the sufferings they endure,
and only hint at them in obscure terms, or point at them as
being of little importance.
§ 98. If it be then true that we are to rely more particularly'
upon the patient's own language in describing his sufferings
and sensations, and prefer the expressions be makes use of to
portray them (because his words are almost always changed in
passing through the mouths of those who are about him); it is
no less so, that in all diseases, and more especially in those of
a chronic character, the physician must be possessed of an
uncommon share of circumspection and tact, a knowledge of
the human heart, prudence and patience, to be enabled to form
to himself a true and complete image of the disease in all its
details.
§ 99. The examination into acute diseases, or those that
have recently bro~en out, is generally less difficult, because the
patient and those about him are struck With the difference
between the existing state of things and the health that has
been so recently destroyed, of which the memory still retains a
lively image. Here, also, the physician must necessarily be
acquainted with every thing ; but there is Jess occasion for
being urgent in acquiring the particulars, which, for the most
part, come before him spontaneously.
Digitized by Coogle
133
; 100. With regard to a search after the totality of the
symptoms in epidemic and sporadic diseases, it is wholly
indifferent whether any thing similar ever existed before in the
world or not, under any name whatever. Neither.the novelty
nor the peculiarity of an affection of this kind will make any
difference in the mode of studying it, or in that of the treatment.
In fact, we ought to regard the pure image of each prevailing
disease as a thing that is new and unknown, ~d study the
same from its foundation, if we would really exercise the art of
healing-that is to say, we ought never to substitute the
hypothesis in the room of the observation, never regard any
given case of disease as already known, either in part or
wholly, without having first carefully examined all its appear-
ances. This pruden~ mode of proceeding is so much the more
requisite here, as every reigning epidemic is, in many respects,
a particular species of phenomenon, and which, upon attentive
examination, will be found to differ greatly from all former
epidemics to which the same name has been wrongfully
applied. We must, however, except those epidemics which are
caused by miasms that always retain their identity, such, for
example, as the measles, small-pox, &c.
·; 101. It may happen that a physician, who, for the first
time, treats a person attacked with an epidemic disease, will
not 'immediately discover the perfect image of the affection,
because A. knowledge of the totality of the signs and symptoms
in these collective mal~dies is not acquired till after having
observed several cases. However, a practised physician will,
after having treated one or two patients, see so far into the real
state of things as to be often able to form to himself a charac-
teristic image of the same, and know what holll<BOpathic
remedy he is to hav;e recourse to in order to combat the disease.
§ 102. By carefully noting down all the symptoms observed
in several cases of this description, the image that has once
been formed of the mal{ldy will be always rendered still more
comprehensive. ·It neither becomes extended in a greater
degree, nor lengthened in the detail, but it is made more
graphic and characteristic of the peculiarities of the collective
malady. On the one side, the general symptoms' (such, for
Digitized by Coogle
134
example, as loss of appetite, insomnolency, &c.) acquire a still
greater degree of precision ; on the other, the special and more
marked symptoms, which are even rare in epidemics, and
belong elsewhere to a small number of diseases only, develope
themselves and form the character of the disease." It is true,
that persons attacked with an epidemic have all a disease
arising from the same source, and consequent.ly equal ; but the
entire extent of an affection of this nature, together w1th the
totality of the symptoms-a knowledge of which is necessary
to form a complete image of the morbid state, and to choose
according to that the homreopathic remedy most in harmony
with the ensemble of the symptoms-cannot be observed in the
case of a single patient; in order to arrive at these, it will be
requisite to abstract them from a vie~ of the .sufferings of
several patients of different constitutions. '
• The physician who has already in a first case discerned an approxi-
mate homceopathic remedy will, by a study of successive ones, be ena-
bled to prove whether the choice he .made was appropriate, or this will
point out to him a remedy that is still more suitable than the former, or
even one that is better than all others.
~ 103. In the same manner as is here taught in reference
to _
epidemic, and chiefly acute diseases, I had to investigate
those of a miasmatic and chronic character, (always -
remaining
identical in their nature,) and particularly psora. This
examination was conducted with much more accuracy than
had hitherto been observed, in order to grasp the disease in its
entire ·compass, since different patients are affected with
dissimilar symptoms, and each particular case embraces but
. one disjointed part, as it were, of the symptoms constituting the
totality of one and the same disellSe. Hence it is manifest, that
th'8 totality of the symptoms appertaining to such a chronic
malady, to psora in particular, could only be collected by the
examination of numerous individual patients, and without
obtaining an entire view, and forming a collective ,image of
that malady, the medicines (viz. the antipsorics) which are
efficient for its entire removal, and which, at the same time,
·are the true remedies for the particular cases of it, could not
be discovered.
Digitized by Coogle
- - - - -
·-
135
§ 104. The totality of the symptoms which characterise a
given case-or, in other terms, the image of the disease-being
once committed to writing, the most difficult part is accom-
plished.* The physician ought ever after to have this image
before his eyes to serve as a basis to the treatment, especially
where the disease is chronic. He can then study it in all its
parts, and draw from it the characteristic marks, in order to
oppose to these symptoms-that is to say, to the disease itself-
a remedy that is perfectly homreopathic, whose choice has been
decided on according to the nature of the morbid symptoms
which it produces from its simple action on the body. · And if,
during the course of the treatment, he enquires after the effects
of the remedy, and the changes that have taken place in the
state of the patient, it only remains to obliterate from the group
of primitive symptoms tl~i>se which have entirely disappeared,
to note down those of which there are still some remains, and
add the new ones wl)ich have supervened.
* The physicians the old school in their trt>atment of the sick adopt
an extremely conv ient method. No accurate enquiries are heard from
them concernin all the circumstances of the case, and the patients,
during the r tal of their individual symptoms, are not unfrequemly
interrupted by the physician to prnent disturbance)n the rapid writing
of his prescriptions, compounded of a medley of ingredients, the genuine
effects of which are unknown to him. No allc:eopathic physician, as
already observed, desires to know a full and accurate account of the
symptoms, much less to commit them to writing. If afte~ several days
he re-visits his patient (numerous others having been seen in the inter-
val), he will thl'n have retained in his memory little or nothing of the
minute circumstances of the case, as at first heard, and what had passed
into one ear will have escaped from the other. In his succeeding visits,
he does little more than ask a few general questions, feels the pulse, looks
at the tongue, and forthwith, ,without an intelligible reason, proceeds
to write another prescription, or directs the former (in large and fre-
quently repeated portions through the day) to be continued. Then with
mieil polite he hastens to the fiftieth or sixtieth patient of those whom
he has visited in the same thoughtless manner on the same day. 'l'hus
a profession which: of all others,·properly requires the most reflection,
the conscientious and careful examination of each and every case, and
the ~pccial cure founded thereon,-such a profession is thus practised by
persons who call themselves rational physicians.
§ 105. The second point in the duty of the physician is to
uamine into the instruments destined to cure natural diseases, to
Digitized by Coogle
136
study the morbific powers of medicines, in order, when he is to.
cure a disease, that he may be able to find one among the
number whose list of symptoms constitutes a factitious disease
that resembles as closely as possible the principal signs of the
natural malady which he intends to cure.
§ 106. It is necessary to k"llow the full extent of the power
by virtue of which each medicine excites a disease. In other
terms, it is requisite that all the morbid symptoms and changes
of the health which their action individually is capable of pro-
ducing in the economy shall have been observed, as closely as
possible, before any one can hope to be able to find or select
from among them homreopathic remedies that are appropriate
to the greater number of natural diseases.
~ 107. If, to arrive at this object, we were only to administer
medicines to invalids, prescribing them, one by one, in a simple
state, little or nothing ,would be seen of their pure effects,
because the symptoms of the natural disease then existing
mingling with those which the medicinal agents are capable of
producing, the latter can rarely be distinguished with any clear-
ness or precision.
§ 108. Thus there is no safer or more natural method of
discovP.ring the effects of medicines on the health of man, than
by trying them separately and singly, in moderate doses, upon
healthy individuals, and observing what changes they create in
the moral and physical state; that is to say, what elements of
disease these subStances are capable of producing :• for, as we
have before seen (§ 24-27), the entire curative virtues- of
medicines depend solely upou the power they have of modifying
the state of health, which is illustrated by observing the effects
resulting from the exercise of this faculty.
• In the course of twenty-five centuries no physician, that I know of,
except the immortal Haller, has ever thought of a method so natural-so
absolutely necessary, and so perfectly true-as that of observing the pure
effects of each medicine individually, in order to dist:over, by that means,
the diseases they were capable of cuiing. Before me, Haller was the
only one who conceived the necessity of pursuing such a plan (see the
prefaee to his Pharmacopmia Helvet. Basil, 1771, p. 12). "Nempe pri-
mmn.in corpore sano m.edela tentanda est, sine pereGrina. ulla misc414;
Digitized by Coogle
137
odoreque et •apore ejUB exploratu, exigua illiUB dollitl ingerenda et ad
omnes, qU<B inde contingunt, a.ffectiones, quia pulauB, quu calor, q'l/4
reapiratio, qU<Bnam excretiones, attendendum. Inde ad ductum pha-
nomenorum, in sano obviorum, transeaa ad experimenta in corpore
agroto, tf-c." But no physician has profited by this invaluable advice;
no one has paid the slightest attention to it.
§ 109. I am the first who has pursued this path with a per-
severance that could alone result from, and be supported by,
the intimate conviction of this great truth so valuable to the
human race,• that the homreopathic administration of medicines
is the sole certain method of curing disease.2
1 It is as impossible that there should be any other uue method of
curing dynamic diseases (i.e. those not surgical) besides hommopathy,
as that more than one straight line can be described between two given
points. How little can they be grounded in the true art of healing, who
imagine that there is;yet another way of curing diseases, who, after
having thoroughly contemplated the basis of homteopathy and practised
it with sufficient care, or, from upright motives, have either read of or
witnessed hommopathic cures, and, on the other hand, duly weighed the
groundlessness of every species of allmopathic treatment, and enquired
into the sinister effects thence arising-who, with a loose in_
difference,
place upon an equality the true art of healing with that injurious
method, or pronounce it the sister of hommopathy, whose company she
cannot dispense with! My conscientious successors, the genuine and
accurate adherents of hommopathy, who have practised it with almost
infallible success, could teach them a better lesson.
I The first fruits of my labours, so far as they could then be perfected,
are contained in a work entitled Fragrilenta de viribus medicamentorum
positivis, sive in sano corp. hum. observatio, p. i. ii. Leipsic, 1805, in
8vo. Others, that are still more matured, are contained in the two
editions of my Materia Medica, (Reine Arzneimittellehre, 6 vola. in
8vo., third edition, 1833,) and in the second and following volumes of
my Treatise on Chronic Diseases. Die Chronische Krankheiten.
Dresden, 1828, in 8vo., second edition, 1835.
§ 110. On pemsing the works of authors who have written
upon the morbid effects caused by medicinal substances, which,
through negligence,.mischief, criminal intent, or otherwise, had
got into the stomachs of healthy individuals in large quantities,
I saw that the facts they -contained coincided with the observa-
tions which -I had made in trying them on myself and other
persons in health. These are reported as cases of poisoning,
18
Digitized by Coogle
138
and as proofs of the inherent pernicious effects of these ener-
getic agents, pointing out the danger of making use of them.
By some, they have been mentioned for no other purpose than
that of making a parade of the skill they manifested in the dis-
covery of remedies which gradually restored the health of
persons that otherwise would have been lost by such violent
means. Others, to free their consciences ofthe death of patients,
have ~leged the malignity of these substances which they then
designated poisons. Not one among them has ever suspected
that the symptoms, in which they wished merely to see proofs
of the poisonous qualities of drugs which produce them, were
certain indications that disclosed the existence in these identical
substances of the faculty of annihilating (under the title of
remedies) similar symptoms in natural diseases. No one
iJp.agined that the evils which they excite were so many
certain proofs of their homreopathic effects. They never
imagined that an observance of the changes to which medi-
cines give birth in healthy persons was the sole means of dis-
covering their medicinal and curative virtues, because they
can ·neither arrive at this result by any specious reasoning
apriori, nor by the smell, taste, or appearance of the medicinal
substances, not by chemical analysis, nor by administering
pr,escriptions to patients where they are associated with a
less or greater number of other drugs. Finally, none of
them· ever had the slightest presentiment that these histories of
diseases produced by medicine would one day furnish the
elements of a true and pure materia medica-a science which,
from its origin down to the present time, has consisted of a
mass of false conjectures and fictions, or which, in other terms,
never yet had any real existence.*
* See what I have said on this subject in my ''Treatise on the
Sources of the ordinary Materia Medica," in the third part of the "Reine
Arzneimittellehre."
§ 111. The conformity of my observations upon the pure
effects of medicines with those of a more ancient date, which
were made without reference to any curative aim, and even
the correspondence of these latter with others of a similar kind
that are spread throughout the writings of various authors,
plainly prove to ns · that medicinal substances, in, creating
Digitized by Coogle
..'•
139
a morbid state in healthy persons, follow fixed and eternal law1
of nature, and are, in virtue of those laws, severally capable of
producing, (each according to its own peculiar properties,) certain
positive morbid symptoms. -
§ 112. In the descriptions that have been handed down to
us by early writers of the frequent dangerous consequences
resulting from the administration of medicines in large doses,
symptoms have also been remarked that did not show them-
selves at the beginning of these sad events, but merely towards
the conclusion, and which were perfectly opposite to those at
the commencement. These symptoms, contrary to the primi-
tive effect (§ 63), or to the so called action of medicines on the
body, are owing to the re-action of the vital force of the
organism. 'rhey constitute the secondary and consecutive effect
(§ 62-67), whose traces are seldom perceived when moderate
doses, by way of trial, are employed, and when the doses are
small, no vestige ever remains, because in homroopathic cures
the living organism never re-acts beyond what is absolutely
necessary to bring the disease back to the natural state of health
(§ 67):
§ 113. Narcotic substances, alone, are exceptions to ·this
rule. As they, in their primitive effects, extinguish sensibility;
sensation, and irritability, to a certain extent, it often happens
that when they are tried on healthy persons, even in moderate
doses, they have the secondary effect of exciting the sensibility
and increasing the irritability.
§ 114. But with the exception of narcotic substances, all
medicines that are tried in small doses, upon healthy persons,
only manifest their primitive effects ; that is to say, the symp-
toms which indicate that they modify the habitual state of
health, and excite a morbid condition which is to last for a
longer or shorter period.
§ 115. Among the primitive effects of some medicines,
there are several to be found that are contrary, or at least in
certain respects, accessory, to other symptoms which afterwards
· appear in succession. This circumstance, however, is sufficient
Digitized by Coogle
I
/
140
to make us regard them as so called comecutivt t.ffecfl, or as a
simple result of the re-action of the organism. They merely
mark the transition from one to the other of the different
paroxysms of the primitive action. They are called alternt:Jtive
effects.
i 116. Certain symptoms are excited by medicines more
frequently than others-that is to say, in many patients ; some
are more rarely produced, and in a small number of persons,
while yet others are only so in a few individuals.
i 117. To these last belong the so called idiosyncrasies, by
which are meant particular constitutions, which, though in
other respects healthy, yet have a tendency to be placed in a
greater or less morbid state by certain things that do not appear
to make any impression on many other persons, or cause any
change in them.• But this absence of effect upon such or such
an individual is only so in appearance. In short, as the pro-
duction of every morbid change whatever pre-supposes the
faculty of action in the medicinal substance, and in the patient
that of being affected by it, the manifest changes of health that
take place in idiosyncrasies cannot be wholly attributed to the
particular constitution of the patient. It is necessary to ascribe
these, at the same time, to the things that have given them
birth, and which embrace the faculty of exercising the same
influence over all men, with this exception, that among healthy
persons there are but a small number who have a tendency to
allow themselveS to be placed in so decided a morbid condition.
What proves that these agents really make an impression upon
all individuals is, that they cure hom<eopathically in all
patients the same morbid symptoms as those which they them-
selves appear to excite only in persons subject to idiosyncrasies.•
1 The smell of the rose will cause certain persons to faint; others are
sometimes attacked with dangerous diseases after eating muscles, crabs,
or the fry of the barbel, and after touching the leaves of a certain species
of sumac.
1 Thus the Princess Maria Pol'phyrogeneta restored her brother, the
Emperor Alexius, suffering from syncope, by sprinkling him with rose
water, (-r~ -rZ• (&J.,, crr"'-ayf'~), in the presence of her aunt, Eudoxia,
(Hist. Byz. Alexias, lib. 15. p. 503, ed. Posser.), and Horstius (Oper. iii.
p. 59,) saw that vinegar of roses was very helpful in syncope.
o;gi,;zed!~ Google
·<!,.
----------------~------------
141
; 118. Each medicine produces particular effects in the
body of man, and no other medicinal substance can create any
that are precisely similar.•
*This fact was also recognised by Haller, who says, (in the preface
to his Hist. Stirp. Hel'l/.), " Latet immenBa 'lririum di'IJersitaa in iis
ipsis plantis, quarom facies e.xternaa dudum 1WIIimus, animaa quasi
et quodcunque ccelestius hahent, nondum perspe.ximus."
§ 119. In the same manner that each species of plant differs
from all others in its external form and peculiar mode of vege-
tation-its smell and taste; in the same manner that each
mineral and each salt differs from others in regard to external
cJJ,aracter as well as internal chemical properties, (a circum-
stance which alone ought to have sufficed to prevent confusion,)
in the same manner do all these substances likewise differ from
each other in regard to their morbific effects, apd, consequently,
their curative powers.1 Each substance exercises upon the
health of man a certain and particular in6uence, which does
not allow itselfto be confounded with any other.•
1 He who knows that the action of each substance upon the body differs
from that of every other, and who can appreciate the importance of this
fact, will have no difficulty in discovering that there can be no such
things (in a medical point ofview) as succedanea-that is to say, medi-
cines that are equivalent, and capable of replacing each other mutually.
It is only he who is ignorant of the certain and pure effects of medicinal
, substances, that can be so foolish as to endeavour to persuade us that one
remedy can serve in the room of another, and produce the same salutary
effect in any given case of disease. In this manner children, through
their simplicity, confound things that are essentially different, because
they hardly know them otherwise than by their exterior, and have no
idea of their innate properties or of their real intrinsic value.
• If this be the pure truth, as it undoubtedly is, then can no physician
who wishes to preserve a quiet conscience, and to be looked upon as a
reasonable man, henceforward prescribe any other medicines than those
with whose true value he is precisely and thoroughly acquainted-that
is to say, those whose action upon healthy individuals he has studied
with sufficient attention to be convinced that any particular one among
them was that which, of all others, produced the morbid state most
resembling the natural disease it was intended to cure; for, as we have
before seen, neither man nor nature ever effects a perfect, prompt, and dur-
able cure, but by the aid of a hommopathic remedy. No physician can,
therefore, in futute, disregard a research of this nature, without which it
Digitized by Coogle
142
would be impossible for him to acquire the knowledge of medicines
indispensable to the exercise of his art, which has been neglected till
the present time. Posterity will scarcely believe that, until the present
day, physicians have always contented themselves with administering
blindly in disease remedies of whose real value they were ignorant,
whose pure and dynamic effects, upon healthy persons, they had never
studied, and that they were in the habit of mixing several of those un-
known substances whose action is so diversified, and then left it to
chance to dispose of whatever might accrue to the patient from this
treatment. It is in this manner that a madman, who has just forced his
way into the workshop of au artist, seizes with open hands upon all the
tools within his reach for the purpose of finishing a work which he finds
in a state of preparation. Who can doubt but that he wilJ spoil it by
the ridiculous manner in which he goes to work, or perhaps even destroy
it entirely '1
§ 120. Thus we ought to distinguish medicines carefully
one from another, since it is on them that life and death, dis-
ease and health, depend. To effect this, it is necessary to have
recourse ·to pure experiments, made with care, for the purpose
of developing the properties that belong to them, and the true
effects which they produce on healthy individuals. By this
mode of proceeding we may learn to know them properly, and
so avoid their misapplication in the treatment of disease, for
nothing but a judicious choice of the remedy that is to be em-
ployed can ever restore to the patient, in a prompt and perma-
nent manner, that supreme of all earthly' blessings-a sound
mind in a healthy body.
§ 121. In studying the effects of medicines upon healthy
persons, it must not be forgotten that even the administration
of moderate doses of the so called heroic remedies is sufficient
to produce modifications in the health of the most robust
individuals. · Medicines that are more gentle in their nature
ought to be given in larger doses if we would likewise prove
their action. Finally, if we would try the effects of the weakest
substances, the experiment must be made upon persons only
who are, it is true, free from disease, but who, at the same
time, are possessed of a delicate, irritable, and sensitive consti-
tution.
§ 122. In circumstances of this nature, on which depend
the certitude of the medical .art, and the welfare of future gene-
Digitized by Coogle
•
143
rations, it is necessary to employ only medicines that are well
known, such as we are convinced remain pure, unadulterated,
and possessed of their full energy.
§ 123. Each of these medicines ought to be taken in its
simple and pure form. As to indigenous plants, the juice is
expressed and mixed with a small quantity of alcohol, in order
to preserve it from corruption. With regard to foreign plants,
they are to be pulverised or prepared as spirituous tinctures,
and mixed with a certain quantity of water previous to
administration. Salts and gums, however, ought not to be dis-
solved in water till the moment they are to be used. Ifa plant
cannot be procured but in its dry state, and if its powers are
naturally feeble, it may be tried in the form of an infusion ;
that is to say, after having cut it up small, boiling water is
pomed upon it, in order to extract its virtues. The infusion
ought to be drunk immediately after its preparation, and while
it is still warm, because all the juices of plants, and all vegetable
infusions to which no alcohol is added, pass rapidly into
fermentation and corruption, and thereby lose their medicinal
virtues.
§ 124. Every medicinal substance that is submitted to a
trial of this nature ought to be employed alone, and perfectly
pure. Care must be taken not to add any heterogenous sub-
stance to it, or to use any other medicine, either on the same
day and much less on those that follow, if we would observe
the effect it is capable of producing. ·
§ 125. During the whole time of this experiment the diet
must be extremely moderate. It is necessary to abstain as
much ~ possible from spices, and to make use of nothing but
simple food that is merely nourishing, carefully avoiding all
green vegetables? roots, sallads, and soups with herbs, all of
which, notwithstanding the preparations they have undergone,
are aliments that still retain some small medicinal energy that
disturbs the effect ofthe medicine. The drink is to remain the
same as that in daily use, taking care that it is as little stimu-
lating as possible.'
Digitized by Coogle
144
• Green peas, French beans, and even eanots, may be allowed, as being
vegetables that contain the least medicinal properties.
1 The subject of experiment must either have been previously unac-
cuzJtomed to the use of wine, ardent spirits, coffee, or tea, or have for
some time thoroughly abstained from these stimulating and medicinally
injurious beverages.
t 126. The person on whom this experiment is tried ought
to avoid all fatiguing labour of mind and body, all excesses,
debauches, or mental excitement, during the whole of the time
that it continues. No urgent business must prevent him
making the necessary observations, and he must of his own
accord be scrupulously attentive to every thing that passes in
the interior of the body without permitting any thing to inter-
rupt his care, and finally, unite with a healthy .body (in its
kind) a neces!fary degree of judgment, that he may be able to
express and describe clearly all the sensations he experiences.
t 127. Medicines should be tried on the persons of women
as well as of men, in order that those changes in the economy
which are referable to difference of sex, may be clearly ascer-
tained.
·§ 128. The most recent experience has taught that medi-
cinal substances, when taken by the experimenter in their
crude state for the purpose of testing their peculiar effects,
do not for a long time display the full extent of those virtues
which lie concealed within them, as is the case when they are
taken in higher developments, i. e. exalted in power by due
trituration and agitation. By means of this simple mode ofpre-
paration, the virtues which, in the crude state of the medicint:s,
lay concealed and, as it were, dormant within them, become
incredibly developed and aroused into activity. Thus, any
one evan of those medicines whose virtues are considered
weak, is now found to be the most advantageously investigated,
if from four to six minute sa,.ccharine globules impregnated
with the thirtieth (decillionth) dilution of such medicine, and
. mixed with a little water, be given to the experimenter every
morning, fasting, and continued for several days.
; 129. When the effects of one such dose appear to be
Digitized by Coogle
145
weak, then it may be daily increased a few globules, until the
effects become stronger and more distinct, until the changes in
the system be evident, for one particular medicine does not
affect every individual in a like manner, or with the same
degree of energy ; on the contrary there exists, in this respect,
the greatest diversity possible. Sometimes a person apparently
delicate is not at all affected by a medicine that is known to be
very powerful, though administered in moderate doses, while
other substances that are much weaker make a tolerable
impression pn him. At the same time, there are individuals of
robust constitutions who experience very considerable morbid
symptoms·from medicinal agents that are apparently mild, and,
on the other hand, they are likewise but little affected by others
that are powerful. But as it can never be known beforehand
which ·of these two cases will occur, it is proper that each
should commence with a small dose, and be afterw-ards
increased progressively, ifdeemed requisite. Advancing, from
day to day, to higher and still higher doses.
§ 130. If at the commencement, and after administering the
first dose, the effects are sufficiently powerful, one advantage
results from it, which is, that the person who undergoes the
·expe~iment becomes acquainted with the succession of symp-
toms. which this agent principally excites, and is enabled to
note them down with precision the moment they appear, a
circumstance of vast import to a knowledge ofthe character of
medicines, because the order of their primitive effects, and like-
wise that of their altemative effects, is thus exhibited in the
least equivocal manner. A very weak dose often suffices, if
the individual on whom it is tried is endowed with great sensi-
bility, and pays due attention to his state. The length of time
that the action of a medicine continues,.can only be known by
a comparison ofthe .results of several experiments.
§ 131. If, to acquire at least some knowledge of a medicine,
it is found requisite to administer to the same person, several
days in succession, doses of the same, progressively increased,
this may show us the various' morbid changes that this sub-
stance is capable of exciting generally ; but we do not learn the
order of their succession, and a succeeding dose often extin-
19
Digitized by Coogle
•• :Joolj
146
guishes one or other of the symptoms produced by the pre-
ceding one, or creates in its place a contrary state. Symptoms
of this kind should be noted between two parentbesefl, as being
equivocal, until new experiments of a purer nature shall have
decided whether they are to be considered as the re-action of
the organism, or.the alternative effects ofthe medicine.
§ 132. But where it is intended merely to find out what are
the symptoms that a medicinal substance, particularly a weak
one, is capable of producing by itself, without paying any
attention to the order of these symptoms, or to the duration of
the action of the medicine, it is advisable to continue the
experiment several days successively, only augmenting the
dose each day. By this means, the effects of even the most
gentle medicines that are unknown will come to light, particu-
larly if th~y arc tried on a sensitive person.
§ 133. ShQUld the individual who undergoes the experi-
ment experience any particular inconvenience from the action
of the medicine, it is useful, and even necessary, to the exact
determination of the symptom, that he should place himself
successively in various postures, and observe the changes that
ensue. Thus be will be enabled to examine whether the
motion communicated to the suffering parts by walking up and
down the chamber, or in the open air, seated, lying down, or
standing, has the effect of augmenting, diminishing, or dissi-
pating the symptom, and if it returns or not upon resuming
the original position. He will also perceive whether it changes
when he eats or drinks, or by any other condition, when be
speaks, coughs, or sneezes, or in any other action of the body
whatsoever. He must also observe at what hour of the day or
night the symptom more particularly manifests itself. All
these details are requisite, in order to discover what is peculiar
and characteristic in each symptom.
§ 134. All external agents, particularly medicines, produce
changes in ·the state of the living organism that vary each in
themseLves. But th~ whole of the symptoms peculiar to any
medicinal substance whatever, never manifest themselves in
the same individual, neither do they appear simultaneously, or
Digitized by Coogle
147
during a single experiment ; on the contrary, the same person
experiences, in preference, at one time, one set of symptoms,
and in a second or third experiment yet others, (with another
person these or other symptoms will appear,) so that by the ·
fourth, eighth, or tenth person, perhaps, some or more of the
symptoms which had already maoifested themselves in the
second, sixth, ninth, &c., will be visible. Neither do the
symptoms re--appear at the same hour.
~ 135. It is only by repeated observations made upon a
great number of individuals of both sexes, properly selected for
the purpose from among a variety of constitlllions, that we can
acquire a pretty accurate knowledge of the whole of the morbid
effects that a medicine is capable of producing-. 'rhere can be
no certainty of having properly proved the symptoms of any
medicinal agent-that is to say, of the faculty which it has of
changing the healtl}, until such time as the persons who make
further trials of it perceive but few new symptoms arising from
its use, ~J,nd observe almost always only those that have been
previously remarked by other pe~sons.
§ 136. Although, as before stated, the medicine that is tried
upon a htlalthy persoQ cannot manifest on a single individual.
all the modifications of health which it is capable of producing,
and only exhibits them in several persons, differing from one
another in regard to physical constitution and moral disposi-
tion, it is, however, equally true that the eternal and immu-
table Jaw of nature has endowed it with the faculty of exciting
these symptoms in every human being(§ 117). This is the,
cause of all its effects, of even those which it is rarely seen to
produce in healthy persons, but which do not fail to appear
when administered to a patient attacked with a disease resem-
bling the one it is capable of exciting. Provided the medicine
be homreopathically chosen, and administered even in the
smallest doses possible, it will then produce in the patient an
artificial state approaching closely to the natural disease, and
cure the latter in a prompt and durable manner.
~ 137. The more moderate the dose (without, however,
going beyond a certain limit) the more are the primitive effects
Digitized by Coogle
148
developed, which are most important to be known. Scarcely
any but the latter will then be perceptible, and there will be
hardly any traces of re-action. But it is understood that the
individual on whom the experiment is made must be one who
can be relied upon in regard to veracity-that he is moderate
in every respect, of a sensitive mind and body, and shall
attend to his person with all possibJe care. On the other hand,
if the dose be excessive, there will not only be several re-
actions visible among the symptoms: but yet more, the primi-
tive effects will manifest themselves in a manner so precipitate,
violent, and confused, that it will be impossible to make any
correct observation. Let us add to this, the danger that might.
result from it to the individual on whom the experiment is
tried, which cannot be regarded as a matter of indifference by
one who has any respect for his fellow-mortals, and who looks
upon every human being in the light of a brother.
§ 138. Provided all the conditions before stated (; 124-
127) (which are necessary to the trial of a pure experiment) be
complied with, the syQlptoms, modifications, and changes of
the health that are visible during the action of the medicine,
depend upon that substance alone, and ought to be noted down
as properly belonging to it, if even similar symptoms, occurring
spontaneously, should have been experienced a long time before
by the person on whom the experiment is made. The re-
appearanc(l of those symptoms, in the course ofthe experiment,
only proves that in virtue of his own constitution this person
has a special tendency to admit of their manifestation. In this
case, they are the effects of the medicine, for it cannot be said
that they came of themselves at a moment whfln a powerfttl
medicinal agent exercised its sway over the entire organism. .
§ 139. Whete the physician does not try the remedy on his
own person, and the experiment is made on another individual,
it is requisite for the iatter to note down, with perspicuity, all
the sensations, inconveniences, symptoms, and changes, that he
experiences at the very moment of their occurrence. He must
also be able to tell what time elapsed between.the administra-
tion of the medicine and the appearance of each symptom, and
in case they continued any length of time, what was the exact
Digitized by Coogle
149
period of their duration. · The physician is to read this report,
immediately after it is finished, in the presence of the person on
whom the experiment is made, or if it lasts several days, he
then reads it over each· day, in order that, by refreshing his
memory, the person may be enabled to reply to the questions
which it may be necessary to put to him relative to the precise
nature of each symptom, and to give him an opportunity of
adding fresh details, or making any necessary corrections.*
• He who publishes to the medical world such experiments, is respon-
sible for the credibility of the experimenter, as well ,
as for the correct-
ness of his statements,·and very properly so, as the welfare of suffering
humanity is at stake.
§ 140. If the individual cannot write, the·physician must
then interrogate him each day, in order to learn his sensations.
But this exa111ination ought, for the most part, to be confined
to listening to his narrative. The physician must not indulge
in any conjectures or suppositions, and he is to ask as few
questions as possible, tak~g care to maintain the same circum-
spection and reserve, which I have before recommended
(§ 84-99), as an indispensable precaution in seeking the
information requisite to form the image of the natural disease.
§ 141. But of all the pure experiments relative to the
changes which simple medicines produce, and the morbid
symptoms they excite in healthy persons, those are always the
best which a physician (enjoying a good state of health, free
from prejudice, and able to analyse his sensations) makes on
his own person, observing, at the same time, the precautions
that have just been prescribed. A thing is never more certain
than when it has been tried on ourselves.*
"' The experiments that are made on our own persons have one advan-
tage above all others. In the first place, they furnish a conviction o(
this great truth, that the curative virtues of medicines depend solely
upon the power they possess of creating ·changes in the physical
economy of man. In the second place, they teach us to undt>rstand our
own sensations, mind, and disposition, which is the source of all true
wisdom, ('YrZ.9. cr••uTAr), and exercise our powers of observation, an
indispensable talent in a physician. All our observations on others are
by no means so interesting as those made on our!!elves. In all the
observations made on other individuals, it is continually to be feared
Digitized by Coogle
150
that the person making trial of the remedy may not e:ractly experience
that which he says, or will not expreu in a proper manner that which·
he feels. The physician must always remain in doubt, or at least partly
so, whether he is dE:ceived or not. This obstacle to a knowledge of the
truth, which cannot be entirely obviated in a search after the morbid
symptoms excited in another person by the action of the remedy, does
not exist where the trial is made on our own persons. The individual
who undergoes the experiment knows precisely what he feels, and every
fresh attempt that he makes is an additional motive for him to extend
his researches still farther, by directing them towards other remedies.
It renders him more expert in pursuing farther trials, while at the same
time his zeal is redoubled, because he thereby acquires a true knowledge
of the resources of the art, which can be considerably increued. Do
not let him suppose, on the other hand, that the slight inconveniences
which he subjects himself to in trying the medicines on his own person
can be detrimental to his health. On the contrary, experience has
shown us that they only render the body more apt to repel all natural
and artificial morbific causes, and harden it against their influence.
The same experience also teaches, that thereby the health becomes more
firm, and the body more robust.
§ 142. But how the symptoms,* produced by a simple
medicine, can be distinguished among the symptoms of the
original disease, even in those which mostly retain their
identity, more especially chronic diseases, is an object for
superior discernment, and to be left to masters in observation.
*Symptoms which had been remarked only a long time before, if at
all throughout the whole course of the disease, and which, of course, are
new ones, and are the product of the medicine.
§ 143. After having thus tried a number of simple medi-
cines upon the healthy body, faithfully and carefully noting all
the symptoms they are capable of producing as artificial mor-
bific agents, then only can we acquire a true materia medica-
that is to say, a catalogue of the pure and certain effects of
medicinal substances. This will furnish us with a code of
nature, in which will be inscribed, from every agent so investi-
gated, a considerable number of particular symptoms, as they
were manifested to the observation of the experimenter ;
among these, are the (homceopathic) morbid elements resem-
bling those of several natural diseases which are here-
after to be cured by them ; ·in a word, they comprehend
artificial morbid states which supply, for the similar morbid
Digitized by Coogle
-
151
states naturally induced, the only true, homreopathic, t. e.
specific instruments of certain and permanent cure.
§ 144. A materia medica of this nature shall be free from
all conjecture, fiction, or gratuitous assertion-it shall contain
nothing but the pure language of nature, the results of a care-
' ful and faithful research.
§ 145. We ought certainly to be acquainted with the pure
action of a vast number of medicines upon the healthy body,
to be able to find homreopathic remedies against each of the
innumerable forrris of disease that besiege mankind-that is to
say, to find out artificial morbific powers that resemble them.1
But thanks to the truth of the symptoms, and to the multitude
of morbid elements which each of the energetic medicine!~, that
have been tried till the present day upon healthy persons have
exhibited, there now remain but few diseases against which
we do not find in these substances suitable homreopathic
remedies,:" which restore health in a gentle, certain, and perma-
nent manner. An infinitely greater number of diseases are
cured by these means, and in a far safer and more certain
manner, than.by a treatment guided by the general and special
therapeutics of allreopathy, with all its unknown and mixed
mediCines, which only alter and impair, but cannot cure,
chronic diseases, and rather retard than promote recovery from
those that are acute.
1 At first I was the only individual who made it a chief and important
study to find out the principal and pure effects of medicines. But what
cures shall we not be able to perform in the vast empire of disease, when
numerous observ~rs,** upon whose accuracy and veracity we can rely,
shall have contributed the result of their researches (trials on their own
persons) to enrjch this materia medica, the only one that is founded on
fact. The art of curing will then approach·to the same degree of cer-
tainty as the science of mathematics.
51 See the third note to § 109.
"Among the remedies which have been tried more particularly, tbe following
were at first introduced :-
1. By Hahntmann.-Aconitum, alumina, ·amanita, ambra, ammonim carbonu,
angostura, argentum, arnica, arseniosum acidum, artemisia eantonica, aaarum,
aurum; barytm carbonas, belladonna, biamuthi aubnitraa, bryonia ; calcis car-
bonaa, calcia aulphuretum, camphora, cannabi1, cantbari1, capsicum, carbo ani-
malie, carbo vegetabilia, cauatieum, chamomilla, chelidonium, ·cicuta, cinchona,
Digitized by Coogle
152
cocculue, colocynthil, conium, cop~iq, cyclamen; clipalia. drolera, dulcamara ;
euphraaia; ferrum; grapbilea, ruaiacom; belleboros, bydrarg. aolub., hydrarg.
corrcl8., hyoscyamus ; iodium, ipecacuanha; ledum, lycopodium ; magnea. carb.,
magn. mur., manganum, menyantbea, moschua, mur. acidum; nitri acidum,
nux vomica; oleander, opium; petroleum, phosphorus, phosphoric. acid., pota&lllB
cerbonaa, pulaatilla ; rheum, rota ; eambuco1, Allaparilla, scilla, sepia, silica,
eode carbon&~, eodii chloretum, epigelia, 1pongia, stannum, etapbiaagria, stra-
monium, 1ulphur, sulphuric. acid.; taraxacum, toxicodendron, thuya; veratrum,
verbucum, viola tricolor. ·
2. By Stapf.-Agnue, anacardium, antimonii et potullll tartrae; baryte acetu;
clematis, coft"ea, colchicum ; euphorbium ; lamium ; marum verum ; mezereum ;
paris. ; eabadilla, eabina.
3. By Gr011 and &tJ.pf.-Crocus ; platina.
4. By Gro11.-Epeira ; sode nitras ; viola odorata.
5. By F~an~.-Aasa fmtida; cuprum'; ranunculus; veleriana; zincum.
6. By Hartlaub.-..Ethuea, antimon. aulphuretum; bovista; cantharis; gratiola;
indigo; krameria ; lauroceras~s ; oleu91 animale; pbellandrium, phosphorus,
plumbum, potullll iodidum ; atrontianum ; tabacum, terebinthi oleum,
7. By•Hering.-Arum; brucea; caladium, curcaa; jamboa ; lacheais et crotalos;
pbospbas calcis, psorinum ; selenium, sericum, solanum mammosum ; theridion;
urea.
8. By Hrine.-Actea, alkekengi, aquilegia ; chenopodium, chiococca ; nigella.
9. By Nmning.-Ammonie muriae ; magn. eulphu, millefolium ; niccolum; BOde
BUlpbas ; tongo. ·
10. By Caapari.-Cutorewn; terri oxyd. magneticnm.
11. By Wa/&le.-Lauroceraaos; prunus apinoea.
12. By &idtl.-Rhododendron ; senega.
13. By &hr~ter.-Pota11e nitraa ; lode boru.
14. a, Ey Apel.-Amanita. b, Attomyr.-Corallia. c, Bute.-Rbus vernix.
d, Helbig•...,..Myristica. e, He11e.-Berberis. f, Trinkt.-Secale.
At the same time, while making trials, they mutually aaaisted each other, and
had help from many others, so that, in addition to the names above given, we find
mentioned among those who tried them, the following :-Ahner, Adami, Becher,
Bethman, Baehr, Behlert, Bauer, Becker, Cubitz, Flamming, Freitag, Gatrnann,
Gersdorlf, Fr. Hahnemann, Hartmann, Haubold, Hromada, Hempel, Homburg,
Hugo, Hayne!, Ibm, Kummer, Langhammer, Lehmann, Lingen, Matlack, Meyer,
Michler, MQller, Pleyel, Preu, Th. and L. Rockert, Rummel, Rosazewaky, Romig,
Reichhelm, Scboenke, Sonnenberg, Schweickert, Schmid, Scbmoele, Teuthom,
Tieze. Wagner, Wislicenus, Wesselhoft, De Young; and a great many individuala
participated, more or Jess, some handing in .their name., and other• contributing
anonymously. C. H&r.
§ 146. The third point in the duty of a physician is to
employ those medicines whose pure effects have been proved
upon a healthy person in the manner best suited to,the cure of
natural diseases homreopathically.
§ 147. Of all these medicines, that one whose symptoms
o;gitizedbyGoogle ·
153
bear the greatest resemblance to the totality of those which
characterise any particular natural disease ought to be the most
appropriate and certain homreopathic remedy that ·can be
employed-it is the specific remedy in this case of disease.
· § 148. A remedy wh4:h has the power and tendency to
produce an artificial disease closely resembling the natural one
against which it is employed, and which is administered in
proportionate doses, affects, in·its action-on the erganism, pre-
cisely those parts which had till then been a prey to the
natural disease, and excites in them the artificial disease which
it is naturally capable of producing. · The latter, by reason of
its similitude and greater intensity, now substitutes itself for.
the natural disease. From that moment it then results that
the v;ital powers no longer suffer frorri the last mentioned,
which, in its quality of purely dynamic immaterial power; has
already ceased to exist. The organism is no longer attacked
b11t by tqe medicinal disease. But the dose of the remedy ·
administered having been very·small, the medicinal disease
soon disappears of itself. Subdued by the energy of the vital
power, like every other mild medicinal affection, it leaves the
body free from suffering-that is,_
in a perfect and permanent
state of health.
J 149. When a proper application of the homreopathic
remedy has.been made,• the acute disease which is to be cured,
however malignant and painful it ·may be, subsides in a few.
hours, if recent, and in a few days, if it is somewhat older.
Every trace of indisposition vanishes; scarcely any thing is
seen of the artificial disease produced by the remedy ; and
health is restored by a speedy and almost insensible transition.
Diseases that are of long standing, especially those which are
compliCa.ted, require a longer treatment. Particularly those
chronic artificial maladies which the maltr~atment of the
allreopathists so often produce, and which, along with the
uncured natural disease, requires a far longer time for recovery;
they are often nearly incurable, by reason of the shameless
· deprivation of the vital en~rgies of the patient, the prevailing
and principal measure adopted by the allreopathists in their so
called cures. · •
20
Digit ze~ by Coogle
.'
154
• But the difficult and sometimes very laborious affair of searching
out and selecting the homreopathic medicine, which shall be adapted in
all respeets to the morbid conditions of a given case, is one which, not-
withstanding all the praise-worthy attempt~ to simplify the labour by
adminiculary publications, requires the study of the sources themselves,
besides the exercise of much circumspection and deliberation, which
meet with their best recompense in the consciousness of having faith-
fully performed our duties. But how will this careful and laborious
process, by which the best cure of disease3 can only be effected, please
the gentlemen of the new mongrel sect, who, while pluming themselves
with the honourable title of homreopathists, for appearance sake, ad-
minister a medicine in the form of homreopathic, that they have hastily
snatched up ( quidquid in buccam '17enit). If it does not immediately
relieve, they will not impute the failure to their own unpardonable indo-
lence.aad levity in hurrying over one of the most important and critical
of human concerns, but to homreopathy,-they reproach its imperfec-
tions, because it does not of itself, without any trouble on their part,
provide the suitable homreopathic remedy, and, as it were, serve it up
like food already cooked, and prepared to their hands. They know,
indeed, full well how to console themselves for the failure of their
scarcely half homreopathic remedy, by dexterously calling in requisi-
tion the more pliable resources of allreopathy, whence a few dozen
of leeches are applied, or a small and harmless venesection of eight
or ten ounces is prescribed in due form; and if, after all, th!;! patient
should recover, they extol the leeches and the venesection, &c.,. as
if .he would not have recovered without them. They cause· it to be
understgod in no equivocal language that, without the trouble of racking
their brains, these operations afforded by the pernicious routine of the
old school would, in truth; have bee.n the best means of .cure. If, how-
ever, the patient should sink under the treatll)ent, they endeavour to
soothe the disconsolate relatives, by declaring " that they themselves
were witnesses, how that every thing imaginable had been done for the
deceased." Who would honour such a light minded and pernicious sect,
by"calling them, after the difficult yet beneficept art, homreopathic phy-
sicians 'l
9 150. Ifa patient complain of slightly accessory symptoms,
which have just appeared, the physician ought not to take this
state of ~hings for a perfect malady that seriously demands
medicinal aid. A change in the diet and mode of life usually
suffices to remove so slight an indisposition.
. 9·151. But if the few symptoms of which the patient c.
om-
plains are very violent, the physician who attentively observes
.him will•generally discover many others which are less
· developed, and which furnish a perfect picture ofthe malady.
Digit zed by Coogle
155
§· 152. The more intense an acute disease, the more evident
and numerous are its symptoms, while at the same time it is
also easy to discover suitable remedies, provided there is a suffi-
cient m~mber ofmedicines to selectfrom, whose positive action
on the body is known. Among the symptoms produced by 'a
great number of medicines, it is easy to find one that contains
morbid eletnents, from which might be composed an artificial
disease very similar to the totality of the symptoms of the
natural disease that is present This is precisely the remedy ·
that is desirable. •
§ 53. In searching after a homreopaihic specific remedy-
that is to say, in making a comparison of the entire symptoms
of the natural disease w~th those produced by known remedies,
in order to discover amo,ng the latter an artificial morbific
power resembling the na:tural disease that is to be cured-we
ought to be particularly and almost exclusively attentive to' the
symptoms that are striking, singular, extraordinary, and peculiar
(characteristic),* for it is to these latter that similar symptOinS,
from among those created by the metliciJV, ought ta correspond, in
m:der to constitute it the remedy most suitable to the cure. On
the other hand, the more vague and general symptoms, such
as loss of appetite, head-ache, weakness, disturbed , sleep,
uncomfortableness, &c., merit little attention, because almost
all diseases and medicines prod,uce ~something as generaL
* The most complete work extant for showing the various effects
which medicinal agents produce, and their correspondence with the
va,rious maladies they are capable of removing, is Jahr's Manual of
Homreopathic Medicine, translated from the German, with improve-
ments and additions, by C. Hering, M. D., Allentown.-EDITOR. · .
§ · 154. The more this counter representation, formed from
the symptoms of the medicine which ~ppear to deserve'a pre-
ference, shalf contain other symptoms resembling those which
are extraordinary, peculiar, and·characteristic, in the natural
disease, the greater will be the re~emb~nce on either side, and
the more homreopathic, suitable, and specific, will this medicine
be in the present case. A dise.ase that 1sof no very long stand-
ing ordinarily yields, without any great d~gree of suffering,
to a first dose ofthis remedy.
'
Digit zed by Coogle
156
§ 155. I say without any great degree of mffering, because
when a perfect homreo~thic remedy acts upon the body, it is
nothing more than symptoms analogous to those of the disease
labouring to surmount and annihilate these latter by usurping
their place. The remaining symptoms, caused by the medi-
cinal substance, which are often numerous, and correspond in
no respect with the existing malady, scarcely ever show them-
selves, and the patient improves from hour to hour. The
reason of this is, that the dose of any .medicine applied homreo-
pathically being'llecessarily very feeble, this substance does not
possess sufficient power to exhibit its effects non-hoiJl(OOpa-
thically in the parts of the body t~at are free from disease.
But it produceg. ~ts effects homceopathically in those parts of
the organism .that are already a prey to the irritation arising
from the symptoms of the natural disease, and excites in them
a stronger medicinal affection which extinguishes and anni-
hilates the other.
§ 156. There is no homceopathic remedy, however suitably
chosen, that does not (especially in a dose not. smalL enough)
produce at least during i~ action.,some slight inconveniences
or fresh symptoms in very sensitive and irritable patients. In
fact, it is scarcely possible for the symptoms of the medicine to
cover those of the malady with as much precision as a triangle
would do in regard to another which is possessed ofangles and
sides that are equal to its own. But these differences, which
are of little importance in a case that terminates in a short time,
are easily effaced by the· energy of the vital principle, and the
patient does not perceive it himself, unless he is excessively
delicate. The re-establishment of health goes forward, not-
withstanding, unless impeded by the influence of heterogeneous
medicinal agents upon the patient, errors of regimen, or excite-
m~nt ofthe passions..
§ 157. But ~)though tt ts certain that a hommopathic
remedy, administered ·in a small dose, quietly annihilates the
acute disease which is analogous to it without produdng its
other non-homciopathic. symptoms-that is to say, without
exciting new and grievous sufferings ; it often ·happens, not-
withstanding, that it produces, at the expiration of one or a few
Digitized by Coogle
157
hours after ingestion (according to the dose), a state something
less favourable, which resembles the primitive affection so
closely that the patient supposes the original disease aggravated.
But in reality it is nothing more than a medicinal disease,
extremely siinilar to the primitive one, and rather more intense
in.its nature. ·
§ 158. This trifling homreopathic aggraroation 'of the malady
during the first few hours':"""'this happy omen which announces
that the acute disease will soon be cured, and that it will, for
die most part, yield tl). a first dose-is perfectly as ·it ought to
be, because the medicinal ;disease should naturally be rather
more intense than the one it is intended to cure, if it is to sub-
due·and extinguish the latter ; in. the same way as a natural
disease can destroy another that resembles it, by exceeding it .
in power and intensity(§ 43-48).
§ 159. 'The smaller the dose of the homreopathic remedy,
the slighter the apparent aggravation of the disease, and it is
proportionably of shorter duration.
§ 160. As a homreopathie dose, however, can scarcely ever
be m~de so small as not to amend, ~and, indeed, perfectly cure
and destroy the undisturbed, natural disease, analogous to it,
and of recent origin (§ 249, note), it may be readily conceived
wherefore a suitable homreopathic remedy, if not given in the
very smallest dose, should always occasion, in the first hour
after its administration, a remarkable homreopathic_
aggravation
of this nature.~
"' This preponderance of the symptoms of th~ remedy over those of the
analogous symptoms of the disease, whLch looks like an increase of the
natural malady, has also been observed by other physicians when chance
led them to a bomOlOpathic medicine. When the patient afflicted with
itch, after having taken sulphur, complains that the cutaneous eruption
. grows worse, the physician, who is ignorant of the cause, consoles him
by saying that the itch comes out entirely before it can be .cured; but he
is not aware that it is an exanthema caused by the sulJ,>hur, which
ass~es an appearance of aggravated itc;h,
Leroy (Med. Ins~r. for Mothers) informs us that the mola tricolor
commenced its action by rendering the cutaneous eruption of the face
worse, of which it subseque~tly effected the cure ; but he did not know
Digitized by Coogle
158
that the apparent increase of the evil was caused solely by the adminis-
tration of too large a dose of the remedy, which, in this instance, turned
out to be homreopathic. Lysons (Medic. Trans. vol. ii. London, 1772)
says, that the skin diseases which yield with the greatest certainty to
elm bark are those which it increases in the first instance. If he had
not, according to the prevailing custom of the .allreopathjc school,
administered the bark of the elm in too large doses, but if, as its bomc:eo-
pathic character requires, it had been given in extremely small doses,
the exanthemata against which be prescribed it would have been cured
without experiencing this increase of intensity, or, at le~st, they would
have been subjected to but a very slight development.
§ 161. When I fix the so called homreopathic aggravation
(or rather the pr.mitive action of the homreopathic .remedy
which appears in a slight degree to increase the symptoms of
the natural disease) to the first hour or the first few hours, this
delay applies to acute affections that have recently intervened;*
But when the remedies whose action lasts for a long time have
to combat a disease of some duration, or one of very long
standing, and consequently the dose ought to continue its
action several days successively, then we may see, during the
first six, eight, or ten days, from time to time, some of those
apparent aggravations of the original malady which last
during one or several hours, ·while the general amendment
develops itself sensibly in the intervals. When these few days
are once passed, the amelioration produced by the primitive
effects of the remedy continues, without interruption, for SOJDe
days longer. ·
• Although the effects of remedies whose action is of tile longest dura-
tion rapidly disappear in acute diseases, they last a considerable time in
chronic affections (arising from psora); and thence it occurs that anti-
psoric remedies do not often produce this slight homc:eopathic aggrava-
tion of the symptoms duriilg the first hours, but b.Iing it on later and at
different periods during the first eight or ten days.
§ 162. The numbtr ofmedicines 'ltlhose pure and precise action
is known being moderate (200), it sometimes happens, that only
a part of the symptoms of the disease that is to be cured are to
be found among those of the most, homreopathic remedy, and,
consequently, this imperfect remedy is obliged·to be employed
for want ofanother that is less so.
Digitized by Coogle
159
§ 163. In this case, a perfect cure, free from all inconve-
nience on the part of the remedy employed, .ought not to be
expected. During its use, some symptoms are seen to appear
that were not observed before in the diseas.e ; tbese are acces-
sory symptoms resulting from a medicine that is not perfectly
homreopathic with the existing case. This does not, however,
prevent the remedy from annihilating a great part of the ·evil
-that is to say, the morbid symptoms which resemble those of
the medicinal di~ease, and thence arises a tolerable commenc~­
ment towards a cure.
§ 164. The small number of homreopathic symptoms in a
well-selected homreopathic remedy never injures the cure when
it is in a great measure composed of the extraordinary symptoms
which particularly d_istinguish and characterise the disease ; the
cure then follows without further inconvenience to the patient:
§ 165. But if among the symptoms of the remedy not one
is to be found that bears a perfect resemblance to the striking
and characteristic symptoms of the malady-if the .totality of
them does not correspond with this latter, but in regard to
general symptoms that are badly developed, (nausea, faintness,
head-ache, &c.)-and among the known medicines there is not
one to be found more homreopathic, or which could be selected
for the purpose-the physician ought not to expect ~ imme-
diate favourable· result from the administration of a remedy so
imperfectly hom~opathic.·
§ 166. This is, however, 'Dery rarely the case, particularly
as the number of medicines whose pure effects have been dis-
covered is considerably increased of late ;' and when it does
oce"Q.r, the inconven,iences that flow from it are diminished
after another remedy is employed; whose symptoms bear a yet
greater resemblance to those ofthe malady. · ·
§ 167. In ~hort, if the application of an imperfect homreo-
pathic remedy used, in the first instance, cau.ses any accessory
symptoms of sonie importance, the action of the first dose is not
allowed.to exhaust itself in acute diseases ; the·altered state of
the patient is .then to be examined, and the.relllfl4nder of the
Digitized by Goog(e
160
pnmttlve symptoms to be joined to those which have been
recently discovered, to form of the whole a new image of the
disease.
§ 168. A remedy that is analogous may then be easily
foundamong the medicines that are known: a single applica-
tion of which will suffice, if not to destroy the disease entirely,
at least to facilitate the cure in a great degree. If this new
remedy is not sufficient to restore the health completely, then
examine what yet remains of the diseased state, and select the
homceopathic remedy that is most suitable to the new image
that results from it. In this Jilanner the physician must con-
tinue until he attain$ his object-that is to say, until he has
fully restored the health ofthe patient. ·
§ 169. It may easily occur, on examining a disease for the
first time, and also on selecting for the first time the remedy
that is to combat it, that the totality of the symptoms of the
disease is found not to be sufficiently covered by the morbific
symptoms of a ·single medicine, and that two remedies dispute
the preference as to eligibility in the present.instance, the one
being ho~pathic to one part of the disease, and the other
still more so to anoth_
er. It is then by no means advisable,
after using tlle preferable ofthe two remedies, to take the other
without examination, because.the medicine given as the infer\or
of the two, under the change of circumstances, may not be
proper for the remaining symptoms ; in which case, it follows
that a suitable homceopathic remedy should be selected for the .
new set of symptoms in its stead.
§ 170. In the present instance, as well as in every other
where a change has taken place in the state of the disease, it is
requisite to seek out what actually remains of th~ symptoms,
and select as suitable a remedy as possible to the present state
of the malady, without any reference whatever to that one
which, in the commencement, appeared to be the second best
of the two remedies that were found suitable. · Should it still
happen, though it is ·not often the case, that the medicine,
which at first appeared as the second best, may now be very
Digitized by Coogle
161
suitable to the rest of the morbid symptoms, it will then be the
more worthy of confidence, and should be used in preference.
§ 171. In non-venereal chronic diseases, (consequently
those which owe their origin to psora,) it is often necessary in
the cure to employ several remedies one after the other, each of
which ought to be chosen homreopathic to the group of symp-
toms which still exist after the preceding one has exhausted its
action; and which may have been applied in a single do8e, or
in several in succession.
? 172. The small number of symptoms in diSeas~ gives rise
to another difficulty in the cure-a circumstance which has an
equal claim .to our attention, since by its removal we do away
with nearly all the obstacles that this system presents; for. jf'
we except the yet incomplete apparatus of known h<!mmo-
pathic remedies, this is the most perfect ofall curative methods.
§ 173. The only diseases that appear to have but few
symptoms, and which are, therefore, more difficult to cure, are
those which may be called partial (einseitige), because they have
but one or two principal and prominent symptoms which mask
almost all the others. These are for the most part chronic
diseases.
§ 174. Their principal symptom is, perhaps, either an
internal malady, (such, for example, as cephalalgia, diarrhcea,
cardialgia, &c., of long standing,) or a more external injury.
These latter affections, particularly, are called local disease1•
•
§ 175. As to partial diseases of the first species alluded to,
the want of attention on the part of the physician is frequently
the reason that he does not fully trace out the symptoms which
are extant, by whose aid he would be able to form a more com-
plete outline of the image of the disease.
§ 176. There are, however, some few diseases which; not-
withstandfug all the care with which they may be eleamined in
the first instance (§ 84-98), exhibit only one .or two strong
21 .
Digitized by Coogle
•
162
and violent symptoms, while all the others are manifest but in
a slight degree.
§ 177. A case of this description very rarely occurs, but
when it does, it will be requisite, in a successful treatment, to
commence by selecting, according to the indication of the few
symptoms that are perceptible, that medicine which appears to
be the most homreopathic.
§ 178. It sometimes may happen that this.remedy, carefully
selected according to the exigency of the homreopathic law,
will present the artificial disease, which, by its analogy to the
natural one, is capable of destroying it ; and this will be the
more easily effected in proportion as the symptoms of the
natural disease are prominent, characteristic, and decisive.
9 179. But it more frequently happens that it is only in a
certain degree appropriate to the disease, and that it does not
suit exactly, because there was not a sufficient nUI~ber of
symptoms to direct the choice of the remedy.
~ 180. The medicine now operating UPon a disease to
which it is only partly analogous, excites accessory symptoms,
as in the case(§ 162 and others) where the choice is imperfect,
in consequence of the limited number of homreopathic reme-
dies. It will then produce several appearances belonging to
the mass of its own symptoms. But these appearances are
equally symptoms belonging·to the disease itself, mhich t!te patient
did not till nom perceive, or he had rarely felt them, and which
now do nothing more than develope themselves in a.greater
degree.
§ 181. It will, perhaps, be objected that the accessory
symptoms, or the new ones appearing in the disease, ought to
be attributed to the remedy which had just been administered.
This is indeed the source th~y spring from ;* but they are not
less, on that account, symptoms that this disease itself was
capable of producing in thi1 patient, and the remedy in its
character of exciting similar symptoms only provoked their
qumifestation. In short, the totality of the symptoms which
Digitized by Coogle
163
then' appear, ought to be regarded as belonging to the disease
itself in its present state, and should be looked upon as such in
the treatment.
*Unless they be occasioned' by an important . error of regimen,
inflamed passions, or an impetuous movement in the organism, such as
the establishment or cessation of the menses, conception, child birth, &c.
9 182. It is thus that the choice of the remedy (which
must almost inevitably be imperfect, 'by reason 'of the few
symptoms that show themselves) performs the office of perfect- ·
ing the ensemble of the symptoms, and facilitates in this manner
the discovery of a second and more appropriate homreopathic
remedy.
§ 1~3. Unless the recently developed symptoms should be
so violent as to call for immediate assistance, (which is rarely
the case, on account of the minuteness Of the homreopathic
doses, especially ill chronic diseases,) it is necessary, when the
first remedy has produced no favourable ~esults, .to write down .
again the existing state of the disease, and select a second
homreopathic remedy that is exactly suitable. 'l'his will be
the easier performed in proportion as the group of symptoms is
grown more numerous and complete:* ·
*A case that is very rare in chronic diseases, but which is 'Sometimes
met with in acute ones, is th~t, where, notwithstanding the indistinct·
ness of symptoms, the patient feels himself very ill, which may be
ascribed 'to the depressed state of the sensibility that does not permit
him to have a clear conception of the sufferings and symptoms. In a
case of this nature, opium (in a high potence) will remove the torpor of
the nervous system, and then the symptoms of the disease develope them-
selves plainly in the re-action of the organism.
. § 184. A similar course is to be continued after the full
effects ·of each dose, and the state of disease that remains
behind is to be noted down, describing the existing symptoms,
and the image that results therefrom will serve to find a new
remedy as homreopathic as possible. This method must be
pursued until the cure is accomplished.
9 185. Among partial di.seaset, those which are ca,lled loca,.l
Digitized by Coogle
164
hold a most important rank. By these, are meant the changes
and sufferings experienced by the external part of the body.
Until the present time, it has been the. theory of the former
schools of medicine that the external parts only were affected
in such a case, and that the rest of the body did not participate
' -in the qisease, an absurd theoretical proposition that has led to
the most pernicious medical treatment~
§ 186. The so called local diseases of recent origin arising
only from external causes seem more than others to be entitled
io this name. But the injury must then be very trifling, and
is of no particular importance ; for if the evjls which attack
the body externally are of any importance, the entire system.
synipathises, and fever declares itself, &c. The treatment of
these maladies belongs to surgery, so far as it is necessary to
bring mechanical aid to the suffering parts, in order to remove
and annihilate mechanical obstacles to the cure, which can
only be expected from the powers of the organism itself.
Among these may be ranked, for example, the reduction of
dislocations ; uniting wounds by bandages ; extracting foreign
substances that have penetra,ted the living parts; opening the
cavity of the abdomen, either to remove a substance that is
burdensome to the system, or to give vent to effusions and
collections of liquids ; placing in apposition the extremities of
a fractured bone, and consolidation of the fracture by means of
an appropriate bandage, &c. But as, when the injuries occur,
the entire organism always requires active dynamic aid to be
placed in a condition to accomplish the cure-when, for
instance, it is necessary to have recourse to internal remedies
to -extinguish violent fever, arising from a severe contusion, a
laceration of the soft parts-viz. muscles, tendons, and blood-
vessels-or when it is requisite to combat homreopathically the
external pain caused by a burn or cautery, then commence the
functions of the dynamic physician, and the aid of homreopathy
becomes necessary.
§ 187. But it is very different with the changes and mala-
dies which occur on the surface of the body, not originating
from any external violence, or merely from the consequences
of some slight external injury. These owe their source to an
Digit zed by Coogle
165
internal aft'ection. It is, therefore, equally absurd and dan-
gerous to regard ·these diseases as symptoms that are purely
local, and to treat th~m exclusively, or nearly so, by topical
applications, as if they were surgical cases, in which manner
they have been treated till the present day.
§ 188. These maladies havtl been considered as purely
local, and, consequently, received the appellation of such, be-
cause they were looked upon as affections that were in a
manner attached to the extreme parts in which the organism
took little or no share, as if it was ignorant of their existence.*
* One of the many pernicious blunders of the old school.
~ 189.. The slightest reflection, however, will suffice to
explain why an external malady (which has not been occa-
sioned by an important ~xternal violence) cannot arise, con-
tinue, or much less grow worse, without some internal cause,
the co-operation of the whole system, the latter, consequently,
being diseased. It could never manifest itself if the general
state of health was not immediately concerned, or if all the sen-
sitive and irritable parts of the body did not participate. Its
production would be impossible, if it did not result from some
modification qf the entire principle of life, so closHy are the
parts of the body connected with each other, ·and form so
inseparable a whole in regard to feeling and actipn. No erup-
tion of the lips nor whitlow can take place without some inter-
nal derangement having been previously and simultaneously
effected.
~ 190. All medical treatment of external diseases, that have
arisen almost without any violence being exercised on the
exterior of the body, ought, consequently, to have for its object
the annihilation and cure of the general malady under which
the organism suffers, by internal remedies. There is no other
safe mode of curing them radically.
+191. This is confirmed by experience, which shows us
that every energetic internal remedy produces, immediately
after it has been administered, important changes · in the
Digitized by Coogle
166
general state of the patient, and p~cularly in that of the
external parts that are affected (which the ordinary school of
medicine look upon as isolated), even in the so called local
affections, when they are situated at the extremities of the
body. And these changes are of the most salutary nature ;
they consist of the cure of the entire body, and remove, at the
same time, the local evil without the necessity of applying any
external remedy, provided the internal one that is directed
against the whole malady has been well selected and is per-
fectly homooopathic.
§ 192. 'l'he best method of effecting this object is, on
examining the actual case of disease, to take into consideration
not only the exact character of the local affection, but, in addi-
tion to that, every other change that is perceptible in the state
of the patient. All these symptoms ought to be reunited in
one perfect image, to be able to select a suitable homooopathic
remedy from among the medicines whose morbid symptoms
are already known.
§ 193. This remedy administered alone interna!Jy, and of
which a single dose wiU suffice, when the disease is of recent
origin, cures simultaneously the general bodily disease and the
local affection. Such an effect on the part of the remedy ought
to prove to us that the local evil depends solely upon a malady
of the entire body, and that it ought to be considered as an in-
separable part of the whole, and one of the most considerable
and prominent symptoms of the general disease.
§. 194. It is not proper, either in acute local affections of
recent origin, or in those which have already existed a long
time, to make any topical application whatever to the diseased
part, not even a substance which would he homooopathic or
specific, if taken internally, or to administer it' simultaneously
with the internal medicinal agent. For acute local affections,
such as inflammation, erysipelas, &c., which have not been
produced by: external injuries violent in proportion to their
intensity, bul by dynamic or internal causes, generally yield in
a very short time to remedies capable of exciting an internal
and external state similar to the one that actually exists.* If
Digitized by Coogle
-- - -- ____________....,.........
-167
the disease is not·wholly removed-if, notwithstanding the
regularity of the mode of life of the patient, there still remains
some local or general trace of it which the vital power is not
able to restore to the normal state-then the acute local affec-
tion was (what happens very frequently) the product of psora,
which had till then been latent in the interior o( the organism,
and whieh is now on the point of manifesting itself in the form
of a chronic disease.
• For example, aconite, rhus toxicod., belladonna, mercury, &c.
§ 195. To perform a radical cure in these cases, which are
by no means rare, it is necessary, after a tolerable abatement of
the acute state, to direct an ·appropriate antipsoric treatment
against the symptoms which continue to exist, together with
those which the patient had been subject to previously, (accord-
ing to the instruction$ given in the work on chronic diseases*).
An antipsoric treatment is, besides, requisite in local chronic
affections that are manifestly not venereal. _
"' The second edition of this work is about to be translated, and will be
published immediately.-EDITOR.
§ 196. It "might be supposed that these diseases would be
cured more promptly, if the remedy known to be homceopathic
to the tota1ity of the symptoms was employed not only inter-
nally, but likewise externally, and that a medicine applied to
the spot itself that is diseased, ought then to produce a more
rapid change.
§ 197. But this method should be rejected not only in local.
affections which depend upon the :miasm of psora, but also
in those especially which result from the miasms of syphilis or
~ .sycosis. For the simultaneous application qf a remedy internally
and externally, in a disease whose principal symptom is a perma-
nent local evil, brings one serious disadvantage with it-the ex-
ternal affection* usually disappears faster than the internal
malady, which gives rise to an erroneous impression that the
cure is complete, or at least it b~comes difficult, and sometimes
impossible, to judge whether the entire disease has been de-
stroyed or not by the internal remedy.
"' Recent psoric eruption, chancre, syeosia.
Digitized by G~ogle
168
§ 198. The same motive ought to make us reject the mere
local application of remedies to the external symptoms of chro-
nic miasmatic diseases. For if we confine ourselves to the sup-
pression of the local symptoms, an impenetrable obscurity is
then spread over the treatment, which is neceS&iJ.ry to the per-
fect re-establishment of health : the principal symptom of the
local affection is removed, and there only remain. the others
which are much less important and certain, and which are
often not sufficiently characterised to furnish a clear and per-
fect image of the disease.
§ 199. If the remedy homceopathic to the disease was not
yet discovered" when the local symptom was destroyed by
cauterization, excision, or desiccatives, the case becomes still
more embarrassing, on account of the uncertainty and incon-
stancy of the symptoms that remain. And this difficulty is
inevitable, because the external symptom which would have
been the best guide in the choice of a remedy, and have
pointed out the proper time of using it internally, is removed
from our observation.
*As was the case before my time with regard to anti-sycosic and anti-
psoric remedies.
§ 200. If this symptom still existed, it might have led to the
discovery .of the homreopathic remedy suitable to the entire
malady; this remedy once discovered; the continued existence
of the local affection would show that the cure was not yet
perfected, while its disappearance would prove that the evil had
been extirpated to the very root, and the ctire absolute, an ad-
vantage that cannot be too highly appreciated.
§ 201. It is evident that the vital power, charged with a
chronic disease which it cannot subdue by its own energy,
does not adopt the measure of exciting a local affection on any
external part whatever, but for the purpose of allaying (by
abandoning to its power those organs whose integrity is not
absolutely necessary to existence) an internal disease which
threatens to destroy the essential springs of life. Its object is,
in a manner, to transport the malady from one spot to another,
Digitized by Coogle
-
. '
'1&9
and substitute an external evil in the place of one that is inter-
nal. In this way the local affection silences, for a while, the
internal malady, but without being able either to cure or
diminish it in a great degree.• The local malady, however, is
never any thing more than a part of the general disease, but it
is a part that the vital power has (einseitige) greatly magnified,
and which she has carried back to the surface of the body
where there is less danger, in order to diminish the internal
affection in an equal degree. But this latter, is not the less
cured on that account : on the contrary, it makes a gradual
progress, so that the organism is likewise compelled to enlarge
and aggravate the local symptom, in order to replace it to a
certain extent, and procure for it partial relief. Thus, old
ulcers in the legs grow large so long as the internal psora is
not cured, and chancres increase in size as long as the internal
syphilis remains without·cure, just as the internal disease of
the whole body grows and enlarges of itself. ·
* The issues of the old school produce something that is analogous.
These ulcers, created by art on the external parts, may, though for a
very short time, allay several internal chronic diseases, but they can
never cure them; on the other hand, they weaken and destroy the health
far more than the instinctive vital power does, by the most of its metas-
tases.
§ 202. If the physician who has imbibed the precepts of
the ordinary school destroys the local malady by an external
remedy, tliinking by these means to cure the disease itself;
nature replaces this affection by increasing the internal suffer-
ings, and rousing all the other symptoms that already existed
with the local malady, and which appear to have been till that
time in a latent state. It is, therefore, erroneous that the
external remedies have (as usually asserted) then driven back
the local malady into the body, or that they have thrown it
upon the nerves.
§ 203. Every external treatment of a local symptom whose
aim is to extinguish it on the surface of the body without
curing the internal miasmatic disease-such, for example, aa
that of destroying a psoric eruption on the skin by means of
ointments, healing·Qp a chancre by the use of caustic, destroy-
22
Digitized by Coogle
170
ing the granulations of sycosis by ligature, excision, or the
application of a hot iron-is not only useless but injurious.
This pernicious method, in such general use at the present
day, is the chief source of the innumerable chronic diseases
(with or without names) that oppress the human race. This
is the most criminal practice physicians can adopt, and it has
notwithstanding.been very generally practised till the present
time, and taught, ex cathedra, as the only one.*
• For all the medicines which are direct~d to be given inwardly during
the local treatment, serve only to aggravate the evil, since they possess
no specific power to remove the entire disease, but assault and weaken
the organism, and, in addition, inftict on it other chronic medicinal dis-
eases.
§ 204. If we except all chronic maladies which depend
upon a mode of living habitually unhealthy, as well as those
innumerable factitious diseases (v. §. 74) which arise from the
senseless and protracted: the assaulting and ruinous treatment,
even of slight diseases, by allreopathic physicians, then all the
remainder, without exception, are occasioned by the develope-
ment of these three chronic miasms, viz., internal syphilis,
internal sycosis, but especially, and in an infinitely greater pro-
portion, internal psora. Each of these is alreacfy in posses-
sion of the entire organism, and has penetrated it in all its
parts, before the respective primary representative and local
symptom makes its appearance, which prevents the bursting
forth of its corresponding miasm in another form, and is mani-
fested in psora by a peculiar eruption, in syphilis by chancre
or bubo, and in sycosis by condylomata~ Either of these
chronic miasms being deprived of its local symptoms, will,
sooner or later, under the influence of natural causes, become
developed, burst forth, an~ mu!tiply the incredible multitude of
chronic diseases which for ages has afBicted the human race.
These diseases never would have existed in such abundance,
had physicians strenuously endeavoured to effect a radical cure
of these three miasms, and to extinguish .them from the
organism, by means of the mternal employment of homreo-
pathic remedies adapted to each, without treating the external
symptoms bytopical applications.
Digitized by Coogle
171
i 205. The homreopathic physician never treats the primi-
tive symptoms of chronic miasms, nor the secondary evils that
result from their developement, by local remedies acting in a
dynamic1 or mechanical manner. But as this was not the
method adopted by his predecessors, and as he generally finds
ihe primitive symptoms2 already effaced from the exterior, he
has, for the most part, to treat secondary symptoms, evils pro-
voked by the developement ofthese inherent miasms, and more
frequently chronic diseases that are the results of internal
:psora. On this head, I refer the reader to my treatise on
chronic diseases, in which I have pointed out the system that
is to be pursued in as precise a manner as it was possible for a
single individual to do after many years of experience, obser-
vation, and reflection.
1 Consequently, I cannot, for example, advise the local destruction of
cancer in the lip or face (the result of psora strongly developed 1) by the
arsenical ointment of frere CiJme; not only because this treatment is
extremely painful, and frequently fails, but more particularly because
such a dynamic remedy, although it may locally cleanse the body of the
cancerous ulcer, does not in the slightest degree diminish the•psora,
which is the original disease, so that the preservative vital power is
forced to carry back the 'focus of the great internal disease upon a more
essential part (as it happens in every case of metastasis), and thus occa-
sions blindness, deafness, madness, suffocative asthma, dropsy, apoplexy,
&c. But arsenic ointment does not even reach so far as to deatroy the
local ulceration, except where the latter is of no very great extent, and
the vital power retains great energy ; but even in such a state of things,
it is still possible to cure the original disease completely. The extirpa-
tion of cancer in the face or breast, or that of an encysted tumour, abso-
lutely produces the same result. The operation is followed by a state
still more grievous, or at least the life of the patient is shortened. This
in innumerable instances has been the result; but still the old school,
in its blindness, continues to produce in every 'new case the same
calamity.
s Psoric eruption, chancre (bubones), sycosis.
; 206. Previous to commencing the cure of 'a chronic dis-
ease, it is necessary to enquire with the greatest care* whether
the patient has been affected with the venereal disease (or
gonorrhea sycosica); for where this is the case, the treatment
ought to be specially and solely directed towards these objects
when no other symptoms but those of syphilis or sycosis are
Digitized by Coogle
17~
present, a circumstance that very rarely occurs in modern
times. It is equally requisite, in the cure of internal psora, to
enquire if an infection of this nature bas taken place, because
in that ca.Ee there is a complication of those two diseases, as
there always is, when the symptoms of psora are not pure.
Generally, when the physician thinks he bas an old case of
venereal disease before him, it is chiefly a complication of
syphilis and psora that offers itself to his view, the internal
psora being the most frequent fimdamental cause of chronic dis-
eases, whatever names they may bear, and which, by all<OO-
pathic unskilfulness, has been, in addition, frequently marred
and enormously heightened and disfigured.
• In making enquiries of this nature, the physician must not allow
himself to be imposed on either by the assertions of the patients or those
of their parents, who, even in the most inveterate cases of chronic dis-
eases, assign for their cause a cold caught many years previous, a
former fright, grief, witchcraft, &c. These causes are much too slight
to produce a chronic disease in a healthy body, or to keep it up for a
period of long duration, and render it worse from year to year, as is the
case with all chronic diseases arising from the developement of psora.
Far more important causes than these must have presided at the birth of
a severe chronic disease, and those which have just been enumerated
could do nothing more than call forth a chronic miasm from its state of
lethargy.
§ 207. The preceding examination being accomplished,
then it is requisite for the homc:eopathic physician to enquire
what was the all<eOpathic treatment adopted during the
chronic disease-what powerful medicines especially and fre-
quently were employed, the mineral waters used, and their
effects. This information is necessary, in order that he may
cqnceive, in some degree, the deviation from the primitive
state, and, if possible, partially correct these artificial changes,
or, at all events, that he may avoid the mec:licines already mis-
applied.
§ 208. The next step is to learn the age of the patient, his
mode of life, regimen, occupation, domestic situation, social
connections, &c. He is to examine whether these various cir-
cumstances contribute to increase the disease, and to what
extent they may be favourable or unfavourable to the treat-
Digitized by Coogle
173
ment. He must likewise endeavour to learn whether the
patient's state of mind is any obstacle to the cure, and whether
it be necessary to modify, favour, or direct it.
§ 209. It is not till after repeated enquiries of this nature
that the physician should endeavour to trace out, according to
the directions already given, as perfect an image of the disease
as possible, to enable him to distinguish the most prominent
and characteristic of the symptoms by which he is to choose
the first anti-psoric or other remedy, at the commencement of
the treatment, observing, as a guide, the greatest possible
analogy with the symptoms, &c.
§ 210. Almost all those which I before designated by the
name of partial (einseitige) diseases belong to psora, and seem,
on that account, more difficult to cure, because all their other
symptoms disappear before that one great prevailing symptom.
To these belong the so called diseast1 of the mind and temper.
These affections, however, do not form a distinct and wholly
separate clas& from the others, for the state of the mind and ·
temper varies in all other so called bodily diseases,• and it
ought to be comprised as one of the principal symptoms, of
which it is important to note the whole, in order to trace a
faithful image of the disease, and to be able to combat it with
success, homreopathically.
"' How often do we not meet with patients who, though they have
been ·a prey for many years to painful diseases, nevertheleSS' preserve a
gentle and peaceful disposition, .so much so as to inspire us with com-
passion and respect 1 But when the disease is overcome, which is
often the case, by the bomreopathic mode of treatment, we sometimes
see the most frightful changes of disposition ensue, and ingratitude,
obduracy, refined malice, revolting caprices, which were the attributes
of the patient before he beeame diseased, again make their appearance.
Sometimes a man who is patient while in the enjoyment of health, be-
comes passionate, violent, capricious, and unbearable, or impatient and
despairing, when he is ill, or the formerly chaste and modest are now
become lascivious and shameless. It is frequently the case that a sen-
sible man becomes stupid in sickness, whereas, on the contrary, a weak
mind is rendered stronger, and a man of a slow temperament becomes
full of preaeace of mind and resolution.
Digitized by Coogle
174
§ 211. This extends so far that the moral state of the
patient is often that which is most decisive in the choice of the
homreopathic ·remedy ; for this is a symptom of the most pre-
cise character, and one that, among the mass of symptoms, by
no means can escape the notice of a physician accustomed to
make precise observations.
§ 212. , The creator of medicinal agents has also been sin-
gularly attentive to this principal element of all diseases-the
changes in the state of mind and disposition : for there is not a
single operative medicine that does not effect a notable change
in the temper and manner of thinking of a healthy individual
to whom it is administered, and each medicinal substance pro-
duces a different modification.
§ 213. No cure, then, can ever be performed according to
nature-that is to say, in a homreopathic manner-without
paying attention, at .the same time, in every disease, and even
in those which are acute, to the change that has taken place in
the mind and disposition, and selecting a remedy capable in
itself of producjng not only similar symptoms to those of the
malady, but also a similar disposition and state of mind.*
* Aconite seldom or ever effects a rapid and permanent cure when the
temper of the patient is quiet and even ; or the nux-vomica, when the
disposition is mild and phlegmatic; or pulsatilla, when it is lively,
serene, or obstinate ; or ignatia, when the mind is unchangeable and
little susceptible of either fear or grief.
§ 214. · What I have tO say regarding the treatment of
mental diseases may be comprised in a few words, for they
cannot be cured in a different manner from other diseases-
that is to say, it is necessary to oppose to them a remedy pos-
sessing a morbific power as similar as possible to the disease
itself in the effect which it produces upon the mind and body
of persons in health. ·
§ 215. Almost all affections of the mind and disposition are
nothing more than diseases of the body, in which the changes
of the moral faculties are (more or less rapidly) become pre-
dominant over all the other symptoms, which are diminished ;
Digitized by Coogle
175
they finish by assuming the character of a partial disease and
almost of a local affection.
§ 216. In the so called bodily diseases which are dangerous,
such as suppuration of the lungs, or that of any other essential
viscera, or another acute disease, viz. in childbed, &c., where
the intensity of the moral symptom increases rapidly, the dis-
ease turns to insanity, melancholyJ or madness, which removes
the danger arising from the bodily symptoms. The latter
improve so 'far as almost to be restored to a healthy state, 'or
rather they are diminished in such a degree as to be no longer
perceptible but to the eye ofthe observer gifted with penetration
and perseverance. In this manner they degenerate into a par-
tial (einaeitige) disease, even as if local, in which the moral
symptom; very slight in the first instance, assumes so great a
preponderance that it becomes the most prominent of all-sub-
stitutes itself in a great degree for the others, and subdues their
virulence by acting on them as a palliative. In short, the
disease of the bodily organs, which are grosser in their nature,
has been transported to the almost spiritual organs of the mind,
which no anatomist ever·could or will be able to reach with
his scalpel.
§ 217. In affections of this kind, it is requisite to proceed
with particular care in searching for the entire signs both in
regard to the bodily symptoms and more especially that of the
principal and characteristic symptom-the state of the mind
and disposition. By these means alo.ne can we succeed in dis-
covering, among the number of medicines whose pure effects
are kpown, a remedy that has the power of extinguishing the
entire evil at once ; for it is necessary that, among the.number
of the symptoms pecl.!liar to this remedy, there should be some
which resemble as closely as possible not only the bodily
symptoms of the disease, but also its moral.ones in ·particular.
§ 218. To obtain possession of this totality of the symptoms,
it is requisite, in the first place, to describe with precision all
those which the disease exhibited previous to the moment
when, by the preponderance of the moral symptoms, it changed
to an affection of the mind and disposition. This information
will be furnished by the persons who are about the patient.
Digitized by Coogle
176
§ 219. By comparing these previous symptoms of the bodily
disease with the traces ofthose that still remain, but which are
nearly effaced, (and perceptible at lucid intervals, or when the
mental affection undergoes a transitory diminution,) we may
satisfy ourselves that although they were concealed, still they
never ceased to exist.
§ 220. If we add to all this, the state of nund and disposi-
tion which the persons around the patient, and the physician
himself, has observed with the greatest care, we have then
arrived at the perfect image of the malady, and may proceed to
look for the homreopathic remedy that is to cure it-that is to
say, (if the mental affection has already existed a long time,)
for the anti-psoric remedy, which has the power of exciting
similar symptoms, and principally an analogous disorder in V1e
moral faculties.
§ 221. If, however, the ordinary calm and tranquil state of
the patient has been suddenly changed by the .infiuence of fear,
grief, spirituous liquors, &c., to one of madness or furor, thus
presenting the character of an acute disease, although the
affection is almost always the result of internal psora, like a
raging flame bursting forth from it, yet the physician cannot
attempt to combat it immediately by the use of anti-psoric
remedies. It is necessary first to oppose to it other medicines-
such, for example, as aconite, belladonna, stramonium, hyoscia-
mus: mercury, &c., in highly developed, minute doses-in order
to allay it sufficiently to bring back the psora to its former
latent condition, which gives the patient the appearance of .
being cured.
§ 222. But a patient who has thus been freed from an.acute
disease of the mind or disposition by the use of non-anti~psoric
remedies can never be regarded as cured. Far from it ; and it
is necessary to lose no time in p!acing him under a prolonged
anti-psoric treatment to deliver him of the chronic miasm of
psora, which, it is true, has again become latent, but is not less
ready on that a!!count to break out again." In short, there is
no fear of another at~ck similar to that which has been
Digitized by Coogle
177
arrested, provided the patient does not depart from the regimen
that has been prescribed for him.
• It is a very rare case that mental alienation of long standing ceases
spontaneously, (since the internal malady recedes upon the grosser cor-
poreal organs.) These are the few cases in which a patient, after having
been the inmate of a mad-house, is discharged as apparently cured.
Every institution for the insane has hitherto been filled to· excess, so that
tbe multitude of others waiting for admission .have scarcely ever found a
place, if vacancies did not occur in tbe house by the decease of patient11.
Not one among them iB really and permanently cured ! A striking
evidence this, among many others, of the complete nullity of the perni-
cious treatment hitherto pursued, which allreopathic ostentation has
ridiculously honoured with the title of the rational art of healing. On
the other hand, how often have these unfortunate beings, by means of a
treatment purely bomreopathic, been restored to the possession of their
mental and bodily health, and returned to their gratifi~d connections and
•he world.
§ 223. But where the anti-psoric treatment is discontinued,
it is almost .certain that a much slighter cause than that which
excited the first appearance of insanity will suffice to bring on
a fresh and more permanent attack of it, during which psora
developes itself in a perfect manner, and it will then turn to a
periodical or J}ermanent mental alienation, which can with
difficulty be cured by anti-psorics.
§ 224. In a case where the mental disease is not yet com-
pletely formed, and where it is doubtful whether it really
results from a bodily affection, or if it is not rather the effects
of bad education, evil habits, corrupted morals, a neglected
mind, superstition, or ignorance, the truth will he readily dis-
covered by acting as follows. The patient is to be addressed
in a tone of friendly exhortation, while motives of consolation,
serious remonstrances, and solid arguments, are to be urged on
the c;>ccasion : if the disorder of the mind does not proceed
from a bodily disease, it will readily yield to such means ; but
if the contrary is the case, the malady rapidly grows worse,
the melancholic becomes still more grav:e, d\lwncast, and incon-
solable, the wicked maniac more outrageous, and the unmean-
ing prattler more foolish.* ·
* It seems as though the mind were sensible of the truth of these
representations, and acted upon the body as if it w'buld relotore the lost
23
Digitized by Coogle
178
harmony, but that the latter re-acts, by means of a disease, upon the
organs of the mind and disposition, and augments the derangement
which already exists, by throwing back on them its own peculiar suffer-
ings.
§ 225. But, as we have just witnessed, there are likewise a
few mental diseases that do not owe their origin solely to a
bodily disease, but which, on the contrary, with a slight indis-
position, have been produced by moral affections, such as con-
tinued grief, anger, injured feelings, or great and repeated occa-
sions of fear and alarm. In the course of time, these latter
have an influence over the health of the body, and often com-
promise it in a high degree.
§ 226. It is merely in mental diseases, thus engendered and
kept up by the disposition itself, that moral remedies are to be
relied on, and that only while they are still recent, and haTJe not
yet made any great inroad upon the physical state ofthe organism.
In this case, it is possible that treating the patient with a show
of confidence, bestowing on him friendly exhortations and sen-
sible advice, and sometimes practising on him a deception that
is disguised with art, will soon restore the health of the mind,
and then, with the aid of a .suitable regimen, the body also
may apparently be brought back to its normal condition.
.
§ 227. But these maladies are likewise the results of a
psoric miasm that was not yet ready to develope itself in a per-
fect manner, and prudence requires that the patient should be
submitted to a radical anti-J)soric cure, to prevent a relapse
(which too often occurs) of the same mental affection.
§ 228. In mental diseases that are produced by an affection
of the body, whose cure can alone be effected by a homreopa-
thic anti-psoric remedy, aided by a careful and regular mode of
life, it is also proper to join to this treatment a certain regimen
for the government of the mind. In this respect it is neces-
sary that the physician, and those about the patient, should
.scrupulously observe that line of conduct towards him that has
been judged suitable. To the furious maniac, we are to oppose
tranquillity and unshaken firmness free from fear ; to the
Digitized by Coogle
179
patient who vents his sufferings in grief and lamentation,
silent pity that is expressed by the countenance and gestures ;
to senseless prattle, a silence not wholly inattentive; to disgust-
ing and detestable demeanour and similar discourse, entire
inattention. What regards the injury and damage that a
maniac may commit, we are only to anticipate and prevent it
without ever expressing a word of reproach to him; every
thing ought to be so ordered, that punishments and the inflic-
tion of bodily sufferings may be dispensed with.* And this can
be effected without any great difficulty, since in administering
the medicine (the only point where the use of coercive measures
would be justifiable) the dose in the homceopathic treatment is
so small that the medicinal substance never offends the taste,
and the patient can be made to swallow it in his drink without
ever perceiving it.
* It is surprising to witness the hard-hearted and imprudent treatment
adopted in several mad-houses, not only in England, but also in Ger-
many, by physicians who, ignorant of the only true method of curing
mental disease by the aid of homreopathic (anti-psoric) remedies, do
nothing more than beat and torture the unfortunate beings who are so
worthy of compassion. By this revolting mode of treatment, they lower
themseltes beneath the rank of the common jailer in the houses of cor-
rection; for it is in virtue of his office, and upon criminals only, that the
latter exercises his cruelty, while the physician, either too ignorant or
indolent to go in search of a suitable method of treatment, only appears
to exert his tyranny upon the innocent patient through spite, becau&e he
is not able to cure him.
§ 229. On the other hand, contradiction, zealous remon-
strance, violence, and reproaches, are as inapplicable and
injurious in the treatment of mental disease as are indecision
and timidity. But mockery, in particular, and deception,
which the maniac is not slow in perceiving, only irritate and
provoke him.. The physician, and those who guard the patient,
ought always to appear as if they believed him to be possessed.of
reason. It is likewise necessary to remove from his view all
external objects that could disturb or afflict him. There is on
relief or distraction for the clouded mind-no salutary recrea-
tion-no means of instruction or consolation either in books,
conversation, or othenyise, for the soul that languishes in the
prison ofa diseased body-nothing can procure him repose but
~igitized by Google'
...-.
180
the cure of his bodily sufferings, and he is equally a stranger to
comfort and tranquillity until reason is restored.
~ 230. If the anti-psoric remedy that is to be used in any
given case of mental affection, of which there are lm endless
variety of cases, be perfectly homreopathic to the true image of
the disease, (which is easily discovered when the number of
known medicines is suffici~ntly great that the principal symp-
tom, viz. the moral state of the patient, is strongly developed,)
then the smallest dose often suffices to produce, in a short time,
a very decided amelioration, which could not have been
obtained by all the other (allreopathic) remedies administered
in large doses, and lavished on the patient till he was near
death. I can even affirm, after long experience, that the
superiority of homreopathy over every other curative method
whatever was never more manifest than in mental diseases of
long standing, which owed their origin to bodily affections or
which were developed simultaneously.
~ 231. There is yet another class ofdiseases that merits our
particular attention. These are the intermittent diseases, such
as return at stated periods like the innumerable intermittent
fevers, and the non-febrile affections assuming the same forl)l,
and also those which in certain morbid states alternate with
others at indefinite intervals.
§ 232. These latter (alternating) species are likewise in
great variety;* but they all belong to the number of chronic
diseases. The greater part ofthem result from a developement
of psora, sometimes, but rarely, complicated with a syphilitic
miasm. This. is the reason that they are cured in the firsl
instance by anti-psoric medicines, and in the second by anti-
psorics, alternating with anti-syphilitics, as I have stated in my
Treatise on Chronic Diseases.
* It is possible for two or three different states to alternate with each
other. For example, in a ease that regards the alternation Of two dif-
ferent states, it can happen that certain pains may be produced in the
lower extremities as soon as ophthalmia disappears, and the latter may
return again immediately when the pains ha~e ceased-or that spasms
and convulsions may immediately succeed some other affection, either of
I
•
Digitized by Coogle
181
the entire body or one of its parts. But it is also possible, in the case
of a triple alliance of alternative states in a quotidian complaint, that an
apparent superabundance of health, an exaltation of the faculties of the
mind and body, (such as unusual gaiety, excessive vivacity, an exagge-
rated feeling of comfort, immoderate appetite, &c.) may be abruptly suc-
ceeded by a downcast and melancholy humour, an insupportable ten-
dency to hypochondriasis, and a derangement of several of the vital
functions (digestion, sleep, &c.) : and this second may make room in a
less sudden manner to the feeling of indisposition which the patient was
subject to in ordinary times. Sometimes there is no longer any trace
whatever of the anterior state when the new one has established itself.
Sometimes there are vestiges of it still remaining. In certain cases, the
morbid states that succeed each other are in their nature directly opposite
-as, for example, melancholy and mirthful insanity, or furor, alternating
periodically.
§ 233. The I!Jpical intermittents are those wherein a morbid
state, resembling that which previously existed, re-appears at
the expiration of a certain interval of apparent recovery, and
vanishes again after having lasted for an equal period of time.
This phenomenon not only occurs in the great variety of
intermittent fevers,but likewise in diseases that are apparently
without fever, which appear and disappear at regular periods.
§ 234. Those morbid states, apparently without fever,
which assume a particular type-that is to say, which rel.urn
at fixed periods in the same patient (they do not manifest them-
selves, in general, either sporadically or epidemically)-all
belong to the class of chronic diseases. The greater number
of them depend on a simple psoric affection, seldom compli-
cated with syphilis, and they are combated successfully by the
same treatment. It is, however, sometimes necessary to have
recourse to a very small dose ofextenuated soiution of cinchona,
for the purpose of completely extittguishing their intermittent
form.
§ 235. With respect to intermittent fevers* that manifest
themselves sporadically or epidemically (not the endemics of
marshy ·districts), we often find that each of their attacks or
paroxysms is likewise composed of two contrary morbid states
of cold and heat, or heat and cold ; but most frequently it con-
sists of three-cold, heat, and perspiration. For this reason, it
Digitized by Coogle
182
is, therefore, necessary that the remedy employed against
them, which is to be selected from the medicines hitherto tried,
commonly from the non-anti-psorics, shall likewise (as the surest
means) be able to excite in healthy persons two (or all three)
of the morbid stages that are similar, or, at least, it shall have
the faculty of exciting, with all its accessory symptoms, the
strongest and.most prominent of these two or three consecutive
stages, viz. either that of chill, with its accessory symptoms, or
of heat, with the symptoms accompanying it, or of perspiration,
with its attendant complaints, according as the one or the
other stage may be the strongest and most distinguished ; yet
the state of the patient, during the apyrexia, especially, must
indicate the choice of the most appropriate homreopathic
remedy.
• Till the present time, pathology has only been acquainted with one
siagle intermittent fever, which has been called ague. It admits of no
other difference than the interval .which exists between the paroxysms ;
and upon this are founded the particular denominations, quotidian,
tertian, quartan, &c. But, besides the variety which they present in
regard to the periods of their return, the intermittent fevers exhibit yet
other changes that -are much more important. Among these fevers
there are many which cannot be denominated ague, because their
attacks coasist solely of heat; others are characterise~ by cold only, suc-
ceeded or not by perspiration ; while yet others freeze the body of the
patient, and inspire him, notwithstanding, with a sensation of heat, or
even create in him a feeling of cold, although his body S!lems very warm
to the touch; in many, one of the paroxysms is confined to shivering or
cold, which is immediately succeeded by a comfortable sensation, and
that whic}l comes after it consists of heat followed by perspiration or
not. In one case, it is heat that manifests itself first, and cold succeeds;
in another, both the cold and heat give place to apyrexia, while the next
paroxysm, which sometimes does not occur before an interval of several
hours, consists merely of perspiration ; in certain cases, no trace of per·
spiration is perceptible; while in others the attack is conwosed solely of
perspiration, without either heat -
or cold, or of perspiration that flows
during the heat alone. There exist, likewise, innumerable differences
relative to the accessory symptoms, the particular kind of head-ache, the
bad taste in the mouth, the stomach sickness, the vomiting, the diarrhrea,
the absence or degree of thirst, the kind of pains felt in the body and
limbs, sleep, delirium; changes of the temper, spasms, &c., which mani-
fest themselves before, during, or after the cold, hot, or sweating sCages,
without taking into the account a multitude of other deviations. These
are assuredly intermittent fevers tliat are very different from one another,
Digitized by Coogle
----------------~~-------
183
each of which demands naturally that mode of homreopathic treatment
that is appropriate to it individually. It must be confessed, it is true,
that they may almost all be suppressed (a case that so frequently occurs)
by large and enormous doses.of cinchona or quinine-that is to say, cin-
chona prevents their periodical return, and destroys the type. But when
this remetly is employed in intermittent fevers where it is inappropriate,
(as is the case with all epidemic intermittents wh1ch pass over whole
countries, and even mountains,) the patient is not ilt all cured, because
the character of the di!•ease is destroyed; he is still indisposed, and often
much more so than he was before; he suffers from a peculiar chronic
bark complaint, often incurable, and yet this is what physicians te~ a
cure. •·
§ 236. The best, most appropriate, and serviceable method
in these diseases, is to administer the remedy immediately, or
very shortly after the termination of the paroxysm, as soon as
the patient has, in some measure, recovered from it. Adminis-
tered in this manner, it has sufficient time to produce in the
organism all its various effects to restore· health without
violence o.r commoti~n; whereas, if taken immediately before
the paroxysm, (even though it were homceopathic or specific in
the highest degree,) its effect would coinciqe with the renewal
of the natural disease, and excite such a strife in the organism,
so powerful a reaction, that the patient would lose at ]east a
great portion of his strength, and even _life would be endan-
gered.* But when the medicine is admini&'tered immediately
after the termination of the paroxysm, and before the next fit
has prepared itself, even at a distance, to appear, the organism
is in the best possible condition to allow itself to be gently
modified by the remedy~ and by these means return to a state
of health,
* There are proofs of this, unfortunately, in the too frequent cases
where a moderate allreopathic dose of opium, administered to the patient
during the cold stage of the fever, has quickly deprived him of life.
§ 237. If the period of the apyrexia be of short duration, as
is the case in some very violent fevers, or if it be disturbed by
symptoms which belong to the preceding paroxysm, then it is
necessary to administer the homceopathic remedy as soon as
the perspiration or other symptoms, pointing out the termina-
tion of the fit, begin to diminish.
Digitized by Coogle
§ 238. When a single dose of the appropriate remedy bas
destroyed several paroxysms, and manifestly restored health,
and, notwithstanding which, indications of a fresh attack are
seen some time after, then only can and ought the same
remedy to be repeated, provided the totality of the symptoms is
still the same. But this return of the same fever, after an
interval of health, is not possible, except when the cause which
excited the malady, in the first instance, still exercises its
influence upon the convalescent, as occurs in marshy countries.
In such a case, a permanent cure is seldom effected but by
removing tlie patient from this exciting cause, and advising
him to go and reside in a mountainous district, if that which
attacked him was a marsh intermittent fever.
§ 239. As almost every medicine, in its simple action, pro-
duces a peculiar fever, and even a species of intermittent,
which differs from all those excited by other medicines, conse-
quently the imniense number of medicinal substances presents
th~ means of combating all natural intermittent fevers hoiD<BO-
pathically. Some efficacious remedies against a multitude of
these affections, have already been discovered in the few medi-
cines that have been tried, till the present time, on healthy
individuals.
§ 240. When a remedy is found to be hom<eOpathic or
specific in a reigning epidemy of intermittent fevers, and there
is, notwithstanding, now and then, a patient whom it does not
cure in a perfect manner, and no induence of a marshy
country opposes its operation, then the obstacle generally arises
from the psoric miasm, and, consequently, anti-psoric medicines
ought to be employed until health is perfectly restored.
§ 241. Epidemical intermittent fevers, in places where
none are endemic, have the nature of chronic diseases, com-
posed of individual, acute paroxysms. Each particular
epidemic has a peculiar character, per se, that is shared in
common by every patient affected by it, ~d which, when it is
discovered in the totality of symptoms common to all, indicates
the suitable homreopathic remedy (specific) for all the cases;
and this remedy is almost universally effectual in patients who
Digitized by Coogle
•
185
had enjoyed tolerable health before the onset of the epidemic,
that is, who suffered under no chronic malady from developed
psora.
9 242. If, however, in such an epidemic intermittent, the
first paroxysms have passed over tmcured, or if the patient's
strength had been reduced by improper allreopathic treatment,
then the internal psoric miasm (though slumbering, yet unfor
tuoately existing in so many persons), developes itself, assumes
here the intermittent type, and, in appearance, continues to
play the part of the intermittent fever itself, so that.the medicine
(rarely an anti-psoric) which would have been beneficial in the
incipient paroxysms, is now no longer suitable or capable of
affording relief. The disease at present to be combated has
degenerated into a psoric intermittent, which is generally ov~r­
come by means of a minute dose, seldom repeated, of sulphur
and sulphuretum calcis, of the highest developements.
§ 243. Those frequently very malignant intermittent fevers
which attack an individual here and there, not inhabiting
marshy regions, must in the commencement be treated as
acute diseases (to which they bear some resemblance, as regards
their psoric origin), by selecting a homreopathic remedy, for
the special case, from the class of the other proven (non-anti-
psoric) medicines, which is to be con~inued for some days with
the view of affording the greatest possible relief But if the
recovery should be lingering, it must be seen that psora is now
on the point ofdevelopement, and that a radical cure cannot be
effected without anti-psoric remedies.
§ 244. The endemic intermittent fevers 9f marshy districts
and countries subject to inundations are a source of much
embarrassment to physicians of·the prevailing school of medi-
cine. A healthy man may, however, accustom himself in his
youth to the influence of, a country that is covered with
morasses, and live there in perfect health, provided he confines
himself to a regular mode of life, and is not assailed by want,
fatigue, or destructive passions. The endemic intermittent
fevers will at farthest attack him on his first arrival in the
country : but one or two of the smallest doses of a solution of
. 24 .
o,gitized by Coogle
186
cinchona, attenuated in a very high degree, suffice to deliver
him from it promptly, if, in other respects, he does not depart
from a strict regimen. But when a man who takes sufficient
bodily exercise, and who pursues a course every way suited to
his mind and body, does not cure of a marsh intermittent fever
by the influence of this single remedy, we may be certain that
there exists within his body a psoric affection, which is on the
eve of developing itself, and that the intermittent fever will not
yield to any other than an anti-psoric treatment." It sometimes
happens, that if this man quit the marshy country without
delay to go and reside in another that is dry and mountainous,
his health is apparently restored, and the fever leaves him, if it
has ·not taken too deep a root-that is to say, the psora passes
again to a latent state, because it had not yet reached its final
degree of developement; but he is not cured, nor can he enjoy
perfect health, until he has made use of an anti-psoric treat-
ment.
* Large doses of cinchona or sulphate of quinine may certainly free
the patient from the typical attacks of marsh intermittent fevers; but he
is still unhealthy in another way, and anti-psorics only will effect a per-
fect cure.
§ 245. Having now seen what degree of attention ought, in
the homreopathic treatment, to be bestowed on the principal
diversities of diseases and their peculiar circumstances, we pass
on to the remedies themselves, the manner of applying them, and
the regimen to be observed by the patient during the time he is
submitted to their action. Both in acute and chronic diseases,
every perceptible amelioration that takes place making con-
tinual progress, though of ever so feeble a nature, is a state
which, as long as it endures, formerly forbids the repetition of
any medicine whatever, because the one already taken by the
patient has not yet produced all the good that may :r:esult from
it. Every fresh dose of a remedy, even of the one last adminis-
tered, and which had till then proved salutary, would have no
effect but that of disturbing the operation of the cure.
§ 246. On the contrary, one dose of a suitable homreopathic
remedy; if its developement be sufficiently subtile, gradually
completes all the beneficial effects which, from its nature, it is
Digitized by Coogle
187
capable of producing, and provided its operation be undisturbed,
sometimes in the space of forty, fifty, to one hundred days.
This, however, is seldom the case ; and it depends upon the
physician as well as upon the patient, whether these periods
may not be abridged to the extent of one-half, one-fo.urth, or
even to a shorter time, and thus a more speedy cur•~cted.
Recent and abundant experience has taught us tW'~ may ·
be happily accomplished under three conditions : ~hen a
remedy has been chosen with due circumspection.:...~t.Aij,.
strikingly homceopathic; secondly, when it is administe~lii
the highest developement, the least revolting to the vital power,
and yet sufficiently energetic to influence it ; and thirdly, when
such a subtile, energetic dose of the best selected re!f~~W is
repeated at the most suitable intervals," which experie~·~
determined for accelerating the cnre, yet: in fulfilling t~.~
dition, it is requisite that the vital power to be influenced to -~
production of the similar medicinal disease, may not be excited
to disagreeable counteraction.
*'In the former editions of the Organon I have recommended that a
single dose of a well-chosen homceopathic remedy be permitted to com-
plete its operation, before a repetition of the same, or the administration
ofanother remedy-a doctrine which was the result ofcertain experience,
it being a;;certained that too large a dose even of a well-selected remedy
(which, as if by a retrograde course, has been of late again proposed),
or what is the same thing, numerous small doses, repeated in quick suc-
cession, rarely ever effected the .greatest possible benefit in the cure of
diseases, and particularly of the chronic. Because, by such a practice,
the vital power, in its transition from the state induced by natural dis-
ease to that of a ~similar medicinal one, cannot tranquilly adapt itself to
the change, but generally becomes so violently excited from a large .
dose, or the frequent repetition of smaller doses even of a homceopathic
remedy, that, in most cases, its reaction is any thing rather than salu-
tary; in short, it is more injurious than useful. As long as nothing more
beneficial wasat that time discovered, than the practice then taught by
me, the philanthropic precautionary rule, si non juvat, modo ne noceat,
enjoined upon the homceopathic physician who regarded the good of h:s
species as his highest aim, to administe1 in diseases, generally, but one
and the smallest dose of the suitable remedy, and to wait for its com-
plete effect.· I say the smallest dose, since it will stand good as a homa!o-
pathic rule of cute, refutable by no experience whatever, that the best
dose of the rightly selected medicine is ever the smallest, and in one of
the higher developements (X0 ) for chronic as well as acute diseases-a
truth which is the invaluable property of pure homa!opathy, and which,
Digitized by Coogle
188
so long as allmopathy (and what is but little short of it, the practice of
the .new mongrel sect, consisting in a combination of alllllOpathy and
hommopathy) continues to gnaw like a cancer upon the vitals of diseased
human beings, and to destroy them with large doses of medicine, will
separate these pretended arts by an immeasurable gulph from hommo-
pathy.
On the other hand, although practice points out to us that a single
small dose is sufficient in some cases of disease, particularly those of a
lighter kind, and in those of small children and adults of !l tender and
irritable constitution, to produce almost all that the medicine is capable
of producing, yet in most cases, both of chronic disease of long standing,
(often previously almost ruined by the use of improper medicines,)
as well as in important acute diseases, such a minute dose, even
when given in the higher developements, is manifestly not sufficient to
perform all the curative effects which was to have been expected from
one and the same medicine. For this purpose, unquestionably, it be-
comes necessary to administer several of the same, that thereby_ the vital
power may be pathogenetically influenced, and its healthy re-action ex-
tended so high, that ·it may wholly obliterate all that portion of the
original disease which the well-selected homlllOpathic remedy is capable
of doing. One small dose of the best selected medicine produces,
indeed, some relief, but not sufficient.
But the careful hommopatbic physician will not venture frequently to
repeat a dose of the same remedy, at 11hort intervals, because no advan-
.tage is derived from this practice, but more frequently, as is attested by
accurate observation, it is the source of certain injury. He generally
sees an aggravation of the symptoms, even from the smallest dose of a
suitable remedy, which, on being given to day, is repeated·to-morrow
and the day following.
In order to afford greater relief in cases where he is convinced that
the remedy is the most fitly chosen, than has been hitherto effected by
prescribing only one small dose, it naturally occurred to the physician
to enlarge it (since, for the reasons aforementioned, it was to be
administered once only), and instead of one minute globule moistened
with the medicine in the highest developement, to give six or eight at
once, and even a whole or half a drop. But, almost without exception,·
the results of this practice were less favourable than they ought to have
been, often really injurious and of difficult reparation.
Neither did the substitution of the lower dilutions administered in
larger doses furnish any better expedient.
To increase the strength of the dose of a homreopathic remedy suffi-
cient for producing the supposed degree of pathogenetic excitement of
the vital powers requisite for salutary and sufficient reaction, fulfils,
therefore, as experience teaches, by no means the desired intention.
The vital power is. thereby too violently and too suddenly assaulted to
allow of time for a gradual, equable, and salutary counteraction; in order
to accommodate itself to ita change, therefore, it endeavours to rid itself,
Digitized by Coogle
189
as if of an enemy, of the medicinal inftuence pressed upon it in excess,
by means of vomiting, diarrhrea, sweat, fever, &c., and thus, in great
measure, frustrates the aim of the indiscreet physician. By this prac-
tice, little or nothing is effected in the cure of tbe disease, rather is the
patient thereby debilitated, and a long time must elapse before the
smallest dose of the same remedy can be repeated, if it shall not operate
injuri~usly.
But a number of small doses given in rapid succession with the same
view, accumulate in the system, and form, collectively, an excessive
dose (a few rare cases excepted), with similar evil consequences. In
this case, the vital power being unable to recover itself in tbe interval
between the repetition of tbe doses, thoug~ they be small, is oppressed
and overcome, and thus being disabled from calling into exercise the
force of curative reaction, is compelled involuntarily to yield to the con-
tinuation o'f the excessive medicinal disease imposed upon it, in a manner
similar to what is daily observed in the allalopathic abuse of large and
accumulating doses of one and the same medicine, to the lasting injury
of the patient.
Avoiding the errors here indicated, in order to arrive at the desired
object with more. certainty than heretofore, and so to administer the
selected remedy that its virtues may be obtained without injury to the
patient, that in a given ease of disease all the· benefit may be derived
from it, which, from its nature, it is capable of effecting, I have, of late,
pursued a peculiar method.
I perceived that in order to discover the true medium path, it is neces-
sary to be guided by the nature of the different medicines, as well as the
bodily con11titution of the patient, and the magnitude of his disease.
Let us give an example in the use of sulphur in chronic (psoric) dis-
eases. The most subtile dose of this remedy (tinct. sulph. X0 ), even in
robust persons with developed psora, can seldom be advantageously
repeated oftener than every seven days, and the interval is to be propor-
tionably prolonged, when a more feeble and irritable patient of this kind
is to be treated, to nine, twelve, or fourteen days, before the repetition of
a similar dose ; but it is then to be repeated again and again as long as
the same remedy continues to be serviceable. It is found (to continue
the example of sulphur) that, in psoric diseases, seldom less than four,
often six or eight, or-even ten such doses (tinct. 8Ulph. X 0 ) are requisite
for the complete destruction of that portion of the chronic disease which
sulphur is capable of removing, to be administered in the aforesaid inter-
vals-pro,ided there has been no previous allalopathic abuse of that
medicine. T1w.B a (primary) psoric eruption of recent origin in a
per110n not toomuch'Weakened,-e11en 'IDhen it may ha~e eztended ~er the
'IDhole body, can be thoroughly cured by meaM of a d011e of8Ulphur re-
peated e17ery •~en days within the space of ten to twelve weeks (with
ten to twelve of such globules), so that it is rarely necessary, as an addi-
tional remedy, to administer a few doses of carb. ~eg. X0 (in like manner
'
Digitized by Coogle
190
given every week) 1Dithout any external treatment 1Dhate-cer, except a
frequent change oflinen, and apprqpriate regimen.
When in other important chronic diseases, eight, nine, or ten doses of
tinct. sulph. (X0 ) may be considered necessary, in.Jtead of administering
them all in immediate succession, it is preferable, after each do:se, or
after every t1Do or three doses, to interpose another suitable remedy
which, after sulphur, is particularly hommopathic in the case (mostly
hepar. sulph. calc.), and to permit this to operate for eight, nine, twelve,
or fourteen days before a repetition of lhree doses of sulphur.
It not unfrequently happens, however, that the vital power rises in
opposition to the action of many doses of sulphur. and will not permit
the tranquil operation of this remedy even in the intervals above indi-
cated, how necessary soever it may be for the chronic malady. This
bpposition is announced by some symptoms of the remedy, which,
though moderate, yet become evident during the treatment. It is then
sometimes advisable to administer a small dose of ·nuz 1lom. X0 , and
suffer it to operate eight or ten days, in order to incline nature to permit
the sulphur again to act in repeated doses, quietly and effectually. In
fitting cases, puls. X0 is to be preferred.
But the vital power offers the ,most resistance to the operation of
sulphur, however plainly it may he indicated, when the remedy had
been previously abused ·(even years before) in large doses. Here an
aggravation of 'the chronic disease is conspicuous upon exhibiting the
smallest dose of the remedy, even after smelling a globule moistened
with tinct. 81Jlph. X. This deplorable condition which renders almost
impossible the best medical treatment of chronic diseases, is one among
the many which would lead us to bemoan the very general deterioration
of chronic diseases, caused by the mal-practice of the old school, were
we not here in possession of a remedy. • •
In such cases, let the patient once strongly smell a globule as large as
a mustard seed, moistened with hydrarg. met. X, which is to be allowed
to operate about nine days, in order to render the vital power again dis-
posed for the beneficial operation of sulphur upon it (at least by the
smelling of tinct. sulph. X0 )-a dis¢overy for which we are indebted to
Dr. Griesselich, of Carlsruhe.
Of the other anti-psoric remedies (except, perhaps, plwsph. X.) it will
be necessary to administer a smaller number of doses at similar intervals
(of sepia. and sil. at longer intervals, without an intermediate remedy,
where they are hommopathically indicated), in order to destroy all that
is curable by the remedy, in a given case. Rep. sulph. can rarely be
given in substance or by smelling at shorter intervals than every four-
teen or fifteen days.
It is presumed that previously .to undertaking such a repetition of
doses, the physician is well convinced that he has chosen the proper
laommopathic remedy.
In acute diseases, the periods for repeating the dose must be regulated
•·'::-. ... o;g;t,zedbyqoogle
~~--~--~---------
191
'
by th~ more or less rapid course of the disease to be combated, so that,
when requisite, it may be given in twenty-four, sixteen, twelve, eight,
or four hours, or even at shorter intervals, if without check, or the pro-
duction of new symptoms, the remedy has proved beneficial ; but for a
dangerous acute disease whose progress is rapid, the interval must ·be
lessened ; thus in the most rapidly mortal disease with which we are
acquainted, in cholera, one or two drops of a dilute solution of camphor
must be administered every five minutes, in order to procure speedy and
certain relief, and in the more developed form of the disease, doses of
cuprum, veratrum, plwsplwr, &c. {X0 ) 1 often every two to three hours,
as well as arsen. carb. 'veg. &c., at intervals equally short.
In the treatment of the so called nervous fever, and other continued
fevers, the practitioner is to be governed, in the repetition of the minutest
dose of the suitable medicine, by the same precautions.
In pure syphilitic diseases I have generally found a single dose of
mercury (X0 ) sufficient; yet where the least complication wilh psora
was perceptible, sometimes two or three such doses were necessary,
given in intervals of six or eight days.
In those cases wherein a particular remedy is strongly indicated, but
the patient is very weak and irritable, once smelling a globule of the
size of a mustard seed, moistened with the medicine, is safer and more
serviceable than when it is taken in substance, even in the minutest
dose of the higher dilutions. In the process of smelling, the patient
should hold the vial containing the globule under one nostril, when one
momentary inhalation of the air in the vial is to be made, and if the
dose is intended to be stronger, the same operation may be repeated with
the other nostril. The operation of the medicine thus administered,
continues as long as when it is take.n in substance, and therefore the
smellin~t must not be repeated at shorter intervals than when taken in
the latter mode.
§ 247. Subject to these conditions, the most subtile doses of
the best chosen homreopathic medicine can be repeated at
intervals of fourteen, twelve, ten, eight, to seven days, with the
best and frequently almost incredible effects; when more haste is
necessary, in cases of chronic disease approaching to acute, ·it
may be repeated at still shorter intervals; but in acute diseases,
the periods of repetition may be far more considerably abridged
to twenty-four, twelve, eight, or four hours, and in the most acute
from one hour down to five minutes : in short, proportionably
to the greater or less rapidity with which the disease runs its
course, and to the nature of the remedy administered, as is
more fully explained in the note to the preceding paragraph.
Digitized by Coogle
192
§ 248. The dose of the same medicine should be repeated
until a cure is effected, or until it ceases any longer to afford
relief; in the latter alternative, the remnant of the disease,
with its altered group of symptoms, will require another
hommopathic remedy.
§ 249. Every medicine which, in the course of its operation,
produces new symptoms that do not appertain to the disease to
be cured, and that are annoying, is incapable of procuring real
amendment,• and cannot be considered as homceopathically
chosen. If the deterioration of symptoms be important, the
effect of the medicine must be extinguished, in part, without
delay, by means of an antidote, before another .and more
homceopathic remedy is given, or if the new symptoms be not
violent, the other remedy must be immediately given, to take
the place of that which has been so unfitly chosen.
• All experience teaches us, that scarcely any homc:eopathic medicine
can be prepared in too minute a dose to produce perceptible benefit in a
disease to which it is adapted (§ 161. 279). Hence it would be an im-
proper and ·injurious practice, when the medicine produces no good
effect, or an inconsiderable exacerbation of the symptoms, after the
manner of the old school, to repeat or increase the dose under
the idea that it cannot prove serviceable on account of its minute-
ness. Every exacerbation caused by new symptoms, when nothing
injurious bas occurred with regard to diet or mental impressions, always
proves the unsuitableness of the medicine previously given, but never
indicates the weakness of the dose.
§ 250. When in urgent cases, after the lapse of six, eight,
to twelve hours, it becomes manifest to the observant physician
who has accurately investigated the character of the disease,
that he has made a false selection of the remedy last adminis-
tered, when, during the appearance of new symptoms, the dis-
ease becomes, though slightly, yet evidently worse from hour to
hour, it is not only admissible, but duty renders it imperative
on him to rectify the mistake he bas made, and administer
another homreopathic remedy not only tolerably, but the best
possibly adapted to the morbid condition at the time(§ 167).
§ 251. 'rhere are some medicines, for example, ignatia
Digitized by Coogle
193
amara, bryonia, rhus, and sometimes belladonna, whose power
of changing the human economy chiefly consists in the produc-
tion of alternate ~ffects-a kind of primary symptoms, partly in
opposition to each other. If the.physician find no improvement
after the strict homreopathil! selection and administration of one
of these remedies (in acute cases, after a few hours), then by
repeating it in the same dilution, he will quickly obtain the
desired effect.,.
*As I have explained more circumstantially in the introduction to the
article ignatia (Mat. Med. vol. ii.) ·
§ 252. But ifin a chronic disease (psori~} the most homreo-
pathic remedy (anti-psoric), administered in the smallest and
most suitable dose, does not produce an amendment, it is a sure
sign thatthe cause which keeps up the disease still exists, and
that there is something either in the regimen or condition of the
patient that must be first altered before a permanent cure can be
effected.
§ 253. in all diseases, particularly those which are acute,
the state of mind and general demeanour of the patient are
among the first and most certain of the symptoms (which are
not perceived by every one) that announce the beginning of
any slight amendment or augmentation of the malady. If the
disease begins to improve, though in ever so slight a degree,
the patient feels more at ease, he is more tranquil' his mind is
less restrained, his spirits revive, and all his conduct is, so to
express it; more natural. The very reverse takes place where
there is only a slight increase ; an embarrassment aild help-
lessness, which call for commiseration, are' observable in the
mind and temper of the patient, as well as in all his actions,
gestures, and postures-something both remarkable and peculiar
which cannot escape the eye of an attentive observer, but which
it would be ditfieult to describe in words.,. ·
*But the signs of amendment furnished by the .mind an:d temper of
the patient, are never visible, (shortly after he has taken the.remedy,}
but where the dose has been attenuated to the proper degree-that is to.
say, as much as possible. A dose stronger than necessary (even of the
most hommopathic remedy) acts with too great violence, and plunges the
moral and intellectual faculties into such disorder .thatit is imposaihle u.
' 25
Digitized by Coogle
194.
discover quickly any amendment that takes place. I must observe in
this place, that it is the common fault of physicians who go from the
old school of medicine over to the homreopatbic to violate this most im-
portant rule. Blinded by prejudice, they avoid small doses of medicine~
attenuated to the highest degree, and thus deprive themselves of the
great advantages which experience has a thousand times proved to re-
sult from them; they cannot accomplish that which the true bomreopa-
thist is capable of doing, and yet they falsely declare themselves his
disciples.
§ 254. If we add to this, either the appearance of fresh
symptoms, or the aggravation of those which pre..viously ex-
isted, or, on the contrary, the diminution of the Jlrimitive symp-
toms without the manifestation of any new ones, the physician
who is gifted with discrimination and discernment will no
longer doubt whether the disease is aggravated or ameliorated,
though there may be patients who are incapable of telling
whether they are better or worse, and even some who refuse to
tell it.
§ 255. Even in the latter case it is easy to arrive at th.....
positive truth by going through all the symptoms which have
been noted down in the description of the malady and passing
them in review successively with the patient. If the latter does
not complain of any new symptoms that were not mentioned
before-if none of the previous symptoms are aggravated in a
manifest degree-and when, finally, an amendment nf the
moral and intellectual faculties is perceptible-it is certa;,. that
the remedy has effected an essential diminution of then.: 1'-, ,
. or if only too short an interval has elapsed since its admim :!l-
tion, that it is on the point of doing so. But if the remedy'
been well selected, and the amendment, notwithstanding, de
its appearance, it can only be attributed, either to some irregu-
larity on the part of the patient, or to the lengthened duration
ofthe homreopathic aggravation(§ 151) excited by the medicinal
substance, and we ought thence to conclude that the dose was
not minute enough.
§ 256. On.the other hand, if the patient describes any re-
cent symptoms of some importance, (which indicate the un-
suitable choice of the remedy) if will be vain for him to declare
Digitized byGoogle
195
that he feels himself better; the physician, far from believing
him, ought, on the contrary, to consider him worse than before,
of the truth of which he will soon have ocular demonstration.
§ 257. A true physician will ~ware of forming a predilec-
tion for any particular remedies which chance may sometimes
have led him to administer with success. This preference
might cause him to reject others which would be still more ho-
mreopathic, and consequently of greater efficacy.
§ 258. He must, likewise, be careful not to entertain a preju-
dice against those remedies from which he may have experienced
some check, because he had made a bad selection, and he should
never lose sight of this great trnth, that of all known remedies
there is but one that merits a preference before all others, viz.
-that whose symptoms bear the closest resemblance to the .
totality of those ~hich characterise the malady. No petty
feeling should have any influence in so 8erious a matter.
··" 259. As itis requisite, in the homreopathic treatment, that
the dos~ should be .extremely small, it may be readily con-
ceived that every thing which exercisesa medicinal infl.uance on
the patient, should be removed from his regimen and mfJde <if
lif~, in order that the effects.of such minute doses may not.
be destroyed, overpowered or disturbed, by any foreign stimu-
lant.•) ·
* 'f softest tones of the flute, which at a distance in the stillness of
tt''t' .t inspire the gentle mind with a sentiment of religion and piety,
or: .·' .eave the air in vain when: they are accompanied by noise and dis-
c~> : . :r11t sounds.
.. :d
~ 260. In ~hronic diseases, more especially, it is important
to remove all obstacles of .this nature with the greatest care,
since it is by them, or some other errors in regimen (which
often remain undiscovered), that they are aggravated.*
*Such, for ~xample, as by coffee, teas of all the.different kinds, or
beer containing vegetable substances that are unfit for the patient,
liqueurs (cordials), especially those prepared from medicinal aromatics,
all kinds of punch, spiced chocolate, sweet waters and perfumery of all
kinds, odorous flowers in the room, preparations for the teeth either in
Digitized by Coogle
196
powder or liquid wherein medicinal substances are included, perfqmecf
bags, strongly seasoned viands and sauces, pastry and ice cream with aro-
matics, pot herbs, culinary greens, or roots containing medicinal proper-
ties, old cheese or butter, stale meat, the flesh and fat of swine, geese and
ducks, young veal, or acids. Every one of these act medicinally, and
ought to be carefully removed from patients of this kind. All excesses at .
table are to be interdicted, even in the use of sugar and salt, as well as of
apirituous liquors, hot rooms, flannel worn next to the akin. (Flannel
must not be left off till warm weather, and then exchanged for cotton,
and afterwards for linen.) The physician will likewise forbid a sedentary
life in close rooms, passive ~xercise (by xiding or driving, swinging and
rocking in chairs,) sleeping too long after dinner, nocturnal occupations,
uncleanliness, unnatural voluptuousness, and the reading of obscene
books, the occasions of anger, grief, and malice, a passion for gaming,
excessive mental and bodily labour, a residence in a marshy situation,
or in a chamber that is not properly ventilated, penurious living, &e. &e.
All practicable care should be observed by the patient to avoid these for-
bidden things, in order that. no impediment may be interposed which
would render the cure difficult or impossible. Some of my adherents
appear to exact too much from their patients, by unnecessarily and im-
properly excluding from their diet things indifferent.
~ 261. The most suitable regimen in chronic diseases con-
sists in removing every thing which might impede the cure, and
. by bringing about an opposite state, where it is necessary, by
recommending innocent cheerfulness, exercise in the open air,
in almost all weathers (daily walks, light manual labour), ali-
ments that are suitable, nourishing, and free from medicinal
influence, &c., &c.
§ 262. On the other hand, in acute diseases (mental aliena-
tion excepted) the preservative instinct of the vital power
speaks in so clear and precise a manner that the physician has
only to recommend to the family or nurses of the patient not
to thwart nature by refusing the patient any thing he may long
for, or by trying to persuade-him to take things that might do
him injury.
~ 263. The food and drink degmnded by a patient labour-
ing under an acute disease act for the most part as palliatives
only, and can at farthest effect momentary relief; but they con-
tain no real medicinal qualities, and are merely conformable to
a species of desire on his part. Provided the gratification which
Digitized by Coogle
197
they, in this respect, procure the patient, be confined mithin pro-
per limits, the slight obstacles* which they could place in the
way of a radical cure of the disease are more than cover~d by
the influence of the homreopathic remedy, by the greater extent
of liberty given to the vital powers, an,d the ease and satisfac-
-tion tha_t follow the possession 'of any object that is ardently
desired. In acute diseases, the temperature of the chamber as
well as the quantity of bed-covering should likewise be regu-
lated according to the wishes of the patient ; likewise care is
to l5e taken to remove every thing that could disturb his mental
repose.
·* These are, however, unfrequent. ·Thus, for example, in.a pure in-
fiammatory disease, where aconite iS indispensable, but which by the
use ofvegetable acids would be ueutralised, the patient has, in almost
all cases, alonging for pure cold wate,r.
§ 264. A skilful physician will never rely on the 'curative
virtueS of .medicines unle.ss he has procured them in the most
pure and perfect state. It is, therefore, requisite that he should
be capable ofjudging of their purity.
§ 265. For the repose of his own conscience, he ought to
he thoroughly convinced that the patient always takes the
right remedy chosen for him.
§ 266. Substances derived from the animal and vegetable
kingdoms are never in the full· possession of their medicinal
virtues but when they are in a. raw state.•
* All animal and vegetable substances in a crude state are more or
less possessed of medicinal virtues, and can modify the health each in
its own peculiar manner. The animals and plants which civilised na-
tions are in the habit of using as food have the advantage over all others
that they contain more nourishment, are less energetic in their medicinal
properties, the greater part ofwhich is \ost .by the preparation which
they undergo...,-such as by the expression of the pernicious juice (e. g. of
the·American cass.ada.),-ltrfermentation (that of the dough with wh.ich
bread is ma'ae, sour-crout, &c.), by dressing or torrefaction which either
destroys or dissipates the parts to which these properties adhere. The
addition .of salt or viQegar likewise produces the same effect, but then
other.inconveniences result from it.
Plants containing the most powerful medicinal virtues are likew1se
I
Digit zed by Coogle
I t9s
2- .
rendered totally or partiall; in en they are treated by the same
process. Iris root, horse radish, the arum and peony, also become inert
\ by drying. The virtues of the most active vegetable juices ar~ often
completely destroyed by the high temperature employed in the prepara-
tion of their extracts. The juice of the most dangerous plant will be
divested of all its properties if it be suft'ered to stand still for a certain
time-it passes rapidly into a state of vinous fermentation even whea
the temperature is moderate, and immediately after it becomes sour, and
then putrid, which annihilates all its medic~al virtues, and the sediment
which remains is nothing more than inert ·fecula. Green herbs put
together in a heap Jose the greater part of their medicinal properties by
the transudation which they undergo.
~ 267. The most certain and effectual means of obtaining
the medicinal power of indigenous plants which can be pro-
cured fresh, is to express their juice and mix it immediately after
with equal parts of alcohol of sufficient strength to consume
spunk that is immersed in it. Let the mixture stand twenty-
four hours in corked bottles, decant the clear liquor from the
filamentous and glairy dregs, then preserve for medicinal.use.•
The alcohol which is added to the juice prevents fermentation.
The liquor is to be kept in a dark place in \vell corked glass
bottles. In this manner the medicinal virtues of plants may be
preserved for e~er ·perfect and free from the slightest change.2
1 Bu~hholz (Taschenbuch fiir Scheidekiinstler und Apotheker, 1815, L
VI.) assures his readers (uncontradicted by his critic in the "Leipzige
Literatuneitung, 1816, No. 82,) that they are indebted to the Russian
Campaign for this excellent mode of preparing medicines, previous to
which (1812) it was unknown in Germany. But, in reporting this in
the very word8 of the first edition·of my Organon, he intentionally con~
ceals that I am the author who published it two years before the Russian
Campaign (1810). Some people would rather make it appear that a dis-
covery came from the deserts of Asia, than attribute the honour of it to
a German ! It is true alcohol was formerly sometimes added to 'the
juice of plants in order to preserve it for a time previous to making ex-
tracts of it; but this addition was never made with the intent of ad-
ministering this mixture under the title of a remedy.
1 Although equal parts of alcohol and juice recently expressed are
·generally the proportions best suited to produce the precipitation of al-
buminous and fibrous matter; there are, however, some plants which
contain so much mucus, such as symphytum, jacea, &e., or an extraor-
dinary quantity of albumen, such as athuca'synapium, solanum nigrum,
and others, that they usually require double the quantity of alcohol.
As regards plants that are very dry, .such as oleander, buxus, taxus,
·
·
--... "·····-..·--····
------
· ;t,zedbyGoogle
199
ledum, sabina, &e. it is necessary to commence by rubbing them down
into a homogeneous and humid paste, and thenadd double the quantity
of alcohol, which unites wilh the vegetable juice, and facilitates its. ex-
traction by means of .the press. But the latter may be also rubbed to
the third power with sugar of milk, and afterwards its energy developed
accordiag to §271.
~ 268. With ·regard to exotic plants, bark, seeds, and roots,
which cap.not l;le obtained in a fresh state, a prudent physician
willnever accept the po~der upon the faith ofother individuals.
Before be.makes use of them in his practice, it is necessary that
he should have them entire a1;1d unprepared, to be able to satisfy
himself of their purity."
* To preserve them in the form of powder one precaution is necessary,
which has hitherto been neglected by the majority of pharmacopolists,
who were unable to preserve even the most carefully dried animal and
vegetable.substances in the form of powder without their undergoing a
change. Vegetable substances, even when they are perfectly dry, still
retain a certain portion of moisture which is indispensable to the cohe-
sion of their tissue, which does not prevent the drug being incorrupt-ible
so long as it is left entire, bu~ which becomes superfluous the moment it
is pulverised. It therefore follows, that any animal or vegetable sub-
stance that was quite dry when entire, becomes slightly moist when re-
duced to the form of powder, which s00n spoils and grows mouldy even
in bottles that are well stopped, unless this superfluous moisture has been
previously 1emoved. The best mode of effecting this is to spread the
powder on a flat plate of tin with raised edges, floating in a boiling
water-bath, and stir it till the parts nQ longer hang in small lumps, but
glide separately from each other like fine sand. When they are dried by
this process, and sealed up in bottles, powder!! will retain all their primi-
tive medicinal powers for e'ller without either growing mo1fldy or en-
gendering mites, but care must be taken to keep the bottles in a dark
place enclosed in chests or boxes. Animal and vegetable substances
gradually lose their medicinal virtues even when they are preserved en-
tire, but much more so when they are in the form of powder, if the bot-
tles are not stoppered air proof, and kept in a dark place.
i 269. The homreopathic healing art developes for its pur-
poses the immaterial (dynamic) virtues of medicinal substances,
and, to a degree previously unheard of, by means of a peculiar
and hitherto untried process. By this process it is that they
become penetrati.rig, operative, and remedial, even those that,
in a natural or crude state, betrayed not the least medicinal
power upon the human system.
Digitized by Coogle
200
§ 270. If two drops of a mixture of equal parts of alcohol
and the recent juice of any medicinal plant (see § 267) be
diluted with ninety-eight drops of alcohol in a vial capable of
containing one hundred and thirty drops, and the whole twice
shaken together, the medicine becomes exalted in energy
(potenzirt) to the first developement of power, or, as it may be
denominated, the first potence. The process is to be con-
tinued through twenty-nine additional vials, each of equal
capacity with the first, and each containing ninety-nine drops
of spirits of wine; so that every successive vial, after the first,
being furnished with one drop from the vial or dilution imme-
diately preceding (which had just been twice shaken), is, in its
turn, to be shaken twice," remembering to number the dilution
of each vial upon the cork as the operation proceeds. These
manipulations are to be conducted thus through all the vials,
from the first up to the thirtieth or decillionth ·developement of
power (potenzirte Decillion-VerdUnnung, X.), which is the one
in most general use.
• In order to have a determinate rule for the moderate developement
of power of the fluid medicines, multiplied experience and observation
have led me to retain two shakes for every vial, in preference to a greater
number, which had previously been used, but which developed the energy
in too great a degree. On the contrary, there are hommopathists who,
in their visits to the sick, carry about their persons the medicines in a
fluid state, which, they nevertheless affirm, do not in time become in-
creased in energy by the frequent agitation to which they are thus sub-
jected. This declaration, however, betrays on their part the want of a
talent for accurate observation. I dissolved a grain ofnatron .in half an
ounce of a mixture of water and a little alcohol, poured the solution into
a vial, which was thereby filled two-thirds, and shook it uninterruptedly
for half an hour. By this agitatio~;~, the fluid attained an energy equal
to that of the thirtieth dilution. '
. § 271. All other medicinal substances, excepting sulphur,
which of latter years has been employed only in the form ofthe
highly diluted tincture (X), such, for example, as the metals
either pure, oxydized, or in the form of sulphurets, and other
minerals, petroleum, phosphorus, the parts or juices of plants,
obtainable only in their dry or inspissated state, animal sub-
stances, neutral salts, &c.--one and all were: in the first place,
exalted in energy by attenuation in the form of powder (by
Digitized by Coogle
201
means of three hours' trituration in a mortar,) to the millionth
degree. Of this, one grain was then dissolved and brought
through twenty-seven vials, by a process similar to that
employed in the case of vegetable juices, up to the thirtieth
. developement of power.*
* The process is described at large in the " Chronische J(rankheiten,"
second edition, and in the '{ Arzneimittellehre," vol. ii. third edition.
§ .272. In no instance is it requisite to employ.more than
om simple medicinal substance at a time.* ·
* Experiments have been made by some homceopathists in cases
where, imagining tllat one part of the symptoms of a disease required
one remedy, and that another remedy was more suitable to the other
part, they have given both remedies at the same time, or nearly so; but
I earnestly caution all my adherents against such a ·hazardous practice,
which never will be necessary, though, in some instances, it may appear
serviceable.
§ 273. It is scarcely possible to conceive how a doubt can
still exist on the question, whether it is more reasonable and
conformable to nature to employ but one known medicine at a
time in a case of sickness, or to prescribe a mixture of several
drugs.
§ ~74. As the true physician finds iri simple and uncom-
pounded medicines all he can desire-that is to say, the artifi-
cial morbific agents whose homceopathic powers completely
cure natural diseases ; and as i~ is a wise precept never to
attempt with the aid of several powers that which can be
effected by a single, one, he will never think of administering
as a remedy more than one simple medicine at a time. For he
knows that if even the pure and specific effec~s of every medi-
cine, upon the healthy state of man, had been discovered, we
should still remain as ignorant as we were before, as to the
manner in which two medicinal substances, mixed together,
might oppose and modify each other reciprocally in their
effects. He is aware that a single medicine, administered in a
disease where the totality of the symptoms is perfectly similar
to its own, cures it completely; and he is likewise convinced,
even in the least favourable case, where the remedy would
26
Digitized by Coogle
202
not }>erfectly bar~nonise with the malady, in regard to the
· resemblance of the symptoms, that it leads to a knowledge of
the curativ.e medicine, since the new symptoms which it
e.xcites in such a ·ease confirm those which it formerly created,
when tr.ied .upon healtpy individuals-an advantage that can
never be derived where compound medicines are employed.• ·
• A judicious physician will confine him$elf to an intemal application
of the remedy which he has selected as homreopathic as possible, and
will leave the use of ptisans, little bags filled with medicinal herbs,
fomentations of vegetable decoctions, washes, and frictions with different
species-of ointments, injections, &c., ~o those who practise according to
routine.
§ 275. The approp;iation of a medicine to any given case
of disease does not depend solely upon the circumstance of its
being perfectly homceopathic, but also upon the minute quan-
tity of the dose in which it is administered. Iftoo strong a dose
of a remedy, that is even entirely homceopathic, be given, it
\till infallibly injure the patient, though the medicinal sub-
stance be of ever so salutary a nature ; the impression it makes
is felt more sensibly, because, in virtue of its homceopathic
character, the remedy acts precisely on those parts of the
organism which have already been most exposed to the attacks
of the natural disease.
i 276. Even a homceopathie medicine is, on this account,
always injurious when given in too large a dose, and hurtful to
the patient in proportion to the extent of the quantity adminis-
tered. But the increase ofthe dose itselfis also prejudicial in the
same degree as the remedy is more homceopathic ; and a strong
'· • dose of such a medicine would do more harm than the dose of
an aJ.lceopathic medicinal substance (which bears no analogy
whatever to the disease) of equal strength ; for, in that case,
the homceopathic aggravation(§ 157-160)-that is to say, the
artificial malady, which. is very analogous to the natural one
excited by the remedy in the most suffering parts of the
organism-is carried to a height that is injurious(§ ~46, note);
whereas, if it .had been confined within proper limits, i)would
have effected a gentle, prompt, and certain cure. It is true the
patient no longer suffers from the primitive malady which has
Digitized by Coogle
203
been homc.eopathically destroyed, but he suifers 'So much more
from the medicinal one which was much too PQW~rful, and
from unnecessary debility. ·
§ 277. For this very reason: and ~cause a remedy admini~
tered,in a dose sufficiently small is so ·much more' etficacious,
nay, almost wonderfully so, in proportion as it has been
homc.eopathically selected, in the same manner, a medicine
whose peculiar symptoms correspond perfectly wi* those of
the disease, ought to be salutary' in proportion as the dose
approaches nearer to the appropriate minuteness to which it
should be reduced to effect a gentle cure.
§ 278. The question that now suggests itself is, to discover
what may be the degree of minuteness of the dose best calcu-
lated to render the salutary effects intended to be produced '
certain and gentle-that is to say, how far the dose of a
hom<eopathic remedy, in any given case of disease, ought to
be reduced, in order to derive from it the best possible·cure.
It niay be readily conceived that no theoretical conjecture will
furnish an answer to this pro~lem, and that it is not by sttch
means we can establish, in respect to each individual medicine,
the quantity of the dose that suffices to produce the homc.eopa-
thic effect, and accomplish a prompt and gentle cure. ·No
reMonings, however ingenious, will avail in this instance. It
is by pure experiments only, and precise observations, that this
object can be attained. It would be absurd to bring forward
as an objection the large doses used in ordinary medicine,
which are not applied to the suffering parts themselves, but
merely to those not attacked by the disease. This would be
no argument against the minuteness of the doses which pure •
experiments have proved to be necessary·in homc.eopathic treat-
ment.
§ 279. It has been fully proved by pure experiments that
when a disease does not evidently depend upon the impaired
state of an important organ, even though it were of a chronic
nature, and complicated, and due care has been taken to
remove from the patient all foreign medicinal influence, the
dose of the homeopathic remedy can ne'Der be suificiently small so
Digitized by Coogle
~04
as to be inferior to 'he power of the natural disease which it can, at
least, partially extinguish and cure, pro'l!ided it be capable of pro-
ducing only a small increase of symptoms immediately after it is
administered(§ 15r-160).
§ 280. This incontrovertible axiom, founded upon expe-
rience, will serve as a rule by which the doses of all lwmreopathic
medicines, without exception, are to be attenuated to such a degree
that after being introduced into the body they shall merely produce
an almost insensible aggravation of the disease. It is of little
import whether the attenuation goes so far as to appear almost
impossible to ordinary physicians whose minds feed on no
• other ideas but what are gross and material.* All their argu-
ments and vain assertions will be of little avail when opposed
to the dictates of unerring experience.
* Mathematicians will inform them, that in whatever number of parts
they may divide a substance, each portion .still retains a small share of
the material; that, consequently, the most diminutive part that can be
conceived never ceases to be something, and can in no instance be re-
duced to,nothing. Physicians may learn from them that there exist
immense powers which have no weight, such as light and heat, and
which are consequently infinitely lighter than the medicinal contents. of
the smallest homceopathic doses. Let them weigh, if they can, the in-
jurious words which excite a bilious fever, or the afflicting news of the
death of a son, which terminates the existence of an affectionate mother.
Let them oaly touch, for a quarter of an hour, a magnet capable of carry-
ing a weight of an hundred pounds, and the pain will soon teach them
that even the irilpontlerable bodies can also produce on m!ln the most
violent medidnal effects! Let any of these weak-minded mortals of a
delicate constitution but gently apply, during a few minutes, to the pit
of the stomach the extremity of the thumb of a vigorous mesmerist who
has fixed his intent, and the disagreeable sensations that he experiences
will soon make him repent having set limits to the boundless activity of
nature.
If the allceopathist, in essaying the homceopathic method, cannot
resolve upon administering doses that are so feeble and attenuated, only
let him ask himself what risk he ventures by doing so. If there is
nothing real except that which is possessed of weight, and if every thing
which has no weight ought to be looked upon as equal to nothiog, a dose
that appt!ars to him like nothing, could have no worse results than that
of producing no effect at all, which is at least far more innocent than the
effects resulting from the strong doses of allceopathic medicines. Why
will the ph-ysician believe his own inexperience, which is flanked by pre-
Digitized by Coogle
205
judice, more competent than the experience of several years grounded
upon facts 1 Added to this, the homreopathic medicines acquire at each
division or anution a new degree of power by the rubbing or shaking
they undergo, a means of developing the inherent virtues of medicines
that was unknown till my time ; and which is so energetic, that latterly
I have been forced by experience to reduce the nurnber of shakes to two,
of which I formerly prescribed ten to each dilution.
§ 281. 'All diseases have an extraor4inary tendency to un-
dergo a change when operated upon by the influence of homo-
gene6us medicinal agents. There is no patient, however
robust his constitution may be, who, if attacked merely by a
chronic disease, or by what is called a local malady, does not
speedily experience a favourable change in the suffering parts ·
after h'll.ving taken the appropriate holnreopathic remedy in the
smallest dose possible. In short, the effects of this substance
will m~e a greater impression on him than they would upon a
healthy child twenty-four hours after its birth. How insignifi-
cant and ridiculous is mere theoretic.incredulity, when opposed
to the infallible evidence of facts !
§ 282. However feeble the dose of a remedy may be, pro-
vided it can in the slighte~t degree aggravate the state of the
patient homreopathically ;-provided it has the power of ex-
citing symptoms similar to those of the primitive disease, but
rather more intense, it will, in,preference, and al~st exclu-
'Sively, affect those parts of the organism that are already in a
state of suffering, and which are strongly irritated and predis-
posed to receive any irritation analogous to their own. Thus
an artificial disease.....rather more intense is substituted in the
place of the natural one. The organism no longer suffers but
from the former affection, which, by reason of its nature, and
the minuteness of the dose by which it was produced, soon
yields to the efforts of the vital force to restore the normal state,
and thus leaves the body (if the disease was an acute one) free
from suffering-that is to say, in a healthy condition.
+283. To proceed, therefore, in a manner conformable to
nature, the true physician will only administer a homreopathic
remedy in the precise dose necessary to exceed and destroy the
disease to which it is opposed, so that if by one of those errors,
Digitized by Coogle
206
pardonable to human frailty, be bad made choice of a remedy
that was inappropriate, the injury that might r~ult from it
would be so slight that the developement of the vital force, and
the administration of the smallest dose of another remedy more
homooopathic, would suffice to repair it.
§ 284. The effects of a dose are by no means diminished in
the same proportion as the quantity of the medicinal substance
is attenuated in the. homooopathic practice. Eight drops of a
tincture taken at once do not produce upon the human body
four times the effect of a dose of two drops; they merely pro-
duce one that is nearlydouble. In the same manner the single
· drop of a mixture, composed of one drop of a tincture and ten
of a liquid void of all medicinal properties, does not produce
ten times the effect that a drop ten times more attenuated would
produce, but merelyan effect that is scarcely dottble. The pro-
gression continues according to this law, so that a single drop
of a dilution,..attenuated in the highest degree, ought, and does
in fact, produce a very considerable effect.•
• Suppose, for e:rample, that one drop of a mi:rture containing the tenth
of a grain of any medicinal substance produces an effect =a; a drop
of another mi:rture containing merely a hundredth part of a grain of this
same substance will only produce an effect= j; if it contains a ten thou·
sandth part of a grain of medicine, the effect will be= i; if a millionth,
it will be = i; and so on progressively, to an equal Tolume of the doses,
.the effects of the remedy on the body will merely be diminished about
one half each time that the quantity is reduced nine tenths of what it
was before. I have often seen a drop of the tincture of nux vomica at
the decillionth degree of dilution, produce exactly half the effect of
another at the quintillionth degree, when I administered both one and
the other to the same individual, and under the same circumstances.
§ 285. By diminishing the volume of the dose, the power.
of it is also diminished-that is to say, when instead of one
entire drop of attenuated tincture merely a fraction of this drop
be administered," the object of rendering the e1fect less powerful
is then very perfectlyattained. The reason of this may be easily
conceived : the volume of the dose being diminished it mu.st
necessarily follow that it will touch a less number of the nerves
.of the living organism, by ~ntact with which, it is kue, the
o;gitizc'd by Coogle.
207
power of the medicine is communicated to the whole body, but
it is transmitted in a smaller degtee.
*The best mode of administration is to make use of small globule's of
sugar, the size of a mustard seed; one of these globules having imbibed
the medicine, .and being introduced into the vehicle, forms a dose con-
taining about the three hundredth part of a drop, for three hundred of
such globules will imbibe one drop of alcohol ; by placing one of those .
on the tongue, and not drinking any thing after it, the dose is considera-
bly diminished. But if the patient is very sensitive, and it is necessary
to employ the smallest dose possible, and attain at the same time the
most speedy results, it will be sufficient to let him smell o11ce. (See §
2881 note).
§ 286. For the same reason, the effect of a homooopathie
dose is increased when we augment the q,uantity of the liquid in
which it is dissolved to administer it to the patient ; but then
the remedy comes in contact with a much more extended sur-
face, and the nerves that feel its effects are far more numerous.
Although theorists have asserted that the extension of a medi-
cine in liquid weakens its action, experience proves the reverse,
at least as far as regards homceopathic remedies.•
*Only wine and alcohol, which are the most simple of all e:s:citants,
lose a portion of their heating and e:s:citing power when they are auenu-
ated in a large quantity of water.
§ 2B7. It ought, however, to be observed, that there is a wide
difference between mixing imperfectly the medicinal substance
with a certain quantity of liquid, and incorporating it so inti- •
mately1 that the smallest fraction of the liquid may still retain
a proportion of the medicine equal to that which exists in all
the others. In short, the mixture possesses a much greater
medicinal power in the second case than it does in the first.
Rules may be deduced from this to serve as a guide in the pre-
paration of homceopathic medicines, where it is necessary to
diminish the effects of the remedies as much as possible in order
to make them supportable to the most delicate patients.2
1 When I make use of the word intim.ately, I mean to say that by
shaking a drop of medicinal liquid with ninety ·nine drops of a1cohol once
-that is to say, by taking the phial in the hand which contains the
whole, and imparting to it a rapid motion by a single powerful stroke of
the arm descending, I shall then obtain u exact mi:s:ture of them; but
Digitized by Coogle
208
that two, three, or ten such movements would render the mi.Bure much
closer-that is to say, they would develope the medicinal virtues still
further, making them, as it were, more potent, and their action on the
nerves much more penetrating. In proceetling, therefore, to the dilution
of medicinal substances, it is wrong to give the twenty or thirty succes--
sive attenuating glasses more than two shakes, where it is merely intend-
ed to develope the power of the mt-dicine in a moderate degree. It would
also be well in the attenuation of powder.s no_t to rub them down too
much in the mortar; thus, for example, when it is requisite to mix one
grain of a medicinal substance in its entire state with ninety-nine grains
of sugar of milk, it ought to be rubbed down with force during one hour
only, and ~he same space of time should not be exceeded in the sub!le-
quent triturations, in order that the power of the medicine may not be car-
ried to too great an extent. More ample instructions on this head are to
be found in the first part of my work on chronic diseases, second edition.
• The higher the dilutions of a medicine are carried in the process of
developing its power by mean& of twice shaking, the more rapidly and
with the more penetrating influence does it appear to affect medicinally
the vita] power, and produce changes in the economy with an energy
but little diminished even if the process of dilution be carried to a great
extent, for instance, instead of the ordinary dilution X, (which is mostly
sufficient), it be carried up to XX, L, C, and even higher dilutions.
§ 288. The action of medicines in a liquid form" upon the
the body is so penetrating, it propagates itself with so much
rapidity and in a manner so general, from the irritable and
sensitive part which has undergone the first impression of the
medicinal substance to all the other parts of the body,-dtat we
might almost call it a spiritual (dynamic or virtual) effect.
*Homceopathic remedies operate with the most certainty and energy
by smelling or inhaling the medicinal aura constantly emanating from a
saccharine globule that has been impregnated wtth the higher dilution of
a medicine, and in a dry state enclosed in a small vial. One globule
(of which 10,20 to 100 weigh a grain) moistened with the 30th dilution
and then dried, provided it be preserved from heat and the light of the
sun, retains its virtut>s undiminished, at least for eighteen or twenty
years (so far my experience extends), although the vial that contained it
had during that time been opened a thousand times. Should the nostrils
be cl~sed by coryza or polypus, the patient may inhale through his mouth,
holding the mouth of the vial between his lips. It may be applied to
the nostrils of small children while they are asleep with the certainty of
success. During these inhalations the medicinal aura comes in contact
with the nerves, which are spread over the parietes of the ample cavities
thro~gh which it freely passes, and thus influences the vital power in
the mildest yet most powerful ~d beneficial manner. AI) that iscurable
Digitizoo by Coogle
209
by' hom<eapathy may with the most certainty and safety be cured by this
mode of receiving the medicine. Of late I have become convinced of
the fact (which I would not have previously believed), that smelling
imparts a medicinal influence as energetic and as long continued as when
the mediciae is taken in substance by the mouth, and at the same time
that its operation is thus more gentle than when administered by the
Iauer modl!. It is therefore requisite that the intervals for repeating the
smelling should not be ahorte'r than those prescribed for taking the medi-
cine in a more substantial form.
§ 289. Every part of the body that is sensible to the touch
is equally susceptible of receiving the impression of medicines
and of conveying it to all the other parts.
§ 290. Next to the stomach, the tongue and mouth are the
parts most susceptible of receiving medicinal infltlence. How-
ever, the interior of the nose, the intestlnum rectum, the genitals,
and all parts endowed with great sensibility, are equally sus-
ceptible of the influence of medicines. This is the reason that
when the latter are introduced into the body through wounds
or ulcers they act as energetically as if administered by the
mbuth.
§ 291. Even those organs which have lost the sense that
was·peculiar to them-such, for example, as the tongue and
palate deprived of taste, the nose of smell, &c.-communicate
to all the other parts of the body the effects of the medicines
acting immediately on themselves in as perfect a manner as if
they were in possession of their own peculiar faculties.
§ 292. Although the surface of the body is covered with
skin and epidermis, it is not less accessible to the action of
medicines, especially of such as are liquid. However, the most
sensitive parts of this covering are those which have the greatest
tendency to receive it.•
• Rubbing appears only to favour the action of the medicine so·far as
it renders the skin more sensitive, and the living fibre more apt, not only
to feel in a certain extent the medicinal virtue, but also to communicate
the sensation to the whole of the economy. After having rubbed the
inner part of the thighs once, it will suffice afterwards merely to Jay the
mercurial ointment on the parts, to obtain the same medicinal result as if
27
•
Digitized by Coogle
210
direct friction had been uaed. What is called "rubbing in" is o( que..
tionable utility, aa it ia not certain whether the metal in aubatance can,
by this process, penetrate the interior of the body, or be taken up by the
lymphatic vessel&. The bom<Bopatbist bas little to do with rubbing,
and makes no use whatever of mercurial ointments in his method of
cure.
§ 293. I again find it necessary, in this place, to say a few
words on the subject ofanimal magnetism, the nature of which
differs so greatly from that of all other remedies. This curative
power (which should be called mennerism, after the name of its
inventor, Mumer,) of whose efficacy none but madmen can en-
tertain a doubt, which, through, the powerful will of a well
intentioned indivi4ual, influences the body of the patient by
the touch, acts homc:eopathically by exciting symptoms analo-
gous to those of the malady-and this object is attained by a
single transit, the determination being moderately fixed, and
gliding the hands slowly over the body from the crown of the
head to the soles of the feet! In this form it is applicable to
internal hemorrhages in their last stage when they threaten
death. It acts likewise by imparting a uniform degree of vital
power to the organism when there is an excess of it at one
point and a deficiency at another-such, for example, as where
there is a determination of blood to the head, or when a patient,
in a state of debility, is subject to insomnolency, anxiety, &c.
.In this case, a sinl{le transit,.similar t<) the preceding one, but
stronger, is to be practised.
Finally, it acts by immediately communicating a degree of
vital power to a weak part or to the entire organism-an effect
that cannot be produced by any other means with such cer-
tainty, and without interfering with the other medical treatment.
This third indication is performed by assuming a very firm and
decided manner, and applying the hands or tips of the fingers
to the weak parts, which an internal chronic affection has made
the seat of its principal local symptom-such, for example, as
old ulters, amaurosis, paralysis of a limb, &c.2 To this class
belong certain apparent cures that have, in all ages, been per-
formed by magnetisers who were endowed with great natural
strength. But the most brilliant result of the communication of
human vigour to the entire organism is where, by the resolute
and fixed determination of a man in the full vigour of life,' it
Dig-itized by Coogle
211
recalls to life persons wh9 have remained in a state of apparent
death during a long interval of time,-a species of resurrection
of which history records many examples.
1 The smallest hom<:eopathic dose, when properly applied, effects won~
ders. It not nnfrequently occurs, that patients are overwhelmed, by
incompetent bom<:eopathists, with a 'rapid suceession of remedies, w~ich,
though well selected and of the highest potence, yet produce a state of
such excessive irritability, that the life of the patient is placed in jeopardy,
• and another dose, however mild, may P,rove fatal. .Under such circum-
stances the hand of the me~metiser gently sliding·down, and frequently
touching the part affected, .produces an uniform distribution of the vital
power through the system, and rest, sleep, and health, are restored.
1 ~hhougb this operation of locally supplying the vital power, which
ought to be occasionally repeated, cannot effect a durable cure when the
looal affection is of an ancient date, and depends Upol\ (what very fre-
quently occurs) some general internal malady, still the positive commu-
nication of the vital pow.er, which is no more a pallia£ive than food
and drink to ·hunger and thirst, is of no slight aid in the radical cure of
the entire affection by antipsoric remedies.
3 Particularly one of those men, of whom there are but few, who, pos-
sessing great good nature and complete bodily power, have a TJery mode:-
rate inclination for aexual intercourse, and are able without difticuhy
to suppress all their desires; in whom, consequently, an abundance of
the subttle vital energy, which would else be employed in the sectetion
·semen, is disposed to communicate itself to other men through the
medium of the touch, seconded by a strong intention of the mind. Some
such powerful mesmerisers whom I have known had all these singular
peculiarities.
~ 294. All .thesfl methods of applying mesmerism depend ·
upon the afiiux of a greater or lesser quantity of vital power in
the body of· the patient, and are, on that account; termed posi~
tive .mesmerism•. But there exists yet another, which deserves
the name ·of negative mesmerism, because it produces a con-
trary. effect. To this class belong the customary transits to
awaken a subject from a state of somnambulism, and all the
manual operations which are designated by the names calming
and TJentilating. The most simple and certain means ef dis-
charging, by the a~d of negative mesmerism, the excess of vital
power accumulated in any part of the body of a patient w.ho has
not been weakened, consist in passing, in a rapid manner, the
right arm, extended at about the distance of an inch from the
body, from the crown of the head to the soles of the feet.• The
Digitized by Coogle
212
qpicker this passage is performed the stronger is the discharge
that it produces. It can, for example, when a woman, previously
in the enjoyment of health,3 has been plunged into a state of
apparent death by the suppression of her menses occasioned by
some violent mental commotion, recall her to life by carrying otf
the vital power which probably accumulated in the precordial
region, and re-establish the equilibrium in the whole organism!
In the same manner a slighi negative pass~ae, that is less rapid,
frequently allays the great agitation and fatiguing insomnolency
which are the results o£ a positive passage that is too strong
when exercised upon a very irritable patient.
1 In treatiug here of the certain and decided curative virtues of po~tive
mesmerism I do not speak of the frequent abuses that are made ofit, where
by repeating the passages during half an hour, and even a whole hour,
daily, they occasion, in patients labouring under nervous affections, that
vast revolution. of the human economy which bears the name of Bomnam-
bulism-a state in whi~h man, removed f~om the animal world, appears
to belong more to the spiritual world, a highly unnatural and dangerous
condition, by means of which a cure of chronic diseases has frequently
been attempted.
1 It is a known rule; that a person subjected to either positive or nega-
tive mesmerism ought not to wear silk on a!ly part of the body.
1 Consequently, a negative transit, particularly if it i$ very rapid,
would be extremely injurious to a person who had been for any length of
time in a weak condition, or in whom the vital powers were not very
active.
4 A young co•mtry boy of robust constitution, about ten years of age,
was mesmerised for some slight indisposition by a woman who performed
several strong passages on him with the ends of her 'two thumbs from
the precordial region down to the termination of the ribs ithe boy immedi-
ately fell pale as death into such a state of insensibility aq.d immobility
that all means were tried in vain to recall him to life, and he was thought
to be dead. I caused his elder brother to make as rapid a trao!!it as pos-
sible on him from the crown of the head to the soles of the feet ; he
immediately recovered his senses, and was healthy anti cheerful.
THF: END.
Digitized by Coogle
