{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__hudson___report_on_the_magnetical_experiments.pdf","mytitle":"Report On The Magnetical Experiments","mylang":"de"}
REPOR T
ON THR
~IAGNETICAL EXPERIMENTS
I IADE flY TIJE COM~llS~fON OF TilE ROYAL ACAOEWi OP'
MEOlCIXE, OF PARI:', RI:,\D JN THE l\lEF.TlNGS
OF JUXE 21 ASD 28, 1831,
B Y l\i R. II U S S 0 N,
THE RErORTER.
TRANSLATED FROI\I THE FRENCH, AND PRECEDED
WITH AN INTRODUCTION,
BY CHARLES POYJ<~N ST. SAUVEUR.
, .
u La verite doit ctrc l'iuolc rio (' t lui qui ctudie, lcs •cioncee avu
qu.•lttllC clcvntion pltilosoplaitjllt:."- Ro)T~;..
BOSTON :
PUBLISHED BY D. K. lHTCHCOCK,
9 Cornhill.
1836.
./
• •
•
•
•
.
Entered accorJing to Act of Cungrese, In lbe yee.r 18.16, by
D. K. HITCHCOCK,
in tho Clerk'a Onlce or tlae Di•trict Co•1rt of Ma.uachutoltt,
-• ..
' •• ...
'
TO THE
DISINTERESTED LOVERS AND
COURAGEOUS PROMOTERS OF TRUTH ,
'l' 8 I S B 0 0 K I S 0 E DI C AT E D
EV TIIEIR
ADMIRER AND J\lOS'l' RE:JrECTFUL SERVAN'l',
CHARLES POYEN.
INTRODUCTION .
''\'hnt a mimcle to man is mAn.- YouNO.
Auunal magneti~m- 1ts definition -conditions to exercJ:.e tt
-mode of operation- phenomena resulting from it- its
truth demon!ltrated through analogy and reasoning- obJeC-
tions to it refuted. TLeory of animal magnetism -its use-
ftdness in regard to religion, morals, intellectual philosophy,
physiology, and therapeutics- a sketchof its history down
to the prel'ent time.
AMONG aU the discoveries of the most remarkable
period of time that extenus itself from I i60 to the
present day, there is one which, both by its charac-
ter of marvellousness and the important results it
!.>rings forth, seems to me calculated not only to ex-
cite curiosity in the highest degree, but also to
deser\'e the most earnest attention and interest of
every enlightened mind. This disco,·cry, indeed,
exhibits, in a brighter Iight than any other, the moral
power and divine origin of man, gives a new life to
the religious principle, and furnishes unconquerable
weapons to Christianity against materialism, which
is already triumphant in some parts of the civilized
.
Vl I ~ T RODUCT I ON.
world - it opens a new and broad field to phsychol-
ogicul speculations, that seemed nearly exhausted by
the )ators of the preceding centuries - creates a
new method of pathological investigation - settles
therapeutics on a basis hitherto unknown to 1he
medical world- enlarges and raises so much the
domain or physiology, that we may qualify the mod-
ifications operated en it as true revo]utions. The
wonderful discovery alluded to, is that of animal
m·1gnetism, and of the phenomencn of somnambu-
1ism deri''ed from it. It is that new order of facts,
indisputably constituting a most interesting branch
of the science of rnan, which makes the subject of
the following pages.
This introouction, my readers will easily percei,•e
from the summary view of jts contents above placed,
is desigced to complete, as far as possible, their
knowledge of the subject, by gi\·ing them all the in-
formations that are not found in, and naturally ought
to bave been excluded from, a report made up en-
tirely with facts.
What is understood by the words animal magnet-
ism ~ I open the dictionary of l\Icdical Sciences,
published at Paris, volume twenty-first, and read that
it is 'a peculiar state of the nenous system, during
which some unusual physiological phenomena, not
yet well appreciated, present themsehcs - a state
which is ordinarily produced in one individual by
the will of another performing certain m~nual evo-
lutions for the purpose of causing it to take place.'
The indispensable, absolute, moral couditions to
1NTROIJUCTTON'.
..
Vll
produce any mngnetical effect are comprehended in
the following precepts of De Puysegur : -A firm
will to do good- a strong belief in one's power,
and entire confidence in using it.
Therl" is but o~1c physical requi!)ite- good health.
Thus it naturally follows that CYery person js not
cudowecl in the snrne dC'gree with the magnetical
power; f<>r all, in this case, depends upon the er.er-
gy of the will ; the capacity of mental conccntratiou;
the beneroleuce and bouily constitution of the op-
erator. The manual proceedings in the practice of
animal magnetism, consi~ts in carrJiug tl e hands,
upward and do\vnwnrd, along the nerve::; of the limbs,
• and in exercising certain pressures altemately on
1he furehead, shoulucrs, and the pit of the stomach.
.Magnetisers usually commenc2 the operation by
l1olding the patient's thumbs from four to fhe min-
utes in their own bands, until a like degree is cstab-
li!!hed on either !:'ide. Dut the ge~tures --called
passes- arc necessary only in the first sittmgs; for,
when a person bas been magnetised screral times,
and proved sensible to the mngneticnl action, the
magnetiser's will, without any motion, is sufficient
to pnt him to sleep. Several instances of t!tis fact
are related in the report of the commis~inn appoint-
co a few years ago hy the Academy of l\Jeuicine of
Paris, to make experiments in animal magnetism and
a~certain the truth.
The phenomena produced under the influence of
the will and the gestures, vary according l> th to the
diF>posiLion of the person to receive the magnetical
Vlll INTRODUCTION.
action, and the power of the magnetiser to exercise
that action. Thus ~orne indivi l ual ~, especially those
who are strong and et joy perfect health, feel noth-
ing,- some others feel only some heaviness of the
eyelids, cephalgia, nausea, much calm, or great agi-
tation. F nally, some arc plunged into a peculiar
sleep, called mcgnetical sleep, and reach, afttr a few
sittings, that very singulaf state known under the
name of wmnambu)ism. The magnetical sleep is
characterizetl by a complete suspension of the ex-
ternal senses. Somnamb1lism is the faculty of
speaking during the sleep; of recognizing external
objects through unusual ways; and finally of hear-
ing nobody else but the magnetiser or the other
person brought to relation with the magnetised.•
'"\Vhat! 1
you will exclaim, 'is it possible, that by
the plain action of the will, ar.d a few insignificant
gestures, one can produce sJ surprising effects 1
Does not this overthrow all the laws of nature and
good sense? The age of mirac1es and magic is
passed away1 and man can be no longer a god or a
sorcerer.' These arc the exclamations of incredulity,
that animal magnetism always suggests in most of
the people who hear of it for the first time. Then
that doctrine is doomed to contempt and ridicule,
owing only to its appearance of singularity, and to
its being not like the phenomena commonly observed.
The man of the fashionable world cries, 'Miracles ! '
• I need not to gi"·e here any further details about the mag-
netical phenomena. The reader will find an ample collection
of them in tbe report.
INTRODUCTION. IX
hi...ses and laughs at this q·1ackery rf a new kind,
and bu ics himself no longer with it. The fair one
of the drawing·room says, with a smile of disdain,
that it would be an excellent remedy to sttll her
nerves in case of vapors, and busies herself no lon-
ger with it. The clergyman sees in it nothing else
but an in famous attempt against 1clig on- an inspi-
ration of the devil, and hurls anathemas against it.
The puritan philosopher affirms it is only an ignoble
device of jugglers to subtlue innoce ce, make mo-
ney by d, ceiving the publie confidence, and already
points it out to the proscription of the go"ernment.
The saz,ant, especiaiJy the physician, proud of their
pretended pos1t1ve knowledge- conrinced that
nothing is true but what falls under the microscope
or the scalpel- decided beforehand to treat as ral~e­
hood e\·erything that does not c me within the
compass of their physiolog cal and pathological the-
ories- Pither fo, ks at magn<>tism as an imposture,
as a mere S}'.5tem of quaclcery, < r c nc;iders it as one
of those lamentable aberrations of the human mind
of which history affords so many instnnces- as a
miserable imitation of the proceedings used by sor-
cerers in the ages of darkness.
Such is the operation made against animal mag-
netism from its appearance in the world, and which
it still now undergoes from the part of a great num-
ber of persons. notwithstanding its triumphant
march and the innumerable facts produced e\·ery
day in witness of its truth.
But let ns examine a little nearer the value of th~t
INTRODUCTIO:N.
opposJt~on. In the first place, let us see what foun-
dation it lays upon. I beg the reader to notice that
it rests on no document or fact of a positive charac-
ter. Indeed, the opponents of animal magnrti!:)m do
not say- we ourselves have scrupulously observed
or made the experiments used to produce the pr -
tended phenomena, and in no case ha\·e we seen
them manifested. They say only, that such a thing
is so sUJ'prising, so unusual, so contrary to the phy-
siological knowledges, that it is not possible to
believe in them. Thence they draw the conclusion,
that m:::~gnetism is an imposture. But is it not a
method of reasoning evidently absurd, to condemn
as falsehood what a great many respectable persons
affirm to be true, only because the thing mentioned
does not enter into the circle of phenomena com-
monly obsen·ed, and goes beyond the reach of our
understanding? 'Vho has not l1eard of sudden
death without apparent <'.ause - of those spontane-
ous combustions which sometimes reduce to <tshes
old drunkards 7 Shnll we affirm that such facts
ne,·er happen, because they dcplrt from the or-
dinary course of natural phenomena 1
Again, shaH we deny the existence of volcanoes
-of the fall of meteoric stones- the am-ora bore-
alis- all the curious and interestinO' effects or
0
electricity and mineral magnetism- the periodical
revolutions of comets, &c., because it has been
hitherto impossible to give a philosophical explana-
tion of the formation or cause of those wonderful
INT R0DUC1'ION.
.
XI
operat ions of nature 7 Verily, nobody doubts now·a-
days the existence of the phenomena I have just
mentioucd, l1owcrcr extraordinary they may he.
Indeed, the facts repeatedly observed do not allow
the least doubt, and to belie\'e them it is sufficient
only to examine. From that series or analocrons
c
cases I come to a general conclu~ion; I mean that
tbcre are really but very few phenomcn'\ that man is
a1Iowed to undcr~taucl. 'Vhether he turns his eyes
uprm the innumerable variety of objPcts which sur-
round him, or raises tl1cm up towards those worlds
of planet.:; and stars rolling above his h ad, every-
thing i::; wonder nnd mystery to him. \Yhat a variety
of beings- or different Ji\'CS- from tl1e insect of
one day up to man- from the gr:tin of sand up to
the brilliant sun which is ligllting us! Bach ofthose
beings has his own pccul iar con~truction aud prop-
erties- each of these li\'es has a mo<1e of mani-
festation which distinguishes it from all others. And
now let us try to di~covcr, through a close and mi-
nute analysis, the intimate composition of each of
those bodies, and the vital ph~norncna of their
organization. Surrly, by dint of attention and per-
se,·erance, we shall he able to pnt together a very
rrreat number of unknown fact!';, most of which will
b
be such as to excite astonishment and anmzP-ment-
even the incrcclulity of those who have not studied
the science. All those facts can be deduced from
one another, ancl understood through one another;
but, dcliniti,·cly, we are unable to know the reason
of their production- I mean the primitive cause
..
Xll INTRODUCTION.
whence they emanate- the nature of the relations
and secret ties which bind them togethE>r, without,
however, confounding them. In short, it is pos::;ible
to the genius of m an to know something in nature;
but that somet!ting can be but of facts ouly- that is,
visible manifestations of the existence of bE>ings.
As to the why and how of those beings, we cannot
discover- this is the secret of God. H ere I take
leave to remind you that every science is nothing
but a collection of facts, disposed in an order more
or less logical and luminous, connected with each
other, and explained through certain theories. But
those very th~ories are themseh·es reared upon a
primitive Jaw, which is so difficult to be accounted
for, that we are obliged to admit it a priori; that is,
as a matter beyond demonstration. Thus, chemistry
is based on the fact of rnoleculary affinity and atom-
istic combinations; the phenomena of elictricity
and galvanism recognise, as a regulating cause, the
existence of two fluids, one negative and the other
positive- which existence we must admit a prim·i.
Newton judged it necessary to base the theory of
planetary gravitation upon the hypothesis of the ex-
istence of two forces- the fi>rce of attraction or
centripetal, and the force of projection or centrifu-
gal. But you easily understand that this is a mere
conjecture, begotten by the innate want in man to
account for everything.
It would be easy here to accumulate numberless
instances which demonstrate that the primili\e cau~e
of natural phenomena is~ and ever will l>e1
concealed
INTROUUCTION. Xlll
from and unaccountable to man, however active and
extensive Ius organ of causality may be. From
what has been said, I conclude that if the existence
of the effects of magnetism is denied, because they
canuot be understood by our ordinary method of sci-
entific analysis, aud depart from the natural factg
commonly observed, we ought, also, to deny all the
fundamental facts on which the science of chemis-
try, uatiJral philosophy, astronomy, &c. are resting,
because they can not be accounted for by, and be
submitted to, our instrument! of material examina-
tion. K<>ally, there is nothing to be wondered at
in magnetism. It is a plain, natural phenomenon
hitherto unseen and unknown to many. This is all.
On th1s subject, I add, wilh Rostan, 'These are
wond('rs and miracles for the fool only. The more
ignorant ancl rude people are, the more miracles
there will be; becau:,e, as they are not informed of
the phenomena of nature, there is a greater number
of facts wluch arc bP.yond the Circle of their knowl-
edge, and which sf'cm to them opposed to her laws.
As people instruct themselves, the more their knowl-
edge becomes extended and the less surprising facts
exist. It is worthy of notice, that everything new
and unaccustomed excites laughter, contempt, and
astonishmf'nt. The true philosopher ought neither
to despise nor to wonder; he ought to examine. If
we wonder at one phenomenon because of its nov•
elty, we might as well wonder at all others.'
Light, running millions of leagues a minute, and
enabling us to recognize the existence of object.e
XlV INTRODUCTION.
placed at many millions of miles from us, and that
in a moment and causin11 the spectacle of the
' 0
immensity of all nature to penetrate through an
opening not larger than a pin's head, the pupil, is a
miracle by far more surprising than the influence of
one indi\'idual upon another at the di5tance uf a few
feet. Attraction, ruling the universe and making
itself felt without an intermediate agent, at the enor-
mous distance of one star from another, and so
holding iu space the hP.avenly bodies, in regulating
their unchangeable courses, is again a wonder by far
more astonishing; and yet, who pays attention to the
magic of light and attraction 1 A very few learned
men occupy themseh·es with it; the remainder of
mankind enjoy their benefit without wondering, nay,
thinking of them. And why ? because they are ha-
bitual things.
The magnetical phenomena, it is said, are not
only accountable and miraculous, but some affirm
they are above I he reach of human faculties- they
are impossible. Impossible t has the scuse of this
word been sufficiently refl cted upon 1 \Yhat is
impossible to man! Let us consider the enormous
works of all kind that man has been allowed to ac-
complish from the first step in social Iife down to the
present stage of civilization ? let us compare, for in-
stance, the man of the savage state, with his miser-
able dwellings~ his precarious, wtetched existence
amid the woods- so completely destitute of means
of iutellectual improvements, sunk into the lowest
depths of moral degradation and idolatry- with the
It\TRODUCTION. XV
mighty heing who built up those splendid Cllles,
furnished with every possible means to satisfy his
physical and intellectual wants, to gratify his taste,
elevate and adorn his mind, cmiched with the know].
eclge of the true God. Fmally, let us compare the
savage with the author of those wonderful processes
of conveying both ideas, persons and brute matter,
to the remotest distance over the sea and the land,
which makes him a cosmopolite- a universal be.
ing- 'a mortal god on earth,' as says a great poet,
and we shall then feel the necessity to restrain, in
some measure, the extent of the word impossible.
For all those gigantic things have been accomplished,
and nobody will contend against it, through a moral
agent- the strength of will-' that true co!umn of
virtue in man,' as Young says. IL is doubtless from
the consideration of so great a power, that Napoleon,
in the highest pitch of his fortunes, declared that
the word impossible should be taken away from the
vocabubry. If man has been able to execute so
many <.1itficult and grand works by the general power
of his will applied in particular directions, why
could we not produce, by a peculiar application of
the same faculty, the phenomena of magnetism,
whicb are nothing else but an influence upon the
nervous system of a fellow-creature 1
If we examine man by the side of his divine ori•
gin, we have a still greater motive to conceive and
believe the extent of his power. Indeed. tlte holy
scripture teaches us that God created man in t.is own
likeness and bequeathed unto him a part of his own
xvi INTRODUCTION.
substance. Now, what is God 7 The infinite pow·
er- infiuite love- infinite intellect. Therefore,
man is necessarily orgauized with a part of these
three attributes of his Creator. \Vhy, then, wonder
at the \·arious manifestations of the divine spirit
working in the favorite creature 7 Why affirm that
it is impossible for man to operate such phenomena
as to show what is most exce1lent in him, and
through the purest and most energetic element of
his organization, his will? \Vhy deny the power in
him to seud from his body, hy the act of this benev-
olent and sympathetic u ill, an agent cnpable of
curing, or at least reliering a fellow-creature from
sickness 7 Such an incredulity is not only unrea·
sonabl<', but it is impious- it is decidedly opposed
to the teaching of Christianity. Any good Chris-
tian will easily conceive the importance of this
argument and cauuot fail to approve it. Then, far
from throwing ridicule upon animal magnetism and
denyiug its existence, he will looli at it with inter-
est and love, as a convincing proof of his dirine
ori:zin- of his organical power, and of the immor-
tal ties whieh bind him to the infinite being from
whom he emanated.
Among the most violent opposers of animal mag-
netism, it is, perhaps, surprising to meet a great
number of scientific men, especially ph) sicians. It
seems, indeed, that this class of men-· being, ow-
ing to their daily avocation, more apt to examine
the phenomena of nature her prodtrrious varietv
' 0 .. '
her mfiniLe resources and power- ~hould have,
INTRODUCl'IO:-i.
..
XVll
more than any other class, received the discovery of
n. new order of phenomena by the name of animal
rnagru·lism, with benevolence, or at least with the feel-
ing of philosophical doubt which leads us to experi-
ment by ourselves the announced facts, before deny·
ing them and crushing them down with contempt and
ridicule. The characteristics of tit~ true naturalist
is to mal<e experiments, even from hypothetical
Yiews; for it may happen in starting from an hypoth-
eRi~ to arrive at the discovery of -.·ery important
phcuomena. The true naturalist ought, then, to
ob::.crvc and study the facts, ho\\ever insignificant,
minute, or cxtraordmary they nppcar at first; for it is
possible that one single fact is, in the uoirersal or-
der of things, a point concealing a whole new
science; or, at least, a "cry great improvement in
some of the sciences already established. Certain-
ly, to those physiologists who hnve bestowed some
attentton upon the phenomena of animal magnetism,
it is beyond doubt that their di:-:co,·ery brings an im-
portant change both in the science of the physical
and moral organization of man in patholosry and
therapeutics. By what inconcei,·able fatality did
some physicians oppose, with ~ 1 much blindness and
narrowness of mind, the e~tabli hrnent of that new
truth, so productive of scientific results and benefits
to suffering mankind 7 We are almost ashamed to
say that they acted in thiR circumstance from the
same reasons as the vulrrar of 111~-'11 : he• ause the
::::>
production of magnetical phenomena is incompre-
hensible; because they are contrary to all the phy-
2
xviii INTRODUCTIO:q-.
siological knowledge, heaped up by the experience
of past centuries. That those phenomena are above
the human understanding, I grant. But 1 beg the
physicians to tell me how many operations of ani-
mal economy they can understand, either in the
healthy or diseased state 1 Can they account, for
instan ce, for the act of thought and will ~ for this of
assimilation- breathing 1 tor the formation and de-
struction of the living machine 7 Can th~y account
for the periodicity ofthe intermittf'nl fe ver~, and the
format ion and mode of existence of a crowd of other
affections?- for the way in which the remedies,
called specific, act upon such or such of our or!_!ans?
(I need not naml" them here.) No; tht?y mu...t ac-
kno\\'l ~dge in thPsv. cases, as wP-11 as in a gre..t many
others of the external world, they arc aud a) ways
will be in complete ignorance. ' 11 some p<>r:::.-ons,'
says Sydenham, 'con:;ider me, ou thts account, as
unworthy of the name of philosopher, I \\ould ad-
vise them to try by themselves thetr own :,trength in
the works of nature, whtch everywhere offer them-
selves to our oLscrvation. Now, 1f some learned
men are not ashamed to acknowledge thetr ignorance
in such matters, why should we reproach the phyii-
cian with being unable to explain 1he can:,es in a
thing which is not less difficult, and goes, perhaps,
far beyond the reach of human intellect!' So Sy-
den ham expressed himself auout the periodicity and
and the seat of intermittent fevers. Let the physi-
cians and physiologists of our days learn from this
great Ollln how to be modest and wise in their judge
.
INTRODUCTION. XIX
ment on new natural phenomena they cannot un-
derstand. But that which is to my mind still fitter
to inspire them with modesty and circumspection, is
the very history of the ~cience they profess. That
history, properly speaking, is nothing else but a nar-
rative of a continued struggle of oppo!ied doctrines,
which vary according to people and periods of time.
How many hypothesis and systems! Hardly one
has taken possession of the public opinion when a
new one rises up. Then, war and revolution in the
science. Let us noti~e, however, whence all those
modifications proceed; whether from the discovery
of a new phenomenon or from a different way of ob-
serving and interpreting some of the phenomena
already known. At this present moment, there are
upwards of eight various systems of pathology and
therapeutics in the world called civilized. 'All this
seems to me singularly calculated to inspire toler-
ance and a wise spirit of examination, instead of
that blind opposition so unbecoming of a true savant
and a friend of the human species. But what shall
we think, what shall we say, when we know that this
opposition was made with the utmost fury and ex-
travagance against the very discoveries which were
afterward recognised as the most beneficial to man-
k~nd! 'We cannot,' says Mr. Husson, the reporter
of the commission appointed for the examination of
animal magnetism, 'open the annals of our art with-
out being struck, not only by the diversity of the
opinions which have successively occupied its d~
main, but also by the little solidily of those judg.,
x.x IN'l'RODUCTION.
ments which were thou~rht firm at the moment they
were brou rht forward, and that some new judgments
have come to reform.' So in our days we h:tve suc-
cessively seen the circulation. of the blood decreed
impossible; the inocculation of the small-pox consid·
ered and prosc~ibed as a crime; those enormous
wigs with which many among us had their heads over-
loaded, proclaimed, by far, more healthy than the
natural hair. Who has not present to his mind the
proscription which struck all the preparations of
antimony under the decanat of the famous Guy-
patio 1 Who could have forgotten that a decree of
the Parliament, solicited by the Academy of 1\Iedi-
cine, forbade the nse of emetic?"
Physicians arc aware that those extra\·agant opin-
ion3 and judgments have been successively recalled.
The circulatory motion of the blood is now univer-
sally acknowledged ; inoccuJation oft he small-pox is
practiced everywhere; antimony and emettcs used
as very useful remedies in sorne cases. So it will
be of the hasty judgment borne against magnetism
among people; and already we see the first report
made at Paris, fifty years ago, in opposition to that
discovery, annihilated by another a great den.) more
substantial and sound, made three years ago, by a
commi-sion of the most respectable scientific body
in Europe, the Royal Academy of Medicine at Paris.
• The magnetical phenomena,' it is said, again, 'are
contrary to the physiological knowledge acc-umulated
by the labors of centuries. So much the better for
the science and mankind, if those knowledges were
INTRODUCTION. XXl
erroneous, if falsehood is supplied by truth through
the new discovery. Let us open the history of sci-
ences, and we shall see that improvements of all
kind were so accomplished. How many errors, how
many gross absurdities have heen rooted out by the
labor of the modern- how many grand truths c.ljs-
covered, contrary to the opinions of past ages ! I
recollect having heard from Mr. 1\lagendie, one of
the most illustrious heads of modern physiology,
that the Asiatic cholera had revealed some facts
which thoroughly overthrew many points of patho-
logical physiology which were thought settled forever.
Well, it is just so with animal magnetism. The
future will confirm, I am sure, the results already
obtained by the practitioners of that new doctrine.
1\Ioreover, if the di ·covery of new facts was to be
opposed and rejected bfcnuse it 1s contrary to re-
ceived ideas, where would he both science and man-
kind at this day? At the very point from which it
started - in the savage state. Again, if the discov-
ery and the po8session of truth is a suflicient motire
to consider the authors, and the people who enjoy
the benefit of those truths, as imposters, or sorcer-
ers, or gods, what would the ancients say of us,
should the dead be allowed to think and speak 1
Surely, they could not help lool(ing at us as sorcer-
ers or gods, as did the l1Hlians at the sight of the
Europeans arri\·ing in their large ships and iuvading
their land, armed with cannons and guns, and run-
ning from one place to another with frightful rapidity
on animals of a new species. What would they
..
::xxn lNTRODUCTION.
say of our modern savants, those philosophers ofthe
school of Tllales and Democritus, who believed the
sun was not larger than Peloponesus, and that there
were but four elements in nature- fire, air, water,
and earth ; if they heard by us that the sun is an
inflamed body, the diameter of which is one hun-
dred and twelve times that of the earth; that there
are upward or fifty-five elementary substances, of
which, neither fire, or water, or the air, or the earth,
are a part; if, in one word, they were able to see the
inside of our laboratory of chemistry and natural his-
tory, and our astronomical observatories? Finally,
what would the phpsiologists and physicians of anti-
quity say of us, if they were allowed to know the
admirable disco,·erie::, in aoalomy ami pll) siology
made in this recent period of time, and which raises
up the science of mau so far above what it \\'a.s in
those remote ages? Certainly those men, however
enlightened they might have bet n to Lhcir contem-
poraries, could not help considering us as impostors,
or sorcerers, or gods.
l\lay these considerations inspire us with wisdom
and tolerance. May we learn from them not to wun-
der at the new facts we are a11owed to disco\'er in
the nature of the infinite Beirng of which we are a
part, and in the bosom of which we are aJI living.
On the contrary, let us be confident of our original
power, and ready cheerfully to recei,·e every truth
we are destined to possess, according to times and
places, during our progressive development.
Now, my readers, I give up the ground of discus-
INTRODUCTION. xxiii
sion, properly said, to demonstrate through a few
analogQus facts already observed and lillOwn, how
inconsistent it is to deny the existence of animal
magnetism and ~ hrink from mak mg proper experi-
ments on them to ascertain their degree of reality,
because of apparent impos~ihility. Those facts I
allude to are h1ghly calculated, to my mind, to show
the l'robahility of the magnetical effects. Let us
begin by ~tatin~ that animal magnetism is a peculiar
sta1e of the brain an d the nervous system, during
which some unusual phcn<Jmcna, beyoud the power
of 111an in the wakeful state, arc mauife:stcd. Now,
the fact" I am ahont t0 set down here, pro\ic that a
peculiar ~tate of the nenous system and unusual
phenomena, al~o abore the ordiuary reach of man,
can be produced rery naturally wit huul the iu:slru·
mcul'dity of ani mal magnetism.
In the first place, I quote dreams. E\'erybody
has eXJH~ rit•nccd that singular state iu which the
moral, intellcctnnl, and especially sensorial faculties
arc so wonderfully exalted, while the body is in per-
fect r<•posc. 'The iuteii(!Ctual faculties, cxrrcised
while dream ing,' saJS the celebrated professor Rich-
crowd, 'can lead us to a certain order of ideas
which we nc\·er could reach in the wakeful state.
So mathematicians have finished during their sleep
the most complicated calculations, and resolved the
mo"t difficult prol>lems.' The phenomena of dream-
ing ts surely one of the most extraordinary, and, we
may add, unaccountable, notwithstanding the ingen-
ious theories made up about it. But there is another
.
XXIV INTRODUCTION.
phenomenon which bears a still nearer resemblance
to the magnetical sleep- I mean the natural som-
nambulism. There is none who have not heard of
certain indivi<.Jua)s liable to speak aloud while sleep-
ing; to get up and walk very straight with their ey~s
closed ; to read and write with as much, and some-
times more, facility and success than in the wakeful
state. This fact I have oftentimes witnessed, par-
ticularly in a college companion of mine, who, one
night, went down from a second story in which we
slept, opened a door, crossed a long inn, unlocked
another door and entered the study hall, in which he
set himself to writing, fast asleep, a Latin speech
he had composed for the great prize at the end of
the year. This composition being finished, the
young man went back again to his bed. The next
morning how surprised he was to find his speech al-
ready written! He read it through, found it perfectly
correct, and gave it to the professor just as it was.
Indeed, that speech won the prize to its author. A
similar instance is related in the :Methodical Ency-
clopedia.
\-Ve find in the histories of hysteria and catalepsy,
some instances sti11 more similar to the effects pro-
duced by the magnetical action. Patients afflicted
with those diseases have been seen, isolated from
all surrounding objects, entirely insensible to the
action of the external objects, pronouncing long
speeches, repeating by memury, suddenly seized
with presentiments of the future, in such a manner
as lo throw the spectators into the greatest amaze•
INTRODUCTION. XXV
ment. Thf'ir inward sense, activity of mind and
intellectual power was so much increased and im-
pro\·ed, that the results were altogether different from
what they were in the ordinary state. I knew, if!
the neighborhood of the city of Blois, in France, a
lady affected with catalepsy; during her fits, she lost
wholly the faculty of seeing by her eyes, hearing
with her ears, smelling by her uose; but she saw,
heard, and smelt very well by the pit of her stomach.
That lady was able to see a great way off, through
the walls, and foretold what was to happen at many
days irtten·al. She prescribed remedies for herself;
announced in what manner and at what time she
would cnre; and evrrything took plac.e according
to her predictions. When I saw her she had alrea-
dy rcco\'ered her health. Nu111erous instances of
this kind arc related in the works of Dr. Petetin of
Lyon, on catalepsy.
'In reflectmg on such facts,' says Dr. Georget,
'we can but acknowlr.dgc in them a great analogy
with the mag1etical dl'ccts; for, in both series of
facts we find the following characteristic phenome.:
na. Fmst, suspension , more or less complete, of
the external senses. Second, increase of energy, a
conceutration of the thin king power upon one ob-
JeCt. Third, possibility, io some cases, to find a
substitute for the or !inary action of the senses; to
write, tor instance, with the eyes closed. Fourth. Pos·
sibility to communicate with a person in somnambu-
lism by touching him, and to talk with him without
awaking him.'
xxvi INTl-tODUCTION.
As for the power that one man has to produce
upon another person, through the sole action of his
will, the extraordinary effects called magnetical, we
should not wonder at it, for a similar power is grant-
ed to somo animals of prey- that of striking with
stupor; nay, of drawing under their grasp some
other smaller creatures, destined to be used by them
as food. T his fact naturalists are aware of; for my·
self, I affirm I ha\'e obsen-ed it in the Island of .Mar-
tinique Hot long ago. T here exists in that island a
species of serpents, gray and yellow, extremely poi-
sonous, which possesses the fascinating power to a
high degree. T hey exercise it especially upon a
pretty little bird called the niJhtingale. From the
moment the poor creatures eyes hn ve met the
snake's, it must fly down nearer and nearer until it
falls its prey, which it does, moaning in the most
piteous manner. This singular po;rer of fascina-
tion and attraction may be easily couceived and
acc.ounted for, if we reflect that a rery :similar prop-
erly finds itself even in some brute, inorganic bodies.
I allude to the wonderful property- yet acknowl-
edged by e\'ery one -of the loadstone to draw to
itself other metals.
Now, if some animals of a lower class - nay, a
brute, inert body- pessess so extraordinary power,
why could not man, the best organized of all living
creatures, possess some analogous faculties to affect,
in a certain degree, his fellow-man when sick 1
But there is another order of analogous nMural
facts, the mode of production of which bears a still
INTRODUCTION.
..
xxvn
nearer resemblance to that of the magnetical phe.
nomena. I allude to electricity and galvanism.
Everybody knows thlt the powerful and marvellous
effects called galvanic and electric are produced by
the mere contact of pieces of different metals dis-
posed in n certain order, and by the plain rubbing of
some silk against some resin or glass. This, I
repeat, everybody knows and fully acknowledges.
1Vhy, tlwn, deny to man, the Lest organized and
most pr.rfect hocly in nature, the power of produc-
ing those efrt.:cts, called magnetical, hy placing
him::,elf in contact \\'ith another of llis fellow-crea-
tures? V<>rily, if the phenomena of magneti~rn are
incrcdibl<·, there is 80tncthing, to rny mind, still more
clifficult to he under~tood. It is the inconsist<·ncy
and nnrroWIH'ss of mind which characterizes the
judgment of men on certain subjects. They very
readily grant \\'(,nderful facultit·s to pieces of dead
matter, and they dt·ny the same faculties to the
smartest and most po\\'erful agent in nature, a hu·
man brain in acti\'ity.-0 stulti homiucs, et tarde
col'llc r.ralcmlum !
Theory of Animal J.llagnetis1n.
Dut, is it possible to gi,·e a satisfactory explanation
of the magnetical phenomena 1 Some persons will,
doubtless, answer in the m~gative; for my part, I say
that, even in admitting that the cause and mode of
production of the phenomena fihould really be above
xxviii INTROOUCTIO~.
the human intellect, it is still our duty to try to find
them out. It is the privilege of man to be able, or
to make himself able, to understand the Jaws of na-
ture. Is there a nobler pleasure, a more grati-
fying moti\e of pride, to a moral being 1 Such is
the feeling that leads me to the following con-
siderations.
I have said and I repeat, that any sober and sen-
sible mind- m a word a true philosopher- before
admitting or denying, ought to ask himself whether
such a thing is possible or not. Then he will re-
cur to analogy, that is to say, to the examination
and comparison of the various orders of facts alrea-
dy known and settled. Thence, and thence only,
he will draw his opinion ; but in holding fast this
truth, the greatest of all, "iz : thnt the p<)\\ er of na-
ture is unbounded, that there are impossible things
only because human knowledg dues not yet em-
brace, and cannot yet understal d them.
Such were, doubtless, the principles of some of
the master intellects of this age, who, through in-
ductiot1S drawn from the labors and observations of
their whole life, bore testimony in fil\·or of animal
magnetism, as an order of phenome a altogether
within the limit of natural thing:-.. Among those
men, I am pleased to find Blumenhack, Hufeland,
the celebrated Cuvier, Mr. de Laeplac~. the illustri-
ous author of the new doctrine of the faculties of
the brain or phrenology, Dr. Gall. Cuvier, in his
"Letrons d'Anatomie Comparee," Vol. 2, p. 117,
9th Le~ons, expresses himself as lvllows: " \Ve
I N'fRODUCTION.
.
XXIX
must acknowledge it is very difficult in the experi-
ments which arP made about it- the action that
tl!c .nervous system of two individuals can exercise
upon each c ther- to di~ting-uish the effect of the
imagination of the pcrc:;on experimented upon. from
the physical effect produced by the person expen-
menting. Yet the effects obtained upon persons
already senseless before the operation was com-
menced, thoc:;e which take place upon other persons
after they have become sense1csc:; through the very
operation itself: and those that ar<.> presentcu h}' ani-
mals, cJo not allow us to douht that the proximity of
t \\'0 animat<.>d bodif'st in a certain position and with
certain motions, has a real dfcct, ind<.>pendent of
the participation of the imagination of onP. of then1.
Tt appears e\ idem cnought that thos·-. effects proceed
from a cerlaiu communication, whatever it may hf',
which takc:s place b('tween their nervous systPms."
De La Place, in his work entitled " Tltenrie Ann-
lytique du f1alrul drs Prnbabilitit>:;," snyc:;, p. 358,
"It is natural to think that thf' action of the 'mag-
netical agmt1
is very weak, and can be easily troubled
hy a great many accidental circumstances. Thus,
because in many cases it has not been manifested,
one should not conclude it does not exist.1
'
Here is whr~t Dr. Gal1 says about it, in his "Anat·
nmy of ilze Nervous System,'' Vof. I, p. 146-48.
''It is not at all my intention to lead people to think
that I will deny the magnetical fluid. The natural-
ist ought to acknowledge no other Jaws than those of
nature. I ncknowledge a fluid, which, especially, bas
XXX INTRODUCTION.
some affinity with the nervous system ; which can
emanate from one individual, pass into another, and
accumulate itself, by the effect of its peculiar af-
finity, in certain parts, rather than in others. ·An
ouservation that I have made upon myself, confirms
m~ in this opinion, independently of all the true
phPnomena of magnetism."
I will abstain to relate here this obsenration, which
is expressed in rather too long and minute particulars
in the original work to be presented here. In conse-
quence of this fact, and of further reflections sug-
gested hy it, Dr. Gall concludes thus: " Therefore,
we admit the existence of a fluid, the subtraction of
which diminishes the strength of the nerves, and
the accum•Jlatio of which increases that strength
- a fluid which puts one part of the nervous sys-
tem to rest and exalts the activity of another part;
which, consequently, can produce an artificial som·
narnl.mlism. In like manner, as in dreams, thoughts
ofH·n have more acuteness and seusation, more
sharpness, as it is possible to hear and answer, to get
ur', walk, see with the eyes closed, to touch with
the hands in the natural somuam bulism; so we con-
ceive ancl acknowledge that similar phenomena can
take place in the artificial somnambulism, nay, in a
higher degrPe of energy and precision."
These few reflections of the man who is justly
considered one of the most eminent physiologists and
anatomists of tltis age, seem to me pecultarly fit to
lead us to the rigLt understandin<T of maanetical
t"> I:>
phenomena. Some more remarks, drawn from the
INTRODUCTION. XXXI
ordinary course of every one's observations, will
completely justify, to my mind, Dr. Gall's opinion on
the existence of a magnetic .I fluid, and make clear
to us the nature of that fiuid, and the wonderful ef-
fects of its transmission i'lto another's body.
It ts a fact well known and uuiversally acknowl-
edged, that there arc some acts, bearing e~pecially
on the brain ur the nerve us system of the organical
life, which, by being often repeated or sustained
during a certain length of time, produce in us the
fe, ltng of weakness, of an extreme fatigue, some-
times of faintness, and cause us to feel an urgent
want of rest ond reparation. Such are long and in-
tense study, deep sorrow, and e:ttreme joy; tears shed
in very great abundance, immoderate bursts of laugh-
ter, the del ivery of long, passionate, and enthusias-
tic speeches. These acts, everybotly is aware, are
often productive of the cffe~ts I have jnst mentionP.d;
nay, they arc sometimes the cause of death. l\len,
indeed, have been heard of, who have died with joy
or sorrow; and laughter, especially, is so weakening,
that the words, to die by laughing, is known as a
pro\·crb everywhere. Again, indh·iduals have been
seen dying sudrlenly iu the midclle of a warm
speech. A great many persons are often afilicted
with that sort of disorder called nervous, in conse·
quence of too long and hard study. I have been un-
well for four years, and am so still, on that account.
All those phenomena, it is also we11 known, are ef-
fected without loss of any sensible matter from our
conomy, as blood, humor, or any solid part of our
xxxii INTRODUCTION.
organs, as that happens in great hemorrages, in dys·
entery, pulmonary consumption, old wounds, ampu-
tation of the limbs, &c. How, then, shall we
acconnt for those eff<>cts? It cannot be but by
admitting a loss or excretion of a certain substance,
whatever may be the name given to it. That this
substance is neither percc•ptiblc to our eyes, nor ap-
preciable to our common inHruments and scientific
methods to analyze m·ttter, I am a\\are. But, as
there are in nature some other substances, as J,ght,
caloric, electricity, which do not fall unc!er the co;r-
nizance of our sense~ and cannot be submitted to
our scientific p oce:s~es of analysis, so we may con-
ceive a substance, of an analogous nature, existing
in human organizauon, nnd some of which, being
lost through the acts alluded to, causes the pheuom-
ena, above described, to take place. That such a
loss is really effectPd, there is no doubt; for ho\V
can a person, from the full strength and harmony of
his functions, become \\r.ak, faint, and even sick, by
the effects of certain moulf1cations of his nenous
system, if some of that "' ry substance or agent,
which before kept them ~trong anrl healthy, has not
been taken away from his body 7 llow can he feel
want of reparation, if he has not lost something?
Thence I conclude that man contains within himself
a certain substance, extremely subtile and nice, a
fluid , running over all his body, intimately and deeply
connected with his organs- a fluid that can be a<·
cumulated or lost through peculiar circumstances.
Now, if thlt substance can be taken away from the
JNTR.ODt:C1.'10N. xxxiii
body of one individual, we may just r s well admit
that it could I e taken away by the special will of
this indi,·ic.Jual; furthermore, we may, logically and
from analogy, admit that it can be sent to another
body, whatever it may he, but cf:pecially to the hody
of a human h<•ing, wl•icll, owinq to its similar con·
stitution, has more affinity to the fluJ<l alluded to
than to any other in nature. Such is, according to
my opinion, the true and ouly cause of the magneti-
cal phenomena. In reality, "e may say that rnag-
Jtetismg is 11othing else bnt tl1e sending of a certain
qu<Hlttty of tluiJ by the wdl of one person to anoth-
er prrson; tiHJt the magnetical ~deep and somuam·
bulisrn arn peculiar ~t<~tcs, determined by the inward
action of that fluid. It wilt he asked, perhaps,
wltethcr thr.t c is in the act of magnetising a loss
similar to thoc;e aborementiuncd l Thts loss cer·
tainly takes place; since, in consequence of tl e act
he has pcrliJrmcd, the magncti ·er always ft•els a
great weak1wss, fatigue, and want of reparation aud
rest. It will be a~ked ngain, whether the person
magnetised really receive ' within hintsclf the fluid
which I suppose to emanate from the magnetizer 1
I answer, cet tainly. The magnetised person does
rec i\e that fluid; since sensations, hitherto unfelt,
a state of being entirely unknown to him, are devel-
oped unckr the sole influence of the operation he is
undergoing. There is no effe~t without a cause.
Could the extraordinary phenomena of animal mag·
netism be produced without cause 1 That cause, a
great many think, is imagination only. llut this ob-
3
XXXIV INTRODUCTION.
jection can be brought forward but by individuals
absolutely destitute of knowledgP- and experience in
magnetism. It is abundantly demonstrated* that
imagination plays but a small part, if it plays any,
in the production of those phenomena 1 W hat is
then the cause 1 No doubt the action of the fluid,
communicated by the will of an active person to a
passave one.
InquiriPs have been made about the nature of that
fluid or agent. The recent researches of 1\Iessrs.
Prevost and Duma~, dispose us to thiuk that this
agent bas th ~ greatest analogy with the electrical
fluid. Those physiologists have demonstrated that
the muscular contraction was the result of a true
electrical commotion. The celebrated ProfP.sS:)r
Beclard was about to perform curious experiments
on this suuject, when a prematurecJ death took him
away from the science that he cnltivated with so
much zeal and intelligence. Dr. Rostan says that
Beclard often told him that after dissecting and cut-
ting up a nerve of a considerable ~ize on a livincr
0
animal, he often caused the pule of the magnetic
needle to deviate, by putting that needle close to the
nerve. But everybody is aware that galvanism,
substitu'ed to the nervous influence, is able to make
the nerve contract- that oue can put into action
the muscles of an animal, recently dead, by touch-
ing them w(th a piece of metal. We know bow
* See m the Report the effects produced by mngnetism
alone.
IXTRODUCTION. :XXXV
Gal van i ancl Volta saw and proved the existence of
operative fluid, which afterwards was acknowledged
to be the same as electricity. \Ve also know that
certain animals have the si ngular property of secret-
ing, through the means of an apparatus disposed
on purpose by nature, a great quantity of electrical
fluid, with which they produce strong commotions,
sometimes so \ iolent that they can I< ill, at a dis-
tance, other fishes and e\·en men. The Torpedo
nakc, the Torpedo immaculata, marmorata, gal-
vanic, the electric gym uotc, the elcctri cui silurus,
&c., pos ess that si ngular faculty . The electrical
apparatus of the ·e various ani1Hals are disposed in a
manner ''cry much like the galvanic tubes. They
arc composed of cells and pipes, of various shapes,
containing a gelatiuou:s fluid and furnished with a
great multit ·de of nones, proceeding, most of tlv~m,
from thn eighth cerebral p:1cr. A ccording to Alex.
de Humbolt and other learn ed zoologists, this elec-
trical fluid is s crctcd by the brain of those animals ;
for, in taking off either the brain or the nerves which
resort to th~ abo,·ementioned apparatus, the effects
are ann ihilated, which does not take place by cutting
off the organ of circulation, which carries the
blood into those electrical baltf'ries. Thus it is de-
monstrated that the brain secretes some electric fluid
-that the muscular contractions can take place by
an elcctric excitant. Thence I conclude that the
ne rvous agent is of the same nature as the electric
fluid. But tl a• agent does not go to the muscles or
the skin only; it ::prings out \\ith a certain force
XXXVI INTRODUC'l'ION.
and energy, and so f...,rms a true nervous atmosphere
-a c·rcle of activity like that of electrical bodies.
This is the opinion of the most skilful physiologists;
such are Rei!, (exercitatio anatomica, fasc de
structure nervurum,) Autenrieth (Physiologie, sec-
tion 103J) l\1r. de Humboldt, &c. Therefore, we
are now able to account perfectly we}) how one indi-
vidual can be influenced by the action of the wiJJ of
another individual, even at distance, and more than
that, from one room to another. For the nervous
agent, as well as caloric and electricity, possesses
the facu'ty of penetrating tl11 ough solid bodies.
But, in admiuing that a communication of a cer-
tain quantity of t he substance we call nervous mag·
netical fluid, really takes place from one person to
ano her, is that fluid- the sole cause- productire
of the num rous and wonderful phenomena. of som-
nambulism 1 On this point, Jet every one believe
what he thinks the most rational and probable. It
would not he at all impossible that the magnetical
agent or fluid comniUn icated, really produces all
those phenomena; fur the power of an ag nt is in
proportion to its nature, to the centre from which it
emanates, and to the degree of energy with which it
is sent forth. Now, whnt substance in nature more
subtile, penetrating, active, and nice, than the ani-
mal electricity or nervous agent 7 What centre of
action more admirably organized than the cerebral
centre, by which the nervous fluid is secrete ?
What more energetic and extensive principle of ac-
tion, than human will? \ Vith some caloric and a
INTRODUCTION.
..
XXXVll
little water, we move enormous bulks of matter;
with a few grains of fulminating powder, we blow
up large rocks; by the contact of two metallic pieces
against each other, or the rubbing of some glas:5
against some resin, we produce the wonderful phe-
nomena that everybouy knows by the name of elec-
trical. Why should not an emanation of the most
perfect instmment in creation- a human brain-
produce those effects, which really seem so extraor-
dinary to us only because we are not accustomed to
obsene them. Besides, it is not necessary to admit
that the rnagnetical communicated fluid is the only
cause prouuctive of the phenomena of somnambu-
lism. That fluid may be merely the determining
cause of a peculiar state of the brain and nervous
system, during which those phenomena are mani-
fested, in like manner as any other therapeutical
agent creates new phenomena in the organs to which
it is applied. Anybody, who is somewhat acquaint-
ed with the laws of human economy, will perfectly
understand th is,
Connection 'Of Anim.al MagHetis'ln 'Leith Reli·
gion, lllorals, Intellectual Philosophy, Phy-
siology, and Therapeutics.
That which shows how far man is liable to absurd
nntl blind preve ntions, to gross and shameful m isrep-
resentations of things upon which he hastens to pro-
nounce his sentiment before fairly examining and con-
xxxviii INTRODt1CT10N.
scientiously study'ng them, is the charge brought a-
gainst animal magnetism, by some fanatic clergymen
and bigoted persons, to be a stratagem formed by the
devil to seduce the souls, increase the number of his
followers, and counteract the works of Jesus Christ
and of his ministers; that magnetism undermines
religious belief and morals- that every magnetizer
, is a di::sciple of Lucifer, &c.
These objections hardly deserve refutation ; yet I
will, in a few words, show tl1e absu:dity of them, as
otherwise some weak-minded persons might be in-
fluenced by them. That refutation will, besides,
briug to light, in certain respects, the usefulness of
animal magnetism. 'In supposing, says the respecta-
ble Mr. Deleuze, that the phenomena of somnambu-
lism cannot be accounted for through physical causes,
and in considering the results of this man·e1Ious
state, it wouJd be more natural, and, especially, more
logical, to attribute them to God than to the devil,
since magnetism cures, or at least reJieres the indi-
vidual submitted to its action. It is contrary to the
principles of the Christian faith, to admit that the
devil contributes to good, unless it be to cause that
good to turn to evil. Now, the sole design and ef-
fects of magnetism is to relieve the patient; its only
means of action are benevolence, compassion; and
the care taken of Lhcse who suffer and those who
exercise it can efficiently act but in proportion as
they are animated with charity, which, as St. Augus-
tine says, is the only characteristics of the children
of God. Therefore, magnetism, far from furnishing
INTRODUCTION. XXXlX
arms against religion, disposes to cherish, reverence,
and follow the principles of it. l\1any men of worth
have been converted again to Christianity by the
exercise of magnetism."
These reflections I will strengthen with a fact that
bears an indisput;}ble testim(my of the fitness and ef-
ficiency of m:tgnetism to dispose hearts to Christian
feelings, and bring back to religion those who were
miscarried by th~ wild spe-culations of materialism.
1\Ir. Georgct, one of the most esteemed physicians
and writers of the modern school of medicine, in
France, ou his death-bed pronounced the foll~>wing
words, which are inserted in his testament: "I shall
not finish this piece," says lte, "without adding an
important declaration. In 18~1, in my work on the
physiology of the nervous system, I loudly professed
materialism; but I had hardly puulished that work,
when some new me<litations upon a rery extraordi-
nary phenomenon- somnambulism- did allow me
no longer to doubt the existence, within us and out
of us, of an intelligent principle, altogether different
from material existence. It is, if they wish, what is
called the soul and God. l\:Iy conviction on this
subject is profound, and founded upon facts that I
believe indisputable." As to the charge brought
against anin1al magnetism, to be a suggestion of the
devil, r find a peremptory refutation of it in the fol-
lowing words of one of the fathers of tbe church,
St. Anthanagora, concerning the wonderful facnlt ies
of Sybilles ancl Pythias: " As to the faculty," says
he "to forsee the future and to cure diseases, it is
'
xi INTRODUCTJ ON.
a stranger to the de\·il; it belongs to the soul only.
Indeed the soul owin(T to its immortal nature, can,
, ' 0
from its own power and by its proper virtue, pene..
trate into the futme, and cure infirmities and discases.
\Vhy, then, attribute the glory of those faculties to
the demons?"
In consequence of the foregoing considerations
and facts, we ought to conclude that animal magnet-
ism is highly calculated to promote religions princi-
ples and faith in the dogmas of Christianity. On
this subject, its US('fulness cannot be doubted. Let
us examine now its actual effects and tendencies
upon the morals of those who practice it. A crowd
of attacks ha\·e been directed against magnetism, on
acconnt of the abuse that the magnetizer can make
of it upon the person submitted to his action. l\lr.
Rostan, in his article inserted in the dictionary of
medicine, has pointed out those pretended dangers
in a very particular manner, and goes so far as to
call the watchfulness of governments upou the exer·
cise of magnetism. But those objections fall before
experience, and tho e fears are altogether unseason-
able. In the first place, we should not forget that
magnetical power can be obtained and exercil:icd but
on the condition ouly to use it for the good of the
pat icnt. This is a fact stated not only by magne-
tizers, but also by sornnambulus themselves. They
ha\'e at all times nfiirmcd that they presen·ed their
judgment and reason; that they would immediately
percei\·e the bad intentions of the magnetizer, which
would cause them to awake without failing; for it
INTRODUCTION. xli
appears that the stnte of somnambulism cannot exist
under the influence of immoral feelings and desires.
Finally, experience fully justifies these assertions; for
no cases ha,·e been heard of, down to this day, of
abuse rom1uitted upon the honor or life of the person
submitted to 1he mngnetical action. I\Ioreo..-er, in
order to avoid any appearance ofdanger, one should
suffer him.._e]f to be magnetized, either by men only
who offer ~uffi cient warranties of morality, or by a
person of the same sex as their own. I finish this
article by a. few word::; more, (}llOted from the rcspec-
taiJle Mr. Dt'leuze. To sacrifice one's time near by
a patient- to take painful and steady care of
him, it is necessary to be animated with a benevo-
lence which is the source of almost cvc>ry virtue.
l\Iagncti!Sm being especially a f.'lmily mcd icinc, is it
not extrcmE>Iy fortunate that a father and a mother
may possess one main mo,·e to gain the confidence
of their children? Is it possible to conceive any-
thing more admirable than this faculty, that one
might call divine, to cure a patient, and also to con-
tribute to his physical and moral impruven'lcnt ?
From all this, we nrc led to conclude, again, thai
animal magnetism is rather auvantagcon-- than hurt·
ful to the morals of people, ::;ince it requires and de-
ve]opes such fine c1unlities of the n1ind to be suc-
ce~sfully practised.
In regard to intellectual philosophy, anybody,
who has occupiPd him-elf with the high U11d arduous
and so long debated pmblems, which constitutes at-
most wholly this branch of human kno\\-lcdge, will
xlii INTRODUCTION•
•
very readily perceive and acknowledge the impor-
tance of the magnetical phenomena. I sincerely
call the atteution of the philosophical intellects who
may happen to read this work, to this new and wide
ground of discussion. For my part, I shaJI make
but one reflection ; if there is a fact which furnishes
any probability of the existence of an order of be-
ings altogether different from matter, it is certainly
the fact ofthe power in man to transmit, by his will,
a fluid, so nice, active, and subtile, that we may con-
sider it as a spiritual substance ; and to determine,
through that transmission of fluid, the wonderful
phenomena of somnambulism, in which the material
senses seem to be entirely suspendLd, anJ wl1ich,
however, presents the intelleclllal and moral facul-
ties supernaturally unfolJed and acting as by their
own proper virtue.
I come now to the usefulness of animal magnetism
with respect to physiology and medicine. Rut here
the materials press upon me in so great abundance,
that I really feel embarrassed to class them and to
present them with the clearness and extent they re-
quire, within the narrow limit prescribed to me.
This sole point of the broad question of animal
magnetism, to be well treated, shouid embrace a
whole volume. Therefore, I point it out to the med-
itation of those who have devoted their attention to
the interesting studies of human organization, and
their life to the improvement of their fellow-crea-
tures. I shall endeavor only to give a faithful out-
line of the question before us, as it appears to me
INTP..ODUCTIO~. xliii
ft·om the observation of facts, and the opinions of
authors.
If the magnctical phenomena. are true, and this
we may fully admit from experience, what arc their
resuhs in regard, firs', to physiology? In my opin-
ion, the chief result is to verify, in human economy,
the existence of a peculiar fluid or agent, called
nervous !Jy some, and which we may name magneti-
cal; thence the circulati<Jn of this flui<.l over a:J the
body; thence a bright light thrown upon the nature,
the formation anrl modiflcation ofthe n~rvous system;
upon the secret nets of the orgnnical life upon ner-
vous diseases, which proceed either from a. too
great accumulation or a too great loss of the ner-
\ous fluid through Yarious circumstances; a11 those
points which were hitherto invohc<l in a thick dark-
ness, arc suddenly brought to the evidence of farts
well obs<'n:cd and almost materially demon ·tratcd.
In this respect, we may say tit at the disco\ cry of
animal magnetism create::; a new era in the history
of medicine, ns '"ell as the discovery of the circu-
lation of the blooci, ofPenniau powder, and cow pox.
l ..et us now examine the results flowing from the
diag nosis and trPatmc:::nt of diseases. " Though
the diagnosis of the diseases of the solid parts of
the human frame has been brought, in this later
period, to a high degree of certainty, we ought, how-
ever, to acknowledge that, in a good many cases,
this diagnostic i::~ yet obscure, difficult, nay, impos-
sible in the actual state of scientific knowledge.
This branch of the science, notwithstanding the re-
xliv INTRODUCTION.
cent a:-sistance of ch~mistry, is yet in its infancy,
in regard to the alterations of liq.uid, and espPcially
of im ponderable fluid. Now, am authorized to
think, from the facts l have related, that the instinc-
tive faculties of a somnambule could help us to rec-
tify, enlighten, or confirm our judgmen t upon the
alterations of sol ids in obscure circumstances, and
brings in the way important discoveries, which are
to be made in the alterations of liquids and fluids.
Those faculties might be nseful, above all, to clear
up the history of nervous, of cutaneous affections,
and of a great many chronic affections. They could,
perhaps, penetrate into the causes which often es-
cape our eyes. A physician oflen judges a disease
as inOam matory, whil~ it jg only nervous. A good
somnambule could then remo,·e his doubts anti cor-
rect his errors.
Therapeutics has been greatly imprm·erl by the
labors of the moderns; but, we must confess how
impotent it yet is in a great many diseases. It can-
not and ought not, then, to disdain ::my new assis-
tance; it would find some, I beJie\'e, in the lights
afforded hy the somnambules, applied to the rrscarch
of remedies, and to the treatment of certain acute
and chronic diseases, the most grave and incurable.
"That which characterises the great physician is
the medical tact, which sciP.nce can develope and
impro,·e, but cannot give; a faculty half instinctive
and ltalf rational, by the means of which he in\'esti-
gates the various morbid individualities, and seizes
the indications that suit each of them. This happy
IXTRODUCTTO.N. xlv
comLination, both of instinct and intellect, which is
genius, is very ra c. Most pll} sicians are reduced
to the ligh s paiufully acquired by their intellec-
tual l.tbor, through which they know some general
rules, but are unable to detect the peculiar cases,
to the diag11ostic and treatment of wl1ich they
are oLlige<.l to be constantly groping. Now, in som-
namhuli~rn, iustinc.t is e!'pccially unfolded- a facuJ.
ty rernarknLic in certain beingc:;, and e\.tJemcly
proper to find out the individual wants. \Vhy
could not the it.stinct of well··tricd som namhules be
united to the intC'II<•ct of ph}'sicsau-:, for the treat-
ment of grtt\'e and doulnful di:;cases. The instinct
of tltc former \\Ould f(~eJ and discover\\ hat the iuteJ-
Jcct of the L1lter \\'oulJ j11dge and rectify; the ph)'-
sicians, in their turn, would propose the curntivf'
means, that the somnambulc would sauction or con-
demn, according to the nrgP.ncy of the case. \Vhnt
is the Jcgitim:\tc am hition of the physician~ to
cure; ther~fore, he should, if he be consistent witIt
himself, recur to every possible means to reach the
purposecl crHJ, pro,·ided it should not be contrary to
morals. Animal magn<>tism should be, then , ap-
plied to the affections which would require it in like
m:lllnC'r as opium, Peru"ian powder, emetic, and
other rcmccl1es. Dcnefit can be clerivcd from !'Om-
narnbulism, as from auscultation and percussion, &c.
The absolute power of the magnetizer, and the
passive obedience of the somnambule, open a ne,,.
and broad field for curati\·e effects in the diseases of
those submitted to its action. In the first place, the
xlvi INTRODUCTION.
aomnambule is plunged into the magnetical sleep,
which possesses all the benefits of natnral sleep,
and possesses them in a still higher degree. It is,
besides, accompanied with benefits which are denied
to the other; therefore, its curative effects are more
rapid and batter marl(ed than those of the latter; of-
ten times, it alone is sufficient to cure; and whenever
it is necessary to usc some other medicament, it still
remains the chief, the most efficacious of all reme-
dies. This most prccions sleep will prove useful in
eve1·y disease, provided it be administered with mo -
cration, and that, during its duration, the operator
abstains from any experiment of mere curiosity upon
the patient. Happy, then, are those whom nature
has endowed with the capacity of enjoying the mag-
netical sleep. The somnambule is also able to see
his own illness and the remedies for it ; -the mag-
netizer approves or rejects them. But what good is
he not capable of doing, by his will, to that suffering
being who is sleeping before him! He wishes, and
he takes him away from the atmosphere of men an l
things, which are often so fatal, and places him in that
which is more beneficial to him. Is the patient cold,
he warms him; is he warm, he cools him. He
blo\vs upon his paius, and those pains are removed ;
he turns his tears into laughter, his sorrow into joy.
If he misses his country or his mother, the magne-
tizer shows them to him; is he feeble, he gi\'CS him
strenJlh; is he too strong, he weakens him ; does
he take the symptoms of another's disease, he draws
them off from his body; if he is to undergo a surgi-
INTRODUCTION. xlvii
cal operation, he palsies his sensibility, so that he
does not feel it. In one word, the magnetizer com-
man(ls a11 his functions. If a point is suffering,
he can relieve it, and set a revulsive upon another
part. I could not finish if I undertook to detail
every peculiarity of the empire of the magnetizer.
Of what, indeed, is he not capable, who has all pow-
er over the person submitted to his action! This is,
certainly, a medicine of a new kind, a medicine
from one man towards another. Man first sought
remedies, to his own diseases and the diseases of
others, among the inorganical substances, such as
vegetable and d(!ad animal substances. He found,
and still finds in them some good and efficacious
medicaments; but his greatest medicinal power is
within himself- the sovereign remedy is himself.
A firm and moral will, full of benevolence and char-
ity, in a healthy and strong body - this is the greatest
modification of all diseases, in general; this is true,
especially of the diseases of somnambulic persons,
or of those who are susceptible of the magnetical
sleep."
The foregoing considerations are extracted frcm
the work of my friend Alfred Fillassier, a distin-
guished physician of the faculty of Paris, and one of
the best men I ever knew.
In the celebrated article on animal magnetism, in-
serted by Mr. Rostan in the dictionary of medicine,
Vol. 21, there is a long paragraph devoted to the
thcrepeutical effects of magnetism. 'fhis paragraph
could not be too long meditated upon by physicians,
xlviii INTRODUCTION.
especially by those who carry on their noble profes-
sion as real friends of man1< ind and true philoso-
phers advancincr towards truth out of the narrow
' 0
sphere and routine of party spirit. There are found
in a learned and animated diseussion, a great ahuu-
dance of original thought, sound reasoning, new
and courageous views; in a word, this article is a
fair specimen of the genius of modern philosophy
and of the French medical school, of whic.h 1\lr.
Rostan stands as one uf the brightest luminaries. I
regret very much that t he limit of this article does
not allow me to quote here the whole paragraph ;
but I will extract a few sentences.
"They were very inconsiderable physicians, phy-
siologists and philosopher~," says l\Ir. Rostan, "those
who denied that magnetism could have any theta-
peutical effect. It is not sufficient that it produces
changes in the organization, to conclude that it can
possess some power in curing diseases. From the
moment a substance effects a change, whatever it
may be, in the animal economy, it is impossible not
to acknowledge that it acts; and on that account, one
must be very audacious to conclude, a priori, it can-
not be useful. The sub5tnnces truly destitute of
medicinal action, are those only which produce no
effect. But all those which produce some change
in our organ:zatiou, however feeble you may suppose
it, can become useful in many circumstances. The
more energetically a substance acts, the greater will
be its medicinal utility. It belongs to a fool only, to
assume that a substance which acts cannot become
INTRODUCTIO~. xlix
useful in any case. In order that it become so, it is
necessary to study its mode of action upon the econ-
omy, and try to : ppreciatc rightly the nature of the
change produced t,y it. Afterwards, h:n ing a pro-
found knowledge of the diseases, of their causes
and nature, it would be po~sible to appreciate in what
case the studied means are proper, and throu~h so·
her experiments one would obtain somP. u~eful results.
Fat ther, l\1 r. Ro-.;tan sayc:;, the thP.ropeutical power
of magnetism exists, it is beyond doubt; to the phy-
sician it belongs to study it without l1esitation, and
to set propc1· li 111 1ls to it. The direct inOucnce of
this ncrre agent upon th ncrvou~ !'iystP.Ill, rnnke me
believe that its action ought to be efllciPntly £•xcr-
ciscd against ncrvot1S diseaseR, and chil'fly tlH• ner-
\'OUS diseases of a general character. llisteria,
hypochondria, meloncholy, mania, cpil<'psi,,, and
catalepsiil, might receire, and b•nc already rccci\·cd
from it, the mo~t bcnefici d inOucnce. Spasms of all
kinds, the cramps of the muscll's of the animal Jife,
convulsion9, a great varic·ty of pain~, rllPurnntism,
certain amaurosirs, certain deafness, some paralysis,
neuroses of all k1nds, &c., ouJht to undergo, from
magnetism, a modification, \\.'hatPvcr it might bE>. In
these nervou5 affections, the nervous system being
especially troubled, and the same systE'm, abo,·e all,
being influenced by magn etism, it is easy to con-
cei\'e that some results, worthy of attenrion, mu8t
be obtained. It would be too long tu quote Ht5tan-
ccs of successful mngnetical treatments; the; aunals
of macrnetism are filled with facts of that sort. But
0
4
l INTRODUCTION.
will ~he power of this new agent be limited to the
diseases of the nervous system on .y 7 We know
that the hrain extends its empire over all the other
organs. This master organ, being by that rnea1•s
profoundly modified, can it not produce, in its turn,
some advantageous change in a suffering part? In
suspending the pain, will it not produce a first ben-
efit 1 The pain being s:.speaded, will not the afflux
of fluids, which is determined by it, be al~o sus-
pended? '.Yill not the material causes of con.;es-
tion, irritation, obstruction, conveyed !Jy those fluids,
and which increase the local evtl, be entirely re-
moved? Shall we not thus prev·ent the funher pro-
gress of the evil, and its resolution 7
'If we only suppose the pain is stopped, and this
effect is indisputable, we already see that the result
is very ·rrcat. And what will it be, if physiological
experim~nts prove, in an incontestible manner, that
mnguetisrn quickens the intf rstitial absorption 1
'I'hereft,re, in ::tcute, nay in chronic diseases, the
magnet!cal nction can produce good effects.' I can-
not bettt>r close this article, than by stating here the
avowal of one of the most eminent members of the
French academy of medicine, Mr. Virey, who was
formerly a most decided opponent of animal mag-
neti8m, but who, afterwards, could not help but ac-
knowledge its truth.
\Vhen at is a question of the transmission of dis-
eases, the adversaries of magnetism admit some
emanation ; whereas they attribute to inaaginatioa
only the transmission of health, though the one be
INTRODUCTION. 1i
a! pos~ible as the other. Why, indeed, should we
be more susceptible to receive the former than the
latter. The same writer says, somewhere else:
•]ncontestable facts, r~al cures are mention ed, that
the opponents of magnetism c.lo not deny, but attri·
bute to imagio~ataon. These wonderful cures have
been effected through very plain manipulataons, and
similar cures were obtained once by means of the
touch. Magnetism acts efficit ntly 111 a great num-
ber of diseases; such are certain slow affections,
certam obstructaons of the glands, of the abdonu-
nal viscera, piles, chrouic phlegmatics, measles,
small-pox, ophtalmin, inlbmruation of the throat,
gout, rheumatism, hcrmorrages, epilepsy, hy ponchon-
dria, hysteria, mania, headach, odontalgy, all kinde
of nervous pains, uyspepsi t, t~r)lic, pains iu 1he stom-
ach, usual vomiting, asthma, palpitations of the heart/
I will add one fact which bears witnc:ss of the ef-
ficiency of magncti!im in the cure of diseases. ln
France, and almost every country in Europe, mag-
!!etical treatments have been established, by \\ hich
thous:lUds of patient<; hare recovered their health.
The narrati\'e of a great many cures has been
mndc, either by individuals, among whom are three
hundred physicians, or by the Society of Harmony.
The exposition of tl1e cures made in France, fills up
two Vols. ~\'0.
lii I~TRODUC'flO~.
;\'/;etch of t/w IIistory of Animal 'flfagnetisn~.
A convincing proof of the reality of animal mag-
netism, is the trouble tal<en, by some very distin-
guished men in Germany and France, to demon-
strate, by numerous and thorough historical in\·esti-
gations, its existence in early ages. The work
entitled, ' Researches and Doubts upon Animal
Magnetism,' published in 178J, by 'Piwuret, one of
the most learned members of the Acaclemy of 1\Ied-
icine, first (.lrew the attention of the followers of
that new doctrine anti practice upon the great num-
ber of analogous facts, related by histori,ms, n hich
are connected with it. Since that firf:t pnblication,
the labors of German physicians, and esp~cially of
Messrs. Bertrand, Deleuze, and the Earl of Abrial,
a French peer, ha\'e folly substantiated what was at
first but a subject of doubt and conjecture. Owing
to those recent J.d.>rng, we are able to follow the
track of animal magnetism among the Eg-yptian5,
the Jews, the Greeks and Romans, and, at a later
period, in the various countries of Europe. Every-
where we find it with the essential characters that
the modern observers assign to it. This is the opin-
ion of the Commission of the Royal Academy of
Medicine. Whatever may be the name given to
magnetism and the powers which determine it, its
practical part can be expressed in two m ain points.
First, the curing of diseases. Secondly, the phe-
INTRODUCTION. liii
r1omena of somnambulism. Now, m studying the
his·ory and customs of the ancients, we see cures
and phenomena produced through the means of the
same proceedings as those now in use. They are
frictions, touclting, breathing, the imposition of the
ltands, and prayer. More than that, the ancients
knew perfectly well the real or imaginary power of
music and magnetised objects; such as talismans
and anwlets. Somnambulism, and most of the mar-
\'ellous phenomena which ar,company it, the insen-
sibility of the external senses, the exaltation of the
intellect, intuition, the instinct of remedies, sight
without the assistance of the eye, communication of
thoughts, &c., were also known. Somnambulists
have been sucoessi vcly designated by the names of
Onciropolcs, inspirers, fairtcs, sorcerers, extatics,
couvulsioners- such were the convulsioners of St.
1\Icdard, in France. This singular state had struck
wi1h amazement and admiration the greatest men of
antiquity. .
1\Iost of them being not able to account
for it, the natural causes being yet unknown. attrib-
uted them to the be11efict ·1l interposition of the
gods, Tsis, Osiris, Srrapis, Apollo, Vulcan, Jupiter,
E sculapius, &c. The fathers of the church. and
some motlcrn savans, amon~ whom I will cite Dc-
haeu, miscarried by the spir.it of their time, and the
popnlar prC'judicPs, saw therein nothing else but the
action of the de il. This ignorance of the primi-
tive cause of magnetical phenomena kindled up the
piles of the middle ages, and was the spriug of num-
berless superstitions, lamentable schisms, and the
mo, t odious cruelties.
liv IN'l'RODUC'l'ION.
Let it be sufficient to ha\'C thrown a slight glance
upon the history of animal magnetism in 1he past
ages; and let us arrive at the moment when it was
brought from the narrow and dark sphere of secret
practices into the broad light of publicity. This
gr at change, wl1ich may he wcJI termed a true dis-
covery, was effected by Antony l\Iesmer, born at
W eiler, on tiH! Rhine, in Germauy. Mesmer !tad
studi0.d physics with the celebrated Van Swicten
and Dehaen. Being natural ly endowed with a gen -
ius of inquiry, an exalted ;u.d active imagination, he
indulged, from the earliest period of his carePr, in
researches about the iufluence of hea\'cnly uodies
upon the nervous c:;) stem. Thic:; mfluence he attri-
buted to a peculiar, universal fluid. He wrote a
dissertation entitlrd 'De Planetarum I nfluxu,' in
wlllch he su~tains that doctrine. A short while af-
ter, h<' had opportunity to ascertnin the truth of his
conjectu re, by expf>nrnents made on a sic k person
with some pieces of metal, impregnated with load-
stOJH', which had hPen handed to him by a learned
Jeslllt- FatlH'r Tlt'll - a profe~sor of hSt ronomy at
Vienna. After two or t hrC'e successful experiments
with thoH' pi('ces, i\lcsmer noticed that another prin-
ciple uesicle the grneral natural agt>nt, the will,
cau~('d the load~tnue to act. From this aJmiraule
observation, we may date the exi~t('nce of tl1e branch
of sric>nce called illltrnal magnetiHm. 1\lesmer was
thC'n able to pc>rform many important cures at Vi-
enna. lie \\ ro:(' another pamphlet, in which he an~
nouuced the nature ami action of magnetism, and
INTRODUCTION. lv
its analogy with the loadstone and electricity. Soon
after, he sr.t himself at travelling in Swabia, Swit-
zerland, and Bavaria, and obtained everywhere both
success and a great degree of fame.
Pnssiug a)] the particulars concerning his various
e~periments, his subsequent travels O\'er his own
country, the numerous obstacles opposed to him
both by en\·y and ignorance, we come to the time of
his arrival at Paris, in 1778. Having caused an ex-
citement there, and acquired a great r~potation by
the wonderful cures·t- he performed, 1\Ir. D'E:.lon, a
member of the Royal Academy of 1\lPdicine, and
first phyc;ician of the king's brother, studied his doc-
trine, and declared hirn~e l f his follower, in a publi-
cation entit led, 'Observa1ions sur le .Magnetisme
Animal.' Through D E slon's instigation, the long
al ] a~t appointed a c.ornmi::,sion, formed of \'ar ous
members of the Royal Society of !\lc>dicine. and the
Acad~'my of Sricnc(~s, t 1 make an inresti!5ation of
animal magueti!"m in e\'ery re~pcct. As the report
made by th·1t company of di::;tinf!uished and popular
men exert<'cl a gr<'at iuOuc•nce over the public n ind,
and is stdl now the most formitlnble authority for a
great numl>N of persons in this country against an-
imal magnPtislll, I think it nPces~ary to enter into
some particulars, to show how Jill e confidence the
* Thesr factc; may be found in the work of Thouret, of tbs
Academy of l\Iedicinc, entitled 'Hecherches et Doutes sur le
?lfagneti,.;rno Animal ; ' also 10 D'Eslon 's 'Observations sur le
Magneti,.n.e,·- Bergnsse's • Considerations EUr le .Magne-
tisme.• &c.
!vi INTRODUCTION.
said report really deserved, and how hasty and su·
perficial was the conclusi n inferred from it by the
public. In the first place, I woultl have it understood
that the commission did not resort to the invcntor's
house, but to that of 1\lr. D'Eslon- his disciple.
.1\-Iesmer protested against anything d ne elsewhere
than in his presenc '. He repeatedly addressed tha
most urgent entreaties about it to Franldin and the
Baron de Breuteuil, but all was in vain. Those
gentlemen did not even think it worth their while to
bonor him with a word of answer Our readers will
easily conceive how unfair, and od1ously unjust, was
such conduct, by reflecting that l\1esmer s magneti·
cal power was by far superior in every respect to
that of Mr. D'Eslon or any one else, at that Lime.
That power was almost extraordinary, as far as we
can judge from the facts transmitted to us by re~
spectable eye-\a. itncsses.• Is it not likely that ~Ies~
mer could have brought the truth of animal magnet~
ism to such a degree ofevidence tha.t the commission,
howeYcr scPptical and adverse, would have fiHcibly
acknowledged it 1 But that which is still better
calculatetl to show how little confidence the report
alluded to deserv s, is the manner in which the ex-
periments were carried on. Let us hrnr about it
from the commissioners themselves. 'The distin-
guished patients who come to the treatment for their
health,' say they, ' might be plagued with questions;
*Among the persons cured by Mesmer, were the celebrated
Advocate Genetal, Bergasse- the chemist Bertbollet - and
the bao1<er Kornman.
INT!Wl>UCT TOX. Ivii
the care of ob"er\'ing them might either trnuLie or
displrase them. The cornrnis-,ioners themselves
would be embarra.sset..l by th eir tliscretion. There-
fore, thr.y hare decided thut their assiduity in
this treatment being not necessary, it was sufficient
that some among tLem shoult.l come now and then to
confirm the first general observations- to mal\e
some new ones, if there were an opportunity, and
gi\·e a.11 accouut of them to the comm1~sio n.' Thus,
it is e~tablished as a priuciplP, that in the examina-
tion of so importnut a fact, the> commission<'rs should
not ask any question of the pcrsous suhmiltcd to the
experitnf!llls- that they should not tal<e care to ob-
scrre them, nor to assiduously notice the courses of
operation ; but that it was sullicient to come thither
now and th<•n, in order to g1ve an accou ut, to tl1e
comrni"'~ion a::-sembl('d, of what they had Pach seen.
On tlus :su1)ject, l\1 r. II Ul:i~on, the rPporter of the
Jast cornmis:-ion appo ntcd by the Acadf-!rny of l\lcd-
icinc, of Paris, jud1ciously expresses hirn ~<'lf as
follows: 'Il<merer bright may be the light rt·fl(•cted
upon the present geuent10n by the reput·ltron of
Franklin, Bailly, Darcrt, La , oi~ie r-wh ate\'c r may
be the rc~pec t which surrounds their m<>mory-
however grncral may have UC'<' JI the as~f'llt granted
during f<Jrty years to thc·ir rf'p<ll"l - it is cNctin that
the judgment tiH'Y ha,·e borne, fails, at its radrcal ba-
sis, hy a \\ rong anc.l loo~e manuer, h> proccE>d 111 the
stud} of the questiOn thry were appointed to exam-
iue.' llut here ts another (~tct, whi('h most decidedly
bears \\ rtncss against the conduct and judgment of
lviil I N 'I R ODUCTJ ON.
the commission. .Mr. de Jussieu, whose reputation,
as a naturalist, is un iver::--.•lly spread - whose probity,
exactitud , and candor ca not he questioned, h ving
as~id uously and cons{:.H'nriously followed the experi-
meuts, ,liJd experirnctl tcd by llirnself \\'ith success,
sepanwd from his coliNgucs, and pul>li:;hed another
partH:.11Iar repurt, iu wl11ch he recog n1zes the rnag-
netical drecls. 'l n :-.urh a circum t.wce,' says again
M r. II u-.son, 'which of t ose t.\ o reports deserves
to stop om indeci~ion? h it that in '' hich it is an-
nourl\'(·d tltal qn e~tJorls will not be a~ked of patients
- that they ''ill not lw :.trictly ob~Pned -- t hat it is
not ue<·es:-ary to ns;,Jduou-..ly attend the experimenll:i 1
or the report of a l.1lJOr;ous, att£•nti\·c, scrupulous
fil UII 1 \\ h I is CUUfiiiT('OilS Cll()UIJ'h to SC'J>nrate from his
"' :"'!
coJI.,ag ut•:-.- to trar11plc upon the 1idicule '" ith which
he is a'' an! he i;:; to bt! co' erPd- to lH ave the in-
fluence <,f the powPr, and pubJi..h a report, the con-
cln ions of \\'l1icl' are allo£!'clher opp >"C'd to those
dra\\'11 hr the com111i::-:-iorH'r ::, 1 Let e\er;· intelli rent
• 0
and moral man tlecide th<' que:--tion.
I now J>roc<•ed to a contparatl\'e \ JP\\' of 1\Je.smer's
doctriuc aud prnct·~s \\ ith the ri<•Ctn nc, and mode of
operati·•n of tnndem magnt•tizer:-;. Sn<;h a \ iew is
highly calnd.lt(·d, to my mi nd, to f'xhibit, in a con-
spicuous a11d cle.tr " '·llliH'r, the impro\'('IIH'Ilts made,
these fi,rty ) cars ~i ucc, in t he tlworj and practice of
animal lll :t.!llPti~rn
'Aecorclln~ to l\lt snwr's doctri ne, animal mnanet-
o
ism is a fl u"J Ull.\l'r-..llly spread. It i:-; the means of
a mut ual inlluen<;e het,\ ecn the hl!a\ euly bodies, the
INTRODUCTION. lix
earth, and the animated beings. It is continued in
euch a manner as any void canuot take place; it!
eubtlety is beyond comparison. It is capable to re-
ceive, propagate, comm unicale all the impressions or
motion. It i , susceptible of a tide and ebb. The
animal body feels the effect of this ngcnt, and it is
by in..,1nnating itself into the substances of the
nerves that 1t irnmcdiatcly affects them. PropPrties
sinHlar to those 111 the loadstone, may be recoguized
in the human body. Poles, lilH'\\ i'P, various and
opposed, are di~cov(•red in it. Both the action and
virtue of animal ma~nctisrn can be communicated
from one hody to another; that aetlOlJ tnl<cg place at
a rClll~>te distance, without the as~i::.tanc<' of nny in-
tcrlllcdiatc ohjN·t. It is incrca:-.~d, rcf1Prtcd by
gla~sc~, comtnllllicatcd, propagated, incr<'ac;;cd by
sound; it can he accumul.ttcd, conr.cutratcd, con-
veyed. Although this fluid is uni\'ersal, e,·ery ani-
matc>d body is not equally susceptible of it. There
Rrc c>,·,•u ~ome, but those ate fi~w, \\ l11ch h:ne qu1te
a diffi•rf'nt prc,pc>rty.
'A11i111.d mngneti~ m can cure imm~dintely the
ncn ous painl->, and mediately the other pains. lt
makes more 1
wrfert the action of mcndic:unents-
pro\'okt':-. and directs the whuler-omc crisll', so as it
is po,~iblc to O\Crwhelm them. Through 1ts medi-
um, 1he php1cinn knows the state of henlth of each
ind1\ idu-d, nnd judge~ \\'ith certainty the <,rig in,
nature>, anti progre::.s of the motit complicated dis-
eases; he cau stop and eren cure them, w1th• ut ex-
posing the patie11t to any dangerous effect or hurtful
Jx INTRODUCTIOX.
consequences, whatever may be the sex, tempera·
ment, or age. Nature offers, then, Jn animal mag-
netism, a universaI means for curing men or preserv-
ing them from sickness.'
Such was Mesmer's doctrine. Now, those persons
who have written upon magnetism or practice it,
admit neither the existence nor the action of that
universal fluid, nor do they admit a mutual influence
between the heavenly bodtes, the earth, and the an-
imated beings, nor those poles and opposed current,
&c. Some reject the existence of any fluid what-
ever; some others think that the magnetical agent,
which produces all the phenomena we have men-
tioned, is a fluid existing in e\·ery indi\'iduaJ, but
which i:s secrcteu and emanated only by the will of
him who \\ i:shes to impregnate \\ ith it another indi-
vidual; that, by the act of his will, he puts that fluid
to motion, directs and fixes it as he pleases, and
wraps the person acted upon with that atmosphere;
that, if he meets in that indi\·idual some moral dispo-
!itions analogous to those existing in him, the same
fluid is unfolded in the magnetised person, which
gives birth to those relations which identify the one
with the other- relations, which cause the sensa-
tions of the former to be communicated to the latter,
anti which, according to modern magnet1zers, ex-
plain h w the persons \vho fall into somnambulism
possess the faculty of seeing perfectly well, their
eyes being closed, &c.
If we now examine the proceedings used to prac·
tise magnetism, we shall see ag.tin a complete dif~
INTRODUCTION. ]xi
ference between those once used by Mesmer, D'Es~
Jon, Jumelin, Father Hervier, &c., and those used
by modern magn e tiz~rs. H ere are the particulars
transmitted to us by the commissioners of the king
about the proceedings which were resorted to before
them. They saw, 'in the middle of a large hall, a
circular box made with oak wood, standing about
one foot and a half above thP- Aoor; this was called
the baquct. The CO\'Cr of this box was pierced with
a g reat many holes, through which sprung out as
many iron rods, elbowed and movable The patients
are placed on many ranges nbout the boquet, each
of them touching one iron rod, wh ivh, owing to the
elbow, could be applied upon the sick part. A rod
is passe<l about their body, and unites them together.
Sometimes anothf'r ch:tin of pati<'nts is formed by
commnnicntin~ with each othN by the hands. Tlle
impression being received on the left, is transmitted
to the n ght; it so circulates around. A piano-forte
stands in a corner of the room, upon which various
tune.:: arc played, on \':triotls motions; sometimes the
sound of the roice or si11g-ing- is added to it. AII
those who magnetizt', hold in their hands an iron
rod, from ten to twelve fert long. That rod, which
is the conductOr of rnngnetism, concentrates the fluid
in its edge, and mal\es the emanations of it more
powerful. The sonnd of the piano is also a con-
ductor of magnetism. T he patients, ranked in
many circles around the bnquet, receive then the
magnetical influence by all those means at once, viz :
the iron branches, which transmit the fluid of the
lxii INTH.ODUCTION.
baquet- the rod tied about their bodies- the union
by the hands- the sound of the piano. The pa-
tients are abo magnetized in a direct manner- that
is, by the finger and the iron rod of the magnetizer
carried before their faces, above or behind the head,
and upon the sick parts, but especially by the ap-
plication of the hands, and the pressure upon the
hypondres and the low regions of the abdomen.
That application is continued a long time, some-
times during two or three! hours.'
Such were the proceedings used, by Mesmer and
his fi)llowers, to practice magnetism ; and one easily
concei,•es, from the above description, that it was
impos...ible that the imagination \\'Ould not be deeply
excated hy the sight of those apparatus -the exer-
cise of those processes upon a great many persons at
once in the same room- by the sound of the piano,
and the svectacle of the cri~is or rather convulsions,
which ne \•er failed to take place, and sometimes with
ao frtght ful gestures, that the magnetical room had
received the name of Enfcr a Cont•ulsions.
Nom, on the contrary, magnetizer::; lool< no lonJer
for witnesses of tlaeir experinwnts; they help them-
&elrcs neither with the influence of music nor the
power of amitation. The magn~"tized person ia
eith<'f alone or in the co!Tipany of a few relatiYel
and friPuds; they are no longer tied up witla ropes;
the baqtuf and th iron branches rornin~ out from iL
have be(>n given up Inste3d of the pressure once
exerci:wd on the hypochondr~s or 1he abdomen~
maguetizcrs content themselves with some motioaa
I NT H.OUUC'I' IO:N. lxiii
which ~cern at first insignifica11t, and produce no me-
chanical effect. 'fiH'Y carry their hands gently
along the arms, thetl1ighs, aud the legs; they slight-
ly touch the fi>rehcad and the epigaster. These
toucl11ngs have nothing in them contrary to decencr,
einct' they arc exerci,ed o\·f>r the tlressing apparatu!.
Morcovrr, the above desc n he<.I motions are often
made without touching, fi>r frc·quently tllc magneti-
cal effect 1s obtairH~d by carryiug the ham's at a di.,-
tance of many inches from the mngnetizetl, n1.y, of
many feet, and sometim~s he being not aware of tht
action effected upon him.
But is it in the rc::sults once obtaineu and those
now procfueed, that we find the greatest difference.
The same commi~sioners already mentioned, speak
as follows of the effects they had witnessed. 'Dur-
mg the experiment, the patients exhibit a very vari-
ous pir.turc by the diffPrent :-.tate in which they fincl
themsclvr.s. Some are calm, still, and feel nothing,
aome others cough, s it, feel some slight p:t.in, a
general or local heat and sweat ; some others, finally,
a ·e tormented and agitated with convulsions. These
convubions are extraordinary, both by their length
and strength. From the moment one commence!',
many others follow in succe~sion. The comtni5-
&ioucrs saw some of them '' lw~h lasted more thaltl
three hours. rl'hey arc accompanied with the ex-
pectoration or spitting out of a troubled and viscous
water, sometimes mixed \\.'ith filaments of blood.
They arc charact<>rized by in\'Oiuntary anu precipi-
latcd motion of every hmb anu the whole body, by
Ixiv INTRODUCTION.
the straitness of the throat, quick and internal mus..
eular agitation of the stomach and hypochondres,
the troubled and wandering state of the eyes - by
piercing cries, tears, hiccoughs, and immoderate
laughter. These fits are fcllowed by a state of lan-
guor and revery, and a sort of debility and numb-
ness. Nothing is mor~ astonishing than the specta-
cle of these fits. One must see tltern, to have a
correct idea of what they arc; and hy seeing them,
one is generally surprised, both by the profound rest
of one part of t '.e pattents, and by the agitation
which animates the other - the various accidents
which hnppcn, and the sympathies thn.t am estab-
lished. Some patients become so f nd of each other,
that they seek each otlwr, and hurry towards onOJ
another, smiling and laughing, and f;pcaking with
affection- and 5o mutually soften their con' ulsi,·e
state. All of the:n are submitt~d to the operator ;
,·ainly they are plunged into apparent drowsiness;
his voico, a look, a sign from Li•n, draws them off from
that state. It is impo~:;iLl e not to acknowledge,
from these constant effects, a great power that agi-
tates the patiems or atrect.s them, and \\ hich the op-
erator seems to disp se of as the only possessor.
That convulsi\e state is called crisis, in the theory
of an imal magnetism.'
Now, there arc no longer convulsions; if any ner-
vous motion manifests itself, the magnetizer applies
himself to stop it immediately. Every possible care
is taken not to trouble the persons submitted to the
magnetical action, and that operation is no longer a
INTRODUC'rlON.
spectacle. But if those crises, cries and convul-
sions are no longer observed, another phenomenon,
which had not been produced by Mesmer, and is not
mentioned in the report of the king's commissioner!,
viz., tnagnetical somnambulism, has been discovered,
and presented itself to modern experimenters as the
most extraordmary subject of research and med-
itation.
1\lr. De Pu) segur, a man of great birth and wealth,
highly respected for his benevolence and moral qual-
ities, was the first who observed that pheuomenon,
and made it lu1own at the end of the year J7S4,
four months after the publication of the abovemen-
tioned report.
About that time- in 17 6-the revolutionary
tron hie lJroltc out in France; the minds of the peo-
ple became so much taken up by political questions,
that it was really impos:sihle to bring Hllo puulicity
any other matter. From that moment, animal mag-
nP.tism seemed to have dropped from public notice,
and lost its first brightness. Yet it was still prac-
ticed by some firm believers, who found that it con-
stantly fuHillcd their expectatious in regard both to
science and health. Nay, we may say thar, although
secretly practiced, it acquired a considerable extent,
csper.ially in Germany, where whole sects of philos-
ophers took hold of it as a foundation to their doc-
tnne.
During that period of time, .1\fr. De Puysegur
published l11s memoirs, which are still considered
as standard works on magnetism.
5
lxvi INTltODUOTION.
In 18 13, Mr. Deleuze, the librarian ofthe 1\Iuseum
of Natural History of Paris, and whose veracity,
probity, and honor everybody in Europe fully ac-
knowledges, issued his celebrated ' llistoire Critique
du JJlagnetism Animal,' in which he devoted a long
chapter to the phenomenon ofsomnambulism. This
work brought animal magnetism to a high degree of
importance, and some distinguished intellects began
to occupy themselves with it.
In 1819, Mr. flertrand, formerly an engineer from
the Polytechnical School, and now a doctor-physi-
cian of the faculty of Paris, delivered a course of
public lectures on this subject. This course was so
well attended, that l\lr. Bertrand rcpcaterl them in
1 ~0 and 1 ~1, with not less success. In 18·~2, he
published his ' Traite du Sunmambulisme et de l'cx·
lase,' wluch raised him to the rank of the most
learned and profound intellects of this century.
Two years previous, in 1820, public experiments
on magnetism had been made at the Hotel Dieu of
Paris, in presence of a great many respectable per-
sons; among whom were found sevE'ral professors of
tJte faculty. Those experiments were completely
successful, and put the truth of magnetism beyond
doubt in the mind of all ,..ho witnes ed them.*
The llth of October, 182.5, Dr. Foissac, a dis-
tinguished physician of the Faculty of Paris, and a
skillful magnetizer, wrote a memoir to the Academy
*The narrath•e of these experiments, written from the notes
taken by Dr. Husson himself, the chief physician of the hos-
pital, has been published.
,
INTRODUCTION. lxvii
of .Medicine, in which he invited that learned body
to mal<e a new examination of auimal magnetism.
1\lr. Fuissac's proposition \\as discussed, finally
adopted, and a commission was appointed to investi-
gate the subject. The members chosen, were Bour-
dois de Ia l\Jotte, rouquier, Gueneau de Mussy,
Guerscnr, Itanl, Leroux, l\Iagcndie, l\Iarc, Thillaye,
Husson, Double. A regular course of experiments
was commenced by these gentlemen and pursued
during fiJtJr years. Their reputation and the length
of time they were engaged, make it certain that the
expcrimcuts were carefully made and can be fully
rc]Jcd uron.
In lel3 l, a report, on the facts observed by the
commis:::ion, was read before the Academy of Medi-
cine. The rcpurl contain~ a full ac.count of most of
the experiments, preseutcd in a progres::,i\·e manner,
from the most doubtful cases to the most evident and
strik i11g proofs of the magnetice
d action. It is writ..
ten in a plain, lucid, and rcry philosophical manner;
and it:s tone and character !:.how that it was carefully
considered by ~cieutif1c and sceptical men, who
could neither bo imposed upon by falsehood and
jugglcry, nor led to exaggcrl1tion by ullhusiasm or
credulity.
Finally, there is now no fact hctter ascertained
than tl.is of animal magnetism. Almost every lead-
ing scientific man bo\\'ed to it and tried to make out
the thcory of tho&e newly di::;covered phC'nomona.
The celebrated Cuvier, in his 'Anatomic Com.
paric,' Vol. 2, p. 117, and the Marquis of Laplace,
lxviii INTRODUCTION.
in his 'Traite Analytique du callail des probabili-
ti s ' have mentioned it as a truth. Gall, in his
'
Anatomy of the Brain, acknowledges it. Spurzheim
believed in it. Hannmann declares that they are
but madmen who deny it. Dr. Rostan wrote a long
and very profound article on it in the Dictionary of
~1edicine, in Vol. 20. Dr. Georget also devoted to
it a Jong chapter in his Physiologic du Systcme Ner·
veux. Dr. Andral deJi,·ered two lectures on mag·
netism, comprised in his course ofinternal pathology.
Dr. Broussais tried it with the greatest success at
the hospital ofValdc-Grace- and now public theses
are sustained, on magnetism, for the degree of M.D.
In Pru~sia, the celebrated sa\·ant and benefactor
of mankind, Ilufcland, after declaring htmself
against magncttsm, has bowed to evidence, and uses
it in his practice. An extensive clinique h:1s been
established at Berlin, in which patients are success-
fully treated by that method. The Academy of
Sciences of the same city, one of the most distin-
guished, learned bodies ofEurope, proposed, in 181~,
a price of thirty-thtee hundred francs for the best
memoir on animal magnrtisrn. In tlte same country,
Prussia, a royal ordinance, issued February 7, IS 17,
allows regular physician::~ only to exerctse magnet-
ism, and enjoins to those who carry it on to give
account e\·ery three m0nths of the results obtained
'
before a superior commi ·sion.
In 18 15, the Emperor of Russia appointed a com-
mission ou purpo e to make examination of animal
magnetism. This commission having declared, from
JNTRODUCl'ION. lxnc
their experiments, that magnetism is a very impor·
tant agent, wllich should be trusted to the hands of
well-informed physicians only, it was ordered that
those physicians who would occupy themselves with
magnetical cures, are bouud to give accounts of their
operations every three months, and that the commis-
sion itself should, e\·ery three months, present a re-
port to the emperor. A decree of the Medical
CoJlege of Denmark, of December 21, 1815, and
another subsequent ordinance of January 14, 1817,
impose upon physicians the same obligations, and
prescribe to the local authorities to take care that
magnetism be not practiced by any other sort of peo-
ple whatever. In various other parts of Germany
and Denmark, Hermstaedt, .l\lekeJ, Klaproth, Shig·
)its- all ofthem stand high in the scientific world-
have delivered up themselves to researches on ani-
mal magnetism, and stated the truth of it. At
Frank fort, Dr. Passavant has published a very re-
markable worl<, in which he exposes not only facts,
but also the moral and psychological consequences
arising from them. At Groningue, Dr. Bosker,
who enjoys a great reputation, translated into the
Dutch lauguage the critical history of magnetism by
the honorable l\1 r. Deleuze, and joined it to a vol-
ume of observations made in the cliniqne he has
established together with his brother physicians. At
Stockholm, public theses on magnetism are sustained
for the grade of doctor. At St. Petersburg, Dr.
Stroffreghen, first physician of the emperor of Rus·
aia, and many others, pronounced their opinion in
lxx INTRODUCTl ON.
behalf of magnetism, and declared its usefulness.
Near Moscow, the earl Panin, formerly a minister
of Russia, has established in his land, under the
charge of a skillful physician, a magnetical cliuique
in which a good many important cures have been
effected.
From the foregoing statement of imposing facts,
who can reasonably clouut the existence of animal
magnetism 7 To deny it, would be to suppose that
men of the highest worth, two learned bodies ofthe
first respectability, governments known for having
surrounded them::elves with the best physicians,
could have, in various places and at various times,
fallen the dnpes of miseraLle jugglers or enthusiasts,
and executed, propagated, ordered and favored labors
merely chimerical. To your good sense and mor-
als, I wholly refer to judge what is probable and true
in this case.
Here I finish my task. I shall not, however, lay
aside my pen before apologizing, in a few words, for
the great imperfection of my English idiom. My
only, and I believe best, excuse is, that I am a for-
eigner, and have been acquainted with the English
language, but for twenty-two months. Moreover, I
never would have attempted to issue a book in that
language, had I not relied upon the assistance of an
intelligent friend of mine, who not only encouraged
me in the idea of that publication, but also took the
trouble to read, with the greatest care, my manu·
script, and of correcting every improper word. This
he must have done well, for he is a scholar, both in
INTRODUCTION. lxxi
his native tongue and in the French language, which
he had opportunity to Jearn during a residence in
Paris. Besides, being already acquainted with the
subject of animal magnetism, on which he had is-
sued sev~ral articles, and to which he felt a very
lively interest, as every liberal and enlightened mind
ought to do, he found himself in a proper moral dis-
position to help me by his hearty ad\·ice and assist-
ance. This gentlemen and disinterested friend is
Mr. Hewins, already known in Boston as a distin-
guished artist. Had I listened to his feelings of mod-
esty, I should not hare mentioned him here; but I
hope he will readily excuse the liberty I take, for I
consider it a duty to myself and to my fellow crea-
tures to give • a chacum suivant ses oeuvres et son
merite.'
REPORT. ·
GENTLEMEN,
More than five years have elapsed, since a
young physician, 1\Ir. Foissac, whose zeal and
talent of observation we had frequent opportuni-
ties to judge, thought proper to call the attention
f the Academy to the phenomena of Animal
1\lagnetism. He reminded it that the Report
made in 1784, by the Royal Society of Medicine,
had met, among the commissioners intrusted with
the care of the experiments, a conscientious and
enlightened man who ·had published a report con-
tradictory to that of his colleagues;- that, sioce
that epoch, magnetism had been the object of
new experiment::; and new researches; and, if the
Academy deemed it proper, he proposed to submit
to its examination a ''Somnambt.4le," whoseemed
fit to throw light upon a question, that many
sound minds in France and Germany conEidered
74 REPORT.
as far from being resolved,- although, in 1784,
the Academy of Sciences and Royal Society of
J\'Iedicine, had pronounced their judgment against
magncti::;m.
A commission, composed of ~icssrs. Adelon,
Burdin the eldest, lVlarc, Pariset, and myself, was
appointed to make a report upon l\1r. Foissac's
propo::-Jtlon. 'I'Ilis report, pre::;ented to the section
of medicine at the meeting of the 13th of Decem-
ber, 1825, led to the condusion that magnetism
should be submitted to a new examination.
That conclu$ion gave rise to an auirnated discus-
sion, which '"·as continued during tbe meetings of
the lOth and 211 h January, and the 14th February,
1826. In this lac:;t, the commission replied to all
the objections brought agnin::-t the report,- and,
on the same day, after a mature examination, in
a mode hitherto unknown in matter of science,
of an individual scrutiny, the section decided
that a ~pecial commission should be appointed
to examine anew the phenomena of animal
magnetism.
This new commission, composed of l\lessrs.
Bourdois, Double, Fouquier, ltard, Gueneau de
Mussy, Guersent, Laennec, Leroux, 1\Iagendie,
r.-Iarc and Thillnye, was appointed at the meeting
of the 28th of February, 1826. Some time after,
Mr. Laennec, having been obliged to leave Paris
on account of ill-health, I was designated to sup-
REPORT. 75
ply his place, anll the commission bring thm!
constituted, occupied itself wtlh the fulfilling of the
mi...si m co11 ferred upon it.
Its first carr, before Larnnec's retreat, was to
examine the /S1
omnambule who had been offered
by .
1\lr. Foi:5sac. Various experiments were made
upon her in the Academy's room; but, we mu~t
acknowledge that our incxperirnce, our impa-
tience and ditfidence, perhaps too o..;ten ·ihly mani-
fested, allowed us to observe but some physiologi-
cal phenomena, curious enough, that we shall let
you know io another part of our report, but in
which we saw none of the facultie~, the proof::; of
"hich she gave us on other occasions. That
Somnarnbule, undoubtedly wearied by our too
urging experiments, ceased at that time to be
placed at our di~posal, and we had lo seck in
tlte hospitals the means of pursuing our ex-
perirnents.
Mr. Pariset, a physician nt the Saltpctriere,
was better able than anybody else to as::;ist us
in our researches ; which he showed himself wil-
ling to do with an eagerness, the result of which,
unfortunately, answered not our expectation.
'I'he commis::ion, which founded a great part of
its !topes upon the resources that could be fur·
nished to it by that ho~pital, either in regard to
the individuals who should ha\'e been submitted
to the experiments, or on account of the presence
16 REPOR'I'.
of Mr. Magendie, who begged to attend to them
as one of the commission ; the commission, we
iay, in seeing itself deprived of tue means of in-
formation hoped to be found there, had recourse to
the zeal of each of its members in particular.
Mr. Guersent promised to use his influence at
the children's hospital; Mr. Fauquier, in that of
the Charity ; Messrs. Gueneau and the Reporter
at the Hotel Dieu ; Mr. ltard, at the nstitulion
of the deaf and dumb j and from that moment,
each of us disposed ourselves to make some trials
which we pledged ourselves to have witnessed
by all the otber members of the commission.
Soon after, our labors were arrested by some
other and rnore powerful obstacles. The causes
of these obstacles are unknown to us; but, through
the effect of a decision of the General Cou neil of
the Hospitnl, tnken on the 19th of October, 1825,
which prohibited the use of any new remedy
which should not have been approved by a Com-
mission appointed by the Council, the magnetical
experiments could not be pursued at the Hospital
of Charity. Reduced thu:=; to its own resources,
to those tltat the private relation of each of its
members could offer to it, the commission mude
an appeal, to all the phy::;iciuns known, for having
made animal magnetism the speciaL object o
their researches. It requested them to permit us
to witness their experiments, to allow us to follow,
REPORT. '1'7
together with them, the process, and to state the
results of them. We declare that we were very
much assisted in our progress by many of our
brother physicians, and especially by him who
first had proposed the qnestion of the examination
of magnetism, we mean Dr. Foissac. We do
not hesitate to declare tlmt iL i::; the constant and
persevering efforts of this physician, and also to
the active zeal of Mr. Dnpotet, that we are in-
debted for the greatest part of the materials we
have been able to put together to prepare the re-
port which we now prcsePt to you.
l{owever, gentlemt-n, we wish here to state,
that yuur comn1i~sion hns not, in any case, trusted
to nny other but its own members the care of di-
recting the cxpcrinteuts '' ilich it has been wit-
nc::;sing; that no other pcr;-;on than the reporler
himself wn.s permitted to note down the re::;ulls of
the cxperillleuts tried, and of prcraring the pro-
cess verbal, stnting the 'arious phenomena that
presented themselves at the time, and in the order
as they were produced. The commi.s:-;ion ap-
plied itself to fulfill itt' clut ies with the tno8t scnt-
pulous exactitude; and if il does ju::;tice to those
who assi:::ted it with their benevolent co-operation,
it ought to remove even Lhe sl1ghtest doubts, that
might arise in your minds, that any other persons
but themselves have taken even the slightest pan
in the examination of this question. Itself alone
78 REPORT.
always conceived the various modes of experimen-
tation, traced out the plane, constanLly directed
the course, followed and w1 ote down the progress
of them. Finally, even io using sorne auxiliary
persons, more or less zealous a11d enlighteneu, it
always was prese11t, and always gave its own di-
rection to all that was done. 'flleref01e, you will
see that it admitted no experiment made out of
its own circle, even by members of the Academy.
However grent may be the confidence \Yhich
onght to be established bet\\'een us by the spirit
of confraternity and reciprocal esteem, which ani-
mate all of u::;, we felt thilt, iu the examination of
a question the solution of" hich is so del icate, we
should rely upon our~eh·es only- and that; for
your p~u"t, you could refer but to our guarantee.
Yet, we thought it proper not to srnke with that
rigorous exclu.3ion, a \·cry curious fact olrerved
by 1\'Ir. Cloqnet. \Ve ad IHitteJ it, because it \Yas
already, so to spenk, the ..\cuclelll) ·s prope1ty;-
the Section of Surgery k1ving occupied itself with
it in two of its meel ings.
Suclt a reserve, imposed upon itself by the com-
mission, in the use of the various facts concerning
the question that it studied \Yith so m11ch care
and impartiality, would gi\'c us the right to expect
n similar feeling and proceeding, if some persons
who should not have witnessed our experiments
were going to discuss their authenticity. As we
REPORT. 79
ask your confidence only as to what we hnve seen
and done, fur that very rca~on we cannot admit
that those who laacl nut the same a<h nntages as
our~clVl'$ to ob..:ct \ e the fact , could allnck or doubt
what'' e shall ~ay we lm,·e ob..:en·cd; and as, final-
ly, we always di:::trusted tho~P \\OIHINs whid1 were
nnnounccd to us as to happen, and tlli::; feeling con-
stantly oven\ ltebned us iu nil our iu,·e~tigation~,
we think ''e have some right to rrquire of yon,
if you do not grnnt us your e11Lire confidence, not
to suggel:it a11Y doubts npon the moral and phy-
sical di..:positiuu;:; with \\ llich we al way::: proceeded
in tl1c ob--en·ntion of the \'HI ioud phellomena we
bavc \\ itnes::;cd.
Thn ~, gentlemen, this rqJott \\ ltid1 we are far
from p1e..:enti"g to yotl to settle yonr opinion
about animal mag-neti~111, cannot aJHI ::,bould not
be COil~idrrcd anything cl~c uutthc coJiccti11g and
cla:;:...;j!ication of the facts \\C ha\e oiH:et\'ed u11til
thi:s llloment; \\'C offer it to you n~ a proof that
we c11dcavorcd lo jnsl1fy your confidence; and al-
though regretting that it does not rest upon a
greater number of expPriments, still '' e hope that
you will recei,·e it with indulgence, and li:;,ten to
the reading of it with some interest.
\Yc thiuk it, however, n duty to te11 you, in ad-
vance, that \Yhnt we saw in our experiments rc·
sen1blc by no tnenns all that the report of 1781:
relates of the magnetizers of that time. 'Ve nei-
so REPORT.
ther admit nor reject the existence of a fluid; we
speak neither of the Baquet, nor of the 10d, of
the chain which was established, causing the
mag·netized individuals to communicate by the
hands, nor of the pressures a long time continued,
and sometimes so during several hours, upon the
hypochondrac regi?n and the abdomen ; nor of
the singing and instrumentarmusic which accon>-
panied the magnetical operations; nor of the
meeting of a great number of persons who bad
themselves magneLized in presence of a crowd of
witnesses;- because our experiments were made
in the most perfect calm, tbe most ausolute silence,
without nny accessary means, neYer by nn imme-
dio.te contact, and at every tin1e upon a. single per-
son only.
"\Ve do not mention that wL it:h, at the time of
~1esmer, was so improperly called cri:::i~, and con-
sisted in convulsions, in laughter sometimes im-
moderate, in inexhaustible tears, piercing cries,
because we never met thme various phenomena.
In all these respects, we do not l1esitate to say,
that there exists a very great di{fereoce between
the facts observed and judged iu 1784, and those
collected by us in the work we have the honor of
presenting to you ; that this difference established
between the one and the other a line very distinct
of demarcation, and, that if reason has cleared
awar a great part of the former, the spirit of in-
REPORT. 81
vestigation and observation oughl to apply itself
in mulliplying and appreciating the latter.
It is with animal ·magnetism, gentlemen, a:3
with a great many operations in nature ; viz : it
is neces~arv that certain conditions he united to-
"'
getlter, in order to pro(luce s~1ch and sHch eifects.
'I'his i~ nn inconte::;lible truth,- which, did it
need proofs to be established, would fincl itself
confimte<l by what happens in various phy::iical
phenolllena. Thus, without dryllc'=s of the at-
mosphere. you can but in a feeble nwnncr, devel-
op elt:ctridty; without heat, you nc\'er can ob-
tain the combination of ]ead ill1l1 rr\\ tcr, which is
the comtnon solder; without the light of the sun,
you will not see the tllixture of part~ ~q11nl in vol-
ume of hydrogen and chlore, spontaneously in-
flaming themselves, &c. &c. ,\-hctller the:;c
conditions be external or phy!'icnl, us those we
h,n·e jn...t been mentioning; whether they be inti-
mate or moral, as those whkh arc pretended, by
1\Iessr,::. Deleuze, Puy8egur, &c., to be indi~pensa­
ble to the development of the mngnetical phe-
nomena, it is sufficicnt that they exist, and are
required by them to have led the commission
to consider it a duty to endeavor to meet them
together, and submit itself to them. Yet we
ought not and would not ltave thrown off that
anxious curiosity which at the same time induced
us to vary our experiments, and try to put at fault,
6
82 REPORT.
the practices and promises of certain magnetizers.
In those two respects, we thought it proper to free
oul'selves of the obligation ·imposed by them to
have a strong faith, to be moved only by the desire
of doing g·ood ; we sought merely to be accurate,
curious and diffident observers.
Neither did we deem it convenient to try to
account for those conditions; it would have been
a question of mere controversy, and for the solu-
tion of which we should have been no more satis-
fied than when it matters to explain the conllilions
owing to which physiological phenomena are exe-
cuted, and how the action of medicaments takes
place. These are questions of the same kind, and
upon which the science has not yet pronounced
its j ndgment.
In all the experiments made by us, the strictest
~ilence has always been kept, because we thought
that, to the development of so nice phenomena,
the attention, both of the magnetizer and magne-
tized person, would be diverted by anythiug
strange; we would not, moreover, deserve the re-
proach of having put obstacles, by talking or other
sort of diversion, to the success of the experiments ;
and we ahvays took care that the expression of our
countenances should neither trouble the magne-
tizer, nor suggest doubt to the magnetized ; -our
position, we are pleased to repeat, constantly was
that of curious and impartial observers. Those
REPORT. 83
conditions, many of which had been recommended
in the works of the respectable .Mr. Deleuze,
having been well established, the following is
what we saw.
The per:3on who was to be magnetized was
placed in the sitting position, on a convenient
sofa, or upon a chair. The magnetizer, sitting on
a little higher seat, before his face, anu at about a
foot distant, recollects himself a few moments,
during which he holds the thumb of the patient,
and remains in this position until he feels that
the same degree of heat is eslabli:5hed between
the thumbs of that person and his own. Then
he draws o(l' his hands in turning them outwards,
and places them upon the 8houlders for nearly one
minute. Afterwards he carries thern dO\vn slowly,
by a sort of friction, very light, along the arms,
down to tho extremities of the fingers, - he be-
gins again the same motion five or six times; it is
what magnetizers call passes. Then he passes his
hands over the head, keeps them there a few mo-
ments, b1 ings them down in pas:;ing before the
face, at the distance of one or two inches, to the
epigastrium, where he stops again, either in bear-
ing upon thnt region, or without touching it with
his fingers. And he thus comes down slowly along
the body, to the feet. 'rhese passes, or motions,
are repeate.l during the greatest part of the course,
and when he wtshes to finish it, he carries thetll
84. REPORT.
even beyond the extremities of the hands and feet,
in shaking hi~ fingers at each time. Finn1ly, he
performs before the face and the chest some trans-
versal motions, at the distance of three or four
inches, in presenting his two hands, put near one
another, and in removing thetn abruptly. At
other times, he brings near together the fingers of
each hand, and presents them at three or four
inches distant from the head or the stomach, in
leaving them in that position for one or two min-
utes; then, alternately drawing them oiT, and
bringing them near those parts, with more or less
quickness, he imilates the motion that we natu-
rally execute when we wi::.h to get rid of a liquid
which met the extremily of our fingers.
These various modes were followed in all our
experiments, without adhering to one rather than
to the other, -often using but one, sometimes
two; and we never were directed in_tlle choice that
we made of them, by the idea that one mode
would produce a quicker and better marked effect
than another. The commission will not follow
in the enumeration of the facts it has obserred ;
the order of times when each of them was
produced; we thought it more convenient, and
above an, more rational, to present them to you
. .'
classed accordmg to the degree, more or less deci-
ded, of the magnetical action that it recognized in
each of them.
REPORT. 85
Therefore, we have established four divisions,
as follows.
1. The eiTccts of magnetism are not manifested
upon healthy per~ons, and certain other patients.
2. They are but feebly mauifested upon some
others.
3. 'rhey are often the product of ennui, mo-
notony and imagination.
4. Fiually, they have been seen developed in-
dependently of these lust causes, very probably by
the cli'ect of :i\Iagnetism alone.*
*NoTE OF THE 'T'RANSL.A.ToR. Out of twenty-six indi-
,·idual~ mentioned in those nriou~ clas!'es, as having been sub-
mittcu to the action of Anirnall\bgnctism, tberP. nre but two
who felt nothing at all ; three others exhibited the magnetical
phenomena in a pretty high degree ; but those cflects were
nttriuuted to other causes, "Uch as tiresomenessand imagination.
Six felt the action more or Je..;s independently of any other
enuse ; finally, fifteen ~bowed themseh·es affected by the rnag-
netical action in a most evident manner.
SECTION I.
Experiments wherein no effect was manifested.*
The reporter of the commission repeatedly sub-
mitted himself to rnagnetical experiments. At
one time, in particular, enjoying then perfect
health, he was steady enough to keep hirnself
sitting during three quarters of an hour, in the
same position, Lis eyes closed, in a complete
immobility, and he declares he never felt any
effect, although the tiresomeness of the position
and the absolute silence that he had begged of the
assistants might bave been capable of producing
sleep. Mr. Gueneau de Mussy underwent the
same trial with a similar result. At another day,
when the reporter was tormented with violent and
very tenacious rheumatic pains, he tried magnet-
ism many times, and never obtained from that
means the least melioration, allhough certainly the
*NoTE OF THE TRANSLATOR. In this first class, there
are but four facts related, of which two (the last ones) already
present a commencement of the magnctical action. Is it not
likely that the action would have been better marked, if the op-
eration had lasted longer ? Very seldom indeed, are the
magnctical phenomena developed in ten minutes, at the first
sitting.
REPORT. 87
intensity of his sufTerings caused him to desire
most earnestly to have them removed, or at least
mitigated.
The 11th of November, 1826, our respectable
colleague, l\Ir. Bourdois, had felt for two months
an illness which required from his partner a par-
ticular attention in his usual manner of living.
This trouLle, snid he, was not his normal state;
he knew the cause of it, and could determine its
points of departure.
ln the::e conditions, which, nccording to Mr.
Dupotct.'s as:;:ertion, \\ere faYoraiJle to the ue\elop-
ment of the magnetical phenomena, :Mr. Bourdois
was magnetized by the same lVIr. Dupotet, in
presence of :1\lc~srs. Itard, ·
1\Iarc, Double, Guenenu
and the reporter. The experiment began nt
thirty-three minutes after tltree in the afternoon;
the pulse then throbbed eighty-four times, a num
ber wlJich, according to ~le.
.:srs. Double and Bour-
dois, is that of the normal state. At twenty-nine
minuteR lo four the operation ceasccl, and Mr.
Bolll·dois felt nothing at all. Bnt we noted that
the pulse had come down to seventy-l\\0 pulsations,
that is t\\ elYe less than befme the experiment.
Iu the same meeting, onr colleague :&Ir. Itard,
affected for eight years with a chronic rheumati~m,
the !'eat of which was then in the stomach, nnd
laboring at this same moment under an unusual
crisis attached to his complaint, (these are his own
ss REPORT.
expressions) was magnetized by 1.\llr. Dupotet. At
ten minutes before four, his pulse beat sixty times;
at three minutes to four he shut his eyes, and at
three minutes past four he ceased to be magnetized.
He tells us that, while he had his eyes opened,
he thought he had felt the impression of the pas-
sage of the fingers upon his organs, as though they
had been Etruck with a sudden blowing of warm
air ; but that after shutting them up, he bad no
longer fell the same sensation; he adds that at the
end of five minutes he felt a pain which occupied
nil the fore part of his bead aud the bottom of his
orbit, with a sensation of dryness of the tongue,
although, when observed by us, it was in fact very
wet. Finally, he says, tLal the pain which he felt.
before the experiment, and had announced as being
dependent of the affectjon Le com)Jlained of, was
removed, but that it was generally very move-
able. vVe noted that the pulse had risen to sev-
enty-four pulsations, that is fourteen more than
before the experiment.
V\Te certainly might relate to you some other
observations, in which magnetism had no sort of
action; but besides the inconvenience of quoting
facts without result, we thought that it would be
sufficient to you to know that three members of
the commission had submitted themselves to ex-
periments, to be more completely convinced of the
truth of our investigations.
.·ECTIOX II.
E.ffects sliglttly1narked.
You coultl not haYe failelJ to notice, gentlemen,
that the last fact of the preceeding series presented
n. commencement of mngnetical action; we placed
it at the end of that section to serre as a liuk to
those that arc to follow.
1\Ir. 1\IagniGn, n. physician, fifly-four year~ old,
living in St. Dcnni:; ~lreet, No. 202, "·alked with
Jnuch dilliculty, in consequence of a fnll he had
experienced several years before on the left lo1ee,
nntl probably nl~o owing to an nncuri::om of the
heart, under which he sunk in the month of Scp-
tember ln:::t, (18:31) wa::; maa-nctized l>y the report-
er, Augu--t 1S, 1H. 20, 21, 22, 1 26. The num-
ber of pulsations was less nt the end of five succes-
sive operations than at the beginning. Thus it
lowered from niucty-l:lix to ninety, from ninety-:::;ix
to eighty-c:-ix, from seventy-seven to seYenty-one,
from eighty-two to seventy-nine, from eighty to
seventy-eight; and at the ~ixth experiment this
number did not vnry; it still remained at eighty·
three pulsations. His respirations haYc been
always C(jltnl, except in one case, in which they
rose from twenty to twenty-six. 1\ir. ~lngnien
constantly felt a seusation of coolness in niL the
parls towards which the mngnetizer lJirccted and
90 REPOR'£.
kept a long time his fingers in the same position.
This phenomena did not miss a single time.
Mr. Roux, onr colleague, who complained of a
chronic affection of the stomach, was magnetized
six times by :Mr. Foissac, on the 28th and 29th
of September, and October 1, 3, 5, 7, 1827. He
felt at first a sensible diminution in the number of
the respirations and of the beating of the pulse;
afterwards, some heat in his stomach: a great cool-
ness in his face, the sensation of evaporization of
ether, even when no passe wa~ executed before
him, and a strong inclination to sleep.
Anna Burdin, aged fi\te anrl twenty years, resi-
ding in rue du Paon, No. 15, was magnetized the
17th, 20th and 2tst of July,1826,at the Hotel
Dieu, by 1\lr. Fo8sn.c, in presence of Lhe reporter.
This woman complained ofa ~ephallagy and a nev-
ralgy, the seat of which was in the left eye. Du-
ring the three magnelicnl sittings \\'ltich were
devoted to her, we hnYe seen the respirations rise
from sixteen to tllirty-nine, from fourteen to t\ven-
ty, and the pul~ations from si-xty-nine to seventy-
nine, from si:\ty to sixt.Y-eight, from seventy-five
to ninety-five. She was very drow::;y, and slept
a few minutes; felt some amelioration in her
cephaltgea, but no change was operated in the
orbiary nevralgy.
Theresa Ferlin was magnetized the 22d, 23d,
24th, 29th, and 30Lh of July, 1826. She had
REPORT. 91
entered the hospital, complaining of pains in the
abdomen and the Iombar region. During the
five magnetical sittings devoted to her, we saw the
respirations rising from fifteen to seventeen, from
eighteen to nineteen, from twenty to twenty-five,
and falling from twenty-seven to twenty-four;
and the pul5ations ascending from 118 to 125,
from 100 to 120, from 100 to 113, from 95 to 98,
from 117 to 120. 'Ve noticed tltat this woman
seemed to be afraid of the motions of the fingers
and hands of the magnetizer; that she avoided
them in dmwing back her head; that she followed
them not to lose sight of them, as though she
dreaded some evil from them. She was visibly
tormented during the four sittings. 'Ve noticeu
abo, in her long and frequent sighs, sometimes
interntpted: the wrinkling and lowering of the
eyeli(ls, the ruubing of the nose, a pretty frequent
d<'glutition of saliva, a motion which, in other
magnetized persons, constantly prcccedcd sleep,
and finally the cure of the pain which existed in
the lombar region.
The commission, in putting together these
various fact', wishes only to ca11 your attention to
the series of the phy~iological phenomena which
prc~cnted themselves in the two last ones. It
cannot attach any importance to that particular
amelioration effected in the symptoms of the very
insignificant diseases of these two women. If
92 REPORT.
those diseases existed, time and rest could have
removed them; if they did not exist, as it too
often happens, the feigning must have ceased
without magnetism.
'fhus, gentlemen, we have presented them to
you only as the first ele1nents of the magnetical
action, which you will see increasing in proportion
as we shall overrun the other divisions that we
have established.
SECTION III.
Effects produced by Tiresorneness, JJ1.onotony
and I1nagination.
The commission had several opportunities to
notice tbat the monotony of the gestures, the strict
silence kept during the experiments, the weari-
someness occasioned by a position constantly the
same, have produced sleep in several individuals
who, however, were not submitted to the mag-
netical influence, but who found themselves in
the same physical and moral circumstances in
which they had previously been put to sleep. In
these cases it was impossible not to acknowledge
the power of imagination, a power owing to which
those individuals believing themselves magnetized,
felt the same effects as if they had been so. We
REPORT. 93
shnll particulnr1y relate the following observations.
~lllc. Lcmaitrc, twenty-fh·e years old, was
affected for three years \Vith an amaurosis. 'Yhen
slte entered the 1Iotel Dieu, she was magnetized
on the 7th, 13th, 14.th, 15th, 16th, 17tll, lbth,
l~hh, 20th, and 22d of Jnly, 182G. \Vc shall
not repeal here the various phenomena which
marked the beginning of the magnetical action,
autl which we ha\·e declarcu in tlie precceding
sections, such as the wrin klin.~ and lowering of
the eyelid~, tlle rubbing of the eyes as to get rid of
a troublesome ~ensation: the sudden sloping of
the head and the deglutition of the saliva. These
arc, as we have alreatly ~aid, symptoms that we
coHslanLly noticed, and of wl1ich we f::llnll !"peak
no more. \Vc :::hall say only, that we noticed a
commencement of somnolence al the end of the
third sitting; that this somnolence cotltim~ed in-
crca~ing until the elercnth ; thai, from tlte fourlh
course of operation, conclusive motions of the mus-
cle::; of the neck and face, of the hand:::, the shoul-
dcn~, manifested themselves; that, at the end of
each silling, we found the pulse more accelerated
than at the beginning. But that which ought
especially to deserve your attention, is that after
having been magnetized ten times and during the
eight last ones, seeming more and more sensible
to the action of magnetism, 1\ir. Dupotet, her
94 REPORT.
magnetiser, sate, by the invitation of the reporter,
at the eleventh course of operation, on the 20th of
July, behind her, without making any gesture,
without any intention to magnetize her, and she
felt a somnolance still stronger marked than the
preceeding days, but less agitation and convulsive
motions. l\IoreO\'er, no amelioration was mani-
fested in the stale of her sight since the commence-
ment of the experiments; and she left the hospital
as she had eutercd.
Louisa Ganot,a domestic, living in rue du Batoir,
No. 19, entered the Hotel Dieu, on the 18th of
July, 1826, ward It, Roch No. 17, in order to be
treated there for a leucorrhea. She was magne-
tized, by Mr. Dupotet, the 21st, 22d, 23cl, 24th,
25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th of July, 1626. She
was liable, as she said, to fits of uerves ; indeed,
convulsive motions, similar to those which charac-
terize histeria, constantly manifested themselves
during the magnetical operations, such as moan-
ing erie~, the stiffness and bending of the superior
limbs, the suchlen projection of the hand towards
the epigastrum, the bending over of all the body
in such a manner as to form an arch, the concav-
ity of whi~h was in the back, and finally· a few
minutes ofsleep. At the sixth sitting, Mr. Dupo-
tet placed himself before her face, at two feet dis-
tant, without touching her, without performing a
~ringle gesture, but with the firm intention of mag-
REPORT. 9G
nctizing her; the agitation, the convul~ive motions,
Jong and interrupted sigh~, the stiffness of the
arms were not so long in manifesting themselves,
ns in the preceeding sittings. The next day (27)
the patient being seated on the large arm-chair
which had been used in the preceeding experi-
ments, we placed 1\Ir. Dupotet behind her; he
';ontents himself with directing the extremity of his
fingers against the middle part of her back; the
hind pn rt of the arm-c:wir wa~, of course, inter-
po~cd between the magnerizcd person and the
magnclizcr; soon, tile convubive motions of the
preceeding days presented thcm~elves still more
violcut1y, and often ~he turn~ back her head. She
say~, after being a\\ akencc1, that she executed that.
motion because it seemed to her that she was
tormented by something acting behind hrr. Fi-
nally, after having observrll, on Ihe 26th and 27th
of July, the development of the magnetical
phenomena, prod ucecl in one case only by inten·
lion, and in the other by very plain ge~tures (the
directing of the finger~) executed behinu, and the
patient ueing not aware of it, we wished to ascer-
tain whether the ~nme phenomena. could be
produced again in the magnetizer's absence, and
by the sole effect of imaginnti'on ; as actually
happened on the 28th of July.
l\1lle. Ganot was placed in all the circum·
~lances of the preceding trials; viz.: the same
96 REPORT.
hour in the day, same apartment, same silence,
same arm-chair, the same assistant, same prepa-
ration; everything, in a word, was exactly similar
as on the preceeJing days, one thing only was
wanting, the magnetizer \\ ho bad remained at
his house. The sallle convul:::ive motions mani-
fested themselve', but with a little k..;s quickness
and \'io1ence, although \\'ith the same character.
A man twenty-seYen years of age, subject since
the age of fifteen to epelcptic fils, was tnagnetized
fifteen times at the Hotel Dieu, from the 27th of
June to the 17th of July, 1826, by thcr eporter of
the commi.::sion. Rleep began to show itself at
the fourth sitting, on the 1st of July ; it was still
sounder at the ftfth, the 2d of the same month;
in the follmYing it was pretty slight, anJ was easily
interrupted, citlter by slight noise, or by questions;
the reporter magnetized him at the tlllrlceuth and
fourteenth, of the ~ame month, by placing himself
behind the arm-chair in \Yhich thi;:, man was sit-
tiug; at the fiftc~nt h sitting, '"hich took place on
the 17th of July, we placed him, a::; it had been
done for 1\Ille. Ganot, in the same circun1::ta 1ces
in which be hall found himselfsince the beainnino-
o 0
of the experiments; the reporter puts himself
behind his arm-chair, and the same phenomena
of somnolence were manifested, although he had
not magnetized him. 'Ve were necessarily led
REPORT. 97
to conclude, from that series of experiments, that
these two women and that man felt the same
effects, both when magnetized and when they
believed they were so; that, consequently, imagi-
nation was su1Ilcient to produce in tl1em some
phenomena, that with son1e little attention or
pre-occupation" of the mind, we might have
attributed to magnetism.
But we ha:--ten to declare that there are many
other case~, aH severely and carefully ob~erved, in
wl1ich it would be difficult not to admit magnetism
as tl1e cau~e of those phenomena. ' Ve place
them in the fourth class.
SECTION lV.
Effects very probably derived from A:l agnetism
alone.
A child twenty-eight months of age, affected as
his father, of wl10rn we shall speak below, with
epileptic fits, was magnetized at l\ir. Bourdois', by
Mr. Foissac, on the 6th of October, 1827. Almost
immdiatcly after 1he passes hau begun, the child
rubbed his eye~, bent his head on one side, leant
it upon one of the cushions ofthe eofa upon which
he was sitting, gaped, agitated himself, scratched
his head and ears, appeared to struggle against
7
98 REPORT.
sleep, which seemed to pervade him, and soon rose
in murmuring; he was seized with the need of
making water, and after satisfying it, he was
magnetized again a few moments; but as this
time the somnolence was not so much marked, we
ceased the experiment.
We put near this fact, that of a deaf and dumb
person of eighteen years old, liable for a long time
to very frequent fits of epilepsy, and on whom ~lr.
Itard wished to have magnetism tried. 'l'bis
young man was mngnetized fifteen times, by l\lr.
Fois:mc; we shall not only say that the epileptical
fits were su-=pended during the silting, and that
they re appeared only at the ent.l of eight months,
a delay without example in the history of his
di::;ensc; but also tlmt the npprecinble phenomena
felt by this young man during the experiments,
were the l1caviness of the eye-lid~, a general
numbnf'ss, the need of sleep, and even sotne\imes
some vertig-o.
Au action slill better marked was obset·ved
upon a member of the commission. 1\Ir. Itard,
ou the llth of November 1 26, had submilled
himself, as ,,-e have said, and had felt no effect.
Beiug magnetized by :Mr. Dupotel, on the 27Lh
of October, 1827, he felt some drowsiness without
sleep, a sen~ihle excitement of the nerves of the
face, :-:ome convul~ive motion' in the nostrils, the
muscles of the face anc.J the jaws, an afflux in his
REPORT. 99
month of a saliva with a metallic Iaste, a sensation
similar to that whit;h he had felt by galvani::;m.
The two fir::::t ~1ttiugs caused a ceplwlagy which
lasted se\.eral hours; and in the same time the
usual pains suu::,ided very much. A year after,
Mr. Itard, wi1o had severe pain~ in ltis bead was
magnetized eighteen 1imes by l\Ir. Foi::snc. 1\lng-
netism pro\·oked almo:::t constantly an afllux of
saliva, and twice wil h a metaline ta;,te; t,ut few
motions and muscular contractions "ere observed,
except some sudden agitations in the tendons of
the muscles of Lhe fore-aru1::; and leg'-1. 1\Ir. Itard
told us that hi$ cephalalgy IJad cea:--cd at each
time after a 8itti n~ oft\\ elve and fifleen minutes;
that it was eutircly ren10vcd at the ninth, \\hen
it was brought on ngain, by an interruption of
three days in the magneti<.:al trcatmcut, and
removed ngain by the same means; he felt, during
the e:xperinaent, the sen:sation of a general comfort,
n l1isposition to pleasant l::ilecp, ~ome somnolence
accompanied with vague and agreeable dreaming;
his complaint received, as previously, a notable
amelioration, which lasted but a short while after
the cessation of magneti::;m.
'l.,hese three observations appeared to your
commis~ion altogether worthy of uotice. The two
individuals who were the subjects of the two first
cxperirneul5- the one, a child of twenty-eight
JllOnths old; lhe other, tbe deaf and dumb person-
100 REPORT.
were perfectly ignorant of what was done to
them : one of them is not yet. able to know it, and
the other never had the least idea of what is
relating to magnetism ; and yet, both are sensible
to its action ; and certainly we cannot consider in
either of them that sensibility as an effect of imag-
ination: could we do it with more propriety and
reason in the observation we have related concern-
ing lVIr. Itard ?
Itis not upon men ofour age and always in guard
again~t the errors both of our mind and senses,
that imagina.ion, surh as we consider it here,
may exercif.:e its influence. lL is, at this advanced
period of life, lightened by reason, and free ofthose
deceiving charms whid1 so easily seduce youth;
it keeps itself a\\'ake ; and ditlidence, rather than
confidence, presides over the various operations of
our mind. These conditions happily found them-
selves united in onr colleague; and the ac~demy
know him too well not to admit that be bas
reltlly felt what he says he has felt; his \'cmcity
has been the same, both on the lllh of November,
1B26, when he declared he had felt nothing, and
on the 27th of Oct., 1827, when he affinned before
us that he was sensible to the action of magnetism.
The somnolence observed in the three facts we
have just related, seemed to us the transition of
the wakeful state, to that which is called "the
'lnagnetical sleep or so1nnambulis7n," words
REPORT. 101
that tl1c commie=--ion tl10ugl!t improper, as ]ead-
ing to wrong ideas, Lui wlli~h, in the impossiuil-
ity of alteriug them, it was obliged to adopt.
When tl1e individual submitted to the magneti-
cnl action, i:; in ~omnam\.)U li~m, magnetizers
assure us that he ordinarily hears but the person
who magnetizes ltiru, and tho:::;e who are put to
communication with him through the means of
an immediate contact According to their opinion,
ull, or almo~t all, the external scn~es of the sotn-
nnmbule are su.;;pcndcd, and yet he feels sen~ations.
They also pretend that an "in!ernul sense,
a. sort of in:::;tinct," i:> excitcu within IIim, which
enlightens him, both on hi::; own pre::;ervation and
on that of tho:;;c who are in relation with him.
During all the t inle of the state of somnambu-
lism, the somnambule i:', say they, submitted to
the influencc of 1he magnetizer and seems to obey
him with an unlimited docility, even when his
will, strongly moved ill\\ ardly, is manifested
neither by a gesture nor by a word.
The magneti:ted person, sa)::; the illu:-;lrious
Bailly, in his report to the Royal Academy of
Science~, p;.lge 7, is \ainly plunged in an appa-
rent drowsiness; the voice of the magnelizer, his
look, a ~igu from him, draws them off from that
itnte. It j~ impo~s•llle not to acknowledge, by
these constant effect.::, a great power that agitates
the patient, over whelms him, and of which the
magnetizer alone seemt> to dispose.
102 REI'OR'r.
rrhis singular phenomena, gentlemen, your
commission thought a subject so much more
worthy of its attention and investigation, that,
although Ballly seemed to have perceived it, it
was not however l<nown when magnetisrn was
submiued to the examination of the king's
commissaries, in 1774; and that, beside~, it was
particularly for the purpose of studying it, that
Mr. Foissac had, if I may so speak, brought to
light again the question of magnetism. Indeed,
1\ir. de Puysegur's memoirs, in which the phenom-
ena of somnambulism were, for the first time,
exposed, had been issued on1
y after the report o
the commission, aLthe end of 17f:i4 and in 1785.
In a subject which could be so easily used as a .
1neans of charlatanism, and seemed to us so
different from all that was hitherto known, your
commission must have been very careful and
severe about the kind of proofs which were devised
and admitted to verify this phenomena, and at
the same time to be contiuua1ly on their guard
against illusion and deception, of which they might
have feared to be the dupes.
The commission beg to call your attention lo
the following observations, wbich it has disposed in
such a manner as to offer you a progression, always
increasing, of the phenomena of son1nambulism.
It is the means to make them more and more
evident to you.
103
Mlle. Loui:;e Delaplane, sixteen years old, living
in rue 'rerechapc, 9, affected with an obstruction,
nccompnuicd with pains, tension aml swelling of
•he lower region of the abdomen, entered the hos-
pital on the 13th of June 1826. •'ome leeches,
hat lie;, and in general n proper treatment, produced
no relief; she was n1ap:netizcd by 1\Ir. Dupotet, on
tlle 22d, 23d, 24th, 25th, 26th, 27th and 28th of
Junc, 182G. Rllc was put to sleep, in the first
sitting, at the end of eight rninutes. \Ve speak
to her, ~he 'an..;wprs not; we cast on the floor
lJefore her n. tin blower, she remains in a complete
immohility,-a glass flask is broken \\ ith \iolcnce,
and she awakes suddenly. At tlle second sitting,
t:<he anSWl'red \Jy affiliHil.tive and negntivc signs of
the head to the question addressed to her. At
the third, she made u:::; understand that she would
be able Ill two or three days to speak and indicate
the nature nnd sent of her di,.;ease ; she was so
severely pinched as to produce an ecchmosis i she
gti\'e no sign of sensibility. A flnsk filled with
ammoniac was uncorked under her nose, s:he was
in~ensillle at the first rcspiration; ntlhe second, :;he
earned lwr hand to her I\03C. Af1er being awaked,
she complnincd of the pain she fell in the pinched
nnd ecchymos<'d part. The same flask of
nm moniar i~ presented to her, ano at the first
respiration she abruptly drew back her head.
101 REPORT.
The relations of this girl resolved to take her
away from t.he hospital on the 30th of the same
month, because they had beard of her being
magnetized ; however, she was magnetized there
four times more. In all of these trials she neYer
spoke, and answered only by signs the various
questions addressed to her. We add that, llaving
been insensible to the touch of a pen introduced
into her nose carried over her lips and nostrils,
also to the noise of a plank suddenly cast upon a
table, she was awakened by the noise of a copper
basin thrown upon the floor, and by the noise of
a b:tg of dollars, that, at another day, we emptied
from a high place into the same basin.
At another time, on the 9th of December, 1826,
n.Ir. Dupotet magnetized before the commission a
cart driver at Cllaronne, whom he harl magnetized
for the last time, two or tl1ree years ago. At the
end of eight minutes, being repeatedly asked
whether he slept, he suddenly made an affirmatire
sign with his head,- several que~tions remained
without answers. As i1e seemed suiTeriug, we
asked him what pained him, he indicated his
chest with his hand, we a8ked him again what
is that part, he answerer!, it is the liver, and stili
indicated the chest. 1\'lr. Guer~eut pinched him
violently in his left wrist, nod he felt no pain.
'Ve opened hi:3 eye-lid whid1 yielded but wilh
REPORT. 105
clifficulty to the attempt, and we saw the globe of
the eye turned up convul-;ively towanl::J the upper
part of the orbit, antl his pupil contracted in a
notable manner.
The commi"'~ion saw, in the two observations it
has just brought near together the fir8t outline of
somnnmbuli..m, that faculty through which
magncti?.•.!r::J pretend that, during the sleep of the
external organs of scn:Sc~, un internal sense is
developed in the magnetized person,\\ hich enaules
him to do reasonable external acts. In each of
the ca~es auo\·e related, the connnis~ion saw,
indeed either answer::; by sigus or by phrases to
questions asked, or promises (it is true always mista-
ken) of events that were to happen, but yet the first·
marks of a bcginnmg of intelligence. The three
following ob-=ervationc:; will prove to you with ·what
difference the promi:-oes of certain pretended som-
nambules ou~ht to he received.
1\Ille. Jo~eph inr. 1\lnrtincau, nineteen year.:; oltl,
living in rue ~t. Nicholas, No. 37, afTected for three
months with a chronic gartritis when bhe entered
the Hotel Dicu, on the 5th of August, 182G. She
was magnetized by l\lr. Dupotet, iu presence of
the reporter, fifrcen ti11lCS in succession, from the
7th to the 2bt of tl.e same month, twice between
four and five o'clock in the evrning, and thirteen
times, from six to seren in the morn ng. She
106 Rl~'POR'l'.
commenced sleeping at the second sitting, and in
the fonrth she answered tbe questions asked of
her. We slmil not repeat to you that, at the end
of each sill ittg, her pul~e was more frequent than
at the beginning, that she preserved uo remem-
brance of what bud taken place during her sleep.
'rhese are common phenomena, which bad previ-
ously been very well ,·crified in other magnetized
persons. It matters here of somnambulism only ;
and it is that phenomena that we endeavored to
ouserve on l\IIle. 1\Iartineau. In her sleep, she said
that she did not see the assistants, but that she
heard tbent,- and nobody was speaking. Being
asked abont what she meant, she answered that
she heard them when they n1ade a noise; she
said that she should not recover until she should
be purgel.1. She designated for that purgative
three ounces of manua and some English pills
to ue tnken t\\'o hours after the mnnna. The two
following days the reporter gives no manna, but
instead ofit four pills made with the crumbs of bread
wltich he administered in two days, and they ope-
rated as renl purgati\·cs four times during the two
days. She said once 1hat she should awake afler
five minutes, at another tiane aflCr ten minutes of
sleep; and she awoke ouly after se,·enteen and
sixteen minutes. She announced that at !'uch a
day she would give us some details about the
REPORT. 107
nature of her complaint. That day arrived, and
she said nothing. Finally, at every time she was
found in fault.*
~1. De Gcslin, living in rue de Grenelle St. Hon-
ore, ~o. 37, wrote to the commi~sion, on the th
of July, 1826, that he had under his hand n ~om­
nnmbulc, lodging in the same house, l\ime.
Couturier, thiny years old, a milliner, who, among
other facllltics, pos:;e~~ed that of rending her mag-
netizer's thought;-;, aud of executing the orders
that he mentally tram::anitLed to her.
1\:lr. de Ge:::.llll's propo~irion was too important
not to be immediately accepted. J\1r. Guencau
and the reporter repaircll to his house, at this
invitation. This geutlernnn renewed there the
a~ 'UI'nllCCS he had gi\'Cll US in his Jetter o( the
surpri::;ing faculties of his somnan1bulc, and after
having put her tc ~lecp by the usual proceedings,
he invited u:;; to lc>t him know what we wi::;hed to
have exccutcc.J by her.
One of us, the reporter, sate before the writing
desk to take note of all that was going to take
place; and the other, l\l.r. Gucnenu wrote upon a
• This f:1ct pro' cs the truth of an observation made by well-
informcJ and experienced magnetizers, that somnombules are
~ometime!'l full of ,·anity. They nre generally very suscep-
tible about their lucidity, and often pretend that they know
and see beller than they really do. Yet, although fulfilhn'
not their promi...es, they may be really in the state of somnarn-
bultlitn.-[NoTE OF THE TRANSLATOR.)
108 REPORT.
bit of paper 1he following words, " Go and sit on
the cricket which stands iu front of the piano."
Mr. de Geslin penetrated himself with that will,
and told the somnambule to execute what he
mentally commanc.led her. She rose from her
seat, and sitting herself before the clock, she said,
it is twenty minutes past nine.* 1\'Ir. Gm~lin told
her, that was not what he asked of her; then she
entered the next apartment; she was told that she
was mistaken again ; she then resumed her seat.
vVe wished tlwt ~he should scratch her head; she
stretched her right hand, but without executingthe
motion. We wislwd that she shonld go and sit
at the piano, and she went to a window six feet
distant from the pbno. The mJgnetizer com-
plamecl that she llid not execute what he imposed
upon her by thought; sbe rose and took another
chair. We asked, that when lVlr. Geslin should
raise his a1 m, the sornnambule may raise hers,
and hold it su~pended so until the magnetizer
brings his down. Sbe raised her lltlnd, which
remained immovnble, and wus not brought down
again until five minutes after the magnetizer's;
we presented to her the ba.;k side of a watch, and
she snid thnt it was thirty-fh·e minutes past nine
o'clock, whtle it was but seven o'clock. She said
that there were three needles, aud there were but
•The reporter don't say whether she said right or not.
REPORT. 109
two. .A watch with three n~edles is suh8titutcd
[lu· tl1c other, and she suid that there were two,
that it was fmty minutes past nine, whereas it
was lmt twenty-five minutes past. nine by the
watch. She \\'a3 pnt in contact wit 11 ~Ir, Guenau,
nnd told him, concerning his health, things alto-
g 'I her erroneous and evidently contradil:ti11g what
m1r colleague had written about it before lending
1Jim,·clf to the experiment. Finally, that woman
1\cpt none of 1he promise-; '' hich had been made
to ll~: and we w ., (' thereby nuthorizrd to believe
that .i\Ir. de Gc:71in had not taken all the necessa-
ry cares not to be led into error, and thnt was
1h~ reason of his belief in the cxtraordinary facul-
l iP~ lie lJad attrii.Juted to the somnn1\lhule.*
Here are, then, three cases very well e~t:tbli.;;hed ;
nnu we might relate sotHe more, in which there
"'As the third obsenntion contains several particulars which
might c;ound badly to thP delicate ear~ of our female •·eadcrc;,
"e think it more proper to relate it in French, such as it is in
the original. "1\Jr. Chapelain, docteurcu medecine, dcmeuraut,
Cour I'atve, No. 3, informa Ia commission, le 14 ~Iars, 1828,
qnlune fcmmie, &c.
In the foregoing cnses, it is e\ ident that the subjects exper-
imented upon were really in the state of somnambulism, bot
had not yet reached a sufficient degree of lucidity to foretell,
without mistake, what was to happen. Miscarried by their
,.<mit} and an exaggerated confidence in their faculties, they
gave as posjtive and certain, what was in fact but some slight
and obscure impres!lions of the instinct or inward sense. -
[NoTE Oi' THE TB.A.NSLATOR.)
110 REPOR'l'.
was evidently either error or attempt of deception
upon the pnrt of the somnaml>Ule, both in what
they said they heard, or in what they promised to
do- or, finally, in what they announced as about
to happen.
In such a position, and eagerly desirous to throw
light on the question, we thought it essential to
the interest of the investigations we were appointed
to make, and in order to shelter ourselves from
the deceptions ofcharlatanism, to ascertain whether
there was any token that could indicate the real
existence ofsomnambulism, that is to say, whether
the magnetized individual being put to sleep was
(allow us the expression) more than asleep, whether
he had reached the state of somnambulism.
Mr. Dupotet, of whom mention has already
been made several Lime5, proposed, on the 4th of
November, l826, to tile commission to make it wit-
ness some experiments in which he woulc.l ehow,
in all its evidence, the realiry of magnetical som-
nambulism. He pledged himself (and we have
his promise signed by himself) w produce at will,
anJ out of 1he sight of the individuals put by him
in a state of sonmambulism, some convulsive
motions in a part whatever of their body, merely
by directing his fingers towards that part. He
considered those convulsions as a certain token of
the existence ofsomnambulism. The commission
~vuiled itself of the- presence of B. Chamet to make
REPORT. 111
upon him the experiments net'''::.::ary to a~certain
the fact and resolvc the qtte:-tion. 'rherefore, 1\tr.
Dupotct, having put him i11 a ~tate of c:ornnamhn·
lism,stretched a finger poitttedly towards hi:::; nay,
be approachr,l them with a metallic stem, and no
convub;ive effect was producetl. One finger ofthe
magnetizer's was directed again towards tho:-e of
the magnetized; we saw in llw litl~N~, index, and
meui11 . Of Uoth hand~, a ~li!!'lll llHllion Sillltlnr tO
the convul:->ion cnu~o~ed by ti J o·,dvil uic pile. Six
minutes after, the finger of l 1c nlilglletizN being
directed lO\\ it rd the left wt io..;r, <h·tPnllinc<l in that
part a contplcte motion of cotl\'tt!~ion. 'l'hcn the
magnetizer a11nounced that in five minute~ every-
thing he could wi--h for "ould be obtained from
that n1an. At that motnent, Ir. l\1arc, standing
behind the somnambulc, indicnted that the mag-
netizer Rhoultl try to act upon the right fore fingct·;
him:3elf directed hi:; own townr<l thnt pnrl, but it
was the left one, and 1he leg of the same side
which entered into convul8ion. At. another time,
one of us directed his fingers toward::; the toes- no
effect was produced ; some anterior passes were
executed. ~[e5srs. Bourdois, Guer~en t, G urneau
Oe 1\lussy, directed ~llCCC~~j\·cly their lingers lo"·ard
tho~e of the nwgnctized, which were contracted at
their nppronch. A short while after, we perceived
some motions in the left hand, toward which,
however, no finger had been directed. Finally,
•
112 REPORT.
the experiments were suspended to ascertain
whether the convulsive motions would not take
place when no magnetical action should l>e exer-
cised, and those motions renewed themselves, but
in n feeble manner.
The commission concluded from this, that the
approach of the magnetizer's fingers was nut
nece::;aary to produce convulsions, although l\Ir.
Dupotet said that 3.fter th~y had begun to take
place, they could be conlinued of themselves.
Mlle. Lemaitre, of whom we havealrendyspoken,
when we mentioned the influence of imagination
on the production of maglletical phenomena,
presented also that conYnlsh'e mobility; but now,
these motions, pretty nearly like those that are
felt l>y the approach of an electrical point, were
caused in part by the approach of finger::;. 'l'hen
without thi~ last condition, we saw tl1em happen-
ing, more or less, after the a"ttempt made on pur-
pose to obwin them. Several times, this phenom-
enon manifested itselfin the course of one siuing;
whereas it showed itself notal all at another. Fi-
nally, the approach of the fin~ers toward a part,
was sometimes followed with convul;:;ions in a
different part of the body.
A new example of this phenomena, is that which
we observed upon Mr. Chalet, a consul of France
nt Odessa. Mr. Dupotet ma!!netized him in our
presence, on the 19Lh of November, 1826; he
REPORT. ] 13
directed hi~ fingers towards his ldt enr, nnd im-
mediately \\'C perceived in the hair pluced l.Jehind
the ear, a motion which was attributed to the
contraction of the muscles of that region. Some
pa:;....c · with a single hn 11d were repented, \\ ithout,
however, uirecting the finger towntds the car, and
we perceived n gene nd nnd suddru mot10n of aseen-
stan in the ear. A flllger \\'as nfterwnrds directed
towatds the same ear, nnd prud11ced no ctH·ct on it.
It wa" c:-:pecially upon 1\lr. Petit, thirty-t\\'O years
old: nn iu:::trnctor at Athi~, thilt the convulsi\·e
mot ions were dcterfllincd \\'illa 1he most preci~ion
hy the appronch oft he magnetizer's fi11~ers. l\Ir.
Dupotet pre~entcd him lo tlle conHni.:::sion, on the
lOth of August, 18~6, in announcing to it that
this man was very Sllscrptiblc of entering into
!Oillnanlbnli.:::m, and thnt "hilc in that state, he
(~lr. Dupotet) could dctenuine at will, willlOut
expre~:::-ing it uy word, in such parts as would be
de~i~ twtcd hy the comu1is=--ion, some apparent con-
'.:nl'l\'e motions, by the sole npproach of his fingers.
~fr. Pet it was very soon put to sleep, and then the
conHni~...ion, in order to pre\•ent all suspicion of
intelligence, handed to 1.\tlr. Dupotet a note, written
in silence, nt the very moment in which it desig-
nated the pnrt it wished to see convul~ed ; he
placed him~elf, afterward~, behinJ the magnetized
indi\idual, and directed his finger, in the first place,
towards the left thigh, afterwards towards the
8
114 RJ~PORT.
left elbow, and finally towards the head. 'rhese
three parts were allllost instantn.neou:;;ly seized
with convulsive moLions. 1\ir. Dupolet directed
bi':3 left leg towards that of the magnetiz~d ; this
one agitated itself !-:O n111t h 1hat he carne very near
falling over. 1\lr. Dupotet directed h1~ foot toward
the right elbow, and that elbow w~s convubed;
aflenvards, he brought his foot towards the left
elbow and h,tnd1
and violent convulsive motions
were de\•eloped in all the superior linlll!". One of
the commission, Mr. 1\larc, with the intent\on of
preventing, still more, all kind of deception, pnt a
hanclken;hief nround lli::; eyes; and the preceeding
experiments were repealed with but a slight
difference in the result. Agreeably to the !?igns
and insl.aulil neous indications of several among us,
Mr. Dupotet directed bis fingers toward the left
bancl ; at it;; approach, both hanrls agitated them-
selves. 'Ve wi::;hed to see tbe action exercised on
the two inferior limbs at once. At first, the
magnetizer's fingers were approached without
result; but soon after, the somnambule agitated his
hand~, shrunk back, and shook his feet. A few
moments after, the finger having been brought
near the hand caused it to withdraw it~elf, and
produced a general agitation. }Iessrs. Thillaye
and Marc directed their fingers on various parls of
the body, and provoked some convulsive motions.
Thus Mr. Petit always had, by the approach of
RI~PORT. 115
the fingers, convulsive motions, wltether a ulind
was put upon his eye·; or not and those motions
were still more strongly produced when a nJetallic
stem, surh as a key or a branch of spt!ctaclea was
directed lO\\·ards the parts ~ubmittcd to lite exper-
iments. But, as for the re,ult, the commi~=-ioll -
altiJOugh it has witnessed several cases iu which
that contrnctile faculty was put into action hy the
approach either of the finger:; or of the merallic
stem.::, needs more facts to appreciate that phennm·
cnon, on the con~tancy and value of which it does
not believe irsp)f suilic..:lcntly enl1ghtcncd to pro-
nonncc it.-: opinion.
Ha\·in:r, then, no other means to a~certnin the
truth, lhan in referring to011r anxious wntchf'ulness,
we pur~ued our in\'estigations n11d multipltcd our
obserrations with still mo1 e care, atLcorion and
diffidence than ever.
You recollect, perhap~, acntlf'mrn, the experi·
ments which were made in 1820, at the H otel
Dieu, in pre...ence of a great nu111her of phy:-:kinus,
among whom were found st.~veral ntembers of this
academy, and under the eye~ of the reporter, who
alone conceived the plan of them, directed every
panicular, and noted them down, mmnte after
minute, in a process-verbal ~ig-ned hy each of the
assistants. Perhaps we ~hould ha,·e omitted to
mention thPm here, were it not that a particular
circumstance imposes upon us the duty. Amidst
116 REPORT.
the discussions, which the proposition to submit
animal magnetism to a new examination, awak-
ened in the academy, a member*, who, however,
did not deny the reality of the magnetical
phenomena, had said that while magnetizer11
proclaimed Mlle. Sampson's cure, she begged of
him to be admitted «gain into the hospital, in
which, be added, she lmd died in consequence of
an organicallesion t bat the men of the art had
judged incurable. And yet, this very same Mlle.
Samson reappeared "si.2· yem·s after her pre-
tended death," and your commission haviug been
convoked on the 29th ofNo,·emher, 1826, to make
experiments upon her, wished first to ascertain
whether the person submitted by 1tir. Dupotet,
the good faith and sincerity of whom was more-
over perfectly well known fo it, really was the
same as that who six years previous had been
magnetized atthe Hotel Dicu 1·1\Tessrs. Bricheteau
and Patissier, who had witnes~ecllhose first exper-
iments, were complaisant enough to comply v.:ith
the invitation of the commission, and together
with the reporter, they testified and signed a
declaration that it ':vas really the same person who
had been the subject of the experiments made at
the Hotel Dieu, in 1820, and that they perceived
no other alteration in her than that which
* Mr. Recamier.
REPORT. 117
announced a rcn1arkable improvement in health.
The ident tty being thus established, :Mlle. Sam-
son was magnetized by Mr. Dupolet in presence
of the commission. The 11asses had barely com-
menced, when 1\Tilc. ~arnson moved on her
arm-chair, complained, and coughed with a rough
voice, that recalled, to l\icssrs. Patissier, Bricheteau
and the reporter, the same sound of voice which
hall struck them in 1820, and wuit;h, at that time
as welL as in the prese11t moment, was, according
to their opinion, a beginning of the magnetical
act ion. Soon after, she struck the floor with her
foot, leanl her head upon her right hand, and
seemed lo them quietly asleep. "\Ve hfted up her
eye-lids, and we eaw, as we had in 1820, her
eye-balls convul,iveJy turned upwards. Several
questions were asked her, but remained without
answer~. Some others having been addressed to
her, she made gestures of impatience, and answered
in a tone of bad humor, tltat we ought not to
torment her. Finally, without previously men-
tioning it to any one, the reporter threw on the
floor, violently, a table and stick of 'vood he
bad placed thereon. Some of the assistants cried
out with fear ; MIIP. Samson alone heard nothing,
made no motion of any sort, and continued sleep-
ing most souudly. We awaked her four minutes
after, in rubbing her eyes with the thumbs in a
circular manner. Then the same stick of wood
•
•
118 REPORT.
was suddenly cast on the floor; the noise caused
the magnetized to start from her chair; and she
complained very much of the sensation of fear we
had just cau8ed to her, whereas, six minutes
before, she had been insensible to a much greater
no1se.
You have all heard of a fact which attracted,
very much at the time it took place, the attention
of the surgical section of the academy, and which
had been communicated at the meeting of the
16th of April, 1829, by 1\'Ir. Jule Cloquet. The
commission thought it proper to relate it here as
one of the most indisputable proofs of the force of
the magnetical sleep.
Mme. Plantain, fifty-four years of age, residing
No. 151, St. Dennis street, consulted Mr. Cloquet
on the 8th of April, 1829, for an ulcerated cancer
which she bore ou the right breast for many years,
and which was com plicnted with a considerable
swelling and obstruction of 1he corresponding ax-
illary ganglions. Mr. Clmpelain, 1he pitysician of
that lady, and who rnagneLized her some months
since, with the intenlion of dissolvmg the ob-
struction of the breflst, could obtflin no other
result thn n a very profound sleep, during which
her sensibility seemed annihilated, her ideas, how·
ever, remaining quite lucid. He proposed to Mr.
Cloquet to operate her while she should be plunged
into the mngoetical sleep. Th1s surgeon, who had
nEPOLtT. 119
already j~tdged the operation necessary: agreed,
arHl it was decided that it would take place the
following •'undny, 1:,2th of April. During the
two day-; previous, Mme. Plantin was repeatedly
magncuzed hy 1\lr. Cllapelain, who di~po::cd her
while she wn' in somnambulism to suffer the ope-
ration without fear, and who succeeded so well as
to lead her to COll\'er:::e with ac::surance <l.UOUl it;
whercn~, in the wakeful state, she rejected the idea
of it wit 11 horror.
']'he day appointed for the operat ion, 1\lr. Clo-
quet, at ltis arri\·al at half past ten o'clock in the
morning, found the patieut dtc:::sed, and ~ilting on
an nrrn-chair in the po"ition of a person quietly
delivered up tot he natural ~leep. Tllet e wa~ nl1out
on~ hour ~ince ~he had teturned from church,
whi<.:h ~he u.;:;cd to attend at the same time. l\1r.
Cltnrwlain had cau~ed her to rn~~ into the mag-
nctical sleep ~inre her return; the patient ~poke
with the grcnlest calm of the operation 5<hc \"\'US
about to undergo. Rver) thing- being ready for
the operation, <::he undre..-:setl her~clf and sat on the
chair.
1\lr. Chnpelnin su~tained Ihe ri~hl arm, the
left one wn~ left hanging clown by the ~ide of
the t,ocly. 1\lr. Paillonx, an cltre interne of
the llo..pital St. Loui~, had the care of pre:-enting
the instruments and of mnking the ligatures.
A firsL iucision was carried abo\'e the tumor
120 REPORT.
to the mternal face of the pap. The second,
starting from the same point, surrounded the tumor
below, anu was carried to the meeting ,..·ith the
first. Mr. Cloquet carefully dissected the swelled
ganglions, because of their vicinity to the exillary
artery, and extirpated the tumor. The operation
lasted from ten to twelve minutes. During that
length of time, the patient continued quietly to
converse with the operator, and did not give the
slightest token of sensibility; no alteration either
in the breathing or the voice j no 1rwtion in the
limbs, thefeatures, or e'L·en in the pulse 'Was man-
ifested). the patient conlinued in the same state
of indifference and automatons impassability in
which ohe was a few rninules befut ~ the opera-
tion commenced. It wa · not necesary to constrain
her; she was sustainetl only. A ligatnre was
applied to the lateral thoracik artery, that had
been opened during 1he extraction of the ganglions.
The wound having been brought together by
some adhesive plasters, and dressed, the patient
was put to bed, still in n state of somnambuJi.;;m,
in which she was left during forty-ei!rhl honrs.
One hour afler the operation, n slight hemorrhngy
manifested itself, but witho'lt any bad conF<'C)Uence.
The first dre~.:;ing apparatus wa:; taken off on the
following Tuesday; the wound was clean~ed and
dressed anew; the 1Xtlient showed no f~elino- · the
;::, '
pulse preserved its usual motion.
REPORT. 121
After this dressing operation, 1\Ir. Chapelain
awoke th'e patient, who::;e magnetic sleep had
la:-::tctl two days. She appeared to ha.ve no idea,
no fccli ng of wlmt had hn ppened; but on hearing
tlaal tile operation had ueen pea formed, and seeing
her children around her, she te~tified a very lively
emotion, which the magnetizer stopped by putting
her immelliatcly to sleep.
'l'lle couunil:;sion had, in their two observations,
the most evident proof of the absence of serMihility
during somnamhuli~m: and it declnrcs that,
nhhough it hns not wiliH'~scd the Ia~t one, yet it
finds it bearing::;uch a:-tan1p of truth, (and bc.::ides,
it wa~ te~l ified to,) and repeated by ~o cxccll<'llt an
observer (:\lr. Cloquet) who had comn1unicn1ed it
to the section of surgery, that it has not feared to
pre--cnt it to you as thr most indisputable testimony
of that ~talc of torpor and numbness determined
by magnetism.
'\Vhile the cotnrlli.-~ion was endeavoring to
appreciate, by proper C.\pcriments, the faculty of
putting into motion without contact, the contrac-
tibility of ~'lr. Pelit's muscle~, 8ome other altea11pts
were made upon him, 10 oh~en·e a peculiar kind
of lucidity, (clnin'O)<lnt'(') the vision or faculty of
seeing through the eye lids closed, of which he
wa~ ~nid to be endowed cluring t be stale of som-
nambulism. The mag-netizer had announced to
us thnt this somnnmbule would recognise between
122 REPORT.
twelve pieces of money that which he (Mr. Dupo·
tet) should have in his hands. The reporter
placed in it a five frank piece, marked at the
millesim of the year XIII, (of the French repub-
lic) and mixed it up afterwards with twelve
others that he ranged in a circle on a table. :Mr.
Petit designated one of these pieces; but it was
by the millesim of the year 1812. Afterwards,
a watch, the hands of which had been altered, in
order that they should mark a wrong ti n;e, was
presented to him, and twice in succes~ion l\1r.
Petit nai~took thei•· direction. These errors 1\Ir.
Dupotet accounted for by telling us that 1\H. Petit
was not so lucid since he was so seldom magne-
tized ; and yet, at that very siLtjng, the reporter
playf'd wiLit him a game of piqttet; and he often
tried to deCf~ive him, in announcing a card or a
color differently from what. it really was, and rhese
attempts at deception on the pilrt of the reporter
did not prevent l\Ir. Pel it from pinyin g carefully
and knowing the color of his adversary's card.
We must add that whenever we interposPd a body,
such as a E:heet of paper or a piece of pnstehoard
between his eyes and the object to be designated,
Mr. Petit could di,ting:uish nothing.
If tiH•se trials had been the only ones hy whkh
we had endeavored to recognize that ''clairvoy-
ance," we might lta,·e concluded from it tlaat this
somnambule did not possess it, but in the follo\V-
REPORT. 123
ing experiment, that faculty was exhtbited in all
its power, and all hi::; time thesuccess was altogether
according to ~1r. Dupotet's promi::;cs.
1\Ir. Petit was magnetized on the 15th ofl\iarch,
1826, at half past P.igbt in the evcni~1g, and put to
sleep in about one minute. Tbe pre i<.leut of the
comrn1s~ion, 1\lr. Bounlois, ascertained that the
number of pulsations had uiminished by t\venty-
two per minute since he was asleep, and even
that the pulse was somewhat irregular. 1\Ir.
Dupotct, afrcr haviug set a blind upon ~lr. Petit's
eyes, repeatedly directed his fing-ers in point upon
hi111 at tltc di:::.ta.nce ofaboult\"vo feet. Immediately,
a violent colllractivn wa~ manifcstcu in the hands
and feet, upon which lite action W:t'l directed. Mr.
Dupotct, having- likewise npproachcd the feet of
.lVIr. P<!l it, yet wit hont contact, he wit lid rcw them
with qnic kue~.;:. Ilc complained feeling in the
limbs ac1<•d 11pnn, a smart pain and a burning
heat. 1\h. Bonrdoia tried to produce the sune
cfrccts; he nl:-:o obtained them, but :;lowly and in a
feeble de!!rec·.
...
Thi:::; point bein~ well estnbli~hed, we occupied
our.;;elves \\'it h Vl·ri(viug 1he ::-;omnambule's "clair-
voyance. In 1he {irst place, we directeo all our
anent ion to e::lnhli-.h that his eye-lids were exactly
clo~cd. Iu that vi•·w, a. light was held np
almo~t con:-;t.trlllv before Mr. Petir's eyes nt the
di:::tance of one or 1wo inche$, c.wd many persons
124 REPORT.
kept looking at them all the time. None could
perceive the least opening between tlaem; nay,
Mr. Ribe~, of the acaderny, noticed that the edges
of them \\ere closed in such a manner as the lids
were crossing each other. After these preli1i1inary
observations, we went about verifying the phenom-
enon of the visio11 through the eyes closed.
Mr. Ribes presented a catalogue that he drew
from hi~ pocket. 1."he somnambule, after some
efforts, read very distinctly these won\t:; " Lavater
il est uien difficile de conuaitre les boUJmes: (It is
very difficult to know men ;) these la::-t words were
printed in Ycry fine characters. Then a pa...:sport was
put under hi-> eye~, be recognized and de;:;ignated
it by the uameof]Jasse lwm:me. A few moment::; af-
ter, a permit and bill to carry arms wa.;;: suhst ituted
for the passport, and was presented to l\Ir. Petit on
the blank side, he could recogmze only that it was
a piece framed and prelt) like the former one; the
permittance was turned up; then, after a few mo-
ments of attent ion, he says what it is, and reads
very distinctly these words, 'De par le Roi,' (the
king allows) and on the left,' port d'nrmes (permit
to carry arms.) A lelter opened was showed again
to him ; he said he could not read it, because he
did not understand the EngJi..h lang11nge. In-
deed, the language was written in En~lish.
Mr. llonrdois, the president of the comtllission, took
from his pocket a tobacco-box, upon which them
RF.PORT. 125
was a litt)e figure in relievo framed with gold.
The sornnambule says that he sees the emblem of
faithfulness. Being urged to '-'oY what this em-
blem was, he adued, I see a dog, he is stn uuing up
before an altar. This \Hls iudeed tile figure rep-
rc~entccl. A dosf'd lc•tler wn-: prc~ent<'d to him, he
coulll not read the contents of it ; he followed very
well the direction of the lines with Jti.,. fingers, but
he could n~ad Vt'ry di~tinctly the adclrc~s of it,
thowrh it contnin<·d a name rat her dillirult, Mr.
de Rrw!.·r·11.r..·brock. Thr:'e cxpr.rime111"' wearied
J\Tr. Petit 'c;-y llluch. He wa::- allo\\'cd to rc"t an
instant; aftcrwanl~, as he wa~ very fn11d of playing
cards, we propo,.ccl to l1iJn, as a wny of rc~ling, to
play a gn me. If the experi mcnt.::: of nH~re curio~ity
coutrndi~.:l nnd tire hin1, lH~ pcrfnrnwd \\ ith the
greate::-1. ease and dt•xterity whnt plea~ed him, and
thnt to whiGh he was naturally jnclininQ". One
of the a.::~i~tatlts, 1\Ir. Rayrwl. an ancient in.::pector
at the uniYcrsiry, played a hand of piquet with
him, an<llost. :Mr. Pelit manngPd th<' cnn's with
a wonderful agility, without mislaking- one. They
tried to put him in fault, hy taking ofT or altering
the card~, but. all was in vain. During all this
performance, the a~si;::;tnnts had not ceased to hold
o light be[l>rc l\lr. Petit's eyes, and to examine
them with attention ; they were found constantly
closed.
While 1\lr. Petit was playing a second game of
126 REPORT.
piquet, Mr. Dupotet, at JVIr. Ribes's suggestion,
directed from behind his !.and tO\·vards the ~om­
naml>ule's elbow. The contraction previously
observetl was produced agaiu. Afterwards, at
Mr. Bourdois propo::;ition, he magnetized bi111 also
behind, and still at one foot di::tant, with the
intent ion of awakening bim. 'l'he eagerness with
which the somnambule played, counteracted that
action, and caused that, although not a waking
him, he was troubled by it. Several times he
brought his hand behind his hP.a.d, as though he
feJt pain in that part. At last, he fell into a state
of drowsiness that re~embleJ a pn·lly slight natu-
ral sleep~ and one of us having spoken to him in
tha.t stale, he suddenly opened hi::; eyes. A little
\vhile after, Mr. Dupotet, yet placed near him, but
at some distance, put him again into the magnetic
sleep, aml the experiments were resumed. :Mr.
D1tpotet, 'wishing that not a least shadow of doubt
shoulLl remain about the nature- of a physical
action exercised at will on the somnambule,
proposed to put as many bandages as we would
choose on Mr. Petit's eyes, and to act upon him
in that state. Indeed, we covered his face down
to the nostrils with several handkerchiefs ; we
filled up wiLh gloves the cavity formed by the
prominence of the nose, and we covered up the
whole with another black cravat falling in the
shape of a veiL down to the neck. Then the
REPORT. 127
attempts of the action at a di~tance were made
again in every po~sible mnnner, and constantly
the same motions were manire:--ted in the parts
towards wltich the Ira nd 01 feet "ere directed.
After rltf':-'C triul::; were over) ~Ir. Duputet took
away Mr. Pdit's lmndn!!.e~, and pin) ed with bim
a game of ecarte m on.ler to divel'l Ids mind. He
plnyed with lhc SiHHC ea'e and skillfulns:> as before,
and gaineu again. Ilc wa::3 so rager in his
game, that. he remained ill~t'n:-:ihle to the influ·
ence of Mr. Bourdoi~, who tried, hut in vain, to act
upon him lwhiod, aud to nw:-e llitu to execute
a CCII ni11 motion at l1 i:-: COIIlllHlll<J.
After lli:o; ~ame w;H tin1,hed, the ~om uarnbule
got up, walked ano:-:8 tl1e pa1lor, rcrnovi11g the
chairs th<~t. he fo1111 'l i11 hi.5 wny, went niiCl sat
down in a ret ired pl .r•·, to rc:-:1 a\\' 1,ile, far from tbe
curiou..; per~ons and tile expNiiiH'tllers who had
fatigued him. Tllt>H'. l\1 r. D''P'•let a" akened him
at sevf'ru l feet di~raII•1
:-; hill tIti8 a\\ aken ing was
incomplete, for a fP.w mom~·nt;-; nflPr, he fell drowsy
again ; it was uec<·~... H y to make new eif011s to
awaken him comp!PI "
Being a\\ akene !, I R' ~that he T•'rollects noth·
ing of\\ hal hap~wt eu dunug hi:4 ....feep.
Certainly, if n~ 1\lr. Burtloi" expre:.:,-rd it a part
in the ptoce:"s-vet l .d of d1at ..;Jlting-, "the constant
immobility of the eye-lids and the closing of
their edges in surh a 1nauner as the lids seerned
128 REPORT.
crossing each other, are sufficient warrantie$
of the clairvoyance (faculty of seoiug) of this
somnambule t!trough the eye-lids, it is impossi-
ble, at least, not to 1couder at all that happened
during that sitting, and not to dtsire to witness
some uew e:r:perhnents of the same /,·ind, iti
order to be able to establish oue's opinion on the
existence and value of animal ma.!Jnetism:'
The wi~h expre~sed l>y our prc~1dcnt did not
last loug l>eforc receiving its full execution in three
other somnatliLHdl'~," bo, l1c~ide::; that clairvnyauce
ob::;en·ed on the former one, presruted proofs of a
remarkable d(·grcc of intuition jJI'Cvision, aud
both coucerniug- thetnseh·es and other persons.
1-Iere the sphere :-;ecmed te be enlarged; it no
longer matten:; to--ati.;;fy a mere curio-.ity, to endeav-
or nscertaining '' llethcr it does exi::;t a token that
mny enal>le l18 to pronounce that somnnmbulism
is real or feigned, whether a somnambule can
read, hi5 eyes being dosed, and indulge himself,
while sleeping, with more or less complicated com-
billations of games, such queslions are curiou8,
intere:;ting alld their solution (especially of the lust
one) is, as a spectacle, a Yery extraordinary phe-
nomenn; but wi1 h respect to the hopes on the
benefit that mcdecine might derive frmn them,
they are by fur below those which the commissiou
is going to communicate to you.
There are none of you, gentlemen, who in all
HEPORT, 129
thnt you have heard of magnetism, have not been
told of that. faculty of certain son1namuules, not
only to determine the kind of tlisea e they are
aiTected with, the duration and mode of termi-
nation of those disease~, hut also the kind, dura-
tion and termination of the diseases of pcr~ons with
which they were put in commuoicatiou. The
three following obsen·ations seemed to us so im-
portant, that we thought it a duty to make them
known to you in their whole length, as presenting
very remarkable instances of that iutuition and
previ~ion ; you \vill alto find in them all the vari-
ous phenomena which were not observed in the
other magnetized individuals.
Paul Villngrnnd, a student nt. law, born at
l\1agnac Iaval (haute Vienne) on the 181 h of 1\lay,
1 03, was struck, on the 25th of Decen1ber, 1825,
with a fit of apoplexy, with palsy of all the left
side of the body. After seventeen months of
various treatments by the acupuncture, a seton be-
low the occiput, twelve moxasapplied along the ver-
tebral column, which treatment bad been followed
either at his own house, at the infirmary, or at the
hospital of perfectionrnent, and during the course
of which he had had two new attacks, he was
admiut'd, on the 8th of April, 1827, at the Hospi·
tal de la Charite. Although he had received a no-
table relief by the means be had used before his
entrance into that hospital, he still walked with
9
130 REPOR'.P.
crutches, and could not sustain himself on the left
foot. The arm of the same side could perform
various motions, but Paul was not able to lift it
up to his head. lie could hardly sec with his
left eye, and had very imperfect hearing of both
ears. lie was in such a state, when be was trust-
ed to the hands of our colleague, 1\lr. Fouquier)
who, besides the very evident paralysy, di.,.;co,·ered
in him symptoms of an hypertrophy of the l~eart.
During five months, he administered to him the
alcoholic extract of nu.'t vornica, had him bled
occasionally, purged him, and ordered that IJlisters
should be applied to him. The left arm regained
some strength, - the pain he had in his l1ead be-
came farther apart, and its state rPmained the
same until the 29th of August, 1 :d7; at that
epoch, he was for the first. time magnetized by Dr.
Foissac, agreeably to the invitation and under the
direction of 1\Ir. Fouguier. In that fir~t silting, he
felt a sensation of general heat, and afterwards
some quick motion in his tendon~. He \\·ns sur-
prised to be pcrvnded, so to speak, by an inclination
to sleep ; rubbed his eyes to cmmtcrnct it i made
visible but frnitles~ efforts to keep his eye-lids
opened. Finally, his head bent down, and he
fell asleep. From that very moment, his deafness
and headach have ceased. It was bnt in the 9th
!ilting that the sleep became profound; and in
the lOth he was able to answer by iuarticulated
REPORT. 131
sound, the questions that were asked him · at a
later period, he announced that he could ue ~ured
only by magnetism, and prescribed to himself
synapi~m~, Bareges uatb::;, and tbe continuation of
the pill~, made of extrnct of ·nux· vornica. On the
25th of Scptemuer, the comm is~ion repaired to the
llos,Jital de la Charite, and ascertained, by a
proper examination> that the left inferior limb was
mnuife:::tly thinncr than the 1ight one; that the
rig l1t baud was much f'lronger than the left; that
the tongue, being cllawu out from the mouth, was
broug ht towards the right commis:mre, and that,
in the act of buccina.tion, the right cheek was more
rounded out than the lrft.
Paul was magnctizrd, aml soon entered into
somnambulism. lie told over again all that con-
cemed his treatment, and prescribed that on the
same day a synopi~m should be applietl during
one hour and a half on each leg; that the next day
he should take a Baragcs bath, and that soon after
the bath, synapisms should be set on him during
twelve hours without interruption, now atone place,
then at another; that on the day following after
taking a second Barag<'s bath, a pallet and a half of
blood should be t>xtracted from the right arm.
Finally, he added that in following this treatment,
on the 28th, viz: three days after, he could walk
without crutches in going out from the sitting
room; he said, also, that it would be necessary to
132 REPOR'£.
magnetize him in that last sitting. The treat·
ment indicated by Paul was followed; and on the
said day, the 28th of September, the commission
repaired to the Ilospital de lu Charite. The patient
walked, leaning on his crutches, to the conference
room, when he was magnetized as usually, and
put in the state of somnambulism. In that state
he assured that he could return to his bed with-
out crutches or support. Having been awaked, he
asked for his cmtches; but we answered him that
he needed them no longer. Indeed, he rose, sus-
tained himself on his palsied leg: crossed the cro\Yd
that followed him, walked down the stairs of the
experiment room, crossed the second yard of the
hospital, steppeu up two stairs, and having reached
the lower part of the stair-case of the establishment,
be sat down. After resting two minutes, he
walked up (belping him8elf with a hand, and lean_
jng on the ra1ling,) the twenty-four stairs that lead
to his sleeping room; he weut to hid bed without
support, sat again one moment, and executed a
new walk through the ward ; all the patients who
had hitherto seen him confined to his beJ were in
the greatf1st amazement. From that day, Paul
never resumed his crutches.
The commission met again on the 11th of Oc-
tober following, at the Hospital de la Charite. He
was magnetized, and announced that he would be
completely cured at the end of the year, if a seton
REPORT. 133
was applied at two inches below the region of the
heart. In that sitting, he was pinched several
times; n pin was thrust one line deep, into his
brows and his wrist; he gave no sign of feeling.
On the 16th of October, ~ir. Fouquier received
from the general council of the hospitals a letter,
by which he was directed to terminate the mag-
netical experiments that he had commenced at
the Ilospital de Ja Charite. Therefore, we were
obliged to cease the use of magnetism, the effi-
ciency of which the patient said was much to his
satisfaction. Mr. Foissac then caused him to
leave the ho~pital, and placed him in a house in
the rue des Petits Augustins, in a private room,
in which he pursued his former treatment.
On the 29th of the same month, the commis-
sion resorted to the private room, in order to
examine the progress of his cure; but before mag-
netizing him, we noticed that he walked with-
out crutches,-nay, that his gait appeared firmer
than at the preceeding sitting. Afterwards we
caused him to try his strength by the dynamo-
metre. !laving been pressed down by his right
hand, the needles marked thirty kilogramm~;
and only twelve by the left hand; it marked thirty-
one by both hands united. He was magne-
tized; in four minutes, somnambulism manifested
itself, and Paul assured them that he would be
completely cured on the 1st of January. We
134. REPOR:r.
tried his strength; the right hand caused the nee-
dle to mark twenty-nine kilogTamms (one less
than before the sleep,) and I he left hand (the pal-
sied one) twenty-six, (fourteen more than before
sleep,) both hands united marked forty-five,
(fourteen more than before.) Ah\'ays, in the state
of somnambulism, he got up to walk, and moved
about with rnpidity ; jumped on the left fool;
kneeled on the right knee, aud rose again, sustain-
ing himself with the left hand on oue of the assist-
ants, and in causing all the weight of the body to
be borne on the left knee. He took hold of l\lr.
Thillaye and lifted him up, made him move round
upon himself, and re::;umed his seat, holding him
on his knee::s. lie drew with all his migl1t the
dynamonaetre, and caused l he scale of traction to
mark sixteen myriagramms. Having been invi-
ted to go down the stairs, he abruptly left his ann-
chair, took Mr. Foissnc's ann, which he abandoned
at the door, went down stairs and ran up again
two and eve11 three steps at a leap, with a convul-
sive rapidity, that, however, he mitigated when
we tohl him to ascend them only one at a time.
As soon as he was awn ketl, he lost that astonish-
ing increase ofstrength; then, indeed, thedymuno-
rnetre marked but three myriagramms and three
quarters, viz: twelve and a quarter less than be-
fore his awakening. Hi~ gait was slow but firm·
' '
he was not able to bear the weight of his body on
REPORT. 135
his left leg, (the palsied one) and he tried, but in
vain, to lift 1\lr. Fois~ac.
'Vc onght !o note down, gentlemen, tlaat a few
days before this In~t ~xpcrimcnt, the patient had
lost two ponnds and a half of blood, that he still
had two bh::;lers on his legs, n ~cton on the back
part of hi8 neck, antl another on his breast; there-
fMc yon will percci\re " ·ith lb that magnetisnl had
detr·nnined a very prodigious increase ofstrength
in the sick organs wheren~ the sound one remained
the ~nme; since, during all the ~tale of somnamlm-
li.::m, the "hole ::;trcngth of the boJy had been
more than qnadruple<l.
Paul gaYc up afterward~ all 5ort of medical
trrattncnt. lie wished only to l>c magnetized;
and towards I he cucl of tllr yrar, as he cxprc:-:-cd
the de~irc to he put, and krpt dnring eight day::; in
somnnmbuli~m, in order that. his cure migiH be
completed on the 1st of Jamwry, he was ma!lne-
tizcd Oil the 2.3th of ])ccember; and from that
day, he remained in somnambulism until the first
of January.
During that length of time, he wos awaked at
variou~ and UIHI~L;al intervals, for an avernge
time of twelve hours; and in these short intervals,
we left him believing that he had been sleeping
only a few hours. During all his ~leep, his diges-
tive functions were performed with unusual ac~
th·ity.
136 REPORT.
He was sleeping for three days, when, accom-
panied by Mr. Foissac, he set out on foof, on the
28th ofDecember, from Mondovi street: and visited
Mr. Fonqnier, at the Hospital de la Charite, where
he arrived at nine o'clock. He recognized there
the patients near whom he had been laying before
his leaving the hospital, the pupils who had the
care of the hall and read (with his eyes being
closed, and a finger applied to both his lids,) some
words presented to him by Mr. Fouquier.
All that we had been witnessing appeared to us
so astonishing, that the commission, desiring to
follow to its end the history of this somnambule,
met on the 1st of January at Dr. Foissac's, where
it found Paul who had been sleeping since the
!5th of December. He had ordered, fifteen days
previous, the suppressing of the setons he bore on
the back part of his neck and on his chest, and
had caused a cautery, that he said he should retain
all his life~ to be established on his left arm. 1\.lore-
over, he declared that he was cured; that if he was
gutlty of no imprudence, he should reach an old
age; that he should sink under a fit of apoplexy.
Having been awaked, he went out from l\lr. Fois-
sac's house, walked and ran through the street
with a firm and assured step. At his return, he
carried with the greatest ease one of the assistants
'
whom he could not have lifted up during his sleep
bu\ with difficulty. ,
REPORT. 137
January the 12th, the commission mel tlgain at
Mr. Fois~=;ac'~, where was present Mr. Emmanualde
las Cases, of the chamber of deputies, the count de
Rum1gny the first aide-de-camp of the king, and
?.lr. Segalas, a member ofthe academy. :Mr. Fois-
sac told us that he was going to put Paul to sleep;
that, in the state of somnambulism, one :finger
could be applied on each of his eyes, closed ; and
that, notwithstanding so complete a closing of the
eye-lids, he could distinguish the color of cards,
read the title of a work, and some 'vords or lines
indicated by chance in the very middle of the work.
At the end of two minutes of magnetical gestures,
Paul was plunged into sleep, his eye-lids being
held constantly shut, alternately by Messrs. Fou-
quier, Itard, Marc, and the reporter, a pack of new
cards, tied up with a band of paper, was pre-
sented to him; the band was torn, the cards mixed
up, and Paul easily and successively recognized
the king of spades, ace of clubs, queen of spades,
the nine of clubs, the seven of diamonus, queen of
diamonds, and eight ofdiamomls. 'Ye presented to
him, his eyes being kept shut by JYir. Segnlas, a
volume that the reporter had provided. He read
the title:' Histoirede France', (a histot·y of France)
lie could not read the two intermediary lines, and
read on the fifth one the name of Anquetel, alone,
that was preceeded by the preposition par. 'Ve
opened the book at the eighty-ninth page, and he
138 REPORT.
read on the first line 'le nombre de ses,' (he
omilled the word 'troupes,' and proceeded on :)
'du mornent ou on le croyait Ze ]Jlus occupe des
plaisirs dtt Cm·naval.' He likewise read the
title' Lonis,' but could not read the Roman cypber
that was following. A bit of paper \Yas presented
to him, on which one of U:3 had just wriuen the
wortls agglutination and animal 1nagnetistn.
He spelt tl1e first one and pronounced the two
others. Finally, we presented to him the process-
verbal of this sitl ing; he read prell y tlistinctly the
date of it and some words written in a more legi-
ble manner than others. In all these experiments,
the fingers ofson1e of us were applied on the whole
comtui~::=tH3 of each eye; in pres~ing the superior
eye-lid on the inferior from upward dowtH\'ard..:, we
noticed that the eye-ball bad been in a constant
motion of rotation, and see11\ed to direct itself to-
warcl:3 tlte ohject su brniu ed to the vision.
On l he 2 I of Fehrull.ry, Paul was put in the
state of som n :1mbuli~m at Me:53rs. Scribe nnd Bre-
mards, llWrchant~, rue St. Honore, No. 296. The
reporter of the co mni\,;;~ion '''a"' th~ only one pres-
ent at tl1e experitnenl. Paul's eyes were kept
shut, ns in the !1receeding silling, and he read in
the work entilled 'Les mi'le tl u11e JYuits,' the title,
the worrl preface, and 1he first line of that preface,
in omitLin~, howe\rer, the word peu. Anotber
work, entitled ' Lettres de deu:t· Amies,'by Mme.
RI':POR'r. 139
Campan was al.-o pre-.entcd to him. He di:;;tin-
guishcd in a piclure ~npoleon's figure; he poi11ted
out bia bouts; atHl 8aid tlwt he s<tw t\\'O '''on1en.
Afterward-:; he read very readily tiJe fir~t four lines
of pagr thn'<', with the excrption of the word ravi-
vcr. F'inally he rcr.oguized, witlsout touching
them, four cnrd!:l that we suc~.:cssi\'cly pref:cnted to
him, two after two.
In another siiLitJg, \\ hich took place on the 13th
of ])larch, Paul tried, but in vain, lo clistingui:::;h
\'ariou::; cards applied 011 l!i:::; cpig-a,.;lrium ; but he
read again, his Cj es bei11g ~l1ut, in a book opeued
hy chance, and tl1is time his eye-lid!::> wrrc kept
closed by 1\Jr. .lulr.s Uloqllct; the rPportcr nl.;;o
wrote on a hit of pnpcr 1\\ 0 ptopcr uame~; l\I.tx-
ituili<•r, Robc:-::picre, which he likPwisc rc:Hl well,
Tlte condusio11~ to be dra \\' ll from tlti..:: long and
curiotH oh~cn·lu ion, are easy. Th0.y naturally
flow from the plain expo~itiou ofthe fact::; we hn\'e
rclat<'d, nnd we c~tahli-.h IIH'tll a:-; follows: -1:-:t. A
7Jatieut, 1rlwm a rationa! treatment prescribtll
by one of llte most di~till!..(''i:·dad practicia71!\' of
the capital couhl not cure of palsy, is cured by
the usc of mag netism, and by tlw e.ractitude u·ith
'Whiclt the treatment that he ordercll to himself
while in the state ofsomnambulism, u:asfullozced.
2d. In that state, his 8trength was increnscd in a
remarkable manner. 3d. He ga.Ye us the most
indisputable proofs that he could read with his
140 REPORT.
eyes shut. 4th. He foresaw the time of his cure,
and that cure actually took place.
Tlie following observation will show you that
p.revision still more developed in a man of a low
class, quite ignorant, and who certainly never had
heard of 1nagnetistn before.
Pierre Cazot, of the age of twenty, a hatter,
born from an epileptic mother, was liable for ten
years to fits of epilepsy, that returned five or six
times a week, when he entered the Hospital de Ia
Charite, on the first of August, 1827. He was
immediately magnetized by Mt·. Foissac; was
put to sleep at. the third sitting, and became a som-
nambule at the tenth, which took place on tbe
19th of August; in that sitting, at nine o'clock in
the morning, he ~nnounced that the same day,
at four o'clock in the afternoon, he would have a
fit of epilepsy, but that it could be prevented by
magnetizing Lim a little while previous. We pre-
ferred to verify the exactitude of his prevision, and
no care was taken to prevent the :fit. We con-
tented ourselves with observing him, he being not
aware of it. At one o'clock, he was seized with
a violent headach ; at three, he was compelled to
go to his bed; and at four exactly the fit came on;
it lasted five minutes. The day after the next,
Cazot being in somnambulism: Mr. Fouquier
thrust suddenly a pin an inch long between the
fore-finger and thumb of hts right band ; pierced
REPORT. !til
with the same pin the lobe of his ear; we brou~ht
apart his eye-lids, bit severaltitt1esbis conjuw:tive
with a pin's head, and he gnve not Lhe lea"t token
of seu~ihilit y.
The com miseion repaired to the Ho-.pital de Ia.
Charitc, on the 24tlJ of Augu~t, at nine o'clock in
tl1c morning, to nttr·nd the experiments that Ir.
F ouquicr, a member, iutcn<led to nmke on this
JMI icnl. In that sitting 1\lr. Foi sac placed llilll-
self in front, and at. six feet distant from Cnzot;
:fixed ltis eyes upon him, made no motion with
hiti har HI~, kept the n1o.;t complete silence, nnd
Cnzol fell asleep in eig ht ntinutes. A fla~k filled
with ammoniac was put three time - under his
no"e; hi" face became re,l and his breathing atcel-
erntcd by it, lmt he Wilti not awaked. .Mr. Fou-
quicr thrust into his fore arm, a pin of an inch in
length. Another was introduced two line~ deep
obliquely into his steruurn ; a Lhird one also ob-
liquely into his epigastrium, and a fourth perpen-
dicularly into the sole of his foot. 1\Ir. Guersait
pinchcu his fore arm so violently as to cause an
ecclymosis; 1\lr. Itard leant on his thigh with all
the weight of his body. We tried to tickle him
by carrymg a bit of paper under hi~ nose, on his
lips, brows, litis, neck, and the soles of his feet:
nothing could awake him. \Ve urged him with
que:stions. How many fits more shaH you have 1
'l'uey will continua one year. Do you kuow
142 REPOR'l'.
whether they will take place near each other 1
No. Shall you have one this month? I shall
have one on lV[onday, the 27th, at twenty minutes
past three. Will it be violent ? Not half so vio-
lent as the last one. On what day shall you have
another attack 1 After a mution of impatience,
he answers- in fifteen days from this, viz: on the
7th of September. At what o'clock 1 At ten
minutes before six in the morning.
The sickness of one of CazoCs children obliged
him to leave Ja Charite on that day, the 24th of
August. But it was agreed upon to have him
return there on l\Iontlay, the 27th, in the morning,
in order to obsen·e the ftt he hau announced a~
being to take place on that day, at twenty minutes
to three. But the porter of the ho5:pita l having
refused to receive him when he pr<·sente<.l himself
at the gate, he we11t to 1\Ir. F oissac's, to complain
about the refu:;al. rrbis gentleman preferred, as
he said to u~, to prevent that fit through magnet-
i~m, than to be the only witne~s of it ; therefore,
we were not able to \"erify the exactitude of that
prev1s1on. But we had to observe again the fit
announced for the 7th of September. Mr. Fou-
quier having caused Onzot to enter the hospital on
the 6th, in order that he might receive those at-
tentions that it would not bave been possible to
receive elsewhere, bad him magnetized in the
course of the Sunday, by l\1r. Foissac, who put
REPORT. 143
him to sleep by the sole action of his \\ill, and the
fixednes::> of his look. In that sleep, Cazot 1epcated
that on the next day he would have a fit at ten
minutes to six, which might be preYcnte<.l by
magnet i.zing llim a little "hile previous. At a
c:ignal previon..-:ly agreed upon and gi,·en by l\Ir.
Fouquier, l\lr. Foi~sac, of the presence of wl10m
Oazot was not tt\\'are, awakened him ns he had
made II im sleep, by the net of his will, in spite of
the questions that were asked to this sonwmnbule,
with no other intent than to keep him in ignorance
about the moment he ''as to be awakened.
In order to witne::;s the second fit, the commis-
sion met on the 7th of September, at a quarter
before six in the morning, in St. JHichael ''ard, at
la C?write. There it was informed that the <lay
previous, at eight o'clock in the eveni11g, Cazot
had IJeen seized with a pain in his head, "ith
which he had been trouiJlcd all the night; that
that pain had caused him the sensation of a chime,
and that be had had darting pains in llis ears.
At ten minutes to six, we witneesed the epileptic
fit, churaclerized hy the stiffness and contrnction of
the li1nbs, the brisk repeatedly throwing !Jack of the
head, the bending back of the body, the convulsive
clo~ing up of the eye-lids, the retraction of the eye·
ball towards the upper part of the orbit, sighs, cries,
insenBil>ility to pinching, and the starting of the
tongue between the teeth. These symptoms
144 REPORT.
lasted five minutes, during which there were two
reJnJsswns of a few seconds each, and after-
wards a sensation of general fatigue, as iftbe limbs
were broken down.
On the lOth of September, at seven o'clock in
the evening, the committee met at 1\ir. hard's
house, in order to pursue its experiments on Cazot.
This one was in the study, where a conversation
was held witll him until half past seven o'clock;
at that moment, Mr. Fui:;s:tc, who had arrived
after him, and bad remained in the entrance sep-
arated from tbe study by two closed doors, and at
the distance of twelve feet, co1umencecl maguetizing
him. Three minutes after, Cazot ~aid : I believe
that 1\'l:r. Foissnc is there, for I feel drowsy. In
the course of eight minutes he was completely
asleep. ' 'Ve questioned him, and he assured us
again that in three weeks from that day, on the
1st of October, he would ha,.e an epileptic fit at
two minutes before twelve o'clock.
It was important to observe with as much care
as we had already done on the 27th ofSeptember,
the epileptic fit that had been predicted for the 1st
of October. Therefore, tbc commission repaired,
the same day, at half past seven o'clock, to Mr.
Georges', a hat manufacturer, rue des Manebriers,
No. 17, where Cazot was living and working.
We were informed by 1\ir. Georges, that Cazot
was a workman of regular and excellent conduct,
REPORT. 145
itlcapable, either by the simplicity of his mind or
by his morality, to lend himself to the least decep-
tion i that he had had no epileptic fit since the
last one witnessed by thecommission at the liospi-
tal de Ia Charite; that, feeling unwell, he had kept
his room all day, and had done no labor; that
there was in the present moment in his room an
intelligent man, the veracity and di~cretion of
whom could be relied upon; that this man had
not told Lim that he had foretold an attack for this
day; that it appeared ns a tlliug well proved, that
since the lOth of September, :Mr. Foissac had had
some relation with Cazot, without inferring from
it, howc,·er, that he had spol...en to him of his pre-
diction, and that, on the contrary, Dr. Foissac
attached a very great importance to keeping the
patient in ignorance of what he had announced.
At five minutes of twelve, lYir. Georges proceeded
to a room situated above that of Cazot; and one
minute after, he ran down, and told us that the
fit was actually taking place. \Ve walked up in
ha::;te, l\Iessrs. Guersent, Thillage, l\larc, Gueneau
de :J\1ns~y, Iturd, und the reporter, ull at once, to
the sixth story; we urriYcd ut one rninute to Lwelve,
the precise time, by the watch of a ruember of Lhe
comm1sswn. \Ve surrounded Cnzot's bed, and
found that the fit was characterized by the follow·
ing symptoms. A tetanick stifiness of the trunk
and limbs; the thro\\'ing back of the head, and at
10
146 REPORT.
times of the trunk; a convulsive withdrawing up-
wards of the eye-ball, .he white of the eye alone
being visible ; a very sl rong injection of the face
and neck ; contraction of the jaws ; partial fibril-
lary convulsions of the muscles of the right fore-
arm; soon after, so violent an opisthotonos that
the trunk was lifted up in forming an arch of a
circle, and that the body had no other support
than the head and the feet. A few moments after
that attack, viz: after one minute of calm, a new
fit similar to the preceding, declared itself. We heard
some inarticulated sounds; the patient's breath-
ing was short, irregular, and by sudden motions ;
the larynx lowering and raising itself rnpidly ;
the pulse throbbed from one hundred and thirty to
one hundred and sixty tin1es. There was no
foam in the mouth; neither did we notice any
contraction of the thumb towards the palm of the
hand. .After six minutes had elapsed, the fitter-
minated by sighs, the rela1:ing of the li111bs and
the opening of the eye-lids. The patient fixed his
eyes upon the assistant with an air ofastonishment;
he complained of being broken down, and said
that he had this feeling especially in his right arm.
Although the commission could not doubt the
action, evident enough, of magnetism upon Cazot,
even he being not aware of it, and at a certain
distance, it wished to ascertain by a new proof.
1\.s it had been proved in the last sitting that Mr.
REPORT. 147
Foissac had communicated with him, and might
have told him that he had announced an attack
of epilepsy that was to take place on the 1st of
October, the commission conceived the idea, in
&uggesting some new experiments on Cazot, to
induce Mr. Foissac into error about the day in
which his epileptic patient would have an attack,
which should have been previously announced.
By so doing, we sheltered ourselves from all suspi-
cion of connivance, unless one could suppose that a
gentleman whom we had always seen honest and
loyal, wished to concert with an uneducated man,
destitute of intelligence, to deceive us. We ac-
knowledge that we have no occasion for such an
injurious supposition, and we are pleased to do the
same justice to Messr~. Oupotet and Chapelain, of
whom we had several times occasion to speak to
you.
Therefore, the commission met in Hr. Burdois'
study, on the 6th of October, at twelve o'clock, the
time at which Cazot arrived there with his child.
:Mr. Foissac had been invited to repair to the same
place at half past twelve o'clock; he came at the
preci~e time and remained in the parlor,- Cazot
being not informed of it, and having no commu-
nication with us. One of us, however, went
through a secret door, and told him that Cazot
was sitting on a ~ofa, at the distance of ten feet
from a closed door, and that the commission de-
148
sired to see him put to sleep and awakened at that
distance; viz: he, :Mr. Foi~sac remaining in the
parlor, and Cazot in the study.
At thirty-seven minutes past twelve, while Ca-
zot was engaged in talking with us, or \\'as look-
ing at the pictures that adorned the room, ~Ir.
Foissac, being placed in the next apartment, began
magnetizing him; we noticed that in four minutes,
Cazot sligl1tly wrinkled his eye-lide, appeared un-
easy, and finally fell asleep in nine minutes. J\Ir.
Guersent, who had taken care of him at the hos-
pital of children~ asked of him whether he recog-
nized him. The answer was affirmative. J\Ir.
Itard asked whether he would soon have a fit.
He an~wercd in four weeks from that day, on the
3u of November, at five minutes past four o'clock
in the evening. 'Ve asked him afterwards when
he would have another attack. lie answered,
after a moment of reflection and hesitation, that
it would be in five weeks after the oue he had just
announced on the 9th of November, at half past
nine in the morning.
The process-verbal oi that sitting having been
read in 1\ir. Fois~ac's presence, in order that he
might sign it with us, we wished, as abovemen-
tioned, to induce him into error; and in reading it
to him, before having it signed by the mernbers of
the commission, the reporter read that the next
REPORT. 149
attack would take place on Sunday, the 4th of
T ovember, whereas the patient had announced
it for Saturday, the 3d. It also deceived him as to
the other fit, and 1\Ir. Foissac noted down these
false indications as if they were true; but having,
n. few days after, put Cazot in somnambulism, as
he used to do lo remove his head-ach, he was
informed by him that the fit was to take place on
the third, and not on the fourth; he ~poke of it to
Mr. Itarcl, on the 1st of November, thinking that
an error might have ~lipped into the process-verbal,
of which, however, .l\1r. Iuud confirmed the pre-
tended veracity.
The commission again took every possible care
to observe the fit of the ad of November ; it repaired
nt four o'clock to :Mr. Georges' ; it was informed
by hin1, his wife, and a workman of his, that Ca-
zot hacl worked, as usual, all the forenoon until
two o'clock, and that, in dining, he had felt some
headach ; that, however, he had come down to
resume his work; but the headach increasing, and
feeling some dizziness, he had gone again to his
room, laid down on his bed, and had fallen asleep.
'rhen 1\lessrs. Bourdois, Fouquier, and the reporter,
preceded by Mr. Georges, went to Cazot's cham-
ber. l\lr. Georges' entered alone and found him
soundly asleep, which he made us notice through
a door half opened towards the staircase. Mr.
Georges spoke loud to him, shook him, moved
150 REPORT.
his arms; but he could not be awakened; at six
minutes after 4 o'clock, in the midst ofMr. Georges'
attempts to awaken him, Cazot was seized with
the chief symptoms that characterize a fit of epi-
lepsy, and exactly similar to what we had previ·
ously observed on him.
The second attack, announced in the sitting of
the 6th of October for the 9th of December, that
is two months previous, took place at half past
nine o'clock, a quarter of an hour later than it had
))een predicted, and was characterized by the same
precursory phenomena, and the same symptoms
as those of the 7th of November.
Finally, on the 11th of February, 1828, Cazot
announced another fit for the 22d of April follow-
ing, at five minutes after twelve o'clock; and that
prediction was verified as the preceding ones, but
five minutes later, viz: at ten minutes after twelve.
That fit, remarkab]e for its violence, the sort of
fury with which Cazot bit his hand and fore-arm
by the repeated motions that threw him up on his
bed, had lasted for thirty-five minutes, when Mr.
Foissac, who was present, magnetized him. The
convulsive state soon ceased, to make room for
the state of somnambulism, during which Cazot
rose, placed himself on a chair, and said that he
was very much fatigued; that he would have two
fits more; the one in nine weeks from the next
day, at three minutes after six o'clock, (25th of
REPORT. 151
June.) He was not willing to think of the other
attack, because it was necessary to occupy himself
with what would previously happen, (at this mo-
ment he sent a way his wife, who was present,) and
he added, that about three weeks after the fit of the
25th of June, he would become crazy ; that his
craziness would last three days, during which, he
would be so mad, that be would fight with every-
body; that be would even ill-treat his wife and
child; that it would be necessary to separate
him from them ; that be doubted whether he
would not kill a person, whom he did not desig-
nate. Then it would be necessary to bleed birn
on both his feet. Finally, said he, I shall be cured
for the rnonth of August j and being once cured
I shall never be sick again, whatever circum-
stance may happen.•
It was on the 22d of April, that these predictions
were made; and two days after, on the 24th,
Cazot, in trying to stop a mad horse that had taken
., The reader will recoJlect that at the time Cazot began to
be magnetized, he was liable to five or six fits a week. Now,
owing to magnetism, his at acks became farther and farther
apart; what he foretold was always verified with so great a
precision, that it \s likely he would have been cured according
to his last prediction. if his life had not been abruptly taken
away by an unexpected accident.- [NoTE Ol' THE TR.I.N&·
LATOR.)
152 REPORT.
the moise between his teeth, was violently thrown
off against the wheel of a chaise, which broke his
left orbitary arcade, and horribly mangled him.
!laving been transported to the Hospital Beargon,
be died on the 15th of M~ay. At the opening of
his scull, the surgeon found a recent meningite,
some purulent gathering under the leguments of
the scull, and at the extremity ofthe choroid plex-
us a yellowish substance, outwardly white and
enclosing some small hydatides.*
We see, in this observation, a young man liable
for ten years to epileptic fits, for which he had
been successively treated at the Ilo~pital of chil-
dren, at Et. Loui~, and exempted from the military
service. 1\1agnelism acts upon him, allhough he
is perfectly ignorant of what is done to him ; be
becomes a somnambule; the symptoms of his com-
• This same man, who foretold with so much exactitude his
fits of epilepsy, was not allowed to foresee the unfortunate
event that was to end his life. How account for this? I find in
a note published by Dr. foissac, on Cazot, the following words:
"From the first time he entered into the state of somnambulism,
Cazot had manifested a great tendency to apply Lis faculty of
prevision to the ordinary events of life ; but being com inced,
by a great many facts, of the danger there is to allow to a
somnambule to depart from the circle of disease, I had re-
strained the tendency of the faculty in him ! \Vho could:
ever have foreseen that so well motived and laudable a reserve
ahould become perhaps the cause of his death. [NoTE oF
'THE TRANSLATOR.)
REPORT. 153
plaint arc improved by it ; the fits become less fre-
quent; his hcadach and oppression are removed
lit rough the ill nucnce ofmagnetism ; he prescribes
to him--elf a treatment appropriate to the nature
of hi~ dise:-~sc, and say~ that J,e will recover by it.
!laving been n•agnctized, although not aware of
it, he fell into sontnambuli ·m, and \vas awakened
from that state with the same promptitude as when
he was magnetized by immeuiate contact. In
fine, he iudicated, with a rare precision, one aud
two mo11ths previous, the day and hour at which
he would Ita\ e a lit. Yct, endowed with previs-
ion fnr so nmny remote attacks of epilep~y, more
than thai, for attacks which will ne\·er happen,
he did not foresee Lhnl, in two dnys, he would be
struck by a mortal accident.
'yuhout contri,·ing to conciliv.te all that may
appear, at a fir:::ot look, contradictory in such an ob-
servation, the commi8~ioner will beg you to notice
that Cazot's pre\ i::-ions are related only as to his
fits; that tltey arc no1 hing el~e but the conscious-
ness of the orgnnicnl modifications that are prepar·
ing thcm8ehc"', and take place wilhin him, as a
ncces~nry re:::ult of internal functions; that these
prevision~, although more <'xtended, are altogether
iinlilotr to those ofcertain epileptic persons, who are
enabled, thron~h v.uious precursory symptorn~, as
tho hCild~ch. vertigo, n10rosity, the aura epileplica
154 REPORT.
&.c., to recognize that they will very soon have an
attack. Would it be surpri:sing that somnambules,
the sensation of whom, as you saw it, are exceed-
ingly active and keen, could foresee their fits for a
long time in advance, through various internal
symtoms and impressions, that escape the atten-
tion of a man in the wakeful state: so, gentlemen,
' we might understand the prevision testified by Are-
teus, in two passages of his immortal work, by Sau-
vage, w
·ho relates an instance of it, and by Cabanis.
We add that Cazot's prevision was not absolute ;
it was conditional,-since, in foretelling a fit, he an-
nounced that it would not take place if he was
magnetized;- indeed, it did not take place; that
prevision is all organic and internal. Thus we
understand why he did not foresee an external
event, viz: that he would, by chance, meet a
mad horse, which he would be imprudent enough
to try to stop, and that he would receive by him a
tnortal wounJ. Therefore, he could have foreseen
a fit that was never to happen. It is the needle of
a watch, wbich, in a given time, ought to go
through a certain portion of the dial, but does not
because it is broken.
We have just presented you, in the two forego-
ing observations, two remarkable instances of in-
tuition, of that faculty, which is developed during
somnambulism, and through which two magetized
REPORT. 155
individuals saw the disease with which they were
affected, indicated the treatment that suited them,
announced their termination and foresaw their fits.
The fact we are now going to analyze before you,
offered us a new kind of interest. Here, the som-
nambule pronounces hisjudgment on the complaint
of the persons with whom he is put in contact;
he determines the nature of it, alH.l indicates a
proper remedy.
J\.llle. Celine was put in the state of somnam-
bulism, before the commission, on the 18th and
21st of April, the 17th of June, 9th of August,
23d of December, 1826, 13th and 17th of January,
and the 21st of February, 1~27. In passing from
the wakeful state into somnambulism, she felt a
diminution of heat of several degrees, by the ther-
mometer; her tongue became dry and rough, from
being wet and supple, as it was before; her breath-
ing, usually soft and agreeable, became fetid in a
most repulsive n1anner.
1-Ier sensibility was entirely lost during her sleep,
for she breathed six times while a phinl filled
with n1uriatic acid was held under her no~e ; she
shewed no emotion at it. Mr. Marc pinched her
wrist; an acupuncture needle was thrust three
lines deep into her left thigh, another needle two
lines deep into her left wrist. These two needles
were united together by a galvanic conductor, and
156 REPORT.
some very well marked convulsi\re motions were
effected in her hand. 1\ille. Celina seemed to be
a stranger to what was done upon her. She heard
the persou wlw spoke near to her, and in touching
her, and she heard not the noise produced by two
plates suddenly broken by her side.
It was while she was plunged into that state of
somnambulism, that the commission recognized
three times in her the faculty of detecting the com-
plaints of the persons she touched, and of indica-
ting the remedies that it was proper to give them.
The commission found among its members a
gentleman who was willing to submit himself to
the explosion of the somnambule; it was 1\ir.
Marc. J\1llc. Ccline was requested to carefully ex-
amine the state of health of our colleague : she
applied her hand on his forehead, and the region
of the heart,-and after three minute~, said that
the blooJ was rushing to the bead; that 1\Ir. 1\:Iarc
actually had a pain in the left side of that cavity;
that be often felt some oppression, especially after
his meals; that he was often troubled with a
slight cough, that the lower part of the chest was
filled up with blood ; that something troubled the
passage of the food ; that the part called the re-
gion of the xiphoid (appendix,) had grown nar-
rower;- that to cure ~1r 1\tlarc, it should be ne-
cessary to bleed him in an abundant manner; ap-
ply, on the inferior part of the breast, poultices
REPORT. 157
mnde with hemlock, and rub it with laudanum;
that he should drink lemonade, in which he should
di!:>solve some gum arabic; eat lillle, and often;
finally, that he ought not to walk immediately
after eating.
'\Ve longed to hear from l\'lr l\Iarc, whether he
had really felt what the somnamutde had an-
nounced ; he said that he had, iudced, some op-
prc~~ion \\hen he walked immediately nfler his
meal8 ; that he \\a~ often troubled with cottgh, and
that before the experiment, he had a patu in the
left side of hi:s head, but felt no diflicully in the
passing do\Y n of his food.
'ye were ~truck by the analogy that exi,::ted Le·
tween l\lr 1\1nrc's feeling and that whidt was nn-
nouncrd by the somnamlmle ; we carefully noted
it down: and waited for another opportunity to ver-
ify again that singular faculty. 'rllat opportu-
mty was furnished to the reporter by the mother of
a young lady whom he attended, as a physician,
for a long timc.
:3Ille de r\ **, n daughter of the :Marquis of
N •u, a peer of France, from twenty-three to
twenty-fh·e year£ old, was affected for two years
with an ascitis dropsy, accompanied with numer-
ous ohstructiono:::, some of the size of an egg, olh·
crs as large ns the fist, some others as big as a child's
head, the large;,l of which were in the left side of
the audomen. The external part of the abdomen
158 REPORT.
was uneven and bunched ; these swellings corres·
ponded with the obstructions contained within the
cavity. Mr. Dupuytreu bad already performed
ten or twelve punctures on that patient, and at
each time had extracted a great quantity of a
clear limpid inodorous and pure albamine. This
was always followed by some relief.
The reporter was three times present at these
operations ; and it was easy, both to Mr. Dupuytreu
and himself, to ascertain the hardness and size of
these tumors; and consequently to acknowledge
that it would uot be possible for them to cure this
patient. Nevertheless, they prescribed various
remedies, and thought it especially important that
Mll~. d~ N•u should make use of the milk of a
goat previously submitted to murcural functions.
On the 21st of February, the reporter brought
with him 1\-lr. Foissac and :Mlle. Celine to a house,
in the street Faubourg-du-Roule, without indicat-
ing to them either the name, residence, or the
nature of the disease of the person whom he
wi:::heu to submit to the somnambule's examina-
tion.
'I'he patient entered the experiment room on1y
after Mr Foi~sac had put Mlle. Celine to sleep.
Then, after taking one of her hands between hers
she examined her during eight minutes, not in the
same manner as a physician would do, by pressing
upon the abdomen, and scrutinizing it in every
REPORT. 159
possible manner, but only by slightly and repeat-
edly applying her hand on her abdomen, her
chest, her back and heac.l. Having been asked
to let us know what she had observed in Mlle. de
N***, she answered that all the abdomen was dis-
eased; that there was a great quantity of water
and a scbirrous, by the side of the loin; that the
bowels were swolJP.n ; that the patient was affiicted
with worms; that there were some tumors as large
as an egg, in which purulent matter was contained,
and that these tumors must be painful ; that there
was in the lower part of the stomach, an ob~tructed
gland, as large as three of her fingers ; that this
gland was in the inside of her stomach, and must
trouble the digestion ; thnt the disease was of long
standing, and that, finally, Mlle. du N*j(\ was lia-
ble to headaches. She prescribed the use of a pti-
san of borago and dod's-grass, (chendent) with
some nitre in it, five ounces of the juice of "parie-
taire," to be taken every morning, and a very lit-
tle mercury taken in some milk; -she added,
that the milk of a goat, pt·eviously rubbed with
murcural ointment half an hour before milking
it, would suit better. Besides, she prescribed some
poultices, with flowers, constantly applied on her
stomach, friclions on the cavity, with laurel oil, or
in case tbat it could not be procured, with the
juice of that shrub mixed with the oil of sweet
almonds, a cly~ter of a decoction of peruvian pow-
160 REPORT.
der, mixed with another decoction of emollient
plants. The patient's food should consi::>t of white
meats, milk, farinaceous vegetaules; no lemon at
all. She permitted very little wine, a liule rum
perfumed with orange tree flower, or some essence
of peppermint. 'l'his treatment was not followed,
and even should it have been so, it would not haYe
saved the patient. She uied a year after; and as
no post-mortem examination was nwde, we coulLl
not verify, in all its particulars, the truth of what
the somnamlmle had said.*
In a very delicate ca::)e, in which some very
skillful plly:::i<.:ian~, several of whom are Jtlemuers
of the Acndemy, hn.d prescribed a mercurial treat-
ment for an ob:.:truclion of the cervical glnnd~,
which they thought cau~ed by a ~ipltili1 ic affection,
the family of the patient perceiving that the con·
sequences of this t rea.tment were bccomiug very
ala.rn1ing, wished to IHtYc the ad rice of a somnam-
bule. The reporter was ca1led to as~ist at that
consultation, and he did nol fail to seize that new
oppmtunity to add s:>mething else to what the
*\Vithout attaching a very great importance to that singular
coincidence of the prescription given by the somnambule, to
use the milk of a goat previously rubbed with mercurial oint-
ment, with the same prc~cription recommended to the patient
by Mr. Dupugtrue, and the reporter, the commi">sion thought
proper to insert this fuct in its work. It pr~sents it, as ba,·-
ing been well authenticated by the reporter, without any fur-
ther explanation.
REPORT. 161
commission had already seen. He found the
patieut a young woman- the countess de p~u,
having all the right side of the neck very much
obstructed by a great number of glands, placed
nearone another ; one of these glands was opened,
and emitted a yellowi-.h purulent matter.
Mlle. Celine1 having been magnetized by Mr.
Foissn.c, in presence of the reporter, put herself in
contact with the patient, and said that her stomach
had been attacked by a sub~tance like poison;
that the intestines were slightly inilamed ; that
there was in the right upper part of the neck a
scrofulous malady, that n1ust have been more con-
siderable than at the present moment; that, in fol·
lowing a treatment she was going to prescribe,
there would be some amelioration witlti n a fort-
night or three weeks. This treatment consisted
of eight lcec]Jes applied on the hollow of the stom-
ach, a few grains of magnesia, some decoction of
gruel, a saline purgative, every week ; two injec-
tions every day, one of which should be of
the decoction of PeruYian powder, and imme-
diately after, anot her of guirnanve rools, frictions
with ether on the limbs, a bath every week;
and for food, milk, light meats, and abstinence
from wine. 'fhis treatment was followed for
a little while ; and there was already a remark-
able improvement. But the impatience of the pa-
tient, who thought that she did not regain her
11
162 REPORT.
health fast enough, determined bet· family to ask a
new consultation of physicians. They decided that
the patient should be submitted to another mercu-
rial treatment. The reporter then ceased to see her,
but was informed that in consequence of the use of
mercury, the symptoms previously felt in her stom-
ach became so much aggravated, that it had
brought her to the grave, after two months of ex-
cructatmg pains. A process-verbal of post-mor-
tem examination, signed by Messrs. Fouquier,
Marjolin, Cruvelhier, and Foissac, stated that there
was a scrofulous or tuberculous swelling of the
glands of the neck, two small excavations fiHed up
with pus, resulting from the dissolving of the tu-
bercnles of the upper part of each lung. The mus-
cous membrane of the stomach was almost entirely
destroyed. These gentlemen verified also that
nothing indicated the existence of a syphilitic dis-
ease, either recent or at any former period.
It results from these observations, 1st. That in
the state of somnambulism Mlle. Celioe recognized
the disease of the persons with whom she was
put in contact. 2d. That the declaration of one
of these persons, the examination that was made
of the other, after three punctures, the aulopsy of
the third one, were found according to what the
somnambule had announeed. 3d. That the va-
rious treatments prescribed by her do not depart ei-
ther from the circle of the remedies that she might
have known, nor from the order of things that she
REPOR'l'. 163
might reasonably recommend ; 4th. That she ap-
plied them with a sort of discrimination.
To all these facls, that we have collected with
so much labor, observed with so much diffidence
and attention, tl1at we have endeavored to class
in the best possible manner to make you follow
the development of the phenomena we have wit-
' nessed, that we have especially applied oUt·selves
to pre~ent to you free from all the accessory circum-
stances which might have embarrassed and en- ·
tangled their exposition, we might add those that
the ancient, nay, modern history relates about
the prevision that have been often realized, the
cures obtained by the imposition of the band,
about oracles, extacies, convulsionar, hallucina-
tions, finally about all that which, by departing
from the ordinary physical phenomena, can be
accounted for through the action of one body up-
on another, enters into the sphere of psychology,
and may be considered as an effect depending on
a moral influence out of the perception of our
senses. But the commission was appointed to ex-
amine somnau£bulisrn, to make experiments on
that phenomenon which had not been studied by
the committee of 1784, and to give an account of it.
Therefore, it would have departed from the cir-
cle within which it had been circumscribed, if, in
seeking to support what it had seen by quoting
authorities that might have observed analogous
161 REPORT.
facts, and it would have enlarged its work with facts
foreign to its purpose. It has related with impar-
tiality, what it saw with diffidence; it has exposed
with order what it has observed in various circum-
stances, and followed with a 1ninute and persever-
ing attention.
It has the consciousness that the work it presents
to you is the faithful expression of all that it bas
observed. You are informed of the difficulties
which it bad to overcome; they were, in a certain
measure, the cause of the delay it has caused in
1naking this report, although for a long time the
materials were in our hands; - however, we shall
not complain, and apologize for this delay, since it
gives to our observations a character of maturity
and reserve that ought to command your con-
fidence to the facts we have related, instead of
the precipitation and entbusiasn1 with which you
might reproach us, had we collected them but on
the day previous. vVe add that it is far from our
thought to believe that we have seen everything
concerning animal magnetism, and we do not
pretend to induce you to admit as an axiom, that
nothing is positive in it but what we have men-
tioned in our report. Far from setting limits to
that branch of the physiological science, we, on
the contrary, entertain the hope that " a new
field is opened" before it ; and certain as we are
of the exactitude of our own observations, present.-
CONCLUSIONS. 165
ing them with confidence to those who, after us,
will occupy themselves with magnetism, we con-
tent ourselves to draw the following conclusions,
that are the necessary consequence of the facts the
whole of which constitute our Report.
Conclusions.
1. The contact with the thumbs or hands, fric-
tions, or certain other gestures made at a little
distaiJce from the body, and called passes- such
are the means used to place one's self in communi-
cation, or, in other words, to transmit the action
from tbe magnetizer to the magnetized person.
2. External and visible means are not always
necessary, since, in many instances, the steadiness
of the look wiil have been suflicient to produce the
magneticaL phenomena, even the mngnetized indi-
vidual being not aware of it. 3. l\lagnetism acts
upon persons of both sexes and different ages. 4.
'rhe time necessary to transmit the magnctical
influence and make it felt, varied from half an
hour to one minute. 5. lVIagnetism, in general,
does not act on healthy persons. 6. Neither does
it operate on every patient. 7. Sometimes, during
the magnetical operation, some insignificant and
fugiti,·e effects manifest themselves: but which do
not belong to magnetism alone ; such as some
oppression, heat or cold, and other nervous phe-
11*
166 CONCLUSIONS.
nomena, that may be accounted for without the
intervention of a particular agent, viz. through
hope or fear, the prevention and expectation of an
unknown and new thing, the tiresomeness which
results from the monotony of gestures, the silence
and quiet kept during the experiments, finally by
imagination, that exercises so great an empire
over certain minds and certain organizations.
8. "A certain num,ber of the observed 11henom-
ena appeared to us as having been produced
by magnetis1n alone, and could not be produced
without it. 7'/wse arephysiological and thera-
peutical phenomena well established." 9. The
real effects produced by magne::ti~:im are very vari-
ous ; It agitates some, calms others ; the most
usually it causes a momentary acceleration of
breathing and circulation, some transient convul-
sive fibrillary motion, resembling electrical shocks,
a numbness more or less deep, some drowsiness,
somnolence, and, in a small number of cases, what
magnetizers call somnambulism. 10. The exist-
ence of a constant and only character, fit to make
us recognize in every case the reality of the state
of somnambulism, has not been established.
11. However, "we n~ay conclude with certainty,
that such a state exists, whenever it gives rise to
the development of the new faculties designated
by the nnmes of clairvoyance, intuition, pre-
vision, or produces some great change on the
CONCLUSIONS. 167
physiological state, as insensibility, a sudden
and considerable increase of strength," and
whenever, finally, that effect cannot be a.Ltributed
to another cause. 12. As among the effects ari-
sing from somnambulism, there are some that
can be feigned, somnambulism itself can some-
times be so too; and thus furnish charlatanism
with means of deception. Therefore, in the obser-
vation of those phenomena, which as yet present
themselves only as isolated facts that can be con-
nected with no theory, it is but by a most attentive
examination, the severest care, and by numerous
and varied trials, that one can escape illusion.
13. The sleep determined with more or less
promptitude, and established in a degree more or
less profound, is a real, but not constant effect of
magnetism. 14. It is a fact, demonstrated too,
that it has been determined in such circumstances
as the mngnetized individuals could neither see
nor know the means used to cause it to take
place. 15. 'Vhen a person has been once put to
the mngnetic sleep, there is no need of recurring to
contact and the "passes" to magnetize him again.
The magnetizer's look, his will alone, have upon
him the same influence. In such a. case, the
magnetized person can be not ouly acted upon,
but n.l::;o completely thrown jnto somnambulism;
the magnetizer can bring him out of that state, be
being not aware of it, out of his sight, at a certain
168 CONCLUSIONS.
distance, and even through closed doors. 16. Cer·
tain alteratin.ns, more or less marked, are ordinarily
produced in the perceptions, in the faculties of
those who fall into somnarnbulisn"!, by the effect
of magnetism. (A) Some, in the middle of the
noise of confused conversations, hear no other
voice than the magnetizer's; many answer in a
correct and precise manner the questions asked
by him, or other persons who have been brought
into contact with them ; some others hold conver-
sation with all the assistants; seldmn, bowe\'er,
they hear what is going on around themselves.
Mostofthetime, they remnin,completely, strangers
to external and unexpected noises made at their
ear, such as the resounding of copper vases violent-
ly stmck before them, the falling of furniture, ~~c.
(B) The eyes are closed ; the eyelids yield but
with difficulty to efforts made '' ith the hands to
open them; that operation, wlJich is not free from
pain, exhibits the eye-ball convulsed, and turned
up\Ynrds, and sometimes downwnrd::; in the orbit.
(C) The sense of smelling· is sometimes annihila-
ted ; somnambules can breathe into their lungs
the muriatic acid or concentrated ammonia, with-
out feeling any trouble by it, eYen without suspect-
ing it. The contrary exists in some other cases:
they nre sensible to ordors. (D) l\'lost of the som-
nambules we have seen were completely destitute
of tlae sense of feeliug. We could tickle their feet,
CONCLUSIONS. 169
nostrils, and the angle of the eye with a feather;
pinch their skin so as to cause an ecchymosis,
prick it under the nail with pins suddenly thrust
into it to a great depth, without the least token
of pain on their pat t; nay, they seemed not to
perceive it. Finally, one of them has been seen
who remained insensible to a moqt painful surgi-
cal operation, and in whom neithet· the face nor
the pulse nor the breathing denoted the least emo-
tion. 17. lVIagnctism has the same strength and
inten~ity of action, and is as quickly felt at a dis-
tance of six inches- and the phenomena devel-
oped by it are the same in both cases. 18. The
action at a di:stance cannot, as it seems, be exer-
cised with success but on individuals who have
already been submitted to magnetism. 19. "\Ye
did not sec any person falling into somnambulism
the first time he was magnetized. Somnambu-
lism manifested itself sometimes only in the eighth
or tenth sitting. 20. We have constantly seen
the ordinary sleep, which is the repose of the
organs of sense, of the intellectual faculties,
and voluntary motions, preceding and termina-
ting the slate of somnambulism. 21. 'Vhile in
somnambulism, the mngnetizecl persons whom we
observed preserved the exercise of the faculties
they possess eluting the wakeful state. Nay, their
memory seems more faithful and extensive; for
they remember what happened all the time and at
170 CONCLUS! ON'S.
every time tltey were in somnambulism. 22. Af-
ter awaking, they say that they llave totally for-
gotten every circum:5tance of the state of somnanl-
bulism, and can never recollect it again. To as-
certain this, we had no other guarantee than their
own declarations. 23. The muscular strength of
somnambules is sometimes numbed and palsied.
At some other times, their motions are buttroubled,
and they walk staggering, as drunken men do,
without avoiding, and sometimes aJso in avoiding,
the obstacles they meet in their way. There are
somnambules who preserve, in alL its integrity, the
exercise of their limbs; who even become much
stronger and smarter than in the \\·akeful state.
24. We saw two somnambules, who distinguished,
their eyes being clo...ed, the objects placed before
them; they have designated, without touching
them, the color and value of cards; they read
words written with the hand, also several lines of
books, openeu without adhering to any particular
page. This phenomenon took place even when
the opening of the eyelids was kept exactly closed
by the fingers. 25. vVe met, in two somnambules,
the faculty of foreseeing acts of the organization
more ot· less distant and complicated. One of
them announced several days, even seYeral months
in ad,•ance, the day, hour and minute of the
invasion and return of epileptic fits. The other
indicated the time of his cure. Their previs..
CONCLUSIONS. 171
ions were realized with a remarkable precJslon
and exactitude. They seemed to us applie<.l only
to acts or lesions of their own organi::;m. 26. We
met but one somnambule who indicated the symp-
toms of tl1e diseases of three other persons with
whom they had been put in communication. Yet
we bad been making investigations about that
faculty on a pretty large number of individuals.
27. In order to establish with correctness the rela-
tion of magnetism with therapeutics, it would be
necessary to have observed the effects of it on a
great uumber of persons, and made, a long time,
and every day, experiments on the same patients.
The commission, not having done this, ought to
have cotllented itself with saying what it saw in a
too sm nll number of cases to dare to pronounce its
jU<lgment. 28. Some of the magnetized patients
felt no good from it. Others felt a relief, viz. the
one, the suspension of habitual pains, another
regained his strength ; a third one felt a delay of
many months in the return of the epileptic fits,
and a fomth the complete cure of a grave and
long-continued palsy. 29. Considered as an agent
of physiological phenomena, or as a therapeutical
means, magnetism should be ranked within the
frame of medical knowledge, and consequently
physicians alone ought to usc and watch O\'er it, as
it is already practised in the northern countries of
Europe. 30. The commission could not verify,
172 CONCLUSIONS.
because it had no opportunity to do so, other facul-
ties that magnetizers had announced as existing
in somnambules. But it bas collected facts impor-
tant enough to allow it to believe that the Acad-
emy should encourage andfavor researches on
magnetism, as being a very curious branch of
psychology and natural history.
