{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__monk___awful_disclosures_supplemental.pdf","mytitle":"Awful Disclosures Supplemental","mylang":"de"}
I I
I·
•
• 0
,AWFUL DISCLOSURES,
BY
MARIA ·MONK,
OrTHB
HOTEL DIEU NUNNERY OF MONTREAL,
REVISED, WITH AN
APPENDIX:,
CONT..llNlNO,
l'AnT I. RECEPTION OF THE _riBST BDITIONl!.
PART II. SEQUEL OF HEll NARRATIVBI
PART III. REVIE\T OF THE CASJ:,
A L S O, A S UP P L E M E N T,
IIVIWG XORB I'A.£TlCl:LAns 01' TilE NUNNBRY AND 01lOtTNDa.
O.LUSTRATED BY A PLAN OF THE NUNNERY, &e.
NEW-YORK:
PUBLISHED BY MARIA fdO_
NK,
AND ROLD DY BOOKSELLERS.GENERALLY.
1836•
I •
I • I ~
158959
~ lllft.BUD,
Accordinl to Act of Courress, in the JOV 18301 bJ
MARIA MONK,
Ia the Clerk'• Office ofthe Diatric\ Court of tbe Southtm Dla&rict of
PWTOU,
lriUOl'ftiD IT ft.UIC18 •• IUPLn'
IQIWTOU.
l'
-
.•..
.,..
,..-~~~~~==:=!!!!!~~='!!=:=!!!!!~~~~-- ...........IIB!!!!~--­
!IOTaa D.ud ST&J:.. . .:.:: ; --a
Aqpe ud Wueho... fuiuc Notre Dame IUeel
Yud. ,
158959
" •"'... I
• ElftDJm,
Aeeordiul toAct orCODII'ellr in the JO&r .... bJ
MARIA MONK,
1Q the Clerk'• Office oflbe Distrid Court of tbe Southtm Dil\rict o&
ldWTOU.
JL
Yud. ,
----~--::--':""::':--IE
-········-··-·· .,.
til
~~~~=========1~
FRONT VIEW OF THE HOTEL DIEU, AND PLAN ~p THE NUNNERY GROUNDS.
I
·.:,
-o{
m,
fro
(:U:
all
ev'
COl
Re
'Wf
me
·lie
I
..,
PREFACE.
Tats volume embraces the contents of the first editions
"'f my II Awful Disclosures," together with the Sequel or
my Narrative, giving an account of events after my escape
from the Nunnery, and of my return to Montreal to pTa-
cure a legal investigation of my charges. It also furnishes
all the testimony that bas been published against me, ot
every description, as well as that which ·has been given in
confirmation of my story. At the close, wilJ be found a.
Review of the whole Subject, furnished by a gentleman
"Yell qualified for the purpose; and, finally, a short Supple-
ment, giving further particulars interesting to the pub-
·lic.
r I present this volume to the reader, with feelings which,
I trust, will be in some degree tq~preciated when it has been
read and retlecte(\ upon. A hasty pertkal, and an imper-
·fect apprehension of its contents, can never produce snell
impressions as it has been my design to make by the state-
ments I have laid before the world. I know that misap-
·prehensions exist in the minds of S<fDe virtuous people. I
cam not disposed to condemn their motives, for it does not
seem wonderful, that in a pure state of society, and in the
·midst of .Christian families, there should be persons wha
regard t~e crimes f ·have mentioned as too monstrous to be
·bellev.e.d. It certainly is creditable to American mannth .
4 P&EJ'AOE.
and character, that the ptople are inclined, at th~ Ji•.;&
sight, to turn from my story with horror.
There is also an excuse for those, who, having received
only a general impression concerning the nature of my
Disclosures, question the propriety of publishing :.uch im-
morality to the world. They fear that the miuds of the
young at lea.'lt may be polluted. To such I have to say,
&hat this objection was examined, and set aside, long before
&hey had an opportunity to make it. I solemnly believe it
is necessary to inform parents at least, that the ruin from
which I have barely escaped, lies in the w,o_(their child-
ren, even if delic:1cy must be in some degree wounded by
revealing the fact. I understand the case, alas I from &oo
bitter experience. Many an innocent girl may this year
be exposed to the dangers of which I was ignorant. I am
l'esolved, that so far as depends on me, not one more victim
ahall fall into the hands of those enemies in whose power I
10 lately have been. I know what it is to be under the do-
minion of Nuns and Priests ; and I maintain, that it is a
far greater offence ag&Wt virtue and decency to concea~,
thin to proclaim their crimes. Ah J had a single warning
Toice even whispered to me a word of caution, had even a
gentle note of alarm been sounded to me, it might have
turned back my foot from the Convent when it was upon
the threshold I If, therefore, there is any one now bending
a step that way, whom I have not yet alarmed, I will cry
1 ' Ntt1crel
i But the virtuous reader need not fear, in the following
pages, to meet with nee presented in any dress but her own
deformity. No one can accuse me of giving a single at-
uaetion to crime. On the contrary, I intend my book ·
ahall be a warning to those who may hereafter be tempted
by vice ; and with the confidence that such it will prove to
be, I commend it to the careful examination of Tirtuons
parents, and am willing to abide by their unbiased ·opiD·
iu, with reprd both to my truth, my motives, aad the ill·
,.
~j
II
h
al
tt
c
tb
ht
w
c
le
·ct
ol
DE
en
de
to
-
m:
be
ha
tht
fCI
'rest which the public have m the developmen~ it eon..
tains.
1 wcn!d now appeal to the worhl, and t.sk, whether I
have not none all tha.t could have been expected of me,
and all that ·lay in my power, to bring to an investigation
the charges I have brought against the priests and nuns of
Canada. Although it was necessary to the cause of truth,
that I ~hould, in some degree, implicate myself, I have not
hesitatet\ to appear as a voluntary self-accuser before the
worht.. While there was a hope that the authorities in
Canada might be prevailed upon to bring the subject to a
legal investigation, I travelled to Montreal, in a feeble state
·of hcsl!h, and with an infant in my arms only three weeks
olll. In the face of many threats and dangers, I spent
nearly a month in that city, in vain attempts to bring my
cause to a trial. When all prospect of success in this un-
dertaking had dis3ppcared, and not till then, I determined
to make my accusations through the press; and, although
misrepresentations an·d scandals, ftattery and fear, have
been resorted to, to nullify or to suppress my testimony, I
have persevered, although, as many of my frier,ds have
thought, at the risk of abduction or death.
1have, I think, atfordecl every opportunity that could loe
reasonably P.Xpected, to judge of my credibility. I ha 'le
appealed to he existence of things in the Hotel Dieu Nn'l-
nery, as the great criterion of the trnth of my story. I ha '/e
described the apartments, and now, in this volume, have
·added many further particulars, with such a draft of tiJem
as my memory has enable<\ me to make. I have offered, in
cn.se I should be proved an impostolj to submit to anyp'!ll1-.
..
ishment which may be proposed-efen to a redeliv-ery into
the hands of my bitterest enemie5, to sufl'eT what they may
please to inflict. ,
Now, in these circumstances, I would ask the people ot
the United States, whether my duty bas not been discharg-
t><ll Have [ not done what I ought, to inform and to alarm
them 1 I would al:-o solemnly appeal to the Governmm
-t• 0 .. , .. , _
G
of Great Britain, under whose guardianship is the pr"
iDee oppressed by the gloomy institution from which I han
escaped, and ask, whether such atrocities ought to be toler-
ated, and even protected, by an enlightened and Christian
power 1 I trust the hour is near, when the dens of the Ho-
tel Diell will be laid open, when the tyrants who have pal-
luted it will be brought out, with the wretched victims~
their oppression and crimes.
eJ
OJ
Cl
Cl
Oil
C'll
'
CONTENTS.
~APTill\ 1 &JIL'I' bOOLUCl'l'JOK8•• ••••• • ••• ••• • •" • • •· • •••• 11
E&rl7 Ufe-Religloua Education negleeted-Firat Schoole-En·
trance into the School of the Congreptlonal Nunnery-Brief Ac-
count of the Nunnerlea in Montreal-The Cougre~onal Ntm·
Dery-Tbe Black Nunnery-The Grey Nunne1'7:-PUbllc Reapect
for tbeae lnatltutlone-lnltructlon Recelvecf-:.Tbe Catecbl.iin-
ThoiSlble.
~· ··
eBAPTER D. COKouo.ATII)N.t.L Nol'OIBB'I' •••·:...•• ••••• •••• ••• 19
Sto1'7: told by a fellow Pupil anlnlt a Prlelt-Other Storte.:-
Pretty Mary-Confess to Father'lticharda-.Mr aubaequent Con-
fealfone-Left the Congregational Nunnery.
OBAPrER Dl. Br..t.cJt N~........................••. •••. 21
Pre~ona to become a Ncmce in the Black Nunnery-Ell·
tranee-oceupatluna of the Noricea-Tbe Apartmenta to which
ther bad Access-First lntemew with Jane Ray-Reverence for
the Superior-Her Rellque.-The Holr Good Shepherd, or name-
lea Nun-ConfeuJon of NoYices.
Clii.API'BR IV•••••••••.•••••••••••••, •,•••,•••••••••, •• , •,,•••, I&
Dla)lleaaed with the Convent-Left It-Residence at St. Denla-
ReUqu•-.Marrtqe-Retum to the Black Nunnery-objectlout
made bJtome Noricee-ldeu of the Bible.
CliiA.PJ'BR v.................••.......•.·
.••..•...•• .••..••... 41
Kecelnd Conftrmatlon-Pifnful Feellnp-8peclmen oflnstrue-
dona·recelnd on the Subject.
CIIAP1'BR.VI.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 4C
Taklug the Vell-lntemew afterward with the 8nperlor-11Qr.
pdle and horro~ at her DilcloiUl'cs-RetoludoD to aubmlt.
CIIAPI'BIL VB••••••••••••••••••I ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I • ~· . .
Dall7 Oeremonlu-Jane Ba7 amoq the Nau.
(,"8qq'BR, vm ••••.•••••••.••.•••••••.•••..••••••••••••••••••• •
Delc:ription of Apartmeota In the Black Nunnery, In order-lat
J'laol'-ail Jl'loor-Tbe Fo1Ulder-8uperior'• ~emeat with tile
l'rlel* of Ncmce~ tiu-CrlmiDaJitj' of ooao....,
-atCoafalloa.
• CONTENTS.
CHAPI'ER IX ..•...•... 'II ••••••••••••••••••••••••• I • • • • • • • • • • • •
Nuns with similar names-Squaw Nuns-First vlllit to the Cel•
lar-DescriJitlon of It-Shocking Discovery there-Superior's In·
struetlons-Private Signal of the Priests-Books used In the Nun•
nery.....:Oplnions expressed ofthe Bible-Specimen• of whatI know
of the SCriptures.
«"nnAP1'ER X •, , •. , •,, , , .. , ••, •.••..•••.••.• , •..•• ,, , •.•• , .,•,., 87
ManufacturP. of Bread, and Wax Candles, carried on In the Con.
vent-Superetitions-Scapularies-VirginMary'spincushion-ller
House-The Bishop'II power over fire-My Instructions to Novice•
-Jane Ray-Vacillation of feelings. ·
CIIA.PTER XI...................... -a ••• '"'' ..................... ,, W
Alarming Order fr:om the Superior-Proceed to execute It-
Scene in an upper Room-Sentence of Death, and Murder-~ly
own distress-Reports made to friends of St. Francis.
CIIAP'rER XII.• ~ ...•••.••.••.•••••.••••••..•...••..••...••. , •• 1M.
Description of the Room of the Three States, and the Picturt'l!J
In It-Jane Ray ridiculing Priests-Their criminal Treatment of
us at Confess1on-Jane Ray's Tricks with the Nun's Aprons,
Handkerchief<~, and Nightgowns-Apples.
CDAPrER Xm. .................................................. 118
Jane Ray's Tricks continued-The Broomstick Ghost-Sleep·
walking-&lted Cider-Changing Beds-Objects of some of her
Tricks-Feigned llumility-Alann-Treatment of a new Nun· ·A
Nun made oyatratagem.
CIIA'PTER XV, .. , , ,., •...• ,, , .. , , ,... ,••., ,., , .. , •.. , •.,••... , . 136
lnftnencing Novices-Difficulty of convincing Persons from the
United States-Tale of the Bishop in the City-The Bishop in the
"Convent-The Prisoners in the Cells-Practice In Singing-Nar•
ratives-Jane Ray's Hymns-The Superior's best Trick.
CIIA'Il'rER XVI..••..• , • .•..• , .. , ...... , .. , ,..••..... , ,. , , ,, , , 1~
Frequency of the Priests' Visits to the Nunnery-Their Free.
dom and Cnrnes-Difficulty of learning their Names-'l'heir Holy
Retreat-Objec.tions In our minds-1\leans used to c.ounteract
Conscience-Ingenious Arguments. ·
CBAPTER XVU., ••.•• ,, •...••..••.•••.•••.....• , .. ,, .• ,, ••.•• 15ft
Treatment of 1.oung Infants in the Convent-Talking~~ Sleep-
Amuaemerats-Ceremonieli at the public interment of deceaied
Nuns-Sudden disappearance of the Old Superior-Introduction
" of the new one-Superlltitlon-Alarm ofa Nun-Ditftculty ofCQ1D.
munication with otllel' Nuns.
CIIA.'PI'ER xvm.............................................. t&t
DiaappeariUJ.ce of Nuns-St. Pierr~"'[s-My temporary Coo-
tln~ment in a Cell-The Cholera Seaaon-How to avoid lt-Oeeu.
Jaations In tbe Convent ~Juring tho Pelltilcnce-Man\lfaetun of
CD.
CH
..
CB.J
CD
COKTBKr&
Wu Cancnc.-The Election Riot»-Alarm amoa, the Kuu--Pre·
paratlon• for Defence-Penance..
c::!JAFI'ER XIX. , •••• ••••• .. • •••• ••••• ••••• •••••••••••••• •••• •• 18()
Tbe Priests of the Di1trlct of MontreAl ba'fe free aeeeu to the
Black Nunnery-Crime• committed and required by tbo.:n-The
Pope'• C".,ommand to commit Indecent Crlmeit-Charaeten of the
OJ.d and New Superion-The timidity of the latter-1 bepn to be
employed In the Bosj)ital.-Some account orthem-W&rllinlllYeli
me by a 1lck Nun-Penan•• by Baagiq. .
CHAPI'ER XX ••••••• ,••••, •••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••, •• ••• 181
More visits to the impriaoned Nun.-Thelr fears-Others tem·
porarill put Into the Cells-ltelique.-The .Agnue Del-The
Prlellta prlnte Bosplta~ or Holy ltetreat-8ecret Jtoom1 In the
Eaatern Wln1-1teports of Murdera In the Con'fent-The Buperl·
or'• prl'fate Records-Number of Nuns In the Con'fent-Dellre of
Elcap~11rgent reason (l)r lt-Plm-Detiboratioa-&Uemp&--8uc·
CQM,
APPENDIX.
L RECEPTION OF THE FIRST EDmOKI:l
.I.Donymoa1 handbill, m'T-Montreal Adldulbl, 210-LeUor or T. II•
.llcMabon, 226,-)gtraeta from American Papers, ZU-Jteply to
the Montreal Affidavlt~t ZJ3-New York CertUic:atea uad .ulda'riC..
:ur-Cballeqe to the Romua prieata, lM&.
D. SEQUEL TO TBB NARRATIVB.
...-~a. ............................•....................•...•• S5
"''A.PI'ER I••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• SI&J
At Uberty-Dotlbtful what to do.:o;-Found reru,e for tbe Dltht-
Dlappolntment--117 flnt day out of th~ Oonnnt-8ollttad~
coUee~n11, Jean, uad plaa1.
CDIAPJ'BR D •• •••••••••••• •••• ••••.• ••• ••••• •••• •••• ••••••• ••• 181
lkart for Qaebec-ReeO(Illled-DI~polntod apln-!fot ~
JD!Ued to land.-Return to Montreal-L&Ddod and ~ed lhroup
tbe city before day-Lachine Cuaal-llltended doN or my Ufe.
CIJAPI'BR m.....••......•..•.•...•..••...•..•.......••..••••. .,
Awalre &IDOft( fir&n~en-Dr. Roberwoo-lmprl801led U a fto
lftD&-Introduellon to mrmnther-I!Cayln her hou~e-ltemcwal
hal It to llrL llc:Donald•.-Retum to m7 IDothK'.-DHire tolei
10 NewYork-Arrqementl iN' plq.
10 COJITENTL
OIIAft'Eit IY., , •••• ••••••••••••••••••• .• •••••• •.•••• , ••••,, ~ •• 178
8IJ11Uiar concurrence of circumstance!!, whlr.h enabled me to
cet to the United Stat~lntentiona in roing there-Commence
my journey-Feara of'Any companion-stop at WhitehAll-Injury
reeeiTed in a Canal boat-Arrival at New York-A 10Utary retreat.
wmp
OIIAnER V ••••••••••• , •.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••• ~
R.edectlons and sorrows ln solitude-Night-Fears-Exposure
to rain-Discovered by strangers-'l'heir unwelcoJDe kb:dneu-
Taken to the Bellevue Almshouse.
CIIA~R VL ••••••••••••••••••••••• ,.~•••••••••••·••••••••••• ~
Reception at the Almahouse-Message from Mr. Conroy, a Ro-
man pr1est in New York-Ilia inviu.:.ioul'l to a private lRteniew-
Hia claims, propositions, and threats-Mr. Kelly's meuago-Ef·
feets of re:W&ng·the Bihle.
CIIAPrER VII••••••• I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I • • • • I • • • • • • • • '$/
Proposition to go. to Montreal and testify lijrainst the prieD-
Commencement of my journey-Stop at Troy, Whitehall, Bur-
Ungtont..St. Alban's, Plattsburgh, and St. John'a-Arrival at Mon·
treai-Keftections on passin:; the Nunnery, &c.
CHAPTER IX•••.••• I • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • :r11
R.eeelved into a hospitable family-Fluctuating feellnp-Visita
from several persona-Father Pht~lan's <.teclarAtiona against me In
hie churr.h-lntervlews with a Journeyman Carpenter-Argo·
menta with him.
CDAP'I'ER X ••.••••••••••••••••••••••• •·•••••·• ••••·•• •••••••• 313
Milkman-An Irishwoman-Difficulty In having my AJBdavit ta-
ken-Legal objection to it \Vhen taken. ·.
CIIAPI'ER XI. , •••••••••••.•• ,•• ,••••••••• ••.•••••••••••• .•• ,•• 318
Interview \vlth the Attorney General of the Province-Attempt
to abduct me-More inteniews-A mob excited against me-Pro-
tected by two soldiers-Convinced that an Investigation of my
eharre• r.ould not be obtained-Departure from Montreal-Closlnc
refteedona.
Ul. UVIEW OF THE WHOLE 8l'"'ECT.
YJm Tao'l'u ov TBB "AWYOL DucLOsuua BY MAJUA Mo;-" D:&·
•o•.u.a.Tm........................
.......................... :..•• ~
• Different classes of Objectors-Question of probability-Wit·
ne11c1 in favour-CorrobOrations-Circumatantial evtdence-Pa.
,P.ia& books warr.ant thetw erlme~t-&tracta-IJat ofprleata aecn In
the Nunnery.
SUPPLEMENT.
o-..noJC OP TD N17KJCDT1 &e. IK 'I'D FllOM'I'IIPIJICII. •• • ••• • • • 85C
Errora corrected-AdditionAl partleulara about the tnterlor oC
tiMt Mwmery-The Nwmer7 Grounda.
re1
IDI
cit
Jo
W:
m
si
al
-..,
t1
li
AWFUL DISCLOSURES.
CHAPTER L
BA.RLY RECOLLEOTIONI.
Barr. Llfe-Religioul Education n.eglectuZ-Pirst St:luxb-
Entrance into the School ofthe Congregational Nunnery-
BriefAccount ofthe Nunneri.~s in Mvntreal- The Con.gre-
. gati.on.al Nunnery-~ Black Nunnery- The Grey Nun--
tury-Public Re1pectfor these lnsti.tutioru-Instruction Ro-
cei'Ped-The Catechism-The Bible.
·My parents.were bot~ from Scotland, but had been
resident in Lower Canada some time before their
marriage, which took place in Montreal; and in that
city I have spent most of my life. I was born at St.
John's, where they lived for a shQrt time. My father
was an officer under the British government, and my
mother has enjoyed a pension on that account ever
since his death.•
According to my earliest recollections, he was
attentive to,his family; and a particular passag&from
the Bible, which o~en occurred to my mind in after
life, I may very probably have been taught by him, as
• See the amdavito!Wdliam Miller, in the Appendix.
12 .ARL\" RBCOLLECTIONI,
after his death I do not recollect to have received any
religious instruction at home; and was n~t even
brought up to read the scriptures: my mother, al-
though nominally a Protestant, not being accustom·
ed to pay attention to her children in this respect
She was rather inclined to think well of the Catho·
lies, and often attended their churches. · To my want
of religious instruction at home, and the ignorance
of my Creator, nnd my duty, which was its natural
effeei; I think I can trace my introduction to Con·
vents, and the scenes which I am to describe in this
narrative.
When about six or seven years of age, I went to
school to a Mr. Workman, a Protestant, who taught
in Sacrament-street, and remained several months.
There I learned to read and write, and arithmetic as
far as division. All the progress I ever made in
those branches was gained in that school, as I have
never improved in any of ihem since.
A number of girls of my acquaintance went to
school to the nuns of the Congregational Nunnery,
or Sisters of Charity, as they are sometimes ~lled.
ThE' schools taught by them are perhaps more ·DU·
merous than some of my readers may imagine.
Nuns are sent out from that Convent to many of the
towns and villages ofCanada to teach small schools ;
and some of them are established as instructressf!l8
in different parts of the United States. When I was
about ten years old, my mother as~ed me one day
if I should not like to learn to read and write
French; and I then began to think seriously ofat.
.. I' . · .
a
the
Sup
alw
doo
she
we]
~
the
wri
ho'
de\
en!
pet
re~
the
islJ
EARLY RECOLLECTIONS, 13
tending the school in the Congregational Nunnery.
I had already some acquaintance with that language,
sufficient to speak it a little, as I heard it every day,
and my mother knew something of it.
. I have n. distinct recollection of my first entrance
into the Nunnery; andthe day was an important one
in my life, as on it commenced my acquaintan~e
with a Convent. I was conducted by some of my
young friends along N6tre Dame-street till . we
reached the gate. Entering that, we walked some
distance along the side of a )>Uilding towards the
chapel, until we reached a door, stopped, and rung a
bell. This was soon opened, and entering, we pro-
ceeded through a long covered passage till we took
a short turn to the left, soon after which we reached
the door of the school-ronm. On my entrance, the
Superior met me, and told me first of all, that I must
always dip my fingers into the holy water at her
door, cross myself, and say a short prayer; and this
she told me was always required of Prote~tant as
well as Catholic children.
There were about fifty girls in the school, and
the _
nuns professed to teach something of reading,
writing, arithmetic, alld geography. The methods
however were very imperfect, and little attention was
devoted to them, the time being in a great degree
engrossed with lessons in needle-work, which was
performed with much skill. The nuns had no very
regular parts assigned them in the management of
the schools. They were rather rough and unpol-
ished in their manners, often exclaiming, uc'est un
2 ..J ;.. •
.·
14
menti," (that's a lie,) and ,. mon Dieu," (my God,)
on the most trivial occasions. Their writing was
quite poor, and it was not uncommon for them to put
a capital letter in the middle of a word. The only
book on geography which we studied, was a cate-
chism of geography, from which we learnt by heart
a few questions and answers. We were sometimes
referred to a map, but it was only to point out ~Ion­
treal or Quebec, or some other prominent name,
.while we had no instruction beyond.
It may be necessary for the information of some
of my readers, to mention that there are three dis-
tinct Convents in Montreal, all of different kinds ;
that is, founded on different plans, and governed by
different -rules. Their names are as follows:-
1st. The Congregational Nunnery.
2d. The B1ack Nunnery, or Convent of Sister
Bourgeoise.
3d. The Grey Nunnery.
The first of these professes to be devoted entirely
to the education of girls. It would require however
only a proper examination to prove that, with the ex-
ception of needle-work, hardly any thing is taught
excepting prayers and the catechism ; the instruction
in reading, writing, &c., in fact, amounting to very
. little, and often to nothing. This Convent is adja-
cent to that next to be spoken of, being separated
from it only by a wall. · The second professes to
be a charitable institution for the care of 'the sick.
and the supply of bread and medicines for the poor;
and something is done in these departments of char-
ity,
Nu~
waU
two '
Gre;
inm1
It
men1
othe:
all, l
by tJ
nam
ever
In t
• asp]
nun:
F
of tl
jects
cnt1
•'I
•
EARLY RECOLLECTION•• us
ity, although but an insignificant amount, compared
with the size of the buildings, and the numbor of
the inmates.
The Gl'ey Nunnery, which is situated in a dis·
rant part of tqe city, is also a large edifice, contain·
ing departments for the care of insane persons an''
foundlings. With this, however, I have less personal
acquaintance than with either of the others. I have
often seen two of the Grey nuns, and know that
·their rules, as well as those of the Congregational
Nunnery, do not confine them always within their
walls, like. those of the Black Nunnery. These
two Convents have their common names (BI~ck and
Grey) from the colours of the dresses worn by their
inmates.
In all these three Convents, there are certain apart-
ments into which strangers can gain admittance. but
others from which they are always excluded. In
all, large quantities of various aments are made
by the nuns, which are expoit·.... for sale in the Or.
nament Rooms, and afford large yecuniary receipts
every year, which contribc.te much to their incomes.
In these rooms visiters often purchase such things
as please themfrom some of the old• and confHential
nuns who have the charge of them.
From all that appears to the public eye, the nuns
of these Convents are devoted to the charitable ob-
jects appropriate to each, thelabour ofmaking differ-
ent articles, known to be manufactured by them, and
• Tha term "old nun.'' does not alwaye indicate superior aae.
·16 &ABLY RBCOLLBCTIONI.
the religtous observances, which occupy a large por·
tion of their time. They are regarded with much
respect by the people at large; and now and then
when a novice takes the veil, she is supposed tore·
tire from the temptations and troubles of this v:orld
into a state of holy seclusion, where, by prayer, self.
mortification, and good deeds, she prepares herself
for heaven. Sometimes the Superior of a Convent
obtains the character of working miracles; and
when such a one dies, it is published through the
country, and crowds throng the Convent, who think
indulgences are to be derived from bits of her clothes
or other things she has possessed; and many have
sent articles to be touched to her bed or chair, in
which a degree of virtue is thought to remain.
I used to participate in such ideas and feelings, and
began by degrees to look upon a nun as the happiest
of women, and a Convent as the most peaceful, holy,
and delightful place of ~bode. It is true, some pains
were taken to impress such views upon me. Some
of the priests of the Seminary often visi~d the Con·
grego.tional Nunnery, and both catechised and
talked with us on religion. The Superior of the
Black Nunnery adjoining, also, occasionally came
into the School, enlarged on the advantages we
enjoyed in having such teachers, and dropped some·
thing now and then relating to her own Convent, .
calculated to make us entertain the highest ideas of
it, and ~o make us sometimes think of the possibility
of getting into it.
Among the instructious given us by the prie..ccts,
God·,
it ~
conti
the ll
I wi
Petit
but 1
ans"
from
as I
whi<
thel
ansv
and
read
of rn
Q
tous
B
qu'il
Q
men
.A
lbell
,
r
....---· . ..,::.
KARL1' RKOOLLKCTIOXI. 17
aome of the most pointed were those directed against
the Protestant Bible. 'rhey often enlarged upon the
evil tendency of that book, and told us that but for it
many a soul now condemned to hell, and suffering
eternal punishment, might have been in happiness.
They could not say any thing in its favour: for that
would be speaking against religion and against
God. They warned us against it, and represented
it as a thing very dangerous to our souls. In
confirmation of this, they would repeat some of
the answers taught us at catechism, a few of which
I will here give. We had little catechisms (" Le
Petit Catechism'') put into our hands to study;
but the priests soon began to t~ch us a new set of
answers, which were not to be found in our books,
from some of which I received new ideas, and got,
as !'thought, important light on religious subjects,
which confirmed me more and mCire in my belief in
the Roman Catholic doctrines. These questions and
answe~:s I can still recall with tolerable accuracy.
and some of them I will add here. I never have
read them, as we were taught them only by word
of mouth.
Question. u Pourquoi le bon Dieu n'a pas fait
tous les commandemens ~
Reponse. "Parce que l'homme n'est pas si fort
qu'il peut garder tons ses commandemens.
Q. " Why did not God make all the command·
ments~
A. " Because ynan is not strong enough to.keep
them. .,..
2•
18 8.\RLT R8COLL8CTIOJIII.
And another. Q. " Pourquoi l'homme ne lit paa
J'Evangile t
R. "Paree que !'esprit de l'homme est trop born'
ct trop falble pour eomprendre qu'eat ee que Dieu m
4erit.
Q. " Why are men not to read the New Testa-
ment t"
A. " Because the mind of man is too limited and
weak to underatand what God has written."
~~ These f1Uestions and answers are not to be found
in the common enter.hisms in use .in Montreal and
other places where I have been, but all the children
in the Congregntional .Nunnery were taught them,
and many more not fo1::1d in these boob.
full
so ll
cou.
s
he •
any
she
A ·
nnd
wo·
hin
mo
bat
it;
ot~
I
8
'
l
I
I
H APTER II.
Storreold ~afeU~ Pupil a1alut c& Prleii-Othw &on.-
Prelly Ma.ry-Corife.. to ~ RW&arb-MyMltql&m'
Corifu•ion.-Lif: the Conve,a.tlm&a.l Nunnery.
TazRB was a girl thirteen years old whom I
kne\v in the Schoo], who resided in the neighbour·
hnod of my mother, and with whom I had been
filmiliar. She told me o~e day at school of the
' conduct of a priest with her at confession, at which
I was astonished. It was of10 criminal and shame·
ful a nature, I could hardly believe it, and yet I had
so much confidence that she spoke the truth, that I
could not discredit it.
She was partly persuaded by the priest to believe
he could not sin, because he was a priest, and that
any thing he did t~ her would sanctify her; and yet
she seemed somewhat doubtful how she should act.
A priest, she had been told by him, is a holy man,
and appointed to a holy office, and therefore what
would be wicked in other men, could not be so in
him. She told me that she had informed her
mother of it, l_Vho expressed no anger nor disappro-
bation, but only enjoine~ it upon her not to speak of
it; and remarked to her, that as priests were not like
other men, but holy, and sent to instruct and a.ve·
us, whatever they did was r-
ight. --
I
,I
20 CONGREGATIONAL NUNNERY.
1 afterward confessed to the priest that I had
heard the story, and had a penance to perform for
indulging a sinful curiosity in making inquiries;
and the girl had another for communicating it. I
afterward learned that other children had been
treated in the same manner, and also of similar pro-
(eedings in other places.
Indeed, it was not long before such language wns
used to me, and I well remember how my views of
right and wrong were shaken by it. Another girl·
at the School, from a place above Montreal, called
the Lac, told me the. following story of what had
occurred recently in that vicinity. A young squaw,
called Ia Belle Marie, (pretty Mary,) h~d been seen
going to confession a~ the house of the priest, who
lived a little out ofJ.he village. La Belle Marie
was afterward missed, and her murdered body was
found in the river. A knife was also found cov-
ered with blood, bearing the priest's name. Great
indignation· was excited among the Indians, and
the priest immediately absconded, and was never
heard from again. A note was found on his table
addressed to him, telling him to fly if he was guilty.
It was supposed that the priest was fearful that
his conduct might be betrayed by i.his young female;
and he undertook to clear himself by killing her.
These stories struck me with surprise at first, but
I gradually began to feel differently, even supposjng
them true, and to look upon' the priests as men in~
eapable of sin; besides, when I first ·went to con-
fession, which I did to Father Richards, in the old
Fre
imp
tim•
and
eve1
ihe
&to<
not
bee
ili.iJ
]
[ h
wh
and
me
be<
qu•
wh
ha1
Scl
pu·
nu
fre
ref
th~
.
WI
of
A1
an
ve
CONGREGATIONAL NUNNERY, 21
: French church, (since taken down,) I heard nothing
, improper ; and it was not until I had been several
· times, that the priests became more and more bold,
and were at length indecent in their questions and
even in their conduct when I confessed to them in
&he Sacristie. This subject I believe is not under·
~ood nor suspected among Protestants; and it is
not my intention to speak of it very particularly,
beca~se it is impossible to do so without saying
lhings both shameful and demoralizing.
I will only say here, that when quite a child,
l had from the mouths of the priests at confession
what I cannot repeat, with treatment corresponding;
and several females in Canada have recentlyassured
me, that they have repeatedly, and indeed regularly,
been required to answer the same ·and other like
questions, many of which present to the mind deeds
which the most iniquitous and corrupt heart could
~ hardly invent.
There was a frequent change of teachers in the
School of the Nunnery; and no regular system was
pursued in our instruction. There were many
nuns who carne and went while I was there, being
frequently called in and out without any perceptible
reason. They supply school teachers to many of
the countrytowns, usually two for each of the towns
with which I was acquainted, besides sending Si.sters
of Charity to different parts of the United States.
Among those whom I saw most, was Saint Patrick,
an old woman for a nun, (that is, about forty,)
very ignorant, and gross in her manners, with quite
2! CONGREGATIONAL NUNNERY.
a beard on her face, and very cross and disagree-
able. She was sometimes our teacher in sewing,
and was appoi;nted to keep order among us. We
were allowed to enter only a few of the rooms in the
Congregational Nunnery, although it was not con
sidered one of the secluded Convents.
· In the Black Nunnery, which is very near the
Congregational, is an hospital for sick people from
the city; and sometimes some of our boarders, such
as were indisposed, were sent there to be cured. I
.was once taken ill myself and sent there, where I
remained a few days.
There were beds enough for a considerable num-
ber more. A physician attended it daily; and
there are a number of the veiled nuns of that Con-
vent who spend most of their time there. ,
'rhese would also sometimes read lectures and
repeat prayers to us.
After I had been in the Congregational Nun-
nery about two years, I left it,• and attended several
different schools for a short time ; but I soon be-
came dissatisfied, having many and severe trials to
endure at home, which my feelings will not allow
me to describe ; and as my Catholic acquaintances
had often spoken to me in favour of their faith, I was
inclined to believe it true, although, as I before said.
I knew little of any religion. While out of the nun-
nery, I saw nothir.g of religion. If I had, I believe
I should never hav~ thought of becoming a nun.
• See the 2d atlidllvh.
' •
and
Semi1
Th
Rocq1
the o]
Bon :
calle(
place:
rang
hear~
come
ping.
wore
predE
theh
edific
Nun
stree
all th
CHAPTER III.
BLACK NUNNERY.
Preparatioru to become a NO'Dice in theBlack~Nunnery-En­
trance-Occupations of the NO'Dices-'I"'u Apartments to
tDhich they had Access-First lnleniew with Jane Ray-.-
Reverence for the Superior-Her Reliques-Tlte Holy Good
Shepherd, or nameless Nun-Confession of Novices.
AT length I determined to become a Black nun,
and called upon one of the oldest priests in the
Seminary, to whom I made known my intention.
The old priest to whom I applied was Father
Rocque. He is still alive. He was at that time
the oldest priest in the Seminary, and carried the
Bon Dieu, (Good God,) as the sacramental wafer is
called. When going to administer it in any country
place, he used to ride with a man before him, who
rang a bell as a signal. "\Vhen the Canadians
heard it, ~hose habitations he passed, they would
come and prostrate themselves to the earth, worship-
ping it as God. He was a man of great age, and
wore large curls, so that he somewhat resembled his
predecessor, Father Roue. He was at that time at
the head of the Seminary. This institution is a large
edifice., sitnated near the Congregational and Black
Nunneriec:., Qeing on the east side of NOtre Dame-
street. It is the general rendezvous and centre of
all the prieits in the District of Montreal, and, I have
BLACK NUNNERY.
been told, supplies all the country with prie~..s as
far down as Three Rivers, which place, I believe,
is under the charge of the Seminary of Quebec.
About one hundred and fifty priests are connected
with that of Montreal, as every small place has one
priest, and a number of larger ones have two.
Father Rocque promised to c.onverse with the Su-
perior of the Convent, and proposed my calling
again at the end of two weeks,at which time I visited
the Seminary again, and was introduced by him to
the Superior of the Black Nunnery. She.told me
she must make some inquiries, before she could
give me a decided answer ; and proposed to me to ·
take up my abode a few days at the house of a
French family in St. Lawrence suburbs, a distant
part of the city. Here I remainedabout a fortnight;
during which time I formed some acquaintance
with the family, particularly with the mistress of the
house, who was a devoted Papist, and had a high
respect for the Supe1·ior, with whom she stood on
good terms.
At length, on Saturdaymorning about ten o'clock,
I called and was admitted into the Black Nunnery,
as a novice, much to my satisfaction, for I had a
high idea of a life in a Convent, secluded, as I sup-
posed the inmates to be, from the world and all its
evil influences, and assured of everlasting happiness
in heaven. The Superior received me, and con-
ducted me into a large room, where the novices.
(who are called in French Postulantes,) were aa·
·"'
Sain
purs
wafe
to th
time
pecti
ner
perfc
not ·
erne
inn
that
reaf
allo·
tber
l
L•
g
d
0
e
d
.o
a
lt
..
'
BLACK KUHNKilY.
sembled, and engaged in their customary occupa-
tion of sewing.
Here were about forty of them, and they were
collected in groups in different parts of the room,
chiefly near the windows ; but in each group was
found one of the veiled nuns of the Convent, whose
abode was in the interior apartments, to which no
novice was to be admitted. As we entered, the Su·
perior informed the assembly that a new novice had
come, and she desired any present who might have
known me in the world to signify it.
Two Miss Fougnees, and a Miss Howard, from
Vermont, who had been my fellow-pupils in the
Congregational Nunnery, immediately recognised
me. .I was then placed in one of the groups, at a
distance from them, and furnished by a nun called
Sainte Clotilde, with materials to make a kind of
purse, such as the priests use to carry the consecrated
wafer in, when they go to administer the sacrament
to the sick. I well remember my feelings at that
time, sitting among a number of strangers, and ex·
pecting with painful anxiety the arrival of the din·
ner hour. Then, as I knew, ceremonies were to be
performed, for which I was but ill prepared, as I hacl
not yet heard the rules by which I was to be gov·
emed, and knew nothing of the forms to be repeated
in the daily exercises, except the creed in Latin, and
that imperfectly. This was during the time of ree·
reation, as it is called. The only recreation there
allowed, however, is that of the mind, and of this
there is but little. We were kept at work, and per·
3
26 BLA.CK NUNNEllY.
mitted to speak with each other only on such su}>.
jects as relate to the Convent, and all in the hearing
of the old nuns who sat by us. We proceeded to
~inner. in couples, and ate in silence while a lee·
ture was read.
The novices had access to only eight of the apart·
ments of the Convent; and whatever else·we wish-
ed to know, we could only conjecture. The sleep-
ing room was in the second story, at the end of the
western wing. 'fhe beds were placed in rows,
without curtains or any thing else to obstruct the
view; and in one corner was a small room partition-
ed off, in which was the bed of the night-watch, tha~
is, the old nun that was appointed to oversee us for
the night. In each side of the partition were two
holes, through which she could look out upon us
whenever she pleased. Her bed was a little raised
above the level of the others. There was a lamp
hung in the middle of our chamber, which showed
every thing to ~er distinctly; and as she had no
light in her little room, we never could ·perceive
whether she was awake or asleep. As we knew that
the slightest deviation from the rules would expose
us to her observation, as well as to that of our
companions, in whom it was a virtue to betray one
another's faults, as well as to confess our own, I
felt myself under a continual exposure to suffer what
I disliked, and had my mind occupied in thinking
of what I was to do next, and what I must avoid.
I soon learned the rules and ceremonies we haa.
to regard, which were many; and we had to be very
pa:
m
T~
tur
wo
anc
wa:
of :
mo1
waf
"\Ve
cen
cen
accc
I
girl
less
,.
,
l
BLACK NUNK.ERY. 27
particu)ar in their observance. '\Ve were employed
in different ldnds of work while I was a novice.
The most beautiful specimen of the nuns' manufac-
ture which I saw, was o. rich carpet made of fine
worsted, which had been begun before my acquaint-
ance with the Convent, and was finished while I
was there. This was sent as a present to the King
of England, as an expression of gratitude for the
money annually received from the government. It
was about forty yards in length, and very handsome.
'Ve were ignorant of the amount of money thus re-
ceived. The Convent of Grey Nuns has also re-
ceived funds from the government, though on some
account or other, had not for several years.
I was sitting by a window at one·time, with a
girl named Jane M•Coy, when one of the old nuns
came up and spoke to us in a tone of liveliness and
kindness which seemed strange, in a place where
every thing appeared s~ cold and reserved. Some
remark which she made was evidently intended to
cheer and encourage me, and made me think that
she felt some interest in me. I do not recollect what
she said, but I remember it gave me pleasure. I
also remember that her manner struck me singu-
larly. She was rather old for a nun, that is, proba-
bly thirty; her figure large, her face wrinkled, and
her dress careless. She seemed also to be under
less restraint than the others, and•this, I afterward
found, was the case. She sometimes even set the
rules at defiance. She would spealc aloud when
silence was required, and sometimes wallc about
BLACK XUNNBllY.
when she ought to have kept her place: she would
even ey and do things on purpose to make us
laugh; and although often blamed for her conduct,
had her offences frequently passed over, when others
would have bee~ punished with penances.
I learnt that this woman had always beensingular. .
She never would consent to take a saint's name on
receiving the veil, a~d had always been known by
her own, which was Jane Ray. Her irregularities
were found to be numerous, and penances were Q(
eo little use in governing her, that she was pitied by
some, who thought her partially insane. She was
therefore commonly spoken of as mad Jane Ray;
and when she committed a fault, it was often apolo-
gized for by the Superior or other nuns, on the
ground that she did not know what she did.
The occupations of a novice in the Black Nun-
nery are not ~uch as some of my readers may
suppose. ·
They are not employed in studying the
higher branches of education ; they are not offered
any advantages for storingtheir minds, or polishing
their manners i they are not taught even reading,
writing, or arithmetic ; much less any of the more
advanced branches of knowledge. My time was
chiefly employed, at first, jn work and prayers. It
is tru f', during the last yet!r I studied a great deal,
and was required to work but very little; but it was
the study of prayers in French and Latin, which I
bad merely to commit to memory, to prepare for the
easy repetition of them.on my reception, and after I
,;hould be admitted aa a nun.
A
in tl
gay
me c
first
upor
T
was
mg,
thro,
recei
remc
the I
join 1
to pa
cupu
only
and
with~
be
p
.,,
BLACK NUNN'&RY.
Among.the wonderful events which had happened
in the Convent, that of the sudden co_
nversion of a
gay young lady of the city into a nun, appeared'to
me one of the most remarkable. The story which I
first heard, while a novice, made a deep impression
upon my mind. It was nearly as follows:-
The daughter of a wealthy citizen of Montreal
was passing the church of Bon Secours, one even·
ing, on her way to a ball, when she was suddenly
thrown down upon the steps or near the door, and
received a severe shock. She was taken up, and
removed first, I think, into the church, but soon into ,
the Black Nunnery, which she soon determined to
join as a nun ; instead, however, of being required
to pass through a long novitiate, (which usual1y oc·
cupies about two years and a half, and is abridged
only where the character is peculiarly exemplary
and devout,) ·she was permitted to "take the veil
without delay; being declared by God to ~ priest to
be in a state flf sanctity, 'rhe meaning of this ex·
pr_
ession is, that she was a real saint, and already in
a great measure ·raised above the world and its in·
tluences, and incapable of sinning, possessing the
power ofintercession, and being a proper object to be
addressed in prayer. This remarkable individual!
wasfurther informed was still inthe Convent, though
I never was allowed to see her ; ~he did not mingle
with the other nuns, either at work, worship, or·
meals ; for she had no need of food, and·not only her
soul, but her body, was in heaven ·a great part of
the time. What added, if possible, to the reverence
a•
..
aud mysterious awe with which I thought of her,
wu the fact I learned, that she had no name. The
titles used in speaking of her were, the holy saint,
reverend mother, or saint bon pasteur, {the holy good
shepherd.)
It is wonderful that we could have carried our
reYerence for the Superior as far as we did, although
it was the direct tendency of many instructions and
regulations, indeed of the. whole system, to permit,
even to foster a superstitious regard for her. One
or us was occasionlly called into her room, to cut·
her nails, or dress her hair ; and we would often·
collect the clippings, and distribute them to each
other, or preserve them with the utmost car.,. I once
picked up all the stray hairs I could find, after comb-
ing her head, bound them together, and kept them
for some time, until she told me I was not worthy
to possess things so sacred. Jane M'Coy and I
were once sent to alter a dress for the Superior. I
gathered up all the bits of thread, made a little bag,
and put them into it for safe preservation. This I
wore a long time around my neck, so long, indeed,
that I wore out a number ofstrings, which, I remem•
ber, I replaced with new ones. I believed it to
possess the power of removing pain, and often pray·
~ to it'to cure the toothache, &c. Jane Ray somew
times professed to outgo us all in devotion to the"
Superior, and would pick up the feathers after ma·
king her bed. These she would distribute among
u, saying, "When the Superior· dies, reliques will
begia · to grow ·scarce, and you had better supply
you1
who
Equ
.
CaSIt
tote
som1
half
she
visi(
turn
don
And
inE
fear
she~
and 1
''
had
our
l
,.
BLACK: MVNNZR.'f. '81
younelves in season." Then she would t the
whole' matter in some way to turn it into ridicule.
Equally contradictory would she appear, when oc
casionally she would obtain leave from the Superior
to tell her dreams. With a serious face, which
sometimes imposed upon all of us, and made us
half beheve she was in a perfect state of sanctity,
she would narrate in rrench some unaccountable
vision which she said she had enjoyed. Then
turning round, would say, "There are some who
do not understand me; you all ought to be informed.''
And then she would say something totally different
in English, which put us to the greatest agosy for
fear of laughing. Sometimes she would say that,·
she expected to be Superior hers~If, one·ofthese days,
and other things which I have not room to repeat.
\Vhile I was in the Congregational Nunnery, I
had gone to the parisb church whenever I was to
confess; for although the nuns had a private con.
fession-room in the building, the boarders were ta-
ken in parties through the streets on different days
·by some of the nuns, to confess in the church ; but
in the Black Nunnery, as we had a chapel and
.priests attending in the confessionals, we never left
the building. .·~
Our confessions there as noviees, were always
-performed in ·one way, so that it may be sufficient
to describe a single case. Thoso of us who were
to eonfess at a particular time, took our places on
our knees near the confessional-box, and after havinl
of ;" • •• 1"•.
IJ.ACK. ICUNNERY.
repented a number of prayers, &c., preseri~d in
our books, came up one at a time and kneeled beaide
a tine wooden lattice-work, wJ1ich entirely separated
the confes!or from u•, yet permitted us to place our
faces a'lmost to his ear, and nearly concealed hia
countenance from view, even wh.en so near. I rec·
ollect how the priests used to recline their heads
on one side, and often covered their faces with their
handkerchiefs, while they heard me confess my sins,
and put questions to me, which were often ofthe most
improper and even revolting nature, naming crimes
both unthought of and inhuman. Still, strange as it
may seem, I was persuaded to believe that all this was
their duty, or at least that it was done without sin.
Veiled nuns would often appear in the chapel at
confession ; though, as I understood, they generally
confessed in private. Of the plan of their confes.
sion-rooms I had np information ; but I supposed
the ceremony to be conducted much on the same
,plan as in the chapel and in the church, viz. with a
lattice interposed between the confessor and the
. confessing. .
i Punishments were sometimes resorted to, while I
was a novice, though but seldom. 'fhe first time I
ever saw a gag, was one day when a young novice
had done something to o1fend the Superior. This
girl I always had compassion for; because she was
very young, and ali·orphan. The Superior sent for
a gag, and expressed her regret at being compelled,
by the bad conduct of the child, to proceed to IUch
apu
10~
some
!eat~
the 1
lSLAC'& MV!UCBJLY. ·aa
a punishment; nfter which abe put it intp her mouth,
10 fllr 111 to keep it dpen, and then let it remain
some time before she took it out. There was a
leathern strap fastened to each end, and buckled '.to
the back part.of the he11d.
•
,,
.,.
CHAPTER IV.
Displeased with the Con'Dent-Left it::-Residence at St. Deni•
-Reliques-Marriage-Return to the Black Nunnery-Ob-
jections m.ade by some Novices-Ideas ofthe Bible.
AFTER I had been in the nunneries four or five
years, from the time I commenced school at the Con-
gregational Convent, one day I was treated by one of
the nuns in a manner which displeased me, and
because I expressed some resentment, \Vas required
to beg her pardon. Not being satisfied with this,
although I complied with the command, nor with the
coolness with which the Superior treated me, I deter-
mined t3 qt:it the Convent at once, which I did with-
out asking leave. There would have been no
obstacle to my departure, I presume, novice as I
then was, if I had asked permission ; but I was too
much displeased to wait for that, and went home
'· without speaking·to any one on the subject.
I soon after visited the town of St. Denis, where
. I saw two young ladies with whom I had formerly
been acquainted in Montreal, and one of them a for-
mer schoolmate at Mr. Workman's school. After
some conversation with me, and learning that I had
known a lady who kept school in the place, they
advised me to apply to her to be ·employed as her
assistant teacher ; for she was then instructing the
government school in that place.
I vi:
at ODC.t
ThE
wasol
recetV4
dollar,
was at
as mw
course
braced
cipher
books
Jenne~
de Cal
regula
havinf
found i
tent wi
r.
l·
0
I
)
r
BLACK NUNNERY. 35
I visited her, and found her willing, and I engaged
at once 'as her assistant.
The government society paid her 20l. a-year: she
was obliged to teach ten children gratuitously ; might
receive fifteen pence a month, (about a quarter of a
dollar,) for each of ten scholars more; and then she
was at liberty, accordingto the regulations, to demand
as much as she pleased for the other pupils. rrhe
course of instruction, as required by the society, em-
brnced only reading, writing, and what was called
ciphering, though I think .improperly. The only
books used were a spelling-book, I'Instruction de la
Jeuncsse, the Catholic New Testament, and 1'Histoire
de Canada. When these had been read through, in
regular succession, the children were dismissed as
having completed their education. No difficulty is
found in making the common French Canadians con-
tent with such an amount ofinstruction as this; on the
contrary, it Js often very hard jndeed to prevail upon
them to send their children at·all, for they say it takes
too much of the love of God from them to send them
to school. The teacher strictly complied with the
requisitions of the society in whose employr.1eni she
was, and the Roman Catholic catechism was regu-
larly taught in the school, as much from choice as
from submission to authority, as she was a strict
Catholic. I had broug-ht with me the 1ittle bag l ;
have before mentioned, in which I had so long kept
the clippings of the thread left after making a dress
for the Superior. Such was my regard for itr that l
continuet! to wear it const;mtly round my.neck, and
36 BLACK NUNNERY.
to feel the same reverence for its supposed virtues·a!
before. I occasionally had the toothache during
my stay at St. Denis, and then always relied on the
influence of my little bag. On such occasions I
would say- •.
" By the virtue of this bag, may I be delivered·
from the toothache;" and I supposed that when it
ceased, it was owing to that cause. ·
While engaged in this manner, I became ac·
quainted with a man who soon proposed marriage:
and young and ignorant of the world as I was, 1
heard his offers with favour. On consulting with my
friend, she expressed an interest for me, advised
me.against taking such n step, and especially as
I k_
new little about the mau, except that a report
was circulated unfavourable to his character. Un·
fortunately, I was not wise enough to listen to her
advice, and hastily married. In a few weeks, I had
occasion to repent of the step I had taken, as the re·
port proved true-a report which I thought justified,.
and·indeed required, our separation. After I had
been in St. Denis about three months, finding my·
self thus situated, and not knowing what else to do,
I determined to return to the Convent, and pursuo
my former 'intention of becoming a Black nun, could
I gain admittance. Knowing the many inquiries
that the Superior would mal{e relative to me, during
my absence before leaving St. Denis, I agreed with
the lady with whom I had been associated as a
teacher, (when she we~1t to Montreal, which she.did
very frequently.) to sny to the Ludy Supt>rior that I
...
ba(l
ques
pro:1
whi(
upor
'3he
fort
frorr
out :
fon
disp
forn
s10n
E
OOCl
me
lS
g
lO
I
e:
I
lY
ed
ns
Jrt
n-
I
•f'
BLACK NUNNERY. 37
had. been under her protection during my absence,
\vhich would satisfy her, and stop further inquiry; as
I was sensible, that, should they know I had been
married, I should not gain admittance.
I soon returned to Montreal, and on reaching the
city, I visited the Seminary, and in another interview
with the Superior of it, communicated my '"''ish, and
desired him to procure ·my ·re-admission ns a novice.
Little delay occurred.
After leaving me for a short time, he returned, and
told me that the Superior of fhe ·Convent had con·
~cnted, and I was soon introduced into'her presence.
She blamed me for my conduct ·in leaving the nun·
nery, but told me that I ought to ·be ever grateful
to my guardian angel for taking care of me, nnd
bringing me in safety ·back to that retreat. I re.
quested that I might be secured ~against the r~
pro:-tches and ridicule of all the novices and nuns,
which I thought some might be disposed to cast
upon me unless prohibited by the Superior; and this
~he promised me. 'f.he money ·usually required
for the admission of novices ·had ·not bePn expected
from me. I had been admitted the first ·time with.
out any such requisition; ·but now I chose to pay it
for my re-admission. I knew that she was able to
dispense with such a demand as well in this as the
former case, and she knew that I was not in posses.
sian of any thing like the sum she ·required.
But I was bent on paying ·to the Nunnery, nnd
nccustomed to receive the doctrine often .. repeated ~o
me before that time, thut when the advantage of the
4
I
I
I I
DLACK NUNNERY.
church was consulted, the steps taken were justitL
able, l.r3t thorn be what they would, I therefore re-
solved to obtain money on false pretences, confident
that if all were known, I should be far from dis.
pleasing the Superior. I went to the brigade ma·
jor, and asked him to give me the money payable
to my mother from her pension, which amounted
to about thi,rty dollars, and without questioning
my authority ·to receive it in her name, he gave
me it.
From several of her [;·iends I ubtained small sums
under the name of loans, so that altogether I had
soon raised a number of pounds, with which I has·
tened to the nunnery, and deposited a part in the
hands of the Superior. She received the money
with evident satisfac.tion, though she must havo
lmown that I could not have obtained it honestly;
.and I was at once re-admitted as a novice.
Much to my gratification, not a word fell from
the lips of any of my old associates in relation·to
my unceremonious .departure, nor my vol:mtary re-
turn. The Superior7
s or.ders, I had not a doubt, had
been explicitly laid down, and they certainly w~re
carefully obeyed, for I never heard an allusion madtl
to that subject during my subseqJ.tent stay in the
Convent, except that, when alone, the Superior would
herself sometimes say a little about it.
There were numbers of young Jad·
ies who enter·
ed awhile as novices, and became weary, or dis·
gusted with some things they observed, and remained
but a short time. One of my cousins, who liv.ed
ot L
the 1
such
expre
Th
with 1
"lVh1
his be~
All
some c
"Is
against
suppos~
any pri
This
missed·
from th
It ha
IishB1
')
BLACK KVNNERV. 89
nt Lachine, named Reed, spent about a fortnight in
the Convent with me. She., however, conceived
such an antipathy against the priests, that she used
expressions which offended the Superior.
The first day she attended muss, while at dinner
with us in full community, she said before us all:
"'Vhat a rascal that priest was, to preach against
his best friend P'
All stared at such an unusual exclamation, and
some one inquired what she meant.
u I say,, she contimted, "he has been preaching
ogainst him who gives him his bread. Do you
suppose that if there were no devil, there would be
any priests 1"
This bole! young novice was immediately dis·
missed; and in the afternoon we lmd a long sermon
from the Superior on the subject.
It happened that I one day got n leaf of an Eng-
lish Bible, which had been brought into the C.nvent,
wrapped round some sewing silk, purchased at a
store in the city. For some reason or other, I de.
termined to commit to memory a chapter it contain·
cd, which I soon did. It is the only chapter I ever
learnt in the Bible, and I can now repeat it. It IS
the second of St. Matthew's gospel, "Now when
Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea," &c.
It happened that I was observed readmg the
paper, and when the nature of it was discovered, 1
was condemned to do penance for my offence.
Great dislike to the Bible was shown by those
.who conversed with me about it, and several have
I
'
.
'I
I
4..() DLACK NUNNERY.
remarked to mr, at different times,. that if it were
not for that book, Catholics would never be led to
renounce their own faith.
I hearu passages read from the E,•angilc, relating.
to the death of Christ; the conversion of Paul; a
few chapters from St. Matthew, and J>erlmps a few
others. 'l~he priests would also sometimes take a
\'ersc or two, and p:·~ach from it. I read St. Peter's
Lift•, but only in the book called the "Lives of the
Saints." He, I understand, has the keys of heaven
and hell, and has. founded our church. As fo:- St.
Paul, I remember, as I was taught to understand itt
that he was once a great persecutor of the Roman
Cat 7
!olics, until he became convicted, and confessed
to one of the father confesso?·s, I don't know which.
For who can expect to be forgiven who does no!
become a Catholic, and confess1
~
distJ
the J
guill
e
n
t.
it~
m
~d
:h.
\
.
CHAPTER V.
ll«d~ul Co~rmation-Painj'ul Feeling.-Specimen qf bt-
structio1ts ruei~td on the Subjut.
THE day on which I received confirmation was a
distressing one to me. I believed the doctrine of
the Roman Catholics, and according to them I was
guilty of three mortal sins ; concealing something
nt confession, sacrilege, in putting the body of Christ
in the sacrament under my feet, and receiving it
while not in a state of grace: and now, I had been
led into all those sins in consequence of my mar-
riage, which I never had acknowledged, as it would
ha\·e cut me off from being admitted as a nun.
On the day, therefore, when I went to ,the church
to be confirmed, with a number of others, I suffered
extremely from the reproaches of my conscience.
I knew, at least I believed, as I had 'y _,l told, that
a person who had been anointed with the holy oil
of confirmation on the forehead, and dying in tho
state in which I was, would go down to hell, and in
the place where the oil had been rubbed, the names
of my sins would blaze out on my forehead ; these
would be a sign by which the devils would know
me; and they would torment me the worse for them.
I was thinking of all this, while I sat in the pew,
waiting to receive the oil. I felt, however, some
ronso1ation, a~ I often did afterward when my sins
••
BLACK NUNNERY.
eame to mind; and this consolation I dcnvcd from
another doctrine of the same church : viz. that a
bishop could absolve me frQm all these .sins any
minute before my death; and I intended to confess
them all to a bishop before leaving the world. At
·length; the moment for administering the·"·sac.ra·
ment11
arrived; and a bell was rung. 'rhose who
had come to be confirmed had brought tickets
from their confessors, and these were thr()wn into a
hat, carried around by a p.riest~ who in turn handed
each to the bishop, by which he learnt the name of
each of us, and applied a little of the oil to our fore-
heads. This was immediately ·rubbed off by a
priest with a bit of cloth, quite roughly.
I' went home with some qualms of conscience,
and often thought with dread of the following talc,
which I have heard told to illustrate the sinfulness
of conduct like mine.
A priest was once travelling, when, just as he was
passing by ·a house, his horse fell on his knees,
and would.' not rise. His rider dismounted, and
went in to learn the cause of so extraordinary nn
occurrence. He found there a woman near de~th,
to whom a priest was trying to administer the sa-
crament, I>ut without success j for every time she
attempted to swallow it, it \Vas thrown back out of
her mouth into the chalice. He perceived it was
owing to unconfessed sin, and took away the holy
wafer from her: on which his horse rose from his
knees, and he pursued his journey. .
I often remembered also that I had been told, that
,·
!u
sc
to
ee
TJ
le1
us
to
I
t
:•
)
s
a
d
f
e·
a
e,
c,
ss
as
es,
nd
an
th,
sa-
;he
of
vas
oly
his
hat
'
'
BLACK NUNNERY. 43
w~ ahall havens many devils biting us, if we go to
hell, as we have unconfessed sms on our con·
sciences.
I was required to devote myself" for about a year,
to the study of the prayers and the practice of tho
ceremonies necessary on the reception of a nun.
This I found a very tedious duty; but as I was re·
leased in a great__flegree from the daily labours
usually demanded of novices, I felt little disposition
to com1>lain.
CHAPTER VL
raking l1u Veil-Jntu·"ittD aflmDard 1Dith the Superior-
Surprise and horror at her Disclosuru-.l~~.soluti«< to
Submit•
.I wAs introduced into the Superior's room on the
evening preceding the day on which I was to take
the veil, to have an interview with the Bishop. The
Superior was present, and the interview lasted about
half an hour. The Bishop on this as on· other oc·
casions appeared to me habitually rough in his
manners. His address was by no means prepofr
scssJng.
Before I took the veiJ. I was ornamented for the
ceremony, and was clothed in a rich dress belong-
ing to the Convent, which was used on such oc-
casions; and placed not far from the altar in the
chapel, in the view of a numb~r of spectators who
had assembled, perhaps about forty. Taking the
veil is an affair which occurs so frequently in Mon·
treal, that it has long ceased to be regarded as a
novelty; and, although notice had been gi\·en in the
French parish church as usual, only a small audi·
ence had assembled, ns I have mentioned.
Being well prepared with a long training, and
frequent rehearsals, for what I was to perform, I
itood waiting in my large flowing Jress for the ap-
pearance of the Bishop. He soon presented him-
self, E'ntcring by the door behind the nltar; I then
utn
the
'it l
ap;
nu
na:
to
a·
tm
fol
nu
re·
no
no
BI.ACK NUNNERY.
threw myself at his feet, and asked bim to confer
upon me tho veil. He expressed his consent, and
threw it over my head, ~aying, "Receive the veil,
0 thou spouse of Jesus Christ;" and then turning
to the Superior, I threw myself prostrate at her feet,
according to my instructions, repeating what I hnd
before done at rehearsals, and made a movement as
if to kiss her feet. 1.'his she pre\·ented, or ap·
peared to prevent, catching me by a sudden motion
of her: hand; and. granted my request. I then
lmeeled before the Holy Sacrament, that is, a very
large round wafer held by the Bi~hop between his
fore-finger and thumb, and made my vows.
This wafer I had been taught to regard with the
utmost·vencrnt1on, as.the real body of Jesus Christ,
the pl'escnce of which made the vows uttered before
'it binding in the most solemn manr~er.
After taking the vows, I proc.eeded to a smalL
apartment.behind the altar, accompanied by four
nuns, where was n coffin prepared, with my nun·.
name engrnven upon it:
"SAlNT EusTACE."
My companions lifted it by four·handles attached--
to it, while I threw off my dress, and put on that of
n: nun of Sreur Bourgeoise; and then we all re··
turned to the chapel. I proceeded first, and was'
followed by the four nuns; the Bishop naming ~
number of worldly pleasures in rapid suc'cession, in·
reply to which I as rapidly repeated-'" Je· re·
nonce, je renonce, j.~ renonce''-[1 renounce, I re-
nounce, I renounce.]
4G BLACK NUNNERY.
The coffin was then placed in irout of the altar,
and I advanced to lay myself in it. 'l'his coffin'
was to be deposited, after the ceremony, in nn out·
house, to be preserved until my death, when it was
to receive my corpse. There were reflections which
I naturally made at that time, but I stepped in, ex·
tended myself, and lay still. A pillow had been
placed nt the head of the coffin, to support my htlad
·in a comfortable position. A large, thick black
doth was then spread over me, and the chanting o(
L'ltitl hymns immediatelycommenced. My thoughts
'"''ere not the most pleasing during the time I lay in
that situntion. 'l'he pall, or Drap .Mortel, as tho
doth is called, hnd a strong smell of incense, which
was aJwnys disngreeable to me, and then proved
nJmost suffocating. I recollected also a story I had
heard of a novice, who, in taking the veil, lay down
in her coffin like me, and was covered in the same
manner, but on the removal of the covering was
found dead.
'Vhen I was uncovered, I rose, stepped out ot
my coffin, and kneeled.. The Bishop then address-
ed these words to the Superior, 11 'rake care and
keep pure and spotless this young virgin, whom
Christ has consecrated to himself this day.11
After
\\'hich the music comm~nced, and here the whole
was finished. I then proceeded from the chapel,
und n~turned to tbe Superior's room, followed by
the other nuns, who walked two by two, in their
customary manner, with their hands folded on their
breasts, and their eyes cast· down upon the floor.
Th
the
rea,
I Cl
two
1
the
the
that
her.
ever
two t
she •
of m
thin~
mcnt
BLACK NUNNERY. 41
The nun who ·was to be my companion in futur<.",
then walked ot the end of the procession. On
reaching the Superior's door, they all left me, nnd
I entered alone, and found her with tho Bishop and
two priests.
The Superior now informed mt•, that having taken
the blacl\ veil, it only remained that I shouhl swear
the three oaths customa'ry on becoming n nun ; and
that some explanations would be necessary from
her. I was no\y, she told me, to have nccess to
every part of the edifice, even to the cellar, where
two of the sisters were imprisoned for causes which
she did not mention. I must be informed, that one
of my great duties was, to obey tho priests in ·all
things; and this I soon lcnrnt, to my utter astonish-
ment nnd horror, was to live in the practice of
criminal intercourse with them. I expressed some
of the feelings whic.h tbis announcement excited in
me, which cn~e upon me like a flash of lightning.
but the only effect was to set her arguing with lll(',
in favour of the crime, representing it as a \'irtuc
acceptable to God, and honourable to me. 'l'ho
priests, she said, were not situated like other men,
being forbidden to marry ; wbile ·they )i\red seclu-
ded, laborious, nnd self-deuying lives for our snh-a-
tion. They might, indeed, be considered our sa-
viours, as without their services we could ·not obtain
the pardon of sin, and ·must go to hell. Now, it
wns our solemn duty, 0:1 withdrawing from the
world, to conse,~rnte our lives to religion, to practise
every species of self-denial 'Ve could not become
I
I
I
I
I I
48 BLACK N·UNNERY.
too humble, nor mortify our feelings too ·far ; this
was to be done by opposing them, nnd acting con
trary to them; and what she proposed was, therefore,
pleasing in the sight of God. I now felt how fool·
ish I had been to place myself in the power of such
persons as ,...-ere around me. ·
From what she said I could draw no other con·
elusion, but that I was required to act like the most
abandoned of beings, and that all my future associ·
ates were habitually guilty of the most heinous and
det~stable crimes. When I rcpootod my.expressions
of surprise and horror, she told me that such feel·
ings were very common at first, and that many
other nuns had expressed themselves as I did, who
hnd long since changed their minds. She even said,
that on her entrance into·the nunnery, she had felt
like me.
Doubts, she declared, were among our greatest
enemies. They would .lend us to question every
point of duty, and induce us to waver at every &tcp. ·
They arose only from remaining imperfection, and
were always evidence of sin. Our only way was
to dismiss them immediately, repent, and confess
them. They were deadly sins, and woulU condemn
us to hell, if we should die without confessing them.
Priests, she insisted, could not sin. It was a thino-
;:)
impossible. Every thing that they did, and wished,
was of course right. :She hoped I would see the
reasonableness und duty of the oaths I was to take,
and be faithful to them.
She gave ~e another piece of information which
exci
Infa:
they
gled
for t
and
time
mitte•
are tJ
little
who l
Int.
been~
nppea
holy 1
the VI
And tl
l
d
s
l-
y
tO
d,
~lt
BLACK NUNNERY. 49
excited other feelings in me, scarcely less dreadful.
Infants were sometimes born in the convent : hut
they were always baptized and immediately stran-
gled I This secured their everlasting happiness ;
for the baptism purified them from all sinfulness,
and being sent out of the world before they hall
time to do any thing wrong, they were at once ad-
mitted into heaven. How happy, she exclaimed,
are those who secure immortal happiness to such
little beings! Their 1ittle·souls would thank those
who kill their bodies, if they had it in their power I
Into what a place and among what society had I
been admitted I How differently did a Convent now
appear from what I had supposed it to be r The
holy women I had always fancied the nuns to be,
the venerable Lady Superior, whal were they 1
And the priests of the Seminary adjoining, some of
whom indeed I had had reason to think were base
and profligate men, what were they all1 I now
learnt they were often admitted into the nunnery, ·
and allowed to indulge in the greatest crimes, which
they and others called virtues.
After having listened for some time to the Supe-
rior alone, a number of the nuns were admitted,
ar.d took a free part in the conversation. 'fhey
concurred in every thing which she had·told me,
and repeated, without any signs of shame or com·
punction, things which criminated themselves. I
must acknowledge the truth, and declare that a11
this had an effect upon my mind. I questioned
whether I -might not be in the wrong, and felt as if
5
.,,
' ,,
}1 '
,;1I
,.I
I •
50 DLACK NUNNERY.
their reasoning might bave some just foundation.
I had been several years under the tuition of Cath·
olics, and was ignorant of the Scriptures, and ur •
accustomed to the society, example, and conversa·
tion of Protestants; had not heard any appeal to
the Bible as authority, but had been taught, both by
precept and example, to receive as truth every thing
said by the priests. I bad not heard their authority
questioned, nor any thing said of any other standard
of faith but their declarations. I had long been fa-
miliar with the corrupt and licentious expressions
which some of them use at confessions, and believed
that other women were also. I had nq standard of
duty to refer to, and no judgment of my own which
I knew how to use, or thought of using.
All around me insisted that my doubts proved
only my own ignorance and sinfulness ; that they
knew by experience they \vould soon give place to
true knowledge, and an advance in religion; and I
felt something like indecision.
Still, there was so much that disgusted me in the
discovery I had now made, of the debased charac-
ters around me, that I would most gladly have es-
caped from the nunnery, and never returned. But
· that was a thing not to be thought·of. I was in
their power, and this I deeply felt, 'while I thought
there was not one among the whole number of nuns
to whom I could look for kindness. There was
one, however, who began to speak to me at length
in a tone that gained svmething of my confidence,-
the nun whom I have mentioned before ns distin·
gui~
muc
as I
form
dres!
she~
them
in m
bette:
if I,
befor1
minet
then J
had s·
munit
nuns,
nuns
same
the
were
for a
other
L·
0
y
.g
ty
rd
ra·
•
DS
·ed
. of
ich
ved
BLACK NUNNERY. 51
guished by her oddity, Jane Ray, who made us so
much amusement when I was a novice. Although,
as I have remarked, there was nothing in her face,
form, or manners, to give me any pleasure, she ad·
dressed me with apparent friendli1iebs ; and whiln
she seemed to concur with some tpings spoken by
them, took an opportunity to whisper a few words
in my ear, unheard by them, intimating that I had
better comply with every thing the Superior desired,
if I would save my life. I was somewhat alarmed
before, but I now became much more so, and deter;
mined to make no further resistance. The Superior
then made me repeat the three oaths; and when I
had sworn them, I was shown into one of the com·
munity rooms, and remained some time with the
;mns, who were released from their usual employ·
ments, and enjoying a recreation day, on account of
the admission of a new sister. .My feelings during
the remainder of that day, I shall not attempt to
describe ; but pass on to mention the ceremonies
whi~.h took place at dinner. This description may
give an idea of the manner in which we always
took our meds, although there 'vcre some points in
which the breakf.<tSt and supper were differl!nt.
At ll o'clock the bell rung for dinner, and the
nuns all took their places in a double row, in tho
same order as that in which they left the chapel in
the morning, except that my companion and myself
were stationerl at the end of the line. Standing thus
for a moment, with our hands placed one on the
other over the breast, and hidden in our large cu!fs,
~ I' I
I I
' I
., l
II '
52 JILACK NUNNERY.
with our heads bent forward, and eyes fixed on the-
floor; an old nun who stood at the door, clapped
her hands· ns ·a signal for us to proceed, and the
procession moved on, while we all commenced the
repetition of litanies. 'Ve walked on in this order,.
repeating all the way, until we ·reached the doot of
the dining-room, where we were divided into two
lines; those on the right passing down on~ side of
the long table, and those on the left the other, till all
were in, and each stC'pped in her place. The plates
· were nil ranged, each with ·a knife, fork, and spoon,
roll~d up in a napkin, and tied round with a linen
band marked with the OW~Nr's name. My own
plate, knife, fork, &c., were prepared like the rest,
and on the band around them I found my new name
written;-" SAINT EtrsTACE."
There we stood tHI alJ had concluded the litany;.
when the old nun who had taken her place at thP.
head of the table next the dl)()r, said the·prayer be..
fore meat, beginning "Benedicite," and we sat down.
I do not remember of what our .dinner consisted,.
but we usually had soup and some plain dish of
meat, the remains of which w~re occasionally
served up at SlliJ>per as a fricassee. One of the nuns
who had been appointed to read that day, rose and
began a lecture from a book·put into her hands by
the Superior, while the rest of us ate in perfect si·
1ence. The nun who reads during dinner, stays:
afterward to dine. As fast as we finished our
meals, each rolled up her knife, fork, and spoon
in her napkin, and bound them together with the
bane
then
clap.
door
or g.
Jesu
N
tcrnc
roorr
wish
inten
apart
from
' usag•
nppe~
comp
I
cept
:r,.
of
TO
of
lll
es
•
D,
en
m
st,
ne
y ;.
hA
rn.
~d,.
of
lly
ns
nd
DLACK NUNNERY. 53
band, and set with hands folded. The old nun
then said a short prayer, rose, stepped a little aside,
clapped her hands, and we JOOrched towards the
door, bowing as we passed before a little chapel
or glass box, containing a wax image of the infant
Jesas.
Nothing important occurred until late in the af·
tcrnoon, when, as I was sitting in the community·
room, Father Dufresne called me out, saying he
wished to speak with me. I feared what was his
intention; but I dared not disobey. In a private
apartment, he treated me in a brutal manner; and
· from two other priests, I afterward received similar
; usage that evening. Father Dufresne afterward
appeared again ; and I was compelled to remain in
company with him until morning.
I am assured that the conduct of priests in our
Convent lias never been exposed, and is not imagined
by the people of the United States. This induces
me to say what I do, notwithstanding die strong
reasons I have to let it remain tmlmown. Still, I
cannot.force myself to speak on su,~h subjects ex·
cept in the most brief mnnner.
s•
I •
CHAPTER VII.
•
Daily Cernnoniu-Jane I«Jy among the Nun•.
ON Thursday morning, the bell rung at half-past
six.to awaken us. The old nun who was actmg as
night-watch immediately spoke nJond:
u-Voici le·Seigneur qui.vient." (Behold the Lord
cometh.) Th~ nuns all responded:
11 Allons·y devant lui." (Let us go and ·meet
him.)
We then rose immediately, and dressed as expe·
ditiously as possible, stepping into the passage-way
at the foot of our beds as soon as we were reacly,
and taking places each beside her opposite com-
panic,n. Thus we were soon drawn up in a double·
row the whole length of the room,.with our hands
folded across our breasts, and concealed in the
broad cuffs of our sleeves. Not a word was uttered.
When the signal was given, we all proceeded to the
community-room, which is spacious, and took our
places in rows facing the entrance, near which the
Superior was seated in a vergiere, or large chair.
We first repeated,., Au nom du Pere, du Fils, et
du Saint Esprit-Ainsi soit il." (In the name of
the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost-Amen.)
We then kneeled and kissed the floor ; then, still
~n our ~~ees, we said a very long prayer, begin.
mg: Divm Jesus, Sanveur de mon ~me, (Divine
/
We
was
It c..
rend
five ·
fiftee
upor
Ieng
that
rend
with
we 1
the t
E
havi
ing
uble
st
lS
·d
et
y
r,
l-
e'
BLACK NUNNERY. 65
]P.sus, Saviour of my soul.) Then eame the Lord's
prayer, three Hail. Marys; four creeds, and five
confessions, (confesse aDieu.)
Nextwerepeatedthe ten commandments. Then we
repeated the Acts of Faith, and a prayer to the Vir·
gin in Latin, (whi~h, like every thing else in Lat·
in, I ne\·er understood a word of.)· Next we said
the litanies of the holy name of Jesus, in Latin,
which was afterward to be repeated several times
in the course of the day. Then came the prayer
for the beginning of the day; then bending down,
we commenced the Orison Mental; (or Mental Ori·
son,) which lasted about an hour and. a half.
This exercise was considered peculiarly solemn;
We were told in the nunnery that a certain saint
was saved by the use of it, as he never omitted it.
It consists of several parts : First, the Superior.
read to us a chapter from a book, which occupied
five minutes. Then profound silence·prevailed for
fifteen minutes, during which we were meditating
upon it. Then she read another- chapter of equal
length, on a different subject, and we meditated upon,
that another quarter of an hour; and after a third'
rea~ing and meditation, we finished the exerciSe
with a prayer, called an act of contrition, .in which
we asked forgiveness for the sins committed during
the Orison.
During this hour and a half I became very weary,
having before been kneeling for some time, and hav·
ing then to sit in another position more uncomfort..
u.ble, with my feet under me, my hands clasped;
BLACK ~Ul'\NERY.
and my body bent humbly forwnru, wJt.h my hettd
bowed down.
'Vhen the Orison wns over, we all rose to the
upright kneeling posture, and repeated several pray·
crs, and the litanies of the pro,·idcnces, "provi-
dence de Dicu," &r.. ; then followed a number of
Latin prayers, which we repeated on the wny to
mass, for in the nunnery we h:td mass daily.
When mass was over we proceeded in our usual
order to the eating-room to brcal\f.'l~t, practising the
same forms which I have described at dinner. Huv•
.. ing made our meal in silence, we repeated the litanies
of the " holy name of Jcsus" as we proceeded to the
community-room; nnd such as had not finished
them on their arriml, threw themselves upon their
knees, and remained there until they hnd gone
through with them, and then kissing the floor, rose
again.
At nine o'clock commenced the lecture, which
was read by a nun appointed to pcrfol'm that duty
that day; all the rest of us in the room being en·
gaged in work.
The nuns were at this time distributed in differ·
ent community-rooms, at different kinds of work, and
in each were listening to a lecture. This exercise
continued until ten o'clock, when the recreation-bell
rang. We still continued our work, but the nuns
began to converse with each other, on subjects per·
mitted by the rules, in the h(larin(J' of the old nuns
0 '
one of whom wns seated in each of the groups.
· At half-past ten the silence-bcJl rang. and then
Th~
dool
mar
thei
the
and
a: le
'lhe
'we
and
rep1
asid
we
eha
tain
we
1
.,
l
BLACK Nl7N .NERY. 57
conversation instantly ceased, and the recitation· of
some Latin prayers commenced, which continued
half an hour.
· At eleven o'clock the dinner-bell rang, and then
we proceeded to the dining-room, and went through
che forms and ceremonies of the preceding day. \Ve
proceeded two by two. · The old nun who had tho
command of us, clapped her hands as·the first cou-
ple reached the door, when we stopped. The first
two dipped their fingers into the font, touched the
holy water to the breast, forehe~d, nnd each side,
thus forming a cross, said, " In the name of the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, Amen," and then ,
'\\'alked on to the dining-room, repeating the litanies.
The rest followed·their example. On reaching the-
door the couples divided, and the two rows of nuns
marching up, stopped a-
nd faced the table against
their plates. There we st<!>od, repeating the close of
the litany aloud. The old nun then pronounced
tl BENEDJCJTE,
11
and we sat down. One ofour number began to read
a lecture, which continued during the whole meal:
'lhe stays to eat after the rest have r-etired. When
'we had dined, each of us folded up her napkin,
and again folded her hands. The old nun then.
repeated a short prayer in French, and stepping
aside from the head of the table, let us pass out a1
w-e ca~ne in. Each of us bowed in passing the little
chapel near the door, wmch is a glass case, con-
taining a waxen figure of the infant Jesus. When
we reached the community-room we tool' our pia.
BLACK NUNNERY.
ces in.rows, nnd kneeled upon the floor, while a nun
read aloud, "Douleurs de nOtre Sainte Marie," (tho
sorrows of our holy Mn1·y.) At the end of each
verse ,,.e responded "Ave Maria." 'Ve then re-
pented again the litanies of the ·Providences, and the
"BENts, &c.
'!'hen we lcisscd the floor, and rising, toolt ' out
worl<, with leave to converse on permitted subjects;
this is what is called rccreatio" till one o'clock.
\Ve then began to repeat litanies, one at a time in
succe~ion, still engaged at sewing, for an hour.
At t\vo o'clocl< commene~d the afternoon lectures,
which lasted till near three. At that hour one of
the nuns stood up in the middle of the room, and
asked each of us a question out of the catechism;
and such as were unable to answer correctly, were
obliged to kneel down, until that exercise was con· ·
eluded, upon as many dry peas as there were ver·
ses in the chapter out of which they were ques.
tioned. This seerr.s like n penance of no great im·
portance; but I have sometimes kneeled on peas
until I suffered great inconvenience, .and even pain.
It soon makes one feel as if needles were running
througb the skin: whoever thinks it a trifle, had
better try it.
At four o'clock recreation commenced, when we
were allowed, as usual, ~o speak to each other, while
at work.
At half-past four \Ve began to repeat prayers in
Latin, whi1e· we worked, and concluded about five
o'clock, when we commenced repenting the "prayen
fol
sea
the
WJ
pre
lito
diiJ
nte
nn
nil
t9
wl
r
l
!SLACK NUNNERY. 09
fol the examination of conscience.>," the" prayer after
confession.'' the 11
prayer before sacrament.'' and the
"prayer after sacrament." 'rhus we continued our
work until dark, when we .laid it aside, and .began
to go over the same prayers which we had repcatc.d
in the morning, with the exception of the orison
mental; instead of that long exercise, wo examined
our consciences, to determine whether we had per-
formed the resolution we had maae in the morning j
and such as had kept it, repeated an "ncte de joie,"
or expression of gratitude; while such ns had not.
said an "acte de contrition."
When the prayers were concluded, any nun who
had been disobedient in the day, lm?lt nnd asked
pardon of the Superior and her companions 11
for the
scandal she had caused them ;" nnd then requested
the Superior to give her a penance to perform.
When all the penances had been imposed, we nil
proceeded to the eating-room to supper, repeating
litanies on the way.
At supper the ceremonies were the same as at
dinner, except that there was no lecture read. '\Vc
ate in silence, and went out bowing to the chapcllo,
and repeating litanies. Returning to the commu-
nity-room which we had left, we had more prayers
tp repeat, which are called La couronnc, (crown,)
which consists of the following parts:
1st, Four Paters,
2d, Four Ave Marias,
3d, Four Gloria Patris,
4th, Benis, &c.
60 BLACK MUMMERY.
At the close of these we ldssed the floor ; after
which we had recreation till half-put eight o'clock,
being allowed to converse on permitted subjects, but
closely watched, and not allowed to sit in comers.
At balf-past eight a ·bell was rung, and a chapter
was read to us, in a book of meditations, to employ
our minds upon during our waking hours nt night.
Standing near the door, we dipped our fingers in
the holy water, crossed and blessed ourselves, and
proceeded up to the sleeping-room, in the usual
order, two by two. When we had got into bed, we
repeated a prayer beginning with
M D. . d n
" on 1eu, JC vous onne mon c<eur,
"My God, I gh•e you my heart;"
and then an old nun, bringing some holy water,
sprinkled it on our beds to drive away the devil,
while we took some and crossed ourselves again.
At nine o'clock the bell rung, and all who were
awake repeated a prayer, called the otfrande; those
who were asleep, were considered ns excused.
After my admission among the nuns, I had more
opportunity than before, to observe the conduct of
mad Jane Ray. She behaved quite differently from
the rest, and with a degree of levity irreconcilable
with the rules. She was, as I have described her,
a large woman, with nothing beautiful or attractive
in her face, form, or manners ; careless in her dress,
and of a restless disposition, which prevented her
from steadily applying herself to any thing for any
length of time, and kept her roving about, and al·
most perpetually talking to somebody or other. n
from
som~
thinf
fount
nO\'C
Ievit:
even
ities
.
pum:
repr1
I soc
of ch
chOSI
dislil
r
.
.,
.t
r
r
1
l
1
a
DLACit NUNXERY. 61
would bo very difficult to gh·e nn accurate dt!scrip·
tion of this singular woman; dressed in tho plain
gnrments of tho nuns, bound by tho samo vows, and
accustomed to tho same life, resembling them ir,
nothing else, and frequently interrupting nll their
employments. She wus apparently almost alwnys
stndying or pursuing some odd fancy; now rising
from sewing, to walk up and down, or straying in
from another npnrtment, looldng ubout, addressing
some of us, nnd passing out again, or saying some·
thing to mnko us lnugh, in p;~rions of the most pro·
found silence. But what sh.Hvcd thu
.t she was no
- .
no,·elty, was the little attention paid to her, and the
levity with which she was treated by the r1d nuns;
even the Superior every day passed ovc; j ~·rcgular­
ities in this singular person, which 3he would h~: ·;c
punished with penances, or nt lco.:..t have met with
reprimands, in nny other. From whnt I saw of her,
I soon perceived that she betrayed two distinct traits
of character; a ldnd disposition tow·ards such as she
chose to prefer, and a pleasure in teasing those sht>
disliked, or such ns had offended her.
6
.
I
C H A P T E R VI II.
Vucription of.Apartments in the Black .Nunnery, in order.-
l.t Floor-2d Floo1·- The Fwnder-Supe·rior'~ Manag,.
ment 1Dilh the Friends of Noviu.-Religictus Liu-Crimi·
nality of concealing Sins at Confession.
I WILL now give from memory, a general de-
scription of the interior of the Convent of Black
nuns, except the few apartmt·nts which I never saw.
I may be inaccurate in some things, as the apart·
ments and passages of that spacious building are
numerotts and various; but I am willing to risk my
credit for truth and sincerity on the g<>neral corre~
pondence, between my description and things as they
are. And this would, perhaps, be as good a caso
ns any by which to test the truth of my statements,
were it possible to obtain access to the interior. It
·is well known, that none hut veiled nuns, the bishop,
and P.l'iests, are ever admitted; and, of course, that I
cannot have seen what I profess to .describe, if I
have not been a -Black nun.• The priests who
read this book, will acl!nowledge to themselves the
truth of my description; but wiH, ofcourse, deny it to
the world, and probab]y exert themsel res to destroy
my credit. I offer to every reader the following
• I ought to have made an exception here, which I may en·
large upon in future. Certain other persons aru somctimra ad·
mitted.
If
Jt sha
follow
of m~
sumc,
tions, c
and li1
I an
the fur
constrt
credibl
m the
ever, t!
cnougl
descriJl
Begi
of the
first sto
Jst. '
iiJ a ras
le-
ek
w.
rt·
.re
ny
efs-
ey
BLACK N11NNERY. 63
description, knowing that time may possibly throw
open those secret recesses, and allow the entrance
of those who can satisfy themselves, with their own
eyes, of its truth. Some of my declarations mny
be thought deficient in e\·idence ; and this they must
of necessity be in the present state of things. But
here is a kind of e\·idence on which I rely, as I
see how unquestionable and satisfactory it must
prove, whenever it shall be obtained.
If the interior of the Black Nunnery, whenever
Jt shall be examined, is materially different from the
following description, then I can claim no confidence
of my readers. If it resembles it, they will, I pre-
sume, place confidence in some of those declara·
tions, on which I may never be corroborated by true
and living witnesses.
I am sensible that great changes may be made in
the furniture of apartments; that new walls may be
constructed, or old ones rt'moved; and I have been
credibly informed, that masons have been employed
m the nunnery ~incc I left it. I well know, how·
e\·er, t!,at entire changes cannot be made ; and that
enough must remain as it was to substantiate my
description, whenever the truth shall be known.
The First Story.
Beginning at the extremity of the right ~ing
of the Convent, towards Notre Dame-street, on the
first story, there is-
1st The nuns' private chapel, adjoining which
ii a passage to a small pr~jection of the building.
64 DLACK NUNNERY.
extending from the upper story to the ground, with
very small windows. Into the passage we were
sometimes required to bring wood from the yard,
and pile it up for usc.
2d. A large community-room, with plain benches
fixed against the wall to sit, and lower ones in front
to place our feet upon. There is a fountain in the
passage ncar the chimney at the farther end, for
washing the hands and face, with a green curtain
sliding on a rod before it. This passage leads to
the old nuns' sleeping-room on the right, and the
Superior's sleeping-room, just beyond it, as well as
to a staircase which conducts to the nuns' sleeping·
room, or dortoir, above. At the end of the pas·
sage is a door opening into-
3d. The dining-room ; this is larger than the
communi:ty-room, and has three'long tables for eat·
ing, and a chapclle, or collection of little pictures,
a crucifix, and a small image of the infant Saviour
in a glass case. 'fhis apartment has four doors, by
the first of which we are supposed to have entered,
while one opens to a pantry, and·the third and fonrth
to the two next apartments.
4th. A large community-room, with tables for
sewing, and a staircase on the opposite left-hand
corner.
5th. A community-room for prayer, used by both
nuns and novices. In the farther right-hand corner
is a small room partitioned off, called the room for
the examination of conscience, which I had visited
while a novice by permission of the Snperior, arad
whE
fleet
the :
of tJ
enot
tit
Sunc
a ga·
7tl
the c
on t~
uitnr
Stl
may
lD \Vi
times
passic
mg; .
board
ware,
furnit
of the
This :
9th.
and a
room
speak
e
1,
\lt
1e
)f
m
to
he
as
f1'•
0
lS·
he
:at-
BLACK NUNNERY.
where nuns and novices occasionally resorted to re·
fleet on their character, usually in preparation for
the sacrament, or when they had transgressed some
of the rules. '}'hifl little room was hardly large
enough to contain half a dozen persons at a time.
6th. Next beyond is a large community-room for
Sundays. A door leads to the yard, and thence to
a gate in the wall on the cross street.
7th. Adjoining this is a sitting-room, fronting on
the cross street, with two windows, and a storeroom
on the side opposite them. There is but little fur·
nitnre, and that yery plain.
8th. From this room a door leads into what I
may call the wax-room, as it contains many figures
in wax, not intended for sale. There we some-
times used to pray, or meditate on the Saviour's
passion. This room projects from the main build-
ing; leaving it, you enter a long passage, with cup-
boards on the right, in which are stored crockery-
ware, knives and forks, and other articles of table
furniture, to replace those worn out or broken-all
of the plainest description; also, shovels, tongs, &e.
This passage leads to-
9th. A corner room, with n few benches, &e.
and a door leading to a gate on the street. Here
some of the medicines were kept, and persons were
often admitted on business, or to obtain medicines
with tickets from the priests; and waited till the
Superior or an old nun could besent for. Beyond this
room we were never allowed to go ; and I cannot
speak from personal knowledge of what came next.
.6•
BLACK NUNNERt.
The Second Story.
Beginning, as before, at the western extremity of
·he same wing, but on the second story, the farthest
apartment in that direction which I ever entered
was-
1st. The nuns' sleeping-room, or dormitory, which
l have already described. Here is an access to the
projection mentioned in speaking of the first story,
The stairs by which we came up to bed are at the
farther end of the room ; and near then....a crucifix
and font of holy water. A door at the end of the
room opens into a passage, with two small rooms,
and closets between them, containing bedclothes.
Next you enter- ·
2d. A small community-room, beyond which is a
p~ssage with a narrow staircase, seldom used, which
leads into the fourth community-room, in the first
story. Follo,ving the 1mssage just mentioned, you
enter by a door-
3d. A little sitting-room, furnished in the follow-
ing manner : with chairs, a sofa, on the north side,
covered with a red-figured cover and fringe, a table
in the middle, commonly bearing one or two books,
an inkstand, pens, &c. At one corner is a little
projection into the room, caused by a staircase lead·
ing from above to the floor below, without any com-
munication with the second story. This rot'm has
n door opening upon a staircase leading down to
the yard, on the opposite side of which is a gate
opening into the cro!s street. By this way the phy·
11idan is admitted, except wht\n he comes later than
usua
whil
sick·
mit l
no f~J
these
adm:
4t:
roon
towa
from
the c
roorr
whil
figm
Nea:
door
naSSI
..
that
the 1
roorr
the 1
ed p
up-st
time1
by a
rap
and
way.
5t:
oecu
1
1
;t
!SLACK NUNNERY. 61
usual. When he comes in, he usualiy sits a little
while, until a nun goes into the adjoining nuns'
sick-room, to sec if all is ready, and returns to ad·
mit him. After prescribing for the patients he goes
no farther, but returns by the way he enters: and
these two are the only rooms into which he is ever
admitted, except tlie public hospital.
4th. The nuns' sick-room adjoins the little sitting-
room on the east, and has, I thinlc, four windows
towards the north, with beds ranged in two rows
from end to end, and a few more between them, near
the opposite extremity. The door from the sitting-
room swings to tbe left, and behind it is a table,
while a glass case, to the right, contains a wax
figure of the infant Saviour, with several sheep.
Near the northeastern corner of this room are two
doors, one of which opens into a long and narrow
passage leading to the head of the great staircase
that conducts to the cross street. · By this passage
the physician sometimes finds his way to the sick-
room, when he comes late.r than usual. He rings
the bell at the gate, which I was told had a conceal-
ed pull, known only to him and the priests, proceeds
up-stairs and through the passage, rapping three
times at the door of the sick-room, which is opened
by a nun in attendance, after she has given one
rap in reply. When he has visited his patients,
and prescribed for them, he returns by the same
way. .
5th. Next beyond this sick-room, is n large un·
oecupied apartment, half divided by he,·o partial par-
• I
I
BLACK NUNNERY.
tition1, which leave an ~en space in the middle.
Here some ·or the old nuns commonly sit in the
daytime.
6th. A door from this apartment opens mto nn·
other, not appropriated to any particular use, but
containing a table, where medicines are sometimes
prepared by an old nun, who is usually found there.
Passing through this room, you enter a passage,
with doors on its four sides: that on the left, which
is kept fastened on the inside, leads to the stai.n:ase
and gate; taat in front, to private sick-rooms, soon
to be·described.
7th. That on the right leads to another, appropri·
sted to nuns suffering with the most loathsome dis·
ease. There were usually a number of straw mat-
cresses in that room, as I well knew, having helped
to carry them in after the yard-man had filled them.
A door beyond enters into a storeroom, which
extends also beyond this apartment. On the right.
another door opens into another passage, crossing
which, you enter by a door-
8th. A room with a bed and screen in one corner,
on which nuns were laid to be examined before
their introduction into the sick-room last mentioned.
Another door, opposite the former, opens into a pas-
sage, in which is a staircase leading down.
9th. Beyond this is a spare-room, sometimes used
to.store apples, boxes of different things, &c.
lOth. Returning now to the passage which opens
on one side upon the stairs to the gate, we enter
the only remaining door, which lends into an apart-
1
ha\'(
two
Yt\fll
rece
'I
side:
bui11
ofte1
som
by tl
retr1
per!
first
to tl
']
DUll
:t
s
·,
l
)
'
IJLACK NVNNER'f. 69
rncnt usually occupied by some of the old nuns, and
frequently by the Superior.
11th, and 12th. Beyond this are two more sick·
rooms, in one of which those nuns stay who are
waiting their accouchement, and in the other, those
who have passed it.
13th. 'l'he next is a fmall sitting-room, where a
priest waits to baptize the infants previous to their
murder. A passage leads from this room, on the
left, by the doors of two succeeding apartments,
neither of which have I ever entered.
14th. The first of them is the "holy retreat,'' or
room occupied by the priests, while suffering the
penalty of their licentiousness.
15th. 'rhe other is a sitting-room, to which they
haYe access. Beyond these the passage lends to
two rooms, containing closets for the storage of
various articles, and two others where persons arc
received who come on business.
The public hospitals succeed, and extend a con·
siderable distance, I believe, to the extremity of the
building. By a public entrance in that part, priestft
often come into the nunnery; and I have often seen
some of them thereabouts, who must have entered
by that way. Indeed, priests often get into the" holy
retreat" without exposing themselves to the view of
persons in other parts of the Convent, and haYe been
first known to be there, by the yard-man being sent
to the Seminary for their clothes.
The Congregational Nunnery was founded by a
nun called Sister Bourgeoise. She taught a school
.
!
I
,(
70 BLACK NUNN.ERY,
in Montreal, and len property for the foundation ol
a Com·ent. Her body is buried, and her heart is
kept, under the nunnery, in an iron chest, which
lias been shown to me, with the assurance that it
continues in pcrfeet preservation, although she has
Lccn dead more than one hundred and fifty years.
In the chapel is the following inseription : " S<Eur
Bourgeoise, Fondatrice du Convent"-Sistcr Bour·
geoise, Founder of the Convent.
Nothing was more common than for the Superior
to step hastily into our community-rooms, while
numbers of us w.ere assembled there, and hastily
communieate her wishes in words like these:-
" Here nrc the parents of such a novice: come
with me, and bear me out in this story." She would
then mention the outlines of a tissue of falsehoods,.
she had just invented, that we might be prepared to
fabricate circumstances, and throw in whatever elsa
might favour the deception. This was justified, and
indeed most highly commended, by the system of
faith in which we were instructed.
It was a common remark made at the initiation
of n new nun into the Black nun department, that
is, to receive the black veil, that the introduction ol
another novice into the Convent as a veiled nun,
caused the introduction of a veiled nun into heaven
na a saint, which was on account of the singular dis-
nppearance of some of the older nuns nt the entrnnco
of new ones!
To witness the scenes which often occurred be-
tween.us and strangers, would have struck n person
very
nt nn
nifie(
comn
charn
as eq
other
ever
been
who,
to co
doubt
So1
agem
whetl
was l
what
othr.r
pend
hm\'e
say,
story
On
partie:
hoods
speee.
was J,
one o
wellt
dny-
differ'
BLACK NVNNERY.
''
very powerfully, if he had lmown how truth was set
nt naught. The Superior, with a serious and dig·
nified air, and a pleasant voice and aspect, would
commence a recital of things most favourable ·tO the
character of the absent novice, and representing her
as equally fond of her situation, and beloved by the
other inmates. 'fhe tale told by the Superior, what·
ever it was, however unheard before might have
been any of her statements, was then attested by us,
who, in every way we could think of, endeavoured.
to confirm her declarations, beyond the reach ot
doubt.
Sometimes the Superior would intrust the man·
agement of such a case to some of the nuns,
whether to habituate us to the .practice in which she
was so highly ar.complished, o.r to relieve herself of
what wotl~d J1ave been a serious burden to most
other p~rsons, or to ascertain wh~ther she could de·
pend uPc>n us, or aJl together, I cannot tell. ORen,
however, have I seen her throw open a door, and,
say, in a hurried manner, "Who can tell the best
story~~~
One point, on which we received frequent and
p:utir.ubr instructions was, the nature of false·
hoods. On this subject I have heard many a
speech, I had almost said many a sermon; and I
was led to beli~ve that it was one of great importance,
one on which it .,was a duty to be well .infOrmed, as
well as to net. " 'Vhat I" exclaimed a priest one
dny-" what. a nun of your age, and not know the
difference between a wicked and a religious lie I''
..
72 BLACK NUNNERY.
He then went on, as had been done many times
previously in my hearing, to show the essential dif·
fercnce between the two different kinds of false·
hoods. A lie told merely for the injury of another,
for our own interest alone, or for no object at all, be
painted as a sin worthy of penance. But a lie told
for the good of the church or Convent, was merit·
ori<'u~, aml of course the telling of it a duty. And
of this class of lies there were many varieties and
shades. This doctrine has been inc.ulcatcd on me
anu my companions in the nunnery, more time~
than I can enumerate; and to sny that it was gener·
:1lly,recctvcd, would be to tell a part of the truth.
'\Vc often saw the practice of it, and were frequently
made to take part in it. Whenever any thing which
the Superior thought important, could be most con·
venicntly accomplished.by falsehood, she-resorted to
it without scruple.
There was n class of cases in 'vhich s'he more
frequently relied on rleception than any other.
The friends of novices frequently applied at the
Convent to see them, or at least to inquire after their
welfare. It was c.ommon for them to be politely re-
fused an interview, on some account or other, genf.'r·
ally a mere pretext; and then the Superior usually
sought to make as favourable an impression as pos·
sible on the visiters. Sometimes she would make
up a story on the spot, and tell the strangers ; re·
quiring some of us to confirm it, in the most con·
vincing way we could.
At other times she would prefer to make over to
did n j
ndjoir
to list
all pE
mon ·
time
sired
cant
off ''
ventt
be c
worl
One
to U1
furw
.cs
if-
se-
ne
!C~
er·
th.
tly
ch
m·
to
DLACJC MUNMEI\V. T3
na the task of deceiving, and we were comu\ended
in prop~:>rtion to our ingenuity and f'Uccess.
Some nun usually showed her submission, by im-
mediately stepping forward. She would then add,
perhaps, that the parents of such o. novice, whom
she named, were in waiting, and it was neces3nry
that they should be told such, and such, and such
things. To perform so. difficult a task well, was
considered a difficult duty, and it was one of the
most certain ways to gnin t~ favour of the Su·
])crior. Whoever volunteered to make a story on
th.~ spot, was sent immediately to tell it, and the
other nuns present were hurried off with her under
stnct injunctions to uphold her in every thing she
might state. ,.rhe Superior, as there was every
reason to believe, on all such occasions, .when she
did not herself appear, hastened to the apartment
adjoining that in which the ntms were going, there ·
to listen through the thin partition, to hear whether
all performed their parts aright. It was not uncom·
mon for her to go rather further, when she wanted
time to give such explanations as she could have d&
sired. She \vould then enter abruptly, ask, " Who
ean tell a good story this morning 1" and hurry us
off without n moment's delay, to do our best nt a
venture, without waiting for instructions. It would
be curious, could n stranger from " the wicked
world" outside the Convent witness sueh a scene.
One of the nuns, who felt in a favourable humour
to undertake the proposed task, would step promptly
forward, nnd signify her readiness in the usual way:
7
I
• •
, I
7'( ILAC.K NUNNEaY.
by a knowing wink of one eyo, and a alight tosa of
tho head. · · ·
"Well, go and do the be~t you can," the Superior
\":ould say; "and all the rest of you must mind and
swear to it." The latter part of the orJcr, at least,
was always performed; for in every such case, all
the nuns present appeared as unanimous witnessrs
of every thing that was uttered by the spokesman
of the day.
'\-Vc were constantly hearing it repented, that wo
must never ngnin loo1c upon ourselves ns our ow·n;
but must remember, that we were solemnly and ir·
revocably devoted to God. Whatever was required
of us, we were called upon to yield under the most so·
lemn considerations. I cannot speak on every par·
ticular with equal freedom; but I wish my readers
dearly to understand the condition in which wo
were placed, and the means used to reduce us to
what we had to submit to. Not only were we re-
quired to perform the several tasks imposed upon us
at worlc, prayers, and penances, under the idea that
we ""·ere performing solemn duties to our Maker,
but e\·ery thing else which was required of us, wo
were constantly told, was something indispensable
in his sight. The priests, we nclmitted, were the
~ervants of God, specially appointed by his authority,
to teach us our duty, to absolve us from sin, and to
lead us to heaven. Without their assistance, wo
had allowed we could never enjoy the favour of
God ; unless they administered the sacraments to us,
we could not enjoy everlasting happiness. Having
the fav.
lcct on(
afforde(
crcnt in
how th
treated .
of saint
broken
perform
liar cxp
of some
again, ir
we had
with avi1
of n by-'
~ntly r
ol
ior
mel
!1St,
all
srs
um
wo
v·n;
I ir·
.red
:so·
JOr·
ers
BLACK JUJJUIBR Y. 75
cohsented to acknowledge all this, we hod no ob-
jection to urge against admitting any other demand
that might be mode for or by them. If wo thought
an oct ever so criminal, the Superior would tell us
that the priests acted under the direct sanction of
God, and could not sin. Of course, then, it could
.not be wrong to comply with any of their requests,
bc<".ause they could not dcmnnd any thing but what
was right. On the contrary, to refuse to do any
thing they asked, would necessarily be sinful. Such
doctrines admitted, and sueh practices perform·
cd, it will not seem wonderful whrn I mention
that we -often felt something of theh· preposterc.us
chnracter.
Sometimes we took pleasure in ridiculing some of
the favourite themes of our teachers; and I recol·
lcct one subject particularly, which at one period
afforded us repented merriment. It may seem irrev·
crcnt in me to give the account, but I do it to show
how things of a solemn nature were sometimes
treated in the Con\'ent, by women bearing tho title
of saints. A Canadian Novice, who spoke very
broken English, one day remarked that she was
performing some duty 11
for the God." This pecu·
liar expression had something ridiculous to the cars
of some of .us; and it was soon repented again and
again, in application to various ceremonies which
we had to perform. Mad Jane Roy seized upon it.
with avidity, and with her aid it soon took the place
of a by-word·in conversation, so that we were con·
~ntJy reminding each other, that we were doine
76 BLACK Nt7NN.Eil'l'.
lhis and that lhing, how trifling and unmeaning
&oe,·cr, .. for the God., Nor did we stop here:
when the Superior called upon us to bear witness to
one of her religious lies, or to fabricate the most
spurious one the time would admit ; to saYe her
the trouble, we were sure to be reminded, on out
way to the stranger's room, that we \Yere doing 1t
•• for the God." And so it was when. other things
\Vere mcntioned-cYcry thing which belonged to
our condition, was spoken of in similar terms.
I hnvc hardly detained the reader long enough
on the subject, to give him a just. impression of the
Stl.!SS laid on conf('ssion. It is one of the great
points to which onr attention was constantly direct·
ed. 'Ve were directed to keep a strict and constant
watch orer our thoughts; to have continually be-
fore our minds the rules of t.he Con·;ent, to compare
the one with the other, remember every devotion,
nnd tell all, even the smallest, at confession, either
lo the Superior, or to the priest. My mind was thus
kept in a continual state of activity, which proved
very wearisome ; and it r('quired the constant exer•
lior.. of our teachers, to keep tls up to the practico
they inculcated.
Another tale recurs to ine, of those \Yhich were
frequently told us to make us feel the importance of
~nrcs,ervecl confession.
A nun of our Convent, who had hidden some sin
from her confessor, died suddenly, and without
any one to confess her. Her sisters assembled to
pray for the.p(>:tcii of her soul. when she 11ppeared.
an
rat
si~
gu
m
for
the
aJsc
our
stor
)
mol
cone
pay
ing
re:
ito
lOst
her
OUl
g lt
.ngs
l to
ugh
' the
rrcat
.rect-
stant
r be-
BLACK NUNNERY. 77
and informed them, that it would be of no usc, but
rather troublesome to her, as her pardon was impos·
sible.• The doctrine is, that prayers made for souls
guilty of unconfessed sin, do but sink them deeper
in hell; and this is the reason I have heard given
for not praying for Protestants.
The authority of the priests in ev,~ry thing, and
the enormity of every act which opposes it,,were
also impressed upon our minds, in various ways, by
our teachers. A " Father" told us the following
story one day ~t catec.hism.
A man once died who had failed to pay some
money which the priest had asked of him; he \vas
condemned to be burnt in purgatory until he should
pay it, but had permission to come back to this
world, and take o. human body to work in. He
made his appearance therefore again on earth, nnd
hired himself to n. rich man as a labourer. He
worked all day with the fire burning in him, un·
seen by other people; but while he was in bed that
night, a girl in an adjoining rO.om, perceiving the
smell of brimstone, looked through a crack in the
wall,-and saw him covered with flames. She in·
formed his master, who questioned him the next
morning, and found that his hired man was secretly
suffering the pains of purgatory, for neglecting to
pay a certain sum of money to the prte-:.t. He,
• Since the first edition, I have found this :ale related in·a
Romiah book, as one of very anctent date. It was told t» Ul u
h~Yiq takeo place m our ConvenL
7•
' I
78 BLACK .NUNXERY.
therefore, furnished him the amount due; it was
paid, and the servant went off immediately to henv·
en. The priest cannot forgive any debt due unto
him, because it is the Lord's estate.
While at confession, I was urged to hide nothing
from the priest, and have been told by them, that
they already lmew whnt was in my heart, but wquld
not tell, because it was necessary for me to confes~ it.
1 really believed that the priests were acquainted
with my thoughts; and often stood in great awe ot
them. They often told me they had power to strike
me dead at any moment
that
thin!
SE
who
WCrE
coun
in" I
0
gene
whe1
tomo
treat,
periC
done
liRpf
lS
V•
to
tg
tnt
tld
it.
ed
ot
ks
CHAPTER IX.
Nuu 'IDi!h similar name1-Squa1D Nun.-Pirll ~Uil lo lha
Cellar-Ducription of it-Shocking di8co~ery there-Supe-
rior's lllslructions-Pri.,ate Signal of the Prie1t1-Boob
u.w:l in the Nunnery-Opinions ezpressed qfthe Biblo-Spe-
cimtlU of what 1/motc ofthe Scriptures.
I FOUND that I had several names~kes among tho
nuns, for there were two others who alr,;udy bore
my new name, Saint Eustace. This was not a
!olitary case, for there were five Saint Marys, and
three Saint Monros, besides two novices of that
name. Of my namesakes I have little to say, for
they resembled most of the nuns ; being so much cut
off from intercourse with me and the other sisters,
that I never saw any thing in them, nor learnt any
thing about them, worth mentioning.
Several of my new companions were squaws,
who had taken the veil at different times. They
were from some of the Indian settlements in the
country, but were not distinguishable by any strik.
ing habits of character from other nun!, and were
generally not very different in their appearance
when in their usttal dress, and engaged in their cus-
tomary occupations. It was evident, that they were
treated with much kindness and lenity by the Su·
perior and the old nuns; nnd this I discovered was
done in .order to render them os well contented nnd
lmppy in their situation as possible. I should
80 BLACK NUNNERY.
have attributed the motives for this partiality to
their wishing that they might not influence others
to keep away, had I not known they were, like our.
selves, unable to exert such. fin influence. And
therefore, I could not satisfy my own mind why tbis
difference was made. Many of the Indians were
remarkably devoted to the priests, believing every
thing they were taught; and ns it is represented to
be not only a high honour, but a real advantage to
a family, to have one of its members become a nun,
Indian parents will often pay large sums of money
for the admission of their daughters into a convent.
'l'he father of one of the squaws, I was told, paid to
the Superior nearly her weight in silver on her re-
ception, altl1ough be was obliged to sell nearly all
his property to raise the money. 11
his he did vol.
untarily, because he thought himself overpaid by
baring the advantage of her prayers, self-sacrifices,
&c. for himself and the remaincler of his family.
'fhc squaws sometimes served to amuse us; for
when we were partinlly dispirited or gloomy, the
Superior would occasionally send them to dress
themselves in their Indian garments, which usually
excited us to merriment.
Among the squaw nuns whom I particularly re-
member, was one of the Sainte Hypolites, not the
one who figured in a dreadful scene, described in
another part of this narrative, but a woman of a far
more mild and humanc character.
'fhrce or four days ·after my reception, the Su.
nerior sent me into tho collar for con); and nficr sbo
··~
had
case
self
that
SIZC
wal
tion
war
to b
fiftc
rigl
pusi
smn
8CCti
simi
theiJ
B
do01
JCCti
step.
of w
)
I
1
3
e •
r
0
0
••
y
t.
0
~-
11
l-
...
•
BLACK N11NN:En.Y. 81
had given me directions, I proceeded down a stair.
case, with a lamp in my hand. I soon found my.
self upon the bare earth, in a spacious place, so dark,
that I could not at once distinguish its form, or
size, but I observed that it had very solid stone
walls, and was arched overhead, at no great eleva·
tion. Following my directions, I procee<le:l on·
ward from the foot of the stahs, where ar,peared
to be one end of the cellar. After walking about
fifteen pnce~, I passta.d three small doors, on tho
right, fastened with large iron bolts on the outside,
pushed into posts of stone-work, und each having a
smnll opening above, covered with a fine grating,
secured by a smaller bolt. On my left, were three
similar doors, resembling these, and placed opposito
them. i•
Beyond these, the space became broader ; the
doors evidently closed small compartments, pro·
Jecting from the outer wall of the cellar. 1 soon·
stepped upon a wooden floor, on which were heaps
of wool, coarse linen, and·other articles, apparently
deposited there for occasional use. I soon crossed~
the floor, and found the bare earth again under my
feet.
A little farther on, I found the cellar again eon·
tro.cted in size, by a row of closets, or smaller com
partments pr9jecting on each side. These wen.
dosed by doors of a different description from tht
first, having o. simple fastening, and no op'ening
through them.
Just beyond, on the left side, I passed a staircn.M
82 DLACK NUNNJo:RY.
leading up, and then three doors, much resembling
those first described, standing opposite three more,
on the other side of the cellnr. Hnving passca
there, I found the cellar ag11in enlarged ns before,
and here the earth appeared as if mixed with some
whitish substance, which attracted my attention.
As I proceeded, I found the whiteness increase,
until the surface looked almost like snow, nnd in
n short time I obsern•d before me, a hole dug so ·
deep into the earth that I could perceive no bottom.
I stopped to observe it.-It wns circuhir, perhaps
tweh·e or fifteen feet across; in the middle of the
cell;.tr, and unprotected by nny kind of curb, so that
one might easily hare walked into it, in the dark.
'l'he white substance which I had observ~d, was
spread all oYer the surface around it; nml Jay in
~uch quantity on all sides, that it seemed as if a
great deal of it must ha\·e been thrown into the
lwle. It immediately occurred to me that the white
substance was lime, and that this must be the place
where the infnnts were buried, after lJCing murdered,
us the Superior had informed me. I lmcw that lime
is often used Ly Homan Catholics in burying-places;
nnd in this way I accounted for its being scattcrca
about tho spot in such quantities.
'rhis was a shocking thought to me ; but I can
hardly tclll.o·w it affl.!ctcd me, as I had already befll
,prepnt·cd to expect dreadful things in the Com·ent,
.nnd had undergone trials which prevented me from
.fcding ns I should formerly have done in similar
circumstances.
tho
mJ~
Ieel
abo
stra
pan
.
,
is a
ma
to t
Tht
the
frorr
the ·
p
nnot
thos1
bron
andc
the c
m a
obse1
whic
distal
'1'}
thou~
bottoJ
bight
Nc
n par1
.,
ll
'
.,
•
.,
l
) .
t
'
DLACK · NUNNERY. 83
I passed ine spot., therefore, with distressing
thoughts. it is true, about the little corpses, which
might be in thut set:ret burying-place, but with recol-
lections also of the declarations which I had heart!,
about the favour done their souls by sending them
straight to heaven, and the necessary virtue accom-
panying all the actions of the priests.
'\Vhether I noticed them or not, at the time, there
is a window or two on each, nearly against the hole,
in at which are sometimes thrown articles brought·
to them from without, for the use of the Convent.
Through the window on my right, which opens into
the yard, towards the cross street, lime is received
from carts ; and I then saw a large heap of it near
the place.
Passing the hole, I came to n spot where was
another projection on each side, with three cells like
those I first clcscribed. Beyond them, in another
broad part of the ceJiar, were heaps of vegetables,
and other things, on the right; and on the left I found
the charcoal I was in sc~tr-ch <>f. 'I'his was placed
in a heap against the wall, as I might then have
observed, near a small high 'vinc!ow, like the rest, at
which it is thrown in. Beyond this spot, nt a short
distance, the cellar terminated.
'rhe top quite to that point, is arched overhead,
though at different heights, for the earth on the
bottom is unev~n, and in some places sc\-·cral feet
higher than in others.
Not liking to be alone in so spacious and gloomy
n part of the ConYcnt, c~pecially after the disco,·ery
8& BLACK 1\' t!SNEn Y.
I had made, I hastened to fi 11 my basket with coal,
and to return. .
Here then 1 wu, in a plncc which I h:td consid-
ered as the nearest imitation of h~!lvcn to be found
on earth, among a society where deeds were CC\n·
stantly perpetrated, which I had believed to be most
criminal, and I ha.d now found the place in which
harmless infants were unfeelingly thrown out of
sight, after being murdered.
And yet, such is tlic power of instruction and
example, although not satisfied, as many nround mo
seemed to be, that this was all righteous and proper,
I sometimes was half inclined to belie\·c it, for the
priests could do no sin, ancl this was done by priests.
Among the first instructions I received from the
Superior, were such os prepared me to admit priests
into the nunnery from the street at irr(.'gular hours.
It is no secret, that pri~l!lts enter nnd go out; but if
they were to be watched by any person in St. Pnul's·
street all day long, no irregularity might be sus·
pected; and they might be supposed to vis1t the
Convent for the performance of rdigious cererr.onic:s
merely.
But if a p~rson were near the gate about midnight,
l1e might sometimes form a different opinion; for
when a·stray pticst is shut out of the Seminary, or
is otherwise put in the need of seeking a lorlging,
he is always sure of being ndmittccl into the black
nunnery. Nobody hut a priest or the physician r.nn
ring the bell at the si::k-room door; much less cnn
nny others gain admittance. The pull of the bell is
then 1
the de
where
St. D
Th
J l'eCi
these
daily
'rhest
librar
{Jrme
e.<r.ha
selt·ct
Le
tory <
:oal,
ISid·
illild
CC'n·
nost
hich
lt of
and
1mo
lpel',
r the
iest.s.
1 tho
·iests
rs.
t if
ul's·
SUS•
the
.
ICS
ight,
for
BLACK NUNNEitY. 8~
t'ntirely conccal~d. somewhere on the outside of the
gate, 1 have been told.
He makes himself known as a prie~t by n pccu·
Jinr kind of h1ssing sound, made by the tonguo
tlguinst the teeth, while they o.re lU::pt closl~d, nnd the
)j;,s open. 'l'he nun within, who delays to open tho
do:>r, umil informed what kind of an applicant is
thc~eo, immediately recognises the signal, and Tl'plies
with t',\'O inartir.ulate sounds, such as are often used
instrnd of yes, with the mouth closed.
'rhc Superior srl~med to consider this part of my
instructions quite important, and taught me thP. sig-
nnls. 1 had often occasion to use them; I ha\'O
b.~en r~peatcdly called to the door, in the night,
while watching in the sick-room ; und on reaching
it heard the short hissing sound I have mentioned,
then ac.:ording to my standing orders, unfastening
th~ dom·, aclmitted a priest, who \Vas at liberty to·go
where he pleased. I will name Mr. Bierze from
St. Denis.
The books used in the nunnery, at least such ns
1 recollect of them, were the follo,,·ing. 1\lost of
these ui·~ lecture books, or such us are used by the
daily rt~aders, while we were at work, and meals.
'rhese \.Vt~re all furnished by the Superior, out of her
library, to which we never had access. She was in-
f,>rmed when we hnd done with one book, r..nd then
e.<r.hangP-d it for such another ae she pleased to
selt·ct.
Le Miroir du Chretien, (Christian Mirror,) His-
tory of Home, History of the Church, Life of Sreur
8
'
i'
II
86 DLACK NUNNF. U\•.
Bourgeoise, (the fi>Undcr of the Convent,) in t,,.
volumes, J.,' Ango Conducteur, (the Guardian An·
gel,) L'Ange Chretien, (tho Christian Angel,) Lcs
Vies des Saints, (Lircs ofSaints,) in several ,·olumcs,
Dialogues, n vo!ume consisting f com·ersations be-
tween a Protestant Doctor, cnllNi Dr. D. and n
Catholic gentleman, on the articles of faith, in
which, after much ingenious reasoning, the former
was confuted. One latgc book, the name of which
I have forgotten, occupied us nine or ten months nt
our lectures,night and morning. L'Instruct;,.m de lu
JeunesSl', (the ln:struction of Youth,) containing
mur.h ubout Com·ents, nnd the education of persons
in the world, with n great deal on confessions, &c.
Examen de Jn Conscience, (Examination of Con-
sicnce,) is a book frequently used.
I may here remark, that I never saw n Bible in
the Convent from the day I entered as a novice, un-
til that on which I effected my escape. The Ca·
tholic New Testament, commonly called the Evan·
gile, was rend to us about three or four times n year.
The Superior directed the reader what passage to
select j but we never had it in our hands to rend
when we pleased. I often hearu the Protestant
Bible spoken of. in bitter terms, as n most dangerous
book, and one which never ought to be in the hands
of common people.
;
to
poor p
:ientcd
tbercfc
the lnl
The
portant
carrier·
called
F'rcncJ
~ent to
nuns c J
ta~k, a:
me a 1
was co
assignE
'rhe m
that ro
Sainte
Saint f
t\\'0
An·
Lcs
mcs,
~be-
ad a
I m
~mer
hich
hs ut
de b
nincr
0
~s ons
I &c.
Con·
,
C 11 A P 'f E n X.
.blnnuj'acturt of Dread, ancl JVa.~ Candle•, carritd on in th~
Con renl-Superatiti.ons-Scapularies- Virgin .'llary'• pi11·
C'IJ.shim- ller 1/uusc-'l'hc Bishop's potct:r m:cr.fire- My In·
1trttction• to Novices- Jane llav- Vacillation uf f ctling.c:.
L RGI·: qt•nntitics of bread a'rc made in the Black
Nunnery every week, for besides what is necessary
to feed the nuns, many of the poor arc supplied.
\Vhen a p'ricst wishes tr ,;;·i\'e a loaf of bread ttJ a
poor person, h~ gives him an order, which is pre·
~-;ented at lhc Com•cnt. The making of bread is
therefore one of th<" most laborious C'mploymeuts iu
the Institution. ·
'rhe manufacture of wax candles was nnotht'r im-
portant branch of business in the nunnery. It mts
carriecl on in a small room, on the first floor, thence
called the Ciergeric, or wax-roC'm; cicrge being the
French word for a ·wax candle. I was sometimes
~ent to read the daily lecture nnd catl'chism to tho
nuns employed there, but found it a vcJ y unplcusant
ta~k, ns the smell rising from the melted wax gave
me a sickness nt the stomach. 'rhc employment
was considered rather unhealthy, and those were
assigned to it, who had the strongest constitutions.
'l'he nuns who were more commonly employed in
that room, were Sainte 1\-farin, Sainte Catharine,
Sainte Charlotte, Saint Francis, Sainte Hyacintht•,
Saint Hypolite, and others. But with tbesc:>, us with
IMAGE E
TEST TAR~~LTUATION
(MT-3)
11111
1
·0 : w w
-:::122
111111.1 t w w.
I
11111
125 IIi
· Ill~ w.
.. --= 6"
Phof9graphic
Sciences
COrpomtion
88 BLACK NUNNERY.
other persons i11 the Convent, I was nevet allc wed
to speal<, except under circumstances before men·
tioned. I was sent to read, and was not allowed
even to anewer the most tri\'ial question, if one wero
h ' I 1 . . "''
nskcd me. Should a nun say, "w at o c oc c IS II •
I never should have dared ·to reply, but was re--
quired to r"port her to tho Superior. .
Much Sti:ess was laid on the sa·inte scapulaire,
or holy scapulary. This is a small band of cloth
or silk, formed and wrought in a particular nnn~
ncr, to be tied amund the neck, by two strings, £1st·
ened to the ends. l have made many of them,
having been sometimes set to make them in the Con.
vent. On one side is worked a kind of double cross,
(tl1-us; XX) and on the other I. H. S. the meaning
of which I do not exactly know. Such a band is
called a ~capulary, and many miracles are attributed
to its po~ver. Children on first receiving the cern·
munion are often presented with scapularies, which
they are taught to regard with great'reverence. We
were told of the wonders effected by their means,
in the addresses made to us, by priests at catechism
or lectures. I will repeat. one or two of the stor_
ies
which occur to me.
A Roman Catholic sen·ant woman, who had con·
cealed some of her sins at confession, acted so hy·
pocritical a part as to make her mistress believe her
a rltvote, or a strict observer of.her duty. She even
imposed upon her confessor, to such a degree, that he
gave her ascapuhry. After he had given it, howeTer,
one of the saints in hoo.vcn informed him in a vision,
that ·
neck
tored
the S<
was l
Jary,
that tl
thing
to get
it \VaS
divine
An
Catho
He h;
Gods
his ne
the th
who.:t
tura1lJ
I hr
admis!
passag
to that
I had!
One d
month:
with n
penanc
withou
indeed,
was irr.
cd
~n-
ed
~ro
1"
.
.re,
)lh
ln-
t&·
)SS,
lUg
' is
1
ted
' ..
BLACK Nt'~NERY. 89
that the holy scapulary must not remain on the
neck of so great a sinner ; and that it must be res·
tared to the church. She lay down that night with
the scapulary round her throat; but in the morning
was found dead, with her head cut off, and the scapu·
lary was discovered in the church. The belief was,
that the devil could not endure to have so holy a
thing on one of his servants, and had pulled so hard
to get it oft: as to draw the silken thread with which
it \Yas tied, through her neck; after which by some
divine power it was restored to the church.
Another story was as follows. A poor Roman
Catholic was once taken prisoner by the heretics.
He had a sainte scapu-
la·
irt on his neck, when
God seeing him in the midst ofhis foes, took it from
his neck by a miracle, and held it up in the airabove
the throng of heretics; more than one hundred of
who.:l were converted, by seeing it thus superna-
turally suspended.
I had been informed by the Superior, on my first
admission as a nun, that there was a subterraneous
passage, leading from the cellar of our Convent, in-
to that of the Congregational Nunnery; but, though
I had so often visited the cellar, I had never seen it.
One day, after I had be~n received three or four
months, I \vas sent to walk through it on my knees
with another nun, as a penance. 'rhis, and other
penances, were sometimes put upon us by the priests,
without any reason assigned. .The common way,
indeed, was to tell us of the sin for which a penance
was imposed, but we were left many times to conjec-
s•
t.
•·
...
BLACK N11N!fERY.
lure. Now and then the priests would inform w; at
asubsequent confession, when he happened tore-
collect something about it, as I thought, and not
because he reflected, or cared much about the sub-
ject.
The nun who was with me led me through the
c.cllar, passing to the right of the secret burying·
place, and showed me the door of the subterranrous
passage, which was at the extremity towards the
Congregational Nunnery. The reasons why I had
not noticed it before, I presume were, that it was
made to shut close and even with tl1e wall, and all
that part of the cellar was whitewashed. The door,
which is of wood, and square, opens with a latch
into a passage, nbout four feet and a half high.
We immediately got upon our knees, commenced
saying t~e prayers required, and began to move
slowly along the dark <4nd narrow pa~suge. It
may be fifty or sixty feet in lcngtli; when we
reached the end, we opened a door, and found our·
selves in the cellar of the Congregational Nunnery,
at some distance from the outer wall; for the cov-
ered way is carried in towards the middle of the
cellar by two low partitions covered at the top. Ry
the side of the door, was placed a list of names of
the Black nuns, with a slide, that might be drawn
over any of them. We covered our names in
this manner, ·as evidence of having performed the
duty assigned us ; and then returned backwards
on our knees, by the way we had come. This
penance I rep<-.atedly performed afterward~; and
by tfJ
tion,
time!
w
still ·
deep·
to us
of,,.
vent,
tjard
afrui
mg:
A
he"
had
nnd
COffii
gard
whi•
and
pictt
and
fimr
0
pic~
littlE
rem
s
chiJ
at
the
ng·
ous
the
1ad
Xal
.all
)Of,
atch
'gh.
.ccd
ove
It
we
)Ur·
ery,
~OV·
the
Ry
!S of
LWn
1m
the
nds
rhis
and
·-
llLACK NUNNERY. 91
by tf1is way, o.s I have occasion elsewhere to men-
tion, nuns from the Congregational Nunnery, some-
times entered our Convent for worse purposes.
'Ve were frequently assured, that miracles are
still performed ; and pains were taken to impress us
deeply on this subject. The Superior often spoke
to us of the Virgin Mary's pincushion, the remains
of whieh it is pretended a;.., preserved in the Con·
vent, though it has crumbJed quite to dust. \Ve re·
gnrded this relic with such veneration, that we were
afraiu even to look o• it, and we often heard the follow-
mg story related, when the subject was introduced.
A priest in Jerusalem once had a vision, in which
he was informed that the house in which the Virgin
had livcd, should be removed from its foundations,
nnd transported to a distance. He did not think the
communication was from God, and therefore disre-
garded ·it ; but the house was soon after missed,
which convinced him that the vision was true,
and he told where the house might be found. A
picture of the house is preserved in the Nunnery,
and was sometimes shown us. There are also wax
figures of Joseph sawing wood, and Jesus, as a child,·
picking up the chips. We were taught to sing a
little song relating to this, the chorus of which I
remember:
11
Saint Joseph charpentier,
Petit Jesus ramassait les copeau
Pour fnir bouillir Ia marmite."
St. Joseph was a carpenter, little Jesus collected
c~ipe to make the pot boil
9i BLACK NUNNERY,
I began to speak of miracles, and l recollect a
story of one, about a family in Italy saved from
shipwreck by a priest, who were in consequence
converted, and had two sons honoured with the
priest's office.
I had heard before I entered the Com·ent, about
a great fire which destroyed a number of houses in
the Quebec suburbs, mul which some said the
Bishop extinguished with holy water. I once
heard a Catholic and a Protestant disputing on this
subject, and when I went to the Congregational
Nunnery, I sometimes heard th~ children, alluding
to the same story, say at an alarm of fire, " Is it a
Catholic fire 1 Then why does not the Bishop
run~,,
Among the topics on which the Bishop addressed
the.nuns in the Convent, this was one. He told us
the story one day, ,~tnd said he could have sooner in-
terfered and stopp~d the flames, but that at last, find-
ing they were about to destroy too many Catholic
houses, he threw holy water on the fire, and ex~
tinguished it. I believed this, and also thought that
he was able to put out any fire, but that he never
did it, except when inspired.
The holy water which the Bishop has conse-
crated, \vas considered much more efficacious, than
any blessed by a common priest;· and this it was
which was used in the Convent in sprinkling our
beds. It 'had virtue in it, to keep off any evil
spirits.
Now that I was a nun, I was occasionally sent
tor'
beer
oft
Jish
quc1
'fhe
omo
"
kno'
tver
F
take
Supc
an 11
dispJ
was
such
was
kno\'
way:
subjE
the
lcctu
mysc
and
that 1
moti'
M
and 1
excej
watc
a
n
e
.e
lt
n
IC
.g
a
'P
s
BLACK IUJNNERY. 93
to rend lectures ~o the novices, as othc1· nuns lutd
been while I was a novice. There were but few
of us, who were thought capable of reading Eng·
Jish well enough, and therefore, I was more fre-
quently sent than I might otherwise have been.
'!'he Superior often said to mP-, as I was going
among the novices:
"Try to conv-ert them-save their souls-you
knm:v you will have a higher place in hea,·en for
every one you com·ert."
For whatever reason, Mad Jane Ray seemed to
take great delic i·.t in crossing and provoking the
Superior and old nuns; and often she would cattso
nn in~erruption when it was most inconvenient and
displeasing to them. The preservation of silence
was insisted upon most rigidly, and penances of
such a nature were imposed for breaking it, that it
was a constant source of uneasiness with me, to
know that I might infringe the rules in so many
ways, and that inattention might at any moment
!Subject me to something very unpleasant. During
the periods of meditation, therefore, and those of
lecture, work, and repose, I kept a stri~t guard upon
myself. to escape penances, as well aa to avoid sin ;
and the silence of the other nuns, convinced me
that they were equally watchful, and from the same
motives. ·
My feelings, however, varied at different times.
and so did those of many, if not all my companions,
excepting the older ones, who took their turns in
watching us. We sometimes felt disposed Cor
94 DLACIC SU:SNERY.
gaiety, and threw off all ideas th~t talking was
sinful, even when fobidtlcn by the rules of the
Convent. And eYen when I felt that I might per·
haps be doing wrong, I reflected that confession, and
certainly penance, would soon wipe off the guilt.
I may remark here, that I ere long found out
several things, important to be known, to a person
living under such rules. One of these was, that it
was much better to confess to a priest, a sin' com-
mitted against the rules, because he would not rc·
quire one of the penances I most disliked, viz. :
those which exposed me to the observation of the
nuns, or which demanded self-debasement before
them, like begging their pardon, kissing the floor,
or the Superior's feet, &c., and, besides, he as a con·
fi!ssor was said to be bound to secrecy, and could
not inform the Superior against me. My conscience
being as effectually unburthened by my confession
to the p~iest, as I had been taught to believe, I there·
fore preferred .not to tell my sins to any one else;
and this course I found was preferred by others for
the same good reasons.
To Jane Ray, however, it sometimes appeared to
be a matter of perfect indifference, who lmcw her r
violations of rule, or to what penances she exposed
ht>rsei~ .
Often and often, while perfect silem~e prevailed
among the nuns, at meditation, or while nothing
was to be heard except the voice of the reader
appointed for the day, no matter whose life or
writing·s were presented for our contemplntione ·
J,
tit
Cll
w
al
ht
so
W•
in
Sl
pr
ev
to
no
tin
tul
sh
lS
18
:r·
ut
m
it
rn-
rc·
~. :
he
•re
or,
m·
tld
ICe
.on
re·
;e;
for
. to
1er '
;ed
led
:ng
1er
or
ifil
DLACK NUNNERY. 95
Jane would break'forth with some remark or ques-
tion, that would attract general attention, and often
cau!c a long and tot.tl interruption. Sometimes she
vou id make some harmless remark or inquiry
a\Gud, as if through mere inadvertency, and then
her lr.ud and well lmown \'oice, so strongly as-
sociated with every thing singular and ridiculous,
would arrest the attention of us all, and generally
incline us to smile, and even force us to laugh. 'fhe
Superior would then usually utter some hasty rc·
monstrance, and many a time I have heard her
pronounce some penance upon her; but Jane had
eve1· some apology ready, or some reply calculated
to irritate still farther, or to prove to every one, that
no punishment would be effectual on her. Some-
times this singular woman would appear to be ac·
tuated by opposite feelings and motives; for although
she usually delighted in drawing others into dif-
ficulty, and .has thrown many a severe penance
even upon her gr~atest fayourite~, on other occa-
sions she appeared totally regardless ofconsequences
herself, and preferred to take all the blame, anxious
only to shield others.
I haYe repeatedly known her to break silence in
the community, as if she had no object, or none
beyond that of causing disturbance, or exciting a
smile, and as soon as it was noticed, exclaim : "Say
it's me, say it's me I"
Sometimes she .would even expose herself to
punishments in pla_
ce of another who ~as guilty;
and thus I found it difficult fully to understand her.
06 BLACK NVNNRKY,
In some cases she seemed decidedly out of her wits,
ns the Superior and priests commonly preferred to
represent her; but genernllye l saw in her what
prevented me from accounting her insane.
Among her most common tricks were such as
these : She gn,·e me the name of the " l tevout
English ·Header," because I was often appoin!ed to
make the lecture to the English girls; and some·
times, after taking a seat near me, under pretenco
of deafness, would whisper it in my hearing, be-
cause she lme\V my want of self-command when
excited to laughter. Thus she often exposed me tc
penances for a breach of decorum, and set me to
biting my lips, to n·1oid laughing outright in the
midst of a solemn -lecture. "Oh I you devout Eng·
]ish Reader I'' would sometimes came upon me sud·
dently from her lips, with something in it so ludi·
crous that I had to exert myself to the utmost to
avoid observation.
rrhis came so often at one time, that I grew un-
easy, and told her I must confess it, to unburden
my conscience ; I had not done so before, because
she would complain.of me, for giving way to temp-
tation.
Sometimt>s she would pass behind us as we stood
at dinner ready to sit down, and softly moving back
our chairs, leave us to fall down upon the floor.
This she repeatedly has done ; and while we wero
laughing together, she would spring forward, kneel
to the Superior, ·and beg her pardon and a penance.
B
had
grea
the
suffe
excu
who
cise 1
me,
exarr.
mysE
The
veil;
ber c
me;
mane
and~
usual
"Go
and c
was 1
tone :
..me,n
lte,
to
lZlt
ns
)Ut
to
ne·
JCO
be-
len
~ tc
! to
the
ng·
md·
CHAPTER XI.
Al4rming Order fi·om the Superior- Proceed to e:recute ~·t­
Sr:ene in an upper Room-Sentence of Deutll, and .Afurcle1"-
My o&Dn distress-Reports made to friends of St. Francis.
BuT I must now come to one deed, in which I
had some part, nnd which I ]ook back upon with
grt'ater horror and pain, than any occurrences in
the Convent, in which I was not the principal
sufferer. It is not necessary for me to attempt to
excuse myself in this or any other case. 'rhose
who have ~my disposition to judge fairly, will exer.
cise their own judgment in .making allowances for
me, under the fear and force, the commands arid
examples, around me. - I, therefore, shaH confine
myself, as usual, to the simple narrative of far.ts.
The time was about .five mont!!s after I tool' thu
veil; the \\•eather was -cool, perhaps in Septem-
ber or October. One dny, the Superior sent for
me and several other -nuns, to rt'ceive her com.
mands at a particulrr room. ~Ve found the Bishop
Dnd some priests with her; and speaking in an un.
usual tone of fierceness and authority, she sai.d,
"Go to the room for the Examination ofConscience,
and drag-Saint :Francis ·up-5tnirs." Nothing mere
was necessary than this :unusual command, with the
tone and manner which accompanied it, to excite in
.me .most .gloomy ant.ici_pations. It did not.strike me
9
98 BLACK Nl1NNERY.
as strange, that St. Francis should he in the room to
which the Superior dirN".tcd us. It was an apart.
mcnt to which we were often sent to prepare for the
communion, and to wh1ch we voluntarily went,
whenever we felt the compunctions which our
ignorance of duty, and the misinstructions we rc·
ceived, incJined us to seck reli8f from self-reproach.
Indeed, I had seen her there a little before. 'Vhat
terrified mo was, first, the Superior's angry manner;
second, the expression she used, being o. French
term, whose peculiar usc I had learnt in the Con
vent, and whose meaning is rather softened when
translated into drag; third, the place to which we
were directed to take the interesting young nun, and
thtl persons assembled there as I supposed to con.
demn her. My fears were such, concerning the fate
ihat awaited her, and my horror at the idea that she
was in some way to be sacrificed, that I would have
given any thing to be allowed to stay where I was.
But I feared tho consequences of disobeying the
Superior, and proceeded with the rest towards the
room for the examination of conscience.
'rhe room to which we were to proceed from that,
was in tbe second story, and the place of many a
scene of a shameful nature. It is sufficient for me
t_
o say, aiter what I have said in other parts of this
book, that things had there occurred which made
me regard the place with the greatest disgust.
Saint Francis had appeared melancholy for somo
time. I well knew that she had cause, for she had
been repeat~dly subject to trials which I need;. not
nam1
roorr
tered
as th
sons
n1on(
b)y II
very
ciona
dccid
menll
us
Sc·
dress
ed ro
press
spea1
'rhe
ment'
and
nor
have
con.
the fate
hatsbc
d have
I was.
1g the
rds the
m that,
1any a
for me
)f this
made
isgust.
some
1
e had
~~not
BLACK NVNNERY.
name-our common lot. When we reache<l the
room where we had been bidden to seek her, I en·
tered the doot·, my companions standing behind me,_
as the place was so small as hardly to holcl five per-
sons at a time. The young Jlun w~a standing
alone, near the middle of the room; she was proba·
bly about twenty, with light hair, blue eyes, and a
very fair complexion. I spoke to her in a compas·
cionatc voice; but at the same time with such a
decided manner, that she comprehended my full
meaning-
"Saint Francis, we are sent for you."
Several others spoke kindly to· her, but two ad'·
dressed her very harshly. The poor creature turn.
cd round with a loolc of meekness, and without ex··
pressing any unwilJingness or fear, without even·
speaking a word, resigned herself to our hands,.
'rhe tears came into my eyes. I had not a mo-
ment's doubt that she considered her fate as sealed,.
and was already beyond the fear of death. She
was eondueted, or rather hurried to the staircase,
which was near by, and then seized:by her limbs
and clothes, and in fact almost draggt>d up-stairs, in
the sense- the Superior had intended. I laid my own
hands upon her-! took hold of her too,-more
gently indeed than some of the rest; yet I encou·
raged and assisted them in carrying her. I could
not avoid it. My refusal would not have saved her,.
nor prevented her being carried up; it would only
have exposed me to some severe punishment, as I
roo BLACK NUNNERY.
believed some of my companions would have seized
the first opportunity- to complain of me.
All the ''vny up the staircase, Saint Francis spoko
not a word, nor made the slightest resistanca.
'Vhcn we entered with her the room to which she
was ordered, my h~art sunk within me. Tho
Bishop, the Lady Super·ior, and five priests, VlZ.
Bonin, Richards, Savage, and two others, I now as-
certained, were assembled for her trial, on some
charge of great importance.
. '\'Vhen we had brought our prisoner·before them,
Father Richards began to question her, and she
made ready but calm replies. I cannot pretend to
give a connected account of what ensued: my feel-
ings were wrought up to such a pitch, that I knew
not what I did,. nor. what to do. I was under a terri-
ble apprehension that, if I betrayed the feelings
which almost overcame me, I should fall under the
displeasure of the cold:btooded persecutors of my
poor innocent sister ; and this fear on the one hand,
with the distress I felt for her.on the other, render.
ed me almost frantic. As soon as. I entered the
room, I had stepped into a corner, on the left of the
entrance,. where l might partially support myself.
by leaning against the wall, between the doo! and
window. ·This support was all that prevented me
from falling to the .floor, for the confusion of my
thoughts was so great, that only a few of the words
I heard spoken on either side made any lasting im.
pression upon me. I felt as if struck with some in.
,supportable blow; and death would not have been
not
had
hear
the!
.
resu
of c1
wou
baht
..
'I
and
rior,
s·
sion
this
self:
. the}
:eel
CCJ.
;he
,ho
llZ.
as.
me
~m,
she
l to
eel-
ee\V
rri-
ngs
BLADK NUNNERY. 101
more frightful to me. I am inclined to the belief.
that Father Richards wished to shield the poor pris-
oner from the severity of her fate, by drawipg from
her expressions that might bear a favourablP. con-
struction. He asked her, among other things, if
she was not sorry for what she had been overheard
to say, (for she had been betrayed by one of the
nuns,) and if she would not prefer confinement in
t~e cells, to the punishment which was threatened
her. But the Bishop soon interrupted him, and it
was easy to perceive, that he considered her fate as
sealed, and was determined she should not escape.
In reply to some of the questions put to her, she was
silent; to others I heard her voice reply that she did
not repent of words she had uttered, though they
bad been reported by some of the nuns who had
heard them; that she still wished to escape from
the Convent; and that she had firmly resolved to
resist every attempt to compel he~ to the commission
of crimes which she detested. She added, that she
would rather die than cause the murder of harmless
babes.
" That is enough, finish her F' said the·Bishop.·
Two nuns instantly fell upon the young woman,
and in obedience to directions, given by the Supe·
rior, prepared to execute her sentence.
She still maintained all the calmness and submis-
sion of a lamb. Some of those who took part in
this transaction, I believe, were as unwilling as my·
self; but of others I can safely say, that I believe
. they delighted in it. 1'heir conduct certainly ex-
g•
102 BLACK NUNNERY.
hibited a most blood-thirsty spirit. But, above all
others present, and above all human fiends I ever
saw, ! .think Saint Hypolite was the most diaboli·
cal. She engaged in the horrid task with all alae
rity, and assumed from choice the most revolting
parts to be performed. She seized a gag, forced it
into the mouth of the poor nun, and when it waa
fixed between her extended jaws, so as to keep them
open at their greatest possible distance, took hold of
the straps fastened at each end of the stick, crossed
them behind the helpless head of the victim, and
drew them tight through the loop prepared as o.
fastening.
The bed which had always stood in one part of
the room, still remained there; though the screen,
which had usually been placed before it, and was
made of thick muslin, with only a crevice through
which a person behind might' look out, had been
folded up on its hinges in the form· of a W, and
placed in a corner. On the bed th~ prisoner was
laid with her face upward, and then bound with
cords, so that she could not move. In an instant
another bed was thrown upon her. One of the
priests, named Bonin, sprung like a fury first upon
it; and stamped upon it, with all his force. He was
speedily followed by the nuns, until there were as
many upon the bed as could find room, and all did
what they could, not only to smother, but to bruise
her. Some stood up and jumped upon the poor girl
with their feet, some with their knees, artd others in
clliferent ways seemed to seek how they might beat
beat
and
ped
bene1
TJ
thOUj
each
culin
deav~
tion 1
taunt
Cath
m s1
corp:
had
shot1
cord:
drag
takc1
all
rer
)li·
ac
ng
l it
IBS
em
of
3ed
md
s a
of
BLACK NUNNERY. 103
beat the breath out of her body, and mangle it, with·
out coming in direct contact with it, or seeing tho
effects of their violence. During this time, my
feelings were almost too strong to be endured. I
felt stupified, and scarcely was conscious of what I
did. Still, fear for myself remained in a flufficient
degree to induce me to some exertion, and I attempt·
ed to ta1k to those who stood next, partly that I
might have an excuse for turning away from the
dreadful scene.
After the lapse of fifteen or twenty minutes, and
when it was presumed that the sufferer had been
smothered, and crushed to death, Father Bonin
and the nuns ceased to trample upon her, and step-
ped from the bed. All was motionless and silent
beneath it.
They then began to laugh at such inhuman
thoughts as occurred to some of them, rallying
each other in the most unfeeling manner, and ridi-
culing me for the feelings which I in vain en·
deavoured to c.onceal. They alluded to the l'esigna·
tion of our murdered companion, and one of them
tauntingly said, "She would have made a good
Catholic martyr." After spending some moments
in such conversation, one of them aslced if the
corpse should be removed. The Superior said it
hnd b(Her remain a little while. After waiting a
short time longer, the feather-bed was taken off, the
cords unloosed, and the body taken by the nuns and
dragged down stairs. I was informed that it was
taken into the ceJJar, and thrown uncet•:!monioualy
BLACK NUNNERY,
into the hole which I have already drscribed,
covered with a great quantity of lime, and after·
ward sprinkled with a liquid, o~ the properties and
name of which I am ignorant. This liquid I have
seen poured into the hole from Jarge bottles, after
the necks were broken off, and have hea~d that it is
used in France to prevent the effluvia rising from
cemeteries.
I did not soon recover from the shock caused by
this scenei indeed it still recurs to me, with most
gloomy impressions. The next day there wos a
melancholy aspect over every thing, and recreation·
time passed in the dullest manner; scarcely any
thing was said above a whisper.
I never heard much said afterward about Saint
Francis.
I spoke with one of the nuns, a few words, one
day, but we were all cautioned not to expose our·
selves very far, and could not place much reliance
in each other. The murdered nun had been Lrought
to her shoc.ldng end through the treachery of one of
our number, in whom she confided.
I never knew with certainty who bad reported
her remarks to the Superior, but suspicion fastened
on one, and I never could regard her but with de·
testation.
I was more inclined to blame her than some o(
those employed in the execution ; for there could
}Jave been no necessity for the betrayal of her feel·
ings. We all knew how to avoid exposing each
other.
]
w~u
to .t
are
I n(
elea
conf
wha
.
1mp
v
Cess<
wert
othc
N
worr
sion
with
Lou:
pose
tOWfl
the i
&
ealle
she J
she :
·repel
bed,
fter·
and
1ave
1fter
it is
i'om
d by
most
OS a
~tion·
any
Saint
BLACK NVNNERY. 105
'
I was often sent by the Superior to overhear what
was said by novices and nuns: when they seemed
to .shun her, she would say, "Go and listen, they
arA speaking English ;'' and though I obeyed her,
I never informed her against them. If I wished to
dear my conscience, I would go to n priest, and
confess, knowing that he dared not communicate
what I said to any person, and that he would not
impose ns heavy penances as the Superior.
We were nlways at liberty to choose another con·
fessor when we had any sin to confess, which we
'verc unwilling to tell one, to whom we should
otherwise have gone.
Not long after the murder just related, a young
woman came to the nunnery, and asked for permis·
sion to sec Saint Francis. It was my former fr.iend,
with whom I had been as an assistant teacher, Miss
Louise Bousquet, of St. Denis. From this, I sup·
posed the murdered nun might have come from that
town, or its vicinity. The only answer returned to
the inquiry was, that Saint Francis was dead.
Some time afterward, some of St. Francis' friends
called to inquire after her, and they were told that
she had died a glorious death; and further t!)ld, tbat
she made some heavenly expressions, which were
·repeated, in f?rder to satisfy her friends.
CHAPTER XII.
Ducription ofthe Room of the TMee States, and the Picturu
in it-
-Jane Ray ridiculing Priestr-Their criminal 7~reat·
ment ofus at Confession-Jane Ray'8 Tricks with the Nu~
~prons, 1/andkerchiefs, and Nightgownr-.Appl.u.
THE pictures in the room of the Three States
were large, and painted by some artist who under·
stood how to make horrible ones. They appeared
to be stuck to the walls. The light is admitted
from small and high windows, which are curtained,
and is rather faint, so as to make every thing look
gloomy. The story told us was, that they wers
painted by an artist, to whom God had given power
to represent things exa-ctly as they are in heaven,
hell, and purgatory.
In heaven, the picture of which hangs on one side
of the apartment, multitudes of nuns and priests-are·
put in the highest places, with the Virgin Mary at
the head, St Peter and other saints far above the
great numbers of good Catho~lcs of other class~,
who l\·ere crowded in below. ·
In purgat-ory arc multitudes of people; and in one
part, called '~ The place o.f lambs," are infants who
died unbaptized. " The place of darkness," is that
part of purgatory in which adults are collected; and
there· they are surrounded with fiail)cs, waiting to
be delivered by the prayers of the living.
In hell, the picture of whic-
h, and that of purga·
tOT)
hu11
imo
rep1
con
SIOI
oth4
theJ
spel
I
wer
. my
plac
war
me
Pro
'
wer
ren,
=ide
are
rat
the
me
rho
hat
md
to
BLACK NUNNERY. lOT
tory, were on the wall opposite that of heaven, the
human faces were the most horrible that can be
imagined. Persons of different descriptions were
represented, with the most distorted features, ghasdy
complexions, and every variety of dreadful expres·
sion; some with wild beasts gnawing at their heads,
others furiously biting the iron bars which kept
them in, with looks which could not fail to make a
spectator shudde-r.
I could hardly persuade myself that the figures
were not living, and the impression they made on
. my feelings was powerful. I was often shown the
place where nuns go who brealc their vows, as a
warning. It is the hottest place in he11, and worse,
in every point of view,·even than thnt to which all
Protestants are assigned; because they are not so
much to be blamed, as we were sometimes assured,
as their ministers and the Bible, by which they aro
perverted.
Whenever I was shut in that room, as I was sev-
eral times, I prayed for "les ames des fideles tre-
passes :" the souls of those faithful ones who have
long been in purgatory, and have no relations Jiving
to pray for them. ·
My feelings were often of the most painful de
scription, while I remained alone with tho~e fr1ght·
ful p~ctures. .
Jane Ray was once put in, and uttered t~ e most
dreadful shrieks. Some of the old nunf:i proposed
tq·the Superior to have her gag-ged: " ~(o," she ra.
108 BLACK NVNNERY.
·pli.-d ; " go and let out that devil, she makes me sin
n10re than all the rest.''
Jane conld not endure the place; and she after•
waru gave names to many of the worst figures in
the pictures. On catechism-days she would take 14
seat b£:hind a cupboard-cloor, where the priest coultl
not see her, while she faced the nuns, aud. would
ma],c us langh. " You arc not so atteTlti,•e to your
lesson as you used to be/' he would begin to say,
while \ve were endeavou-ring to suppress our
laughter.
Ja~.e would then .hold U'J> the first lctter.of some
priest's name, whom she had .before compared with
i>ne of the faces ·in " he.ll;" ·and look so that we
could hardly preserve ·our gravity. I remember
·she named the wretch W'ho was biting at ·the bars
-of hell, with a .serpent -gnawing his head, w~h
.c.hains and padlor·ks on, Father Dufresne ; and she
would say-" Does not he lool' like him, when he
.com('S in to Cut~chism with .his long solemn face,
.and begins his speeches with, 'My children, my
•
hope is, yon have .lived .very ..devout lives 1'"
The first ,time i went :to ·conf~ssion after taking
the veil, I found abundant evidenc.e that the priests
aid not treat even ithat ·c.eremony, which is ca1led a
solemn sacrament, \\iith respect enough to lay aside
the detestable and shameless cbaracter ·they so ofte~
showed on other occasions. The confessor some-
·.times .sat in the room for the examination of con~
.scienCl', and.sometimes in the Superior's room, and
,dlwa_
ys.nlon<:>, except the .nun wJ,o was confessinr.
...
came
I sl
undet
so1uti
than ·
mitte1
.
room
perst
as I
that
beea
s(
eve11
reg2
was
apa
lle sin
nfier•
res in
akc ~
coultl
;vould
your
) say,
our
some·
with
tt we
mber
bars
wi.&h
d she
m he
fitce,
'• my
king
BLACK NUNNERY. 109
He had a common chair placed in the mtddle of the
floor, and·instead of being placed behind a grate, or
lattice, as in the chapel, had nothing before or
around him. There were no spectators to observe
him, and of course any such thing would have
been unnecessary.
A number of nuns usually confessed on the same
day, but only CD() could be admitted into the room
at a time. 'rhey took their places just without the
door,·on their knees, and went through the prepara~
tion prescribed by the rules of confession ; repeating
certain prayers, which always occupy a consider-
able time. When one was ready, she rose from her
knees, entered, and closed the door behind her; and
no other one even dared touch the latch until she
came out.
I shall not tel: what was transacted at such times,
under the pretence of confessing, and receiving ab-
solution from ~in: far more guilt was often incurred
than pardoned; and crimes of a deep .die were com-
mitted, while trifling irregularities, in childish cere-
monies, were treated as serious offences. I cannot
persuade myself to speak plainly on such a subjec.t,
as I must offend the virtuous ear. · I can ohly say,
that suspicion cannot do any injustice to the priests,
because their sins cannot be exaggerated.
Some idea may be formed of the manner in which
even such women as many of my sister nuns were
regarded the confessors, when I state, that there
was often a ,contest among us, to avoid entering the
apartment as long as we could, endeavouring to
10
110 BLACK N'UNNERV,
make each other go first, as that was what most of
us dreaded.
During the long and tedious -days, which filled
up the time between the occurrences I have men·
tioned, nothing, or little, took place to keep up our
spirits. Wo were fatigued in body with labour, or
with sitting, debilitated by the long continuance of
our religious exercises, and depressed in feeJings
by our miserable and hopeless condition. · Nothing
but the humours of mad Jane Ruy,.could rouse us
for a moment from our languor and melancholy..
To mention all her devices, would require more
room than is here allowed, and a memory of almost
all her words and actions for years. I had early
become a favourite with her, and had opportunity to
learn more of ller charact('r than most of the other
nuns. As this may be best learnt from hearing
what she did, I will here recount a few of her tricks.
just as they happen to present themselves to my
memory, without regard to the order of time.
She one day, in an unaccountable humour, sprink·
led the floor plentifully with holy water, which
brought upon her a severe lecture from the Supe-
rior, as might have been expected. The Superior ·
sa~d it was a heinous offence ; she had wasted holy
water enough to save many souls from purgatory;
and what would they not give for it I She than or-
dered Jane to Sit in the middle of the floor, and
when the priest came, he was informed of her of-
fence. Instead, however, of imposing one of those
penances to ·which she had oft(m been subjected.
but w
overh
prcpn
"How
had en
fened
falsehc
I had ,
tion, o:
Jane7
S
ThE
tempte
exam11
night,
howev
from J
was sc
-other
At
ot
filled
men·
!ring
icks,
my
·ink-
hich
upe- .
rior
1oly
1ry;
or-
and
·of.
ose
:ed.
DLACK NUNNER1'. 111
tJut with so little effect, he said to her, " Go to
your place, Jane; we forgive you for this time."
I was once set to iron aprons with Jane; aprons
nnd pocket-handkerchiefs nrc the only articles of
dress which nrc ever ironed in the Convent. As
soon ns we were alone, she remarked, " Well, we
are free from the rules, whi]c we nrc at this work;''
and although she knew she had no reason for say-
ing so, she began to sing, and I soon joined her,
nnd thus we spent the time, while we were at worlc,
to the neglect of the prayers we ought to have said.
'\Vc had no idea that we were in danger of being
overheard, but it happened that the Superior was
overhead all the time, with severnl nuns, who were
preparing for confession : she came down and said,
"How is this?'' Jane Ray coolly replied, that we
had employed our time in singing hy~nns, andre-
ferred to rr.e. I was afraid to confirm so direct a
falsehood, in order to deceive the Superior, though
I had often told more injurious ones of her fabrica-
tion, or at her orders, and said very 1ittle in reply to
Jane's request.
The Superior plainly saw the trick that was at-
tempted, and ordered us both to th9 rootn for the
examination of ·conscience, where we remained till
night, without n mouthful to eat. The time wns not,
however, unoccupied; I received such a ' lecture
from Jane, as I have very seldom heard, and she
was so angry with me that we did not speak to each
-other for two weeks.
At length she found something to complain of
112 BLACK N1JNNI:I\Y.
against me, bad me subjected ton penance. which
led to our begging each other's pnrdon, nnd we be·
came perfectly satisfied, reconciled, nnd ns good
friends as ever.
One of the most dlsgusting penances we ever
bnd to submit to, was that of drinking the water in
wh~ch the Superior had washed her feet. Nobody
eo~ld ever laugh at this penance except Jane Ray.
She would pretend to comfort us, by saying, she
was sure it was better than mere plain clear water.
Some of the tricks which I remember, were play·
ed .by Jane with nuns' clothes. It was a rule that
the oldest aprons in use should go to the youngest
received, and the old nuns were to wear all the
new ones. On four different occasions, Jane stole
into the sleeping-room at night, and unobserved by
the watch, changed a great part of the aprons, pla-
cing them by the beds of nuns to whom they did
not belong. The consequence was, that in the
morning they dressed themselves in such hast~, as
never to discover the mistakes they made~ until they
were all ranged at prayers ; and then the ridiculous
appearance which many of them cut, disturbed the
iong devotions. I laugh so easily, thr_~ on such Ol!·
casions, I usua1ly incurred a full share of penances.
I generally, however, got a new apron, when Jane
played this trick ; for it was part of her object, to
·give the best aprons to her favourites, ~nd put oft
the ragged ones on some of the old nuns whom she
most hated.
Jane once lost her pocket-handkerchief: The
named,
soon aJ
fine wr
gave tc
She p
search
the sto·
kindlei
suffere
Thi:
night,
owned
loss, J
,
them, I
the Wt
,hich
e be·
good
ever
:er in
•
body
Rny.
, she
vater.
play·
e that
ngest
l the
BLACK NUNNERY. 113
penance for such nn offence is, to go without ony
for fi vc weeks. For this she hnd no relish, o~d re-
quested me to pidc one from some of the nuns on
the way up-stairs. I succeeded in getting two : this
Jane said was one too many, and the thought it
dangerous for either of us to keep it, lest a search
ehould be made. Very soon the two nuns were
1-omplnining that they had lost their handkerchiefs,
und wondering what could have become of them, :ts
they were sure they had been careful. Jane seized
11n opportunity, and slipped one into a straw bed,
where it remained until the bed was emptied to be
filled with new straw. ..
As the winter was coming on, one year, she com·
phiined to me that we were not as well supplie~
with warm n·ight-clothes as two of the nuns she
named, whom she said she "abominated." She
soon after found means to get possession of their
fine warm flannel nightgowns, one of which she
gave to me, while the other she put on a\ bedtime.
She presumed the owners would have a secret
search for them ; and in .the morning hid them in
the stove, after the fire had gone ·out, which was
kindled a little before the hour of rising, and then
suffered to burn down.
This she did every morning, taking them out at
night, through the winter. ··T~~e poor nuns who
owned the garments were afraid to complain of their
loss, lest they should have some penance laid on
them, and nothing was ever said abc~ut them. When
the weather began to grow warm in the sprini
to•
BLACK NUNNERY.
Jane returned the nightgowns to the beds of the
nuns, from whom she had borrowed them, and they
were probably as much surprised to find them again,
as they had before been at losing them.
Jane once found an opportunity to fill her apron
with a quantity of fine apples, calledfameuses, which
came in her way, and, hastening up to the sleeping·
room, hid them under my bed. Then, coming down,
· she informed me, and we agreed to apply for leave
to make our elevens, as 1t is called. The meaning
of this is, to repeat a certain round of prayers, for
nine davs in succession, to some saint we choose to
"
address for assistance, in becoming more charitable,
affectionate, or something else. "\\7
e easily obtained
permission, and hastened up-stairs to begin our nine
days' feast on the apples ; when, much to our sur-
prise, they had all been taken away, and·there was
no way to avoid the disagreeable fate we had
brought upon ourselves. Jane therefore began to
search the beds of the other nuns ; but not finding
any trace of the apples, she became doubly vexed,
and stuck pins in those which belonged to her ene·
.
m1es.
When bedtime came, they were much scratched
in getting in bed, which made them break silence,
and that subjected them to penances.
Ja.nt
1l)(l
of
nt
c
slee
stic1
whi
won
out.
and
the
rem
who
a g)
terre
the
hey
·a.in,
>IOn
bich
•ing·
>Wn,
eave
nmg
1, for
se to
able,
.ined
mne
sur·
was
had
CHAPTER XIII.
Jan~ Ray's Tricks continu~d- The Broomstick Ghost-Suep-
ttJQ,lking-Salted Cider-Changing Beds-Object. of .om•
ofher Tricks-Feigned 1/umility-A.larm-Treatment ofa
new Nun--A Nun made by 1t.ratagem.
ONE night, Jane, who had been sweeping the
sleeping-room, for a penance, dressed up the broom·
stick, when she had completed her work, with a ·
.
white cloth on the end, so tied as to resemble an old
woman dressed in white, with long arms sticking
out. This she stuck through a broken pane ofglass,
and placed it so that it appeared to be lo_
oking in at
the window, by the font of holy water. There it
remained until the nuns came up to bed. The first
who stopped at the font, to dip her finger in, caught
a glimpse of the singular object, and started with
terror. The next was equally terrified, as she ap.
proached, and the next, and the next.
We all believed in ghosts ; and it was not wonder-
ful that such an object should cause alarm, especially
a8 it was but a short time after the death of one of the
nuns. Thus they went on, each getting a fright in
turn, yet all afraid to speak. At length, one more
alarmed, or with less presence of mind than the rest,
exclaimed, 11
Oh, mon Dieu I Je.ne me coucherais
pas I" W,hen the night-wa~ch call~d out, 11
Who's
that ~, She confessed she had broken silence, but
pointed at the cause ; and then, all tho nuns assem·
,.
116 BLACK NUNNERY.
bbng at a distance from the window, Jane offered to
advance boldly, and ascertain the nature of the ap.
parition, which they thought a most resolute inten·
tion. We all stood looking on, when she stepped
to the window, drew in the broomstick, and showed
us the ridiculous puppet, which had alarmed so
many superstitious fears.
·Some of her greatest feats she performed as a
sleep-walker. Whether she ever walked in her
sleep or not, I am unable, with certainty, to say.
She, however, often imposed upon the Superior and·
old nuns, by making them think so, when I knew
she did not; and yet, I cannot positively say that she
always did. I have remarked, that one of the old
nuns was always placed in our sleeping-room at
night, to watch us. Sometimes she would be inat·
tentive, and sometimes fall into a doze. Jane Ray
often seized such times to rise from her bed, and
walk about, occasionally seizing one of the nuns
in bed, in order to frighten her. This she gener-
ally affected; and many times we have all been
awakened, by screams of terror. In our alarm,
some of us frequently broke silence, and gave occa.
sion to the Superior to lay us under penances. Many
times, however, we es~aped with a mere reprimand,
· while Jane usually received expressions of com-
. passion :-" Poor creature ! she would not do so
if she were in perfect possession of her reason."
And Jane displayed her customary artfulness, in
keeping up the false impression. As soon as she
pe~eived that the old nun was likely to observe her,
she
S\Va)
werE
cups
samt
of tl
Ieng
excl:
old 1
"
sile11
A
pow'
first
you
];;
Wh1
spril
near
whe
spot
Ito
ap-
:en·
ped
ved
so
s a
her
:ay.
1nd·
tew
she
old
t at
nat·
BLACK NUNNBRY. 11'1
she would throw her arms about, or appear uncon-
sr.ious of what she was doing, falling upon a bed.
. or standing stock-stili, until exertions had been
made to rouse her from her supposed lethargy.
We were once allowed to drink cider at dinner,
which was quite an extraordinary favour. Jane,
however, on account of her negligence of all work,
was denied the privilege, which she much resented.
The next day, when dinner arrived, we began to
taste our new drink, but it was so salt we could not
swallow it. 'rhose of us who at first discovered it,
were, as usual, afraid to speak; but we set down our
cups, and looked round, till the others made the
same discovery, which they all soon clid, and .most
of them in the same manner. S.ome, however, at
length, taken by surprise, uttered some ludicrous
exclamation, on tasting the salted cider, and then an
old nun, looking cross, would cry out:-
" Ah! tu casses la silence I" (Ah! you've broken
silence.) ·
And thus we soon got a-laughing, beyond our
power of suppressing it. At recreation, that day, the
first question asked by many of us, was, " How .did
you like your cider~~~
Jane Ray neYer bad a fixed place to sleep in.
When the weather began to grow warm in the
spring, she usually pushed some bed out of its place,
near a window, and put her own beside it; and_
when the winter approached, she would choo.se a
spot neal! the sto~e, and occupy it with her bed, in
118 BLACK NUNNERY.
spite of all remonstrance. We were all convinced
that it was generally best to yield to her.
She was often set to work, in different ways; but,
whenever she was dissatisfied with doing any thing,
would devise some trick that would make the Su-
p~rior, or old nuns, drive her off; and wheneYer
any suspicion was expressed, of her being in her
right mind, she would say, that she did not know
what she was doing; that all the difficulty arose
from her repeating prayers too much, which wearied
and distracted her mind.
I was once directed to assist Jane Ray, in shifting
the beds of the nuns. When we came to those of
some of the sisters, whom she most disliked, she
said, now we will pay them for some of the penan-
ces ~ve have suffered on their account; and taking
some thistles, she mixed them with the straw. At
night, the first of them who got into bed, felt the
thistles, ~nd cried out. 11
he night-watch exclaimed,
as usual, "You are breaking silence there." And
then another screamed, as she was scratched by the
thistles, and another. The old nun then called on
all who had broken silence to rise, and ordered them
to sleep under their beds, as a penance, which they
silently complied with. Jane and I afterward con-
fessed, when it was all over, and took some trifling
penance which the priest imposed.
Those nuns who fell most under the displeasure
of mad Jane Ray, as I have intimated before, were
!hose who had the reputation of bein·g most ready to
inform of the trifling faults of others. and especially
those
disc)•
confi1
she~
that s
did sJ
ful to
b~r oJ
all th
herw
she v
Franc
1ookec
death,
ted, w
We,o:
for ou·
ters ar
less
would
.ced
but,
ing,
Su-
~Yer
her
10W
rose
ried
ting
:e of
she
!lan-
nng
At
the
BLACK NUNNERY. 119
those who acted without any regard to honour, by
disclosing what they had pretended to listen to in
confidence. Several of the worst-tempered "saints"
she held in abhorrence; and I have heard her say,
that such and such, she abominated. :Many a trick
did she play upon these, some of which were pain-
ful to·them in their consequences, and a good num-
b~r of them have never been traced to this day. Of
all the nuns, however, none other was regarded by
her with so much detestation as Saint Hypolite; for
she was always believed to have betrayed Saint
Francis, and·to have caused her murder. She was
looked upon by us as the voluntary cause of her
death, and of the crime which those of us commit-
ted, who, unwillingly, took part in her execution.
We, on the contrary, being under the worst of fears
for ourselves, in case of refusing to obey our mas- .
ters and mistress, thought ourselves chargeable with
less guilt, as unwilling assistants in a scene, which
it was i~possible for us to prev.ent or delay. Jane
has often spoken with me of the suspected informer,
and always in terms of the gre·atest bitterness.
The Superior sometimes expressed commisera-
tion for mad Jane Ray, but I never could tell whether
she really believed her insane or not. I was always
inclined to think that she was willing to put up with
some of her tricks, because they served to divert our
minds from the painful and depressing circumstances
in which we were placed. I knew the Superior's
powers and habits of deception also, and that she
would deceive us as willingly as any one else.
. l
'
' .
1 '
120 BLACK NUNNERY.
Sometimes she proposed to send Jane to Sl
Anne's, a place near Quebec, celebrated for the pil·
grimages made to it by persons differently afflicted.
It is supposed that some peculiar virtue exists there,
which wHl restore health to the sick; and I have
heard stmies told in corrobol'ation ·of the common
belief. 1\fany lame and blind persons, with others,
visit St. Anne's every year, some of whom may be
seen travelling on foot, and begging their food.
The Superior would sometimes say that it was a
pit~r that a woman like Jane Ray, capable of being
so useful, should be unable to do her duties in con·
sequence of a malady which she thought might be
cured by a visit to St. Anne's.
Yet to St. Anne's Jane 'Yas never sent, and her
wild and ·various tricks continued as before. The
rules of silence, which the others were so scrupulous
in observing, she set at naught every hour; and as
for other rules, she regarded them with as little rc·
spect when they stood in her way. She lvould n~w
and then step out and stop the clor.k by which cur
exercises were regulated, and sometimes, in this
manner, lengthened out our recreations till near
twelve. At last the old nuns began to watch against
such a trick, and would occasionally go out to see
if the clock was going.
She once made a request that she might not eat
with the other nuns, which was granted, as it
seemed to proceed from a spirit of genuine hu·
\.""nility, which made her regard herself as unworthy
of our society.
It
with
Sh€
long,
that tl
warm
the fie
it, in l
our stc
\~e fir
the hol
our be
we we:
which
sparks
was b1
ofthe
silent.
Tht
I St.
3 pil·
icted.
here,
have
1mon
:her~,
iY be
food.
vas a
being
1 con·
·ht be
d her
The
BLACK KUNNER.1'. 121
It being most convenient, she was sent to the Su·
perior's table, to make her meals after her; and it
did not at first occur to the Superior, that Jane, in ·
this manner, profited by the change, by getting
much better food than the rest of us. Thus there
seemed to be always something deeper than any·
body at first suspected, at the bottom of every thing
she did.
She was once directed to sweep a community·
ro0m, under the sleeping-chamber. This office had
before been assigned to the other nuns, as a pen·
nnce; but the Superior, r.onsidering that Jane Ray
did little or nothing, determined thus to furnish her
with some employment. . ·
She declared to us that she would not swee~ . iL
long, as we might soon be assured. It happen.~d
that the stove by which that community-roc&A was
warmed in the winter, had its pipe carried through
the floor of our sleeping-chamber, and thence across
it, in a direction opposite that in which the pipe of
our stove was carried. It being then warm weather,
\~e first-mentioned pipe had been taken down, and
the hole'•}eft unstopped. After we had all retired to
our beds, and "rhile engaged in our silent prayers:
we were suddenl}'' alarn~ed by a bright blaze of fire,
which burst from the hole in the floor, and threw
sparks all around us. ' We thoughf the building
was burning, and uttered 'cries of terror, regardless
of the penances, the fear of'which generally kept us
silent.
The utmost c~nfusion prevailed; for although we
11
122 BLACK NUNNERY.
bad solemnly vowed never to fiee from the Convent aut.b
even if it was on fire, we were extremely alarmed, stric
nnd could not repress our feelings. We soon learnt exaiJ
the cause, for the fiames ceased in a moment or two, rnus·
and it was found that mad Jane Ray, after sweeping "Do
a little in the room beneath,.had stuck a quantity of 'f
wet powder on the end of her broom, thrust it up I wa
through the hole in the c.eiling into our apartment, almc
and with a lighted paper set it on fire. thre,
The date of this alarm I must refer to a time S<'on the 1
after that of the election riots; for I recollect that she me {i
found means to get possession of some of the powder TJ
whic.h was prepared at tha~ time, for an emergency wh01
to which some thought the Convent was exposed. nigh1
~he once asked for pen and paper, anrl when the caps
S"o..~perior told her that if she wrot~ to her friends rest.
she must see it, she replied, that it was for no such and
purpose; she wanted to write her confession, nnd
thus make it once for alL She wrote it, handed it
to the priest, and he gave it to the Superior, who
read it to us. It was fuJJ of offences which she had
never committed, evidently written to throw ridicule
on confessions, and one of the most ludic;r,'ous pro-
ductions I ever saw. .
Our bedsteads were made with narrow boards
laid across ·them, on whic.h the beds were laid.
One day, while we were in the bedchamber to.
gether, she proposed that ,we should misplace these
boards. This was done, .so that at night nearlya doz- us
en nuns fell down upon the floor on getting into bed nity
A good deal of confufSion naturalJy ensued, but the out.
riends
l such
t, and
.ded it
·,who
te had
dicu)e
ts pro·
)oards
! laid.
ter to.
these
adoz-
obed
llt the
BLACK NUNNERY. 123
authors were not discovered. I was so conscience..
stricken, however, that a week afterward, while we
examined ou~ . consciences together, I told her I
must confess the sin the next day. She replied,
"Do as you like, but you will be sorry for it."
'rhe ne:xt day, ,when we came before the Superior,
I was just going to kneel and confess, when Jane,
almost without giving me time to shut the door,
th1·ew herself at the Superior's feet, and confessed
the trick, and a penance was immediately laid on
me for the sin I had concealed.
There waq an old nun, who was a famous talker,
whom we used LO call La Mere, (Mother.) One
night, Jane Ray got up, and secretly changed the
caps of several of the nuns, and hers among the
rest. In the morning there was great confusion,
and such a scene as seldom occurred. She was
severely blamed by La 1.\tlere, having been informed
against by some of the nuns; and at last became so
much enraged, that she attacked the old woman,
an_
d even took her by the throat. La Mere called
on all present to come to her assistance, and seyeral
nuns interfered. Jane seized the opportunity afford·
ed in the confusion, to beat some of her worst ene-
mies quite severely, and afterward said, that she had .
intended to kill some of the rascally informers.
For a time Jane made .ns laugh so much at pray·
crs, that the Superior forbact.' her going down with
us to morning prayers ; and she took the opportu.
nity to sleep in the morning. '\Vhen this was found
out. she was forbidden to get into her bed again
12~ BLACK N11NJIBRY.
after leaving it, and then she would creep under it
and take a nap on the floor. This she told us o£
one day, but threatened t~ if we ever betrayed her.
At length, she was missed at breakfast, as she
would som~times oversleep hc,rself, and the Superior
began to be more strict, and always inquired, in the
morning, whether Jane Ray was in her place.
·When the question was general, none of us an.
swered ; but when it was addressed to some nun
near her by name, as,
"Saint Eustace, is Jane Ray in her place1''
then we had to reply.
Of all the scenes that occurred during my stay in
the Convent, there was none which excited the de·
light of Jane more than one which took place iii the
chapel one day at mass, though I never had any
particular reason to suppose that she had brought it
about.
Smp.e person, unknown to me to this day, had
put some subst-ance or other, of a . most nauseous
smell, into the hat of a little boy, who attended at
the altar, and he, without observing the trick, put it
upon his head. In the midst of the ceremonies he
approached some of the nuns, who were almost suf·
·focated with the odour; and as he occasionally mo-
ved from place to place, some ofthem began to beckon
•to him to stand farther off, and to hold their no_£es,
with looks of disgust. The boy was quite uncon-
scious of the cause of the difficulty, and paid them
no attention ; .but the confusion soon became so great,
through the distress of some, and the laughing of
Jan
night
to tall
and rc
ShE
and s1
laugh
ing w
0..
but a
some
ifl dl
ril
I O(
1er.
she
rior
the
lee.
an.
nun
e1''
.
ym
de·
the
any
lt it
BLACK NUNNERY. 1i6
others, that the Superior noticed the circumstance,
and beckon.ed to tho boy to withdraw. All attempts,
however, to engage us in any work, praye1·, or med·
itation, were found ineffectual. Whenever tho cir.
cumstances in the chapel came to mind, we would
laughout. We had got into such a state, that wecould
not easily restrain ourselves. The Superior, yielding
to necessity, allowed us recreation for the whole day.
'fhe Superior used sometimes to send Jana to in·
struct the novices in their English prayers. She
woald proceed to her task with all seriousness ; but
sometimes chose the most ridiculous, as well as ir·
reverent passages, from songs, and other things,
which she had before somewhere learnt, which
would set us, who understood her, laughing. One
of her rhyme~, I recollect, began with:
"The Lord oflove, look from above.
Upon this turkey hen."
Jane for a time slept opposite me, and often in the
night would rise, unobserved, and slip into my bed,
to talk with me, which she did in a low whisper,
and return again with equal caution.
She would tell me of the tricks she had played,
and such as she meditated, and sometimes ~ake me
laugh so loud, that I had much to do in the morn·
ing with begging pardons, and doing penances.
O..e winter's day, she was sent to light a fire;
but after she had done so, remarked privately to
some of us: " My fingers were too cold-you'll see
if I do it again."
u•
:,f,
'., l
t•, t I
I
I,
126
' The next day, there was n great stir in the house,
because it was said. that mad Jane Ray had been
seized with a fit while making a fire, and she was
taken up apparently insensible, and conveyed to her
bed. She complained to me, who visited her in the
course of the day, that she was likely to starve, as
food was denied her ; and I was persuaded to pin
a stocking under my dress, and secretly put food
into ·it from the table. This I afterward carried to
her and relieved her wants.
One of the things which I blamed Jane most for,
was a disposition to quarrel with any nun who seem·
ed to beWim!ing the favour of the Superior. She
would never rest until she had brought such a one
into some difficulty.
We were allowed but little soap; and Jane, when
she· found her supply nearly gone, would take the
first piece she could find. One day there was a
general search made for a large piece that was miss·
ed; when, soon after I had been searched, Jane Ray
passed me and slipped it into my pocket; she was
soon after searched herself. and then secretly came
for_
it again.
While I recall these particulars of our nunnery,
and refer so often to the conduct and language of
one of the nuns, I cannot speak of .some things,
which I believed or suspected, on account of my
want of sufficient knowledge. But it is a pity you
have not Jane Ray for a witness; she knows many
things of which I am ignorant.· She must be in
possession of facts that should be known. Her lon,v
lt."
II
thus
seen
J~
into
sofa,
she
beh'
the
whE
whi
ity.
and
esct
I
tar.
tUlle,
been
wall
• her
1 the
·e, as
, pin
food
ed to
.
Jt for,
:eem·
She
1 one
Nhen
.e the
BLACK JUJH'KJ:RY. IIF
residence in the Convent, her habits ofroaming abqut
it, and of observing every thing, must have made her
11cquainted with things which would be heard with
interest. I always felt ns if she knew every thing.
She woul61 often go and listen, or l~~k through the
cracks into the Superior's room, while any of the
priests were closeted ' ·ith her, and 11ometimes would
come and tell me what she witnessed. I felt myself
bound to confess in such cases, and always did so.
She knew, however, that I only told it to the
priest or to the Superior, and without mentioning
the name of my informant, which I was at liberty
to wit.Jhold, so that she was not found out. I often
said to her, " Don't tell me, Jane, for I must confess
1t.11
She would reply:
"It is better for you·to confess it than for me." I
thus became, even against my will, informed of
scenes, supposed by the actors of them to be secret.
Jane Ray once persuaded me to accompany her
into the Superior's room, to hide with·her under the
sofa, and await the appearance of a visiter whom
she expected, that we might overhear what passed
between them. We had been long concealed, when
the Superior came in alone and sat for some time,
when fearing she might detect us in the stillness
which prevailed, we began to repent of our temer·
ity. At length, however, she suddenly withdrew,
and thus afforded us a welcome opportunity to
escape.
I was passing one day through a part of the eel•
lar, where I bad not often occasion to go, when the
·'
128 BLACK. N'UNNERy,
toe or my shoe hit something. I tripped and fell
down. I rose again, and holding my lamp to see
what had caused my fall, ·I found an iron ring,
fastened to _a small square trapdoor. This I had
the curiosity to raise, and saw four or five steps
leading down, but there was not light enough to see
more, and I feared to be noticed by somebody and
reported to the Superior; so closing the door again,
!'left the spot. At first, I could not imagine the
use for such a passage ; but it afterward occurred to
me, ~hat this might open to the subterranean pas·
sage ~o the Seminary, for I never before could ac·
count for the appearance of many of the priests,
who often appeared and disappeared among us, par·
ticularly at night, when I knew the gates were
closed. They could, as I now saw, come up to the
door of the Superior's room at any hour, then up
the stairs into our sleeping-room, or where they
chose. And often they were in our beds before us.
I afterward ascertained that my conjectures were
correct, and that a secret communication was kept
up, in this manner, between the two institutions, at
the end towards NOtre Dame-street, at a considerable
depth under ground. I often, afterward, met priests
in the cellar~ when sent there for coal imd other
articles, as they had to pass up and down the com-
mon cellar-stairs on their way.
My wearisome daily prayers and labours, my
pain'of body, and depression of mind, which were so
much increased by penances I had suffered, and tho:se
which I constantly feared, and the feelings of shame,
rise,
nuns,
obser
Be
tokn
keepi
only,
This
and I
.
m m;
me tc
tacle
right
as so
ment'
rell
see
ng,
1ad
eps
see
md
1in,
the
1to
JaS•
ac·
lStS,
par·
•ere
the
up
BLACK NUNNERY. 129
remorse, andhorror, which sometimes arose, brought
me to a state which I cannot describe.
In the first place, my frame was enfeebled by the
uneasy postures I was required to keep for so long
a time during prayers. This alone I thought was
sufficient to undermine f!lY liealth and destroy my ,
life. An hour and a half every morning I had to
sit on the floor of the community-room, with my
feet under me, my body bent forward, and my h1~ad
hanging on one side,-in a posture expressive of
great humility; it is true, but very fatiguing to keep
for such an unreasonable length of time. Often I
found it impossible to avoid falling asleep in this
posture, which I could do without detection, by
•bending a little lower than usual. The signal to
rise, or the noise made by the rising of the other
nuns, then woke me, ar:td I got up with the rest un·
observed.
Before we took the posture just described, we had
to kneel for a long time without bending the body,
keeping quite erect, with the exception of the knees
only, with the hands together before the breast
This I found the most distressing ~ttitude for me,
and never assumed it with{ut feeling a sharp pain
in my chest, which I often thought would soon lead
me to my grave-that is, to the great common recep-
tacle for the dead, under the chapel. And this up-
right krieeling posture we wer~ obliged to resume
as soon as we rose from the half-sitting-posture first
mentioned ; so that I usually felt myjelf exhausted
lBO BLACK NtJNIIE&'r.
and near.to fainting before the conclusion of mom·
ing services. .
I found .the meditations extremely tedious, and
often did I sink into sleep while we were all seated
in silence on the floor. When required to tell my
meditations, as it was thought to be of no great im·
portance what we said, I sometimes found I had
nothing to tell but a dream, and told that, which
passed off very well.
· Jane Ray appeared to be troubled still more than
myself·with wandering thoughts; and when blamed
for them, would reply, "I begin very well; but di·
rectly I begin to think of some old friend of mine,
and my thoughts go a-wandering from one country
to another."
Someti~es I confessed my fa~ing asleep; and
often the priests have talked to me about the sip of
sleeping in time of meditation. · At last, one of them
proposed to me to prick myself with a pin, which I
have often done, and so roused myself for a time.
My close confinement in the Convent, and the
want of opportunities to breathe the open air, might
have proved more injurious to me than they did,
had I not been employt'd a part of my time in more
active labours than those of sewing, &c., to which I
was chiefly confined. I took part occasionally in
10me of the heavy work, as washing, &c.
The events which I am now to relate, occurred
about five months after my admission into the Con·
Yent as a nun ; but I cannot fix the time with pre-
•ision, o.s I know not of any thing which took place
·in t]
stan(
whe;
any ,
In
other
were
1D ou
the s
was E
n wo
simila
all th~
was'
nnd w
w~
I did
and
1ted
my
lffi•
had
nich
than
.m~d
lt di-
.
nme,
mtry
BLACK NUNNERY. 131
·in the world about the ~arne period. The circum-
stances I clearly remember; but, as I have else-
where remarked, we were not ac~tistomed to keep
any account of time.
Information was given to us one day, that an·
other novice was to be admitted among us ; and we
were required to remember and mention her often
in our prayers, that she might have faithfulness in
the service of her holy spouse. No information
was given us concerning her beyond this fact: not
n word about her age, name, or nation. Oq all
similar occasions the same course was pursued, and
all that the nuns ever learnt concerning one another
was what they might discover by being together,
and which usually amounted to little or nothing.
When the day of her admission arrived, though
I did not witness the ceremony in the chapel, it was
n gratification to us all on one account, because we
were always released from labour, and enjoyed o.
great recreation-day.
Our new sister, when she was introduced to the
"holy" society of us "saints," proved to be young,
of about the middle size, and very good-looking for
a Canadian ; for I soon asctrtained that she waa
one of my own cou11trywomen. The Canadian fe-
males are general1y not handsome. I never learnt
her name, nor any thing of her history. She had
chosen Saint Martin for her nun name. She was
admitted in the morning, and appeared ml~lancholy
all day. This I observed was always the case;
and the remarks made by others, led me to beli~vo
132 BLACK N111UfER1".
that they, and all they bad seen, had_ felt sad and
mj~erable for a longer or shorter time. Even the
Superior, as it may be recollected, confessed to me
that she had experienced the same feelings when
she was received. When bedtime arrived, she pro·
ceeded to the chamber with.the rest of us, and was
assigned a bed on the side of the room opposite my
own, and a little beyond. The nuns were all soon
in bed, the usual silence ensued, and I was making
my customary mental prayer and composing myself
to sleep, when I heard the most piercing and heart-
rending shrieks proceed from our new comrade.
Every nun seemed to rise as.if by one impulse, for
no one could ·hear such sounds, especially in such
total silence, without being greatly excited. A g-en·
eral noise succeeded, for many voices spoke together, She l
uttering cries of surprise, compassion, or fear. It of, e.li
was in vain for the night-watch to expect silence : Supe1
for on~ we forgot rules and penances, and gave take t
vent to our feelings, and she could do nothing but any s1
call for·the Superior. Strange as it may seem, mad rtor v
Jane Ra_
y, who found an opportunity to make her- One 1
self heard for an instant, uttered an exclamation in receh
English, which so far from expressing any sympathy was, l
for the sufferer, seemed to betr~y feelings hardened m ouJ
~o the last degree agtl.inst conscience and shame. her il
This caused a laugh among some of those who un· humb
derstood her, and had become hardened to their Ou
own trials, and of course in a great measure to thoso was i
of others. mac\e
I heard a man's voice mingled with the cries and I had
'
nnd
1 the
o me
when
~pro·
l was
te my
. soon
taking
myself
heart·
mrade.
BLACK HUMNERY. 133
,
shrieks oC the nun. Father Quiblier, of the Semi-
. nary, I had felt confident, was in the Superior's
room at the time when we retired ; and several of
the nuns afterward assured me that it was he. The
Superior soon made her appearance, and in a harsh
manner comm~:tnded silence. I heard her threaten
gagging her, and then say, "You are no better than
anybody"else, and if you do not obey, you shall be
sent t9 the cells."
One ·young girl was taken into the Convent du-
ring my abode there, under peculiar circumstances.
I was acquainted with the whole affair, as I was
employed to act a part in it.
Among the novices, was a young lady of about
seventeen, the daughter of an old rich Canadian.
She had been remarkable for n.:>thing that I know
of, except the liveliness of her disposition. The
Superior ~nee expressed to us a wish to have her
take the veil, though the girl herself had never had
any such intention, that I knew of. Why the Sllpe-
rior wished to receive P,er, I could only conjecture.
One reason might have been, that she expected .to
receive a considerable sum from her father. She
was, however, strongly desirous of having the girl
in our community, and one day said: "Let us take
her in by a trick, and tell the old man she felt too
humbl~ to take the veil in public."
Our plans then being laid, the unsuspecting girl
was induced by us, in sport, as we told her, and
ma<\e her believe, to put on such a splendid robe as
1 had worn on my admission, and to pass through
12
134 BLACK NUNNERY.
some of the ceremonies of taking the veil. After
this, she was seriously informed, that she was con-
sidered as having entered the Convent in earnest,
and must henceforth bury herself to the world, as
she would never be allowed to leave it. We put on
her a nun's dress, though she wept, and refused,
and expressed the greatest repugnance. The.Supe·
rior threatened, and · promised, and flattered, by
turns, until the poor girl had to submit ; but her ap·
pearance long showed that she was a nun only by
compulsioJl.
In obedience to the directions of the Superior,
we exerted ourselves to make her contented, espe·
cially when she was first received, when we got
round her, and told her we had felt so for, a time,
but having since become acquainted with the hap·
piness of a nun's life, were perfectly content, and •
would never be willing to leave the Convent. An
exception seemed to be made in her favour, in one
respect: for I believe no criminal attempt was made
upon her, until she had been for some time an in-
mate of the nunnery.
Soon after her reception, or rather her forcible
entry into the Convent, her father called to make
inquiry about his ·daughter. The Superior first
spoke with him herself, and then called us to repeat
her plausible story, which I did with accuracy. If
I had wished to say any thing else, I never should
have dared.
We told the foolish old man, that his daughter,
whom we all affectionately loved, had long desired
to 1
to l
SJTc
the
Jy,
mu:
whi
upo
that
ev.e1
ns ;
read
the •
pron
to t1
and
After
.con·
rnest,
ld, as
tuton
fused,
Supe-
d, by
er ap-
lly by
?erior,
, espe·
re got
1 time,
e hap·
1t, and ·
An
one
made
an in·
DLACK NUNNERY. 135
1:,..... • 1 ..~-"'!'~
to become a Nun, but had been too humble to wish
to appear before spectators, and had, at her own de-
sire, been favoured with a private admission into
the community.
The benefitconferred upon himself and his fami-
ly, by this act of self-consecration, I reminded him,
must be truly great and valuable ; as every family
which furnishes a priest, or a nun, is justly looked
upon as receiving the peculiar favour of heaven on
that account. The old Canadian firmly believed
ev.ery word I was forced to tell him, took t~e event
as a great blessing, and expressed the greatest .
readiness to pay more than the customary fee to
the Convent. After the interview, he withdrew,
promising soon to return and pay a handsome sum
to the convent, which he performed with all des·
patch, and the greatest cheerfulness. The poor
girl never heard that her father haa taken the trou·
ble to call to see her, much less did she know any
thing of the imposition passed upon him. She re-
mained in the Convent when I left it.
The youngest girl who ever took the veil of our
sisterhood, was only fourteen years of age, and
considered very pious. She lived but a short time.
I was told that she was ill-treated by the priests.
and beJieved her death was in consequence.
CHAPTER XV.
lnftuencing No"Dice•-Di.ffo;ulty of con'Dincing Per1on. /rtm&
the United States- Tale of U1e BilJhop in the City-The
Bishop in t1.e Con"ent-'1~ Pruoner1 in the Cells-Prae-
tice in Singing-Narrati.v~Jano Ray'• Hymm-Tiu
Superior's but Trick.
IT wa3 considered a gredt duty to exert ourselves
to influence novices.in favour of the Roman Cath·
olic religion; and different nuns were, at different
times, charged to do what they could, by conversa-
tion, to make favourable impressions on the minds
of some, who were particularly in~icated to us by
the Superior. I often heard it remarked, that those
who were influenced with the greatest difficulty,
were young la'dies from the United States; and on
some of those, great exertions were made.
Cases in which citizens of the States were said
to have been converted to the Roman Catholic faith.
were sometimes spoken of, and always as if they
were considered highly important.
The Bishop, as we were told, was on the public
square, on the day of an execution, when, as he
said, a stranger looked at him in some peculiar
manner, which made him confidently believe God
intended to have him converted by his means.
When he went home, he wrote a letter for him,
and the next day found him again in the same
place. and gave him the l.ettcr, which led to hi;s b.
free
man
cnteJ
I ha·
I ·
roon
dy n
OJ
thert:
mon1
usua
got i
hang
me tt
thes
pecu
tOOh
• /rtmt
r-Thc
-Pr~
.-Tlw
~selves
Cath·
fferent
tversa-
minds
us by
t those
public
as he
•
DLACK NUNNERY. 137
coming a Roman Catholic. This man, it was
added, proved to le a citizen of the States.
The Bishop, as I have remarked, was not very
dignified on all occasions, and sometimes acted in
such a manner as wou]d not have appeared well in
public.
One day I saw him preparing for mass; and be·
cause he had some difficu]ty in getting on his robe,
showed evident signs of anger. One of the nuns
remarked : " The Bishop is going to perform a pas-
sionate mass." Some of the others exclaimed : " Are
}rou not ashamed to speak so of my lord 1" And
she was rewarded with a penance.
But it might be hoped that the Bishop would be
free from the crimes of which I have dec]ared so
many priests to have been guilty. I am far from
entertaining such charitable opinions of him; and
I had good reasons, after a time.
I was often required to sleep on a sofa, in the
room of the present Superior, as I may have alrea-
dy mentioned.
One night, not long after I was first introduced
there, for that purpose,·and within the first twelve
months of my wearina- the veil, having retired as
usua], at about half-past nine, not long after we had
got into bed, the alarm-bell from without, which
hangs over the Superior's bed, was rung. She told
me te see who was there ; and going down, I heard
the signal given, which I have before mentioned, a
peculiar kind of hissing sound made through the
teeth. '!answered with a low," Hum-hum;" and
12•
•
138 BLACK lf'DNNZR1'.
then opened the door. It was Bishop La.rtique, the the
present Bishop of Montreal. He said to me, "Are I vi
you a Novice or a Ret'.eived ~,meaning a Received the
nun. I answered a" Received." tha1
He then requested me to conduct him to the Su· had
perior's room, which I did. He went to the bed. I SJ
drew the curtains behind him, and I lay down again star
upon the sofa, until morning, when the Superior Th'
called me, at an early hour, about daylight, and di~ "that
rected me to show him the door, to which I con· wrc
ducted him, and he took his departure. that
I continued to visit the cellar frequently, to carry whi
up coal for the fires, without any thing more than 1\
a general impression that there were two nuns some- Icc
where imprisoned in it. One day while there on mq1
my usual errand, I saw a nun standing on the right that
of the cellar, in front of one of the cell doors I had Sup
before observed; she was apparently engaged with that
something within. This attracted my attention. I lu
The door appeared to close in a small recess, and was
was fastened with a stout iron bolt on the outside, spol
the end of which was secured by being let into a · had
hole in the stone-work which formed the posts. 'havi
The door, which was of wood, was sunk a few tons
inches beyond the stone-work, which rose and form· I co
ed an arch overhead. Above the bolt was a small ever
window supplied with a fine grating, which swung com
open, a small bolt having been removed from it, on reqt
the outside. The nun I had observed seemed to be heir
whi~pering with some person within, through the vent
· little window: but I hastened to get my coal, and left Som
~.the
'•Are
eived
.e Su·
~bed.
again
Jerior
nd di~
I con·
carry
·ethan
l sornc-
tere on
e right
I had
BLACK NUNNERY. 139
the cell~r, presuming that was the prison. When
I visited the place again, being alone, I ventured to
the spot, determined to learn the truth, presuming
that the imprisoned nuns, of whom the Superior
had told me on my admission, were confined there.
I spoke at the window where I had seen the nun
standing, and heard a voice rt:ply in a whisper.
The aperture was so smali, and the piace so dark,
that I could see nobody; but I learnt that a poor
wretch was confined there a prisoner. .I feared
that I might be discovered, and after a few words,
which I thought could do no harm, I withdrew.
My curiosity was now alive, to learn every thing
I could about so mysterious a subject. I made a few
mquirics of Saint Xavier, who only informed me
that they ~ere punished for refusing to obey the
Superior, Bishop, and Priests. I afterward found
that the other nuns were acquainted with the fact
I had just discovered. All. I could learn, however,
was, that the prisoner in the cell whom I had
spoken with, and another in the cell just beyond,
had beci.l confined there several years without
'having been taken out; but their names, connex-
ions, offences, and every thing else relating to them,
I could never learn, and am still as ignorant of as
ever. Some c.onjectured that they had refused to
comply with some of the rules of the ·Convent or
requisitions of the Supe1·ior; others, that they were ·
heiresses whose property was desired for the 'Con•
vent, and who would not consent to sign deeds of it.
Some of the nuns informed me, that the sever'*!t of
•
140 DLACK NVNN ER1'.
their sufferings arose from fear of supernatural
beings.
I often spoke with one of them in passing near
their cells, when on errands in the cellar, but never
ventured to stop long, or to press my inquiries very
far. Besides, I found her reserved, and little dis.
posed to converse freely, n thing I could not won·
der at when I considered her situation, and the chat·
acters of persons around her. She spoke like a
woman in feeble health, and of broken spirits. I
occasionaJly saw other nuns speaking to them, par·
ticularly at meal-times, when they were regularly
furnished with food, which was such as we our·
selves ate.
Their cells were occasionally cleaned, and then
the doors were opened. I never looked into them,
but was informed that the ground was their only
floor. I presumed that they were furnished with
straw to lie upon, as I always saw a quantity of old
straw scattered about that part of the cclJar, after ·he
cells had been cleansed. I once inquired of 'One of
them, whether they could converse together, and
she replied that they could, through a small open-
ing between their cells, which I could not see.
I once inquired of the one I spoke.with in pass-
ing, whether she wanted any thing, and she replied,
11
Tell Jane Ray I want to see her a moment if she
can _
slip away.11
When I went up I took an oppor.
tunity to deliver my message to Jane, who concert·
ed with me a signal to be used in future, in case a.
similar request should be made through me. Thi1
WI
wi
op
ho
bei
leu
COl
thr
ofic
wh
tab:
Sor
.und
a lc
obtt
I
the
dural
near
never
J very
e dis-
won·
1chax·
like a
its. I
n, par·
ularly
e our-
:l then
• them,
only
with
of old
'he
BL.lC.K NUNNERY. lfl
was a sly wink at her with one eye, accompanied
with a slight toss of my hend. She then sought an
opportunity to ·visit the cellnr, nnd \\'llS soon nble to
hold nn interview with the poor prisoners, without
being no~iced by any one but myself. I nfterwnrd
learnt that mnd Jnne Rny was not so mnd, but sho
could feel for those miserable beings, and carry
through mcnsures for their comfort. She would
often visit them with sympathizing words, nnd,
when necessary, concenl pnrt of her food while at
table, and secretly convey it into their dungeons.
Sometimes .\Ye would coqlbine for such an object;
und I ha\·e repeatedly nided her in thus obtaining
n lnrgcr supply of foo.d thnn they had been abhJ to
obtain from others.
I frequently thought of the two mms confined in
the cells, and occasionally heard something said
about them, but very little. Whenever I Yisited the
cellar, nnd thought it safe, I went up to the fjrst of
them anti spoke a word or two, and t~:-sually got
some brief reply, without ascertaining that any
partic.ular change took place with either of them.
The one with wh~"'m alone I ever conversed, spoke
English perfectly well, and Fren~h I thought as
well. I supposed she must have been well educa·
ted, for I could not tell which was her native lan-
guage. I remember that she frequently used these
words when I wished to say more to her, and which
alone showed that she was constantly afraid of pun-
ishment: " Oh. there's somebody coming-do go
142 BLACK NUNNERY.
oway t" I have been told that the other pr!soner
I
also sr,oli:e English.
It was impossible for me to form any certain
opinion about the size or appearance of those two
miserable creatures, for their cells were perfectly
dark, and I never caught the slighte~t glimpse even
· of their faces. It is probable they were women not
above the middle size, anrl my reason for this pre·
sumption is the following : I was sometimes ap·
pointed to lay out the clean clothes for alJ the nuns
in the Convent on Saturday evening, and was al-
ways directed to lay by two suits for the prisoners.
Particular orders were given to select the largest
sized garments for several tall nuns; but nothing of
the kind was ever said in relation to the clothes for
those in the cells.
I had not been long a veiled nun, before I request-
ed of the Superior permission to confess to the
"Saint Bon Pasteur," (Holy Good Shepherd,) that
is, the mysterious and nameless nun whom I had
heard of while a novice. I knew of several others
who had confessed to her at different times, and of
some who had sent their clothes to be touched by
her when they were sick; and I felt a df.sire to un·
burden my heart of certain things, which I was
loath to aclmowledge to the Superior, or any of the
priests. .
The Superior made me wait a little, until she
could ascertain whether the "Saint Bon Pasteur,
was ready to admit me; and after a time returned,
nnd told me to enter the old nuns' room. That
apa!
of~
to r
ther
the
an ,
gl~s
opet
the
witb
cone
did
whit
spea
to <:'
beav
cessi
3oner
~rtain
~ two
fectly
even
m not
; pre·
~s ap·
nuns
as al·
Jners.
ugest
ingof
es for
quest·
o the
,) that
I had
BL4CK NUNNERY. 143
apartment has twelve beds, arranged like the berths
of a ship, by thrers j and as each is broad enough
to receive two persons, twenty-four may be lodged
there, which was about the number of old nuns in
the Convent during most of my stay in it. Near
an opposite corner of the apartment was .a large
glass case, with no appearance of a door, or other
opening, in any part of it j and in that case stood
the venerable nun, in the dress of the community,
with her thick vei1spread over.her face, so as to
conceal it entirely. She .was standing, for the place
did not allow room for sitting, and mo\'cd a little,
which was the only sign of life, as she did not
speak I fell upon my knees before her, and began
to confess some of my imperfections, which lay
heavy upon my mind, imploring her aid and inter-
cession, that I might be delivered from them. She
appeared to listen to me with patience, but still never
returned a word in reply. I be~ame much affected
as I went on, and at length began to weep bitterly;
and when I withdrew, was in tears. It seemed to
me that my heart was remarkably relieved after this
exercise, and all the requests I had made, I found,
as I believed, strictly fulfilled. I often, afterward,
visited the old nuns' room for the same purpose, und
with similar results, so that my belief in the sanctity
of the nameless nun, and my regard for her inter-
cession, were .unbouncled.
What ts remarkable, though I repeatedly was
sent into that room to dust it, or to put it in order,
I remarked tbat the glass case was vacant, and n9
i j
: t
I ;
,:I
Iil
BLACK NtJNNJ!lRY.
aigos were to be found. either of the nun or o( the
way by which she had left it; so that a solemn con·
elusion rested upon my mind, that she had gone o~
one of her frequent visits to heaven.
A priest would sometimes come in the daytime to
teach us to sing, and this was done with some pa·
·rade or stir, as if it were considered, or meant to be
considered, as a thing of importance.
The instructions, however, were entirely repe·
titions of the words and tunes, nothing being taught
even of the first principles of the science. It ap·
peared to me, that although hymns alone were
aung, the exercise was chiefly designed for our
amusement, to raise our spirits a little, which were
apt to become depressed. Mad Jane Ray certainJy
usually treated the whole thing as a matter of sport,
and often excited ~hose of us who understood Eng·
lish to a great degree of mirth. She had a very
fine voice, w.hich was so powerful as generally to
be heard above the rest. Sometimes she would be
silent when the other nuns began ; and the Supe·
rior would often call out, "Jane Ray, you don't
sing." She always had some trifling excuse ready,
f.lnd commonly appeared unwilling to join the rest.
After being urged or commanded by the Superior,
she would then strike up some English song, .or
profane parody, which was rendered ten times more
ridiculous by the ignorance of the Lady Superior
and the majority of the nuns. I.cannot help laugh·
ing now when I remember how she used to stand
:With_perfect composure and sing,
feet
unp1
Sacr
onE
nor
caus
and ·
it on
who
nam
::,in t
ans\,
IDISS
OJ
., .
oem1
the l
us s·
entic
oithe
m con-
one op
time to
me pa·
1t to be
r repe·
taught
It ap·
~were
or our
h were
1
rtainly
f sport,
l Eng·
a very
;ally to
ruld be
• Supe·
!1 don't
BLACK NUNNERY.
"I wish I was married and nothing to rue,
With plenty of monc:rand nothing to do.u
145
"Jane Ray, you don't sing right," the Superior
would exclaim. "Oh," she would reply, with per-
fect coolness, " that is the English for,
' Seigneur Dieu de elemence,
Re9ois co grand pccheur;"'
and, as sung by her, a person ignorant of the Ian·
guage would naturally be imposed upon. It was
extremely difficult for me to conceal my laughter.
I have always had greater exertion to make in re·
pressing it than most other persons; and mad Jane
Ray often took advantage of this.
Saturday evening usually brought with it much
unpleasant work for some of us. \Ve received the
Sacrament ever~: Runday; and in preparation for it,
on Saturday t:v .v,:1g we as~ed pardon of the Supe-
rior and of eac.h other " for the scandal we had
caused them since we last received the Sacrament,'.~
and then asked the Superior's permission to receive
it on the following day. She inquired of each nun
who necessarily asked her permission, whether she,
naming her as Saint.somebody, had concealed any
sin that should hinder her receiving it; and if the
answer was in the negative, she granted her per·
mission.
On Saturdays we were catechised by a priest,
being assembled in a community-room. He sat on
the right of the door in a chair. He often told
us stories, and frequently enlarged on the duty of
enticing novices into the·nunnery. " Do you not
13
BLACK NU'NNBRY,
feel happy," he would.say, "now that you are safely
out of the world, and sure of heaven~ But remem·
ber how many poor people are yet in the world.
Every novice you influence to take the black veil,
will add to your honour in heaven. TeH them how
happy you are."
1,he Superior played one trick while I was in the
· Convent, which always passed for one of the most
admirable she ever carried into execution. We
were pretty good judges in a case of this k~nd, for,
as may be presumed, wa ·were rendered familiar
with the arts of deception under so accomplished a
teacher.
'
There was an ornament on hand in the nunnery,
of an extraordinary kind, which was prized at ten
pounds ; but it had been made and ex-posed to view
so long, that it became damaged and quite unsalea·
ble. We were one day visited by an old priest
from the coun~ry, who was evidently somewhat in-
toxicated ; and as he withdrew to go to his lodgings,
in the Seminary, where the couatry priests often
stay, the Superior conceived a plan for disposing of
the c;>ld ornament. " Come," said she, " we will
~end it to the old priest, an_
d swear he bas bought itI"
We all approved of the ingenious device, for it
evidently m,ight be c!assed among the pious frauds
we had ~c;> often had recommended to us both by pre-
cept and e~~mple; and the ornament was sent to
him the next morning, as his property when paid
for. He snon came into the Convent, and expressed
the gre11test surprise that he had been charged with
safely
!mem·
world.
k veil.
nhow
in the
~most
We
:td, for,
1miliar
shed a
mnery,
at ten
BLACK 'N17NNEB.Y.
purchasing such a thing, for which he had no need
and no desire.
The Superior heard his declaration with patience,
but politely insisted that .
it was a fair bargain; and
we then surrounded the old priest, with the strongest
assertions that such was the fact, and that nobody
would ever have thought of his purchasing it un-
less he had expr1 ~sly engaged to take it. The poor
old man was entirely put down. He was certain
of the truth; but what could he do to resi~t or dis-
prove a direct falsehood pronounced by the Supe-
rior of a Convent, and sworn to by all her holy
nuns~ He finally expressed his conviction that we
were right: he was compelled to pay his.money.
CHAPTER XVI.
Ji'reqUtncy of the Priests' Visits to the Nunnery- T\!ir Free-
dom and Crimes-D~fficulty of learning their Names-
Their Holy Retreat-Objections in our minds-Means usecl
to counteract Conscience-Ingenious Arguments.
SoME of the priests from the Seminary were in
the nunnery every dby and night, and often several
nt a time. I have seen nearly all of them at dif-
ferent times, though there are about one hundred
and fifty in the district of Montreal. There was a
difference in their conduct; though I believe every
one of them· was guilty of licentiousness; while
not one did I ever see who maintained a character
any way becoming the profession of a priest. Some
were gross and degraded in a degree which few of
my readers can ever have imagined; and I should
be unwilling to offend the eye, and corrupt the heart
of any one, by an account of their .words and ac-
tions. Few imaginations can conceive deeds so
abominable as they practised, and often required of
some of the poor women, under the fear of severe
punishments, and even of death. I do not hesitate
to say with the strongest confidence, that although
some of the nuns became lost to every sentiment of
virtue and honour, especially one from the Congre·
gational Nunnery whorri I have before mentioned,
Saint Patrick, the greater part of them loathed the
practices to which they were compelled to submit
by
dr•
by
at:
but
thil
rea
Mn
wh:
ty ~
oft
1\
oft.
0\VIJ
but
the
in 1
with
are J
that
~rem
:veral
.t dif-
ndred
was a
every
while
by the Superior and priests, who kept them under so
dreadful a bondage.
Some of the priests whom I saw I never knew
by name, and the names of others I did not learn foT
a time, and at last learnt only by accident.
They were always called" Mon pere," my father;
but sometimes, when they had purchased some·
thing ii1 the ornament-room, they would give their
real names, with directions where it should be s.
ent.
Many names, thus learnt, and in other ways, were
whispered about from nun to nun, and became pret·
ty generally known. Several of the priests, soma
of us had seen before we entered the Convent.
Many things of which I speak, from the nature
of the case, must necessarily rest chiefly upon my
own word, until further evidence can be obtained:
but there are some facts for which I can appeal to
the lcnowledge of others. It is commonly known
in Montreal that some of the priests occasionally
withdraw from their customary employments, and
are not to be seen for some time, it being understood-
that they have retired for religious study, medita ·
tion, and devotion, for the improvement of their
hearts. Sometimes theJ are thus withdrawn from
the world for weeks: but there is no fixed period.
This was a fact I knew before I took the veil;
for it is a frequent subject of remark, that such or
such a Father is on a" holy retreat., This is a term
which conveys the idea of a religious seclusion
from the world for sacred purposes. On the re-
appearance of a priest after. such a period, in the
ta•
.•
150 BLACK NUNNERY,
church or the streets, it is natural to feei a pecubar
.impression of his devout character-an impression
very different from that conveyed to the mind of one
who knows matters as they really are. Suspicions
have been indulged by some in Canada on this sub·
ject, and facts are known by.at least a few. I am
able to speak from personal knowledge: for I have
been a nun of Samr Bourgeoise.
The priests are liable, by their dissolute habits, to
occasional attacks of disease, which render it neces·
sary, or at least prudent, to submit to medical treat.
ment.
In the Black Nunnery they find private accommo-
dations, for they are free to enter one of the private
hospitals whenever they please; which is a room
set apart on purpose for the accommodation of the
priests, and is.called a retreat-room. But an excuse
is necessary to blind the public, and this they find
in the pretence they make of being in a " Holy
Retreat." Many such cases have I known; and I
can mention the names of priests who have been con-
fined in this Holy Retreat. They are very carefully
attended by the Superior and old nuns, and their diet
mostly consists of vegetable soups, &c. with but lit-
tle meat, and that fresh. I have seen an instrument
of surgery laying upon the table in that holy room,
which is used only for particular purposes.
Father Tabeau, a Roman priest, was on one ot
his holy retreats about the time when I left the
nunnery. There are sometimes a number confined
thE
fre•
]
dec
the
pre
ly J
1ces
pra1
.
SOCJ
like
arne
eXJS
'I
terat
the:
mor
told
pem
nun
her ·
werE
conic
mitt
only
rests
lean.
scien
abou
Tc
meat
cubar
3SSIOn
>fone
icions
s sub·
I am
: have
)ita, to
neces·
treat.
•mmo·
llivate
room
of the
BLACK NUNNERY. 151
there at the same time. The victims of these priests
frequently share the same fate.
I have often reflected how grievously I had been
deceived in my opinions of a nun's condition! All
the holiness of their lives, I now saw, was merely
pretended. The appearance of sanctity and heaven·
ly mindedness which they had shown among us nov.
ices, I found was only a disguise to conceal such
practices as would not be tolerated in any decent
society in the world; and as for peace and joy
like that of heaven, which I had expected to find
among them, I learnt too well that they did not
exist there. ~
The only way in which such thoughts were coun·
teracted, was by the constant instructions given us by
the Superior and priests, to regard every doubt as a
mortal sin. Other faults we might have, as we were
told over and over again, which, though worthy of
penances, were far less sinful than these. For a
nun to doubt that she was doing her duty in fulfilling
her vows and oaths, was a heinous offence, and we
were exhorted always to suppress our doubts,· to
confess them without reserve, and cheerfully to sub-
mit to severe penances on account of them, as the
only means of mortifying our evil dispositions, and
resisting the temptations of the devil. Thus we
learnt in a good degree to resist our minds and con·
sciences, when we felt the first rising ofa question
about the duty of doing any thing required of us.
To enforce this upon us, they employed various
means. Some of the most striking stones told us
u eatechiam by the prtests, were designed for thiJ
end. One of these I will repeat. One day, aa
a priest assured us who was hearing us say the cat-
echism on Saturday afternoon, as one Monsieur
• • • •, a well-known citizen of Montreal, was
walking near the cathedral, he saw Satan giving
orders to numerous evil spirits who bad assembled
around him. Being afraid of being seen, and yet
wishing to observe what was done, he hid himselt
where he could observe all that passed. Satan des·
patched his devils to different parts of the city, with
directions to do their best for him; and they return.
cd in a short time, bringing in reports of their suc-
cess in leading persons of different classes to the
commission of various sins, which they thought
would be agreeable~ their master. Satan, ho\vever,
expressed his dissatisfaction, and ordered them out
again; but just then a spirit from the Black Nun-
nery came, who had not been seen before, and stated
that he had been trying for seven years to persuade
one of the nuns to doubt, and had just succeeded.
Satan received the intelligence wit~ the highest
pleasure; and turning to the spirits around hitn,
said: "You have not half done your work-he haa
done much more than all of you.''
In spite, however, of our instructions and warn·
ings, our fears and penances, such doubts would in-
trude ; and I have often indulged them for a time,
and at length, yielding to the beliefthat I wa_
s wrong
in giving place to them, would confess them, and
undttrio with cheerfulness such new penances a1 I
or
not
plac'
ligio
mon
amp
instr
prac·
ness
corr•
plies
their
have
taug:
upon
art a
their
and
seem
ll this
!ly, aa
he cat.
1nS1eur
.1, was
giving
:lmbled
nd yet
1imselr
an des-
y, with
return.
~ir sue-
to the
bought
~wever,
em out
· Nun·
stated
BLACK NUNNERY. J.53
wns loaded with. Others too would occasionally
entertain and privately express such doubts; though
we all had be~n most solemnly warned by the cruel
murder of Saint Francis. Occasionally some of
the nuns would go further, and resist the restraints
or punishments imposed upon them; and it was
not uncommon to hear screams, sometimes of a
most piercing and terrific kind, from nuns suffering
under discipline.
Some of my readers may feel disposed to exclaim
against me, for believing things, which will strike
them as so monstrous and abominable. To such, I
would say, without pretending to justify myseJf-
you know little of the position in which I was
placed : in the first place, ignorant of any other re.
ligious doctrines ; and in the second, met at every
moment by some ingenious argument, and the ex-
ample of a large community, who received all the
instructions of the priests as of undoubted truth, and
practised upon them. Of the variety and specious-
ness of the arguments used, you cannot have any
correct idea. They were often so ready with re-
plies, examples, anecdotes, and authorities, to enforce
their doctrines, that it seemed to me they could never
have learnt it all from books, but must have been
taught by wicked spirit's. Indeed, when I reflect
upon their conversations, I am astonished at their
art and address, and find it difficult to account for
their s:Jbtlety and success in influencing my mind,
and persuading me to any thing they pleased. It
seems to 'me, that hardly anybody would be safe in
IM BLACK IUJJUCaaW. .' '
their hands. If you were to go to confession twice,
I believe you would feel very differently from what
you do now. They have such a way of avoiding
one thing, and speaking ofanother' oraffirming this,
and doubting or disputing that, of quoting authori.
ties, and speaking of wonders and miracles recently
performed, in confirmation of what they teach, as
familiarly known to persons whom they call by
·name, and whom they pretend to offer as witnesses,
' though they never give you an opportunity to speak
with them-these, ancl many other means, they
use in such a way, that they always blinded my
mmd, and, I should think, would blind the minda
efothers.
such
· deatl
chili
pne~
pres,
the
nam
Aun
T
and
at a
prie;
.gOOI
apr
put
tom
afte1
twice,
1 what
oiding
g this,
uthori.
~cently
.ch, ns
all by
nesses,
1spenk
, they
ed my
mindl
CHAPTER XVII.
2'\o~alment qf yqun.g ln./ant. in the Con~m.t-Talkin6 ..
Sleep-Amu•emcnts-Ceremoniea at the public inteMnenl qf
decea1ed ·Nuns-S~tdden d~appearance ofthe Olcl Suptrior
-Introduction qf the new one-Superstition-Alarm qf ca
Nun-DU/iculty qf Communication.unth other Nun•.
IT will be recollected, that I was informed im-
mediately after receiving the veil, that infants W1:-~re
occasionally murdered in the Convent. I was one
duy in the nuns' private sick-room, when I had au
()pportun_
ity, unsought for, of witnessing deeds of
such a nature. It was, perhaps, a month after the
\ death of Saint Francis. Two little twin babes, the
children of Sainte Cathar-ine, were brought to a
priest, who was in the room, for baptism. I was
present while the ceremony was performed, with
the Superior and several of the old nuns, whose .
names I never knew, they being called Ma tante.
Aunt.
The priests took turns in attending to confession
and catechism in the Convent, usually three i.aonths
at a time, though sometimes longer periods. 'fhe
priest then on duty was Father Larkin. He is a
good-looking European, and has a brot 1er who ia
·a professor in the college. He baptized, and then
put oll upon the heads of the .infants, as is the cus-
tom after baptism. They were then taken, ono
after another, by one of the old nuns, in the pres·
156 BLACK NUNNERY.
ence of us ali. She pressed her hand upon th1)
mouth and nose of the first, so tight that it could
not breathe, and in a few minutes, when the hand
was removed, it was dead. She then took the other,
and treated it in the same way. No sound was
heard, and both the children were corpses. The
greatest indifference was shown by all present du-
ring this operation ; for all, as I well knew, were
long accustomed to such scenes. The little bodies
were then taken into the cellar, thrown into the pit
I have mentioned, and covered with a quantity of
lime.
I afterward saw another new-born ipfant treated
in the same manner, in the same place : but the ac·
tors in the scene I choose not to name, nor the cir-
cumstances, as every thing connected with it is of a and
peculiarly trying and painful nature to my own of aJ
feelings. we c
These were the only instances of infanticide 1 and
witnessed; and it seemed to be merely owing to ac· nun
cident that I was then present. So far as I know, dea~
there were no pains taken to preserve secrecy on finis
this subject; that is, I saw no attempt made to keep wou
any of the inmates of the Convent in ignorance of a su
the murder of children. On the contrary, others whic
were told, as well as myself, on their first admission form
as veiled nuns, that all infants.·born in the place "
were baptized and killed, without loss of time; and wer1
r had been called to witness the murder of the three all ')
just mentioned, only because I happened to be in and
the room at the time. cloc:
on th11
: could
~ hand
~ other,
1d was
The
ent du·
1, were
bodies
the pit
ntity of
treated
the ac-
the cir-
is ofa
others
BLACK NUNNERY. 157
That others were killed m the same manner du-
ring my stay in the nunnery, I am well assured.
How many there were I cannot tell, and having
taken no account of those I heard of, I cannot speak
with precision ; I believe, however, that I learnt
through nuns, that at least eighteen or twenty in-
fants were smothered, and ·secretly buried in the
cellar, while I was a nun.
One of the effects of the weariness of our bodies
and minds, was our proneness to talk in our sleep.
It was both ludicrous and painful to hear the nuns
repeat their prayers in the course of the night, as
they frequently did in their dreams. Required to
keep our minds continually on the stretch, both in
watching our conduct, in remembering the rules
and our prayers, under the fear of the consequences
of any neglect, when we closed our eyes in sleep,
we often went over again the scenes of the day ;
and it was no uncommon thing for me to hear a
nun repeat one or two of our long exercises in the
dead of night. Sometimes, by the time she had
finished, another, in a different part of the room,
would happen to take a similar turn, and commence
a similar recitation ; and I have known cases in
which several such unconscious exercises were per-
formed, all within an hour or two.
We had now and then a recreation-day, when we
were relie.ved from our customary labour, and from
all .
"prayers except those for morning and evening,
and the short ones said at every striking of the
clock. The greater part of our time was then oc-
14
• i
158 BLACK NUNNERY.
cupied with different games, particularly backgamM
mon and drafts, and m such conversation as did not
relate to our past lives, and the outside of the Con·
vent. _
Sometimes, however, our sports would be
interrupted on such days by the entrance of one of
the priests, who would come in and propose that
his f~te, the birthday of his patron saint, should be
kept by "the saints., We saints I
· Several nuns died at different times while I was
in the Convent; how many I cannot say, but there;.
·was a considerable number: I might rather.. ~ay,
many in proportion to the number in the nunnery.
The proportion of deaths I am sure was very large.
'rherc were always some in the nuns' sick-rooms,
and several interments took place in the chapel.
~ When a Black nun is dead, the corpse is dressed
as if living, and placed in the chapel in a sitting
posture, within the railing round the altar, with a
book in the hand, as if reading. Persons are then
freely admitted from the street, and some of them
kneel and pray before it. No particular notoriety
is given, I believe, to this exhibition out of the Con·
vent; but such a case usually excites some atten·
tion.
v The living nuns are required to say prayers for
the delivery of their deceased sister from purga·
tory, being informed, as in all other such cases, that
if she is not there, and has no need of our inter·
cession, our prayers are in no danger of bbing
thrown away, as they will be set down to the ac·
count of some of our departed friends, or at least
was
but ,
wer(
had
visit
evid4
.
IS a :
little
with
pene
ludec
ness
she'
that 1
•'1
nitur
is fm
I ,
room
ihes
ackgam~
i did not
:he Con·
·ould be
>f one of
1
0se that
tould be
leI was
mt therf.
her. say,
1unnery.
ry large.
k·rooms,
apel
; dressed
a sitting
r, with a
re then
them
inter·
~ing
the ac·
at least
. '
BLACK NUNNERY. 159
to that of the souls which have no acquaintances to
pray for them.
It was customary for us occasiona1ly to kneel
before a dead nun thus seated in the chapel, and I
have often performed that task. It was always
painful, for the ghastly countenance being seen
whenever I raised my eyes, and the feeling that
the position and dress were entirely opposed to
every idea of propriety in such a case, always made
me melancholy.
1'he Superior sometimes left the Convent, and
was absent for an hour, or several J10urs, at a time,
but we never knew of it until she J,...J returned, and
were not informed where she had been. I one day
had reason to presume that she had recently paid a
visit to the priests' farm, though I had not direct
evidence that such was the fact. The priests' farm
is a fine tract of land belonging to the Seminary, a
little distance from the city, near the Lachine road,
with a large old-fashioned edifice upon it. I hap·
pened to be in the Superior's room on the day al·
luded to, when she made some remark on the plain·
ness and poverty of her furniture. I replied, that
she was not proud, and could not be dissatisflt-d \:n
that account ; -she answered-
" No; ·but if I was, how much superio~ _
L4!!·the fur·
niture at the priests' farm I the poorest"·room there
is furnished better than the best of mino."
I was one day mending the fire in the Superior's
room, when a priest was conversing with her on
ihe scarcity of money ; and I heard him say, th~
d
f
'I
~
160 BLACK NUNMBRY.
very httle money was received by the priests for
prayers, but that the principal part came with pen·
ances and absolutions.
One of the most remarkable and unaccountable
things that happened in the Convent, was the dis·
appearance of the old Superior. She had perform·
ed her customary part during the day, and had
acted and appeared just as usual. She had shown
no symptoms of ill health, met with no particular
difficulty in conducting business, and no agitation,
anxiety, or gloom, had been noticed in her conduct.
We had no reason to suppose that during that day
she had expected any thing particular to occur, any
more than the rest of us. After the close of our
customary labours and eveninc lecture, she dismiss-
ed us to retire to bed, exactly in her usual manner.
The next morning the' bell rang, we sprang from
our bed, hurried on our clothes as usual, and pro
ceeded to the community-room in double line, to
commence the morning exercises. There, to our
surprise, we found Bishop Lartigue ; but the Supe·
rior was nowhere to be seen. The Bishop soon
addressed us, instead of her, and informed us, that
a lady near him, whom he presented to us, was now
the Superior cf the Convent, and enjoined upon us
the same respect and obedience which we had paid
to her predecessor.
The lady he introduced to us was one of our
oldest nuns, Saint Du • • • •, a very large, fleshy
woman, with swelled limbs, which rendered her
very slow in walldng, and often gave her great dis·
spo
said
my
"
.. yo
"
"ne
It
shtic
athe
of u
ancE
aim
alar
rien
littil
sts for
th pen·
mtable
:he dis·
erform-
Id had
shown
rticular
;itation,
onduct.
hat day
ur,any
of our
lismiss-
nanner.
from
pro
to
~ ' . .. . .
BLACK NUNNERY. 161
tres3. Not a word was dropped from which we
could conjecture the cause of this change, nor of the
fate of the old SuperiOr. I took the first opportunity
to inquire of one of the nuns, whom I dared talk
to, what had become of her; but I found them as
ignorant as myself, though suspicious that she had
been murdered by the orders of the Bishop. Never
di1 I obtain any light on her mysterious disappear·
ance. I am confident, however, that if the Bishop
wished to get rid of her privately and by foul
means, he had ample opportunities and power at
his command. Jane Ray, as usual, could not al·
low inch an occurrence to pass by without intima-
ting her own suspicions mol'c plainly than any
other of the nuns would have dared to do. She
spoke out one day, in the community-room, and
said, "I'm going to have a hunt in the cellar for
my old Superior.''
"Hush, Jane Ra~r I" exclaimed some of the nuns,
11
you'll be punished.''
11
My mother used to tell me," replied Jane,
"never to be afraid of the fa~e of man."
It cannot be thought strange that we were super·
stttious. Some ·were more easily terrified than
others, by unaccountable sights and sounds: but all
of us believed in the power and occasional appear·
ance of spirits, and wzre ready to look (or them-at
almost any time. I have seen several instances of
alarm caused by such superstition, and have expe·
rienced it myself more than once. I was one day
sittina- mending aprons, beside one of the old nuns,
14•
I
I
I
,. l
I
. I
r
j •
162 BLACK N'ONNBRY.
in a community-room, while the litanies were re·
peating; as I was very easy to laugh, Sain~ lgna\!c,
or Agnes, came in, walked up to her with much
agitation, and began to whisper in her ear. She
usually talked but little, and that merle me more
curious to know what was the matter with her. I
overheard her say to the old nun, in much alarm,
that in the cellar, from which she had just returned,
she had heard the most dreadful groans that ever
came from any being. This was enough to give
me uneasiness. I could not account for the appear-
ance of an evil spirit in any part of the Convent, for
I had been assured that the only one ever known
there, was that of the nun who had died with an
unconfessed sin, and that others were kept at a dis-
tance by the holy water that was rather profusely
used in different parts of the nunnery. Still, I pre-
sumed that the sounds heard by Saint Ignace must
have proceeded from some devil, and I felt great
dread ,ilt the thought of visiting the cellar again. I
determined to seek further information of tlie terri-
fied nun; but when I addressed her on the subject,
at recreation-time, the first opportunity I could find,
she replied, that I was always trying to make her
break silence, and walked off to another group in
the room, so that I could obtain no satisfaction.
It is remarkable that in our nunnery, we were
almost entirely cut off from the means of knowing
any thing, even of each other. There were many
nuns whom I know nothing of to this day, after
havin8' been in the same rooms with them every
I
thai
dur
the
Lut
cer:
·ere re·
Igna-.:c,
t much
·. She
e more
her. I
alarm,
:turned,
lat ever
to give
appear·
rent, for
known
vith an
tt a dis-
ofusely
I pre-
every
BLACK NUNNERY. 163
day and night for many months. There was a nun,
whom I supposed to be in the Convent, and whom
I was anxious to learn something about from the
time of my entrance as a novice ; but I never was
able to learn any thing concerning her, not even
whether she was in the nunnery or not, whether
alive or dead. She was the daughter of a rich fam-
ily, residing at Point aux Trembles, of whom I had
heard my mother speak before I entered the Con·
vent. The name of her family I think was Lafay.
ette, and she was thought to be from Europe. She
was known to have taken the black veil; but as I
was not acquainted with the name of the Saint she
had assumed, and I could not describe her in " the
world,, all my inquiries and observations proved
entirely in vain.
I had heard before my entrance into the Convent,
that one of the nuns ·had made her escape from it
during the last war, and once inquired about her of
the Superior. She admitted that such was the fact;
Lut I was never able to learn any particulars con·
ceming her name, origin, or manner of escape.
ll
·;I
·I
~·
j '
I •
I
CHAPTER XVIIL
DUoppearance of NuM-St. Pierrt-Gag.-My lempora1'!/
Confinemtnl in a Cell-The Cholera Season-HotD to a"oid
it-Occupations inthe Con11ent during the Putilenct-1~1an·
· ufacture of Waz Candles-The Election Riots-Alarm
among the Nuns-Preparations for Defenct-Penancu.
I AM unable to say how many nuns disappeared
while I was in the Convent. There were several.
One was a young lady called St. Pierre, I think,
but am not certain of her name. There were two
nuns by this name. I had known her as a novice
with me. She had been a novice about two years
and a half before J became one. She was rath~r
large without being tall, and had rather dark hair
and eyes. She disappeared unaccountably, and
nothing was said of her except what I heard in
whispers from a few of the nuns, as we found mo·
ments when we could speak unobserved.
Some told me they thought she must have left
the Convent; and I might have supposed so, had I
not some time afterward found some of her thinga
lying about, which she would, in such a case, doubt·
less have taken with her. I never had known any
thing more of her than what I could observe or con·
jecture. I had always, however, the idea that her
parents or friends were wealthy, for she sometim~
wo
ge1
tho
we
ne·
dis
int
I I
he
bo
se1
ffii
fo1
le~
:mporarv
' to a"oicl
e-.Yan·
-Alarm
ancu.
1peared
ieveral.
: think,
!re two
novice
> years
rath~r
hair
DLACK N11NNER.Y. 165
received clothes and other thmgs, which were very
rich.
Another nun, named Saint Paul, died suddenly;
but as in other cases, we knew so little, or rather
were so entirely ignorant of the cause and circum-
stances, that we could only conjecture; and bemg
forbidden to converse freely on that or any other
subject, thought but little about it. I have mention·
ed that a number of veiled nuns thus mysteriously
disappeared during my residence among them. 1
cannot perhaps recall them all, but I am confident
there were as many as five, and I think more. All
that we knew in such cases was, that one of our
number who had appeared as usual when last ob-
served, was nowhere to be seen, and never was
again. Mad Jane Ray, on several such occasion~,
would indulge in her bold, and, as we thought, dan.
gerous remarks. She had intimated that some of
those, who had been for a time in the Convent,
were by some means removed to make way for
new ones ; and it was generally the fact, that the
disappearance of one and the introduction of another
into our community, were nearly at the same time.
I have repeatedly heard Jane Ray say, with one of
her significant looks, "When you appear, some·
body else disappears I"
It is unpleasant enough to distress or torture one's
self; but there is something worse in being tor-
mt:nted by others, especially where they resort to
force, and show a pleasure in compelling you, and
leave you no hope of escape, or opportunity to restst.
i
!
'
'
I
'
I I
I 1
tl
166
I had seen the gags repeatedly in use, and some.
times applied with a roughness which seemed ra·
ther inhuman ; but it is one thing to see and an.
other thing to feel. There were some of the old
nuns who seemed to take pleasure in oppressing
those who fell under their displeasure. They were
re~dy to recommend a resort to compulsory meas.
ures, and ever reatly to run for the gags. These
were li:ept in one of the community-rooms, in a
drawer between two closets; and there a stock of
about fifty of them was always in deposito. Some·
times a number of nuns would prove refractory
at a time ; and I have seen battles commenced, in
which several appeared on both sides. The diso.
bedient were, however, soon overpowered; and to
prevent their screams from being heard beyond the
walls, gagging commenced immediately. I have
seen half a dozen lying gagged and bound at once.
•I have been subjected to the same state of invol-
untary silence more than once: for sometimes I be-
came excited to a state of desperation by the meas-
ures used against me, and then conducted in a man-
'! ner perhaps not less violent than some others. My
\ hands have been tied behind me, and a gag put
I
into my mouth, sometimes with such force and
rudeness as to lacerate my lips and cause the blood
4
to flow freely.
Tr~.ment of this kind is apt to teach submission,
and many L.::nes I have acquiesced under orders re.
ceived, or wisl:es expressed, with a fear of a rec\lr-
rence to some seve:-~ mPflsures.
in
ot
of
of·
del
it.
str1
sm
ba<
the
804
thr
the
for
SOl
wa
eel
ani
on
J some.
:ned ra-
md an.
the old
ressing
'Y were
{ meas.
These
.
s, m a
tock of
Some·
ractory
ced, in
1e diso.
and to
>nd the
I have
once.
invol·
I be.
BLACK NUHNER.Y. tf7
One day 1 had incurred the anger of tho Supe.
rior in a greater degree than usual, and it was or·
dered that I should be taken to one of the cells. I
wns taken by some of the nuns, bound and gagged,
carried down the stairs into the cellar, and laid upon
the floor. Not long afterward I in4uced one of tho
nuns to request the Superior to come down and see
me; and on making some acknowledgment I was
released. I will, however, relate this story rather
more in detail.
On that dny I had been engaged with Jane Ray,
in carrying into effect a plan of revenge upon an.
other person, when I fell under the vindictive spirit
of some of the old nuns, and suffered severely.
The Superior ordered me to the cells, and a scene
of violence commenced which I will not attempt to
describe, nor the precise circumstances which led to
it. Suffice it to say, -that after exhausting my
strength, by resisting as long as I could against
several nuns, I had my hands drawn behind my
back, a leathern band passed first round my thumbs,
then round my hands, and then round my waist,
and fastened. This was drawn so tight that it cut
through the flesh of my thumbs, making wounds,
the scars of which still remain. A gag was then
forced into my mouth, not indeed so violently as it
sometimes was, but roughly enough; at1er which I
was taken by main force, and carried down into the
cellar, 'across it almost to the opposite extremity,
and brought to the last of the second range of cells
on the left hand. The door was opened, and I was
I,
I
I
(.
168 BLACK NVNNKRY.
thrown m w1th violence, and left alone, the door
being immediately closed and bolted on the outside.
1,he bare ground was under me, cold and hard as
if it had been beaten down even. I lay still, in the
position in which 1 hnd fallen, as it would have been
difficult for me to move, confined as I was, and ex-
hausted by my exertions; and the shock of my fall,
and my wretched state of desperation and fear disin·
clined me from any further attempt. I was in al.
most total darkness, there being nothing perceptible
except a slight glimmer of light which came in
through the little window far above me.
How long I remained in that condition I can only
conjecture. It seemed to me a long time, and must
have been two or three hours. I did not move, ex-
pecting to die there, and in a state of distress which
I cannot describe, from the tight bandage about my
hands, and the gag holding my jaws apart at their
greatest extension. I am confident I must have died
before morning, if, as I then expected,.I had been
left there all night. By-and-by, however, the bolt 1
was drawn, the door opened, and Jane Ray spoke
to me in a tone of kindness. She had taken an op·
portunity to slip into the cellar unnoticed on pur·
pose to see me. She unbound the gag, took it out
of my mouth, and told me she would do any thing to
get me out of that dungeon. If she had had the
bringing of me down, she would not have thrust me
so brutally, and she would be revenged on those who
had. She offered to thro\v herself upon he~ kneea
before the Superior and beg her forgiveness. 1,o
we
th4
to1
T~
th
nr
st
Cl
cl
tl
tl
a
(
the door
e outside.
d hard 118
ill, in the
1ave been
1, and ex·
fmy falJ,
~ar disin·
·ns in al.
'rceptible
came in
can only
tnd must
nove, ex.
~s which
.bout my
at their
vedied
DLA.CK NVNlU:ay, l&G
this I would not consent; but told her to nsk the
Superior to come to me, as I wished to speak to her.
This T. had no idea she would condescend to do;
but Jane had not been gone long before the Superior
came, and asked if I repented in the sight of God
for what I had done. I replied in the affirmative;
and after a lecture of some length on the pain I had
given the Virgin Mary by my conduct, she asked
whether I was willing to ask pardon of all the nuns
for the scandal I had caused them by my behaviour.
'fo this I made no objection ; and I was then re·
leased from my prison and my bonds, went up to
the community-room, and kneeling before ·an the
sisters in succession, _
begged the forgh·eness and
prayers of each.
Among the marks which I still bear of the
wounds received from penances and violence, nrc
the scars left by the belt with which I repeatedly
tortured myself, for the mortification of my spirit.
These are most distinct on my side; for although
the band, which was four or five inches in breadth,
and extended round the waist, was stuck full of
sharp iron points in all parts, it was sometimes
crowded most against my side, by resting in my
chair, and the wounds were usually deeper there
than anywhere else.
My thumbs were several times cut severely by
the tight drawing of the band used to confine my
arms, and scars are still visible upon them.
The rough gagging which I several times en-
dured wounded my lips very much; for it was com-
lS
170 BLACK NUNNERY.
mon, in that operation, to thrust the gag hard against
the teeth, and catch one or both the Jips, which were
sometimes cruelly cut. The object was to stop the
screams made by the offender as soon as possible i
and some of the old nuns delighted in tormenting
us. A gag was once forced into my mouth which
had a large splinter upon it, and this cut through
my under lip, in front, leaving to this day a scar
about half an inch long. The same lip was sev-
eral times wounded, as well as the other j but one
day worse than ever, when a narrow piece was cut
off from the left side of it, by being pinched between
the gag and the unde,. fore-teeth ; and this has left
an inequality in it which is still very observable.
One of the most shocl,ing stories I heard of
events that had occurred in the nunnery before my
acquaintance with it, was the following, which was
told me by Jane. What is uncommon, I can fix
the da•e when I heard it. It was on New-Year's
day, 1834. The ceremonies, customary in the early
part of that day, had been performed; after mass,
in the morning, the Superior had shaken hands
with all the nuns, and given u~ her blessing, for she
was said to have received power from heaven to do
so only once a year, and then on the first day of the
year. Besides this, cakes, raisins, &c. are dis-
tributed to the nuns on that day.
While in the community-room, I had taken a seat
just within the cupboard-door, where I often found a
partial shelter from observation with Jane, when a
conversation incidentally began between us. Our
cd,
Con
her
the v.
them
T"
their ,
days,
that t'
n prof
corps(
selres
they~
gcthct
that st
nobod·
during
dated,
.against
ch were
stop the
·ossible;
menting
1 which
through
r a scar
,vas sev-
but one
was cut
between
has left
able.
lard of
fore my
· h was
fix
a
hen a
Our
BLACK NUNNERY• 171
practice often was, to take places there beside one
of the old nuns, awaiting the time when she would
go away for a little while, and leave us partially
screened from the observation of others. On that
occasion, Jane and I were left for a time alone;
when, afler somo discourse on suicide, she remark-
cJ, that three nuns once killed themselves in the
Convent. This happened, she said, not long after
her reception, and I knew, therefore, that it was
se,raal years before, for she had been received a
considerable time before I had become a novice.
TJm~c y~ung ladies, she informed me, took the veil
together, or very near the same time, I am not cer-
tain which. ·I know they have four robes in the
Convent, to be worn during the ceremony of taking
the veil; but I never have seen more than one of
them used at a time.
Two of the new nuns were sisters, and the other
their cousin. They had been received but a few
days, when information was given one morning
that they had been found dead in their beds, amid
n profusion of blood. Jane Ray said, she saw their
corpses, and that they appeared to have killed them-
selves, by opening veins in their arms with a knife
they had obtained, and all had bled to death to-
gether. What was extraordinary, ~ane· Ray added,
that she had heard no nois(!, and that she believed
nobody had suspected that any thing was wrong
during the night. Saint Hypolite, however, had
!dated, that she found them in the morning, after the
I'
I
I ~ ~
!,.
172 BLACK NUNNERY.
other nuns had gone to prayers, lying Jifeleea. in
their beds.
For some reason or other, their death was not
made public; but their bodies, instead of being ex·
hibited in full dress in the chapel, and afterward
interred with solemnity beneath it, were taken un-
ceremoniously into the cellar, and thrown into the
hole I have so often mentioned.
There were a few instances, and only a few, in
which we lmew any thing that was happening in
the world; and even then our knowledge did not
extend out of the city. I can recall but three oc·
cnsions of this kind. Two of them were when
the cholera prevailed in Montr~al ; and the other
was the election riots. The appearance of the
cholera, in both seasons of its ravages, gave us
abundance of occupation. Indeed, we were more
borne down by hard labo~r at those times, than ever
be(ore or afierward during my stay. The Pope
had given early notice that the burning of wax
candles would afford protection from the disease,
because so long as any person continued to burn
one, the Virgin Mary would intercede for l1im.
No sooner, therefore, had the alarming disease
made its appearance in Montreal, than a long wax
candle was light~d in the Convent for each of
the inmates, so that all parts of it in use were arti-
ficially illuminated rlay and night. Thus a great
many candles were constantly burning, which were
to be replaced from those manufactured by the nuns.
But this was a trifle. 'fhc Pope's message having
the
had
Lut
roon
fires,
comr
were
dippi
tions
The1
table
is do
came
for Sl
m se
from
'tnce
with!
eless. in
was not
~ing ex·
terward
.ken un·
into the
few, in
. .
enmg m
did not
:hree oc·
re when
he other
~ of the
gave us
arti·
a great
ich were
he nuns.
having
BLACK NUNNERY. 173
been promulgated in the Grey Nunnery, the Con·
gregational Nunnery, and to Catholics at large,
through the pulpits, an extraordinary demand was
created for wax candles, to supply which we were
princip~py depended upon. All who could be em·
ploycd in making them were therefore set at work,
and I, among the rest, assisted in different depart·
ments, and witnessed all.
Numbers of the nuns had been long familiar with
the business; for a very considerable amount of wax
had been annually manufactured in the Convent;
Lut now the works were much extended, and other
occupations in a great degree laid aside. Large
quantities of wax were received in the building,
which was said to have been imported from Eng·
land; kettles were placed in some of the working·
rooms, in which it was clarified by heat over coal
fires, and when prepared, the process of dipping
commenced. The wicks, which were quite long,
were placed hanging upon a reel, taken up and
dipped in succession, until, after many slow revolu-
tions of the reel, the candles were of the proper size.
They were then talcen to a part of the room where
tables were prepared for rolling them smooth. This
is done by passing a roller over them, until they be·
came even and polished, after which they are laid by
for sale. These processes caused a constant bustle
in several of the rooms; and the melancholy reports
from without, of the ravages of fhe cholera, with tho
tmcertainty of what might be the result with us, not·
withstanding the promised intercession ofthe Virgin.
ts•
' .
I' I j
, ·. r
l. :' r
,, j
I
I
I' l
BLACK NUNNEllY.
and the brilliant lights constantly burning in such
numbers around us, impressed the scenes I used to
witness very deeply on my mind. I had very little
doubt myself, of the strict truth of the story we had
heard of the security conferred upon those who
burnt candles, and yet I sometimes had serious fears
arise in my mind. These thoughts, however, I did
my utmost to re~aid as great sins, and evidences of
my own want of faith.
It was during that period that I formed a pa1·tial
acquaintance with several Grey nuns, who used to
come frequently for supplies of candles for their
Convent. I had no opportunity to converse with
them, except so far as the purchase and sale of the
articles they required. I became familiar with their
countenances and appearances, but was unable to
judge of their characters or feelings. Concerning
the rules and habits prevailing in the Grey Nun·
nery, I therefore remained as ignorant as if I bad
been a thousand miles off; and they had no better
opportunity to learn any th.ing of us beyond what
they could see around them in the room where the
candles were sold.
We supplied the Congregational Nunnery also
with wax candles, as I before remarked ; and in
both those institutions, it was understood a constant
illumination was kept up. Citizens were also fre·
quently running in to buy candles, in great and
small quantities, so that the business of storekeeping
was far more labor~ous than common.
We were confirmed in our faith in the intercestion
pa1
pel
wt
pel
we
SOl
rer
lee
tuc
ha
led
no·
at
n such
used to
ry little
we had
;e who
JS fears
r, I did
mces of
. partial
used to
)r their
'Se with
e of the
ith their
1able to
'BLACK NUNNERY. 175
<if the Virgin, when we found that we remained safe
from the cholera; and it is a remarkable fact, that
not one case of that disease existed in the nunnery,
during either of the seasons in which it proved so
£1tal in the city.
When the election riots prevailed in Montreal,
the city was thrown into general alarm ; we heard
some reports, from day to day, ·~. hich made us
anxious for ourselves. Nothing, however, gave me
any serious thoughts until I saw uncommon move·
ments in some parts of the nunnery, and ascertained,
to my own satisfaction, that there was a large quan-
tity of gunpowder stored in some secret place within
the walls, and that some of it was removed, or pre-
pared for use, under the direction of the Superior.
I have mentioned several penances, in different
pa.rts of this narrative, which we sometimes had to
perform. There is a great variety of them; and,
while some, though trifling in appearance, became
•;ery painful, by long en:lurance, or frequent re-
petition; others arc severe in their nature, ami
would never be submitted to unless through fear of
something worse, or a real belief in their efficacy to
remove guilt. I will mention here such as I recol·
lect, which .can be named without offending a vir·
tuous ear; for some there were, which, although I
have been compelled to submit to, either by a mis--
led conscience, or the fear of severe punishments,
now that I am better able to judge of my duties, and.
at liberty to act, I would not mention or describe.
Kissing the floor, i!i a very common penance;
,.
' I ~
I,
I I
l
I
I o
I I
rI
176 BLACK NUNNERY.
kneeling and kissing the feet of the other nuns, 1s
another; as are kneeling on hard peas, and walk·
ing with them in the shoes. We had repeatedly to
walk on our knees through the subterranean pas·
sage, leading to the Congregational Nunnery; and
sometimes to eat our meals with a rope round our
necks. Sometimes we were fed only with such
things ns we most disliked. Garlic was given to
me on this account. because I had a strong antipa·
thy against it. Eels were repeatedly given to some
of us, because we felt an unconquerable repugnance
to them, on account of reports we had heard of their
feeding ,)u dead carcasses, in tbe river St. Lawrence.
It ·.vas :to uncommon thing for us to be required to
'.!rink tb~ water in which the Superior had washed
hea· fty t Sometimes we were required to brand
o ~1rsd ,·es with a hot iron, so as to leave scars; at
other times to whip our naked flesh with several
small 1
·ods, before a private altar, until we drew
blood. I can assert, with the r3rfect knowledge of
the fact, that many of the nuns bear the scars of
these wounds. -
One of our penances was to stand for a length of
time, with our arms extended, in imitation of the
Saviour on the cross. The Chemin de la Croix, or
Road to the Cross, i , in fact, a penance, though it
consists of n variety of pro·.;trations, with the repc·
tition of mnny prayers, occupying two or three
hours. This we had to perform frequently, going
into the chapel, and falling before each chapelle in
euccession, at each_time commemorating some par-
th
fo
f(
\V
8:
d
a1
\\
tl
"
I1
n
c
{1
llDS, IS
wqlk·
~dly to
n pas·
·; and
,dour
such
ven to
L
ntipa·
some
nance
f their
renee.
red to
ashed
brand
par·
BLACK NUNNERY. 177
t1cular act or circumstance reported of the Saviour's
progress to the place of his crucifixion. Sometimes
we were obliged to sleep on the floor in the winter,
with oothing over us but a single sheet; and some-
times to chew a piece of window-gln~s to a fine
powder, in the presence of tho Superior.
We had sometimes to wear leathern belts stuck
full of sharp metallic points round our waists, nnd
the upper pnrt of our anns, bound on so tight that
they penetrated the flesh, and drew blood.
Some of the penances were so severe, that they
seemed too much to be endured; and when they
were imposed, the nuns who were to suffer them,
.sometimes showed the most violent repugnance.
'They would often resist, and still oftener express
their opposition by exclamations nnd screams.
Never, however, was any noise heard from them,
for a long time, for there was a remedy always
ready to be applied in cases of the kind. The gag
which was put into the mouth of the unfortunate
Saint Francis, had been brought from a place where
there were forty or fifty others, of different shapes
and sizes. 'rhcse I hnve seen in their depository,
which i.:; a drawer between two closets, in one of
the community-rooms. Whenever any loud noise
was made, one of these instruments was demanded,
and gaggir g commenced at once. I have known
many, mnny instances, and sometimes five or six
nuns gagged at once. Sometimes they would be-
come so much excited before they could be bound
{lnd gagged, that considerable force was necessary
' '~
r
l
I
''· .
'I
178 BLA.CK K1JNNBRY.
to be exerted; and I have seen the blood flowing
from mouths into which the gag had been thrust
with violence.
Indeed I ought to know something on this de·
partment of nunnery dis<.•.ipline: I have had it tried
upon myself, and I can bear witness that it is not
only most humiliating and oppressive, but often ex-
tremely painful. The mouth is kept forced open,
and the straining of the jaws at their utmost stretch,
for a considerable time, is very distressing.
One of the worst punishments which I ever saw
inflicted, was that with a cap; and yet some of the
old nuns were permitted to inflict it at their pleas-
ure. I have repeatedly known them to go for a
cap, when one of our number had transgressed a
rule, sometimes though it were a very unimportarii
one. These caps were kept in a cupboard in the old
nuns' room, whence they were brought when wanted.
They were small, made of a reddish looking
leather, fitted closely to the head, and fastened under
the chin with a kind of buckle. It was the com-
mon practice~to tie the nun's hands behind and gag
her before the cap was put on, to prevent noise and
resistance. I never saw it worn by any for one
;. moment, without throwing them in sev~ re sufferings.
If permitted, they would scream in the most shock-
ing manner; and they always writhed as mur,h as
their confinement would allow. I can speak from per-
sonal knowledge of this punishment, as I have en-
dured it more than once ; and yet I have no idea o(
the cause of the pain. I never examined one of tho
it "
~
sorr
hea
awl
tim
hav
for
npp
opp
1
for
wit'
on ·
rnu
.owing
thrust
tis de·
it tried
is not
:en ex-
ope~,
tretch,
~r saw
of the
pleas-
for a
;sed a
BLACK NUNNERY. 179
eaps, nor saw the inside, for they arealways brought
and taken away quicldy; but although the first sen.
sation was that of coolness, it was hardly put on my
head before a violent and indescribable sensation
began, like that of a blister, only much more insup-
portable; and this continued until it was removed.
It would produce such an acute pain as to throw us
into convulsions, and I think no human being could
endure it for an hour. After this punishment, wo
fcJt its effects through the system for many days.
Having once known what it was by experience, I
held the cap in dread, and whenever I was con-
demned to suffer the punishment again, felt ready to
do any thing to avoid it. But when tied and gag-
ged, with the cap on my head again, I could only
sink upon the floor, and roll about in angnish until
it was tal,en off.
This was usually done in about ten minutes,
sometimes less, but the pain always continued in my
head for several days. I thought that it might take
away a person's reason if kept on a much longer
time. If I had not been gagged, I am sure I should
have uttered awful screams. I have felt the effects
for a week. Sometimes fresh cabbage leaves were '
applied to my head to remove it. Having had no
opportunity to examine my head, I cannot say more.
'rhis punishment was occasionally resorted to
for very trifling offences, such as washing the hand~
without permission ; and it was generally appli~d
on the spot, and before the other nuns i~ t.h~ c.o~·
munity-room.
CHAPTER XIX.
The Priests of'the District of Montreal ha-oe/rt.e aueaa to th.!
Black Nunnery-Crimes committed and required by tht·m-··
The Pope's Cummand to commit ·indecent Crimes-Chat .
acters of the Old and New Su1uriors-Tiu: timidity of !It~
latter-/began to be employed in the 1/ospilals- Somc account
of them- Warning eiven me by o sick Nun-Penance by
1/anging.
I IIAVE mentioned before, that the country, as far
down as Three Rivers, is furnished with priests by
the Seminary of Montreal; and that these hundred
and fifty men arc liable to be occasionally transfer-
red from one station to another. Numbers of them
are often to be seen in the streets of Montreal, as
they may find a home in the Seminary.
They are considered as having an equal right to
enter the Black Nunnery whenever they please ;
and then, according to our oaths, they have com·
plete control over the nuns. To name all the worlcs
of shame of which they are guilty in that retreat,
would require much time nnd space, neither would
it be necessary to the accomplishment of my object,
which is, the publication of but some of their
criminality to the world, and the development,· in
general terms, of scenes thus far carried on in se·
cret within the walls of that Convent, where I was
so long an inmate.
Secure against detection by the world, they never
believed that nn eyewitness would ever escape to
c
th
01
.
Dl
th
re
\\'
tn
of
til
pi
\'(
~cess to tht!
by th ~:m--·
cs-Chu! ·
rJity of :h~
ncaccount
'cnance by
:y, as far
•riests by
hundred
transfer·
of them
ltreal, as
right to
please;
DLACJt NUNNERY. 181
tell of their crimes, and d~~lare some oftheir names
bt•forc the world; but the time has come, and somo
of thl•ir dcl'ds of darkness must come to the day.
I ha\·e seen in the nunn~ry, the priests from more,
I prt'sUmf', than a hundred country places. admitted
for shameful andcriminal purposfs: from St. Charles,
St. Dt!nis, St. nk's. St. Antoine, Chambly, Bertier,
St. John's, &c. &c.
How unt>xpcctcd to them will be the disclosures
I make! Shut up in a place from which there has
bern thought to be but one way of egress, and that
the passage to the gra,•r, they considercr1 .hemsrlves
safe in pt-rprtrating r.rimes in our presence, and in
making us share in their criminality ns often as they
chose, and conducted more shamelessly than even
the brutes. 'rhese debauchees would come in with.
Ollt CCTt'mony, C ncraJing their namr.s, both by
night and by day, where the cries and pains of
thl'" injured innocence of their victims could never
reach the world, for rE-liefor redress for their wrongs;
without remorse or shame, they would glory in tor·
turing, in the most barbarous manner, the feelings
of those under their powrr; telling us, at the same
timt•, that this mortifying the flesh was religion, and
ph~nsi ng to ·God.
'Ve werf:' sometimi:'S invited to put ourselves to
vo:untnry sufft•rings in D variety of ways, not for ll
pennnee, but to show our de\'otion to Gcd. A priest
would sometimt>s say to us-
" Now, which.of you ""''e lovl' enough for Jes"'
Christ tu stir.k n pin through your cheeks1"
16
I)
I \
•I
I
I·'i
• I
'i'j.';
'l
.
·I
I I
I,
I
II '
•
I
r
I
I I
I.
~1111.0 :mw
- --- - 1Y Iii .2.2
Ill 11M-
IIIII~ ~-=~ Li£
- w.
IIIII~ 1~1~ 1~
~ I
_ _--=:J
..
Phof9graphic
Sciences
COrpomtion
2:1 WIST MA.. STIIIT
WHSTII, N.Y. 14510
(716)172-450:1
BLACK NtJNMBRV,
Some of'us would signify our readiness, and im·
n1ediately thrust one through up to the head. . Some-
times he. would propose that we sh&)uld repeat the
operation several times on the spot ; and the cheeks
of a number of nuns would be bloody.
·Theret were other acts occasionally proposed and
~onsented to, which I cannot name in a book. Such
the Superior would sometimes command us to per·
form; many of them things not ·only useless a~d
unheard of, but loathsome and indecent in the high..
est possible degree. How they could ever have
been invented I never co,uld conceive. Things
were done worse than the entire exposure of the
person, though this was occasiona1ly required of
several at once, ~n the presence of priests.
The Superior of the Seminary would sometimes
come and inform. us, that he had received orders
from ~he Pope, to request that those nuns who pos-
sessed the greatest devotion and faith, should be re--
quested to perform some particular deeds, which he
n"
amed or dcsr.ribed in our presence, but of which
no dec.ent or moral person could ever endur~ to
speak. I cannot repeat what would injure any ear,
not debased to the lowest possi~lc degree. I am
bound by a regard t_
o truth, however, to confess,
that deluded '«'omen .were found among us, who
would comply with tho~e requests.
There was a great -difference between the char·
acten of our old and new Superior, ~hich soon be-
came obvious. The former ·used to say she liked
to walk, because it would prevent her from becom·
I
I
1
rc
It
i
dim·
'om&
d the
heeks
d and
Such
o per·
sand
high..
have
'hings
of the
~ed of
~timea
,rders
pos-
BLACK M17NNBRY. 183
lng corpulent. She was, therefore, very active, and
~onstantly going about. from one part of the nun·
nery to another, overseeing us at our various em· ·
ployments. I never saw in her any appearance of
timidity : she seemed, on the contrary, bold and
masculine, and sometimes much more than that,
cruel and cold-blooded, in scenes calculated to over·
come any common pel'son. Such a chtnacter she
had particularly exhibited at the murder of Saint
Francis.
The nt w Superior, on tbe other hand, was so
heavy and lame, that she walked \vith much diffi-
culty, and consequently exercised a less vigilant
oversight of the nuns. She was also of a timid
disposition, or else l1ad been overcome by some
great fright in l:ler past life ;· for she was apt to
become alarmed in the night, and never liked to be
alone in the dark. She had long performed the
part of an old nun, which is that of a spy upon the
younger ones, and was well known to us in that
rharacter, under the name of Ste. Margarite. Sooa
after her promotion to the station ef Superior, she
appointed me to sleep i,n her apartment, and assign-
ed me a sofa to lie upon. One night, while I was
asleep, she suddenly threw herself upon ~e; and·
exclaimed in great alarm, " Oh I mon Dieu I mon
Dieu! Qu'est que qa 1" Ob, my God I my God I
What is that 1 I jumped up and looked about the
room, but saw nothing, and endeavoured to convince
her that there was nothing extraordinary there.
But she insisted that a ghost had come and beJel
t i
184 BLACK N11NNERY.
her bed-curtain, Stl that shl'l could not draw it. I
examined it, and found that the curtain had been
caught by a pin in the valance, wl1ich ·had he-ld it
back ; but it was impossible to tranquillize her for
some time. She insisted on my sleeping with her
the rest of the night, and I stretched myself across
the foot of her bed, and slept thP-re till morning. .
. During the last part of my stay in the Convent,
I was often employed in attending in the hospitals.
There are, as I havc before mentioned, several
apartments devoted to the sick, and there _
s a phy·
ftician of Montreal, who attends as physician to the
Convent. It must not be supposed, however, that
he knows any thing concerning the private ·hospi·
tals. It is a fa_
ct of great import~nce to be dis·
tinctly understood, and constantly borne in mind,
that he is never, under any circumstances, admitted
into the private hospital-rooms. Of those he sees
nothing more than any stranger whatever. He is
limited to the care of those patients who are admit·
ted from the city into the public hospital, and one
of the nuns' ho~pitals, and these he visits every day.
Sick poor are received for charity by the institu·
tion, attended by some of the nuns, and often go
away with the highest ideas of their charitable
characters and holy lives. The physician himself
might perhaps in some eases share in th~ delu·
sian.
I frequently followed Dr. Nelson through th6
public ho~pital, at the direction of the Superior.
with pen, ink, and paper in my hands, and wrote
· it. I
i been
he-ld it
ber for
ith her
ncross
ng...
lnvent,
spitnls.
several
a phy·
1 to the
er, that
·bospi·
be dis·
mind,
wrote
BLACK NUNRBRY, 186
jown the prescriptions which he ordered Cor the
different patients. These were afterward prepared
and administered by the attendants. About a year
before I left the Convent, I was first appointed to
attend the private sick-rooms, ~nd was frequently
employed in that duty up to the day of my depan-
ure. Of course. I had opportunities to observe the
number and classes of patients treated there ; and
in what I am to say on the subject, I appeal with
perfect confidence to any true and competent wit·
ness to confirm my words, whe~cver such a witnesa
may appear.
It would be vain for anybody who has merely
visited the Convent from curiosity, or resided in
it as a novice, to question my declarations. Such a
person must necessarily be-ignorant of even the ex·
istence of the private rooms, unless informed by
some one else. Such rooms, however, there are.
aPd I could relate many things which have passed
there during the hours I was employed in them, as
I have stated.
One night I was called to·sit up with an old nua,
named Saint Clare, who, in going down-stairs, had
dislocated a limb, and lay in a sick-room adjoining
.an hospital.' Sh'! seemed to be a little out of her
nead a part of the time. but appeared to be quite in
possession of her reason most ·of the night. It
was easy to pretend that she was delirious ; but I
eonsidered her as speaking the truth, though I felc
reluctant to repeat what I heard her say, and ex·
-.ed 111pelf from mentioninr it even at confeui on.
,,.
;·
I
~
186 BLACK NUNNERY.
on the ground that the Superior thought her de·
ranged. _
What led her to some of the most remarkable
parts of her conversation, was a motion I made, in
the course of the night, to take the light out of her
little rooin into the adjoining apartment, to look once
more at the sick persons there. She begged me not
to leave her a moment in the dark, for she could
not bear it. " I have witnessed so many horrid
scenes," said she, " in this Copvent, that I want
somebody near me constantly, and .must always
have a iight burning in my room. I cannot tell
you," she added, " what things I remember, for
they would frighte~ you too much. Wh~t you
have seen are nothing to them. Many a"'murder
have I witnessed ; many a nice young creature has
been killed in this nunnery. I advise you to be
very cautious-keep every thing to yourself-there
are many here ready to betray you."
What it was that induced the old nun to express
so much kindness to me I could not tell, unless she
was frightened.at the.recollection of her own crimes,
and those of others, nnd felt grateful for the care I
took of her. She had been one of the night·
watches, and never before showed me any particu·
Jar kindness. She did not indeed go into detail con·
eerning the transactions to which she alluded, but
told me that some nuns had been murdered under
great aggravations of cruelty, by being gagged, and
left to starve in the cells, or having their flesh burnt
offtheir bones with red·hot irons.
~r de·
~kable
L
de, in
)f her
konce
me not
: could
hortid
[want
always
not tell
1
er, for
at you
murder
ure has
to be
con·
, but
under
and
burnl
BLACK NUNNERY. ' 187
It was .uncommon to find compunction expressed
by any of the nuns. Habit renders us insensible
to the sufferings of others, and careless about our
own sins. I had become so hardened myself, that
1find it difficult to rid myselfof many of my former
false principles and views of right and wrong.
I was one day set to wash some of the emptybot·
tles from the cellar, which had contained the liquid
that was poured into the cemetery there. A num·
her of these had been brought ·from the corner
where so many of them were always to be seen,
and placed at the head of the cellar stairs, and there
we were required to take them and wash them out.
We ~,..... ~ 1n water and rinsed them; a few drops,
which got upon our clothes, soon made holes in
them. I think the liquid was called vitriol, or some
such name ; and I heard some persons say, that it
would soon destroy the flesh, and even the bones of
the dead. At another time, we were furnished with
a little of the liquid, whic;:h was mixed with a quan·
tity of water, and used in dying some cloth black,
which was wanted at funerals in the chapels. Our
hands were turned very black by being dipped in it,
but a few drops of some other liquid were mixed
with fresh water and given us to was~ in, which
left our skin of a bright red. . ~
The bottles of which I spoke were made of very
thick, dark-coloured glass, large at the bottom, and,
from recollection, I should say held something less
than a gallon.
I was once much shocked, on entering the room
t ,.
\~
!.,,
I il
I
(I
aLACK H'OIUfJ:aY.
(or the exammation of conscience, at seeing a nun
hanging by a cord from a ring in the ceiling, with
her head downward. Her clothes had been tied
round with a leathern strap, to keep them in their
place, and then she had been fastened in that situa·
tion, with her head some distance from the floor,
Her face had a Tery unpleasant appearance, being
dark-coloured and swollen by the rushing in of the
blood ; her hands were tied, and ber mouth stopped
with a large gag. This nun proved to be no other
than Jane Rny, who for some fault had been con·
demned to this punishment.
This was not, however, a solitary case; I heard
of numbers who were " hung,'' as it was called, at
different times; and I saw Saint Hypolite and Saint
Luke undergoing it. This was considered a most
distressing punishment j and it was the onlf one
which Jane Ray could not endure, of all she had
tried.
Some of the nuns would aJlu"
de to it in her pres.
ence, but it usually made her·angry. It was prob-
ably practised in the same place while ·I was a noT-
ice; but I never heard or thought of such a thing
in those days. Whenever we wished to enter the
room f~r the examination of conscience, we had to
ask leave; and after some delay were ·permitted to
go, but always under a stric.t charge to bend the
head forward. and keep the eyes fixed upon the iJooJ.
tl
c
c
0
c
(
I
,
t
t
·a nun
g, with
en tied
n their
t situa·
e ftoor.
'• being
l of the
stopped
.o other
~n con·
r heard
lied, at
.d Saint
a most
CHAPTER XX.
Mort "uit. to the imprUoned .Vunr-Theirfeo.r.-Oihcr• ttml•
porarily pul into the Ccllr-Rel-ique.-::- The Agnu• Dei- Th•
Priut.' pri"att Ho•pital, or Holy Retreat-Secret Room• i11
tlu Eutern Wing-Reptn-l• of Murder• in the Conl'cnt-
Tht Supcrim'• priDate Record.-Number of Nun• in the
Conr:ent-De•ire of E•capt-Urgtnt rea•on for it-Plan-
Deliberation-Attempt-Succe••·
I OFTEN seized an Qpportunity, when I safely
could, to speak a cheering or friendly word to ono
of the poor prisoners, in passing their cells, on my
errands in the cellars. For a time I supposed them
to be sisters; but I afterward discovered that this
was not the case. I found that they were always
under 'the fear of suffering some punishment, in
case they should be found talking with a person not
commissioned to attend them. They would often
ask,'' Is not somebody coming 7"
I could easily believe what I heard affirmed by
others, that fear was the severest of their sufferings.
Confined in the dark, in so glo,>my a place, with the
long nnd spacious arched cellar stretching off this
way and that, visited only now and then by a soli·
tary nun, with whom they were afraid to speak
their feelings, and with only the misernble society
of -each other; how gloomy thus to spend day after
du.y, months, and even years, without any prospect
of liberation, and liable-every moment to any other
fate to which the Bisbop or Superior might co~
•
190 BLACK NVNNJ:JlY,
demn them I B•1t these poor creatures must haYe
known something of the horrors perpetrated in
other parts of the building, and could not have been
ignorant of the hole in the cellar, which was not
far from their cells, and the use to which it wus d~
voted. One of them told me, in confidence, sho
wished they could get out. They must also have
been often disturbed in their sleep, if they ever did
sleep, by the numerous priests who passed through
the trapdoor at no great distance. To be subject to
such trials for 11 single day would be dreadful; but
these r&uns had them to endure for years.
J often felt much compassion for them, and wish-
ed to see them released ; but at other times, yield~
ir.g to the doctrine perpetually taught us in the
Convent, that our future happiness would be pro-
portioned to the sufferings \Y"e had to undergo in
·this world, I would rest satisfied that.their impris-
onment was a real blessing to them. Others, I pre-
sume, participated with me in such feelings. One
Sunday afternoon, after we had performed all our
r.eremonies, and were engaged as usual, at that
time, with backgammon and other amusements, one
of the young nuns ex~laimed, "Oh, ho\v headstrong
are those wretches in the cells-they are as bad u
,the day they were first put in I"
, -. This exclamation was made, as I supposed, in
•-consequence of some recent conversation with them,
' '· ·U I knew her to be particularly acquainted with ..
;abe older one.
Some of the ncant cells were oeeasionalJy Ull4
.
thi
re!
wa
USE
grv
me
an
fro1
loo·
rel€
not
Pr(
fit \1
...
kis~
I
st have
ited in
ve been
vas not
wus dG-
.ce, she
so have
v~r did
:hrougb
tbject to
:'ul; but
td wish-
,, yield·
in the
be pro-
in
impris-
1 pre-
One
all our
at that
BLACK NUNNERY, 191
for temporary imprisonment. Three nuns were
eonfined in them, to my knowledge, for disobedienc€\
to the Superior, as she called it. 'rhey did not join
the rest in singing in the evening, being exhausted
by the various exertions of the day. The Superior
ordered them to sing, nnd as they did not comply,
oiler her command had bren twice repeated, she
ordered them away to the cells.
They were immediately taken .down into the eel·
Jar, placed in separrte dungeons, and the doors shut
and bnrred upon them. There they remained
through that night, the folJowing day, and second
night, but were released in time to attend mass on
the second morning.
•The Superior used occasiona1ly to show some-
thing in a glass box, which we were required to
regard with the bighcst degree of reverence. It
was made of wax, and called an Agnus Dei. She
used to exhibit it to us when we were in n state of
grace: that is, after confession and befol'e sacra.
ment. She said it had been blessed i11. the ve·ry dish
in whick our Saduur had eaten. It was brought
from Rome. Every time we kissed it, or .even
looked at it, we were told it gave a hundred days
release from purgatory to ourselves, or if we did
not need it, to our next of kin in purgatory, if not a
Protestant. If we had no such kinsman, the bene-
fit was to go to th~souls in purgatory not prayed for•
.:"nne Ray would som(•times say to me, " Let's
kis~ it-some of our friends .wilJ thank us for it."
I have been repeatedly employed in carrying • I
lH BLACK N1JNNER1'.
dainties of different kinds to the little private room
I have mentioned, next beyond the Superior's sitting·
room, in the second story, which the priests mode
their u Holy Rdreat." 11
hnt room I never wns nl·
lowed to enter. I could only go to the duor with a
waiter of refreshments, set 1t down upon n little stand
near it, give three rnps on the door, and then retire
to a distance to await orders. When any thing
was to be taken away, it was placed on the stand by
the Superior, who then gave three raps for me, and
closed the door.
'rhe Bishop I saw at least once wht"n he appt'ar·
ed worse for wine, or so:nething of the kincl. After
partaking of refreshmt•nts in the Convent, he sent
for all the nuns, and, on our appearance, gave us
his blessing, and put a piece of poundcake on the
shoulder of each of us, in a manner which appeared
singular and foolish.
1'here are three rooms in the Black Nunnery
which I never entered. I had enjoyed much liber·
ty, and ·had .seen, as I supposed, all parts of the
building, when one day I obsened an old nun go
to a corner of an apartment near the northern end
of the western wing, push the end of ht"r sdssors
into a crack in the panelled walJ, and pull out "
door. I was much surprised, becat1se I n€V<>r hnd
conjedured that any door was there; and it appear·
ed, when I afterward examined the place, ·that no
indication of it could be discovered on the c1ost.>st
scrutiny. I stepped forward to see what wns with·
in, and saw three .rooms opening into E'aclt other;
,..,
b
"
I
pl
kl
th
w
th
10
IU
ah
Yel
in
wi'
un
am
fro1
unl
t room
sitting·
s mode
wna ol·
with a
le stond
n retire
y thing
tand by
me, ond
.
appror·
I. After
he sent
gove us
e on the
red
with·
lt other;
l9J
but the nun refused to admit mA wjthin tho door,
which she anid led to rooms kept ns depositories.
She he~self entered and closed the door, eo thnc
I could not satisfy my curiosity; nnd no occosion
presented itself. I always had a strong desire to
know the usc of these apartments : for I nm sure
they must have been dE".signcd for some purpose of
which I was intentionally kept ignorant, otherwise
they would never have remained unkno\vn to me
10 long. Besides, the old nun evidently had some
atrong reasons for denying me admission, though
abe endcovoured to quiet my curiof'ity.
'rhe ·Supertor, after my admission into the Con•
Tent, had told me that I ·had access to every room
in the building; and I had seen plnces which bore
witness to-the cruelties and the crimes committed
under her commands or ·sanction ; but here was a
succession of rooms which had been concealed
from me, and so constructed as if designed to be
unknown to all but a few. I om sure that any
person, who might be able to examine the wall in
that place, would pronounce tllat secret door a sur·
prising piece of work. I n~~r saw any thing o(
the kiqd which appeored to me so ingenious an~
skilftdly made. I told Jane Ray whot I had seen,
and flhe said, at once, " We will get in and seo
what is there." But I suppose she never found an
opportunity. ·
I naturally felt a good deal of curtostty to learn
whether such scenes, as I had \Vitnessed in the
death of Saint Francis, were common or rare, and
17
t
II
'
194 BLAr~ NUNNERY.
took an opportunity to inquire of Jane Ray. Her
reply was-
.. Oh, yes; and there were many murdered while
you was a novice, whom you heard nothing about."
This was all I ever learnt on the subject; but al·
though I was told .nothing of the manner in which
they were killed, I supposed it to be the same which
I had seen practised, viz. by smothering.
. I went mto the Superior's parlour one day for
some•lting, and found Jane Ray there alone, looking f~
into a book with an appearance of mterest. I ask· ho
ed her what it was, but she made some trifling an· tim
swer, and laid it by, as if unwilling to let me take boc
it. There are two bookcases in the room; one on tho
the right a:: you enter the door, an:l the other oppo- at ,
site, near the window and the sofa. The former tra1
contains the lecture-books and other printed vol· the
umes, the latter seemed to b~ filled with note and En
account books. I have often seen the keys in the rna
oookcases while I have beE'!n du$ting the furniture, nar
and sometimes observed letters stuck up in the ent.
room ; although I never looked into one, or thought E
of doing so, ns we W
·ere under strict. orders not to E
touch any of them, and .the idea of sins and pen· E
ances was always present with me. l
Some time after the occasion mentioned, I was the
se~t into the Superior's room, with Jane, to arrange cou
it; and as the same book was lying out of the case. . l
she said, .. Come, let-us look into it." I immediate- ced,
ly consented, and we opened it, and turned over beg
eeverallcaves. It was about a foot and n f.,.lf' '".,"'· conI
\(
..
Her
l while
about.,.
but a\·
a which
ewhich
day for
looking
I ask·
fling an·
me take
; one on
b.er oppo·
former
vol·
and
rniture,
in the
thought
not to
and pen·
I was
BLACK NUNNERY. 195
as nearly ns I can remember, a foot wide, and about
two inches thicJc, though I cannot ·speak with par·
ticular precision, ns Jane frightened me almost as
soon as I touched it, by exclaiming-, n There, you
have looked into it, and if you tell of me, I will of
you.11
The thought of being sulljectcd to a severe pen·
ance, which I had reason to apprehend, fluttered me
very much; and although I tried to overcome my
fears, I did not succeed very well. I reflected,
however, that the sin was already committed, and
that It would not be increased if I examined the
book. I, therefore, looked a little at several pages
though I still felt a good deal of agitation. I saw,
at once, that the volume was a record of the en·
trance of nuns and novices into the Convent, and of
the births that had taken place in the Convent.
Entries of the last description were made in a brief
manner, on the following plan: I do not give the
names or dates as real, but only to show the form of
entering them.
Saint Mary delivered of a son, March 16, 1834.
Saint Clarice " daughter, April 2, "
Saint Matilda " daughter, April 30, ''
No mention was made in the book of the death of
the children, though .I well knew not one of them
eould be living at that time.
. Now I presume that the period the book embra·
ced, was about two years, as several names ~ear the
beginning I knew; but I con form only ft. rough
conjecture of the number of infants born, and mur·
195 BLACK NVNN&RY.
jered of course, records of whie h it contained. I
mpposc the book C£!ntained at least one hundred
pages, that one fourth were written upon, and that
e.,ch page contained fifteen distinct records. Seve-
ral pages were devoted to the list of births. On this
1upposition there must have been a large number,
which I can easily believe to have been born there
in·the course of two years.
'Vhat were the contents of the other books be-
longing to the same case with that wbich I looked
into, I have no idea, having never dared to touch
one of them; I believe, however, that June Ra7
was well acquainted with them, knowing, as I do,
her intelligence and prying disposition. If she
could be brought to give her testimony, she would
doubtless unfold many curious particulars now un·
known.
I am able, in consequence of a circumstance
which appeared accidental, to state with confidence
the exact number of persons in the Convent one day
of the week in which I left it. This may be a point
of some interest, as several secret deaths had occur-
red since my taking the veil, and many burials had
been openly made in the chapel.
I was appointed, at the time mentioned, to lay out
the covers for all the inmates of the Convent, inclu-
ding the nuns in the cells. These covers, as I have
said before,'were linen bands, to be bound around
the knives, forks, spoons, and napkin,s, for eating.
These were for all the nuns and novices, and
amounted to two hundred and ten. Ae the number
,
r.
G
[J
\'
a
,,
tr.
ned. I
1undred
.nd that
Seve-
On this
number,
rn there
>oks be-
l looked
to touch
me Ray
, as I do,
If she
1e would
now un·
lay out
indu-
1 haTe
around
eating.
and
number
BLACK NUNNERY. 197
of novices was then about thirty, I know that there
must have been at that time about one hundred and
eighty veiled nuns.
I was occasionally troubled with a desire of es-
capmg from the nunnery, and was much distressed
whenever I felt so -evil an imagination rise in my
mind. I believed that it was a sin, a great sin, and
d1d not fail to confess at every opportunity, that ·I
fe'& discontent. My confessors informed me that I
was beset by an evil spirit, and urged me to pray
against it. Still, however, every now and then, I
would think, "Oh, if I could get out l"
At length one of the priests, to whom I had con
fessed this sin, informed me, for my comfort, that he
h~d begun to pray to Saint Anthony, and hoped his
intercession would, by-and-by, drive away the evil
spirit. My desire of escape was partly excited by
the fear of bringing an infant to the murderous
hands of my companions, or of taking a potion
whose violent effects I too well knew.
One evening, however, I found myself more filled
with the.desire of escape than ever; and what ex·
ertions I made to dismiss the thought, proved en·
tirely unavailing. During evening prayers, I be·
came quite occupied with it; and when the time fot:
meditation arrived, instead of falJing into a doze as
I often did, although I was a good deal fatigued, I
found no difficulty in keeping awake. When this
exercise was over, and the other nuns were about to
~etire to the sleeping-room, my station being in the
t7•
J '
'
198 lll..tCJl XVMX&Jt W.
printc aick·room for the night, I withdrew to mr
post, which was the little sitting-room adjoinipg it.
Here, then, I threw myself upon the sofa, and,
being alone, reflected a few moments on the manner
9f escaping which had occurred to me. The phJ·
1ieian had arrived a Jittle before, at half-past eight ;
end I had now to accompany him, as usual, from
bed to bed, with pen, ink, and paper, to write down
his prescriptions for the direction of the old nun,
who was to see them administered. What I wrote
that evening, I c~nnot now recollect, as my mind
was uncommonly agitated; but my customary way
waa to note down briefly his orders in this manner~
1 d salts, St. Matilde.
1 blister, St. Genevieve, &c. &e.
I remember that I wrote three such orders th~t
evening, and then, having finished the rounds, I re-
turned for a few minutes to the sitting-room.
'£here were two ways of access to the strl'et from
those rooms : first, the more direct, from the passage
adjoining the sick-room, down-stairs, through a door,
into the nunnery-yard, and through a wicket-gate;
that .is the way by which the physician usually en·
ters at night, and he is provided with a key for that
purpose.
It would have been unsafe, however, for me to
pass out that way, because a m&J{ is kept continually
in the yard, near the gate, who sl~ps at night in a
ematl hut near the door, to escape whose observ.
don would be impossible. My only hope, ther~
~re. was, that I might pin my passaa-e throueb
..
de
BJ
cl
wto my
nipg it.
ofa, and,
manner
,he phy·
st eight;
1al, from
ite down
:>ld nun,
I wrote
ny mind
ary way
manner:
ders th~t
1
ds, I re-
t.
rt_)et {rom
JOI
·fhe other way, to do which I must po.ss through
the sick-room, then through a passage, or amal.
room, usually occupied by an old nun ; another
passage and staircaeleading down to the yard, and
• large gate opening into the cross street. I had
no liberty ever to go beyond the sick-room, and
knew that several of the doors might be fastened.
Still, I determined to try; although I have often
e!nce been astonished at my boldness in undertaking
~hat would expose me to so many hazards of fail·
ure,' and to severe punishment if found out.
It seemed as if I acted under some extraordinary
impulse, which encouraged me to do what I should
hardly at any other moment have thought of under·
taking. I had set but a short time upon the sofa,
however, before I rose, with a desperate determina·
tion to make the experiment. I therefore walked
hastily across the sick-room, passed into the nun'•
room, wallced by her in a great hurry, and almost
without giving her time to speak or think, said,-
.. A message f" and in' an instant was through the
door, and in the next passage. I think there waa
another nun ~ith her at the moment; and it is prob-
cble that my hurried manner, and prompt intima·
tion that I was sent on a pressing mission to the Su·
perior, prevented them from entertaining :my sus·.
picion of my intention. Besides, I had the written
· orders of the physician in my hand, which may
have tended to mislead them; and it was welt
known to some of the nuns, that I had twice left th.
COilYelll and returned from chotce; so that I wu
100 BLACK NUNNERY.
ptobably more likely to be trusted to.remain than
many of the others.
The passage which I had now reached had sev·
eral doors, with all which I was acquainted; that on
the opposite side _
opened into ai community-room,
where I should probably have found some of the
old nuns at that hour, nnd they would certainly
have stopped me. On the left, however, was a '
large door, both locked and barred; but I gave the
door a sudden swing, that it might creak as little as
possible, .being of iron. Down the st3:irs I hurried,
and making my way through the door into the
yard, stepped across it, unbarred the great gate, and
was at liberty I
lin than
1od sev·
that on
:y-room,
~ of the
.ertninly ,
was a
~ve the
little as
hurried,
into the
:ate, and
APPENDIX
.,. ftDI
AWFUL DISCLOSURES;
1.·~OK OP TUB FIRST EDmON&
n 8EQUBL TO 'I'SB NAJUtATITB.
I& QJDIDAL BJMBW o-g TUB WBOUI SVDJJ.:X:r..
/
APPENDIX, NO. I.
RECEPTION OF THE FIRST RDlTlONS.
I HAVE now reached the close of what appeared
in my first editions. Some of my Jeaders may feel
a wish to know what has been snil of me and my
book, by those whose character or connexions it ex·
poses. Different persons have expressed to me
their fears that I should be kidnapped, stabbed, or
poisoned; but of this I have had but little apprehen·
sion. Others may suppose that the priests of Mon-
treal, and some of those in New York, against
whom I haye made different charges, may have ap·
peared against me in ways of which they nre igno·
rant, an<l have published facts, or used arguments of
serious import, if not of decided force. For the in·
formation of my readers, I have determined, though
at some inconvenience, to lay before them a fair
view of what they have done.
I was well convinced before the publication of my
first book, that the priests would do or say very lit·
tle against me or my work; and several persons can
testify, that I made declarations of this ldnd, with
distinctness, in their presence. 'rhe reasons I gave
for this opinion were these,-that they feared an in·
vestigation, and that they feared further disc]osures.
They must desire to keep the public mind calm,
and diverted with other·matters; and to avoid. ·in·
APPZJifDI~
creastng my 111-will. There wero tndiYid~ala, I
was well aware, both in and out ofthe nunnery, and
the Seminary, who, from the first notice of the ape
pearance of my book, would be extremely disquieted,
until they had ascertained the extent to whic.h mJ
developments reached. When they had read for
themselves, I well knew, thtoy would enjoy a tem•
porary relief, finding that my u Disclosures" were
not the most .. awful" which they had reason to e~
pect.
I also felt. that they would apprehend something
further from me ; and that a dread of this would
probably keep them quiet, or confine them to gene-
ral denials of my story. And this has been the case.
even to so great a degree, that the remark has been ,
often repeated-how feeble is their defence I Why
did they not rather remain silent than do so little-
that which is for them worse than nothing 1 The
causes of this I could assign. The world does not
understand them alJ.
Three principal grounds of opposition have been
taken against me by my enemies-1st, That I had
never been in the Hotel Dieu Nunnery; 2d, That
my character entitled me to no confidence ; 3d, That
my book was copieJ, " word for word, and letter for
letter," from an old Eurcpean work, called " The
Gates of Hell opened." Besides these grounds,
several others have been attempted, ·but less seri·
ously supported-such as that I was deranged, or
:•ubject to occasional alienation of mind ; and that I
was not Maria Monk, but a counterfeit of a perso•
t
2
I
E
};
t;
tJ
ll
d
tals, I
:y, and
heap-
[Uieted,
ich mJ
~ad for
a tem..
" wera
1 to ex-
nething
: would
:ogene-
he caso.
as been ,
Why
little-
The
ve been
I had
That
That
for
persoa
a•c&PTION br TDB 'VORL 101
by thnt name, still m Canada, and, as some said, in
the Black Nunnery.
With regard to the first of these grounds, 1 will
here simply say, that it has been, beyond controver·
•y, the principal one, but has recently bt-en aban·
doned. The great object of the six affidavits, puboo
lished in 1\'IQntreal· in November, \835, and rcpub..
lishcd here soon after the publication of my book,
was to prove that I had never been a nun-not even
a novice. The reader mn.y judge for himself, for
those affidavits are published in full in this volume,
and they are the only ones which hnvo been puboo
lished against mP-. 'rho render will also see in an
extract from the New York Catholic Diary of March
last that that fact is admitted ; und by a Inter ex..
tract from it, that a Canadian priest who takes the
trouble to write from Sherbtoolce, has no new tcsti·
mony to refer to.
As to my char!:c1n, I never claimed the confi..
dence of the Amt:ri.o~.n people, (as the Roman priests
do,) on a pretence of p..~uliar holiness of life. That
would have been unreasonable in a stranger, and
especially one who ha~ been in a nunnery. My
first editions, as well as the present, bear witness
that I appealed to the evidence of fttcts which no one
could controvert if once produced-an examination
of the interior of my late prison. Not a lisp has
yet been heard of assent to my proposition. The
Protestant association have published o. challenge.
for severn! weeks, which is on another page amon;
18
y
J
I I
ll \1
106 APPENDIX.
the extracts-but no one bas neceptt..od it, nnd I will
\'enture to say, no one wi11.
My publishers, on seeing the assertion made by
the editor of the Boston (Roman Catholic) Pilot.
that my book was a. .mere copy from an old Euro·
penn work, called u 'fhe Gates of Hell openE'd,"
published a.n offer of 1100 for any book so rescm·
bling it-without success. If there be any volume
on earth which contains the developments of any
fugitive nun, whose case resembled my own, I
should expect it to merit such o title as thE' above;
and I should know how to excuse the author for
· using so strong an expression, after struggling, as
I have had to do, in giving my own narrative, with
those feelings which are so a.pt to arise in my heart
at the recollection of scenes I have passed through.
Tho opening of the Gates of Hell, whether in a
European or a. Canadian Convent, may probably
disclose scenes very like to each other; but if there
be nny resE'mblance between my book and any other
in the world, I solemnly declare that it can be
owing only to a resemblance between the things de·
scribed in both, as not a s~ntence has l>een copied
f.r:om any book whatever, and I defy the editor of tho
Boston Pilot-(not to perjure himself, as he gratui-
tously proposed-but to do what would be at once
much more difficult nnd satisfactory)-produce his
book, or a single page of it.
I have been charged with occasional alienation or
mind-avery strong evidence, I should think, of my
being a nun j for what eloped nun ev4ir escaped that
.J
'
r
It
tl
~
p
I will
ado by
, Pilot,
Euro·
?ent>d,"
rcscm·
volume
of any
own, 1
above;
hor for
ling, OS
ve, with
ay heart
hrough.
1
er in a
•robably
if there
ny other
can be
gs de·
copied
of tho
RECEPTION OF THE WORK. 201
charge7 Like converted Roman Catholics, run·
awny nuns are commonly pronounced to be out or
their wits, or under the inlluencc of evil spirits, of
course, on 'he grou d that this is proved by the lac&
itself.
As to my being the reo) Mario Monk or not, I pre·
aume the testimony of some of my old achool·matcs,
now in New York, will pass. To these, however,
.it cannot be necessary to resort, otherwise the Mon·
treol affidavits will be good for nothing.
I will now proceed to give the tJJho/.e of the testl·
mony which hus been brought out against me. A
few remarks, nect>ssa.ry to acquaint the reader with
the progress of things, will be given in their place.
Next to these will appear the testimony of several
persons, who have voluntarily presented tht>mseh·es,
since the publication of my first edition, claimed nc·
quaintnnce with me, and \'olunteer~d their tt>stimo·
ny. I neE'd not say how gratifying I. have found
such spontaneous marks of kindness, from friends,
whose rt:'Bdy and unsolicited appearance is a real
favour to me, although chiefly due, as they declare.
to their love of truth and justice.
Almost immediately Rfier the app(>Bran~e of my
u Awful DisclosurE's,11
the following anonymous
handbill was distributed through the city of New
York. It was also published in the Catholic Diary,
and other papers, with violent denunciations.
11
.Varia Monk 1 ViUany Exposed. _
•• L'Ami du Peuple, a Montreal paper, gives us the
~of the tale of scandal which the Proustau
'
' l
\
. .
208 .I.PPEKDIX.
Vinlkator, Christian Herald, et id get&us omnt, put t'or
ward a few months since, and which the Protestant Ed·
itors of three political journals in Montreal, at once
indignantly repelled without knowing its origin. In-
stead of an eloped Nun, recounting the horrors of the
Convent, the heroine of the tale is a Protestant yoons
girl, who has been for four years past under protec•
tion of a Mr. Hoyte, once styled a Reverend Methodist
Preacher, and connected with Canadian Sunday Schools.
The paper quoted above, gives, at full length, the atfidavitfl
of the mother of the girl, who is also a Protestant, and ot'
seyeral other indh•iduals, who had no motive to favour
Catholic Institutions. The disconsolate mother testifies on
oath that she had been solicited by the seducer of her child
to swear that she was a Nun, and that the father of the
infant wn.s a Catholic Clergyman-that a promise bad
been made her of a comfortable provision for herself,
and for her unf~:~rtunate child and off-spring-if she would
only do that. The poor woman had virtue enough to
r~ject the base proposal; and thus, the Rev. Mr. Hoyte,
who had returned from New-York for this purpose, ac·
companied, it is stated, by the Rev. Mr. Brewster rmd
1udge Turner, failed in the object of his visit.
· "A Methodist Preacher of the place immediately dis-
elaimed all connexion of the society with Mr. Hoyte, and
in a letter; published in the papers, expressed his regret
that any credit had been given to a foul charge, emanatinc
from a source so polluted."-Catll.oli_
c Herald.
"I:)- Tb~ affidavits will be published as soon as they
shall be received from Canada.-Maria Monk's Book, far
from injuring the Catholic religion, will promote it i for
lhe publication is a real disclosure of the wickedn~ss and
hypocrisy of its enemies, who dare to go as far as to con-
~eal their own crimes, by calumniating those who never
did any thing against them, and have never interfered
·with them.-Probably the a.utbor of this piow book ia a
minister ; and, what lS more remarkable, not a single QDI
nough to
r. Hoyte,
·pose, ae-
'Ster nod
ttely dis.
>yte, and
is regret
nanatinc
as they
look, far
e it; for
1ess and
; to con-
to never
1
terfered
tXJk ia a
1gle cme
RECEPTIOM OF THE WORK. 209
ot the ntinfuters has opposed it, or cautioned the people
agamst it, as it is their duty to do, the calumniators being
of their own congregations. Howenr, by holding a prayer-
meeting, making a few faces, and giving a few affecting
turns to their voices, they certainly have already washed
out the awful crime of these calumnies, be('ause faith
alone will save them, and they certainly have the true
faith, which shows itself by these true fruits of charity.
They are the elect, and consequently, they are not like the
Catholic Priests, who are all wicked.-The reader may
recollect the parable of the pharisee and the publican.
• • • • • •
"Granting the truth of Maria Monk's story, will it not
reveal the weakness of Protestant origin ·J Where would
Protestantism be, were it not engendered and nursed by
profligate Monks and Nuns 1 Yes, gentlemen, pro1ligate
Monks and Nuns have been your nursing Fathers and
Mothers ! The chaste spouse of the Redeemer could hold
no fellowship with such characters. She has dung them
over the fences of the 'fold,' happy to have a sink into
which to throw her filth!'
As soon as my first edition appeared, several of
the newspapers of New York referred to the pub·
lication in terms of unqualified condemnation. Not
content with giving my motives in producing it,
without having seen me, they hesitated not to pro-
nounce it utterly false, with as much boldness as if
they had really known something more of the mat·
ter than the public at large. A poor and injured
female had disclosed to their countrymen facts or
deep interest to all ; and they, without examination,
perhaps without leaving their .offices to make a sin·
gle inquiry, did their utmost to decry me, and used
.terms which they cannot but regret sooner or later.
18•
110 APP:INDI%.
Requests were immediately made to some of them
to listen to evidence, which were not accepted. The
editors of the Courier and Enquirer were requested,
in a note from the publishers, to mention in their
paper what parts of my book they intended to pro·
nounce false, and what was their evidence. But
they took no notice of it, although desired t() pub-
lish the note. Many other editors were invited to
publish communications or extracts, but most of
them refused from the first, and all the papers were
eoon closed against my cause.
In the country, the newspapers generally, I be·
lieve, followed the example set in this city, though
in Albany, Boston, and one or two other places, a
solitary one or two appeared disposed to examine
the subje~t.
At length appeared the long-threatened Montreal
affidavits, which are here inserted. They were
published in several Romau Catholic, and one or
two Protestant papers of New York, with this in-
troducti.on-
"Maria Monk's •Awftd Disclosures.' Villany exposed II
11
Of all the curious.pranks and fanatical schemes which
·the foes of Catholicity have been playing for some years
po.st, there is not one that fills the mind with greater disgust
than the scandalous tale given to the public byMaria Monk
and her wicked associate.
•• By the evidence which covers the followmg pages, the
reader will see the man h1mself clearly convicted of bein1
a base calummator, and a.rch-hypocnte. He, and ois asso-
ciate prostitute, will be seen, with brazen 1mpudence, aa.
le~inr to tU on the virtuous Cathohc Ladit.1 and CatJao.
>fthem
The
lUested,
n their
to pro·
'· But
to pub-
iited to
nost of
rs were
;, I be-
though
laces, a
xamine
Iontreal
were
asso-
aa.
Catlao-
RECEPTION OF THB WOR.K. Ill
111l'nest.s or Montreal, the shameless chtt.raeter which boo
kJags only to themselves."
From the Montreal Courier, N~. 16, 1835
.. The New Ynrk Protestant Vi1u!icator of the -llh Ne.
?ember, reiterates its calumnies concerning the Roman
Catholic Clergy and Nuns of this city. We cherished the
hope that, after the simult:meous and unanimous expres-
..aion of disbelief and reprehension with which its extrava·
pnt assertions had been met by the Canadian press, both
Protestant and Catholic, the conductors of that. journal
would have been slow to repeat, without better evidence of
their truth, the same disgraceful charges. We ha.ve been
deceived in our calculation. The fanatical print demands
uv.n.ter evidenu before it will withdraw, or acknowledge
the falsehood of its previous statements. We believe that
CDU?Uer evidence has been al~eady adduced, of a nature far
surpassing, in weight, the claims to credibility which the
accusations themselves could offer. The impure fabrica·
tion trumped up by a woman of immoral character and in·
sane mind, in conjunction with a man of equally depraved
habits, can never be weighed in the balance with the testi·
mony of Protestants, living in the same community as the
accused, and, therefore, prn;sessing the means ofjudging o(
the truth or falsehood of what was advanced. By any per·
sons of less interested credulity, and of more discrimination
and moral honesty, than what the conductors of the Protes--
tant Vindicator appear ~o possess, counter evidence of the
above nature would have been deemed sufficient.
"There are two reasons which have mainly weighed with
u, to revert to the subject of the Protesl4nt Vindicator'•
~barges, and to publish the subjoined lengthy documents.
We consider, in the first place, our endeavours to expose
falsehood as a solemn duty we owe to the defamed ; and.
in the second, we should regard ourselves to be degraded
lD the ~yes of the world, did we live in a community where
cuch abominations, as are alleged, existed, and not danr.
•Dly ud loudly, to denounce the pcrpetraaon.
,,
212 APPENDIX.
. "~nder these impressions, we proceed, Ill a considerable
sacrifice of the space of our journal, to Jay before our read·
ers the following affidavits, which will sufficiently disclose
the nature of tbe Protestant Vindicator's calumnies, their
origin, and the degree of credit which can be attached to
them."
'(AFFIDAVIT OF DR. ROBERTSON.)
11
William Robertson, of Montreal, Doctor in Medicine,
being duly sworn on the Holy Evangelists, deposeth an(l
saith as follows :-On the 9th of November, 1834, three
men came up to my house, having a young female in com-
pany with them, who, they f'aid, was observed 'that fore-
noon, on the bank of the Canal, near the extremity of the
St. Joseph Suburbs, acting in a manner which induced
some pepple who saw her to think that she intended to
drown herself. They took her into a house in the neigh-
bourhood, where, after being there some hours, and inter·
rogated as to who she was, &c., she said she was the daugh·
ter of Dr. Robertson. On receiving this information, they
brought her to my house. Being from home when they
came to the door, and learning from Mrs. Robertson that
she had. denied them, they conveyed her to the watch-
house. Upon bearing this story, in company with G.
Auldjo, Esq., of this city, I went to Lhe watch-house
to inquire into the affair. We found the young female,
whom I have since ascertained to be Maria Monk,
daughter of W. Monk, of this city, in custody. She
said, that although she was not my daughter, she was the
child of respectable parents, in, or very near Montreal,
who, from some light conduct of hers, (~rising from tem-
porary insanity, to which she was at times subject from her
infancy,) had kept her confined and chained in a cellar for
the last four years. Upon examination, no mark or ap-
pearance indicated the wearing of manacles, or any other
mode of restraint. She said, on my observing this, that her
mother always took care to cover the irons with soft cloths
\o prcv«:nt them injuring the ~kin. ~rom the ap~arance
iderabls
ur read-
disclose
es, their
1ched to
[edicine,
;eth anl\
J4, three
in com·
1at fore-
ty of the
induced
ended to
1
e neigh·
1d inter-
e daugh·
;ion, they
hen they
tson that
watch·
with G.
&BCBPTIOM or THE WORK. Ill
t1 her hands,• fthe evidently had not been used to wo~
To remove her from the watch-bouse, where she was con•
.fined with some of the most proftigate women of the town.
taken up for inebriety nod disorderly conduct in the streets.
as fihe could not give a satisfactory account of herself, I, u
a Justice of the Peace, sent her to jail as a ngrant. The
following morning, I went to the jail for the purpose of as-
certaining, if possible, who she was. After considerable
persuasion, she promised to divulge her story to the Rev.
H. Esson, one of the clergymen of the Church of Scotland;
to whose congregation she said her parents belonged. That
gentleman did cull at the jail, and ascertained who she
W3$. In the course of a few days she was released, and I
did not see her again until the month of August last, whea
Mr. Johnston, of Gritlintown, Joiner, and Mr. Cooley, oC
Che St. Ann Suburbs, Merchant, called upon me, about ten
o'clock at night, and, after some prefatory remarks, men-
tioned that the object of their visit was, to ask me, as a ma-
gistrate, to institute an inquiry into some very serioua ·
charges which had been made against some of the Rorna.J\
Catholic Priests of the place, and the Nuns of the General
Hospital, by a female, who had been a Nun in tllat lnstitu•
tion for four years, anlt who had divulged the horrible se-
crets of that establishment, such as the illicit and criminal
intercourse between the Nuns and the Priests, stating par·
ticulars of such depravity of conduct, on the part of these
people, in this respect, and their murdering the offspring ot
the.se criminal connexions, as soon as they were born, tG
\he number of from thirty to forty every year. I instantlt
lltated, that I did not believe a word of what they told me.
and that they must have been imposed upon by some evil.
4isposed and designicg person. Upon inquiry who thw
Nun, their informant, was, I discovered that she answerea
exactly the description of Maria Monk, whom I had 10
• Compare thla with the last sentence but one In thl3 aftlda'fit.
Wla7 does Dr. R. not give names of persons and their a1llda•it•' a
.._&MitJet been done-·Aprll, 183G.
' ~ 1
q
I )
,.
214 APPENDIX.
mttch trouble about last year, and mentioned to these indi·
viduals my suspicion, and what I knew of that unfortunate
.girl. Mr. Cooley said to Mr. Johnston, let us go home, we
are hoaxed. They told me that she wa." then at Mr. John·
stun's house, and requested me to call there, and hear her
own story. The next day, or the clay following, I dill call,
and saw Maria Monk, at Mr. Johnston's house. She re-
peated in my presence the substance of what was mentioned
to me before, relating to her having been in the Nunnery
for four years; having taken the black veil; the crimes
committed there; and a variety of other circum~tances
concerning the conduct of the Priests and Nuns. A Mr..
Hoyte was introcluced to me, and was present during tbe
whole of the time that I was in the bouse. He was repre·
sented as one of the persons who bad coine in from New
York with this young woman, for the purpose of investi·
gating into this mysterious affair. I was asked to take her
deposition, on her oath, as to the truth o! what she had
stated. I declinl'd doing so, giviug as reason, that, from
my knowledge of her character, I considered her assertions
upon oath were not entitled to more credit than her bare
assertion, and that I did not believe either; intimating, at
the same time, my willingness to take the necessary steps for
a full investigati011, if they could get any other person to
corroborate any part of her solemn testimony, or if a dirt'ct
charge were made against any particular individual of a
criminal na.ture. During the first interview with Messrs.
.Johnston and Coolt'y, they mentioned, that Maria Monk
had been found in New York in a very destiLLlte situation by
Eome charitable individuals, who administered to her neces-
sities, beingvery sick. She expressed a wish tosee a clergy.
man, as she had a dreadful secret which she wished to di·
vulge before she died ; a clergyman visiting her, she related
to him the alleged erhnesofthe Priests and Nuns ofthe Gen·
eral Hospital at Montreal. Afier her ! ccli·tery., she was vis-
ited and examined by the Mayor and some lawyers at New
York, aflerward ai Troy, in the State of New.York, Oil
S:J
e1
tr
ci
d·
~
~j
d
ti
a
J,
e
c
I
(
•
5senions
1er bare
ating, at
steps for
~rson to
a direct
tal of a
Messrs.
t Monk
a.tion by
rneces.
clergy.
d to di·
related
te Gen·
vasvis-
ltNew
•rk, on
RECEPTION OF THE WORK. 215
the subject; and I understood them to Nay, that Mr. Hoyte
and two other gentlemen, one of them a lnwyer, were sent
&o Montreal with her, for the purpose ofexamining into the
truth of the accusations thus made. Although ir.credulous
as to the truth of Maria Monk's story, I thought it incum-
bent upon me to make some inquiry concerning it, and
have ascertained where she has been residing a great part
of the time she states having been an inmate of the Nun-
nery. During the summer of 1832 she wa.c; at service in
William Henry's; the winters of 1832-3, she pllSSed in
this neighbourhood, at St. Ours and St. Denis. 'fhe ac-
counts given of her conduct that ~Season corroborate the
opinions I had before entertained of her character.
11
W. RoBF.RT5o,;.
11
Sworn before me, at Montreal, this 14th day of Novem-
ber, 1835. 11
BENJ. HoLMES, J. P.''
(AFFIDAVIT OF MY MOTUER.)
u On this day, the twenty-fourth day of Octobf.r, one thou-
sand eight hundred and thirty-:-tive, before me, William Rob-
ertson,one of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the dis-
trict of Montreal, came and appeared Isabella Mills,• of the
city of Montreal, widow of the late William Monk, who
declared, that wishing to guard the public against the de·
ceptiou which has lately been practised in Montreal by de-'
l)igning men, who have taken advantage of the occasional
derangement of her daughter, to make scandalous accusa·
tions against the Priests and the Nuns in ·Montreal, and
afterward to make her pass herself for a nun, who had
left the Convent. And after having made oath on the holy
evangelists, (to say the truth) the said Isabella. Mills de-
clares and says, a man decently dre~sed (whom afterward
I knew to be W. R. Hoyte, stating himself to be a. minister
of New York,) rame co my house on or about the middle ,
ef August last, and inquired for one Mr. Mills; that Mr.
• My mother's maiden name wu MiUs.
118 APPBNDIX.
E8son, a minister here, bad told him 1could give some r..
formation about that man ; I replied that I knew no one ot
that name in Montreal, but that I bad a brother of that
name five miles out of town. He then told me thllt be bad
lltely come to Montreal, with a young woman and child
of five weeks old ; that the woman bad absconded trom
him at Goodenough's tnern, where they were lodging,
and left him with the child; he gave me a description of
the woman: I unfortunately'discovered that the descrip-
uon answered my daughter, and the reflection that thi1
strange! had called upon Mr. Es~n, our pastor, and in-
quiring for my brother, I suspected that this was planned:
I asked for the child, and said that I would place it in a
nunnery; to that Mr. Hoyte started every objection, in
abusive language, against the nuns. At last he consented
to ghe me the child, provided I would give my writing
that it should be presented when demanded. 'Ve left the
bouse together, Mr. Hoyte requesting me to walk at a dis.
tanee from him, as be was a gentleman. I followed him
to Mr. Goodenough's Hotet,·and he directed tne to room
No. 17, and to demand the child'i a servant maid gave it
to me; Mr. Hoyte came up, and gave me the clothing. I
came home with the child, and sent Mrs. Tarbert, an old
acquaintance, in search of my daughter; her deposition
will be seen. The next day, Mr. Hoyte came in with an
elderly man, Dr., Judge •rum~r, decently dressed, whom
he introduc.-1 to me as a Mr. Turner, of St. Alban's.
~ i1ey demanded to see the child, which I produced. Mr.
Hoyte demanded if I bad·discoYered the mother; I said
not. She must be found, said he; she has taken away a
ahawl aild a bonnet belonging to a senant girl at Goode-
llough's; ·be wouhl not pay for them; she bad cost him toO
much already; that Ms things were kept at the hotel on
that account. ·Being:afraid that this might more deeply in·
Yolve my daughter, I offeted my own shawl to replace the
ene taken ; Mr. Royte first took it, but afterward returned
til to me on my promise that I would pay for the shawl an4
Sf'lT
mo:
my:
I eJ
me:
qu~
the
her
der
but
rna
tim
a f:
tim
lh
Dr
wit
tes1
~\
some fit;.
ooone of
r of that
at he had
md child
ded from
lodging,
ription of
dcscrip-
that thia
, and in-
pbnned:
ce it in a
:ction, in
:onsented
y writing
e left the
:at a dis-
wed him
: to room
1 gave it
'thing. I
an old
with an
whom
Alban's.
Mr.
; I said
awny a
Goode-
him tot
hotel on
RECEPTION OF THE \YORK. 21f
bonnet. In the course of' the day, Mrs. Tarbert found my
daughter, but she would not come to my house; she sent
the bonnet and shawl, which were retumed to their owner,
wh\l had lent them to my daughter to assist be•· in procur-
ing her e~cape from Mr. Hoyte at the hotel. Early on tho
afternoon of the same day, Mr. Boyte came to my house
with the same old man, wfshing me to make all my efforts
to find the girJ, in the meantime speaking very bitterly
against the Catholics, the Priests, and the Nun;.;; mention-
ing that my daughter had b~en in the nunnery, where she
had been ill treated. I denied that my daughter had ever
been in a uunnery; that when she was a~lOut eight years of
age, she went to a day-school. .At that time came in two
other person~>, whom Mr. Boyte introduced; one was the
Re\•. Mr. Brewster, I do not recollect the otl1er reverence's
Dame. They all requested me, in the most pressing terms, to
try to make it out; my daughter had been in the nunnery;
and that she had ~orne connexion with the Priests of the
sPminary, of which nunneries and Pricl'ts she spoke iH the
most outrageous terms; said, that should I rna lee that out,
myself. my daughter, andehild, would be protected fur life.
I expected to get rid of their importunities, in relating the
melancholy circumstances by which my daughter was fre-
quently cfP.ranged in her head, and told them, that when at
the age of a'lout seven years, she brok~ a ~late pencil io
her bead ; that since that time her mental farulties were
deranged, and hy times much more than at )ther time~,
but that she ~s far from being an idiot; that she could
make the most ridiculous, but most plausible stories; and
that as to the history that she had been inn nunnery, it was
a fabrication, for she never was in a nunnery; that at ono
time J wished to obtain a place in a nunnery for her; that
I had employed the influence of Mrs. De Montennch, of
Dr. Nelson, and of our pastor, the Rev. Mr. E~son, but
without succc~s. I told them nohvithst:mding I was a Pro-
testant, and did not like the Roman Catholic religion-lilce
:..'\ other respectable Protestants, I held the priests of the
19
'.,
~18 APPENDIX.
seminary and the nuns of Montreal in veneration, as the
most pious and charitable persons I ever knew. Aflc:
many more solicitations to the s:1mc effect, three of thcru
retired, but Mr. Hoytc remained, adding to the other soli-
citations; he was stopped, o. person having rapped at the
door; it was then candlelight. I opened the door, and
found Doctor M'Donald, who told me that my daughter
Maria was at his house, in the most distressing situation;
that she wished him to come and make her peacewith me;
I went with the Doctor to his house in M'Gill-street ; she
came with me to near my house, but would not come in,
notwithstanding I assured her that she would be kindly
treated, and that I would give her her child; she crossed
the parade ground, and I went into the house, and returned
for her.-Mr. Hoyte followed me. She was leaning on the
west railing of the parade; we went to her: Mr. Boyte
told her, my dear Mary, I am sorry you have treated your-
self and me in this manner; I hope you have not exposed
what has passed between us, nevertheless; I will treat you
the same as ever, and spoke to her in the most affectionate
terms; took her in his arms; she at first spoke to him very
cross, and refused to gu with him, but at last consented
and went with him, absolutely refusing to c<'me to my
ltouse. Soon after, Mr. Hoytc came and demanded the
~hild; I gave it to him. Next morning Mr. Hoyte re-
turned, and was more pressing than in his former: solicita-
tion, and requested me to say that my daughter had been
in the nunnery : that should I say so, it would be better
than one hundred pounds to me ; that I would be protected
for life, and that I should leave Montreal, and that I would
be better provided for elsewhere; I answered, that thou-
sands of pounds would not induce me to perjure myself;
then he got saucy and abusive to the utmost; he said he
came to Montreal to detect the infamy of the Priests and
the Nuns; that he could not leave my daughter destitute ·
in the wide world as I had done ; afterward said, No! she
is not your daughter, she is too sensible for that, and went
1I
fi.
m
lv.
p,
tr1
u
ab
in
tc
.on, as the
:w. Aftc:
!e of thcru
other soli·
•ped at the
door, and
y daughter
~ situation ;
:ewith me;
·Street ; she
.ot come in,
1 be kindly
she crossed
nd returned
ming on the
Mr. Boyte
reated your-
not exposed
·ill treat you
affectionate
to him very
consented
_to my
the
Boyte rc·
solicita·
had been
be better
be protected
that I would
, that thou·
ure myself;
· he said he
I
Priests and
destitute·
, No! she
and went
'R.J:CEI'TION 01' TilE ' VOIL ·, 21q
a.wBy.-He wns gone but a few minute:'!, when N r. Doucet,
:1n ancient Magistrate in Montreal, entered. ..: hat gt. ·
tlemnn told me that Mr. Goodenough had just now en J
npon him, nn<l requested him to let me know that I hnt1 a
daughter in Montreal ; that she ha(\ come in with a Mr.
Hoyte and a child, and that she had left Mr. Hoyte and the
child, hut that she was still in Montreal, so ns to enable me
to look for her, and tho.t I might prevent some mischief
that was going on. Then I related to him part1y what I
have above sai!l. When he was go!ng, two other gcnt~e­
men came. I refuse!\ to give them any information nt
first, expecting that they were of the party that had so
much agitated me ft.Jr a few days; but being informed t-y
Mr. Doucet, that he knew one of them, particularly Mr.
Perkins, for a respectable .citizen for o. long time in Mon-
treal, and the other, Mr. Curry, two ministers from the
United States, that if they came to obtain some information
about the distressing events she related to have occurred
in her family, he thought it would do no hann, and I rela-
ted it to them: they appeared to be afflicted with such acir-
eumst:mce; I have not seen them any more. I asked Mr.
Doucet if the man Hoyte could not be put in jail ; he re-
plied that he thought not, for what he knew of the busi.
ness. Then I asked if the Priests were informed of what
was going on; he .replied, yes, but they never take up
these things; they allow their character to defend itself. A
few days after, I heard that.my daughter was at one Mr.
Johnson's, a joiner, at Griffintown, with Mr. Hoyte; that
he passed her for a nun that had escaped from the Hotel
Dieu Nunnery. I went there two days successively with
Mrs. Tarbert; the first day, Mrs. Johnson denied her, and
said that she was gone to New York with Mr. Hoyte. As
I was returning, I met Mr. Hoyte on tb.e wharf, and I re-
proached him for his conduct. I told him that my daugh-
ter had been denied to me at Johnson's, but that I would
have a search-warrant to have her; when I returned, he
.had really gone with my unfortunate daughter; and I r.e-
·.
~
l
\,
.
'
I(
I
. , I
ll ·T.
! ,, II
II• I
., I
•.: I
,J I
I
.lPPJ:KDIX.
eeived (rom Mr. 1ohnson, his wife, nncl m number or per·
JORS in their house, the grollse: L ab1
JSC1 mixed With texts of
the Gospel, Mr. Johnwn bringing a Bible fur me &o I'Wtllr
on. I retired more deeply afftictcd than ever, ond further
anycth not.
"Sworn before me, thi~ 24th of Oct~ber, 1835."
(AFFIJHVIT OF NANCY M'OAN.)
·•Pr~inr.' nf Loll'tr Canada, I
J)itrlrir.lttf Monlrtll(. '
11
Before me, 'Villiam Robertson, one of His Mnjesty':t
Jul>tices of the Peace, for the District of Montreal, camo
and nppeared Nancy M'Gan, of Montreal, wife of Jamt's
Tarbert, who hns requestccl me to receive this affidavit,
and dedarcd that !'ihe ha~ been intimately acquainted with
Mrs. {widow) Monk, of Montreal, a Protestant woman.
I know the :;oaid Maria Monk; lnst ~pring !'ihe told me that
the father of the child she then was carrying, WllS burned
in Mr. Ow:-ten's house. She often went away in the coun-
try, and at the request of her mother I accompanied her
ncross the river. Last summer she came back to my lodg·
ing~;, and told me that she had made ont the father of the
child; and thut very night len me and went away. Tho
next morning I found that she wns in a house nf bnd fame,
~·here I went for her, and told the woman kect~ing thac
house, that she ought not to allow that girl to remain there,
for she was a girl of good and honest family. Mnria Monk
then told me that she would not go to him, (alluding, as I
understood, to the father of the <·hild,) for that he wnntctl
her to swear nn mith that woulcllosf' her soul for ever, buC
jestingly said, shonld make her a lncfy for ever. I then told
her, (Marin:) do not lose your sonl for money. She toltl
me she had swnpp(>tl her ~ilk gown in the house where I
had founll her, 1i>r a calico one, and got some money to
boot; having previously told me if she had some money
&be would go away, nncl would not go near him any more.
Soon ntler, Mr. Hoyte and another gentleman came. Mr.
Boyte asked me_
where sh'! had slept the night previous.
'e
h
b
g
I j
,V,
to
a
to
fo
I I
th.
ge
m1
ter or per·
ith tellS o(
e to Rwear
nd further
"
; Mnjesty'~
renl, c:nmo
c of Jnml.'s
s nffillnvit,
'Linted with
nt woman.
old me thnt
.vns burned
n the coun·
paniect her
to mylodg·
ther of the
way. The
fbnd fame,
ec11ing that
main there,
raria Monk
luding, as I
be wante1l
>rever, but
I then toltl
. She toM
t1se where I
e money to
orne money
11any more.
came. Mr.
:tt previous.
1\BC:I::PTIOM OJ' THE "ORK. 221
ud that he would go for the silk gown; the woman show·
ed the gown, and told him that if he would pay three dol·
Jars he should have the gown; he went away, and came
back with Mario. Monk, paid the three dollars and got !he
gown ; I was then present.
11
Being at Mrs. Monk's, I saw o. child which she men-
t:oned to be her dnughter Maria's child. Some time ·after,
Mrs. Monk requested me to accompany her to Griffintown,
to look for her daughter. We went to Mr. Johnson's house,
a joiner in that suburb; we met Mr. Hoyte nnd he spoke
to Mrs. Monk; when at Mt·s. Johnson's, Mrs. Manly asked
for he1· daughter; Mrs. Johnson said she was not there.
I saw Mr. Hoyte at Mrs. Monk's; he was in companywith
three other persons, apparently Americans, earnestly enga-
ged in conversation, but so much confused I could not
make out what was sai<l; and further sayeth not."
her
Cl NANCY t M'GAN.
mark.
u.sworn before me, on this 24th October, 1835.
11
W. RoB.ERT~oN, ]. P.''
(AFFIDAVIT OF ASA GOODENOUOD.)
"Prl1'0intt of Lower Canada, l
District of Montreal. ~
11
Before me, William Robertson, one of His Majesty's
Justices of the Peace, for the District of Montreal, appear-
ed Asa Goodenough, of Montreal, holder of the Exchange
Coffee House, who, after having made oath upon the Holy
Evangelists, declareth an'l sayeth, that on or about the
nineteenth of August last, two gentlemen and a young fe.
male with o. child, put up at the Exchange Coffee House,
of which I am the owner; they were entered in the book,
on~ under the name of Judge Turner, the other as Mr.
Boyte, a Methodist preacher, and agent or superintendent
for the establishment of Sunday-schools, &c.
11
Being informed by Catharine Conners, a confidential
servant that something mysterious was passing amongse
19•
222 API'.F.NDJX:.
the above-named, which Jed me to call on them for nn ex.
planation, they answered in a very unsatisfactory manner.
I afterward )earned that the name of the young woman
was Marin Monk, that her mother Jived in town, that she
was nor married to Mr. Hoyte, and they came to Montreal
with the view, as Mr. Hoyte said, to disclose the infamyof
the Priests, whilst she was at the Nunnery. I thought it
prudent to give information of this to a magistrate. See-
ing Mr. Doucet's name on the list, I went to him, and re-
quested him to give information to the mother of the young
woman, of the <;ircum1'tances ·iu which her daughter was.
He did so, and the disclosure of the design of Mr. Hoyto
wac; the t'onsequence.
" Montreal. " AsA GooDENouan."
11
The foJJowing affidavits have been translated from th•
I.'.A.mi du Peupte, Montreal, Nov. 7, 1835."
(AFFIDAVIT OF CATHAR!.SE CONNERS.)
• PrO'Oinee qf Lorur Canada, l
Di•trict qf -~or.treal. ~
11
Before me, W. Robertson, one of His Majesty's Justices
ofthe Peace for the District ofMontreal, appeared Catharine
Conners of Montreal, a servant in the hotel of Mr. Good·
enough, in the city of Montreal; she having made oath on
the Holy Evangelists, to say the truth and nothing but the
truth, declared and said what follows:
" Towards the 19th of August Jast, two men and a wo-
man came to the E:cchange Coj"ee Hou.~e; their names were
written in the book, one by the name c,f Judge Turner, and
the other as Mr. Hoyte; the name of the woman was not
written in the book, in which the names of travcJiers are
written, because I was informed that they were taking a
single room with two beds. Some time :tfter another room
was given to them for their ·accommodation; the woman
passed foa· the wife of Mr. Hoyle.
" 1'he day following, when I was making the bed, I
found the woman in tears; havin~ made the remnrlc to her
that her child was a very young traveiJcr, she replied thlll
n:
h
th
Cf
to
I I
be
n for an eX•
,.ry manner.
ung woman
Nn, that she
to Montreal
te infamyor
I thought it
trate. See-
.im, andre-
,f the young
ughter was.
Mr. Hoyte
lENOUGD."
ed from th•
RECEl'TJON OF THE WORK. 223
she had not the power to di~pcnse with the journey, for
they traveiled on business of importance; she also said that
she had never had a day of happiness since she had left
Montreal, which was four years, with Mr. Hoyte; she ex-
pressed a wish to go and ~ee her father. She entreated me
to try nnd procure secretly clothes for ht>r, for Mr. Hoyte
wif)ht!d to dine with her in his own room, in which he was
tht>n taking- care of the child. I ga.ve her my shawl and
bonnet, and conducted l1er secretly out by the street St•
Pit>rre; she never returned, and left the child in the hands
of Mr. Hoyte. She said thnt her ku.'i/Jat~.d was a Methodist
pre::~.eher, ant.~ S!;cnt of the Sunday Schools for Montreal,
in which he ha•! rrsiderl four months last winter; but she
had not then been with him. When I returnerl to the
room, Mr. Hoyte was still taking care of the chil<l; he
asked me if I had seen his lady; I said no. Upon this
question he told me that the father of hi.~ lady was dead,
that her mother yet lived in the suburbs ofQuebec, and he
asked me for all the clothes which I bad given to wash for
him, his lady and child; clotht's the latly had taken from
the only portmanteau which they had. Beyond that, I per-
crived nothing remarkable, except that Mr. Hoyte wished
to conceal this woman, and to prevent her from going out.
I heard the jndge sny to him, 'now she is yours.' Sworn
before me the 2d November, 1835.-
(Signed) 11
W. RoBERTSON.
"Mary M·Catfrey, also a chambermaid in the hotel of
Mr. Goodenough, corroborates the preceding deposition.
(Signed) "W. RoBERTsoN.~
(AFFIDAVIT OF llENRY M
1
DONALD.)
"Prot'intt of Lototr Canada, l
District of Montreal. ~
"Before me, w. Robertson, one of His Majesty's Justtces
or tht: Peace, fnr the.District of Montreal, appeared Henry
M'Donald, physician, who, after taking an oath on the
Holy Evangelists to say the truth, declared, that in the
month of August last, at seven o'clock in the_ev~ning, a
APPENDIX.
young woman called at his bouse with all the symptoms ot
an extraordinary agitation, and in great distress. She asked
his professional advice, complaining of great pains in the
breast. On questioning her, he learned that she had a young
child, which she said was at Mr. Goodenough's, and that this
child was taken away from her. She said that the father
of the child was n Methodist minister, and general agent
of the Sunday Schools. She told me his name, hut I can-
not recollect it. She told me that now and then her intel·
lectual faculties were weakened in such a manner that she
could not support herself. She told me that she ·would be
under great obligation to me, if I would go to her mother's
house, and get her child, and procure lodgings for her ; that
she was without means, and did not know where to go. She
could not remain with her mother, because she felt that
her conduct had dio;graced her family. I went in quest of
Mrs. Monk, her mother; she had just come in quest of her
daughter, and they went away together from my bouse.
(Signed) "HENRY M'DONALD.
"Sworn before me the 2d November, 1835.
(Signed) "W. RoBERTSON."
(AFFIDAVIT OF MATTIJEW RICHEY.)
To the Editor of the Montreal Morning Courier.
S1a,-Among the affidavits published in your paper of
to-day, relating to Mr. Hoyte and Maria Monk, I observe
a deposition by Mr. Goodenough, that when Mr. Hoytc,
in the month of August last, put up at the Exchange Cof-
fee-house, he was entered on the book ns a .Mcthodisl
Preacher, and Agent or Superintendent of Sunday Schools,
&c. It has, however, been ascertained, from an examina·
tion of the book referred too, that no officiai designation is
appended in it to Mr. Boyte's name. This discrepancy,
Mr. Goodenough states, took place entirely through mis-
take, and he did not know that Mr. Boyte was thus char-
acterized in his affidavit till he saw it in print. But as a
1iroilar mistake has_
found its way into several of the de-
po
I
M
ha
eit
nn
gr1
Ia!
nr
fro
cat
gi\
res
of
we
Ihe
in
quest of
nest of her
· house.
DONALD.
TSON."
tr paper of
r, I observe
Mr. Boyte,
bange Cof-
~ Methodisl
lay Schools,
.n examina·
:signation is
liscrepancy,
trough mis-
3 thus char-
. But as a
L
l of the de-
RECEPTION OF THE \VORK. 225
positions which have been elicited by this unhnppy affair,
I deem it incumbent upon me, as a regularly appointed
Methodist Minister of this city, to declare that Mr. Hoyle
has OF:ver had any connexion with the Methodist Soci~ty,
either as a preacher or as an agent for Sunday Schools;
and I wo!lld, at the same time, E'Xpress my surprise and re-
gret, that the Netc- York Protestant Vindicator should have
taken up, and industriously circulated, charges of so grave
a nature against the Priests and Nuns of this city, derived
from so polluted a source. From l:'Uch a species of vindi-
cation, no cau~e can recei\•e either honour or credit. By
giving this publicity, you will confer a favour on yours,
respectfully, "MATTrn:w Ru;utv,
11
Montreal, Nov. IG, 1835. Wesleyan Minister."
11
Although we could produce several other affidavits,
of an equally unimpeachable character as the above, yet
we deem the evidence advanced more than enough to sho\V
the entire falsehood and extravagance of the fabrications
in the Protestant Vil~dicator."
Here c1oses all the testimony that has been pub·
lishcd or brought against me. It requires the sup-
pression of my fpe)ings to repeat to the world
charges against myself and my companions, so un·
founded, and painful to every virtuous reader. But
I trust to the truth to substantiate my narrative, nnd
prefer that every thing should be filirly laid before
the world.
'!'hat my opponents had nothing further to pro·
duce against me at that time. is proved by th<' fol·
lo\Vi'lg remark by the Editor of the New York
Catholic Diary, to be found in the very paper ill
wh1ch he published the preceding affidavits:-
.. Jlere, then, is tkt wkolt !''
,
APPENDIX.
In a N. Y. Catholic Diary of March last, is a
letter from Father McMahon, a Missionary, dated
nt Sherbrooke, in Canada, in which, as will be seen
by the extracts aiven beyond, he does not even al-
lude to any other testimony than this.· Of course
my readers will allow that I have reason to say- ·
"Here, then, is the whole I"
The following extracts are given for several rea
sons. 1st. To prove, by the admission of my ad·
versaries themselves, that no new testimony has been
produced since the publication of the Montreal af-
fidavits. 2d. That no disposition 'is shown to bring
the truth to the only fair test-the opening of the
Nunnery. 3d. That they are inconsistent in sev-
eral respects, as, wbile they pretend to leave the
characters of the priests and nuns to defend them·
selves, they labour with great zeal and acrimony to
quiet public sus:_:>icion, and to discredit my tcstimo·
ny. 4th. Another object in giving these extracts is,
to show a specimen of the style of most of the Ro·
man .Catholic writers against me. In respect to
argument, temper, and scarcity of facts, Father
McMahon is on a level with the editors of the
Diary and Green Banner, judging from such of
their papers as I have seen.
Prom Father McMahon's Let!er to the Editor of the N. Y. Catholie
Diary of March, 183fi.
"The silence by which you indulge the latent springs ot
n mal-propcnse, so far from being an argument for culpa-
bility, is based upon the charitableness of a conscious inno-
~ence, and is, therefore, highly commendable. I say it i!J
high
spec
turn
ua11:
chil1
trea1
ably
"
thot
giol1
war
on
labl
whi
sior
turE
the
in
but
fro1
thil
bes
tri~
COl
gul
VOl
thE
eXI
' I
pu
da
ha
th
BD
ti<
th
li•
imony to
testimo-
dracts is,
·the Ro-
~spect to
, Father
s of the
such of
Y. Catholi•
springs or
for culpa-
:ious inno-
1say it is
RECEPTION OP THE WORK.
highly commendable, inasmuch as these worthy and re-
spectable characters do not deign to answer falsehood, or
turn their attention from their sacred avo~ations by effect-
ually repelling allegations which all the men, women, and
children, able to articulate a syllable, in the city of Mon-
treal, have repeatedly pronounced to be utterly false, detest-
ably foul; and abominably scandalous. • • • •
" May I now call upon you, honest Americans, who,
though you may differ from me in doctrinal points of reli-
gion, have, I trust, the due regard for W'uth and charity to-
wards all mankind; and into whose hands that instrument
of Satan's emissaries may fall, before you believe one syl-
lable it contains, attentively to peruse the following fac.ts,
which are known to all men of learning, of every persua.
sion, and in every country, and which you will find, by ma-
ture investigation, to serve as a sufficient key to discover
the wicked falsehoods, circulated by the enemies of truth,
in the work called, 'The Disclosures of Maria Monk,'
but which, in consequence of the total absence of truth
from the things therein contained, I have termed, (and I
think justly on that account,) the devil's prayer-book, I
beseech you to give my statements a fair, but impartial
trial, weigh correctly the arguments opposed to them, ac-
cording to your judgment-do not allow yourselves to be
gulled by the empty or unmeaning phraseology of some oi
vour bloated, though temperate, preachers. All I ask for
1he te~t of the following statement, is simply and solely the
exercise of your common sense, without equivocation.
· "1st. I distinctly and unequivocally state, that the im-
pugners of the Catholic religion and its doctrines, never
dared to meet us in the fair field of argument. Never yet
have they entered the lists in an eristical epcounter, but to
their cost. Why so 1 because we have reason, religion,
and the impenetrable shield of true syllogistic argumenta·
tion in our favour. Witness, in support of the assertion,
the stupid and besotted crew, (pardon me for this expres-
Bi<'n, and find a proper term yourselves, for the politico-
j'
228 APPENDIX.
Theological Charlatans of England,) who, not darinlr to
cnconnter the Catholic Hierarchy of Ireland, in on hon.
ourable religious disputation, are ti1rced to drag to their
assistance those very apostates from Catholicity who were
considered by their superiors unworthy of 1he situation
they nttempted to hold in that Chnrch; for the pnrposc of
propping up the staggering nnd debauched harlot, who~o
grave they are now preparing. Only remark how they arc
obliged to have recourse to the exploded ~cholas1ic opin-
ions of Peter Dens, b.v way of showing the intolf.>ranN' of
the Catholics, who repudiate the doctrine of religious in-
tolerance. M:uyland, Bavaria, and the Cantons of Swit-
zerland, prove the contmr.v hy their universal religions
toleration. Now I could memio'l, if I thought I had space
enough on thi-:; sheet, nnmbers of Prott.>stant divines, who,
in their writings, have strongly inculcated the absurd doc-
trines of ruling our consciences by the authority of the
Civil Magistmtes. See then, how strange it is, that they
seek :o condemn us for doctrines which we abhor, and
which they practise, even to this day. Mark that for an
argument against cmr dnctrint.>s.
u 2dly. l assf.>rt, that notwithstanding all the Jlf.>rsecn-
lions, all the falsehood and rlelhm:uion daily exercised
,against the Catholics and their religi,on, they are at this mo-
ment the only people on the face of the t-arth who main-
lain amongst them the unity of the true- faith, and the reg-
ular succession in the Ministry, from Christ and his Apos-
tles.
11
3dty. I assert, that the late scandalous prodnr.tir•n
against the Catholic Clt>rgy of Montreal and th(" Catholic
institutions there, is n tis..:ne·of false, foul, designing, and
scanrlalm1s misrepr('~~entation. 1st. Becanse upon -.r riel
e.1amination mto all its bearinJ?~. jt has been so provecl
upon the solemn oaths of a mngi~trate and others concern·
ed. 2dly. Because it is nn wa.v consonant to reason or
common sense to sa~·. that those living nt a considerable
distance, and nvo\vedly hostile to the Catholics and tht>ir
re
c,
he
nr
tel
ev
tn
th'
as
l.m
so.
an
ed
dariu~ to
n an bon.
.g to their
who were
e situation
pnrposc of
~lot, who5o
.w they nrc
astic opin-
>lrran<~t' of
ligiotls in-
IS of Swit.
I rei igions
rhad space
lines, who,
.bsurtl doc·
rity of the
:, that they
J.bhor, and
for an
e pt>rsecn·
exercised
at this mo-
reason or
iderable
and tht>ir
RBCZPTIOM OF THB WORK. 229
religion, should feel so interested in such a matter as the
Catholics themselves, who are vitally concerned, and who
had every facility of discovering any impropriety; who
are zealous of the purity of their religion and its Minis-
ters. 3dly. Because the loud cry of all the inhabitants of
every denomination, from the well-known integrity, the ex-
traordinary piety, the singular charity and devotedness of
the Catholic Clergy, came in peals of just wrath and well-
merited indignation on the heads of the degenerate mon-
~tcrs who basely, but ineffectually, attempted to murder
the unsullied fame of those whom they deservedly held,
and will hold, in the highest estimation.
"T. B. McMAHoN, Mi<
sion.ary...
Now this letter alludes to testimony legal1y given,
as substantiating the charges against me. What
testimony is intended~ Any new testimony~ If
so, where, and what is it~ I have never heard of
any, of any description, except what I have insert-
ed on the preceding page_
s, unless I except the vio-
lent, unsupported, and inconsistent assertions in
newspapers, before alluded to. Has any testimony,
legally given, been produced, which neither the
Catholic Diary, nor any other Cathr·.-'c paper, has
either inserted or alluded to~ No. The Mission-
ary, McMahon, must refer to the Montreal affidavits;
and since he has expressed his opinion in relation
to their credibility and weight, I request my read·
crs to form their own opinions, as I have put the
means in their power.
It may, perhaps, appear to some, an act display-
ing uncommon " concer'ft1
in my affairs, or those of
the Convent, for Father McMahon to take the pains
20
. {
j I
280 APPENDIX.
to write on the subject from Canada. I know more
of him and his concerns than the public do ; and 1
am glad that my book has reached him. Happy
would it have been for him, if he could prove that
he did not leave Sherbrooke·from the day when I
took the Black veil, until the day when I cast it
off. There are many able to bear witness against
him in that institution, (if they have not been re·
moved,) and one out of it, who could easily silence
him, by disclosures that he has·too much reason to
apprehend.
But to return-1 assure my readers, then, that
this book contains all the testimony that has been
brought against me, so far as I can ascertain.
The extensive publicatjon of the Montreal afti-
davits, (for they appeared in the Roman Catholi(
papers, and were circulated, it is believed, very
genera1Jy through New York,} for a time, almost
entirely closed the newspapers against me. My
publishers addressed the following letter to the edi·
tor of the N. Y. Catholic Diary, and waited on
him with a third person, to request its publication
in his next paper, but he declined. He expressed
doubts of my being in the city, and intimated a wish
to see me; but when they acceded, he refused to
meet me anywhere but at hi., own residence !
The same letter was then offered to other ed·
itors in New York, and even sent to Philadelphia
for publication, but refused. It appeared on the
29th of February, in the Brooklyn Star, thus in·
troduced :-
a
t1
li
il
St
il
p
b
p
a
I
I
now more
.o; and 1
Happy
ITOVe that
y when I
I cast it
!S against
; been re·
ily silence
reason to
then, that
; has been
tain.
1treal aftl-
1 Catholit
eved, very
me, almost
me. My
to the edi·
waited on
ublication
expressed
ted a wish
refused to
ce!
, other ed·
I
hiladelphia
· on the
'RECEPTION o• TRB WORK. 231
(Extracts from tl&e lAng lslantl Star of Feb. 29th.)
"Since &he publication of our last paper, we have receiv-
ed a communication from Messrs. Howe and Bates, of New
York, the publishers of Miss Monk's 1
Awful Disclosures.'
It appears that 'some inftuences have been at work in that
city, adverse to the free examination of the case between •
her and the priests of Canada; for thus far the newspapers
have been almost entirely closed against every thing in her
defence, while most of them have published false charge~
~aainst the book, some of a preposterous nature, the con-
tradiction of which is plain and palpable. • • •
"Returning to New York, she then first resolved to pub-
lish her story, which she }~.as recently done, after several
intelligent and disinterested persons had satisfied them-
selves by much examination that it was true.
11
When it became known in Canada that this was her
intention, six affidavits were publi~hed in some of the news-
pa[..:.rs, intended to destroy confidence in her character ;
but these were found very contradictory in several im-
portant points, and in others to afford undesigned confirm-
ation of statements before made by her.
11
On the publication of her book, the New York Catholic
Diary, the Truth Teller, the Green Banner, and other pa-
pers, made virulent attacks upon it, and one of them pro-
posed thatthe publishers should be 1
Lynched.' An anony-
mous handbill was also circulated in New York, declaring
the work a malignant libel, got up by Protestant clergymen,
and promising an ample refutation of it in a few days.
This was re-published in the Catholic Diary, &c. with the
old Montreal affidavits, which latter were also distributed
through New York and Brooklyn; and on the authority of
these, several Protestant newspapers denounced the work
as false and malicious.
11
Another charge, quite inconsistent with the rest, was
also made, not only by the leading Roman Catholic papers,
but by several others at second hand-viz. that it was a
mere copy of nn old European work. This has been prompt·
I
! I
I
I!''
, I
\l
.&PPEKDIX.
Jy denied by the publishers, with the oft'er of 8100 reward
for any book at all resembling it.
"Yet, such is the resolution of some, and the unbelief ot
others, that it is impossible for the publishers to obtain in·
sertion for their replies in the New York papers generally,
and they have been unsuccessful in an attempt in Philadel·
pbia.
11
T!tis is the ground on which the following article has
·been otfered to us, for publication in the Star. It was of-
fered to Mr. Schneller, a Roman priest, and editor of the
Catholic Diary, for insertion in his paper of Saturday be-
fore last, but refused, although written e:rpressly as an an-
swer to the affidavits and charges his previous number had
contained. This article has also been refused insertior. in
a Philadelphia daily paper, after it bad been satisfactorily
ascertained that there was no hope of gaining admission
for it into any of the New York papers.
11
It should be stated, in addition, that the authoress of
the book, Maria Monk, is in New York, and stands ready
to answer any questions, and submit to any inquiries, put
in a proper manner, and desires nothing so strongly as an
opportunity to prove before IJ. court the truth of her story.
She has already found several persons of respectability who
have confirmed some of the facts, important and likely to
be attested by concurrent evidence; and much further tes-
timony in her favour may be soon e:rpected by the public.
cc With these facts before them, intel1igent readers will
judge for themselves. She asks for investigation, while Iter
opponents deny her every opportunity to meet the charges
made against her. Mr. Schneller, aft~r expressing a wish
to see her, to the publishers, refused to meet her anywhere,
unless in his tnDn house; while Mr. Quarter, another Ro-
man Catholic priest, called to see her, at ten o'clock, one
night, accompanied by another man, without giving tbt:ir
nc1mes, and under the false pretence of being bearers of a
letter from her brother in Montreal."
0 reward
.nbeliefot
!)brain in·
~enerally,
Philadel·
lrticle has
It was of·
tor of the
urday be-
as an nn-
tmber had
sertior~ in
isfnctorily
admission
tboress of
nds ready
~iries, put
~gly as an
her story.
bility who
llikely to
trther tes-
~ public.
aders will
while her
e charges
ng a wish
nywhere,
other Ro-
:lock, one
ring tht:ir'
1
rers of a
RECEPTION OF THE WORK. 233
(Reply to t4t Montreal .A,ffitbJ:fJits, refused publi«Uum. by 1M
Catlwlic Diary, &J-c.)
"2~ the Editor qftlae Callablic Diary•
cc Sra-In your paper of last Saturday, you published six
affidavits from Montreal, which are calculated, so far as
they are believed, to discredit the truth of the 1
Awful Dis·
closures' of Maria Monk, a book of which we are the pub-
lishers. We address the following remarks to you, with a
request that you will publish them in the 1
Catholic Diary,'
that your readers may have the means of judging for them·
selves. If the case be so plain a one as you seem to sup.
pose, they will doubtless perceive more plainly the bearing
nnd force of the evidence you present, when they see it
brought into collision with that which it is designed to over-
throw.
11
First, We have to remark, that the affidavits which you
publish might have beim furnished you in this city, without
the trouble or .delay of sending to Montreal. They have
been here two or three months, and were carefully exam-
ined about that period by persons who were acquainted with
Maria Monk's story, and were desirous of ascertaining the
truth. After obtaining further evidence from Canada,
these affidavits were decided to contain strong confirmation
of various points in her story, then already written down,
only part of which has yet been published.
11
Second, It is remarkable that of these six affid~vits, the
first is that of Dr. Robertson, and all the rest are s1gned by
him as Justice of the Peace; and a Justice, too, who had
previously refused to take the affidavit of Maria Monk.
Yet unknown to himself, this same Dr. R., by incidents of
his ~wn stating, corroborates some very important parts of
Miss Monk's statements. He says, indeed, that he has as-
certained where she was a part of the time when she pro-
fesses to have been in the Nunnery. But his evidence on
this point is merely l&earsay, and he does not even favour
us with that.
~~Third, One of the affidavits is that of Miss Monk's
20•
APPENDIX.
mother, who claims to be a Protestllnt, and yet declares,
that she proposed to send her infant grandchild to a Nun·
nery t She says her daughter has lt'ng been subject to fits
of insanity, (of which, however, we can say, no traces are
discoverable in New York,) and has never been in a Nun.
nery since she was at school in one, while quite a child.
She however does not mention where her daughter hu
spent any part of the most important years of her life. A
large part of her affidavit, as well as several others, is taken
up with matter relating to one of the persons who accom·
panied Miss M. to Montreal last summer, and has no claim
to be regarded as direct evidence for or against the authen-
ticity of her book.
"Fourth, The affidavit of Nancy MeGan is signed with
a cross, as by one ignoro.nt of writing ; ond she states that
she visited a house of ill fame, (to all appearance alone,)
although, as she asserts, to bring away Miss M. Her tes·
timony, therefore, does not present the strongest claims to
our confidence. Besides, it is known that she bas shown
great hostility to Miss Monk, in the streets of Montreal: and
l!ihe would not, it is believed, have had much intluenee on
an intelligent court or jury, against Mi~s M., in that city,
if the latter had been fortunat.- enough to obtain the legal
investigation into her charges, which, as Dr. R. mentions,
she declared to be the express object of her visit to that
city, in the last summer, and in which she failed, after
nearly a month's exertion.
~·Fifth, The affidavit of Mr. Goodenough is contradicted
in one point by the letter of Mr. Richey, a Wesleyan min·
ister, which you insert, and contains little else of any im·
portance to this or any other case. • • • *
11
Sixth, You copied' in a conspicuous mo.nner, from a
Catholic paper in Boston, a charge against the book, the
groundlessness of which has been exposed in some of the
New York papers, viz. that large parts of it were, cword
for word and letter for letter,' (names only altered,) copied
from a book published some years ago in Europe, under the
81
to
to
1\1
s~
at
qt
m
is
or
ti<
c
sb
PE
~
Ot
(It
declares,
o a Nun-
ect to fits
:races are
in a Nun-
~ a cbilcL
gbter bu
r life. A
s, is taken
10 aecom·
1 no claim
1e autben-
gncd with
states that
1
Ce alone,)
Her tes-
claims to
1as shown
:and
RBCEl-TION OP THE \YORK, 235
title or I The Gntes or Hell opened.' We ho.vc not seen in
your paper any <'.orrection of this aspersion, although the
assertion of it has placccl you in o. dilemmo.; for, if such
were the fact, as you o.sserted, the.Montreo.lo.ffidavits would
have little application to the case. Besides, that book,
having proceeded from Cn.tholics, and relating, as was in·
timated, to scenes in European Convents, divulged by wit·
nesses not chnrgeable with prejudices against them, is to be
taken for true with other names; and therefore the charge
of extrnvagance or improbability, which is so much urged
against our book, is entirely nullified, without appealing to
other sources of informntion, which cannot be objected to.
"But before closing, allow us to remark, that you, who
claim so strongly the confidence of your readers in the tes-
timony of witnesses in Montreal, who speak only of things
collateral to the main subject in question, must be prepo.red
to lay extrnordinnry weight on evidence of a higher nature,
ami must realize something of the anxiety with which we,
and the American public generally, we believe, stand ready
to receive the evidence to be displayed to the eye and to the
touch, rither for or against the solemn declarations of Miss
Monk, whenever the great test shall be applied to which
she appeals, viz. the opening of the Hotel Dicu Nunnery
at Montreal. Then, sir, and not till then, will the great
question be settled,-Is our book true or false 1 Affidavits
may possibly be multiplied, although you say, 'Here, then,
is the whole!' Dr. Robertson maybe again called to testify,
or receive testimony as Justice of the Peace,-but the ques.
lion is not, what do people believe or think outside of the
Convent 1 but,' what has been done in it 1'
11
By the issue of this investigation, Miss Monk declares
she is ready to stand or fall.
11
You speak, sir, of the 'backwardness' of persons to ap-
pear in deftmce of Miss Monk's book. We promise to ap-
pear as often on the subject as you are willing to publish
our communicalions. In one ofthe paragraphs you publish,
oar book is spoken of as one of the evils arising from a
236 APPENDIX.
'free press.' We think, s1r, that 'a free press' is exposed to
less condemnation through the' Awful Disclosures,' than
the 'close Nunneries ' which it is designed to expose.
"Respectfully, &c.
"New York, Feb. 22d, 1836.,
The above was afterward copied in other papera.
The following certificate appeared in the Protestant
Vindicator, and other papers, in March, 1836, in
troducing the two first witnesses.
" TM trutk of Marut Monk'& ' Awfw Disclosure&' amply ·
certified.
" We the subscribers, having an acquaintance with M1ss
Maria Monk, and having considered the evidence of dif·
ferent kinds which has been collected in relation to her
case, have no hesitation in declaring our belief in the truth
of the statements she makes in her book recently pnblilhed
in New York, entitled 1
Awful Disclosures,' &c.
" We at the same time declare that the a..~rtion, origi·
nally made in the Roman Catholic newj,-papers of Boston,
that the book was copied from a work entitled ' The Gates
of Hell opened,' is wholly destitute of foundation; it being
entirely new, and not copied from any thing whatsoever.
" And we further declare, that no t11idence ka& yet been
f"'Oducetl wkicl tli&cretlit& tke &tatemtnt& of Mu& Monk:
while, on the contrary, Iter story has recei11etl, and continues
to recei11e, confirmation from 11ariotu sotWces. .
" During the last week, two important witnesses sponta·
neously appeared, and offered to give public testimony in
her favour. From them the following declarations have
been received. The first is an affidavit given by Mr. Wil·
Jiam Miller, now a resident of this city. The second is a
statement received from a young married woman, who,
with her husband, also resides here. In the clear and re-
peated statements made by these two witnesses, we plaee
II(
M
ed
M
Ca
fat
lag
pre
ten
as :
ten
mu
poi
thJ
red
In I
~;~1
Ho1
I in
int
infc
opil
clos
[posed to
:es,' than
ose.
~ papera.
rotesto.nt
.836, m
·s' amply ·
with M1ss
.ce of dif-
ion to her
n the truth
rpublilhed
&BC:EP'liON OF TBP' WORK. 237
eutire reliance; who are ready to furmsh satisfaction to
anv persons making reasonable inquiries on the subject.
11
W. C. BROWNLEE.
11
JoHN J. StocuM.
II ANDREW BRUCE.
"D. FANSHAW,
" AMos BELDEN.
II DAVID WESSON.
11
TnoMAS HooAN.11
(AFFIDAVIT OF WILLIAM MILLER.)
11 City and County ofNer.c· York, 88,
11
William Miller being duly sworn, doth say,-1 knew
Maria Monk when she was quite a child, and was acquaint-
ed with all her father's family. My father, Mr. Adam
Miller, kept the government school at St. John's, Lower
Canada, for some years. Captain Wm. Monk, Maria's
father, lived in the garrison, a short distance from the vil-
lage, and she attended the school with me for some months,
probably as much as a year. Her four brothers also at-
tended with us. Our families were on terms of intimacy,
as my father had a high regard for Captain Monk; but the
temper of his wife was such, even at that time, as to cause
much trouble. Capt. Monk died very suddenly, as was re-
ported, in consequence of being poisoned. Mrs. Monk wlls
then keeper of the Government House in Montreal, and
received a pension, which privilege she has since enjoyed.
In the summer of 1832, I left Canada, and came to this
city. In about a. year afterward I visited Montreal, and
on the day when the Governor reviewed the troops, I be-
lieve about the end of August, I called at the Gov:emment
House, where I saw Mrs. Monlr and several of the family.
I inquired where Maria was, and she told me that she was
in the nunnery. This fact I well remember, because the
information gave me great pain, as I had unfavourable
opinions of the nunneries. On reading the 'Awful Dis-
closures,' I at once knew she was the eloped nun, but was
unable to find ·her until a few days since, when we recor·
I
I
288 APPENDIX.
nised each other immediately. I give with pleasure my
testimony in her favour, as she is among strangers, and
exertions have been made against her. I declare my per-
sonal knowledge of many facts stated in her book, and my
full belief in the truth of her story, which, shocking as it
is, cannot appear incredible to those persons acquainted
with Canada. 11
WILLIAM MILLER.
"Sworn before me, this 34 day of March, 1836.
11
BENJAMIN D. K. Cum,
11
Commissioner of Deeds, &c."
From the Protestant Vindicator oj' March 9•
.., The following statement has been furnished by the fe-
male witness above-mentioned ; the name being resened
only from delicacy to a lady's feelings."
(TESTIMONY OF ANOTHER OLD SCHOOLMATE.)
11
I was born at Montreal, and resided there until wilhin
a few months, and where my friends still remain. I was
educateci. among the Catholics, and have never separated
myself from them.
"I knew Maria Monk when quite a child. We went to
zchool together for about a year, as near as I can remem·
ber, to Mr. Workman, Sacramen~-street, in Montreal. She
is about one month younger than myself. We left that
school at the same time, and entered the Congregational
Nunnery nearly together. I could mention many things
which I witnessed there, calculated to confirm some of her
accounts.
" I knew of the elopement of a priest named Leclere,
who was a confessor, with a nun se.
::.! frt'm the Congrega-
ilonal Nunnery to teach in a village. They were brought
back, after which she gave birth to an infant, and was
again employed as a teacher.
11
Children were often punished in the Congregational
Nunnery, by being made to stand with arms extended, to
imitate Christ's posture on the cross; and when we found
vermin in our soup, as was often the case, we were ex·
(
I
li
tl
n
lSUrc my
gers, and
e my per-
c, and my
king as it
equainted
ILLER,
ms.
!."
l by the fe-
~ resened
E.)
.ntil within
tin. I was
:r separated
RECEPTION 01' THE WORE. 239
llorted to overcome our repugnance to it, because Christ
died for us. I have seen such belts as are mentioned in the
1
Awful Disclosures,' as well as gags; but never saw them
applied.
"Maria Monk left the Congregational Nunnery before I
di1, and became a novice in the Hotel Dieu. I remember
l1er entrance into the latter very well, for we had a 'jO'Uif'
de cD'nge,' holiday, on that occasion.
11
Some short time subsequently, after school hours one
afternoon, while in the school-room in the second story of
the Congregational Nunnery, several of the girls standing
near a window exclaimed, ' There is Maria Monk.' I
sprang to the window to look, and saw her with several
other novices, in the yard of the Hotel Dieu, among the
plants which grew there. She did not appear to notice us,
vut I perfectly recognised her.
"I have frequently visited the public hospital of the Ho-
tel Dieu. It is the custom there for some of the nuns and
novices to enter at three o'clock, P.M., in procession with
food and delicacies for the sick. I recollect some of my
visits there by circumstances attending them. For in-
stance, I was much struck, on several occasions, by the
beauty of a young novice, whose slender, graceful form,
and interesting appearance, distinguished her from the
rest. On inquiry, I learnt that her name was Dubois, or
something like it, and the daughter of an old man who had
removed from the country, and lived near the Place
d'Armes. She was so generally admired for her beauty,
that she was called ' la belle St. Francois'-St. Francis be-
ing the saint's name she bad assumed in the convent.
''I frequently went to the hospital to see two of my par·
ticular friends who were novice:s: and subsequently to visit
one who had a sore throat, and was sick for some weeks. I
saw Maria Monk there many times, in the dress of a ncv-
ice, employed in different ways; but we were never allow-
ed to speak to each other.
" Towards the close of the winter of 1833-4, I visited the
t40 APPENDIX.
hospital of the Hotel Dieu very frequently, to see Miss e'
Bourke, a friend of mine, although I was not permitted to n
speak with her. While there one day, at the honr or' w
'C01£ge,' or' collation,' which, as I before stated, was at three
P. M., a procession of nuns and novices entered, and n;
among the former I saw Maria Monk, wit.h a black veil, D
&c. She perceived and recognised me i but put her finger 1\l
upon her lips in token of silence; and knowing how rigidly cr
the rules were enforced, I did not speak. pll
11
A short time afterward, I saw her again in the same nil
place, and under similar circumstances. kll
11 I can fix t3e year when this occurred, because I rccol- tu1
lect that the nuns in the hospital stared at a red dress I
wore that sea.<;an i and I am certain about the time of year,
because I left my galo-shoes at the door before I went in.
" The improper condut:t of a priest was the cause of my pel
leaving the Congregational Nunnery: for my brother saw yo1
him kissing a female one day while he was on a visit to ant
me, and exclaimed-' 0 mon Dieu! what a place you are nes
in 1-lffather does not take you out of it, I will, if I have tbe
to tear you away.' spo
"After the last sight I had of Maria Monk in the hospi-
tal, I never saw nor heard of her, until after I had been for
some time an inhabitant of New York. I then saw an ex-
tract from' Awful Disclosures,' published in a newspaper,
when I was perfectly satisfied that she was the authoress,
and again at liberty. I was unable for several weeks to
find her residence, but at length visited the house when she
was absent. Seeing an infant among a number of persons
who were strangers to me, as those present will testify, I de-
clared that it must be the child mentioned in her book, from
the striking resemblance it bears to Father Phelan, whom I
well know. This declaration bas also been made by others.
· "When Maria Monk entered, she passed across the
room, without turning towards me; but I recognised her
by her gait, and when she saw me she knew me at once.
I have since spent many hours_with her, and am entirelr
ro see Mi!s
>ermitted to
.be honr of
was at three
ntered, and
. black veil,
tt her finger
how rigidly
in the same
t.use I recol·
. red dress I
ime of year,
I went in.
cause ofmy
brother saw
m a visit to
ace you are
11, if I have
saw an ex-
newspaper,
authoress,
l weeks to
when she
RECJil.PTJON OF THE WORK. 241
convinced of the truth of her story, especially as I knew
many things before which tend to confirm the statements
which she makes.11
[" It is superfluous to add any thing to the above testimo-
ny. Let the Roman priests of Montreal open the Hotel
Dieu Nunnery for our inspection, and thus confute Maria
Monk: or, Mr. Conroy is again challenged to institute a
criminal process against her, or a civil suit against the
publishers of her volume.-They dare not place the eloped
nun or her booksellers in that 1
Inquisition;' because they
know that it would only be 1
putting themselves to the tor-.
ture !'"-Ed. Prot. Vind.]
[FrCim the Protestant Vindicator ofMarch 16th.)
11
We recommend the following communication to all
persons who doubt the wickedness of Nunneries. The
young gentleman who sent us the letter is now in this city
and we have heard the same statements from other wit-
nesses. That subterraneous passage from the Seminary to
the Nunneries, we oarselves have seen, nnd close by the
spot designated by our correspondent :-
(sTATEMENT OF 1. M.)
!1
Underground passage from tke Jesuit Seminat'?/ to tke
Hotel Dicu Nunnery, Montreal.
"I have been informed that you are endeavouring to
obtain facts and other incidental circu.L:lstances, relative to
the Black Nunnery in Montreal, and the disclosures con-
cerning it, made by Maria Monk, in which are many hard
things, but hard as they are, they are not indigestible by us
Canadians; we believe that she has told but a. small part of
what she must know, if she was but half the time there
which she says she was. Maria Monk bas mentioned in
her book something about the underground passage which
leads from the Black Nunnery to other places in Montreal.
That fact I know by ocular demonstration, and which
nine tenths of the Canadians also will not deny, for it has
been opened several times by the labourers, who have
21
i !r
I ~~
•
~ \,I,, I
I 'I
' I I
l.
r.
'I
I
' I'
1\
~
,.
I!
)
(
')
242 APPENDIX,
been digging for the purpose of laying pipes to conduct gas
and water. While preparing a place for the latter I saw
one of those passages; the earth being removed by the la·
bourers, they ~truck upon the top of the passage, and curi-
osity led them to see what was beneath, for it sounded as
though there was L hollow. They accordingly removed
the large 1lat stones which formed the top of the passage.
Many persons were looking on at the time, and several of
them went down into it ; when they returned after a few
minutes, they stated that they went but a short distance, be-
fore they came to an intersection of passages, and were
afraid to proceed further. Shortly after, several priests
were on the spot, and prevented the people from further
examining it; ard had the place shut up immediately,
while they stood by and guarde~ it until it was nl~ done.
The appearance of that part of the passage was the same
as I saw while they were laying the water pipes. The 1loor
of it in both parts where·I saw it was clean to appearance,
with the exception of a little dirt that fell in on opening
them, and of stone ftagging. I have heard much about
these underground passages in Montreal, in which place I
have spent the most of my days. I give you my name and
residence ; and if you should be called upon from any
quarter for the truth of this statement, I am ready to attest
it upon oath; and there are others in this city who have
witnessed the same things. The places where ·those open-
ings were made in the underground passages were in St.
Joseph street for the water pipes; and for the gas pipes in
Notre-Dame street, near Sacrament street, at a short dis-
tance from the Seminary. W. M."
~· About the close of February last, a note was sent
me from a person signing himself the man who
took me to the Almshouse. Soon after I had an
interview with Mr..Hilliker, whom 1 recognised as
my first protector in New·York, and to whom I
conduct gas
.latter I saw
ed by the la-
ge, and curi·
t sounded as
tgly removed
the passage.
1d several of
l after a few
.distance, be-
es, and were
:veral priests
from further
immediately,
was all done.
was the same
~s. The floor
o appearance,
in on opening
l much about
which place I
my name anli
10n from any
ready to attest
:ity who have
re .those open-
es were in St.
~ gas pipes in
at a short dis-
W.M."
.ote was sent
le man who
~r I had an
ecognised as
to whom I
RECEPTION OP THE WORK. 243
owe much-indeed, as I think, my life. He kindly
offered to give me his testimony, which follows:-
From the Nei/J York Journal '1f Commerc~.
(AFFIDAVIT OF JOH~ IIILL1B:ER.)
.. City and County '1f ~
Nei/J York, ''· S
11
John Hilliker, being duly sworn, doth depose and say-
that one day early in the month of May, 1835, while shoot-
ing ncar the Third Avenue, opposite the three mile stone,
in company with three friends, I saw a woman sitting in a
field at a short distance, who attracted onr attention. On
reaching her, we found her sitting with her head down,
and could not make her return anyanswer to our questions.
On raising her hat, we saw that she was weeping. She
was dressed in an old calico frock, (I think of a greenish
colour,) with a checked apron, and an old black bonnet.
After much delay and weeping, she began to answer my
questions, but not until I had got my companions to leave
us, and assured her that I was a married man, and dis-
posed to befriend her. ·· ..........
" She then told me that her name was Maria, that she had
been a nun in a nunnery in Montreal, from which she had
made her escape, on account of the treatment she had re-
ceived from priest-; in that institution, whose licentious
conduct she strongly intimated to me. She mentioned
some particulars concerning the Convent and her escape.
She spoke particularly of a small room where she used to
attend, until the physician entered to see the sick, when
she accompanied him to write down hie; prescriptions ; and
said.that she escaped through a door which he sometimes
entered. She added, that she exchanged her dress after
leaving the nunnery, and that she came to New York in
co:npany ·with a man, who left her as soon as the steam-
boat arrived. She further stated, that she expected soon to
give birth to a child, having become pregnant in the Con-
vent; that she had no friend, and knew not where to find
)
,
.\
APPENDIX.
one; that she thought of destroying her life ; and wished
me to leave her-saying, that if I should hear of a woman
being found drowned in the East River, she earnestly de-
sired me never to speak of her.
11 I asked if she had had any food that day, to which she
answered, no; and I gave her money to get some at the
grocery of Mr. Cox, in the neighbourhood. She left me,
but I afterward saw her in the fields, going towards the ri-
ver; and after much urgency, prevailed upon her to go to
a house where I thought she might be accommodated, offer-
ing to pay her expenses. Failing in this attempt, I per-
suaded her, with much difficulty, to go to the Almshouse;
and there we got her receivetl, after I had promised to call
to see her, as she said she had something of great conse-
quence which she wished to communicate to me, and
wished me to write a letter to Montreal.
11
She had every appearance of telling the truth; so much
so, that I have never for a moment douhted the truth of her
story, but told it to many persons of my acquaintance, with
entire confidence in its truth. She seemed overwhelmed
with grief, and in a very desperate state of mind. I saw
her weep for two hours or more without ceasing; and ap·
peared very feeble when attempting to walk, so that two
of us supported her by t!1e arms. We observed also, that
she always folded her hands under her apron when she
walked, as she has described the nuns as doing in her
•Awful Disclosures.'
"I called at the Almshouse gate several times and in-
quired for her ; but having forgotten half of her name, I
could not make it understood whom I wished to see, and
did not see her until the last week. When I saw some of
the first extracts from her book in a newspaper, I was con-
fident that they were parts of her story, and when I read
the conclusion of the work, I had not a doubt of it. In-
deed, many things .in the course of the book I was pre-
l)ared for from what she had told me.
"When I saw her, I recognised her immediately, al-
md wished
r a woman
rnestly de-
which she
ome at the
he left me,
ards the ri·
1er to go to
lated, otfer-
mpt, I per-
llmshouse;
.ised to call
reat conse-
o me, and
h; so much
:ruth of her
RBOBPTIOM OP THE WORK. 245
though she did not know me at first, being in a very differ-
ent dress. As soon as she was informed where she had
seen me, she recognised me. I have not found in the book
any thing inconsistent with what she had stated to me when
I first saw her.
11
Wht'n I first found her in May, 1835, she bacl e•;idently
sought concealment. She had a letter in her hand, which
~be refused to let me see ; and when she found I was de-
termined to remove her, she tore it in small pieces, and
threwthem down. Several days after I visited the spotagain
and picked ·them up, to leam something of the contents,
but could find nothing intelligible, except the first part of
the signature, ' Maria.'
"Of the truth of her story, I have not the slightest
doubt, and I think I never can until the nunnery is opened
and examined. cc JoHN HILLIKER.
11
Sworn before me, this 14th of March, 1835.
II PETER JENitlNI,
" Commissioner of Deeds."
The following challenge was published in theN.
Y. Protestant Vindicator for six or seven weeks, in
March and April, without a reply.
''CRALLENOE.-The Roman Prelate and Priests of Mon•
treal-Messrs. Conroy, Quarter, and Schneller, of New
York-Messrs. Fenwick and Byrne of Boston-Mr.
Hughes of Philadelphia-the Arch-Prelate of Baltimore,
and h1s subordinate Priests-and Cardinal England of
Charleston, with all other Roman Priests, and every Nun,
from Baffin's bay to the gulf of Mexico, are hereby chal·
lenged to meet an investigation of the truth of Maria
Monk's 'Awful Disclosures,' before an impartial assem·
bly, over which shall preside seven. gentlemen; three to be
selected by the Roman Priests, three by the Executive
Committee of the New York Protestant Association, and
the seventh as Chairman, to be chosen by the six.
21•
246 APPEND!%.
11 An eligible place in New York shall be appointed, and
the regulations for the decorum and order of the meetings,
with all the other arrangements, shall be made by the above
gentlemen.
"0'" All communications upon this subject from any ot
the Roman Priests or Nuns, either individually, or as del-
egates for their superiors, addressed to the Corresponding
Sccrel4ry flj the New York Protestant Association, No. 142
Nassau-street, New York, will be promptly answered."
(F'rom the N. Y. Protestant Vindicator of April6, 183G.)
"THE CJIALLENGE.-We have been waiting with no
small degree of impatience to hear from some of the Ro-
man priests. But neither they, nor their sisters, the nuns,
nor one of their nephews or nieces, have yet ventured to
come out. Our longings meet only with disappointment.
Did ever any person hear of similar conduct on the part
of men accused of the highest crimes, in their deepest
dye 1 Here is a number of Roman priests, as actors, or
accessories, openly denounced before the world ns guilty
of the most outrageous sins against the sixth and seventh
commandments. They are charged before the world with
adultery, fornication, and murder! The allegations are
distinctly made, the place i's mentioned, the parties are
named, and the time is designated; for it is lasting as the
annual revolutions of the seasons. And what is most ex-
traonlinary,-the highest official a1tthorities in Canada knot/!
tlwt all those statements are tnte, and they sanction and con-
nive at the iniquity !-The priests and nuns have been
offered, for several months past, the most easy and certain
mode to disprove the felonies imputed to them, and they
are still as the dungeons of thP- Inquisition, silent as the
death-like quietude of the convent cell; and as retired as
if they were in the subterraneou~ pa~sages between the
nunnery and Lartique's habitation. Now, we contend,
that ~carcely a similar instance of disregard for the opin-
Ions of mankind, can be found since the Reformation, at
tl.
m
m
111·
it:
:tf
p~
w
l
:ointed, and
.e meetings,
1ythe above
from any ot
·,or as del·
rresptmding
:On, No. 142
;wered."
~ 183G.)
g with no
of the Ro-
·s, the nuns,
ventured to
ppointmcnt.
on the part
1eir deepest
s actors, or
.d ns guilty
and seventh
world with
RECEPTION OF THE WORK. 247
least, in a Protestant country. Wha~ever disregard for the
judgment of others, the Romish priests may have felt,
where the lnquishion was nt their command, and the civil
power was their Jackal nnd their Hyena: they have been
obliged to pay some little regard to the opinion of protes-
tants, and to the dread of exposure. We therefore repent
the solemn indubitable truth-that the·facts whicll, are sla·
ted by .Maria Monit, respecting tke Hotel Dietl. Nmtnery at
Montreal, arc true as tlte existence of the priests and nuns,-
tltat tlte character, principles, and practices of the Jesuits and
mms in Canada, are most acc11/ratcly delineated-that popislt
1
1ricsts, and sisters of charity in tltc United States, arc their
{aitltful and exact countcrparls-tltat many female .<chnols in.
the Uniletl States, kept by lhc papist tcatlters, are nothing
more titan places of decoy tkrouglt wkich young women, at the
most delicate age, a1·e ensnared into tltc power of the Ruma1~
11riest.~-and that the toleration of the monastic system in tke
United States and Britain, the only two count1·ies in tltc
1vorld, in 1okich that unnatural abomination is now extending
its withering influence, is higlt treason against God and
mankind. If American citizens and British Christians,
after the appalling developments which have been made,
permit the continuance of that prodigious wickedness
which is inseparable from nunneries and the celibacy of
popish priests, they will ere long experience that di~·ine
castigation which is justly due to transgressol's, who wil-
fully trample upon all the appointments of God, and who
subvert the foundation of national concord, and extinguish
the comforts of domestic society. Listen to the challenge
again ! All the papers 1vitk 1vkick the Protestant Vindicator
exchanges, are 1·equcsled to give tke cltaUcnge one or two i• .
sertitmS." (Here it was repeated.)
(Testimony of a Friend in the Hospital.)
Statement made by a respectable woman, who
had the charge of me ~uring a part of my stay
I '
l'
i .
I. .
lj'; I
I I
248 .APP:&JIDIX.
in the Bellevue Ho~pital,
is ready to substantiate it
lishcd.
in New York. She
It is now first pub-
11
I was employed as an occasional assistant in the Belle·
'Yue Hospital, in New York, in the spring of the year 1835.
My department was in the Middle House and the pantry.
I was present one day in the room of Mrs. .Johnston, the
Matron, when a man came in with a young woman, and
gave a note to Mrs. .T., (which I understood was from Col.
Fish,) the Superintendent, Mr. Stevens, being out. The
female was dressed in a light blue calico frock, a :salmon·
coloured shawl, and a black bonnet, under which was a
plain cap, something like a night·cap, which I afterward
understood was a nun's cap. Being occupied at the timt;
I paid no attention to the conversation which took place
between her nnd the Matron ; but I soon heard that she was
a nun, who bad escaped from a convent in Canada, who
bad been found in a destitute condition, by some persons
11hooting in the fields, and that she was in such a si~uation
as to demand comforts and careful treatment.
11
She was placed in room No. 33, where most of the in·
mates "''ere aged American women ; but as she appeared
depressed and melancholy, the ne.r.t day Mr. Stevens
brought her into No. 26, and put her under my particular
eharge, as he said the women in that room were younger.
They were, however, almost all Roman Catholics, as there
are many in the institution generally.
11
I told her she might confide in me, as I felt for her
friendless and unhappy situation ; and finding her ignorant
of the Bible, and entertaining some superstitious views, I
gave her one, and advised her to read the scriptures, and
judge for herself. We bad very little opportunity to con·
- nrse in private ; and although she several times said she
· wished she could tell me something, no opportunity offered,
as I was with her only now and then, when I could step
into the room for a few minutes. I discouraged her from
to
bE
I I
C(
th
1
m
cl
c
af
'iork. She
v first pub-
. in the Belle·
.he year 183S.
1d the pantry.
Johnston, the
~woman, and
vas from Col.
ng out. The
.ck, a 8almon.
which was a
:h I afterward
d at the time;
ch took place
d that she was
Canada, who
some persons
<Ch a si~uation
of the in-
she appeared
Mr. Stevens
particular
younger.
as there
to COD·
said she
offered,
I could step
her from
RECEPTION or THE WORK. 249
talking, because those around appeared to be constantly
listcniag, and some ~old her not to mind 'that heretic!
u Seeing her unhappy state of mind, it was several times
proposed to her to see Mr. Tappan; and, after a week or
two, as I should judge, be visited her, advised her to read
the Bible, and judge for herself of her duty.
"One Sabbath I invited her to attend strvice, and we
went to hear Mr. Tappan preach; but after her return,
some of the Irish women told her to go no more, but mind
her own religion. This produced an impression upon her,
for she seemed like a child of tender feeling, gentle, and
disposed to yielcJ. She bound herself round my heart a
good deal, she was of so affectionate a lnrn. The rudeness
with which she was trea:cd by several of the women, when
they dared, woultl sometjmes overcome her. A.large and
r:tther old woman, named 'Velsh, oue ofthe inmates, enter-
ed the room one d11y, very abruptly, saying, '1 want to see
this virtuous nun;' and abused he1 with m .st shnmcfullan·
guage, so that I had to I'ebuke her, and <:.•laplained ot' her
to the Superintendent, who was shocked at such hopudence
in a foreign pauper, so that she 'N"as nut into auolherroom.
Maria. was washing her hands at the time Mrs. Welsh C:J \'!1£\
in, and was so much agitated, that she did not raise ht!r
head, and almost fainted, so that I hu.d to lift her upon a bed.
"Before this occurrence, the women would often speak
to Maria while I was away, and, as I had every reason tc
believe, endeavoured to persuade her to go to the priests..
I told them that they ought rather to protect her, as she had
come to the same country where they had sought protection.
"Mr. Conroy, a Rc,:um priest, used to be regularly at
the institution two or ti:ree times a week, from about 10 till
I o'clock both before andafter Maria Monk became an in-
mate of it. No. 10 was his confession-room. He baptized
children in the ~-tttare-ward, and sometimes visited the sick
Catholics in other rooms. Sometimes he went up in the
afternoon also.
''I heard it said, that Mr. Conroy bad asked to speak
I
I ,j·
~ I
II
• I
'l I I
t!
I'
I I
I·
I j I
:I
•
I
v
I
.APPBMDIL
with Maria; and that an offer was made to him that he
might see her before others, but not otherwise, to which
Mr. Conroy did not consent.
11
Sometimes Maria was much disturbed in her sleep,
starting suddenly, with every appearance of terror. Some
nights she did not sleep at all, and often told me, what I
had no doubt was the faet, that she was too much agitated
:!>y the recollection of what she had seen in the Nunnery.
She would sometimes say in the morning, 1
0, if I could
tell you t Yoa think you have had trouble, but I have bnd
more than ever you did.'
11
Her distressing state of mind, with the trials caused by
those around her, kept me constantly thinking of Maria,so
that when employed at a distance from her, I would often
run to her room, to see how she was for a moment, and
back again. Fortanately, the women around held me
somewhat iu fear, because they found my repor~ of the in·
terfcrence of some were attended to; and this kept them
more at a distance; yet they would take advantage of my
absence sometimes. One day, on coming to No. 23, I
found Maria all in a tremour, and she told me that Mrs.
• • •, one of the Roman Catholic nurses, had informed her
that Mr. Conroy was in the institution, and wished to see
her. 1
And what shall I do 1' she inquired of me, in great
distress.
" I told her not to be afraid, and that she shoul<l be pro-
tected, as she was among friendc;, and endeavoured to quiet
her fears all I could ; but it was very ditlicult to do so. One
of the women in the house, I know, told Maria, in my
presence, one day, that Mr. Conroy waa waiting in Lhe
passage to see her.
11
The present Superintendent (another Mr. Stevens)suc-
ceeded the former while Maria and I were in the Hospital.
Abby Welsh (not the Mrs. Welsh mentioned before) got
very angry with me one day, because, as usual on the days
when Mr. Conroy came, I was watchful to prevent his
having an interview with Maria. Another person, for 3
him that he
to which
in her sleep,
terror. Some
1ld me, what I
much agitated
t ~he Nunnery.
1
0, if I could
but I have hnd
dais caused by
lg of Maria, so
, I would often
t. moment, and
I)Und held me
por~ of the in·
this kept them
vantage of my
: to No. 23, I
I me that Mrs.
i informed her
l wished to see
>f me, in great
shouM be pro-
;oured to quiet
todoso. One
Maria, in my
waiting in the
r. Stevens)suc-
n the Hospital.
ed before) got
tal on the days
to prevent his
·r person, for 3
RECEPTION Of THB WORE, 251
time, used to employ her in sewing in her room on those
days, for she also protected her, as well in this way, as by
reproving those who troubled her. Abby Welsh, finding
me closely watching Maria on the day I was speaking of, .
told me, in a passion, that I might watch her as closely as
I pleased-Mr. Conroy 1could kave her. Not long after this,
I saw Abby Welsh talking earnestly with Mr. Conroy, in
the yard, under one of the windows of the Middle House,
and beard her say, 'the nun,' and afterward, 1
she's hid.'
"A Roman Catholic woman, who supposed that Maria
had been seen in St. Mary's Church, expressed a wish that
she could have caught her there ; and said, she would never
again have made her appearance. I inquired whether
there was any place where she co.ald have been confined.
She repl~ed, in a reserved, but significant manner, 1
Thero
is at least one cell there for bel\1
"New Y.ork~ March 23d, 1836."
It would be a natural :question, if my readers
should ask, "What said the Roman Catholics to
such testimonials~ They laid great stress on affi-
davits sent for to Montreal ; what do they think of
atpdavits spontaneously given in New York1''
So far as I know, ·they have republished but one,
and that is Mr. Miller's.
. The N. Y. Catholic Diary of March l9th, said-
tl We take the following overtDkelming testimony from
the Brooklyn, American Citize·" of the 11th instant :
11
The following affidavits, &c., are copied frem the last
No. of the 1
ProtestaRt Vindicator,' and prove, it seems to
us, taken with other corroborating circumstances, the false-
hood or irrelevancy of the testimony against Miss Monk,
and therefore establi<ih the truth of her nar.rative :"
(Here it inserted Mr 1\tiller's affidavit, and then
added:)-
; J
l 1
• l
I'
I
'
.
..
l.
'
1
·1
I
I
I f.
l!I
!
I
I.
I
j: t!
't
~
I
~
,
..,' ;
II
••
.·• I I
'I
., , f•
I!
' .
.': I
APPENDIX,
!'What is the weight of the affidavit 1 Of ponde~llS
import 1 'I inquired where Maria was, and she told me
she was in the Nunnery.' Therefore she is an eloped
Nun. MarvE-llous logical affidavit! We may say, that
when an inquiry is made after the editor of this paper, and
the answer is, that he was in a Protestant Church, there-·
fore he is a Protestant minister.,
The Rev. Mr. Schneller, (for a Catholic priest is
the editor of that paper,) thus tries to slide over the
important testimony of Mr. Mi1ler, and in doing it,
admits I was in the Hotel Dieu Nunnery in the
summer of 1832. Of course, he admits then, that
Dr. Robertson's testimony to th~ contrary is false,
and gives up the great point which the Mont·real
affidavit! were intended to Jettle, viz. that I had
not been in any Nunnery-at least, not since I was a
child.
But another thing is worthy of remark. The
Diary says, "We take the following overwhelm·
ing testimony from the Brooklyn American C!ti~
zen," yet he really leaves out the greater part of
the testimony which that paper contained, viz. the
certificate beginning on page 238. Let any one turn
to that, and ask whether the e~itor bad not so.me rea-
son to wish to keep it from his readers1 Did he
not get rid of it very ingeniously, when he inserted
the following remarks instead of it 1
" The following statement has been furni~ed by the fe-
male witness above mentioned; the name being reserved
only from delicacy to a lady's feeling~.''
!I Excellent! 1
delicacy to a lady's feelings I!' we are ab·
!Orbed in an exclamation of wonder; the delicate name, iD
(
E
J
a
I
s
b
p
a
t<
I
b
: ponde~us
;he told me
; an eloped
•Y say, that
s paper, and
1
orch, ther&·
1c priest is
3e over the
n doing it,
1ery in the
s then, that
ry is false,
! Montreal
that I had
.nee I was a
inserted
RECEPTION OF THE \VORK. 253
a matter or f;Urh vast importance as that which affects
the trrdll. of the slanderous tale, cannot be mentioned l
"Therefore, 'we, the subscribers,' ' Brownlee, Slocum,
Bruce, Fanshaw, Belden, Wesson, and Hogan,' rest the
weight of their authority upon the 'delicacy' of a name-
less 'l:idfs feelings.' "
Now here Mr. Schellner pretends that the witness
was not accessible, and leaves it in doubt, whether
the subscribers, {men of known character and unim-
peachable veracity,) knew any thing of her. Yet
it was expressly stated by them that she was lmown,
and that any reasonable inquiries would be readily
answered. (See p. 236.)
I havl· no intention of attempting to euforce the
evidence P!esented in the testimonials just given. I
shall leave ~very reader to form his own conclu-
sions independently and di:spassionately. I r.ould
easily say things likely to excite the feelings of
every one who peruses these pagt>s-
. but I prt>fer to
persist in the course 1 have thus far pursu~d. and
abstain from all exciting expressions. 'fhe things
I declare are sober realities, and nothing is neces·
sary to have them so received, but that the evidence
be calmly laid before the public.
I will make one or two ~uggestions here, for the
purpose of directing attention to points of import·
ance, though one or two of them have been already
touched upon.
Jst. One of the six affidavits was given by Dr.
Robertson, and the remaining five were sworn to
before him.
22
•
I I
I I
p
.,.
•
APPBNDIS.
2d. The witnesses speak of interviews with me,
on two of the most distressing days of .my life.
Now let the reader refer to those affidavits when
he has read page 268th, and chapter 8th, in the
•• Sequel,, and then say, whether any expressions
which they may have misunder.'3tood, or any which
t! may have been fabricated for me, (as I strongly sus-
pect must have been the fact with some,) ought to
destroymy character for credibility; especially when
I appeal to evidence so incontestible as an inspec-
tion .of the nunnery, and my opponents shrink from
it. Let the render observe also, that in the inter-
views spoken of in the affidavits, no.third person is
commonly spoken of as present j while tllose who
ore named are most of them inimical to me.
~. All the testimony in the affidavits is aimed to
destroy my character, and to prevent me from re-
ceiving any credit as a witness. Not a bit of it
meets the charges I make against the priests and
nuns. If they had proved that I was never in the
nunnery, that, indeed, would set aside my testi-
mony: but failing to do that, the attempt goes far to
set their own aside.
Having now fairly shown my renders what re-
ception my first edition met with, both from enemies
and friends. I proceed to the " Sequel" of my nat·
rative.
J
t
J
l
(
b
c
tl
d
s:
d
a
fl
s with me,
,f my life.
avits when
3th, in the
:xpressions
any which
~ongly sus-
,) ought to
ially when
an mspec-
hrink from
1 the inter-
i person is
those who
ne.
:saimed to
APPENDIX, NO. II.
SEQUEL TO TilE NAitRATJV&
PREFACE
TnE following Sequel was prepared for the press some
months ago, being originally intended to form the conclu·
sion of my first publieation. It being thought best, by my
friends, in my first editions, to confine the attention of my
readers entirely to the Convent, I concluded to close with
the moment of my escape, adding only a few p:1ges in re-
lation to some circumslanceslhat took place in New York.
The contents of this Sequel were committed to paper be·
fore I ever saw the Montreal affidavits, and nothing has
been added since, except a few notes, which appeared ne-
cessary to elucidate certain points which seemed to require
them. Some of my friends, who had examined those afti·
davits, put questions to me suggested by them; and, as they
since ha\·e told me, found many things in my accounts un-
designedly confirmed by my adversaries, in this manner,
as well as by comparing the affidavits with the record al·
ready made. • -~ -. '•l.
The reader who compares the account of my first inter-
view with Dr. Robertson, in the "Sequel," with that in his
affidavit, will find many circumstances to correspond;
and, I repeat it, the former was written as it stands, t>e-
forc I had seen the latter. . As to what is said about my
attempts to deceive, and my avowals of things not consist-
ent with my story, I can only say, that I do not know that I
remember all I said, in the state of distress in which I was
at r.he time; but thnt I have no recollection of having evtn
~ I
' I
I 1
11
\
'
I I
\
..
256 APPENDIX.
t:pokl!n of several of the subjects mentioned, by hinl.')elf and
other ~il!ners of the affidavits. It appears plain, however,
that Dr. Robertson felt a peculiar desire (for some reason
or other) to represent my character in the most unfavour-
able li~ht he could.
I ha;•e hall many questions asked of me concerning my
adventures after my escape from the Convent, and partic-
ularly of what happened during my visit to Montreal in
August, 1835. I could therefore wish, that my Sequel hall
been rather more detailed in some parts; but it has not
received any such additions, because it is to be presumed
that jt must be more satisfactory to the public to know, that
it contains nothing but what was originally there. .
My readers, I think, will learn from the following pages,
that when a nun bas merely escaped from a Convent, but a
small part of her difficulties and daugers may be passed.
They may also perceive some of the reasons why so few
nuns have ever been brought to give testimony concerning
what they know.
For my own part: I may ~ay that I was a hundred
times, rerbaps I might say a thousand times, on the puir.t
of having my testimony suppressed for ever•
•
hirn.c:;elf and
n, however,
;orne reason
;t unfavour-
cernmg my
, and partie-
Montreal in
1 Sequel had
1t it has not
>e presumed
.o know, that
ere.
owing pages,
:onvent, but a
LY be pas.c:;ed.
why so few
y concerning
n hundred
on the pc,ir.t
SEQ U E J.J.
CHAPTER I.
At liberty-Doubtful what to do-Found refuge for th1 nighl
-Di1appointment-My .first day out of the Con~ent-SoU­
tude-Recollutions,fearl, and plan•.
I HAVE but a confused idea of the manner in
\vhich I got through some of the doors; several of
them, I am confident, were fastened, and one or two
I fastened behind me.• But I was now in the
street, and whnt was to be done next1 I had got
my liberty; but where should I go~ It was dark,
I was in great danger, gc which way I would;
and for a moment, I tnonght I had been unwise to
leave the Convent. If I could return unobserved,
would it not be better 1 But summoning resolution,
I turned to the left, and ran some distance up the
street; then reflecting that I had better take the op-
posite direction, I returned under the same Con-
vent walJs, and ran as fast down to St. ·Paul's street, ·
then turning up towards the north, exerted all my
• Before leaving the nunnery grounds, I ran round the end ol
the building. stood a moment in hesitation whether I had not
better return, then hastening back to the other •ide. ran to tiMI
~Me, opeaed it, and went out.
22•
I 1
l:I
'
I
' I t
'
It
. I
'
I 'l •
.! I
Al'l'.E:CDJX.
ltrength, and fled for my life. It was a cold even·
ing, but 1 stopped for nothing, having r~collectcd
the house where I had been put to board for a short
time, by the priest Roque, when prepared to enter
the Convent as a novice, and resolved to seek a
lodging there for the night. Thither I went. It
seemed ns if I flew rather than ran. It was by that
time so dark, that I was nble to see distinctly through
the low windows, by the light \Yithin j and had tho
pleasure to find that she was alone with hrr chi!·
dren. I therefore went boldly to the door, was rl~·
ccived with readiness, and entered to take up my
lodging there once more.
Here I changed my nun's dress for one ll'ss like
Jy to excite observation; and having received a few
dollars in addition to make up the difference, I Tl)·
tired to rest, determined to rise early and take the
morning steamboat for Quebec. I knew that my
hostess was a friend of the Superior, as I hnv'~
mentioned before, and presumed that it would not
be long before she would give information against
me. I knew, however, that she could not gain ad·
mittance to the Convent very early, and felt safe in
remaining iu the house through the night.
But after I had retired I found it impossible to
sleep, and the night appeared very long. In the
morning early, I requested that a son of the woman
might accompany me to the boat, which he did. At
an early hour, therefore, I walked to the steamboat,
but learnt, to my regret, that it would not go before
night. Fearing that I might fall into the hands of
1 cold even·
: rt>collcctctl
d for a short
tred to entl~r
d to seek a
I went. It
was by that
:tly through
and had tlw
ith h('r chil-
oor, was n~ ­
take up my
me less like
:eivcd a few
'renee, I TIJ-
nd take the
ew that my
as I hnve
: would not
tion against
1ot gain ad-
1felt safe in
ht.
npossible to
ng. In the
· the woman
L be did. At
e steamboat,
ot go before
:he hands of
8£QUJ:L. 259
the pr1csts, and be carried back to the nunnery, and
not knowing where to go, I turned away, and de·
termined to seck some retired spot immediately. I
walked through a part of the city, and some dis·
tance on the Lachine road, when finding a solitary
place, I seated myself in much distress of mind,
1enrful and anxious, beyond my pow~;>r of descrip·
tion. I could not think myself safe anywhere in
the neighbourhood of Montreal ; for the priests
were numerous, and almost all the people were en·
tirely devoted to tlu~~m. They would be very desi·
rous of finding me, and, as I believed, would
make great exertions to get me again in their
hands.
It was a pleasant spot where I now found my·
, self, and as the weather was not uncomfortable in
the daytime, I had nothing to trouble me except my .
recollections and fears. As for the want of food,
that gave me not the slightest uneasiness, as I felt
no inclination whatever to eat. The uncertainty
and doubts I continually felt, kept me in a state of
irresolution the whole day. What should I do 1
Where should I go 1 I had not a friend in the
world to whom I could go with confidence; while
my enemies were numerous, and, it seemed to me,
all around me, and ready to seize me. I thought
of my uncle, who lived at the distance of five
miles ; and sometimes I almost determined to st>t
off immediately for h1s house. I had visited it
often when a child, and had been received with the
utmost kindness. I remembered that I had been a
' .
.
I
I
II
I I· .
:. I; i:
.
f
t'
I I •
'I I
'
II
i .
.li'PENDJ:I.
grent favourite of his; but some considerations
would arise which discouraged me from looking for
safety in that direction. The steamboat was to de·
part in a few hours. I coulcl venture to pas~
through the city once more by twilight; and if oncP
arrived at Quebec, I should be at a great distance
from the nunnery, in a large city, ~tnd among n
larger proportion of Protestant inhabitants. Among
them I might find friends, or, at least, ~orne sort of
protection; and I had no doubt that .I could sup-
port inyse)f by labour.
Then I thought again of the place I had left ;
the kindness and sympathy, small though they
werP, which I had found in some of my late com-
panions in the Convent; the awful mortal sin I
had committed in breaking my vows; and the ter·
rible punishment I should receive if taken as a fu·
gith·e and carried back. . If I should return volun·
tarily, and ask to be admitted again: what would
the Superior say, how would she trent me1 Should
I be condemned to any very se\.Jre penance 1 Might
I not, at least, escape death 1 But then there. was
one consideration that would now and then occur
to me,_which excited the strongest determination
ne\·er to return. I was to become a mother, and
the thought of witnessing the murder of my own
child was more than I could bear.
Purgatory was doubtless my portion; and per·
haps hell for ever-such a purgatory and hell as
are painted in the Convent : but there was one hopP
for me yet
aidcrations
ooking for
was to de·
o to pas~
1
nd if oncp
.t distance
among n
. Among
me sort of
ould sUp·
had left i
ugh they
late com·
rtal sin I
td the tcr·
volun·
would
Should
~ Might
nd per·
hell OS
hopP
SEQUEL. 261
1 might confess all my deadly sins sometime be-
fore I died, and a Bishop could pardon the worst ot
them. .
'f his wns good Catholic doctrine, and I rested
upon it with so much hope, that I was not quite
driven to despmr.
In reflections like these, I spent the whole day,
afraid to stray from the secluded spot to which 1
had retreated, though at different times formi••g mo·
mentary plans to leave it, nnd go in various direc·
tions. I nte not a. morsel of food, and yet felt no
hunger. Had I been well provided, I could have
tasted nothing in such a. state of mind. The after·
noon wasted a•vay, the sun set, and darkness began
to come on : I rose and set off again for the city
I passed along the streets unmolested by any one;
and reached it a short time before the boat was
ready to start.
I
I
,
•
I
I j
I .
.
!
I ~ :
1
1' I
I I·
I' i I
II
I· •
I
,.
I.
I
C II APT E R IJ.
Slarl/or Quebec-Recogni1ed-DuappointedagtJin-Nolpt,...
mittttl to land-Return to ~fontrtal-Landtd and pa11M
rhro~tgh the ~ity before day-Lachine Canal-lnJtndtd clo11
ofmy life.
SooN after we left the shore, the captain, whom
I had previously seen, appeared to recognise me.
He came up and inquired if I was not the daugh·
ter o( my mother, mentioning her name. I had
long been taught and accustomed to deceive; and
it may be supposed that in such a case I did not
hesitate to deny the truth, hoping that I might avoid
being known, and fearing to be defented in my ob-
jc~t. He however persisted that he knew me, and
said that he must insist on my returning with him
to Montreal, adding thnt I must not leave his boat
to land nt Quebec. I said but .little to him, but in·
tended to get on shore if possible, at the end of our
journey-a thing I had no doubt I might effect.
When we reached Quebec, howe'fer, I found, to
my chagrin, that the ladies' maid carefully locked
the cabin-door while I was in, after the Indies had
left it, who were six or eight in number.
I said little, and made no attempts to resist the re-
striction put upon me; but secretly cherished the
hope of being able, by watching an opportunity, to
slip on shore at tea·time, and lose myself among the
streets of the city. Although a total stranger to
•
·e~·in-Nol per-
rl and pa11M
lntended clo11
tnin, whom
;nise me.
the daugh-
le. I hnd
ceive; and
' I did not
1ight avoid
in my ob-
w me, and
7with him
·e his boat
im, but in-
•nd of our
effect.
[ found, to
lly locked
1dies had
ist the r~
ished the
1unity, to
mongthe
unger to
263
Quebec, I longed to bo at liberty there, o~ I thought
I could soon place myself nmong persons who
would secure mo from tho Catholics, ench of whom
I now looked upon ns an enemy.
But I soon found that my last hopes were blight·
ed: the maid, having rccc1ved, as I presumed, strict
orders from the coptnin, lcept m'e closely confined,
so thnt escape was impossible. I was distressed, it
is true, to find myself in this condition ; but I had
already become accustomed to disappointments, nnd
therefore perhaps sunk less under this new one,
than I might otherwise have done. Wh('n the
hour for departure arrived, I was therefore still con-
fined in the s~eamboat, and it was not until we had
left the shore that I was allowed to leave the cabin.
The captain and others treated me with kindness
in every respect, except that of permitting me to do
what I most desired. I have sometimes suspected,
that he had received notice of my escape from somo
of the pr:?.sts, with a. request to stop my flight, if I
should go on board his boat. His wife is a Catho-
lic, and this .is the only way in which I can account
for his conduct: still I have not sufficient know-
ledge of his motives and intentions to speak with en-
lire confidence on the subject.
My time passed heavily on board of the steam·
boat, particularly on my passage up the river to-
wards Montreal. My mind was too much agit11ted
to allow me to sleep, for I was continually medita·
ting on the scene~ I had witnessed in the Convent,
and anticipating with d~ead such ns I had reason to
I I
I'
I 1
,
·
'
,,
j, I
' I
264 APrENDl:t.
think I m~ght soon be called to pass through. l
bought for a trifle while on board, I hardly lmow
why, a small medallion with a head upon it, nod thl!
name of Robertson, which I hung on my neck As
I sat by day with nothing to do, I ocr.asionally sunk
into a doze for n few minutes, when I usually waked
with n start from some frightful dream. Sometimes
I thought I was running away from the priests, and
closely pursued, and sometimes had no hope of cs·
C!lpe. But the most distressing of my feelings were
those I suffered in the course of the night. \V~
stopped some time at Berthier, where a number of
prisoners were taken on board, to Le carried up the
river; and this caused much confusion, and added
to my painful reflections.
My mind bt>came much agitated, worse than it
had been before j and what between waking- f(~ilTS,
ond sleeping visions, I spent a most wretched night.
Sometimes I thought the priests and nuns had rne
shut up in n dungeon; sometimes they were about
to make way with me in a most cruel mamwr.
Once I dreamed that I wns in some house, and a
coach came up to the.door, into which I wns to he
put by force; and the nmn who Sl'ized me, and was
putting me in, had no head.
When we rr.~ched Montreal on Saturday morn·
mg, it was not daylight; nnd the captain, landing,
set o(f, as I understoo~. to give my mother informn·
tion that I wns in his bout. He was gone a long
time, which lt·d mt> to conjecture th:lt he mi!;!hl
ha\'c found di!Hculty i11 ~peaking with her; but the
through. l
1ardly lmow
•n it, and th1!
y neclc. As
ionally sunk
malty waked
Sometimes
1 priests, and
> hope of cs-
:Celings were
night. 'v~
a numbc1· of
uried up the
n, and added
·orse than it
~aking- ft~ars,
~'-'""'""'~' night.
uns had me
mannPr.
ouse, allll a
I was to h~
rday morn·
in, landing,
er informa·
SEQ.UEL. 265
delay proved very favourable to me, for percei,·ing
that I was neither locked up nor watched, I hasten·
,
ed on shore, and pursued my way into the city. I
felt happy at my escape: but what was I then to
do 1 Whither could I go 1 Not to my mother: I
was certain I could not remain long with her, with·
out being known to the priests.
My friendlessness and utter helplessness, with the
dread of being murdered in the Convent, added tO
thoughts of the shame that must await me if I
Jived a few months, made me take a desperate reso·
lution, and I hurried to put it into effc<:t.
My object 'vas to reach the head of the Lachine
Canal, which is near the St. Lawrence, beyond the
extremity of the southern suburbs. I walked hast·
ily along St. Paul's street, and found all tl\e houses
still shut; then turning to the old Recollet Church,
I rcar.hcd Nbtre·Dame street, which I followed in
the direction I wished to go.
'fhc morning was chilly, :).S the season was some-
what ad·mnc.ed: but that was of no importance to
me. Day had appeared, and I desired to accom·
plish the object on which I was now bent, before
the light sho.uld much increase. I walked on there·
fore, but the morning had b.roken bright before I
arrived at the Canal; and then I found to my dis-
appointment that two Canadians were at work on
the bank, getting water, or doing something else.
I was by the great basin where the boats start,
and near the large canal storehouse. I have not
uid what was my design : it was to drown myself.
23
,,
.
I \
I i ·
I~
•' .
,.. '•
Iff t
!. \ ':
I
't
q·
I
•'
II
;
266 APPENDIX.
Fearing the men would re.c:..ue me, I hesitated
for some time, hoping the: would retire: but fincl·
ing that they did not, I grew impatient. I stood
looking on the water ; it was ncarJy on a level with
the banks, which shelved away, as I could perceive
for some distance, there being no wind to disturb
the surface. There was pothing in the sight which
seemed frightful or e\'en forbidding to me; I looked
upon it ns the means of the c~siest death, and long·
ed to be buried below. At length finding that the
men were not likely to leaYe the place, I sprung
from the bank, and was in an instant in the cold wa·
ter. The shock was very severe. I felt a sharp
freezing sensation run through me, which almost
immediately rendered me insensible; and the last
thing I can recollect was, that I was sinking in the
midst of water almost as cold as ice, which wet my
clothes, and covered me all over.
I hesitated
re : but fincl-
·nt. I stood
a level with
·uld perceivc
1d to disturb
: sight which
ne; I looked
th, and long·
ding that the
lCe, I sprung
. the cold wa·
. felt a sharp
vhich almost
and the last
inking in the
hich \Vet my
CHAPTER Ill.
.Awake among strangers-Dr. Robertson-Imprisoned as 11
"agranl-lntroduction t:~ my mother-Stay in her house-
llemol'al from it to .'11rs. McDonald's-Relltrn to my mo-
thers-Desire to get to Neto- York-.'irran gemcnts for go·
ing.
H.ow long I remained in the canal I lmc\v not :
but in about three minutes, ns I conjectured, I felt a
severe blow on my right side; and opening my eyes
I saw myself surrounded by men, who tnlked a
great deal, and expressed much anxiety and curiosi-
ty about me. They inquired of me my name, where
I lived, and 'vhy I had thrown myself into the wa·
ter: but I \Vould not answer a word. The blow
which I had felt, nnd which was p1·obably the causo
of bringmg me for a few moments to my senses, I
presume was caused by my falling, after I was res·
cued, upon the stones, which lay thickly scattered
near the water. I remember that the persons around
me continued to press me with questions. and that I
still remained silent. Some of them having obser-
ved the little medallion on my neck, and being able
to rend, declared that I was probably a daughter of
Dr. Robertson, as it bore the name; but to this, I
also gave no answer, and sunk again into a state of
unconSCIOUSness.
\Vhen my senses once more returned, I found
""lyself lying in a bed cov('red up warm, inn house.
>
I I'
\
I
I
I'
268 APPENDIX.
nnd heard several persons talking of the mass, from
which they had just returned. I could not imagine
wh~re I was, for my thoughts were not easily col-
kctt!d, and e\·cry thing seemed strange around me.
Some of them, on account of the name on the little
medallion, had sent to Dr. Robertson, to inform him
that a young woman had been prevented from
drowning herself in the basin, who had n portrait
on her neck, with his family name stamped upon it;
and he had sent word, that although she could bo
no rdution of his, they had better bring her to his
honst•, as he possibly might be able to learn whJ
she was. Preparations were th~reforc made t;:;
conduct me thither; and I was soon in his house.
'l'his was ab::mt midday, or a little later.
The doctor endeavoured to draw from me some
confession of my f..'lmily: but ( refused; my feelings
would not permit me to give him any satisfaction.
He offered to send me to my home Jf I would tell
him where I lived; but at length, thinking me un-
reasonable and obstinate, began to threaten to send
me to jail.
In a short time I found that the latter measure
was determined on, and I was soon put into the
hands of the jailer, Captain HoJland, nnd placed in
a pr1vatc room in his house.
I had formerly been acquainted with his children,
but had such strong reasons for remaining unknown,
that I hoped they would not recognise me; and, ns
we had not met for several years, I flattered myself
that such would be the case. It was, at firrt, as I
mnss, from
wt imagine
easily col·
tround me.
>n the little
inform him
entcd from
l n portrait
1
ed upon it;
1e could be
~her to his
learn wh·J
·c made t~
his house.
n me some
yfeelings
faction.
would tell
measure
into the
placed in
children,
; and, ns
myself
firrt, as I
IEQlJEL. 269
had hoped; they saw me in the evening, but did not
appear to suspect who I was. The next morning,
however, one of them asked me if I were not sister
of my brother, mentioning his name; and though I
denied it, they all insisted that I must be, for the
likeness, they said, was surprisingly strong. I still
would not admit the truth; but requested they would
send for the Rev. Mr. Esson, a Pre::~bytcrian clergy·
man in· Montreal, snying I had something to say to
him. He soon made his appearance, and I gave
him some account of myself. and requested him to
procure my release from confinement, as I thought
there was no reason why I should be deprived of my
Jiberty.
Contrary to my wishes, however, he went and
informed my mother. An unhappy difference had
existed between us for many years, concerning which
I would not speak, were it not necessary to allude
to it, to render some things intelligible which are
important to my narrative. I·am wiUing to bear
much of the blame: for my drawing part of her
pension had justly irritated her. I shall not at-
tempt to justify or explain my own feelings with
respect to my mother, whom I still regard at least
in some degree as I ought. I will merely say, that
I thought she indulged in partialities and antipa·
thies in her family during my childhood; and that
I attribute my entrance into the nunnery, and the
misfortunes I have suffered, to my early estrange·
m~nt from home, and my separation from the fami-
ly. I had neither seen her nor heard from her in
23•
I
' '
,,
o I
';I'
I I '
' I
.'
I
J,
I
·I' I
' '
! I
!70 APPENDIX.
several years; and knew not whether she had even
known of my entrance into the Convent, although I
now learnt, thnt she still resided where she former-
ly did.
It was therefore with regret that I heard that my
mother had been informed of my condition; and
that I saw an Irishwoman, an acquaintance of hers,
come to take me to the house. I had n0 doubt that
she would think I had disgraced her, by being irr.·
prisoned, as well as by rny attempt to drown my-
self; and what would be her feelings towards m(', 1
could only conjecture.
I accompanied the woman to my mother's, and
found nearly such a reception as I had expected.
Notwithstanding our mutual feelings were much as
they had been, she wished me to stay with her, and
kept me in one of her rooms for several weeks, aLJ
with the utmost privacy, fearing that my appearance
would lead to questions, and that my imprison-
ment would become known. I soon satisfied my·
self that she knew little of what I had passed
through, within the few past years; and did not
think it prudent to inform her, for that would great-
ly have increased the risk of my being d~scovere.l
by the priests. We were surrounded by those who
went frequently to confession, and 'would have
thought me a monster of wickedness, guilty of break·
iug the most solemn vows, and a fugitive from are-
treat which is generally regarded there as a place
of great sanctity, and almost like n gate to heaven.
I well knew the ignorance nnd prejudices of tho
ll.e had even
, although I
she former·
ard that my
1
dition ; and
nee of hers,
o doubt that
y bci.ng irr.·
drown my-
wards me, I
other's, and
ld expected.
~rc much as
ith her, and
weeks, aLJ
appearance
imprison-
'sfied my-
passed
did not
uld great·
dtscoverel
those who
ld have
y of brenk·
from are-
a place
to heaven.
es of tho
SEQUEL. !71
poor Canadians, and understood how such a person
as myself must appear in their eyes. 'rhey felt aa
I formerly had, and would think it a service to reli·
gion and to God to betray the place of my conceal·
ment, if by chance they should find, or even suspect
it. As I had become, in the eyes of Catholics, "a
spouse of Jesus Christ," by talcing the veil, my
leaving the Convent must appear to them a forsa .
king of the Saviour.
As things were, however, I remained for some
time undisturbed. My brother, though he lived in
the house, did not know of my being there for a for&·
night.
. When he learnt it, and cam.e to sec me, he ex·
pressed much kindness toward! me: but I had not
seen him for several years, and had seen so much
evil, that I knew not what secret motives he might
have, and thought it prudent to be reserved. I,
tht~rcfore, communicated to him nothing of my his-
tory or intentions, and rnther repulsed his advances.
'rhe truth is, I had been so long among nuns and
priests, that I thought there was no sincerity or
virtue on earth.
What were my mother's wishes or intentions to·
wards me, I was not informed: but I found after-
ward, that she must hftvc made arrangements to
have me removed from her house, for one day a
woman came to the door with a cariole, and on be·
ing admitted to see me, expressed herself in a
friendly manner, spoke of the necessity of air and
exercise for my health, and invited me to take "
I
I I.
,,
J• I'
1 I
I
>.
o I
'l
,,
1'.
272 APPENDIX.
ride. I consented, supposmg we _;hould soon rc·
turn: but when we reached St. Antoine suburbs,
she drove up to a house which I had formerly
heard to be some kind of refug(.~, stopped, and rc·
quested me to alight. My first thought was, that I
should be exposed to ccrtai&l detection, by some or
the priests whom I presumed officiated there; ns
they had all )mown me in the nunnery. I could
not avoid entering; but I resolved to feign sick·
ness, hoping thus to be placed out of sight of the
priests.
The result was according to my wishes: for I
was taken to an upper room, which was used as an
infirmary, and there permitted to remain. There
were a large number of women in the house; and
a Mrs. M'Donald, who has the management of it,
had her daughters in the Ursuline Nunnery nt
Quebec, and her son in the college. The nature of
the establishment I could not fully understand : but
it seemed to me designed to become a nunnery at
some future time.
I felt pretty safe in the house, so long as I was
certain of remaining in the infirmary ; for there
was nobody there who had ever seen me before.
But I resolved to avoid, if possible, ever making
my appearance below, for I felt that I could not d~
it without hazard of discovery.
Among other appendages of a Convent whtch (
observed in that place, was a confessional within
the building, and I soon learnt, to my dismay, that
Father Bonin, one of the murderers of Saint Fran·
.ld soon rc·
ne suburbs,
1Cl formerly
?ed, and re·
. was, that I
by some or
d there; ns
y. I could
feign sick·
sight of the
ishes: for I
i used as an
1in. There
house; and
rement of it,
unnery Lt
nature of
as I was
; for there
me before.
r making
not do
SEQUEL. 273
•
cis, was in the habit of constant attendance ns prie~t
and confessor. 'rhe recollections which I often
indulged in of scenes in the Hotel Dieu, gnvc me
uneasiness and distress: lut not knowing where to
go to seck greater seclusion, I remained in the infir·
mary week after week, still affecting illness in the
best manner I could. At length I found that I wns
suspected of playing offa deception with regard to
the stale of my health; and at the close of a few
weeks, I became satisfied that I could not remain·
longer without making my appearance below stairs.
I at length complied with the wishes I heard ex·
pressed, that I would go into the community-room,
where those in health were accustomed to assemble
to work, and then some of the women began to talk
of my going to confession. I me~·cly expressed
llJ!Willingness at first; but when they pressed the
point, and began to insist, my fcnr of detection over·
came every other feeling, and I plainly declared
that I would not go. This led to an altercation,
when the mistress of the house pronounced me in·
corrigible, and said she would not keep me for a
hundred pounds a year. She, in fact, became so
weary of having me there, thn! she sent to my
mother to take me away.
My mother, in consequence, sent n. cariole for me,
and took me again into her house ; but I became so
unhappy in a place where I was secluded and des·
titute of all agreeable society, that I earnestly re-
quested her to allow me to leave Canada. I be·
licve she felt ready to have me removed to n die-
''
.. '
'I.
\
• 'I
,,
,t.'
274 APPEN DIX.
tance, that she might not be in danger of hnving
my attempt at S<'lf-dcstruction, and my confinement
in pr1son made public.
1,hrre was n fact which I had not disclosed, and
of which all were ignorant : viz., that which had
so much influence in exciting me to leave the Con·
vent, nnd to reject cv..;ry idea of returning to it.
'Vhen conversing with my mother about Jcuving
Canada, I proposed to go to New-York. She in·
quircd why I wished to go there. I made no an-
swer to that question : for, though I had never been
there, and knew scarcely any thing about the place,
I presumed that I should find protection from my
enemies, as I knew it was in a P rotestant country.
I hnd not thought of going to the United States be-
fore, becam:e I had no one to gowith me, nor money
enough to pay my expenses; but then n plan pre-
sented itself to my mind, by which I thought I
might proceed to New York in safety.
There was a man who I presumed would wish
to have me leave Canada, on his own account; nnll
that wus the man I had so precipitately married
wllile residing nt St. Denis. He must have had
motives, ns I thought, for wishing me at a distance.
I proposed therefore that he should be informed that
1 was in Montrenl, nnd anxious to go to the States;
o.nd such n message was sent to him by a woman
whom my mother knew.• She hn( a little stand for
• 1\lrs. Tarbert, or l\-I'Gnn. See her affidavit, pago 220.
Whnt house 11hc refers to I cannot conjecture.
of having
.nfinement
:loscd, nnd
;vhich had
e the Con·
g to it.
mt )caving
.. She in·
lade no an·
never been
tt the place,
m from my
.nt conntl·y.
d States be·
nor money
n plan pre·
thought I
SEQUEL. 275
lhe sale of some articles, nnd hnd n husb3nd who
carried on some similar kind of business nt the
Scotch mountain. Through her husband, as I sup·
pose, she had my message conveyed, and soon in·
formed me that arrangements were made for my
commencing my journey, under the care of the per·
aon to whom it had been sent.
IMAGE EVALUATION
TEST TARGET (MT-3)
1!111
1.0 :Iii& w
= uaW 12.2
= :m.a
1111.1 t 1:& :
IIIII~ 11~1~· ~~
1
.....
4 - - - - - " 6" -----.....1
Phof9graphic
Sciences
COrpomtion
23 WIST MA.. STIHT
WIUTII,N.Y. 14510
( 716 I 172-4503
CHAPTER IV.
. .
Singular concurr~nce of citcumstancu, which enabled me to
gel to thd Unitecl Statu-Intentions in going there-Com·
mtnce my juurney-Fears ofmy companion-Stop at White-
hall-Injury received in a canal boat-Arrival at New Yorl'
-A solitary retreat.
'
IT is· remarkable that I was able to stay so long
in the midst of Catholics without discovery, and at
last obtain the aid of some of them in effecting my
flight.' There is probably not a person in Montreal,
who would sooner have betrayed me into the ppwer
of the priests than that woman, if she had known
my history.
She was a frequent visiter at the Convent and the
Seminary, and had a ticket which entitled her every
Monday to the gift of .a loaf of bread from the for·
mer. She had an unbounded respect for the Supe·
rior and the priests, and seized every opportunity
·, to please them. Now the fact that she was willing
to take measures to facilitate my departure from
Montreal, afforded sufficient evidence to me of her
entire ignorance of myself, in all respects in ·which
I could wish her to be ignorant; and I confided in
her, because I perceived that she felt no stronger
motive, than a disposition to oblige my mother.
Should any thing occur to let her into the secret
of my being a fugitive from the Black Nunnery, I
knew that I cQuld not trust to her kindness for an
enabled me to
there-Com·
at White-
at New Yorl'
stay so long
and at
J'VU'""'"'~·g my
Montreal,
1
the p.pwer
1 had known
tvent and the
~d her every
rom the for·
or the Supe·
opportunity
was willing
•
arture from
>me of her
cts in ·which
: confided in
no stronger
nother.
to the secret
Nunnery, I
1ness for an
SEQUEL. 277
instant. The discovery of that fact would transform
her into a bitter and deadly enemy. She would at
once regard me as guilty of mortal sin, an apostate,
and a proper object of persecution. And this was a
r~fiection I had often reason to make, when thinkin()'
0
of the numerous Catholics around me. How im-
portant, then, the keeping of my secret, and my es-
cape before the truth should become known, ev~n to
a single person near me.
I could realize, from the dangers through which
I was brought by the hand of God, how difficult it
must be, in most cases, for a fugitive from a nunne
ry to obtain her final freedom from the power of her
enemies. Even if escaped from a Convent, so long
as she remains among Catholics, she is in constant
exposure to be informed against; especially if the
news of her escape is made public, which fortunate-
ly .was not the fact in my case. ..
If a Catholic comes to the knowledge of any fact
calculated to expose such a person, he will think it
his duty to disclose it at confession ; and then the
whole fraternity will be in motion to seize her.
How happy for me that not a suspicion was en·
tertained concerning me, and that not a whisper
against me was breathed into the ear of a single
priest at confession !
Notwithstanding my frequent appeatance m the
streets, my removals from place to place, and the
various exposures I had to discovery, contrary to
my fears, which haunted me even in· my dreams, I
was preserved; and as I have often thought, for the
2't
278 APPENDIX.
purpose .of making the disclosures which I have
made in this volume. No power but that of God,
as I have frequentJy thought, could ever have led
me in safety t~rough so many dangers.
1 would not have my readers imagine, however,
that I had at that period any thought of making
}mown my history to the world. I wished to
plunge into the deepest possible obscurity ; and next
to the· fear of falling again into the hands of the
priests and Superior, I shrunk most from the idea
of having others acquainted with the scenes I had
passed through. Such a thought as publishing
never entered my mind till months after tliat time.
My desire was, that I might meet a speedy death in
obscurity, and that my name ·and my shame might
perish on earth together. As for my future doom,
I still looked forward to it with gloomy apprehen-
sions: for I considered myself as almost, if not
quite, removed beyond the reac.h of mercy. During
all the time which had elapsed since I left the Con·
l'ent, I had received no religious instruction. nor
even read a word in the scriptures; and, therefore,
it is nc·~ wonderful that I should still have remained
under the delusions iu which [ had been educated.
'l1
he plan arranged for the commencement of my
journey was this :· I was to cross the St. Lawrence
to Longueil, to meet the man who was to accom·
pany me. 'l1
he woman who had sent my message
into the country, went with me to the ferry, and
crossed the river, where, according to appointmen~
we found my companion. He willingly undertook
1ich I have
that of God,
er have led
1e, however,
t of maldng
: wished to
ty; and next
mnds of the
om the idea
cenes I had
s publishing
tcr tliat time.
~edy death in
shame might
future doom,
y apprehen·
most, if not
y. During
the Con·
n, nor
d, therefore,
ve remained
educated.
to accom·
my message
ferry, and
'ntment,
undertook
BE(llJEL. 279
to accompany me to the place of my destination.
and at his own expense; but declared, that he was
apprehensive we should be pursued. To avoid the
priests, who he supposed would follow us, he took
an indirect route, and during about twelve days, or
nearly that, which we spent on the way, passed
over a much greater distance than was necessary.
It would be needless, if it were possible, to mention
all the places we visited. We crossed Carpenter's
ferry, and were at Scotch-mountain and St. Alban's i
arrived at Champlain by land, and there took the
steamboat, leaving it again at Burlington.
As we were riding towards Charlotte, my com·
panion entertained fears, which, to me, appeared ri·
diculous: but it ~as impossible for me to reason
him out of them, or to hasten our journey. Cir··
cumstances which appeared to me of no moment
whatever, would often influence, and sometimes
make him change his whole plan and direction.
As we were one day approaching Charlotte, for in·
stance, on inquiring of a pers~n on the way, whether
there were any Canadians there, and being inform·
cd there were not a few, and that there was a Roman
Catholic priest residing there, he immediately de--
termined to avoid the place, and turned back, al·
though we were then only about nine miles distant
from it.
During several of the first nights after leaving
Montreal, he suffered greatly from fear; and on
meeting me in the morning, repeatedly said: "Well,
thank God, we are safe so far!" When we arrive4
280 APPENDIX,
nt '\Vhitehall, he had an idea that we should run a
risk of meeting priests, who, he thought, wcl'e ill
search of us, if we went immediately on; and ill'
sistcd that we had better stay there a little time, un·
til they should have passed. In spite of my anxiety
to proceed, we accordingly remained there about a
week ; when we entered a canal-boat to proceed to
Troy.
An unfortunate accident happened to me while on
our way: I was in the cabin, when a gun, which
had been placed near me, was started from its place
by the motion of the boat, caused by another boat
running against it, and striking me on my left side,
threw me some distance. The shock was violent.
nnd I thought myself injured, but hoped the effects
would soon pass off. I was afterward taken with
vomiting blood; and th1s alarming symptom several
times returned ; but I was able to keep up.
We came without any unnecessary delay from
Tr9yto New York, where we arrived in the morn·
ing, either on Thursday or Friday, as I believe:
but my companion there disappeared without in-
forming me where he was going, and I saw him no
more. Being now, as I presumed, beyondthe reach
of my enemies, I felt relief from the fear of being
carried back to the nunnery, and sentenced to death
or the cells: but I was in a Jarge city where I had
not a friend. Feeling overwhelmed with my mis·
erable condition, I l~nged for death; and yet I felt
no desire to make another attempt to destroy myscl£
On the contrary, I determined to seek some·soli-
1ld run 1
, we1·e 11
; and irr
time, un·
lY anxiety
e about a
,roceed to
3 while on
un, which
nits place
>ther boat
y left side,
as violent,
the effects
:aken with
several
m·
whim no
the reach
of being
to death
I had
SE~'UEL 281
tary retreat, and await God's time to remove me
from a world in which I had found so much trou·
ble, hoping·and believing that it would not be long.
Not knowing which way to go to find solitude, I
spoke to a little boy whom I saw on the wharf, and
told him I would give him some money if he would
lead me into the "bush." (This is the common
word by which, in Canada, we speak of the woods
or forests.) When he understood what I meant,
he told me that there was no bush about New York;
but consented to lead me to the most lonely place he
:mew of. He accordingly set off, and I followed
him, on a long walk to the upper part of the city,
and beyond, until we reached the outskirts of it.
Turning off from the road, we gained a little hoi·
~ low, where were a few trees and bushes, a consid·
erable distance from .any house ; and there, be told
me, was the loneliest place with which he was ac·
quainted. I paid him for his trouble out of the
small stock of money Thad in my possession, and
let him go home, desiring him to come the next day,
and bring me something to eat, with a few pennies
which I gave him.
24•
..
CHAPTER V.
llejlu:tion1 and sorrotcs in soUtudt-Night-Fea.r.-.Ezpo-
8U1'e to ra.in-Disco,erecl by strangers- Their unwelcome
kindness- Taken to the Belletue Almshouse.
THER.E I found myself once more alone, and
truly it was a great relief to sit down ·and feel that I
was out of the reach of priests and nuns, and in .a
spot where I could patiently wait' for death, when
God might please to send it, instead of being abused
and tormented according to the caprices and pas-
siobs of my persecqtors.
But then again returned most bitter anticipations
of the future. Life had no attractions for me, for it
must be connected with shame ; but death, under
any circumstances, could not be divested of horrors,
so long as I believed in the doctrines relating to it
which had been inculcated upon me.
The place where I had taken up, as I supposed,
my last earthly abode, was pleasant in clear and
mild weather; and I spent most of my time in as
much peace as the state of my mind would permit.
J saw houses, but no hl,lman beings, exc.ept on the
side of a little hill near by, where were some men
at work, making sounds like those made in ham·
mering stone. The shade around me was so thick
that I felt assured of being sufficiently protected
from observation if I kept still ; and a cluster of
huahP.s offered me a shelter for the mght. As 'even·
and in .a
h, when
abused
and pas·
ipations
or me, for it
1
eath, under
l of horrors,
elating to it
I supposed,
n clear and
· time in as
mid permit.
~c.ept on the
~some men
de in ham·
vas so thick
.y protected
11. cluster of
.. As ·
even·
SEQUEL. 283
ing approached, I was somewhat alarmed by the
sound of voicea near me, and I found that a num·
her of labourers were passing that way from their
work. I went in a. fright to the thickest of the
ouslies, and Iay down, until all again was still, and
then ventured out to take my seat again on the turf.
Darkness now came gradually on; and with it,
fears of another description. The thought struck
me that ther~ might be wild beasts in that neigh·
hourhood, ignorant as I then was of the country;
and the more I thought of it, the more I became
alarmed, I henrd no alarming sound, it is true ; but
I knew not how soon some prowling and ferocious
'oeast might come upon me in my defenceless con·
dition, and tear me in pieces. I retired to my
bushes, and stretched myself under them upon the
ground: but I found it impossible to sleep; andmy
mind was almost continually agitated by thoughts
on the future or the past, ·
In the morning the little boy made his appearance
again, and brought me a few cakes which he had
purchased for me. He showed much interest in me,
.inquired why I did not live in a h•
Ju,-;e; and it was
with difficulty that I could satisfy him to let me re·
main in my solitary and exposed condition. Under·
standing.that I wished to continue unknown, he as·
sured me that he had not told even his mother about
me; and I had reason to believe that he faithfully
kept my secret to the last. Though he lived a con·
siderable distance from my hiding-place, and, as I
supposed, far down in the city, he visited me almost
184 ' APPENDIX.
eYery day, even when I hBd not desired him to bring
me any thing. Several times I received from him
some small supplies of food for the money I had
given him. I once gave him a half-dollar to get
changed; and he brought me back every penny of
it, at his next visit.
As I had got my drink from a brook or pool,
which was at no great distance, he brought me ll
little cup one day to drink out of; \ ut this I was
not allowed to keep long, for he soon after told me
. that his mother wanted it, and he must return it.
He several times arrived quite out of breath, and
when I inquired the reason, calling him as I usually
did, " Little Tommy," he said it was necessary for
him to run, and to stay but a short time, that he
might be at school in good season. Thus pe con·
tinued to serve me, and keep my secret, at great in·
convenience to' himself, up to the last day of my
stay in that retreat; and I believe he would have
done so for three months if I had remained there.
I should like to see him again, and hear his broken
English.
f I had now abundance of time to reflect on my
lost condition; and many a bitter thought passed
through my mind, as I sat on the ground, or strolled
about by day, and lay under the bushes at night.
Sometimes I reflected on the doctrines I had
heard at the'nunnery, con-:erning sins and penances,
Purgatory and Hell; and sometimes on my late
companions, and the erim~s I had witnessed ~ the
~nvent.
im to briftg
l from him
mey I had
•llnr to get
·y penny of
'k or pool,
mght me a.
this I was
ncr told me
:t return it.
breath, nnd
1s I usually
~ccssary for
nc, that he
hus he con·
at great in·
day of my
have
there.
his broken
IEQUEL. 285
Sometimes I would sit and seriously consider
how I might best destroy my life; and sometimes
would sing a few of the hymns with which I was
f;1miliar: but I never felt willing or disposed to pray,
ns I supposed there was no hope of mercy for me.
One of the first night3 I spent in that houseless
condition was stormy; and though I crept under
the thickest of the bushes, and had more protection
ngainst the rain than one might have expec.ted, I
was almost entirely wet before morning; and, it
mny be supposed, passed a more uncomfortable
night than usual. The next day I was hnppy to
find the weather clear, and was able to dry my gnr-
ments by taking off one at a time, and spreading
them on the bushes. A night or two after, how-
ever, I '\vas again exposed to a heavy rain, and had
the same process afterward to go through with :
but whut is remarkable, I took no cold on either oc-
casion ; nor did I suffer any lasting injury from all
the exposures I underwent in that place. The in-
conveniences I had to encounter, also, app~ared to
me of little importance, not being sufficient to draw
off my mind from its own troubles; and I had no
intention of seeking a more comfortable abode, still
looking forward only to dying as soon as God would
permit, alone and in that spot.
One day, however, when I had been there about
ten days, I was alarmed at seeing four men ap·
proaching me. All of them had guns, as if out on a
shooting excursion. They expressed much surprise
and pity on finding me there, and pressed me with
I I
I'
286 APPENDIX•
questions. I would not give them any satis(aetory
account'of myself, my wants, or intentions, being
only anxious that they might withdraw. I found
them, however, too much interested to render me
some scrvic~ to be easily sent away; and after
somt' time, thinldng there would be no other way,
1 pretended to go away not to return. .After going
some distance, and remaining some time, thinking
they had probably left the place, I returned ; but to
my mortification found ·they had concealed them·
selves to see whether I would come back. They
now, more urgently than before, insisted on my rc·
moving to some other place, where I might be com·
fortnble. They continued to question me; but I
became distressed in a degree I cannot describe,
hardly knowing what I did. At last I called the
oldest gentleman aside, and told him somethh.g of
my history. He expressed great interest for me,
offered to take me anywhere I would tell him, and
at last insisted that I should go with him to his own
house. All thee offers I refused ; on which one
proposed to take me to tho Almshouse, and even to
carry me by force if I would not go willingly.
To this I at length consented ; but solhe delay
-took place, and I became unwilling, so that with
reluctance I was taken to that institution, which
was about half a mile tlistant.•
• See the affidavit of Mr. Hilliker, page 243. The letter to
which he refers I . had forgotten to mention. It contained a
abort account of the crimes I had witnessed in the nunnery,
and waa written on paper which "little Tommy" bad bougbt
for me-.
satisfactory
tions, being
N. I found
• render me
·; and after
:> other way,
.After going
me, thinking
rned; but to
cealed them·
back They
ed on my re·
1ight be com·
1 me; but 1
mot describe,
I called the
somcthit.g of
for me,
tell him, and
to his own
and even to
illingly.
eome delay
that with
which
CHAPTER VI.
R.eeption. al the Almshouse-Message/rom llfr. Conroy, an~
man priest in New York-Hi• int~itation• to a prit~ate inte,..
~eur-Hi1 claim•, proposition•, and threatB-Mr. Kelly•
rnu•afe-E.ffecls of readin1 the Bible.
I WAS now at once made comfortable, and attend
ed with ldndness and care. It is not to be expect
ed in such a place, where so many poor and suffer
ing people are collected, and duties of a difficult
nature are to b~ daily performed by those engaged
in the care of the institution, that petty vexations
should not occur to individuals of all descriptions.
But in spite of all, I received kindness and sym·
pathy from several persons around me, to whom I
feel thanlcful.
I was standing .one day at the window of the
room number twenty-six, which is at the end of the
hospital building, when I ·saw a spot I once visited
in a little walk I took from my hiding-place. My
feelings were different now in some respects, from
what they had been; for, though I suffered much
from my fears of future punishment, for the sin or
breaking my C.onvent vows, I had given up the in·
tention of destroying my life.
After I had been some time in th~ Institution, I
found it was reported by some a~out me, that I was
a fugitive nun j and it was not long after, thnt an
288 APPENDIX.
Irish woman, belonging to the institution, brought
me a secret message, which caused me some agita·
tion.
I was sitting in the room of Mrs. Johnson, the
matron, engaged in sewing, when that Irish woman,
employed in the institution, came in and told me
that :Mr. Conroy was below, and had sent to see me.
I was informed that he was a Roman priest, who
often visited the house, and he had a particular wish
to see me at that time ; having.come, as I belie'W"e,
expressly for that purpose. I showed unwillingness
to comply with such an invitation, and did not go.
The woman told me further, that he sent me word
that I need not think to avoid him, for it would be
impossible for me to do so. I might conceal myself
as well as I could, but I should be found and taken.
No matter where I went, or what hiding-place I
might choose, I should be known ; and I had better
~orne at once. He knew who I was ; and he was
authorized to take me to the Sisters of Charity, if I
should prefer to join them. He would promise that
I might stay with them if I chose, and be permitted
to remain in New York. He sent me word fur-
ther, that he had receive.d full power and authority
over me from the Superior of the Hotel Dieu Nun-
nery of Montreal, and was able to do all that she
could do; as her right to dispose of me at her will
had been imparted to him by a regular writing re-
ceived from Canada. This was alarming informa-
tion for me, in the weakness in which I \Vas at that
time. The woman added, that the same authority
.on, brought
some agita·
fohnson, the
rish woman,
md told me
1t to see me.
priest, who
ticular wish
s I belie·:e,
nvillingness
did not go.
mt me word
it would be
that
permitted
word fur·
authority
Dieu Nun·
that she
at her will
writing re·
informa·
was at that
authority
IE(lVBL.
bad been given to all the priests; so that, go where
I might, I should meet men informed about me and
my escape, and fully empowered to seize me wher·
ever they could, and conveyme back to the Convent,
from which I had escaped.
Under these circumstances, it seemed to me that
the offer to place me among the Sisters of Charity,
with permission to remain in New York, was mild
and fa,·ourable. However, I had resolution enough
to refuse to see the priest Conroy. .
Not long afterward, I was informed by the same
messenger, that the priest was again in the building,
and repeated his request. I desired one of the gen·
{Iemen connected with the institution, that a stop
might be put to such messages, as I wished to re-
ceive no more of them. A short time after, how·
ever, the woman told me that Mr. Conroy wished
to inquire of me, whether my name was not St. Eus·
tace while a nun, and if I had not confessed to Priest
Kr.lly in' Montreal. I answered, that it was all true;
for I had confessed to him a short time while in the
nunnery. I was then told again that the priest
wanted to see me, and I sent back word that I would
see him in the presence of Mr. Tappan, or Mr.
Stevens; which, ho,vever, was not agreed to; and
I was afterward informed, that Mr. Conroy, the
Romah priest, spent an hour in a room and a pas-
•age where I had frequently been ; but through the
mercy of God, I was employe~ in ano~her place at
'that time, and had no occasion to go where I should
have met him. I afterward repeatedly heard, that
25
I •
,, ,,
IJ I
J
,,
198
Mr. Conroy continued to visit the house,. and Co ask
for me i but I never saw him. I once had deter•
mined to leave the institution, and go to the Sisters
of Charity; but circumstances occuned which gave
me time for further reflection ; and I was saved
from the destruction to wlticl" I sh01/,ld have been
exposed.
As the period of my accouchement approached, 1
sometimes thought that I should not survive it; and
then the recollection of the dreadful crimes I had
witnessed in the nunnery would come upon me
very powerfully, and I would think it a solemn
duty to· disclose them before I died. . To have a
knowledge of those things, and Jeave the world
without making them known, appeared to me like a
great sin : whenever I could divest myself of the
impression made upon me, by the declarations and
arguments of the Superior, nuns, and priests,·of the
duty of submitting to every thing, and the necessary
holiness of whatever the latter did gr required.
The evening but one before the period which I
anticipated with so much anxiety, I was sitting
alone, and began to indulge in reflections of this
kind. It seemed to me that I must be near the
close of my life, and I determined to make a disclo·
sure at once. I spoke to Mrs. Ford, a woman
whose -character I respected, a nurse in the hospital.
in number twenty-three. I informed her that I had
no expectation of living long, and had some thing•
on my mind which I wished to communicate before
it should b~ too late. I added, that I should prefer
and foask
had deter-
Sisters
hich gave
was saved
kave been
me like a
yself of the
trations and
riests;of the
e necessary
~quired.
iod which I
was sitting
ions of this
>e near the
.ke a disclo·
I, a woman
the hospital,
r that I had
1ome things
•icate before
lOuld prefer
'BXQUEL.
to tell them ·to Mr. Tappan, the chaplain, of which
she approved, as she considered it a duty to do so
under those circumstances. I had no opportunity,
however, to converse with Mr. T. at that time, and
probably my purpose, of disclosing the facts already
given in this book, would never have been execut~d
but for what subsequently took place.
It was alarm which had led me to form such a
determination; and when the period of trial had
been safely passed, and I had 11 prospect of recov·
ery, any thing appeared to me more likely ·than
that I should make this exposure.
I was then a Roman Catholic, at least ·a great
·part of my time ; and my conduct, in a great mea·
sure, was according ·to the faith and motives of a
Roman Catholic. Notwithstanding what I knew
of the conduct of so many of the priests and nuns, I
thought that it had no effect on the sanctity of the
Church, or the authority or effects of the acts per·
formed by ·the former at the mass, confession, &c.
I had such a regard for my vows as a nun, that I
considered my hand as well a, my heart irrevoca ·
bly given to Je~_us Christ, and could never have al ·
lowed any person to tal£:e it. Indeed, to this day, I
feel an instinctive aversion to offering my hand, or
taking the hand of another person, even as an ex·
pression of friendship. I also thought that I m~ght
aoon return to the Catholies, although fear and dis-
gust held me back. I had now that infant to think
for, whose life I had happily saved by my timely
~Clrape from the nunnery; and what its fate might
·'t
1 .
•,
t,
I I ,,.
.• j i
I
.. I!.
i· I
I I .,
t Ji i :
'J l
'•
I I
. I
\.'j
;' \
! '
l
!
:'
APPSMDIX.
)
be. in case it should ever Call into the power of the
priests, I could not tell.
I had, however, reason for alarm. . Would a
child destined to destruction, like the infants I had
seen baptized and smothered, be allowed to go
through the world unmolested, a living memorial
of the truth of crimes long.practised in security, be-
cause never exposed 1 What pledges could I get
to satisfy me, that I, on whom her dEpendance must
be, would be spared by those who I had reason to
think were then wishing to sacrifice me1 How
could I trust the helpless infant in hands which had
hastened the baptism of many such, in order to hur-
ry them to the secret pit in the cellar1 Could 1
suppose that Father Phtlan, Priest of the Parish
Cit/ureA ofMontreal, would see his own child grow·
ing up in the world, and feel willing to run the risk
of having the truth exposed1 What could I expect,
especially from him, but the utmost rancour, and the
most determined enmity against the innocent child
and its abused and defenceless mother 1
Yet, my mind w~uld sometimes still incline in
the opposite direction, and indulge the thought, that
perhaps the only way to secure heaven to us both,
was to throw ourselves back into the hands of the
Church, to be treated as she pleased. When, there-
fore, the fear of immediate death was removed, I
renounced all thoughts of communicating the sub-
atance of the facts in this volume. It happened,
however, that my danger was not poased. I was
I
(
t
to hur-
~ Could l
tke Parish
ckild grow·
run the risk
uld I expect,
~oar, and the
1ocent child
l incline in
)ought, that
1 to us both,
1nds of the
Vhen, there-
removed, I
r1g the sub-
happened,
ed. I was
100n seized with \·ery alarming symptoms j then my
desire to disclose my story revived.
I had before had an opportunity to speak in pri-
vate with the chaplain; but, as it was at a time
when I supposed myself out of danger, I had defer·
red for three days my proposed communication,
thinking that I might yet avoid it altogether. When
my symptoms, however, became more a1arming, I
was anxious for Saturday to arrive, the day which
I had appointed; and when I had not the opportu·
nity on that day, which I desired, I thought it might
be too late. I did not see him till Monday, when
my prospects of surviving were very gloomy; ~-nd
I then informed him that I wished to communicate1
to him a few iecrets, which were likely otherwise
to die with me. I 'then told him, thnt while a nun
..
in the Convent of Montreal, I had witnessed the
murder of n nun, called Saint Francis, and of at
least one of the infants which I have spoken of in
this book. I added some fe\V circumstances, and I
believe disclosed, in genera] terms, some of the other
crimes I knew of in that nunnery.
1 My anticipations ·of death proved to be unfounded;
for my hea.
lth afterward improved, and had I not
made the ,confessions on that occasion, it is very
possible I never might have made them. I, how-
ever, afterward, felt more willing to listen to instruc·
tion, and experienced friendly attentions from some
of the benevolent persons around m1, who, taking
an interest in me on account of my iarkened un-
25.
I
I I! ,.
' '
I j,
,.
''
. (:
• I
'i h
, I • :
' )
.,I
, ~I I ..
f I
I I
. I
1/
I
, '
I I
demanding, furnished me with the Biltle, and were
ever ready to counsel me when I desired it.
I soon began to believe ·that God might have in·
tended that his creatures should learn his will by
reading his word, and taking upon them the free
exercise of their reason, and acting under respon·
aibility to him.
It is difficult for one who has never given way to
such argume!lts and influences as th:ose to which
.( had been exposed, to realize how hard it is to
think aright after thinking wrong. The Scriptures
.always affect me powerfully when I read them; but
I feel that I have but just begun to learn the great
truths, in which I ought to have been early o.nd
thoroughly instructed. I realize, in some degree,
how it is, that the Scriptures render the people of
the United States so strongly opposed to such doc·
trines as are taught in the Black and the Congre-
gational Nunneries of Montreal. The priests and
nuns used often to declare, that of all heretics, the
children from the United States were the most diffi·
eult to be converted; and it was thought a great
' tr1umph when one of them.was brought over to " the
true faith." 'rhe. first passage of Scripture that
made _
any serious impression upo~ my mind, was
the text on which the chaplain preached on the Sab-
bath after myint1oduction into the house-" Search
the Scriptures."
I -made some hasty notes of the thoughts to which
It Pft rise in my nund, and often recurred to the
abject. Yet I 1omettmea questiof!ed the justice ol
,
tle, and were
edit.
ght have in·
his will by
tem the free
1der reapon·
given way to
~se to which
llard it is to
1e Scriptures
1d them; but
m the great
en early and
1
ome degree,
he people of
to such doc·
the Congre-
' priests and
heretics, the
he most diffi·
1ght a great
:overto " the
:ripture that
1
y mind, was
don the Sab-
le-" Search
.
rhts to which
aured to the
he justice of
295
the news I began to entertain, and was ready to
condemn myself for giving my mind any liberty to
eeek for informatioD concerning the foundation_
of
my former &itla.
•
CHAPTER V.ll.
Proporilioft to go to Montreal and tuti/fJ a1airutth• priu,._
Commencement of my journey-Stop at Troy, Whitehall,
Burlittgton, St. Alban'•• Plattsburgh, and St. John'.-Ar·
ri"al at Montreal-Reflection. on pcuring the Nunnery, &c.
AsouT a fortnight after I had made the disclo·
sures mentioned in the last chapter, Mr. doyt called
at the Hospital to make inquiries about me. I was
introduced to him by Mr. Tappan. After some con·
ver~ation, he asked me if I would consent to visit
Montreal, aud give my evidence against the priests
and nuns before a court. I immediately expr~ssed
my willingness to do so, on condition that I should
be protected. It immediately occurred to me, that
I might enter the nunnery at night, and bring out
the nuns in the cells, and possibly Jane Ray, and
that they would confirm my testimony. In a short
titne, arrangements were made for ..our journey, I
was furnished with clothes; and although my
strength was as yet but partially restored, I set off
iii pretty good spirits.
Ou.r journey was delayed for a little time, by Mr.
Hoyt's waiting to get a companion. He had en·
gaged a clergyman to accompany us, as I under·
stood, who was prevented from going by unexpect·
ed business. We went to Troy in a steamboati
and, while there, I had several interviews with
eome gentlemen who were informed of my history,
to visit
priests
expressed
.t I should
to me, that
bring out
Ray, and
In a short
journey, I
tough my
d, I set off
ne, byMr.
:e had en·
1 I under·
· unexpeet•
steamboati
iews with
ay history,
29'
and wished to see me; They appeared to be deep.y
impressed with the importance of my testimony i
and on their recommendation it was determined that
we should go to St. Alban's, on our way to Mon·
treal, to get a gentleman to accompany us, whose
advice and assistance, as an experienced lawyer,
were thought to be desirable to us in prosecuting
the plan we had in view : viz. the exposure o( the
crimes with which I was acquainted.
We travelled from Troy to Whitehall in a canal
packet, because the easy motion was best adapted
to my state of health. We met on board the Rev.
1\fr. Sprague of New York, with whom Mr. Hoyt
was acquainted, and whom he tried to persuade to
accompany us to Montreal. From Whitehall to
Burlington we proceeded in a steamboat; and there
I was so much indisposed, that it was necessary to
call a physician. After a little rest, we set off in
the stage for St. Alban's; and on arriving, found
that Judge Turner was out of town. We had to
remain a day or two before he returned; and then
he said it would be impossible for·him to accompa·
ny us. After some deliberation, it was decided
that Mr. Hunt should go to Montreal with us, and
that Judge Turner should follow and join us there
as soon as his health and business would permit.•
We therefore crossed the lake by the ferry to
Plattsburgh, where, after some delay, we embarked
• Mr. Hunt was recommended as a highly respectable law-
yer; to whose kindnesS. u well as that of Judge Turl'Jer, I feel
mrc4ll' uder .ob~atioD.L
. .,; I
...
. I
. 1·1
,I
l 1
I !
II
j
298
· - • • • ,. 0 • · - - - : . · . _ . , . . . . . .
APPENDIX.
in a steamboat, which took us to St. John's. M:.
Hunt, who had not reached the ferry early enough
to cross with us, had proceeded on to • • •, and
there got on board the steamboat in the night. We
went on to Laprairie with little delay, but finding
that no boat was to cross the St. Lawrence nt that
place during the dny, we had to take. another pri·
vate carriage to Longueil, whence we were rowed
across to Montreal by three men, in a small boat.
I had felt quite bold and resolute when I first
consented to go to Montreal, and also during my
.journey: but when I stepped on shore in the city, I
thought of the different scenes I had witnessed there,
and of the risks I might run before I should leave
it We got into a caleche, and rode along towards
the hotel where we were to ·stop. We passed up
St. Paul's street ; and, although it was dusk, I re·
cognised every thing I had known. We came at
length to the nunnery ; and then many recollections
crowded upon me. First, I saw a window from
which I had sometimes looked at some of the dis-
tant houses in that street; and I wondered whether
&!lOme of my old acquaintances were employed as
formerly. But I thought that if I were once with·
in those walls, I should soon be in the cells for
the remainder of my life, or perhaps be condemned
to something still more severe. I remembered the
.murder of St. Francis, and the whole scene returned
to me as if it had just taken place ; the appearance,
language, and conduct ofthe persons most a~tive in
ber destruction. Those persona were now all near
)ng toward!
' passed up
dusk, Ire·
Ne came at
ecollections
ndow from
of the dis.
ed whether
nployed as
once with·
e cells for
condemned
mbered the
1e returned
.ppearance,
st active in
~wall near
lb& ·and would use all exertions they safely might,
to get me again into their power.
And certainly they had gre3ter reason to be es·
asperated against me, than against that poor hel~
less nun, who had only expressed a .wish to e,s..
tape.•
When I found myself safely in Goodenough'•
hotel, in a retired room, and began to think alone,
the most gloomy apprehensions tilled my mind. I
could not eat, I had no appetite, and I did not sleep
• My gloomy feelings however did not always prevail. I had
hopes of obtaining evidence to prove my charges. I proposed
to my companions to be allowed to proceed that evening to ex-
ecute the plan I had formed when a journey to Montreal had
first been mentioned. This wal\ to follow the physician into
tbe nunnery, conceal myself under the red calico sofa in the
sitting-room, find my way into the cellar after all was still, re-
lease the nuns from their cells, and bring them out to confirm
my testimony. I was aware that there were hazards of my not
1ucceeding, and that I must forfeit my life if detected-but I
was desperate; and feeling as if I could not long live in Mon-
treal, thought I might as well die one way as another, and that
Ihad better die in the performance of a good deed. I thought
ofattempting to bring out Jnne Ray-but that seemed quite out
ofthe question, as an old nun is commonly engaged in cleaning
acommunity-room, through which I fllhould have to pass; and
how could I hope to get into, and out of the sleeping-room un-
observed'I I could not even determine that the imprisoned
nuns would follow me out-for they might be afraid to trust
me. However, I determined to try, and presuming my com-
panion• bad all along understood and approved my plan, told
tbem I was ready to.go at once. I was chagrined and mortifi~
more than I can express, when they objected, and almost re-
fused to permit me. I insisted and urged the importance of the
atcp-but they represented its extreme;rtRshness. This e.onduct
ortheirs, for a time diminished my confidence in them, althougla
everybody else hu approved ofit.
I
I.
'·
I I 1'
l'
I I
I' I
.
II
I I
I I
I I
II 1\
,f I
I '
. '
,I
I j.
.,• J
aoo
all night. Every painful acene I had e•er puled
through, seemed to return to my mind ; and aucb
waa my agitation, I could fix my thoughts upon
nothing in particular. I had left New York when
the state of my health was far from being establishedi
~d my strength, as may be presumed, was now
much reduced by the fotigue of travelling. I shnll
be able to give but a faint idea of the feelings with
which I passed that night, but must leave it to the
imagination of my readers. Now once more in the
neighbourhood of the Convent, and surrounded by
the nuns and priests, of whose conduct I had made
the first disclosures ever made, surrounded by thou·
sands of persons devoted to them, nnd ready to pro-
ceed to any outrage, as I feared, whenever their in·
terference might be desired, there was abundant rea·
Ron for my uneasiness.
I now began to realize that I had some attach·
ment to life remaining. When I consented to visit
the city, and furnish the evidence necessary to lay
open the iniquity of the Convent, I had felt, in a
measure, indifferent to life: but now, when to!ture
and death seemed at hand, I shrunk from ~t. For
myself, life could not be said to be of much value.
How could I be happy with such things to reflect
upon as I had passed through 1 and how could I
enter society with gratification 1 But my infant I
could not abandon, for who would care for it if iLl
mother died 1
I was left alone in the morning by the gentlemen
who had"accompanied me, as they went to take im·
•
:1 eTer paae4
1d; and aueb
boughts upon
~York when
.g established;
1ed, was now
lling. l shnll
feelings with
leave it to the
tee more in the
surrounded by
ct I had made
anded by thou·
:1 ready to pro-
never their in·
s abundant rea·
some attach·
r...~•nt~.n to visit
to lay
had felt, in a
when torture
from ~t. For
much value.
gs to reflect
how could 1
my infant 1
for it if its
•
SOl
mediate me&aurea to open the intended inYeetigation.
Being alone, I thought or my own position in enry
point or view, until I became more agitated than
ever. I tried to think what persons I might safely
apply to as friends; nd, though still undecided
what to do, I arose, thinking it would be unsafe to
remain any longer exposed, as I imagined myself;
to be known and seized by my enemies.
I went from the hotel,• hurried along, feeling u ·
If I were on my way to some.asylum, and thinking
I would first go to the house where I had several
times previously found a temporary refuge. I did
not stop to reflect that the woman was a devott.'<l
Catholic and friend to the Superior; but thought
only of her kindness to me on former occasions, and
hastened along Nbtre Dame street. But I was ap-
proaching the Seminary; and a resolution was
suddenly formed to go and ask the pardon and in-
tercession of the Superior. Then the character of
Bishop Lartique seemed to present an impassible
obstacle; and the disagreeable aspect and harsh
voiee of the man, as I recalled him, struck me with
horror. I recollected him as I had known him
when engaged in scenes concealed from the eye of
• It occurred to me, that I might have been seen by some
person on landing, who might recognise me if I appeared in
the streets in the same dress; and I requested one ofthefemale
servants to lend me some of hers. I obtained a hat and shawl
from her,'with which I left the house. When I found myself
in NGtre Dame street, I felt the utmost indecision what to do,
and the thought of my friendless condition almost overpower·
~~ .
26
I I'
..
, •• , f
I
II
I I
I I
'!
'• \.
I '
802 APPENDIX,
the w9rld. The thoughi of him made' me decid"
not to enter the Seminary. I hurried, therefore, by
the door; and the great church being at hand, my
next thought \Vas to enter there. I reached tl1c
steps, walked in, dipped my finger into the holy
water, crossed myself, turned to the first image I
..... saw, which was that of Saint Magdelen, threw my·
self upon my knees, and began to repeat prayers
with the~utmost fervour. I am certain that I never
felt a greater desire to find relief from any of the
Saints; but my ngitation hardly seemed to subside
during my exercise, which continued, perhaps, a
quarter of an hour or more. I then rose from my
knees, and placed myself under the protection of
St. Magdelen and St. Peter by these words : 11
Je me
mets sous vot1·e protection"-(I place myself under
your protection;) and added, "Sainte Marie, mert
du bon pasteur, prie po·ur moi"-(Holy Mary,
mother of the good shepherd, pray for me.) -
I then resolved to call once more at the house
where I had found a retreat after my escape from
the nunnery, and proceeded along the streets in that
direction. On my way, I had to pass a shop kept
by a woman•~ I formerly had an a~quaintance with.
She happened to see me passing, and immediately . ~·
said, 11 Maria, is that you ~ Come in." ·
I entered, and she soon proposed to me to let her
go and tell my mother that I had returned to the
city. To this I objected. I went with her, how·
• Thia wu Mrs. Tarbert.
me decidd
therefore, by
at hand, my
reached tpc
the holy
image I
threw my·
prayers
that I never
any of the
to subside
perhaps, a
from my
protection of
ords : " Je me
myself under
Marie, mere
:Holy Mary,
me.) ·
at the house
1 escape from
streets in that
a shop kept
L
intance with.
immediately . ~·
,,
me to let her
:urned to the
ith her, how·
BEQ.UEL. 303
ever, to the house of one of her acquaintances near
by, where I remained some time, during which she
went to my mother's, and came with a request from
her, that I would have an interview with her, pro·
posing to come up and see me, and saying that she
had something very particular to say to me. What
this was, I could not with any certainty conjecture.
I had my suspicions that it might be something
from the priests, designed to get me back into their
power, or, at least, to suppress my testimony.
I felt an extreme repugnance to E~ceing my
mother, and in the distressing state of apprehension
and uncertainty in which I was, could determine on
nothing, except to avO.id her. I therefore soon left
the house, and walked on without any particular
object. The weather was then very unpleasant, and
it was raining incessantly. To this I was very in·
different, and walked on till I had got through the
suburbs, and found myself beyond the· windmills.
Then I returned, and passed back through the city,
still not recognised by anybody.
I onee saw one of my brothers, unlt3S I was
much mistaken, and thought he knew me. If it
was he, I am confident he avoided me, and that was
my belief at the time, as he went into a yard with
the appearance of much agitation. _ I continued to
walk up and down most of the day, fearful of stop-
ping anywhere, lest I should be recognised by my
enemies, or betrayed into their power. I felt all the
distress of a feeble, terrified wom:m, in need of pro·
tection, and, as I thought, without a friend in whom
I I I
I'
I
i.
I.
~~ I :
I
: ·~
,.
::
I
h
304 AIIPJUCDIX.
I could safely confido. It distressed me extremely
to think of my poor babe ; and I had now been so
long absent from it, as necessarily to suffer much
inconvenience.
I recollected to have been told, in the New York
Hospital, that laudanum would relieve distress both
bodily and mental, by a woman who had urged me
to make trial of it. In my despair, I resolved to
make an experiment with it, and entering an apoth·
ecary's shop, asked for some. The apothecary ra.
fused to give me-any; but an old man who was
there, told me to come in, inquired where I had been,
and what was the matter with me, seeing that I was
quite wet through. I let him know that I hnd an
·infant, and on his urging me to tell more, I told him
where my mother lived. He went out, and soon
after returned, accompanied by my mother, who
told me she had my child at home, and pressed me
to go to her house and sec it, saying she would not
insist on my entering, but would bring it out to me.
I consented to accompany her; but on reaching
the door, she began to urge me to go in, saying I
should not be known to the rest o.f lhe fiunily, but
might stay there in perfect privacy. I was resolved
not to comply with this request, and resisted all her
entreaties, though she continued to urge me for a
longtime, perhaps half an hour. At length she went
in, and I walked away, in ·a state no less.desperate
than before. Indeed, night was no\V approaching,
the rain continued, and I had no prospect of food,
:-est, or even shelter. I we.nt on till I reached the
extremely
been so
1su:ner much
New York
distress both
urged me
resolved to
an apoth4
r~
who was
I had been,
that I was
I had an
I told him
ut, and soon
mother, who
I pressed me
1e would not
it out to me.
on reaching
in, saying I
e fiunily, but
was resolved
sisted all her
ge me for a
gthshe went
!SS desperate
tpproaching,
pect of food,
reached the
. IBQ'OBL 305
parade-ground, unnoticed, I believe, by anybody,
except.one man; who asked where I was going, but
to whom I gave no answer. I had told my mother,
before she left me, that she might find me in the
parade-ground. There I stopped, in a part of the
open ground where there was no probability of my
being observed, and stood thinking of the many dis-
tressing things which harassed me; suffering, in4
deed, from exposure to wet.and cold, but indifferent
to them as evils of mere trifling importance, and
expecting that death would soon ease me of my
present sufferings. I had hoped that my mother
would bring my babe to me there ; but as it was
growing ]ate, I gave up aU expectation of seeing
her.
At length she came, accompanied by Mr. Hoyt,
who, as I afterward learnt, had called on her after
my leaving the hotel, and, at her request, had in·
trusted my child to her care. Calling again after
I had left her house, she had informed him that she
now knew where I was, and consented to lead him
to the spot. I was hardly able to speak or to walk,
in consequence of the hardships I had undergone;
but being taken to a small inn, nnd put under the
care of several women, I was made comfortablo
with a change of clothes and a warm bed.•
----·-----------------
• I afterward learnt, that the two gentlemen who accompa
nied me from thr. States, hnd been seeking me with great anx·
iety all day. I persisted in not going to my mother's, and that
was the reason why we applied to strangers for a lodging. For
nome time it appeared doubtful whether I should find anr rcfut•
26•
(
:, I I
I
I ~J ,.
I I
I'
I I
,. I·!
..
1
';
I
I
' I
I I
I
'·
H
!
i
'·
,.
' • I
I
t . I
II I
' I
306
tar the night, as several small inna in the neighbourhood proved
to be full. At length, however, lodgin~ were obtained for me
io one, and I experienced kindneu &om the female& of the
~uae, who put me into a warm bed, and by careful treatment
soon rendered me more comfortable. I thought I heard the
voice of a woman, in the course of the evening, whom I bad
teen about the nunnery, and ucertained that I waa not mllo
taken.
I forgot to mention, when writing the " Sequel," that, wbUe
preparing to leave thia houee the next day, Mre. Tarbert came
in and BPOk.e with me. She eaid, that abe had just come from
the government-house, and asked. 11
What are all those men at
your mether'a for 'J what is going on there 'J'~ I told her I could
not telL She said, "Your mother wants to apeak with you
•err much." I told her I would not go to her house, for I
feared there waa 10me plan to get me into the hands of the
prieeta.
The inn in which I waa, is one near the government-boule.
in a block. owned by the Baroneaa de Montenac, or the Baroneae
de Longeuil, her daughter. I think it must be a respectable
houe, in apiteof what Mre. Tarbert aaya in her aftidavit. 1\lra
Tarbert ia the woman spoken or several times in the "Sequel.''
without being named: u I did not know howto ape1l her~
c.11t.. dlda'Yit came oat.
orthe Baroneee
te a respectable
' affidavit. 1\Ira
n the " Sequel,"
oapellher~
CHAPTER IX.
Baeed lnto c holpitcblt fcm.ilv-Fluct'U4ting/ulingt- Vi-
.U. from •ftlcrol pcr•om-Fathtr Phelan'• dtclcrctiou
agcin.t nw in Aw ch.urch-Inteni~• t#ith. c Journeyma"
Qwpmter-Argvmt1&U 1DUh Aim.
IN the morning I received an invitation to go to
the house of a respectable Protestant, an old inhabi·
tant of the city, who had been informed of my situ·
ation j and although I felt hardly able to move, I
proceeded thither in a cariole, and was received
with a degree of kindness, and treated with such
eare, that ·I must ever retain a lively gratitude to-
wards the family.
On Saturday I had a visit from Dr. Robertson, to
whose house I had been taken soon after my rescue
from drowning. He put a few questions to me, and
soon withdrew.
On Monday, after the close of mass, a Canadian
man came in, and entered into conversation with
the master of the house in an adjoining room. He
was, as I understood, a journeyman carpenter, and a·
Catholi\!, and having heard that a fugitive nun wail
somewhere in the city, began to speak on the sub-·
ject in French. I was soon informed that Father
Phelan~ had just addressed his congregation with
much apparent excitement about myself; and thus
the carpenter had received'his information. ·Father
Phelan's words, aecordini to wbat I heard aaid by
I II,
I I
I I • l
I:
il'
I' 1
i
l~ i
' ·~
I
It
I
•I I
I
308 APPENDIX.
numerous witnesses at different times, must have
been much like the following:-
"There is a certain nun now in this city, who
has left our faith, and joined the Protestants. She
has a child, of which she is ready to swear I am
the father. She would be glad in this way to take
away my gown from me. If I knew where to find
her, I would put her in prison. I mention this to
guard you against being deceived by what she may
say. The devil has such a hold upon people now-
a-days, that there is danger that some might believe
her story."
Before he concluded his speech, as was declared,
he burst into tears, and appeared to be quite over-
come. When the congregation had been dismissed,
a number of them came round him, al).d he toJd
some of them, that I was Antichrist; I was not aha·
man being, as he was convinced, but an evil spirit,
who had got among the Catholics, and been admit·
ted into the nunnery, where I had learnt the rules
so that I could repeat them: My appearance, he de·
clared, was a fulfilment of prophecy, ns Antichrist is
foretold to be•coming, in order to break down, it
possible, the Catholic religion.
The journeyman carpenter had entered the house
where I lodged under these impressions, and had
conversed some time on the subject, without any
suspicion that I was near. After he bad rail"d
against me with much violence, a~ I afterward
learned, the master of the house informed him that
he knew something of the nun, and mentioned that
must have
is city, who
stants. She
swear I am
way to take
•here to find
1tion this to
hat she may
people now·
.ight believe
as declared,
quite over·
1 dismissed,
al).d he told
1as not aha·
1 evil spirit,
admit·
the rules
he de·
the house
and had
hout any
had rail~d
afterward
him that
~..vu~u that
SEQUEL. 309
ebe charged the priests of the Seminary with crimea
of an awful character; in reply to which theearpen·
ter expressed the greatest disbelief.
"You can satisfy yourself,'' said the master of the
bouse, 11
if you will take the trouble to step up stairs~
for she lives in .my family."
"I see her I" he exclaimed-" No, I would not
see the wretched creature for any thing. I wonder
you are not afraid to have her in your house-She
will bewitch you all-The evil spirit I"
After some persuasion, howeve!, he came into the
room where I was sitting, but looked at me with
every appearance of dread and curiosity ; and his
exclamations, and subsequent conversation, in Ca·
nadian French, were very ludicrous.
"Eh bin," he began em first seeing me, 11
c'est ici
la malheureuse ~" [We1l, is this the poor crea·
ture1] But he stood at a distance, and looked at
me with curiosity and evident fear. I asked him
to sit down, and tried to make him feel nt his ease,
by •peaking in a mild and pleasant tone. He soon
became so far master of himself. as to enter into con·
versation.
11
I understood," said he, '' that she has said very
h~rrd things against the priests. How can that be
true 1" "I can easily convince you," said I, 11
that
they do what they ought not, and commit crimes of
the kind I complain of. Youare married, I suppose~"
He .assented. " You confessed, I presume, on the
morning of your wedding-day~" He acknowledg·
ed that he did. " Then did not the priest tell you
' '
' , I
',I ..
! .
J.
''
j.:
I I,
'
I \'
'J
•; ,,
I ..
I
810 APPENDIX.
at confession, that he had had intercoursewith your
intended bride, but that it was for her sanctification,
"and that you must never reproach her with it111
, This question instantly excited him, but he did
not hesitate a moment to answer it. " Yes," replied
he; "and that looks black enough." I had put
the question to him, because I kne~ the practice to
which I alluded had prevailed at St. Denis while I
was there, and believed it to be universal, or at least
very common in all the Catholic parishes of Cana·
da. I thought I had reason to presume, that every
Catholic, married in Canada, had had such e.xpe·
rience, and that an alJusion to the conduct of tho
priest in this ·particular, must compel any of them
to admit that my declarations were far from being
incredible. This was the effect on the mind of the
s1mple mechanic; and from that moment he made
no more serious questions concerning my truth and
sincerity, during that interview.
Further conversation ensued, in the course ot
which I expressedthe willingness which I haveoften
declared, to go into the Convent and point out things
wnich would confirm, to any doubting person, tho
truth of my heaviest accusations against the p·riests
and nuns. At length he withdrew, and afterward
entered, saying that he had been to the Convent to
make inquiries concerning me. He assured me
that he had been told that although I had once be-
longed to the nutmery, I was called St. Jacques, and
not St. Eustace ; and that now they would not own .
or recognise me. Then he began to curse me, bw
rsewith your
1anctification,
with it~,
, but he did
Yes," replied
I had put
te practice to
)enis while I
a], or at least
hes of Cana·
1e, that every
l such expe·
nduct of the
any of them
r froin being
1 mind of the
tent he made
my truth and
1e course ot
hI haveoften
int out things
; person, the
the p·riests
afterward
Convent to
assured me
had once be-
Jacques,.and
not own .
me, but
SEQVBL. 311
yet sat down, as if disposed for further conversation.
It seemed as if he was affected by the most contrary
feelings, and in rapid succession. One of the things
he said, was to persuade me to leave Montreal. 11 I
advise you," said he, 11
to go away to-morrow." I
replied that I was in no haste, and might 1tay a
month longer.
Then he fell to cursing me once more : but the
next moment broke out against the priests, calling
them all the names he could think of. His passion
became so high against them, that he soon began to
rub himself, as the low Canadians, who are apt to
be very passionate, sometimes do, to calm their feel-
.ings, when they· are excited to a painful degre.e.
After this explosion he again became quite tranquil,
and turning to me in a frank and friendly man·ner,
said: 11
I will help you in your measures against
the priests: but tell me, first-you are going to print
a book, are you not~, 11
No," said I, 11
I have no
thoughts of that."
Then he left the house again, and soon returned,
saying he had been at the Seminary, and seen a per-
son who had known me in the nunnery, and said
I had been only a novice, and that he would not ac-
knowledge me now. I sent back word by him, that
I would show one spot in the nunnery that would
prove I spoke the truth. Thus he continued to go
and return several times, saying something of the
kind every time, until I became tired of him. He
was so much enraged once or twice during some of
the interviews, that I felt somewhat alarmed j and
1 I
1 I
',I,.
I r
' .,
I
I
I I
t II
I '
1 , I
I
i I.
I
'I•
I
3li APPENDIX.
some of the family heard him swearing as he went
down stairs: "Ah, sacre-that is too black I"
He c;~me at last, dressed up likea gentleman, and
told me he was ready to wait on me to the nunnery.
I expressed my surprise that he should expect me
to go with him alone, and told him I had never
thought of going without some protector, still assur-
ing, that with any person to secur~ my return, I
would cheerfully go all over the nunnery, and show
aufficient evidence.of the truth of what I alleged.
My feelings continued to vary: I was sometimes
fearful, and sometimes so courageous as to think se-
riously of going into the Recolet church during
mass, with my child in my arms, and calling upon
the priest to own it. And this I am confident I
should have done, but for the persuasions used to
prevent me.•
• I did not.make up my mind, {eo Car as I rcmember,)pubo-
licJy to proclaim who was the father of my child. unleefi re-
quired to do 10, until I learnt that Father Phelan bad denied is.
as he went
ackP'
1tleman, and
he nunnery.
l expect me
: had never
•
r, still usur·
ty return, I
-:y,and show
I alleged.
lS sometimes
·s to think se·
.urch during
calling upon
L confident I
used to
CHAPTER. X.
A MUhaoa-An, lmlt:ll'oman,-D\fficultr '" laG-'q "'' A.Jl-
do»it laken,-Le1al objectUm. to it when, takm.
ANoTHER persQn who expressed a strong wish
to see me,·was an Irish milkman. He had heard,
what seemed to have been pretty generally reported,
that I blamed none but the Irish priests. He put
the question, whether it was a fact that I accused
nobody but Father Phelan. I told him it was not
so; and this pleased him so well, that he told me iC
I would stay in Montreal, I should have milk for
myself and my child as long as I lived. -It is well
known that strong antipathies have long existed be-
t\Veen French and Irish Catholics in that city. 1
The next day the poor Irishman returned, but in
a very different state of mind. He was present at
church in the morning, he said, when Father Phe·
Ian told the congregation that the nun of whom he
had spoken before, had gone to court and accused
him; and that he, by the power he possessed, baa:
;truck her powerless as she stood before the judge,
~~~that she sunk helpless on the floor. He express·
cd, by the motion of his hands, the unresisting IIMlD·
ner in which she had sunk under the mysterious
influence, and declared that she would have died on
the spot, but that he had c4osen to keep.her alive that
she might retract her false accusation. This, he
satd, she did, most humbly, before the court, ~
21
·.I
I'
. i ,,
J
,, '
I
!
\
I I
I
APPIUfDIX.
knowledging that eho had been paid a ·hundred
poun~s as a bribe.
The first words of the poor milkman, on revisit·
ing me, therefore, were like these: "That's to show
you what power the priest has I Didn't he give it to
you in the court 7 It is to be hoped you will leave
the city now." He then stated what he had heard
Father Phelan say, and expressed his entire convie·
tion of its truth, and tho extreme joy he felt on disco·
vering, as hesupposed he had, that his own priest was
innocent, and had gained such a triumph over me.
A talkative Irish woman also made her appear·
ance, among those who called at the house, and ur·
ged for permission to see me. Said she, .. I have
heard dreadful things are told by a nun you have
here, against the priests; and I have to. convince
myself of the truth. I want to see the nun you have
got in your house." When informed that I was un·
weB, and not inclined at present to see any more
strangers, she still showed much dispos.ition to ob-
tain an interview. " Well, aint it too bad," she ask·
ed, " that there should be any reason for people to
say such things against the priests 1" At length she·
obtained admittance to the room where I was, en.
tered with eagerness, and approached.me.
"Arrah," she exclaimed, "God bless you-is
this you 7 Now sit down, and let me see the child.
And is it Father Phelan's, God bless you1 But
they say you tell about murders; and I want to
know if they arc all committed by the Irish priests.''
11 Oh no," replied I, "by no means." 11 Then God
a ·hundred
n, on reviait·
hat's to show
1 he give it to
ou will leave
he had heard
. .
enttre CODVIC·
l felt on disco·
wn priest was
lphoverme.
, her appear·
touse, and ur·
she, " I have
1un you have
3 to. convince
nun you have
that I was un-
see any more
uv.,........... to ob-
me.
bless you-is
see the child.
you~ But
nd I want to
Irish priests."
uThen God
815
bless you.'' asid she. " If.you will live in Montreal,
you shall never want. I will !Icc that neither you
nor your child ever want, for putting part of the
blame upon the French priests. I am going to
Father Phelan, and I shall tell him about it. But
they say you are an evil spirit. I want to know
whether jt is so or not." "Come here,11
said I, "feel
me, and satisfy yourself. Besides, did you ever hear
of an evil spirit having a child~"
I heard from those about me, thut there was great
difficulty in finding a magistrate willing to take my
affidavit. I am perfectly satisfied that this was ow-
ing to the influence of the priests to prevent my
accusations against them from being made public.
One evening a lawyer, who had been employed for
the ·purpose, accompanied me to a French justice
with an affidavit ready prepared in E'lglish for his
signature, and informed him that 'he wished him to
ndmmister to me the oath. Without any apparent
suspicion of me, the justice said," Have you heard
of the nun who ran ~way from the Convent, and has
come back to the city, to bear witness against the
priests1" "No maUer about that now," replied the
lawyer hastily; 11 I have no time to talk with you-
you will take this person's oath now or not 1" He
could not read a word of the document, because it
was not in his own language, and soon placed. his
signature at the bottom. It proved, however, that
we had gained nothing by this step, for the lawyer
afterward informed us, that the laws required the
affidavit of a nun and a minor to be taken before a
superior magistrate.
I I
'IIi
I •
I
.i'~
·''
I I'
)
I I
I
CHAPTER. XI
~ unth tM Attomey General of t1u PrwinctJ-AtttmpC
to abduct mt-Mor• interl'ietD.-A mob uciled againd ma
-Protected by ttDo•oldier.-Conl'inced that an in-.,utigation
qfmy chargu could not be obtaimd-Departwa from Mon-
lrlal-Clonn,. refl«tion•.
TuosB who had advised to the course to be pur-
wed, bad agreed to lay the subject before the highest
authorities. They soon came to the conviction that
it would be in.vain to look for any favour from the
Governor, and resolved to lay it before the Attorney
General as soon as he should return from Quebec.
After waiting for some time, he returned ; and I
was informed, in a few da.ys, that he had appointed
an interview on the following morning. I went at
the time with a gentleman of the city, to the house
of Mr. Grant, a distinguished lawyer. In.a short
time a servant invited us to walk up stairs, and we
went; but after I had entered a small room at the
end of a parlour, the door was shut behind me by
Mr. Ogdetl, the Attorpey General. A chair was
given me, which was placed with the back towards
a bookcase, at which a man was standing, apparent·
ly looking at the books; and besides the two persons
I have mentioned, there WaS but one more in the
room,• Mr. Grant, the mD:ster of the house. Of the
llntpartoftheinterviewlshallnotpartieularlyspeak.
• Uoleal another wu conoeeled-u Inspected.
1'inc:4t-AtttmpC
:ed againtt me
.n in-cutitation
!U'e from Mon-
rse to be pur·
re the highest
onviction that
1our from the
~ the Attorney
from Quebec.
arned ; and I
appointed
. I went at
to the house
In a short
g, apparent·
two persons
more in the
Ofthe
IEQVBL.; 311
The two legal gentlemen at length began a mock
examination of me, in which they seemed to me to'
be actuated more by a curiosity no way commend-
able, than a sincere desire to discover the truth, wri-
ting down a few of my answers. In this, however,
the person behind me took no active part. One of
the questions put to me was, " What are the colours
of the carpet in the Superior's room~,
I told what they were, when they turned to
him, and inquired whether I had told the truth.
He answered only by a short grunt of assent, as if
afraid to speak, or even to utter a natural tone i and
at the same time, by his hastiness, showed that he
was displeased that my answer was correct. I was
asked to describe a particular man I had seen in
the nunnery, and did so. My examiner partly
turned round with some remark or question_which
was answered in a similar spirit. I turned and
looked at the stranger, who was evidently skulking
to avoid my seeing him, and yet listening to every
word that was said. I saw enough in his appear·
ance to become pretty well satisfied that I had seen
him before i and something in his form or attitude
reminded me strongly of the person whose name
had been mentioned~ I was then requested to re-
peat some of the prayers used in the nunnery, and
repeated part of the office of the Virgin, and some
others.
At length, after I had been·in the little room, as I
ahould judge, nearly an hnur, I was informed thal
27•
I I
.I
,:.
I •
I i:
IJ: •
I
118 •A1'PBIIDIS.
the eamination had been satisfactory, and that I
might go.
I then returned home; but no further step wu
taken by the Attorney General, and he refused, as
I understood, to return my affidavit, which had beell
left in his hands to act upon.
Besides the persons I have mentioned, l had 1n·
terviews with numbers of others. I learnt from
some, that Father Phelan addressed his congrega·
tion a second time concerning me, and expressly
forbade them to speak to me if they should have
an opportunity, on pain of excommunication. It
was also said, that he prayed for the family I lived
with,·that they might be converted. ·
I repeated io several different persons my willing·
ness to go into the nunnery, and point out visible
evidences·of .the truth of my statements; and when
I was told'by one man, who said he had been to the
priests; that I had better leave the city, or I would
be clapped into prison, I made up my mind that I
ahould like'to be imprisoned a little while, because
then, I though~ I could not be refused a·public ex·
ainin:ation~·
Some Canadians·were'present one day; when the·
miStress ofthe house repeated, in my presence,!that
I was·ready to go into the nunnery ifprotected, and.
·if I did not ·convince others ofthe truth of my asser·
tiona, that I would consent to be burned.
.. O ·yei~ I dare say," replied'one of the' men-
•'tbl deYiJ~ulcl· take her off..;....lhe kilow•=
he would.·
r, and that I
ber step waa
1e refused, as
1ich had bee11
1ed, l had 1n·
I learnt from
his congrega·
!lnd expressly
' should havo
tunication. It
family I lived
ns my willing·
•int out visible
nts ; and when
had been to the
ty, or I would
LY mind that I
while, because
ed a·public ex·
day;·when the·
presence~' that
protected, and,
of niy·asser·
319
He wculd take care of her-we should never be
able to get her-the evil spirit I"
A woman present said-" I·co-uld light the fire to
bum you, myself."
A woman of Montreal, who has a niece in the
nunnery, on hearing of what I declared ab1ut it,
said that if it was true ·she would help tear it down.
Among those who came to see me, numbers were
ut first as vio-lent as any I have mentioned, but after
n little ·conversation, became mild and calm. I have
heard persons ·declare, that it would be no harm t~
"
kill me, as I had an evil spirit.
One woman told me, that she had seen Father
Phelan in the street, talking with a man, to whom
he said, that the people were coming to tear down
the house in which I staid, intending afterward to
set fire to it in the c.ellar. This story gave me no
serious alarm, for I thought ~ could see through it
evidence of an intention to frighten me, and make
me leave the city.•
I was under greater apprehensions, however, one
-day, in consequence of an accidental discovery of
a plan laid to tak~ me o1f by force. I had stepped
into the cellar to get an iron·holder, when I heard
·the voices of persons in the street above, and recog-
• Jfelt verr confident, from Burne circumstances, that thit
woman had been tent to bring eucha story by Father Phelana
and such evidence of his timidity-
rather imboldelled me. I"._.
in another room wben she came, and henrd her talki~1t q~ and
abusing me·; then:coining out, I said, "How dare f:)ta tay I do
not speak the truth 1" "God bleu you." said lh~ "lit down
•hellant alL,.
• I
'.j·
f I, f
t!
' "•\,.
.i
iJ
I
320 APPENDIX.
nised those of my mother and the Irish woman her
friend. There was another woman with them.
u You go in and lay hold of her," said onevoice.
" No, you are her mother-you go in and bring
her out-we will help you.,
:J I was almost overcome with dread of faUmg into
·~~
their hands, believing that they would deliver me
up to the Superior. Hastening into a room, I got
behind a bed, told the Indy of the house the cause
of my fear, and calling to a little girl to bring me
my child, I stood in a state of violent agitation.
Expecting them in the house every instant, and fear-
ing my infant might cry, and so lead them to the
place of my concealment, I put my hand upon its
mouth to keep it quiet.
It was thought desirable ta get the testimony of
the mistress of the house where I spent the night,
after my escape from the nurmery, as one means of
substantiating my story. I had been there the day
before my visit to the house of Mr. Grant, accom-
panied by a friend, and on my first inquiring of her
about my nunnery dress, she said she had carried
1t to the Superior ; speaking with haste, as if she ap-
prehended I had some object very different from
what I actually had. It now being thought best to
summon her as a witness before a magistrate, and
not knowin~ her whole name, we set off again to-
wards he..· J.ouse to make inquiry.
On our way we had to pass behind the parade.
I suddenly heard an outcry from a little gallery io
be rear ofa hous~ which fronts another way, which
room, I got
the cause
to bring me
agitation.
and fear-
them to the
and upon its
testimony of
1t the night,
me means of
here the day
~rant, accom·
uiring of her
~ had carried
as if she ap·
fferent from
mght best to
~istrate, and
•tf again to-
the parade.
e gallery io
way, whicb
321
drew my attention. "There's the nun, there's the
nunI" exclaimed a female, after twice clapping her
hands smartly togetl'ler, "The:re's the nun, there's
thenunl"
I looked up, and whom should I see but the
'Irishwoman, who had taken so active a part, on se-
veral ·occasions, in my affairs, on account of her
friendship for my mother-the same who had ac-
companied me to Longeuil in a boat, when I set out
for New-Yo.
rk, after making arrangements for my
journey. She now behaved as if exasperated against
me to the utmost; having, as I had no doubt, learnt
the object of my journey to Montreal since I had last
spoken with her, and having all her Catholic pre-
judices excited. .She screamed out: .. There's the
nun that's come to swear against our dear Father
Phelan. Arrah, lay hold, lay hold upon her t Catch
her, kill her, pull her to pieces."
And so saying she hurried down to the street.
while a number of women, children, and some men,
.came running out, and pursued after me. I imme ·
diately took to flight, for I did not know what they
might do ; and she, with the rest, pursued us, until
:we reached twa soldiers, whom we called upon to
protect us. They showed a readiness to do so; and
when they learnt that we were merely going to a
house beyond, and intended to return peaceably,
consented to .accompany us. The crowd, which
·might rather be called a mob, thought proper not to
.offer us any violence in the presence of the sold;ers.
and nfter following us a l~ttle distance, began to dr{)p
' l
',,'
J.
I.
t' '
'·
822 .Al'PENDIX.
oft; until all had disappeared. One of the so)diera,
however, soon after remarked, that he observed a
man following us, whom he had seen in the crowd,
and proposed that instead of both of them going be-
fore us, one should walk behind, to guard against
any design he might have. This was done ; and
we proceeded to a house near the one where I
had found a refuge, and after obtaining the infor·
mation we sought, returned, still guarded by the
soldiers.
All our labour in this case, however, proved una-
vailing ; for we were unable to get the woman to
appear in court.
At le~gth .it was found impossible to induce the
mag-istrates to do any thing in the case ; and ar-
rangements were made for my return to New York.
While in the ferry-boat, crossing from Montreal to
Laprairie, I happened to be standing near_two little
girls, when I overheard the following conversation.
" Why do you leave Montreal so soon 1"
" I had gone to spend a week or two ; but I heard
that Antichrist was in the city, and was afraid to be
there. So I am going right home. I would not
be in Montreal while Antichr~st is there. He has
come to destroy the Catholic religion."
I felt quite happy when I found myself once more
safe in New-York; and it has only been since my
return from Montreal, and the conviction I had there
formed, that it was in vain for me to attempt to get a
fair investigation intQ the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, that
I seriously thought of publishing a book. Under
f the soJdien,
1e observed a
in the crowd,
.em going be·
:uard against
1s done; and
one where I
ng the infor·
arded by the
~.proved una·
~he woman to
to induce the
ase; and ar·
o New York
Montreal to
two little
1"
; but I heard
afraid to be
I would not
He has
once more
since my
I had there
pt to get a
unnery, that
Under
SEQUEL. 323
some disadvantages this volume has been prepared,
and unfortunately its publication has been delayed
to a season when it will be difficult to transmit it
promptly to all parts of the country. I am sure, how·
ever, that in spite of all, no material errors will be
found in it uncorrected, though many, very many,
facts and circumstances might have been added
which would. have proved interesting. Indeed 1
nm persuaded, from the experience I have already
had, that past scenes, before forgotten, will continue
to return to my memory, the longer I dwell upon
my convent life, and that many of these will tend to
t:onfirm, explain, or illustrate some of the statements
now before the public.
But before I close this little volume, I must be in·
dulged in saying a word of myself. The narrative
through which the reader has now passed, he must
not close and lay aside as if it were a fiction; neither
would I wish him to forget the subject ofit as one wor·
thy only to excite surprise and wonder for a moment.
• I
.,
I •
I:
: ·l
CONCLUSION.
IT is desired that the author of this volume maybe
regarded, not as a voluntary participator in the very
guilty transactions which are described; but re-
ceive sympathy for the trials which she has en·
dured, and the peculiar situation in which her past
experience,and escapefrom the power ofthe Superior
of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, at 1.\lontreal, and the
snares of the Roman priests in Canada, h.ave left her.
My feelings are frequently distressed,' and agi.
tated, by the recollection of what I have passed
through; and by night, and by day, I have little
peace of mind, and few periods of calm and pleas-
ing reflection. Futurity also appears uncertain. I
know not what reception this little work may meet
with; and what will be the effect of its publication
here, or in Canada, among strangers, friends, or
enemies. I have given the world the truth, so far
as I have gone,,.on subjects of which I am told they
are generally ignorant; and I feel perfect confi·
dence, that any facts which may yet be discovered,
will confirm my words, whenever they can be ob-
tained. Whoever shall explore the Hotel Dieu
Nunnery, at Montreal, will find unquestionable
evidence that the descriptions of the interior of that
edifice, given in this book, were furnished by one
• This was originally designed for the Conclusion, but Wll
made the Preface in the first editioD.
volume may be
~tor in the very
:ribed ; but reo
h she has en·
~vhich her past
ofthe Superior
ntreal, and the
a, h.ave left her.
!SSed,· and ag~
I have passed
r, I have little
~aim and pleas-
uncertain. I
may meet
its publication
friends, or
truth, so far
I am told they
perfect confi·
be discovered,
can be ob-
Hotel Dieu
lln<JUelmOltlable
IEQVEL. 825
.familiar with them; for whatever alterations may be
attempted, there are changes which no mason or
carpenter can make and effectually conceal i and
therefore, there must be plentiful evidence in that
institution of.the truth of my description.
There arc living witnesses, also, who bught to
be made to speak, ·without fear of penances, tor·
tures, and death; and possibly their testimony, at
some future time, may be added to confirm my state·
ments. There are witnesses I should greatly rejoice
to see at liberty ; or rather there were. Are they
living now~ or will they be permitted to live after
the Priests and Superior have seen this book~ Per
haps the wretched nuns in the cells have already suf.
fered for my sake-
. perhaps Jane Ray has been silenc·
ed for ever, or will be murdered, before she has an op·
portunity toadd her mostimportanttestimony to mine.
But speedy death, in respect only to this worl~.
can be no great calamity to those who lead the life
of a nun. The mere recollec.tion of it always makes
me miserable. It would distress the reader, should
I repeat the dreams with w~ich I am often terri-
fied at night; for I sometimes f.'\ncy myself pursued
by my worst enemies; frequently I seem as if shut
up again in the Convent; often I imagine myself
present at the repetition of the worst scenes that I
have hinted at or described. Sometimes I stand by
the secret place of interment in the cellar; somC:.
times .I think I can hear the shrieks of· helpless
females in the hands of atrocious m12n ; and some-
times almost seem actually to look again upon tho
28
' I
',I .
i.
'I I
.,,
I I
I
i'
I' p
. t
I
I I
~~- .
ol
'
826 APPENDIX.
calm and placid countenance of Saint Francis, ns
she appeared when surrounded by her murderers.
I cannot banish the scenes and characters of this
book from my memory. To me it can never appear
J.ike an amusing fable, or lose its interest nnd im·
portancl~. The story is one whkh is continually
before me, and must return fresh to .~1y mind, with
painful emotions, as long as I live. \Vith time, and
Christian instruction, and the sympathy and exam·
ple of the wise and good, I hope to learn submis·
sively to bear whatever trials are appointed for me,
and to improve under them all.
Impressed as I continuallyam withthe frightful re-
ality of the painful communications that I ha\·e made
in this volume, I can only offer to all personswho may
doubt ordisbelieve my statements,these two things:-
Permit me to go through the Hotel Dieu Nun·
nery, at Montreal, with some impartial ladies and
gentlemen, that they may compare my account with
the interior parts of that building, into which no per·
sons but the Roman Bishop and the priests,• are ever
admitted ; and if they do not find my description true,
then discard me as an impostor. Bring me before a
court ofjustice-there I am willing to meet Lartigut,
Dufresne, P kela11,, B()nin, and Richards, and their
wicked companions, with .the Superior, and any o(
the nuns, before ten thousand men.
MARIA :MoNK.
New- l"ork, Ill.\ Januar1J, 1836.
•I should have added, and mel& per•OM a. lhey introcluct.
. Francis, ns
!r murderers.
~actcrs of this
never appear
~rest nnd im·
s continually
y mind, with
lith time, and
hy ond exnm·
learn submis·
ointed for me,
he frightful re-
nt I have made
rsonswho may
~two things:-
.1 Dieu Nun·
ladies and
ion true,
gme before a
Lartigut,
and their
or, and any of
RIA :MoNK.
they introduce.
THE TRUTH
01' 'I'D
• A'\VFUL DISCLOSURES BY MARIA MONK•
DEMONBTIU.TED.
1. Ea,.ly m.eam u•ed to di•credit the book. Di..ffe,.ent cla••ee
~I objcclCH'I.-It was anticipated that persons who know littlo
or nothing of the changeless spirit and uniform practices of the
Papol eccle1.1instics. would doubt or deny the statements which
Haria ){onk has given of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery at Montreal.
'l'he delineations. if true, are eo loathsome and revolting, that
they exhibit the principles or the Roman priesthood, and the
eorruption of the monastic system, as combining a social curse.
whicb m'.lllt be extinguished for the welfare ofmankind.
From the period when the intimations were firet published in
the Protestant Vindicator, that a Nun had escaped from one of
the Con\·ents in Canada, and that a narrative of the secrets of
that prison-house for females was preparing for the press; at·
tempts hnve occasionally been mnde to prejudice the public
judgment, by fulsome eulogies of the Roman Priests and Nuns.
as paragons of immaculate perfection; and also by infuriated
denunciations and calumnies of all persons. who serioul!ly be ·
lieve th:1t every human institution which directly violates the
(;onstitution of nature, and the express commands of God, mUJt
neccs•:1rily be immoral.
The system of seclusion and celibacy adopted in Convents Ia
altogether unnaturai, and subverts all the appointmonts of Je·
ho-vah in reCcrencc to the .Juties and usefulness of man: while
the impenetrable secrecy, which is the cement of the gloomy ·
tluperstructnre, not only extirpates every incentive to active vir-
'tue. but unavoidably opens the flood-gates of wickedness. witll·
eur restraint or remorse. because it eccures entire impunity.
1 I
i':
828 APPEXDI:C.
Since the publication of the "Awful Dit~closurcs," much 10o
licitudc has been ft!lt for tho rcsultcf the exhibitions which they
pretent us: but it is most remarkable, that the incredulity ia
confined almost exclusively to Protest:snts, or at leaat, to tho~
who pretend not to be Pap:sts. The Roman Priests are too
crafty to engage directly in any controversy respecting the credi·
bility of 1\Iarin Monk's narrative. As long as they can induco
the Roman Catholics privntelv to deny the stntements, and to
-.ilify Christians as the inventers offalsehood• concerning 11
the
Holy Church nnd the Holy Priests!'' so long will they laugh ot
the. censures of the Protestant&; and ne long as they con in·
flucnce tho Editors of political popen vociferously to deny
cvnngclicnl truth, and to decry every attempt to discover the
secrets of the Romish pricstcraft os false and un<:haritoblc, so
long will the Jesuits ridicule and despise that incredulity which
is at once so blinding, deceitful, and dangerous. '
The volume entillcd "Awful Disclosures by Marin Monk,"
has been ossnileri by two cineses of Objectors. Some persons
affirm that they cannot, and that they will not believe her nar·
rative, because it is 80 improbable. Who is to judge of tho
standard of improbabilities'} Assuredly not they who are ig·
nornnt of the whole subject to which those improbabilities ad·
vert. Now it is certain, that persons who arc acquainted witlt
Popery, nrc generally convinced, nnd readily agree, that Maria
l\lonk's narrative is '·cry much assimilated to the abstract view
which n sound judgment, enlightened by the Holy Scriptures,
would form of that antichristian sys11m1 as predicted by tho
prophet Daniel, and the apostles, Peter, Paul, and John.
2. The question of Probability.-But the question of pro·
bnbilities mny be tested by another fact; and that is the full, un~
shaken conviction, and the serious declaration of many persons
who hnve Jived in Can:1dn, that Maria Monk's allegations
a·gainst the Roman Priests nnd Nuns in that province, are pre-
cisely the counterpart of their ordinary character, spirit, and
practice. There ore many persons now residing in the city or
New York, who long dwelt in Montreal and Quebec; and who
are thoroughly acquainted with the t~ituntion of affairs among
the Canadian Papists-and such of them as are known, with
scarcely a dissenting voice, proclaim the same factS~ which
every traveller, who has any discernment or curiosity, learns
when he makes the northern summer tour. It is also indubi·
tllble. that intelligent persons :'1 Canada generally, eapecilllll'
cs," much eo-
•n• which they
' incredulity ia
least, to those
~rieata are too
cting the credi·
aey can induco
:menta, and to
•ncerning "the
1they laugh nt
a they can in·
ously to deny
!) discover tho
nc:hnritnblc, so
~rcdulity which
I
Marin Monk,"
Some persons
•elievo her nnr·
!) judge of tho
ey who are ig-
robabilities ad·
· ted with
that Maria
tract view
Scriptures,
by the
John.
of pro·
is the full, un~
azYIEW 01" TOE \VHOLB IVBJECT. 829
l'lliclente in Monta-eal and Quebec, who have no inducement
either to falaily or to conceal the truth, uniformly testily that
the nunneriea in thote citiee arc notorioue placea of rea\J~t for
the Roman Prioatafor habitual and unrestrained licentiouaneaaa
that, upon the ~ayment of tho stipulated price to the Chaplain.
ot~e~ peraona, m the dieguiae of Prieet•, are regularly admfttod
wtthan .the Convent for tho aamo infamous purpoae 1 and that
many Infanta and Nuns, inproportion to tho aggregate amount
of the whole body of females, are annually murdered and bu·
ri~ within their precinct.••. All thia turpitude ia 11 aeauredly
bel.teved by the v~at majonty of the enli.g~tened Protestant.!,
11 well •• by multuudca of oven the Papaata in Montreal and
~uebec, 11 their ownexistence1 and judgingfrom their declara·
t1ons, they have no more doubt of tbe fact, than they have of
the aummer's aunahine, and the winter'• frost and anow. or
what value, therefore, ia the cavil of' ignorance respecting im·
probabilitics1
But it ia also objected, thnt the Britieh government would not
tolerate auch a eyatem of cnormoue wickedneaa. To which it
is replied, that the inordinate Ecentioueneaa of the Roman
Pricsta and Nuna in C11nada, ia demonstrated to be of long
!tanding by tbe archives of that ProYince, as may be aeen in
Smith's History of Canada; year 1733, Chapter 61 p. 194.
The author ot that work is Secretary of the Province; and
his narrative was compiled immediately from the public docu·
menta, which a1·o under his official guardianehip and control.
lie thWJ writee :-'' The irregularities and improper conduct of
the Nuns of the General Hospital had been the subjectofmuch
re~et and anxiety. Contrary to every principleof their insti·
tutlon, they frequently accepted of invitations to dinners and
suppers, and mixed in society, wttnout coneidering the vows
which restricted them to their Convent. The king of France
directed a letter, Maurepas' letter of April9, 1733, to be written
to tho Coadjutorof Q.uebec, by the minister having the depart·
ment of the Marine; importing that the king was much di•·
pleased with the Nuns-that regularity and order might be .re-
stored by reducing the Nuns to the number of twelve, accord·
ing to their original establishment-and that, as the manage-
ment and superintendence of the community had been granted
to the Gonrnor, Prelate, and Intendant, the Coadjutor should
take the necessary measure• to prevent them trom repe~a~na
eoDduct 10 indecent and impro9er.'·
28•
' I
.I·
...
1 I
..
'
.&PrE~DIX.
The entire affah· seems to have been this; that tho Nu:1s ol
Quebec at that period prefarred the gallant military officers,
and their bewitching festivities, to·the coarser and less diversi-
fied indulgences of the Jesuits ; upon which the latter murmur-
ed, and re@o)vecl to hincler the t1oldiers from intruding iuto their
fold, :md among the cloistered females, to visit whom they
claimed as their own peculiar privilege, inseparably attached to
thetr priestly character and ecclesiastical functions. It is infal-
libly certain, that after the lapse of 100 ye:ns, neither the Jesuit!
nor the Nuns in Canada, are in the smallest particle refom1ed.
The British government, by the treaty made upon the surren-
der of that province to them, guarantied to the P:apal Ecclcsi·
astics, both male and female, their prior exemptions and spc·
cial immunities. Many of the officers of the Go,·ernment itl
Canada, who have long resided there, are anxious to see the
nunneries nnd their adjuncts totally extirpated; and it may be
safely asserted, that they know the character given of thoec in-
stitutions by 1\lnria Monk is a graphical picture of their contin·
uous doings.
The British government, for the purpose of retainin~ their
supremacy over the province, have·-not only connived at thoso
irregularities, but have always enjoined that the pulJiic snnctton
should be given to their puerile shows, and their pageant, porn·
pous processions, by the attendance of the civil and military
officers upon them, 1\nd ~y desecrating the Lord't~ day with
martial music, &c. In this particular affair, the executive offi-
cers of the Provincial Government ure fully apprized of nil the
substantial facts in the case; for an nffidav1t of the principal
circumstances was presented to Mr. Ogden, the Attorney Gen·
eral of Cnnadn, and to Mr. Grant, another of the King's coun-
sellors; and aften\·ard 1\lnria Monk did undergo an examinn·
tion by those gentlemen, in the house of Mr. Grant, at Mon·
neat, in the presence of Mr. Comte, one of the superior order
of Priests of thnt city; and of another Priest, believed to be
either Phelan or Dufresne, who wns concealed behind the sofa.
It is also incontrovertible, that the nominal Papists in Cana·
da, who, in reality, are often infidels, notwithstanding their jo·
cose sneer@, and affected contempt, do generally believe every
tittle of Maria Alonk's narrative.· This is the style in which
they talk of it. Tbev first, according to custom, loudly curse
the authors; for to find a Papi1t infidel who does not bt-eak
the tbircl tommundmem. ia u difficult aa to point out a morlll
hat the Nu:tl! of
military officer"
and less diversi-
c latter murmur-
truding into their
visit whom they
rably attached to
tions. It is infnl-
leither the Jesuita
uuticle reformed.
upon the surren-
e Papal Ecclcsi·
nptions and spc-
1 Go\'ernment iu
•xious to sec the
d ; and it may be
given of thoec in·
·c of their contin·
>f retainin~ their
onnh·ed at thoso
ie puhlic sanctiOn
eir pageant, porn·
:ivil and military
Lord'tc day with
executive offi·
lnn..;;.,...rt
· of nil the
of ihe principal
e Attorney Gen·
the King's coun·
an examinn·
Grant, at Mon·
superior ord('r
believed to be
behind the sofa.
Papists in Cana·
anding their jo·
y believe every
style in which
loudly curse
does not bl'cak
point out a moraJ
llEVIEW OP' THE \VHOLE SUBJECT. 331
Roman Priest or a chaste Nun. They first swear at the au-
thor, and then, with a hearty laugh, add tho following illustra·
tion :-11
Everybody knows that the Priests are a jolly set of
fellows, who live well, and must have. license, or they would
be contrary to nature. They have the privilege of going into
the nunneries, and they would be great fools if they did not use
and enjoy it 1" Such is the exact language which is adopted
·among the Canadians ; and such ue the precise words which
have been used by Canadian gentltlmen in New York, when
criticising Maria Monk's volume. It affords stronger proof
than a direct attestation.
The other class of persons who verily believe the 11
Awful
Disclosures," arc the religious community in Canada. We think
that scarcely 11 well-informed person can be discovered in Mon-
treal or Quebec, who does not ·reel assured, that the interior of
the Hotel Dieu Nunnery is most faithfully depicted by Maria
Jlonk. Many persons are now inhabitants of New-York who
formerly resided in 1\lontreal, some of whom have been upon
term.- of familiar intimacy for years with those Roman Priests,
who are specified as the principal actora in the scenes depicted
in that book ; and they most solemnly declare, that they have
no doubt of the truth of Maria Monk's narrative.
Mr. Samuel B. Smith, who has been not only a Roman.
Priest, but has had several cages ofn·uns under his sole man-
agement, questioned Maria Monk expressly respecting those
affairs, customs, and ceremonies, which appertain only to nun·
neries, because they cannot be practised by ~any other female•
but those who are shut up in those dungeons; and, after
having mbutely examined her, he plainly averred that it was
manifest she could not have known the things which she com
municated to him unless she had been a nun; not merely a
scholar, or a temporary resident, or even a novice, but a nun,
who had taken the veil, in the strictest sense of the appellative.
This testimony is of the more value, because the conclusion
does not depend upon any conflicting statements, of partial or
prejudicial witnesses, but upon a fact which is essential to the
system of monachism; that no persons can know all tbe se-
crets ofnunneries, but the Chaplain, the Abbess! and their ac-
complices in that "mystery of iniquity." Mr. Smith's declaJ'o
ation in one other respect is absolutely decisive. He has de-
clared not onlv that Maria Monk has boon a nun, but~ aJeo that
"
the =~escriptioM which she givea are moat minutely/ accurate.
'.
..
I
).1
I
,I,
I '
"·
t•
83i APPENDI%.
Hr. Smith also testifies that the account which Maria Monk
Rive• of the proceedings of the priests, the obscene quee-
tions which they ask young females, and their lewd practices
with them at auriculor confession, are constantly exemplified
by the Roman Priests ; and he nlso confirms her statements,
by the testimony of his own individual experience, and actual
personal acquaintance with the Canadian nunneries. as wellas
with those in the United States. nod especially of that at Mon·
roe, 'Michigan, which was dissolved by Mr. Fenwick. on ac-
count of scandalous impurity, only about five years ago.
Mrs. • • •, a widow lady now in Now·York, who for-
merly was a Papist in Montreal, and was recentlyconverted to
Christianity, solemnly aYers, that the Priest Richards himse~
conducted her from the Seminary through the subterraneous
pass:~ge to the nunnery, nod describes the whole exactly in ac-
cordance with tbe statement of Maria Monk.
~lfr. Lloyd, who was in business a number of years adjacent
to the nunnery, and who is intimately acquainted with those
priests, their characters, principles, and habits, avows his un-
qualified conviction of the truth'of the 11
Awful Disclosures."
JJ.Ir. Hogan, who was eighteen months in the Jesuit Semin-
ary at Montreal, and in constant intercourse and attendance
upon Lartigue and his accomplices, unequivocally affirms, that
Maria Monk's complex descriptions of those Priests are most
minutely nnd accurately true.
One hundred other persons probably can be adduced, who,
during their residence in Canada, or on their tours to that
pro•incc., by inquiries ascertained that things in accordance
with Maria Monk's delineations are the undoubted belief of
each class of persons, nod ofevery variety of condition, and in
all places which they visited in Lower Cnnada.
Mr. Gretn,./ield, the father of the gentleman who owns the
two steamboats on the river St. .Lawrence, called the Lady of
the Lake, and the Canadinn Eagle, who is ~ dtizen of New·
\~ork, avows his unqualified assent to all Maria lnonk'sstate-
m~mts, and most emphatically adds-" Maria Monk ha• nol
dia~losed one tenth part of the truth respecting the Roman
Prif~t• and Nuns in Canada." :.;.
Fifty other persons from that province, now residing in New•
York, \ikewise attest the truth ofthe "Disclosures."
At Sotel, Bcrthier, and Three Rivers, the usual stopping pl•
- f~ tlrf! ateamboata on the river St. Lawrence, the Ptie~Jta,
h Maria Monk
obscene quet-
lewd practices
ttlY exemplified
1er statements,
nee, and actual
eries, as well as
Jf that at Moo·
'enwick. on ac·
·ears o.go.
York, who for·
tlyconvcrted to
ichards himse~
3 subterraneoua
.e exactly in ac·
r years adjacent
nted with those
., avows his un·
Disclosures."
1
e Jesuit Semin·
and attendance
affirms, that
are most
REVIE\V OF THE WHOLE SUBJECT. 333
fC they have any cause to he o.t the whar( may be seen accom-
panie,.l. by one or more children, their 11
Nephews," as the Priesta
facetim.lsly denominate their offspring; and if any person on
the steamboat should be heard expatiating upon the piety, the
temperance, the honesty, or the purity of Roman Priests and
Nuns, he would be laughed at outright, either as a naturalor an
ironical jester; while the priest himself would join in the mer-
riment, as being a "capital joke."
We o.re assured by the most indisputable authority in Mon-
treal, that the strictly religious people in that city do generally
credit Maria Monk's statements without hesitation; and the
decisive impression of her veracity can never be removed. Ifit
were possible at once to reform the nunneries, and to transform
them from castles of ignorance, uncleanness, and murder,
where all their arts are concealod in impervious secrecy, into
abodes of wisdom, chastity, and benevolence, to every recess of
which all pcreons, at every hour, might have unrestricted ad-
mission-that would not change the past; it would leave them
indelibly branded with the emphatical title applied to the nun-
nery at Charlestown, "FILTHY, MO'RDEaous DENs."
3. Who are those u:ho deny the truth of the book 1 Ccue "
.f1?ather Conroy. Father Conroy's deception.
In addition to the objections from improbabili!y, another ae-
ries of opposition consists of flat brood denials of the truth of
Maria Monk's " Awful Disclosures." This mode of vanquish-
ing direct charges is e\'en more invalid than the former futile ca·
valling. It is also more remarkable, when we remember who
ore the persons that deny thestatements made by Maria Monk.
Are they the Roman Priests implicated 1 Not at all. They
are too crnfty. The only persons who attempt to hint even a
suspicion of the truth of the secrets divulged in the 11
Awful Dis·
closures," arc editors of Newspapers : some of whom aro ever
found on the side of infidelity and vice; men always reproach-
ing religion; and directly calumniating, or scornfully ridiculing
the best Christians in the land ; and profoundly ignorant of
Popery and Jesuitism, and the monostic·system.
It is true that Priest Conroy of New-York, has contradicted
in generd terms the truth of the statement respecting himself.
and his aitempt to abduct Maria Monk from the Almshouse.
But what does he deny 'l He is plainly charged, in tho 11
Awful
Disclosures," .with a protracted endeavour, byfraud t1l' byfore•
lo rcm01'1 .Jt.faria Monk from that imtitution. Now that
l'
i,.
I.
l;I
834 APPENDIX.
eharge involves a Rngrant misdemeanor, or it is a wicked IDil
gross libel. Let him answer the following questions:
Did he not frequently visit that house, nnd lurk about at nri·
ous times, for longer and shorter periods, expressly to have an
interview with Maria 'Monk 1
Did he not state that be was acquainted with her by the name
abe bore in the nunnery, Sainlt Eustace 1
Did he not ucclare that he was commissioned by Lartigue,
Phelan, Dufresne, Kellr, nnd the Abbess of the Hotel Dieu
Nunnery at 1\foutreal, til obtain posscssiDn of her, that sho
might be ~cnt back to that abode of the Furies'I
Did he not offer her any thiug she pleased to demand, provi·
dl'd she would reside with the Ursulincs of this city1
Did be not also declare that he would have her at all ri!!ks,
and that she sh.:mld not escape him1
Did he not perf:cvcrc in thiEI course of action, until he Wilt
positively assured that she would not see him, and that the
Priest Conroy should not have o.cccss to 1\bria Monk1
Was not the Priest Kelly, from Canada, in New-York at
that period, prompting Conroy; and did not that same Kelly
eome on here exprr.sf'ly to obtain possession of Maria l'tlonk,
that he might carry her back to the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, thero
to murder her, as his accomplices ·have ~mothered, poisoned
and bled to death othe.r victims oftheir beastly licentiousness'I
All those queotions are implied in Maria llonk's statement,
ond they involve the highest degree of crime against the !iber·
ty, rights, nnd life ofl\laria Monk, and the laws of New-York,
and tho charge is either true or false. Why does not the Priest
Conroy try it '1 Why docs he not demonstrate that he is ca·
lumniated, by confronting the Authoress and Publishers oflhe
book before an impartial jury. We are assured that the EICC·
lltive.committee of tho New-York Protestant Association will
r~ive ten dollars to :myLawyer, whom 1\fr. Conroy will authorize
to institute a civil suit for nlibel, payable at the terminatioQ ofthe
process. Will he subject the question to that scrutiny'} Ne-cer.
lie would rather follow the example of his fellow priests, and
depart from New-York. Mnny of the Maynooth Jesuita, after
having fled from Ireland for their crimes, to this country, to
avoid the punishments due to them for the repetition of them
in tho United States, and to eludo discovery, have assumed
falae mames and gone to France; or in disguise have joinM
Weir disaolute comp110ions in Canada.
s a wicked IDil
tiona:
k about at nri·
lssly to have ao
her by the name
ed by Lartigue,
the Hotel Dieu
)f her, that she
;'l
, demand, provi-
' city 'l
her at all rieke,
m, until he wa1
m, and that the
ta Monk'l
n New-York at
that same Kelly
of Maria 1\lonk,
1 Nunnery, _
thero
poisoned
liccntiousnees1
nk's statement,
the liber·
of New-York.
not the Priest
that he is ca·
Publishers of the
that the Exec·
Association will
will authorize
lto1'•rnilnAtinn 0fth0
1 Ne'Der.
priests, and
Jesuits, after
this country, to
leVt:&ILIUII Of them
have assumed
have joinM
REVIEW OF TilE WUOLE Sl:DJECT, 335
It i11 also a fact, that the Priest nnmed Quarter, with one or
his minions, did visit the house where 1\larial\lonltresides,on the
13th day of February, 1836 ; and did endeavour to see her alone,
under the false pretext of delivering to her a pal~ket from her
brother in Montreal; and as an argument for having :~n inter·
view with her without company, one of the two impostors did
protest that he had n parcel from John l\lonk, which "he hod
sworn n(li. to deliver except into the hanrls of his sister in per·
aon." Now what object hod Mr. Quarter in view; and whrst
was his det~ign in going to her residence between nine :~nd ten
o'clock nt night, under n lying pretence 1 '1\lr. Qunrter comes
from Cnnadn. He knows all the Priests of 1\fontrenl. For
what purpose did he assume a fictitious character, and utter
base and wilful falsehoods, that he might hnve access to her,
with another man, wher, :Marin 1\'Ionl(, os they hoped, would
be without a protector1 For what ignohle design did he put
an old Truth Teller into n pnrce~ and mnlte his priest-ridden
minion declare that it was a very valuable pocket of letters
from John Monk 1 That strange contrivance requires explan-
ation. Did Priest Quarter be1ievc that Maria Monk wns in Mon-
treal 'l Did he doubt her personal identity'l Does not thnt fact
alone verify that all the Roman Prie~ts are confedernted '? Does
it not prove thnt her delineations are correct 'J Does it not
evince thnt the Papal Ecclesin!!tics drcnd the disclosures 1
4. The great ultimate test 1rhich the nutU?·e of the case de-
mands. Challenge of the Neto Yod: Protestant Assor.iation.-
Jt is readily admitted, that the heinous charges which are made
by :M:arin Monk against the Romnn Priest~ cannot eo::~ily be
rebutted in the usual form of disproving criminal allegations.
The denial of those Priests is good for noihing, nnd they can-
not show an alibi. But there is one mode of destroying l\Iaria
)lonl~'s testimony, equally prompt and decici-ce, and no other
"·ay is either feasible, juat, or e3n be efficient. That method is
the plan proposed by the New-York Protestant Association.
The Hotel Dieu Nunnery is in Montreal. Here is .1\laria
Monk's description of its interior apartments nnd pa~sages.
She offers to go to Montreal under the protection of n com-
mittee of four members of the New-York Prote!'tant Associa-
tion, and in company with four gentlemen of 1\Iontreal, to ex·
plore the Nunnery; and she also voluntarily proposes that ir
her description!! of the interior of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery are
uot found to be true, abe will surrender herself to Lartigue and
i.i
f
i:
·I
83(:, APPENDIX,
his confederates to torture her iu what way they may please, or
will bear the punishment of the civil laws as a b11se ond wilful
1landerer of the Canadian Jesuit Ecclesiastics. ·
When Lartiguc., Bonin, Dufresne, Phelan, Richards, and their
fellows, accede to this proposition, we shall hesitate respecting
Maria Monk's veracity; until then, by 1\ll impartial and intelli·
gent judges, and by all enlightened protestants and Christians,
the " Awful Disclosures" wil' be pronounced undeniable facts.
The scrutiny, however, respecting Maria Monk's credibility
comprises two general questions, to which we shall succinctly
reply.
I. Was Maria Monk a Nun in the Hotel Dieu Con'Dent at
Montreal ?-I~ ordinary cases, to dit:~pute re!!pecting a circum·
1tance of that kind would be deemed a mo~:.~t strange absurdity;
·and almost similar to an inquiry into a man's personal identity
when his living form is before your eyes. Maria Monk says sho
was a Nun, presents you a book descriptive of th~ Convent in
which she resided, and leaves the fact of her abode there to be
verified by the minute accuracy of her delineations of arcana,
with which only the visiting Roman Priests and the impris·
oned Nuns are acquainted. That test, neither Lartigue nor
the Priests will permit to be applied; ann therElfore, so far,
1\faria Monk's testimony cannot directly he corroborated. It
is however not a little remarkable, that no one of all tho
persons so boldly impeached by her of the most atrocious
crimes, has even whispered a hint that she was not a Nun;
while the Priest Conroy has confirmed that fact far more cer·
tainly than if he h~d opeQly asserted its truth.
6. The testimony of ~Irs. Monk ctmsidered.-The only evi
dence against that fact is her mother. Now it is undeniable,
that her mother ia a totally incompetent witnesd. She is known
in Montreal to be a woman of hut little principle; and her oath
in her daughter's favour would have been injuriou!! to her; for
1he is so habitually intemperate, that it is question11ble whether
she is ever truly competent to expl!lin any matters which come
under her notice. Truth requires this declaration, nlthou~h Ma-
ria, with commendable filial feelings, dia not hint at the·fact.
Besides, during a number of years past, she has exhibited a most
unnatural aversion, or rather animosity, to her dnughter; so
that to her barbarous usage of Maria when a child, may be im-
'puted the subsequent scenes through whieh she has passed.
When appealed to respecting her daughter, her uniform lan•
y may please, or
bRse and wilful
:bards, and their
sitate respecting
trtial and intelli·
and Christians,
mdeniable facts.
lnk's credibility
shall succinctly
Jieu Con17ent at
~cting a circum·
·ange absurdity;
>ersonal identity
\Monk says sho
th~ Convent in
bode there to be
tions of arcana,
and the impris-
er Lartigue nor
1ercfore, so far,
orroborated. It
one of all tho
most atrocious
was not a Nun;
:t far more cer·
.-The only evi
t is undeniable,
~. She is known
.e; and her oath
rious to her; for
ionnble whether
ters which como
n, nlthough Mn·
hint al the·fact.
exhibited a most
er daughter; so
hild, may be im·
she has passed.
ter uniform lao•
REVIEW OF ·THE \VJIOLE SUBJECT. 837
~ago was such nathis-"1 do not care what becomes of her or
~ho takes her, or where she goes, or what is done to her. p
1
ro-
YJded she keeps awuy from me."
It is also testified by the most unexceptionable witnesses in
!lontreal, that when Marin Monk went to that city in Aunust
1835, and first made kn..,wn her case, that Mrs. Monk repca~cdl;
declared, .that her da~ghter had been n Nun,; and that she
had been m the nunnenes at Montreal a large portion of her lifo.
She also avowed, that the offer of bribery that had been made
unto her, had'been made, not by Protestants, to testify that her
daughter Maria had b~en an inmate of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery;
but by the Roman Pnests, who had promised her one hundred
dollnrs, if She would make an affidavit that 1\laria had not been
in that nunnery at all; and would also swear to any other
matters which they dictated. Now there is little room for
doubt, that the affidavit to the truth of which shefinally sworo
was thus (lbtained; for she has not capacity to compose such n
narrative, nor has she been in a state of mind, for a number
of years past, to understand the details which have thus craft-
ily been imposed upon the public in her name. When she had
no known inducement to falsify the fact in Aunust 1835 before
the Priests became alarmed, then she constan~ly ~ffirm~d that
her daughter had been a Nun; but after Lartigue and his com·
panions were assured that her duughter's narrative wo~ld ap·
pear, then the mother was probably bribed, formally to swear
to a wilful falsehood; for it is most probable, that she either
did not see, or from intoxication could not comprehend, tho
contents of the paper to which her signature is affixed. Her
habitual intemperance, her coarse impiety, her long-indulged
hatred and cruelty towards her daughter, and her flat :;elf-con~
tradictions, with her repeated and public declarations, that she
had been offered a large sum of money by the 1\lontreal Priests,
thus to depreciate her daug:1ter's allegations, and to attest upon
oath prccisel}' the contrary to that which she had previously
declared, to pen•om1 whose sole object was to ascertain tho
tn.:th-all thoee things demonstrate that Mrs. Monk's evidence
is of no wo:th; and yet that iii all the opposite evidCilce which
can be adduced. · .
6. T.!stimony in fa'IJttUr of the book.-Mr. 1\lillcr, the son of
.Adam l'tliller, a well known teacher at St. John's, who has
known 1\latia Monk from hir childhood, and who is now a res-
:dcnl of New York, solemnly attests. that in the month of
29
I ~ \
I •
I
338 APPENDIX.
Au~r.1;:;t. 11333, he mnde inquiries of 1\trs. Monk respecting her
daughter Maria, and that Mrs. Monk informed him that Maria
waa then a Nun! that t!he had tukcn the veil previous to that
conversation, and that 11he had been in the nunnery for a
number of years. 1\lr. Miller voluntarily attested to that fact.
He was totally ignorant of Marin Monk's being out of the
Nunnery at Montreal, until he saw her book, and finnll)· by
eearching out her place of abode, renewed the acquaintrmce
with her which had existed between them from the period when
she attended his fnther's school in her childhood. See the af-
fidavit of William Miller, page 237.
When 1\Iaria Monk ronde her escape, as she states, from the
Hotel Dieu Nunnery, she took refuge in the house of n woman
named Lavalliere, in Elizabeth street, Montreal, the' second
or third door from the corner of what is commonly called " thB
Dishop's Church." l\'Indame Lavalliere afterward admitted,
that Marin Monk did arrive at her house at the time speci-
fied, in the usual habiliments of a Nun, and made hersclC
known ns an eloped Nun; that she provided her with other
clothing; and that she afterward carried the Nun's gnrmenta
to the Hotel Dieu Nunnery.
After her escape, Maria Monk narrates that sl1e went on
board n ste!lmboat for Quebec, intending thereby to avoid being
seized and again trnnsferred to the Nunnery, that she was rccog·
nised by the·Cnptain, wn~ ltept under close watch during the
whole period of the stay of that boat at Quebec, and merely by
accident escaped from the h:mds of the Priests, by watching for
an unexpected opportunity to nttni11 the shore during the absence
of the Captain, nnd the momentary negligence of the female nt·
tendnnt in the cabin. The woman was called M:ugnrct --, the
other nome is forgotten. The name of the Master of the steam-
boat is probably known and he has ncverpretcnded to deny
that statement, thnt he did thus detain Maria Monk, would not
permit ~er to go on shore at Quebec, nnd that he also conducted
her back to Montreal ; having suspected or ascertained that
she was a Nun who had clandestinely escaped from a Convent.
1. Corroboratire evidence unintentionally furnished by th•
opponents of the book.-After her flight from the steamboat, she
was found, early in the morning, in a very perilous situation,
either on the banks, or partly in the Lnchine Canal, and waa
committed to the public prison by·Dr. Robertson, whence she
wu epeed1ly released through the inten·ention ~f Mr. Esson,
. rcepectin~ her
him that Maria
previous to that
nunnery for a
ted to that fact.
cing out of tho
, and finallr by
he acquaintance
the period when
od. Sec the af·
states, from the
•use of a woman
·eal, the· second
only called 11
tho
rwnrd admitted,
the time speci-
ld made hersclC
i her with other
Nun's gnrmentl
REVIEW OF· TilE WHOLE SUBJECT. 339
one oC tho I•reebytcrian ministers of ~lontreal. Upon this topie,
.ber statement coincides exactly with thnt of Dr. Robertson.
But he also states-" .Although incredulous as to the truth
cC 1\lnria Monk's story, I thought it incumbent upon me to
make some inquiry concerning it, 11nd h:tve ascertained
where she has been rea:ding a great part of the time abe stote.a
having been an inm1ltc of the Nunnery. During the summer
of 1832, she wns nt service nt William Henry; the wintets of
1332-3, she passed in this neighbourhood :1t St. Ours and St.
Denis."
That is most remarkable testimonv, becnuse, although Pa-
pists may justly be admitted to knoN nothing of times :md
tlates, unless by their Carnlvals, their Festivals, their Lent, or
their Penance-yet Protestant Magistrntes might be more pre-
cise. Especially, as it is. a eertam fact, th:1t no pcr!!on 111 Sorel
can be discove~ed, .who is nt all acquainted w:th such a young
woman at serv1ce m the summer of 1832. lt .is true, she did w·
side at St. Dcpis or St. Ours, as the Roman Priests can t~­
tify; but not at the period Ppeeified by Dr. Robertson.
For the testimony o£ a decisive witness in favour of ::\l:l.ria.
Honk, see page 238.
8. Summary 1'ittD of tl&e ePidence.-I~et us sum up this con·
trnd:ctory evidence respecting the simple fnct, whether 1\Iaria
llonlt waR a resident of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, or not 1
llcr mother says-" I denied that my daughter had ever been
in a Nunnery." Dr. Robertson informs us-" I have ascertain-
ed where she bas been residing a great psrt of the time sbtl
states having been an inmate of the Nunnery." That is all
which can be adduced to contradict .1\laria Monk's statement.
This is a most extraordinary affair, that a young woman's
place of abode cannot be nccurotely discovered during several
years, when all the controversy depends upon the fa·~t of thn&
residence. Why did not Dr. Robertson specify minutely with
whom Maria Monk lived at serviceat WilliamHenry, in thesum-
mer of 18321-Why did not Dr. Robertson exactly designllte
where, and with whom, she resided at St. Denis and St. Oure,
in the winters of 1832 and 18331 'rhe only answer to these 'iues-
tioDS is this-Dr. Robertson cannot. Heobtained his contradic-
tory information most probably from her mother, or from the.
Priest Kelly, and then imbodied it in hie affidavit to regnin tha.&
favour and popularity with the Montreal Papists which he hu
10 loog lost. We aro convinced that neither the evidence ot
·II
I I
I
i:
''
1
\I
',,
I
,I,
i'
I
840 A.I'I'ENDIX.
Mrs. 1\fonk, nor of Dr. Robertson, would be of a feather's
weight in a court of justice against tho other witnesses, Mra.
- , nnd .ll:lr. William :Miller.
}Iarin Monk aesertl!l, that she was a reeident in the Hotel
Dicu Nunnery during the pcriorl designated by Dr. Robertson,
whic:h is·familiarly denominated tho Cholera summn. In her
narrative, she dove!ops a variety of minute and characteristic do-
t nils of procccdin~s in that ln!!titution, connected with things
which nil persons in Montreal know to hnvc actually oc<'urred,
and of events which it is equally certain did happen, and which
did not transpire nnywhero clae ; and which it is impossible
could have taken plnco at Sorel or William :acnry; be<'auso
there is no Nunnery there; and consequently her description•
would be purely fabricated and fictitious.
But the things asserted nrc not inventions of imagin:~tion.
No person could thus delinente scenes which he had not be·
held; and therefore Maria l\Ionk witnessed them; consequent·
ly, t;he was 11. member of that female community; for tho cir·
cumstanccs \vhich she narrates nowhere else occurred. At all
events, it seems more rcnsonnl>le to suppose that an individual
cnn more certainly tell whnt has been his own course of life,
than pcrsonfl who, by their own ndmis~ion, know nothing of
the suhjcct; and especially when her statements arc confirmed
by such unexceptionable witnesses.
There nre, however, two collateral points of evidence which
strongly confirm Maria l\lonk's direct statements. One is de-
rived from th3 ,·ery character of the acknowledgments which
Phe made, and the period when they were first disclosed. "A
clcath-bcd," says the Poet, "is a detector o( the heart." Now
iL is certain, that the appalling facts which she states, were not
primarily tnade in a season of hilarity, or with any design tc
"make money" by them, or with any expectation that they
would bo known to any other person than l'tlr. Hilliker, 1\lr.
Tappan, and a few others at Bellevue; but when there was no
anticipation that her life would be prolonged;·and when ago-
nized with the most direful retrospection and prospects.
It is not possible to believe, thnt any woman would confess
those facts which are divulged by. Maria 1\-Ionk, unless from
dread of death and the judgment to come, or from the efFect of
profound Christian penitence. Feminine repugnance would be
invincible. Thus, .the nlarm of ct\rnity, her entrance upon
which appeared to be so immediate, was the only cause of those
tO of n feather's
witnesses, Mrs.
nt in the llotel
vDr. Robertson,
mmmer. In her
:harnctcristic do-
cted with things
ctunlly ocrurrcd,
ppcn, and which
it is impossible
Ucnry; be<'ausc
her description•
' of imngin:ttion.
he had not be·
!m; consequent-
lily; for the cir·
1ccurrcd. At all
1
1at an individunl
n course of life,
mow nothing of
.ts arc confirmed
· evidence which
~nts. One is de-
edgments which
t disclosed. 11
A
1
e heart." Now
states, were not
:h nny design tc
tat1on that they
Ir. Hilliker, :Mr.
en there wns no
·and when ago·
'rospects.
n would confess
tnk, unless from
rom the efFect of
~nance would be
· entrance upon
I)· cause of those
REVIEW OF THE WJIOJ.E BVBJECT. 841
eommnnkations; which incontestably prove, that Nunneriet
arc the very nurseries of the most ncfarioua crimes, and the
most abandoned transgressor!'.
The other consideration is this-that admitting the atate-
ments lo be tnw, 1\faria Monk could not be unconscious of the
malignity of Roman Priests, and of herown danger 1 and if her
litntcments were tictitioue, she wns doubly involving hereelf in
ureparable di!!grace and ruin. In either case, ns long aa she
was in New York she wns personally safe; and as her diaclo-
•ures had been restricted to very few persons, she might have
withdrawn from the Pllblic institution, nnd in privacy have
passed away her life, 11
alike unknowing and unknown." Lu·
nncy itself could only have instigated n womnn situated as she
was, to visit Montreal, and there defy the power, and malice,
And fury of the Romnn Priests, and their myrmidons; by accu-
mulating upon them chnrr;es of rape, infanticide, the inftiction
of the tortures of the Inquisition, nnd murders of cold-blooded
ferocity in the highest degree, with nil the atrocious concomi ·
tant iniquities which those prime prolific eins include.
Now it is certain, that she was not deranged; and she wae
not forced. She went deliberately, and of her own accord, to
meet the Popish Prie~~ ts upon the spot where their crimea are
perpetrated, and in the stronghold of their power. Whether
that measure wus the mo!lt prudent and politic for herself, and
the most wise and efficient for the acquisition of the avowed ob·
jc!ct, may be di!lputed; but the exemplary openness and the
magnanimous daring of that act cannot be controverted.
The narrative, pages 112 to 17G, respecting the cholera and
the election riots at Montreal, both which scenes happened at
the period when Dr. Robertson says Maria )fonk was at Wil-
liam Henry, or St. Dcnil', or St. Ours; could not have been
described, at least that part of it respecting the wax candles,
and the preparations for defence, except by a resident in the
Nunnery.
It is a public, notorious fact, that 11
blessed candles" w.-ro
made, and sold by the Nuns, and used at Montreal under tbe
pretext to preserve houses from the Choler~, and to drive
it away; that those candles were directed so to be kept burning
by the pretended injunction of the Pope ; and that large quan-
tities of the Nunnery candles were disperecd about Montreal
and its vicinity, which were fixed at a high price; and whoever
auffercd by the Cholera, the Nune and their )laetera. the
29•
.,
I
.
I
·~
I!
!\
.,.
i
342 &PPBXDIX.
Prietta, could truly eny-" By this craft wo ban our wealth."
Acte 19: 25. It is obvioue, thnt a young Pnpist womnn at eer·
vice at William Henry, could know no more of those matters.
than if she had been nt Labrador; for tho incidental remark
with which that part or tho' nnrrativo commences, is one 01
thoso apparently superfluous intimation!!, w.hich it is evideut a
person who was writing a fiction would not introduce; and yot
u is so profoundly charactcriatic of a Canadian Convent, thnt
tta very simple artlessnctla nt once obliterate~ Dr. Robt'rtRon's
affidavit. •• There wero a few instances, ilnd only a few, in
which wo knew any thing that wu happening in the world;
nnd even theu our knowledge did not extend out of the c1ty."
We cannot be infallibly ccrtnin of 1\l:uia :
Monk's description ol
the interior of the Nunnery; but that unpremeditated remark,
eo minutely descriptive of tho predominating ignorance amon~
the Nuns of all terrestrial concerns exterior to the Convent, is
Batisfactory proof thnt the narrator w:as not sketching from
fancy, b11t depicting from actual life.
From those testimonio!!, direct and unintentional, it is fully
ftvident, that Maria Monk was long a resident, and is profound-
ly acquainterl with the doings in the Hotel Dieu Convent at
)fontreal. ·
II. Wh:lt collateral evidence can be adduced or the truth 01
the "Awful Discloaurcs" by Marin 1\lonk 1
1. One corroborative testimony is derived from th4 ailence oJ
the Roman Priests and their at7owcd partisan•. Months have
passed away since the first statements of those matters were
made, and also the defence of the Priests, with the affidavits
and other connected circumstances, were presented to the pub-
lic in the Protestant Vindicator. One of the persons in .Mon·
treal, who wu in favour of the Jesuits. Mr. Doucet, l!tated that
" the Priests never take up such things ; they allow their char·
actcr to defend itself." There was a time when that contempt-
uous course would have sufficed, or rather, when to have apo-
ken the truth of Roman Priests would have cost a man his
life, and overwhelmed his !amity in penury; disgrace, and an·
guish. The Canadian Jesuits may be aSBUred that time bu
passed away, never more to return. They mutt take up thia
thing ; for their characters cannot defend themselves i and
every enlightened man in Canada knows, that in a moral ...
pect, they cannot be defended.
.Argument. denial, affidftvlt&, if they could reach from )foa•
tn our wealth."
tt woman at ecr•
1
f thoee matter~t
cidcntul remark
tcnces, is one 01
:h it is evideu1 a
:roduco; and yoc
n Convent, thnt
Dr. Robertson's
I only ll few, in
g in tho world;
out of tho c1ty.11
;'s description or
.~ditatcd rcmnrk,
;norance among
tho Convent, is
sketching from
ional, it is fully
tnd is profound·
tieu ConveDt at
I of the truth or
n th& ~lence of
:. l'flonths have
se matters were
11 the affidavits
ntcd to the pub-
•crsons in Mon·
1cet, etated that
!low their chu·
that contempt·
3n to have spo-
:ost a man his
agrace, and llD•
that time bu
It take up this
emselves ; and
in a moral u-
1
ch from )foa·
REVIEW OF THB WHOLE S17JUICT. 843
tronl to N~1w Vot·k, and the oath• or eYcry Papist and Infidel
in Canada, from Joseph Signay, the Popiah Prelate of Quebec.
nnd Jt~an Jacques Lartigue, the Sutli'agan of Montreal, down to
the most profligate of tho half-pay military officers, amona
whom 1re to be found some of tho dregs of the British army,
all of them will avail nothing. They are not worth a puff of
wind against tho internal evidence of Maria 1\lonk.'a book, in
ronnuion with the rejection of the proposal of the New York
Protestant Association, that the Nunnery shall undergo a strict
and impartial examination.
It is one of the remarkable e,·idonces of the extraordinary de·
lusiorl which blind~t or the Infatuation which enchains the pub.
lit' mind, that. men will not credit tho corruptions and barbari·
tics of Romanism. To account for tlua etupofaction among
persons who are ,..,.ic.Jc nwnke to every other system or deadiJ
evil, is almost impossible. Popt>ry nct'Csearily e.\ tirpates tho
rights of man. It ever has destroyed the wcl:-being uf society.
Jly it, all municipal law nnd domestic obi'J!l~io :~s are Dbrogatcd.
It nlwllya subverts national prosperi!y and :::tnbility: 11nd i ia
the invincible extinguisher of nil true mor!llity and ,:;,nuine re-
ligion. Notwithstanding, men will give credenrc. neither to
its own avowed principles, character, and r,riri t ; no1· to the n:t•
avoidable effects which constantly have ihH\'C\i from its opw•·
tions nnd predominance.
In any other cue but one exposing tho abominations of Po-
pery, SIJCh a volume ns 1\laria .1\fonk's "Awful Disclosures"
would have been received without cavil; and immediate judi·
cinl mea~urea would have been adopted, t,>ascertain the cer·
tainty of tho nlleged facts, and tho extent and aggravation of
their criminality. But now persons nrc calling for more evi·
donee, when, if they reflected but for a moment, they would per·
ceive, that the only additional evidence possible, is under the
entire control of the very por~:>"ns who are criminated; and to
whcm the admission of furtho(:i' t1:stimony would be the accu·
mutation of indelible ignominy.
The pretence, that it is contrary to their rules to allo~ stran·
gera to explore the interior o·ca nunnery, only adds msult to
crime. Why should a Convent be exempt fro~ seuch, m~r&
than any other edifice 'l Why should Roman Pnests be at lib-
erty to perpetrate·every deed of darkness in impenetrable re-
oeseea called nunneries1 Why should one body of femalea,
ah~~& u.p in a certain speciea ofmansion, to whom only one clau
'•
II
\
'
I
I
.
.
I
344 APPEKDIX.
of men have unrestricted !lCCCt!l, be e:tcludl:d from all publle
and legal supervision, more than any other habitation of lewd
women, into which all men mny enter1 As citizens of the Uni·
ted States, we do not pretend to have any nuthoritative claim
to explore nconvent within the dominion of a foreign potentnte.
The Roman Priests of Canada exercise a vast influence, acd
nre completely intertwined with the Jesuits in this republic.
'rherefore, when they remember the extinction of the nunneriM
at 1\lonroe, Michigan, Charlestown, and Pittsburg; and whe!l
they recollect, that the delineations of Maria Monk, if they pro·
duce no effect in Canada, will assuredly render female convents
-in the United States \'cry suspicious and insecure; if they hno
any solicitude for their confederates,' they will intrepidly defy
research, and dauntlessly act'ept the offer of the New-York
Protestant Assode1tion: that a joint committee, of disinterested,
enlightened and honorable judges, should fully investigate, and
·equitably decide upon the truth or falsehood of Maria )lonk'.t
averments. Their ominous silenc , •heir affected contempt,
and their audacious rcfm:nl, nrc calculated only .to com·inco
every impartial pct·scm, of C\'Cil the smallest discernment. ol
the real state of things in that edifice; that the chambers ofpol·
lotion are nbove, and that the dungeons of torture and dct.th tN
below; and that tht'y dread the exposure of the theatre un
which their horrific tragedies are performed.
It is also a fact publicly avowed by certain 1\Iontrcal Papi2ts
themselves, and extensively told in te1unt and triumph, tha:
thr.y have been employed as masons and carpenters by the Ro·
man Priests, since Maria Monk's visit to Montreal in August,
183G, expressly to niter various parts of tlte Hotel Dieu Convent,
and to close up some of the subterraneous passages anti ccl111
in that nunnery. This circumstance is not pretended even to
be disputed or doubted ; for when the dungeons under ground
are spoken of before the Papists, their remark is this: 11
Eh
bein ! mnis vous nc lcs trouverez pas, it p'rcsent ; on lcs a cnch6
hora de vue. Yery well, you will not find them there now;
they are closed up, and out of sight." Why wns this manma·
vre completed1 Mauifcstly, that in urgent extremity, a caHJl
explorer might be deceived, by the apparent proof that the ave·
noes, and places ofimprisonment and torture which 1\Inria}lonk
describes are not discoverable. Now that circumstance might
not even h!lve been suspected, it the Papist workmen them·
lelvea bad oot openly boasted of the chicanery by which \be
J from all public
tabitntion of lewd
·itizens of the Uni·
llhoritative claim
foreign potentate.
1st influence, acd
in this republie.
nof the nunneriM
sburg ; and whe!l
Monk, if they pro-
r female convents
=ure; if they h:1vo
ill intrepidly defy
>f the New-York
c, of disinterested,
y invcstigntc, and
of 1\Inrin Monk':J
ffceted contempt.
only .to convinca
;t discernment. of
~ ehamhcrsofpol·
ture and d<'&th ue
of the theatre un
1\Iontreal Papi2ts
nd triumph, tho:
by the Ro·
in August,
Dieu Convent,
p.&::>~IHK4~a and ccllta
REVIE\V OF TilE WIIOL:! SUBJECT. ~·15
Priests, who employed them, expectctl to blind and dccei\"e the
Protcst11nts. Por in reference to the Romani~ts, a Popish
Priest well knows that nothing more is necess:uy than for hirn
to assert any abtturdity, however gross or impossi!.>l<', and attest
it by tho five crosses on his vestments, nnd his superstition~
vassal believes it with more assurance than his own personal
identity. But the filling up and the concralment of the olrl
apertures in the nunnery, by the order of the Roman Priests, arc
scarcely less powerful corrobornti\'a proof of Marin ?tionk's de-
lineations, than ocular and palpable demonstration.
:.!. Some of the circumstances attending !tinria 1\Ionk's visit
to Montreal, in August, 1835, ndd ~roat weight in favour
of the truth, which no <:aviis, skepticism, scorn, nor menaces,
can counterbalance.
We will however stnte one \'ery reccn t occurrence, bcc:mee it
seems to ':lS, .that it alone is almost decisive of the contro\·crsy.
A counsellor of Quebec-his name is omitted merely from deli-
cacy a~d prudential considerations-bas been in Xew-Yorlt
flince the publication of the "Awful Disclosures." His mind
was so much influenced by the perusal of that Yolume, that ho
10ught out the Authorcs£1, and most closely searched into the
credibility of her statements. Before the termination of the in·
terview, that gentleman became so conYinced of the truth of
tile picture which Maria 1\Ionk drew of the interior of the Ca-
nadian Nunneries, that he expressed himself to the following
effect:-"My daughter, about 15 years t:f age, is in the Ursuline
Convent at Quebec. I will return home immediately; and lf I
cannot remove her any other way, I "'ill drnr; her out by the
hair of her head, and raise a noisn 4bout their enrs that shall
not soon be quieted."
That gentlemnn did so return to Quebec, since which he hJs
again visited New-York; and he stated, thnt upon his arrh·al
in Quebec, he went to the Convent, and instantly removed his
daughter from the Ursuline Nunnery; from whom he ascer-
tnined, as far as she had been ini!iated into the mysteries, that
Maria Monk's descriptions of Canadian Nunneries, are most
minutely nnd undeniably accuratt\.
We have already remarked, that Mrs. nu, ~lr. Llo1·d, )lr.
Hogar., and Mr. Smith, who was a Papist Priest, with scores
of other persons who formerly resided in Montreal, all expresa
their unqualified belief of the statements made by Maria lionk.
lb. Ogden's acquaintance with the fact!', ns Attornf'y General,
·I
I
,,I
,I
·!
I
346 APPENDIX.
and that of other officers of the Provincial Government, ha,·e
also been noticed. The P.m;uing additional circumstnnces are
of primary importance to u correct estimate of the value which
ehould be attached to the crafty silence of the Roman Priests
and the impudent denials of infidclllrofiigates.
Mr. Bouthillier, one of the Montreal mngi~trates, called at
)lr. Johnson's house where Maria :Monk eto.yed, in the month
of .August, l SJ~, when vitoiting Montreal.
He addressed her and suid : "'1'}1erc is some mystery about
Novices-What is it'l and as!icd how long n woman must be
a novice b<'fore sho can take the \'eil 1" Havin,:; beell answered,
Mr. Bouthillier then desired l\lnria Monk to describe the Su-
perior of the Hotel Dicu Nunnery. As soon as it was done, he
became tmrnged, a:1d said-" \•ous dites un mensong«?, vous
en sa\·ez. You lie, you know ~·ou do!''-1\lr. BouthH:cr r;e.lt
inquired-" Was 1\Ir. 'l'abeau in the Holy Rctrr.:tt when you
l•>ft the Com·ent 1" She answered "Yes." To whtch he re
plied i11.French-" Auybotly might have answer<Jd that ques·
ti,m." Something havir:g been sald about tho Hotel Dieu
Nuns being confined to their convent, Mr. Bouthillier declared,
ilHlt they were allowed to go about the strecttt, for his wife had
F.ecn them in the strcctR. lie was told thnt could not be the
case, for it was n direct violation of the rules for Nuns to de-
part from the Hotel Dit::u Nunnery. He replied-" Cc n'est
pas vrni. That is not true." 1\lr. Bouthillier then became
very angry, and applied to 1\faria 1\lonk some very abusive
epithets, for which a ~cntlemnn in the room reproved him. It
was e\'ident, that he.,ost his temper becnuse he had lost hi.t
ergumcnr, :md his hopes of controverting her statements.
On the Lord's day after 1\Iarin 1\lonk's arrival in Montreal,
nnd when the matter had become well known and much talked
about, Phelan, the Priest, at the end of mass, addressed the Pa·
pists, who wero assembled to hear mass, to this effect: 11
There
ia~ a certain nun in this cit}' who has left our faith, and joined the
Jlrotestants. She hns a child of which she is ready to swear I
am the father. Sho wishes in lhis way to take my gown from
me. li I knew where to find her, I would put her in prison. l
mention this to ,:;uard you ag11inst bein,:; deceived by what eho
may nay. The Dc\'il now has such hold upon people thnt thcto
is danger lt:st Rome might believe her slory." He then pretended
to wc<>p, nnd np)'icarcd to b,o,•t:rcome with feeling. A number
of the pr.ople gathered around him, and he said: "Thllt nun il
:>vernmcnt, lun·e
rcumstnnces nro
·the valuo which
;, Roman Priests
!trates, called at
ed, in the month
1e mystery about
woman must be
:; been answered,
describe the Su-
s it was done, ho
menson~e, vous
. nouthl!:cr ~~~~
ctrr.:tt when you
To whiCh he re
ven-d that quos·
tho Hotel Dicu
uthillier declared,
, for his wife bad
::ould not be the
• for Nuns to de-
lied-" Co n'cst
then became
very abusive
Pnrnvr•tl him. It
he hnd lost hi:~
REVIEW OF TilE \VIIOLE SUBJECT. 347
Antichrist. She is not a humnn being, but nn evil !pirit, who
got among the Catholics, and 1cas admitted into the nunneMJ,
where she learned the rules." He also stuted, thnt "in that nun.
the prophecy respecting the commg of Antichrist is fu!tillerl, to
break down the Catholic religion." Such was Phelan's address
to the people. He cieci.uctl that l\'lnria .Monk bad been a nun.
Now he knew her, ior he saw her in Montreal, where she could
not know him. It would have saved nil further inquiry and
research, i" instead of denouncing her after mosl;', he had mere-
ly ussented to Marin 1\lonk's proposition, to be confronted with
those Roman Priests nnd nuns before impartial witnesses in
the Hotel Dieu Convent.
One of the most impressively ehnrncteristic circumstnnces
which occurred during 1\Iaria Monk's visit to 1\fontrcnl in Au~.
183G, wns an interview at 1\Ir. Johnson's house with n Ca~·pcn­
ter who hnd heard Phelan's denunciation of 1\Iarial\Ionk after
mass. Refer to page 307.
Thtr ' heinous destruction of nil domestic confidence nnd of
all fer•.c1ie puritr, is known to be the constant nnd general
practice, not only in Canada, but in nil other Popish countries,
and nmong Papists in every pnrt of the world. For in truth it
is only fu.lfilling the authentic dogmas of their own sy:;otem.
The following authoritative principles nrc divulged in the Cor·
pus Juris Canonici, which contains the Deeretals, Canons, &c.
of the Popes nnd Councils; nnd other participants of the pre-
tended Pnpal infallibility. "If the Pope fall into homicide or
adultery, he cnnnot be nccused, but is excused by the murder~
of Samson, and the ndultery of David." Hugo, Glo>'sa, Dis-
tine. 40. Chapter, Non vos.-11
Likewise if any Prir~:~t is found
embracin~ a woman. it must be presupposed anrl expounded
that be doth it to bless l1er !"-Glossa, Caus. 12. Quest. 3.
Chapter Absis. - Accordin~ to the Pope's bull, he who docs not
believe those doctrines is ac~ursed.
As thnt Carpenter wns completely overcome by the recol-
lection of the Priest's information and caution about his mar·
riage, he desisted from any further questions; but upon 1\Inria
)fonk's declaration, that she was desirous to go into the con-
vent, and prove all her accusations against the Priests and
Nuns, he withdrew. Soon nfter he returned, and staled, that
he had been to the Convent, to inquire rE-,pecting her; nnd
that he hnd been informed, that t>he hncl once bclongrcl to
the Nunnery; but thnt they would not any lon~cr own or
·l
I.
I
I
348 APPENDIX.
recognise her. Afterwards he exhibited the most contra-
dictory emotions, and first cursed 1\farin Monk; then reviled
the Priests, applying to them nll the loathsome epithets in
the Canadian vocabulary. Subsequently, he went to make in·
quiries at the Seminary; and after his return to Mr. Johnt~on's
house he declared, that the persons there had informed him,
that Maria Monk had lived in the Nunnery, but not as a Nun t
then he offered to assist her in her endeavours to expose the
Priest11; and finally disappeared, swearing aloud ns he was re·
tiring from the house; and apparently thinking over the con-
duct of the Priest to his wife before their marriage.-" Oh, sa-
ere !"-he repeated to himself-" c'est trop mechnnt I"
Similar facts to the above occurred frequently during the
time of Maria Monk's \'isit to Montreal-in which ~trangers
who called upora her, cursed and reviled her; then belie,·ed her
statements and assented to them-and displayed all the natu·
rnl excitement which was necessarily comprised in the work·
ing of their own belief and convictions of the iniquity of the
Priests, and the dre~sd resulting from their own superstitious
vassalage, and the certainty of a heavy pen:mce.
But in connexion with the preceding· collateral evidence
is another remarkable circu:ustanee, which is this: the exten·
sive knowledge which Maria Monk hns obtained of the Cnna·
dian Jesuits. Those with whom she has been acqua:nted, she
affirms, that she could instantly identify. For that object, she
has given n catalogue of ihose Priests whose names and per-
sons are in some degree familiarly known to her. As the
Priests nrc often changing their abodes, nnd many of them re-
sidents in Montreal until n vncancy occurs for them in the
country parishes, in those particulars there may be a trifling
mistake; but 1\hria Monk solemnly avers, thnt the Priests,
whether dead or living, who nrc enumerated in the subsequent
catalogue, either have dwelt or do yet reside in the places spc·
cified. When une:~QJcctedly and closely examined in reference
to the Priests of the same nnm<.>, she particularly distinJn]isbed
them, nnd pointed out tbe difference between them in their
persons, ~ait, &c. ; thus precluding all objection from the fact
of there being more than one Priest with a similar appellative.
This circumstance pnrticularly isillustrated by the Priestt9 named
)lorcoux, of whom she says there are three brothers or first
cousins-two called Dufresne, &c.; each of whom slw graph·
iaallv depicts. It is also certain, because she bas dono it ia
te most contrn·
nk; then reviled
;ome epithets in
vent to make in·
o Mr. John~:~on's
d informed him,
1t not as a Nun t
1rs to expose the
ud ns he was re·
Jg over the con·
riuge.-" Oh, en-
!Chant 1"
tently during the
which ~!rangers
then believed her
yeti all the nntu·
;cd in the work·
1
e iniquity of the
wn superstitious
~c.
lateral evidence
this: the exten·
of the Cana•
acqua:nted, she
that object, abe
name!l and per·
to her. As the
ny of them rc-
thcm in the
ay be a trifling
nt the Prieste,
the subsequent
the plnces epc-
ncd in reference
y distin~iahed
them in their
from the fact
ilar appellative.
ePriestt9 named
brothers or first
hom she graph·
has dono it in
REVIEW OF THE WIIOLE SUBJECT. 349
agreat voncty of instances, and in th~ prescnc£ of many dif·
ferent persons, all of whom are well acquainted w1th them,
that she describes Lartigue; Dufresne; Richard; Phelan;
Bonin; Comte; Bourget; McM&hon; Kelly; Demers; Roux;
Roque; Sauvage; Tabcnu; Marcoux; Morin; Durocher;
and all the Roman Priests ·around Montreal, with the utmost
minuteness of accuracy; while the Chaplain of tho Ursuline
Nunnery at Quebec, Father Dnult\ is as exactly depicted by
her, as if her whole life had been passed under his sur-reil·
lance. Some of the appellatives in the ensuing catalogue may
uot be correctly epelt. Scarcely any thing is more difficult
th:m to acquire proper names in a foreign language; and es-
pecially where the pronunciation itself is provincial, ns is tho
case with Canadian French; and when also those titles have
to be transcribed from the mouth of a person who knows no
more of orthrepy and orthography than a Canadian Nun.
However, 1\fnria Monk attests, that the Priests to whom she re-
fers did rP.side nt those places wl.ich she has de~i~nntcd, and
that she has seen them all in the Hotel Dieu Nunnery-some
of them very often, and others on a variety ofoccasions.
Nothing is more improbable, if not impOtl!;ib!e, thnn that
any Papist girl should have such an extensive acquaintnnco
among Roman Priests. In Cannda cspecinllr, where the largo
majority of females hnve little more correct knowledg<! of that
which occurs out of their own district than of Herschel's ns-
tronomieal discoveries, youn~ women cannot be personally
familiar with any Priests, in ordinary l~nscs, except those who
may have been "Cures" of the parish in which they reside, or
of the immediate vicinity, or nra occn~ionul visiter during the
absence, or sickness, or death of the resident Curate or 1\Iis-
lionary. Notwithstnnding, 1\Iaria Monk delineates to the life,
the prominent features, the exact figure, nntl the obvious char-
acteristic exterior habits and personal appearance of more thnn
tne hundred and fifty of those Priests, scattered about in all
parts of Canada. Among others ~he particularly specifies the
following men; but some of whom she notes as dead. Others
ahe has numed, but as her rccollect:ons of thcr.t are less di3-
tinct, they nrc not enumerated.
Jeun Jncqncs Lnrtigue, Bishop of Tclmcsc, .llfon!real. Tho
Irish Priest 1\1(~!\lohon, who hna resided both in .Montreal and
Qlltbec. M. Duf1csne, Sl. Sirhofas. T.. Gadieu:f, Vic!lr
Goncrnl, Ttircc Rivers. E. F. 1\Iorcoux, ;1.1a:;kinor-.gc. S. N.
30
I
:I
150 APPENDIX.
Dumoulin, Yamachiche. A. Leclerc, Yomaska. Y. Fourmcr,
Baie du Febre. J. Demers, St. Gregoire. C. B. Courtnin,
Gentilly. 'f·. Pepin, St. Jean. Ignace Bourget, .Montreal.
The .Priest Moore, .Missionary. J. C. Prince, 1Ylont1·eal. J.
M. Sauvage, Montreal. J. Comte, Montreal. J. H. A. Rou.x,
VicarGeneral, Montreal. J. Roque, Montreal. A. Mnlnrd, llton·
treal. A. L. Hubert, Montreal. A. Satin, JYlontreal. J. B. Roupe,
Montreal. Nic. Dufresne, Afontreal. J. Richard, Montreal.
C. F11y, Montreal. J. B. St. Pierre, llfontrcal. F. Bonin,
P. Phelan, Montreal. T. B. M'l\lnhon, Perce. J. ·Marcoux,
Caghnawaga. C. De Bellefeuille, La.kc of Two .IJ-1ountains.
Claude Leonard, Montreal. 1<'. Durocher, }.Jake of ttco Moun·
taina. G. Belmont, St. Frant:is. P. Demers, Vicar General,
St. Denis. J. 0. Giroux, St. Benoit. J. B. St. Germain, St.
Laurent. J.D. Delisle, St. Ctsaire. J. M. Lefebvre, St. Gtn·
tr1ie11e. F. Pigeon, St. Philippe. A. Duransnu, Lachine. 0.
Chevrefils, St. Constant. Joseph Quiblier, Montreal. Frnn·
cis Humbert, Montreal. J. Arrnud, ll1ontreal. 0. Archam-
bault, Montreal. J. Larkin, 1lfontreal. F. Sery, ~11ontrcal. R.
Larre, Montreal. A. .1\lacdonald, ~Jontrcal. F. J...nrkin, Afon·
trea/. J. Beauregard, Montreal. R. Robert, JYlontrcal. J.
Fit1. Patrick, Montreal. J. Toupin, Montreal. W. Bnun,
Montreal. T. Filiatrcault, Montreal. J. Brady. A1ontrcal.
P. Trudel, St. Hyacinth. John Grnnt, St. Hyacinth. J. De·
laire, Chambly. J. Desautels, Chambly. P. D. Ri<:ard, St.
Joachim. Jan. Leclaire, Isle Jesus. P. .l\1. Turcot, St. Rose.
"0, Larocque, Berthier. T. Brassard, St. Elizabeth. J. B.
Keller, St. Elizabeth. J. Rnvieune, Lanorate. J. T. Gngno,
Valtru. Gasford Guingucr, St. .Melanie. L. Nicholas
Jacqu.es, St. Sulpice. J. Rcnucalde, St. Jacqttcs. T. Can, St.
Esprit. C. J. Ducharme, St. Therese. J. Vnlli~e, St. Schola!J-
tique. J. J. Vinet, A.rganteuil. M. Power, Bea~tltarnois. J.
B. Labelle, Chateauguay. E. Bietz, St. Constant. P. Bedard,
St. Remi. C. Aubry, St. Athanase. I,, Vinet, Noyon. J.
Roque, Noyon. J. Zcph, Garren. F. Bernult, St. JTafenlia.
A. MarcsseRu, Longueuil. P. Erunet, . J. Odclin,
Rounilli. J. B. Dupuis,----. L. Nnu, Rouvil/e. A. 0.
Giroux, St. Marc. G.l\farchesseau, . J. B. Belanger,
St. Ours. H. Marcotte, Isle du Pads. E. Crevier, Yamaskcl.
G. Arsonault, . • F.usebc Durocher, • D. Den·
U., St. R1J1alie. F. X. Brunet, St. Damast. J. A. Roisond,
St; Pit. M. Quintal, St. Damase. L. Aubry, Pointt Clair-.
a. V. Fourmcr,
C. B. Courtain,
trgct, .Nlontrccd.
c, Montreal. J.
J. H. A. Rou.r,
A. Mnlnrd, .Mon·
eal. J. B. Roup~,
~hard, Montreal.
real. F. Bonin,
:e. J. ·Marcoux,
r wo .1l-1ountain8.
'>e of two Moun·
~. Vicar General,
St. Germain, St.
efebvr.-, St. Gtn-
'lU, Lachine. 0.
fontreal. Frnn·
ll. 0. Archam-
·y, .M'ontreal. R.
F. Lnrkiu, .Mon·
t, .Nlontrcal. J.
·eal. \'\1
• Bnun,
y. Montreal.
J. De·
D. Ricard, St.
rcot, St. Rose.
. J. B.
J. T. Gngno,
L. Nicholas
es. T. Can, St.
St. Schola!·
uharnois. 1.
. P. Bedard,
net, Noyon. J,
t, St. Valentia.
J. Odclin,
A. 0.
J. B. Belanger,
Yamask••·
D. Den·
J. A. Roisond,
, Pointe Clair,_
REVIEW OF THE WHOLE SUBJECT. 35l
P. Tetro, Beaultarnoi•. B. Ricard, St. Conllant. M. Morin,
Mtukouclte. J. Crevier, Blairjindie. P. Grenier, <.:'hateaui'Uay,
A. Durocher, Pointe auz Trembles. P. Mercure, La Pruen-
tation. R. Gaulin, Dorchuter. H. L. Girouard. St. Hyt~~­
einthe. J. Paquin. Blairjindie. E. Brossard, ,f)t. Poly-
earpe, J. Boi£sonnault, Ri~ere dea Prairie•. F. N. Blan-
chet, Soulange•. E. Lavoie, Blairfindie. J. n. Kelly, Sorel.
E. ?tlorriset, St. Cyprian. H. Hudon, Argenteuil. M. Brudet,
St. Martin. P. P. Archambault, Vaudreuil. J. B. Boucher,
La Prairie. J. Quevillon, St. Our1. A. Chaboillez, Longu-
cuil. P. J. Delamothe, St.' Scholastiqut. T. Lagord, St.
J7
incent. J. Durocher, St. Benoit. Antoine Tabeau, Vicar
General, Montreal. J. F.' Hebert, St. Our•. F. A. Trudeau,
Montreal. M. J. Felix, St. Benoit. L. Lamothe, Berthier.
J. lloirior, St. .Anne. F. J. Deguise, Vicnr General. Varen-
nu. · J. B. Bedard, St. Denis. R. 0. BrunsRu, Vercheres. F.
Portier, Terrebonne. P. D. Ricard, Berlhier. L. Gagne, Lache-
Jtaie. Joseph Belanger, Chambi-y. ?tl. Blanchet, St. Charlu.
P. ?tl. ?tlignnult, Chambly. F. Labelle L'•.tssumption. F.
llarcoux, St. Barthelemi. N. L. Amiot, Repentigt~oy. J. B.
Boucher, Chambly. P. Lafranc, St. J!an Bapli.te, P. Robi-
taille, Monnie. F. De Bellefeuille, St. Vincent. M. Broseard,
St. Elizabolh. P. Cousigny, St. Mathias. J. D. Doul~.
Quebec.
It is readily admitted, thnt any person could take one of the
Ecclesiastical Registers of Lower Canada, and at his option
mark any number of the Romon Priests in the catalogue, and
impute to them any crime which he pleased. But if the accu-
ser wero closely examined, and among such a multitude o(
Priests, who in all their clothing are dressed alike, were coiled
upon minutely to delineate them, it is morally impossible, that
be could depict more than a hundred Priests dispersed from the
borders of Upper Canada to Quebec, in as many different pa-
rishes, with the most perfect nccuracy, unless he was penonallr
and well acquainted with them.
Moria Monk, however, does most accurately describe all the
Priests in the preceding catalogue, and repeats them at the ex-
piration of weeks and months; and the question is this: how
is it possible that she could have become acquaint~ with 80
many of that body, and by what means con ~he so precieely de-
pict their external appearance1-The startling, but the onlr
.plauaible answer which can be given to thllt question ill thil :-
352 .APrENDIX.
that she has ecen them Jn the Nunnery, whither, as lt·••e mllin•
tain11, mo11t of them conataratly resorted for licentious intef'o
couree with the Nuns.
One other connected fact may hero be introduce,). .Maria
Monk well knows the late Lady Superior of tho Charlestown
Nunnery. That acquaintance could not have been made in the
United States, because Saint 1\lary St. George as she called
herself, or Sarah Burroughs, daughter of the notorious Stephen
Burrough!', ns is her real name, removed to Canada at tl1e latter
end of J\lny, 1835 ; nor could it have been prior to the establish-
ment of the Charlestown Nunnery, for at that period Maria
Monk was a child, and wna not in any Convent except merely
ns a scholar; and 1\Iury St. George was nt Quebec. How
then did she hecomc so familiar with that far-famed Lady ns
to be able to describe her so exactly 1 •rhe· only answer i!:',
that she derived her knowledge of the Charlestown Convent
:md of its Superior, from the intimations given, and from in·
terconrse with that Nun in the Hotel Dieu Convent.
Young females often have been sent to the· Nunneries in
Canada under the fallacious hope of obtaining for them a su·
perior education; nnd very frequently, they are suddenly re-
moved after being there but a short period; because the per-
s~ns to whose partial guardianship they nrc committed per-
ceive that they nrc in danger of being ensnared by the Chaplain
nnd his female Srrens.
But there nrc two other particulars in American NunneriC!,
the toleration of which almost surpasses credibility.
In reference to girls, they nrc permitted to visit their friend~
c..·cn when they reside in the vicinity of the Con vent, only for
nn hour er two monthly-if their relatives are at a distance,
thP.y seo them only during the annual vacation, and often re-
main in the Nunnery during that term.-No correspondence is
permitted between the mother, the guardian, the sister, or the
friends of the young female in the Nunnery School, on either
sitie, witl.· out the inspection of the argus-eyed agent of the In·
stitutior.. Parental advice, filial complaints, and corafidentinl
communications nrc equally arrested i and only furnish to the
Superiors of the establishments, artifices to thwart the Seniors,
to er.tar.gle the Junior•, and effectually to cajole both parties.
Con~cr-;ently, it generally happens, that from one term to an·
other, ~ittlc or no intercourse exists between the youth and her
rdotives i and it is indubitable, that where any letter• do no-
!r, aa .:·
.,e mllin•
~centious inter-
·oduced. Maria
n
oCharlestown
1cen made in the
:e as 11he callod
1
torious Stephen
1ada at the latter
to the establish-
at period Maria
1t except merely
Quebec. How
r-famed Lady :111
only answer i!',
estown Con..-cnt
m, and from in·
1\Vellt.
he·Nunneries in
~ for them a su•
are suddenly re-
the per·
committed per·
by tho Chaplain
IOI'leEIDOn<ltenee is
, or the
........uu•~o on either
agent of the In·
cor.fidcntinl
furniah to the
the Seniort~t
both partica.
one term to an·
youth and her
letter• do no-
REVIEW OF TilE WHOLE SVBJECT. 353
mlnally paas between them, they are forgcrica; the realleteen
bein!f surreptitiously detained. Those felonious rcg-.Jlationt
furmsh ample scope for the initiation ofg~rls just entering upon
wom~nhood, into all the wickedneas of the Nunnery: while
the g1rl11 themselves are unci>dscious of the design, and the
Nuns, those nefarious artificers of the iniquity, i11 aub~~erviency
to the Priests, in case of necessity, can exculpate themselves
apparently from all participation in the tNachery and crimes.
In the nunneries and conventual schools in the United States
there ia~ a sort of fairy land, talked about by the nuns to the
elder girls. ~t il'l called the "Nun•' l•l4nd.11
That country it
always descnbed as an earthly paradise; and to girls who are
manifestly fascinated by the witcheries of the nuns, and in
whom ~oral se~sibility ha~ become blunted by the unmeaning
aupcrst1t1ons wh1ch they Witness, and which they mechanically
perform, a visit to the "Nun•' l1land," is always proposed aa
the greatest privilege, and the mol5t costly reward, which can
be given for constant obsequiousness to the nuns, and unre-
aerved compliance with their requirements. The term "Nuu,
/•land," is thus used to express the nunneries in Canada, and
probably some similar institutions in the United States, wbero
they ore not too difficult of access. .At all events, girls just en-
tering upon the character of women, after proper training, are
firaally gratified with a visit to the "Nun•' l•land." They are
taken to Montreal, and in the nunneries there are at once
taught 11
the mystery ofiniquity;" in all the living reality which
Maria Monk describes. Those girls from the United States,
who are represented as novices, in Mari:l Monk'• " .Awful Di.,..
tlosures," page 154, were young ladies from the United State,,
who hnd been decoyed to visit the" Nun•' lfland," and who,
not being Papists, often were found Tery intractable; but pos-
terior circumstances enforce the belief, that having found re-
aistance vain, they bad not returned to their •chool ere they
were duly qualified to continue the course into which they had
been coerced, so asfully to elude all possibility of discovery and
esposure. That mother who intrusts her daughter to a nun-
nery school, is chargeable with the high crime of openly coftooo
ducting her into the chamben of pollution, and thepath to irM-
Iigion,·and the bottomfess pit.
These combined circumstances &atisf'actorily prove that dl•
narrative ofMaria 1\lonk should be believed by all impartial per- -
10ns; at 1 ea~t. until other c\·idt-nco ia adduced, and the o&r
ao• ,.
I
354 APPENDIX.
oCespJoring the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, by the Nuw-York Pro-
testant Association, hu been accepted and decided.
3, Additional evidonee of the truth of1\laria Monk'a narratife
iadeduced from the cract co't\formily ofthefactll'IDhich ahc dcdee
concerning the llotel Dieu Nunnery, trllen compared 1Dith the
autlloritatif'e principle• of the Juuit Priuthoocl t111 recorded
in their own duly •anctioncd "olumu. 1t is essential to remark,
that of those books ~ho knows nothing; that she haa never
seen one of them, and if sho could gr11sp them, that they would
impart no illumination to her mind, being in Latin; and yet in
tmany momentous particulars, neither Lartiguc nor any one of
the Jesuit Priests now in 1\lontrcal, who was educated in
France, could more minutely and aecurntely furnish an c.xpo-
aition or practical illustration of the atrocious themes, tbnn
!Iaria Monk h3Suncont~ciously done.
Maria Monk's 11
Awful Disclosures," are reducible to throe
classes: intolerable sensuality ; diversified murder; and most
scandalous mendacity ; comprehending flagrant, and obdurate.
and unceasing \'iolntions of the sixth, seventh, and ninth com-
mandments.
The ninth commandment : FALSEHOOD, Of this baseness,
five specimens only shall suffice.
Sanchez, tl \'Cry renowned author, in his work on "Morality
ftnd the Precepts CJf the Decalogue," part 2, book 3, chap. G, no.
13, thus decides: "A person may tnke an oath that he hns not
done any certain thing, though in fact he bas. This :s extremclr
convenient, and is also ~cry just, when necessary to your health,
honour, and prosperity t" Charli in l1is Propositions, no. 6, :~!­
firma that "He who is not bound to state the truth befora
swearing, is not bound by his oath." Tallcrna in his vol. 2,
part 2, tract 2, chap. 31, p. 288, o11ks: "Is a witness bound to
declare the truth before a lawful jmlge'l" To which be replies:
"No, if his deposition will injure himselfor his posterity." Lag-
mann in his worlts, hook. 41 tract 2, chap. 2, p. 73, proclaims:
"It is not Eufficient for on oath, that we uao the formal words,
if we have not the intention and will to swear, and do not 1in·
ccrely invoke God as a witness!' All those principles are s:tnc-
tioned by Suarez in his u Precepts of Law," book 3, chap. 9,
anertion 2, p. 473, where he stlye, "Ifany one hns promised or
eol'ltracted without intention to promise, and is called upon onth
to answer, may· s1mply answer, NO; and may awear to that
dcninL"
~ew-York~
ded.
:onk'a narrati'o
which ahc1talu
~pared with the
,od a. recorded
mtial to remark,
t abo haa never
that they would
atin; and yet in
nor any one of
taB educated in
~urnish an expo·
aa themes, tbnn
duciblc to throe
uder; and most
nt, and obdurate,
, and ninth com·
)f this baseness.
•u•"".,'''"" are anne-
book 3, chap. 9,
has promised or
called upon onth
awear to that
V.CVU:W OF TH£ WllOt£ SUDJECT. 355
The idea of obtauung truth, thcreforr, from n tl1orough-goin1
Papist, upon any &ubjoct in which his "llonour,U is concerned-
and every Papist'a honour is indissolubly conjoined with "the
Church"-is ou absurdity so great, thut it cannot be listened to
with patience, while the above decisions sre the authorized dog·
mas which the Roman Priests inculcnto among their followers.
How well the nuns of 1\Iontrenl have imbibed those Jesuitical
instructions, 1\larialtlonk's 11
Awful Disclosures" amply reveaL
'r/u Sizth Commandment: 1\IunoEn. The following miJ.
cellancous decisions are extracted from the works of the regu·
larly sanctioned Uomish lluthorll, ofthe very highest character
and rank in th1t community.
In his famous volume called "Aphorisms," p. 178, Emman·
utl Sa writes-" You may kill any person who may be abltl to
put you to dc:tth-judgc nnd witnesses-because it is self-de·
fence."
Henriquez, in his" Sum of Moral Theology/' vol. 1, book 14,
chap. 10, p. 869, decidea thnt "a Priest is r&Ot criminal, ifhe kill
the husband of a woman with whom he is caught in·adultcry."
Airault published a number of propositions. One of them
enys, that "a person may secretly kill another who attempts to
destroy his reputation, although thefacts are true which he pub-
lished.'' The following must be cited in Latin. "An licit~
Bit mulieri procurnre nbortum 1 Posset ilium excutcrr, ne ho·
norem suum amittal, qui illi multo pretiosior est ipsa vita."
11
All liceat mulicri conjugatlll sumerc pharmacum sterilitntis1
Ita satius est ut hoc faciat, quam ut marito debitum conjugate
recuset." Censures 319,322, 327.
In his :!\lorn) Theology, vol. 4, book 32, sec. 2, problem 5, E ..
cobar determines, that "it is lawful to kill nn accuser whose
testimony may jcopnrd your life and honour.'·'
Guimcniu1 promulged his seventh Propollition in the•
words ; "YQU mny charge your Qpponent with false crimes to
destroy his credit; nnd you may also kill him.''
Marin wrote a work called "Speculative and Moral The-
ology." In vol. 3, tract 23, disputation 8, sec. 51 no. 63, p. 448,
are found the following sentences: 11
Licct procurnre nbortum,
ne puella infamctur." That doctrine is admitted, 11
to endo
personal diagrace, and to conceal the infamy nf .J.llonk• and
.Vun1." No. 67, p. 429. In no. 7u, p. 430, o( tho same work,
.Varin writes: "Nnvarrus, Arragon, Banncz, Henriquez, Sa.
S01ncht>z, Palao~ IUld o.thcrl>, all soy, that a woman may \liOe
116 APJ'&JICDJX.
aot onlymiasione aanguims, 1ed alii• medieamenti., otai indo
.,.reat fetus." With that doctrine alao ogrccal!.'!lidiau, in hill
"Explication ot the Decalogue," vol. G, book 6, chap. 1, doubt
4 1 and Diana in his work upon Morality, p11rt &. tract 8, rcaolu·
tion 37, Cully ratifies hia aanction.•
Gobatu• published owork which he entitled, "1\lorality," and
ln vol. 2, part 2, tract 5, chap. 9, sec. 8, p. 328, is tho following
edi,/yin,spccimcn oCPopieh morals: "Peraons may innocent·
Jy dcaire to be drunk, it any great good will ariee from it. .A
aon whoinherits wealth by his father'• doath, may rejoice thor
when he was into~icntcd, he murdered his father." A(:<~ording
to which combined propo11itions, a man may ma!tchim1elfdrunk
e.zprellly to kill his parent, ftnd yet be suiltlcss.
Bu~enbaum wrote a work denominated "1\foral Theologr,,.
which waa enlarged and explained by Lacroi:r. In vol. I, p.
295, ia tho following position : "In all the coBes where a man
baa a right to kill any person, another may do it far him." But
we have already heard by E•coba,. that any Romon Priest bas
a right to kill Maria Monk; and therefore any Papist may mur•
der her lor them.
Alarona, in his "Compcnd ot tho Sum of Theology," by
Thomas .Aquinoa, quet!tion 94, p. 230, " Sums" up all tho Ro-
miah system in this comprehensively blasphemous oracular
adoge. "By the command of God, it u lauiful to murder tl1e
innocent, to rob, and to comnlit l~ne11; andthu• to fulfil hi•
mandate, u OU1' duty."
The ,,.eJtlh commandment.-ln hi1 Aphoriamll, p. 80, ancl
p. 2&9, Sa. thus decide•-" Copulari ante benedictionem, nut
nullum aut leve peccatum est; quin etiftm expedit, ai multum
ilia difl"eratur."-" Potest et femina queque, et mas, pro turpi
corporis usu, protium acciperc et pctere."
Hu,.ta® issued a volume of "Disputations and Difficulties."
.At p. 4761 ia the following genuine Popish rule of life-" Car·
aal intercourse before marriage ia not unlawful." So teachu
lhat Jesuit orade.
D&ca~tillo, in his work upon " Righteouanesa ond other car·
tlinal Virtues," p. 87, thua asks-" An puella, qum per vin op·
primitur teneatur clamare et opem implorare ne violetur1" The
anawer i1 this-" Non videtur teneri impedire peccatum aheriua
-.ed m~re pas.sive ae habere."
E•oolJ,,., in his "Morad Theology," p, 32G, 3271 328, of YoL
t. dttumiaN that " a maa who abduc~ as womaD from affea
menti.. otai indo
1 ERicliau, in hi11
&, chop. 1, doubt
~tract 8, rcaol~·
11
1\lorality," and
is tho following
ts may innocent·
arise from it. A
may rejoice thnr
llcr.11
Ac:t~ording
t!te bim1tMdrunk
••
loral Theology,"
tz. In vol. I, p.
sea where n man
lit far him." But
tomon Priest bas
Papist may mur•
and Difficulties."
of life-" Car·
" So tcachet
and other car·
qum per vin op·
violetur1., The
.,ec,;a.\111111 alteriUI
REVIEW OF TilE \VIlOLE SUD.JECT. 357
t\on expressly to marry her, it auilty of mortnl in, llut aPrieet
who forcibly vioiatee her through lust, incura no censure."
1'ntnburin. unfolds the ch!lroctor of Romnnism in hit "1\lo-
rnl Theolo;n·," p. 186, in a lengthened diecuasion or tho follow·
ing charn~tcrit~tic inquiry-" Quantum pro usn corpori1 aui
jnRto oxiaat mulier 111
-1'ho reply is, 11
do merctrice ct do fcmi-
Pil honesta liivo conjugata, aut non."
Ftge/i, wrote a book of "Procticnl Q.ucations ;" and on p.
3~71 is the rollov.·ing-" Under what obligation is ho who defile"
a virgin1"-Tho answer i" this-" Bcsidca tho obligation of
penAnce, he incurs none; quia pucllo hobot ju:1 usum sui cor· .
poria conccdcnui."
•rruclucla published a \'olume which he facetiously entitled
the u I.aver of Conscience ;11
and at p. 9G, he l1
rcscnts us with
this astounding recipe to purify tho conscience-" An Concubi·
n:u~us sit ahsolvcnuus onteqnam concubinnm dimittat 1" To
which he rcplies-16
Si illa concubina sit value bona et utilis ceo-
noma, ct sic nullam aliom possit hnberc, cssct absoh·cndus."
From the prior decision!!, combined with numberless others
which might be extracted from tho ~\'orks of the Romish au-
thors, it is ob,·ious, that tho violations of tho sc~·cnth command·
ment, arc scarcely enumerated by the Papal priesthood amon1
veni:tlttins. F.epcciall}' if we consider tho definition of ll pros-
titute by the highest Popish nuthorir.y; for in the Deeretale,
Dituinction 3·1, in the Glos~, is found this savory ndugc-" ~Ie­
rctrix est, quro admiscrit plurcs quam viginti tria hominum mil·
1ia !" That is the infallible attestation to tho truth of Maria
Uonk's "Awful Disclosures."
4. Tho antecedent narralive or the Hotel Dieu Nunnery, is
confirmed by the uni\'ers:al and constant practice of Roman
Priests in aU Convents. Among !he works of William Hunt-
ington, is a eorresponuenco between himself and a young lady
who was converted by his ministry. The r.eventh letter from
Mi11s M. contains the following psseoge :-
" ll ua 1harns for women to approach those confe•sionnZ..
If they were never wise in scenes of iniquity before, the Priest
will instr.tr.t them, by nsking the most filthy questions. I waa
confined to my bed three days from my first confession; ancl
thought I would never go again, being so abashed l>y the abom·
in:ations be hnd put in my hcnd. I would just na soon recom-
mend scalding water to cure Anthony,a-fire, or n wet bed in an
icc·house to cure an o;;uf", as recommend a sinner to those ac•
358 APPENDIX.
C"urscd ILt.s, Roman penance, and Auricular Confcet~ion."­
'l'he mental purity of Nuns consists in a life totally 11
contror1
to the laws of God, of modesty, and decency. They ore con·
1tantly exposed to the obscene interrogations. and the lawd
actions of the Priests. Notwithstanding God ho!l fixed a bar
nn every female mind, it is broken through by the Priests 1111t·
ting qneznions to them upon those subjects, as the scripturn do.
clnrcs, which ought not to be named! The uncommon nttrnc-
tions of the young women in Convents generally indicate tho
greatest unchnstity D1110ng them. I have known girls, sent for
education to the Convent where I was, who regulnrly stripped
themselves of every thing they could obtain from their friends;
which, by the nrtful int~inuations of the Nuns, was given to
them and the Priests. The Roman priesthood may well ba
called o sorceress, and their doctrine 1
the wine of fornication,'
for nothing but the powers of darkness could work up the
)·oung female mind to receive it; unless by the subtlety of tho
devil, and the vile artifices of the Nun!!. l shudder at the idea
of young ladies going into a Convent; and also at parents who
send their children to be eduentcd in n Nunnery; where their
daughters ore entrnpped by the Nuns into the snare of tiae
Priests, with whom they are accomplices, and for whom tha
most subtle of them are decoys, whose fcib'fled sanr.tity is oniJ
a cover for the satanic arts of which they are complete mis-
tres~es, and by which, tlarou~h the delusions of the mother of
borlot!a, being buried alive within the walls of a Convent, they
•drink of the wine of her fornic:1tion,' until their souls pass into
the pit ofdestruction."-Tho above extract is from the seventh
Jetter of 11
Corre~pondence b~twecn 1\Iiss M. nnd 1\Ir. H." ila
Huntington's Works; and exposes the Nunneries in France.
George D. Emeline, who had been a Popish Priest, in hia
11
Eight Lettertt," giving on a~count of his 11
Journey into
haly," thus details the nature of the intimncy which then ex-
isted between the Pricste and Nuns on the European Co'ntinent.
"A young 1rfonk at )lilan, Preacher to the Benedictine Nun1,
when he addreued them, added to almost every sentcnc. in
his di!tcourse, 1
my most dear and lovely sisters, whom l lovct
from the deepest bottom of my heart.' When a monk becom01
~her or Chaplain to a Nunnery, hi1 :h y» are passed in con•
1tant voluptuousness; for the Nuns will gratify their Confel-
aor in every thing, that he mfty be equaUy indulgent to them."
-EmelineJ• Lettera,p. 313.
Confest~ion."­
•tally· "contrnr·1
They are con·
s, and the lewd
ha!l fixt'<i a bar
the Priests Jlllt·
the scripturo. de-
lcommon nttrac·
:ally indicate tho
wn girls, sent for
·cgulnrly stripped
om their friends;
111, wns given to
tod mny well bo
.e of fornication,'
uld work up the
tc subtlety of tho
.udder at the idea
!Oat parents who
1ery; where their
the snare of tite
nd for whom tho
sanctity is onlJ
complete mis·
of the mother of
a Convent, they
souls pass into
from the seventh
and 1\Ir. H." in
in France.
Priest, in hia
"Journey into
which then ex·
co'ntincnt.
ictine Nun"
RE\'IE\V OF TJU: WHOLE SUD.JECT. 359
".4.·r~gulnr Abbot of a 'Monastery in Italy, talking with me.
enid-· Mt'lins est habere nullnm quam aliquem-lt is octter to
have none th11n any womna.' I asked him what he mellnl;
he replied, 'l:'P.cuuse, wher. n person is not tied to one, he may
nwkc usc of m11ny :' and his practice was cnnformable to hit
doctrine; for he slept in the same bed with three young women
en ry night. He was a most insatiable Exactor and Oppressor
of ,;,e people who r~ntcd the lands of the Abbey; in conse-
quence of which the Farmers complnined of him to the Arch·
bishoJJ of the Disttirt. The Archbishop sent the Provost, the
Former •, ond sixty of the Serjeants at night, to se1:tc him and
his !'t!ma: • companion!l. They took the Abbot in bed, and hav·
in:.; pur on him a morning-gown; and having tied his threo
cuncut.ine!l md himself back to back, placed them in a cart, .
"nd
(,0 nducted ll~em to the Archbishop's residence, in Bonnonin:
who th:·n ro"uscd to judge him; but eent him nnd his females
to the 1\Ionnstcry of Saint Michael; mro which, with some
ditlh·ulty, he was admitted after midnight, in consequence oC
the Provost :~ssurm~ the Priors, that if they would not receive
the Abbot, they would procure his prelaticnl drea!l, nnd escort
him nnd the young women in procession through the city, and
back to his own Monastery the snmc day at noon. The fe-
molct~ w<:>rc ordered nwny, nnd the Ahhot was appointed tore-
main 111 his monastery for fifteen days for penance, until tho
story hod ccnsed to circulnte. I wns an eycwitnt>38 of thftl
myself, when I wos in the 1\Ionostery of St. Michael in the
wooJ."-Emcline's Letters, pp. 3S7, 358, 389.
Thnt the Nunneries in Portugal, os well ns omo11g thoi!IO
)Jcoplc m ludin who nrc subject to the Romish priesthood, nre of
the sn111e chnroctcr prec:st-ly, as Mnrin Monk describes tho
l'rict~ts nnd Nuns in Cnnadn, is proved by Victorin de Fnrin,
who had been n Brnhmnn in Indin; and who afterward resided
as n Romun Prkst in the Pnulist 1\Jonosrery at Lisbon.
II The rcrrulnr Priests in lndin," snrs Ji'nrin, .. hove become
what the bonzes where nt Jnpnn. The Nuns were the disci-
ples of Diann, nnd the nunneries seraglios for the monks;. as
1have proved to be tbe ca!le in Lisbon, hy facts concermng
those rums who were more often in the family way thnn (:om
mon women. The Jesuits in tltc Indies mode thcmselvPS
BrnhmnnM in order to enjoy the privil(.'~es of that caste, whose
idolatrous ritrs nnd superstitious practices they also externally
adoptcd.:'-Among other privilegqs which they pos.aeAsed, Fa·
.l
160 APP.ENDI.K.
ria enumerates the Collo\\ing, a' detailed irom hill own priOf
experience ns n Drnhman. •• Never to be put to death for any
crime whatever; and to enjoy the f:l\'ours of every woman who
plensed them, for a Priest sanctifies the womnn upon whom h"
bestows his attentions." That is the true Papist doctrine, as
~:.own by 1\'laria Monk's "Awful Disclosures;" confirmed by
the Cnnndinn cnrpcnter in !\Jr. Jo~nson's house nt 1\lontreJ!;
nnd rntificd by Pope Gregory XIII. in the Dccrctnla nnd Ca-
nons, in the Corpus Juris Canonici.-Secrets of Nunneries dis·
dosed by Scipio de Ricci. p. 217.
The Nunneries in ltalr during the present gencrntio·• nro or
the same description. :Maria Catharine B:uni, 1\la.tn 1\lug-
dalen Sicini, nnd Victoirc Bcm·dctti, of the Nun .10ry called
Santa Croce; all acknowledged, that ther hnd be ~n seducetl
at confession, and that they had habitually maintained crimi-
nal intercourse with a Priest called Pncehiani, who nbsohccl
his guilty companions after the commission of their crimcs.-
Sccrets of Nunneries disclosed by Scipio de Ricci. pp. GO, Cl.
Six Nuns of the Convent of Cathnrinc nt Pistuia declared,
that the Priests who ,·isired the Convent committed n "thou-
s:md indecorous nets. They utter the worat expressions, sn)·-
ing that we should look upon it as a great happiness, that we
hn,·e the power of satisfyil;g our appetites without the annoy
once of children; and thnt we !!houlu not htJsitnte to take our
plcasnres. Men, who hnvo contrived to get the keyt-, como
into the Convent during the ni:;ht, which they have !ipcnt iu
the most dilu•ipatcd rr.:mncr." 'l'hnt is the precise delineation
'>f the Cunnclinn Nunner:cs ; into which other men besides
Pr!ests nrc admitted, if the parties nrc willing to pny the en-
trance bribe to the Chnplain.-Sccrets of Nunnericta, by Scipio
de Ricci. pp. SO, 81.
l<'lavin Perraccini, Prioress of the Nunnery of Catharin<! oC
Pistoia, revealed what ehc knew of that und other Nunneries.
All the Priests "nrc of the eamc character. The}' nll have tho
tsamc mnxims and the f.lnme conduct. They nrc on more inti-
mntc terms with the Nuns than if they were married to them.
It is the same ut Lucin, at Pisn, at Pr:'lto, and at Pcrugia. Tho
Snpcr!ors do not lmow even the smallest pnrt of the enormous
\\'lcl:edness tho r goes on between the Monks nnd the Nuns."-
Sccrcts of Nunneriel!1 by Scipio de Ricci. p. 93. 'fhnt statement
i!l so oxactly conf~>rmcd to 1\inrin Monk's" Awful Disclosures,"
that were it not a f:~ct that :sh') h :~d no'o'cr seen Sci1•io de Ricci'I
!11 his own priOf
to death for ony
~cry woman who
n upon whom ho
tpist doctrine, as
;" confirmed by
tse ot 1\fontreJI;
:crctnli! and Ca-
-Jf Nunnerirs dis-
:;encrntio·, aro or
·ni, 1\Ia.Jn 1\lug-
Nun.Jery called
nd be ~n seducrd
1aintaincd crimi-
li, who absoh·ccl
lf their crimcs.-
tir.ci. pp. GO, 61 .
Pistuia declared,
1
mittcd n " thou-
expressions, sny-
nppiness, that we
out the annoy
te to take our
the key!!, como
have fipcnt i11
dcliuca tion
mcu bcsidc:s
to pay the cn-
nerin•, by Scipio
Nunneries.
all have tho
on more inti-
:nried to them.
at Pcruf{ia. Tho
of the enormous
d the Nuns."-
'fhnt statement
Disclosures,"
Scil•io do Ricci't
'REVIEW OF THE WHOLE SUB.!:==T. 381
·work, it might almost be supposed that some part of her nar·
rative had been transcribed from it.
Foggini of Rome, also wrote to Scipio de Ricci and·inform-
·ed him-" I know a monastery in which a Jesuit used to make
the Nuns lift up their clothes, assuring them that they thereby
performed an act of virtue, because they overcome n natural
repugnance."-Sccrets of Nunneries. p. 101. That is a very
extraordinary illustration of the turpitude of the Roman Priest-
hood ;-because that doctrine is a principle which they con·
stantly inculcate; and such is the invariable practice in the
Hotel Dieu Nunnery, that the Nuns were obliged to fulfil, for
the beastly gratification of the Roman Priests who visited that
house, which is 11
the way to hell, going down to the chambers
ofdeath." Proverbs 7: 27.
It is superfluous to multiply similAr extruc!s. Scipio de Ricci
was a Popish prelate, regularly commissioneci by the Grand
Duke of Tuscany to explore the Nunneries; and in conse·
quence of his authentic developments, the Jesuits aud Domini-
cans, and the dignified Papal ecclesiastics, with the two Popes,
Pius VI. and Pius VII. all opposed, reviled, condcmnecl, and
worried him almost to death.
One quotation more shall close this survey. Pope Paul III.
maintained at Rome, forty-five thousand courtesans. Pope
Sixtus IV. ordered a number of edifices to be erected expressly
for the accomodation of the semi-Nuns of Rome, from whoso
impurity pc derived a large annual revenue, under the form of a
license; besides which, the prices of absolution for the different
violations of the seventh commandment are as regularly fixed
as tho value of beads, soul-masses, blessed water, and every
other article of Popish ma,nufccture.-Pnolo, Hist. Council de
-9J'rent. lJook I. Anno 1637.
The preceding observations, it is believed, will remove the
doubttl from the mind of every impartial inquirer, respecting the
·credibility of Maria Monk's narrative: nevertheless, n few ad·
ditional remarks may not be irrelevant: esper.ially as there is a
marvellous skepticism in reference to the admil:!sioJl of valid
testimony concerning the Roman priesthood, their system and
practice. We are deafened with clamour for proof to substan-
tiate Maria Monk's history; but thnt demand is tantamount to
the declarat!on-11
I will not believe."
In anticipation of speedy death, nnd an imDtcdiatc appcar-
•ncc at the dread tribunal ofJehov3h, Maria ~Ionk communica-
31
! l
lj
362 APPENDIX.
ted to lUr. Tappan, the Chnplnin at Jkllovue, one of the be-
nevolent institutions belonging to tho city of New York, the
principal facts in her "Awful Disclosures." After her unex-
pected recovery, she personally appeared at 1\Iontreal, exp!'essly
and openly, to promulge her allegations of atrocious crimes
against the ch~f Roman Er.clesiastic~t in that city, who wcra
armed with power, and having nearly nil the population her
infuriated enemies. There she remained almost four week!;,
constantly daring the Roman Priests and Nuns in vain. It is
trut', Dr. Robertson in his affidavit says, that ho was willin1:
11
to take the necessary steps for a full investigation, if o. direct
charg~ were made against any particular individual of a crimi-
nal nature." Now if Illaria 1\lonk's charges are not direct,
OF A CJI.IMl:S.U :SATCBE1 and again*t PAKTICt:LAR INDIVIDUALS
-wha~ charges can be so ·characterized 1 The fact is this:-
Dr. Robertson would no more dare to issue a warrant for tho
apprehc:nsion of Lartigue, CJ\' any of the inferior Roman Priests
in Montreal, than ho .would dare publicly to strike tho Com-
mander of the Garrison, or the Governor of Canada upon mil-
itary parade. If any Papist hod stated to him the same fnct ~
concerning n Protestant, cr Protestant 1\Iinister, and offered
to confirm them by his worthless oath, he would have iseucd
his process at once; but Dr. Rohertson knows, that in tho
present state of Canadian soci'3ty, Roman Priests can do what
they please; and no mnn dares to reprove, much less to "tolte
any necessary steps for n full investigation" of their crimes. 11
the Jesuits and Nuns nt Montreal are nnxion~ for a full uwl
impartial scrutiny of the Hotel Dieu Con\'cnt, 1\fnria 1\lonk i1
ready to oblige them with somo facilities for that object; pro·
vided she may carry them out to all their extent and appli·
cation. 1\tr. Ogden hall one affidavit, and knows the wholt
matter; ns <~an incontestably be pr:lvcd by ftlr. A. P. Hart, an
AttornE'y of 1.\lontrenl; and we recommend Dr. Robertson to
issue his warrant for the apprehension of I..artiguc, Bonin, Du·
fresnc, and Richards, they are enough to begin with ; and i!
1\lr. Ogden will carry the facts with which he is acquainted to
tho. Grand Jury, one witness in New York is ready ti> np·
pear; and Dr. Robertson will find his hnnds full of employ·
me nt, if he will only "take tho necessary steps" to procure two
or three other persons wh:l ahall be ~ointcd out to him in th11
Hotel .Dieu Nur.nery. Therefore, until Dr. Robert11on com·
mencos St)Ule iucipient mca11ures ne R !\.lagistratc, towards" the
•
, one of the he-
rNew York, the
After her unex·
1>ntrenl, exp:-essly
atrocious crimes
lt cit}', who wera
.e population her
most four week~;,
ms in vain. It is
lt he was willin~
gntion, if n direct
.vidual of a crimi·
;cs are not direct,
CLAR INDIVIDUALS
'he fact is this:-
a warrant for tho
or Roman Priest!!
• strike tho Com-
Canada upon mil·
1
im the same fncts
lister, and offered
ould have issued
that in tho
can do what
uch less to 11
talte
tl~eir crimes. u
a for a full n111l
t, 1\!nrin l'tlonk i•
that object; pro·
extent and appli·
the wholt
• A. P. Hart, nn
Dr. Robertson to
Bonin, Du·
with; and if
is acquainted to
is ready ta np·
full of employ·
to procure two
out to him in th11
Robertson com·
te, towards " the
1lEVJE\V 01' THE WHOLE SUBJECT. S63
necessary steps for n full investigation," ns he snytz, we shall
he forced to believe, that the printer made a mistake in his affi-
davit, and put willing for 1tnwilling.
The cavilling cnll, howc\·er, for additional evidence to be ad-
duced by :Moria Monk, is manifestly futile. That testimony
is within the jurisdiction of the Priests alone who are crimina-
ted. Maria Monk reiterates her charges ogcinst the Romish
Ecclesiastics of Canada and their Nuns; and has solemn!}·
sworn that they are true. What more can she do1 What
more can be required of her1 Nothing, Lut to searci~. the premi-
&u, to see whether the statements which ~She has mr.tlc nre cor-
rect. ACommittee: of the New-York Protestant Association oro
willing to accompany her to Montreal; !o wnlk through tho
Hotel Dieu Nunnery in company with nny Gentleman of Mon-
treal, and mvcstigate the truth without fnvour cr partiality. Ma-
rin Monk is willing to submit the whole affair to that short, nnd
easy, and sensible teat; in which there ie no possibility of dc-
cep,ion. It does not dtpend upon credibility of witnesses, con-
flicting evi:ience, pereonal friendship, 0" relig~ous prejudices;
it is reduced at once to that untrring criterion, the sight ancl
the touck!
But, it is retorted, that wilt not b~ srantetl; then we repent
nnother proposal, let the Priest Conroy come forth girded in
nll the pnnoply of the Roman court, nnd appeal' a& the chum-
pio". of the Canndinn Jesuits; let him institute an action, civil
or criminal, or both, agninst the publishers of such atrocious
crimes, which, as they pretend, nre falsely alleged against the
Roman Priests. If Lortiguc nnd his Moutrtlnl inferior priests
are implicated in the most nefarious feloni('s1 Mnria Monk has
puLlishcd him ns a virtual accomplice. Why does he not put
her truth to the test, by subjecting her to a criminal process1
Why does he no~ commence a suit against the Booltscllers who
published her" Awful Disclosures1"-Ah l if Lnrtiguc, P.onin1
Dufresne, nnd Richards, with their brethren, Cc:~roy, Phelan.
Kelly and Quarter, were coerced to lteep Lent, and live only
upon •oup-maigre, until thnt day nrrives, they would not much
longer portray in their exterior, that they live upon tho fat of
the land; but they would vociferoti~tly whine out-" Mea cui-
pal 0 lllt'll grnndis culpaI 0 mea grnndissimn culpa! Pecc.lvi!
Peccavi! l'eccavi t"
I.
l'
SUPPLEME'NT,.
GIVING A DESCRIPTION OF THE NUNNERY, GROUNDS, ctr.
IN THE FRONTISPIECE•.
I nAVE several errors to correct, which o.r~ to be·
found in my first edition. I did not notice them for.
8ome time after its publication; for after it had once
been published, I wishe.d to relieve my mind from
reflecting ou the painful scenes to which it reiates,.
and felt little inclination to-read it over. Besides, I
soon begnn to be sought for by persons of different
descriptions, who felt particular interest ·in my dis-
closures, and to some of whom I could not reasona-
ably deny an interview. Accident also, and in some
instances my own curiosity, brought me into con·
tact with other persons; so that I had·to make past
scenes the frequent subject of review, and often-
times in a manner thut kept my feelings excited,.
and denied me much of that peace and tranquillity
which were recommended to me by my best friends,
and most desired by myself. Under such circum·
stances I did not look much into my book.
There are some errors in the first editions
~hich no one has mentioned to me, but which I am
about to ~orr£.:ct. .In describing the interior of the
Black N unnery, I s;.'Oke of the points of the com·
pass as I supposed them to be; but, on reflecting
since, I find that I never made any attentive obser-
vation from which I can be sure which way wns
I'",.
·, GROUNDS, ckG
11hich are to bet
notice them for
fter it had once
ny mind from
·hich it relates,
er. Besides, I
ns of different
rest ·in my dis-
ld not reasona-
;o, and in some
me into con-
to make past
w, and often-
excited,.
tranquillity
best friends,
first editions
which lam
....,......... of the
ich way wns
'·· SUPPLEMENT. 365
1
11orth, south, east, or west, and I might, pe1·haps,
have committed l!lome error.
I found, in reading my book after its publication,
that s('lme things which I thought I had expresseli
plainly, were rather obscure, and in several passa-
ges a reader might receive impressions quite the
opposite of the truth.
One of the most important errors in the descrip-
tion <,~·the apartments of the Bla~k Nunnery, is in
the 8th Chapter, under numl-er 4, in the second
story, where I have unaccountably made the long
and narrow passage by which the physician some-
times enters, terminate at the nuns' private sick-
room, (No.4,) instead of the little sitting-room, (No.
5,) where it actually does. As I remarked above,
no one, so far as I know, has ever alluded to this,
or any of the other accidental mistakes I have found
in that chapter; and I seize this opportunity to cor-
rect them, because a regard to truth demands it of me.
It has appeared to me, that I could furnish a plan
of the veiled nuns' department in the Black Nun-
nery, which would enable my readers the better to
comprehend what I have wished to communicate
by an explanation and description of the apartments,
passages, staircases, &c. Although. this may be
imperfectly done, I have the satisfaction to reflect,
that I have now laid before the people of America
a delineation and description of my late dismal
abode, more full and accurate, as well as more intel·
ligible, than I gave them before.
31•
I
I~
866 APPENDIX.
PUN OF TilE INTERIOR OF THE BLACK. VEIL DEIP.A.RTl\lt:NT.•
WisinNo to give as particular and clear a view
as possible of the rooms I have described~ I have
recently drawn out a plan of the different apart·
ments, which has been copied on a much reduced
scale, under my di.rections, nnd printed to accompany
the present volume. I wish my readers distinctl}
to understand, that in giving· this, I do not pre·
tend to be accurate in the dimensions. I ca~ recol·
lect, in most cases, where and which way a door
opens, whnt it lends to, the uses of the apartments,
cupboards, &c., the· furniture of rooms, and often
the number and situation of windows ; but I never
measured any of them, nor heard their size, nor
studled nor understood the plan of that part of the-
vast edifice of which it forms only a wing.
I may, it is possible, have made some error in the
relative positions of some of the apartments, so ns,
in sor,le instances, to render it difficult to reconcile
my impressions with the form of the building. I
nm uncertain, fo·r example, of the precise manner in
which certain rooms are formed, wheth~; they pro·
ject from the line of the wall, ns I ahvo.ys fancied
they did, or not. Some of the passagv~ also, may
perhaps take a different line from what I suppose.
Yet, with respect to many other things, I feel entire
confidence in my memory, as I could soon prove to
any one, if admitted into the Convent to test the truth
of my assertions. I will now proceed to mention
the additional particulars I have to stnte concerning
• See the plan at the beginnJna of this volume.
IL DEPARTilfNT.•
td clear a view
scribed. I haye
different apart·
much reduced
!d to accompany
aders distinct!}
I do not pre·
s. I caq recol·
ch way a door
the apartments,
-oms, and often
s ; but I never
their size, nor
that part of the
~ wing.
error in the
sons,
to reconcile
building. I
ise manner in
they pro·
fancied
also, may
I suppose.
I feel entire
to mention
concerning
ltJPPLI:MIN'l'. 161
the apartments, and shall refer to the imperfect draA
before my readers. They may turn top. 63 also,
where they will find what I have before said, as I
shall not repeat it here. I would, however, re-
mark, that several apartments, &c., which I did not
think of before, are now added here, although, to
prevent confusion, the numberhag is not changed.
First Story.-No. 1. The nuns' Private Chapel,
a emnll room, has an altar railed in. The cross
'
commonly placed erect over the altnr, is here rep-
resented as lying on the floor. It was once laid in
the position here represented, (with the head to·
wards the door,) on an occasion which I shall
refer to, when I publi.-~h another book, as my
story is not yet all told. There is a cupboard
with two doors, opening opposite the altar, where
were placed ornaments, with silver candlestick•
for the altar, &c. These I have sometimes been
sent to attend to. In the passage is a similar cup-
board. The door of the chapel opens inward and
to the right. The plan shows, in a similar manner,
how many of the other doors open. This room is
1t the end of the buildingtowards Notre Dame street.
No.2. Community-room, with benches on three
.ides to sit, and another row for the feet. The
windows on the upper side are very closely barred.
In the adjoining passage, on the left, are the
,va.,hstand and screen mentioned before, and next
a barrel of water with a cup, near the foot of the
!Staircase leading to the nuns' sleeping-room. See
trevious chapters. .A stovepipe, in whiter, passel
3~ ...
388 APPENDIX.
through from the next room, into this pas gc, nd
through the ceiling mto the nuns' sleeping-room
in the 2d story. See p. 121.
In the old nuns' sleeping-roomare markeda closet,
aome of the shelves or berths on which their beds
were placed, and the glass case ir. which the Name·
less Nun sometimes appeared. In the Superior's
sleeping-room, I need not specif; ~!,e position of any
thing more particularly than I have done in Chnp·
ter iii., and on p. 194.
In the next room, is the door to a staircnse, lc;ad·
intt to the cellar-a passage often taken by tho
priests. On page 133, I have mentioned that Fa·
ther Quiblier was seen in the Superior's room by
some of the nuns, on our way to the sleeping-room,
on the evening there alluded to. It will be seen,
after observing the relative situation Qf the staircases
to the sleeping-room and to the cellar, that the Su·
perior1
s room was a convenient stopping place be·
tween the two. As in various other instances, the
plan of the interior of the building which is insert·
ed in this volume, ·will here render some of my rc·
marks more clearly intelligible than they may have
seemed without it.
~o. 3. The dining-room, shows the customary
position of the tables, though not their prot1ortions.
There was sometimes another tabla placed between
the middle one and the wall ; not so, however, as to
interfere with the chimney and cupboarci on that
side of the room. In one corner is another cup·
board, and ln another one the pantry. The kitchen
us pass gc, nd
' sleeping-room
markeda closet,
hich their beds
hich the Name·
the Superior's
position of nny
done in Chnp·
staircnse, lc;ad·
taken by tho
ioned that Fa·
rior's room by
sleeping-room,
: will be seen,
the staircases
that the Su·
place be·
instances, the
is insert·
e of my re·
may have
customary
proportions.
between
!11PPLEM J:: ~T. 369
is a distinct building, with only a cellar and one
story. It is conner~ted with the large building
by nothing except a small window strongly grated,
with an.opening barely large enough to pass dishes
through. I was sometimes there while a novice,
put ucver afterward. The cooks employed there
are commonly poor girls and women who can get
,~·ork nowhere else, and are never permitted to en·
ter the nunnery, or to converse with the nuns.
Of the size and precise number of the two or three
succeeding rooms I a not very certain. I think
I have drawn them pretty nearly right. No. 4, is
a room where sewing is done in the week. On Sat·
urday our work was deposited in a spare room
which is in the projection. In one of the corners,
is the staircase up whieh St. Francis was taken.
I:J one corner of a large room beyond is tee Ex·
amination of Conscience-see page 64. It was
lighted, as I believe, only from a window on the
other side of the partition. Near the corner next
to No. 6, (which I may call the Sunday-room,)
is a trap-door, with a staircase, leading first to a
small apartment \>r cell under the floor of the room
we have just left, and thence into the cellar. T,tlis
was the way by which I often went down to getcoal.
N\>. 6. The Sunday-room was furnished chietly
with chairs, placed round against the walls. On
one side, a door opens into the yard, and on the
other, that which communicates with the covered
passage to the Convent church.
The adjoining apartments and cupboards, I am
IMAGE EVALUATION
TEST TARGET (MT-3)
'IIII
J&: : w w
_:ww
'"~
~~~1.1 ~-'1<£ : . .
IIIII~ ~~~ IJ&
lr--•- - - - - 6" _ _ _ _ __Jj
Phof9graphic
C()
Sciences
rporation
2:1 WIST MA.. STftiT
Wlfi!."TII,N.Y. 14510
( 716 ) 172-4503
s7o APP'ENDIX.
aware, I have described rather loosely heretofore.
I did not know the difficulty of placing them pro-
perly until I came to draw them. t .am convinced
I was wrong in saying that Nn. 8, the wax-room,
projected from the main ~uilding. The plan in the
frontispiece will show their relative situations as
nearly as I ean now give them.
No.9. The medicine-room must beat or near the
end of the wing.
Second. Story.-No. 1. The nuns' sleeping-room,
or dortoir. In the passage adjoining the sleeping-
room, is a long closet, opening with tl\·o doors,
which fold up when opened. The adjacent closeta
I have mentioned on page 66.
At the end of the passage 1s a staircase, leading
down to a small room, or rather closet, where there
is no light. There the stairs terminate, and there is
no communication with a~y thing else. I used to
think I heard voices there sometime~, when at work
near the stairs. I asked Jane Ray what it was, and
she replied that it was the Superior's hide-and-go·
seek hole.
No. 2. The adjoining staircase is that up which
we carried St. Francis. No. 3 is the little sitting·
room from which I set offto make my escape. (My
course is marked on the cut.)
Nos. 4 and 5, see p. 67. The 1ong passage ad·
ioining is th!lt described on page 198. The Doc·
tor sometimes camethrough it. That was the way,
also, by which we carried St. Francis to the room
in which she was smothered. It was durina- the
:>sely heretofore.
acing them pro·
l .am convinced
3, the wax-room,
The plan in the
ive situations aa
be at or ncar the
J' sleeping-room,
ng the sleeping-
with tl\·o doors,
1 adjacent closets
taircase, leading
where there
and there is
I used to
it was, and
hide-and-go-
that up which
little sitting-
escape. (My
passage ad·
The Doc·
was the way,
to the room
durin£' the
ltrPPLEMENT. 811
time of silence, when none of us was allowed to
speak. The passage is dark. ·she struggled once
ao that the nuns thought she intended to escape. I
believe it was because she got a httle hurt by hitting
against a projection marked in the passage.
When.I escaped, I passed through 4 and 5 mto
the square passage. The Superior was in No. 10,
and I, turning to the left, unfastened the door leading
to the steps, and so passed out.
By referring to page 69 sufficient will be found
concerning Nos. 11, 12 and 13. Next to that is the
.. Holy Retreat," andthe last apartment is the priests•
sitting-room, where many scenes of intoxication and
gambling have occurred. There. is a door in the
passage, opening to some place which I have never
seen. It was always locked, and had chairs stand-
ing against it. Some windows I ha,·e omitted.
l\ The Garret is not represented in the plan. The
stairs to it lead from the comer of the _
passage be-
tween Nos. 5 and 10. There is a great variety of
old rubbish stowed away in the garret. We used to
play there sometimes. There is a small room par·
titioned offnear the middle, but in other respects it is
all open. I found an old gag there; ~me which Jane
Ray, with her characteristic rPadiness, declared hnd
once been in her mouth.
Tltt Cellar is drawn after several hasty plans
made by me, at different periods, compared .with
each other, and with verbal descriptions I have fur-
nished. My former volume seem_
s to say that there
are four, instead of three double ranges of cella.
811 APPBKDIX.
That was owing to an oversight. There are two
'taircases leading into the cellar, which are marked
in the first story. In the cellar, near the former, ia
a great, gloomy, dismal iron door, studded with iron,
and fastened with a great lock. I never saw it open,
but often heard strange noises within. Under the
steps were stored raisins, and many delicacies for
the priests.
In the second cell on the right was imprisoned
the nun whom I occasionally spoke with; and in
the adjoining one beyond was her companion. The
last eell in the second range on the left hand, is that
in which I was once imprisoned. (Seep. 167.) Be·
tween the two last ranges of cells is only the ground·
floor. Just beyond is the hole of private inter·
reent. This must have been originally very near
the extremity of the cellar;· for a considerable addi·
tion was built to the Black Nuns' department a few
years since, when the chapel and adjoining commu·
nity-room were added to the first story, while the
nuns' sieeping-room was much enlarged, and the se..
cret rooms beyond it were of course constructed at
that time. The extension of the cellar left the hole
of interment much in the way.
I have never. described the communication 'be-
tween the great Nunnery Church ·and the Black
Nuns' department. Behind the altar is the passage
into the sacristie. From that room a passage leads
to the veiled mms' department. Strangers are some-
times taken through a partof that passage, to a small
room to which it opens on the left hand, when they
There are two
[
ch are marked
· the former, is
fded with iron,
·er saw it open,
n. Under the
· delicacies for
rns imprisoned
with; and in
npanion. The
ft hand, is that
e p. 167.) Be·
a
ly the ground·
private inter-
ally very near
ble addi·
be-
the Black
the passage
leads
are some-
to a email
when they
IVPPLEMENT. 37$
wish to seethe Superior, but they are never allowed
to proceed any farther. This passage leads to the
Sunday-room on the 1st floor. It is imperfectly
lighted, chiefly, I think, through the small roomjust
mentioned. This passage extends some distance be-
yond the door of the community-room with which
it communicates.
It has been reported, that since I left the Convent,
workmen have been employed in making consi~er­
able changes within it. If all these things are
to be changed for the purpose of contradicting me,
I can assure the Superior and Priests they will have
a great deal to do.
The walls are generally wainscoted, that is, lined
with wood. In the room where St. Francis waa
murdered, there are four iron staples driven intothe
ceiling, with rings. In another, there are seven or
eight similar ones. Most of the doors have no sills.
Those of the communi•.y-rooms, generally, have
Canadiarf latches. The window-sashes in several
rooms swing in.
The floorsJare generally made of boards, or
plank, (six or eight inches wide, I think,) and fast·
ened.. with nails. I remember, at least, that as th&
Bishop·was one day entering a community-room, he
said-" There, that is the third time I have bit my
foot again~t that naill11
•
The front view, according to my recollection, is.
correct, so far as it extends. The wall is of such
a height, as to conceal a great part of the front
.U.om a .Passenger in St. Paul's street; but my first
374 AI'I'ENDI%.
1
eight of the drawing reminded me of many circum·
· stances which I might refer to if-I hadtime and space.
The general plan of the' grounds and buildings
is, in some respects, defective and erroneous ; and I
can easily explain to my readers:why it is so. It
·was drawn by a gentleman in Montreal, who is
wen qualified for the task, but was not able to get
.access to some of the ·most important points. He
·made several attempts, during my visit to that city
·in August last, to obtain a correct drawing of the
.whoJe, but was unable. He one day entered the
gate, and I{Ot some distance into the yard, when he
began to make his observations ; but, being ob-
sezved, was assailed by several old nuns, who pe·
remptorily insiSted on his leaving die place instant·
ly. Some of them even laid bands upon him, to
force him out; but not being 'disposed to be thus de-
feated of his object, he lingered until they called
the yard-man to their assistance, who, without cere·
mony, and with some Violence, thrust him into tho
street. He sought every opportunity to ascertai!l
the facts necessary to make his drawing correct, but
was obliged, at last, to set down several things by
conjecture. I saw that he had committed several
errors at my first view of his plan, and proposed to
have proper corrections made; but, on the whole,
concludedto haveitcopied ona reduced scale, without
alteration, as I was not provided with measurements.
I will, therefore, briefly state, that .the left-hand
portion of the building is chiefly devoted to the pub-
lie hospitals ; the middle, and right-hand, to the pub·
f many circum·
ltime and space.
9 and buildings
roneous ; and I
hy it is so. It
ontreal, who is
not able to get
mt points. He
risit to that city
drawing of the
day entered the
:yard, when he
but, being ob-
. nuns, who pe·
lie place instant·
Is upon him, to
to be thus de-
they called
without cere·
him into tho
to ascertai!l
correct, but
things by
several
proposed to
on the whole,
scale, without
measurements.
the left-hand
to the pub·
, to the pub·
'·
117PPLEIIIEMT. 375
lie rooms and Novices' Department; and the mid-
dle wing to the Veiled or Black Nuns. Not only
is the Veilcd Department sheltered from view on
the front and on the right and left, but I have never
seen it from any place outside of the walls from
any direction i and I have heard it remarked, that it
would be very difficult to get a view of it from any
point whatever. I often saw it from the garden and
yard while a novice, as we had access there, al·
though it war contrary to our vows for any of us,
except the ole nuns, to leave ~he door after taking
the veil. .·· . .." . . .
· The breadth.or'the Veiled Department, I am con·
fident, is too great, and the length too small. The
position of it -
is also wrong, as it really stands to the
right hand of-the rear of the Convent Church._T~~
only connexion that·1 know of with the rest of the
building, is a narrow ,and covered passage leading
from the sacristie, (a rpom in th~ reaiofthe church,)
some distance to the ·right, .then tur-
ning at right an-
gles and running close to the wall of the .Veiled
Department to the Sunday-room, as shown ~n the
plan of the interior, on the first story. The k1tchen
is also omitted.
•
at6 .APPENDIX•
CONCLUDING REMARKS.
1 HAVE now concluded all that I deem it necea-
sary at present to say. The public, in this volum~
have in their hands, as it appears to me, everything
necessary to enable them to form a dccisive opinion
·concerning the degree of confidence which my
statements deserve. They have before .them every
thing like testimony which has been produced
:against me, together with the means of satisfying
themselves on various points on which curiosity has
heretofore been excited.
It is my intention, at some future time, to lay be·
·fore the public certain additional statements already
communicated to judicious individuals, and, indeed.
committed to paper.
For the present, I will only remind my readers
of the sentiments e~pressed in the Prefact>. of this
volume, and assure them that I desire nothing so
much as to see my sad and painful story producing
the effects for wh!ch it has ·been brought before the
world-viz. the delivery of my late fellow prison·
ers in the Black Nunnery, and the safety of all
others who may be exposed to the evils I have suf.
fered.
8rmta. Pqet 2'73 anct 307, (or earlole, ret\d carriage.
.
..
EMARKS.
hat I deem it neces-
ublic, in this volume,
us to me, everything
rm a dccisive opinioa
mfidence which my
re before _
them every
has been produced
means of satisfying
11 which curiosity has
uture time, to lay be-
al statements already
lividuals, and, indee~
r remind my readers
t1 the Prefact>. of this
I desire nothing so
!nful story producing
1n brought b2fore the
y late fellow prison-
nd the safety of all
the evils I have suf.
.riole, reM carriage.
