{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__poyen_husson___report_of_the_magnetical_experiments.pdf","mytitle":"Report Of The Magnetical Experiments","mylang":"de"}
REPORT
MAGNETICAL EXPERIMENTS
MADE HY THE COMMISSION OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF
MEDICINE, OF PARIS, READ IN THE MEETINGS
OF JUNE 21 AND 28, 1831,
BY MR. HUSSON,
THE REPORTER.
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH, AND PRECEDED
WITH AN INTRODUCTION,
BY CHARLES POYEN ST. SAUVEUR.
" Ea veritc doit etre Pidole de celui qui ctudie, lea science? »v*«
quolque elevation philosophise. "
—
Rostaw.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY D. K. HITCHCOCK,
9 Cornhill.
183G.
Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1806, by
D. K. HITCHCOCK,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
DISINTERESTED LOVERS AND
COURAGEOUS PROMOTERS OF TRUTH,
THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
B V THEIR
ADMIRER AND MOST RESPECTFUL SERVANT,
CHARLES POYEN.
INTRODUCTION
What a miracle to man is man. — Youwo.
Animal magnetism —its definition —conditions to exercise it
mode of operation —phenomena resulting from it —its
truth demonstrated through analogy and reasoning— objec-
tions to it refuted. Theory of animal magnetism —its use-
fulness in regard to religion, morals, intellectual philosophy,
physiology, and therapeutics —a sketch of its history down
to the present time.
Among all the discoveries of the most remarkable
period of time that extends itself from 1760 to the
present day, there is one which, both by its charac-
ter of marvellousness and the important results it
brings forth, seems to me calculated not only to ex-
cite curiosity in the highest degree, but also to
deserve the most earnest attention and interest of
every enlightened mind. This discovery, indeed,
exhibits, in a brighter light than any other, the moral
power and divine origin of man, gives a new life to
the religious principle, and furnishes unconquerable
weapons to Christianity against materialism, which
is already triumphant in some parts of the civilized
VI INTRODUCTION.
world — it opens a new and broad field to phsychol-
ogical speculations, that seemed n r
arly exhausted by
the labors of the preceding centuries — creates a
new method of pathological investigation — settles
therapeutics on a basis hitherto unknown to the
medical world — enlarges and raises so much the
domain or physiology, that we may qualify the mod-
ifications operated en it as true revolutions. The
wonderful discovery alluded to, is that of animal
mngnetism, and of the phenomenon of somnambu-
lism derived from it. It is that new order of facts,
indisputahly constituting a most interesting branch
of the science of man, which makes the subject of
the following pages.
This introduction, my readers will easily perceive
from the summary view of its contents above placed,
is designed to complete, as far as possible, their
knowledge of the subject, by giving them all the in-
formations that are not found in, and naturally ought
to have been excluded from, a report made up en-
tirely with facts.
What is understood by the words animal magnet-
ism 1 I open the dictionary of Medical Sciences,
published at Paris, volume twenty-first, and read that
it is 'a peculiar state of the nervous system, during
which some unusual physiological phenomena, not
yet well appreciated, present themselves — a state
which is ordinarily produced in one individual by
the will of another performing certain manual evo-
lutions for the purpose of causing it to take place.'
The indispensable, absolute, moral conditions to
INTRODUCTION. Vll
produce any magnetical effect are comprehended in
the following precepts of De Puysegur : — A firm
will to do good — a strong belief in one's power,
and entire confidence in using it.
There is but one physical requisite —good health.
Thus it naturally follows that every person is not
endowed in the same degree with the magnetical
power ; for all, in this case, depends upon the ener-
gy of the will ; the capacity of mental concentration ;
the benevolence and bodily constitution of the op-
erator. The manual proceedings in the practice of
animal magnetism, consists in carrying the hands,
upward and downward, along the nerves of the limbs,
and in exercising certain pressures alternately on
Ihe forehead, shoulders, and the pit of the stomach.
Magnetisers usually commence the operation by
holding the patient's thumbs from four to five min-
utes in their own hands, until a like degree is estab-
lished on either side. But the gestures —called
passes — are necessary only in the first sittings; for,
when a person has been magnetised several times,
and proved sensible to the magnetical action, the
magnetiscr's will, without any motion, is sufficient
to put him to sleep. Several instances of this fact
are related in the report of the commission appoint-
ed a few years ago by the Academy of Medicine of
Paris, to make experiments in animal magnetism and
ascertain the truth.
The phenomena produced under the influence of
the will and the gestures, vary according b; th to the
disposition of the person to receive the magnetical
Vlll INTRODUCTION.
action, and the power of the magnetiser to exercise
that action. Thus some indivi !ual~, especially those
who are strong and ei joy perfect health, feel noth-
ing, —some others feel only some heaviness of the
eyelids, cephalgia, nausea, much calm, or great agi-
tation. F nally, some are plunged into a peculiar
sleep, called megnetical sleep, and reach, after a few
sittings, that very singular state known under the
name of somnambulism. The magnetical sleep is
characterized by a complete suspension of the ex-
ternal senses. Somnamb; lism is the faculty of
speaking during the sleep; of recognizing external
objects through unusual ways ; and finally of hear-
ing nobody else but the magnetiser or the other
person brought to relation with the magnetised.*
'
What !
' you will exclaim, '
is it possible, that by
the plain action of the will, and a few insignificant
gestures, one can produce S3 surprising effects?
Does not this overthrow all the laws of nature and
good sense ? The age of miracles and magic is
passed away, and man can be no longer a god or a
sorcerer.' These are the exclamations of incredulity,
that animal magnetism always suggests in most of
the people who hear of it for the first time. Then
that doctrine is doomed to contempt and ridicule,
owing only to its appearance of singularity, and to
its being not like the phenomena commonly observed.
The man of the fashionable world cries, '
Miracles !
'
* I need not to give here any further details about the mag-
netical phenomena. The reader will find an ample collection
of them in the report.
INTRODUCTION. IX
hisses and laughs at this quackery of a new kind,
and bu ies himself no longer with it. The fair one
of the drawing-room says, with a smile of disdain,
that it would be an excellent remedy to stdl her
nerves in case of vapors, and busies herself no lon-
ger with it. The clergyman sees in it nothing else
but an infamous attempt against iclig on — an inspi-
ration of the devil, and hurls anathemas against it.
The puritan philosopher affirms it is only an ignoble
device of jugglers to subdue innoce «ce, make mo-
ney by deceiving the public confidence, and already
points it out to the proscription of the government.
The savant, especially the physician, proud of their
pretended positive knowledge —convinced that
nothing is true but what falls under the microscope
or the scalpel — decided beforehand to treat as false-
hood everything that does not ci me within the
compass of their physiolog cal and pathological the-
ories —either loks at magnetism as an imposture,
as a mere system of quackery, or c nsiders it as one
of those lamentable aberrations of the human mind
of which history affords so many instances — as a
miserable imitation of the proceedings used by sor-
cerers in the ages of darkness.
Such is the operation made against animal mag-
netism from its appearance in the world, and which
it still now undergoes from the part of a great num-
ber of persons, notwithstanding its triumphant
march and the innumerable facts produced every
day in witness of its truth.
But let us examine a little nearer the value of that
% INTRODUCTION.
opposil ;
on. In the first place, let us see what foun-
dation it lays upon. I beg the reader to notice that
it rests on no document or fact of a positive charac-
ter. Indeed, the opponents of animal magnetism do
not say — we ourselves have scrupulously observed
or made the experiments used to produce the pr -
tended phenomena, and in no case have we seen
them manifested. They say only, that such a thing
is so surprising, so unusual, so contrary to the phy-
siological knowledges, that it is not possible to
believe in them. Thence they draw the conclusion,
that magnetism is an imposture. But is it not a
method of reasoning evidently absurd, to condemn
as falsehood what a great many respectable persons
affirm to be true, only because the thing mentioned
does not enter into the circle of phenomena com-
monly observed, and goes beyond the reach of our
understanding? Who has not heard of sudden
death without apparent cause — of those spontane-
ous combustions which sometimes reduce to ashes
old drunkards? Shall we affirm that such facts
never happen, because they depart from the or-
dinary course of natural phenomena?
Again, shall we deny the existence of volcanoes
— of the fall of meteoric stones — the aurora bore-
alis — all the curious and interesting effects of
electricity and mineral magnetism — the periodical
revolutions of comets, &c, because it has been
hitherto impossible to give a philosophical explana-
tion of the formation or cause of those wonderful
INTRODUCTION. XI
operations of nature ? Verily, nobody doubts now-a-
days the existence of the phenomena I have just
mentioned, however extraordinary they may he.
Indeed, the facts repeatedly observed do not allow
the least doubt, and to believe them it is sufficient
only to examine. From that series of analogous
cases I come to a general conclusion ;
I mean that
there are really but very few phenomena that man is
allowed to understand. Whether he turns his eyes
upon the innumerable variety of objects which sur-
round him, or raises them up towards those worlds
of planets and stars rolling above his h^ad, every-
thing is wonder and mystery to him. What a variety
of beings —of different lives — from the insect of
one day up to man — from the grain of sand up to
the brilliant sun which is lighting us ! Each of those
beings has his own peculiar construction and prop-
erties each of these lives has a mode of mani-
festation which distinguishes it from all others. And
now let us try to discover, through a ciose and mi-
nute analysis, the intimate composition of each of
those bodies, and the vital phenomena of their
organization. Surely, by dint of attention and per-
severance, we shall be able to put together a very
great number of unknown facts, most of which will
be such as to excite astonishment and amazement —
even the incredulity of those who have not studied
the science. All those facts can be deduced from
one another, and understood through one another
;
but, definitively, we are unable to know the reason
of their production — I mean the primitive cause
Xll INTRODUCTION.
whence they emanate —the nature of the relations
and secret ties which bind them together, without,
however, confounding them. In short, it is possible
to the genius of man to know something in nature;
but that something can be but of facts only —that is,
visible manifestations of the existence of beings.
As to the why and how of those beings, we cannot
discover — this is the secret of God. Here I take
leave to remind you that every science is nothing
but a collection of facts, disposed in an order more
or less logical and luminous, connected with each
other, and explained through certain theories. But
those very theories are themselves reared upon a
primitive law, which is so difficult to be accounted
for, that we are obliged to admit it a priori ; that is,
as a matter beyond demonstration. Thus, chemistry
is based on the fact of moleculary affinity and atom-
istic combinations; the phenomena of elictricity
and galvanism recognise, as a regulating cause, the
existence of two fluids, one negative and the other
positive — which existence we must admit a priori.
Newton judged it necessary to base the theory of
planetary gravitation upon the hypothesis of the ex-
istence of two forces — the force of attraction or
centripetal, and the force of projection or centrifu-
gal. But you easily understand that this is a mere
conjecture, begotten by the innate want in man to
account for everything.
It would be easy here to accumulate numberless
instances which demonstrate that the primitive cause
of natural phenomena is, and ever will be, concealed
INTRODUCTION. XU1
from and unaccountable to man, however active and
extensive his organ of causality may be. From
what has been said, I conclude that if the existence
of the effects of magnetism is denied, because they
cannot be understood by our ordinary method of sci-
entific analysis, and depart from the natural facts
commonly observed, we ought, also, to deny all the
fundamental facts on which the science of chemis-
try, natural philosophy, astronomy, &c. are resting,
because they cannot be accounted for by, and be
submitted to, our instruments of material examina-
tion. Really, there is nothing to be wondered at
in magnetism. It is a plain, natural phenomenon
hitherto unseen and unknown to many. This is all.
On this subject, I add, with Rostan, ' These are
wonders and miracles for the fool only. The more
ignorant and rude people are, the more miracles
there will be ; because, as they are not informed of
the phenomena of nature, there is a greater number
of facts which are beyond the circle of their knowl-
edge, and which seem to them opposed to her laws.
As°peo|>le instruct themselves, the more their knowl-
edge becomes extended and the less surprising facts
exist. It is worthy of notice, that everything new
and unaccustomed excites laughter, contempt, and
astonishment. The true philosopher ought neither
to despise nor to wonder ; he ought to examine. If
we wonder at one phenomenon because of its nov-
elty, we might as well wonder at all others.'
Light, running millions of leagues a minute, and
enabling us to recognize the existence of objects
XIV INTRODUCTION.
placed at many millions of miles from us, and that
in a moment, and causing the spectacle of the
immensity of all nature to penetrate through an
opening not larger than a pin's head, the pupil, is a
miracle by far more surprising than the influence of
one individual upon another at the distance of a few
feet. Attraction, ruling the universe and making
itself felt without an intermediate agent, at the enor-
mous distance of one star from another, and so
holding in space the heavenly bodies, in regulating
their unchangeable courses, is again a wonder by far
more astonishing ; and yet, who pays attention to the
magic of light and attraction? A very few learned
men occupy themselves with it; the remainder of
mankind enjoy their benefit without wondering, nay,
thinking of them. And why? because they are ha-
bitual things.
The magnetical phenomena, it is said, are not
only accountable and miraculous, but some affirm
they are above the reach of human faculties — they
are impossible. Impossible ! has the sense of this
word been sufficiently reflected upon ? What is
impossible to man? Let us consider the enormous
works of all kind that man has been allowed to ac-
complish from the first step in social life down to the
present stage of civilization ? let us compare, for in-
stance, the man of the savage state, with his miser-
able dwellings, his precarious, wretched existence
amid the woods — so completely destitute of means
of intellectual improvements, sunk into the lowest
depths of moral degradation and idolatry — with the
INTRODUCTION. XV
mighty being who built up those splendid cities,
furnished with every possible means to satisfy his
physical and intellectual wants, to gratify his taste,
elevate and adorn his mind, enriched with the knowl-
edge of the true God. Finally, let us compare the
savage with the author of those wonderful processes
of conveying both ideas, persons and brute matter,
to the remotest distance over the sea and the land,
which makes him a cosmopolite — a universal be-
ing — 'a mortal god on earth,' as says a great poet,
and we shall then feel the necessity to restrain, in
some measure, the extent of the word impossible.
For all those gigantic things have been accomplished,
and nobody will contend against it, through a moral
acrent — the strength of will — 'that true column of
virtue in man,' as Young says. It is doubtless from
the consideration of so great a power, that Napoleon,
in the highest pitch of his fortunes, declared that
the word impossible should be taken away from the
vocabulary. If man has been able to execute so
many difficult and grand works by the general power
of his will applied in particular directions, why
could we not produce, by a peculiar application of
the same faculty, the phenomena of magnetism,
which are nothing else but an influence upon the
nervous system of a fellow-creature?
If we examine man by the side of his divine ori-
gin, we have a still greater motive to conceive and
believe the extent of his power. Indeed, the holy
scripture teaches us that God created man in his own
likeness and bequeathed unto him a part of his OWU
JCV1 INTRODUCTION.
substance. Now, what is God ? The infinite pow-
er — infinite love — infinite intellect. Therefore,
man is necessarily organized with a part of these
three attributes of his Creator. Why, then, wonder
at the various manifestations of the divine spirit
Working in the favorite creature ? Why affirm that
it is impossible for man to operate such phenomena
as to show what is most excellent in him, and
through the purest and most energetic element of
his organization, his will? Why deny the power in
him to send from his body, by the act of this benev-
olent and sympathetic will, an agent capable of
curing, or at least relieving a fellow-creature from
sickness? Such an incredulity is not only unrea-
sonable, but it is impious — it is decidedly opposed
to the teaching of Christianity. Any good Chris-
tian will easily conceive the importance of this
argument and cannot fail to approve it. Then, far
from throwing ridicule upon animal magnetism and
denying its existence, he will look at it with inter-
est and love, as a convincing proof of his dirine
origin — of his organical power, and of the immor-
tal ties whieh bind him to the infinite being from
whom he emanated.
Among the most violent opposers of animal mag-
netism, it is, perhaps, surprising to meet a great
number of scientific men, especially physicians. It
seems, indeed, that this class of men — being, ow-
ing to their daily avocation, more apt to examine
the phenomena of nature, her prodigious variety,
her infinite resources and power — should have,
INTRODUCTION. XV11
more than any other class, received the discovery of
a new order of phenomena by the name of animal
magnetism, with benevolence, or at least with the feel-
ing of philosophical doubt which leads us to experi-
ment by ourselves the announced facts, before deny-
ing them and crushing them down with contempt and
ridicule. The characteristics of the true naturalist
is to make experiments, even from hypothetical
views ; for it may happen in starting from an hypoth-
esis to arrive at the discovery of very important
phenomena. The true naturalist ought, then, to
observe and sludy the facts, however insignificant,
minute, or extraordinary they appear at first ; for it is
possible that one single fact is, in the universal or-
der of things, a point concealing a whole new
science ; or, at least, a very great improvement in
some of the sciences already established. Certain-
ly, to those physiologists who have bestowed some
attention upon the phenomena of animal magnetism,
it is beyond doubt that their discovery brings an im-
portant change both in the science of the physical
and moral organization of man in pathology and
therapeutics. By what inconceivable fatality did
some physicians oppose, with so much blindness and
narrowness of mind, the establishment of that new
truth, so productive of scientific results and benefits
to suffering mankind 1 We are almost ashamed to
say that they acted in this circumstance from the
same reasons as the vulgar of men :
because the
production of magnetical phenomena is incompre-
hensible ; because they are contrary to all the phy-
2
XV1H INTRODUCTION.
siological knowledge, heaped up by the experience
of past centuries. That those phenomena are above
the human understanding, I grant. But I beg the
physicians to tell me how many operations of ani-
mal economy they can understand, either in the
healthy or diseased state? Can they account, for
instance, for the act of thought and will ? for this of
assimilation — breathing? for the formation and de-
struction of the living machine? Can they account
for the periodicity of the intermittent fevers, and the
formation and mode of existence of a crowd of other
affections? — for the way in which the remedies,
called specific, act upon such or such of our organs?
(I need not name, them here.) No; they must ac-
knowledge in these cases, as well as in a great many
others of the external world, they are and always
will be in complete ignorance. '
If some persons,'
says Sydenham, '
consider me, on this account, as
unworthy of the name of philosopher, I would ad-
vise them to try by themselves their own strength in
the works of nature, which everywhere offer them-
selves to our observation. Now, if some learned
men are not ashamed to acknowledge their ignorance
in such matters, why should we reproach the physi-
cian with being unable to explain the causes in a
thing which is not less difficult, and goes, perhaps,
far beyond the reach of human intellect ? '
So Sy-
denham expressed himself about the periodicity and
and the seat of intermittent fevers. Let the physi-
cians and physiologists of our days learn from this
great nian how to be modest and wise in their judge
INTRODUCTION. XIX
ment on new natural phenomena they cannot un-
derstand. But that which is to my mind still fitter
to inspire them with modesty and circumspection, is
the very history of the science they profess. That
history, properly speaking, is nothing else but a nar-
rative of a continued struggle of opposed doctrines,
which vary according to people and periods of time.
How many hypothesis and systems ! Hardly one
has taken possession of the public opinion when a
new one rises up. Then, war and revolution in the
science. Let us notice, however, whence all those
modifications proceed ; whether from the discovery
of a new phenomenon or from a different way of ob-
serving and interpreting some of the phenomena
already known. At this present moment, there are
upwards of eight various systems of pathology and
therapeutics in the world called civilized. All this
seems to me singularly calculated to inspire toler-
ance and a wise spirit of examination, instead of
that blind opposition so unbecoming of a true savant
and a friend of the human species. But what shall
we think, what shall we say, when we know that this
opposition was made with the utmost fury and ex-
travagance against the very discoveries which were
afterward recognised as the most beneficial to man-
kind ? '
We cannot,' says Mr. Husson, the reporter
of the commission appointed for the examination of
animal magnetism, 'open the annals of our art with-
out being struck, not only by the diversity of the
opinions which have successively occupied its do*
main, but also by the little solidity of those judg.
XX INTRODUCTION.
ments which were thought firm at the moment they
were brou rht forward, and that some new judgments
have come to reform.' So in our days we have suc-
cessively seen the circulation .of the blood decreed
impossible; the inocculation of the small-pox consid-
ered and proscribed as a crime ;
those enormous
wigs with which many among us had their heads over-
loaded, proclaimed, by far, more healthy than the
natural hair. Who has not present to his mind the
proscription which struck all the preparations of
antimony under the decanat of the famous Guy-
patin 1 Who could have forgotten that a decree of
the Parliament, solicited by the Academy of Medi-
cine, forbade the use of emetic ?
"
Physicians are aware that those extravagant opin-
ions and judgments have been successively recalled.
The circulatory motion of the blood is now univer-
sally acknowledged ; inocculation of the small-pox is
practiced everywhere ; antimony and emetics used
as very useful remedies in some cases. So it will
be of the hasty judgment borne against magnetism
among people ; and already we see the first report
made at Paris, fifty years ago, in opposition to that
discovery, annihilated by another a great deal more
substantial and sound, made three years ago, by a
commi sion of the most respectable scientific body
in Europe, the Royal Academy of Medicine at Paris.
' The magnetical phenomena,' it is said, again, '
are
contrary to the physiological knowledge accumulated
by the labors of centuries. So much the better for
the, science and mankind, if those knowledges were
INTRODUCTION. XXI
erroneous, if falsehood is supplied by truth through
the new discovery. Let us open the history of sci-
ences, and we shall see that improvements of all
kind were so accomplished. How many errors, how
many gross absurdities have been rooted out by the
labor of the modern — how many grand truths dis-
covered, contrary to the opinions of past ages! I
recollect having heard from Mr. Magendie, one of
the most illustrious heads of modern physiology,
that the Asiatic cholera had revealed some facts
which thoroughly overthrew many points of patho-
logical physiology which were thought settled forever.
Well, it is just so with animal magnetism. The
future will confirm, 1 am sure, the results already
obtained by the practitioners of that new doctrine.
Moreover, if the discovery of new facts was to be
opposed and rejected because it is contrary to re-
ceived ideas, where would be both science and man-
kind at this day? At the very point from which it
started — in the savage state. Again, if the discov-
ery and the possession of truth is a sufficient motive
to consider the authors, and the people who enjoy
the benefit of those truths, as imposters, or sorcer-
ers, or gods, what would the ancients say of us,
should the dead be allowed to think and speak ?
Surely, they could not help looking at us as sorcer-
ers or gods, as did the Indians at the sight of the
Europeans arriving in their large ships and invading
their land, armed with cannons and guns, and run-
ning from one place to another with frightful rapidity
on animals of a new species. What would they
XX11 INTRODUCTION.
say of our modem savants, those philosophers ofthe
school of Thales and DemocriUis, who believed the
sun was not larger than Peloponesus, and that there
were but four elements in nature — fire, air, water,
and earth ; if they heard by us that the sun is an
inflamed body, the diameter of which is one hun-
dred and twelve times that of the earth ; that there
are upward of fifty-five elementary substances, of
which, neither fire, or water, or the air, or the earth,
are a part ; if, in one word, they were able to see the
inside of our laboratory of chemistry and natural his-
tory, and our astronomical observatories ? Finally,
what would the physiologists and physicians of anti-
quity say of us, if they were allowed to know the
admirable discoveries in anatomy and physiology
made in this recent period of time, and which raises
up the science of man so far above what it was in
those remote ages ? Certainly those men, however
enlightened they might have been to (heir contem-
poraries, could not help considering us as impostors,
or sorcerers, or gods.
May these considerations inspire us with wisdom
and tolerance. May we learn from them not to won-
der at the new facts we are allowed to discover in
the nature of the infinite Beimg of which we are a
part, and in the bosom of which we are all living.
On the contrary, let us be confident of our original
power, and ready cheerfully to receive every truth
we are destined to possess, according to times and
places, during our progressive development.
Now, my readers, I give up the ground of discus-
INTRODUCTION. XX1U
sion, properly said, to demonstrate through a few
analogous facts already observed and known, how
inconsistent it is to deny the existence of animal
magnetism and shrink from making proper experi-
ments on them to ascertain their degree of reality,
because of apparent impossibility. Those facts I
allude to are highly calculated, to my mind, to show
the probability of the magnetical effects. Let us
begin by stating that animal magnetism is a peculiar
stale of the brain and the nervous system, during
which some unusual phenomena, beyond the power
of man in the wakeful state, are manifested. Now,
the facts I am about to set down here, prove that a
peculiar state of the nervous system and unusual
phenomena, also above the ordinary reach of man,
can be produced very naturally without the instru-
mentality of animal magnetism.
In the first place, I quote dreams. Everybody
has experienced that singular state in which the
moral, intellectual, and especially sensorial faculties
are so wonderfully exalted, while the body is in per-
fect repose. '
The intellectual faculties, exercised
while dreaming,' says the celebrated professor Rich-
erand, '
can lead us to a certain order of ideas
which we never could reach in the wakeful state.
So mathematicians have finished during their sleep
the most complicated calculations, and resolved the
most difficult problems.' The phenomena of dream-
ing is surely one of the most extraordinary, and, we
may add, unaccountable, notwithstanding the ingen-
ious theories made up about it. But there is another
XXIV INTRODUCTION.
phenomenon which bears a still nearer resemblance
to the magnetical sleep — I mean the natural som-
nambulism. There is none who have not heard of
certain individuals liable to speak aloud while sleep-
ing ; to get up and walk very straight with their eyes
closed ; to read and write with as much, and some-
times more, facility and success than in the wakeful
state. This fact I have oftentimes witnessed, par-
ticularly in a college companion of mine, who, one
night, went down from a second story in which we
slept, opened a door, crossed a long inn, unlocked
another door and entered the study hall, in which he
set himself to writing, fast asleep, a Latin speech
he had composed for the great prize at the end of
the year. This composition being finished, the
young man went back again to his bed. The next
morning how surprised he was to find his speech al-
ready written ! He read it through, found it perfectly
correct, and gave it to the professor just as it was.
Indeed, that speech won the prize to its author. A
similar instance is related in the Methodical Ency-
clopedia.
We find in the histories of hysteria and catalepsy,
some instances still more similar to the effects pro-
duced by the magnetical action. Patients afflicted
with those diseases have been seen, isolated from
all surrounding objects, entirely insensible to the
action of the external objects, pronouncing long
speeches, repeating by memory, suddenly seized
with presentiments of the future, in such a manner
as to throw the spectators into the greatest amaze*
INTRODUCTION. XXV
ment. Their inward sense, activity of mind and
intellectual power was so much increased and im-
proved, that the results were altogether different from
what they were in the ordinary state. I knew, in
the neighborhood of the city of Blois, in France, a
lady affected with catalepsy ; during her fits, she lost
wholly the faculty of seeing by her eyes, hearing
with her ears, smelling by her nose ; but she saw,
heard, and smelt very well by the pit of her stomach.
That lady was able to see a great way off, through
the walls, and foretold what was to happen at many
days interval. She prescribed remedies for herself;
announced in what manner and at what time she
would cure ; and everything took place according
to her predictions. When 1 saw her she had alrea-
dy recovered her health. Numerous instances of
this kind are related in the works of Dr. Petetin of
Lyon, on catalepsy.
'
In reflecting on such facts,' says Dr. Georget,
'
we can but acknowledge in them a great analogy
with the magnetical effects; for, in both series of
facts we find the following characteristic phenome-
na. First, suspension, more or less complete, of
the external senses. Second, increase of energy, a
concentration of the thinking power upon one ob-
ject. Third, possibility, in some cases, to find a
substitute for the or linary action of the senses; to
write, for instance, with the eyes closed. Fourth, Pos-
sibility to communicate with a person in somnambu-
lism by touching him, and to talk with him without
awaking him.'
XXVI INTRODUCTION.
As for the power that one man has to produce
upon another person, through the sole action of his
will, the extraordinary effects called magnetical, we
.should not wonder at it, for a similar power is grant-
ed to some animals of prey — that of striking with
stupor ; nay, of drawing under their grasp some
other smaller creatures, destined to be used by them
as food. This fact naturalists are aware of; for my-
self, I affirm I have observed it in the Island of Mar-
tinique not long ago. There exists in that island a
species of serpents, gray and yellow, extremely poi-
sonous, which possesses the fascinating power to a
high degree. They exercise it especially upon a
pretty litile bird called the nightingale. From the
moment the poor creatures eyes have met the
snake's, it must fly down nearer and nearer until it
falls its prey, which it does, moaning in the most
piteous manner. This singular power of fascina-
tion and attraction may be easily conceived and
accounted for, if we reflect that a very similar prop-
erty finds itself even in some brute, inorganic bodies.
I allude to the wonderful property — yet acknowl-
edged by every one —of the loadstone to draw to
itself other metals.
Now, if some animals of a lower class — nay, a
brute, inert body — possess so extraordinary power,
why could not man, the best organized of all living
creatures, possess some analogous faculties to affect,
in a certain degree, his fellow-man when sick 1
But there is another order of analogous natural
facts, the mode of production of which bears a still
INTRODUCTION. XXVU
nearer resemblance to that of the magnetical phe-
nomena. I allude to electricity and galvanism.
Everybody knows that the powerful and marvellous
effects called galvanic and electric are produced by
the mere contact of pieces of different metals dis-
posed in a certain order, and by the plain rubbing of
some silk against some resin or glass. This, I
repeat, everybody knows and fully acknowledges.
Why, then, deny to man, the best organized and
most perfect body in nature, the power of produc-
ing those effects, called magnetical, by placing
himself in contact with another of his fellow-crea-
tures ? Verily, if the phenomena of magnetism are
incredible, there is something, to my mind, still more
difficult to be understood. It is the inconsistency
and narrowness of mind which characterizes the
judgment of men on certain subjects. They very
readily grant wonderful faculties to pieces of dead
matter, and they deny the same faculties to the
smartest and most powerful agent in nature, a hu-
man brain in activity.— O siulti homines, et tarde
corde credendum !
Theory of Animal Magnetism.
But, is it possible to give a satisfactory explanation
of the magnetical phenomena ? Some persons will,
doubtless, answer in the negative ;
for my part, I say
that, even in admitting that the cause and mode of
production of the phenomena should really be above
XXVltl INTRODUCTION.
the human intellect, it is still our duty to try to find
them out. It is the privilege of man to be able, or
to make himself able, to understand the laws of na-
ture. Is there a nobler pleasure, a more grati-
fying motive of pride, to a moral being? Such is
the feeling that leads me to the following con-
siderations.
I have said and I repeat, that any sober and sen-
sible mind — in a word a true philosopher — before
admitting or denying, ought to ask himself whether
such a thing is possible or not. Then he will re-
cur to analogy, that is to say, to the examination
and comparison of the various orders of facts alrea-
dy known and settled. Thence, and thence only,
he will draw his opinion ; but in holding fast this
truth, the greatest of all, viz : that the power of na-
ture is unbounded, that there are impossible things
only because human knowledg does not yet em-
brace, and cannot yet understand them.
Such were, doubtless, the principles of some of
the master intellects of this age, who, through in-
ductions drawn from the labors and observations of
their whole life, bore testimony in favor of animal
magnetism, as an order of phenome a altogether
within the limit of natural things. Among those
men, I am pleased to find Blumenback, Hufeland,
the celebrated Cuvier, Mr. de Laeplace, the illustri-
ous author of the new doctrine of the faculties of
the brain or phrenology, Dr. Gall. Cuvier, in his
" Leqons d! Anatomic CompaHe," Vol. 2, p. 117,
9th Lemons, expresses himself as follows : " We
INTRODUCTION. XXIX
must acknowledge it is very difficult in the experi-
ments which are made about it — the action that
the nervous system of two individuals can exercise
upon each other — to distinguish the effect of the
imagination of the person experimented upon, from
the physical effect produced by the person experi-
menting. Yet the effects obtained upon persons
already senseless before the operation was com-
menced, those which take place upon other persons
after they have become senseless through the very
operation itself, and those that are presented by ani-
mals, do not allow us to doubt that the proximity of
two animated bodies, in a certain position and with
certain motions, has a real effect, independent of
the participation of the imagination of one of them.
It appears evident enough, that those effects proceed
from a certain communication, whatever it may be,
which takes place between their nervous systems."
De La Place, in his work entitled " Theorie Ana-
hjtique du Calcul des Probabilities," says, p. 358,
" It is natural to think that the action of the l
mag-
netical agent' is very weak, and can be easily troubled
by a great many accidental circumstances. Thus,
because in many cases it has not been manifested,
one should not conclude it does not exist."
Here is what Dr. Gall says about it, in his " Anat-
omy of the Nervous System," Vol. 1, p. 146-48.
" It is not at all my intention to lead people to think
that I will deny the magnetical fluid. The natural-
ist ought to acknowledge no other laws than those of
natur e. I acknowledge a fluid, which, especially, has
XXX INTRODUCTION.
some affinity with the nervous system ;
which can
emanate from one individual, pass into another, and
accumulate itself, by the effect of its peculiar af-
finity, in certain parts, rather than in others. An
observation that I have made upon myself, confirms
me in this opinion, independently of all the true
phenomena of magnetism."
I will abstain to relate here this observation, which
is expressed in rather too long and minute particulars
in the original work to be presented here. In conse-
quence of this fact, and of further reflections sug-
gested by it, Dr. Gall concludes thus: " Therefore,
we admit the existence of a fluid, the subtraction oi
which diminishes the strength of the nerves, and
the accumulatio of which increases that strength
—a fluid which puts one part of the nervous sys-
tem to rest and exalts the activity of another part;
which, consequently, can produce an artificial som-
nambulism. In like manner, as in dreams, thoughts
often have more acuteness and sensation, more
sharpness, as it is possible to hear and answer, to get
up, walk, see with the eyes closed, to touch with
the hands in the natural somnambulism; so we con-
ceive and acknowledge that similar phenomena can
take place in the artificial somnambulism, nay, in a
higher degree of energy and precision."
These few reflections of the man who is justly
considered one of the most eminent physiologists and
anatomists of this age, seem to me peculiarly fit to
lead us to the right understanding of magnetical
phenomena. Some more remarks, drawn from the
INTRODUCTION. XXXI
ordinary course of every one's observations, will
completely justify, to my mind, Dr. Gall's opinion on
the existence of a magnetic 1 fluid, and make clear
to us the nature of that fluid, and the wonderful ef-
fects of its transmission into another's body.
It is a fact well known and universally acknowl-
edged, that there are some acts, bearing especially
on the brain or the nervi us system of the organical
life, which, by being often repeated or sustained
during a certain length of time, produce in us the
fd ling of weakness, of an extreme fatigue, some-
times of faintness, and cause us to feel an urgent
want of rest and reparation. Such are long and in-
tense study , deep sorrow, and extreme joy ; tears shed
in very great abundance, immoderate bursts of laugh-
ter, the delivery of long, passionate, and enthusias-
tic speeches. These acts, everybody is aware, are
often productive of the effects I have just mentioned;
nay, they are sometimes the cause of death. Men,
indeed, have been heard of, who have died with joy
or sorrow ; and laughter, especially, is so weakening,
that the words, to die by laughing, is known as a
proverb everywhere. Again, individuals have been
seen dying suddenly iu the middle of a warm
speech. A great many persons are often afflicted
with that sort of disorder called nervous, in conse-
quence of too long and hard study. I have been un-
well for four years, and am so still, on that account.
All those phenomena, it is also well known, are ef-
fected without loss of any sensible matter from our
conomy, as blood, humor, or any solid part of our
XXX11 INTRODUCTION.
organs, as that happens in great hemorrages, in dys-
entery, pulmonary consumption, old wounds, ampu-
tation of the limbs, &,c. How, then, shall we
account for those effects? It cannot be but by
admitting a loss or excretion of a certain substance,
whatever may be the name given to it. Thai this
substance is neither perceptible to our eyes, nor ap-
preciable to our common instruments and scientific
methods to analyze mutter, I am aware. But, as
there are in nature some other substances, as light,
caloric, electricity, which do not fall under the cog-
nizance of our senses, and cannot be submitted to
our scientific p ocesses of analysis, so we may con-
ceive a substance, of an analogous nature, existing
in human organization, and some of which, being
lost through the acts alluded to, causes the phenom-
ena, above described, to take place. That such a
loss is really effected, there is no doubt ; for how
can a person, from the full strength and harmony of
his functions, become weak, faint, and even sick, by
the effects of certain modifications of his nervous
system, if some of that very substance or agent,
which before kept them strong and healthy, has not
been taken away from his body ? How can he feel
want of reparation, if he has not lost something ?
Thence I conclude that man contains within himself
a certain substance, extremely subtile and nice, a
fluid, running over all his body, intimately and deeply
connected with his organs — a fluid that can be ac-
cumulated or lost through peculiar circumstances.
Now, if that substance can be taken away from the
INTRODUCTION. XXXlll
body of one individual, we may just as well admit
that it could be taken away by the special will of
this individual ; furthermore, we may, logically and
from analogy, admit that it can be sent to another
body, whatever it may be, but especially to the body
of a human being, which, owing to its similar con-
stitution, has more affinity to the fluid alluded to
than to any other in nature. Such is, according to
my opinion, the true and only cause of the magneti-
cal phenomena. In reality, we may say that mag-
netising is nothing else but the sending of a certain
quantity of fluid by the will of one person to anoth-
er person ;
that the magnetical sleep and somnam-
bulism are peculiar states, determined by the inward
action of that fluid. It will be asked, perhaps,
whether there is in the act of magnetising a loss
similar to those abovementioned ? This loss cer-
tainly takes place ; since, in consequence of the act
he has performed, the magnetiser always feels a
great weakness, fatigue, and want of reparation and
rest. It will be asked again, whether the person
magnetised really receives within himself the fluid
which I suppose to emanate from the magnetizer ?
I answer, certainly. The magnetised person does
receive that fluid; since sensations, hitherto unfelt,
a state of being entirely unknown to him, are devel-
oped under the sole influence of the operation he is
undergoing. There is no effect without a cause.
Could the extraordinary phenomena of animal mag-
netism be produced without cause ? That cause, a
great many think, is imagination only. But this ob-
3
XXXIV INTRODUCTION.
jection can be brought forward but by individuals
absolutely destitute of knowledge and experience in
magnetism. It is abundantly demonstrated* that
imagination plays but a small part, if it plays any,
in the production of those phenomena? What is
then the cause ? No doubt the action of the fluid,
communicated by the will of an active person to a
passive one.
Inquiries have been made about the nature of that
fluid or agent. The recent researches of Messrs.
Prevost and Dumas, dispose us to think that this
agent has the greatest analogy with the electrical
fluid. Those physiologists have demonstrated that
the muscular contraction was the result of a true
electrical commotion. The celebrated Professor
Beclard was about to perform curious experiments
on this subject, when a prematured death took him
away from the science that he cultivated with so
much zeal and intelligence. Dr. Rostan says that
Beclard often told him that after dissecting and cut-
ting up a nerve of a considerable size on a living
animal, he often caused the pole of the magnetic
needle to deviate, by putting that needle close to the
nerve. But everybody is aware that galvanism,
substitu'ed to the nervous influence, is able to make
the nerve contract — that one can put into action
the muscles of an animal, recently dead, by touch-
ing them with a piece of metal. We know how
* See in the Report the effects produced by magnetism
alone.
INTRODUCTION. XXXV
Galvani and Volta saw and proved the existence of
operative fluid, which afterwards was acknowledged
to be the same as electricity. We also know that
certain animals have the singular property of secret-
ing, through the means of an apparatus disposed
on purpose by nature, a great quantity of electrical
fluid, with which they produce strong commotions,
sometimes so violent that they can kill, at a dis-
tance, other fishes and even men. The Torpedo
nake, the Torpedo immaculata, marmorata, gal-
vanic, the electric gymnote, the electri cui silurus,
&c, possess that singular faculty. The electrical
apparatus of these various animals are disposed in a
manner very much like the galvanic tubes. They
are composed of cells and pipes, of various shapes,
containing a gelatinous fluid and furnished with a
great multitude of nerves, proceeding, most of them,
from the eighth cerebral paer. According to Alex,
de Ilumbolt and other learned zoologists, this elec-
trical fluid is s cretcd by the brain of those animals ;
for, in taking off either the brain or the nerves which
resort to the
3
abovementioned apparatus, the effects
are annihilated, which does not take place by cutting
off the organ of circulation, which carries the
blood into those electrical batteries. Thus it is de,
monstrated that the brain secretes some electric fluid
— that the muscular contractions can take place by
an electric excitant. Thence I conclude that the
nervous agent is of the same nature as the electric
fluid. But tl at agent does not go to the muscles or
the skin only; it springs out with a certain force
XXXVI INTRODUCTION.
and energy, and so forms a true nervous atmosphere
— a c rcle of activity like that of electrical bodies.
This is the opinion of the most skilful physiologists ;
such are Reil, (exercitatio anatomica, fasc de
structure nervorum,) Autenrieth (Physiologie, sec-
tion 1031) Mr.de Humboldt, &c: Therefore, we
are now able to account perfectly well how one indi-
vidual can be influenced by the action of the will of
another individual, even at distance, and more than
that, from one room to another. For the nervous
agent, as well as caloric and electricity, possesses
the facu'ty of penetrating through solid bodies.
But, in admitting that a communication of a cer-
tain quantity of the substance we call nervous mag-
netical fluid, really takes place from one person to
ano her, is that fluid — the sole cause — productive
of the num rous and wonderful phenomena of som-
nambulism 1 On this point, let every one believe
what he thinks the most rational and probable. It
would not be at all impossible that the magnetical
agent or fluid communicated, really produces all
those phenomena ;
for the power of an ag nt is in
proportion to its nature, to the centre from which it
emanates, and to the degree of energy with which it
is sent forth. Now, what substance in nature more
subtile, penetrating, active, and nice, than the ani-
mal electricity or nervous agent ? What centre of
action more admirably organized than the cerebral
centre, by which the nervous fluid is secrete ?
What more energetic and extensive principle of ac-
tion, than human will ? With some caloric and a
INTRODUCTION. XXXVU
little water, we move enormous bulks of matter
;
with a few grains of fulminating powder, we blow
up large rocks ; by the contact of two metallic pieces
against each other, or the rubbing of some glass
against some resin, we produce the wonderful phe-
nomena that everybody knows by the name of elec-
trical. Why should not an emanation of the most
perfect instrument in creation — a human brain —
produce those effects, which really seem so extraor-
dinary to us only because we are not accustomed to
observe them. Besides, it is not necessary to admit
that the magnetical communicated fluid is the only
cause productive of the phenomena of somnambu-
lism. That fluid may be merely the determining
cause of a peculiar state of the brain and nervous
system, during which those phenomena are mani-
fested, in like manner as any other therapeutical
ao-ent creates new phenomena in the organs to which
it is applied. Anybody, who is somewhat acquaint-
ed with the laws of human economy, will perfectly
understand this.
Connection r>f Animal Magnetism with Reli-
gion, Morals, Intellectual Philosophy, Phy-
siology, and Therapeutics.
That which shows how far man is liable to absurd
and blind preventions, to gross and shameful misrep-
resentations of things upon which he hastens to pro-
nounce his sentiment before fairly examining and con-
XXXV111 INTRODUCTION.
scientiously study'ng them, is the charge brought a-
gainst animal magnetism, by some fanatic clergymen
and bigoted persons, to be a stratagem formed by the
devil to seduce the souls, increase the number of his
followers, and counteract the works of Jesus Christ
and of his ministers; that magnetism undermines
religious belief and morals — that every magnetizer
is a disciple of Lucifer, &c.
These objections hardly deserve refutation ;
yet I
will, in a few words, show the absurdity of them, as
otherwise some weak-minded persons might be in-
fluenced by them. That refutation will, besides,
bring to light, in certain respects, the usefulness of
animal magnetism. ' In supposing, says the respecta-
ble Mr. Deleuze, that the phenomena of somnambu-
lism cannot be accounted for through physical causes,
and in considering the results of this marvellous
state, it would be more natural, and, especially, more
logical, to attribute them to God than to the devil,
since magnetism cures, or at least relieves the indi-
vidual submitted to its action. It is contrary to the
principles of the Christian faith, to admit that the
devil contributes to good, unless it be to cause that
good to turn to evil. Now, the sole design and ef-
fects of magnetism is to relieve the patient; its only
means of action are benevolence, compassion ; and
the care taken of these who suffer and those who
exercise it can efficiently act but in proportion as
they are animated with charity, which, as St. Augus-
tine says, is the only characteristics of the children
of God. Therefore, magnetism, far from furnishing
INTRODUCTION. XXxix
arms against religion, disposes to cherish, reverence,
and follow the principles of it. Many men of worth
have been converted again to Christianity by the
exercise of magnetism."
These reflections I will strengthen with a fact that
bears an indisputable testimony of the fitness and ef-
ficiency of magnetism to dispose hearts to Christian
feelings, and bring back to religion those who were
miscarried by the wild speculations of materialism.
Mr. Georget, one of the most esteemed physicians
and writers of the modern school of medicine, in
France, on his death-bed pronounced the following
words, which are inserted in his testament :
" I shall
not finish this piece," says he, " without adding an
important declaration. In 1821, in my work on the
physiology of the nervous system, I loudly professed
materialism ; but I had hardly published that work,
when some new meditations upon a very extraordi-
nary phenomenon — somnambulism — did allow me
no longer to doubt the existence, within us and out
of us, of an intelligent principle, altogether different
from material existence. It is, if they wish, what is
called the soul and God. My conviction on this
subject is profound, and founded upon facts that I
believe indisputable." As to the charge brought
against animal magnetism, to be a suggestion of the
devil, I find a peremptory refutation of it in the fol-
lowing words of one of the fathers of the church,
St. Anthanagora, concerning the wonderful faculties
of Sybilles and Pythias :
" As to the faculty," says
he, " to forsee the future and to cure diseases, it is
Xl INTRODUCTION.
a stranger to the devil; it belongs to the soul only.
Indeed, the soul, owing to its immortal nature, can,
from its own power and by its proper virtue, pene-
trate into the future, and cure infirmities and diseases.
Why, then, attribute the glory of those faculties to
the demons ?
"
In consequence of the foregoing considerations
and facts, we ought to conclude that animal magnet-
ism is highly calculated to promote religious princi-
ples and faith in the dogmas of Christianity. On
this subject, its usefulness cannot be doubted. Let
us examine now its actual effects and tendencies
upon the morals of those who practice it. A crowd
of attacks have been directed against magnetism, on
account of the abuse that the magnetizer can make
of it upon the person submitted to his action. Mr.
Rostan, in his article inserted in the dictionary of
medicine, has pointed out those pretended dangers
in a very particular manner, and goes so far as to
call the watchfulness of governments upon the exer-
cise of magnetism. But those objections fall before
experience, and those fears are altogether unseason-
able. In the first place, we should not forget that
magnetical power can be obtained and exercised but
on the condition only to use it for the good of the
patient. This is a fact stated not only by magne-
tizers, but also by somnambulus themselves. They
have at all times affirmed that they preserved their
judgment and reason ; that they would immediately
perceive the bad intentions of the magnetizer, which
would cause them to awake without failing ; for it
INTRODUCTION. xll
appears that the state of somnamhulism cannot exist
under the influence of immoral feelings and desires.
Finally, experience fully justifies these assertions ; for
no cases have been heard of, down to this day, of
abuse committed upon the honor or life of the person
submitted to lhe magnetical action. Moreover, in
order to avoid any appearance of danger, one should
suffer himself to be magnetized, either by men only
who offer sufficient warranties of morality, or by a
person of the same sex as their own. I finish this
article by a few words more, quoted from the respec-
table Mr. Deleuze. To sacrifice one's time near by
a patient — to take painful and steady care of
him, it is necessary to be animated with a benevo-
lence which is the source of almost every virtue.
Magnetism being especially a family medicine, is it
not extremely fortunate that a father and a mother
may possess one main move to gain the confidence
af their children ? Is it possible to conceive any-
thing more admirable than this faculty, that one
might call divine, to cure a patient, and also to con-
tribute to his physical and moral improvement ?
From all this, we are led to conclude, again, that
animal magnetism is rather advantageous than hurt-
ful to the morals of people, since it requires and de-
velopes such fine qualities of the mind to be suc-
cessfully practised.
In regard to intellectual philosophy, anybody,
who has occupied himself with the high and arduous
and so long debated problems, which constitutes al-
most wholly this branch of human knowledge, will
Xlli INTRODUCTION.
•
very readily perceive and acknowledge the impor-
tance of the magnetical phenomena. I sincerely
call the attention of the philosophical intellects who
may happen to read this work, to this new and wide
ground of discussion. For my part, I shall make
but one reflection ; if there is a fact which furnishes
any probability of the existence of an order of be-
ings altogether different from matter, it is certainly
the fact of the power in man to transmit, by his will,
a fluid, so nice, active, and subtile, that we may con-
sider it as a spiritual substance ; and to determine,
through that transmission of fluid, the wonderful
phenomena of somnambulism, in which the material
senses seem to be entirely suspendtd, and which,
however, presents the intellectual and moral facul-
ties supernaturally unfolded and acting as by their
own proper virtue.
I come now to the usefulness of animal magnetism
with respect to physiology and medicine. But here
the materials press upon me in so great abundance,
that I really feel embarrassed to class them and to
present them with the clearness and extent they re-
quire, within the narrow limit prescribed to me.
This sole point of the broad question of animal
magnetism, to be well treated, should embrace a
whole volume. Therefore, I point it out to the med-
itation of those who have devoted their attention to
the interesting studies of human organization, and
their life to the improvement of their fellow-crea-
tures. I shall endeavor only to give a faithful out-
line of the question before us, as it appears to me
INTRODUCTION. xliii
from the observation of facts, and the opinions of
authors.
If the magnelical phenomena are true, and this
We may fully admit from experience, what are their
results in regard, first, to physiology 1 In my opin-
ion, the chief result is to verify, in human economy,
the existence of a peculiar fluid or agent, called
nervous by some, and which we may name magneti-
cal ;
thence the circulation of this fluid over all the
body ; thence a bright light thrown upon the nature,
the formation and modification of the nervous system ;
upon the secret acts of the organ ical life upon ner-
vous diseases, which proceed either from a too
great accumulation or a too great loss of the ner-
vous fluid through various circumstances ;
all those
points which were hitherto involved in a thick dark-
ness, are suddenly brought to the evidence of facts
well 'observed and almost materially demonstrated.
In this respect, we may say that the discovery of
animal magnetism creates a new era in the history
of medicine, as well as the discovery of the circu-
lation of the blood, of Peruvian powder, and cow pox.
Let us now examine the results flowing from the
diagnosis and treatment of diseases. " Though
the" diagnosis of the diseases of the solid parts of
the human frame has been brought, in this later
period, to a high degree of certainty, we ought, how-
ever, to acknowledge that, in a good many cases,
this diagnostic is yet obscure, difficult, nay, impos-
sible in the actual state of scientific knowledge.
This branch of the science, notwithstanding the re-
Xliv INTRODUCTION.
cent assistance of chemistry, is yet in its infancy,
in regard to the alterations of liquid, and especially
of imponderable fluid. Now, am authorized to
think, from the facts 1 have related, that the instinc-
tive faculties of a somnambule could help us to rec-
tify, enlighten, or confirm our judgment upon the
alterations of solids in obscure circumstances, and
brings in the way important discoveries, which are
to be made in the alterations of liquids and fluids.
Those faculties might be useful, above all, to clear
up the history of nervous, of cutaneous affections,
and of a great many chronic affections. They could,
perhaps, penetrate into the causes which often es-
cape our eyes. A physician often judges a disease
as inflammatory, while it is only nervous. A good
somnambule could then remove his doubts and cor-
rect his errors.
Therapeutics has been greatly improved by the
labors of the moderns ; but, we must confess how
impotent it yet is in a great many diseases. It can-
not and ought not, then, to disdain any new assis-
tance ;
it would find some, I believe, in the lights
afforded by the somnambules, applied to the research
of remedies, and to the treatment of certain acute
and chronic diseases, the most grave and incurable.
" That which characterises the great physician is
the medical tact, which science can develope and
improve, but cannot give; a faculty half instinctive
and half rational, by the means of which he investi-
gates the various morbid individualities, and seizes
the indications that suit each of them. This happy
INTRODUCTION. xW
combination, both of instinct and intellect, which is
genius, is very ra e. Most physicians are reduced
to the ligh's painfully acquired by their intellec-
tual labor, through which they know some general
rules, but are unable to detect the peculiar cases,
to the diagnostic and treatment of which they
are obliged to be constantly groping. Now, in som-
nambulism, instinct is especially unfolded — a facul-
ty remarkable in certain beings, and extremely
proper to find out the individual wants. Why
could not the instinct of well-tried somnambules be
united to the intellect of physicians, for the treat-
ment of grave and doubtful diseases. The instinct
of the former would feel and discover what the intel-
lect of the latter would judge and rectify ;
the phy-
sicians, in their turn, would propose the curative
means, that the somnambule would sanction or con-
demn, according to the urgency of the case. What
is the legitimate ambition of the physician? to
cure ;
therefore, he should, if he be consistent with
himself, recur to every possible means to reach the
purposed end, provided it should not be contrary to
morals. Animal magnetism should be, then, ap-
plied to the affections which would require it in like
manner as opium, Peruvian powder, emetic, and
other remedies. Benefit can be derived from som-
nambulism, as from auscultation and percussion, &c.
The absolute power of the magnetizer, and the
passive obedience of the somnambule, open a new
and broad field for curative effects in the diseases of
those submitted to its action. In the first place, the
Xlvi INTRODUCTION.
somnambule is plunged into the magnetical sleep,
which possesses all the benefits of natural sleep,
and possesses them in a still higher degree. It is,
besides, accompanied with benefits which are denied
to the other ; therefore, its curative effects are more
rapid and better marked than those of the latter ; of-
ten times, it alone is sufficient to cure ; and whenever
it is necessary to use some other medicament, it still
remains the chief, the most efficacious of all reme-
dies. This most precious sleep will prove useful in
every disease, provided it be administered with mo -
eration, and that, during its duration, the operator
abstains from any experiment of mere curiosity upon
the patient. Happy, then, are those whom nature
has endowed with the capacity of enjoying the mag-
netical sleep. The somnambule is also able to see
his own illness and the remedies for it ; — the mag-
netizer approves or rejects them. But what good is
he not capable of doing, by his will, to that suffering
being who is sleeping before him ! He wishes, and
he takes him away from the atmosphere of men and
things, which are often so fatal, and places him in that
which is more beneficial to him. Is the patient cold,
he warms him; is he warm, he cools him. He
blows upon his pains, and those pains are removed ;
he turns his tears into laughter, his sorrow into joy.
If he misses his country or his mother, the magne-
tizer shows them to him ; is he feeble, he gives him
strength ; is he too strong, he weakens him ; does
he take the symptoms of another's disease, he draws
them off from his body ; if he is to undergo a surgi-
INTRODUCTION. xlvii
cal operation, he palsies his sensibility, so that he
docs not feel it. In one word, the magnetizer com-
mands all his functions. If a point is suffering,
he can relieve it, and set a revulsive upon another
part. I could not finish if I undertook to detail
every peculiarity of the empire of the magnetizer.
Of what, indeed, is he not capable, who has all pow-
er over the person submitted to his action ! This is,
certainly, a medicine of a new kind, a medicine
from one man towards another. Man first sought
remedies, to his own diseases and the diseases of
others, among the inorganical substances, such as
vegetable and dead animal substances. lie found,
and still finds in them some good and efficacious
medicaments ; but his greatest medicinal power is
within himself — the sovereign remedy is himself.
A firm and moral will, full of benevolence and char-
ity, in a healthy and strong body — this is the greatest
modification of all diseases, in general ; this is true,
especially of the diseases of somnambulic persons,
or of those who are susceptible of the magnetical
sleep."
The foregoing considerations are extracted fr< m
the work of my friend Alfred Fillassier, a distin-
guished physician of the faculty of Paris, and one of
the best men I ever knew.
In the celebrated article on animal magnetism, in-
serted by Mr. Rostan in the dictionary of medicine,
Vol. 21, there is a long paragraph devoted to the
therepeutical effects of magnetism. This paragraph
could not be too long meditated upon by physicians,
xlv'lii INTRODUCTION.
especially by those who carry on their noble profes-
sion as real friends of mankind and true philoso-
phers, advancing towards truth out of the narrow
sphere and routine of party spirit. There are found
in a learned and animated discussion, a great abun-
dance of original thought, sound reasoning, new
and courageous views ; in a word, this article is a
fair specimen of the genius of modern philosophy
and of the French medical school, of which Mr.
Rostan stands as one of the brightest luminaries. 1
regret very much that the limit of this article does
not allow me to quote here the whole paragraph ;
but I will extract a few sentences.
" They were very inconsiderable physicians, phy-
siologists and philosophers," says Mr. Rostan, "those
who denied that magnetism could have any theia-
peutical effect. It is not sufficient that it produces
changes in the organization, to conclude that it can
possess some power in curing diseases. From the
moment a substance effects a change, whatever it
may be, in the animal economy, it is impossible not
to acknowledge that it acts ; and on that account, one
must be very audacious to conclude, a priori, it can-
not be useful. The substances truly destitute of
medicinal action, are those only which produce no
effect. But all those which produce some change
in our organization, however feeble you may suppose
it, can become useful in many circumstances. The
more energetically a substance acts, the greater will
be its medicinal utility. It belongs to a fool only, to
assume that a substance which acts cannot become
INTRODUCTION. xllX
useful in any case. In order that it become so, it is
necessary to study its mode of action upon the econ-
omy, and try to appreciate rightly the nature of the
change produced l>y it. Afterwards, having a pro-
found knowledge of the diseases, of their causeB
and nature, it would be possible to appreciate in what
case the studied means are proper, and through so-
ber experiments one would obtain some useful results.
Farther, Mr. Rostan says, the theropeutical power
of magnetism exists, it is beyond doubt; to the phy-
sician it belongs to study it without hesitation, and
to set proper limits to it. The direct influence of
this nerve agent upon th nervous system, make me
believe that its action ought to be efficiently exer-
cised against nervous diseases, and chiefly the ner-
vous diseases of a general character. Ilisteria,
hypochondria, melancholy, mania, epilepsia, and
catalepsia, might receive, and have already received
from it, the most benefici A influence. Spasms of all
kinds, the cramps of the muscles of the animal life,
convulsions, a great variety of pains, rheumatism,
certain amaurosies, certain deafness, some paralysis,
neuroses of all kinds, &c, ought to undergo, from
magnetism, a modification, whatever it might be. In
these nervous affections, the nervous system being
especially troubled, and the same system, above all,
being influenced by magnetism, it is easy to con-
ceive that some results, worthy of attention, must
be obtained. It would be too long to quote instan-
ces of successful magnetical treatments; the annals
of magnetism are filled with facts of that sort. But
4
1 INTRODUCTION.
will the power of this new agent be limited to the
diseases of the nervous system only? We know
that the brain extends its empire over all the other
organs. This master organ, being by that means
profoundly modified, can it not produce, in its turn,
some advantageous change in a suffering part? In
suspending the pain, will it not produce a first ben-
efit? The pain being suspended, will not the afflux
of fluids, which is determined by it, be also sus-
pended ? Will not the material causes of conges-
tion, irritation, obstruction, conveyed by those fluids,
and which increase the local evil, be entirely re-
moved ? Shall we not thus prevent the further pro-
gress of the evil, and its resolution?
'If we only suppose the pain is stopped, and this
effect is indisputable, we already see that the result
is very 'Teat. And what will it be, if physiological
experiments prove, in an incontestible manner, that
magnetism quickens the int< rstitial absorption ?
Therefore, in acute, nay in chronic diseases, the
magnetical action can produce good effects.' I can-
not better close this article, than by stating here the
avowal of one of the most eminent members of the
French academy of medicine, Mr. Virey, who was
formerly a most decided opponent of animal mag-
netism, but who, afterwards, could not help but ac-
knowledge its truth.
When it is a question of the transmission of dis-
eases, the adversaries of magnetism admit some
emanation ; whereas they attribute to imaginatioa
only the transmission of health, though the one be
INTRODUCTION. Il
as possible as the other. Why, indeed, should we
be more susceptible to receive the former than the
latter. The same writer says, somewhere else
:
'
Incontestible facts, real cures are mentioned, that
the opponents of magnetism do not deny, but attri-
bute to imagination. These wonderful cures have
been effected through very plain manipulations, and
similar cures were obtained once by means of the
touch. Magnetism acts effic'untly in a great num-
ber of diseases ; such are certain slow affections,
certain obstructions of the glands, of the abdomi-
nal viscera, piles, chronic phlegmatics, measles,
small-pox, ophtalmia, inflammation of the throat,
gout, rheumatism, hermorrages, epilepsy, hyponchon-
dria, hysteria, mania, headach, odontalgy, all kinds
of nervous pains, dyspepsia, colic, pains in the stom-
ach, usual vomiting, asthma, palpitations of the heart.'
I will add one fact which bears witness of the ef-
ficiency of magnetism in the cure of diseases. In
France, and almost every country in Europe, mag-
jietical treatments have been established, by which
thousands of patients have recovered their heahh.
The narrative of a great many cures has been
made, either by individuals, among whom are three
hundred physicians, or by the Society of Harmony.
The exposition of the cures made in France, fills up
two Vols. 8vo.
lii INTRODUCTION.
Sketch of the History of Animal Magnetism.
A convincing proof of the reality of animal mag-
netism, is the trouble taken, by some very distin-
guished men in Germany and France, to demon-
strate, by numerous and thorough historical investi-
gations, its existence in early ages. The work
entitled, ' Researches and Doubts upon Animal
Magnetism,' published in 1784, by Thouret, one of
the most learned members of the Academy of Med-
icine, first drew the attention of the followers of
that new doctrine and practice upon the great num-
ber of analogous facts, related by historians, which
are connected with it. Since that first publication,
the labors of German physicians, and especially of
Messrs. Bertrand, Deleuze, and the Earl of Abrial,
a French peer, have fully substantiated what was at
first but a subject of doubt and conjecture. Owing
to those recent labors, we are able to follow the
track of animal magnetism among the Egyptians,
the Jews, the Greeks and Romans, and, at a later
period, in the various countries of Europe. Every-
where we find it with the essential characters that
the modern observers assign to it. This is the opin-
ion of the Commission of the Royal Academy of
Medicine. Whatever may be the name given to
magnetism and the powers which determine it, its
practical part can be expressed in two main points.
First, the curing of diseases. Secondly, the phe-
INTRODUCTION. liii
nomena of somnHmbulism. Now, in studying the
hisory and customs of the ancients, we see cures
and phenomena produced through the means of the
same proceedings as those now in use. They are
frictions, touching, breathing, the imposition of the
hands, and prayer. More than that, the ancients
knew perfectly well the real or imaginary power of
music and magnetised objects ; such as talismans
and amulets. Somnambulism, and most of the mar-
vellous phenomena which accompany it, the insen-
sibility of the external senses, the exaltation of the
intellect, intuition, the instinct of remedies, sight
without the assistance of the eye, communication of
thoughts, &/C, were also known. Somnambulists
have been successively designated by the names of
Oneiropolcs, inspirers, fairies, sorcerers, extatics,
convulsioncrs — such were the convulsioners of St.
Medard, in France. This singular state had struck
will) amazement and admiration the greatest men of
antiquity. Most of them being not able to account
for it, the natural causes being yet unknown, attrib-
uted them to the beueficul interposition of the
gods, Isis, Osiris, Serapis, Apollo, Vulcan, Jupiter,
Esculapius, &c. The fathers of the church, and
some modern savans, among whom I will cite De-
ham, miscarried by the spirit of their time, and the
popular prejudices, saw therein nothing else but the
action of the de il. This ignorance of the primi-
tive cause of magnetical phenomena kindled up the
piles of the middle ages, and was the spring of num-
berless superstitions, lamentable schisms, and the
mo t odious cruellies.
tiv INTRODUCTION.
Let it be sufficient to have thrown a slight glance
upon the history of animal magnetism in ihe past
ages; and let us arrive at the moment when it was
brought from the narrow and dark sphere of secret
practices into the broad light of publicity. This
groat change, which may be well termed a true dis-
covery, was effected by Antony Mesmer, born at
Weiler, on the Rhine, in Germany. Mesmer had
studied physics with the celebrated Van Swieten
and Dehaen. Being naturally endowed with a gen-
ius of inquiry, an exalted and active imagination, he
indulged, from the earliest period of his career, in
researches about the influence of heavenly bodies
upon the nervous system. This influence he attri-
buted to a peculiar, universal fluid. He wrote a
dissertation entitled ' De Planetarum Tnfluxu,' in
which he sustains that doctrine. A short while af-
ter, he had opportunity to ascertain the truth of his
conjecture, by experiments made on a sick person
with some pieces of metal, impregnated with load-
stone, which had been handed to him by a learned
Jesuit — Father Hell — a professor of astronomy at
Vienna. After two or three successful experiments
with those pieces, Mesmer noticed that another prin-
ciple beside the general natural agent, the will,
caused the loadstone to act. From this admirable
observation, we may date the existence of the branch
of science called animal magnetism. Mesmer was
then able to perform many important cures at Vi-
enna. He wrote another pamphlet, in which he an-
nounced the nature and action of magnetism, and
INTRODUCTION. Iv
its analogy with the loadstone and electricity. Soon
after, he set himself at travelling in Swabia, Swit-
zerland, and Bavaria, and obtained everywhere both
success and a great degree of fame.
Passing all the particulars concerning his various
experiments, his subsequent travels over his own
country, the numerous obstacles opposed to him
both by envy and ignorance, we come to the time of
his arrival at Paris, in 1778. Having caused an ex-
citement there, and acquired a great reputation by
the wonderful cures* he performed, Mr. D'Eslon, a
member of the Royal Academy of Medicine, and
first physician of the king's brother, studied his doc-
trine, and declared himself his follower, in a publi-
cation entitled, 'Observations sur le Magnetisme
Animal.' Through D Eslon's instigation, the king
at last appointed a commission, formed of var ous
members of the Royal Society of Medicine, and the
Academy of Sciences, t ) make an investigation of
animal magnetism in every respect. As the report
made by that company of distinguished and popular
men exerted a great influence over the public mind,
and is still now the most formidable authority for a
great number of persons in this country against an-
imal magnetism, I think it necessary to enter into
some particulars, to show how litt e confidence the
* These facts may be found in the work of Thouret, of the
Academy of Medicine, entitled ' Reclierches et Doutes sur le
Magnetisme Animal ; ' also in D'Eslon's ' Observations sur le
Magnetisme,' — Bergasse's 'Considerations sur le Magne-
tisme,' &c.
ivl INTRODUCTION.
said report really deserved, and how hasty and su-
perficial was the conclusi n inferred from it by the
public. In the first place, I would have it understood
that the commission did not resort to the inventor's
house, but to that of Mr. D'Eslon — his disciple.
Mesmer protested against anything d ne elsewhere
than in his presence He repeatedly addressed the
most urgent entreaties about it to Franklin and the
Baron de Breuteuil, but all was in vain. Those
gentlemen did not even think it worth their while to
honor him with a word of answer Our readers will
easily conceive how unfair, and odiously unjust, was
such conduct, by reflecting that Mesmer's magneti-
cal power was by far superior in every respect to
that of Mr. D'Eslon or any one else, at that time.
That power was almost extraordinary, as far as we
can judge from the facts transmitted to us by re-
spectable eye-witnesses.* Is it not likely that Mes-
mer could have brought the truth of animal magnet-
ism to such a degree of evidence that the commission,
however sceptical and adverse, would have forcibly
acknowledged it? But that which is still better
calculated to show how little confidence the report
alluded to deserve, is the manner in which the ex-
periments were carried on. Let us hear about it
from the commissioners themselves. <
The distin-
guished patients who come to the treatment for their
health,' say they, •
might be plagued with questions ;
* Among the persons cured by Mesmer, were the celebrated
Advocate Gene.al, Bergasse— the chemist Berthollet_and
the banker Kornman.
INTRODUCTION. Ivii
the care of observing them might either trouble or
displease them. The commissioners themselves
would be embarrassed by their discretion. There-
fore, they have decided that their assiduity in
this treatment being not necessary, it was sufficient
that some among them should come now and then to
confirm the first general observations — to make
some new ones, if there were an opportunity, and
give an account of them to the commission.' Thus,
it is established as a principle, that in the examina-
tion of so important a fact, the commissioners should
not ask any question of the persons submitted to the
experiments — that they should not take care to ob-
serve them, nor to assiduously notice the courses of
operation ;
but that it was sufficient to come thither
now and then, in order to give an account, to the
comtnission assembled, of what they had each seen.
On this subject, Mr. Ifusson, the reporter of the
last commission appo nted by the Academy of Med-
icine, of Paris, judiciously expresses himself as
follows :
'
However bright may be the light reflected
upon the present generation by the reputation of
Franklin, Bailly, Darcet, Lavoisier — whatever may
be the respect which surrounds their memory —
however genera] may have been the assent granted
during forty years to their report —it is certain that
the judgment they have borne, fails, at its radical ba-
sis, by a wrong and loose manner, to proceed in the
study of the question they were appointed to exam-
ine.' But here is another fact, which most decidedly
bears witness against the conduct and judgment of
Iviii INTRODUCTION.
the commission. Mr. de Jussieu, whose reputation,
as a naturalist, is universally spread — whose probity,
exactitud , and candor cai not be questioned, h ving
assiduously and conscienciously followed the experi-
ments, and experimented by bimself with success,
separated from his colleagues, and published another
particular report, in which he recognizes the mag-
netical effects. '
In such a circumstance,' says again
Mr. Husson, 'which of those two reports deserves
to stop our indecision ? Is it that in which it is an-
nounced that questions will not be asked of patients
— that they will not be strictly observed -- that it is
not necessary to assiduously attend the experiments?
or the report of a laborious, attentive, scrupulous
man, who is courageous enough to separate from his
colleagues — to trample upon the ridicule with which
he is aware he is to be covered — to biave the in-
fluence of the power, and publish a report, the con-
cln ions of which are altogether opposed to those
drawn by the commissioners? Let every intelligent
and moral man decide the question.
I now proceed to a comparative view of Mesmer's
doctrine and process with the doctrine, and mode of
operation of modern magnetizers. Such a view is
highly calculated, to my mind, to exhibit, in a con-
spicuous and clear manner, the improvements made,
these forty years since, in the theory and practice of
animal magnetism
' According to Mesmer's doctrine, animal magnet-
ism is a fluid universally spread. It is the means of
a mutual influence between the heavenly bodies, the
INTRODUCTION. lix
earth, and the animated beings. It is continued in
such a manner as any void cannot take place ;
its
subtlety is beyond comparison. It is capable to re-
ceive, propagate, communicate all the impressions of
motion. It is susceptible of a tide and ebb. The
animal body feels the effect of this agent, and it is
by insinuating itself into the substances of the
nerves that it immediately affects them. Properties
similar to those in the loadstone, may be recognized
in the human body. Poles, likewise, various and
opposed, are discovered in it. Both the action and
virtue of animal magnetism can be communicated
from one body to another ; that action takes place at
a remote distance, without the assistance of any in-
termediate object. It is increased, reflected by
glasses, communicated, propagated, increased by
sound; it can be accumulated, concentrated, con-
veyed.' Although this fluid is universal, every ani-
mated body is not equally susceptible of it. There
are even some, but those are few, which have quite
a different property.
'
Animal magnetism can cure immediately the
nervous pains, and mediately the other pains. It
makes more perfect the action of mendicaments
—
provokes and directs the wholesome crisis, so as it
is possible to overwhelm them. Through its medi-
um the physician knows the state of health of each
individual, and judges with certainty the origin,
nature, and progress of the most complicated dis-
eases ; he can stop and even cure them, without ex-
posing the patient to any dangerous effect or hurtful
Ix INTRODUCTION.
consequences, whatever may be the sex, tempera-
ment, or age. Nature offers, then, in animal mag-
netism, a universal means for curing men or preserv-
ing them from sickness.'
Such was Mesmer's doctrine. Now, those persons
who have written upon magnetism or practice it,
admit neither the existence nor the action of that
universal fluid, nor do they admit a mutual influence
between the heavenly bodies, the earth, and the an-
imated beings, nor those poles and opposed current,
&c. Some reject the existence of any fluid what-
ever; some others think that the magnetical agent,
which produces all the phenomena we have men-
tioned, is a fluid existing in every individual, but
which is secreted and emanated only by the will of
him who wishes to impregnate with it another indi-
vidual ; that, by the act of his will, he puts that fluid
to motion, directs and fixes it as he pleases, and
wraps the person acted upon with that atmosphere;
that, if he meets in that individual some moral dispo-
sitions- analogous to those existing in him, the same
fluid is unfolded in the magnetised person, which
gives birth to those relations which identify the one
with the other — relations, which cause the sensa-
tions of the former to be communicated to the latter
and which, according to modern magnetizers, ex-
plain h >\v the persons who fall into somnambulism
possess the faculty of seeing perfectly well, their
eyes being closed, &c.
If we now examine the proceedings used to prac-
tise magnetism, we shall see again a complete dif.
INTRODUCTION. lxi
ference between those once used by Mesmer, D'Es-
lon, Jumelin, Father flervier, &.c, and those used
by modern magnetizers. Here are the particulars
transmitted to us by the commissioners of the king
about the proceedings which were resorted to before
them. They saw, '
in the middle of a large hall, a
circular box made with oak wood, standing about
one foot and a half above the floor ; this was called
the baquct. The cover of this box was pierced with
a great many holes, through which sprung out as
many iron rods, elbowed and movable The patients
are placed on many ranges about the baquct, each
of them touching one iron rod, which, owing to the
elbow, could be applied upon the sick part. A rod
is passed about their body, and unites them together.
Sometimes another chain of patients is formed by
communicating with each other by the hands. The
impression being received on the left, is transmitted
to the right; it so circulates around. A piano-forte
stands in a corner of the room, upon which various
tune- are played, on various motions; sometimes the
sound of the voice or singing is added to it. All
those who magnetize, hold in their hands an iron
rod, from ten to twelve feet long. That rod, which
is the conductor of magnetism, concentrates the fluid
in its edge, and makes the emanations of it more
powerful. The sound of the piano is also a con-
ductor of magnetism. The patients, ranked in
many circles around the baquct, receive then the
magnetical influence by all those means at once, viz :
the iron branches, which transmit the fluid of the
Ixii INTRODUCTION.
baquet — the rod tied about their bodies —the union
by the hands — the sound of the piano. The pa-
tients are also magnetized in a direct manner — that
is, by the finger and the iron rod of the magnetizer
carried before their faces, above or behind the head,
and upon the sick parts, but especially by the ap-
plication of the hands, and the pressure upon the
hypondres and the low regions of the abdomen.
That application is continued a long time, some-
times during two or three hours.'
Such were the proceedings used, by Mesmer and
his followers, to practice magnetism ; and one easily
conceives, from the above description, that it was
impossible that the imagination would not be deeply
excited by the sight of those apparatus — the exer-
cise of those processes upon a great many persons at
once in the same room — by the sound of the piano,
and the spectacle of the crisis or rather convulsions,
which never failed to take place, and sometimes with
so frightful gestures, that the magnetical room had
received the name of Enftr a Convulsions.
Now, on the contrary, magnetizers look no longer
for witnesses of their experiments ; they help them-
selves neither with the influence of music nor the
power of imitation. The magnetized person is
either alone or in the company of a few relatites
ami friends; they are no longer tied up with ropes;
the baqwt and th iron branches coming out from it
have been given up Instead of the pressure once
exercised on the hypochondres or the abdomen
magnetizers content themselves with some motiona
INTRODUCTION. Ixili
which seem at first insignificant, and produce no me-
chanical eflfect. They carry their hands gently
along the arms, thethighs, and the legs ; they slight-
ly touch the forehead and the epigaster. These
touchings have nothing in them contrary to decency,
since they are exercised over the dressing apparatus.
Moreover, the above described motions are often
made without touching, for frequently the niagneti-
cal effect is obtained by carrying the hands at a dis-
tance of many inches from the magnetized, nay, of
many feet, and sometimes he being not aware of the
action effected upon hiin.
But is it in the results once obtained and those
now produced, that we find the greatest difference.
The same commissioners already mentioned, speak
as follows of the effects they had witnessed. '
Dur-
ing the experiment, the patients exhibit a very vari-
ous picture by the different state in which they find
themselves. Some are calm, still, and feel nothing,
gome others cough, s it, feel some slight pain, a
general or local heat and sweat ; some others, finally,
a e tormented and agitated with convulsions. These
convulsions are extraordinary, both by their length
and strength. From the moment one commences,
many others follow in succession. The commis-
sioners saw some of them which lasted more than
three hours. They are accompanied with the ex-
pectoration or spitting out of a troubled and viscous
water, sometimes mixed with filaments of blood.
They arc characterized by involuntary and precipi-
tated motion of every limb and the whole body, by
Ix'lV INTRODUCTION.
the straitness of the throat, quick and internal mus-
cular agitation of the stomach and hypochondres,
the troubled and wandering state of the eyes — by
piercing cries, tears, hiccoughs, and immoderate
laughter. These fits are followed by a state of lan-
guor and revery, and a sort of debility and numb-
ness. Nothing is more astonishing than the specta-
cle of these fits. One must see them, to have a
correct idea of what they are; and by seeing them,
one is generally surprised, both by the profound rest
of one part of the patients, and by the agitation
which animates the other — the various accidents
which happen, and the sympathies that are estab-
lished. Some patients become so f nd of each other,
that they seek each other, and hurry towards one
another, smiling and laughing, and speaking with
affection — and so mutually soften their convulsive
state. All of them are submitted to the operator ;
vainly they are plunged into apparent drowsiness;
his voice, a look, a sign from him, draws them off from
that state. It is impossible not to acknowledge,
from these constant effects, a great power that agi-
tates the patients or affects them, and which the op-
erator seems to disp se of as the only possessor.
That convulsive state is called crisis, in the theory
of animal magnetism.'
Now, there are no longer convulsions; if any ner-
vous motion manifests itself, the magnetizer applies
himself to stop it immediately. Every possible care
is taken not to trouble the persons submitted to the
magnetical action, and that operation is no longer a
INTRODUCTION. lxt
spectacle. But if those crises, cries and convul-
sions are no longer observed, another phenomenon,
which had not been produced by Mesmer, and is not
mentioned in the report of the king's commissioners,
viz., magnetical somnambulism, has been discovered,
and presented itself to modern experimenters as the
most extraordinary subject of research and med-
itation.
Mr. De Puyscgur, a man of great birth and wealth,
highly respected for his benevolence and moral qual-
ities, was the first who observed that phenomenon,
and made it known at the end of the year 1784,
four months after the publication of the abovemen-
tioned report.
About that time — in 1786 — the revolutionary
trouble broke out in France ; the minds of the peo-
ple became so much taken up by political questions,
that it was really impossible to bring into publicity
any other matter. From that moment, animal mag-
netism seemed to have dropped from public notice,
and lost its first brightness. Yet it was still prac-
ticed by some firm believers, who found that, it con-
stantly fulfilled their expectations in regard both to
science and health. Nay, we may say that, although
secretly practiced, it acquired a considerable extent,
especially in Germany, where whole sects of philos-
ophers took hold of it as a foundation to their doc-
trine.
During that period of time, Mr. De Puysegur
published his memoirs, which are still considered
as standard works on magnetism.
5
lxvi INTRODUCTION.
In 1813, Mr. Deleuze, the librarian of the Museum
of Natural History of Paris, and whose veracity,
probity, and honor everybody in Europe fully ac-
knowledges, issued his celebrated ' Histoire Critique
du Magnetism Animal,' in which he devoted a long
chapter to the phenomenon of somnambulism. This
work brought animal magnetism to a high degree of
importance, and some distinguished intellects began
to occupy themselves with it.
In 1819, Mr. Bertrand, formerly an engineer from
the Polytechnical School, and now a doctor-physi-
cian of the faculty of Paris, delivered a course of
public lectures on this subject. This course was so
well attended, that Mr. Bertrand repeated them in
1820 and 1821, with not less success. In 1822, he
published his '
Traite du Somnambulisme et de Vex-
tase,' which raised him to the rank of the most
learned and profound intellects of this century.
Two years previous, in 1820, public experiments
on magnetism had been made at the Hotel Dieu of
Paris, in presence of a great many respectable per-
sons ;
among whom were found several professors of
the faculty. Those experiments were completely
successful, and put the truth of magnetism beyond
doubt in the mind of all who witnessed them.*
The 11th of October, 1825, Dr. Foissac, a dis-
tinguished physician of the Faculty of Paris, and a
skillful magnetizer, wrote a memoir to the Academy
*The narrative of these experiments, written from the notes
taken by Dr. Husson himself, the chief physician of the hos-
pital, has been published.
INTRODUCTION. lxvil
of Medicine, in which he invited that learned body
to make a new examination of animal magnetism.
Mr. Foissac's proposition was discussed, finally
adopted, and a commission was appointed to investi-
gate the subject. The members chosen, were Bour-
dois de la Motte, Fouquier, Gueneau de Mussy,
Guersent, Itard, Leroux, Magendie, Marc, Thillaye,
Husson, Double. A regular course of experiments
was commenced by these gentlemen and pursued
during four years. Their reputation and the length
of time they were engaged, make it certain that the
experiments were carefully made and can be fully
relied upon.
In 1831, a report, on the facts observed by the
commission, was read before the Academy of Medi-
cine. The report contains a full account of most of
the experiments, presented in a progressive manner,
from the most doubtful cases to the most evident and
striking proofs of the magnetical action. It is writ'
ten in a plain, lucid, and very philosophical manner;
and its tone and character show that it was carefully
considered by scientific and sceptical men, who
could neither be imposed upon by falsehood and
jugglery, nor led to exaggeration by enthusiasm or
credulity.
Finally, there is now no fact better ascertained
than this of animal magnetism. Almost every lead-
ing scientific man bowed to it and tried to make out
the theory of those newly discovered phenomona.
The celebrated Cuvier, in his 'Anatomie Com-
parie,' Vol.2, p. 117, and the Marquis of Laplace,
lxviii INTRODUCTION.
in his '
Traite Analytique du callail des probabili-
ti s,' have mentioned it as a truth. Gall, in his
Anatomy of the Brain, acknowledges it. Spurzheim
believed in it. Hannmann declares that they are
but madmen who deny it. Dr. Rostan wrote a long
and very profound article on it in the Dictionary of
Medicine, in Vol. 20. Dr. Georget also devoted to
it a long chapter in his Physiologie du Systeme Ner-
veux. Dr. Andral delivered two lectures on mag-
netism, comprised in his course of internal pathology.
Dr. Broussais tried it with the greatest success at
the hospital of Valde-Grace — and now public theses
are sustained, on magnetism, for the degree of M.D.
In Prussia, the celebrated savant and benefactor
of mankind, Hufeland, after declaring himself
against magnetism, has bowed to evidence, and uses
it in his practice. An extensive clinique has been
established at Berlin, in which patients are success-
fully treated by that method. The Academy of
Sciences of the same city, one of the most distin-
guished, learned bodies of Europe, proposed, in 1818,
a price of thirty-three hundred francs for the best
memoir on animal magnetism. In the same country,
Prussia, a royal ordinance, issued February 7, 1817,
allows regular physicians only to exercise magnet-
ism, and enjoins to those who carry it on to give
account every three months of the results obtained,
before a superior commission.
In 1815, the Emperor of Russia appointed a com-
mission on purpose to make examination of animal
magnetism. This commission having declared, from
INTRODUCTION. lxiX
their experiments, that magnetism is a very impor-
tant agent, which should be trusted to the hands of
well-informed physicians only, it was ordered that
those physicians who would occupy themselves with
magnetical cures, are bound to give accounts of their
operations every three months, and that the commis-
sion itself should, every three months, present a re-
port to the emperor. A decree of the Medical
College of Denmark, of December 21, 1815, and
another subsequent ordinance of January 14, 1817,
impose upon physicians the same obligations, and
prescribe to the local authorities to take care that
magnetism be not practiced by any other sort of peo-
ple whatever. In various other parts of Germany
and Denmark, Hermstaedt, Mekel, Klaproth, Shig-
lits — all of them stand high in the scientific world —
have delivered up themselves to researches on ani-
mal magnetism, and stated the truth of it. At
Frankfort, Dr. Passavant has published a very re-
markable work, in which he exposes not only facts,
but also the moral and psychological consequences
arising from them. At Groningue, Dr. Bosker,
who enjoys a great reputation, translated into the
Dutch language the critical history of magnetism by
the honorable Mr. Deleuze, and joined it to a vol-
ume of observations made in the clinique he has
established together with his brother physicians. At
Stockholm, public theses on magnetism are sustained
for the gra.le of doctor. At St. Petersburg, Dr.
Stroffreghen, first physician of the emperor of Rus-
sia, and many others, pronounced their opinion in
lxX* INTRODUCTION.
behalf of magnetism, and declared its usefulness.
Near Moscow, the earl Panin, formerly a minister
of Russia, has established in his land, under the
charge of askillful physician, a magnetical clinique
in which a good many important cures have been
effected.
From the foregoing statement of imposing facts,
who can reasonably doubt the existence of animal
magnetism ? To deny it, would be to suppose that
men of the highest worth, two learned bodies of the
first respectability, governments known for having
surrounded themselves with the best physicians,
could have, in various places and at various times,
fallen the dupes of miserable jugglers or enthusiasts,
and executed, propagated, ordered and favored labors
merely chimerical. To your good sense and mor-
als, I wholly refer to judge what is probable and true
in this case.
Here I finish my task. I shall not, however, lay
aside my pen before apologizing, in a few words, for
the great imperfection of my English idiom. My
only, and I believe best, excuse is, that I am a for-
eigner, and have been acquainted with the English
language, but for twenty-two months. Moreover, I
never would have attempted to issue a book in that
language, had I not relied upon the assistance of an
intelligent friend of mine, who not only encouraged
me in the idea of that publication, but also took the
trouble to read, with the greatest care, my manu-
script, and of correcting every improper word. This
he must have done well, for he is a scholar, both in
INTRODUCTION. lxxi
his native tongue and in the French language, which
he had opportunity to learn during a residence in
Paris. Besides, being already acquainted with the
subject of animal magnetism, on which he had is-
sued several articles, and to which he felt a very
lively interest, as every liberal and enlightened mind
ought to do, he found himself in a proper moral dis-
position to help me by his hearty advice and assist-
ance. This gentlemen and disinterested friend is
Mr. Hewins, already known in Boston as a distin-
guished artist. Had I listened to his feelings of mod-
esty, I should not have mentioned him here ; but I
hope he will readily excuse the liberty I take, for I
consider it a duty to myself and to my fellow crea-
tures to give ' a chacum suivant ses oeuvres et son
merite.'
REPORT.
Gentlemen,
More than five years have elapsed, since a
young physician, Mr. Foissac, whose zeal and
talent of observation we had frequent opportuni-
ties to judge, thought proper to call the attention
f the Academy to the phenomena of Animal
Magnetism. He reminded it that the Report
made in 1784, by the Royal Society of Medicine,
had met, among the commissioners intrusted with
the care of the experiments, a conscientious and
enlightened man who had published a report con-
tradictory to that of his colleagues ; —that, since
that epoch, magnetism had been the object of
new experiments and new researches ;
and, if the
Academy deemed it proper, he proposed to submit
to its examination a "Somnambule," who seemed
fit to throw light upon a question, that many
sound minds in France and Germany considered
74 REPORT.
as far from being resolved, — although, in 1784,
the Academy of Sciences and Royal Society of
Medicine, had pronounced their judgment against
magnetism.
A commission, composed of Messrs. Adelon,
Burdin the eldest, Marc, Pariset, and myself, was
appointed to make a report upon Mr. Foissac's
proposition. This report, presented to the section
of medicine at the meeting of the 13th of Decem-
ber, 1825, led to the conclusion that magnetism
should be submitted to a new examination.
That conclusion gave rise to an animated discus-
sion, which was continued during the meetings of
the 10th and 24th January, and the 14th February,
1826. In tli is last, the commission replied to all
the objections brought against the report, — and,
on the same day, after a mature examination, in
a mode hitherto unknown in matter of science,
of an individual scrutiny, the section decided
that a special commission should be appointed
to examine anew the phenomena of animal
magnetism.
This new commission, composed of Messrs.
Bourdois, Double, Fouquier, Itard, Gueneau de
Mussy, Guersent, Laennec, Leroux, Magendie,
Marc and Thillaye, was appointed at the meeting
of the 28th of February, 1S26. Some time after,
Mr. Laennec, having been obliged to leave Paris
on account of ill-health, I was designated to sup-
REPORT. 75
ply his place, and the commission being thus
constituted, occupied itself with the fulfilling of the
mission conferred upon it.
Its first care, before Laennec's retreat, was to
examine the Somnambule who had been offered
by Mr. Foissac. Various experiments were made
upon her in the Academy's room ;
but, we must
acknowledge that our inexperience, our impa-
tience and diffidence, perhaps too ostensibly mani-
fested, allowed us to observe but some physiologi-
cal phenomena, curious enough, that we shall let
you know in another part of our report, but in
which we saw none of the faculties, the proofs of
which she gave us on other occasions. That
Somnambule, undoubtedly wearied by our too
urging experiments, ceased at that time to be
placed at our disposal, and we had to seek in
the hospitals the means of pursuing our ex-
periments.
Mr. Pariset, a physician at the Saltpetriere,
was better able than anybody else to assist us
in our researches ;
which he showed himself wil-
ling to do with an eagerness, the result of which,
unfortunately, answered not our expectation.
The commission, which founded a great part of
its hopes upon the resources that could be fur-
nished to it by that hospital, either in regard to
the individuals who should have been submitted
to the experiments, or on account of the presence
76 REPORT.
of Mr. Magendie, who begged to attend to them
as one of the commission ; the commission, we
say, in seeing itself deprived of the means of in-
formation hoped to be found there, had recourse to
the zeal of each of its members in particular.
Mr. Guersent promised to use his influence at
the children's hospital ; Mr. Fouquier, in that of
the Charity ; Messrs. Gueneau and the Reporter
at the Hotel Dieu ;
Mr. Itard, at the nstitulion
of the deaf and dumb ; and from that moment,
each of us disposed ourselves to make some trials
which we pledged ourselves to have witnessed
by all the other members of the commission.
Soon after, our labors were arrested by some
other and more powerful obstacles. The causes
of these obstacles are unknown to us ; but, through
the effect of a decision of the General Council of
the Hospital, taken on the 19th of October, 1825,
which prohibited the use of any new remedy
which should not have been approved by a Com-
mission appointed by the Council, the magnetical
experiments could not be pursued at the Hospital
of Charity. Reduced thus to its own resources,
to those that the private relation of each of its
members could offer to it, the commission made
an appeal, to all the physicians known, for having
made animal magnetism the special object o
their researches. It requested them to permit us
to witness their experiments, to allow us to followj
REPORT. 7'7
together with them, the process, and to state the
results of them. We declare that we were very
much assisted in our progress by many of our
brother physicians, and especially by him who
first had proposed the question of the examination
of magnetism, we mean Dr. Foissac. We do
not hesitate to declare that it is the constant and
persevering efforts of this physician, and also to
the active zeal of Mr. Dupotet, that we are in-
debted for the greatest part of the materials we
have been able to put together to prepare the re-
port which we now present to you.
However, gentleman, we wish here to state,
that your commission has not, in any case, trusted
to any other but its own members the care of di-
recting the experiments which it has been wit-
nessing ; that no other person than the reporter
himself was permitted to note down the results of
the experiments tried, and of preparing the pro-
cess verbal^ staling the various phenomena that
presented themselves at the time, and in the order
as they were produced. The commission ap-
plied itself to fulfill its duties with the most scru-
pulous exactitude; and if it does justice to those
who assisted it with their benevolent co-operation,
it ought to remove even the slightest doubts, that
might arise in your minds, that any other persons
but themselves have taken even the slightest part
in the examination of this question. Itself alone
78 REPORT.
always conceived the various modes of experimen-
tation, traced out the plans, constantly directed
the course, followed and wrote down the progress
of them. Finally, even in using some auxiliary
persons, more or less zealous and enlightened, it
always was present, and always gave its own di-
rection to all that was done. Therefore, you will
see that it admitted no experiment made out of
its own circle, even by members of the Academy.
However great may be the confidence which
ought to be established between us by the spirit
of confraternity and reciprocal esteem, which ani-
mate all of us, we felt that, in the examination of
a question the solution of which is so delicate, we
should rely upon ourselves only — and that, for
your part, you could refer but to our guarantee.
Yet, we thought it proper not to strike with that
rigorous exclusion, a very curious fact observed
by Mr. Cloquet. We admitted it, because it was
already, so to speak, the Academy's property ;
—
the Section of Surgery having occupied itself with
it in two of its meetings.
Such a reserve, imposed upon itself by the com-
mission, in the use of the various facts concerning
the question that it studied with so much care
and impartiality, would give us the right to expect.
a similar feeling and proceeding, if some persons
who should not have witnessed our experiments
were going to discuss their authenticity. As we
REPORT. 79
ask your confidence only as to what we have seen
and done, for that very reason we cannot admit
that those who had not the same advantages as
ourselves to observe the fact, could attack or doubt
what we shall say we have observed ;
and as, final-
ly, we always distrusted those wonders which were
announced to us as to happen, and this feeling con-
stantly overwhelmed us in all our investigation?,
we think we have some right to require of you,
if you do not grant us your entire confidence, not
to suggest any doubts upon the moral and phy-
sical dispositions with which we always proceeded
in the observation of the various phenomena we
have witnessed.
Thus, gentlemen, this report which we are far
from presenting to you to settle your opinion
about animal magnetism, cannot and should not
be considered anything else but the collecting and
classification of the facts we have observed until
this moment; we offer it to you as a proof that
we endeavored to justify your confidence ;
and al-
though regretting that it does not rest upon a
greater number of experiments, still we hope that
you will receive it with indulgence, and listen to
the reading of it with some interest.
We think it, however, a duty to tell you, in ad-
vance, that what we saw in our experiments re-
semble by no means all that the report of 1784
relates of the magnetizers of that time. We nei-
80 REPORT.
ther admit nor reject the existence of a fluid ;
we
speak neither of the Baquet, nor of the rod, of
the chain which was established, causing the
magnetized individuals to communicate by the
hands, nor of the pressures a long time continued,
and sometimes so during several hours, upon the
hypochondrac region and the abdomen ;
nor of
the singing and instrumental'music which accom-
panied the magnelical operations ; nor of the
meeting of a great number of persons who had
themselves magnetized in presence of a crowd of
witnesses ;
— because our experiments were made
in the most perfect calm, the most absolute silence,
without any accessary means, never by an imme-
diate contact, and at every time upon a single per-
son only.
We do not mention that which, at the time of
Mesmer, was so improperly called crisis, and con-
sisted in convulsions, in laughter sometimes im-
moderate, in inexhaustible tears, piercing cries,
because we never met those various phenomena.
In all these respects, we do not hesitate to say,
that there exists a very great difference between
the facts observed and judged in 1784, and those
collected by us in the work we have the honor of
presenting to you ; that this difference established
between the one and the other a line very distinct
of demarcation, and that if reason has cleared
away a great part of the former, the spirit of in-
REPORT. 81
vestigation and observation ought to apply itself
in multiplying and appreciating the latter.
It is with animal magnetism, gentlemen, as
with a great many operations in nature ;
viz : it
is necessary that certain conditions be united to-
gether, in order to produce such and such effects.
This is an incontestible truth, — which, did it
need proofs to be established, would find itself
confirmed by what happens in various physical
phenomena. Thus, without dryness of the at-
mosphere, you can but in a feeble manner, devel-
op electricity ;
without heat, you never can ob-
tain the combination of lead and pewter, which is
the common solder; without the light of the sun,
you will not see the mixture of parts equal in vol-
ume of hydrogen and chlorc, spontaneously in-
flaming themselves, &c. &c. Whether these
conditions be external or physical, as those we
have just been mentioning ;
whether they be inti-
mate or moral, as those which are pretended, by
Messrs. Deleuze, Puysegur, &c, to be indispensa-
ble to the development of the magnetical phe-
nomena, it is sufficient that they exist, and are
required by them to have led the commission
to consider it a duty to endeavor to meet them
together, and submit itself to them. Yet we
ought not and would not have thrown off that
anxious curiosity which at the same time induced
us to vary our experiments, and try to put at fault,
6
82 REPORT.
the practices and promises of certain magnetizerg.
In those two respects, we thought it proper to free
ourselves of the obligation 'imposed by them to
have a strong faith, to be moved only by the desire
of doing good ;
we sought merely to be accurate,
curious and diffident observers.
Neither did we deem it convenient to try to
account for those conditions; it would have been
a question of mere controversy, and for the solu-
tion of which we should have been no more satis-
fied than when it matters to explain the conditions
owing to which physiological phenomena are exe-
cuted, and how the action of medicaments takes
place. These are questions of the same kind, and
upon which the science has not yet pronounced
its judgment.
In all the experiments made by us, the strictest
silence has always been kept, because we thought
that, to the development of so nice phenomena,
the attention, both of the magnetizer and magne-
tized person, would be diverted by anything
strange ; we would not, moreover, deserve the re-
proach of having put obstacles, by talking or other
sort of diversion, to the success of the experiments ;
and we always took care that the expression of our
countenances should neither trouble the magne-
tizer, nor suggest doubt to the magnetized ;
— our
position, we are pleased to repeat, constantly was
that of curious and impartial observers. Those
REPORT. 83
conditions, many of which had been recommended
in the works of the respectable Mr. Deleuze,
having been well established, the following is
what we saw.
The person who was to be magnetized was
placed in the sitting position, on a convenient
sofa, or upon a chair. The magnetizer, sitting on
a little higher seat, before his face, and at about a
foot distant, recollects himself a few moments,
during which he holds the thumb of the patient,
and remains in this position until he feels that
the same degree of heat is established between
the thumbs of that person and his own. Then
he draws off his hands in turning them outwards,
and places them upon the shoulders for nearly one
minute. Afterwards he carries them down slowly,
by a sort of friction, very light, along the arms,
down to the extremities of the fingers, — he be-
gins again the same motion five or six times ;
it is
what magnetizers call passes. Then he passes his
hands over the head, keeps them there a few mo-
ments, brings them down in passing before the
face, at the distance of one or two inches, to the
epigastrium, where he stops again, either in bear-
ing upon that region, or without touching it with
his fingers. And he thus comes down slowly along
the body, to the feet. These passes, or motions,
are repeated during the greatest part of the course,
and when he wishes to finish it, he carries them
84 REPORT.
even beyond the extremities of the hands and feet,
in shaking his fingers at each time. Finally, he
performs before the face and the chest some trans-
versal motions, at the distance of three or four
inches, in presenting his two hands, put near one
another, and in removing them abruptly. At
other times, he brings near together the fingers of
each hand, and presents them at three or four
inches distant from the head or the stomach, in
leaving them in that position for one or two min-
utes ; then, alternately drawing them off, and
bringing them near those parts, with more or less
quickness, he imitates the motion that we natu-
rally execute when we wish to get rid of a liquid
which met the extremity of our fingers.
These various modes were followed in all our
experiments, without adhering to one rather than
to the other, —often using but one, sometimes
two; and we never were directed in the choice that
we made of them, by the idea that one mode
would produce a quicker and better marked effect
than another. The commission will not follow
in the enumeration of the facts it has observed ;
the order of times when each of them was
produced ; we thought it more convenient, and
above all, more rational, to present them to you
classed according to the degree, more or less deci-
ded, of the magnetical action that it recognized in
each of them.
REPORT. 85
Therefore, we have established four divisions,
as follows.
1. The effects of magnetism are not manifested
upon healthy persons, and certain other patients.
2. They are but feebly manifested upon some
others.
3. They are often the product of ennui, mo-
notony and imagination.
4. Finally, they have been seen developed in-
dependently of these last causes, very probably by
the effect of Magnetism alone.*
*Note of the Translator. Out of twenty-six indi-
viduals mentioned in those various classes, as having been sub-
mitted to the action of Animal Magnetism, there are but two
who felt nothing at all ; three others exhibited the magnetical
phenomena in a pretty high degree ; but those effects were
attributed to other causes, such as tiresomeness and imagination.
Six felt the action more or less independently of any other
cause ;
finally, fifteen showed themselves affected by the mag-
netical action in a most evident manner.
SECTION I.
Experiments wherein no effect was manifested*
The reporter of the commission repeatedly sub-
mitted himself to magnetical experiments. At
one time, in particular, enjoying then perfect
health, he was steady enough to keep himself
sitting during three quarters of an hour, in the
same position, his eyes closed, in a complete
immobility, and he declares he never felt any
effect, although the tiresomeness of the position
and the absolute silence that he had begged of the
assistants might have been capable of producing
sleep. Mr. Gueneau de Mussy underwent the
same trial with a similar result. At another day,
when the reporter was tormented with violent and
very tenacious rheumatic pains, he tried magnet-
ism many times, and never obtained from that
means the least melioration, although certainly the
*Note of the Translator. In this first class, there
are but four facts related, of which two (the last ones) already
present a commencement of the magnetical action. Is it not
likely that the action would have been better marked, if the op-
eration had lasted longer ? Very seldom indeed, are the
magnetical phenomena developed in ten minutes, at the first
sitting.
REPORT. 87
intensity of his sufferings caused him to desire
most earnestly to have them removed, or at least
mitigated.
The 11th of November, 1S26, our respectable
colleague, Mr. Bourdois, had felt for two months
an illness which required from his partner a par-
ticular attention in his usual manner of living.
This trouble, said he, was not his normal state;
he knew the cause of it, and could determine its
points of departure.
In these conditions, which, according to Mr.
Dupotet's assertion, were favorable to the develop-
ment of the magnetieal phenomena, Mr. Bourdois
was magnetized by the same Mr. Dupotet, in
presence of Messrs. Ilard, Marc, Double, Gueneau
and the reporter. The experiment began at
thirty-three minutes after three in the afternoon;
the pulse then throbbed eighty-four times, a num
ber which, according to Messrs. Double and Bour-
dois, is that of the normal state. At twenty-nine
minutes to four the operation ceased, and Mr.
Bourdois felt nothing at all. But we noted that
the pulse had come down to seventy-two pulsations,
that is twelve less than before the experiment.
In the same meeting, our colleague Mr. Itard,
affected for eight years with a chronic rheumatism,
the seat of which was then in the stomach, and
laboring at this same moment under an unusual
crisis attached to his complaint, (these are his own
OO REPORT.
expressions) was magnetized by Mr. Dupotet. At
ten minutes before four, his pulse beat sixty times
;
at three minutes to four he shut his eyes, and at
three minutes past four he ceased to be magnetized.
He tells us that, while he had his eyes opened,
he thought he had felt the impression of the pas-
sage of the fingers upon his organs, as though they
had been struck with a sudden blowing of warm
air ; but that after shutting them up, he had no
longer felt the same sensation ; he adds that at the
end of five minutes he felt a pain which occupied
all the fore part of his head and the bottom of his
orbit, with a sensation of dryness of the tongue,
although, when observed by us, it was in fact very
wet. Finally, he says, that the pain which he felt
before the experiment, and hadannounced as being
dependent of the affection he complained of, was
removed, but that it was generally very move-
able. We noted that the pulse had risen to sev-
enty-four pulsations, that is fourteen more than
before the experiment.
We certainly might relate to you some other
observations, in which magnetism had no sort of
action ; but besides the inconvenience of quoting
facts without result, we thought that it would be
sufficient to you to know that three members of
the commission had submitted themselves to ex-
periments, to be more completely convinced of the
truth of our investigations.
SECTION II.
Effects slightly marked.
You could not have foiled to notice, gentlemen,
that the last fact of the proceeding series presented
a commencement of magnetical action ;
we placed
it at the end of that section to serve as a link to
those that are to follow.
Mr. Magnien, a physician, fifty-four years old,
living in St. Dennis street, No. 202, walked with
much difficulty, in consequence of a fall he had
experienced several years before on the left knee,
and probably also owing to an aneurism oMhe
heart, under which he sunk in the month of Sep-
tember last, (1831) was magnetized by the report-
er, August 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 1826. The num-
ber of pulsations was less at the end of five succes-
sive operations than at the beginning. Thus it
lowered from ninety-six to ninety, from ninety-six
to eighty-six, from seventy-seven to seventy-one,
from eighty-two to seventy-nine, from eighty to
seventy°eight ; and at the" sixth experiment this
number did not vary ; it still remained at eighty-
three pulsations. His respirations have been
always equal, except in one case, in which they
rose from twenty to twenty-six. Mr. Magmen
constantly felt a sensation of coolness in all the
parts towards which the magnetizer directed and
90 REPORT.
kept a long time his fingers in the same position.
This phenomena did not miss a single time.
Mr. Roux, our colleague, who complained of a
chronic affection of the stomach, was magnetized
six times by Mr. Foissac, on the 28th and 29th
of September, and October 1, 3, 5, 7, 1827. He
felt at first a sensible diminution in the number of
the respirations and of the beating of the pulse;
afterwards, some heat in his stomach, a great cool-
ness in his face, the sensation of evaporization of
ether, even when no passe was executed before
him, and a strong inclination to sleep.
Anna Burdin, aged five and twenty years, resi-
ding in rue du Paon, No. 15, was magnetized the
17th, 20th and 2Lst of July, 1826, at the Hotel
Dieu, by Mr. Fossae, in presence of the reporter.
This woman complained of a cephallagy and a nev-
ralgy, the seat of which was in the left eye. Du-
ring the three magnetical sittings which were
devoted to her, we have seen the respirations rise
from sixteen to thirty-nine, from fourteen to twen-
ty, and the pulsations from sixty-nine to seventy-
nine, from sixty to sixty-eight, from seventy-five
to ninety-five. She was very drowsy, and slept
a few minutes ; felt some amelioration in her
cephaltgea, but no change was operated in the
orbiary nevralgy.
Theresa Ferlin was magnetized the 22d, 23d,
24th, 29lh, and 30th of July, 1826. She had
REPORT. 91
entered the hospital, complaining of pains in the
abdomen and the lombar region. During the
five magnetical sittings devoted to her, we saw the
respirations rising from fifteen to seventeen, from
eighteen to nineteen, from twenty to twenty-five,
and falling from twenty-seven to twenty-four;
and the pulsations ascending from 118 to 125,
from 100 to 120, from 100 to 113, from 95 to 98,
from 117 to 120. We noticed that this woman
seemed to be afraid of the motions of the fingers
and hands of the magnetizer ; that she avoided
them in drawing back her head ;
that she followed
them not to lose sight of them, as though she
dreaded some evil from them. She was visibly
tormented during the four sittings. We noticed
also, in her long and frequent sighs, sometimes
interrupted, the wrinkling and lowering of the
eyelids, the rubbing of the nose, a pretty frequent
deglutilion of saliva, a motion which, in other
magnetized persons, constantly preceeded sleep,
and° finally the cure of the pain which existed in
the lombar region.
The commission, in putting together these
various facts, wishes only to call your attention to
the series of the physiological phenomena which
presented themselves in the two last ones. It
cannot attach any importance to that particular
amelioration effected in the symptoms of the very
insignificant diseases of these two women. If
92 REPORT.
those diseases existed, time and rest could have
removed them; if they did not exist, as it too
often happens, the feigning must have ceased
without magnetism.
Thus, gentlemen, we have presented them to
you only as the first elements of the magnetical
action, which you will see increasing in proportion
as we shall overrun the other divisions that we
have established.
SECTION III.
Effects produced by Tiresomeness, Monotony
and Imagination.
The commission had several opportunities to
notice that the monotony of the gestures, the strict
silence kept during the experiments, the weari-
someness occasioned by a position constantly the
same, have produced sleep in several individuals
who, however, were not submitted to the mag-
netical influence, but who found themselves in
the same physical and moral circumstances in
which they had previously been put to sleep. In
these cases it was impossible not to acknowledge
the power of imagination, a power owing to which
those individuals believing themselves magnetized,
felt the same effects as if they had been so. We
REPORT. 93
shall particularly relate the following observations.
Mile. Lemaitre, twenty-five years old, was
afTcctcd for three years with an amaurosis. When
she entered the Hotel Dieu, she was magnetized
on the 7th, 13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th,
19th, 20th, and 22d of July, 1826. We shall
not repeat here the various phenomena which
marked the beginning of the magnetical action,
and which we have declared in the preceeding
sections, such as the wrinkling and lowering of
the eyelids, the rubbing of the eyes as to get rid of
a troublesome sensation, the sudden sloping of
the head and the deglutition of the saliva. These
are, as we have already said, symptoms that we
constantly noticed, and of which we shall speak
no more. We shall say only, that we noticed a
commencement of somnolence at the end of the
third sitting; that this somnolence continued in-
creasing until the eleventh ;
that, from the fourth
course of operation, conclusive motions of the mus-
cles of the neck and face, of the hands, the shoul-
ders, manifested themselves ;
that, at the end of
each sitting, we found the pulse more accelerated
than at the beginning. But that which ought
especially to deserve your attention, is that after
having been magnetized ten times and during the
eio-ht last ones, seeming more and more sensible
to the action of magnetism, Mr. Dupotet, her
94 REPORT.
magneliser, sate, by the invitation of the reporter,
at the eleventh course of operation, on the 20th of
July, behind her, without making any gesture,
without any intention to magnetize her, and she
felt a somnolance still stronger marked than the
preceeding days, but less agitation and convulsive
motions. Moreover, no amelioration was mani-
fested in the state of her sight since the commence-
ment of the experiments; and she left the hospital
as she had entered.
Louisa Ganot,a domestic, living in rue du Batoir,
No. 19, entered the Hotel Dieu, on the 18th of
July, 1826, ward It, Roch No. 17, in order to be
treated there for a leucorrhea. She was magne-
tized, by Mr. Dupotet, the 21st, 22d, 23d, 24th,
25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th of July, 1826. She
was liable, as she said, to fits of nerves ;
indeed,
convulsive motions, similar to those which charac-
terize histeria, constantly manifested themselves
during the magnetical operations, such as moan-
ing cries, the stiffness and bending of the superior
limbs, the sudden projection of the hand towards
the epigastrum, the bending over of all the body
in such a manner as to form an arch, the concav-
ity of which was in the back, and finally *a few
minutes of sleep. At the sixth sitting, Mr. Dupo-
tet placed himself before her face, at two feet dis-
tant, without touching her, without performing a
single gesture, but with the firm intention of mag-
REPORT. 95
netizing her ; the agitation, the convulsive motions,
long and interrupted sighs, the stiffness of the
arms were not so long in manifesting themselves,
as in the preceeding sittings. The next day (27)
the patient being seated on the large arm-chair
which had been used in the preceeding experi-
ments, we placed Mr. Dupotet behind her; he
contents himself with directing the extremity of his
fingers against the middle part of her back ; the
hind part of the arm-chair was, of course, inter-
posed between the magnetized person and the
magnetizcr; soon, the convulsive motions of the
preceeding days presented themselves still more
violently, and often she turns back her head. She
says, after being awakened, that she executed that
motion because it seemed to her that she was
tormented by something acting behind her. Fi-
nally, after having observed, on the 26th and 27th
of July, the development of the magnetical
phenomena, produced in one case only by inten-
tion, and in the other by very plain gestures (the
directing of the fingers) executed behind, and the
patient being not aware of it, we wished to ascer-
tain whether the same phenomena could be
produced again in the magnetizer's absence, and
by the sole effect of imagination ; as actually
happened on the 28th of July.
Mile. Ganot was placed in all the circum-
stances of the preceding trials; viz.: the same
96 REPORT.
hour in the day, same apartment, same silence,
same arm-chair, the same assistant, same prepa-
ration ;
everything, in a word, was exactly similar
as on the preceeding days, one thing only was
wanting, the magnetizer who had remained at
his house. The same convulsive motions mani-
fested themselves, but with a little less quickness
and violence, although with the same character.
A man twenty-seven years of age, subject since
the age of fifteen to epeleptic fits, was magnetized
fifteen times at the Hotel Dieu, from the 27th of
June to the 17th of July, 1S26, by ther eporter of
the commission. Sleep began to show itself at
the fourth sitting, on the 1st of July ;
it was still
sounder at the fifth, the 2d of the same month ;
in the following it was pretty slight, and was easily
interrupted, either by slight noise, or by questions;
the reporter magnetized him at the thirteenth and
fourteenth, of the same month, b}' placing himself
behind the armchair in which this man was sit-
ting; at the fifteenth sitting, which took place on
the 17th of July, we placed him, as it had been
done for Mile. Ganot, in the same circumstances
in which he had found himself since the beginning
of the experiments; the reporter puts himself
behind his arm-chair, and the same phenomena
of somnolence were manifested, although he had
not magnetized him. We were necessarily led
REPORT. 97
to conclude, from that series of experiments, that
these two women and that man felt the same
effects, both when magnetized and when they
believed they were so; that, consequently, imagi-
nation was sufficient to produce in them some
phenomena, that with some little attention or
preoccupations of the mind, we might have
attributed to magnetism.
But we hasten to declare that there are many
other cases, as severely and carefully observed, in
which it would be difficult not to admit magnetism
as the cause of those phenomena. We place
them in the fourth class.
SECTION IV.
Effects very probably derived from Magnetism
alone.
A child twenty-eight months of age, affected as
his father, of whom we shall speak below, with
epileptic fits, was magnetized at Mr. Bourdois', by
Mr. Foissac, on the 6th of October, 1827. Almost
immdiately after the passes had begun, the child
rubbed his eyes, bent his head on one side, leant
it upon one of the cushions of the sofa upon which
he was sitting, gaped, agitated himself, scratched
his head and ears, appeared to struggle against
7
98 REPORT.
sleep, which seemed to pervade him, and soon rose
in murmuring; he was seized with the need of
making water, and after satisfying it, he was
magnetized again a few moments; but as this
time the somnolence was not so much marked, we
ceased the experiment.
We put near this fact, that of a deaf and dumb
person of eighteen years old, liable for a long time
to very frequent fits of epilepsy, and on whom Mr.
Itard wished to have magnetism tried. This
young man was magnetized fifteen times, by Mr.
Foissac; we shall not only say that the epileptical
fits were suspended during the sitting, and that
they re appeared only at the end of eight months,
a delay without example in the history of his
disease; but also that the appreciable phenomena
felt by this young man during the experiments,
were the heaviness of the eye-lids, a general
numbness, the need of sleep, and even sometimes
some vertigo.
An action still better marked was observed
upon a member of the commission. Mr. Itard
on the 1 Ith of November 1826, had submitted
himself, as we have said, and had felt no effect.
Being magnetized by Mr. Dupotef, on the 27th
of October, 1827, he felt some drowsiness without
sleep, a sensible excitement of the nerves of the
face, some convulsive motions in the nostrils, the
muscles of the face and the jaws, an afflux in his
REPORT. 99
mouth of a saliva with a metallic taste, a sensation
similar to that which he had felt, by galvanism.
The two first sittings caused a cephalagy which
lasted several hours; and in the same time the
usual pains subsided very much. A year after,
Mr. Itard, who had severe pains in his head was
magnetized eighteen times by Mr. Foissac. Mag-
netism provoked almost constantly an afflux of
saliva, and twice with a metallac taste ; but few
motions and muscular contractions were observed,
except some sudden agitations in the tendons of
the muscles of the fore-arms and legs. Mr. Itard
told us that his cephalalgy had ceased at each
time after a sitting of twelve and fifteen minutes;
that it was entirely removed at the ninth, when
it was brought on again, by an interruption of
three days in the magnetical treatment, and
removed again by the same means ; he felt, during
the experiment, the sensation of a general comfort,
a disposition to pleasant sleep, some somnolence
accompanied with vague and agreeable dreaming;
his complaint received, as previously, a notable
amelioration, which lasted but a short while after
the cessation of magnetism.
These three observations appeared to your
commission altogether worthy of notice. The two
individuals who were the subjects of the two first
experiments — the one, a child of twenty-eight
jnonths old ; the other, the deaf and dumb person
—
100 REPORT.
were perfectly ignorant of what was done to
them : one of them is not yet able to know it, and
the other never had the least idea of what is
relating to magnetism ; and yet, both are sensible
to its action ;
and certainly we cannot consider in
either of them that sensibility as an effect of imag-
ination: could we do it with more propriety and
reason in the observation we have related concern-
ing Mr. Itard ?
It is not upon men of our age and always in guard
against the errors both of our mind and senses,
that imagination, such as we consider it here,
may exercise its influence. It is, at this advanced
period of life, lightened by reason, and free of those
deceiving charms which so easily seduce youth;
it keeps itself awake ; and diffidence, rather than
confidence, presides over the various operations of
our mind. These conditions happily found them-
selves united in our colleague ; and the academy
know him too well not to admit that he has
really felt what he says he has felt ; his veracity
has been the same, both on the 11th of November,
1826, when he declared he had felt nothing, and
on the 27th of Oct., 1827, when he affirmed before
us that he was sensible to the action of magnetism.
The somnolence observed in the three facts we
have just related, seemed to us the transition of
the wakeful state, to that which is called " the
magnetical sleep or S07tinambulisrn;)
words
REPORT. 101
that the commission thought improper, as lead-
ing to wrong ideas, but which, in the impossibil-
ity of altering them, it was obliged to adopt.
When the individual submitted to the magneti-
cal action, is in somnambulism, magnetizers
assure us that he ordinarily hears but the person
who magnetizes him, and those who are put to
communication with him through the means of
an immediate contact- According to their opinion,
all, or almost all, the external senses of the sorn-
nambule are suspended, and yet he feels sensations.
They also pretend that an "internal sense,
a sort of instinct," is excited within him, which
enlightens him, both on his own preservation and
on that of those who are in relation with him.
During all the time of the state of somnambu-
lism, the somnambule is, say they, submitted to
the influence of the magnetizer and seems to obey
him with an unlimited docility, even when his
will, strongly moved inwardly, is manifested
neither by a gesture nor by a word.
The magnetized person, says the illustrious
Bailly, in his report to the Royal Academy of
Sciences, page 7, is vainly plunged in an appa-
rent drowsiness; the voice of the magnetizer, his
look, a sign from him, draws them off from that
state. It is impossible not to acknowledge, by
these constant effects, a great power that agitates
the patient, overwhelms him, and of which the
rnagnetizer alone seems to dispose.
102 REPORT.
This singular phenomena, gentlemen, your
commission thought a subject so much more
worthy of its attention and investigation, that,
although Bailly seemed to have perceived it, it
was not however known when magnetism was
submitted to the examination of the king's
commissaries, in 1774 ;
and that, besides, it was
particularly for the purpose of studying it, that
Mr. Foissac had, if 1 may so speak, brought to
light again the question of magnetism. Indeed,
Mr. de Puysegur's memoirs, in which the phenom-
ena of somnambulism were, for the first time,
exposed, had been issued only after the report o
the commission, aLthe end of 1784 and in 1785.
In a subject which could be so easily used as a-
means of charlatanism, and seemed to us so
different from all that was hitherto known, your
commission must have been very careful and
severe about the kind of proofs which were devised
and admitted to verify this phenomena, and at
the same time to be contiuually on their guard
against illusion and deception, of which they might
have feared to be the dupes.
The commission beg to call your attention to
the following observations, which it has disposed in
such a manner as to offer you a progression, always
increasing, of the phenomena of somnambulism.
It is the means to make them more and more
evident to you.
REPORT. 103
Mile. Louise Delaplane, sixteen years old, living
in rue Terechape, 0, affected with an obstruction,
accompanied with pains, tension and swelling of
the lower region of the abdomen, entered the hos-
pital on the 13th of June 1826. Some leeches,
baths, and in general a proper treatment, produced
no relief; she was magnetized by Mr. Dupotet, on
the 22d, 23d, 21th, 25th, 26th, 27th and 28th of
June, 1826. She was put to sleep, in the first
sitting, at the end of eight minutes. We speak
to her, she answers not; we cast on the floor
before her a tin blower, she remains in a complete
immobility, —a glass flask is broken with violence,
and she awakes suddenly. At the second sitting,
she answered by affirmative and negative signs of
the head to the question addressed to her. At
the third, she made us understand that she would
be able in two or three days to speak and indicate
the nature and seat of her disease ;
she was so
severely pinched as to produce an ecchmosis ;
she
gave no sign of sensibility. A flask filled with
ammoniac was uncorked under her nose, she was
insensible at the first respiration; at the second, she
carried her baud to her nose. After being awaked,
she complained of the pain she felt in the pinched
and ecchymosed part. The same flask of
ammoniac is presented to her, and at the first
respiration she abruptly drew back her head.
101 REPORT.
The relations of this girl resolved to take her
away from the hospital on the 30th of the same
month, because they had heard of her being
magnetized ; however, she was magnetized there
four times more. In all of these trials she never
spoke, and answered only by signs the various
questions addressed to her. We add that, having
been insensible to the touch of a pen introduced
into her nose carried over her lips and nostrils,
also to the noise of a plank suddenly cast upon a
table, she was awakened by the noise of a copper
basin thrown upon the floor, and by the noise of
a bag of dollars, that, at another day, we emptied
from a high place into the same basin.
At another lime, on the 9th of December, 1826,
Mr. Dupotet magnetized before the commission a
cart driver at Charonne, whom he had magnetized
for the last time, two or three years ago. At the
end of eight minutes, being repeatedly asked
whether he slept, he suddenly made an affirmative
sign with his head, — several questions remained
without answers. As he seemed suffering, we
asked him what pained him, he indicated his
chest with his hand, we asked him again what
is that part, he answered, it is the liver, and still
indicated the chest. Mr. Guersent pinched him
violently in his left wrist, and he felt no pain.
We opened his eye-lid which yielded but with
HKP0RT. 105
difficulty to the attempt, and we saw the globe of
the eye turned up convulsively towards the upper
part of the orbit, and his pupil contracted in a
notable manner.
The commission saw, in the two observations it
has just brought near together the first outline of
somnambulism, that faculty through which
magnetizers pretend that, during the sleep of the
external organs of senses, an internal sense is
developed in the magnetized person, which enables
him to do reasonable external acts. In each of
the cases above related, the commission saw,
indeed either answers by signs or by phrases to
questions asked, or promises (it is true always mista-
ken) of events that were to happen, but yet the first
'
marks of a beginning of intelligence. The three
following observations will prove to you with what
difference the promises of certain pretended som-
nambules ought to be received.
Mile. Josephine Martineau, nineteen years old,
living in rue St. Nicholas, No. 37, affected for three
months with a chronic gartrilis when she entered
the Hotel Dieu, on the 5th of August, 1S26. She
was magnetized by Mr. Dupotet, in presence of
the reporter, fifteen times in succession, from the
7th to the 2lst of the same month, twice hetween
four and five o'clock in the evening, and thirteen
times, from six to seven in the morn ng. She
106 REPORT.
commenced sleeping at the second sitting, and in
the fourth she answered the questions asked of
her. We shall not repeat to you that, at the end
of each sitting, her pulse was more frequent than
at the beginning, that she preserved no remem-
brance of what hud taken place during her sleep.
These are common phenomena, which had previ-
ously been very well verified in other magnetized
persons. It matters here of somnambulism only ;
and it is that phenomena that we endeavored to
observe on Mile. Martineau. In her sleep, she said
that she did not see the assistants, but that she
heard them, — and nobody was speaking. Being
asked about what she meant, she answered that
she heard them when they made a noise; she
said that she should not recover until she should
be purged. She designated for that purgative
three ounces of rnanna and some English pills
to be taken two hours after the manna. The two
following days the reporter gives no manna, but
instead of it four pills made with the crumbs of bread
which he administered in two days, and they ope-
rated as real purgatives four times during the two
days. She said once that she should awake after
five minutes, at another time after ten minutes of
sleep; and she awoke only after seventeen and
sixteen minutes. She announced that at such a
day she would give us some details about the
REPORT. 107
nature of her complaint. That day arrived, and
she said nothing. Finally, at every time she was
found in fault.*
M. De Geslin, living in rue de Grenelle St. Hon-
ore,No. 37, wrote to the commission, on the 8th
of July, 1826, that he had under his hand asom-
namhule, lodging in the same house, Mine.
Couturier, thirty years old, a milliner, who, among
other faculties, possessed that of reading her mag-
netized thoughts, and of executing the orders
that he mentally transmitted to her.
Mr. de Geslin's proposition was too important
not to be immediately accepted. Mr. Gueneau
and the reporter repaired to his house, at this
invitation. This gentleman renewed there the
assurances he had given us in his letter of the
surprising faculties of his somnambule, and after
having put her to sleep by the usual proceedings,
he invited us (o let him know what we wished to
have executed by her.
One of us, the reporter, sate before the writing
desk to take note of all that was going to take
place ; and the other, Mr. Gueneau wrote upon a
*This fact proves the truth of an observation made by well-
informed and experienced magnetizers, that somnombules are
sometimes full of vanity. They are generally very suscep-
tible about their lucidity, and often pretend that they know
and see better than they really do. Yet, although fulfilling
not their promises, they may be really in the state of somnam-
bulism.—[Note of the Translator.]
108 REPORT.
bit of paper t he following words, " Go and sit on
the cricket which stands in front of the piano."
Mr. de Geslin penetrated himself with that will,
and told the somnambule to execute what he
mentally commanded her. She rose from her
seat, and sitting herself before the clock, she said,
it is twenty minutes past nine.* Mr. Geslin told
her, that was not what he asked of her ; then she
entered the next apartment ; she was told that she
was mistaken again ; she then resumed her seat.
We wished that she should scratch her head ; she
stretched her right hand, but without executingthe
motion. We wished that she should go and sit
at the piano, and she went to a window six feet
distant from the piano. The magnetizer com-
plained that she did not execute what he imposed
upon her by thought ; she rose and took another
chair. We asked, that when Mr. Geslin should
raise his aim, the somnambule may raise hers,
and hold it suspended so until the magnetizer
brings his down. She raised her hand, which
remained immovable, and was not brought down
again until five minutes after the magnetizer's
;
we presented to her the back side of a watch, and
she said that it was thirty-five minutes past nine
o'clock, whde it was but seven o'clock. She said
that there were three needles, and there were but
The reporter don't say whether she said right or not.
REPORT. 109
two. A watch with three needles is substituted
for the other, and she said that there were two,
that it was forty minutes past nine, whereas it
was but twenty-five minutes past nine by the
watch. She wa3 put in contact with Mr, Guenau,
and told him, concerning his health, things alto-
gether erroneous and evidently contradicting what
our colleague had written about it before lending
himself to the experiment. Finally, that woman
kept none of the promises which had been made
to ud, and we wie thereby authorized to believe
that Mr. de Geslin had not taken all the necessa-
ry cares not to be led into error, and that was
the reason of his belief in the extraordinary facul-
ties he had attributed to the sonmambule.*
Here are, then, three cases very well established ;
and we might relate some more, in which there
As the third observation contains several particulars which
might sound badly to the delicate ears of our female readers,
we think it more proper to relate it in French, such as it is in
the original. *' Mr. Chapelain, docteureu medecine, demeuraut,
Cour Fatve, No. 3, informa la commission, le 14 Mars, 1828,
qulune femmie, &c.
In the foregoing cases, it is evident that the subjects exper-
imented upon were really in the state of somnambulism, but
had not yet reached a sufficient degree of lucidity to foretell,
without mistake, what was to happen. Miscarried by their
vanity and an exaggerated confidence in their faculties, they
gave as positive and certain, what was in fact but some slight
and obscure impressions of the instinct or inward sense. —
[Note of the Translator.]
110 REPORT.
was evidently either error or attempt of deception
upon the part of the somnambule, both in what
they said they heard, or in what they promised to
do — or, finally, in what they announced as about
to happen.
In such a position, and eagerly desirous to throw
light on the question, we thought it essential to
the interest of the investigations we were appointed
to make, and in order to shelter ourselves from
the deceptions of charlatanism, to ascertain whether
there was any token that could indicate the real
existence of somnambulism, that is to say, whether
the magnetized individual being put to sleep was
(allow us the expression) more than asleep, whether
he had reached the state of somnambulism.
Mr. Dupotet, of whom mention has already
been made several times, proposed, on the 4th of
November, L826, to the commission to make it wit-
ness some experiments in which he would show,
in all its evidence, the reality of magnetical som-
nambulism. He pledged himself (and we have
his promise signed by himself) to produce at will,
and out of the sight of the individuals put by him
in a state of somnambulism, some convulsive
motions in a part whatever of their body, merely
by directing his fingers towards that part. He
considered those convulsions as a certain token of
the existence of somnambulism. The commission
availed itself of the- presence of B. Chamet to make
REPORT. Ill
upon him the experiments necessary to ascertain
the fact and resolve the question. Therefore, Mr.
Dupotet, having put him in a state of somnambu-
lism, stretched a finger pointedly towards his; nay,
he approached them with a metallic stem, and no
convulsive effect was produced. One finger of the
magnetizer's was directed again towards those of
the magnetized ; we saw in the fingers, index, and
medius of both hands, a slight motion similar to
the convulsion caused by tl galvanic pile. Six
minutes after, the finger of the magnetizer being
directed toward the left wrisr, determined in that
part a complete motion of convulsion. Then the
magnetizer announced that in five minutes every-
thing he could wish for would be obtained from
that man. At that moment, Mr. Marc, standing
behind the somnambule, indicated that the mag-
netizer should try to act upon the right fore finger;
himself directed his own toward that part, but it
was the left one, and the leg of the same side
which entered into convulsion. At another time,
one of us directed his fingers towards the toes — no
effect was produced ;
some anterior passes were
executed. Messrs. Bourdois, Guersent, Gueneau
de Mussy, directed successively their fingers toward
those of the magnetized, which were contracted at
their approach. A short while after, we perceived
some motions in the left hand, toward which,
however, no finger had been directed. Finally,
112 REPORT.
the experiments were suspended to ascertain
whether the convulsive motions would not take
place when no magnetical action should be exer-
cised, and those motions renewed themselves, but
in a feeble manner.
The commission concluded from this, that the
approach of the magnetizer's fingers was not
necessary to produce convulsions, although Mr.
Dupotet said that after they had begun to take
place, they could be continued of themselves.
Mile. Lemaitre, of whom we havealready spoken,
when we mentioned the influence of imagination
on the production of magnetical phenomena,
presented also that convulsive mobility; but now,
these motions, pretty nearly like those that are
felt by the approach of an electrical point, were
caused in part by the approach of fingers. Then
without this last condition, we saw them happen-
ing, more or less, after the attempt made on pur-
pose to obtain them. Several times, this phenom-
enon manifested itself in the course of one sittino- •
whereas it showed itself not at all at another. Fi-
nally, the approach of the fingers toward a part,
was sometimes followed with convulsions in a
different part of the body.
Anew example of this phenomena, is that which
we observed upon Mr. Chalet, a consul of France
at Odessa. Mr. Dupotet masrnetized him in our
presence, on the 19th of November, 1826; he
REPORT. 113
directed his fingers towards his left ear, and im-
mediately we perceived in the hair placed behind
the ear, a motion which was attributed to the
contraction of the muscles of that region. Some
passes with a single hand were repeated, without,
however, directing the finger towards the ear, and
we perceived a general and sudden motion of ascen-
sion in the ear. A finger was afterwards directed
towards I he same ear, and produced no effect on it.
It was especially upon Mr. Petit, thirty-two years
old, an instructor at Athis, that the convulsive
motions were determined with the most precision
by the approach of the magnetizer's fingers. Mr.
Dupotet presented him to the commission, on the
10th of August, 1S26, in announcing to it that
this man was very susceptible of entering into
somnambulism, and that while in that state, he
(Mr. Dupotet) could determine at will, without
expressing it by word, in such parts as would be
designated by the commission, some apparent con-
vulsive motions, by the sole approach of his fingers.
Mr. Petit was very soon put to sleep, and then the
commission, in order to prevent all suspicion of
intelligence, handed to Mr. Dupotet a note, written
in silence, at the very moment in which it desig-
nated the part it wished to see convulsed ;
he
placed himself, afterwards, behind the magnetized
individual, and directed his finger, in the first place,
towards the left thigh, afterwards towards the
8
114 RKPORT.
left elbow, and finally towards the head. These
three parts were almost instantaneously seized
with convulsive motions. Mr. Dupotet directed
his left leg towards that of the magnetized ;
this
one agitated itself so much that he came very near
falling over. Mr. Dupotet directed his foot toward
the right elbow, and that elbow was convulsed ;
afterwards, he brought his foot towards the left
elbow and hand, and violent convulsive motions
were developed in all tbe superior limbs. One of
the commission, Mr. Marc, with the intention of
preventing, si ill more, all kind of deception, put a
handkerchief around hiseyesjand the preceeding
experiments were repealed with but a slight
difference in the result. Agreeably to the signs
and instantaneous indications of several among us,
Mr. Dupotet directed his fingers toward the left
hand ;
at its approach, both hands agitated them-
selves. We wished to see the action exercised on
the two inferior limbs at once. At first, the
magnetizer's fingers were approached without
result ; but soon after, the somnambule agitated his
hands, shrunk back, and shook his feet. A few
moments after, the finger having been brought
near the hand caused it to withdraw itself, and
produced a general agitation. Messrs. Thillaye
and Marc directed their fingers on various parts of
the body, and provoked some convulsive motions.
Thus Mr. Petit always had, by the approach of
RKP0RT. 115
the fingers, convulsive motions, whether a blind
was put upon his eyes; or not and those motions
were still more strongly produced when a metallic
stem, such as a key or a branch of spectacles was
directed towards the parts submitted to the exper-
iments. I3ut, as for the result, the commission —
although it has witnessed several cases in which
that contractile faculty was put into action by the
approach either of the fingers or of the metallic
stems, needs more facts to appreciate that phenom-
enon, on the constancy and value of which it does
not believe itself sufficiently enlightened to pro-
nounce its opinion.
Having, then, no other means to ascertain the
truth, than in referring toour anxious watchfulness,
we pursued our investigations and multiplied our
observations with still more care, attention and
diffidence than ever.
You recollect, perhaps, gentlemen, the experi-
ments which were made in 1820, at the Hotel
Dieu, in presence of a great number of physicians,
among whom were found several members of this
academy, and under the eyes of the reporter, who
alone conceived the plan of them, directed every
particular, and noted them down, minute after
minute, in a process-verbal signed by each of the
assistants. Perhaps we should have omitted to
mention them here, were it not that a particular
circumstance imposes upon us the duty. Amidst
116 REPORT.
the discussions, which the proposition to submit
animal magnetism to a new examination, awak-
ened in the academy, a member*, who, however,
did not deny the reality of the magnetical
phenomena, had said that while magnetizem
proclaimed Mile. Sampson's cure, she begged of
him to be admitted again into the hospital, in
which, he added, she had died in consequence of
an organical lesion that the men of the art had
judged incurable. And yet, this very same Mile.
Samson reappeared " six years after her pre-
tended death" and your commission having been
convoked on the 29th of November, 1826, to make
experiments upon her, wished first to ascertain
whether the person submitted by Mr. Dupotet,
the good faith and sincerity of whom was more-
over perfectly well known to it, really was the
same as that who six years previous had been
magnetized at the Hotel Dicu; Messrs. Bricheteau
and Patissier, who had witnessed those first exper-
iments, were complaisant enough to comply with
the invitation of the commission, and together
with the reporter, they testified and signed a
declaration that it was really the same person who
had been the subject of the experiments made at
the Hotel Dieu, in 1820, and that they perceived
no other alteration in her than that which
* Mr. Recamier.
REPORT. 117
announced ^.remarkable improvement in health.
The identity being thus established, Mile. Sam-
son was magnetized by Mr. Dupotet in presence
of the commission. The passes had barely com-
menced, when Mile. Samson moved on her
arm-chair, complained, and coughed with a rough
voice, that recalled, to Messrs. Patissier, Bricheteau
and the reporter, the same sound of voice which
had struck them in 1820, and which, at that time
as well as in the present moment, was, according
to their opinion, a beginning of the magnetical
action. SoOn after, she struck the floor with her
foot, leant her head upon her right hand, and
seemed to them quietly asleep. We lifted up her
eye-lids, and we saw, as we had in 1820, her
eye-balls convulsively turned upwards. Several
questions were asked her, but remained without
answers. Some others having been addressed to
her, she made gestures of impatience, and answered
in a tone of bad humor, that we ought not to
torment her. Finally, without previously men-
tioning it to any one, the reporter threw on the
floor, violently, a table and stick of wood he
had placed thereon. Some of the assistants cried
out with fear ;
Mile. Samson alone heard nothing,
made no motion of any sort, and continued sleep-
ing most soundly. We awaked her four minutes
after, in ruhbing her eyes with the thumbs in a
circular manner. Then the same stick of wood
118 REPORT.
was suddenly cast on the floor ; the noise caused
the magnetized to start from her chair ; and she
complained very much of the sensation of fear we
had just caused to her, whereas, six minutes
before, she had been insensible to a much greater
noise.
You have all heard of a fact which attracted,
very much at the time it took place, the attention
of the surgical section of the academy, and which
had been communicated at the meeting of the
16th of April, 1829, by Mr. Jule Cloquet. The
commission thought it proper to relate it here as
one of the most indisputable proofs of the force of
the magnetical sleep.
Mine. Plantain, fifty-four years of age, residing
No. 151, St. Dennis street, consulted Mr. Cloquet
on the 8th of April, 1829, for an ulcerated cancer
which she bore on the right breast for many years,
and which was complicated with a considerable
swelling and obstruction of the corresponding ax-
illary ganglions. Mr. Chapelain, the physician of
that lady, and who magnetized her some months
since, with the intention of dissolving the ob-
struction of the breast, could obtain no other
result than a very profound sleep, during which
her sensibility seemed annihilated, her ideas, how-
ever, remaining quite lucid. He proposed to Mr.
Cloquet to operate her while she should be plunged
into the magnetical sleep. This surgeon, who had
REPORT. 119
already judged the operation necessary, agreed,
and it was decided that it would take place the
following Sunday, 12th of April. During the
two days previous, Mme. Plantin was repeatedly
magnetized by Mr. Chapelain, who disposed her
while she was in somnambulism to suffer the ope-
ration wit bout fear, and who succeeded so well as
to lead her to converse with assurance about it;
whereas, in the wakeful state, she rejected the idea
of it with horror.
The day appointed for the operation, Mr. Clo-
quet, at bis arrival at half past ten o'clock in the
morning, found the patient dressed, and sitting on
an arm-chair in the position of a person quietly
delivered up to the natural sleep. There was about
one hour since she had returned from church,
which she used to attend at the same time. Mr.
Chapelain had caused her to pass into the mag-
netical sleep since her return; the patient spoke
with the greatest calm of the operation she was
about to undergo. Everything being ready for
the operation, she undressed herself and sat on the
chair. m
Mr. Chapelain sustained the right arm, the
left one was left hanging down by the side of
the body. Mr. Pailloux, an eleve interne of
the Hospital St. Louis, had the care of presenting
the instruments and of making the ligatures.
A first incision was carried above the tumor
120 REPORT.
to the internal face of the pap. The second,
starting from the same point, surrounded the tumor
below, and was carried to the meeting with the
first. Mr. Cloquet carefully dissected the swelled
ganglions, because of their vicinity to the exillary
artery, and extirpated the tumor. The operation
lasted from ten to twelve minutes. During that
length of time, the patient continued quietly to
converse with the operator, and did not give the
slightest token of sensibility ; no alteration either
in the breathing or the voice ; no motion in the
limbs, the features, or even in the pulse toas man-
ifested ; the patient continued in the same state
of indifference and automatons impassability in
which she was a few minutes before the opera-
tion commenced. It was not necesary to constrain
her; she was sustained only. A ligature was
applied to the lateral thoracik artery, that had
been opened during the extraction of the ganglions.
The wound having been brought together by
some adhesive plasters, and dressed, the patient
was put to bed, still in a state of somnambulism,
in which she was left during forty-eiffht hours.
One hour after the operation, a slight hemorrhagy
manifested itself, but without any bad consequence.
The first dressing apparatus was taken off on the
following Tuesday ; the wound was cleansed and
dressed anew; the patient showed no feeling ; the
pulse preserved its usual motion.
REPORT. 121
After this dressing operation, Mr. Chapelain
awoke the patient, whose magnetic sleep had
lasted two days. She appeared to have no idea,
no feeling of what had happened; but on hearing
that the operation had been performed, and seeing
her children around her, she testified a very lively
emotion, which the magnetizer stopped by putting
her immediately to sleep.
The commission had, in their two observations,
the most evident proof of the absence of sensibility
during somnambulism : and it declares that,
although it has not witnessed the last one, yet it
finds it bearing such a stamp of truth, (and besides,
it was testified to,) and repeated by so excellent an
observer (Mr. Cloquet) who had communicated it
to the section of surgery, that it has not feared to
present it to you as the most indisputable testimony
of that state of torpor and numbness determined
by magnetism.
While the commission was endeavoring to
appreciate, by proper experiments, the faculty of
putting into motion without contact, the contrac-
tibility of Mr. Petil's muscles, some other attempts
were made upon him, to observe a peculiar kind
of lucidity, (clairvoyance) the vision or faculty of
seeing through the eye lids closed, of which he
was said to be endowed during the state of som-
nambulism. The magnetizer had announced to
us that this somnambule would recognise between
122 REPORT.
twelve pieces of money that which he (Mr. Dupo-
tet) should have in his hands. The reporter
placed in it a five frank piece, marked at the
millesim of the year XIII, (of the French repub-
lic) and mixed it up afterwards with twelve
others that he ranged in a circle on a table. Mr.
Petit designated one of these pieces ; but it was
by the millesim of the year 1812. Afterwards,
a watch, the hands of which had been altered, in
order that they should mark a wrong time, was
presented to him, and twice in succession Mr.
Petit mistook their direction. These errors Mr.
Dupotet accounted for by telling us that Air. Petit
was not so lucid since he was so seldom magne-
tized ;
and yet, at that very sitting, the reporter
played with him a game of piquet; and he often
tried to deceive him, in announcing a card or a
color differently from what it really was, and these
attempts at deception on the part of the reporter
did not prevent Mr. Petit from playing carefully
and knowing the color of his adversary's card.
We must add that whenever we interposed a body,
such as a sheet of paper or a piece of pasteboard
between his eyes and the object to be designated,
Mr. Petit could distinguish nothing.
If these trials had been the only ones by which
we had endeavored to recognize that "clairvoy-
ance," we might have concluded from it that this
somnambule did not possess it, but in the follow-
REPORT. 123
ing experiment, that faculty was exhibited in all
its power, and at this time thesuccess was altogether
according to Mr. Dupotel's promises.
Mr. Petit was magnetized on the 15th of March,
1826, at half past eight in the evening, and put to
sleep in about one minute. The president of the
commission, Mr. Bourdois, ascertained that the
number of pulsations had diminished by twenty-
two per minute since he was asleep, and even
that the pulse was somewhat irregular. Mr.
Dupotet, after having set a blind upon Mr. Petit's
eyes, repeatedly directed his fingers in point upon
him at the distance of about two feet. Immediately,
a violent contraction was manifested in the hands
and feet, upon which the action was directed. Mr.
Dupotet, having likewise approached the feet of
Mr. Petit, yet without contact, he withdrew them
with quickness. He complained feeling in the
limbs acted upon, a smart pain and a burning
heat. Mr. Bourdois tried to produce the same
effects; he also obtained them, but slowly and in a
feeble degree.
This point beinir well established, we occupied
ourselves with verifying the somnambule's "clair-
voyance. In the fust place, we directed all our
attention to establish that his eye-lids were exactly
closed. In that view, a light was held up
almost constantly before Mr. PeuYs eyes at the
distance of one or two inches, and many persons
124 REPORT.
kept looking at them all the time. None could
perceive the least opening between them ; nay,
Mr. Ribes, of the academy, noticed that the edges
of them were closed in such a manner as the lids
were crossing each other. After these preliminary
observations, we went about verifying the phenom-
enon of the vision through the eyes closed.
Mr. Ribes presented a catalogue that he drew
from his pocket. The somnambule, after some
efforts, read very distinctly these words; « Lavater
il est bien difficile de connaitre les hommes : (It is
very difficult to know men ;) these last words were
printed in very fine characters. Then a passport was
put under his eyes, he recognized and designated
itby the nameofpasse hom?ne. Afew moments af-
ter, a permitand bill to carry arms was substituted
for the passport, and was presented to Mr. Petit on
the blank side, he could recognize only that it was
a piece framed and pretty like the former one ; the
permittance was turned up ; then, after a few mo-
ments of attention, he says what it is, and reads
very distinctly these words, <
De par le Roi,' (the
king allows) and on the left, « port d'armes (permit
to carry arms.) A letter opened was showed again
to him ;
he said he could not read it, because he
did not understand the English language In-
deed, the language was written in English
Mr. Bourdo.s, the president of the com mission° took
from his pocket a tobacco-box, upon which 'there
REPORT. 125
was a little figure in relievo framed with gold.
The somnambule says that he sees the emblem of
faithfulness. Being urged to say what this em-
blem was, he added, I see a dog, he is standing up
before an altar. This was indeed (be figure rep-
resented. A closed letter was presented to him, he
could not read the contents of it ; he followed very
well the direction of the lines with his fingers, but
he could read very distinctly the address of it,
though it contained a name rather difficult, Mr.
de Rockensbrock. These experiments wearied
Mr. Petit very much. He was allowed to rest an
instant ; afterwards, as he was very fond of playing
cards, we proposed to him, as a way of resting, to
play a game. If the experiments of mere curiosity
contradict and tire him, he performed with the
greatest ease and dexterity what pleased him, and
that to which he was naturally inclining. One
of the assistants, Mr. Raynal, an ancient inspector
at the university, played a hand of piquet with
him, and lost. Mr. Petit managed the cards with
a wonderful agility, without mistaking one. They
tried to put him in fault, by taking off or altering
the cards, but. all was in vain. During all this
performance, the assistants had not ceased to hold
a light before Mr. Petit's eyes, and to examine
them with attention ;
they were found constantly
closed.
While Mr. Petit was playing a second game of
126 REPORT.
piquet, Mr. Dupotet, at Mr. Ribes's suggestion,
directed from behind his hand towards the som-
nambule's elbow. The contraction previously
observed was produced again. Afterwards, at
Mr. Bourdois proposition, he magnetized him also
behind, and still at one foot distant, with the
intention of awakening him. The eagerness with
which the somnambule played, counteracted that
action, and caused that, although not awaking
him, he was troubled by it. Several times he
brought his hand behind his head, as though he
felt pain in that part. At last, lie fell into a state
of drowsiness that resembled a pretty slight natu-
ral sleep, and one of us having spoken to him in
that state, he suddenly opened his eyes. A little
while after, Mr. Dupotet, yet placed near him, but
at some distance, put him again into the magnetic
sleep, and the experiments were resumed. Mr.
Dupotet, wishing that not a least shadow of doubt
should remain about the nature- of a physical
action exercised at will on the somnambule,
proposed to put as many bandages as we would
choose on Mr. Petit's eyes, and to act upon him
in that state. Indeed, we covered his face down
to the nostrils with several handkerchiefs ; we
filled up with gloves the cavity formed by the
prominence of the nose, and we covered up the
whole with another black cravat falling in the
shape of a veil down to the neck. Then the
REPORT. 127
attempts of the action at a distance were made
again in every possible manner, and constantly
the same motions were manifested in the parts
towards which the hand 01 feet were directed.
After these trials were over, Mr. Dupotet took
away Mr. Petit's bandages, and played with him
a game of ecarte in order to divert his mind. He
played with the same ease and skillfulnss as before,
and gained again. He was so eager in his
game, that he remained insensible to the influ-
ence of Mr. Bourdois, who tried, but in vain, to act
upon him behind, and to cause him to execute
a certain motion al his command.
After his game was finished, the somnambule
got up, walked across the parlor, removing the
chairs that, he found in his way, went and sat
down in a retired place, to rest awhile, far from the
curious persons and the experimenters who had
fatigued him. There, Mr. Dupi let awakened him
at several feet distan< e ; but this awakening was
incomplete, for a U-\\ > iments after, he fell drowsy
again ;
it was necessary to make new efforts to
awaken him completely.
Being awakened, 1 sa s that he recollects noth-
ing of what happened during his sleep.
Certainly, if, as Mr. Burdois expressed it a part
in the process-verbal of that sitting, " the constant
immobility of the eye-lids and the dosing of
their edges in such a manner as the lids seemed
128 REPORT.
crossing each other, are sufficient warranties
of the clairvoyance {faculty of seeing) of this
somnambule through the eye-lids, it is impossi-
ble, at least, not to wonder at all that happened
during that sitting, and not to desire to witness
some new experiments of the same kind, in
order to be able to establish one's opinion on the
existence and value of animal magnetism?
The wish expressed hy our president did not
last long before receiving its full execution in three
other somnambules, who, besides that clairvoyance
observed on the former one, presented proofs of a
remarkable degree of intuition prevision, and
both concerning themselves and other persons.
Here the sphere seemed te be enlarged; it no
longer matters tosatisfy a mere curiosity, to endeav-
or ascertaining whether it does exist a token that
may enable us to pronounce that somnambulism
is real or feigned, whether a somnambule can
read, his eyes being closed, and indulge himself,
while sleeping, with more or less complicated com-
binations of games, such questions are curious,
interesting and their solution (especially of the last
one) is, as a spectacle, a very extraordinary phe-
nomena; but with respect to the hopes on the
benefit that medecine might derive from them,
they are by far below those which the commission
is going to communicate to you.
There are none of you, gentlemen, who in all
REPORT. 129
that you have heard of magnetism, have not been
told of that faculty of certain somnambules, not
only to determine the kind of disease they are
affected with, the duration and mode of termi-
nation of those diseases, but also the kind, dura-
tion and termination of the diseases of persons with
which they were put in communication. The
three following observations seemed to us so im-
portant, that we thought it a duty to make them
known to you in their whole length, as presenting
very remarkable instances of that intuition and
prevision ;
you will aleo find in them all the vari-
ous phenomena which were not observed in the
other magnetized individuals.
Paul Villagrand, a student at law, born at
Magnac laval (haute Vienne) on the 18ih of May,
1803, was struck, on the 25th of December, 1825,
with a fit of apoplexy, with palsy of all the left
side of the body. After seventeen months of
various treatments by the acupuncture, a seton be-
low the occiput, twelve moxas applied along the ver-
tebral column, which treatment had been followed
either at his own house, at the infirmary, or at the
hospital ofperfectionment, and during the course
of which he had had two new attacks he was
admitted, on the 8th of April, 1827 at the Hospi-
tal de la Charite. Although he had received a no-
table relief by the means he had used before his
entrance into that hospital, he still walked with
9
130 REPORT.
crutches, and could not sustain himself on the left
foot. The arm of the same side could perform
various motions, but Paul was not able to lift it
up to his head. He could hardly see with his
left eye, and had very imperfect hearing of both
ears. He was in such a state, when he was trust-
ed to the hands of our colleague, Mr. Fouquier,
who, besides the very evident paralysy, discovered
in him symptoms of an hypertrophy of the heart.
During five months, he administered to him the
alcoholic extract of mix vomica, had him bled
occasionally, purged him, and ordered that blisters
should be applied to him. The left arm regained
some strength, — the pain he had in his head be-
came farther apart, and its state remained the
same until the 29th of August, 1827 ; at that
epoch, he was for the first time magnetized by Dr.
Foissac, agreeably to the invitation and under the
direction of Mr. Fouquier. In that first sitting, he
felt a sensation of general heat, and afterwards
some quick motion in his tendons. He was sur-
prised to be pervaded, so to speak, by an inclination
to sleep; rubbed his eyes to counteract it ; made
visible but fruitless efforts to keep his eye-lids
opened. Finally, his head bent down, and he
fell asleep. From that very moment, his deafness
and headach have ceased. It was but in the 9th
sitting that the sleep became profound ; and in
the 10th he was able to answer by inarticulated
REPORT. 131
sound, the questions that were asked him ;
at a
later period, he announced that he could be cured
only by magnetism, and prescribed to himself
synapisms, Bareges baths, and the continuation of
the pills, made of extract oinux vomica. On the
25th of September, the commission repaired to the
Hospital de la Charlie, and ascertained, by a
proper examination, that the left inferior limb was
manifestly thinner than the right one; that the
right hand was much stronger than the left; that
the tongue, being drawn out from the mouth, was
brought towards the right commissure, and that,
in the act of buccination, the right cheek was more
rounded out than the left.
Paul was magnetized, and soon entered into
somnambulism. He told over again all that con-
cerned his treatment, and prescribed that on the
same day a synopism should be applied during
one hour and a half on each leg ;
that the next day
he should take a Barages bath, and that soon after
the bath, synapisms should be set on him during
twelve hours without interruption, now atone place,
then at another; that on the day following after
taking a second Barages bath, a pallet and a half of
blood should be extracted from the right arm
Finally, he added that in following this treatment,
on the 28th, viz: three days after, he could walk
without crutches in going out from the sitting
oom; he said, also, that it would be necessary to
132 REPORT.
magnetize him in that last sitting. The treat-
ment indicated by Paul was followed; and on the
said day, the 28th of September, the commission
repaired to the Hospital de la Charite. The patient
walked, leaning on his crutches, to the conference
room, when he was magnetized as usually, and
put in the state of somnambulism. In that state
he assured that he could return to his bed with-
out crutches or support. Having been awaked, he
asked for his crutches ; but we answered him that
he needed them no longer. Indeed, he rose, sus-
tained himself on his palsied leg. crossed the crowd
that followed him, walked down the stairs of the
experiment room, crossed the second yard of the
hospital, stepped up two stairs, and having reached
the lower part of the stair-case of the establishment
he sat down. After resting two minutes, he
walked up (helping himself with a hand, and lean,
ing on the railing,) the twenty-four stairs that lead
to his sleeping room; he went to his bed without
support, sat again one moment, and executed a
new walk through the ward ; all the patients who
had hitherto seen him confined to his bed were in
the greatest amazement. From that day, Paul
never resumed his crutches.
The commission met again on the 11th of Oc-
tober following, at the Hospital de la Charite. He
was magnetized, and announced that he would be
completely cured at the end of the year, if a seton
REPORT. 133
was applied at two inches below the region of the
heart. In that sitting, he was pinched several
times; a pin was thrust one line deep, into his
brows and his wrist ; he gave no sign of feeling.
On the 16th of October, Mr. Fouquier received
from the general council of the hospitals a letter,
by which he was directed to terminate the mag-
netical experiments that he had commenced at
the Hospital de la Charite. Therefore, we were
obliged to cease the use of magnetism, the effi-
ciency of which the patient said was much to his
satisfaction. Mr. Foissac then caused him to
leave the hospital, and placed him in a house in
the rue des Petits Augustins, in a private room,
in which he pursued his former treatment.
On the 29th of the same month, the commis-
sion resorted to the private room, in order to
examine the progress of his cure ; but before mag-
netizing him, we noticed that he walked with-
out crutches,—nay, that his gait appeared firmer
than at the preceeding sitting. Afterwards we
caused him to try his strength by the dynamo-
metre. Having been pressed down by his right
hand, the needles marked thirty kilogramme
and only twelve by the left hand ; it marked thirty-
one by both hands united. He was magne-
tized ; in four minutes, somnambulism manifested
itself, and Paul assured them that he would be
completely cured on the 1st of January. We
134 REPORT.
tried his strength ; the right hand caused the nee-
dle to mark twenty-nine kilogramms (one less
than before the sleep,) and the left hand (the pal-
sied one) twenty-six, (fourteen more than before
sleep,) both hands united marked forty-five,
(fourteen more than before.) Always, in the state
of somnambulism, he got up to walk, and moved
about with rapidity; jumped on the left foot;
kneeled on the right knee, and rose again, sustain-
ing himself with the left hand on one of the assist-
ants, and in causing all the weight of the body to
be borne on the left knee. He took hold of Mr.
Thillaye and lifted him up, made him move round
upon himself, and resumed his seat, holding him
on his knees. He drew with all his might the
dynamometre, and caused the scale of traction to
mark sixteen myriagramms. Having been invi-
ted to go down the stairs, he abruptly left his arm-
chair, took Mr. Foissac's arm, which he abandoned
at the door, went, clown stairs and ran up again
two and even three steps at a leap, with a convul-
sive rapidity, that, however, he mitigated when
we told him to ascend them only one at a time.
As soon as he was awaked, he lost that astonish-
ing increase of strength ;
then, indeed, thedynamo-
metre marked but. three myriagramms and three
quarters, viz: twelve and a quarter less than be-
fore his awakening. His gait was slow, but firm ;
he was not able to bear the weight of his body on
REPORT. 135
his left leg, (the palsied one) and he tried, but in
vain, to lift Mr. Foissac.
We ought to note down, gentlemen, that a few
days before this last experiment, the patient had
lost two pounds and a half of blood, that he still
had two blisters on his legs, a seton on the back
part of his neck, and another on his breast ; there-
fore you will perceive with us that magnetism had
determined a very prodigious increase of strength
in the sick organs whereas the sound one remained
the same; since, during all the state of somnambu-
lism, the whole strength of the body had been
more than quadrupled.
Paul gave up afterwards all sort of medical
treatment. He wished only to be magnetized;
and towards the end of the year, as he expressed
the desire to be put, and kept during eight days in
somnambulism, in order that his cure might be
completed on the 1st of January, he was magne-
tized on the 25th of December ; and from that
day, he remained in somnambulism until the first
of January.
During that length of time, he was awaked at
various and unusual intervals, for an average
time of twelve hours ;
and in these short intervals,
we left him believing that lie had been sleeping
only a few hours. During all his sleep, his diges-
tive functions were performed with unusual ac-
tivity.
136 REPORT.
He was sleeping for three days, when, accom-
panied by Mr. Foissac, he set out on foot, on the
28th of December, from Mondovi street, and visited
Mr. Fouquier, at the Hospital de la Charite, where
he arrived at nine o'clock. He recognized there
the patients near whom he had been laving before
his leaving the hospital, the pupils who had the
care of the hall and read (with his eyes being
closed, and a finger applied to both his lids,) some
words presented to him by Mr. Fouquier.
All that we had been witnessing appeared to us
so astonishing, that the commission, desirino- to
follow to its end the history of this somnambule,
ktZtl
V *
f
0f
,
Jan
,
ua
[
y
u
at Dr-
Foissac'
s>
where
oK u L Ul Wh° had been s,ee Pin S since the
25th of December. He had ordered, fifteen days
previous, the suppressing of the setons he bore on
the back part of his neck and on his chest, and
had caused a cautery, that he said he should retain
all his life, to be established on his left arm. More-
over, he declared that he was cured ; that if he was
gmltyofno imprudence, he should reach an old
age; that he should sink under a fit of apoplexy
Hav,„g been awaked, he went out from Mr Fois'
sacs h , ked and ran ihro th;
with a firm and assured step. At his return he
carried w.th thegreatest ease one of the assltants
whom he could not have lifted up du^K*
bu* with difficulty.
'
a eeP>
REPORT. 137
January the 12th, the commission met again at
Mr. Foissac's, where was present Mr. Emmanualde
las Cases, of the chamber of deputies, the count de
Rumigny the first aide-de-camp of the king, and
Mr. Segalas, a member of the academy. Mr. Fois-
sac told us that he was going to put Paul to sleep
;
that, in the state of somnambulism, one finger
could be applied on each of his eyes, closed ;
and
that, notwithstanding so complete a closing of the
eye-lids, he could distinguish the color of cards,
read the title of a work, and some words or lines
indicated by chance in the very middle of the work.
At the end of two minutes of magnetical gestures,
Paul was plunged into sleep, his eye-lids being
held constantly shut, alternately by Messrs. Fou-
quier,Itard, Marc, and the reporter, a pack of new
cards, tied up with a band of paper, was pre-
sented to him ; the band was torn, the cards mixed
up, and Paul easily and successively recognized
the king of spades, ace of clubs, queen of spades,
the nine of clubs, the seven of diamonds, queen of
diamonds, and eight of diamonds. We presented to
him, his eyes being kept shut by Mr. Segalas, a
volume that the reporter had provided. He read
the title : ' Histoirede France', (a history of France)
He could not read the two intermediary lines, and
read on the fifth one the name of Anquetel, alone,
that was preceeded by the preposition far. We
opened the book at the eighty-ninth page, and he
138 REPORT.
read on the first line '
le nombre de sos,' (he
omitted the word '
troupes? and proceeded on:)
1
du moment ou on le croyait le plus occnpe des
plaisirs da Carnaval.'1
He likewise read the
title '
Louis,' but could not read ihe Roman cypher
that was following. A bit of paper was presented
to him, on which one of us had just written the
words agglutination and animal magnetism.
He spelt the first one and pronounced the two
others. Finally, we presented to him the process-
verbal of this sitting; he read pretty distinctly the
date of it and some words written in a more legi-
ble manner than others. In all these experiments,
the fingers of some of us were applied on the whole
commissure of each eye ; in pressing the superior
eye-lid on theinferior from upward downward^, we
noticed that the eye-ball had been in a constant
motion of rotation, and seemed to direct itself to-
wards the object submitted to the vision.
On the 2d of February, Paul was put in the
state of somnambulism at Messrs. Scribe and Bre-
mards, merchants, rue St. Houore, No. 296. The
reporter of the commission was the only one pres-
ent at the experiment. Paul's eyes were kept
shut, as in the preceeding sitting, and he read in
the work entitled c
Lesmi'le et une Nuits,'' the title,
the word preface, and the first line of that preface,
in omitting, however, the word peu. Another
work, entitled '
Lettres de denx Amiesjby Mme.
REPORT. 139
Campan was also presented to him. He distin-
guished in a picture Napoleon's figure; he pointed
out his boots ; and said that he saw two women.
Afterwards he read very readily the first four lines
of page three, with the exception of the word ravi-
ver. Finally he recognized, without touching
them, four cards that we successively presented to
him, two after two.
In another sitting, which took place on the 13th
of March, Paul tried, but in vain, to distinguish
various cards applied on his epigastrium ;
but he
read again, his eyes being shut, in a book opened
by chance, and this time his eye-lids were kept
closed by Mr. Jules Cloquet; the reporter also
wrote on a bit of paper two proper names; Max-
imilier, Robespiere, which he likewise read well,
The conclusions to be drawn from this long and
curious observation, are easy. They naturally
flow from the plain exposition of the facts we have
related, and we establish them as follows : — 1st. A
patient, whom a rational treatment prescribed
by one of the most distinguished practicians of
the capital could not cure of palsy, is cured by
the use of magnetism, and by the exactitude with
ivhich the treatment that lie ordered to himself
while in the state ofsomna?nbalis?n wasfolloived.
2d. In that state, his strength was increased in a
remarkable manner. 3d. He gave us the most
indisputable proofs that he could read with his
140 REPORT.
eyes shut. 4th. He foresaw the time of his cure,
and that cure actually took place.
The following observation will show you that
prevision still more developed in a man of a low
class, quite ignorant, and who certainly never had
heard of magnetism before.
Pierre Cazot, of the age of twenty, a hatter,
born from an epileptic mother, was liable for ten
years to fits of epilepsy, that returned five or six
times a week, when he entered the Hospital de la
Charite, on the first of August, 1827. He was
immediately magnetized by Mr. Foissac; was
put to sleep at. the third sitting, and became a som-
nambule at the tenth, which took place on the
19th of August ; in that sitting, at nine o'clock in
the morning, he announced that the same day,
at four o'clock in the afternoon, he would have a
fit of epilepsy, but that it could be prevented by
magnetizing him a little while previous. We pre-
ferred to verify the exactitude of his prevision, and
no care was taken to prevent the fit. We con-
tented ourselves with observing him, he being not
aware of it. At one o'clock, he was seized with
a violent headach ; at three, he was compelled to
go to his bed; and at four exactly the fit came on;
it lasted five minutes. The day after the next,
Cazot being in somnambulism, Mr. Fouquier
thrust suddenly a pin an inch long between the
fore-finger and thumb of his right hand ;
pierced
REPORT. 14.1
with the same pin the lobe of his ear; we brought
apart his eye-lids, hit several times his conjonetive
with a pin's head, and he gave not the least token
of sensibility.
The commission repaired to the Hospital de la
Charite, on the 24th of August, at nine o'clock in
the morning, to attend the experiments that Mr.
Fouquier, a member, intended to make on this
patient. In that sitting Mr. Foissac placed him-
self in front, and at six feet distant from Cazot;
fixed his eyes upon him, made no motion with
his hands, kept the most complete silence, and
Cazot fell asleep in eight minutes. A flask filled
with ammoniac was put three times under his
nose; his face became red and his breathing accel-
erated by it, but he was not awaked. Mr. Fou-
quier thrust into his fore arm, a pin of an inch in
length. Another was introduced two lines deep
obliquely into his sternum; a third one also ob-
liquely into his epigastrium, and a fourth perpen-
dicularly into the sole of his foot. Mr. Guersait
pinched his fore arm so violently as to cause an
ecclymosis ; Mr. Itard leant on his thigh with all
the weight of his body. We tried to tickle him
by carrying a b11 of paper under his nose, on his
lips, brows, lids, neck, and the soles of his feet
:
nothing could awake him. We urged him with
questions. How many fits more shall you have %
They will continue one year. Do you know
142 REPORT.
whether they will take place near each other ?
No. Shall you have one this month? I shall
have one on Monday, the 27th, at twenty minutes
past three. Will it be violent ? Not half so vio-
lent as the last one. On what day shall you have
another attack? After a motion of impatience,
he answers —in fifteen days from this, viz : on the
7th of September. At what o'clock? At ten
minutes before six in the morning.
The sickness of one of Cazot's children obliged
him to leave la Charite on that da)', the 24th of
August. But it was agreed upon to have him
return there on Monday, the 27th, in the morning,
in order to observe the fit he had announced as
being to take place on that day, at twenty minutes
to three. But the porter of the hospital having
refused to receive him when he presented himself
at the gate, he went to Mr. Foissac's, to complain
about the refusal. This gentleman preferred, as
he said to us, to prevent that fit through magnet-
ism, than to be the only witness of it; therefore,
we were not able to verify the exactitude of that
prevision. But we had to observe again the fit
announced for the 7th of September. Mr. Fou-
quier having caused Cazot to enter the hospital on
the 6th, in order that he might receive those at-
tentions that it would not have been possible to
receive elsewhere, had him magnetized in the
course of the Sunday, by Mr. Foissac, who put
REPORT. 143
him to sleep by the sole action of his will, and the
fixedness of his look. In that sleep, Cazot repeated
that on the next day he would have a fit at ten
minutes to six, which might be prevented by
magnetizing- him a little while previous. At a
signal previously agreed upon and given by Mr.
Fouquier, Mr. Foissac, of the presence of whom
Cazot was not aware, awakened him as he had
made him sleep, by the act of his will, in spite of
the questions that were asked to this somnambule,
with no other intent than to keep him in ignorance
about the moment he was to be awakened.
In order to witness the second fit, the commis-
sion met on the 7th of September, at a quarter
before six in the morning, in St. Michael ward, at
la Charite. There it was informed that the day
previous, at eight o'clock in the evening, Cazot
had been seized with a pain in his head, with
which he had been troubled all the night; that
that pain had caused him the sensation of a chime,
and that he had had darting pains in his ears.
At ten minutes to six, we witnessed the epileptic
fit, characterized by the stiffness and contraction of
the limbs, the brisk repeatedly throwing back of the
head, the bending back of the body, the convulsive
closing up of the eye-lids, the retraction of the eye-
ball towards the upper part of the orbit, sighs, cries,
insensibility to pinching, and the starting of the
tongue between the teeth. These symptoms
144 REPORT.
lasted five minutes, during which there were two
remissions of a few seconds each, and after-
wards a sensation of general fatigue, as if the limbs
were broken down.
On the lOih of September, at seven o'clock in
the evening, the committee met at Mr. Itard's
house, in order to pursue its experiments on Cazot.
This one was in the study, where a conversation
was held with him until half past seven o'clock ;
at that moment, Mr. Foissac, who had arrived
after him, and had remained in the entrance sep-
arated from the study by two closed doors, and at
the distance of twelve feet, commenced magnetizing
him. Three minutes after, Cazot said : I believe
that Mr. Foissac is there, for 1 feel drowsy. In
the course of eight minutes he was completely
asleep. We questioned him, and he assured us
again that in three weeks from that day, on the
1st of October, he would have an epileptic fit at
two minutes before twelve o'clock.
It was important to observe with as much care
as we had already done on the 27th of September,
the epileptic fit that had been predicted for the 1st
of October. Therefore, the commission repaired,
the same day, at half past seven o'clock, to Mr.
Georges', a hat manufacturer, rue des Manebiiers,
No. 17, where Cazot was living and working.
We were informed by Mr. Georges, that Cazot
was a workman of regular and excellent conduct,
REPORT. 145
incapable, either by the simplicity of his mind ot
by his morality, to lend himself to the least decep-
tion ; that he had had no epileptic fit since the
last one witnessed by the commission at the Hospi-
tal de la Charite; that, feeling unwell, he had kept
his room all day, and had done no labor; that
there was in the present moment in his room an
intelligent man, the veracity and discretion of
whom could be relied upon ; that this man had
not told him that he had foretold an attack for this
day ; that it appeared as a thing well proved, that
since the 10th of September, Mr. Foissac had had
some relation with Cazot, without inferring from
it, however, that he had spoken to him of his pre-
diction, and that, on the contrary, Dr. Foissac
attached a very great importance to keeping the
patient in ignorance of what he had announced.
At five minutes of twelve, Mr. Georges proceeded
to a room situated above that of Cazot; and one
minute after, he ran down, and told us that the
fit was actually taking place. We walked up in
haste, Messrs. Guersent, Thillage, Marc, Gueneau
de Hussy, Ilard, and the reporter, all at once, to
the sixth story; we arrived at one minute to twelve,
the precise time, by the watch of a member of the
commission. We surrounded Cazot's bed, and
found that the fit was characterized by the follow-
ing symptoms. A tetanick stiffness of the trunk
and limbs; the throwing back of the head, and at
10
146 REPORT.
times of the trunk ; a convulsive withdrawing up-
wards of the eye-ball, .he white of the eye alone
being visible ; a very strong injection of the face
and neck ; contraction of the jaws ;
partial fibril-
lary convulsions of the muscles of the right fore-
arm ;
soon after, so violent an opisthotonos that
the trunk was lifted up in forming an arch of a
circle, and that the body had no other support
than the head and the feet. A few moments after
that attack, viz : after one minute of calm, a new
fit similar to the preceding, declared itself. We heard
some inarticulated sounds; the patient's breath-
ing was short, irregular, and by sudden motions ;
the larynx lowering and raising itself rapidly ;
the pulse throbbed from one hundred and thirty to
one hundred and sixty times. There was no
foam in the mouth ; neither did we notice any
contraction of the thumb towards the palm of the
hand. After six minutes had elapsed, the fit ter-
minated by sighs, the relaxing of the limbs and
the opening of the eye-lids. The patient fixed his
eyes upon the assistant with an air of astonishment;
he complained of being broken down, and said
that he had this feeling especially in his right arm.
Although the commission could not doubt the
action, evident enough, of magnetism upon Cazot,
even he being not aware of it, and at a certain
distance, it wished to ascertain by a new proof.
As it had been proved in the last sitting that Mr.
REPORT. 147
Foissac had communicated with him, and might
have told him that he had announced an attack
of epilepsy that was to take place on the 1st of
October, the commission conceived the idea, in
suggesting some new experiments on Cazot, to
induce Mr. Foissac into error about the day in
which his epileptic patient would have an attack,
which should have been previously announced.
By so doing, we sheltered ourselves from all suspi-
cion of connivance, unless one could suppose that a
gentleman whom we had always seen honest and
loyal, wished to concert with an uneducated man,
destitute of intelligence, to deceive us. We ac-
knowledge that we have no occasion for such an
injurious supposition, and we are pleased to do the
game justice to Messrs. Dupotet and Chapelain, of
whom we had several times occasion to speak to
you.
Therefore, the commission met in Mr. Burdois'
study, on the 6th of October, at twelve o'clock, the
time at which Cazot arrived there with his child.
Mr. Foissac had been invited to repair to the same
place at half past twelve o'clock ; he came at the
precise time and remained in the parlor, — Cazot
being not informed of it, and having no commu-
nication with us. One of us, however, went
through a secret door, and told him that Cazot
was sitting on a sofa, at the distance of ten feet
from a closed door, and that the commission de-
148 RKPORT.
sired to see him put to sleep and awakened at that
distance; viz: he, Mr. Foissac remaining in the
parlor, and Cazot in the study.
At thirty -seven minutes past twelve, while Ca-
zot was engaged in talking with us, or was look-
ing at the pictures that adorned the room, Mr.
Foissac, being placed in the next apartment, began
magnetizing him; we noticed that in four minutes,
Cazot slightly wrinkled his eye-lids, appeared un-
easy, and finally fell asleep in nine minutes. Mr.
Guersent, who had taken care of him at the hos-
pital of children, asked of him whether he recog-
nized him. The answer was affirmative. Mr.
Itard asked whether he would soon have a fit.
He answered in four weeks from that day, on the
3d of November, at five minutes past four o'clock
in the evening. We asked him afterwards when
he would have another attack. He answered,
after a moment of reflection and hesitation, that
it would be in five weeks after the one he had just
announced on the 9th of November, at half past
nine in the morning.
The process-verbal cyf that sitting having been
read in Mr. Foissac's presence, in order that he
might sign it with us, we wished, as abovemen-
tioned, to induce him into error ; and in reading it
to him, before having it signed by the members of
the commission, the reporter read that the next
REPORT. 149
attack would take place on Sunday, the 4th of
November, whereas the patient had announced
it for Saturday, the 3d. It also deceived him as to
the other fit, and Mr. Foissac noted down these
false indications as if they were true ; but having-,
a few days after, put Cazot in somnambulism, as
he used to do to remove his head-ach, he was
informed by him that the fit was to take place on
the third, and not on the fourth ;
he spoke of it to
Mr. Itard, on the 1st of November, thinking that
an error might have slipped into the process-verbal,
of which, however, Mr. Itard confirmed the pre-
tended veracity.
The commission again took every possible care
to observe the fit of the 3d of November ; it repaired
at four o'clock to Mr. Georges' ;
it was informed
by him, his wife, and a workman of his, that Ca-
zot had worked, as usual, all the forenoon until
two o'clock, and that, in dining, he had felt some
headach ;
that, however, he had come down to
resume his work ;
but the headach increasing, and
feeling some dizziness, he had gone again to his
room, laid down on his bed, and had fallen asleep.
Then Messrs. Bourdois, Fouquier, and the reporter,
preceded by Mr. Georges, went to Cazot's cham-
ber. Mr. Georges' entered alone and found him
soundly asleep, which he made us notice through
a door half opened towards the staircase. Mr.
Georges spoke loud to him, shook him, moved
150 REPORT.
his arms; but he could not be awakened ;
at six
minutes after 4 o'clock, in the midst of Mr. Georges'
attempts to awaken him, Cazot was seized with
the chief symptoms that characterize a fit of epi-
lepsy, and exactly similar to what we had previ-
ously observed on him.
The second attack, announced in the sitting of
the 6th of October for the 9th of December, that
is two months previous, took place at half past
nine o'clock, a quarter of an hour later than it had
been predicted, and was characterized by the same
precursory phenomena, and the same symptoms
as those of the 7th of November.
Finally, on the 11th of February, 1828, Cazot
announced another fit for the 22d of April follow-
ing, at five minutes after twelve o'clock ; and that
prediction was verified as the preceding ones, but
five minutes later, viz : at ten minutes after twelve.
That fit, remarkable for its violence, the sort of
fury with which Cazot bit his hand and fore-arm
by the repeated motions that threw him up on his
bed, had lasted for thirty-five minutes, when Mr.
Foissac, who was present, magnetized him. The
convulsive state soon ceased, to make room for
the state of somnambulism, during which Cazot
rose, placed himself on a chair, and said that he
was very much fatigued ; that he would have two
fits more ;
the one in nine weeks from the next
day, at three minutes after six o'clock, (25th of
REPORT. 151
June.) He was not willing to think of the other
attack, because it was necessary to occupy himself
with what would previously happen, (at this mo-
ment he sent away his wife, who was present,) and
he added, that about three weeks after the fit of the
25th of June, he would become crazy ;
that his
craziness would last three days, during which, he
would be so mad, that he would fight with every-
body ; that he would even ill-treat his wife and
child; that it would be necessary to separate
him from them ;
that he doubted whether he
would not kill a person, whom he did not desig-
nate. Then it would be necessary to bleed him
on both his feet. Finally, said he, Ishall be cured
for the month of August ; and being once cured
I shall never be sick again, whatever circum-
stance may happen*
It was on the 22d of April, that these predictions
were made; and two days after, on the 24th,
Cazot, in trying to stop a mad horse that had taken
* The reader will recollect that at the time Cazot began to
be magnetized, he was liable to five or six fits a week. Now,
owing to magnetism, his at acks became farther and farther
apart ; what he foretold was always verified with so great a
precision, that it is likely he would have been cured according
to his last prediction, if his life had not been abruptly taken
away by an unexpected accident. — [Note of the Trans-
lator.]
152 REPORT.
the moise between his teeth, was violently thrown
off against the wheel of a chaise, which broke his
left orbitary arcade, and horribly mangled him.
Having been transported to the Hospital Beargon,
he died on the 15th of May. At the opening of
his scull, the surgeon found a recent meningite,
some purulent gathering under the leguments of
the scull, and at the extremity of the choroid plex-
us a yellowish substance, outwardly white and
enclosing some small hydatides.*
We see, in this observation, a young man liable
for ten years to epileptic fits, for which he had
been successively treated at the Hospital of chil-
dren, at St. Louis, and exempted from the military
service. Magnetism acts upon him, although he
is perfectly ignorant of what is done to him ; he
becomes a somnambule ; the symptoms of his cora-
* This same man, who foretold with so much exactitude his
fits of epilepsy, was not allowed to foresee the unfortunate
event that was to end his life. How account for this ? I find in
a note published by Dr. Foissac, on Cazot, the following words:
"From the first time he entered into the state of somnambulism,
Cazot had manifested a great tendency to apply his faculty of
prevision to the ordinary events of life ; but being convinced,
by a great many facts, of the danger there is to allow to a
somnambule to depart from the circle of disease, I had re-
strained the tendency of the faculty in him ! Who could:
ever have foreseen that so well motived and laudable a reserve
should become perhaps the cause of his death. [Note of
the Translator.]
REPORT. 153
plaint are improved by it ; the fits become less fre-
quent ; his headach and oppression are removed
through the influence of magnetism ;
he prescribes
to himself a treatment appropriate to the nature
of his disease, and says that he will recover by it.
Having been magnetized, although not aware of
it, he fell into somnambulism, and was awakened
from that state with the same promptitude as when
lie was magnetized by immediate contact. In
fine, he indicated, with a rare precision, one and
two months previous, the day and hour at which
he would have a fit. Yet, endowed with previs-
ion for so many remote attacks of epilepsy, more
than that, for attacks which will never happen,
he did not foresee that, in two days, he would be
struck by a mortal accident.
Without contriving to conciliate all that may
appear, at a first look, contradictory in such an ob-
servation, the commissioner will beg you to notice
that Cazot's previsions are related only as to his
fits ;
that they are nothing else but the conscious-
ness of the organical modifications that are prepar-
ing themselves, and take place within him, as a
necessary result of internal functions ;
that these
previsions, although more extended, are altogether
similar to those of certain epileptic persons, who are
enabled, through various precursory symptoms, as
the headach. vertigo, morosity, the aura epileptica
154 REPORT.
&c, to recognize that they will very soon have an
attack. Would it be surprising that somnambules,
the sensation of whom, as you saw it, are exceed-
ingly active and keen, could foresee their fits for a
long time in advance, through various internal
symtoms and impressions, that escape the atten-
tion of a man in the wakeful state : so, gentlemen,
we might understand the prevision testi6ed by Are-
teus, in two passages of his immortal work, by Sau-
vage, who relates an instance of it, and by Cabanis.
We add that Cazot's prevision was not absolute
;
it was conditional, —since, in foretelling a fit, he an-
nounced that it would not take place if he was
magnetized ;
—indeed, it did not take place ; that
prevision is all organic and internal. Thus we
understand why he did not foresee an external
event, viz : that he would, by chance, meet a
mad horse, which he would be imprudent enough
to try to stop, and that he would receive by him a
mortal wound. Therefore, he could have foreseen
a fit that was never to happen. It is the needle of
a watch, which, in a given time, ought to go
through a certain portion of the dial, but does not
because it is broken.
We have just presented you, in the two forego-
ing observations, two remarkable instances of in-
tuition, of that faculty, which is developed during
somnambulism, and through which two magetized
REPORT. 155
individuals saw the disease with which they were
affected, indicated the treatment that suited them,
announced their termination and foresaw their fits.
The fact we are now going to analyze before you,
offered us a new kind of interest. Here, the som-
nambule pronounces hisjudgment on the complaint
of the persons with whom he is put in contact;
he determines the nature of it, and indicates a
proper remedy.
Mile. Celine was put in the state of somnam-
bulism, before the commission, on the 18th and
21st of April, the 17th of June, 9th of August,
23d of December, 1826, 13th and 17th of January,
and the 2lst of February, 1827. In passing from
the wakeful state into somnambulism, she felt a
diminution of heat of several degrees, by the ther-
mometer ; her tongue became dry and rough, from
being wet and supple, as it was before ;
her breath-
ing, usually soft and agreeable, became fetid in a
most repulsive manner.
Her sensibility was entirely lost during her sleep,
for she breathed six times while a phial filled
with muriatic acid was held under her nose ;
she
shewed no emotion at it. Mr. Marc pinched her
wrist; an acupuncture needle was thrust three
lines deep into her left thigh, another needle two
lines deep into her left wrist. These two needles
were united together by a galvanic conductor, and
156 REPORT.
some very well marked convulsive motions were
effected in her hand. Mile. Celine seemed to be
a stranger to what was done upon her. She heard
the person who spoke near to her, and in touching
her, and she heard not the noise produced by two
plates suddenly broken by her side.
It was while she was plunged into that state of
somnambulism, that the commission recognized
three times in her the faculty of detecting the com-
plaints of the persons she touched, and of indica-
ting the remedies that it was proper to give them.
The commission found among its members a
gentleman who was willing to submit himself to
the explosion of the somnambule; it was Mr.
Marc. Mile. Celine was requested to carefully ex-
amine the state of health of our colleague : she
applied her hand on his forehead, and the region
of the heart,—and after three minutes, said that
the blood was rushing to the head ; that Mr. Marc
actually had a pain in the left side of that cavity;
that he often felt some oppression, especially after
his meals; that he was often troubled with a
slight cough, that the lower part of the chest was
filled up with blood ; that something troubled the
passage of the food ; that the part called the re-
gion of the xiphoid (appendix,) had grown nar-
rower ;
—that to cure Mr Marc, it should be ne-
cessary to bleed him in an abundant manner ; ap-
ply, on the inferior part of the breast, poultices
REPORT. 157
made with hemlock, and rub it with laudanum ;
that he should drink lemonade, in which he should
dissolve some gum arabic ; eat little, and often ;
finally, that he ought not to walk immediately
after eating.
We longed to hear from Mr Marc, whether he
had really felt what the somnambule had an-
nounced ; he said that he had, indeed, some op-
pression when he walked immediately after his
meals ; that he was often troubled with cough, and
that before the experiment, he had a pain in the
left side of his head, but felt no difficulty in the
passing down of his food.
We were struck by the analogy that existed be-
tween Mr Marc's feeling and that which was an-
nounced by the somnambule ;
we carefully noted
it down, and waited for another opportunity to ver-
ify again that singular faculty. That opportu-
nity was furnished to the reporter by the mother of
a young lady whom he attended, as a physician,
for a long time.
Mile de N***, a daughter of the Marquis of
N*** a peer of France, from twenty-three to
twenty-five years old, was affected for two years
with an ascitis dropsy, accompanied with numer-
ous obstructions, some of the size of an egg, oth-
ers as large as the fist, some others as big as a child's
head, the largest of which were in the left side of
the abdomen. The external part of the abdomen
158 REPORT.
was uneven and bunched ; these swellings corres-
ponded with the obstructions contained within the
cavity. Mr. Dupuytreu had already performed
ten or twelve punctures on that patient, and at
each time had extracted a great quantity of a
clear limpid inodorous and pure albamine. This
was always followed by some relief.
The reporter was three times present at these
operations ;
and it was easy, both to Mr. Dupuytreu
and himself, to ascertain the hardness and size of
these tumors; and consequently to acknowledge
that it would not be possible for them to cure this
patient. Nevertheless, they prescribed various
remedies, and thought it especially important that
Mile, de N*** should make use of the milk of a
goat previously submitted to murcural functions.
On the 21st of February, the reporter brought
with him Mr. Foissac and Mile. Celine to a house,
in the street Faubourg-du-RouIe, without indicat-
ing to them either the name, residence, or the
nature of the disease of the person whom he
wished to submit to the somnambule's examina-
tion.
The patient entered the experiment room only
after Mr Foissac had put Mile. Celine to sleep.
Then, after taking one of her hands between hers
she examined her during eight minutes, not in the
same manner as a physician would do, by pressing
upon the abdomen, and scrutinizing it in every
REPORT. 159
possible manner, but only by slightly and repeat-
edly applying her hand on her abdomen, her
chest, her back and head. Having been asked
to let us know what she had observed in Mile, de
N***, she answered that all the abdomen was dis-
eased ; that there was a great quantity of water
and a schirrous, by the side of the loin; that the
bowels were swollen ; that the patient was afflicted
with worms ; that there were some tumors as large
as an egg, in which purulent matter was coniained,
and that these tumors must be painful ; that there
was in the lower part of the stomach, an obstructed
gland, as large as three of her fingers ;
that this
gland was in the inside of her stomach, and must
trouble the digestion ;
that the disease was of long
standing, and that, finally, Mile, du N***, was lia-
ble to headaches. She prescribed the use of a pti-
san of borago and docl's-grass, (chendent) with
some nitre in it, five ounces of the juice of "paric-
taire" to be taken every morning, and a very lit-
tle mercury taken in some milk; — she added,
that the milk of a goat, previously rubbed with
murcural ointment half an hour before milking
it would suit better. Besides, she prescribed some
poultices, with flowers, constantly applied on her
stomach, frictions on the cavity, with laurel oil, or
in case that it could not be procured, with the
juice of that shrub mixed with the oil of sweet
almonds, a clyster of a decoction of peruvian pow-
160 REPORT.
der, mixed with another decoction of emollient
plants. The patient's food should consist of white
meats, milk, farinaceous vegetables ; no lemon at
all. She permitted very little wine, a little rum
perfumed with orange tree flower, or some essence
of peppermint. This treatment was not followed,
and even should it have been so, it would not have
saved the patient. She died a year after ; and as
no post-mortem examination was made, we could
not verify, in all its particulars, the truth of what
the somnambule had said.*
In a very delicate case, in which some very
skillful physicians, several of whom are members
of the Academy, had prescribed a mercurial treat-
ment for an obstruction of the cervical glands,
which they thought caused by a siphilitic affection,
the family of the patient perceiving that the con-
sequences of this treatment were becoming very
alarming, wished to have the advice of a somnam-
bule. The reporter was called to assist at that
consultation, and he did not foil to seize that new
opportunity to add something else to what the
Without attaching a very great importance to that singular
coincidence of the prescription given by the somnambule, to
use the milk of a goat previously rubbed with mercurial oint-
ment, with the same prescription recommended to the patient
by Mr. Dupugtrue, and the reporter, the commission thought
proper to insert this fact in its work. It presents it, as hav-
ing been well authenticated by the reporter, without any fur-
ther explanation.
REPORT. 161
commission had already seen. He found the
patient a young woman — the countess de F***,
having all the right side of the neck very much
obstructed by a great number of glands, placed
near one another ; one of these glands was opened,
and emitted a yellowish purulent matter.
Mile. Celine, having been magnetized by Mr.
Foissac, in presence of the reporter, put herself in
contact with the patient, and said that her stomach
had been attacked by a substance like poison ;
that the intestines were slightly inflamed ;
that
there was in the right upper part of the neck a
scrofulous malady, that must have been more con-
siderable than at the present moment ;
that, in fol-
lowing a treatment she was going to prescribe,
there would be some amelioration within a fort-
night or three weeks. This treatment consisted
of eight leeches applied on the hollow of the stom-
ach, a few grains of magnesia, some decoction of
gruel, a saline purgative, every week ;
two injec-
tions every day, one of which should be of
the decoction of Peruvian powder, and imme-
diately after, another of guimauve roots, frictions
with ether on the limbs, a bath every week
;
and for food, milk, light meats, and abstinence
from wine. This treatment was followed for
a little while ;
and there was already a remark-
able improvement. But the impatience of the pa-
tient, who thought that she did not regain her
11
162 REPORT.
health fast enough, determined her family to ask a
new consultation of physicians. They decided that
the patient should be submitted to another mercu-
rial treatment. The reporter then ceased to see her,
but was informed that in consequence of the use of
mercury, the symptoms previously felt in her stom-
ach became so much aggravated, that it had
brought her to the grave, after two months of ex-
cruciating pains. A process-verbal of "post-mor-
tem examination^ signed by Messrs. Fouquier,
Marjolin, Cruvelhier, and Foissac, stated that there
was a scrofulous or tuberculous swelling of the
glands of the neck, two small excavations filled up
with pus, resulting from the dissolving of the tu-
bercules of the upper part of each lung. The mus-
cous membrane of the stomach was almost entirely
destroyed. These gentlemen verified also that
nothing indicated the existence of a syphilitic dis-
ease, either recent or at any former period.
It results from these observations, 1st. That in
the state of somnambulism Mile. Celine recognized
the disease of the persons with whom she was
put in contact. 2d. That the declaration of one
of these persons, the examination that was made
of the other, after three punctures, the aulopsy of
the third one, were found according to what the
somnambule had announced. 3d. That the va-
rious treatments prescribed by her do not depart ei-
ther from the circle of the remedies that she might
have known, nor from the order of things that she
REPORT, 163
might reasonably recommend; 4th. That she ap-
plied them with a sort of discrimination.
To all these facts, that we have collected with
so much labor, observed with so much diffidence
and attention, that we have endeavored to class
in the best possible manner to make you follow
the development of the phenomena we have wit-
nessed, that we have especially applied ourselves
to present to you free from all the accessory circum-
stances which might have embarrassed and en-
tangled their exposition, we might add those that
the ancient, nay, modern history relates about
the prevision that have been often realized, the
cures obtained by the imposition of the hand,
about oracles, extacies, convulsionar, hallucina-
tions, finally about all that which, by departing
from the ordinary physical phenomena, can be
accounted for through the action of one body up-
on another, enters into the sphere of psychology,
and may be considered as an effect depending on
a moral influence out of the perception of our
sense* But the commission was appointed to ex-
amine somnambulism, to make experiments on
that phenomenon which had not been studied by
the committee of 1784, and to give an account of it.
Therefore, it would have departed from the cir-
cle within which it had been circumscribed, if, in
seeking to support what it had seen by quoting
authorities that might have observed analogous
164 REPORT.
facts, and it would have enlarged its work with facts
foreign to its purpose. It has related with impar-
tiality, what it saw with diffidence; it has exposed
with order what it has observed in various circum-
stances, and followed with a minute and persever-
ing attention.
It has the consciousness that the work it presents
to you is the faithful expression of all that it has
observed. You are informed of the difficulties
which it had to overcome ; they were, in a certain
measure, the cause of the delay it has caused in
making this report, although for a long time the
materials were in our hands ;
— however, we shall
not complain, and apologize for this delay, since it
gives to our observations a character of maturity
and reserve that ought to command your con-
fidence to the facts we have related, instead of
the precipitation and enthusiasm with which you
might reproach us, had we collected them but on
the day previous. We add that it is far from our
thought to believe that we have seen everything
concerning animal magnetism, and we do not
pretend to induce you to admit as an axiom, that
nothing is positive in it but what we have men-
tioned in our report. Far from setting limits to
that branch of the physiological science, we, on
the contrary, entertain the hope that " a new
field is opened " before it ; and certain as we are
of the exactitude of our own observations, present-
CONCLUSIONS. 165
ing them with confidence to those who, after us,
will occupy themselves with magnetism, we con-
tent ourselves to draw the following conclusions,
that are the necessary consequence of the facts the
whole of which constitute our Report.
Conclusions.
1. The contact with the thumbs or hands, fric-
tions, or certain other gestures made at a little
distance from the body, and called passes — such
are the means used to place one's self in communi-
cation, or, in other words, to transmit the action
from the magnetizer to the magnetized person.
2. External and visible means are not always
necessary, since, in many instances, the steadiness
of the look will have been sufficient to produce the
magnetical phenomena, even the magnetized indi-
vidual being not aware of it. 3. Magnetism acts
upon persons of both sexes and different ages. 4.
The time necessary to transmit the magnetical
influence and make it felt, varied from half an
hour to one minute. 5. Magnetism, in general,
does not act on healthy persons. 6. Neither does
it operate on every patient. 7. Sometimes, during
the magnetical operation, some insignificant and
fugitive effects manifest themselves, but which do
not belong to magnetism alone; such as some
oppression, heat or cold, and other nervous phe-
11*
166 CONCLUSIONS.
nomena, that may be accounted for without the
intervention of a particular agent, viz. through
hope or fear, the prevention and expectation of an
unknown and new thing, the tiresomeness which
results from the monotony of gestures, the silence
and quiet kept during the experiments, finally by
imagination, that exercises so great an empire
over certain minds and certain organizations.
8. "A certain number of the observed phenom-
ena appeared to us as having been produced
by magnetism alone, and could not be produced
without it. These are physiological and thera-
peutical phenomena well established? 9. The
real effects produced by magnetism are very vari-
ous; it agitates some, calms others; the most
usually it causes a momentary acceleration of
breathing and circulation, some transient convul-
sive fibrillary motion, resembling electrical shocks,
a numbness more or less deep, some drowsiness,
somnolence, and, in a small number of cases, what
magnetizers call somnambulism. 10. The exist-
ence of a constant and only character, fit to make
us recognize in every case the reality of the state
of somnambulism, has not been established.
11. However, " we may conclude with certainty,
that such a state exists, whenever it gives rise to
the development of the new faculties designated
by the names of clairvoyance, intuition, pre-
vision, or produces some great change on the
CONCLUSIONS. 167
physiological state, as insensibility, a sudden
and considerable increase of strength" and
whenever, finally, that effect cannot be attributed
to another cause. 12. As among the effects ari-
sing from somnambulism, there are some that
can be feigned, somnambulism itself can some-
times be so too; and thus furnish charlatanism
with means of deception. Therefore, in the obser-
vation of those phenomena, which as yet present
themselves only as isolated facts that can be con-
nected with no theory, it is but by a most attentive
examination, the severest care, and by numerous
and varied trials, that one can escape illusion.
13. The sleep determined with more or less
promptitude, and established in a degree more or
less profound, is a real, but not constant effect of
magnetism. 14. It is a fact, demonstrated too,
that it has been determined in such circumstances
as the magnetized individuals could neither see
nor know the means used to cause it to take
place. 15. When a person has been once put to
the magnetic sleep, there is no need of recurring to
contact and the "passes " to magnetize him again.
The magnetizer's look, his will alone, have upon
him the same influence. In such a case, the
magnetized person can be not only acted upon,
but also completely thrown into somnambulism ;
the magnetizer can bring him out of that state, he
being not aware of it, out of his sight, at a certain
168 CONCLUSIONS.
distance, and even through closed doors. 16. Cer-
tain alteratians, more or less marked, are ordinarily
produced in the perceptions, in the faculties of
those who fall into somnambulism, by the effect
of magnetism. (A) Some, in the middle of the
noise of confused conversations, hear no other
voice than the magnetizer's ; many answer in a
correct and precise manner the questions asked
by him, or other persons who have been brought
into contact with them ; some others hold conver-
sation with all the assistants ; seldom, however,
they hear what is going on around themselves.
Mostof the time, they remain, completely, strangers
to external and unexpected noises made at their
ear, such as the resounding of copper vases violent-
ly struck before them, the falling of furniture, &c.
(B) The eyes are closed ; the eyelids yield but
with difficulty to efforts made with the hands to
open them; that operation, which is not free from
pain, exhibits the eye-ball convulsed, and turned
upwards, and sometimes downwards in the orbit.
(C) The sense of smelling is sometimes annihila-
ted ;
somnambules can breathe into their luno-s
the muriatic acid or concentrated ammonia, with-
out feeling any trouble by it, even without suspect-
ing it. The contrary exists in some other cases
:
they are sensible to ordors. (D) Most of the som-
nambules we have seen were completely destitute
of the sense of feeling. We could tickle their feet
CONCLUSIONS. 169
nostrils, and the angle of the eye with a feather
;
pinch their skin so as to cause an ecchymosis,
prick it under the nail with pins suddenly thrust
into it to a great depth, without the least token
of pain on their part ; nay, they seemed not to
perceive it. Finally, one of them has been seen
who remained insensible to a most painful surgi-
cal operation, and in whom neither the face nor
the pulse nor the breathing denoted the least emo-
tion. 17. Magnetism has the same strength and
intensity of action, and is as quickly felt at a dis-
tance of six inches — and the phenomena devel-
oped by it are the same in both cases. 18. The
action at a distance cannot, as it seems, be exer-
cised with success but on individuals who have
already been submitted to magnetism. 19. We
did not see any person falling into somnambulism
the first time he was magnetized. Somnambu-
lism manifested itself sometimes only in the eighth
or tenth sitting. 20. We have constantly seen
the ordinary sleep, which is the repose of the
organs of sense, of the intellectual faculties,
and voluntary motions, preceding and termina-
ting the state of somnambulism. 21. While in
somnambulism, the magnetized persons whom we
observed preserved the exercise of the faculties
they possess during the wakeful state. Nay, their
memory seems more' faithful and extensive ;
for
they remember what happened all the time and at
170 CONCLUSIONS.
every time they were in somnambulism. 22. Af-
ter awaking, they say that they have totally for-
gotten every circumstance of the state of somnam-
bulism, and can never recollect it again. To as-
certain this, we had no other guarantee than their
own declarations. 23. The muscular strength of
somnambules is sometimes numbed and palsied.
At some other times, their motions are but troubled,
and they walk staggering, as drunken men do,
without avoiding, and sometimes also in avoiding,
the obstacles they meet in their way. There are
somnambules who preserve, in all its integrity, the
exercise of their limbs ; who even become much
stronger and smarter than in the wakeful state.
24. We saw two somnambules, whodistinguished,
their eyes being closed, the objects placed before
them; they have designated, without touching
them, the color and value of cards; they read
words written with the hand, also several lines of
books, opened without adhering to any particular
page. This phenomenon took place even when
the opening of the eyelids was kept exactly closed
by the fingers. 25. We met, in two somnambules,
the faculty of foreseeing acts of the organization
more or less distant and complicated. One of
them announced several days, even several months
in advance, the day, hour and minute of the
invasion and return of epileptic fits. The other
indicated the time of his cure. Their previs^
CONCLUSIONS. 171
ions were realized with a remarkable precision
and exactitude. They seemed to us applied only
to acts or lesions of their own organism. 26. "We
met but one somnambule who indicated the symp-
toms of the diseases of three other persons with
whom they had been put in communication. Yet
we had been making investigations about that
faculty on a pretty large number of individuals.
27. In order to establish with correctness the rela-
tion of magnetism with therapeutics, it would be
necessary to have observed the effects of it on a
great number of persons, and made, a long time,
and every day, experiments on the same patients.
The commission, not having done this, ought to
have contented itself with saying what it saw in a
too small number of cases to dare to pronounce its
judgment. 2S. Some of the magnetized patients
felt no good from it. Others felt a relief, viz. the
one, the suspension of habitual pains, another
regained his strength ;
a third one felt a delay of
many months in the return of the epileptic fits,
and a fourth the complete cure of a grave and
long-continued palsy. 29. Considered as an agent
of physiological phenomena, or as a therapeutical
means, magnetism should be ranked within the
frame of medical knowledge, and consequently
physicians alone ought to use and watch over it, as
it is already practised in the northern countries of
Europe. 30. The commission could not verify,
172 CONCLUSIONS.
because it had no opportunity to do so, other facul-
ties that magnetizers had announced as existing
in somnambules. But it has collected facts impor-
tant enough to allow it to believe that the Acad-
emy should encourage andfavor researches on
magnetism, as being a very curious branch of
psychology and natural history.
