{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__ritchie___the_magician.pdf","mytitle":"The Magician","mylang":"de"}
I
THE
M A G I C I A N
L E IT C H R IT C H IE
THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I
LONDON
JOHN MACRONE ST. JAM ES’S SQUARE
MDCCCXXXVI
»Google
£ i v s j r , ¿ i p
I
• I
• I
J. Haddon and Co. Doctor«’Common«,
*>
W 9t e « l by Google
^<F_
T O
M Y B R O T H E R J O H N
I DEDICATE THESE TOLDME8,
LEITCH RITCHIE.
W 9t e « l by Google
Digitized byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN.
CHAPTER I.
I n the year of our Lord one thousand four
hundred and thirty-seven, the famous city of
Paris presented the spectacle of a royal entry far
more interesting than the usual pomp of kings.
For fifteen years before, a stranger had sat on the
throne of France. For fifteen years, the foot of
an English monarch had been on the neck of
the French people; and Henry V., with the usual
insolence of a conqueror, instead of humouring
the writhings of his prostrate enemy,had only trode
VOL. I. B
2 THE MAGICIAN.
the fiercer at every throe. But the spirit of the
Nation was now fairly re-awakened. Heaven itself
had fought on her side; and by signs, and portents,
and miracles, rendered holy the cause of Liberty.
The apostle, and martyr, of the new revolution,
was not a warrior, but a woman; not the scion of
royalty, but a peasant girl. The mission of this
illustrious Virgin was now fulfilled; the French
people had risen up like a strong man from
slumber; their enemies had been swept out of
the metropolis; and, on the day on which our
narrative commences, their wandering Prince,
crowned with the diadem of his ancestors, was
about to enter in triumph the gates of Paris.
Among the vast multitudes that rolled like a
torrent through the streets, there was a single
individual, who, although in some slight measure
connected with the business of the scene, appeared,
like ourselves, to be nothing more than an idle
spectator. This was a young Scottish knight, who
belonged to a party which had been sent forward
to announce the coming of the king, but who had
now, with the curiosity of a stranger, and the love
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 3
of foreign sights inherent in his nation,sallied forth
alone to engulf himself in the crowd. He had
lately fought, inthe breaches of Montereau, against
his ancestral enemies, the English ; and a little
earlier had pranced through the city of Tours, in
the train of the princess Margaret of Scotland,
who had gone thither to wed the boy-dauphin :
but never before bad he beheld, or even imagined,
so much splendour and confusion on so vast a
scale.
As he elbowed his way from the island called
the Cité, which formed the central portion of Pans,
towards the wilderness of houses and palaces on
the right bank of the river, he paused in astonish­
ment on gaining the middle of the bridge—it was
the Pont-aux-Changeure—to look round upon the
scene. Behind him, after his eye had traversed
the Cité, the visible horizon was formed by the
thousand dark roofsof the University ; and before,
at the end of the bridge, his passage seemed to be
barred by the stern towers ofthe Châtelet, although
surmounting and surrounding these, the turrets of
almost innumerable palaces attracted, irresistibly,
b 2
D ,j:!l/0d bV C l I C
4 THE MAGICIAN.
the curiosity. On either side the view was shut’
in by the ranges of shops and houses which lined
the bridge like a parapet; and if sometimes an
opening afforded a peep beyond, another bridge
loaded in like manner, was seen at a few hundred
paces distance.
The first thought of the stranger was of the
enormous number of human beings which this
densely packed mass of dwellings must contain.
“ In God’s name, messire,” said he to a passer­
by, “ how many may there be of you here ?”
“ The first city in Europe,” replied the bourgeois,
pompously, “ reckons within her walls three hun­
dred thousand souls.” The Scot stared in aston­
ishment.
“ Then, by our Lady’s might,” said he, “ there
are enough of you to eat up all Perth at one meal!
—that is, if we would let you.”
“ I doubt,” rejoined the citizen, “ whether the
capital of Scotland could afford us even a single
r
meal; else why do so many hungry mouths cross
the ocean almost daily, to eat and drink at the
cost of France ?”
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN, 5
“ Because they are bidden,” replied the Scot,
lowering his voice, and compressing his lips, like a
man who would not lose his temper. “ If France
could fight her own battles, there would be no
need of our Scottish spears. But away! you are
only a peddling churl, for all your embroidered
doublet; and to-morrow I shall see you in the
depths of some dusky warehouse, haggling for
deniers, in a dress of serge and leather !”
“ I am an echevin of the town !” cried the in­
sulted dignitary.
“ Were you the prevot himself, I say you are
only a peddling churl 1”'
" Masters, will you hear this ?” said the echevin,
•turning to the crowd, some of whom had stopped
to listen to the dialogue; “ do you see my badge ?
Be there none here who follow the banner of Saint
Luce ?” But most of those whom he addressed
walked away out of the row, and not a few of the
others laughed outright. As for the Scot, whom
the name of the banner had informed that his
antagonist was a member ofthe confr6riefof tailors,
he turned indignantly away; and the inhospitable
D*.M<*wGoogI'
6 TUB M U IC U ff.
ecbevin, alternately appealing to the passers-by,
and tugging at his unwilling sword, was soon left
behind.
The young knight pursued his way, rather les6
disposed to admire than before this adventure.
The Châtelet, however, through the arch-way of
which he passed, altliough no longer the Roman
tower of Julian the apostate, appeared to him to
be a fortress of incomparable beauty as well is
strength ; and the immense line of the Rue Saint
Denis beyond, although he had heard that the
Rue Saint Martin was still wealthier, seemed to
contain in its countless shops and warehouses the
riches of a whole kingdom. But every thing on
this day had an aspect peculiar to the occasion.
The street was hung in its whole length with cano­
pies of rich cloth and carpeting, and here and
there stages were erected for the performance of
music, shows, and mysteries. The members of
the different confréries of trades were seen hurry­
ing along to their rendezvous, gorgeously dresud,
and bearing the banners of their patron-saints ;
while justling these, successive groups of minstrels,
DflM
M
h,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 7
jugglers, players, and above all, devils, hoofed and
homed, elbowed their way to their various posts.
Nor were the women wanting in the spectacle.
The caps alone of the ladies, made in the form of
a sugar loaf, half an ell high, from the peak of
which a white veil flowed forth, and descended to
the feet, would have made them sufficiently re­
markable; but the effect of this portion of the
dress was heightened by the fantastic richness of
the rest. They wore, no longer, indeed, the arms
of their husbands emblazoned on their gowns;
nor did their garments, like those of their great
grandmothers, in the fashion of the open tunics of
the Spartan girls, display their naked sides: but
gold and silver, satin and velvet, combined to fur­
nish figures calculated to adorn the festival of
the gayest princein Christendom.
Among the vast crowd of strange figures and
costumes, the knight was surprised to find none
belonging to the Hebrew nation. He did not
know, or had forgotten, that, although still spread­
ing its branches inother partsof Europe, the tree of
Judah was not only cut down in France, but rooted
up out of the soil. The JewB, in fact, had been
Google
Digm
8 THE MAGICIAN.
banished so strictly from this most Christian king­
dom, by an edict of the last prince, that if one of
them had been found to-day among that multitude
of his fellow-creatures, he would in all probability
have been burnt alive.
But, mingling with the peculiarities of the day,
the common business of life went on as usual;
and the stranger was almost stunned with the
thousand discordant noises of a Parisian morning.
Every article in daily use, from a roasted goose to
a tallow-candle, had its crier; and every crier vied
with his neighbours as to who should bawl the
loudest. The commissioners of the. baths were
flying about informing the public that their water
was hot, and, looking eagerly in the face of. the
passer-by, shouted, “ Make haste ! make haste !”
The venders of wine were clamorously inviting
the crowd to taste; the restaurateurs tempting the
appetite with a catalogue of their meats; and in
the midst of all, some men in black issuing from
the houses, or the cross streets, ringing a mourn­
ful bell, called upon all who heard them to pray
for the souls of the dead.
The number of beggars, especially, was so great,
Digitizad by Google
and their endless litanies so loud, that they might
almost be said to give the prevailing character to
the scene. Besides the common poor who go to
and fro upon the earth to this day with artificial
wound» and stories of imaginary distress, there
were shoals of vagabonds calling themselves Bohe­
mians, distinguished from the rest by their shorn
heads—so despoiled' by the mandate of govern­
ment. A still greater number of bald crowns
belonged to the various orders of mendicant
monks ; and these were farther distinguished by
the chin as well as the scalp being destitute of
hair. Thé most remarkable of this class were the
Jacobins, a colony of Dominicans, so called from
officiating in the chapel of St. Jacques. One of
these flogged St. Louis to his heart’s content in
the quality of his confessor ; another assassinated
Henri III. ; and another canonized the assassin :
but notwithstanding this illustrious fortune, they
all begged in the streets of Paris. Then came
the cordeliers, so celebrated for their dissolute
manners ; and then the Grands Augustins, the
Celestines, the Carthusians ; while, jostled by
b 3
•THE MAGIC1AX. 9
Google
10 THB MAGICIAN.
these bold and libertine monks, some bands of
Beguines, and Scours Sachettes, raised here and
there their shrill voices among the crowd.
All these, however, were beggars by profession,
and excited therefore but little of the knight’s
pity, although they drew some small coins from
his pocket; but it was with a start of surprise and
concern that he saw, mingling with the clamorous
crowd, and crying like the others for bread, some
students of the university, habited in their black
gowns and cowls. This common spectacle ap­
peared extraordinary to him; for the university
was associated in his mind only with ideas of
power, and grandeur, and the most prodigious
audacity. But this was the university as a body;
this was the rector, the advocates, the regents of
the colleges: he had now to leam how happily the
students united to their clerical character that of
the ruffian and the mendicant The spirits of the
Scot were depressed, as he thought how many
high-minded, chivalrous adventurers had left and
were still leaving his own country, to pursue the
path of honour and fortune at this famous semi-
O fruod by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 11
nary; and in particular a' cloud settled upon his
brow as he speculated upon the fate of an early
friend,whom it was to be his business that evening
to seek out in the city of colleges, on the left
bank of the river.
On approaching the end ofthe street, which was
terminated by the gate of St. Denis, on the same
spot which it occupies to-day, the crowd became
so dense, that sometimes a halt of several minutes
at a time took place in the moving mass. On
such occasions the principal confusion was occa­
sioned by the valets, who enjoyed the reputation
of being,.next to the students, the greatest black­
guards in Paris. So obnoxious, in fact, had they
becometo the authorities,that those who were outof
place were forced to quit the city instantly, if they
could not find some respectable person to become
responsible for their conduct. Their costume was
as various as that of their descendants of the
preaent day; but many wore only a single sleeve
of their master’s livery. On the present occasion
their delinquencies were confined to certain manual
jokes played upon the lower class of women, and
D
i0toodb,Googl
12 THE MAGICIAN.
some less innocent conversations which they held
with the speaking birds, hung out almost at every
window. And in these household favourites of
the Parisians of the age, it must be said, they met
with their match. Leading the. public life they
did, in which they were exposed to every sort of
society, the natural morality of the birds was so
far lost, that they had become fluent in every term
of insult and indecency; and thunders oflaughter
were elicited among the crowd by the aptness of
their repartees.
When the Scottish knight at length reached the
gate of St. Denis, a scene took place which formed
a strange prelude to the approaching ceremony.
In those days the English were not the only
ravagers of France. Famine, as usual, had fol­
lowed the steps of protracted war; and troops of
starved wolves, unable to live in their forests, came
prowling,notonlyto the gates,but in theverystreets
of Paris. Women as well as children, if we may
believe contemporary authors, were in 6otne in­
stanceskilled by these hungry and ferociousbeasts;
and not a few of the more daring citizens went
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 13
forth to combat the destroyer, in the same chival­
rous spirit which inspired the heroes of the ro­
mancers, in their duels with giants and dragons.
. At this moment a slain wolf of extraordinary
size was brought in, as a trophy, by a party of
these adventurers ; and when the cortege reached
the gate, in order to give greater effect to the ex­
hibition, the tremendous brute was raised upon
his legs, with his dead eyes and dripping jaws
directed towards the street. The spectacle was
hailed by the rabble with a universal shout ; but
the noise died away with unusual suddenness. It
seemed as if the show had been taken as an evil
augury ; and this strange avant-courier of a
monarch was ordered to make his entrance by
another avenue. The wolf-hunters, however, were
mowanxious to become the spectators of a new and
more splendid pageant; and the gaunt carcase
was thrown down by the way-side, to remain till
the living hero of the day had passed by. The
incident was called to mind soon after, when the
burdens which the necessities of Charles VII.
compelled him to impose, were characterized
Google
14 THE MAGICIAN.
by the selfishness of the Parisians, not as the
demands of a lawful king, but as the ravages of a
wolf.
The whole of the space at the porte St. Denis,
was taken up by the authorities of the city, lining
each side of the way, with those in'the middle
appointed to receive the king. Above the gate
was hung a shield, with the representation of
France supported by three angels, and the follow­
ing inscription :—
Très excellent roy et seigneur,
Les manans de votre cité
Vous reçoiuent en tout honneur,
Et en très grande humilité.
The ground was kept by the arbalatriers and
archers of the town, arrayed in coats of arms;
which, being of the livery colours of the city, red
and blue, gave them the appearance of wearing a
uniform, although this improvement in the dress
of soldiers is of much more modem introduction.
The approaching cortege, which had been some
time in sight, at length gradually reached the
THE MAGICIAN. 16
ground; and file after file,a*they arrived, took up
their position on either side of the way, till King
Charles himself was seen through the long vista,
approaching slowly and majestically, seated on a
white horse, the emblem of royalty. At this
sight the breath of the vast multitude,hitherto pent
up, as it were, by curiosity and expectation, found
simultaneous utterance, and the cry of “ Noel!
Noel!” burst from every lip. The expression is a
contraction of Emanuel, “ Lord be with us !” and
was used at that time as a cry of joy by the
French people, instead of “ Vive le Roi!” It was
echoed from mouth to mouth, from street to
street. The women and children in the most
distant quarters of the metropolis gave back the
sound; the sick and the dying put aside their
curtains, to gaze towards the window, and swell
the shout with their feeble voices; the clock-
towers of every church in the city gave forth at
the signal a joyful peal; and even the great bell
of the palace, whose hammer stirred only on
extraordinary occasions, rang “ Noel! Noel!”
On the approach of the king, the prevot of the
o ^ M o v C o o g l e
16 THE MAGICIAN.
merchants—for the prévôt of Paris was à royal
and not a municipal officer—presented the keys
of the city; while a canopy of violet-coloured
velvet was held by the echevins (answering in
some respects to our aldermen), over the royal
head. The city dignitaries then marshalled the
way of their master into his metropolis.
The prévôt of Paris was attended by his ser­
geants on foot in great numbers, each wearing a
green and red hood ; and after these came a long
line of notaries, procureurs, commissioners, ad­
vocates, and counsellors, followed by the lieu­
tenant and guard of the governor, or, as he was
termed in the grandiloquence of the age, the king
of the Châtelet. •
After this civic cortege, there followed one of a
more extraordinary nature, or at least, one that
few would hav» looked for in the triumphant
march of a king. It consisted of Faith, Hope,
Charity, Justice, Prudence, Courage, and Tem­
perance, all on horseback, and all sumptuously
dressed in character. Together with these, how­
ever, perhaps to redeem in some measure the
I . , byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 17
inconsistence, the Seven Deadly Sins came plung­
ing on in terrible array. Treading on the heels of
the latter, the gentlemen of the Parliament and
Requests then made their appearance, attired in
red robes ; and after them, a body of eight
hundred archers, led on by the Count d’ Angou-
leme, a Prince of the blood, of the house of
Orleans.
Montjoye, king of arms, came next; a grave
and august personage, shrouded in an immense
robe of violet-coloured velvet, studded all over
with golden fleurs-de-lys, and large pearls. After
him rode the Grand Esquire, carrying the royal
helmet, which was closed with a double fleur-de-
lys of gold. So sumptuously were this personage
and his horse arrayed, that he might have been
mistaken for thé hero of the scene himself; but
following next in order appeared the white steed,
which, in the processions of that age, denoted the
royal rank of the rider. This superb animal was
covered with velvet housings of celestial blue,
planted with golden fleurs-de-lys, and trailing to .
the ground. His forehead was covered with a
Google
18 THfc m a g i c i a n .
plate of polished steel, and surmounted by a
magnificent plume of ostrich feathers.
Nor was the rider unworthy of the steed.
Whatever may have been the defects of Charles’s
pereon, none were visible on the present occasion.
The disproportionate shortness of his legs, which
caused him, it is said, to introduce the fashion of
long garments, was now hidden by his dress; and
his lofty and soldierlike bearing, at a moment
like this, so full of pride and triumph, partook, no
doubt, still more than usual of a graceful haughti­
ness. Clothed in gilded armour, with a rich coat _
of armB over the cuirass, and shaking to the
motion of his steed a cord of glittering gems,
which hung upon his hat,onward pranced the hero
of the day, bowing and smiling to the enthusiastic
greetings of his people, and looking “ every inch
a king.”
After the principal personage had passed by,
the interest of the Scottish stranger seemed to
increase rather than diminish; and he gazed at
the next in order with an earnest and critical eye.
This was a young lad of fourteen, armed, dressed,
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 19
and mounted in all respects like Charles himself.
It was the dauphin, the hatband of the Princess
of Scotland; of that beautiful, amiable, sensitive
little girl of eleven years, whom the knight had
assisted in transplanting from her native home at
so early an age. The spectator sighed, and shook
his head, as he had often done before, on perusing
the features of the boy; and the gloom that settled
on his brow told how deeply he regretted that the
royal Scot had not matched his daughter in her
own country.
The knight followed the young dauphin with
his eye, till the pages of both king and prince,
coming closely after, intercepted his view. The
Bastard of Orleans then appeared, armed from
head to heel, and both himself and horse blazing
with jewels. This splendid warrior led on the
“ battle” of the king, consisting of a thousand
lances, all armed to the teeth, both man and horse.
The long array was closed by an Esquire of the
Stable, bearing a vermilion lance, spangled with
gold stars, at the head of which there hung a
standard of red silk, with ornaments like those
D^ModbyGoOgle
20 TUB MAGICIAN.
of the staff surrounding a portrait of St. Michel.
After him there rolled an immense multitude of
lords, knights, and bourgeois, with the peasantry,
as it seemed, of the whole province; all dressed to
the extent of their means, and in the fashion of
their degree.
The official part of the procession having now
passed, the young knight pushed lustily on after
the principal personages; but not before exa­
mining, with a glance of curiosity, the appearance
and costume of the various classes of the people
before him. The profusion of gold and silver in
the dress surprised him much, and the hoods of
black or red cloth worn by the high bourgeois did
not appear to his judgment to be far inferior in
richness to the silk and velvet of the nobility.
Short coats, although disliked by the Jung, were
worn by many of his subjects, and were embroi­
dered with silk, and often with pearls, both be­
fore and behind. The longer dresses were gene­
rally of two colours, called robes mi-parties, and
produced, in the eyes of the knight, an odd and
fantastic effect. The countrymen were usually
byGoogle
t h e m a g i c i a n . 21
dressed in brown coats and breeches, with spatter­
dashes bound with iron, and slouching hats,
ornamented with a leaden medal of the Virgin.
Our adventurer, who endured a squeeze with
incomparable patience, speedily found himself once
more within view of the persons who were sup­
posed to form the most interesting portion of the
procession. He reached the fountain of the Pon-
■*çeau, which he found surmounted by a large
vessel, covered with a fleur-de-lys spouting from
its three points, pro bono publico, hypocras, wine,
and water. Two dolphins (in compliment, no
doubt, to their brother Louis) were swimming in
the well—at least, so saith the “ Ceremonial de
France.” A triumphal arch was then passed
through, painted of an azure colour, and sprinkled
with the ever-recurring fleur-de-lys. An image of
«
Saint John the Baptist, pointing to an Agnus Dei,
adorned the summit, with a choir of good fat
angels, of the confrérie of Saint Julien, flapping
their wings, and playing their fiddles with all
their •might.
At the hospital of the Holy Trinité, the patent
edbyGoo^lc
D.grt<
22 THE MAGICIAN.
theatre of Paris, a stage was erected, on which
the mystery of the Passion was performed in pan*
tomime; the recollection of which, however, was
almost immediately effaced by other stages, and
other pantomimes, which presented themselves as
the procession advanced. When the Chatelet was
at length gained, a great rock had grown out of
the Place before it, on which a number of shep­
herds, tending their sheep, were in the act of re­
ceiving the news of the nativity, and singing
Gloria in excelsii. At the bottom of the rock
reclined three personages, whose costumes unfor­
tunately have escaped our research; but their
names were, the Law of Grace, the Written Law,
and the Law of Nature. The Scottish knight,
however, was more edified by a spectacle opposite
the Boucheries, which represented Paradise, Pur­
gatory, and Hell; with Saint Michel weighing
souls in a balance.
At the bridge, Saint Margaret and a dragon
were the gate-keepers (in honour, perhaps, of poor
little Margaret of Scotland, and the hereafter Lonis
XI.); while the baptism of our Saviour, by Saint
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 23
John, was going on. But after entering the cité
from the broad avenue of Saint Denis, the specta­
tors could hardly move with the procession through
the narrow streets ; and by the time the king had
reached Notre Dame, our knight could see little
more than a multitude of black hoods, inter­
spersed with mitres, and shaven crowns. The
proprietors of these articles were, the Ruler of
the University, the archbishop, bishops, abbots,
monks, regents of colleges, monitors, sub-monitors,
and students.
Here Charles took the customary oath, between
the hands of the bishop of Paris, to maintain the
privileges of the chapter, and was then permitted
to enter the church. This majestic edifice—where
you see at least the memory of old Roman and
Lombard taste through its Gothic romanticism—
was illuminated by thousands of tapers, although
it was still day-light. The glimpse which the in­
defatigable Scot was able to catch of the interior,
showed him three arcades running up the nave,
all thickly planted with tapers, and terminating
nobly with the majestic forms of the master altar.
Google
Digitize
24 THE MAGICIAN.
The treasury of the church was opened on this
occasion, and numberless relics presented to the
eyes of the people, holy enough to redeem a soul
from sin by the very sight. Among them was the
identical crown of thorns purchased by Saint Louis
for one hundred and fifty-six thousand, nine hun­
dred livres of the money of to-day ; and also the
scourge of iron links with which the same pious
monarch loved to chastise himself.
After prayers and thanksgivings were offered,
Te Deum was given forth by the choir, assisted by
thousands of worshippers. The whole atmosphere
vibrated with the lofty music. As the sound rolled
forth like thunder over the heads of the vast mul­
titude assembled round the cathedral, all sank
upon their knees. The neighbouring churches
joined in the majestic strain, and those, beyond
heard and repeated it, like an echo; till the samé
voice, the same song of triumph and adoration
arose from every altar in the city, and every knee
in Paris bent to the earth, while every heart re­
peated, We praise thee, O God! The Scottish
knight, brave and reckless as he was; “ daring in
Digitize!dwGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 25
love, and dauntless in war”—rose up trembling.
A tall, black, sinister-looking object, elevated near
the church, met his eye at thé moment, and
divided his feelings between the terrors of heaven
and earth. It was a gallows, denoting the right
.of “ haute justice” exercised by the bishop.
The great business of the day was now almost
over, and Charles VII. had nothing more to do
than to repair to the Palace of the Cité, and exer­
cise the duties of hospitality to all, indiscrimi­
nately, who chose to favour him with their com­
pany. The street leading to this ancient edifice—
famous long before Paris became a metropolis—
was narrow and tortuous, crowded with shops, and
in every way unlike the avenue to a royal dwell­
ing. Nor was the aspect of the Palace itself a
great improvement to the picture. Two sombre
and narrow gates admitted the now disordered
procession into the Cour du Mai, where the space
was too small comparatively to afford any definite
idea of the immense pile of buildings in front.
Two outside staircases conducted to a great door,
which seemed the principal mark of the struggling
VOL. i. c
•gilded b Google
26 THE MAGICIAN.
and panting multitude ; and our knight, attacked
at once by curiosity,and a most Bavoury and gene­
rous dinner-smell, allowed himself without reluc­
tance to be carried on by the tide.
If disappointed outside, all in the interior
was enchantment. The hall into which he en­
tered was so vast and so lofty, that it seemed
only fit for the dwelling of giants. It was pared
with white and black marble; and the roof, en­
tirely of wood, was elaborately carved, and sup­
ported by wooden pillars of azure and gold. All
round the walls were seen the statues of the
French kings, with the hands raised, if the reign
had been fortunate, but hanging disconsolately
by their sides, if otherwise. At the further end
was a prodigious table of marble, occupying
almost the whole breadth of the hall, and so large,
indeed, that it was sometimes used as a stage for
the performance of farces and mysteries. At this
table were seated the king and princeB of the
blood; while humbler boards, disposed throughout
the room, received the other dignitaries—care
having beeii taken to provide separate accom-
THE MAGICIAN. 27
riuxlation Cor the Town and University. Immense
as was the company, the repast was brought up
from the kitchens underneath with far less con­
fusion than might have been expected ; for here
every thiqg was on so vast a scale, that the stairs
of communication, which were two in number,
were broad enough to allow the whole army of
cooks to march up side by side at one time.
When our young knight, who had eaten nothing
since the morning, had done abundant honour to
his royal entertainer, and taken more than one
hearty draught of wine, which was served in
proportion, he bethought himself that his wan­
derings for the day were not yet over. Taking
advantage, therefore, of the noise and confusion
incidental to a popular toast, he got up and made
his exit, sincerely praying that the king might live
long enough to give many more such feasts, and
that he himself might be one of the company.
On descending into the Cour du Mai, he found
that its whole area was filled with tables, crowded
with company, many of whom were the very
lowest of the populace. Near the stairs, however,
c 2
D H « « d o y Google
28 THE MAGICIAN.
there were numerous individuals of a higher rank
who had found the tables full in the interior; and
he listened for a moment, as he passed, to a
voice which seemed to be familiar to his ear.
“ I tell you, masters,” said the speaker, “ it was
nothing to this; the English hogs like eating
too well themselves to give generously to another.
Henry V. deserved to lose the first city in Europe,
were it only for his hungry feast. Why, I’d as
lief dine with a beggar under a hedge, as sit here
and eat the cold scraps of a king, with hardly a
cup of wine to wash them down ! The very poor
of the HotGl Dieu cried shame of it. Down with
the English! say I. Come, my masters, pledge
me to this toast, ‘Down with the English, and up
with the banner of St. Luce !’”
“ Bravo, my friend,” cried the Scot, as he passed
by, “ Down with the English, and up with the
banner of St. Luce !”
• “ What, is it thou ? Hast thou eaten, ha ?
Hast filled thy belly? Art satisfied,?”
“ Abundantly.”
“ And wilt thou still talk of Perth in the same
day with Paris?" -
Google
D*g<t(z<
THE MAGICIAN. 29
“ Never, never,” answered the knight, who was
now in excellent humour.
“ Sit down then, in God’s name,” said the molli­
fied echevin, “ Sit down ; here is more to eat, and
wine without stint.”
“ Another time, friend echevin; although a Scot,
I would not eat you up at one meal !” And in
the midst of the laugh which this little sally
occasioned, he made his escape from the house of
feasting.
a Google
30
CHAPTER II.
The streets were still crowded; and the stranger,
calculating that the students would not betake
themselves to their colleges for some time yet,
amused himselfwith wandering about the precincts
ofthe palace and Notre Dame. The Sainte Chap-
pelle more particularly attracted his attention, the
relics of which, collected by St. Louis alone, cost
more than a hundred thousand livres tournois. But
this price will not be thought extravagant, if it is
recollected, that among the valuables there was
not only a piece of the true cross, but a portion
of the identical iron which pierced the side of
Christ.
Around the cathedral there were grouped so
many churches that one might have imagined
himself, on such a spot, to be altogether free from
Google
TUB MAGICIAN. 31
the intrusion of sin ; but besides the gallows of
the bishop, which spoke eloquently of crime and
suffering, there were other objects calculated to
drag the thoughts of the passer-by from heaven
to earth. In passing through a certain street, the
knight was accosted by females, whose shameful
trade was evident by their want of the customary
hood, denied to them by statute. This place,
existing from time immemorial in the holy ground
of the Cité, was called the Val d’Amour; and the
inhabitants formed a female confrérie with St.
Magdalen for patroness, whose fête they cele­
brated with religious festivities. But not only was
the Venus Vaga thus converted to Christianity,
but the repentant members of the sisterhood were
received as nuns under the name of the Filles
Dieu ; and the knight had seen distributed, during
the procession, at the door of their convent in the
Rue St. Denis, a silver goblet-full of wine to all
who passed by and chose to drink.
As the evening closed in, the tumult of the
streets began to die away ; and the noise of the
waters of the Seine, as they boiled and whirled
Digdizot)b Google
32 THE MAGICIAN.1
among the wheels of the Pont-aux-Meuniers, rose
above the lessened din, and seemed
Imposing silence with a stilly sound.
Even without inquiring, the stranger easily found
his way to the bridge which led to the university,
by the crowd of black figures bending thither,
from all quarters, their sometimes unsteady steps.
4 When at length he had reached the left bank
of the river, he found himself in altogether another
town, differing from the one he had left in every
characteristic, both moral and physical. Few
shops, few merchants, few tradesmen were to be
seen —few even of the omni-coloured nondescripts
who belong, one knows not how, to a city. But
instead, there was a population of black figures,
black cloaks, black cowls, and a mass of black
houses, more resembling public buildings, than
private dwellings. Yet, on nearer inspection, the
same inequalities were observable which are seen
in every large collection of human habitations.
Some of the houses were old, some new; some
mean, some majestic : and their occupiers, in the
awGoogle
Digiti
THE MAGICIAN. 33
same way, exhibited, in the outward man, all the
varieties of sublunary fortune.
The knight, in inquiring his way, addressed
himself like a prudent stranger, to the more re­
spectable class of the passers-by—to those whose
substantial-looking tabards, worn over their college
dress, showed that they were at least graduates of
the university ; but after some time he found him­
self involved in a labyrinth of mean and narrow
streets, where the appearance and manners ofthe in­
habitants were but little calculated to inspire con­
fidence. Groups of students rolled along, quarrell­
ing and fighting as they went; screams, mingled
with laughter, were heard from every opening;
and the clash of weapons, often more sonorous than
cudgels, made the stranger at last bethink himself,
whether he had not made some odd mistake—
whether he was in reality traversing the Jerusalem
of science, the holy city of priests and scholars ?
While hesitating for a moment as the' idea oc­
curred to him, he was suddenly and violently
pushed by a party of students, who appeared to
have been skulkingbehind him ; and the Scot, not-
c 3
*Google
34 THE MAGICIAN.
withstandinghi6good humour,instantly collared the
nearest offender. This, of course, produced a row,
which seemed tobeall thatthe blackgowns wanted;
and in an instant, three or four cudgels were
whistling about his head at the same time. Still
he did not draw his sword, for the weapon in its
sheath was hard and heavy enough almost to make
up for the odds against him; while the hauberk
beneath his coat of arms defended his body from
serious injury. In other respects, however,he was
not more than upon a par with the enemy. His
coat was merely an ornamental garment, em­
blazoned with the arms ofhis family; his immense
spurs, made in the fashion of the age, aslarge_as
a man’s hand, somewhat impeded his pedestrian
motions; and on his head he wore only the com­
mon pointed cap of the time, protected from spi­
rits rather than men, by a sprig of the holy rowan
tree, or mountain-ash.
But his forbearance, attributed,in all probability,
to a dread of the University—which learned body
would have hung, without mercy, a much more
distinguished man for shedding the blood of a
Google
D*ç
THE MAGICIAN. 35
scholar in any quarrel—only increasedthe violence
of his assailants. While wondering whether this
was anything more than an ebullition of the
blackguardism of the most turbulent youth in
Europe, his doubts were at once dissipated by an
exclamation which mingled with the shouts and
yells accompanying the attack.
“ Down with thefalse Scot!” cried one of the
students; and the young knight, perceiving at
once that he was in danger of assassination, stood
no longer upon ceremony, but drew his sword.
His enemies were, no doubt, some of the English
who had been permitted, out of respect to the
University, to remain at their colleges; and such
were the feelings which existed at that time be­
tween the two nations, that the energies of the
Scot were now still more roused by national hate
than by the instinct of self-preservation.
His new position, however, was only calculated
to accelerate his fate; for at the same time three
of the students threw down their cudgels, and
drew a short two-edged sword, concealed under
their gowns ; and which, strange as it may seem,
under such circumstances, they had probably been
Digitized by Google
36 THE MAGICIAN.
prevented from using before, by certain feelings of
honour. At the sight of this weapon, forbidden
to their order, our. adventurer perceived that the
case was now become very serious indeed; and
having an excessiverepugnance to the idea of being
thus put to death in a corner, he began to shout
lustily for help, and at the same time to help him­
self with redoubled energy.
“ Shame upon you, ye pock-puddings!” cried a:
voice at this juncture, from a window above their
head, “ to fall like a pack of hounds upon a single
man ! Who is it ye are slaughtering now? One of
yourselves I trust,”—for by this time the day­
light was almost entirely gone, and the speaker,
who had been attracted to the window by the
shouts, could not at first distinguish colours.
“ It is a knight, ye false loons !” continued he,
in a tone of greater interest, as he bent out of the
window, " a belted knight! and, holy saints ! a
Scot—and his cognizance—O Christ!” At these
words the speaker suddenly disappeared from the
window, but the next moment his voice was heard
sounding like distant thunder through the house.
“ Bauldy, Nigel, Andrew,” shouted he, “ clubs,.
THE MAOICIAN. 37
ye villains ! hurry for your lives! What ho! to
the rescue ! It is a kindly Scot, and a Douglas to
boot—Saint Bride for the Bleeding Heart!” tknd
with this cry he darted out of the doorway;
followed by three wild uncouth-looking figures,
who rushed in pell-mell among the students,
dealing right and left such sudden and tremendous
blows, that each individual had floored his man
almost before their presence was observed by the
belligerents.
The knight, having now more elbow-room, Se­
conded his friends so stoutly that blood began to
flow in great abundance; and the tread of a body
of horse being heard at the same time in the dis­
tance, denoting the approach of the night guard,
the English, if English they were, at length fairly
took to flight.
“ Not a step !” cried the leader of the rescue;
as the knight was about to follow in pursuit, “ not
a step for your life! And know, messire, that
however well off you may think yourself at this
blessed moment, that red puddle which you have
spilt upon the street, may yet cost you your neck !
Google
3» THE MAGICIAN.
But come, these English cut-throats, It must be
allowed, have some indistinct notionsof propriety,
after all; they will give and take whole skinfuls
of broken bones over night, but are not the lads,
like some other nations I wot of, to go groaning
and blubbering to the rector in the morning.”
“ And yet,” said the knight, “ notwithstanding
the boasted virtues of the English, I am happy
that I owe life and limb to my own countrymen.”
“ Spoken like a true Scot!” cried the rescuer:
“ but come, there is no wisdom in standing here
in the dark, till the guard comeup ; and so, messire,
you must just step into the college, and let us
have a crack till thejaw go by.”
The stair was in utter darkness, and so ruinous,
that the ascent took some time. In the mean­
while, the conductor continued to be the spokes­
man of the party.
“ Don’t be in a hurry,” said he, “ for in a case
like this—I should say a stair-case-haste is not
the father of speed. You must know, I am a
Douglas myself, by the mother’s side; and that is
the reason why myheart wanned to the cognizance
<ti2
e Google
THE MAGICIAN. 39
of the house, when I saw it on your coat of arms.
But mind the next step—there—hoot! I should
have said the hole where the step was ; but I hope
you are not much hurt. We collegians, you see,
are a thought wild at times, and besides, the stair
isolder than our day ; and Bauldy there, and Nigel,
and Andrew, some whiles contrive, God knows
by what luck they manage it, to get their mouths
to the wine-flask ; and then they come triumphing
home in a way that no stone and lime can stand.
And now we are in the schoolroom. Cedant arma
togee. I always put my stickwhere itcan be found
in the dark. Bauldy, my man, will you not have
the decency to light the candle ? that is, if there
be any of it left: if not, we can easily rive a piece
offthis bench, and make a fire, which will answer
the purpose os well; and when the regent sees
the damage in the morning, it is easy laying it
upon the rats.”
Bauldy, however, after much rummaging, found
a small dirty bit of tallow candle, and at length
succeeded in lighting it. While this operation
was going on, the knight, who had stood for
byGoogle
40 THK MAGICIAN.
some time in profound silence, suddenly grasped
the arm of his rescuer, and demanded, in a voice
neither very clear nor very steady, “ Am I really
in what is called the Scottish college? Speak!” '
“ Take off your fingers from my arm, then, my
man,” replied the scholar; “ I can speak without
the screws. Truly, are you in the Scottish
college; and, although 1 say so who should be
silent, there is not a college like it in the whole
university!” At this moment the light gave a
sudden fiare, and was as instantaneously extin­
guished by the awkwardness of Bauldy.
“ God be gracious to me!” exclaimed the
scholar—“ What is this ? My heart leaps to my
mouth; the tears rise into my eyes; old times,
and'old places, and old friends, and old by-gone
dreams come ’sack, as if conjured by a spell!
Speak ! Who are you? But need I ask? You
are a Douglas; you are—”
“ David !” cried the knight, opening his arms as
the flame of the candle re-appeared.
“Archibald!” and the two friends fell on one
another’s necks ; the one struggling with his tears,
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 41
and the other, lees acquainted with the customs of
society, weeping aloud.
“ And you, that 1 thought .were never to have
left home !” said David, when they had recovered
breath; “ more especially, after the connexion of
your name with France had ceased, or at least, had
become nothing more than a name, by the death
of your chief, Earl Archibald, duke of Touraine !
Tell me, friend and comrade of my young
days, and cousin five times removed—tell me,
Archibald of the Braes, what made you leave
your father’s fireside?”
“ War—woe—want,” replied Sir Archibald;
“ my father is dead in a border foray; my patri­
mony i9 eaten up by the creditors; and, as a
baillie of the tailors'most truly, but most impu­
dently, cast up to me to-day, I have come to
France, that I may continue, as heretofore, to eat
of the wheaten bread, and drink of the red wine.”
“ Alas, the day !” ejaculated, his friend ; “ he
was a worthy man, your father, and my mother’s
near cousin ! It is no wonder I did not know you,
for you are a head taller, and your voice is like a
drum. But you bleed, Archibald!”
42 THE MAGICIAN.
“ It is nothing.” •
“ No more it is: and if otherwise, we know
nothing here of the art of the leech, which Messire
Walter of Metz justly casteth into contempt, as
having only to do with the perishing body. It
has no part in our clergy, formerly termed the
trivium and quadrivium, and which consisteth
only of the noble arts and sciences of astronomy,
music, geometry, logic, natural philosophy, and
grammar. When these lads are wounded, which
happensto them,poor fellows,seven times a week—
Set down the candle, Bauldy, and don’t hold it
at us, as if we were world’s wonders; and wipe
your eyes, and shut your mouth, my man : he is
Come, Douglas, of gentle kin, and is every inch
of him a kindly Scot. And there is Nigel, with a
headful of fiery hair like a comet, he is a cousin
not far removed of my own; and Andrew at his
back, who counts lineage with the Kerrs of
CeBsford. Away with ye now to bed, sirs. Fye,
I heard the bell of the ignitegium, or couvre-feu,
an hour ago; and besides, I have a long crack to
get over with Sir Archibald: for you already
know, my friends, that, although an Armstrong by
THE MAGICIAN. 43
name and by nature, I have the blood of the
Douglases in my veins.”
The Scottish students, who appeared to be
entirely under the management of David Arm­
strong, took the hint promptly; and, after shak­
ing hands roughly and warmly with Sir Archibald,
retired to find their way to bed in the dark.
“ And mind me, lads,” cried David, bawling
after them before he shut the door, “ it will hardly
be worth while to take off your clothes so late;
but keep your cudgels within arm’s length at the
least, in case of call; and above all things,
commend your souls to the cAre of God and the
Blessed Virgin before ye dare to close an eye!”
“ Not that I would have you think, Archi­
bald,” continued he, after he had fastened the
door, “ that they are likely to forget their prayers,
poor lads; or, in fact, for all my jokes upon the
stair, that they are more ebriori, or, in the vulgar
speech, given to drink, than most of the other
students: but enough of this for the present; you
will know them better, if you remain long in
Paris.”
44 THE MAGICIAN.
“ I have cause to know them already,” said
Douglas, “ and to remember them all my life;
but as for how long I shall remain in Paris, or
whither i may bend my steps when I leave it, or
what I am to be about; these are questions, my
dear friend, that I cannot answer, seeing that I am
in profound ignorance upon the subject myself.”
“ Well, if that is not amazing! So near a
kinsman, and a godson to boot, of the Earl Archi­
bald of Douglas, duke of Touraine, whose soul
may heaven assoil! Why, I should have thought
you might have put forth your hand at will
among the loaves and fishes. But it is the way
of the world, I suppose. The Earl is dead on the
field of battle; and so is his son ; and so are most
of the five thousand brave Scots they brought
over with them; and the English are flying the
country, bewitched even by the ashes of that
wonderful wench Jean; and Charles VII. is the
little king of Bourges no more, but the master of
lordly France. Well! well! well!”
“ Your thoughts fly too fast, good David, and
overshoot the mark. I have been received by
<r
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 45
king Charles with a distinction due to the name
I bear; ¿nd I have reason to believe, that my
chance at court is far higher than my personal
deserts. But yet, I know not how it is; I feel, as
it were, unsettled. I— and the knight paused,
and observed that the candle wanted snuffing.
While Armstrong was performing this operation,
slowly and methodically,by taking out the candle-
end from its socket with one hand, and decapitating
the burnt wick with the finger and thumb of the
other, he threw a keen glance of observation upon
his friend, between his half-closed eye-lids. His
expansive and sagacious brow then began to curl
towards the nose; he sucked in his cheeks; and
his mouth twisted itself awry; but having sub­
dued these indecorums of features usually cha­
racterized by a kind of good-tempered solemnity,
he turned gravely to the knight.
“ Archibald of the Braes,” said he, “ I was for­
getting to ask after the health of Margaret Leslie
of the Lynhead.”
“ Alas, poor girl! she is dead of consumption
long ago.” ••
*
DigitizedbyGoogle
46 THE MAGICIAN.
“ May her soul find grace ! But it was rather
the young Agnes of the Holmes who was in my
thoughts; she for whom you may remember you
fought so bitterly with the knight of Lochmahow,
when as yet you were both pages.”
“ Agnes of the Holmes," replied Sir Archibald
composedly, “ is now the wife of the knight of
Lochmahow.”
“A-hem ! And Mary Elliot ? whom in our wild
days, may the Lord forgive us! we used to call
the Virgin Mary, because of her pride and fierce­
ness to the young men.”
“ Tush ! her golden hair has turned as red as
Nigel’s.”
# “ God’s will be done ! I have nothing to say to
it.”
At this moment the candle sunk to the bottom
of the deep socket, whence it emitted only a fitful
glare. The apartment was vast, and solidly
built; but time and neglect had defaced and
injured the massive walls, which they could not
altogether ruin. Some benches seemed to be the
• only furniture ; and these were formed of rough
THE MAGICIAN. 47
planks, which had experienced at divers times the
fate so recently threatened them: but a dusky
object, also, appeared in the distance, which
might have been a pulpit, or other seat of
honour, consecrated to the service of the regent.
The fire-place was a vast gulf, which contained
the dust and litter of the school, for aught we
know, from the time of St. Louis; but the damp,
unwholesome air of the room proclaimed, that fuel
was not considered an object of necessity in the
Scottish college. .
When the knight had gazed for some moments
at this scene, by the dying light of the candle, he
withdrew his eyes, to fix them on the face of his
friend. David Armstrong’s features were all
decidedly handsome; but taken collectively, they
formed a portrait more full of what is called
character, (than manly beauty. His expansive
forehead was intersected by several small hori­
zontal wrinkles; his eyes, glowing rather than
sparkling with a steady light, were set deep in his
head, and overhung by dark eyebrows, delicately
pencilled, but somewhat fuller than became his
Digilized by Google
'48 THE MAGICIAN.
age; his nose, arched, massive, and firmly placed,
conveyed an idea of decision and determination ;
while his mouth and chin, divested of the beard,
expressed a degree of benevolence amounting to
softness; and his head was surmounted by a
small, round, black cap, almost the shape of
the skull; from the sides and back of which,
- a mass of dark matted hair fell down to his
shoulders. His gown, open in front, and betray­
ing every possible mark, both of neglect and
strife, disclosed a strong square-built, yet sym­
metrical, figure of the middle height; while the
hood, or cowl, falling in absolute rags upon his
back, threw an air of poverty and desolation over
a portrait which, otherwise, would have been only
striking and picturesque.
As Sir Archibald looked, the embarrassment
which had been visible' in his manner wore off,
and an expression of kindness, tinged with pity,
took its place.
“ My dear friend,” said he, grasping the hand
of his old comrade, “ it was to answer all your
questions; to tell you all I know; and to crave
D igrtO T dbyG oO qle
THE MAGICIAN. 49
the counsel, and, if need be, the aid, of one who
is wise and true, as well as brave; it was for this
that I am here to-night. But there is now no
time for a story like mine; it is late, and we shall
soon be in the dark ; aud, to say the truth, David,
I feel that I ought not to speak to you here of any
affairs but your own.” David’s eyes followed
those of his friend round the room.
“It is well-sized,” said he, “that you mustallow;
and yet not so well cared for as it might be, The
truth is, we students, as I said before, are a thought
wild, as it were ; and although, in this individual
college, owing to the war, and accidents, and de­
sertions, our whole number, at the present blessed
moment, amountsto nomorethanfour; yet Bauldy,
and Nigel, and Andrew, poor fellows, will have a
break out at times, and then stone and wood can­
not hold them! Man ! I have seen them battle
their way home, with a train of friends and ene­
mies at their heels, till within these four walls we
were seven score of us poor scholars, all fighting
pell-mell, like so many devils !”
“ Poor scholars indeed !”
VOL. I. D
50 THB MAGICIAN.
“ And then, you see, Archibald, the luxuries of
the world, in whole furniture, and evenly-plastered
walls,' and swept floors, and darned gowns, and
such like vanities, would ill become the vocation
to which we are called—’’
“ Hold ! what vocation may that be ?”
“ What vocation may that be ?” exclaimed the
student with heat, “ was there ever such ignorance
heard tell of? Do you not know that we are the
olerks of the University.? Do you not see the sa­
cred tonsure ?” and snatching off his cap, he
showed his scalp bare about a hand’s-breadth.
The knight stared in amazement—he even felt the
bald crown of his friend, with something like the
infidelity of St. Thomas.
“ Yes, Archibald of the Braes,” continued Da­
vid with solemnity, “ we are priests before the
Lotxl, every mother’s son of us! But we are not
monks, my dear friend; on the contrary, we hate
with a religious hatred all such lazy and luxurious
vagabonds. We are not brethren of this or that
order, but brethren of the whole Gospel; we
are aspirants of the holy ministry, whereof the
byGoogle
THB MAGICIAN. 51
ministers are the canons regular of the churoh of
Christ!” .
“ You must .allow, notwithstanding,” said
Douglas, when he had recovered from his surprise,
“ that the church takes but little carnal care of
her nursery.”
“ Too much ! too much !” replied his friend,
“ our privileges unite in one those of the clergy
and nobility. And is it nothing to belong to a
body which controls the very state ? which gives
its sanction, sometimes, even to a treaty of peace ?
which cites the very magistrates beforeits tribunal ?
which excommunicates the officers of government
themselves, when theyput forth their tax-gathering
fingers upon the carnal wealth of a scholar?”
“ But touching this carnal wealth—”
“ Why, it is but a few years, as I maysay, since
messire de Savoisy, the chamberlain of the king,
was dismissed from his office, and banished the
kingdom, because some of his people rode through
our procession on its way to St. Catherine of the
Val des Ecoliers, thereby compelling the poor
d 2
vGoogl
b2 THE MAGICIAN.
students to break the heads of the intruders with
stones !” -
“ That is excellent,” exclaimed the knight,
rubbing his hands ; “ but I would fain know by
what means the University exercises a power so
extraordinary, and, no doubt, so reasonable.”
“ By means of a humble remonstrance and peti­
tion, imploring the government with tears and
groans, as it were, not to drive it to the cruel ne­
cessity of exiling itself from a city where 6uch
Outrages could be perpetrated with impunity.
Supposing the document, for instance, to be ad­
dressed to the king, it shall commence thus,
‘Vivat rex ! vivat rex ! vivat rex ! May he live
corporeally ; may he live spiritually ; may he live
civilly ; may he live spiritually, lastingly, and rea­
sonably. This beautiful salutation is offered and
proposed by the daughter of the king, by the fair
clear sun of France, and of all Christendom—’”
**•By whom, inthe name of the saints ?”
“ By ‘the daughter of the king,’ I say, ‘the
fountain of all science, the light of our faith, the
TUE MAGICIAN. 53
beauty, the ornament, the honour of France and
of the world—the University of Paris.’” '
“ Excellent, wonderful !”
“ Or, supposing the rector petitions in behalf
of his suffering mother, as in the aforesaid affair
of messire de Savoisy,—*In exposing to you,’
says he, ‘measeigneurs,’—for, you see, we were at
that time even as a helpless orphan, because of
the lunacy of king Charles VI., and were there­
fore obliged to address the parliament—‘ In ex­
posing to you, measeigneurs,’—and a slight snuffle,
but so slight as to be hardly observable, gave a
richness to the scholar’s voice,—‘thé pitiful and
very miserable complaint of the daughter of the
king, my mother, the university of Paris, I shall
commence by a suitable saying of Scripture :
Estote misericordus !’ ”
“ Good ! good ! ha ! ha ! ha ! ” shouted the
knight; and his hearty laugh, which had been
preparing while the student spoke, rung through
the room. David Armstrong, however, continued
with imperturbable gravity, and without noticing,
Google
64 THE MAOICIAN.
even by the slightest expression of feature, the
mirth of his friend.
“ As for carnal wealth, Archibald,” said he,
“ seeing that we are but seekers after wisdom, and
fore-destined ministers of the sanctuary, what end
would it serve ? In general, we are bursars; and it
is only lately that they hate begun to throw open
the colleges to boarders and day-scholars. If
stipendiaries of the school, the regent, who is but
human after all, tries, no doubt, to turn the penny
by us as well as he can; if martinet*—for so we
term those who are able to flit about, like swallows,
from teacher to teacher—the Lord have mercy upon
us, when it ooeSes to argumentations and examina­
tions !”
“ That is to say, you are as badly off in one case
as in the other.”
“ Not so: the burears are educated, and sup­
posed to be fed at the expense of the founders of
the bursary; while the martinets must feed them­
selves, and pay besides a matter of four sous a
month, for leave to learn in the college.”
,yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 55
“ That accounts," said Douglas with emotion,
“ for the spectacle I witnessed with horror and
disgust to-day m the public streets."
* They were not Scots !” cried the student
quickly, and he withdrew his face into the shade.
“ But what matters it?" added he, after a mo­
ment’s pause, “ poverty is the badge of the
scholar, and will be so to the end of time ; and if
there be among us those who cry in the highways
for bread rather than die like wolves, without a
howl—why, Archibald,” and he leantforward once
more, and allowed the light to stream full on his
untroubled brow—“ why, man, they are but
dunces in philosophy, that is all that needs be
said.”
“ Scholarship, David,” said the knight, “ who
no longer felt any desire to laugh, “ is with you
a profession. Tell me, what are your hopes?
What are your prospects ? The church is a lucra­
tive and noble field."
“ Truly is it, Archibald," replied the student,
“ the church is indeed a lucrative and noble field ;
lucrative to the rich, and noble to the high-
.«b,Google
56 THE MAGICIAN.
descended! Bat besides the small namber of rich
and noble, besides the protegees of the rector, and
the cousins, and cater-cousins of the eighty re­
gents, there are thirty thousand of us here who
are neither rich nor noble, who call not the rector
friend, nor the regents cousin. To read my for­
tune, you must calculate the chance ofthese thirty
thousand in the mass, and then divide that chance
into thirty thousand parts—one whereof is mine.”
At this ominous conclusion, the dame of the
candle dashed suddenly up,illumining for amoment
with a dull imperfect glare the dreary room, and
bringing out, in Rembrandt lights and shadows,
the remarkable head of the student, and the mar­
tial figure of the young knight. It then sunk
as suddenly in the socket,and disappeared in utter
darkness.
“ And now, Archibald,” said David Armstrong,
continuing to speak as if an eclipse of the kind
had been of too common an occurrence to be
worthy of remark, “ You will ask why I continue
to waste my life in so hopeless a pursuit? You
will ask—”
“Ask !” interrupted the knight with indigna-
•
tion, as he started up from the bench, and floun
dered out into the middle of the room, where his
voice sounded amidst the obscurity like the voice
of one crying in the wilderness, “ I will ask, indeed,
why Philip Armstrong’s son chooses to sit starv­
ing of hunger, and shivering with cold, in a den
of wild beasts, rather than buckle harness on his
back, like his ancestors before him, and carve out
his way to fortune with his father’s sword ! Why,
man, thou art bewitched ! They have thrown a
spell over thee with their hellish gibberish, which
has benumbed thy faculties. What ho! Awake!
Come with me into the light of day, and let us be
comrades in arms,as we once were brother imps in
mischief! Trust me, this night-mare of the soul
will vanish at one blast of the war-trumpet!” ..
“ It would, it would !” cried the student, rising,
“ I know that it would; even I, who see, although
afar off, the glories of science, and who feel by
anticipation the pride, the power, the^— O Archi­
bald, you cannot comprehend me. I eat of the
coarsest, and drink of the thinnest: my bed is of
d 3
THE MAGICIAN. 57
o,Google
58 THE MAGICIAN.
straw, my apparel of rags, my habitation of ruins ;
and think you that I took for my reward in the
gown of a euré or a cure’s vicar ? No : I have
an aim far higher than your eye can reach,or even
your soul understand ! But this is not the time
to be more explicit. My struggles on one hand,
and misgivings on the other, have ,of late been
severe ; but the hour approaches quickly which
shall determine my fate.” Douglas oould hear
the unquiet step of the speaker in the remotest
comers of the apartment, and the labouring sighs
with which be was delivered of these words ; and
for a moment the idea entered his mind that his
friend was insane !
“ David,” said he, “ will you accompany me to
my lodgings ? It is cold here as well as dark,
and the breath of heaven will do us both good.”
“Of a surety,” replied David, in his usual tone,
“ I will not leave you to your own guidance on
the hill of Sainte Géneviève. Gome, where are
you now? You are not the first who lost his
way in the grove of Academus. There, take hold
of my cowl—but not so, as if it was a banner
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 69
which you were wresting from the enemy. The
xhess of a student, I assure you, costs money, and
the tailor’s account, besides, is written in Latin:
‘Pro capucio,’ so much ; ‘pro cometa cum farci-
tura,’ the Lord knows how much more. And now,
being at the middle of the stair, you will make a
wide straddle to gel over the hole, whose depths
you would needs explore in coming up; and there
is no need for starting as if you heard unexpected
thunder, when it is only Bauldy, and Nigel, and
Andrew, poor fellows, slumbering like babes in
the next room. We are now in the street. It
must be late indeed, for all is quiet.”
The friends pursued their way, guided more by
the local knowledge of Armstrong, than by the
lamps that burned dimly, here and there, before
statues and pictures of the saints. As they ap­
proached the side of the river, they met more than
one passenger, coming on with a lantern in one
hand and a sword in the other; but the strangers
always took to flight on seeing two persons wan­
dering along in the dark. They at length reached
the bridge leading to the palace, where Sir Archi­
bald had been assigned a lodging.
Digi(i2e<J by O i O O ^ I C
60 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Yoa are now at home,” said the student, “ I
shall be with you to-morrow, if I am a living man,
after the first class; and in the mean time, go
straight to your bed, without turning to the right
or to the left, and the blessing of the saints go
with you!”
61
CHAPTER III.
The student stood gazingfor some time after his
friend, till his form had disappeared in the dark­
ness, and the echo of his tiead died away. He
then tightened bis leathern belt, drew his gown
more closely round him, pulled the tattered cowl
over his brow, and crossing his arms upon his
bosom, walked slowly homeward, like a man
plunged in the deepest meditation. The great
city slept. The night wind sighed along the streets,
as if they had been ruins; and the river answered
with its stilly voice, to the sound. It was the hour
when spirits were supposed to be permitted to
walk the earth ; and when the noises ofwinds and
waters were easily syllabled into their mystic
speech, by the imaginations of men. •
byGoogle
62 THE MAGICIAN.
David,however, seemedeitherfreefromthe super­
stition ofthe time, or his preoccupied mind afforded
no room for its fantastic creations. He walked
slowly on,without raising his eyes from the ground,
till he had almost reached the Scottish College ;
he then turned suddenly into a lane to the right ;
his footsteps became both swifter and lighter; and
if his dark figure had been seen gliding thus
quickly and noiselessly through the gloom, he
might have been taken himself for one of the su­
pernatural beings who haunt the night.
From one long and tortuous lane, he glided into
another, till it might have seemed that he was
walking for exercise, orfor the purpose of counting
every turning and winding on the peopled hill of
Saint Géneviève. At length he stopped before a
mean and ruinous-looking house, in the darkest
part of a dirty and almost deserted street. This,
apparently, was his destination. After looking
round for a moment, as if to make sure that he was
not observed, he plunged into a miserablegateway,
the door of which, unnecessary as it seemed to the
poverty of the inhabitants, was unfastened. He
THE MAGICIAN. 63
crossed the silent court; entered the door ofwhat
seemed in former times to have been a kitchen,
and found himselfbeyond in a labyrinth of roof­
less walls, and rained apartments. Here the
student, after looking round onoe more, with
hardly necessary caution, entered a lowand narrow
opening, where the gloom of the night was at
once converted into utter darkness. *
After groping his way for some time, the path
was shut by a strong door, which he opened by
means of a concealed spring ; and having entered,
he closed it carefully behind him. Another,
another, and another barrier ofthe same kind were
passed, the level ofthe ground alwayssinkingashe
proceeded, till he appeared to have descended into
the very bowels of the hill of the University. At
length his art seemed to be at fault: a door of
treble strength, which he tried like the others, re­
fused to yield; and, after listening for a moment,
he struck three blows with a stone upon the
massive frame. The summons was answered
speedily from within, in a voice which sounded
distant and indistinct
64 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Whom seekest thou ?” was the challenge.
“ Trismegistus,” replied the student. A rum­
bling noise of bolts and locks then succeeded; and
the heavy door bigan to revolve upon its hinges,
till, having opened to the width of a few inches,
its progress was suddenly checked by a strong
iron chain.
“ Is it thou ?” said the voice querulously; “Art
thou come at last ?” and before David could open
his eyes, blinded by the glare of a lamp, the chain
fell, and he found himself drawn impatiently, but
feebly, into the room.
“ Stand not,” said his host, whispering tremu­
lously, while he performed this operation, “ but
come in at once ! Hush ! Not a word above thy
breath ! W hat!—thou wert not observed ? Art
sure ? Silence! Not a syllable till the door is
fast. Now speak: no, waste not time in words;
but come, for the great work stands, and I have
need of the strength of thy young arm.”
The apartment had the appearance of a vast
and lofty oblong cavern, cut with tolerable
regularity at the sides, but roofed by the unhewn
^Google
THE MAGICIAN. 66
rock. At the farther end there was a great fur­
nace, on which a large open cauldron bubbled
audibly; and near it stood a table covered with
manuscripts and writing materials. There were,
also, disposed in various parts of the chamber,
huge piles of different substances, chiefly of a
mineral nature; and here and there, a smaller
furnace and crucible awaited the need of the
operator. At the sides of the oblong area were
several dark vaulted recesses, used apparently as
storehouses, and bearing a sort of rude resem­
blance to a series of lateral chapels opening from
the nave of a Gothic church. This idea would,
e
no doubt, have been further assisted, in the mind
of an imaginative spectator, by the ground rising
towards the farther end of the cavern, so as to
look like a chancel; and by the huge and massive
table near the wall beyond, occupying the place
of the mastei^altar.
When the high-priest of this strange teqaple of
Science, where the deity was as. yet an idol, and
the worship a blind and mystic superstition, had
ran, rather than walked, up to the table, he seated
66 THE MAGICIAN.
himself withthe feverish haste which characterized
all his motions, and began to turn oyer the papers
with a tremulous hand. His dress was mean and
common; but a cap of unusally large dimensions,
and made of faded velvet, falling over his brow
till it overshadowed the eyes, gave him, upon the
whole, rather a singular appearance. About his
face there was nothing common-place. His dark
eyes still sparkled through the films of age ; and
looked up at the person he addressed with an
eager, watchful, and suspicious glare, from be­
neath an overhanging canopy of brows as white as
snow. A hooked nose, a well-formed mouth,
and a flat and individually unmeaning chin com­
pleted the inventory of his features; while these
were set off by a long white beard, that would
have looked venerable if clean. He was evidently
a foreigner in France, but of what nation it would
have been difficult to tell; and yet, his was pre­
cisely the physiognomy which excites, -while
puzzling, the curiosity.
" Why hast thou tarried ?” said he, suddenly,
as if reverting to an idea which had escaped him
, 0(1
8le
THE MAGICIAN. 67
in the hurry of hrs thoughts; and pausing in
his occupation, he fixed a glance of intense
scrutiny upon the student’9 face. David Arm­
strong was standing beside the table, with his
hands folded across his bosom, and engaged in
perusing the features of the old man with such
undisguised earnestness, that the latter withdrew
his eyes as suddenly as he had raised them.
“ Did you make a remark, doctor?” said David,
awaking from his abstraction.
“ I asked a question,” replied the doctor angrily,
“ why hast thou tarried ? It is not thy wont:
thou lovest not the lean commons of thy college;
and the time of our evening meal is long past.”
“ I care not for warm meats at night,” said
David; “ if the fere be good, it will not be the
worse for standing. But as for the delay, which
seems to you bo remarkable, it was caused by the
visit of a friend.”
“ Of a friend ! What firiend?”
“ A foreigner.”
“ A foreigner ! What foreigner ? A traveller?
Whither have been the steps of his pilgrimage ?
Google
Digits
68 THE MAGICIAN.
To the East ? My God; and these things are to
be kept from me ! What did he tell thee? Does
he know more than I ? Good David! am
not I thy friend ? thy best friend ? thy only
friend ? And thy supper, cold though it be—
for I know thou lovest it cold—hath it not
tarried even till now for thy coming? Ho!
daughter!” and he opened a chink of a small
door behind him; “ the meal of the young man,
even of the good young man, David ! and a pint
of wine, daughter; yea, a whole pint! Come
David Strongarm, let ub commune together. Are
we not brethren ? Are we not father and son ?
Do we not seek, hand in hand, the hidden place
of the Ter Maximus, yea, of the Great Inter­
preter? Who was this visitor, this stranger, this
traveller ? Speak!” 0
At this moment the door opened, and David’s
supper appeared; whereupon the student, who
had hitherto waited patiently, found an oppor­
tunity of replying to his categorist, which he did
in a voice so cold and sedate, as to contrast
strangely with the feverish tones of the othea
Digitized by Google
THE MAOlCIAKi. 69
“ He is a man of war,” said he, and he knows
hardly the names of the seven metals.”
The meal, not cold, but luxuriously warm, and
set out with peculiar neatness on a wooden salver,
was then placed before the hungry Scot; and a
gleam of sunshine seemed to steal over the still
features of David Armstrong as he dipped his
Angers in a bason of water, held to him by the
Hebe of the feast. This was a young woman,
who bore what is called a striking resemblance to
the doctor, and yet, was as absolutely unlike him as
one human beingcan be to another. Her eyes were
singularly bright; and her eyebrows full, like her
father’s, but exquisitely pencilled; her nose, too,
was arched, but so delicately modelled, that it
would not have seemed out of place on a Greek
statue; her mouth, half pouting with a beautiful
seriousness, appeared to reprove the wishes it
inspired; and a chin, broad and unmeaning in the
old man, when Ailed up in her with the rich ripe
plumpness of youth, redeemed with a dash of
voluptuousness a certain virgin-severity of ex­
pression, which characterized the rest of the
portrait. Her hair was as black as night, and so
r.,logic
70 THB MAGICIAN.
luxuriant, that the simple head-gear she wore was
hardly able to confine it within the customary
bounds; while, owing perhaps in part to the
effect of contrast, her complexion seemed abso­
lutely colourless, That her mother had been a
native of some foreign, perhaps some Eastern,
clime, like her father, was evident. David could
have believed that she was a Spaniard, had the
paleness of her cheek exhibited any tinge of
sallowness.
“ It is a fine night, mademoiselle,'’ said he,
blushing with the effort, while his fingers lingered
in .the water, thrilling with its coolness, and his
eyes were fixed bashfully on the beautiful face
before him.—“ It is a fine night in the upper
world, mademoiselle, only dark, and cold; and in­
clining to wind and dampness.” The damsel
smiled demurely at this almanack information,
and bent her head.
“ You will not have been up stairs to-night,
perhaps?” persisted the student.' She shook her
ringlets, and attempted to withdraw the bason
suddenly. •
“ Thanks to you—it is a great refreshment ”
by G o O g l C
THE MAGICIAN. 71
continued he, holding fast; “ O mademoiselle,
what a lonely life you must lead here! One would
think you would be glad to open your lips to a
Christian man, and a clerk of the University to
boot, an Armstrong by name, and a Douglas by
the mother’s side!*
“ My God ! what is all this ?” cried the father,
raising his head: “ What planet were you bom
under, that you will stand with your hands in cold
water, while on one side the savour of the meat
escapeth, and on the other, the great work stand*
eth still ? ”
“ Chide him not, father,” said the damsel, sud­
denly ; “ the young man means kindly and speaks
kindly—and God knows such accents are strange
enough to our ears to be welcome when they
come !” David heard her voice for the first time;
and for the first time her eyes met his, in a full,
frank, confiding, yet melancholy look. The stu­
dent’s heart throbbed wildly, and his brain
began to swim: the next moment the damsel was
gone.
It was a property of this girl to come and go
O ptizo d by Google
72 THE MAGICIAN.
like an apparition. Summoned by her father’s
voice, she was accustomed to stand before them as
suddenly as a spirit called up by enchantment;
and when the wondering scholar was in the very
midst of his gaze, and perhaps turning over in his
mind the most potent spell to make her speak,
even so would she vanish. Her stature was above
the middle size, and her form neither slight nor
spare ; yet her footfall gave no sound to his ear;
and her approach was only made sensible by the
waving of her garments, and by a strange faint­
ness, as David averred to himself, whichcame over
. his heart.
He had thus beheld her every night for several
years; he had watched her ripening beneath his
eye, till her spring of youth had began to warm
and brighten into summer; he had seen the clear
transparent paleness of her cheek grow richer and
richer every month, yet not less pale; and by de­
grees, the heart that had followed with surprised
delight the fairy motions of the girl, began to
quake and tremble at the approach of the young
woman.
,GooqIe
THE MAGICIAN. 73
In vain had he tried again and again to engage
her in conversation, or even to elicit a single mono­
syllable from her lips: she answered with an in­
clination of the head, a smile, a look as quick as
thought; and if he persisted, she either vanished
like a spirit, or, if her brief duties were not over,
took refuge at her father’s side. In vain had he
tried to draw even from her eyes something more
than a mere assent: he could not fix them for an
instant. When they encountered his, they sought
the ground, the roof, the distant entrance of the
cavern, and always returned more sad, yet more
high and proud, from the excursion. She said, as
plainly as silence could speak : “ Between thee
and me, there is an impassable b arrieran d
David Armstrong would have given every drop of
the Douglas blood in his veins to know what it
was, or that it gave her grief to say so.
On the present occasion, as soon as she had
disappeared, he sat down to a meal which, judging
by the celerity and avidity with which he dis­
patched it, had probably caught some fascination
front her hands; if these symptoms did not rather
VOL. i. E
74 THE MAGICIAN.
indicate an excellent appetite produced by the
economy of the regent, some of whose brethren,
it is said, considered the expenditure of a sous a
day sufficient to keep up the carnal man of a
student David, after eating neither like a lover
nor an alchemist, seized the goblet with the haste
of one who would make up for lost time.
“ Here’s to it!" said he, nodding gravely to his
companion, and he emptied the measure at a
/
draught. “ And now, doctor (it is but thin drink,
that!), let us to work in earnest.” He fastened
his cloak in such a manner as to prevent its im­
peding his motions, furled up bis sleeves to the
elbows, and stretched forth his muscular arm for
a paper which contained, we suppose, the recipe
of the night. His brow, in the mean time, re­
sumed the wrinkles which had been chased away
by the damsel; the sunny smile which in her pre­
sence had decorated his staid features, vanished;
and a deep shade of care and study descending
upon his countenance, added at least a dozen years
in appearance to his age.
As the doctor handed him the paper across the
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 75
table, the old man stopped suddenly short, and
looked towards the entrance of the vault with a
wild and terrified expression. His assistant’s
eyes sought the same quarter, and both listened
for some time without breathing. The silence,
however, was like that of the grave. The upper
world, whose business and turmoil might have pro­
duced somevibration which perhaps could beheard
even here, was drowned in sleep; and the cavern
was far beyond the approach even of those ani­
mals that burrow deeper than man in the earth.
David, smitten with the contagion of a fear, of
which he knew not the object, looked around him,
as if for the first time. The tall piles that rose
here and there like spectral figures, and to which
the unstable flame of the furnace gave an appear­
ance of life and motion; the smaller openings,
gaping like vaulted tombs at the sides; and the
descending distance,overhung with black shadows
as with a pall—all the strange, fantastic circum­
stances of the scene, with their adjuncts of time,
place, occupation—and even the countenance of
the high-priest of Hermes, with its ashy com­
e 2
D-Qiti; ,Google
76 THE MAGICIAN.
plexion, its white, trembling lips, its staring eyes,
its singularly lofty brow, from which the cap was
thrown back, and where the damps ofmortal terror
were gathering in large drops: every thing con­
curred to fill the student with a species of awe, to
which his mind had been hitherto a stranger.
“ In the name of the ever-Virgin, doctor,” said
he in a whisper, “ what is it ?”
“ Silence ! name not the woman !” .
“ W hat!”
“That is, speak not—hush ! It is nothing !"
and the doctor drew down his cap, with a sigh of
relief, although his hand still trembled, and, turn­
ing to his pupil, he writhed his lips into a smile
that would have been ludicrous if it had not been
ghastly.
“ It was perchance a dog,” said he, “yea, it
was a dog, even a houseless cur, that wandered
for shelter into the passage; for I heard with mine
ears the touch of a living thing upon the first
door.”
“Messire Jean of Poitou, and doctor of I know
not what!” said David, enraged with his master
Digitized b „Google
THE MAGICIAN. 77
for having made him afraid, and excited besides
with a religious suspicion; “ even if it had been
no dog, but a true spirit of the abyss, which you
heard, methinks there was all the more occasion
to speak reverently oftheblessed Mother of God !”
“ I speak reverently! My good young man—my
worthy David Strongarm, thou didst not hear:
as thy soul liveth, thou didst not hear!”
“ You forbade me to name her.”
“ I did, my excellent friend ; for even holy names
will betray those who hide from the face of the
seeker.”
“ But you called her—”
“ What ? A woman ! My good David, wouldst’
thou have had me call her a dog? Dost thou'
dream? Art thou drunken with wine ? Hastthou
forgotten the torture of fire to which, two of our
brethren were so lately exposed, in order, to make
them declare the secrets of their science ? Is
thy own young life of less value to thee than are
these few and miserable white hairs to me?”
David looked as sour as a controversalist who is
staggered in argument, and yet believes, that after.
o^«ib,GoogIe
78 THE MAGICIAN.
all he may be right: he had nothing to reply,
however; and turning doggedly forth, he Btretched
his hand once more forthe paper. It dropped, how­
ever, from the extended fingers of the adept, aud
floating away to Borne distance, its fall upon the
earthen floor was distinctly heard amidst the pro­
found silence of the moment.
“ There, there!” cried the old man, growing
again as pale as a corpse, 111 was right, it is no
dog! Daughter—” and his voice rose to a shrill
shriek as he called instinctively upon the minister­
ing spirit of the place. She was by their side
before David could turn his eyes to the small
door, to watch her coming; and in another instant,
dartihg like a moonbeam through the gloom, her
form was lost among the shadows near the en­
trance of the vault. A pause of intense anxiety
ensued, during which a sound from without,
hardly louder than the fitful sighing of the wind,
reached even the unaccustomed ears of the
student. The young woman was then seen
gliding out of the darkness, like an apparition;
and when she stood suddenly beside them, David
OVUM*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 79
looked at her almost with awe, so tall, so still,
somajestic she appeared. .
“ It is the footstep," said she slowly, and after
having fixed her eye for some moments on her
father, as if to give him time to recollect himself;
“ it is the footstep of one to whom the secrets Of
the passage are known!”
“ Secrets,” whispered the adept hoarsely,
while a gleam of fierceness shot through the
terror in his eye, “ secrets that are known only to
us three, and to the dead! What am I to think ?”
and his hand slipped, with an imperceptible mo­
tion, into the folds of his cloak, as he turned to
his pupil.
“ Think that the dead have risen again,” said
Armstrong haughtily, “ if it be necessary to solve
the problem.” The young woman grasped her
father’s arm with one hand, and with the other
caught up a small lamp from the table, which she
held to the face of the student When the light
had played for a moment upon the disdainful curl
of his lip, upon his bold and open brow, and upon
the deep bright eyes that were turned half re­
*<»Google
Djtf'tu
80 THE MAGICIAN.
proachfully, halfbashfully,upon hers, she withdrew
her hand from the old man’s arm, and set down
the lamp.
“ I will answer for him with my life,*' said she.
“ And I will defend you with mine !” exclaimed
David, in an under-tone, and with a thrill of de-
Iight.
The sound of knocking was now heard dis­
tinctly at the door of the cavern.
“ God of our fathers !” cried the adept, “what
is to be done? We will escape by the dwelling-
house; we will hide among the ruins; we will
take the wings of the morning, and flee away from
this city of destruction. No; I will not leave
thee !” and he extended his arms wildly towards
the cauldron. “ As the Lord liveth, I will not
leave thee. Here have I travailed by day and
by night; here hath mylife glided by, like a cloud
and a shadow; and here will I be slain, even as it
wereat the horns of the altar! I tell thee, daugh
ter, I will not stir! Let them' come ; the pincers
are ready, yea, in mine own furnace; and here is
the flesh !” and he bared his shrivelled arm to the
vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 81
shoulder, “ tear your fill, ye idolatrous dogs, for I
will die in silence!”
“Thou must opento himthat knocketh,” said the
daughter, calmly, after her father had exhausted
himself. “ If our enemies are upon us, the en­
trance must be beset, or an individual would never
trust himself alone; if only one man cometh upon
bis own adventure, lo! there be here two of you.”
“ Thou art right,thou art right,” said the alche­
mist, while a gleam of hope passed across his ashy
face.
“ And if the sea,” continued she, “ hath indeed
cast up her dead—”
“ Name it not!” interrupted her father with
horror, “ the bond is cancelled by his death ; and
rather than give up my soul again to the dominion
of hell, I would—I would part with my last—with
half—yea, with a tithe of my gold, and sacrifice—
all else save the sure and certain hope of the stone
of Hermes!” The knocking became louder,
longer, and more impatient.
“ I must be alone,” said the adept, who seemed
to have fairly turned to bay; retire thou, and
e 3
DgM
M
hyGoogle
82 THE MAGICIAN,
David Strongarm, out of hearing, but yet within
call.” '
“ Not bo, father,” said the damsel, “ a stranger
may not enter our private dwelling; but the
young man will bestow himself in one of yonder
distant cells, where thy voice cannot reach him,
unless perchance thou call aloud for aid.'1
“ Again thou art right,” said the father; and,
drawing from beneath his cloak a long two-edged,
sharp-pointed knife, or dagger, he put it into the
hand of the student. “ Thine arm is strong, good
David,” said he, “ as thy name truly implies, and
thy spirit is valiant; remember, the danger that
comes threatens us both; and if otherwise, I know
thou wouldst not see the old man slain, thy father
in the spirit, thy brother in the great search. Go,
my daughter shall conduct thee; and be ready to
come forth, even like a man of-war, when thou
shalt hear the cry of my lips, ' To your tents, O
Israel!’” .
David’s fingers twisted themselves instinctively
round the hilt of the knife, as he followed the
young woman towards the entrance pf the cavern.
“ Remember,” said he to her, in a low voice,
ovt««»»Google
THE MAGICIAN. 83
“ that what I shall do this night is for your
sake!”
“ For the sake of any one thoa wilt,” said she,
when they had gained the farthest of the lateral
vaults, “ thou shalt do—nothing. If our visitor
be one of the authorities of the city, surrounded
as our dwelling must be by his comrades, re­
sistance would only be a waste of blood; if it be
he whom I fear it is, thy interference will do
harm, but cannot possibly do good. Promise me,
that thou wilt not go' forth, whatever cry thou
hearest, unless thine eyes see that my father’s life
is in danger.”
The damsel spoke as one having authority; but
David hesitated.
“ If you think,” said he, “ because I am a
student, and a sort of embryo priest (or rather, I
should say, a neophyte, seeing that, as yet, I am
under noi.yows), that,I am unable to cope with
the best sword in France, you know but little of
the Armstrongs, to say nothing of the Douglas
blood that runs in my veins 1”
“ I know that thou art strong and brave,”
Google
84 .THE MAGICIAN.
replied the damsel, “and good, and kind, and
true! Wilt thou promise? It is my first request,
and it shall be my last.”
“ No, not the last—recall that word, and I will
do your bidding to the death ! There! the
knocking becomes louder, and your father ap­
proaches with the lamp : speak !”
“ The last! the last! the last!” and she glided
swiftly away, and whispering a word to her father
as she passed, disappeared from the cavern.
As the adept went by, with a quick jerking
step, which, however, cleared as little ground as
possible, he motioned to his pupil to retire farther
into the recess; and then, taking leave of him
with a piteous and imploring gesture, he pro­
ceeded to the entrance door. The knocking was
now mingled with the tones of a human voice
without; but so massive was the material through
which the sounds had to pass, that nothing more
was heard than an indistinct noise, like the
muttering of thunder. The old man’s heart seemed
to die within him; his step became slower; and
when, on gaining the door, he turned round and
b,Google
Digiti
THE MAGICIAN. 85
looked towards the recess, as if to sustain himself
with the idea that help was near, David could
see that his face was shrunk and livid, like that of
a corpse. He at length put his mouth close to
the timber, and with a mighty effort called out, in
a voice that resembled a shriek:
“ Whom seekest thou?” David could not
hear the reply; but the adept, who had placed
his ear to the door, staggered back. It was
evident, by the motion of the lamp, that he
trembled in every joint; yet, with the haste of
one who seeks to admit a welcome Visitor, he
instantly undid the bolts; the chain fell with a
heavy clank; the door swung open; and a per­
sonage entered the cavern, touching whom the
reader, if he hath any curiosity on the subject,
may consult the following chapter.
Google
CHAPTER IV.
“ Messire Jean of Poitou,” said the stranger, in
a rich deep voice, and at the same time throwing
off the alchemist, who fawned upon him like a
spaniel—“this methinks is but tardy greeting to
so dear and intimate a friend, and benefactor to
boot, after an absence of years!”
“ Let me look at him !” cried messire Jean, in
an ecstasy, which, however, did not restore the
blood to his cheeks; “ let me touch his raiment
so that I may be sure it is no shadow from the
grave, come to mock me with the form of my lost
Prelati! And is it really thou ? And hath the
ravenous sea truly given up her dead? Come,
let us be merry. Ho ! my man-servants and my
maid-servants, bring hither the fatted calf and
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 87
kill it! Let us put a garment upon him, yea, a
new garment, and a ring upon his finger, and
shoes upon his feet!—Alas ! joy maketh me forget
that 1 am a beggar. My household is scattered
like dust upon the four winds of heaven; we have
drunken our water for money, and our wood is
• i
sold unto us, but we have no more any gold and
silver to buy withal!” Thus rejoicing and la­
menting, with terror in his eyes, and a smile on
his wan lip, the alchemist hung upon the heels of
the stranger, as he strode up the cavern, now ven­
turing to fondle hi3 arm, and now starting back,
like some caressing hound at an impatient gesture
of his master.
The student, in the meantime, burning with
curiosity to obtain a view of the object of all this
dread and adulation, could hardly restrain himself
till they had passed by. When they were fairly
beyond his lurking-place, however, he put forth
his head, but could see only a tall and stately
form marching on gravely and sedately, and by
the force of contrast making the spare figure and
feverish motions of the alchemist appear mean and
o»Google
Digiti
88 THE MAGICIAN.
ridiculous. David crept out of his vault almost
unconsciously, and followed the ill-assorted pair
till he had gained the next recess; whence, encou­
raged by success, he made another, and another
sortie, till, thus hanging upon their skirts, he found
himself securely niched within a few yards of the
table. This proceeding seems more natural than
honourable; but the student had in reality no
object but that of obtaining a distinct view of the
stranger; and it was not till retreat had become
impossible, that he remembered the anxiety of
Messire Jean, and even of his daughter, to prevent
his overhearing what might pass at the inter­
view.
“ And so, old friend,” said the stranger, as he
threw down his ponderous sword upon the table,
with a noise which made the cavern ring, and the
adept leap from the ground—“ still burrowing
under the earth? still at the great work? still
striving to cut off the raven’s head ? Ha ?” He
turned full round as he spoke; and David, who
had expected to behold a Gorgon’s face, was sur­
prised to see instead, a handsome and noble phy­
THE MAGICIAN. 89
siognomy, where the traces of five or six-and-
forty years only served to give precision to features
that in a woman would have been called beautiful.
His plain cloak, falling open, showed a black
cuirass beneath, uncovered by a coat of arms; and
his hat, unfashionably low in the crown, and
strengthened by plates of steel, proved its wearer
to be a man who cared more for safety than show.
The symmetry of his form, however, his well-knit
limbs, and soldierly bearing, proclaimed at the
same time that he had as little need as any knight
of the age of artificial defences; and David Arm­
strong acknowledged to himself—for it would not
have become his border blood to have acknow­
ledged more—that if he could venture to disobey
the damsel’s command, and answer to the scrip­
tural battle-cry of her father, he would need all
the httie diversion which the latter could give to
make up for the difference in the length of their
weapons.
“ I am here, even as thou seest,” said the adept,
in reply to Prelati’s questions, “ but for how long,
who can tell ? I have wasted my substance, till I
D.<lte.HlhyG00gl
90 THE MAGICIAN.
bare no longer wherewithal to live; I have molten
my gold and my silver in yonder cauldron, and the
product hath been smoke and ashes. My daughter
crieth for bread, and behold there is none in the
house ! Truly, I am sore vexed because of mine
iniquities. What saith the Scripture? ‘He hath
also broken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath
covered me with ashes !’”
“ I am sorry for you,” said Prelati, mildly.
“ Do you believe that I am one whose words, for
good or for evil, are sure to come true ?”
“ Yea, I believe, even as the angels.”
“ Or rather as the devils—for, while believing,
you tremble. Well; I will assist you;” and
nodding his head mysteriously, he sunk his voice
to a whisper, as he repeated, “ I will assist y6u !”
The eyes of the adept dilated as he heard»
his face was lighted up with wonder and joy, and
seizing the cloak of his friend, he kissed the hem.
“ Then thou hast succeeded ?” cried he; this
comes of thy wanderings in foreign lands, where
hidden things may be gathered from the boughs
like unto the fruit of the tree of knowledge ! O
O ^ iid t iy G o O ^ lc
THE MAGICIAN. 91
wonderful man, how the nations will honour thee !
And thou, thy head is still calm, thy heart still
true; thou hast not forgotten thy servant in the
midst of thy glory ; but comest in the night-time,
to bring comfort to the desolate cave of him who
first launched there in quest of that mystic stone
which thou alone hast had the strength and skill
to discover. Go to, why should we lose time ?
there are still some trifles left of my substance.
Must it be gold?' Come, how many bags shall I
bring ?” and, seizing the bellows, he began to blow
the furnace with a dexterity which had already
procured for his fraternity, among the profane, the
name of souffleurs.
“ Your thoughts gallop, my good friend,” said
Prelati, speaking slowly, “ I have given up the
search.”
“ God of Jacob!” cried the stunned adept, as
the bellows fell from his hand.
“ But never look so dismal,” pursued the other;
there are things in nature,—or out of it, for that
matters not,—more high,more grand, more mighty
than the Philosopher’s Stone!” Messire Jean
D.
92 THE MAGICIAN.
groaned and shook his head, and bit, .till the
blood sprang, the infatuated tongue that had
named the name of gold to the ears of Prelati.
“ Listen,” continued his friend, “ and leave off
your grinnings and chatterings. Do you remem­
ber the nucleus of your wealth ? of that same
gold of which you vaunt so proudly? of those
heavy bags that cumber the closet on the left
hand of your subterranean parlour; to the door
of which, by the same token, you turn your face,
when you would persuade yourself you are praying
to Jehovah ?”
“ I do, I do,” replied the adept, growing paler
than ever, “ but God hath forgotten my trans­
gression, because of my prayers and alms, and
why should man remember it ?”
“ Then you remember,” persisted Prelati, “ the
noble Gilles de Laval, lord of Retz, and of a hun­
dred other lordships besides, whom,under pretextof
guiding inhis research after the Hermetic stone—” '
“ As God is my judge,” interrupted the adept,
“ it was no pretext. But he was wild, and wilful,
and impious, given to strange women, and a con-
D*gdi20 Google
■ THU MAGICIAN. 93
temner of holy things. What could come of such
fellowship? What booted my fastings and
prayers ? I tell thee, I led him not astray, although
I left him by the way side.”
“ Right,” said Prelati with composure, “ he
was impious, he was unlit to be your associate in
the holy work, and therefore you robbed and for­
sook him.”
“ It was my wages—it was my wages—as thy
soul liveth, it was my wages ! And yet, never­
theless, I have prayed until the Lord hath heard
me; I have fasted till my bones pierce my
flesh; and to this day I continue to give alms
every year to the amount of the interest of the
moneys. Wait a little while, and I shall pass by
like a cloud. What would it avail thee to betray
a man like me?”
“Fool,” exclaimed Prelati, with a growl like that
of a tiger, “ if I wanted to betray you, why
should I take so much trouble ? Were you even
as immaculate as you are dishonest, were you
even a seeker of God instead of gold, what more
have I to do than name your name, or even point
with my finger, to have you and your daughter
Google
94 THE MAOICIAN.
tom to pieces, the fragments burnt with fire, and
their ashes scattered upon the winds of heaven ?”
The interest which David Armstrong took in
the ^conference, became at this point so strong,
that he could hardly restrain himself from rushing
out of the recess to compel Prelati, at the point of
the knife, to explain what was the strange and
awful fate which seemed to envelope, not only the
alchemist, but even so fair and innocent a being as
his daughter. Messire Jean himself seemed to be
moved by some feeling different from the abject
fear which had hitherto paralysed him. Instead
of wringing his hands, he now ground and crushed
his fingers within each other; his chattering teeth
were firmly locked; his eye emitted a baleful
glare, which seemed to illumine the whole face;
and he looked round the cavern with the half
fierce, half terrified, air of a hunted beast who
contemplates turning to bay. The student ex­
pected every instant to hear the war-signal burst
from his lips; but David's heart had sworn to the
damsel, and he was determined religiously to keep
the oath.
The adept’s courage, however, proved to be not
Digitizedby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 95
in action, but in endurance; or else his policy
suggested that it would be better to sacrifice, if
need •were, a portion of his gold, than to risk
every thing on the doubtful issue of a battle. He
withdrew his eyes from the distance, where the
young Scot, doubtless, appeared in his imagination,
with the dagger ready in his grasp; his hands
fell lifeless by his side; hts jaw collapsed; and
his head dropped upon his bosom.
“ Thou sayest it,” exclaimed he, in a tone of de­
spair, “ Tand mine are in the palm of thine hand !"
“ Then why,” said Prelati, “ will you doubt a
friendship which is proved by the very fact of your
standing there, at this moment, safe and sound ?”
He had watched the changes in his manner with
the interest which an angler bestows upon the
struggles of a fish which he has hooked; and now
that all was calm, he glided without an effort into
his usual mildness of tone.
“ Gilles deLaval,’’continued he, “deserted byyou,
and baffled bythe wantofvirtueof whichyou justly
complain, has abandoned a search which only the
pure and religious can prosecute with advantage;
DoM
cdwGoogle
96 THE MAGICIAN.
and in lieu thereof he was taken to a higher and
mightier study, in which a trifle of the kind is no
obstacle- Gold is a means with him, uot an end,
as with you; and he has fallen upon another mode,
more easily attainable than the philosopher’s stone,
of obtaining riches, grandeur, honour, length of
days, and dominion over the minds and fortunes
of men. In this sublime science, his master is—”
“ Preluti,” cried the adept.
“ No—a friend.”
. “ Then, as my soul liveth, it is the Evil One—
the Adversary—yea, Satanas himself!” Prelati
emitted a Sardonic laugh at this sally, which
writhed his fine features into an expression of
mockery instead of mirth.
“ Call him by what name you will,” said he,
“ that matters little to my errand. A certain
length has been gained, and at a vast expense;
but more gold is wanting, and the ready money
of the lord de Retz is exhausted. Now hearken,
for the assistance I promised to render you is this.
Lend—mark me—lend the sum that is necessary ;
and you shall not only have good interest, but a
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 97
free pardon from the lord de Retz, and permission,
through his interest with his sovereign, the Duke
of Brittany, to settle at Nantes (whither all your
family have gone) when it shall become necessary
for your safety to leave Paris.” *.
The alchemist heard this proposal with less dis­
may than might have been expected from his cha­
racter; but it was only what he had anticipated,
• /
and his mind was the more easily made up to the
sacrifice, as it seemed to open out to him a possi­
bility of leaving Paris with safety, which he had
determined to do the instant he knew that his
tormentor was alive. When his friend, however,
mentioned a sum, really very considerable, but
enormously extravagant to the imagination of the
adept, he emitted a cry, like a wild beast struck
by the hunter. •
“ Think of it,” said Prelati coolly, “ there is no
hurry : I shall come again to-morrow at mid-day,
and, to prevent any risk of discovery, I shall enter
by your dwelling, upon the surface of the earth.”
“ Come not in the day-time,” gasped the adept,
VOL. I. F
Google
98 THE MAGICIAN.
“ come at night, and even here, if thou wouldst
not destroy me utterly !”
“ Before night I leave Paris.” Messire Jean
again wrung his hands.
“ Besides the money,” continued Prelati, I
want something else, with which I know you can
supply me. I want a youth who understands the
operations of chemistry, and who is also daring
and enthusiastic. Know you such a one ?”
“ I did,” said the adept, with a look of horror,
“ I knew two ; I gave them to you, one after the
, other; and I have heard that they are both dead !”
“ Why, that is precisely the reason that another
is wanted. Of what use are the dead to me?
come, willyou serve me ? will you pleasure me ?”
“ My money! my soul!” cried messire Jean,
“ Let the day perish wherein I was born ! Good
friend, what is this you require of me ? Doth my
dead wife still bring forth male children, that, like
Saturnus, I may devour them up, one by one?
Lo, l am here a solitary beggar, and you say unto
me, Where be yourmoneys f where beyouryoung
men ?"
vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 99
“ You were not wont to drink wine at night,”
said Prelati drily, pointing to the cup, “ nor to
address commands and cautions to yourself,”
taking up the recipe from the floor. "But why
this distrust ? A pupil of yours must be skilful
in his business, and he must also possess a portion
of that daring enthusiasm whioh is indispensable
to me. In the service to which I destine him, a
youth like this cannot fail to rise to wealth and
distinction. Come, we shall be better friends
to-morrow; we shall once more.have a confidential
talk in your subterranean parlour, and the little
Hebe—zounds! your daughter must by this
time have grown quite a young woman ! Has
her beauty kept its promise 1 Does love begin
yet to peep out of her dark infidel eyes ?”
“ My money! my soul! my daughter!” groaned
the adept, tossing up his arms wildly. His eyes
began again to glare, his teeth to clench, and his
maddening look to wander round the cavern.
“ Will you sefve me ? will you pleasureme ?” re­
peated Prelati.
"What isit thou demandest,!' saidmessire Jean
f 2
Digitized by C j O O Q 1 1
100 THE MAGICIAN.
hoarsely, “ My money for thy need ?—the gold
that I have gathered with the sweat of my brow,
with the vigils of the weary night, and the hunger
of the dreary day ! I say unto thee again, what
is it thou demandest ? My young man for thy
bondman—the staff of 'my feeble age, and the
lamp ofmy feet; aye, even the young man David,”
and he raised his voice so as to be heard at the
extremity of the cavern, “ the true and the brave,
who, were he here, would smite thee where thou
slandest! And yet a third time I say unto thee,
What is it thou demandest ? My daughter for
thy bed—the virgin hope of my house for thy
concubine! Man of Belial! if thou hast neither
shame nor remorse, art thou yet a fool as well
as an incarnate fiend ? Knowest thou not
that the trodden worm will writhe up again? and
am I less than a worm that creepeth on his belly ?
Thou shalt have no gold—no young man—no
daughter! Challenge, and I will answer; strike,
and I will strike thee again ; back, robber, mur­
derer, ravisher! I spit at, and defy the!” and
darting like lightning upon the sword of Prelati,
Digitized by Googlt
THE MAGICIAN. 101
which lay upon the table, he whirled it away with
preternatural strength, while his shout rang like a
trumpet through the cavern, “ To your tents, O
Jacob! To your tents, O Israel!”
Prelali looked like a man amazed by a show,
rather than a reality. The adept had seized a
hammer, and stood upon his defence, glaring upon
his enemy, with eyes dilated so widely, as to take in
at the same time the whole area of the place,
while he waited, in feurful suspense, for the ap­
pearance of his ally. Some moments passed—
all was silence!
“ You are not accustomed to drink wine at
night,” said Prelati, calmly,—“ you are feverish.
Or is this a trick, a jest? Are we to be merry ?
Ha?”
“ Verily it is a jest,” answered the adept, “ yea,
verily an d the hammer dropped from his hand,
and he staggered against the wall of the furnace,
and broke into a hollow laugh, which shook him
like a convulsive fit, without changing a single
muscle of his countenance.
“ But it is not all a jest,” added he, regaining
„Googl
102 THE MAGICIAN.
his presence of mind, before his physical energies
were sufficiently recovered to enable him to stand
upright; Good friend, thou didst try*me sorely,
end my spirit wandered, and a,dream of deliver­
ance came upon my soul; and, like, the woman
of old, I saw, as it<were, godsascending out of the
earth. But alas 1 it was all a lie and a mockery$
the Hely One is departed from me, and answiereth
me no more, neither by prophets nor by visions.
Thou hast conquered, and I yield—lo.! I am the
captive of thy bow and of thy spear. Come to
me to-morrow as thou wilt, at the noon of day or
of night, either on or under the earth; and show
unto me thy commands, that,I may make haste to
obey.” • ; . . . ' •
“ Be it so,” said Prelati, “ take the lamp, and
show .me. to the door.” . Be lifted up. his fallen
weapon as they went, drew forth the blade, and
followed the trembling alchemist sword in hand.
On reaching the last of the lateral vaults, to which
his keen eye had no doubt traced the glance of the
seer during his vision of deliverance, he took the
lamp in his own hand, and went in; leaving mes-
THE MAGICIAN. 103
sire Jean at the entrance id a state ofi mind mors
easy to conceivethan describe. When he emerged
again, to the inexpressible wonder of hiB friend,
there was neither blood upon his sword, nor fury
in his looks; and immediately conceiving that
David must have found some means of escape, the
adept ventured the question—
’“ Whom seekest thou ? ”
“ Your gods, old heathen 1” replied Prelati,
retracing his steps up the cavern, in order to search
the vaults seriatim.
The Btudent, in the meantime, had witnessed the
foregoing stormy scene with varying emotions
The character of the old man, it appeared, was
anything but immaculate ; but yet the extremity
of his wrongs, and the unexpected spirit he had
at last displayed, invested him with a species of
dignity, which covered the rags of his unright­
eousness as with a cloak. David’Bfeelings, how­
ever, were so far divided, that when he saw there
was no risk of his sustaining bodily injury, he
watched witha pleasure, notvery different from that
of a mischievous boy, the new suspense and con-
Di Google
104 THE MAGICIAN.
stemation into which he was thrown. But when
it appeared to be Prelati’6 intention to search the
whole cavern, our student had something elseto do
with his thoughts.
Sorely was he tempted to stand the hazard of
the die. It would be no transgression of the
damsel’s commands; for in this case the battle
would be forced upon him by the enemy, an alter­
native highly agreeable to the bellicose propensities
of one who was at the same time a student of the
university, and a border Scot. But on the other
hand, there was the risk of being beaten—of which,
however, he persuaded himself the chance was
not great; since, without the smallest scruple, he
had determined, in the event of a conflict, to run
in upon his better armed opponent, before he could
be kept at bay with his mighty sword, and stab
him in the embrace. If beaten, however, the
fruits he should reap from the struggle would be
disgrace, if not death; and even if he gained the
day, his opima spolia would be at best but the
arms of the conquered; for the death of Prelati,
instead of unveiling, would seal, perhaps for ever,
THE MAGICIAN. 106
the mystery which enveloped the adept and his
daughter. Upon the whole, David Armstrong,
after weighing the pros and cons maturely, al­
though in less time than we take to state them,
determined that it would be his wisest plan to
embrace the opportunity now offered him of enter­
ing without rudeness the penetralia of the house.
There he would no doubt meet with something to
,solve the enigma which perplexed him ; and there,
at any rate, he would be able to demand the
thanks of the damsel for having obeyed her com­
mands.
In pursuance of this resolution, he no sooner
perceived that Prelati was fairly engulfed in
another of the recesses, than, darting from his
ambush, he flew as swiftly, but as stealthily, as a
cat, to the small door, and made his escape from
the cavern unobserved.
He found himself in a kind of vestibule, from
■ which there were several openings, and one steep
ladder-like stair, ascending till it was lost in
darkness. The place was dimly lighted by a
lamp fixed to the wall, and the adventurer having
f 3
Google
106 THE MAGICIAN.
do means of guiding bis steps, plugged at random
into one of the gulfs beside him, the entrance of
which had somewhat more the appearance of a
doorway than the others. This proved to be a
passage leading into a room, which was, no doubt,
the parlour spoken of by Prelaii; and here, by
the light of a Bilver lamp whieh hung from the
ceiling, the wondering student beheld a scene of
magnificence, such as he had never heard of,
except in the tales of the minstrels and febliers.
The earthen floor was covered with a stuff
which might have served for the coat-of-arms of
a prince; and the walls were hung, on one entire
side, with cloth of gold, and on the others, with
carpets and tapestries of the richest description.
Here there was a mirror, so extravagantly large for
the period, that it might have shown the entire
bust; and there a portrait on velvet, the frame ox
which glittered with gold and gems. Some of
the stools were square,in the form of a chest, and
covered with silk and embroidery; others were
supported on pillars carved and gilded. The
benches, from five to twenty feet long, were orna-
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 107
mented with figures, in carved work, representing
the heads of various birds and beasts; and onevast
bed, more than twelve feet square, and ascended by
a carpeted flight of steps running its entire length,
was covered with a counterpane, silk on one side,
and precious fur on the other.
These articles, however, amazed the student
more by their number than their rarity; and he
was not altogether confounded, till he observed
the princely luxury of an arm-chair; an invention
which he had lately heard of as the ne plus ultra
of modern voluptuousness; and which was still very
rarely seen out of royal palaces. It was covered
with vermilion leather, ornamented with golden
roses; and its fringes of silk were fastened with
gold nails.
Notwithstanding all this display of wealth,
however, there reigned throughout the apartment
a kind of incongruity which struck David, unac*
customed as he was to such sights, with surprise.
The furniture did not match. The articles seemed
individual specimens, rather than sets; and he
asked himself, whether he was in the private
Digitse. Googl
108 THE MAGICIAN.
dwelling of a roan of princely fortune; or in a
warehouse, appropriated to everything most rare
and costly? He had no time, however, to con­
sider of the question; for at the moment the
voice of the adept in the vestibule made him
start like a man threatened with detection in the
midst of. a crime. For one moment he was
determined to confront the master, into whose
secrets he was plunging so recklessly, and, with
with such explanation as he could give, demand
a safe conduct to the upper world; but the next,
as the idea flashed upon him, that what he had
already done might be the means of dissolving
finally his connexion with the family, he stepped
suddenly behind a screen, with some indefinite
view of obtaining speech of the damsel before
departing. This movement was hardly completed
when messire Jean entered the room.
“ And take care,” said he, continuing to speak,
“ that thou withdraw the bolt before thou de-
sccndest. Perchance some son of a dog may be
prowling about, even now, for our destruction;
and so, when he thinketh to climb down upon us,
THE MAGICIAN. 109
he will 6urely fall into the pit. And haste thee,
ray daughter, for it is now the middle watch of
the night; and verily, mine eyelids are as heavy
as ray heart, and my limbs bend beneath ray
body, even as ray spirit fainteth under its troubles.
The unbelieving villain!” he went on aloud, after
having shut the door, and drawn a strong breath,
like a fugitive who finds himself in an accustomed
place of safety ; “ Be there still whales within the
deep, to swallow up, and spue forth again, their
prey upon the dry land ? Why did 1throw away
his sword ? Why trust to the arm of a stranger,
when I might have stabbed him where he stood ?
But a day shall come round—the day of the
Lord is at hand ! No more, indeed, the lion of
the tribe of Judah goeth up from the prey; but
Dan is still a serpent by the way, an adder in the
path!” The old man’s face grew calmer and
paler as he spoke; the perspiration dried upon his
brow ; and he walked several paces up the room
with a noiseless but determined step.
Soon, however, his mind seemed to revert to its
usual occupations. He was evidently preparing
Dig«i2«l Dy C j 0 0 £ 5 1 C
no THE MAGICIAN.
to retire for the night; and, after having opened
the door of a closet, where his bed appeared to
be placed, he sank down upon his knees to pray.
In his prayer, which was delivered with energy
. and deep devotion, the student joined mentally ;
and as the form of supplication was not peculiar
to the personages of our history, but common to
many of those who were in that day engaged in
similar pursuits, we think it well to present the
reader with the following copy :
“ O God! almighty, eternal, from whom cometh
every good thing, and every perfect gift! Grant
me a knowledge, I beseech thee, of that universal
wisdom which is around thy throne ; which
created all things, and which sustaineth and pre-
serveth all things. Deign to send it unto me
from heaven, which is thy sanctuary, and the
throne of thy glory, to the end that it be in, and
work in me. For it is that divine wisdom which is
mistress of all celestial and occult arts, and of
the science and understanding of all things. By its
spirit may I possess the true intelligence! May I
proceed infallibly in the noble art to which I have
TH£ MAGICIAN. ill
consecrated myself, even in the search of the
miraculous secret which thou hast hidden from
the world, in order to reveal it to thine elect!
May i commence, pursue, and achieve the great
.work which I have to do here below, and enjoy it
for ever! In fine, O God, grant me, I beseech
thee, the celestial Stone, angular, miraculous, and
eternal!”
When the adept had finished his supplications,
be took took up a book, the binding of which, in
the gorgeous fashion of the day, was studded with
gold and gems; and, laying it upon a small table,
near the sateen, drew in a stool, and began to read
some portion inwardly, apparently as a sequel to
the religious service of the night. David would
fain have raised "his head over the screen, to look
what the manuscript was; for a strange misgiving,
he hardly knew of what nature, had been gradually
stealing upon his mind. The book, he could say
with certainty, was not a church missal, neither
had it any resemblance to a religious homily. The
very characters in which it was written, from the
single and distant glance he had obtained, were
pM
(WD,GoOgI
112 THE MAGICIAN.
strange—nay, suspicious to his eye ! But in the
midst of this new dilemma, the door opened, as if
by a spring; his eyes dazzled; and he knew by
the beating of his heart, and by his thickening
breath, that the damsel was in the room. .
She stood motionless upon the floor, her head
reverently bowed, and her hands drooping at her
sides. David forgot the vague suspicions that
had begun to gather like a kind of horror upon his
soul, and he enjoyed, for the first time in his life,
a full and uninterrupted gaze at this phantom shape
which had haunted him so long. The serene
gravity, just touching upon melancholy,which was
the habitual character of her face, tinged at this
moment by religious feeling, acquired an air
almost of sublimity, without losing any of its
sweetness; and her pale and placid featureslooked
as if they were shone upon by a stream of sun­
light. The youth felt his pity and admiration
mingled with awe while he gazed ; and when the
old man at length raised his head, and his daugh­
ter bowed herself almost to the earth before him,
in the form of salutation peculiar to the oriental
O ig a n d by G o O ^ l c
THE MAGICIAN. 113
nations, David could have fancied that the whole
scene, so strange in locality and expression, and
so touching in sentiment, was but the fragment of
a.dream.
“ And now, my child,” said the alchemist, “ get
thee to bed at once, and may the God of our
fathers be thy guard ! But yet another word.
The young man—verily I am worn out with strife
and watching—even the young man Strongarm,
he no doubt escaped by thy means, when the
heathen dog was exploring the vaults. Thou
leddest him up the stair without permitting him
to enter here, where the sight even of this holy
book might give our bodies to the fire, and our
ashes to the winds of heaven ?” At these ques­
tions the damsel appeared for a moment to be
ready to sink to the ground, overwhelmed with
surprise and dismay.
“ All is safe,” said she at last, and in a voice
steady enough to deceive her father in the present
exhausted state of his faculties.
“ It is well,” he rejoined, “ thou art brave and
quick-witted, but thou hast a woman’s pity, and a
owtaib/Google
114 THE MAGICIAN.
woman's trust, and even if he had made the dis­
covery, I fear thou wouldst have permitted him to
Jive.” Duringthisspeech David could see,through
the minute chink which had hitherto served him,
that the damsel’s eyes were rivetted upon the
screen with a glance of mingled threatening and
terror. Enough, however, had occurred to stimu­
late his curiosity and suspicion to a pitch of mad- •
ness; and when the old man was in the act of
extinguishing the lamp, giving way to the natural
recklessness of his character, he suddenly raised
his head over the screen, and fixed his eyes upon
the volume. The next moment all was dark ; and
as the scene fled from the scholar’s vision, he
leaned back against the wall, and was only pre­
served from fainting by the iron strength of his
constitution.
The reader has perceived long ago, that the
alchemist and his daughter were of the Hebrew
nation; thus exhibiting a knowledge of national
character which it was impossible forthe scholar to
possess. Among a people at once simple and poor
a Jew could not exist, to say nothing ofthe shrewd
ovttaitbyGoogle
THE MAOICISUT. u t
sagacity attributed to our countrymen; and ac­
cordingly, the weary foot of Israel had found little
or no resting place, on the barreil mountains and
desolate heaths of Scotland. In France, a law
had passed during the last reign, which banished
the entire tribe from the kingdom, on pain of in­
stant death; and thus, David had in all proba­
bility never seen, to his knowledge, a descendant
of the patriarchs in his life. The seclusion and
mystery observed by messire Jean, as he thought
proper to call himself, were easily accounted for,
by the persecutions to which philosophers of his
mystic school were liable ; and the oriental formof
his phraseology was perhaps calculated rather to
lull than excite suspicion, familiaras ithad become
to the student’s ear, in its association with his
theological studies. David, brave and ardent as
he was himself, could form no conception of the
species of enthusiasm which impelled the
alchemist thus to bury himself alive, rather than
break off in the midst the mysterious search to
which he was devoted, and.which, every day, ap­
peared on the eve of being crowned with success.
Google
116 THE MAGICIAN.
The feelings, therefore, which had beset him this
night, were of so indefinite a nature, that he was
probably not aware himself, of the nature of his
suspicions, till they were confirmed by the in­
stantaneous glance he had caught of the Jewish
Talmud.
His sickness ofheart, accompanied by “an horror
of great darkness,” continued for sometime, and he
had not yet been able to collect his bewildered
senses,' when he felt himself drawn out from his
lurking place by a small, cold, but steady hand.
David trembled at the touch. He felt as if his
soul was in the grasp of a demon, but he had no
power to struggle. When they had gained the
vestibule, the damsel took down the lamp from
the wall, and pointing to the steep stair, rudely
cut out of the living rock, she motioned him to
ascend, while she lighted his steps.
They went on for some considerable space in
silence, till they reached a kind of landing-place.
Here the stair ended, and from this, the commu­
nication with the world above was by a suspended
ladder; upon which David was about to step
»Google
THE MAGICIAN.
mechanically, when he was withheld by his con­
ductress.
“ First swear,” said she, “ that thou wilt not
reveal even to thy bosom friend, what hath this
night come to thy knowledge."
“Tempt me not,” answered the student, hardly
knowing what he said, “ I will not swear.”
“ Swear,” repeated the damsel, sinking her voice
to a whisper, “ swear, if thou wouldst live ! My
father’s life is in the palm of thine hand ; were it
mine own I would trust thee without an oath.”
“ I swear," said the student.
“ By Him whom thou namest thy Redeemer?”
“ By Him crucified !” said David bitterly; and,
bowing his head, he made the sign of the cross
upon his bosom.
“Then go in peace, and may the God of the
Jew and the Christian go with thee !” David
grasped the ladder with an unsteady hand, and
mounted the first step; when the damsel touching
a spring concealed in the wall, the portion of the
landing-place on which he had just stood gave
way, and swung, by means of hinges, in what
J 17
D*U»dhyGoOglC
118 THE MAGICIAN.
appeared to be an unfathomable abyss. David
looked for a moment at the danger from which his
oath had saved him; and then, bestowing upon
the Jewess a parting glance, in which admiratiou
and despair struggled with religious horror, he
ascended the ladder into the dwelling-house above,
and, groping his way to the door, staggered out
into the night. • i > ' ■
D
tfM
W
b,Google
119
CHAPTER V.
W e are told by certain philosophers that the
human body undergoes a perpetual process of
change, and that a man, at different epochs of
his life, so far as the materiel is concerned, is
thus absolutely a different individual. The
revolutions of the mind, on the other hand,
although they are much more apparent, do not
affect its individuality. We may receive a new
bone or a new muscle, without perceiving the trick
which nature puts upon us; but when one set of
sentiments takes the place of another, we are con­
scious that it is merely a change and not a renewal.
We may illustrate this by the example at the
present moment nearest at hand. When David
Armstrong went to bed after parting with the
Dowwb,Google
120 THE MAGICIAN.
Jewess, he felt as if the world had passed away
from him like a scroll, and as if he himself was a
single solitary atom, dancing unseen and unknown
in immeasurable space. When we meet with him
again in the morning, he is calculating whether it
will be worth his while to pursue his search after
the philosopher’s stone with his present master,
seeing that this individual was an unbelieving
Jew, such as God would, in all probability, con­
sider unworthy of success. Yet David is all the
time the same intellectual being.
His air and manner on this morning were so
slightly different as to evoke no observation on the
part of his college companions ; and the deliberate
yet energetic pace with which he usually traversed
the hill of St. Geneviève, was as deliberate and
energetic as ever. There was, notwithstanding,
somechange, though slight, as well in the outward
as in the inner man of the scholar. His face
was a shade paler, and his ragged hood hung over
his shoulders with even more of blackguardism
than yesterday. In his whole person, in fact, he
might be said to have somewhat more the look of
>OgIe
THE MAGICIAN. 121
a desperado than heretofore ; while throughout the
day there was exhibited a kind of exaggeration
even in his most ordinary feelings which some-­
times both surprised and annoyed Sir Archibald
Douglas.
The knight had given due reflection to the case
of his friend, and had arranged a plan for bringing
him forward in the career of arms, besides turning
his present services to account in a very important
matter which related to himself. Their new meet­
ing, besides, was in the morning and in a palace,
not in a ruin and in the dark ; and it is not won­
derful, therefore, that the gaze which he bestowed
upon the. student’s figure, was as full of mirth as
of renewed astonishment David, whose satis­
faction, in ordinary cases, was expressed by what
may be called a brightening of the face rather
than a smile, and who was never, on any occasion,
provoked to laugh outright, suffered himself with
great gravity to be turned round by his friend, and
surveyed from head to heel.
“And now, Archibald,” said he, “ if your curi­
osity is satisfied, let us hear at once the newest
VOL. I. G
jod by G o O ^ I c
gibe* on the dress of a poor scholar, and then we
may proceed at once to the purpose of our confer­
ence without more grimaces.”
“ Let me laugh, then, once for all,” replied his
friend, “ and then I shall be as solemn as yourself.
O what a sight were this for the old wives of the
Border, whose fire-side stories are still warm with
the deeds of Philip Armstrong! Off, ye rags !”—
and he tore down suddenly a large fragment of
the hood. “Away with your spider’s webs, for here
are steel and leather in exchange !”
“ Permutatio Diomedis et Glaucis,” said the
scholar; “ it would be the exchange of golden
armour for brass. Yet, nevertheless, 1 am in
nowise bigotted to a particular garb. As for the
hood—let it go; although I will not say that it
might not have been becomingly worn for some
while yet. Neither, Archibald, was it anything
like the weavings of that Lydian lass, Arachne, to
which you liken it, as many a tug and haul which
it bore in its day, will testify. You must know it
was the true epitogium, and was absolutely indis­
pensable ad loquendum in universitate; without it
122 THE MAGICIAN.
THE MAGICIAN. 123
I could Dot have opened my mouth. In the day­
time it was a garment; in the night-time a blanket;
and whatever rents it had were received in defend­
ing my skin. Well, well, old friend, fare thee well
in God’s name !”
“ A most moving epitaph; and now for the in­
terment in yonder heap of ashes in the fire­
place.”—
“ Hold !” cried the scholar, “ It may still serve
to mend the gown it once ornamentedand, fold­
ing up the rag carefully, he put it into his
pocket.
“ I have said,” continued he, “ that I care not
for the form of a garment, and it is even so : yet
the profession of a student affords me certain pri­
vileges which are useful; and above all things, it
is an ostensible employment which draws off, from
my goings out and comings in, the prying eyes of
the world. But for these circumstances I should
prefer a steel jacket to a scholar’s gown.”
“ And what harm are you about that you should
dread the eyes of the world ? ”
“ The greatest harm imaginable. I am about
g 2
Digitized byC j I
124 THE MAGICIAN.
surpassing the rest of the world, or at least at­
tempting to do so, in a species of knowledge which
would make me at once the envy and the victim
of my fellow-men. But yoa cannot comprehend
me. You are ignorant of the progress of science
and discovery. The affinities, the attractions, the
antipathies which exist in physical objects, you
either pass unobserved, or attribute them to the
power of magic. The influence of the stars, felt
by all nature, both animate and inanimate, you
confine to the vast ocean. You believe what you
see, but will believe nothing on even the most
direct and infallible deduction.”
“ I believe this, my dear friend, that you are
talking very learnedly; but, for the life of me, I
cannot tell on what subject.”
“ You believe,” continued the scholar, “ that
what exists was made; and you must therefore
believe that there is an art of making it. To the
ordinary species of knowledge we are permitted
an easy access; but to the higher and more sub­
lime, we can only attain through the intermediate
steps of science, and by the direct favour of God.
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 125
In natural history, for instance, we know that
sulphur and quicksilver are the bases of all the
metals; while astrology teaches us that the forma­
tion ofeach is presided over by a particularplanet:
that of gold, by the sun ; of silver, by the moon; of
copper, by Venus; of tin, by Jupiter; of lead, by
Saturn ; of iron, by Mars; and of quicksilver, by
Mercury. We know these things, not as possi­
bilities, but as sure and certain facts; and the
necessary deduction is, that when natural phi­
losophy and astrology are completely understood,
the man who is permitted by heaven to attain to
such divine knowledge will be able to convert the
baser into the more precious metals at will.”
“ Then you are an alchemist ?” said the knight,
with some surprise.
“ I am a humble chemist, striving to attain to
the perfection of his art, which is called alchemy.
Still another grimace ? What, may I ask, do you
believe?”
“ I believe that the precious metals were given
to the world merely to stimulate valour and in­
dustry. The artizan labours for them with his
126 THE MAGICIAN.
hands ; the merchant, with his peddling craft ; and
the knight, with his good sword: and God will
never permit so wise a system to be overturned by
the alchemists. As for the stars, I believe, ac­
cording to Scripture, that they were intended for
nothing else than lamps to enlighten the earth.”
“ According to Scripture, O ignorance ! *Canst
thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose
the bands of Orion V But to argue is vain. Astro­
logy is a science built entirely upon experience,
and must therefore be cast down by facts, not dis­
putations. It existed in the days of Job, and it
exists in ours. Nothing can be simpler, and yet
more incomprehensible. Why a planet being at
one distance from the 'zodiac rather than another,
or why entering a house or region of one sign
rather than another, it should influence or fore­
tell certain fortunes to him at whose birth it pre­
sided, it is impossible to understand. Astrology,
however, by a series of experiences carried down
from age to age, establishes the fact; and with
this we must be satisfied. ‘ Knowest thou the
ordinances of heaven V saith the Scripture, *Canst
Google
D*g<ti:
.THU MAGICIAN. 127
thou get the dominion thereof on the earth ? Hast
thou entered into the springs of the sea; or hast
thou walked in the search of the depth ? By
what way is the light parted which scattereth the
east wind upon the earth!’—Alas! the very
utmost height to which even the alchemist can
hope to attain, is the substratum of knowledge,
composed of facts, the meaning and origin of
which are hidden in impenetrable darkness. Be­
yond this, all the learning of Nigidius Figulns
himself would be foolishness.” .; ,
“ As for Nigidius Figulus, ” said the young
knight, who now foresaw the demolition of his
plans by means of the stars, Mhe bears but a hea­
thenish name, and I thank the Virgin I know
nothing about him—although 1can readily believe
his learning to be foolish enough.”
* Hold 1” cried the scholar indignantly, “ Nigi­
dius Figulus was the most learned man in the most
learned age of the world; he was the superior
even of the prodigious Varro—the friend of Cicero,
and the first natural philosopher and astrologer of
the time! It was he who read in the stars the
D^edbyGoOgl
128 THE MAGICIAN.
fate of Octavius, and foretold that he should be
master of the empire. But what avails all this to
such as you ? Can pearls be appreciated by ——”
“ Swine. Never mince the word. Were you a
soldier, it might be dhngerous; but a moping stu­
dent, who passes his life in dreaming of the stars,
and reading Nigidius Fig-fiddle,—what is his
name?—may use any pearls of eloquence he
pleases.” David's lip gTew as rigid as marble,
and he strode through the room with the air of a
moss-trooper; while his long black gown, soiled
and torn, and the remaining rags of the hood
streaming down his back, gave a touch of the
ridiculous to his anger.
“ Archibald of the Braes,” said he, stopping
suddenly short, and confronting his friend, “ you
have yourself assisted to unfrock me. Beware
that I do not complete the work, and thus throw
aside altogether the protection of my scholar’s
garb!”
“ Over God’s forbode !” cried the knight, “ for,
judging of the under by the upper garments, the
exposure would be something less than decent.
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 129
But what is the matter, man ? My only offence
is, having offered you a dress of steel and leather
instead of these miserable rags—having endea­
voured to turn you from a starving student into a
roystering soldier—having desired to convert you
from heathenism to Christianity—”
u Hold 1” interrupted the scholar eagerly, “it is
a base, vulgar, and abominable error, to suppose
that the sciences we talk of are included in the
anathemas of the church. They are neither vain,
conjectural, nor erroneous, but essentially founded
on experience and calculation; and in the synodal
statute to which you refer, De Sortilegiis—”
“ Bah ! I know nothing of such trumpery; I
only say that this Nigulus Figforus—But, holy
St. Bride, what noise is that? Have the English
rallied, and retaken the city, or are the poor stu­
dents at it again?”
“ Touchingthe statute De Sortilegiis,” persisted
David; but his voice was drowned in a shout
which burst from an immense crowd now flooding
the street opposite the windows; and, following
his friend, who had bounced out of the room
g 3
o^uoiin.Google
130 THE MAGICIAN.
without ceremony, he took hold of his arm, and
while they shouldered their way through the mass,
continued a defence of the orthodoxy of the sublime
sciences, of which the knight heard not one sylla­
ble.
The crowd consisted, not only of the usual
rabble of the street, but also of persons of the
upper ranks, who lent their voices like the others,
to swell the din. In the middle a line of horse­
men—if men they could be called—broke slowly
through the living surge, singing, shouting, leap­
ing, and discharging squibs, crackers, and other
fire-works. Most of them were in the garb of
beasts, stuffed, as it were, into the skins of the
animals they represented ; but instead of the head,
some hideous and extravagant face grinned from
their shoulders, and was surmounted by a pair of
enormous horns, which proclaimed the wearersto be
devils. Mingling with these, severalpersonages ap-
peafed with cowls and tonsured crowns; butinstead
ofthe robes of priests, their dress was white; their
heads were ornamented with asses’ears, and in one
hand they held a green or yellow conical cap,
D lg to M by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 131
while in the other they flourished a bauble deco­
rated with bells.
“ It ¡9 an announcement of the brotherhood of
the Passion,” said David, “ It is thus the citizens
are invited to attend their representations at the
hospital of the Trinity.”
" Accepted for two,” cried the yonng knight
joyously, “ See what it is to travel! By St. Bride,
they will hardly believe me in Scotland, when I
tell them of these doings!”
“ The cost is two sous,” said David, with a sigh.
“ It matters not.”
“ Each!” '
“ Were it twice the sum, you and I shall make
two of the company.”
“ Well, you will need a friend at your elbow;
and it may be, that you will find me worth the
money. But take notice, Archibald, that I go
entirely upon your invitation, and for your behoof;
and that the said amount is to be set down to me
neither as a loan nor as a gift. And in troth,”
continued he, rubbing his hartils when the affair
was settled, “ you say well, that the folks of the
o*»«..„Google
132 THE MAGICIAN.
Bonlen would hardly believe you! Why, it was
only in the reign of Charles’s father,—poor de­
mented creature, whom God can hardly condemn,
sinoehe did not vouchsafe him reason fora guide,—
that the brotherhood of the Passion became what
they are to-day. Before that time, some miserable
farces were played upon the streets by the jong­
leurs, with fiddles, and bells, and drums, and
shouting of profane songs ; but to-day we have a
regular theatre, and magnificent scenery, where the
most sublime mysteries are performed by a whole
convent of actors, most of them sworn eccle­
siastics.”
“ I have seen that same brotherhood,” said the
knight, “ I have seen wholewaggon loads of them,
and their scenery, passing from one town to
another, drawn by oxen ; and I could desire no
better refreshment for a wayfaring man, than to
ride by their side, and listen to the songs with
which they beguiled their journey, taken from the
mystery of the Nativity, or of the Canaanean.
“ Those, my friend, were but strolling players; '
and, although each troop calls itself the Confrérie
ngutedt*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 133
of the Passion, not one of them has any right to
the name. The original Confrérie was transferred
from St. Maur to Paris, in the second year of this
century, authorized by letters patent; and so de­
votedly attached to the divine art did the Parisians
become, that it was feared the theatre would
eclipse the church, and that men would go to kneel
and pray before the scenes of the mimic Passion,
instead of attending to the service of the altar.
For this reason the hour of vespers was changed,
in order that it might not be interfered with bythe
hour of the play ; and if you are devoutly disposed,
as I trust you always are, beforegoing totheTrinity,
we can take our ghostly comfort at the new tem­
ple of St. Julian of the Minstrels, where the mass
will not be the worse for good music."
“ Agreed, David,’’said Sir Archibald, “ provided
you will enjoy with me, in the first place, the car­
nal comfort of a good dinner in the palace, for it is
now mid-day."
“ 1am not accustomed to dine so early,” replied
the scholar, “ howbeit, as it will cost nothing to
either of us, I may as well sit down with you. At
Digitized by Google
134 THE MAGICIAN.
t
the same time, Archibald, if your allowance of
,vivres should not be fairlyenoughfor both, I charge
you do not balk your appetite, seeing that it is my
wont to fast till midnight; and while you etft,
I can entertain you with some brief account of the
origin, scope, and tendency of the synodal statute
De Sortilegiis.”
David’s misgivings were not confirmed; for the
allowance being proportioned, not to the supposed
appetite, but to the knightly rank of the guest, it
turned out to be amply sufficient for two men.
With an entertainer of inferior station, the student
must certainly have had recourse to the expedient
proposed, of filling his mouth with hard words;
but as it was, he did not utter a single syllable
during the meal.
“ It were a shame,” said he, at length, resting
upon his elbows from sheer fatigue, although his
knife still maintained its perpendicular, with a
threatening edge towards the remains of a couple
of roasted fowls, “ it were a shame that the guests
of a king should not do their devoir, with such
truly royal fare before them; but if the circum­
Googlc
THE MAGICIAN. 135
stance reach the ear of Charles, I trust that most
gracious prince will, so far as I am concerned,
take the will for the deed ; seeing that I am only
a poor clerk and scholar, and more accustomed to
fast than to feast.” David, however, did so won­
derfully well for a person of abstemious habits,
that the knight amused himself with admiring the
prowess of his friend, long after he himself was
hors de combat. The fare, to say the truth, was
of a quality which our student was but little ac­
customed to. A few eggs, when their price did
not exceed six sous a hundred, or a salted herring
in lieu thereof, formed the larger share of his daily
comforts at the university; and even his subterra­
nean supper, though so well dressed, and so
agreeably served, rarely afforded anything better
than beef, which (together with pork) was the
common food of the artiranB. On the present
occasion, mutton, veal, and fowl graced the board;
and even a small portion of game—a dainty ap­
propriated exclusively by the nobles.
“ Come, my friend,” cried the knight, with
that exulting feeling of after-dinner comfort,
O
B
iM
db,Google
136 THE MAGICIAN.
which in persons of an active, out-of-doors life,
betokens good health ; and in others, the ap­
proach of paralysis or apoplexy—“ Come, David,
since we have at least done our best to do honour
to the king, let us now drink a cup to the health
of our ladies !” David winced as if he had been
wounded; his jaw fell; and a look, not only of
sadness but dismay, clouded suddeuly the bright­
ness which had risen into his face.
“ It is a custom,” said he slowly, “ at least of
doubtful orthodoxy. In the more ancient authors
we find no trace of drinking to the health,
although persons sitting together were in the
habit of inviting, or challenging one another to
the potation—a practice, by the way, forbidden
in the capitulaires of Charlemagne. As for drink­
ing the health of the absent, it belongs, I fear me,
rather to heathenism than Christianity; for has
not toasting the saints themselves been strictly
interdicted by the church ? It is indeed a super­
stition of the fancy, a libation, as it were, to some
spiritual form seen by the eyes of the soul—”
“ On what look you ?” interrupted the knight;
D*g<ti2i ooglc
THE MAOIC1AN. 137
for David had turned his head, as if to gaze at
some object on the wall.
“ Afar of,” continued he, “ lonely, and bright,
and beautiful —rising, like a star, in the desert
and impassable waters, a Venus Anadyomene of
the heart!”
“ Alas !” said the knight with feeling, “ you are
a priest, and you may not love without sin.”
“ I am yet unsworn !” replied the student,
starting ; “ and even were it otherwise, it is lawful
to doubt upon the subject. Not to talk of the
example of many of the disciples and apostles, the
marriage ofpriests was legalized by the great Coun­
cil of Nicea; and after that time, the names of
Carterius, Sydonius, Simplicius, and a multitude
more—all bishops, and all married, give warrant
for the practice. Was not the famous and holy
St. Gregory the son of a bishop ? and in the
throne of St. Peter itself, has there not been an
Osius, a Boniface, a Felix, a John, an Agapet, a
Silvester, all children of ecclesiastics ?” * Having
• Eneas 8ilvius, afterwards Pope Pius II., during the life­
time of our friend David Armstrong, but a little later than
Digitized by Google
138 THE MAGICIAN.
finished this speech, David emptied a mighty
goblet at one pull, and then filled again.
“ Come,” cried he, starting wildly from his seat,
“ Where there is so much room for controversy,
of what advantage is it to be scrupulous? Though
we may not drink to the saints, angels are not in­
cluded in the interdict! Here, then, to our lady­
loves ! Here, to the very dregs—were poison at
the bottom!” and emptying the measure at a
draught as before, he set down the goblet, look­
ing pale and horror-stricken. The knight stared
at the vehemence of his friend ; but as love is a
subject on which all sorts of extravagances both
in speech and action are permitted, his surprise
did not continue more than a moment. A reaction,
however, appeared to take place in David’s man­
ner; his spirits sunk ; and the generous juice
which he had swallowed in an unusual quantity,
seemed to have no effect either in opening his
the present date of the story, defended the marriage of
priests; declaring eligible to the papal chair, not only a man
who had been, but a man who actually was, married—“Non
solum qui uxorem habuit, sed uxorem habens, potest as­
sumi.” ,'
,Google
Digrtuod
THE MAGICIAN. 139
heart or his lips. It was already too late for
vespers, but they got up soon after to go to the
theatre; the knight not a little disappointed that
the turn which he had purposely given to the
conversation had not led to the mutual confidence
he desired.
The street St. Denis was crowded by persons of
all ranks, whose destination was, like their own,
the hospital of the Trinity; and more especially
at the openings leading from the great churches or
convents, the thoroughfare was almost choked up
by tributary streams of population flooding from
vespers. The knight and his friend, however,
made good their passage]with very little delay;
David, who recollected his office of guardian and
conductor, leading the way with great strides.
With his clasped knuckles before him, to serve for
a prow, his elbows close to his ribs, and his gown
inflated by the wind, he bore steadily on through
the crowd, like a ship under full sail. They at
length reached the door, and having paid their
money, passed through a region of noise, where
the spectacle was announced by the beating of
Digitized by Google
140 THE MAGICIAN.
drums, and by men bawling at the pitch of their
voices, and entered the house.
Sir Archibald, who was thrown into a tumult
of wonder and delight by the novelty and
magnificence of the scene, overpowered his friend
with questions.
“ In the name of God,” cried he, “ what are
those vast paintings, that are ranged round the
walls ?”
“ That is the temple ofSolomon,’’replied David,
whose [spirits seemed to rise with the hurry and
excitation around him; “ that is the palace of
Herod; that is the house of Caiaphas. But
hush! hush 1 there they come; hold your
tongues, will ye? Hurra!” and he and the
young knight joined lustily in the general shout,
with which the appearance of the actors was
hailed by the audience. The whole strength of
the troop presented itself upon the floor at one
moment; amounting perhaps to a hundred and
fifty individuals ; but of these a good many were
seated, indicating that on this occasion they were
not to take any share in the scene. Having thus
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 141
presented themselves to the company, the pro­
logue was spoken, which finished by requesting
silence ; and they all withdrew to allow the piece
to commence.
The scenery consisted of paradise, hell, and
purgatory; as well as numerous earthly habita­
tions : and the personages, besides Jesus and
the disciples, Pontius Pilate, 8tc., included a
goodly company of devils, angels, doctors of law,
scribes, pharisees, priests, kings, saints, virgins,
knights, shepherds, clowns, and thieves. The
gates of hell were represented by immense gaping
jaws, by which the devils made their entrance and
exit, surrounded by smoke and flames. The
clowns were habited like those they had seen on
the streets, and their jests were frequently di­
rected against the clergy themselves, and couched
in language so indecent as would have been tole­
rated nowhere else than on the stage. The actors
being chiefly priests, it is needless to say, that the
female parts were performed by boys.
The audience seemed to take the most intense
interest in the piece, and to identify themselves
Google
142 THE MAGICIAN.
completely with the actors. They knelt, they
wept, they shouted,they screamed, they beat their
breasts, they joined in the chorus, they emitted
thunders of laughter and applause. A bad actor,
or even a bad action, was received with hisses and
groans; but when pleased, the cry of Be! B6!
(bis—encore) resounded through the theatre. The
clowns especially received a full portion of the
public patronage, but above all—the devils; and
at one time almost every individual in that vast
multitude might have been heard joining in the
burden:
“ Saulce d’enfer, saulce d’cnfer,
Aux serviteurs de Lucifer!”
The knight was in particular surprised by the
intimate acquaintance which the audience seemed
to possess, not only with the events, but even with
the words ofthe drama. The Parisians, however,
were accustomed to see the mysteries performed
at processions, and on other public occasions, as
well as in the theatre ; and even in the provinces,
when the number of actors chanced to be short,
ovtM
dbkGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 143
it was often filled up instantaneously from among
the spectators. It was a common occurrence,
indeed, either in town or country, when any actor
happened to be too slow, or to have altogether
forgotten a sentence, for a hundred voices at once
either to prompt or anticipate him.
The knight for a considerable time was too
much occupied with the actors and the story, to
bestow any attention upon the audience ; but all
on a sudden, his eye appeared to catch some
object among the latter, which rivetted his gaze,
as by a spell. David, absorbed in the interest of
the scene,had hitherto answered his friend’s ques­
tions, and responded to his acclamations, rather
mechanically, than as fully comprehending them ;
but when these all on a sudden ceased, his mind
bestowed that cognizance upon the negative inter­
ruption, which it had failed to do upon the positive.
“ Will you not look, man?” said he,jogging his
companion, “ will you not listen? Fye, Archibald !
do you reverse the custom of the Lamise of Plu­
tarch, and shut up your eyes when you come
abroad ? See to that ill-favoured goblin with the
»Google
144 THE MAGICIAN.
flame-coloured beard ! Hark! thwack ! thwack !
These were wallops like the echoes of a listed
field : and faith, no wonder, for the chiel's shoul­
ders are cased in iron under his leopard’s skin.
Hearto himnow—whata sublime roar! Heard you
ever the like of that? Nowoff, ye villain; vanish,
good Lucifer; jump into yonder fiery jaws, and
make room for your comrade, Hashmodai, who
will by and by bounce out before us from the
cinders of hell like a roasted chestnut. There—
did I not tell you ? Vadit, he goes out; silent
minestrelli, the music ceases;” and a momentary
pause in the action taking place, David had time
to follow the direction of his companion’s eyes.
“Is it thereabouts, you are?” said he, “ A comely
lass, as I am a sinner!—with blue eyes that look
down kindly yet loftily upon the earth, and hair
like an ancient Gaul, whose locks, as Pliny relates,
were died by artifice of a still brighter blond than
nature had painted. What saith the Lai de
Lanval?” and he sung the following lines from
that popular romance so loudly and so well, as to
attract the attention even of the lady concerned:
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 145
Flor de lis, et rose novele,
Quant ele pert on tans d'été,
Trespassoit elle de biauté.
When the lady had turned her eyes towards
the group whence the voice proceeded, she ap­
peared to be suddenly agitated by some deeper
feeling than modesty or bashfulness, for her blush
did not merely illumine her cheeks, but overspread
both brow and neck. The knight at the same
moment pressed his companion’s arm fiercely, in
token to be silent, while he endeavoured to with­
draw his own person into the shade.
“ Take away your fingers, Archibald,” said the
scholar ; “it is an evil custom you have—and I
would strongly beg of you for the future to express
your wishes by word of mouth. But if you still
retain the faculty of human speech, tell me, I
beseech you, who is he beside the damsel—that
tall old man, with the brilliant and benevolent
eyes, and beard as white as the drifted snow.
The face gleams upon me like some spectral head
1 must have seen in my dreams ; for sure I am it
never before appeared to my waking eye« ”
VOL. I. H
»„«¿»yGoogle
146 THE MAGICIAN.
“That,” replied the knight, “ is the famous Oros-
mande), an Arabian philosopher, who has travelled
ten times farther than Marco Paulo, or Sir John
Mandeville, and towhom, in learning, yourNigulus
Figulus is a fool. He is, besides, the friend, confi­
dant, and instructor of that magnificent nobleman,
the Lord de Retz—”
“ Of whose daughter and heiress, the damsel of
Laval, I have just now sung the praise?” demanded
the scholar.
“ Even so; but speak out, man; I cannot read
your face, although it is written over with signs
as black and deep as the new characters of Gut-
temburg.”
“ Anon, anon," replied David, with another
meditative gaze at the objects of his curiosity;
“ but here comes Hashmodai ! Look to the
stage, Archibald, if you would know what acting
is, and what a devil can do !"
The student speedily forgot, not only the Ara­
bian philosopher and the damsel of Laval, but
his companion beside him, and he became once
more completely absorbed in the interest of the
ab
vGoogle
Oiptti
THF. MAGICIAN. 147
scene. His gestures at length were so extravagant
as to attract the notice of Sir Archibald, whose
thoughts and eyes were busy enough in another
quarter ; and unacquainted with the things which
had so recently agitated his friend to the very
centre, the young knight made the mistake of
attributing entirely to wine, effects which were
in reality produced by a variety of concurring
causes. •
The actor who personated Hashmodai was either
unwell, or imperfect in his part; and the voices of
the audience were loud both in prompting and
condemning him. Among these, the smooth sono­
rous tones of the students, capable, as one would
have thought, of any degree of expansion, were
predominant; and at length the pas of criticism
seemed to be surrendered to him by universal
consent, and his accents were heard, lofty and
alone, above the suppressed murmur which filled
the theatre. The unhappy performer, confused
and alarmed, soon lost all presence of mind ; and
at the precise point which required the greatest
energy, he stopped suddenly in his speech, and
h 2
Google
148 THE MAGICIAN.
stood stock still. The noise was now deafening,
some voices prompting, some hissing, some groan­
ing ; when, in the midst of all, David Armstrong
suddenly bounded through the crowd, leaped upon
the stage, tore off the dress from the foundered
actor, and clapping his prodigious horns upon his
own head, went on with the “ maimed rites” of
the part, shouting in a voice that rang like thunder
through the house:—
“ Devils of hell, horned and horrible,
Great and small, with eyes of basilisks,
Infamous dogs ! what has become of ypu ? ”*
The astonishment with which Sir Archibald
beheld this scene was lost in delight; and hejoined
the loudest of the loud, in the applauses which
filled the house. David went on with the part
with admirable spirit; and in the passages which
• Diables d’enfer, horrible et cornus,
Gros et menus, aux regards basiliques,
Infâmes chiens, qu’êtes vous devenus ?
Myatery ofthe Conception.
THE MAGICIAN. 149
actors were accustomed to interpolate of their own
authority, he seemed to take the opportunity of
easing his heart of a whole load of bitterness.
The state, the clergy, and above all, the university,
were by times the object of his sarcasms; and in
the closing scene, when he bounded into the jaws
of hell, and disappeared in smoke and fire, the
cheers which echoed through the theatre were the
most enthusiastic ever remembered.
When all was over, the spectators, according
to a very general custom, rose like one man to
demand the re-appearance of the successful actor;
and cries of “ Hashmodai! Hashmodai!” re­
sounded on all sides. But Hashmodai was gone.
He had thrown down his horns behind the scenes,
and continued his run till he escaped from the
house, and engulfed himself in the crowd of the
street St. Denis. The audience at length retired,
in some doubt as to whether the goblin-like figure
they had seen was not Hashmodai himself, come
express from hell to amuse the inhabitants of the
first city in Europe.
»
150
CHAPTER VI.
The disclosure which our young knight had
intended to pour into the ear of hi» selected con­
fidant, is perhaps familiar, by personal experiertce,
to all our readers; but in this instance, it was
marked by circumstanoe» peculiar to the age, and,
in fact, to the epoch, when, owing to intestine dis­
sensions, and the presence of a foreign enemy at
the same time, the wildest confusion reigned
throughout the country. These circumstances,
however, will of necessity be so amply developed
in the course of the following narrative, that at
present we shall content ourselves with declaring
what is necessary to be known, in as few pages as
possible.
When Sir Archibald Douglas of the Braes
□ ,****byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 151
found himself, at the death of old Sir Archibald,
the inheritor of little more than a sword, which
had been long famous in the border wars, he de­
termined, like a youth of sense and spirit, to go
forth into the world, to push his fortune. At that
time, and for centuries before and after, France
was the Canaan of the Scots; and all those who
were driven forth by fate or folly into the wilder
ness, turned their faces toward this land of pro­
mise. These adventurers being, without exception,
brought up to arms from their infancy, and being»
generally speaking, distinguished for military faith
as well as valour, never failed to find a welcome
from their warlike hosts. The two countries, be­
sides, had been bound together by alliances, or
treaties, from time immemorial-; and thus when a
Scot descended from his mountains, and betook
himself to the fertile fields of France, he found
that he had only changed his home.
But Sir Archibald had another inducement,
already known to the reader. That gallant earl
of Douglas (his godfather, near kinsman, and
chief), who had led over five thousand Scots to
152 THE MAGICIAN.
the aid of Charles VII., then in the extremity of
his distress, had been created, in the year 1424,
in testimony of royal gratitude, duke of Touraine.
The duke, indeed, was slain in the same year, and
so was his son; but the barren title at least re­
mained in the family, and the recollection of such
important services could hardly have been oblite­
rated from the mind of the king in the course of
thirteen years.»
Whatever the knight’s resolution, however,
might have been, it was his fate to go to France.
His outfit was no sooner completed—and, truth to
say, it was too slender to require much time—than
he was summoned by the.influence of his friends to
attend the princess Margaret in her journey. This
little bud of Scottish royalty, the eldest daugh­
ter of James I., had been betrothed to the Dauphin
when she was only three years of age ; and now,
although not more than eleven, she was consi­
dered old enough to be married to a lad of thir­
teen. Sir Archibald, it need hardly be said, obeyed
the call with the most joyful alacrity; and, no
longer a solitary knight-errant, set out for the land
THE MAGICIAN. 153
of adventure, in the suiteof a princess, the daughter
of his king. He would have preferred, no doubt,
a command in the military succours which accom­
panied the expedition, as the dowry of the young
bride; but his powerful friends willed it other­
wise, and the knight consoled himself with the
idea that at a juncture like this, there must be
abundance of fighting even in the most peace­
able offices, at the court of Charles VII. In
explanation of the policy of his friends in this
respect, so different from what might have been
expected from the house of Douglas, it may
be added that it was the singularly handsome
person of Sir Archibald, which induced them to
choose the court for the scene of his adventures
rather than the field.
The circumstances of the journey have nothing
to do with our narrative, till the bridal party
arrived within a few leagues of the city of Tours,
where the royal family of France then resided.
Here the little princess was met by numerous
groups of the nobility and bourgeois, who came,
either by command or to show their zeal, to escort
h 3
D<0itiH!db y G O O Q l c
154 THE MAGICIAN.
her into the town ; and Douglas, with the curiosity
of a wandering Scot, set himself to gaze with all
his eyes at the strangers. Among the parties who
successively approached, there was one which
more particularly interested him ; consisting of a
young lady, attended by a knight clothed from
head to foot iu complete armour, who did not
raise his vizor the whole time.
The female, in the eyes of the young knight,
wasdistinguished from all the rest of her sex, by a
peculiar elegance of form and demeanour such as
he had never beheld before. The riding dress of
ladies of distinction,'in that age, as we See in the
Colbert manuscript of Monstrelet, was not greatly
different from that of the present day. It dis­
played the shape of the body, and muffled up
the feet; but at the neck, instead of rising to the
chin, it allowed the rich stomacher to be seen, and
the fall of the shoulders to be guessed at. If Sir
Archibald’s opinion, therefore, was erroneous, it
was not for want of opportunity of judging.
The face of the stranger possessed the character
of loveliness which is termed majestic; although
cm
om*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 155
this appeared to exist more in the expression than
the features, which were rather petite than other­
wise. Her eyes were of the darkest Une, bright,
and yetof that meditative cast which is rarely con­
joined with remarkable brilliance ; while her com­
plexion being at the same time delicately fair, and
her hair of the beautiful blond, celebrated by al­
most all the poets and fabliers of the three pre­
ceding centuries, she presented altogether those
contrasts and contradictions in female beauty,
which are, perhaps, still more exciting to the
imagination, and dangerous to the heart, than
regular perfection.
Her dress, although sufficiently common when
seen at a little distance, appeared on nearer view
to be of a quality so rich, that Douglas conceived
her to be at the very least a princess. The veil
which descended from the lofty cone of her hat,
and, although supported on her left arm, reached
the stirrups, was ofa texturefar more delicate than
that of the dauphin’s bride ; her stomacher was of
cloth of gold, studded with gems ; and surmount­
ing it, in a kind of frill which encircled the neck,
Dig<tizod b . Googl
156 THE MAGICIAN.
appeared a portion of her chemise, as fine as the
two which Isabella of Bavaria possessed, and
which were esteemed by her age as luxuries
worthy of a queen. The purse at her girdle,
called an ausmoniire, perhaps, from its original
destination, was peculiarly elegant in form, and
the paternoster (a chaplet of beads) which hung
beside it was of pure gold.
The Scot looked long at this gracious appari-
tiou ; and yet, but for a circumstance about to be
mentioned, he would have had to describe her to his
friend David, only as one of those phantoms, who
pass us by in the crowd of the world, and are no
more seen :—
One of those forms which flit by us when we
Are young, and fix our eyes on every face ;
And oh ! the loveliness at times we see
In momentary gliding, the soft grace,
The youth, the bloom, the beauty which agree
In many a nameless being we retrace,
Whose course and home we know not, nor shall know.
Like the lost Pleidad, seen no more below !
The young imagination of Margaret of Scotland
was greatly touched by the appearance of the
THE MAGICIAN. 157
lady; and when, in answer to her inquiries, she
was announced as the damsel of Laval, the guar­
dians of the princess hastened to advise her to
receive, with some mark of peculiar courtesy, the
daughter of one of the most distinguished men of
.the time. Sir Archibald Douglas, who chanced
to be standing near, was accordingly despatched
to invite her to approach; and all on a sudden,
he found himself thus thrown in contact with the
object of his admiring gaze.
The damsel, with her knight, and an escort of
four men-at-arms, had in the meantime fallen
behind; and Douglas, as he rode up to them,
observed her companion extend his hand hastily
towards the young lady’s bridle, as if to prevent
her advance. The Scot, however, delivered his
message, and Pauline de Laval accepted the invi­
tation promptly.
“ It will displease your father,” said the armed
knight, hastily, in a low voice, “ there are power­
ful reasons; and being here in his stead, I entreat
—nay, I—”
“ Sir!” exclaimed the damsel in a tone of sur­
158 THE MAGICIAN.
prise, as she turned her eyes upon his iron-veiled
face.
“ Tarry, and I will explain,” said he, in one of
those deep, full, melodious voices, which captivate
the ear, and win the confidence ; “ or at least
return promptly, and I will show my meaning, as
we follow the procession.” On this understanding
they parted ; and the damsel, with a radiant smile
to Douglas, put her palfrey to a pace which com­
pelled him to use his long spurs in order to keep
his ground by her side.
The interview with the bride lasted but fçr a
moment. As the young lady drew near, Margaret,
eitherprompted by her naturally affectionatedispo­
sition, or counselled by her guardians, opened her
arms, and would have embraced her ; but Made­
moiselle de Laval, leaping lightly from her horse,
bent her knee half way to the ground, and kissed
the little princess’s hand. She. then regained the
saddle as suddenly as she had descended, but not
before the ready Scot had had time to render her
such assistance as at least convinced him that she
was a being of earth’s mould ; and, with a glance
O
vuM
bvGoogle
— mi
THE MAGICIAN. 169
and bow, which he appropriated entirely to him-:
self, she bounded back to her attendants.
A turning of the road soon after concealed her
party from his view; but Douglas had observed,
just before they disappeared, that the same kind
of debate which he had witnessed, appeared to be
still going on. The knight was evidently attempt­
ing, as his gestures showed, to dissuade the damsel
from advancing in the path of the royal cortege ;
while her manner betrayed much more reluctance
to comply than could be accounted for, even by
girlish curiosity to see the princess’s reception
at Tours. Added to this, he had perceived the
knight, during the brief absence of his charge,
in closer and more confidential conference with the
men-at-arms, than their respective stations, and
the light nature of their present duty, seemed to
warrant; and these circumstances, which at the
present day, if marked at all, would leave no trace
upon the mind, filled the observer in the wild and
disjointed times of which we write, with anxiety
and suspicion.
This, we allow, may be traced in part to the
„Google
160 THE MAGICIAN.
interest which the singularly beautiful person with
whom his thoughts were busy had inspired, and
to the natural disappointment he felt at losing
sight of her so suddenly; but Douglas, besides,
brought up as he had been, in comparative seclu­
sion, was deeply imbued with the feelings of that
romantic chivalry which was already little more
than a tale of the olden time, and perhaps any
woman, in similar circumstances, would have pro­
duced the same course of thought and action.
After lingering for an instant, he disengaged him­
self quietly from the procession, and followed by
four men-at-arms, whom he had whispered, rode
back briskly, though without any appearance of
violent haste, to the turn of the road.
The line of road beyond was visible for several
miles without interruption, and yet was utterly
deserted. Douglas and his followers instantly
dashed into a side path, near which the objects of
their pursuit had been last seen ; and on reaching
an eminence, observed the four men-at-arms,
without their chief, scouring hastily away in
another direction, through the thicket. More
THE MAGICIAN. 161
than ever astonished at this spectacle, the Scot
continued to follow in the path at a headlong
gallop ; till at length a succession of shrieks in the
distance confirmed all his suspicions.
The knight and the damsel were sooninview; the
former grasping the bridle ofthe palfrey,and urging
the animal on to the pace of his own magnificent
horse; while Pauline de Laval, struggling with
her ravisher, rent the air with her screams as they
flew. Maddened by this sight, the young Scot
put his charger to his utmost speed, and gained
rapidly upon the ruffian knight. By dint of whip
and spur he was. soon near enough to make his
voice heard; which he did in the usual terms of
reproach and defiance, making known at the same
time in the gallant spirit of the age,the challenger’s
name, by the shout of “ Douglas to the rescue !”
The knight at first disregarded this salutation,
but on the sound coming nearer, he halted sud­
denly, leaped to the grouud, tied the forelegs of
the palfrey, and, regaining his seat in an instant,
put his lance in rest, and awaited the pursuer.
At this time one of the Scottish men-at-arms was
162 THE MAGICIAN.
in sight; and before Sir Archibald had approached
within the length of a cross-bow shot, or in other
words, near enough to allow the unknown to com­
mence advantageously his career, a second ap­
peared in view. Nothing daunted, however, by
the odds, even of three to one, the ravisher coolly
poised his lance, and awaited the proper moment
to spring. But before this came, the third and
fourth men-at-armswere in sight; and the knight,
after an instant’s hesitation, shook his arm threat­
eningly towards the damsel of Laval, and spurred
into the thicket.
“ You are in safety, Madam,” cried Douglas,
whose border blood was now running in a whirl­
pool; “ the royal cortege is at hand; and under
the escort of my trusty followers, no harm can
befall you. Permit me to ride after yonder re­
creant, and teach him —”
“ Hold 1” cried Mademoiselle de Laval, for the
knight was already commencing his ride as he
spoke; “ come hither—h ith eran d with a ges­
ture of her finger, which was irresistibly com­
manding, from the mere absence of all doubt as
vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 163
to its power of command, she drew him to her
side.
“ I must desire of you, Sir Knight,” continued
she, quietly, “ to add to the service you have
already rendered, by escorting me yourself in
person into Tours. It is a duty which, doubtless,
you feel to be at once more agreeable and more
honourable tha»that of pursuing a flying enemy.”
“As to the pleasure and the honour,” replied
Sir Archibald, “ they are only greater and richer
than I deserve; but, ruffian as he is, the fugitive
appears, in all respect of arms, to be worthy of
my sword ; and neither can he be said to have
been fairly vanquished, seeing that he only fled
from a force of five men—”
“ And a woman.”
“ Permit me, at least,” said Douglas, compelled
to smile in the midst of his chagrin, “ to inquire
the name and lineage of this recreant; that on
some future occasion I may finish the feud which
I hereby take upon me, most noble lady, in your
behalf, and in the name of St. Michael the arch­
angel.”
“ At the court of king Artus,” replied the
Google
164 THE MAGICIAN.
damsel, “ he is recognised as the Unknown—no,
as the Black Knight. May I venture to ask in
turn the style of his challenger? Have I the
honour of having obtained for a servant Sir Tristan,
Sir M^liadus, or Sir Lancelot ?—Sir Lanval, or Sir
Gruelan the faithful and beloved ?—or, in fine,
Sir Gauvain, he who dared the terrors of the
Enchanted Sword for the sake of-a kiss?”
“ I am none of these,” said the young knight,
blushing and smiling, as, notwithstanding his .
little acquaintance with the popular fabliaux of
the time, he could not help feeling he was quizzed.
“ I ani not even one of the worthies of the court
of king James, or of king Charles. My name is
Archibald; I am of a younger branch of the
Scottish house of Douglas; my domain consists
of a few acres of brown heath, called, in our
homely tongue, the Braes, with a border tower
rising from the banks of Tweed ; and, for fault of
fortune and occupation at home, I have brought
my father’s sword to the wars of France, and to
the service of the most amiable and lovely of her
daughters.”
“ Thanks, noble stranger,” said the young lady,
THE MAGICIAN. 165
dropping suddenly her tone of raillery, and blush­
ing in her turn, as she bestowed a momentary
glance ofsurprise and interest upon the ingenuous
countenance of the Scot,—‘ Here you have found
but a distracted country, and a wilful maiden, for
the exercise of your chivalry; but, if men say
true, even the meanest feud will furnish a field of
honour for the Bleeding Heart.” Douglas bowed,
even to his horse's neck, as with a flushing cheek
and glistening eye, he replied to this compliment
to his family.
“ I feel,” said he, “ that the name of my clan
will receive no stain at my hands: more espe­
cially,” he added, after an abrupt pause, and in
the spirit of an almost by-gone chivalry; “ more
especially, if Pauline de Laval will deign to
inspire me! yet, I pray y<ju to observe, and there­
upon I take you strongly to witness, that I am of
a younger branch—that I am poor and alone—
and that thus no discredit can reasonably attach
to the house, even if it should be the fate of
Archibald Douglas to fight undistinguished, and
fall unhonoured and unknown.”
Google
166 THE MAGICIAN.
While thus conversing, they were rapidly gain­
ing upon the procession; but when just about
to mingle with the last of the crowd, Pauline
hung back.
“Touching the knight,” said she, “ of whom
you have inquired, it would be bootless for you to
know his name, and worse than bootless to pursue
the feud. Powerless himself, he is protected by
a power with which it would be madness to
contend. Let it suffice to know—if indeed you
take more interest in the subject than concerns
your own fame—that I am safe for the future,
and that, so far from renewing his attempt, he
will never morp dare even to meet the eye of
Pauline de Laval.”
They had now gained the town, the streets of
which displayed, on a small scale, the same sort
of confusion and magnificence described in the
opening chapter of this work. The bride was
mounted on a white horse, whose bridle, studded
with gems, was held on each side by a distin­
guished noble of the French court. After her
came a brilliant train of ladies, likewise mounted,
Googlt
THE MAGICIAN. 167
and dressed uniformly, with hats of extraordinary
height, and long white veils depending from the
crown. Then followed two chariots filled with
ladies; and then a troop of gentlemen of the
French and Scottish courts.
The procession stopped at the château, on the
banks of the river, which wa6 the royal residence ;
andMargaret,dismounting, was led in by the Count
de Vendôme and a Scottish earl, and met in the
great hall by the queen of France, the queen of
Sicily, the princess Radigonde, natural daughter
of the king, the Countess de Vendôme, and other
distinguished persons. Immediately after, the
boy-dauphin entered, and the future Louis XI.
kissed his little wife, when the ceremonial of the
scene was at an end.
During the whole of this time the pertinacious
Scot had remained by mademoiselle de Laval ;
and as soon as the reception was over they pro­
ceeded together to her father’s house. This
mansion, though but rarely occupied by the lord
de Retz, was little inferior in magnificence to the
royal château ; and Sir Archibald’s heart sunk
within him at the view—he knew not why.
Gooqle
168 THU MAGICIAN.
' “ Alas!” thought he, gazing, as if unwillingly,
at the palace-walls before him, with their rich and
vast gardens swelling on the one side, and the
broad and beautiful Loire rolling its silver tide on
the other. “Alas, my poor little border-tower, and
its heather hills, and the brawling Tweed below!”
When they had dismounted, and were just
about entering the house, a clatter of horses’
hoofs was heard behind them, and an old man,
wholly unattended, spurred into the court. Doug­
las’s heart beat, for he thought, by the sudden
emotion displayed by Pauline, that this must be
the lord de Retz; but a single glance, when the
horseman had dismounted, served to banish the
idea. He was a man apparently not under
seventy years of age; although the keen expres­
sion and extreme brightness of his eyes, indicated
an unabated freshness and vigour, both of mind
and body. Surmounting the ordinary habili­
ments, he wore a garment resembling the oriental
kaftan. The colour was black, but the material
of the richest silk, and minutely figured with such
antique and unintelligible devices, as showed that
the fabric belonged to another country, and per-
Gooqle
THE MAGICIAN. 169
haps to another age. The most remarkable
appendage of the wearer, however, was a beard of
*
extraordinary length, and so intensely white as to
give an unworldly air to the whole figure. The
damsel of Laval bent before him with what seemed
to be habitual reverence, mingled with astonish­
ment.
“ I am happy,” she faltered, “ yet surprised—”
“ To see thine ancient friend,” Baid the old man,
with a benign smile, “ a hundred miles from where
you supposed him to be? This morning, however,
I discovered a neglect which might have led thee
into danger.”
“ This morning!”
“ Ay, or yesterday, or a week ago—what matters
it ? and I am here, in time, I find, to congratulate
thee on thy escape, and to present my fervent
thanks to thy deliverer.”
“ Had the damsel of Laval permitted me," said
Douglas, “ I should indeed have deserved your
thanks, by avenging her quarrel on the ruffian.
“ She was wiser than thou. In the hands of
that ruffian thou wouldst have beenbut asa wand.”
VOL. i. i
170 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Even bo, messire, to chastise him withal,”
said the Scot, reddening: “ but, methinks the
neglect you acknowledge, since you could not
have known of my timely presence, would have
been best remedied by sending before you some
trusty followers of the Lord de Retz, to the relief
of his daughter.” The young lady looked dis­
tressed, and even alarmed at this taunt, but the
old man did not appear even to have heard it.
“ The neglect," said he, in a tone almost of soli­
loquy,” was natural. How could I have thought
of suspecting danger? He was the lineal de­
scendant of my sister—he is the only being who
can count kindred with me uponearth. Howbeit,
were he my own son, he shall pay the forfeit of
his crime. He loves thee, lady. It was his pur­
pose to carry thee off by force to a far island in
the midst of the sea—farther still than Madeira,
and beyond even the uttermost cape of Bojador;
and there, untrammelled by the distinctions of
wealth and rank, to have made thee his for ever.
Fool! he thought to fly from me ! as if my eye
could not see him, and my hand reach him, were
(wtodb
»Google
THE MAGICIAN. 171
he in the depths of ocean itself! But his life is
forfeit Speak the word, Pauline de Laval, and
he dies in thy presence.”
" I demand not his death,” said Pauline, “ nay,
I beg his life of you, as a boon. Let him go, if
he lists, to the regions of that far island. Such as
he will be received with welcome by prince Henry
of England; and in the service of that explorer of
unknown seas, his rank and adventurous spirit may
yet win for him honour and renown.
“ So be it,” said the old man, “ my unworthy
kinsman shall set forth for Sagres, by the light of
this day’s sun, to seek the English prince.”
Such was Douglas’s first adventure in France,
or rather, we ought to say, its commencement.
Had Pauline de Laval appeared to him all on a
sudden as the daughter ofone of the greatest lords
in Europe, it isprobable that the wandering knight
would have regarded her as “somebright particular
star,” fit only to be worshipped at the distance of
that impassable space interposed between them.
But the fame even of the lord de Retz had as yet
hardly penetrated to the Ultima Thule of the Scot­
i 2
172 THE MAGICIAN.
tish border ; and Pauline was beloved as a wo­
man before Douglas knew that in rank and fortune
she was only beneath a queen.
There had been something so dazzling about the
career of the lord de Retz, that most men imagined
his constant good fortune to be more than natural.
Left an orphan heir at twenty years of age, brave,
generous, accomplished, and the handsomest of the
handsome, there would have been nothing extra­
ordinary in a moderate portion of prosperity. But
the favours of that destiny which is called acci­
dent, descended upon him in a continuous shower ;
and, as in the case of King Midas, everything he
touched seemed to be turned into gold. In addi­
tion to his own large fortune, the beautiful Ca­
therine de Thouars brought him a queenly dowry
when he was only twenty-four ; and by the death
of relations, one after another, he inherited estate
after estate, till his possessions extended over
several provinces in France and Brittany.
As a soldier, he was equally brave, skilful, and
fortunate. Besides his other almost daily exploits,
Charles VII. was indebted to him for the château
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 173
of Lude, which he captured with great valour, slay­
ing the commandant; and he chased the English,
unassisted bythe king, from the fortress ofRenne­
fort, and that of Malicorne on the Maine. In 1429
he was the principal ally of the Maid ofOrleans, in
throwing supplies into the city ; and he was one of
the great chiefs who, in the midst of this mighty
revolution, solemnly anointed Charles at Reims.
Count and marshal of France, and privy-counsellor
and chamberlain of the king, and afterwards lieu­
tenant-general of Brittany, his native country,
under John V., the possessor of more estates,
as the historians of the time relate, than his
memory served him to reckon by their names—
Gilles de Retz, at the commencement of our story,
was still in the very flower of life, being little
more than forty years of age.
It was only by degrees the Scottish stranger
learnt the true rank of his mistress ; and not until
certain passages had taken place between them—
imperceptible indeed to the world, but O, how im­
portant in the journals of the heart !— which
would have made it equally base and impossible
«.»Google
174 THE MAGICIAN.
to retract. As for Pauline, ever since the above
adventure, her young heart was in such a flutter
of fear and delight, that she had no time to in­
quire into the nature of the spell which bound
her. Hitherto her admirers had been the rude and
ignorant barons of her own country, or those hired
mercenaries whose trade was not noble war, but
blood and plunder. Douglas, in the midst of
such men, appeared like some phantom knight
whom her fancy had conjured up from its stores of
tradition and romance. At first she could hardly
comprehend him; and her heart, already drilled
into the cold forms of the world, almost distrusted
an enthusiasm so new to her outward senses, yet
so familiar iu her dreams. Even when she fully
understood his character, he remained separated
in her imagination from the breathing mass of
mankind ; and in those moments when the mind
is accustomed to flee away from the realities of
life into the regions of poetry and fiction, it was
he who was the genius of the song, the hero of
the tale—an impersonation of the brave, the gene­
rous, and the beautiful. Let us add, although the
Google
D«g<ti2
0
d
THE MAGICIAN. 175
observation is trite, that the very difference in
their fortunes must have presented something
piquant to the fancy of Pauline; and that the
vista along which her spirit looked, must have
been not the less tempting for those obstacles in
the way, which the heart of eighteen knows to be
impossibilities, yet hopes to surmount.
Douglas was not long of discovering, that the
old man was a very important person in the family
of the lord de Retz.
“ Make Orosmandel your friend,” was the con­
stant injunction of the damsel; but to her lover’s
simple question, “ Why ?” she could give no
satisfactory answer.
“ Is he noble ? is he wealthy ? is he high in
office ? has he an army of vassals at his beck ?
has he the ear of the kings of the time ?”
“ No, no, no. He has no rank, no commaud—
he is moneyless, landless, and alone. He is an
Arab, and his name is Orosmandel^ and that is all
even my father knows. He is kind, gentle, and
humane; but his resolves are as irrevocable as
destiny. I do not comprehend him. He appears
D
w
»edbvGoogle
176 THB MAGICIAN'.
to do nothing, yet everything is done according to
his desire. He rarely stirs from our château, on
the banks of the Erdre, yet there are traces of him
everywhere. My father, who would not brook a
haughty glance from a throned king, is his obe­
dient, revering, helpless child ; and I, a spoiled
and wilful maid, although I love more than fear
him, feel as if I only existed by his permission.”
“ Then,” said Douglas, "he is either a sorcerer
or a man of genius, and I shall try to make Oros-
mandel my friend.”
The knight passed a considerable portion of a
year at Tours, and then accompanied the king to
the siege of Montereau, while the damsel returned
to her accustomed home in the city of Nantes.
As this was previous to the commencement of our
story, the reader will not demand a detailed ac­
count of the parting of the lovers. That Douglas,
however, was still sustained by some kind of wild
and indefinite hopes, may be inferred from the
fact, that his chief purpose, in seeking out his
friend at Paris, was to invite the student to ac­
company him on a journey into Brittany, which
D
.grt««)b,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 177
he meditated. The sudden apparition of his mis­
tress at the theatre, atte nded by the good or evil
genius of the family, bewildered him so much,
that at first he could form no plan of action; but
at length, with the cus tomary frankness of his
nature, determining that the boldest was the best
policy, he watched the moment of their leaving
the boxes, and joined them in the street. The
result of this interview must be given hereafter,
for we have only too long delayed inquiring into
the consequence of Philip Armstrong’s playing the
devil.
l 3
Google
178
CHAPTER VII.
On the morning after David Armstrong’s ex­
hibition at the theatre, the first faint glimmering
of the dawn disclosed him and his three comrades
lying, as usual, in one room, buried in sleep.
Their beds were four heaps of straw, covered
with a ragged woollen cloth, and for a pillow
each had under his head a bundle of straw bound
with thongs, which the students of the university
were in the habit of carrying with them to the
class to sit upon. The apartment was large, but
dreary and desolate; the floor was covered with
litter ; and every here and there the large stones
of the wall were seen bare, and rough, denuded
of the plaster which had adorned them in the
days of yore.
Digitizedby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 179
Three of the four sleepers seemed to have but
one character among them. They had fair hair,
clear skins, and a mddy complexion. Their fore­
heads were broad and massive; their noses firmly
set; and their mouths, though pencilled in the
rounded lines of youth, exhibited a certain rigidity,
expressive of firmness and determination. Two
of them were tall rather than otherwise, and
strongly built; but Nigel was almost a giant.
They all three slept as if soul and body had been
alike unconscious. David, who was the hand­
somest of the four, was also the palest, owing, no
doubt, to his midnight vigils; his brow was loftier
than the others, and the whole head more intel­
lectual. His sleep was troubled; his breath came
thick and unequal; and his lips moved uneasily.
At length, starting as a stronger beam of light
touched his eyelids, he awoke and sat up in his
bed.
“ And am I here after all ?” said he, “ and was
it nothing more than a trick of the enchanter
Morpheus, the ‘figures formator,’ as Ovid truly
describeth him? Here!—and for the last time!
Di( Google
180 THE MAGICIAN.
No more shall the tiptoe visits of Aurora find me
on this straw, a too reluctant Cephalus! No
more shall 1 tread these venerable walks of
Cadmus—‘ In sylvis Academi quserere verum !’
And ye, my comrades, or, rather, my children—
my babes, as I may call them, for whom my heart
yearns, even like the heart of a mother—what
will become of you ? Well may you groan,
Bauldy, a sure sign that you are nigh the waking;
well may you hitch up your leg, Andrew, like a
demoniac in the spasms; well may you shrink,
my huge Nigel, like Tityus from his vultures,
when he lay in hell, covering with his body nine
acres of the burnt ground ! What had I to do
with Hashmodai ? What was it to me if he had
repeated the forty thousand verses of the De­
struction of Troyes, and had been wrong in every
verse? But yet it was indeed a torment to hear
the dunce; and to do the citizens justice, they
proved that they could appreciate talent, as well
as condemn stupidity. Oh, it was a grand mo­
ment !—Hem!
“ Devils of liell, horned and horrible !—”
Google
0«!
THE MAGICIAN. 18!
“ The Lord save us !” cried Bauldy, and Nigel,
and Andrew, with one voice, as they started from
their sleep at this invocation, and sat up in their
beds.
“ Is it clubs, David?” cried Nigel, swinging
round his arm, so as to grasp conveniently a huge
weapon of the kind, which lay within reach.
“ Who named the name of the Evil One ?”
demanded Bauldy in dismay.
“And at this blessed time of the morning,”
added Andrew.
“ It was I,—Hashmodai the damned!” and
David sprung from his couch, threw himself into
a true demoniac attitude, and went on with the
quotation :
“ Devils of hell, homed and horrible !
Great and small, with eyes of basilisks !
Infamous dogs, what has become of you ?”
“ Excellent ! excellent !” cried the awakened au­
dience: “ Bis! Bis! Hashmodai! Hashmodai!”
“ It is enough, my sons,” said the master
student ; “ Hashmodai has played his part, and so
„Google
162 THB MAGICIAN.
let him rest. Now up with ye, sire, one and all,
and shake yourselves well; and dash your heads
into the water-pail; and put your fingers through
your hair; and draw your cloaks evenly upon
your shoulders; and so look 6eemly and respect­
able. And now, countrymen and lovers, lend me
your ears!”
As David went on gravely and methodically
with an account of the circumstances of the pre­
ceding evening, the three young men testified the
amusement they received by shouts of mirth; and
more especially, when he repeated the bitter jokes
he had taken the liberty of introducing on the
subject of the University, they laughed till the
tears ran down their cheeks. But when all was
concluded, they became suddenly silent, and
looked inquiringly into one another’s faces; while
a kind of dismay seemed to creep overtheirminds,
as the reflection forced itself upon them, of what
must be the consequence of their friend’s exploit.
“And now, my friends,” continued David, “you
are aware that in our days the scholastic discipline
has suffered at least a partial relaxation. We no
THE MAGICIAN. 183
longer, for instance, stand at our tasks naked
from the waist upwards, that we may receive more
feelingly the regent’s stripes. But what of that ?
These were honourable inflictions, and left no
shame behind. The penal laws, however, of the
University, are the same to-day as formerly; and,
as the statutes describe, for acting immodest pieces,
or impugning on the stage the character of the
Light of the Faith, the offending scholar must
suffer publicly, ‘supra dorsum nudum, pulsante
campana.’ Think of that—on his bare back, to
the tolling of their infernal bell!”
The audience groaned.
“ And now, sirs,” he went on, “ as for such a
degradation befalling me, who am an Armstrong,
as you well know, and a near cousin of the name
of Douglas by the mother’s side, it is of course out
of the question: but being so, it behoves me to take
the wings of this blessed morning, and flee away.”
“ Whither ?” cried the three in one breath.
“ Whither the Lord willeth,” answered David,,
looking upwards, “ for I am even as a straw let
loose upon the wind, to go wheresoever the wind
shall carry it.”
d^ o
o
*Google
184 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Let there be four straws of U6 then,” cried
Bauldy, “ and let us all go where the Lord
willeth.”
“ By no means,” said Nigel. “ Let us thrash
the witnesses till we turn their tongue3 inside
out.”
“ Nay, nay,” suggested Andrew, “ we know not
what even an hour may bring forth. I et us wait
till the last moment, and then either fight or flee,
as occasion may require.”
“ Hold your tongues, sirs, I desire you 1” said
David, “ How dare you speak of such a thing to
me ? Is it likely, think you, that I should consent
to take you from under the maternal wings of the
University, when, as God shall judge me, I know
not where this night to lay my own head ? The
days of knight-errantry are past and gone, or we
might even sally forth, and take our share with the
rest, of anything that was going,blowsor pudding;
but for decent men’s sons, and students of polite
learning to boot, to turn themselves into ruffians,
who fight for an hire, it is a thing I would
neither permit nor countenance. And, in what
D«gdiz«nJby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 185
other way would ye propose to get your living ?
Do you know the mysteries by heart, like me, so
that you might enter into some strolling brother­
hood of the Passion? Or are ye qualified to en­
list under the banner of the King of theMinstrels?
Or wouldyesing litanies in the streets of Paris, for
your miserable bread, and lie at night, higgledy
piggledy, under the bridges, with the thieves and
ill women of the profane side of the river—the
Transtiberian bank, as I may stigmatize it, seeing
that it is there such offensive trades are carried on?
No, no, Bauldy—no, Nigel—no, Andrew, ye must
still continue, lads, to live decently, and cultivate
humane learning; and, if it should be the fate of
David Armstrong to sink in the whirl of that
world on which his fate or follies have cast him,
he will sink alone, and so his moan will be the
sooner made.”
A deep silence followed this oration; during
which, David arranged hiscloak upon hisshoulders,
looked at the window, which was now brightening
in the early sun, and turned ever and anon a fur­
tive glance at his companions. As the moment of
Digitized by Google
186 THE MAGICIAN.
his exodus drew near, the four friendless lads felt
the ties that had bound them together in a foreign
land, drawn tighter and tighter over their hearts.
At last a sudden sob was heard, though manfully
smothered in a clearing of the throat; and the
youthful giant Nigel strode forward with an un­
steady step, and looking down upon the castaway,
addressed him in these words.
“ It is of no use, daddy David; you have more
sense than us all three put together, and if you
withdraw your counsel, we shall only get brained
some night by the other students, or hanged some
morning by the University. Besides, if any of us
have a chance of getting on inthis kind of priest­
craft, it is you; and to lose the labour of years for
a joke, is not to be thought of. Touching the
matter of the public Hogging, it is no doubt a sore
thing both for soul and body, but what of that ?
My father, honest man, though a kinsman of
yours, was little better than a reiver himself; and
it may be, that I am some whit thicker in the
mind, as well as skin,'than you. My shoulders, too,
are broad enough to bear the burden of a still
THE MAGICIAN. 187
greater transgression ; and in short, sit you down
at your ease, cousin, and do not throttle yourself in
that fashion with your cloak. The whole three of
us will make oath that you are as innocent of
Hashmodai as the babe unborn; and, for your
sake, David, I will take all upon myself, devil,
whip, and bell!”
“ Shame upon you !” said David, in strong agi­
tation, “ and you a kinsman of the Armstrongs,
and a kindly Scot! Away, I have done with you!
begone! And to think that I would let them tear
your young flesh and crush your proud spirit to
save my own, when you knew well I would lay
down my life for yours! Fye, lad, fye! Come
here, you overgrown whelp. Nigel! May the
Lord bless and preserve you for ever!” and David»
unable to struggle longer with his feelings, hid
his face on his friend’s bosom, and lifted up his
voice, and wept. In the midst of the sobs of the
whole party, there were heard, at some distance,
the ominous sounds of a bell.
“It is enough,” said David, disengaging himself
from the Herculean clasp of his cousin, “ You
Google
188 THE MAGICIAN.
have betrayed me into a girl’s weakness, Nigel;
but since I see we are all pot and kettle in the
business, it is the less matter. It was my purpose,
lads, to have said a parting word for your benefit;
but, as time presses, I can do little more than bid
you remember, in all your outgoings and incomings
in the world, that you are Scottish and Christian
men. For yourselves, individually, take no
thought; but bear constantly in mind, that you
belong to'your race and nation, and that your con­
duct may reflect either honour or discredit upon
your fathers before you, and your children after
you. Abstain from the cup, except in so far as
decency and good manners permit. If you are
offered a drink in moderation, take it without
grudging, as one who is willing to make a due
return when circumstances permit. But it is
always a thriftless expenditure to buy wine for a
man’s own mouth ; which is a subject, however, on
the which I need not enlarge, seeing that you are"
not likely often to have the price of a bottle in
your purse. Of that other and more fatal cup,
drugged with the Circsean enchantmentsofbeauty,
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 189
I say unto you, beware! If you have left behind
you a fair and innocent mistress, or, if you bear
enshrined in your fancy some lovely Vision, of
which you hope to fall in with the reality on earth,
invokethat saving angel in the hour of temptation !
Avoid evil company; or if that is impossible, look
upon it even as manners look upon a beacon on
the shore—a sign to warn and deter, not to invite.
Fail not, night and morning, to address yourselves
to God, and the Blessed Virgin, at your lying
down, and rising up; and finally, my dear friends,
at some odd moments now and then, in those
pauses pf life when the wearied heart retires into
the past, think—kindly if you can—of David
Armstrong!” The bell was now heard nearer
and nearer; and the young men wrung one
another’s hands, while silent tears were raining
down their cheeks. David stepped upon the ledge
of the window; but it was not till the tread of the
authorities was heard ascending the stairs, that he
sprang into the back court below, and disappeared
among the buildings of the college.
He had truly said, that he knew not where
Digitized by Google
190 THE MAGICIAN.
that night to lay his head; and yet it must not
be supposed that David, even in so sudden and
unforeseen an emergency, was without his plans
and purposes. The stranger, whom messire Jean
had called Prelati, was perhaps not precisely the
sort of person whom, under ordinary circum­
stances, he would have chosen for a patron; but
still, even before his self-expulsion from the uni­
versity, he had balanced within himself as to
whether he might not try his service for a while.
This man was without a single mean or cruel trait
in his countenance; and the only gleam of fierce­
ness he had exhibited was when virtually accused
by the adept of contemplating an ungenerous
action. Was it not possible that the latter, when
he regarded him as an incarnate demon, was
under the influence of the worse demon of avarice?
And might not the great bulk of Prelati’s trans­
gressions amount to the fact—which David did not
consider a very heavy matter—of his being as
ready as his neighbours to redeem the spoil of the
Egyptians on every feasible occasion, from the
fangs of the Jew.
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 191
If such had been his reflections before his
fateful visit to the theatre, it may be supposed that
this favourable hypothesis was strengthened, if
not altogether confirmed, by the appearance of
the Arabian philosopher. Orosmandel was doubt­
less the “ friend” alluded to as the master of the
lord de Retz, in some science still more sublime
than alchemy; and well might Prelati smile at
the Jew’s mistake, in connecting such a man with
the idea of the prince of darkness! A mild dig­
nity was the chief characteristic of his face—a
dignity arising, not from external, but intellectual
grandeur; and David recognised, through all
their disparity of years and figure, a sort of
family resemblance between him and the subter­
ranean visitor, which, without derogating from
the former, exalted the latter to a tenfold pitch in
his imagination.
But, even supposing his favourable opinion to
be founded in error, David, whose nerves were
good, considered that, with the sense both of
mind and body open, he should run but little risk.
Something good might befall him. The lord de
D
^
izodbvGoogle
192 THfc MAGICIAN.
Retz, however short of ready money at the present
moment, had the character of being both wealthy
and generous. On the spot he would have an
opportunity of serving his friend, Sir Archibald,
either by furthering his love plans—for he had
read the history in a glance—or by detaching him
at once from a hopeless pursuit. And as for
danger, if such should prove to exist, he was per­
fectly ready to trust to a quick eye, a ready hand,
and, if need were, a clean pair of heels—always,
over and above, the protection of the most holy
Virgin, and the blessed St. Bride. “ The Marma-
ridse,” concluded he, with a quaint erudition,
which in his time was not the small pedantry of a
village schoolmaster, “ the Marmaridae, as we find
in the verses of Caius Silius Italicus, lived among
serpents, and were poison-proof!”
Such were his reflections on his way home from
the theatre ; where, in all probability, his exploit
was proximately caused by that sort of recklesB
desperation, which sometimes prompts a hesitating
climber to end the debate, by kicking the support
from under him. Till then he had an idea almost
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 193
equally strong, of continuing, as usual, bis re*
search after the philosopher’s stone; in the hope
that the demerits of the Jew would be overlooked
out of regard to the merits of the Christian. But
now the thing was settled. The university was
as sharp as the law in looking after its victims;
and unless he was content to dwell for life with
his unbelieving master, “ burrowing,” as he said
“ in dens and caves, like the Troglodytse,” he
must quit Paris instanter. As for Douglas's pro­
posal, that he should turn a military adventurer,
he knew very well that dry blows were, as often
as otherwise, the lot of such desperadoes, whom
every body was anxious to get rid of the moment
their services could be dispensed with. This pro­
fession would by no n.. ans do for one who sought
fortune as a means of omfort and independence ;
and the student had letermined, rather than em­
brace it, to enlist a ong those explorers of un­
known seas and far-away lands, whose fame was
now beginning to ring throughout Europe; and
so give himself a chance of falling in with some
new Pactolus, whose tide rolled over golden sands,
VOL. I. K
Digtiized Oy Google
194 THE MAGICIAN.
The Hebrew maid, whose sudden appearance in
her own character, was the real cause of the com­
motion which had taken place in his mind, and
the change, as it appeared, in his destinies, was a
subject on which he had not permitted himself to
dwell. It was enough that a barrier existed be­
tween them which hope itself could not overleap;
and even when contemplating the possibility of
his still remaining her father’s assistant, he looked
upon her as on some disembodied shape that
might haunt him like a spirit, but whom he must
never more think of as a woman. Still, when seek­
ing his way, as he did now, by by-paths, to her
dwelling, with almost the certainty of seeing her—
if, indeed, he saw her at all—for the last time, he
experienced a sensation more painful than it had
ever before been his lot to endure. A portion of
this might, no doubt, be accounted for by the
parting scene he had just undergone, and by
the loneliness and desolation of heart he must
have felt in his present outcast situation; but,
however this may be, when he reached the ruined
buildings, and was about to enter the door, and to
Digmi Google
THE MAGICIAN. 196
breathe the atmosphere where she lived, and moved,
and had her being, he felt as if he would have
fallen to the ground.
At this hour he knew it would be necessary to
make his descent by the dwelling-house, and,
lifting the latch softly, he entered the humble and
ruinous abode. All was so still, and had so dreary
an aspect, that he began to hope painfully, that
the mysterious family had vanished; but the next
moment the daughter of messire Jean stood before
him in her usual ghost-like fashion.
“ Thou hast tarried,’’ said she, while a slight
colour rose into her cheek, “ my father hath
watched all night for thy coming.”
“ Damsel—” replied David.
“ My name is Hagar.”
“ Hagar ! It is the name of the bondwoman
who wandered of old, fainting, in the wilderness of
Beer-sheba. It is the name of an Egyptian;”
and the scholar seemed to derive some satisfaction
from the idea.
“ It is a type of our nation! Even so wander-
k 2
„Google
196 THE MAGICIAN.
eth Israel to this day, cast forth, and forsaken of
God and man—weary, heavy in heart, and way-
sore !”
“ It is you who forsook and were not forsaken.
Turn again, O daughter of Jacob, and God and
man will receive thee !”
“ It may not be. We await, like [Hager, the
coming of One who will show unto us a well in
the wilderness, saying, ‘Fear not; for I will make
of thee a mighty nation !’ Pass on, stranger to
our race, and take no thought of the daughter of
the desert!” She turned away, as she spoke, and
led the way into the interior; but when just about
to descend the ladder which conducted to the sub­
terranean chambers, she again spoke, approaching
a step nearer to the listener.
“ David,” said she. David started, and an in­
describable thrill shot through his frame.
“ Wy father, thou knowest, is sorely beset, and
his judgment is clouded by reason of the dangers
that encompass him. Accept not of the ad­
vancement he will offer thee. Tarry with him, if
)g!c
THE MAGICIAN. 197
thou wilt, till he is able to flee away from this city
of death; but follow not his footsteps, neither go
thou before—not for a king’s ransom !”
“ And you?” said David, in a tone of breathless
interest •
“ As for me,” she replied, smiling sadly, “ I
am accustomed to wander alone in the wilderness.
Take no thought of Hagar ;—but heed well her
words, which concern thy life—peradventure thy
soul I” and stepping upon the ladder, she disap­
peared in the abyss. David followed, like a man
in a dream.
* Messire Jean was sitting, as usual, at his table,
but from habit, as it seemed, more than business :
for that furnace was now cold, which was wont
to be watched as religiously as the sacred fire of
the Pareees. When David went in, announced
by his daughter, the old man did not at first raise
his head ; and when he spoke, there was a hesita­
tion, amounting even to timidity, in the tone of
his voice.
“Thou hast tarried, my son,” said he, “ but thy
fortune waiteth. Behold, our fire is out; and that
198 THB MAGICIAN.
shall let thee know that a voice of no little
potency hath called me, and that I must perforce
turn back, even with my foot upon the last step,
and go forth again into the world. Without me,
thou canst not continue the search, for thou hast
neither means nor instruction; but I have cared
for thee, even in the midst of my travail, and I
have found thee a new friend, and according to
the calculation of men, fairer prospects. What
sayest thou? Art thou content? Wilt thou
forth, even this night, in the path I shall
show ?”
“ Show it me, and I shall answer: If I am to
go forth, tell me whither; and if I am to serve—
for I guess it is not to command—say who is to
be my master, and what my wages.”
“ How ! Art thou in a condition to make terms?
Where be thy lands, and thy moneys ? Is thy
cloak whole, that thou shouldst stand up, and say
unto me, Do this, and this ?”
“ I have no land, nor money,’’ replied the stu­
dent ; " my garments are no longer new; and I
am this morning an outcast from the University.
tbffrtUi Google
THE MAGICIAN. 199
Speak, for the time passes; and ere the coining of
the night, I have to provide myself with a shelter
from my pursuers, and with a place whereon to
lay my head.”
“ These things will I provide,” said the Jew
eagerly, while his constraint was replaced by an
air of visible satisfaction; “ Is it not our duty to
be a father to the fatherless, and to take the wan­
derer in? If harm comes of it, is it the fault of
the benefactor ? These things are in the hands of
the Almighty; but thou, valiant David, who wast
bom when the Sun was in the sign of the Lion,
thy planet is stationary, and thou needest fear no
evil.”
“ In other words, I may escape destruction, pro­
vided my hand can protect my head.”
“ Destruction ! Is it destruction to serve in the
laboratory of a philosopher, who is protected by
the greatest lord in Europe ? Go to, thou art
still a boy. And yet I bid thee not slumber, as if
thou wert in thy mother’s cradle—that were a
counsel unworthy of my age, since it is written
that ‘years should speak, and multitude of days
Google
200 THE MAGICIAN.
teach wisdom.” Are not the watchful and the
bold more likely to succeed than the heedless and
timid? I will give thee a sword, good David
Strongarm, and a dagger which thou wilt wear in
thy girdle, and a suit of new raiment; and in the
family of the lord de Retz thou wilt flourish ex­
ceedingly—and yet never cease to be wary. But
what wilt thou do in turn for me, thou who hast
eaten of my bread, and drank of my cup? Lo, I
demand of thee but a very little thing. Stand
back, daughter—silence, for I will not hear thee !
Get thee gone, and prepare the morning meal. I
am even as a stranger here, good David; for while
tarrying in this place, year after year, absorbed in
the great work, the world hath passed by, and
forgotten me. I have no one to whom I can say,
Do this, and he doth it; and to you alone, of all
the myriads of mankind around me, can I open
my lips. The task, I know, is unfit for thy years;
but thou art wise and sober-minded, as well as
faithful and brave; and wert thou none of these,
thou art my only stay, and I must trust thee. I
have a daughter—”
THE MAGICIAN. 201
David started.
“ Tarry, for I will be brief. I mean the young
woman who was wout to bring in thy supper, she
who was here even now—didst thou mark her ?”
The student flushed to the roots of the hair;
but he replied only by a calm inclination of the
head.
“ It is needful that she set out this day, towards
the dusk of the evening, for the city called Nantes,
where our kinsfolk dwell ; tarrying as little as
possible by the way, more especially till she hath
passed the frontiers of France. Now the service
I have to beg of thee is this : to permit the girl
to travel so far in thy company, and, if need be,
under thy protection. What! thou refusest?
Verily, it is on the road to the château of the lord
de Retz; it will not put thee out thy way an
inch ; and Hagar—I would say'the young woman
—is modest in her speech. She will be no more
trouble to thee than a spaniel dog, who followeth
his master without being called or driven. Verily,
it is but a little thing 1" David, to whom an
idea like this had never occurred as within the
k 3
202 THE MAGICIAN*
range of mundane possibilities, was in a profuse
perspiration.
“ It is not a little thing, it is a weighty matter,”
stammered he atlast, “ young women, I haveheard,
are uncanny gear; but, nevertheless, I will do
your bidding; and the Virgin grant I get well
over it!’’
On hearing this acquiescence, a weight seemed
to be taken off the old man’s mind; and, untying
a bundle, he produced an entire suit of clothes,
including a hat, and a serviceable, if not a hand­
some cloak ; for which David exchanged upon the
spot such remnants as still remained upon his
back of his scholar’s apparel. The alchemist then
presented him with a sword and dagger, the latter
of which he fastened with his own hands, in such
a way that it was entirely concealed; and the
student remarked, as an unusual circumstance, that
his clothes and belt were expressly adapted for
this purpose.
He was now better dressed than ever he had
been in his life; his hand grasped a sword which
was his own ; and steady as the mind of the ex­
»Google
THE MAGICIAH. 203
scholar usually was, a flush of youthful confidence
rose to his brow, and he walked several paces
down the cavern, with a step so elastic that he
seemed to tread on air.
“ Have you nothing else to ask of me ?" said
he, returning, “ for, by S t Bride, this were goodly
payment, were the service to transport even the
fury Megssra to Nantes, of whom, as Anneeus
Lucanus testifies, Hercules himself was afraid.
What will become of you when we are gone?
You will doubtless follow, for so I predicate from
the extinction of the furnace, as soon as you are
able. Do you want no assistance—no strong and
trusty arm ?”
u For what ? Have I not given up the Search ?
And what elBe should make secrecy desirable ?”
* I spoke not of secrecy,” replied David, his lip
curling with disdain at the Jew’s dissimulation,
“ but be it even as you will.”
“ And yet, is there anything better than
secrecy,” resumed meseire Jean, “ in troubled
times like these? When I said unto thee, Be
watchful, and be bold, I should have said like-
o«tf,t«iwGoogle
204 THE MAGICIAN,
wise, Be secret! Thou art the sou of a people
who, as men relate, are all three. Be there more
of you, good David, at the University ?”
“ Go, seek at the Scottish college,” answered
David, who would not lose the opportunity of
serving his friends, “ and take the first you meet,
for you cannot go wrong: hut more especially, if
you meet first with one .who shall remind you of
a poplar tree, or a cedar of Lebanon, or a church
steeple, you may think that you have fallen in
with as true and brave a fellow as ever cried
‘clubs !’at a friend’s need.”
“ Then let him come to me,” said the alchemist
eagerly, “ for I know not how my eyes may serve
me in the unwonted light of day. Let him come
to-morrow night to the upper dwelling. ShalL it
be so without fail?” .
“ Without fail.”
MThen fare thee well, good David Strongarm,
When thou returnest in the twilight, thou shalt
find my daughter awaiting thee at the door, and
alone. Remember the words of my mouth: Be
secret, bold, and watchful! Now go.” But he
,Google
V
still continued to grasp the young man’s hand,
while he looked in his face with an expression, in
which David, instructed as he was, was able to
read at once, affection, pity, and remorse. At
length he undid the convulsive pressure; and,
repeating in a tone of solemn warning the Word,
Remember! he pushed him towards the door, and
turned away.
Hagar was waiting in the vestibule ; and they
both ascended the stairs without exchanging a
word. When they reached the door, and were in
the light of day—
“ You see,” said David, with an attempt at
gaity, which was almost ludicrous in the relation
in which they stood at that moment with each
each other, “ You see that I am now somewhat
better fitted to be the esquire of dames1”
“ I know not,” replied she coldly; “ I am a
Jewess, and understand not the needs of chi­
valry.”
“ Then, adieu, till the evening.”
“ Stay, I meant not to hurt thee: but—no
matter. A single word, lest I may not have
THE MAGICIAN. 205
Google
206 THE MAGICIAN.
opportunity again to speak it. Thou bearest a
dagger at thy girdle: it is a talisman which will
protect the life of the wearer just so long as it is
worn concealed upon the person, and ready to the •
han d. Remember!”
Google
207
CHAPTER VIII.
Soon after David Armstrong had made his
escape from the Scottish college, the three forsaken
students received a visit from Sir Archibald Doug­
las. The knight was not now so ignorant of the
character of the university, as to be much sur­
prised at the turn affairs had taken; neither,
indeed, was he at all sorry that anything had
occurred to detach his friend from the pursuit,
either of the thin, cold gown of a cure’s vicar, or
of that ignis fatuus of science, the philosopher’s
stone. The absence of the scholar, however, at
this particular juncture, was annoying in the ex­
treme ; for Douglas had determined to set out the
next morning for Brittany, and to take his early
friend with him, as an ally in the adventure, if his
powers of persuasion could bring it about.
«b,Google
Dinir.
208 THE MAGICIAN.
After some fruitless inquiries as to the probable
quarter to which their comrade had retired, he at
length left Bauldy, and Nigel, and Andrew to
their studies; and then returned to his own apart­
ments, in the hope that by this time David might
have found his way thither. The day, however,
wore on in idle expectation; and the knight had
determined, with a heavy heart, to set out on his
journey alone; when he received a note from his
friend, he knew not by whose hand, appointing a
meeting, in the dusk of the evening, at a well-
known inn and tavern, called the Pomme-du-Pin,
for the purpose of exchanging farewells.
Sir Archibald’s impatience did not allow him to
wait till it was- actually dark; but as soon as the
broader light of day began to fade, he sallied forth
from the palace, and sought out his rendezvous.
The Pomme-du-Pin was a large building, which
stood, as the modern French express it, “ entre
cour et jardin.” Around the court were placed at
regular distances sundry montoirs, or horseblocks,
of different heights; so as to allow the guests,
whether men, boys, or women, to mount their
THE MAGICIAN. 209
mules or horses without inconvenience. In the
middle was a post, surmounted by a large lamp,
the posthumous rays of the sun.
The walls of the house were brilliantly white ;
while the wooden posts orjoists, which intersected
them, were painted with the colours of the sign,
green and vermilion. The sign itself was hung
from the peak of the gable, which fronted the
street. An air of comfort and substance over­
spread the whole picture; which was not dimi­
nished by the clean and jolly appearance of the
host, who happened to be standing at the door,
dressed in bonnet, doublet, and breeches, all as
white as the walls of the hotel; with his snowy
apron tucked up on one side, so as to disclose a
long knife stuck in his girdle, with a handle of
burnished copper. This costume showed that the
Pomme-du-Pin was not a mere tavern, where the
citizens assembled to drink; but also an inn,
where travellers were sure of finding a dinner
suited to their means and inclination. The inn­
keepers—as is still the case in the provinces—
were always cooks.
whose yellow flame already began to mingle with
210 THK MAGICIAN.
When the knight entered the salle, or traveller’s
room, he thought within himself that king James
was not better provided with a banqueting-hall.
The walls were handsomely wainscotted to the
very ceiling, and adorned with engravings, laid
upon velvet, and well framed. One of these re­
presented Noah’s ark, with a selection of the ani­
mals it inclosed, looking out at the, windows.
Another contained the patriarchs, dressed like
substantial burghers, with their paternosters hang­
ing on their arms. Another showed forth the
tower of Babel, with its ramparts defended by
cannon; and another, the twelve months of the
year, sowing, pruning, reaping, feasting, or killing
a pig, according to the individual character.
Stools and benches wereranged along the walls;
and sideboards groaning under piles of trenchers
and porringers, some of wood, some of earthen­
ware, but most of bright pewter. In the middle
of the floor, stood a long, narrow table for the
public dinner, or table d’hote; and at the sides,
some smaller ones for the convenience of excom­
municated persons, or other guests who might
choose to eat by themselves. The fire-place, since
T H R M A G I C I A N . 211
it was not cold enough for a fire, was ingeniously
hidden by wainscoting, going upon hinges, and
carred on both sides, so as to appear part of the
wall, either when open or shut.
Douglas, who continued to lounge about the
room for some time, indulging his curiosity, was
set down by the drawers as an unproductive guest;
and even, when at length he seated himself upon
a stool which commanded a view of the door, and
at the same time permitted him to lean his back
against one of the sides of a kind of box, re­
sembling the subdivisions ofa modemcoffee-room,
he was left entirely to his own reflections. These
werefrequently disturbed by the entranceof various
groups of guests; for it seemed now to be the
time of evening, when both travellers and citizens
were accustomed to refresh themselves after the
labours of the day, and more especially for those
of the mercantile profession, to sanctify their bar­
gains by drinking healths to each other in full
measures of wine.
He at length observed a person enter, substan­
tially and genteelly dressed, in a traveller’s cloak
Digitized by Google
212 THE MAGICIAN.
and boots, with a pointed hat adorned with a plume
of feathers, signifying that the wearer either as­
sumed, or was entitled to, the rank of a gentleman. -
A sword of formidable dimensions hung at his
girdle, while an escritoire, or ink-horn, beside it,
proclaimed that the stranger was something more
than a mere military adventurer. Douglas started,
and looked like a man who cannot believe his own
senses; but the next moment his eyes were fixed,
with overpowering curiosity, upon a female who
leant upon the stranger's arm. She too, was in
traveller's costume, and her face was completely
concealed by her hood; a circumstance which
somewhat relieved the knight, for a disgraceful
suspicion had risen unconsciously in his mind.
But, although furred and cinctured like the re­
spectable women of the time, she had neither the
agnus nor the jet chaplet, without which, they
rarely went abroad; these things, like the otherswe
have mentioned, being among the articles of orna­
ment or apparel, forbidden by statute, to the vo­
tariesof the Venus Vaga.
The lady and gentleman were earnestly engaged
THE MAGICIAN. 213
in conversation, and seated themselves within the
box, without having observed the curiosity they
had excited.
“ Why hast thou entered here?” said the former,
looking round anxiously from under her hood,
“ would it not have been wiser to have tarried near
the stables till our horses were ready ? But, per-
adventurethe clerks ofthe University are forbidden
to frequent such places as this.”
“ Truly, you may say so,” answered her com­
panion and even if the statutes were silent, it is
not likely that we should run much risk ofmeeting
them where the wine, I will be bold to say, is as
much as two sous. No, no, you must go to the
cabarets for such gentry, or to the Val d’Amour—
hem! I would say the Val des Ecoliers. But,
mademoiselle, I will crave permission to leave you
alone for a while. I expect a friend here, who is
also,I may say, a far-offkinsman, and onno account
must he see you. He is a decent youth, and his .
morals, I doubt, would be shocked at the mys­
tery that is between us; and since you will not
untie my tongue—”
214 THE MAGICIAN.
“ What is this place wherein thou leavest me ?
Methinks I am more likely to attract observation
here, than if seated in the open room.”
“ Be satisfied that no one will enter, of hts own
will, beside you—not if he has room elsewhere
in the broad lands of France. This is the table
of the—”
“ Of the what ? ”
“ Of the excommunicated. But be of good
cheer. Turn away your bead when you see my
friend join me; and the moment he is gone, we
shall mount and away—where our voices will be
lost in the burthen of the Seine, and our figures
hidden iD the bosom of the night.” He rose up
to leave the box, and, at that moment, encoun­
tered the eyes of the knight; who, leaning both
hands on the partition, was staring down with
unceremonious wonder, upon the mysterious pair.
“ A good even to you, Archibald,” said the
scholar, after looking solemnly at his friend for
nearly a minute, “ You are before your time, rather
than behind; but this calls for no especial com­
mendation, since the trysting-place is a tavern. I
Ogle
THE MAGICIAN. 215
am here, however, to drink healths neither to saints
. nor angels—a custom to which I grieve to observe
you are too much addicted : I pray you avoid it
for the future. In a word, the University will not
hear the truth, even from the father of lies ; and
as Hashmodai was banished to Upper Egypt by
the angel Gabriel, even so I, his unworthy repre­
sentative, have received a hint to travel—whither
think you, Archibald ? ”
The knight glanced at Hagar, who sat without
moving, her hood hanging far over her face, and
then answered as distinctly as eyes could speak—
“ To the devil !”
“ You are wrong, my friend,” said David, “ my
destination is the chateau of La Verrière, on the
banks of the Erdre ; where I am to be the servant
in science of the Arabian philosopher, Oros-
mandel.
“ Holy Mary ! is this a jest ? or have you been
musing again upon your Venus Dominie, and
drinking her health till you fancied there was
poison in the draught, and saw spectral castles on
the wall ?”
t>
yGoogle
216 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Come, mademoiselle,” said David, in huge
dudgeon, “ the night blackens apace, and our
horses no doubt wait.”
“ Stay, I meant no harm : but if you can show
me anything in the affinities of physical objects
more curious than this coincidence, I shall re­
nounce Christianity, and become an alchemist
myself. Why, man, I spent this whole day in
searching you out, that I might beg of you, for
the sake of old friendship, to accompany me on
that very journey. Even now, my horse is sad­
dled, and my leave taken, and although it was
not my purpose to have departed till the early
morning, let us away, in God’s name !”
»
“ That may not be, for I have other company
whose need is greater than yours. Howbeit, if
we travel the same road, it is not unlikely that we
may meet at the end. In the mean time, fare you
well, Archibald.”
“ And this, then, is all ? Why, what a fool of
imagination I have been ! But go !—I only regret
that a woman who travels alone with a young man
in the middle of the night, and chooses a public
0«j G o o q I
THE MAGICIAN. 217
wine-house for her starting place, has no likeli­
hood of being able to make up to her victim or
seducer, whichever he may be, for the loss of a
friend. Farewell, my heretofore comrade—I wish
you more fortunate in your trust than Archibald
Douglas !” and the knight turned indignantly
away.
“ A word, messire,” said David, following him,
and speaking in a stem but low voice. “ You
know I am a man of peace: nevertheless, when
we meet again, if, on my rendering such explana­
tion as I may see fitting, you do not make in­
stant amends for the wrong you have done the
lady, who is now under my protection, 1 vow to
the blessed St. Bride, I will make you feel the
weight of the sword wherewith her father has en­
trusted me to defend his daughter!” On this
address, Douglas, already chafing with disap­
pointment, turned round like a lion touched by
the hunter’s spear; but, at the moment, the ob­
ject of their contention, throwing back her hood,
glided in between them.
“ Sir Knight,” said she, “ the indelicacy thou
VOL. i. l
Google
21S THE MAGICIAN,
hast so well and so sharply reproved is no fault of
ours, however appearances may be against us.
Thy friend will tell thee—and thou canst not
doubt his word—that however low and mean I
may be held in the estimation of the world, I am
yet a virgin of unblemished character. If thou
knowest of any respectable lady about to travel to
Nantes, and wilt recommend me to her protection
so far, even in the quality of a handmaiden, thou
wilt relieve thy friend from an irksome and unpro­
fitable task, and so far as regards myself, perform
an action worthy of the calling to which thou art
devoted by oath.” Douglas gazed for a moment
upon the face of the young woman, and then
bowed with reverence.
“ I have wronged you, damsel,” said he, “ and I
cannot better make amends, than by procuringyon
the advantage of travelling in the suite of a family
of distinction, who leave Paris for Nantes to-mor­
row morning. A single line which I shallnow write
—if, in token of forgiveness, David, you will lend
me your ecritoire—provided you can deliver it into
her own hands, will ensure you a good reception
;ooglc
from the lady. Am I pardoned, my old com­
rade ?”
“ Provided you will pardon me first,” said David,
and the two friends shook hands.
While Sir Archibald was writing, her protector,
apparently relieved of a load of care, took the op­
portunity of assuring Hagar, in a whisper, that he
was a man of delicacy and honour, and of the
best blood in Scotland to boot;—whereof he him­
self, David Armstrong, unworthy as he was indi­
vidually, had a certain portion in his veins, thanks
to his mother, of blessed memory.
“ You have no time to lose,” he added, “ and at
any rate, it is always better, as we say, to take
Occisio by the forelock: so we will both escort
you to the house this blessed moment, and the
affair will be arranged one way or other, on the
instant.” .
“ Not so,” replied Hagar, as the knight put the
missive into her hands—“I know the address,
which is not far distant, and I will go alone.”
“ That is impossible,” said Douglas, “ at such
an hour.”
l 2
THE MAGICIAN. 219
«us1»Google
Di<
220 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Not to roe. I bave already tarried too long
with you, as the eyes of the company intimate ;
and thy friend, Sir Knight, knoweth that I am
wont to come and go without making more noise,
or attracting more observation, than the shadow
on the wall.”
“ It is even so,” said the student, “ let it be as
she wills,Archibald, for she iswisebeyond women.”
“ Then await me here, even till the eighth hour;
and if I come not then, think that I am in safety,
and that the wandering maid is praying to the
All-good for her protectors!” She turned round
as she spoke, and piloted her way so dexterously
through a party of entering guests, and vanished
so instantaneously at the door, that even the
knight, who knew her less than David, was satis­
fied of her safety.
The scholar continued looking towards the door, '
in an attitude of intent listening; while Douglas
regarded him with a look half of curiosity, half
of such ridicule as the most serious passion in the
world provokes even from those who feel most its
flower.
THE MAGICIAN. 221
“Do you hear her footfálls still ?” 9aid he at
last.
“ Hear her footfalls ?” replied David starting,
“ as well might you listen for the music of Aspen-
dius,who touched his lyre so lightly that the tones
were inaudible to human ears! Truly, she is none
of the daughters of Zion, who *walk with
stretched-forth necks, and wanton eyes, walking
and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling
with their feet.’n
“ Bravo, my friend ! Ever while I live 1 shall
have more confidence in devils; for, by my faith,
Hashmodai is the very god of love !”
“ You are nearer the mark, Archibald, than
might be predicated« of your ignorance as a man
of war. Hashmodai does indeed resemble in
some sort the infernal Cupid—not the son of the
celestial Venus—but he who was bom of Erebus
and Nox. They say he loved Sarah the Ecbata-
nean woman so violently, as to strangle her seven
husbands, out of jealousy, one after the other.
“ And how may a man guard himself against
the visits of so terrible a deity?” .
Google
222 THE MAGICIAN. I
“ On that subject there is some difference of
opinion among the learned. Many are for broiling
the heart and liver of a fish on live coals, accord­
ing to the advice given by the angel Raphael to
Tobias; while others are more inclined to put
their faith in the smoke of sulphur, notwithstand­
ing the adverse testimony of Ovidius :
‘ Nec fugi&t vivo sulphure vietug amor.’ ”
“ I am of the opinion of that same Ovidius, if
it be against sulphur. I abominate the article,
which serves for nothing else than, fuel to the
devil and his philosophers. But come, let us
wash our mouths of the subject with a cup of
wine. Ho! mine host!” ' •
“ Hush, Archibald ; you forget you are not now
at the king’s cost. We can say we are waiting
for a friend, and that is God’s truth, you know—
Well, if it must be so ; but I cannot say I approve
of such extravagance when we are by ourselves.”
A flagon of wine, and some walnuts, were set
down by the knight’s orders, and, in compliment
to their genteel appearance, a small silver cup
was placed between them. This pocillum, how-
«wGoogle
THK • MAGICIAN. 223
ever, as he ealled it, David insisted upon his friend
appropriating to his own use, while he contented
himself with one of pewter.
“ And now, Archibald,” said he, “ if we had
the day before us, I would willingly listen to
what you are willing to tell, if you could set
about it. But at this hour of the night, it behoves
me to render you such assistance as may be in
my power in opening your heart; for if Hagar—
that is, the hooded maiden—return disappointed,
it may be some days before we meet again. You
love the damsel of Laval, that is the sum of your
secret.
“ If a man may be said to love a star!”
“ And why not? The poets feign that Cynthia
herself descended to the summit of mount Latmus
to kiss Endymion. Passion knows not space, nor
time, nor rank. Impossibilities are its sport:
yea, if the lover cannot soar high enough, the
mistress descends, and so they meet, like the
Latmian shepherd and the moon, between heaven
and earth.”
“ Thanks, David, your words stir me like a
224 THE MAGICIAN.
herald’s trumpet. But 1 would not have my love
descend. For one kiss of her eyelids, I would
climb that same Latmus, were it ten times higher
than Ben-nevis, whose head is hidden in the
clouds. And why indeed should I despair ? I
have an arm, a sword, a heart; my veins are
i
filled with the blood of a hundred sires; and I
walk abroad encircled by the brightness of a
name, which, although it may not be made more
bright, shall never be tarnished by me. O my
friend, if you felt the thrill which ran through my
soul, when she told me that even ‘the meanest f$ud
would furnish a field of honour for the Bleeding
Heart!’ Methinks I was a coward till that
moment!” The knight started up as he spoke,
as if to obtain room to breathe; and he strode
across the room with a step which made the other
guests start. His burning cheek and flashing eye
contrasted strongly with the pale, haggard, and
dispirited look of his companion.
“ Your love is virtuous,” said David, in a hollow
tone, when he had resumed his seat, “ and there­
fore it is possible.” .
*Google
Digit*
THE MAGICIAN. 225
“ I never loved but her since I was a boy; no
maiden have I betrayed ; the name of woman was
as something holy in my imagination; and to
support, cherish, and defend her, I have ever con­
sidered a part of my honour as a gentleman, my
oath as a knight, and my religion as a Christian.'1
“Then love on without fear: for your mistress
shall not assume in your dreams the form of
a fiend, commissioned to waylay and destroy
you !”
“ How r
“ You will not see blood and tears drop from
the crucifix when you pray !’’
“ David ! your mind wanders!”
“ Love which is inconsistent with honour and
religion is unholy, were its object an angel—and
there’s an end! Now, Archibald, what are your
designs?”
“ I obtained speech of the damsel of Laval last
night for only an instant, and she whispered
something, which fills me, in spite of myself, with
alarm. You must know that, at the commence­
ment of our acquaintance, I had the good fortune
l 3
Digih; «Google
226 THE MAGICIAN.
to rescue her from the hands of a villain, who is
some relation to Orosmandel, and who, the old
man believes, is now by his commands on a
voyage of discovery in the African seas. This
wretch the damsel saw, or imagines she saw,
either in body or spirit, on the streets of Paris!
To-morrow she returns to Brittany; and it is my
purpose to watch over her unseen, till it be ascer­
tained, whether the apparition was an illusion or
a reality—if indeed it was not the spirit of her
enemy.” .
“ A relation of Orosmandel! Describe him, I
pray you.”
“ I cannot. When I saw him, he was cased in
black armour from head to foot, and his vizor
closed.” The scholar mused for some time.
“ It is strange,” said he, at length, “ how your
affairs and mine, Archibald, appear to be woven
together. It is my fate to reside under the very
same roof with the damsel of Laval, where I may
serve you even like a familiar spirit; while the
information you have just now given involves
matter which, perhaps, concerns my life. Lupus
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 227
in fabula! O holy St. Bride!—look you there,
Archibald !” and, catching his friend’s arm as in
a vice, he motioned him to follow the direction
of his eyes.
Two guests, whom they had not observed before,
were about leaving the room, one an elderly, and
one a middle-aged man; the former in the show­
iest dress of a bourgeois, and the latter without
any thing in his air or habiliments which could
draw observation of one kind or other.
“ Let the lord de Retz be whom he may,” said
the bourgeois doggedly, “ his debt is now large
enough for a king to think worth paying; and, in
short, I must have my money.”
“ Your money is safe,” replied the other mildly;
“ but if you will take the counsel of a plain man,
you will execute the magnificent order I have now
given you, and then solicit payment for all to­
gether. I know you come sometimes to Nantes.
Why not bring the things under your own convoy?
Nay, why not bring your daughter with you—I
think you have a daughter—and combine pleasure
with business ? She would find the damsel of
Google
228 THE MAGICIAN.
Laval every thing that is kind and condescending;
and as for you, taken notice of by the lord de
Retz, perhaps even residing for a day or two at
the château, till the money was ready (I could
contrive myself to keep it back), the echevins of
the town would not know how to pay you honour
enough.”
“ Then you think I should be sure ?”
“ Absolutely. What is it to me ? I am paid
to perform my employer’s business, not to deceive.”
“ Well, it is a heavy outlay ; but I can afford
it : it shall be done.”
“ I knew you were wise as well as wealthy ; I
am not accustomed to throw my pearls to swine.
Good night.”
“ Good night—and with my humble commen­
dation to my honourable lord.” When the agent
of the lord de Retz was gone, David relaxed his
gripe of his friend’s arm, and, fixing his eyes on
his face, whispered mysteriously.
“Who is that, think you, Archibald ? ’
“ It is a baillie of the tailors,” replied the
knight with a look of surprise, “ and a special
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 229
friend of my own. Good even to you, inessire;
here is a gentlemen would l>e glad to make your
acquaintance.”
“ Ha, my sprig of mountain ash! do we meet
again ? What, still munching ? still guzzling ?
wilt never have done ? But hold ! your brewing,
I see, is something of the weakest; and that men
say, however it may be otherwise convenient, is
not overly agreeable to the Scottish palate. Ar-
genteuil, I grant you, still maintains at least a
memory of its reputation; but in general the
wines of the capital may be considered misfits.
Here, mine host!”
“ The emperor Julian,” said the scholar, “ ad­
mired the wines of Luteciaj and if we are even
now wetting our lips with them, it is for the sake
of their classic reputation, not from motives of
economy. Although I will not say but the drink
is somewhat wersh as it were, and notjust so com­
fortable to the stomach as would give a conscien­
tious man the warrant for swallowing it of St.
Paul’s advice to Timothy.”
“ As I live, 1 knew the face, although the cloak
Google
2 30 THE MAGICIAN.
was strange to mine eyes! And is it even thou,
my son in the outer man ?—or rather, son that
was, for I see you have renounced your father.”
“ 1 have neither renounced my father nor my
cloak ; but the latter, after some years of faithful
service, I grieve to say it, has renounced me.”
“ What, the epitogium ab loquendum—or ad lo-
quendum—for I never could tell the difference ?
But why not come to me to replace it ? It was
honestly paid for, as it was honestly made ; and
you know I was never a man in that case, to dis­
tress a scholar for the amount of his bill.”
“ You misapprehend. The epitogium, though
none of the newest, was still nothing less than
respectable; und if Sir Archibald, here, (whose
trade, as 1 may say, is destruction) had kept his
hands off it, there would have been no need, for
some while yet, either to try the depth of your
patience or of my purse. In a word, I am no
longer a scholar; and my business calls me, per­
haps, in some half-hour hence,to the city ofNantes.
As for my present habiliments, to be frank with
you, I know not the name of the fashioner; but I
0 Google
THE MAGICIAN. 231
will say this for him, that he is as good a work­
man a3 ever followed the banner of St. Luce
and David, stretching forth his leg beyond the end
of the table, so as to display as much of his figure
as possible, looked with great complacency upon
his flowing cloak, his coat of double cloth padded
throughout with wool, and his inexpressibles dou­
ble-stitched, and fortified with leather.
f‘As for the workmanship—hum!—the mere
needle and thread affair—I do not say that the
garment will let in hailstones bodily : but do you
tell me that it would take an ell of cloth, of five
quarters breadth, to make two such breeches as
these ? If not, your fashioner cuts neither by con­
science nor by the statute. As for the coat, it
merits condemnation, inasmuch as the inner fold
is evidently of old cloth, a thing strictly forbidden
by law—and, for that matter, by Scripture too, as
a priest once told me, under the parable of old wine
and new bottles. Then, if the silk with which it is
bordered has not already been on the back of a
noble—a fraud common to the whole confrérie ex­
D- Google
232 THE MAGICIAN.
cept myself—say that Jacquia Houpelande knows
not his trade !”#
“ God forbid that I should say anything of the
kind,” replied the ex-student—“ for it is well
known that Jacquin Houpelande—although, in
making out his accounts in Latin, for the univer­
sity, he will sometimes contound the accusative
and ablative prepositions—ought to be considered
the king of the tailors. This, however, I will say,
after an adagium, or proverb, we have among our
border riders, that it is neither wise nor civil to ex­
amine too curiously the mouth of a gift-horse.”
“ There are confréries of less substance that
have their king, as for example, the minstrels, and
why not the tailors ? 1 am the richest man of my
trade, if the lord de Retz be as good as his word ;
I am an echevin of .the city. Good youth, you*
* This was not a fraud thirty years later ; for the Letters
of the King, dated 24th June, 1467, relating to the pour-
pointiers of Paris, expressly permit this application of old
silk, to the coats of bourgeois ; the regulation setting forth,
that silk which had been used by gentlemen was not too
much worn for the purpose.
O
w
nzK
ihvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 233
are too complimentary, although no one can deny
that you are passing wise withal; and I am glad
to my very linings, to hear that this is an ominous
suit.”
u Anonymous, perhaps?”
“ Well, be it so: and one which you did not be­
speak, but receive as a gift. And now, as touching
the wine, I was minded to order the boy to bring
us a flagon of the Orleanais ; but, although still
somewhat in vogue, this is no more like what men
say it was in the days of Louis le Jeune. As for
Rochelle, you have plenty of it in Britain; what
do you say if we try the brewings of Anjou, or
Provence, or Burgundy ? Come, in a word, let us
I
have a leathern bottle of Bordeaux, one of the
most ancient, as it is one of the best of the wines
of France.”
“ We have already drunken,” interfered the
knight, “ and it waxes late.”
“ It is indeed not very far from the eighth hour,”
said the student, “ and for my part, although be­
holden toyou for the offer,I am not Xenagoras, nor
yet Xenarchus—if these be indeed two persons—to
Digitized by Google
234 THE MAGICIAN.
swallow either nine or twelve gallons at a sitting.
But for the wine of Bordegala, or in the vulgar
tongue Bourdeaux, it is indeed an ancient drink;
being celebrated in the following verses of the
poet Decimus Magnus Ausonius, who flourished
in the fourth century of our era—”
“ Hold !” cried the echevin, “ You could driuk
the wine in less time than you will take to praise
it in poetry; or if you must needs recite, methinks
a cup will be all the more necessary to wash down
the Latin. And here it comes in good time.
What say you, sir knight?”
“ The wine, by all means, if we are to have the
Latin.”
“ Come then, sir student, will you pledge me.”
“ That will I, Jacquin, were it in the measure of
Novellus, sumamed Tricongius—a matter of three
gallons ! The custom of pledging, Archibald, is de­
rived from thepledges orsecuritiesoffered in matters
of law. When a man committed any of the lesser
crimes, he escaped imprisonment previous to trial,
by getting another to becomehispledge ; or in other
words, to undertake to endure in his stead, what­
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 235
ever punishment might be awarded, in the event
of the criminal absconding. Again, when the
queen of St. Louis, in danger of shipwreck, vowed
to St. Nicholas a silver boat, she satisfied the
saint he should not be defrauded, by getting
Joinville to become her pledge. In like man­
ner, when a man was challenged to drink, if
he found himself a weak brother, he was allowed
to obtain a pledge, and so drink by proxy.”
* And is it thus you would pledge me ? By the
holy Saint Luce, I were unworthy to be the first
man in the confrérie of tailors, and an echevin of
the city to boot, if I could not drink for myself!
and so, messire, I empty this measure to your
prosperity ; touching which, I see the knight is
busy consulting the dregs of his cup.”
“ I was thinking,” said Sir Archibald, starting,
“ of another toast.”
“ And yet divination,” remarked the student,
“ is a thing more to be condemned than despised,
since, before it was forbidden by Moses, in the
book of Leviticus, it was practised by Joseph in
Egypt, who was an augur, and had a divining cup.
Digitized Google
236 THE MAGICIAN.
In our time, the manner of the ceremony is to turn
towards the east, and pronounce the words,
*Abraxa, per dominum nostrum V when the con­
tents of the vessel will straightway show forth
the inquirer’s destiny.”
“ It is a pagan error,” said the knight, setting
down the cup hastily; “and if Joseph practised it,
it was because he was a Jew and no Christian !”
“ You are right,” cried the master-tailor, whose
voice began to wax loud, “ if Joseph was indeed
a Jew, he could be no Christian, say I. But
since there is sin in the dregs of a cup, let us fill
the faster. Come, shall we sing? there is no
harm in that. If you love me, sir scholar, let
us have one of the priestly chants of the uni­
versity:” Whereupon David, to his friend’s sur­
prise, began without more solicitation, and in his
usual grave and methodical manner, the following
strain—
“ Bcuvons d’aultant au soyr et au matin
Jusqu’a cent sola,
Et lio! .
. A notre hotesse ne payons point d’argent
Fors ung credo,
Et ho!"
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 237
“ Archibald,” said he suddenly, in the midst of
the echevin’s plaudits, “what was the other toast
of which you were thinking ? ”
“ The Venus Dominie” replied the knight, “ it
is past eight o’clock.”
Come, sir Bourgeois, the bottle is out, and we
thank you for your hospitality, which at another
time we shall be proud to repay. Tell me, in the
meantime, who is that man to whom you talked
even now when my friend called you ?”
“ Plague on it, are you gone already ? Never
talk of payment except in the case of an epito-
gium ab—ad—no, ab loquendum. But as for the
man, he is a confidential agent of the lord de
Retz, and that is all I know about him.”
“ God be with you—we shall meet again, if my
auguries do not deceive me,” and so saying,
David drained his glass, even to the sinful dregs,
and hurried away, followed by Sir Archibald.
“ The decent man!" said he, in a low voice,
when they had left the house—“ I should not
wonder if that wine stood him a matter of three
sous !”
Google
238 THE MAGICIAN.
They walked on for some time in silence, the
knight leading the way, till they reached a very
large and very handsome house, dimly seen in
the moonlight. •
**This is strange,” said the conductor, “ all is
dark, and the gate is shut: they must have
changed their intention, and set out this]evening
instead of to-morrow ; I cannot comprehend it.”
“ Of whom talk you?”
“ Of Orosmandel and the damsel of Laval.”
“ Holy St. Bride! And it was to them you
recommended Hagar ? Archibald, the man
concerning whom I even now questioned the
echevin, if I have any understanding within me,
was your enemy—and mine!” The knight was
thunderstruck. They made every inquiry that
was possible in the neighbourhood; but of the
very few inhabitants whose houses were still
open, not one had observed the departure of the
travellers. They then resolved to follow on the
instant; and Sir Archibald, felicitating himself
on possessing a friend who felt for him in the
dilemma, precisely the same as if the case had
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 239
been his own. They Boon found themselves, lato
as the hour was, without the walls of Paris, and
progressing at a steady trot on the road towards
Brittany.
W
9te«ib
yGoogle
240
CHAPTER IX.
A t this period Brittany was under the Bway of
John V., a prince remarkable for neither courage
nor talents, yet, who had contrived, for some time
past, to preserve his duchy in comparative tran­
quillity in the midst of all the storms which
agitated the west of Europe. The Bretons, from
time immemorial, were a bold and turbulent race,
engaged in almost perpetual wars and rebellions;
and if, by some miracle of chance, there occurred
a moment’s breathing time at home, their youth
were accustomed, like the Scots, to turn soldiers
of fortune, and carry their swords to foreign
broils. Many of them, for instance, followed the
Bastard into England ; and were not forgotten
when that famous brigand divided his booty.
Diourtb,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 241
Norfolk and Suffolk fell to the lot of Raoul de
Gael; York to Alain Leroux ; and other rich
morsels of the opima opolia to their com­
panions.
The same fierce and factious spirit animated the
peasants; and it is a curious circumstance, and
one not adverted to by any historian we remember,
that in this country of heroines the signal for the
servile wars was given by a woman. In the
eleventh century, when duke Geoffroi was hunt­
ing, his falcon stooped unbidden upon a chicken;
when the amazon to whom it belonged instantly
caught up a stone, and whirled it at the head of
the prince. The blow was fatal to the duke, and
had nearly been so to the whole body of the
nobles; for a general rising of the peasants took
place immediately after ; which the widow of the
murdered prince, who, according to the Breton
custom, led on the nobles in person, found much
difficulty in putting down.
If the national character of the Bretons resem­
bled that of the Scots, the history of the two
countries, in like manner, presented various points
VOL. I. M
Digitized by Google
242 THE MAGICIAN.
of resemblance. From the year 1340, the little
state was torn asunder by two powerful families,
one wearing the ducal crown, and one seizing
every opportunity to grasp at it. The Moatforts
and Penthi£vres of Brittany, were the Stuarts and
Douglases of Scotland; with this difference, that
in the latter country the heroes of the two parties
were men; in the former, women. Jane of
Flanders, commonly called the Countess de Moot-
fort, and her rival, Jane de Penthi&vre, with the
exception, perhaps, of the illustrious Virgin of
Dom-Remi, were no doubt the most remarkable
of all the warrior-'wbmen mentioned in modern
history.
France and England took part in this bloody
feud; the former on the side of the pretending,
and the latter on that of the reigning house.
Brittany therefore became the battle-field of these
two great powers; and the centre, in consequence,
to which military adventurers and ruffians of all
kinds flocked from the rest of Europe. Even
when a truce took place in 1364, between the two
rival kings,itwas stipulated, strangely enough, that
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 243
the straggle <jfthe Montforts and Pentbi^wes was
to go on as usual; and thus the country, when no
longer the seat of national war, was tom in
pieces by petty convulsions, and ravaged by ban­
ditti instead of armies. Marauders of all nations
traversed the soil from end to end, leaving the
print of their footsteps in blood and ashes; and,
whether in the pay of France or England, when
compelled by the truce to relax their gripe from
each other’s throats, they threw themselves, shoul­
der to shoulder, upon the natives. An outrage
committed by one of these brigands was event­
ually the cause of the famous Battle of the Thirty;
a duel fought on foot between the English and
Bretons; and decided in favour of the latter by one
oftheir combatants betaking himself to his horse—
a treason for which, in the purer times of chivalry,
he would have lost his head.
Jane de Penthi^vres’ husband at length died;
peace was proclaimed ; and Brittany remained the
vassal ofFrance. Duguesclin relieved the country
of many of the brigands, who were now called
the Great Companies, by carrying them off to
m 2
DwUMbyCOOgle
244 THE MAGICIAN.
attempt the conquest of Spain; but some new
contentions began between France and England,
and, in consequence, new troubles in Brittany,
new massacres, new burnings; and at the sound of
the first trumpet of war, new banditti arose as
suddenly in the land as the host of Rhoderick
Dhu. Among them, perhaps, should be reckoned
the famous, or rather infamous, Olivier de Clisson,
who carried fire and sword through the country on
his own account.
Atthe beginningofthe fifteenth century, John V.
ascended the ducal throne, vacant by the assassi­
nation of bis father; and for many years his
reign was as calamitous as those of his ancestors.
At one time he was himself carried off bodily by
the Penthi^vres; but his party getting the upper
hand, this powerful family was at length crushed.
His friendship, it may be supposed, was now
courted by the French as well as English, the
affairs of both in France being in a very critical
state. But John, taught by experience, and per­
haps benefiting even by a want of strength in his
character, treated with both, and acted as little as
THE MAGICIAN. 245
possible for either. At the epoch of our story,
therefore, the curious spectacle was presented of
this little state, which had so long been the
shuttlecock of two mighty nations, playing the
coquette between them; aud of John V., who
possessed nothing in his character remarkable in
one way or other, setting the example to succeed­
ing sovereigns of that subtle species of policy which
since his time has so frequently been practised on
a larger scale. .
Sometimes the ostensible ally of England, and
sometimes of France, Brittany was the place of
refuge both for French and English; and the
recruiting officers of both nations might be seen
plying their trade in the same villages. As for the
system of brigandage, although not put down, it
it was at least kept in check; and altogether, the
country, if not quiet, was at least as much so as
could be expected where so many elements of dis­
order existed.
Douglas and Armstrong found little difficulty
in traversing the French territory, through which
their road lay; for, since the victory of Monte-
xigle
246 THE MAOICUN.
reau, all this part of the country was in the hands
of Charles'VII. But they had no sooner crossed
the frontiers, than the scene changed. Sometimes
they were challenged as they passed a solitary
château, and sometimes even detained to answer
questions, the real drift of which was, probably,
nothing else than to discover whether they were
worth robbing. Their appearance in the villages
excited suspicion and distrust ; and occasionally
they found that they were dogged by one of the
peasants till he had seen them fairly out of the
district.
The two friends, however, were u canny Scots.”
They took things as quietly as they could, talking
companionably to the men, and making them­
selves at home in the cottages ; where David joked
in scholar-like fashion with the young women,
and, like King Alfred, helped the old wife to toast
her cakes. When all this would notdo, they made
no scruple of taking by force what was necessary
for their own and their horses’ subsistence; for
the laws of Black Archibald of Douglas were no
more attended to in cases of necessity, on the
D«Mh,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 24?
Scottish borders than on the borders of Brittany.
It would have been hard to tell, indeed, for which
mode of “living on the road ” the friends were
best calculated, since they were at once courteous
and brave, gentle, social, and good-tempered, yet
“ Steady of heart, and stout of hand,
As ever drove prey from Cumberland !”
They had been able to preserve the whole way
the track of the damsel of Laval, which they had
found soon after leaving Paris ; and David’s mind
was relieved by the certainty that Hagar was of
the party, while Prelati was not. Soon after en­
tering the Angevine territory, they had found
themselves in the midst of the endless estates of
the lord de Retz; and the hopes of the young
knight, as he gazed around him, grew colder and
colder at every step. They passed Champtoce,
one of the most celebrated strongholds of the
family, the gaunt ruins of which still look down
upon the road between Angers and Nantes. They
traversed the town of Ingrande, one half of which
was in Anjou, and the other half in Brittany; and
OigitaMti, Google
248 THE MAGICIAN.
yet still found that every thing around them—
town and country—belonged to the lord de Retz.
After entering Brittany, his possessions still con­
tinued to present themselves, one after another;
and almost every question they asked respecting
the ownership of a tower or fortress was answered
with the words, “ a domain of the lord de Retz.”
It may be supposed that the progress through
the country of the daughter of a house like this,
attended by an escort of two hundred men at
arms, excited no small sensation. All Brittany,
in fact, seemed to be astir; the motions of the
fair traveller were as publicly known as those
of the sun in full day; and our two adventurers,
receiving fresh information at every step, were
able to continue their course at the exact distance
of the small number of miles which they judged
it proper to leave between them and the object of
their espial.
By carefully comparing notes, Sir Archibald
and his friend had come to the unavoidable con­
clusion, that the Black Knight, as Pauline had
proposed to style him—and whom David, in his
,,«ib,GooqIc
Digit!
THE MAGICIAN. 249
own mind, identified with Prelati—was actually
in the country, and by the connivance of Oros-
mandel himself. He was employed in the confi­
dential affairs of the lord de Retz; he was even
in the habit, as might have been gathered from
his conversation with the echevin-tailor, of residing
at the château. It was impossible, however, that
the lord de Retz could know that he was the same
individual who had attempted to carry off his
daughter ; and the philosopher, therefore, was
guilty of at least culpable deceit towards his
employer. On a former occasion, this old man
had suffered himself to be led into a dangerous
mistake, by the amiable prejudices of blood and
family. Might not this be the case again? The
knight, who was one of those men who may be
said to be constitutionally generous, made the
inquiry doubtfully ; but the suspicions of David,
who had received through his companion new
materials for speculation, without being at liberty
to give his own in exchange, was not disposed to
view the affair so favourably. He came at once
to the conclusion, that wise as the philosopher
m 3
,,Google
250 THE MAGICIAN.
might be, he, and through him the lord de Retz,
were the dupe* of Prelali; and the scholar's own
mis&ion to the chateau was now no longer to
extend his acquisitions in science, but to serve his
friend, and arrive at promotion, credit, perhaps
fortune, by baffling the designs of a villain.
But this fine dream was occasionally disturbed
by conversations they heard on the road respecting
the lord de Retz; and David, who was only su­
perstitious ia matters of science, was at once pro­
voked and amused by the supernatural causes
assigned for the natural, however uncommon, cir­
cumstance of a prodigious fortune.
“ Wait, wait,’’ said an old peasaut—“ it will not
last. Ill gotten, ill gone.”
“ But how was it ill gotten ?” demanded the
scholar; “ dowries, and legacies, methinks, go
frequently enough with marriages and deaths.’’
“ You are right,” replied the old man; “ in our
time the devil rarely works miracles: it is the
common accidents of life that are his tools.”
“ Hold there,” interposed another; “ if the devil
does not work miracles, what say you to the ad­
DlQfl Google
THE MAGICIAN. 251
venture of old Christine, who picked np the
pieces of silver which Gilles de Retz threw among
the crowd ? For fear of losing them, she laid
them carefully by in a stocking, and going to the
fair to buy a cow, brought the owner home with
her for the money. Instead of silver coins, she
found in her stocking only a few withered leaves;
and the man, who had lost the chance of selling
his cow, and been taken many miles out of his
way, thinking that it was a cheat, beat her so se­
verely that to this hour she keeps her bed !”
“ 111 gotten, ill gone !” repeated the first pea­
sant.
“ Then I presume, my friends,” said David,
“ that if the lord de Retz were to throw his money
among us here, it would lie untouched upon the
ground.”
“ I would say an ave before I looked at it,” re­
plied one.
“ I would take it straightway to the church,”
said another, “ and dip it in holy water.”
“ Does he often practise liberality ? Does he
live agreeably to his fortune ?”
Digitized by Google
252 THE MAGICIAN.
“ He gives away his gold (if gold it be), as
freely as men give withered leaves. No king in
Europe keeps half his state; and the prince of
Brittany himself, arrayed in scarlet and furs, would
show by his side like one of his hired retainers.”
“ 111gotten, ill gone !” groaned the first peasant
again.
“ For that matter,” said a man who had joined
the group in the middle of the conversation, “ it
begins to go already. I am just from Nantes,
where it is all the talk that Gilles de Retz is sell­
ing his estates to the duke, league by league, and
that the thing gives Bore displeasure to the whole
family of Laval.”
This intelligence was the most interesting part
of the conversation to our two travellers; the rest
being set down as nothing more than the exagge­
rations and delusions of ignorance. David thus
knew that the lord de Retz was at one and the
same time in debt to his tradesmen, borrowing
money from the Jews, and selling his estates
piecemeal. Could this ruin—for such it was—be
occasioned by nothing more than the usual extra-
«Google
THE MAGICIAN. 253
vagances of a man of rank? Would not the sale
even of asingle estate have been sufficient, to cover
any probable embarrassment ? Was it certain that
Prelati had authority to extort a loan from messire
Jean ? might he not have done this on his own ac­
count, though in the name ofhis lord?—and might
he not, in the same way, have embezzled the
money destined to pay Houpelande, and, perhaps,
many others ? If it was still his purpose to carry
off the damsel of Laval—behold her dowry!
With regard to Orosmandel, they were more and
more perplexed at every step. The peasants were
not ignorant of the existence ofsuch a person, but
they declined speaking of him, except in the most
general terms; a thing that was the more extra­
ordinary, as no one seemed to have anything but
good to tell. They never pronounced his name
themselves ; but as soon as it was mentioned, has­
tened to say a few words of commendation, and
then shrunk from the subject. On one occasion,
in the parlour of a village inn, David, determined
to gratify his curiosity, was so pointed in his ques­
tions, that the company, consisting of peasants and
264 THE MAGICIAN.
travellers of humble condition, unable longer to
evade them, got up hastily and left the room in a
body.
“ Will you not speak !” he said, seizing a rustié
beauty by the arm, as she was vanishing at the
door, “ why do you fly ?” The girl turned towards
him a face which be had selected from the rest on
account of its more than common intelligence, and
with terror and warning in her eyes, replied in a
whisper :
“ Imitate our silence, if you be wise ! Ask not
questions which we cannot answer if we would,
and would not if we could ;—but above all things,
name not a name which we know by experience
the very winds of the désert can carry more than a
hundred miles.”
Musing on these things, the two friends pursued
their journey, at theslow pace which was necessary
in order to keep them from coming within sight of
the procession. They had, hitherto, travelled with
a circumspectness sufficient to have concealed them
even from the ken of a wizard ; avoiding, since
they had crossed the frontiers of Brittany, not only
Oigitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 265
the castles, but the monasteries, although these,
generally speaking, werethe onlyplaces of harbour
which answered the purpose of inns to travellers
of their rank. As they now entered further and
further into the country of the lord de Retz, it
was proper, if possible, to be still more cautious ;
and on the present occasion, when it wa6 necessary
at twilight to halt till the following morning, find*
ing no shelter at hand of the kind they wished,
they did not hesitate to encampforthe night under
a tree.
The spot was on one of those magnificent co­
teaux which sweep suddenly, yet hardly precipi­
tously, down to the brink of the Loire. The sha­
dows of evening hung heavily upon the river; and
its numerous islands and sand banks rose dimly
through the mist The world was steeped in a
kind of dreamy silence, only interrupted by the
distant sound of the waters, rising indistinctly and
brokenly upon the ear, likethe murmur of one who
sleeps. On a neighbouring eminence, surrounded
by tall trees, stood a fortress, keeping guard, as it
might have seemed, over the enchanted scene. It
256 THE MAGICIAN.
was there that the damsel of Laval reposed for the
night; and on that dusky, grim, and threatening
object, were the eyes of her lover fixed, like those
of a mariner, who watches the star which guides
him over the deep.
It may be supposed that neither Douglas nor
his friend were much inclined to sleep under such
circumstances; for the fortresscontaineda cynosure
for David, as well as the knight, although gleam­
ing, as our scholar dreaded, with more unholy
splendour. Of the two, however, he of the hau­
berk was more vigilant in his watch; and long
after his friend was fast asleep, Sir Archibald con­
tinued to gaze and to dream.
He at length rose up in that slight degree of
fever which attends unwonted sleeplessness, and
began to pace slowly the plateau of the hill. By
degrees, and almost unconsciously, he extended
his walk in the direction of the fortress, till he
could see its turrets clearly defined against the
sky.
At such an hour, there was little risk of obser­
vation, and yet he hesitated to advance needlessly
„Google
fitted ti
THE MAGICIAN. 257
from the trees which covered the side of the hill
into the unsheltered plain that lay between him
and the eminence whereon the castle stood. He
remained, therefore, in the black shadow of the
grove, leaning against the trunk of an oak, of
which he himself might have seemed to form a
portion, even the parti-coloured emblazonments
on his coat of arms resembling, in the obscurity,
some of the thousand tints of autumn by which
he was surrounded.
His eyes were fixed upon the fortress, and his
thoughts were busy with her it contained ; while
the idea of the black knight flitted ever and anon,
like a spectre, across his dream.
“Oh!” said he, almost aloud, “ that it were
my fate to meet with him again! If unable to
cope with him in mortal strife, I should be unfit
to wear the prize for which we contend, and the
sooner I hid my dishonoured head in the grave
the better. But what are his advantages? Neither
in name nor blood, neither in strength nor courage:
and for that magical prestige which is said to
surround him in his connexion with Orosmandel,
268 THE MAGICIAN.
I could well trust to a Christian’s mass, and a
soldier’s sword. Come, skulking traitor, even if
backed by all the fiends in the abyss ! In her
cause I defy thee and them—Appear! I summon
thee !n -
The invocation, as is asnal with such burets of
youthful enthusiasm, was spoken aloud towards
the close, and in a tone of die same earnestness
with which a man summons an enemy who is
within hearing. When he had finished, Douglas,
after gazing breathlessly for a moment, pressed his
hands upon his eyes, like one who would drive
away some illusion called up by the enchant­
ments of imagination; but on looking again
towards the distance, the object of his wonder
had not passed away. It was a human figure,
standing in the middle of the small, lonely plain,
which, but a few minutes before, he had himself
been withheld from traversing by the fear of being
observed from the battlements of the distant for­
tress.
A momentary thrill of terror passed through
the blood of the young knight; but, crossing
THE MAGICIAN. 259
himself devoutly, and calling in one breath upon
his saint and his lady, he unsheathed his sword,
and stood upon his defence. In another instant
his recollection returned, and he dropped the point
of his weapon. Why should he suppose this to
be a supernatural visitation ? The ghostly enemy
did not confront him, when invoked, face to face,
as was the regular process ; but made his appear­
ance at a considerable distance, and seemed to
approach gradually like an ordinary man. Some
dark clouds were sailing sluggishly across the sky:
might not their shadow, although unobserved by
him, have concealed this wanderer of the night
till he had gained the middle of the plain ? Nay,
could he even tell how long his pre-occupation of
mind had lasted, or that it had not been strong
enough to prevent his taking cognizance of such
an object, when actually present to his eyes ?
While these ideas passed rapidly through the
knight’s mind, the figure continued to approach in
a direct line. It was, as might have been ex­
pected, that of an armed man; for none else would
venture out at such an hour. It was at length
260 THE MAGICIAN.
near enough to be seen distinctly. It was the
figure of a tall man, sheathed in armour from
head to foot. It was the Black Knight!
Douglas’s first impulse was to advance from the
shadow of the trees, in order to meet bis chal­
lenged foe in the open plain; but the sword of the
latter was still in its scabbard, and his attitude was
not that of a man prepared to encounter an enemy.
“ It may be after all,” thought the Scot, who
would rather have attacked a whole army than a
single opponent offered to him by magical art, “ it
may be after all, that this is nothing more than a
coincidence. Let me, in the first place, watch what
is his errand. If it be to me, I am ready. My
challenge has been given; and, if he heard it, he
will answer.” At the moment the sable figure,
who was now near enough to have been struck by
a lance thrown from the hand, stood suddenly still.
Douglas felt that his eyes were fixed upon him;
but neither party moved. At length the stranger,
raising his arm above his head, with a gesture
which might have been either of menace or invi­
tation—for he was now half hidden in the dark
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 261
shadow of the trees—turned abruptly away, skirt­
ing with a quick but noiseless step, the conGnes
of the wood. Sir Archibald, at this spectacle,
had much difficulty to repress a shout of deGance
which rose to his lips; but, calling to mind his
purpose of watching the motions of the enemy,
he muttered anew an invocation to his patron
saint, and glided after him with a pace as stealthy
as his own.
They coasted for some time round the involu­
tions of the wood, which at length became so
numerous that Sir Archibald began to be in doubt
as to whether it would be possible for him to Gnd
the way back to his sleeping comrade. He quick­
ened his step, but did not gain upon the retreating
knight. He called out to him to turn, in the
usual terms of challenge; but the dark Ggure
continued gliding dimly before him, like a phan­
tasm seen in a dream. Our adventurer at length
stood still in amazement, not unallied to super­
stitious terror; and at that moment the Ggure
stopped also, and, turning round, made another
sign with the arm.
Digitized by Google
262 THE MAGICIAN.
Douglas renewed bis pursuit, but more slowly;
for tbe ground was here broken and uneven, and
at any rate, he perceived that be whom be followed
now awaited his approacb. The inequalities of
the soil were not greater than those in which
antiquarians sometimes discover the vestiges of
a Roman camp; and as the space was open for a
considerable distance, he could see distinctly
enough, notwithstanding the growing obscurity of
the hour, the form of the sable knight standing
tall and lonely in the midst. Sir Archibald
stepped forward more quickly, for he was now
close to the object of his pursuit; arranging his
dress as he advanced, and loosening his sword in
the scabbard, like a man who prepares for an
immediate and desperate encounter. These ope*
rations, however, could not have withdrawn his
eyes from the motionless figure before him for
more than a few seconds : and yet, on raising his
head to address his enemy, he found that the spot
whereon he had stood was vacant. No rock, no
stone, no bush, no tree, large enough to conceal
the figure of a man was within many hundred
D
io.«*««*Google
THE MAGICIAN, 2«*
yards; adeepeilence reigned on thé desert place;
and as Douglas gazed wildly around him, the idea
toot possession of his mind, that he had all the
time been walking in his sleep, and had just
awakened from a dream.
No process of reasoning could account for what
he had seen. If the figure had been in bodily
presence that of the Black Knight; was it likely
that this desperado» who had not shrunk from bis
sword even when it was backed by those of two
of his followers, would have declined meeting
him on an equal field ? - If a phantom presented
to him by magical ant» and this seemed the more
rational supposition of the two, was it commis­
sioned express from, hell for the doughty purpose
of leading him a short distance out of his way?
He had heard of men who had been unhorsed and
wounded by spectre-knights ; but, on the present
occasion, his antagonist’s triumph appeared to
consist in causing him to extend a little his mid­
night walk, in order to leave him suddenly alone
on a desert plain !
At all events, it was necessary to regain his
264 THE MAGICIAN.
camp with as little delay as possible; otherwise,
he should have to enter on the morrow, and its
increasing chance of adventure, after a 'sleepless
night. The place could not be far distant, nor
very difficult to find ; for it was on lofty ground,
which would doubtless present itself after he had
walked on for a few minutes in any direction.
The night was hazy, but could hardly be called
dark; for the moon was at least dimly visible
through the film which overspread the sky.
Sir Archibald walked on, thoughtful and per­
plexed, directing his steps towards the nearest
eminence. A little way beyond this he saw,
without much surprise, the main road ; and
entering it with alacrity he proceeded^ at a brisk
pace in search of the opening where he and his
friend had left it to seek an encampment for the
night. He had not gone far, however, when the
appearance of a low roofed hut, built against a
bank which lined the right-hand side of the high­
way, convinced him that he was beyond the
place; for a shelter of this kind, had they been
aware of its existence, would have seemed to our
THE MAGICIAN. 265
travellers greatly preferable to the open air. After
standing undecided for a moment, he was about to
turnback, with a hearty anathema directed against
the phantom-knight, when the door of the cottage
opened, and a female, putting forth her head,
enveloped in a hood, beckoned him to approach.
“ Is it you at last, messire?” said she in a low
voice, “I had given up all hope of seeing you; al­
though,there being no nearer shelter evenfora dog,
I could not conjecture what had become of you.”
“ For whom do you take me, my pretty maid ?”
demanded Douglas, paying this compliment to an
extremely handsome face, which he saw dimly,
peeping from under the peasant’s hood.
“ For a foreign knight, by your garb and
tongue ; and for a friend to the damsel of Laval,
by your brightening glance and flushing cheek,
when we talked of her this morning in the
hostelrie.”
“ By my faith, you have a keen eye for such
matters,” said the knight; “ but does its ken
extend no further? Why have you sat up so late
by this hazy moon, which seems fitter to light a
VOL. I. N
D^modo,GoOglc
266 THE MAGICIAN.
spectre through the church-yard, than to sene as
the lamp of love?”
“ Where is your friend ?” demanded the young
woman impatiently, without regarding this ad­
dress ; “ why tarries he ? In this country, Sir
Knight, you should be aware, fellow-travellers are
only too happy to have the advantage of one
another’s protection even in daylight.”
“ It is a country, I allow, where a man may
meet with strange comrades under the beams of
the moon. But as to my friend, I trow he is fast
asleep on a hill side, somewhere about two miles
off; for you shall know that he and I came from
a land where weary travellers are not nice about
their lodgings.”
“ I am sorry for it; for I would trust more to
his keen eye and ready tongue, than to the sharp
sword of ere a knight of you all!”
“ Nay, as for that,” said the knight, who had
no touch of envy in his disposition, “ my friend
lacks not a sharp sword to boot, nor yet a stout
heart and strong arm to use it. But come, the
time flies apace: let me know your trouble; and
Dig'liieo By C j O O ^ I c
THE MAGICIAN. 267
if your quarrel be good, this poor weapon of mine
may even stead you as well as another.”
" I would there had been two!” said the young
woman; “ and yet, against odds of at least a
score, what matters it? Come on, Sir Knight,
follow me, in the name of God, and for the sake
of your lady love !” and, gliding away from the
hut, she pressed up the steep bank beside it, with
an agility which cost the knight, cumbered as he
was with thirty or forty pounds’ weight of armour,
no little exertion to emulate.
“ I call you to notice,” said he, when they had
gained the summit, “ that the odds you mention,
although they may possibly be held at bay for a
moment in the m^le6 till rescue comes up, caunot
be opposed, with the slightest chance of eventual
success, by a single sword. I am willing, in terms
of my knightly oath, to attempt in your behalf all
that man may attempt; but still, I pray you to
remember, I can do no more than man may do.”
“ Listen,” replied the girl, “ and waste not time
in speaking. This is not the first time I have
committed myself to the protection of the roost
N 2
d
ib
««!i.yGoogle
268 THE MAGICIAN.
holy St. Julian. Last year I made another journey,
in the course whereof I was overrun, and trampled
on the ground by a furious horseman. On that
occasion, my life was preserved by the damsel of
Laval; who, forgetting the meanness of my rank
in the greatness of my misfortune, caused me to
be carried into one of her father’s castles, where
she tended me, even like a young mother nursing
her sick child."
“ Weep not, good wench,” said the knight,
touching the comers of his eyes wth his gloves;
“ weep not, but say on; for I already take upon
me the adventure you have to propose.”
“ The times have now turned round,” continued
she ; “ I am well and safe; and the damsel herself
is this night in sorer peril than that from which
she rescued me.”
“ St. Bride of Bothwell!” cried Douglas, “ what
is this ? Why, trifler, did you not speak,at once ?
She in peril! Say on, thou prating fool.”
“ Hush ! hush ! I thought—” and she shook
her head —“ I thought from the first that the
other would have been the better man! But
Digitized bv GoOgle
THE MAGtCIAN. 269
still, even a mere warrior is better than nobody at
all; and the moment is now come when something
must be done. Sir Knight, it was known to-day
in this country-side, that there was some mischief
brewing for the house of Laval. The lord de
Retz is said to be stripping his house-tree, branch
by branch, by the sale of his estates to the sove­
reign duke. The remonstrances of his kindred
have been listened to with coldness by the buyer,
and with haughty and indignant surprise by the
seller; and it is thought that the end will be
nothing less than a civil war in Brittany. Now if
you are astonished that such an event could
be brought about by the quarrels of a single
family—”
“ Tush ! I am astonished at nothing of the
kind :—it is our way over the water. Go on, in
the name of God !”
“ There is something more, however, than the
mere sale of the estates. Gilles de Retz is a mail
of such prodigious pride, that the heavens them­
selves do not seem to him to be high enough for
a canopy for his head. More than one bold baron,
270 THE MAGICIAN.
claiming kindred with himself, has already de­
manded his daughter, and been scornfully refused ;
and it is now believed, that Ire looks far over the
crests of them all for a husband for the heiress of
Laval. If this be true, whatever may be the cause
which sets them to loggerheads, the damsel will
be snatched at in the confusion by more than one
gauntleted hand : and this very Hour, it will be
debated among the malcontents, whether she shall
not be seized upon her journey, and detained as a
hostage, till all questions are settled between them
and the lord de Retz.” • ••• •'
“ How know you this?? demanded Douglas,
“ and who are you who speak above your seeming
rank ?” ,
“ My rank is what it eeems; although, being
the favourite niece of a priest—whose soul be
happy !—I received better instruction than I "have
use for. My real insignificance, and apparent
ignorance, united with accident, have allowed to
come to my knowledge what I have told you. Is
this enough ? Am I right in guessing you to be
one who would venture life and limb in the service
Di Google
THE MAGICIAN. 271
of the Damsel of Laval ? Am I right in supposing
that the principal, if not only purpose, of your
journey has direct reference to her?”
“ You are right,” replied Douglas.
“ Then, messire, since I have gathered this from
words and looks marked by no one else, and pro­
bably unconscious even to yourself, I demand of
you credit for more quickness of wit than you
would expect to find under a peasant’s hood!
Now listen. In yonder ruined castle, once a pow­
erful stronghold of the family of Laval, and now
not altogether the ruin it might seem to be, the
malcontents meet within an hour, for the purpose
of receiving certain information from Nantes, and
debating on what is to be done in consequence.
Their number will be unknown to themselves;
and they will repair to the rendezvous at this
dead hour, cased in armour, and probably vizor-
closed, distrusting even one another, until they
absolutely ascertain that it will be prudent or ne­
cessary to form the league in contemplation. Go
thou too, sir Knight!—go boldly in among the
rest, and observe what is said and done ! Having
Digitized by Google
272 THE MAGICIAN.
learnt this, take what steps may seem wisest to
to you as a practised soldier, for the rescue—if it
be necessary—of the damsel. As for me, my part
is fulfilled ; and if the very worst happen, I shall
be able to weep without self-reproach.”
“ What is the worst?” said Douglas, in a con­
strained whisper—“ Even if a captive, will she not
be in the hands of her own kinsmen, and those
who wooed her for their bride?”
“ Ask me not! ask me not l” replied the dam­
sel, drawing her hood over her face—“ This is a
wild country, and these are fearful times. No
matter with whom the Damsel may be a cap­
tive she will find herself in the hands of a bri­
gand, ready to commit any crime that might serve
to secure his prize!”
“ Enough. Yonder ruined turret is the place,
scarcely taller than the trees that surround it ?
But stay—the name which you this morning for­
bade—”
“ Stay not for names. Away, if you be a
man !”
“ I would but ask, if timely notice given to
Digr *Google
THE MAGICIAN. 273
Orosmandel— ” but at the word, the young
woman dived down the steep of the bank; and
Douglas, turning away with an exclamation less
courteous than was his wont, pursued his way
towards the ruin.
n 3
Google
Diqin
274
CHAPTER X.
As Sir Archibald approached the spot, he
found that although the turret, when seen at a
distance, certainly gave the idea of a place long
since abandoned to the owls, there were other
parts of the building in better preservation. It
seemed to have been one of the strongest of those
strong castles for which Brittany was once re­
nowned ; and although now in ruins, and alto­
gether deserted, except by a keeper of humble
rank, its fortifications and outworks, as well as
a portion of the interior, were in the taste of the
last century.
The edifice stood upon the steep of a thickly-
wooded hill, the sides of which were broken, and
j)ig«»db,1
Google
THK MAGICIAN. 275
rendered of difficult access by rocks, ravines, and
precipices. The faint light of the moon only re­
vealed the outlines of the loftiest towers, while
the rest of the building was enveloped in doubtful
shadow. An air of dusky and mysterious gran­
deur presided over the whole object ; and as
Douglas, after crossing the moat by a permanent
bridgé, approached the gate, he half expected his
summons to be answered by one of those goblin
forms of which he had heard in the tales of the
minstrels.
The gateway, however, was open, and the door
half embedded in the earth. The arch was
ornamented with heads of wolves and wild
boars grinning down upon the visitor: it was
flanked at either corner by turrets, where the
warders once kept their ceaseless watch ; and sur­
mounted, in the middle, by a lofty corps-de-garde.
Three ditches he thus passed, and three walls,
from six to eight feet thick ; and while traversing
the dreary courts between, our traveller, it must
be said, trode softly» rather from feeling than
Digitu Google
276 THE MAGICIAN.
policy, as if thinking that even the sound of his
aimed heels upon the ground was there an intru­
sion and an impertinence.
He at length found himself in the great square
court, surrounded by the buildings of the castle.
Underneath were the cellars, the subterraneans,
and the prisons; above these, on the ground story,
the habitable apartments, as well as the stables,
fowl-houses, and dovecotes, to the right and left of
the gate; and on the upper story, the stores,
larders, and arsenals. The whole of the roofs of
this grand square were bordered by parapets
macheconlis, chemins-de-ronde, and turrets. In
the centre of the court was the lofty donjon, rising
like an enormous tower from the midst of the
surrounding buildings, and containing the state
apartments, and the treasury. This, which might
be called the heart of the fortress, was encircled
by a deep ditch; and although its walls, like
those of the other parts of the edifice, were at
least six feet thick, it was further strengthened by
a shirt, or second wall of equal thickness, formed
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 277
of solid blocks of cut stone, and rising to one half
the height of the donjon itself.
The prodigious strength of the donjon, as might
have been expected, had withstood more success­
fully than the rest of the building the effects of
neglect and time. The sides of the square of
which Douglas made the complete tour, were in
some places open to the weather, and in all, ruined
and desolate. Sometimes, by the uncertain light
of the moon falling through the broken roofs of
the chambers, many of which were vaulted, he
could see the remains of the stained glass with
which their ogive windows had been adorned. In
some apartments, the floor was paved in squares
of different colours; in others, the pillars which
supported the joists were still encrusted with
fillets and flowers of tin; in others, the walls still
showed the remains of paintings, representing
figures as large as life, holding scrolls in their
hands, on which it was the custom, in great
houses, to inscribe moral sentences for the edifi­
cation of the guests.
Google
278 THE MAGICIAN.
Having ascertained that the meeting could be
held in none of the ordinary apartments of the
castle, our adventurer now proceeded with a firm
step, but an anxious heart, to the donjon; and
having crossed the moat by a drawbridge, em­
bedded in the earth, and long since become a per­
manent avenue, he struck with the hilt of his
sword upon the mouldering door. When the
hollow echoes of the sound had died away, he
heard a voice within, followed by the efforts of
some feeble or unsteady hand to withdraw the bolt.
“ There is the last!” said the voice, in a cracked
treble, “ By St. Gildas! there hath scarce been
such a jubilee in my time; no, not since the mur-
ther of the young lord in the Devil’s Chamber.*
he ! he ! he ! What, art sleep old Raoul ? Put
thy pith to it, man, as if feigning thou wast flesh
and blood, instead of a dried skinful of rotting
* In Camera Diabolorum— in Camera Viride, and simi­
lar names taken either from the colour of the tapestry, or
the representations it contained, occur in the manuscript in­
ventories of the fourteenth century.
D
o,.**!t-vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 270
bones. ’Slife ! I must help thee myself, although
I am the seneschal, and thou only my valet. Now,
stand on one side, and hold thy skeleton erect
while he enters, for the credit of the house of
Laval!”
Douglas was received with a profound bow by
the personage calling himself the seneschal; a
little withered man, at the very verge of human
life, with a beard as white as snow, who leant on a
stick of the same colour, taller than himself, and
resembling the rod of a gentleman usher. The
appearahce of the valet was in nowise different
from that of his master, except in dress, and
also by his skeleton being rounded at the back like
a bow, whereas, that of the other was as straight
and official-looking as his wand.
“ There be no more of you, I trow, messire ?”
said the seneschal, in the tone ofaskings question,
of which he knew the answer, while the valet
shut and bolted the door.
“ I know not,” replied Douglas, “ are there
many before me?”
Digitized : »Google
2 80 THE MAGICIAN.
“ A round dozen ! twelve, as I am a sinner ! Is
it not thus, Raoul?”
“ Yea: he is the thirteenth.”
“ He! he! he! said I not so ? Go to : it is
not a man who hath kept a house like this for
fifty years, that thou wilt find napping. I knew
his tread the moment he entered the inner gate ;
tramp, tramp, tramp, it went round the square—
and thou, like a superannuated fool, would have
called him in, as if he wanted bidding of ours!
Wait, said I, wait, old Raoul; have but a grain of
patience, for those feet will carry him here, were
his eyes shut, and a tombstone on his back. Said
I not so ?—the very words ?”
“ Yea,” answered Raoul,” “ I will not gainsay
it.”
“ He! he ! he! See what it is to be a fellow
of experience! Tramp, tramp, tramp, came the
footsteps again by the other side of the square;
and knock ! knock! knock ! went the hilts against
the door! Thou art the thirteenth, sir knight,
and there’s an end 1”
Gooqle
T H E M A G I C I A N . 281
“ That was the number then expected !”
“ Nay —tVelve,” interposed Raoul.
'Thou wilt talk! God sain thee, neighbour!
Alas, old Raoul! And in troth, sir knight, it was
twelve, as this poor man says—but when will the
devil be left out of such a reckoning ? Now, the
twelfth man, you must know, was to have been the
victim!”
“ How !”
“ It is gospel-true. Have I lied, old Raoul?
Speak up, if thou yet hoardest a morsel of tongue
for the worms!”
“ It was the twelfth man—I will not gainsay it:
and moreover—”
“ Moreover ! Moreover what ? Over twelve ?
Why, that would give thyself the lie; for, over
twelve is thirteen. And so, messire,it being a dark
moon, like this of to-night, and one of the com­
pany, whose heart failed him, slipping behind the
tapestry to be out of the mischief, the twelfth
man, entering with vizor closed like the rest, was
counted for the eleventh. Thus did he escape,
«wGoogle
Die
282 THE MAGICIAN.
surrounded by tea hands, each grasping its
miséricorde.* But even as St. Abraham was
tricked by the devil, who caused him to sacrifice
his own flesh and blood, instead of a good fat
buck ; even so was foiled that day the lord de
Retz. For, lo you now, sir knight ! who should
enter thereupon, unwished for, and unbidden ?
Who, I say, should mount those very stairs,
against the will of those who kept them ? Who
should force himself, head and shoulders, into an
affair with which he had no more business than
thou? Who, but the young lord himself? I
tell you, Sir, there were ten daggers clashed in his
body in the same instant ; and his father’s clashed
the loudest ! Is it not so, old Raoul ? Answer, if
there be anything but mere bones within thy skin?
Hold up thy defunct face, and tell me, whether
1 have lied !”
“ Thou hast spoken truly ; I will not gainsay
* The small.dagger which the knights made use of to
dispatch the enemies they had overthrown ; so called, from
the exclamation for “ mercy,” with which the vanquished
could avert the blow. •
b,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 283
it: and, by the same token, the castle from that
day was suffered to fall into ruin ; being deserted
by all but you and me, who were left in charge,
and—” •
“ And another! He ! he ! he! Well said, old
Raoul! Well said, i’faith ! And so, sir knight,
being the thirteenth, asi I have said, we bid you
heartily welcome!” •
The entrance hall was not deep enough to
require much time to traverse it; and yet the
thirteenth visitor—although appearing disdainful
and impatient—did not reach the farther end, till
the last words of this ominous tale had fallen
upon his ear. He then, partly deceived by the
want of light—for the place was only illuminated
by a single lamp fixed to the wall—and partly,
from pre-occupation of mind, instead of mounting
the great staircase, struck into a dim opening
beside it. He discovered bis mistake after ascend­
ing two or three steep and narrow steps, and
returned hastily. The two old men were looking
eagerly towards the spot, with a ghastly smile on
Google
Digiti
284 THE MAGICIAN.
their faces; but when the knight made his ap­
pearance again at the opening, the merriment of
the seneschal broke forth in a shrill, cracked,
“ He! he! he!” and was joined, for the first
time, by the laugh of his comrade, which sounded
as if it came from a coffin.
“ That is the way thou must go,” said he of the
wand, “for it is the stair of the Thirteenth ; and,
being wiser to-day than we were fifty years ago,
we will not try to stay thee. Tell me, old Raoul,
for thou wert by ; did not the young lord dart
iuto that door, when we held him off from mount­
ing the great stair with the point of our weapons ?
Open thy jaws and answer, if thou hast any
dregs of life in thee.”
“ He did so; I will not gainsay it. Yet never­
theless, it was by the great stair he returned.'’
“ Well said, old Raoul, well said, i’faith; now
answer me again; unclose thy lips once more, if
they be any thing else than musty parchment,
damp with mouldiness, and worm-eaten like a
coffin that hath served two corses,—after what
DigitoodbyGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 285
manner came he down the great stair ? Expound,
as thou be’st a true valet! Ha ?”
“ He ! he! he ! Heels foremost! He ! he !
he !”
“ He! he ! he ! By St. Gildas, thou art a rare
companion, all that is left of thee! I tell thee
what, Sir Knight, it is of no use to stand shilly­
shallying. About face, and away with thee, for
thou canst not choose.’*
The feelings may be conceived with which
Douglas listened to such ominous discourse, be­
tween two creatures who, although dressed like
living men, and standing on their legs, looked as if
a winding-sheet was their usual costume, and the
grave their abiding-place. Their laugh, however,
although it had chilled his blood more than their
words, sounded so much like a taunt that his
knightly pride was at length roused. He remem­
bered that the secret passage was the best and
safest avenue he could take in his present cha­
racter ; and controlling as well as possible, the
kind of horror which crept through his blood, he
Offitt/o Google
286 T H E M A G I C I A N .
turned round, as the seneschal directed; and,
without uttering a word, began anew to ascend
the steep staircase. He was pursued for some
time, as he climbed, by the ghastly laugh of the
old men; but, praying fervently to every saint
whose name he could recollect in the confusion of
the moment, he at length found himself out of
hearing.
He was in utter darkness; and the stair, besides
being so steep and ifregular that, in more than one
place, he was obliged to use hands and knees in
the ascent, was so close and damp that he might
have fancied himself in a buiying vault. The
idea again occurred to him, that he was walking
in his sleep; and the wild legend be had just
heard, relating, as it appeared, to an ancestor—
perhaps the grandfather—of the present lord
de Retz, seemed only a natural sequel to his
dream.
At length, however, he was once more on even
ground. The floor felt smooth beneath his" feet,
as if it was of marble, or polished tiles; and he
D. Google
THE MAGICIAN. 287
heard a sound as if of the silence of a group of
human beings close at hand. He was no doubt
in the Devil’s Chamber j although still in utter
darkness, because of the tapestry, which he felt
hanging before him. He did not venture to touch
the fold of the cloth, which he knew must be
opposite the staircase, in order to admit secret
visitors into the room ; but speedily a faint gleam
of light conducted him to a place where there
were several circular holes, the ^ize of a man’s
head, and about the same distance from the
ground. These were, of course, for the purpose
of espial, and enabled the hidden spectator to
substitute his own face for that of the figure
wrought on the tapestry. Here, therefore, our
adventurer took his stand; and here he beheld a
picture which might have afforded worthy mate­
rials, even for the skilful needle that had adorned
the walls.
The room was lofty ; and, from the gracefulness
of its Gothic ceiling and windows, would have
looked light and elegant but for a single enor-
288 THE MAGICIAN.
mous pillar in the middle, as thick as a full-grown
oak, which supported the vault, beginning to
mingle gradually with the nave of the arclies
when little more than midway from the ground.
This gave a stem and heavy aspect to the hall,
well befitting the appearance and purpose of its
present guests ; whoconsisted ofaboutadozen men,
clothed in iron from head to foot, some leaning
against the pillar, half hidden in its shadow-
some standing motionless with crossed arms; and
some resting, with their hands clasped]on the
hilts of their mighty swords, breast high. The
room was completely hung with tapestry, repre­
senting devils in a thousand grotesque yet terrible
attitudes; and as the faint and dickering beams
of the moon, now glanced upon the armour of
the mailed figures, and now touched with myste­
rious light the spectral forms upon the wall,-they
seemed to bind together even the incongruities of
the scene, and confer upon the whole a kind of
unity of character which made the knight hold his
breath for awe.
THE MAGICIAN. 289
The stillness of the assembly continued un­
broken for several minutes; but by degrees some
symptoms of impatience manifested themselves.
Here a hoarse sound from the throat startled the
silence of the room like a blasphemy, and there a
foot grated harshly and heavily upon the floor.
Two or three of the reclining figures raised them­
selves up erect, their armour rattling as they
moved; others stepped lightly, and, as it were,
cautiously, towards the window, endeavouring to
look down into the court; and by and bye, one
Herculean figure began to pace through the ball,
his armed tread increasing gradually in force and
rapidity, till the noise shook the vaults. All were
now astir. Impatient mutterings and angry male­
dictions were heard rumbling in every casque;
the iron-clad figures approached nearer and nearer
to each other; and the gigantic warrior, halting
suddenly in the midst, and glaring round upon the
group, as if he would read their physiognomies
through their helmet-bars, addressed them in a
fierce and disdainful voice.
o
Digitized by Google
290 THE MAGICIAN.
•“ By the holy mother of God!” said he, “ one
would think we were a company of truant boys,
about to conspire, if we could muster courage
enough, to rob an orchard by moonlight! Are
we so unused in Brittany to execute either right
or wrong by the strong arm ?—or do we doubt,
that on the present occasion we are upheld by the
laws of the country, and the privileges of our
rank? When, only a few years ago, as I may
say, we rescued John V. from the dungeons of the
Penthi6vres, and set him firmly on his throne, it
was that he might preserve order in the country,
not at his own will, but as the president of the
nobles. We gave him no charter, to add to his
domain the estates of his vassals, and cripple the
body of the nobility, by lopping off its fairest and
strongest limbs. For what do we wait ? It ap­
pears to me that this subordinate agent whom we
employ binds us all, as with a spell ,* since we
cannot commence even our deliberations without
his sanction. Hitherto we have ascertained one
another’s sentiments at second hand. We have
0<g<tU Google
THE MA6ICIAN. 291
now met to deliver them face to face; and since
the emissary has not made his appearance at the
appointed time, I see no reason why we should
not proceed without him. Away with this mys­
tery, which can serve no purpose, but to harbour
and conceal treason. Here for one is a face—if
you can see it by this corpse-candle of a moon—
which was never hidden before, either from friend
or foe; and I give all who are short-sighted to
wit, that it stands on the shoulders of Claude
Mootriehard !” The grim warrior raised his vizor
as he spoke, and was cheered by 'most of the
company, all of whom followed his example.
“ Be it understood," said one, who was slower
than the others, “ that I am here, by appointment,
to receive information on a point nearly touching
the peace of Brittany; and not to enter into a
cabal, without knowing why or wherefore. Who,
I demand, is the leader in this affair ? By whose
summons are we here f Your name, Claude
Montrichard, was mentioned to me by the mes­
senger, and yet you seem to know no more of the
matter than the rest of us !”
o 2
Google
292 THE MAGICIAN»
“ By St. Brieuc!” said Montrichard, “ it was
your name that was mentioned to me ; and, know­
ing your caution, I believed the envoy the rather
that it came only in a hint.”
“ What matters it?” cried a brawny, thickset
man, in a strong German accent, “ what matters it
by whom invited, so that we are here ? It seems
to me that you have as pretty a cause of quarrel
before you as could be desired, if you will only
let it alone; and a6 for waiting for more infor­
mation, all I can say is, that as neither I nor my
fifty lances are inclined to eat our horses, we must
be up and doing on one side or other, before this
moon is many days older.”
Loud murmurs now arose among the company,
most of whom seemed dismayed at the idea of
being so nearly afloat in such an affair, without
either pilot or commander.
“ Where is the agent?” cried they, tumultu­
ously; “ how do we know that he is not doubly a
traitor ?”
“ He is here!” answered a stern and command­
ing voice; and the Black Knight, making his
Dio^odb,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 293
appearance at the door, strode into the midst ot'
the group.
“ Who doubted my honour?” demanded he,
looking round.
“ That did we all,” replied the German.
“ And I first,” added Montrichard.
“ Then you, Claude Montrichard, on fitting
time and field, I shall hold responsible. It would
be sheer folly to defend my character otherwise
than with my sword. If my face is not uncovered,
my actions, so far as you are concerned, are so.
I have hitherto told you nothing but what was
confirmed afterwards by public report; and if you
will not trust me from your own experience of ray
fidelity, it would be a waste of words to attempt
to sway you by reason or argument.”
“ I accept your defiance,” said Montrichard,
“ were it only to see of what stuff you are made
of in the field—you who are so hardy in the closet,
and so valiant in the council. But come, let us
to business. I seek not to pry into the motives
of your actions ; and I allow that you have
»Google
294 THE MAGICIAN.
hitherto dealt fairly with us. Now, open your
budget !”
“The duke, who seems bent upon humbling the
whole of the nobility in the person of Laval, is
still determined to take advantage of the madness
of the lord de Retz. Roger de Briqueville, and
other friends of this house, are working strenu­
ously upon the mind of their infatuated friend ;
but the probability is, that all will be in vain, and
that in a little while the fairest portion of his
estates, St. Etienne de Malmont, will be in the
grasp of John V. You will receive intelligence
„ from me the moment this is decided upon ; which
will justify any measures you may take, in the
eyes of the whole country. I advise that it should
be the signal for action.” .
“ Then we are still to rest upon our arms?” said
the German, sullenly, “ you told me that at this
meeting something was to be done as well as said.”
“ I propose that the Damsel of Laval, who is
now journeying to La Verrière, should be seized,
and detained in all honour, as a hostage.”
D
^rM
oanvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 296
“ That, sir Knight,” said Montrichard, “ would
be to commence the struggle at once.”
“ It would, if done by brute force : but my plan
ia this. I have friends within the fortress where
she lodges to-night, who will open the wicket
when I command. Fall suddenly upon the gar­
rison before to-morrow’s dawn, upon pretext of
delivering the Damsel from the hands of those
whom sure information leads you to know are
her enemies. Her, in the meantime, will I per­
suade to take to flight in the midst of the bustle,
and by an avenue only known to myself. You
will charge her friends with the abduction ; they
will charge you ; time will be lost in recrimina­
tions; and messengers must go and come between
this and La Verrière. Before the true nature of
the affair is discovered, the question will be de­
cided, peace or war? and according to the an­
swer, I shall cause the Damsel to be delivered up
either to her father, or to him who may be looked
upon as the chiefof the insurgent nobles.”
Had the ambushed knight been struck with less
Google
296 THE MAGICIAN.
amazement by the prodigious audacity of this pro­
posal, he must have betrayed himself; but as it
was, his faculties, both mental and corporeal, ap­
peared to be paralyzed, and he stood breathless
and motionless. Nor did the rest of the audience
appear to be less capable of feeling the sublime
of impudence ; for the speech was followed by pro­
found silence. At length some appeared to re­
collect themselves; and, withdrawing, as if un­
willingly, from the speculations of individual
advantage in which they were plunged, cried out
—“ He is a stranger! The plan is good—but
what security have we that he will render up his
prize ?” They then began to talk eagerly to
one another, separating into small committees.
- The Black Knight, in the meantime, took ad­
vantage of the temporary confusion to glide from
one to another ; here interposing a word in the
dispute, and there whispering something in the
ear of an individual. The nature of these secret
communications Douglas learnt from a broken
sentence which he heard addressed to Mont­
Digtli Google
THE MAGICIAN. 297
richard, who happened at the moment to stand
near his loop-hole.
“ Support me, if you be not mad—the girl will
be ostensibly in my hands, but really in yours—a
word to the wise—hush !” By this time, our ad­
venturer had determined, at any personal hazard,
to burst into the midst of the conclave; and he
only waited for some still better opportunity of
detecting and confounding the machinations of the
Black Knight. The conspirators, secretly swayed
by their own personal feelings or policy, had evi­
dently reasoned one another into a general ap­
proval of the proposed plan ; although they con­
tinued to debate fiercely and tumultuously about
the details :—willing, as it appeared, to throw the
whole onus upon the Black Knight, yet anxious
to repose in him as little confidence as possible.
But a new turn was given to the discussion by
a speaker whose voice had not been heard before.
This, as well as Douglas could discover in the
imperfect light, was a young and handsome man,
who even while raising his vizor like the others,
o 3
Digitized by Google
298 THE MAGICIAN.
had continued to lean against the pillar, and to
gaze in half listless, half haughty silence upon
the throng.
“ Gentlemen,” said he, in one of those low,
quiet, distinct voices, which the ear turns from
louder tones to listen to—“ I at length gather
something from your debate which is needful for
me to understand. 1 hear on all sides, as the
sole objection to the plan, as described by its
proposer—‘He is a stranger in Brittany!’ Now
if this means that a foreigner is not eligible to
pretend to the hand of the Damsel of Laval—the
real prize, notwithstanding all your attempts to
conceal it, for which we contend—I, for one, shall
have nothing to do with the enteiprise. I have
not seen the lady, it is true, but I like her dowry
—a thing which does wonders in reconciling us in
matters of taste; and I fancy a branch of the
Beauchamps of England, transplanted into this
soil, would hardly be overtopped by the fairest
oaks of Brittany.”
“ Methinks,” messire, “ replied the Black
D grt« « ! by G o O g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 299
Knight, with a slight expression of impatience,
“ you are somewhat premature. The question
before us is not how to match the damsel of
Laval; but how to deliver her from the extrava­
gant pride of her father, and thus place her, as
the object of honourable contention, before you
all.”
“ So far, so well,” said the Englishman, we
have all, therefore, an equal stake in the safety of
the damsel, and her honourable treatment; and
why her fate should be committed to the hands
of one man, and that one man the least known
of us all, I am at a loss to conceive. You appear
to entertain a very friendly solicitude, that we
should not commit ourselves before the proper
time; and, doubtless, we are all very much
beholden to you: but still, if we choose to take
any portion of risk upon- ourselves, you will
naturally feel happy in being relieved from so
heavy a responsibility. I propose accordingly,
that the abduction—or deliverance, as you, Sir
Black Knight, more happily phrase it—of the
IhamzcdbyGoOgle
3 00 THE MAGICIAN.
Damsel of Laval, be conducted by a force, com­
posed of an equal number of men contributed by
all of us who desire it; the said force to be under
your command, with such restrictions as the
wisdom of the present meeting may prescribe.”
This proposal was received with a shout of ap­
probation ; and when the Black Knight attempted,
as before, to address himself to individuals, his
voice was drowned in the general uproar. At
length all was silent, and every face was directed
towards him in expectation. When at length he
spoke, and this was not for some time, it was in a
cold, haughty, and indifferent tone.
“ It was my desire to serve you,” said he, “ and,
if the detention of the Damsel were essentially
necessary to our ultimate success, I would do so
still. Her being allowed, however, to fall once
more into the hands of her father, will, at the
worst, only render her deliverance more tedious and
difficult; and I decline submitting, in order to
avoid this, to the new insult which the wisdom of
the meeting has thought proper to offer me. In
Google
• r k B m a o I c i a H . 301
furtherance of my own plans, notwithstanding, I
shall still pursue the adventure as zealously as
heretofore. It is myself I serve, not you ; and,
for my own sake, not yours, will I give you doe
tidings of the event which must bring you to a
decision either to submit or resist. In the mean­
time, only advising you to take no step whatever
till yott hear farther from me, I leave you in the
holy keeping of your own wits,” and so saying,
the knight strode out of the room.
Douglas Would instantly have withdrawn for
the purpose of following his mysterious enemy;
although, even then, in some doubt as to the pos­
sibility of his seizing a man who appeared to have
the faculty of vanishing like a spirit. He was de­
tained for a moment, however, by some expressions
he heard amidst the tumult occasioned by the
haughty exit of the stranger, which raised power­
fully his curiosity. •
“ Follow him not,” said the more cautious per­
sonage, whose name had not transpired, “ and take
no heed of his disrespect. Draw near, and I will
Digduad by Google
302 THE MAGICIAN.
tell you why. Closer, for I will not trust my
voice to the echoes even of this deserted room.”
Douglas stretched his head forth out of the open­
ing, and listened with soul and sense to the whis­
per of the old man, but without being able tocatch
an intelligible word. At the moment he fancied he
heard something stir near him; and putting out
his hand, he felt that a man in armour stood close
by his side.
“ Sir,” whispered he, “you are here on espial as
well as I : move not, or I drag you into the hall.
When they are gone, you and I go hand and hand
into the moonlight!” and seizing the hand beside
him, he grasped it like one who would give earnest
of his power to enforce any threat of the kind.
The stranger, on his part, did not answer in words,
but returned the pressure with such goodwill, that
Douglas heard the steel splints of his gauntlet
crackle, and felt the blood spring from beneath his
finger nails. They stood in this cordial attitude
for some minutes, without overhearing a syllable
that could have been of interest to either; and at
-»Google
THE MAGICIAN. 303
leD gth th e m eeting b roke up w ith o u t com ing to
an y conclusion, and th ey saw th e last of its mem­
bers d isap pear a t th e door.
“ And now, sir Black Knight,” said Douglas,
“ fori know you by instinct, even in the dark,
you will either settle with me in the court beneath,
certain accounts that have been long outstanding
between us, or you will accompany me on the
instant to yonder fortress, where lodge Orosmandel
and the Damsel of Laval. Choose!”
“ I should prefer the former alternative,” said
the stranger, “ if I did not perceive, by the
hardness of your gripe, that it would take more
minutes than I can well spare just at present to
chastise your folly. We shall go, therefore, to the
fortress, and the rather, that I have still more press­
ing business there than you.” Groping their
way to the secret door, which was the readiest
egress, they commenced their descent, still hand
in hand;Tiut the narrowness of the 'rude staircase
making this attitude impossible longer, Douglas
gave precedence to his enemy,- keeping close be­
>«!««)ayGoogle
304 THE MAGICIAN.
hind him, so that he might reach the bottom at
the same moment.
He reached the bottom alone! .
“ Who passed ?” cried the knight, drawing his
sword, “ tell me on your lives!”
“ Who passed ?” repeated the seneschal, in
evident surprise. “ Why, the twelve men, to be
sure, not five minutes agone. And what makest
thou, sir knight, by the secret stair, and head,
instead of heels, foremost?”
“ It is glamour! or I am in a dream ! and
these be no living men, but shadows and phan­
tasms ! Open the door, ye unholy shapes, and
then sink in the ground and disappear!”
“ The thirteenth man !” mused the seneschal, as
his valet slowly obeyed ; “ What thinkest thou of
this, comrade ?”
“ That we are even well rid of him!” replied
old Raoul sulkily: “ New times are not like old
times; and a man now-a-days can laugh at his
very doom. Death itself seems to be dead; or,
wherefore are you and I here ? Ah! what a night
0)01114! Google
THE MAGICIAN'. 305
we should have made of it I with old rhymes, and
old stories, and the corpse-streaked east and west
between us!”
Douglas escaped as quickly as be could from
the ill-boding voices of the old men ; and when he
had cleared the precincts of the castle, rushed,
rather than ran, down the steep on which it stood.
While passing the hut by the roadside be threw a
glance at the door; but all was still. Soon after,
he reached the opening by which his friend and
he had left the highway; and in a few minutes
more he stood by the side of David Armstrong,
who was still fast asleep. •
Although the dawn was not yet perceptible,
Douglas knew, by the appearance of the sky, and
the position of the moon, that it was no longer
night; and he laid himself quickly down, deter­
mined, in the midst of all his dilemmas, to snatch
an hour’s rest, before the daylight should call him
to its business and adventure. Sleep came at his
bidding, but not rest. Long he tumbled, and
tossed, and groaned. He imagined at length that
onto* t*Google
306 THE MAGICIAN.
he was actually laid out as a corpse, with the
seneschal watching at his head, and old Raoul at
his feet. The Black Knight presently entered
upon the scene ; and stooping down, endeavoured
to cut the fastenings of his helmet with his
miséricorde. -Unable to stir hand or foot, he felt
those diabolical fingers fumbling at his throat ;
and, overpowered with horror, the sleeper shrieked,
and awoke.
His dream was partly true ; and he caught hold
of the intruding hand with convulsive energy.
“ Villain !” he cried, “ let me up! Give me a
chance of life; and let me die by fair fighting !”
“ Get up, then, in the name of God!” said
David. “ It is that I have wanted this half hour;
and I have even now been fain to cut your helmet
ties, lest you should be strangled.”
“ O my friend, I have had such a dream !”
“ You may well say so, Archibald; for truly
you have had a troubled night.”
“ Why, what in heaven’s name do you know of
my troubles?”
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 307
“ More, perchance, than your waking lips could
tell roe. But the Black Knight has been busy
with you since we lay down; and those two lean
and wizard spectres, whose eldritch laugh you
might well dread to hear."
“ David! Was it all a dream? Only convince
me of that—but no—it is impossible.”
“ You have truly passed a troubled night; and,
indeed, as 1 may say, you might as well not have
slept at all. But you men of war, whose minds
are not so alert as they might be, are unable to
struggle with dreams, which are in general a
casualty depending upon the state of the body.
With such, the stomach carries it over the brain ;
and your valiant knight lies groaning under the
blows of an ideal victor, whom the poor scholar,
disciplined by his watchings, and fastings, and
meditations, would throw off like a cumbersome
cloak. For mine own part, I awoke every now
and then of express purpose to drive away a great
black fly, which kept buzzing and buzzing around
your head; and once, on raising my eyes,there was
a damsel standing beside us—a young woman—”
Google
308 THE MAGICIAN.
“ The Damsel of Laval!"
“ No, the young woman Hagar; and she told
me that she was an Egyptian, and not a—hem!—
but, behold ! this was a dream.”
“ And so was not mine,” said Donglas, starting
up, “ Not a word 1 Listen, and then speak
and he related in a succint and coherent manner
the adventures of the night. During the course
of the recital, although David said nothing, he
maintained for a considerable time his own private
opinion, that it was all a dream; but by degrees
the conviction forced itself upon his mind, that
the knight had not even been sleep-walking, but
broad awake.
“ In this country,” said he, after some moment’s
meditation, “ the great houses were formerly pro­
vided, not only with private passages, the doors of
which appeared, both to the sight and touch, to
form part of the wall, but also with subterranean
avenues, extending far out into the country. This
is already an antique fashion; and the remains
of such contrivances, if skilfully used, might give
an appearance of the supernatural to feats of mere
THE MAGICIAN. 309
dexterity and ingenuity. If the Black Knight be
a creature of flesh and blood, you may be assured,
that out of some such substantial materials arose
the glamour of to-night. At all events, if I am
not far mistaken, we shall become better ac­
quainted with magic as we get on ; and so, let us
up and away, for the sun is already high in the
heavens. The time may soon come—adsit modo
dexter Apollo—when we shall teach him, in turn,
a few of the tricks of the north !”
END OP VOL. I.
London : Haddon and Co., Doctor«' Common«.
THE
M A G I C I A N
L E IT C H R I T C H I E
THREE V0LUME8
VOL. II
LONDON
JOHN MACRONE ST. JAMES'S SQUARE
1 ID O C O X X X V I
Digitized Google
U V V ,
J . H a d don a n d C o ., D o c to ra ' C om m on».
Digitized by C.ooole
THE MAGICIAN.
CHAPTER I.
T h e conspiracy of the relations of Gilles de
Retz, which disturbed the latter part of the reign
of John V., was in all probability, as the English
knight Beauchamp had hinted, entered into more
from personal than public motives. Or rather, it
may be considered as one of the last throes of a
convulsion which had continued for numerous cen­
turies. The patient had been bled and blistered
almpst ad deliquium animi, and the disease could
VOL. 11. R
wo®*b,Google
2 THE MAGICIAN.
no longer pamper itself on the rebellious juices of
the body; but still, a sudden heave now and then
demonstrated, that although subdued it was not
yet expelled. Like the devils of Scripture, when
adjured by a stronger power, it would rend the
victim once more, before leaving him for ever.
However this may be, the conspirators who,
during the night, had held grave debate on the
question, as to whether they should seize and
carry off a prisoner, the Damsel of Laval, vied
with each other in the morning for the distinction
of being the most respectful and devoted of her
satellites. The air was cool, yet balmy; their
road lay among swelling hills, covered with vines
and fruit-trees; and, instead of the hazy moon­
light which, but a few hours before, had wrapped
the world, as if with a winding-sheet, a joyous
sun looked dovfn upon their line of march, and
glittered along the course of the beautiful Loire,
till it was lost in the distance.
In addition to the two hundred men-at-arms
who escorted the Damsel, there were several of
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 3
the gentlemen whom Douglas had seen the night
before in the ruined hall, with a body of their
retainers corresponding to the rank of the indi­
vidual. These armed retinues followed the main
body, while their commanders rode in front near
the litter of Mademoiselle de Laval ; and as, one
by one, on arriving at the avenues which led to
their own châteaux, they detached themselves
from the mass, it was not uninteresting to see the
whole line halt during the ceremony of leave-
->taking, and to watch the glittering of their ar­
mour, arid the dancing of their plumes, as they
spurred haughtily along the wooded paths, and at
length disappeared among the trees. Sometimes,
when the château was near, its lord prevailed upon
the principal travellers to ride up to the gate, and
drink a cup of wine without dismounting, and on
such occasions the ladies of the family came out
to salute the Damsel as she passed. All these in­
cidents contributed, and had done so from the
first, to render the progress of the cavalcade ex­
tremely slow ; for in reality, a vigorous traveller,
b 2
4 THE MAGiCIAN.
even without the assistance of his horse, might
have performed thedistance from Angers to Nantes
in two days. .
There was one thing, however, which gave a
very peculiar character to the procession, as it
might be called. This was the absence, even in
well-peopled districts, of that noisy crowd which
usually fawns upon the progress of the great.
The peasants got out of the way altogether, or
else stood still, either gazing on the show in­
absolute silence, or with their eyes fixed upon
the ground. All, however, bad their heads unco­
vered, and their bodies bent. Groups of meaner
travellers, instead of attaching themselves, for pro­
tection, to the great body, melted away as it
approached, and disappeared among the trees;
and thus the procession, instead of uniting to
itself, as usual, every body whom leisure permit­
ted or business required to travel the same way,
rolled silently along, the uniformity of its march
only broken by such incidents as we have men­
tioned.
THfc MAGICIAN. 5
Among the chiefs who surrounded the litter>
although at as great a distance as the breadth of
the road permitted, the most oonspicuous was
Roger de Briqueville, a relation of the family of
Laval, and in some sort, a dependant upon his
kinsman, the lord de Retz. To him was intrusted,
on this occasion, the command of the men-at-arms;
but his ordinary office was that of captain of the
body-guard of his master. He was low in stature,
square-built, and long-armed; and his coarse,
weather-beaten, pock-pitted face, without a single
gleam of what is properlytermed intellect, disclosed
notwithstanding the keenness of a practised sol­
dier, and the instinctive fidelity of a mastiff dog.
Close by the litter rode Orosmandel, a man
whose extraordinary dignity of deportment awed
the rude soldiers around him, as much as the
benignity of his countenance interested them. To
look at him behind, you would have supposed that
he was some sovereign prince, of that by-gone
time when the attributes of royalty were not
merely its crown and sceptre, but grace, majesty,
D
igit*t>db,Gooql
6 THE MAGICIAN.
personal-Strength, and beauty Of manly form. In
front, his beard, as White as the driven snow, his
calm deep eyes, his pale face; raòulded by habitinto
an expression of lofty contemplation, mingled both
with sweetness and sadness, gave the idea at orice
of an apostle and a philosopher; and few travelfftW
there were who looked upon him, who did not
step aside out of his path, and hold their breath
while he passed by.
His benign expression, however,- had hot the
nfeual effect of leading On to familiarity and confi­
dence. The persons on his side Of the litter1sat
their hories with air air of constraint ; they gave
him, as the Sailors say, a Wide berth ; and when
they Conversed at all With each other, it waà in a
whisper. •
Behind the litter, was Hagar, mounted on a
mule, her hood drawn over her face, Arid her Whole
form enveloped rn her cloak. From time to-time,
she quickened her pace, to reply to the questions
of the DamSel; whò; hi the absence òf othèr
female society, thkn that of her waiting-Woman,
Google
THE ttAAICIidT. 7
desired occasionally to convene with the stranger.
Hitherto they had hardly exchanged words, ex­
cept at the moment when the Jewess presented the
note from Sir Archibald Douglas; but at this
poiot of the journey, when they might be said to
be almost in the heart of Gilles de Retz’s personal
domain, all the cbiefi who had joined the pro­
cession on the route, had taken their leave, and
mademoiselle de Laval had time to think of her
protogie.
**TeH me, maiden,” said she, “ yon whose
dark eyes speak of warmer sons than ours, what
is your parentage and country ?”
“ My hither, lady, is a merchant from the east,
who liveth by trafficking in goods and monies;
and for me, I have no country, being as one bom
in the desert, and by the wayside.”
“ Poor girl! and yon know not even the land
wherein you saw the light f Speak, it your father
wealthy V*
“Of a merchant it cannot be Baid, He is wealthy;
for his subttance is ahrays in peril. Nevertheless
Google
THE MAGICIAN.
the Lord hath dealt bountifully with our house,
and we bare wherewithal to live.
“ Is he in Paris ?”
“ Nay.”
“ Then with whom didst thou part ?” interposed
Orosmandel, fixing his penetrating eye upon her.
“ I can read the signs ofthe human affections,and I
know whatbelongeth to love, and what to kindred.”
Hagar stood silent, and interdicted ; for she had
not lied boldly, like one who would save her father
at the expense of a harmless falsehood ; but had
cheated her conscience with the quibble contained
in her words: for the Jew was not in Paris, but
under it.
“ To whom go you at Nantes?” demanded
Pauline goodnaturedly, in order to screen the
young woman’s confusion.
“ To the kinsfolk of our house, who are also
traffickers like my father.”
“ And the knight,” added Pauline, m a lower
tone, after glancing furtively at Orosmandel, who
had relapsed into his usual abstraction, —“ he
ab
yGoogle
Oigrtoi
THE MAGICIAN. 9
whose missive you delivered to me—bow did
you—” She coloured deeply while she spoke,
and then added, with an effort at indifference,
u Have you known him long?”
“ I never saw him before that night,” replied
Hagar.
“ Indeed! And where did you see him then !
You were, no doubt, strongly recommended.”
“ I was—I met him at a hostelrie called the
Pomme-du-Pin.” There was a peculiarity in Ha-
gar’s voice while she spoke, which induced the
Damsel to look up at her face, which was partly
concealed by her hood; and she saw that her
usually colourless complexion was suffused with a
bright glow. Pauline was silent for some moments.
“ Did you say by whom you were recommend­
ed ?” said she at last carelessly.
“ By an intimate friend and blood-relation of
the knight.”
“Minion!” said the Damsel suddenly, and in a
tone of haughty displeasure ; “ he has nor friend
nor kinsman in the whole realm of France.”
b 3
„Google
w teAO/ctANi
" Of ft surety, rtadatn, I have spoken the truth ;
and the meeting was appointed by the knight
himself.” Helving so spokeri, Hagar suffered her
mule to fall gradually behind ; aware she bad
giten offence, she could not Conceive of what
nature, to her powerful protectress ; yet desirous
of discontinuing; at all risks, à conversation which
might tend to the discovery of more of her
affiirs than might be consistent With her father’s
safety. '
The cavalcade at length reached a aide path,
which, diverging from the great highway to
Nahtes, led across the country to La Verrière, the
residence of the lord de Retz» This was not their
route, however, for it was intended to go straight
on to the city ; and Pauline, after pausing for a
moment to gaze up the avenue, and to Whisper a
payer before a crucifix Which marked its entrance,
directed her litter to proceed. But Orosmandel
stood still j and she paused again out of respect.
No one would presume to pass the philosopher;
who appeared to be plunged in the deepest ah-
' lO O ' lie
THE MAGICIAN. 11
straction; and thns a silent and unbidden halt
took place along the whole tin«; ' ■
A peasant woman was kneeling at the foot of
the crucifix, completely wrapped in her cloak, and
apparently absorbed in religions meditation ; bat
the caution or timidity, whichever it might be,
that hid seemed to affect the whole of heir class,
was lost in curiosity when the procession stopped,
and she turned her head to see what was the
matter. She proved to be the same young woman
who had given the warning to Sir Archibald
Douglas ; and the Damsel, observing her, made a
sign that she should approach when she had
finished her devotions.
“ How is it with you, Marie?” said she, in a
low voice; “ Are you quite recovered?”
“Yes, madam: thanks to your ladyship, St.
Julian, and the Holy Virgin.”
“ Where have you been?”
“ To see a relation of my late uncle.”
“ And you are now going back to your
village ?”
D ^ tiiK M ^ G o o ^ Ic
12 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Ye*, madam ; to be married, if you please."
“ You met with no mishaps or adventures this
time I hope," said the Damsel, smiling, as she put
a piece of money into the girl’s hand, and waved
an adieu.
“ Yes, madam," replied Marie, taking care that
no one else should hear, yet avoiding any look or
tone of significance ; “ I fell in with a knight
under unusual circumstances, with a bloody heart
emblazoned on his coat of arms."
“ Under what circumstances?" demanded Pau­
line quickly.
“ A report had got abroad among the peasants
that you were in danger. The knight perilled his
life, on a desperate chance, to find out the truth ;
and I have not seen or heard of him since."
At this moment, Orosmandel, awaking from his
reverie, commanded De Briqueville to take the
path to La Verrière.
“ To La Verrière !” repeated the latter in sur­
prise, but with submissive respect ; “ to-morrow,
my lord gives a mystery to the people at Nantes,
DwMoabvGoOgle
THE MAGICIAN. 13
and I understood, from his own letters and your
directions, that he would expect us at the hotel
de la Suze.”
“He did—he does not,’' replied the sage
mildly, “ proceed.”
Pauline de Laval, who was by this time much
nigh tired of shows and cities, and too well
accustomed to Orosraandel even to wonder at his
apparently supernatural intelligence, consented
readily to the change of route. She was,
besides, desirous of obtaining more leisure than
Nantes would afford for those metaphysical medi­
tations which are so important to a girl of seven­
teen ; and, desiring Marie to walk near the litter,
so far as her village, the cavalcade was once more
in motion.
Hagar, in the meantime, in whose mind the
ideas of death and dishonour were inseparably
connected with the abode of Prelati, was uncertain
for a moment how to act. Her heart impelled
her to thank mademoiselle de Laval for her
protection, and take open leave; but she remem-
Dtgttizi Google
14 THE MAOlCtAït.
bëred thë offende she had unconsciously given, and
the flash of haughty anger which had lightened
for a moment in the Damsel’s eyes ; and the
habitual caution of the oppressed and peiaecuted—
which the oppressors and persecutors term mean-
hess of spirit—prevailed. Amidst the confusion
of turning ihto so narrow a path, she suffered her
mule to fall behind, edging herself gradually out
of the mass, and hoping that, if once clear of the
leaders of the cavalcade, the others would con­
clude that she had permission to pursue her own
way.
In this manner she found herself at length com­
pletely extricated from the line ; and switching
her mule with good will, she rode as quickly along
the highway as she could venture to do without
running a risk of exciting suspicion. Having
gained a certain short distance, she could not
resist a desire which beset her to look round ; and,
turning her head, as if by fascination, she saw
Sir Roger de Briqueville standing in his 6tirrups,
and looking after her. The knight waved his
Google
t h £ Magician. 15
hand for her to retnm \ and she was near enough
fô observe a grim smile upon his countenance.
Hagar at first, without stopping, merely pointed
along the road, as if to say that Nantes was her
destination; but a more impatient gesture from
Briqueville convinced her that he was in earnest,
and with a quaking heart, she rode back.
" Sir Knight,” said she, “ the term of my jour­
ney is not La Verrière, but the city NanteS; and
I pray thee humbly, that thou wilt accept of the
thanks of thy handmaid, and convey them also
to the Damsel of Laval, for the protection vouch­
safed to tne thus far.”
“La Verrière is your road to Nantes,” replied
the knight gruffly, “ come, come,” as he saw she
hesitated, “ if you affect so much state, we must
have a groom to lead youi' mule by the bridle.”
Hagar instantly rode up to the litter.
“ Damsel,” said she, dismounting, “ I return
thee my humble thanks for the protection thou
hast vouchsafed to me thus fat ; and I now crave
permission to proceed direct, even to the city
Nantes.”
,Google
16 THE MAGICIAN.
» “ I have had occasion to question your ve­
racity,” replied the Damsel, severely, but in a low
tone; “ Did you mean to prove it by absconding
stealthily from my protection ?”
“ Madam,” said Hagar in desperation, “ thou
didst ask of my kindred and my country. Behold,
I am a Jewess, even a dweller in the wilderness!
Let me pass on in peace; for there can be no
communion betwixt thee and me.”
“ How ! a Jewess ! This is indeed surprising !
A Jewess gives rendezvous to a man in a public
tavern ; and he—a kinsman of the princely
house of Douglas, and a Christian knight—imme­
diately upon making her acquaintance under
these circumstances, craves my friendship in her
behalf! Do you know her, De Briqueville ? ”
“I only know that ahe must go with us to La
Veniere; and upon business more serious, I guess,
than meeting a gallant in a winehouse, Jewess
though she be.”
“ I hate all mysteries, except those in a tale !
Will you explain yours, maiden, or pass entirely
from my hands ? Choose.”
<
D
i0.i.;«ibvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 17
“ I commit myself to the hands of the Most
High!” said Hagar: and with a deep sigh she
folded her hands upon her breast, and resumed
herjourney, following the litter as before. Pau- ■»
line looked back more than once, as if hesitating;
but between the stories of Hagar and Marie, such
a-conflict had been raised in her breast, that her
reason had not fair play. She could not help
suspecting her own conduct to be ungenerous;
but she quieted her scruples by determining to
redeem her word on the following day; and
whether Hagar persisted or not in withholding an
explanation, to have her delivered in safety and
honour to her friends in Nantes.
As for the Jewess, notwithstanding all that had
passed, she trusted so much to her skill in physi­
ognomy, that she would cheerfully have confided
her safety to the Damsel of Laval; had she not
been aware—or at least, if she did not believe—
that even her power, and that of her father to
boot, would be as nothing against the immutable
will of one who was in her judgment the most
DlQih yGoogle
18 THE MAGICIAN.
talented and subtle villain on the face ofthe earth.
She determined to escape, if escape was possible,
before entering, the inclosures of the château of
La Verrière; and for thiB purpose she awaited
with impatience till a bait should take place for
refreshment.
At present, in fact, she knew herself to be out
of her element, seated on the back of an animal
to which she was a stranger, and which she could
not manage, and exposed to the gaze of a crowd
Of men. She had no self-confidence ; she felt
powerless and awkward ; and eagerly did she
long for the moment when, placed on ber own
feet, she might exercise that art which the habits
of her life had rehdered easy—of “ going and
coming with no flaofe noise than the shadow on
the wall.” The thought did not present itself
without associations. The art was not entirely
born of persecution and mystery. It had also
been cultivated as a means of surprising and
interesting the young Scot; and that which at
first was an amusement of her girlish fancy, had
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 19
become at length*—though still unconsciously—
the business of her woman’s heart. Bitterly did
she grieve for the selfish cruelty of her father in
devoting David to a danger so iinminent. “ Well
may the heathen despise ns,” said she in her heart ;
“ the God of Jacob must first renew our spirit,
before he bnildeth up again the house of Israel."
The halt at length took place at the castle of
Huguemont, the lord of which claimed kindred
with the house of Laval. Thé Damsel was here
under a wëll-known' roof, and in the society of
friends ; and although the distance was now in­
considerable to La Verrière^ as some unfavourable
symptoms of a change of weather presented them­
selves in the 6ky, it was determined to remain
there for the night.
Hagar crossed the drawbridge with a beating
heart—which ceased to beat for some momeats
frhen she found herself in a court, surrounded
walls so lofty, that hope itself could not soar over
them ; and when soon after she knew by the
clanking of the chains of the bridge, that the only
Difti Google
20 THE MAGICIAN.
passage for human foot to the external world was
withdrawn. De Briqueville looked at her with
a sarcastic smile, as he 6aw her fairly caged; but,
controlling himself as it seemed, he said in a tone
more respectful than the words,
“ We would receive you into the hall, were it
possible; but, being an unbeliever, you must eat
either above, or with any of the servants who will
suffer you.”
“ Not so, De Briqueville,” interposed Pauline
de Laval, who overheard him, “ This young
woman, be it known to you, is under my special
protection. She will in the meantime eat with
the peasant Marie, for whom I have ordered some
refreshment, before she passes on to her village;
and ere retiring to rest, I shall see her myself,
and give farther instructions respecting her.”
Hagar was now shown into a small low-roofed
room, which, but for a window, might have seemed
nothing more than a recess; and there she re­
mained for some time alone, her thoughts too
deeply concentrated to be disturbed by the tumul-
*
A C o o k i e
THE MAGICIAK. 21
tuous noise of hurrying steps and calling voices
which filled the corridor, and, it might have
seemed, the whole castle. Every chance of escape
depended upon the character of Marie; and
when at length this young woman entered
the room, bearing the refreshments in her hand
which the domestics were either too busy or too
proud to serve, she gazed in her face with a look
of such intense scrutiny as to excite the girl’s
surprise.
“ Perhaps you wonder at my waiting upon a
Jewess ?” said Marie at last; “ but the blessed
St. Julian bestows upon travellers what company
he pleases; and moreover, we do not find that the
good Samaritan inquired into the belief of the
wounded man before he relieved him. Eat and
drink, therefore, you who are weary and desolate
by the wayside, and stricken, God help us! even
while yet a girl, by the troubles of the world.”
“ I knew it,” said Hagar, almost aloud; “ I saw
it in her eye. She hath neither the stupid brutality
of a peasant, northe ignorant pride of a noble. The
22 THE MAGICIAN.
God of our fathers be praised !” She then, after
grateful thanks, “ brake bread ” with :her, and,
having fortified hertrembling heart with a mouthful
of wine, spoke thus: . <.
“ Thou hast truly said, that I am weary and
desolate, and stricken with sorrow ! I am even as
a bird, chased into the net of the fowler; and I
have no hope save in the great God of Jew and
Gentile—and in thee! Start not: although well-
nurtured, and taught beyond thy rank, I know
that thou art yet an unregarded peasant; and for
that very reason, thou canst save me.”
“ From what, in the name of God ? And in
what manner? You are no prisonerfor Marie
had not Jieard what was said by De Brique-
ville—“and the Damsel of Laval, with her own
lips, gave me strict charge to treat you well. If you
are oppressed, it is to her you must address your­
self; for she is mistress even here, where her
father-does not command.”
“ Were it in the power of the Damsel of Laval
to protect me, I would confide in her even us
Digifized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 28
in a good angel ; but, if once within the precincts
of La Verrière, I am lost.”
u You are indeed fair,” said Marie, thinking
that at last she understood her; “ you are passing
fair; but you will be under the charge of his own
daughter ; and above all, you are J%ewess. Still
it is said,” and she sunk her voice to a whisper,
“ it is said, that Gilles de Retz is not scrupulous ;
and wilder stories are told of the deeds in La
Verrière than ever entered into the brain of a
fablier.”
What stories ?” demanded Hagar.
“ Fables, doubtless. Screams have been heard
in the midnight wood ; and corpse-lights seen
glimmering among the trees. Individuals belong­
ing to the establishment at the castle have sud­
denly disappeared ; and the skiff of more than
one fisherman, returning at night, has run against a
corpse floating in the sluggish Erdre. The Damsel
of Laval has not been there since she was a child;
and that is nothing to the credit of La Verrière.”
After the girl had finished, Hagar sat looking
D H jm iB dbyG oO ^lC
24 THE MAGICIAN.
at her for some time, in silent dismay ; her
thoughts, however, not altogether occupied with
her own danger. She at length took a purse from
her girdle, and, putting it into Marie’s hand,
which she pressed convulsively within both hers :
“ Wilt th ^ tid me to escape?” said she. The
girl calmly rejected the bribe, and then moved her
seat away ; partly offended by the offer, and partly
as feeling the degradation of having been touched
so familiarly by a Jewess.
“ I cannot,” she replied, somewhat more coldly
than before, “ I dare not even hint at your danger,
to the Damsel of Laval.”
“ I ask it not,” said Hagar, eagerly, “ but we
are alike in stature ; take thou my cloak, and
give me thine, and I willgo forth in thy semblance.
Take also this under robe,” for she saw the girl’s
eye glisten as if in admiration of its richness and
elegance, “ it will be a wedding garment—nay, let
me throw it on thy shoulders. There ; it becometh
thee well, for it is only the free and the happy for
whom such raiment is fitting. And it shall come
DlQl! yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 26
to pass, that when thou wearest it, thou shalt
think of her whom thou didst preserve; and be­
hold ! thy face at that moment shall look more
lovely in the eyes of thine husband, than if there
were enwoven in the silk a talisman framed by the
art of the magician !” W?
Marie was generous and high-minded ; but she
had a touch of woman’s vanity as well as woman’s
pity, and it was with a sigh she rejected the robe.
“ I consent to exchange cloaks,”said she; “ the
Damsel will think me ungrateful, but the time may
come when she will find out her mistake; and, if
it never does, 1 shall know that she is mistaken
myself.” She would then have taken off the
robe; but Hagar suddenly threw her cloak above
it, and enveloped her in its voluminous folds. She
then wrapped herself in the cloak of the peasant
girl.
“ Tell me,” said she, “ what is the risk which
thou runnest ?”
“ The risk of appearing ungrateful. You will
probably pass in this disguise; and I shall only
VOL. II. C
byGoogle
26 THE MAGICIAN.
have to wait for a change of guard; foras my face
is known, I can pass in any dress.”
“ But if the damsel should call for me before a
change of guard ?”
.“ Take no thought of that; when my determina­
tion is taken, I can dare as well as you. Turn to
the left when you pass the gate, and walk on with
what speed you may, till nightfall. You will then,
since you have money in your purse, find lodgings
for the night, in the nearest cottage, and a guide to
Nantes by daybreak. Adieu !” Hagar, who was
but little accustomed to kindness, could not speak
forthe swelling of her heart. She stooped down,
and kissed the peasant’s hand. Marie hesitated
for a moment; but then, putting her arm round
the waist of her protog6e, she kissed the Jewess on
the brow. And 60 they parted.
D
ig.M
«)b,Google
27
CHAPTER II.
Hagar, unencumbered by her mule, and in the
disguise of a peasant, had little difficulty in
escaping from the castle; more especially as she
found few of the guards completely sober, except
the individual whose duty it was to turn the key.
When she made her appearance at the postern,
it had just been opened for the egress of several
persons of her own apparent rank; and a hearty
buffet which, in the surprise and terror of the
moment, she presented to one of the soldiers who
attempted to salute her, not only kept up the
character she personated, but afforded her an ex­
cuse for gliding suddenly past the gate-keeper,
without waiting for the usual examination,
c 2
Google
28 THE MAGICIAN.
“ 'Who goes there ?” cried the man in surprise:
“ Comrades, did you see any one pass?—if you
are.still capable of seeing.”
“ I saw a shadow, ’’ answered one, “ gliding
along the wall, and then vanishing.”
“Shadow 1” repeated a soldier, rubbing his ear,
“ It wasflesh and blood—or rather absolutebone -
I’ll answer for it; and, by the same token, it had
the hand and arm of Marie.”
“ It was the Jewess,” said another, “—hiccup !
—touching whom we were warned so severely. I
knew her by the black eyes—hiccup!—for being
seated on this bench—by reason—”
“ By reason that you cannot stand.”
“ Hiccup!—I saw up under her hood. Thou
wilt dangle, comrade, from the battlements to­
morrow, as surely as these keys dangle to-night
at thy girdle." The laugh of derision which fol­
lowed this speech reached the ears of Hagar, and
assured her that she was safe for the present.
She walked, or rather glided on with a rapidity
which made her incapable of coherent thought,
THE MAGICIAN. 29
and for a space of time which she could only
guess at by the changes which took place in the
sky. When she left the castle, it was a dull,
lowering, threatening afternoon; and when she
halted, for the first time, the shadows of evening
were dissolving, like exorcised spirits, beneath a
brilliant and beautiful moon. The Loire, with its
massive coteaux and magnificent vistas, was far
behind her; and she seemed to have entered an­
other country—but still a land of enchantment,
which the imagination disunites from the realities
of life, to identify it with its own creations.
The horizon was everywhere bounded by low,
wooded hills, swelling in wild confusion ; yet
smooth and unbroken, like the waves of the sea
subsiding after a storm. In the middle, at the
foot of the eminence on which she stood, but still
at some distance, lay an immense oblong sheet of
water resembling a lake, the waters of which, as
tranquil as death, resembled a mass of molten
silver, while their level banks were as black
as night. A portentous stillness seemed to
Difti Google
30 THE MAGICIAN.
brood in the air.' Not a human habitation was
visible. The night-wind, which cools the cheek
everywhere else, was not admitted here. There
was no motion perceptible in nature; except that
of the distant shadows of twilight, sinking con­
fusedly in the earth, or disappearing as they fled
over the hills. '
Hagar looked round in surprise, and growing
alarm. But, lonely and outcast as she had been
from her. birth, it was not of solitude she was
afraid, nor of the stillness of nature. There was
no lake, she knew,,in that part of the country—no
waters of any extent, save those of the Erdre; and
those dreary banks, dark, solemn, and mysterious,
could be none other than the confínes of this
noiseless, and nearly motionless, river. Marie, ‘
in directing her to walk on till nightfall, had cal­
culated her speed by that of other people; and, by
this fatal mistake, she was now, no doubt, running
straight into the jaws of that danger from which
it was worth life and honour to escape.
As soon as this conviction flashed upon the
DlQl! Google
THE MAOlClAi*. 31
mind of tbe Jewess, she turned abruptly from the
path ; and, measuring the country as well as she'
could with her eye, shaped her course in such a
manner as to enable her to continue parallel with
the river, without approaching it : the château
of La Verrière, she knew, standing close to the
water’s edge. She found it a different thing,
however, from gliding along a beaten path, to cut
through seemingly interminable woods, and wind
around hills and eminences ; and when at length
she gained an elevated spot clear of trees, she saw
that the Erdre was much nearer, and at least sus­
pected a dark formless object on the bank to be
the abode of Prelati. Again she made an effort
to escape ; even retreating so directly from the
river, as to leave behind her destination, Nantes,
at the same time. All was in vain. A spell
seemed to be around her ; and when she saw for
the third time the stirless waters of the Erdre, she
could perceive distinctly that they were domi­
nated by a fortified building.
Hagar sat down upon a stone, quaking in every
32 THE MAGICIAN.
limb, and looking towards this object without
being able for some time to withdraw her eyes
from its fascination. She was not much given
to superstition; yet the feeling crept upon her
mind that she was the victim of magical delusion,
that she was at that moment upon enchanted
ground ! The spot where she rested was a conical
eminence, so regular in form as to give the idea of
an artificial mound. It was in some places covered
with stunted trees and brushwood, with here and
there large mossy stones, similar to the one on
which she sat. As Hagar observed this, she got
up hastily, and saw that she had been sitting on
a tombstone.
She walked on a few steps in trepidation; and
then paused abruptly.
“ It is a sepulchre,” said she, almost aloud, and
as if debating with her own thick-coming fancies
—“ And what then ? Is a grave-stone so unfit a
resting-place for a daughter of the captivity?
Will the dead refuse fellowship with one cut off
from the living ? And will the spirits of the dead
oig^ootyGoogie
THE MAGICIAN* 33
arise from their forgotten tombs to say onto me,
4Hence, outcast! begone front us!’” She sat
down upon another stone, and burying her face
in her hands, prayed silently.
On raising her head again, she was ashamed of
the childish terrors which had beset her. Con­
vinced that it was in vain to think of escape by
the uncertain light of the moon, she looked about
for some shelter which might preserve her from
the keen night air; and, so far from disliking the
locality to which chance, or fate, had guided her,
she now thought that her best chance of safety
was with the dead.
“ The Christians affirm,” said she, “ that bad
spirits dare not enter within the circle of their holy
ground; and, in like manner, a deserted church­
yard isno place for the midnight resortofbad men.”
She had hitherto been in the moonlight; but
on going down the shady side of the eminence,
she saw, half hidden by trees, some ruined walls;
but of what description the original building had
been, it was impossible to tell. From the locality,
c 3
34 THE MAGICIAN.
however, she guessed it to have been a chapel;
and this idea was confirmed when, on approaching
nearer, she discovered an opening, arched with
mouldering stones, and almost choked up with
thorns and nettles, which was evidently the en­
trance to what had once been a burying vault.
Here was shelter from the keenness of the night
air. Here was refuge from her enemies. Why
should she hesitate to take up her abode for a few
hours upon such a spot? Was not the whole
earth a burying-ground? And was this lonely,
silent nook a worse resting-place for the living,
because a hundred years ago, or more, it had been
a resting-place for the dead ?
Hagar, unfastening her cloak, removed her
hood from her head, and suffered it to fall back
upon her shoulders, that she might stoop more
easily ; and as her eye rested for a moment upon
her boddice and gown thus disclosed, a sorrowful
yet disdainful smile lighted up her features, as
with a gleam of moonlight. The garments were
highly fantastic in their fashion, and of a stuff so
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 35
prodigiously rich, that her father had insisted
upon her wearing them under her cloak and upper
robe (which she had given to Marie), as the most
certain means of preserving them. Her figure at
that moment—her strange dress, and the lofty
expression of her beautiful, foreign-looking coun­
tenance, musit have formed altogether a very re­
markable picture; especially when taken in con­
junction with the scene—a ruin of ruins—a de­
cayed mansion of the dead.
As she stretched forth her hand to put aside the
brambles, it may be that some lingering feeling of
superstition assailed her; for she stepped hastily
back, and retreated several paces. Her heart
beat wildly. She stood for some time gazing at
the cavern; till, at length, ashamed as well as
alarmed, she endeavoured by a strong effort to
banish the infantine fears which, by deluding and
bewildering her imagination, threatened every
moment to realize themselves. The thorns and
brambles, in fact, which half concealed the vault,
began to move. Hagar thought she was fainting,
»Google
36 THE MAGICIAN.
and that this was a symptom, and caught at the
ruins beside her for support. But the next moment
a human figure appeared at the door of the house
of mortality.
She did not scream; she did not move; she did
not close her eyes; yet her recollection was gone
for some moments. The idea of Prelati filled her
mind, and pressed upon her brain. This was all
the consciousness she possessed. Everything else
—place, time, circumstance—had vanished.
Even before her outward senses completely re­
turned, her mind was busy preparing its energies
to meet so fearful an emergency. She raised her
figure to its full height; and, passing her hand
before her eyes, as if to drive away the film which
obscured them, fixed a look of sedate and collected
resolve upon his face. It was not the face of
Prelati. A tall man, approaching to middle life,
stood before her; his figure concealed by the folds
of his cloak, but his dark and lustrous eyes fixed
upon hers, with an expression in which wonder
struggled with veneration.
DtQlttzed by GO O ^ i C
THE MAGICIAN. 37
“ Is it come at last?” said he, his voice quiver­
ing with emotion; “ Speak! Art thou dust ? Art
thou a thing of mortal life ? Answer, for I will
not blench!”
“ I am even as thou,” replied the Jewess, draw­
ing the hood of her cloak over her head. “ For­
give, I pray thee, an intrusion which I could not
intend, seeing that I am as one who hasteth on a
journeyand, with a humble reverence, she
moved quickly away, yet with sufficient presence
of mind to take the direction leading from the
castle.
She had not raised her eyes to observe the effect
of her words upon the stranger; but on leaving
the spot, she had heard a deep expiration, as if of
one whose breath had been pent up for some time.
She glided on, however, with as much speed as
she could exert, without appearing to fly. In
that neighbourhood, she thought, all men were
dangerous to her, for it was the property of Pre­
lati to bend to his own will the soul of every one
within his reach, and to make him an agent and
Google
38 THE MAGICIAN.
tool of bis designs. After some minutes had
elapsed, she began to breathe more freely ; the
country seemed to open ; and from tbe glimpse
occasionally afforded, she knew that she had at
length broken the spell which confined her feet
within the circle of La Verrière.
Her self-gratulations, however, were premature ;
for by and by she heard the noise of footsteps
behind her. She quickened her steps, till, on
gaining an open space, she might have seemed to
a spectator to skim along the sward ; but still her
pursuer gained upon her ; and in a few minutes
more he was by her side.
In vain she quickened, then slackened her pace,
he still maintained the same relative position. In
tbe moonlight, his tall shadow mingled with hers ;
in the dusky grove she could hear him breathe
close beside her, when she could hardly discern
his figure. She was at length emboldened by her
very terror to look up, and she saw with surprise
that her companion was buried in a reverie, which
appeared to render him wholly unconscious of her
THE MAGICIAN. 3 9
presence. This odd and unexpected neglect con­
tributed much to restore the Jewess’s self-pos­
session ; and at length, as they gained an eminence
which suddenly disclosed a view of the public
road, and a village close by, she stopped suddenly,
and said in a resolute tone,
“ Permit me to thank thee humbly for the
escort with which thou hast honoured me—1 am
now almost at home.” The stranger started from
his reverie at her voice. He looked at her so long
and earnestly—examining not only the general
character of her face,but each individual feature—
that her eyes at length sunk beneath his. There
was nothing, however, which could offend her
modesty in the gaze, for there was nothing in its
expression which might not have been as appli­
cable to a statue as to a living being.
“ You wish me then to leave you?” said he,
“ What a strange fate is mine, that I should in­
spire distrust or hatred where I would fain seek
confidence. Look at me. 1 am perhaps not an
object of admiration, but neither am I calculated
40 THE MAGICIAN'.
to create loathing. Here are we, two denizens of
the earth, having met by chance, or destiny, in a
lonely spot, sacred to the dead; why should we
fly from each other? Why not ratherenter into the
communings which relieve the heart ofits feeling of
solitude ? We are not enemies by nature, but are
of the same species, it may be of the same country.
What curse is it that hangs upon the human race,
turning them one against the other, as if by in­
stinctive hostility, even when most closely con­
nected by social and natural ties?”
The stranger’s words were addressed to Hagar ;
yet they seemed to flow in soliloquy. She looked
at him several times while he spoke ; but her eyes
sunk under the brightness of his. She saw
enough, however, to ascertain that he was singu­
larly handsome, and noble-looking, that his hair
was blacker than the raven’s wing, and his com­
plexion startin^y pale.
“ Why do you not answer?” continued he,
after a pause ; “ I perceive that you understand
me; why, then, do you not speak ? Is it more
ooyGoogle
DiQiliZ
THE MAGICIAN. 41
a crime to converse with the lips than with the
soul ?’
“ The soul respondeth unconsciously,” replied
Hagar; “ there are many things which place a
seal upon the lips. Thou and I are not mere
abstractions; and we cannot hold communion as
such. Methinks, for a lover of society, and of
the intercourse of his kind, yonder ruined vault
was a strange resort!”
“ I had business there,” said the stranger.
“ Business!”
“ Yes,” said he, as he drew from beneath his
cloak an infant’s 6kull. “ Why start at the
sight V' he continued; “ Do you dislike to look
upon^the dead as well as the living? What is
there in this to fear?”
“ What is there in it to covet ?” demanded she.
“Why violate the sanctuary of the dead,to possess
a thing at once so useless and so mournful ?”
A strange smile passed across his face.
“ Mournful 1” said he: “ so is the vault in
which it was found; so is the chapel of the
Google
42 THE MAGICIAN.
vault; bo is the hill; so is the soil on which we
tread : for all are ruins, and relics, and remem­
brances of what hath passed away. The earth
itself is a vast burying-place; whose mould is
composed of the generations it has buried. In a
little while this skull will be earth ! If it is more
mournful now than then, it is only a proof that
our soul is the slave of our senses.”
“ And its use ?” said Hagar; wondering at her
own desire to prolong so useless a conversation ;
yet fascinated, not only by the musical tone of the
speaker’s voice, but by what to her half-informed
mind was the novelty of his ideas.
“ It is a question that should be answered ; and
yet^ which cannot be answered lightly or in a
breath. The answer would involve a history of
myself; a key to my most secret .thoughts—to my
most lofty aspirations. I think, however, I feel—
I know that I should not be silent, if I knew you
better. You seem to me as one for whom I have
been long looking. There is a spirit, a meaning
in your eye, of which you are perhaps yourself
»Got
DiQUW
THE MAGICIAN. 43
unconscious, but which ray soul, practised in the
mysteries of nature, knows how to interpret. I
feel as if we had known one another in some
former state of existence, and half remembered it
in this. Let us be friends; or, if the request be
too much for one so recently known, let us become
acquainted. I would fain relieve my mind of a
load of knowledge which lies upon it like
guilt. I have long sought, and sought in vain,
the individual in whom the confidence is destined
to be placed. If I am not deceived in an art
known to few, you are that individual!”
Hagar was not unacquainted with the reveries
of the astrologer, the alchemist,the physiognomist,
and the other enthusiasts who, at that periqd,
groped in the dark after knowledge; and, per­
haps, if this discourse had been addressed to her
in her father’s laboratory, she would have listened
without surprise. Here, however, the scene, the
time, the person, threw over it an air of such
extravagance, that she could have believed herself
to be in a dream; and, for that very reason, it
produced the more effect.
O
VUM
*Google
44 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Sir,” said she, “ a communion like that at
which you so darkly hint, could only take place
between two minds which had undergone the
same preparation. I am not different from thee
in kind ; neither is the naked African: but my
soul is not as thy soul; I have neither knowledge
nor wisdom ; and even in rank, we are so far
asunder, that men would wonder to see us hold
converse together.” And she drew her peasant’s
cloak around her, forgetting that the stranger
must have seen the gorgeous apparel beneath;
and unconscious, that her language, and manner
of thinking, were at least those of an instructed
person.
“ Your soul,” said he, “ I do not know, I only
imagine it; for, although it is easy for such as I
to guess at the depth from the surface, yetitis only
an empirical philosophywhich pretends topenetrate
to the bottom at a single glance.. If you are not
she whom I seek, wherefore are you here ? Why
should we two have been sifted from the mass of
mankind, and thrown together at an hour when the
rest of the world is asleep, and on a lonely and
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 45
remote spot, filled with the bones of the forgotten
dead ?
“ As for rank,” and a scornful smile passed over
his features, “ can you tell me whether this was
the skull of a royal infant, or a beggar’s brat ?
What are those distinctions which last but for a
few years, and then vanish like a dream? They
are as ‘nothing, less than nothing, and vanity.’ A
prince without power and without fortune, is no­
thing better than a peasant. Were I, at this mo­
ment, to array you in the state of a queen—torear
a silken canopy over your head—to place your foot
upon marble and gilding—to stretch under your
sway a tract of country greater than the eye could
measure—would you be anything less than a queen
because you were born in a village ?
“ It is in my power to do this—but this is no­
thing. Vanity has no desire, and pride no object,
which is not attainable by us both. Ifyou are she
whom I seek, queens will be your handmaidens,
and knights and bannerets your slaves. Butenough
for the present. You lodge, where ?”
vGoogle
46 THE MAGICIAN.
The Jewess pointed at hazard to the only
cottage in the village where there was still a light
in the window.
“ Do we meet again at the ruined chapel ?”
“ No—no—no.”
“ It does not matter. Where ?”
“ Verily, I am but a passer by, I may not tarry
by the wayside.”
“ What of that ?”
“ I am journeying towards Nantes.”
“ Be it so, were it towards Babylon. We meet
next at Nantes.” And the stranger took her hand,
and bowing his head upon it gravely, touched it
with his lips; he then turned away without another
word, and in a few moments, his graceful figure
was lost among the neighbouring trees.*
Hagar was perplexed and astonished ; but as we
* A scene similar to this occurs in the author's “ Wan­
derings by the Loireto which work the reader is referred
for a historical account ofGillcs de Retz, and to thedrawings
by Turner it contains, foran idea of some of thelocalities of
the present story.
Dq vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 47
have already hinted, uot bo much by the enthu­
siasm of the stranger, which was perfectly in con­
sonance with the spirit of the age, as by the whole
adventure, taken with its concomitant circum­
stances. This singular man was doubtless one of
the learned and ingenious persons who occasionally
sojourned at the almost regal court of La Verrière.
Nay, such was his loftinessof manner and aspect,
that she might have supposed him to be the fa­
mous Gilles de Retz himself, had she not been
aware of the character of the latter. So far from
being a contemner of the advantages of rank
like the stranger, he was one of the proudest and
most ostentatious men of his time. He aped the
monarch in state ; transacted his business by
means of ambassadors ; and never stirred out of
doors, unless when attended by a body-guard of
hundreds of men at arms.
Hagar walked slowly towards the village ; and
having reached the cottage distinguished by a
light in the window, knocked gently at the door.
' She had heard voices within, and sounds, as if of
«.bvGoogle
Digit.
48 THE MAGICIAN.
mirth; but all became silent in an instant. She
knocked again ; and, putting her ear to the key­
hole, could hear whispered consultations as to the
propriety of opening.
“ Take care what you are about,” said one.
“ It is nearly midnight—and who knows what
visitors this unlucky candle may have attracted !”
“ But only think, Jehan, if it should be one
from the castle—and you know they do not care
about hours—”
“ Bah ! nobody coming from the castle strikes
so softly. That was no flesh and blood knock,
you may depend upon it. Hush !”
“ Good friends,” said Hagar, “ I am a weary
and benighted traveller; and I can pay, in silver
money, for a night’s lodging.”
“ Ay, ay, a traveller, no doubt,” repeated Jehan,
in his rough but frightened whisper, “ going to
and fro, as usual.”
“ Yet it was a sweet, low voice.”
“ To be sure. Does the wolf howl when he
asks the sheep to open ? But your honest tra-
THE MAGICIAN. 49
veller does not say, ‘Open for a piece of silver,’
but, *Open for the love of the Holy Virgin, who
hath sent you one!’”
“ For all that, I will speak to our bride-cousin ;
for she can read and write as well as father Bona-
venture himself. Hist! Marie!” and someone
came apparently from an inner room. “ Here is a
knock, which Jeban says is not of flesh and blood;
but to my thinking, the voice that accompanies it
is as sweet as a lute; whereas the Evil One, you
know better than we, is likened unto a roaring
lion.”
Hagar tried the magic of her voice once more,
and the door was instantly thrown open.
“ Are you come at last?” said the peasant
Marie, grasping her hand; “ I inquired for you at
every house in the village; and, knowing that
there was no other shelter, I had begun to dread
the worst. Nevertheless, I contrived to persuade
my cousin Jehan to sit up for a while, with his
sister, on pretence of wishing to talk of some
business-matters after my journey with — ” A
VOL. II. D
60 THE MAGICIAN.
hoarse chuckle from Jehan, and a laugh from the
sinter, interrupted her.
“ What then ?” said Marie, severely ; “ I am to
be married the day after to-morrow, and where is
the harm ? But make haste, cousin, and give the
traveller to eat and drink, for it is time we were
all in bed.”
“Tell me,” said Hagar, “ was the anger of her
of Laval kindled against thee ?”
“ I did not see the Damsel—the watch was
changed before she called for me. Yet I had
some difficulty in passing the gate; an absurd
story having got among the guard, that I had
been already there, beat three of.the soldfers black
and blue, and rushed out without waiting to an­
swer a question. And ail because I can read and
write ! But come, eat, drink, and to bed. Jehan
growls, but will not bite; and both he and his
sister are ignorant that you are—not of us. In the
morning we shall all go to Nantes together; as a
party has been made up, to see a mystery given to
the people by the great lord de Retz.”
VjOO
61
CHAPTER III.
t
«
After taking some refreshment, Hagar lay
down, without undressing, on a pallet spread in
a recess, and speedily sunk into a long though
troubled sleep. She was awakened by the beams
of the sun striking painfully upon her eye-lids;
and, on lacking up, saw Marie standing by he
couch, and gazing.at her with a strong expression
of wonder and admiration.
“ You are a picture,” said the latter, “ for a
limner to draw !—lying on that bed of leaves, in
raiment of gold and silver, like a fairy princess—
with your hair blacker than midnight, floating in
dishevelled tresses over a cheek, which would be
like a marble image, but for the dreams that pass
d 2
Google
52 THE MAGICIAN.
across it. Get up, lady, and say your matins (if
such be the custom of your people), and make
your toilet quickly; for half the village is waiting
for us.” Hagar obeyed her humble friend at once ;
and in less time than the latter would have taken
to arrange a single curl ofher hair, was ready for the
journey. In saying her matins, she turned towards
the region of the early sun—looking in vain for
that Star which had risen above her head while she
slept, and which shall never come again till the
firmament itself has passed away. Marie stepped
back unconsciously, and turned away her head;
crossing herself repeatedly, as the unhallowed
prayers ascended to heaven.
She advised Hagar to draw her cloak com­
pletely round her, so as to conceal the singularity
of her dress; and, again bidding her remember
that none of the other villagers knew that she was
an unbeliever, conducted her out of the house.
“ Do not be alarmed,” she said, as they walked
along, “ at the rough speeches of my cousin
Jehan ; for, although he thinks harm almost
Digitizedby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 63
always, he rarely does any. I can, at least, insure
you a safe journey to Nantes. That is all you
require?”
“ All, my kindest friend. My kindred dwell in
the city, under the protection of the duke, and 1
may look for my father every day. He will thank
thee, both in words and deeds, for his daughter;
and believe me, Marie, the old man’s blessing will
do thee good, and no evil, even though he be of a
more ancient faith than thine.”
They found about twenty individuals, men,
women, boys, and girls, waiting for them at the
end of the little village. Among the females there
were two or three sufficiently agreeable faces;
but Marie was incomparably superior to all both
in beauty and manner. Her intended husband
was a tall, handsome, good-humoured looking
young man, with but little intellect in his coun­
tenance, and nothing about him which seemed
“ nobler than his fortune.” In those days, and in
that country, the barriers of rank were almost im­
passable ; and •the education which Marie had
* •
Google
64 TUK MAGICIAN.
A ccidentally received, served noother purpose than
occasionally to make her discontented with her
lot, and at all times to make her feel as if separate
and alone. Her manner towards her betrothed
might be termed affectionate; but it was the
affection of a sister to a brother—to a younger
brother, whom it was her pleasure as well as duty
to love and take care of.
Jehan was a sturdy, surly-looking peasant, of
some five-and-thirty years of age. His sister, a
low-born lass of eighteen, inherited a modification
both of the family physiognomy and temper.
What was ill-humour in him, however, was in her,
at the worst, only a transitory pettishness; and the
straightforward coarseness of his mind became
refined in the feminine, by the admixture of a
little humour and sprightliness, to the sort of
acidity usually termed sharpness, or shrewdness.
It was principally with Marie, however, that
Hagar conversed, as they walked along; and the
former seemed delighted at the opportunity both
to speak and listen—for conversation was not the
— joogle*“*•
THF. MA8 IC4AN. OÙ
forte of her betrothed. The Jewess endeavoured
to extract from her some more tangible informa­
tion than had been afforded by her hints con­
cerning the doings at La Verrière; but she heard
nothing that was pleasing ; and indeed, little that
was very intelligible. In the following portion of
their dialogue is comprehended nearly all to which
she possessed any clue.
“ You must know,” said Marie, “ that a certain
number of years ago, there came to the castle a
philosopher, as he was called, whose name was
me8sire Jean of Poitou. What is the matter ?
Are you unwell ? ”
“ It was a spasm—it hath passed away.”
“ He was an unbeliever. He defied God, and
worshipped the devil ; and when he met the
divine Host upon the road, he turned aside, and
spat upon the ground. He occupied separate
apartments in the castle, where a light was seen
in the windows all night ; for he possessed, among
other wonderful faculties, that of living without
sleep. Smoke, and sometimes flame, issued day
OiQiti: ,yGoogle
56 THE MAGICIAN.
and night from the chimney; and noises were
heard, sometimes as of the rush of waters, and
sometimes as of men hammering on an anvil.”
“ He was, doubtless, an alchemist,” said the
Jewess.
“ He was something worse, as you shall hear.
The devil is a dangerous master to serve; and
one day, messire Jean, by some error, either of
omission or commission, fell, body and soul, into
his power. You may be sure he begged hard for
his temporal life; and at last he gained the boon.
The condition was, that every two years he should
furnish the fiend with a servant, ready trained and
seduced; whom at the end of the term the Evil
One was, if possible, to entrap and destroy. If
the victim, however, should contrive to escape,
from the horns of the altar, as I may say, messire
Jean himself was to take his place, and without
hope of further reprieve.”
“ And dost thou believe this wild tale?” said
Hagar, scarcely able to repress her indignation.
“ After a fashion,” replied Marie,—“ I do not
THE MAGICIAN. 57
believe that beasts can speak and reason ; but I
believe in the truth conveyed in the fables, which
are the tales of philosophers. We of the ignorant
have our fables, as well as the learned, although
they be not invented from design; and even in
the wildest and most extravagant, there lurks
some matter of fact at the bottom, if we could
only obtain a clue to it.”
“ How was the compact fulfilled ?” demanded
Hagar, indignant no more, but in a low and fal­
tering voice.
“ Messire Jean left the castle, and in due time
the first substitute came. I remember seeing him .
myself. He was a young man—tall, pale, and
thin; dark in complexion, and witli long black
hair falling down upon his shoulders. A bright,
red spot burned on either cheek, and his eyes
shone so wildly from their deep sockets, that they
seemed to shed a preternatural glare over his face.
At the end of the two years, he vanished.”
“ How ?” asked the Jewess, in a scarcely
audible whisper.
d 3
THE MAGICIAN.
“ Doubtless, in sulphureous flames !" replied
Marie, smiling bitterly. “ That night there was
a cry heard in the wood—” She stopped in agi­
tation.
“ Was the spot searched ? Did he pass away
for ever, without leaving a trace—”
“ Yea—save a handful of his long black hair
upon the ground, dabbled in blood ! The second
victim—” •
“ Spare me !’*
“ You do not love horrors ? But this one is
soon told; and it finishes the history. He was
a youth with light, silky hair, blue eyes that
seemed to dance and swim, and a cheek as fair as
a girl’s—.”
“ Ismael! Ismael!”
“ How ! You knew him ?”
“ It is indeed the portrait,” said the Jewess,
unable to repress her tears, “ of one with whom I
played when a child. Go on; for the youth I
loved, even as an elder brother, had no portion in
the kingdom of darkness.”
5**
aoyGoOgle
THE MAGICIAN. 59
**At the end of two years he vanished ; but
without cry, and without blood.”
“ Then there is hope,” said Hagar eagerly,
“ that he was not—not—” .
“ There was, for a whole week. But one night
the keel of a fisherman’s boat struck against
something floating on the Erdre. It was the body
of the second victim. The third is expected to
reach the castle to-morrow.”
“ How knowest thou that, in the name of God ?”
“Because the precise time will then have
elapsed which intervened between the disap­
pearance of the first, and the coming of the
second victim.”
“ Tell me—is there any chance of his escape ?
any possibility of saving him ?”
“ The lord de Retz might doubtless save him, if
he would—but we touch on dangerous ground,
and I shall speak no farther.”
“ Once more I entreat ! If the Evil One hold
not state, in bodily presence, at La Verrière, he
must have some delegate—some viceroy—”
DsjKoativ Google
60 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Silence ! Forbear ! I have already said too
much—1know not why—Not a word”—for Hagar
still attempted to speak—“ Not a syllable, or I
will have you bound with cords, and carried to
the castle.”
“ It would be the best thing you could do with
her,” said Jehan, overhearingher last words, “ but
too wise a thing for you to do, with all your learn­
ing. What business had you in the matter? If
she was really wanted at La Verrière by those you
wot of, it will be the destruction of our whole
race.”
This sudden and unexpected termination of
Marie's disclosures left the Jewess completely
bewildered. One thing was certain, however,
that David was to be in reality the third vic­
tim, and offered up by her father ! A thought
of the stranger, and of their promised meeting at
Nantes, crossed her mind like a gleam of hope.
He had influence, doubtless, with the lord de Retz,
and might not she contrive to acquire influence
over him ? “ I will die the death,” she mentally
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 61
exclaimed, “ ifit beneedful; but I will save his life,
and I will save the soul of my father from a
mortal sin!” *
As the village party approached its destination,
they could see the population of the whole sur­
rounding country hurrying towards Nantes as to a
common centre. All were dressed in their holiday
apparel; and even the sturdy peasant, in his suit
of hodden grey, contributed to the picturesque of
the scene, having strained the buckle of his belt,
upon the same principle on which a beauty
endangers her stay-laces, and polished the leaden
image stuck in his hat, till it might have been
likened to the helmet of a knight, intended at
once for ornament and defence. His womankind,
in the meantime, trudged after him, vieing with
each other in the brilliance both of kerchiefs and
complexions; but sometimes the good dame was
mounted on horseback, and kept her seat not the
less majestically that she rode astride, like a man,
as do her descendants of the present day.
Hagar had been but little accustomed to spec-
62 THE MAGICIAN.
tacles ofpopular excitement; and, even in her pre­
sent anxiety, as they neared the town, where the
crowd and hurry redoubled, she felther colour rise,
and her naturally buoyant heartthrob with expecta­
tion. Every where the people were shutting up
their shops and houses ; and all business was, for
the time, at a stand. Even the itinerant venders
of such luxuries as minister to the appetites of a
crowd were contented, on this occasion, to assume
the character of disinterested spectators; for
Gilles de Retz, when he entertained the populace,
would brook no interference whatever,—furnishing
gratuitously, at his own cost, not only the show,
but the refreshments.
They at length reached the grand square, where
a temporary stage was erected, with galleries near
it for the more distinguished spectators, similar
to those that were erected for viewing a contest
in the lists. At this place it was the purpose of
Hagar to have withdrawn quietly from her com­
panions, and, leaving the square by one of its
numerous avenues, to have inquired her way to
D* Google
THE MAGICIAN. 63
her kinsman's house. Once fairly upon the scene
of the spectacle, however, it was in vain to think
of escape. In the midst of that crowd she was like
a straw in a torrent; and had it not been for the
protection of the surly Jehan, she must have been
trampled under foot. But even his efforts in her
favour were so far unlucky, that they awakened
the ire of several other peasants, who were alike
zealously employed in piloting their womankind ;
and a kind of scuffle ensued, in which Hagar Tost
her cloak.
No sooner had this metamorphosis been effect­
ed, in which the hooded peasant was converted
into a “ fairy princess,” than a sudden reaction
took place, both in the mind and manners of the
crowd. Every one believed that, woman though
she was, she had something to do in the coming
spectacle, or at least that she was in some way
connected with its master; and all held back
either in respect or terror. Hagar thus found
herself at the extreme edge of the living mass,
where it was dressed in line to allow the procession
Google
64 THK MAGICIAN.
of the actors to pass on to the stage ; and there
she stood, conspicuous and alone, in a wide semi­
circle formed around her by the populace, her
fears completely overpowered by shame and vex­
ation.
A burst of music at length proclaimed that the
procession had entered the square, and a shout of
welcome arose from the multitude. When this
was silent, Hagar, in the midst of all her em­
barrassment, felt her heart stirred at once with
fear and delight by the sound of the clear-toned
trumpets, mingling with the swell of numerous
large organs. The latter instruments, blazing
with gold and silver, were carried on men’s shoul­
ders, and belonged to the private chapel of the
singular character who presided over the scene.
Immediately after, a company of valets made
their appearance, clearing their way by means of
batons, which they applied without ceremony to
the shins of the crowd. Then came the band of
music, and then thepriests of the chapel ; the latter
marshalled by a troop of beautiful boys, walking
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 65
backwards, and flinging up golden censors, from
which the incense came forth in wreaths of
smoke. The banners, shrines, reliquaries, cru­
cifixes, and sacred vessels of their religious esta­
blishment, were borne aloft by the ecclesiastics,
who were all dressed in robes of cloth of gold ;
and perhaps there was not one of the rich abbeys
of France which could have decked forth a
pageant more sumptuous and imposing. The
necks of the crowd were wearied with bowing, and
their hands with making the sign of the cross, as
one by one those holy things passed by ; but
when at length the banner of the patron saint of
the house of Laval made its appearance, the whole
multitude sunk upon their knees, at the same
moment—all save one.
“ Down with thee!” cried Marie. “ Down,
stranger, if you be not mad as well as impious !”
The Jewess crossed her arms tightly upon her
bosom, as if she would shrink within herself; but
she remained standing erect.
“ Is the king of Babylon,” said she to her own
Diffitij Google
66 THE MA01C1AN.
quaking heart, “ more terrible than the Mort
High ? I put my trust in the God of Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego!”
Immediately after the priests came the body­
guard, two and two, clad in complete steel, and
mounted on superb war-horses. The line extended
the whole length of the square ; but, close by, a
more than usual space intervened, in the midst of
which rode a single knight. The crowd did not
rise till he had passed by; and, indeed, the ho­
mage which they rendered him seemed to be even
more devout than that accorded to the saint.
Every lip moved with sounds of praise or admi­
ration ; but the words came forth muffled, as if
they dreaded to offend even by flattery. “ Noble
—generous—bountiful!” were the whispers that
met the ear of Hagar on one side, and “ hand­
some—graceful—gallant !” on the other. At that
moment her fears were lost in feminine curiosity ;
and, bending forward, she watched impatiently to
obtain a full view of the famous Gilles de Retz.
The graceful and stately warrior sate with re-
DlflltiHK] l i y G o O ^ I C
THK MAGICIAN. «7
laxed bridle, as if he left to the fancy of his horse
the part they should both play in the procession;
and the animal, conscious of the honour, arched
his neck with haughtiness, snorting, and tossing
his head, while he stepped mincingly on, as if
disdaining to touch the ground. The rider, in the
meantime, looked occasionally to one side, to
acknowledge, with a half-negligent, half-conde­
scending bend, the homage of the people; and it
happened, that as he approached the place where
Hagar stood, his face was turned away for this
purpose. The Jewess felt more annoyed than she
would have acknowledged to herself, when she
saw him about to pass by before she had obtained
a glimpse of his features ; but at the instant the
bridle was tightened, the steed checked in his
career, dnd the knight, turning full round, fixed
his eyes with a brilliant, yet respectful smile of
recognition upon her face, while he pulled off his
jewelled bonnet, and bent his head even to the
horse’s mane.
Hagar was stunned. The scene fled from her
68 THE MAGICIAN.
eyes ; and for a moment, the grand square of
Nantes was filled with the lonely church-yard of
the Erdre, and its sepulchral ruins. This was he
of the burying-vault—the philosophical enthusiast
—the contemnerof rank and birth—the companion
of her midnight wanderings ! She was -aroused
from her stupor by the voice of a page, announcing
that the lord de Retz invited her to a seat in the
gallery. She would have declined the honour ;
but a line was already formed for her passage in
front, and to retreat through the crowd behind
was impossible. In another moment, the Jewess,
wondering at all things, and at herself more than
all, was seated in a gallery next to that of the
family of Laval, and set apart for the magnates of
the city.
The priests of the chapel of La Verrière were as
expert in the histrionic art as the brothers of the
Passion at Paris ; and no sooner had the mystery
commenced, than the people forgot even the ge­
nerous master of the spectacle, in enthusiasm and
delight. There was one of the actors more espe­
OigitizodbyGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 69
cially, who seemed a well-known favourite of the
audience. He was a strangely misshapen being,
of dwarfish stature, but singularly agile. The
features of his face, if taken individually, might
have been reckoned even handsome ; but by some
freaks of nature, or else some mischance which
occurred in early childhood, every thing seemed
out of place, and thejumble produced wasat once
ludicrous and horrible. His hands and fingers
were strangely long and thin, and, but for their
delicacy of colour, would have somewhat resem­
bled those of an ape. His distorted arms and legs
seemed tobe of bone and muscle,without a particle
of flesh ; and, cased as he was in the fur of a wild
beast, his feet hidden by artificial hoofs, and two
twisted horns rising from his ominous brow, no
better representation could have been found among
the sons of men of the goblin he mimicked.
His voice, although not so full and loud as that
of David Armstrong, when he enacted Hashmo-
dai, was capable of making itself heard still far­
ther. Even when coming from a distance, its
,Google
70 THIS MAGICIAN.
shrill tones seemed to pierce the air, and quiver in
the ear like an arrow. But his almost superna*
tural agility awakened in a yet higher degree the
admiration of the crowd. He leaped about like a
being altogether independent of the common laws
of motion; vomiting himself up from the jaws of
hell, as if he had been nothing more than a puff
of sooty smoke, and vanishing again instantane­
ously therein, as if the cavity bad possessed
neither sides nor bottom.
All went on in dumb 6how while this strangely
gifted actor was on the stage; for the crowd
shouted till they were hoarse, and clapped their
hands till their fingers ached. At length, in the
very midst of one of his flights across the scene,
in which he seemed to have intended to fly at one
leap, from side to side, he stopped suddenly, as if
transfixed with a lance. In this position, he remain­
ed solong, without the slightestliving motion, that
the voices of the people died away in wonder and
expectation, and a profound silence succeeded to
the uproar.
Google
t h e m a g i c i a n . 71
By degree», the fixed eyes of the dwarf began
to expand and glare; his nostrils dilated, his chest
rose and fell convulsively ; his limbs writhed and
trembled; and at last, in a voice which made every
heart leap, he shrieked, “ Master, I come !” and
sprang from the stage among the crowd. For
some moments all was confusion and dismay; but
the voice of Gilles de Retz, commanding him to
return, was speedily heard above the cries of the
affrighted peasants. The seeming goblin at first
pursued his way, although more slowly; but
finally he turned round, as if by compulsion, and
climbing up the gallery of Laval like an ape,stood
upon the cushioned edge, confronting its lord.
“ Whither goest thou ?” demanded the lord de
Retz.
“ Whither I am summoned,” was the reply;
and the dwarf writhed in agony while he spoke,
and large drops of sweat coursed down his face.
“ How knowest thou that thou art summoned ?”
“ By a power—by a sign. For mercy’s sake
allow me to depart!”
OlQiModbyGoOgle
72 THE MAGICIAN.
“ What sign? Speak, and go."
The dwarf turned up the sleeve of his dress,
and pointed to his long fleshless arm, from which
a stream of blood bubbled forth. He then sprung
once more among the crowd, and in an instant
disappeared.
From the commencement of the show, Hagar
had debated within herself, whether or not she
should embrace the opportunity, which would no
doubt be offered her at its conclusion, of a con­
versation with the lord de Retz. This, it seemed,
was the meeting to which he had referred on the
preceding night; when it appeared a matter of
indifference to him whether the scene was to be
Nantes or Babylon ! There was something so
like fatality in the manner in which she had been
compelled to keep the rendezvous, that she felt a
kind of awe gather upon her mind as she looked
upon him. There was nothing, however, in that
noble countenance to excite fear; and when she
reflected that he must have been as unconscious
as herself of the mode in which they were to be
*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 73
again thrown together, she at length resolved to
give herself up to the current of circumstances,
and leave the direction of her course to heaven.
But just as she had come to this conclusion,
and began to arrange in her mind the terms in
which it would be most proper to introduce the
subject of David Armstrong, the scream of the
dwarf broke upon her ear—“ Master, I come!”
Hagar, as much startled as the rest of the
audienbe, watched what followed with even more
intereit than they; and the connexion which
appeared to exist between the seeming goblin and
Gilles de Retz shocked and alarmed her. The
stories of Marie'came back upon her recollection
with new force ; and she reflected that such
horrors could not have taken place at La Verrière
without the knowledge and permission of its lord.
Although more than ever resolved to attempt all
things, in order to save the third victim, she felt
it to be her wisest course to parley with the power­
ful and mysterious baron when under the pro­
tection of her kinsmen ; and, at the moment of
VOL. II. E
Google
74 T H E MAGICIAN.
the greatest agitation, when a thunderbolt might
have fallen among the multitude unnoticed, she
glided out of the gallery, and plunged mto the
crowd. ' . •
“ If our interview,” said she mentally, as she
threw a parting glance at Gilles de Retz, whose
soul appeared to be absorbed in following the
flight of the dwarf—“ If our interview be to come
of destiny, or enchantment, my efforts to postpone
it will be alike harmless and unavailing ”—and,
assisted by the prestige which seemed to attach
itself to her sumptuous apparel, she made her
way through the crowd with less difficulty than
might have been expected. •
Her good fortune so far, however, was owing in
part to the same assistance which she had enjoyed
during her entrance ; for Jehan, whom she met
in the middle of the press, had not yet recovered
from his unwonted fit of gallantry.
“ And now whither go you, fair mistress?” de­
manded he bluntly, when they were clear of the
crowd.
o w t o w b y G o o g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 75
“ To the abode of Rabbi Solomon, if I can find
it. If the place be unknown to thee, as being
a man of the fields, I can scarcely do wrong in
asking the guidance of the first person I meet;
for the Rabbi Solomon, the son of Jacob, is a
star in Israel with which the eyes even of the
Gentiles are familiar.”
“ I know the man, and the place,” said Jehan.”
“ Then hesitate not ; but let us go swiftly, and
a piece of coined money shall testify my grati­
tude.” Jehan led the way, and Hagar followed
him, for a time, with more lightness of heart than
she had felt for years. Her perilous jourhey was
accomplished. In a few minutes she would be in
the midst of friends and kinsmen, powerful alike
by their wealth and the favour of the duke. To
that circle would be added, in a few days, by the
blessing of Jehovah, her father ; and from such
vantage ground she might parley in safety even
with Gilles de Retz. The pecuniary embarrass­
ments of the lord of La Verrière, if these had
been described truly by Prelati, would reuder him
e 2
76 THE MAGICIAN.
still more accessible to her influence; and David
Armstrong, loosed from the horns of the altar,
would owe his life to her. The dreams of the
Jewess extended no farther. “ He will be free,”
said she, “ he will be safe, and I shall be—" *
The word *happy,’ which had risen to her lips,
was lost in a deep sigh ; and when 6he raised her
eyes to the face of Jehan—for he had stopped,
there was in her expression so much of loneliness
and desolateness of heart that the rude peasant
was troubled.
“Why do you not knock ?” said he at last, in
a forced gruffness of tone.
“Are we arrived ?”
“ Yea.” The building seemed to be of immense
size; but, as was frequently the case in the habi­
tations of the persecuted Jews, the door was small,
and entered from a mean and obscure street.
Hagar knocked gently, and then turned round to
her conductor.
“ My friend,” said she, “ I this day did thee
injustice in ray thoughts, and 1 shall henceforth
t v
,Google
0*0-1!
THE MAGICIAN. 77
be more distrustful of my own hasty impressions.
Accept of this piece of gold as the external token
of my thanks; but imagine not that my heart
will cease to recollect gratefully what thou hast
done for one whom thou must have supposed to
be a friendless outcast.” Jeban looked greedily
at the money for a moment, but he drew back
without accepting it.
“ I have done nothing,” said he, “ that I ought
to repent. Nothing !—but yet, had 1known that
qhe would have so looked, and spoken, and offered
gold, when at most I reckoned upon a small piece
of silver—Hold !” for the door had opened, and
Hagar was crossing the threshold—“ Yet another
word—I did mistake—” The Jewess threw the
piece of money to him with a smile, thinking that
he had repented his generosity. She then went
in, and the door shut.
“ This is not my doing,” said Jehan, “after
staring vacantly for some time at the closed door;
“I would have 6aved her, but she went in of her
own free will; and now the affair is between her
owiM
db,Google
78 THE MAGICIAN.
and the lord de Retz. Few there be who come
out of the hfttel de la Suze as they went in ! But
what is that to me ? Yet I will not touch her
money ; no, not with my finger-end ! 1 have done
my duty, and saved my family from the conse­
quences of Marie’s folly: that is reward enough.
But is the gold to lie there, perhaps as a trap,
and a snare, and a stumbling-block for the next
passer by? The saints forbid ! I shall carry it
straightway to the Hotel Dieu, and give it to the
poor; or rather will I purchase an offering for our
altar—Hum! it may be better still to lay it up
with my other savings in the green stocking, and
wait the Virgin’s pleasure for an opportunity of
spending it in some holy purpose !”
Dir Google
79
CHAPTER IV.
L e a v i n g Hagar in the sumptuous city resi­
dence of the lord de Retz, called the Hôtel de La
Suze, we now turn to certain other personages
of our history.
When the Damsel of Laval set forth on that
day, on the last short stage of her journey to La
Verrière, it was with a spirit full of vague un­
easiness. Soon after entering the château of
Huguemont, the evening before, she had had time
to reflect on her conduct in the matter of the for­
lorn Jewess, and perhaps formed a true judgment
in setting it down both as unjust and ungenerous.
That the exodus from Paris of one of the per­
secuted remnant should be involved in darkness
Google
80 THE MAGICIAN.
and mystery, was surely nothing more than natu­
ral ; and the part taken in it by Sir Archibald
Douglas, though not yet fully explained, was
obviously consistent with the generosity of his
character. The blush of Hagar—the changing
of her cheek from one colour to another—this was
her sole pretext and justification 1
Even giving the fullest possible weight to this
phenomenon, what did it indicate? That the
knight was false ? or simply, that the thoughts of
a young Hebrew girl, friendless, outcast, and
alone, had dwelt somewhat too tenaciously on
perhaps the only being upon earth who had ever
shown her disinterested kindness ? As for the
story of the young knight’s “ kinsman,” of whom
she had never heard, this, she thought, might
have been a mere mistake; or else it might have
arisen from the ambition ofsome obscure foreigner
in Paris to have it supposed that he was con­
nected with the noble house of Douglas. Pauline
could not disguise from herself that her moment­
ary jealousy originated more in a mean pride than
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 81
womanly passion. Douglas, though noble, was a
poor adventurer, while she was one of the richest
heiresses in Europe. Does he love me for myr
self? was the barbed thought which had entered
her soul, or am I merely the star of his ambition,-
while another is the mistress of his heart ? She
now blushed at the paltriness of such a suspicion
when applied to her preux chevalier, and awaited
with impatience the moment when the ceremonies
of society would permit her to call the young
Jewess to her presence.
Such was her frame of mind when she received
tidings of the flight of Hagar.
“ Let no one pursue, or molest her,” said she,
after a moment’s pause. “ I cannot know,” she
added, mentally, “ how instant may be her busi­
ness at Nantes ; but be this as it may, to fly from
injustice is no proofof guilt.”
“ Madam,” remonstrated De Briqueville, “ the
night is clear, and she cannot be far distant. My
commands to take her to La Verrière are urgent.”
“ I release you from all responsibility.”
e 3
82 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Then let him hear that you do so,” and he in­
dicated the person to whom he alluded rather by
the expression of his eye than by a look to where
he stood, i“ In the concerns of any one else,”
added he, “ I would peril my life to obey you ;
and you know, Damsel, 1 have done so before
now.” Pauline did not hesitate to grant the re­
quest of this faithful adherent of her family; and
going up to the philosopher, she acquainted him
with what had taken place, and with her desire
that since the young woman had escaped» she
should be permitted to take her own course. ,The
sage paused for an instant; .1 . .
“ Be it so,” said he, at length, with an indul-
gefnt smile. “It matters not whose course she
takes, for all must inevitably tend, to the same
end. Inert matter must be acted upon by extra­
neous bodies; but men are the agents of their own
destinies.” But, notwithstanding this decision,
Pauline set out on her journey, as we have said,
in little tranquillity of mind. It was Sir Archi­
bald’s singleness and purity of heart which had
«byGoogle
Digit*.
THE MAGICIAN. 83
won her love; or, in other words, it was the idea
that he was wholly hers ; and the thought (which
suggested itself in spite of her struggles) even of
one of those transitory infidelities of the senses,
rather than the soul, which were in general still
less regarded in that age than in ours, wasterrible
to her imagination. Hagar was a Jewess, indeed,
but still a woman; and Pauline' hardly exagge­
rated the truth, when she confessed that she was
“ fearful fair.” *•
The scene, which the reader has viewed by
moonlight, presented a somewhat different cha­
racter when warmed and illumined by the beams
of the morning sun. The same stillness, indeed,
the same idea of loneliness and mystery prevailed,
which to this day enwraps the Erdre; but the air
was cool and invigorating, the leaves glanced and
6tirred, and the human heart, as usual, bore sym­
pathy with the joy of nature. Pauline herself
was not long of yielding to the influences which
seemed to rain down from heaven upon the earth.
“ Look, father,” said she—for by this name she
DW***Google
84 THE MAGICIAN.
frequently addressed the philosopher,—“ would
you not think that these trees and shrubs, and
yonder hills and yvaters, were things of life like
ourselves ? Do you not feel the breath of the
flowers, and hear the whisper that runs through
the grove ? It seems to me as if I were at home;
and that I feel, for the first time, as one belonging
to the great family of nature!”
“ It is a wholesome thought, my daughter,”
replied Orosmandel, “ and more true than thou
dost imagine. We are all things of life, from the
clod to the worm, from the worm to the angel.
All matter is the body of spirit; and to the un­
equal distribution of the latter is owing the varie­
ties presented by the universe. The flower hath
more of spirit than the clod, on whose juices it
doth live; the lamb hath more of spirit than the
flower which it crops in passing along; and
man hath more of spirit than beast, vegetable, or
earth, which he changeth or devoureth for his own
profit.”
“ Alas! that nature should thus flourish upon
dw
m
mb
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 86
her own harm, and that we of the human race
should be the most destructive of her children!”
“ Nature, my child, may change, and reproduce,
but she destroyeth not. The juices of the clod
still live in the body of the flower ; the perfume
of the flower still sweetens the blood of the lamb;
and all things grow in the growth and strengthen
in the strength of the general devourer, man.”
“ But man cannot devour spirit, else would the
greatest eater be the greatest wit. Yet the spirit
does not die?”
“ Neither spirit nor matter dieth. If thou burn
this tree to the ground, it is not destroyed, even in
its corporeal part. Its substance is merely de­
composed by the more subtle body of fire, and
returns, in smoke and ashes, to the elements
whence it arose. Its spirit, in like manner, is
shed abroad over general nature; and that which
animated a tree still liveth in the body of the
universe.”
“ But spirit, my father,” said Pauline, endea­
vouring to grasp the ideas which flitted indefinitely
Digitized byGoogle
86 THE MAGICIAN.
through her half-cultivated mind, “ has spirit,
which is the nobler part, no power over matter ?
Would the tree, think you, if so animated, remain
for ever fixed to the earth ?”
“ It is the distribution of spirit,” replied the
philosopher, " to which is owing the inequalities
which exist in the scale of being. The meanest
worm that crawls, hath more of spiritual essence
than the proudest oak ; and it is not till weascend
to man, that we find the quantity sufficient to
operate a change upon his mortal destinies. Man
is indeed lower than they that are called Spirits
by way of excellence, and his soul is clogged by
its earthly tabernacle; still, he hath that within
him, which, if well and boldly used, will make
even the demons tremble.”
The cheek of the Damsel flushed, and her bo­
som throbbed, as these words awakened a train of
glorious and daring thoughts.
“ Would that I were as you,” she exclaimed,
“ O Orosmandel ! If to read and fast, and pray—
if to outwatch the midnight lamp—if to give up
»Google
THE MAGICIAN. 87
wealth, and health,and youth, and pleasure, and the
world’s applause, would make me other and higher
than I am—cheerfully Wouldthesacrifice be made !”
“ I know it,” replied the sage calmly ; “ Thou
couldst not feel otherwise, if thou wouldèt; for
such lofty, yet vague aspirations, are a portion of
the gift of life bestowed upon thee by thy father.
The watchings, and fastings, and studies,however,
of the master, render the duties of the scholar less
arduous. Knowledge may be acquired by com­
munication as well as by search. But enough for
the present. At another time we may talk farther.”
“ And why not now ? I fear you mistrust me
because of my youth, and because I am a woman;
but in aught that Christian hands may dare—in
aught that involves offence neither to God nor
man”—Orosmandel smiled sarcastically, but ob­
serving that she paused, disconcerted by his look,
he resumed his usual serious, and benignant ex­
pression.
“ I fear,” said he, “ that we should differ in our
estimate of what doth constitute offence. Even
OK
i'M
M
b,Google
88 THE MAGICIAN.
dow thou didst blame the flower for drinking the
juices of the Bod, and the lamb for browsing on the
flower, and man himself for decomposing the
bodies, and shedding abroad the spirits of his
fellow-beings of the earth !”
“ Nay, my father, I was hardly serious in this;
for without such nourishment, the flower would
wither, and man die, and thus a greater evil be
produced than the marring of the meaner works of
nature. But yet, is there not danger .to weak in­
tellects like mine in such a system ? If all things
are beings gifted alikewith lifeand spirit, where lies
the line of distinction between those that are com­
mon and.thosethat are sacred?—betweenthosethat
are given to man forthe uses of his body, and those
that are fenced round, even from his vengeance, by
the interdict, Thou shalt not kill! I have heard of
plants which so nearly approach to animallife that
they shriek when wounded, and of wild animals
that are capable of being converted, by education,
into men. To what scale of being does the do­
minion of man extend ? and where is the limit
M Google
Digtii
THE MAGICIAN. 89
thereof? Suppose him to overstep the bound, and
well may he d« so where the line is so indefinite,
and slay from some motive, higher and nobler, we
shall suppose, than that which arises from the
wants of his body, an individual of his own kind
and tank in creation—is not this murder?”
“ It is the decomposing a more perfect form—
the detaching from an individual part, and giving
to the universe, a greater portion of divine essence.”
" How !” exclaimed the damsel, in indignant
surprise.
“ It is as I have said,” replied Orosmandel
calmly, “ A man taketh away vegetable life be­
cause he is hungry, and animal life to appease
some fouler instinct of his nature. These are
crimes, if committed without sufficient motive;
for he shall not be held guiltless if he root up the
produce of the soil, or slay the meaner animals, to
no purpose. Reasoning from this analogy, I
would say—as a looker-on, however, rather than
an actor in the business of life—that a motive
may exist sufficiently high and urgent to authorize
a n y G o O g lc
Digitin
90 THE MAGICIAN.
what in the vulgar language you have denomi­
nated ‘murder.’*
“ Great God ! and do I hear such doctrine from
your lips V’
“ It is the doctrine,” said he with a smile, “ of
all schools, and all ages; although thou art as
yet too little accustomed to Buch idle disputation
to note the difference between words and things.
Men seize upon their neighbours, and convert
them into cattle; and the world does not condemn
because the skin of the slave is darker in hue than
that of his master. The soldier slays his neigh­
bours, and for no better reason than that his prince
desires it; the patriot slays hiB prince in order to
avert a tax upon the country; yet neither homi­
cide is called a murderer. I say unto thee that a
motive may exist which shall render the decom­
posing of the elemental form, and the shedding of
the spirit, whether of man or beast, a work not
only innocent but laudable and virtuous !”
Pauline was for some time silent in dismay. The
speculations of Orosmandel were often dark and
Coogle •
D
’ptiz*
THE MAGICIAN. 91
mystical, and she had before now had occasion
to wonder at the slight consideration in which he
seemed to hold those words, and things which
blanch the cheek of other men: but till,this day,
although frequently tending towards it, he had
never given her a general glimpse of. the theory
whence appeared to emanate, all that to her was
singular in his opinions. Being a woman, she
could not hold her tongue for ever, when words
had been spoken which sounded like blasphemies
to her ear; and too uninformed to expose his
fallacies by reasoning, she had recourse, like other
ignorant persons, to Scripture.
“ Your doctrine of spirits,” said she, “ I fear is
not only dangerous but damnable: it is opposed
to holy writ.”
“ On the contrary,” said Orosmandel, “ it is
based upon Scripture. Every line of the sacred
writings inculcates the connexion and integrity of
the whole system of the universe ; and in the
book of the Preacher we find express mention of
the souls of beasts.”
Dtgjlizod by C i [ c
92 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Be it so. Of this I know nothing; but can
that doctrine be scriptural in which virtue is
founded on mere expedience? Are the eternal
and immutable laws of God to be broken at the
pleasure, or according to the reason of so fallible
a being as man ?”
“The divine laws,” said Orosmandel, speaking
carelessly, as ifappearing to tire ofcontroversy with
so weak an antagonist, “ are neither eternal nor
immutable. They were promulgated for the
benefit, not of God, but of man ; and were there­
fore wisely adapted to the wants and uses of a
being whose condition is subjected to perpetual
and infinite change. Are they to be set aside,
thou demandest, according to the fallible reason
of a man ? Why this is done every day by pope,
cardinal, or bishop—nay by the meanest priest
that ever heard confession and absolved the sinner
from the consequences of transgression. But
even setting aside the practice of the Christian
church in our day, which some heretics conceive
to be erroneous, we find in every page of Scrip-
Dqjrttfôd by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 93
ture unanswerable evidence of the adaptation of
the laws of God to the mutability of human life.
To take an extreme case, for the purpose of avoid­
ing any cavilling with regard to the heinousness
of the action, the world was peopled at first by
the incestuous loves of its inhabitants. This was
commanded—this was a law of God. A race,
however, which is thus propagated, deteriorates in
the course of a few generations, and would pro­
bably finish by sinking to the scale of the beasts.
The law, therefore, which had been instituted for
the good of mankind, was for the good of man­
kind not only repealed but reversed ; and the
means alluded to, after its expedience had ceased,
was declared to be an enormous and deadly sin.
But this talk is unprofitable. Thy mind must
first be purged of prejudice before it can admit
truth. Of this, however, rest assured, that no
philosophy can be true which is irreconcileable
with Scripture !” and with this wholesome dogma
the sage concluded his lesson.
Pauline made no reply. The conversations
DiortizM by ClOO^Ic
94 THE MAGICIAN.
which she had held with the old man on her
present journey had more ' confbsed than en­
lightened her; andshe desired rather to arrange
her thoughts, than to overburden, her mind with
new ones. She was glad when, the philosopher
ceased to speak; and in order to change the
current of hiis ideas, she reminded .'him of a
question she had put on theirleaving Huguetaont,
as to whether she might expect ta meet her father
at La Verrière. Orosmandel started as she spoke,
and his eyes flashed fire. • ‘ •
“ I had forgotten,” said he, and he added, be­
tween his teeth, in a scarcely audible mutter,
“ The lagging cur ! if he do not howl for this!”
and taking a small silver horn from beneath his
cloak, he applied it to bis lips. Pauline remem­
bered that on asking her question, as .they left
Hugnemont, he had sounded a low note upon this
instrument, saying to her, “Anon,” as if promising
a speedy answer. Thé blast at present was
hardly louder, and yet appeared to vibrate in the
air at a great distance. He paused, and looked
DiQinzed by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 95
in the direction of Nantes. Presently some object
was seen crossing an open space with the speed of
ahare; then the foliage moved nearer the road; and
then an uncouth creature, apparently neither man
nor beast, darted out of the wood, and sprang at one
bound upon the sage’s horse, where he sat upon
the neck of the animal in the manner of an ape.
At this apparition, Pauline could not repress a
scream, and a hoarser cry arose from more than
one of the bold bosoms near her. The horses,
however, appeared to be still more affected by the
intrusion. Some took the bit in their mouths,
and fled at full speed ; while others, under more
but not belter command, plunged, and reared, as
if they would have thrown their riders. Oros-
mandel alone looked fixedly at the strange figure
before him; and his noble steed remained as
motionless as if he had been cut out of stone.
VHow now, sirrah ?” said the philosopher
sternly : “ Must I call twice?”
“ Forgive me, master," replied the dwarf, shak­
ing with terror ; “ I was detained in answering the
ioogle
9 6 THE MAGICIAN.
questions of him whom thou didstcommand me to
obey; but when once free, I came at thy bidding,
even as an arrow cleaveth the air.”
Pauline, as well as De Briqueville, and the
others near him, had by this time recognized,
through his goblin dress, a well-known slave—
some said a familiar—of Orosmandel ; and,
although their surprise was undiminished, they
were able to look without terror on one to whose
imp-like form they had been reconciled by habit.
The line was speedily redressed, and in utter
silençe ; for none of the whispered intercom­
munications were heard, to which an unusual or
terrifying circumstance gives birth. Each man
locked up his thoughts in his own breast ; and
many would not trust them with freedom even
there, but held them down with aves and credo*
for the rest of the journey.
Orosmandel, in the meantime, after having in­
formed the damsel that she should find her father
at La Verrière, continued his route unmoved, with
the dwarf sitting behind him. Sometimes they
DlaiMW by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 97
conversed, but it was in an unknown tongue. De
Briquevilie, who had been in the East, thought
this language resembled Arabic; but he was never
heard to make further remark on the subject,
except in thanking God that he did not understand
a word of it.
Nothing else wcrthy of observation occurred till
they reached La Verrière. Of this place Pauline
had a very indistinct recollection, never having
been there since her childhood ; and now she no
longer wondered that her father should have
chosen another domicile for her, or that he him­
self should have sunk, while inhabiting it, into
the melancholy and abstractedness for which he
was remarkable.
The château was a dark and sombre fortress
seated on the brink of the lifeless Erdre. On the
landward side, besides its walls and ditches, it
was defended by dark woods and morasses, as in­
tricate of passage as the stronghold of the Cretan
monster. On the side of the river all access was
cut off, except by a narrow and secret channel,
»giondby Google
VOL. II. F
98 TUB MAGICIAN.
winding through the floating swamps that were
called in the language of the district “ plains.” In
summer these were covered with the richest vegeta­
tion, so tempting to the eye of cattle, that every
year many a strong ox perilled and lost his life in
order to gratify his appetite. The ground sunk
under his feet while he rioted in the meal; and,
in endeavouring to regain the Arm earth, it usually
happened that he plunged into some treacherous
hole, deceived by the grass which coated its sur­
face, and disappeared in a gulf,
“ Where never fathom line could touch the ground!"
Pauline, acquainted though she was with Brit­
tany, where at lhat time almost every gentleman’s
house was a regular fortress, shivered as she
crossed the first drawbridge, and heard the rattle
of the chains as it was raised behind her. She
was still, however, it might have seemed, in the
open country, forher way lay with many a turning
and winding, through woods and jungles and
morasses, where the earth trembled beneath their
,G o o g lt
THE MAGICIAN. 99
feet. The second gate was, in like manner, passed,
and almost the same scene still continued ; for the
castle which they beheld at a distance, had va­
nished on their entering the precincts. At length
she stood within the court-yard, and saw the
heart of all this mystery, with feelings not greatly
different from those of the unwilling visitors of the
Minotaur after traversing the Labyrinth. It was
a huge but low building, of prodigious strength,
black with age, half hidden by the fortification
termed a curtain, its few windows almost as nar­
row as loopholes, and the only visible doorway
sunk in the earth, like the entrance to a subter­
ranean habitation.
Up to this moment Pauline, who was only too
happy to be permitted to see her father anywhere,
had indulged in no speculations upon the cause of
her present visit. She had received the summons
as a boon, and looked forward with girlish delight
to the freedom she would enjoy in roaming among
the woods of La Verrière, and skimming in some
fairy-like bark the placid waters of the Erdre.
f 2
0« ,Google
100 TH B MAGICIAN.
She now recollected, however, with an uncomfort­
able but indefinite sensation, that the château,
and all thin?» pertaining thereto, had been a for­
bidden topic at the Hôtel de la Suze ; and that
her father, so far from giving her an invitation to
his habitual country residence, had on more than
one occasion silenced her with sternness, and
almost violence of manner, when she hinted her
desire to visit it.
“ What can have produced so sudden achange ?”
she inquired mentally, as she stooped her head to
enter the low vaulted door. “ Why am I here at
last ? and how long am 1 to remain in a place
that looks like a dungeon, and smells damp and
faint like a burying-vault?”
c.>QogI&.
D
>ph
101
CHAPTER V.
B e f o k e conducting the reader into the interior
of La Verrière, it is necessary that we bring up
another group of the travellers, with whom we
set out ; for our narrative is like that of Sancho
Panza, in which a certain number of sheep were
to be ferried across a river one by one, and, if
good count were not kept, the story was at an
end.
Sir Archibald Douglas and David Armstrong,
as we have seen, followed close upon the proces­
sional march of the Damsel of Laval; both inte­
rested in its progress, in the same manner, and in
pretty nearly the same degree. The knight, how­
ever, had the advantage of his friend, inasmuch as
he could talk boldly and openly of his hopes and
o
,a
.M
Mb,G o o g le
102 THE MAGICIAN.
his love ; while our unfortunate scholar shut up
his secret in the depths of his own bosom, where
its stirrings were even as those of the sous of
Titan. The knight, in fact, in spite of David’s
natural shrewdness, was at times inclined to sus­
pect him of being not altogether composed in his
intellects ; and he did not scruple to attribute
whatever damage he might have sustained therein
to the vain studies in which he had found him
engaged, and above all, to the doctrines of that
pernicious heathen, Nigidius Figulus.
When the Damsel and her party were encamped
for the night at Huguemont, the two friends were
prowling about the neighbourhood, and circling
round the château like birds of prey. David,
indeed, perhaps saw with his own eyes the wan­
dering Jewess skimming along the path ; but if
so, the sympathy which should have revealed her
to him, even through the guise of a peasant, must
have been rendered powerless by the unhallowed
nature of his passion. He knew her not, and she
passed on her way.
Dtqi C.UO^hi.---
THE MAGICIAN. 103
“ Tell me, Archibald,” said he, when they awoke
in the morning, “ have you again been taking
advantage of my eyes being shut, to get up and
stravague about like an evil-doer in the night ?”
“On the contrary, I never slept more soundly
in my life.”
“ That is well; for something tells me we are
anon to have need of a stout arm. As for me, I
am a man accustomed all my life to the study of
humane learning, and to lie dreaming, from morn
till night, under the peaceful trees of Academia.
Even this sword is strange to my hand; it being
Justes, called in the vernacular cudgels, that we
more affected at the university, as instruments
better adapted to scholastic humility, and the
meekness of demeanour which befitteth Christian
priests. However, I must do as I may. We do
not excel in all things alike ; and of few it can be
said, ‘Nec in armis praestantia quam in toga.’”
Notwithstanding this humility, however, as David
bared his arm to the shoulder, to prepare for his
morning ablutions, bis eye rested with some com­
»,Google
104 THE MAGICIAN.
placency upon a set of muscle«, which would have
done honour to a gladiator, or professional player
with the sword.
“ It is an indifferently good ann for a clerk,”
remarked the knight. “ These muscles, moving
under your skin like twisted steel, were no doubt
nourished to their present growth by the exercise
of turning over the leaves of your a, b, c ! But
whence is your presentiment of evil ?”
“ Of the devil, for aught I know. But be this
as it may, the temple of Jupiter Patuleius is
assuredly open, and the sooner you loosen your
sword in its scabbard the better. The house of
Mars last night entertained a visiter who rarely
enters there for nothing ; and I never dream as I
have just now done, without awaking to strife in
the morning.”
“ As for that same temple,” said the knight,
“ they are all of them open in Paris every day in
the year, morning, noon, and night; and it is
better to awake to strife than be awakened by it;
which I take to have been your case, David, in
Digiti; Google
THE MAGICIAN. 105
what you call your peaceful Academia, seven
times a week. But come, what was your dream ?
Expound, as we amble along; for yonder we
shall meet a group of peasants who have doubt­
less passed the procession.”
“ My dream,” answered David, “ was not of
actions, but of feelings; not of places, but of void
and vacancy. There was darkness around me,
and clouds, and shadows. I was neither in the
air, nor on the earth, nor in the waters. I sought,
and could not find ; I opened my eyes till they
ached, and could see nothing; I stretched forth
my hands, and emptiness was in my grasp. My
life was disappointment. I was alone; and that
was misery and agony, and terror—alone in eter­
nal night—alone in illimitable space! Me-
thought hell itself would have been a welcome
refuge from such a doom.”
“ Mother of God !” cried the knight, " but
that was a dream! Had I been you, I would
have shouted to every saint in the calendar.”
“ All would have been in vain. I knew that
r 3
106 TH E MAGICIAN.
the saints would spurn, and the demons laugh at
my prayers. The anathema had gone forth, and
1 was a banished man alike from heaven and
earth.”
“ I fear me, David,” said the knight after a
pause, and laying his hand affectionately upon his
friend’s shoulder, as they rode side by side—“ I
fear me, you have something worse on your con­
science than the breaking even of tonsured crowns.
If so, take heart of grace, and lay the matter
before the Holy Mother; or if you be ashamed
exceedingly, .begin with Saint Bride, and she will
help you on. If I myself may aid in your
penance, either in person or purse, I am ready at
a word; for well I wot, that however great be
your sin, it is the sin of a Scot and a gentleman.
Yet take heed, that no penance can avail without
repentance. Take hold of this secret enemy of
your soul, and cast it forth, even if it cling to your
heart-strings: tear it away, even if blood and
tears gush after it like water. Remember, O my
friend! that the earth is but for a time; that our
«»«byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 107
most darling vices are but as flowers that pass
away ; and give not up heaven for a perfume, and
eternity for an hour!” Sir Archibald spoke with
unction; and even at that moment, David could
not help turning an admiring eye upon him, as he
rode proudly and loftily on, with the air of a
Christian knight who disdained to choose but
between victory and martyrdom.
• “ I will repent first,” said the scholar, “ and
confess afterwards. Yes,” continued he, catch­
ing the enthusiasm of his companion, “out it shall
come, that poison-flower whose roots are the life-
strings of my heart! The idolatrous image shall
be broken, and its fragments cast forth. I
promise, Archibald—and when I promise not hell
itself shall turn me back—I promise that within
four-and-twenty hours—”
“ Hush ! we shall be presently overheard. Saint
Bride understands what you would promise, and
that is enough.”
“ I promise,” continued David to himself, as the
group of peasants came up, that the image of
Googl
108 THE. MAGICIAN.
liagar shall forth from my breast, if I dig it out
with my poinard ! that is, after—after I learn that
she has reached the homes of her unbelieving clan
and is there in safety—and peace—and honour!”
After Sir Archibald had asked his usual ques­
tions, and ascertained from the answers that
Mademoiselle de Latfal was in health and safety,
and within very few hours’ journey of her father’s
abode, David lingered to extract, if possible"
without making a plain demand, the information
most interesting to him.
“ Does the Damsel journey alone,” said he,
“ excepting her escort ?”
“ Alone.’’
‘'The wretched cattle!” (aside) “ they count her
for nobody!—That is, my worthy people, you
would say, in some sort alone, as qualifying the
expression. For instance, there be her maidens,
her two maidens, “ to kame her yellow hair,” as
the song goes—and if I said three, perhaps I
should not be far mistaken. Is it two of the
feminine, or three, that follow the litter?”
»Google
T H E MAGICIAN. 109
“ Two.”
“ Then one of the bower-lasses must have been
taken sick at Huguemont; for those queans have
dainty stomachs, that will not sit easy under any
gallimaufry that may be going on the road.”
But the peasants assured him that the two they
had seen were veritable bower-maidens, and that
the damsel had had no other personal attendance
from the first.
“ And ye dare to tell me,” said David, almost
with a shout, yet growing pale at the same time,
“ that the Damsel and her two menials are the
only feminine in the procession ?”
“ What advantage should we gain by telling a
lie ?” replied the peasants. “ There is no other
woman among them, gentle or simple ; although
we indeed heard some idle story of one who glided
through the barred gale of Huguemont, and
flashing along the road like an evil spirit, disap­
peared among the woods of La Verrière."
“ It is no idle story,” said another, “ for I saw
her with my own eyes. She was dressed in a
DlQitk „Google
n o THB MAGICIAN.
cloak like one of ourselves; but beneath, I could
see raimeut of gold and silver, and wings upon
her shoulders. She passed along quicker than the
wind, yet without bending the grass; and her
foot made no sound when it touched the earth.”
“ What is the matter, David?” cried the knight,
“ Are you clean distraught? or do you glare in
that fashion to frighten the good people with the
countenance of Hashmodai?”
“ Silence, Archibald! In another moment I
shall be able to think—and then act.”
“ Is it even so ? Alas, I now see it all! Yet
why this mystery with one who would trust his
very soul to you ? You love yonder damsel,
whom I recommended to the protection of Made­
moiselle de Laval; and although so noble-looking,
she is perhaps the daughter of some mesalliance,
and so your heart is tom asunder between pride
and passion. But, courage! There is that in
you which, with the aid of God and good fortune,
would shed nobility upon a peasant’s brow.”
“ O that she were a peasant! O that her father
Digiwod
THE MAGICIAN. Ill
were a bondman, and her brothers and sisters the
meanest of the slaves of the soil!”
“And even then you would love her—woo her—
marry her ?”
“ I would kneel at her feet before the assembled
world. I would sink myself to her station—or
rather raise her to mine—ay, to loftier than mine.
I would clear a way for her either with my wit, or
my sword, till high-born dames should envy the
fortune of my gracious bride ! But come, let us
spur on, for this is idle talk. If she is indeed at
La Verriere, she is in the clutches of one who, if
her own knowledge be correct, has neither fear nor
mercy.” They accordingly put their horses to
their mettle, and rode on in silence ; the knight
more than ever perplexed with regard to David.
If it is not ignoble birth, thought he, which is
the stumbling-block of my friend, what can it be?
She is too young to have imbibed those heretical
opinions which would be a just bar to their
union ; and David’s mind is not of that substance
which would become the thrall of mere beauty,
unattended by worth. Is she already a bride,
112 THE MAGICIAN.
or the betrothed, of another? God forbid! that
were worse than all! Or, has sin shed its wither­
ing influence on their love—and does the betrayer
shrink from restoring peace to the bosom he has
robbed of virtue ?
The last supposition, although the most dis­
honourable to his friend, appeared, under all
circumstances, the most probable; and Sir Archi­
bald, after musing upon the subject for some
hours, in the course of which he sighed heavily
and often shook his head, at length caught hold
of his companion’s bridle, and bringing both
horses to a sudden halt, planted himself before
him, face to face.
“ It is now time,” said he, fixing a severe look
upon the culprit, “ before accepting the assistance
you have offered me, to know whether I can
honourably render you assistance in return. An­
swer me, yea or nay, and as plainly as I ask the
question: Is it your purpose, after delivering this
damsel from the hands of her enemies, to marry
her according to the forms of holy church ?”
“ Now God forbid!” cried David, starting
[^„^.„Googlc
the magician. 113
back; “ and may the saints forgive you for putting
such a thought into my head !”
“ You love her,” continued the knight, elevat­
ing himself on his saddle, till he sat as stiffly as
his lance; “ and many things that escaped my
apprehension at the time convince me now that
you love not in vain. The parting glance which
she gave you in the Pomme du Pin I read only as
touching the awkwardness of her then situation;
but there was in it, nevertheless, fear, sorrow,
regret, warning, supplication, secret understanding,
shame ! Nay, hearken, for I will not be silent. If
you have fallen into the snares of sin, it is no
reason why you should plunge deeper at every
step. The seducer is himself seduced by a more
potent spirit of evil than his own; and so his
fault may in some sort be reckoned rather weak­
ness than crime. But if, after the hour of in­
toxication is over, he refuse to repair the mischief
he has done—to give back the peace of which he
has robbed his victim—to build up anew the
honour he has cast down—he must be accounted
Google
114 THE MAGICIAN.
an outlaw of nature, a wilful and purposed felon ;
and must live henceforth a man forbid, excom­
municated as it were, from all offices of friendship
and affection. That man, were he now before
me, I would try, as a Christian, to recall to the
paths of honour; and, if my appeal were unsuc­
cessful, it would become my bonnden duty, as a
knight and a gentleman, to renounce him for ever!
Speak ! Am I mistaken ? But no—thou art the
man!”
David, after in vain endeavouring to stop the
torrent of the knight’s eloquence, had listened to
this speech with varying emotions of shame and
indignation. At its conclusion he became deadly
pale. •
“ Sir Knight,” said he, “ however heavily your
accusation might bear against me in a moral and
religious sense, it but lightly affects my character,
according to the standard of honour recognized in
our present world ; and, for the sake of old friend­
ship, I gladly make use of the pretext for forgiving
you, so far as your remarks apply to me individu-'
THE MAGICIAN. 115
ally. With regard to her, however, whom I was so
foolish and so unhappy as to intrust to the safe­
guard of your recommendation, I have another
duty to perform. Anent her—who is as pure as
any virgin of your house—you have most foully
lied in your thought; and in her behalf, Sir Archi­
bald Douglas, called of the Braes, I hereby deliver
to you my mortal defiance, in the name of God, St.
Michael, and St. George !” and David backed his
horse several paces, and drew his sword.
The knight was inwardly pleased that his sus­
picions had proved to be unfounded, although not
a little chafed by the uncourteous terms in which
his companion had replied.
“ If this is a feud,” said he, after a moment’s
hesitation, “ which may be prevented by acknow­
ledgment of error on one side, and the retraction of
dishonourable words on the other, I say, for the
sake of old times, let there be peace between us.
But if not—” and he slung his shield behind hiin,
and fixed his lance upright, that he might have no
advantage overhis opponent—“ the Douglas sword
Google
must not remain in sheath when its master is
defied.”
“ Bare not your blade, “ cried David suddenly,
" for my spirit is vexed within me, and the sight
ofa naked sword may be more than the placability
of my nature can withstand. I say not with you,
Let there be peace between thee and me; but
only, let there be a truce for a while. I am weary
of mystery; and I postpone my challenge, till I
can repeat it with an uncovered face.” They
were yet in a belligerent attitude, Sir Archibald
delaying to remove his hand from the hilt of his
weapon, till David had first returned his into the
scabbard—when a peasant girl rushed in between
them.
“ For shame, messires,” she cried, “ do you
prove your love for your lady by seeking each to
deprive her of a friend at a time when she is more
than ever in need of friendship ? She for whom
you would fight is now safe at La Venture;
although safe for how long no one can tell.”
“ Then it is even true,” cried David, “ and she
116 THE MAGICIAN.
*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 117
fled, like an unconscious dove, into the snare !
Tell me not of safety at La Verrière. Ita very
atmosphere is poison ; and I will away to admins-
ter the antidote, or die with her.”
“ It is of the Damsel of Laval she speaks,”
said Sir Archibald—“ this is she who gave me the
midnight warning.”
“ Are you for La Verrière?” demanded Marie,
turning from her quondam acquaintance, and
looking at the student with strong interest and
curiosity—“ Areyou bidden ? are you summoned ?
are you sent?"
“ 1am.”
“ You come from messire Jean of Poitou ?”
continued she, sinking her voice to a whisper, half
of terror, half of pity.
David nodded.
“ And this is he !—the Third !” she glided up
close to his horse’s side—“ Will you be warned ?”
said she, speaking rapidly, “ will you tum back?
or are you driven on by inevitable destiny? Death
awaits you there—a cruel, bloody, and secret
DlglMWIbyC i O O S ^IC
118 THE MAGICIAN.
death ! This is true as if an angel from God had
spoken it. Will you still go?”
« I will.”
“ Then all is true! Do you know that there
were two before you ?”
« Yes.”
“ God help us ! but this is a strange and awful
doom. So young—so handsome—so brave !”
“ I tell you, David,” interposed Sir Archibald ;
"she spoke of the Damsel of Laval. Your
hooded maiden, who is so nimble and noiseless of
foot, may have escaped to Nantes, since it seems
there is something for her to dread at La Ver­
rière.”
“ Tt is of the damsel I spoke,” said Marie.
“ As for the other, she is a living mystery, and
never walks abroad but in a cloud. God knows it
grieves me to think ill of one so fair and so pure-
looking; but appearances are woefully against
her.” She then described her meeting with
Hagar, and the escape of the latter, and went on
thus : '
Digits Google
THE MAGICIAN. 119
“ And now, messires, she was at length fairly at
Nantes, in open day, and in the midst of a crowd
where no harm could befall her. The dread she
had had of La Verrière was natural enough :—it
is a dread that even I should feel, humble as I
am, and no more to be compared to her in beauty
than the weed is to the flower—had I not been,
from my earliest girlhood, under the special pro­
tection of the Damsel of Laval. She had fled
from this supposed danger, —in a word, from the
lord de Retz—whom, as she assured me, with all
the apparent truth and innocence of an angel, she
had never teen."
“ No more she had !” interrupted David, “never
even with the unconscious eyes of infancy.”
“ Their recognition, then, of each other was a
miracle ! When the procession of the mystery
was passing by, she stood up, when everybody
else knelt, straining her eyes to catch a glimpse of
the baron. He at length turned round when he
was just beside her, and they smiled, and bowed,
as if they had been prince and princess !”
Dlflitiï Google
120 THB MAGICIAN.
“ Woman,” said David, sternly, “ however
gentle your tongue may be, you have yet but a
peasant’s apprehension. The bow of the lord de
Reti was a homage which the libertine pays to
beauty : here was the habitual and almost un­
conscious obeisance of one who is so noticed by a
superior.”
“ But she was noticed still more condescend­
ingly. She was invited to a seat in one of the
principal galleries ; and she who had fled from
La Verrière in such haste accepted its master's
offer without a moment’s hesitation.”
“ Hesitation would have been impolitic and un­
availing ; and she is one whose thought flies like
lightning to the mark. Had she been called,
under such circumstances, to the scaffold, she
would have mounted with a step just as ready and .
composed.”
“ I am not her accuser,” said Marie mildly, “ I
would a thousand times rather be her advocate ;
but as soon as the mystery was over, Bhe de­
scended from the gallery, inquired her way of
THE MAGICIAN. 121
those she saw in the street, and walked straight to
the hotel de la Suze, the mansion of the lord de
Retz!”
David looked as if he had been struck dead in
his saddle; but the next moment, starting into
life, he bent forward, caught hold of the girl with
one nervous arm, and, stripping off her hood with
the other, held up her face. It was a pale, fair
face, rendered beautiful by the blush which his
earnest scrutiny brought into her cheeks. The
head might have sate without question upon the
shoulders of a baroness, for it exhibited none of
the peculiarities of her condition. It was a por­
trait of woman ; in which mercy, gentleness, and
truth were rendered still more apparent by the
gleams of intellect which shot from her eyes.
David released her with a deep sigh.
“ Forgive me,” said he, “ you have spoken the
truth as you understand it. Yet will I rather
believe it to be all a magical illusion than distrust
her. Her enemy was uot the lord de Retz—she
was not even fully aware of the libertinism of his
VOL. 11. c
DigitizedttyG o O ^ l c
122 THE MAGICIAN.
character. I pray you forgive me, and tell me, if
you can, where she now is.”
“ That I do not know ; but the baron is expect­
ed at La Verrière this evening, and I have nodoubt
that she will be with him, either by force or good­
will.”
“ Farewell then, Archibald ; let us part as
friends, however we may meet.”
“ Stay, messire, you cannot possibly be there be­
fore sunset, and after that hour no one may pass
even the first drawbridge without being able to
give the word. Besides, it is not your time. Why
attempt to hasten the doom that is upon you, even
by a single night? Stay with us at our village,
which is close by ; and where, in the morning, a
ceremony is to take place, not worth your seeing
indeed, but which will help to pass the time till
the lord de Retz can be spoken with.”
“ Be it so,’’ said David. “ Come, Archibald,”
and he rode on, forgetting in his preoccupation of
mind, that he left her who was to have been his
conductress behind.
»4byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 123
“ Tell me,” said the knight, in a whisper, as he
prepared to follow, “ tell me, for the love either of
courtesy or of a broad piece of silver, what is the
name of yonder damsel errant of whom you
spoke V*
“ I cannot tell,” replied Marie, “ for I do not
know.”
“ Her country ?”
“ She has no country.”
“ How!”
“ S h e is a J e w e s s .”
“ Sacred heaven! my worst guesses were as
nothing to this!”
g 2
Dallied bvGoO^jlc
124 ’
CHAPTER VI.
The scholar’s presentiment of strifemustbe held
to have been realized by his quarrel with Sir
Archibald ; for nothing else occurred that day,
tending in any measure to the hostile display even
offustes. At the village, all was peace or good-
humoured merriment; and even Lisette,the sister
of Jehan, who was supposed to have formerly had
some notion of appropriating the bridegroom’s
affections to herself, seemed to bearher disappoint­
ment with great equanimity. The hero of the
night was as joyous as a very tolerable dose of
wine could be expected to render a man looking
forward to so serious a ceremony in the morning;
although it must be confessed that he checked
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 126
himself occasionally in his mirth, and looked in­
quiringly at Marie, with somewhat of the ex­
pression of a noisy boy, who doubts whether his
elder sister will not think him a little too obstrepe­
rous. If any one demands how this union came
about, we answer, that it came about in the natural
course of things. The bride, both in regard of
beauty and sense, was a fair mark for a villager’s
ambition; and when Victoire proposed, Marie,
although not in love, thought he would do for a
husband a little better than any one else she
knew, in the degree to which her choice was
limited. The necessity of a husband at all, might
be another question, if Marie had been thirty or
forty years older.
The more David reflected upon the adventures
of Hagar, the less gloomily he was disposed to
view the subject. A pang of doubt had indeed
shot across his mind at the moment when Marie
mentioned that she had entered of her own accord
the house of the lord de Retz, but this was speedily
dismissed, as unworthy both of him and her. He
Digitizedby Google
126 .THE MAOICCAN.
felt that the risk had been ran forhit sake, and the
idea would have beenproductiveof as much p/ainas
pleasure, had henot also believedherto be too Wise
and clear-sighted, to have! gone into'the lion’s den
without knowing wellhow to get outagain. Hagar
was, by this time, he had little doubt, in safety
with her friends at Nantes ; and to-morrow he
could begin with an untroubled mind—here David
sighed heavily—his singular and dangen»b ap­
prenticeship. . . . . •
By this time, he, as'well as Sir Archibald; bad
spoken more fully with Marie, whosefrankness was
increased by the impunity with which she had
hitherto touched upon the forbidden subject ; and,
although the mystery which enveloped La Verrière
was as opaque as ever, he now saw, with tolerable
distinctness, the fate threatened to himself. His
unbelieving master had, no doubt, good cause for
the horror with which he regarded Prelati ; for His
two disciples had(indeed been rriurdered. David,
from the conversation he had overheard betWeen
the Jew and this person, could easily trace the
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 127
esoteric meaning, of the popular legend recited by
Marie. Meseire Jean, it wasjustly said, had fallen
into the power of the Evil One, for he had been
detected by Prelati. in the commission of a crime
which placedhim for ever more at his.mercy. Pro- *
lati, besides, knew of his abode at Paris, in contra*
vention of the savage edict against the Jews; and
thus he had been able to say, and say truly, “ What
more have I to do than name your name, or oven
pointwith my finger,to haveyou and yourdaughter
tom to pieces, the fragments burnt with fire, and
their ashes scattered upon the windsof heaven ?”
Since the fatal day when the Alchemist had
fallen into the power of this man, he had bought
his safety it appeared,, sometimes with gold, some­
times with human blood. This was the mystery.
If Prelati was not the Fiend himself, incarnal form,
what was the meaning of these horrible sacrifices ?
Waa he reallyengaged in some such high researches
as be had hinted at to the alchemist? and was the
blood of his assistants to flow upon the altar of
the infernal deities ? or, whatwas still more proba-
Oiga. ,Google
128 THE MAGICIAN.
ble, were their lives to become forfeit at the mo­
ment when their progress in the science had ren­
dered them rivals of their master.
Who was this Prelati, whom he had seen alive
with his own eyes, yet who was believed even in
the neighbourhood of La Verrière to have perished
at sea? It was surely impossible that Orosman-
del could have any connexion with such atro­
cities; yet was it not equally so that they could
be carried on without the philosopher’s know­
ledge? What, in fine, was the relative position
of Gilles de Retz himself between these two
men, each so different, each so extraordinary, each
so mysterious ? It was in vain to puzzle himself
with such inquiries- Everything around him was
as incoherent as the wildest dream that had ever
flitted before 1m imagination. Nothing was cer­
tain but the danger which threatened himself.
It will- easily be conceived by those who are
still in the heyday of youth, and also by those
who are able to remember that era distinctly, that
there must have been something still more attrac-
. - M.
THE MAGICIAN. 129
tive than terrifying to David Armstrong in the
idea of exploring the depths of such a mystery.
This feeling of the young and the bold, although
perhaps nothing more than an elevated species
of curiosity, is the grand material of the old
romancers. It is this which is personified in the
chivalrous adventurer who plunges into the gloom
of primeval forests, and sounds the horn at the
gate of enchanted castles. But as for David, who
belonged to a people who were, at the epoch, as
individuals, the most adventurous in Europe, he,
no doubt, felt strongly enough the spirit of enter­
prise: yet in him this was controlled by a certain
degree of judgment, or forethought—still better
developed among his countrymen in modem times
—and if honour permitted, he would, in vulgar
phrase, have “jouked and let the jaw go by’’ with
any canny Scot in the realm.
His motives, therefore, were of a mixed cha­
racter. Curiosity, or youthful daring, may have
led the van; but selfish speculation came imme­
diately after. Qilles de Retz he thought, as has
o 3
««^Google
130 THS MAGICIAN.
been mentioned before, was the dupe of Prelati,
and in saving one of the greatest and most in­
fluential lords of the time from ruin, the young
Scot thought he could not miss making his own
fortune. Next came friendship ; for, in spite of
their frequent quarrels, David would at any time
have perilled his life in order to advance the pros­
pects of Sir Archibald ; and gliding in among them
all, appeared the veiled and shadowy form of
Hagar, the interests and the very being of whose
house appeared so closely inwoven with the mys­
teries of La Verrière, that he could hardly separate
them in imagination.
After passing all the details of the subject in
review before him, David came to the same con*-
elusion with which he had set out. In the first
place, even if his indefinite projects should fail,
the danger that threatened him, judging by the
history of the two former victims, could not be
immediate ; in the second place, he had a quick
eye to see it afar off when actually on its way ;
and lastly, his nerves were good, and his arm
. - •*.
THE MAGICIAN. 1 3 1
strong and ready for self-defence—while, if the
odds were too strong against him, he could show
as light a pair of heel» as any lad on the Borders,
from sea to sea.
The meditations of Sir Archibald were employed
upon the same subject, and their resnlt will appear
in the following conversation which he held with
hia friend in the morning.
“ David,” said he, “ after due consideration, I
have now to demand your pardon for my unworthy
suspicions, and to grant you mine, even before you
ask it, for a hasty word, drawn from a heart which
at the moment must have been filled with bitter­
ness and confusion. I will not ask in what
manner you became conncoted with the family—
for they are father and daughter I will be sworn—
of the individual who is called, no doubt by way
of a nom de guerre, messire Jean of Poitou; for
well I wot you must have fallen through ignorance
into the snare laid for you by the enemy of man­
kind. Neither will I speculate on the manner in
which this history is to end. Your heart, my
DlQitned b y C j O O ^ I c
132 THE MAGICIAN.
friend, is not one that will give up so easily as
even you yourself may imagine, an object it has
once taken into its very being; and rather than
see your young life pass away like a shadow, 1
would build upon the goodness of the ever-Virgin
in vouchsafing to change the spirit—”
“ Then would you build in vain,” interrupted
David gloomily, “ for Hagar will be faithful alike
in good and bad.”
“ Let me pass on, then, to what I have to say,
leaving the rest to the mercy of Providence. It
appears, from all we have been able to gather,
that you have been trepanned into this appoint­
ment at La Verrière by messire Jean ; that you
have been sold, as it were, to the Adversary ; and
that, after a certain time, you will be offered up to
him as a blood-sacrifice. If this be true, the arm
of tbe flesh will avail nothing. But Satan, for all
his cunning, may be cheated. I, for instance, am
a Christian knight ; my soul is unsoiled by such
devilries as the transmutation of metals, or other
profane and unlawful delusions; and I thank God
Geogle-
THIi MAGICIAN. 133
I own another master than Nigulus Figulus. Let
me take your place, since there must needs be
the likeness of a third victim; the only eye I
shall have to avoid will be that of Orosmandel;
and if you will instruct me in what I have to do
and to say, I have no doubt that by the blessing
of St. Bride, to whom I commit my protection, I
shall bring the adventure to a happy issue.”
“Had you listened,” replied David, “ to the
explication I offered of the synodal statute De
Sortilegiis, an imperfect knowledge of which seems
to have clouded your understanding—”
“ I declare before heaven I have no knowledge
of it whatever!”
“ Well, well; you would at least have learnt
that alchemy cannot justly be reckoned among
either the profane or unlawful sciences. The mi­
raculous stone is not a delusion, but a reality;
and to question the possibility of the Elixir Vitae
is to assign limits to the power and goodness of
God. But with all this unbelief,”—and David’s
solemnity of visage relaxed into a broad grin—
G o o g le
134 THE MAGICIAN.
“ methinks you conjoin a very extraordinary degree
of credulity. I am sold, it seems, by a magician !
1 am to be offered up as a blood-sacrifice to the
devil I Diabolum ludificare !—I should indeed
make a precious bargain. My poor friend, this is
all very well for a soldier, but a scholar is not so
easy of faith. Trust me, the affair in hand will
be decided, not by spells and cautrips, but by the
arm of the flesh, and the wit of the spirit.”
“ Be it so,” said the knight; “and then the
question comes to be, which of us two is the fitter
man for the adventure : I, who, as a soldier, must
perforce know some little matter of defences and
onslaughts, ay, and ruses and ambushes ; or you,
who, at the best, have but led on Bauldy, and
Nigel, and Andrew at the university, to the break­
ing of a few pows, bare even of the hair which
nature gave them for a defence ? Besides, David,
I would fain see you take your vows in right
earnest, and rise, before you die, to be at least a
cardinal; while as for me, if I do fall in the at­
tempt, it is but the casualty of a knight-adven-
,Googlc_
THE MAGICIAN. 135
turer in the way of his business—and the greater
luck would be his, to die within the very walls
that hold the lady of his love!”
“ Archibald, my man,” said David, taking his
friend’s hand, and clearing his throat of a kind of
huskinesB which had beset it; “ you are about as
fine a fellow as ever poised a lance since the days
of St. George ! But it may not be. You have a
career before yon worthy of your ambition ; and
the very difficulties in the way of your love
should only be a greater excitement to a Douglas
bosom. As for me, I must follow out my fate ;
and, if the worst befall, it is but a poor scholar the
less, and a single ray of science extinct.”
The knight saw that it would be in vain to
press farther his generous offer; and the two
friends passed the remainder of the time in ar­
ranging the manner in which David, while at the
château, might act most beneficially for his ally.
They were called up in the morning by those
musical sounds which usually usher in a bridal
day; and which, in the case of the sbns ahd
Digita vGooglt
1 3 6 THE MAGICIAN.
daughters of poyerty (as well as in a few other
cases), may be said to resemble the clear, loud,
last twang of a harp-string when it is breaking.
The whole village was already astir; and a smile
was on every face they saw, except one. The
bride could not be said to be either happy or
otherwise. She was quiet and sedate as usual,
and would have been the very last person whom
a stranger would have taken for the heroine of the
day.
“ She looks,” whispered the knight, “ as if she
thought a little of this merriment might be spared.”
“ I warrant,” replied David, “ the verguncula
is busy with the future. She is thinking what
else than the fountains of her own bosom she will
have to offer the knave-bairns when they come.
Alas! in that day there will be no mirth; and,
I fear me, but little love. Sine Cerere et Baccho
friget Venus: an adagium, Archibald, which
means, that connubial affection dwindles down
with the meal-poke. But I must now away.
Marie, I thank you heartily for your hospitality-—
DigmzMbyG 0 0 ^ I C
THfc MAGICIAN. 137
and for more than that, which I may one day be
able to repay. I wish you all manner of happi­
ness, and especially the gift of patient endurance ;
in token whereof I beg you will permit me, in the
room of a more eloquent valediction, to touch
your cheek with my lips, ere yet its virgin-flowers
are gathered.”
“ I thank you, messire,” replied Marie, “ for
your good wishes, and not the less, that they suit
the time so closely. As formy cheek, since its wild
flowers—for such is the name which our fabliere
give to weeds—are still my own, I shall accept
humbly the honour you intend them; but on
condition that you tarry with us yet a little while.
There is the bride-song now to be suug, a custom
preserved in Brittany from the old time; and,
although I never heard it myself, yet my cousin
Lisette has a sweet voice, and that will make it
worth the hearing. Will you still go?” continued
Marie, sinking her voice to a whisper; “ Will you
not be warned?”
“ I will first hear the bride-song,” answered
David, gently; and Marie, glad even of the brief
Digitized vGoogle
138 THE MAGICIAN.
respite she had gained for the third victim, turned
away to take her place in the ceremony.
She was crowned with flowers, and seated on a
chair in the middle of a wide circle formed by the
wedding guests. Her betrothed stood near her;
and Lisette, the sister of Jehan, tripping out from
the crowd, and planting herself directly opposite
the bride, fixed earnestly her keen bright eyes
upon her face, and commenced a song, which is
to this day sung on such occasions in the valleys
of Brittany.
“ List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The singer ofour native vale !
Alas! a dearer voice, they say,
Hath drowned the burden of liis lay,
Which tells, in warning notes, the pain,
The weight of an eternal chain.
Yet, Marie, list the nightingale,
The sweet, wise singer of the vale !
" List, Marie, list—that lovely strain
Shall never reach thy heart again !
Another voice thou soon wilt hear,
Another music fill thine ear—
,Google
OiQltU
THE MAGICIAN. 139
Not aiwayt like the gentle tale
Of the sweet singer of the vale !
List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The sweet, kind singer of the vale!’’
Here the emphasis of the bridemaid made some
of the listeners laugh ; and Marie,who had doubt­
less expected quite another kind of wedding lay,
opened her eyes upon her friend in grave surprise.
Lisette, however, went on with new earnestness,
fixing a look upon the bride’s face, which David
remarked to his companion might have “ peeled
off the skin.” •
Hark ! yet another voice doth come
To swell the discord ofsweet home—
The cry, long, peevish, and forlorn,
Of thy young babe, thy earliest bom !
Mingle the wife's, the mother's wail,
No more she hears the nightingale.
List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The sweet, blithe singer ofthe vale!
“ 8wiftly love’shoneymoon hath past,
Then coldness oomea—scorn—ire at last:
140 TUB MAGICIAN.
Slowly goes by the cheerless day,
More slowly creeps the night away.
Perching the neighbour trees among,
The owl doth join her cradle song.
List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The sweet, gay singer of the vale!"
Marie darted a look of indignation upon the
impertinent monitress, and turned away her chair ;
but Lisette moved round at the same moment,
and, confronting her as before, fixed anew her eyes
on her face, and continued the nuptial song.
“ Go then, devoted girl, and give,
For love that but a moon doth live,
The love ofyears ; the village green
For the lone housewife’s silent scene;
The music of the nightingale
For the owl’s harsh and boding tale 1
Thou wilt not hear the nightingale,
The singer ofour native vale.
“ Love, man’s good angel, doth depart,
And demons seize the vacant heart.
The goblet flows; rude jest and song,
Till dawn the wild debauch prolong:
a*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 141
Meantime the wife, by taper dim,
Sings, with the owl, her cradle hymn.
List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The singer of our native rale!
“ Wine leads to folly—madness—crime—”
Marie started up, her eyes flashing with anger,
and her bosom heaving like the vexed wave ; but,
recollecting herself, she sat down again, sweeping
round her chair, however, till her back was turned
to the singer. Lisette tripped round in the same
instant; and, fastening her eyes earnestly upon
her face, resumed the interrupted song.
“ Wine leads to folly—madness—crime;
The rattling dice harmonious chime
To his hoarse laugh ; till, one by one,
Fields, flocks, and house, and home are gone !
He then returns by morning’s sun
To her be dares not look upon.
List, Marie, list the nightingale,
The sweet, wise singer of the vale !
“ Bed—cradle—distaff—all are gone.
Hence, wanderer!—but not hence alone :
Google
DqihZ
Take thy young baby on thy back,
And follow in thy husband’s track,
Lonely and Laggard, mute and pale,
Away from thy dear native vale !
No more thou'lt hear the nightingale,
No more thou’lt see our native vale !"
142 THE MAGIC!AN.
The bride’s courage could hold no longer. She
turned away from her betrothed, who stood trying
to smile with all his might ; and throwing herself
upon the neck of her nearest companipn, burst
into tears.* David took advantage of the con­
fusion, mingled with jeers and laughter, which this
incident occasioned ; and griping his friend’s hand
for a moment, almost as fiercely as the operation
had been performed by the Black Knight, he
glided swiftly away in the direction of La Ver­
rière.
The scholar pursued his way, according to the
* The above is a close translation of a very spirited
French song, purporting to be one usually sung at the
nuptials of the Breton villagers. The translator regrets
that he cannot call to mind where he found the original.
t
« »,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 143
directions be had previously received ; and at
length reached a spot which commanded a view
of the château of La Verrière. It was an object
far less formidable than he had expected ; for the
buildings, though extensive, were low, and pos­
sessed nothing of the imposing grandeur with
which his imagination had invested the place.
Their black colour, however, the strange lifeless­
ness of the Erdre, and the unnatural stillness
which seemed to brood over the whole scene, im­
pressed him with a feeling approaching to awe ;
and a thought of the village he had just left, its
smiling faces, and even the mirthful malice of
Lisette’s song, came back upon him like a regret.
He went on, however, without looking back,
till he imagined that he must be in the immediate
neighbourhood of the château ; but this landmark
had now entirely disappeared, and the adventurer,
bewildered by the number of low eminences swell­
ing around him in inextricable confusion, each
exactly resembling the others, and all covered
with trees, stopped short to inquire whether he
DiQitU „Google
had not committed some mistake. He had set
out on a well-beaten path ; but this had no sooner
conducted him into the wilderness, than it shot
out into so many branches, that it could no longer
serve for a guide. The multiplicity of paths, in
fact, was in itself a very remarkable circumstance ;
and he observed that they rarely proceeded far
without sweeping into a curve, the termination of
which was lost among the trees. Sometimes this
could be accounted for by the intervention of a
wooded eminence, or a swamp ; but, even when
these obstacles were not in the way, the same
eccentric course was observed.
David was unwilling to proceed farther in un­
certainty, and climbed a tree in order to discover
his bearings. He found that his progress, though
slow, had been in the proper direction. The tur­
rets of the château were visible above an inter­
vening wood, at no great distance ; and the
smooth bosom of the Erdre, shone on by the sun,
was almost too bright to be looked on. In his
descent, he had gained the lowest branch of the
144 THE MAGICIAN.
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 145
tree, and was just about to spring to the ground,
when the appearance of a female figure within
fifty yards of the spot made him pause. David
rubbed hiseyes,to make surethathe wasawake;for
it was the village-bride he saw, in her bridal dress,
and with the chaplet of flowers still on her head !
Marie passed on her way, in her usual composed
manner, looking neither to the right nor to the
left, and pursued her path into a thick grove,
where she disappeared from his eyes. His first
impulse was to call out her name; but checking
this, he hardly knew from what motive, he leaped
down, and sprang after her as lightly as a grey­
hound. In the grove the path divided into two
branches, and in all probability he took the wrong
one ; for, on emerging from the gloom of the trees,
he found no trace of her whom he sought. It was
impossible, however, that she could be far distant
—certainly not a great number of yards; and he
put his hand to his mouth to give a hollo, which,
if she recognised his voice, would probably pro­
duce an answer.
VOL. 11. H
D-giti/od I
146 TH K MAGICIAN*
At the moment hi« elbow was touched by some
one behind ; and David, when he had turned
round, good as he had boasted his nerves to be,
Btarted back several feet, and clapped his hand to
his sword. -
“ Holy mother of God !” cried he, “ what art
thou ? Answer, if thou hast the gift ofspeech !” -
“ 1 am my master’s man,” replied the dwarf,
“ and thou art no better !” ,
“ Then is your master Beelzebub, you misbe­
gotten imp ! Holy Mary ! that my heart should
have leaped into my mouth for a jackanapes !
Speak. Why come you? What is your busi­
ness?”
“ I come because I am sent ; and my business
is to welcome thee to La Verrière.”
“ I am much beholden to you ; in troth 1thank
you heartily, and there is an end. Let us now
part in God’s name ; for I promise you I would
rather have a man of six feet, in full armour, rise
up before me out of the sod, than a shape like
that—larvalis habitus, as we say—dropdown upon
THE MAGICIAN. 147
ay traces in the midst of a wood, like an acorn
from a tree.”
“ I know it, David,” replied the dwarf, with a
grin, “but for all that we must be better ac­
quainted. Wert thou as nice of vision as any girl
of fifteen, thou wilt soon get accustomed to me,
and we shall be good comrades. What, shall we
not be brothers? If we must labour with our
necks in the same yoke, shall we not also take
our diversion ? I will show thee a way through
the swamp where theground is thinnest, and when
the nights are darkest ; I will teach thee to follow
the corpse-lights into the thick of the fen; some­
times we shall hunt the grey bat with bow and
arrow, or mock the owl—which is rarer sport
—when he singeth to the moon ; and sometimes,
for the sake of variety, we shall spear the snake
as he rustles homeward through the grass, or
fish toads in the ditches of the château. Toads !
these be capital sport! Your toads of La Verrière
are three times the ordinary size ; they carry
poison enough under their tongue to fill you a
h 2
otMb)Google
148 THE MAGICIAN.
phial: and (hen to see them goggling and gasp­
ing when they come up—ho! ho! ho! it is ex­
cellent, I promise thee!”
While the dwarf was speaking, Darid examined
him attentively from head to foot, and beforehe bad
done, was sorry for the disrespect with which he
had treated Sir Archibald’s superstition. The
creature before his eyes had nothing about him
but the outward form; and that was imitated so
miserably, that the beholder could only have been
prevented from laughing by horror. This lusus
naturae, however, this goblin, whichever he might
chance to be, was to be his comrade at La Ver-
riere. Of what nature, in the name of God,
could be their duty, since for recreation they were
to follow the ignis fatuus over bogs—turn the bird
of Minerva into ridicule—fish reptiles for trouts—
and bottle poison ? The scholar began to ask
himself what pressing business he had there at
all. Hagar was off his hands; and even her
father could not suffer blame, if his apprentice
did not choose to be indented to Satan. At all
Dig* Google
THE MAGICIAN. 149
events, concluded he, go with a guide like this I
will not. I shall return forthwith to the village,
and take a human conductor thence to the
chateau to-morrow morning. Thus the enchant­
ment will be broken which the wench Marie
would persuade me I am under; the appointed
day will be past and gone ; and I shall make my
appearance at the gate a free man, and not like a
jongleur taken prisoner, and led in by his own
jackanapes.
“ Hark ye, friend,” said he; “ I was brought up
to spear salmon in the river, and strike deer in
the forest; and my stomach would ill brook the
grewsome sports you intimate. But ‘trahit sua
quemque voluptas;’ which is equivalent to the
expression made use of by the old woman who
kissed her cow. I do not accuse your tastes, but
I follow my own. For my part, I had ever an
horror of toads and serpents; and I pray you to
notice, that I will in nowise be art or part in such
unseemly pastimes. And now stand out of my
way, that I may return whence I came, seeing that
my morning’s walk is at an end.”
Dig>1- G o o g le
150 THK MAGICIAN.
“ Thy morning’s walk !” repeated the dwarf,
opening his goggle eyes ; “ and dost thou ab­
solutely fancy that it is thy walk thou art taking
—that thou art here on thy own business or plea­
sure—that, in fact, thou still belongest to thyself ?”
“ That is decidedly my belief and opinion,” re­
plied the scholar. “ It is true I may besaid to have
bargained to take on service for a time in the
laboratory of him at La Verrière; since the very
habiliments I now wear, as well as a horse which
I left at the village, may be looked upon as the
arrha, or earnest money. Thus much I freely con­
cede ; saying nothing of an epitogium or gra­
duate’s cloak of my own (on account of its being
somewhat the worse for wear) which I ceded up
at the same time. Still, no precise day of entrance
was mentioned, and for that matter, no precise
period of service ; and I accordingly hold myself
my own master, while I remain on this side the
threshold of the château.”
“ Admirably argued,” exclaimed the dwarf, and
he broke into a laugh so shrill and wild, that the
whole grove rung with it.
»Google
Digitize-
THE MAGICIAN. 151
“ Stand out of my way, you hellicate imp!”
cried the startled scholar, “ were it not shame to
offer violence to such a pigmy—that is, supposing
you to be anything else than a phantasma—I
would send youto fish for toads in yonderquagmire.
Away, you misbegotten knave !” and threatening
him with his sheathed sword, he turned back by
the path by which he had come; the dwarf stood
his ground till the enemy began to move j but he
then made instantaneous way for him, by leaping
to a surprising distance out of the path, and dis­
appeared among the trees with screams of laughter,
like an evil spirit,
David pursued his route in not a little confusion
of mind ; and yet, by no means, feeling confident
that he had acted a part worthy of his sires and
country, in postponing an enterprise he had under­
taken, for no better reason than that he had met a
misshapen dwarf upon the road. This personage
was now richly dressed, in a kind of eastern cos­
tume, covered with hieroglyphics, and letters ap­
parently of an unknown language. He might
DiQittfotfby Google
152 THE MAGICIAN.
have seemed to be the page of some great lord,
thus decked out at his master’s capricious fancy ;
and his stfange discourse might have been nothing
more than the dictates of an intellect, sometimes
as weak and crooked, in persons of this unhappy
class, as their bodies.
The adventurer walked on, plunged in medita­
tion, till at length he began to be somewhat sur­
prised that he had not already reached the village.
The same character of scenery prevailed, the same
confusion of woods and eminences; and he was
under the necessity of again having recourse to
the expedient of climbing a tree. It may be con­
ceived withwhat astonishmenthefound onreaching
the top, that, instead of having progressed towards
the village, he was much nearer the chateau than
before ! At the moment he made this discovery,
the shrill laugh of the dwarf smote upon his ear;
and he descended both in anger and perturbation
of mind.
He now walked on with less conhdence. He
saw clearly that the paths were meant less to guide
, G o o g le
Sigilli
THE MAGICIAN. 153
than to bewilder; and, although but little versed in
mathematics, the idea occurred to him, as just
possible, that they might have been constructed for
the very purpose of preventing escape from La
Verrière. A still greater work of art, thought he,
must have been the Cretan labyrinth, (to say
nothing of the greater prodigy of Egypt, and the
lesser ones of Lemnos and Italy ;) and for all
that, Dædalus, though a cunning man of artifice,
was no magician. While comforting himself,
however, with this idea, he could not resist a
growing conviction, that in the whole of this
affair he had been the subject of a species of
fatality ; and when at length he saw at a short
distance" through the trees a portion of mason-
work, it was with but little confidence he exclaim­
ed, “ There is the village.” It was the château of
La Verrière.
Again, the same eldritch laugh met his ear;
but the sound was now close by, and the dwarf,
dropping down from the bough of a tree, stood
beside him. •
h 3
G o o g le
Du
164 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Thou hast thought better of it, David,” said
he, “ and we are to be comrades after all! Since
thou art thy own master, thou must be here of thy
own purpose ; and accepting the token as a testi­
mony of good will to me, thy fellow-servant, I
shall now conduct thee to the gate, if so be thy
pleasure.”
“ Lead on,” replied David, “ for I will follow.”
They now emerged altogether from the trees ; and
a fair view of the fortress was no sooner obtained,
than the student forgot his personal feelings in
the admiration which it inspired.
The ditch was an immense canal, in which a
modem frigate might have swam, and its border
was thickly planted with sharp iron spikes. Be­
yond this, the ramparts, constructed of earth, rose
like a chain of hills. They were battlemented at
the top, girded by a chemise of solid stone, and
defended from distance to distance by half-moon6.
Above the gate towered a lofty corps de guarde,
which was bristled with the lances of sentinels;
and on the ramparts, at either side, the muzzle
DioiMM by Google
T H B MAGICIAN. 166
was presented of an enormous iron culverine, each
twenty-four feet long, and so solid, that it must
have been moved with difficulty by fifty horses.
A pile of balls, of corresponding magnitude, lay
near these gigantic pieces of artillery, some of
stone, and some of lead.
The visitor had never seen the like, except in
fortified towns of the first class; although even
these monstrous dimensions were a reduction lately
introduced. The earlier cannon had been found by
experience to be somewhat unmanageable, being
from fifty to sixty feet long, with balls of five or
six hundred pounds’ weight !
David expected to be closely questioned at the
gate, but at the sight of his conductor he was
allowed to pass without remark, and he found
himself fairly within the walls of La Verrière.
Winding their way through jungles and morasses,
whete they might have imagined themselves to be
still in the open country, they at length arrived at
the second, and then at the third inclosure ; and
when about to cross the last drawbridge, it was
OiQiliZ«!byGoogl
156 THE MAGICIAN.
not without some secret emotion that the scholar
saw pointed at him from the wall, one at either
side of the gate, two hand culverines, which one
man poised on his shoulder, while another behind,
.directing its aim, held a lighted match in his
hand, ready to fire.
He entered, however, as before, without ques­
tion ; and crossing the square or court, was intro­
duced into the low, black building, guarded so
jealously. Here he was left alone for some time
in the dimly-lighted hall; and we shall take the
opportunity of opening to the reader the door of
the chamber to which he was about to be sum­
moned. But this demands a new chapter.
as,Google
DiQiti;
157
CHAPTER VII.
The principal buildings of the chateau were
not in the middle of the court, as was usual with
the donjon. They stood in an angle, on a base of
rocks overhanging the Erdre; and were closely
girded, towards the river, by the ramparts. This
disposition, however, did not render the fortress
less secure; for an assault by water was all but
impossible. The “ plains,” as they were called,
or floating swamps, which we have already no­
ticed, extending far out into the stream, formed
a natural barrier against any hostile approach;
while the channel through them, besides being too
narrow to admit more than one small boat at a
time, was cut by art into a kind of labyrinth. So
oswob,Google
158 THE MAGICIAN.
secure was the castle deemed on this side by the
engineers of the age, that even the usual barbican
had not been erected on the opposite bank.
Nothing more was required to collect the dues,
which every river-side baron of the time thought
he had a right to exact, than a skiff lying at
anchor without the swamps ; for the country
barges, sailing by to the Nantese market, required
no farther persuasion to induce them to bring to,
than a glance at the old black building behind,
and the name of its redoubted master, the lord de
Retz.
The reader who has visited the banks of the
Erdre must bear in mind that the river has shrunk
considerably since the period we refer to. The
ruins of the castle now stand at some distance
from the brink; but four centuries ago, the stream
washed the base of the ramparts, and a portion of
its waters, flowing into the outermost ditch, in­
closed the whole fortification- in an island. This
process of change is supposed to have been going
on for a much longer period.
oisoM
'ibyGoogle
T H E M A G I C I A N . J69
" We never see on these shores,” says a Nantese
author, “ the ridges of sand which, in almost all
other rivers, are the debateable lines between the
empire of the water, and that of vegetation. The
green turf approaches with confidence to the very
edge of the borders, as if aware that these are
never undermined by the rebellions of the waves
which it is their province to confine. At the same
time, if the geologist will remark the inclination
of the two banks, and the interval between them,
his thoughts will be carried back to a period earlier
than history, in which the whole bason was
filled by the water which now only covers its
bottom.” #
The portion of the buildings which we have
described as overhanging the river, was strength
ened by a thick, and comparatively lofty tower;
which, although intended for defenoe, was at
present the temple of science, the abode of the*
* Voyage dans le departement de la Loire Inferieure,
par M. E. Richer.
Ov
160 THE MAGICIAN.
Arabian philosopher, Orosmandel. No one pre­
sumed to enter this tower uninvited, or indeed
found it possible to do so without the permission
of its tenant. Even the proud baron himself
was constrained to ask leave before paying a
visit.
The place had been fitted up by foreign artificers
employed by the sage ; and from the circumstance
of their vanishing utterly from the neighbourhood
as soon as the job was finished, it was naturally
enough concluded by the peasants that they were
no other than a troop of demons who had been
summoned by enchantment. But little, however,
was seen of their handiwork. From the draperies
and other costly articles which had been used, it
was presumed that Orosmandel lived surrounded
by the luxuries of a person of rank, such as he
appeared to be; but nothing was known with cer­
tainty on the subject. That he had company
occasionally was not doubted ; for once the sound
of laughter had been heard proceeding from the
tower at night, and more than once a wild scream
/Google _
T H E M A G I C I A N . 161
from the same quarter broke the enchanted slum­
ber of the Erdre. With the exception of his
former assistants, however, his dwarf-page, and
a deaf and dumb slave, no one was ever known
to have entered the place ; and such sounds there­
' fore were heard without creating any disposition
on the part of the listener to inquire into their
source.
Besides the interior communication with the
rest of the building, a small door opened on the
ramparts, for the accommodation of the sage when
he wished to take the air without mixing with the
household ; and this portion of the ramparts was
in some sort considered to be his own private pro­
perty. All the lower part of the tower, however,
was an impenetrable mystery; the middle was
supposed to be occupied by his private apart­
ments ; and at the top was his study, or observa­
tory, where alone visitors were admitted—and
which is the room we have promised to open to
the reader.
On ascending the narrow stair which led to it,
byGoogle
162 THE MAGICIAN.
and entering the door, the first sensation produced
on the unaccustomed visitor was faintness, occa­
sioned by a sweet, yet peculiar smell, diffused pro­
bably from a lamp burning dimly near the farther
end. This solitary lamp seemed to be the only
means by which the apartment was lighted, even
at noon-day ; for no window, no opening of any
kind, appeared either in the walls or roof. A
large circular painting, however, exhibiting a plan
of the heavens, rendered almost unintelligible by
the number of numerals and hieroglyphics, occu­
pied nearly the whole of the wall opposite the
door; and, by its half luminous appearance, indi­
cated that there was a corresponding aperture
beyond for the admission of light, perhaps resem­
bling the rose-window of a cathedral.
Little, however, could be observed distinctly ;
and nothing at all except the lamp, till the eyes
of the visitor became accustomed to the gloom.
When this was the case, various strange and inde­
finite objects came gradually out from the shadow
which filled the apartment. Before the painting
uMbrGoqgle. ..
THB MAGICIAN. 163
there was a table, covered with a white cloth, on
which were placed a large book, with several
small vases, aDd a few papers, and mathematical
instruments. At this place the door was more
elevated than elsewhere, and the painting itself
was arranged behind somewhat like a modern
drop-scene, with ample drapery at the sides ; but,
from the convergence of the floor, sides, and roof,
as in the Roman theatres—and particularly in
Palladio’s imitation of one at Verona—it seemed
to be much farther offthan it was in reality. The
idea of distance, indeed, was so admirably given,
that the room appeared to be at least twice its
actual size.
The table, or altar, was surrounded by a circle
of variously shaped objects, arranged on the floor,
but so small that the eye in vain endeavoured to
ascertain what they were. Immediately without
this circle hung the lamp, suspended from the roof
by an iron chain. The sides of the apartment
were hung with black cloth, protruding here and
there, as if different objects were behind, and in
,Google
164 THB MAGICIAN.
two or three places giving in this manner the re­
semblance of a human figure. The roof also was
of some dark colour; but studded with specks of
crystal, or bright metal, which, when'the flame
of the lamp flickered in the wind, on the opening
of the door, gleamed like so many faint and dis­
tant stare.
On the present occasion, two men stood in the
middle of the floor; and the tiny flame playing
fitfully on their figure and countenance, showed
that they were Orosmandel, and the lord de Retz.
The former maintained his usual deportment,
calm, lofty, collected, as well as the remarkable
expression of his face ; in which the pitying smile
of a superior being seemed to mingle with scorn
of the small miseries of human nature. The baron,
on the other hand, was strongly agitated, his
countenance was flushed, and his whole manner
exhibited at once resentment and disdain.
“ What think you of it, my father,” said he,
“ an ambassador of the noblest blood in the land!
and gifts that a crowned monarch might well have
Digitized b y G o o ^ l e
THE MAGICIAN. 165
grudged! By my holy patroness, I could go
express to Rome, and pluck the dotard by the
beard—Heaven and the saints forgive me for the
thought, and the holy father himself, for he hath
the power to bind and to loose! Yet, is it not
enough to make a man forget himself? A mitre !
It was all I asked ; and for my almoner, from the
disservant of my own chapel! Mine ! Where,
out of Rome itself, and the high cathedrals, is
service performed more duly, or with more splen­
dour? Do not my votive offerings blaze on every
altar in Europe? Do 1 not give away in alms a
revenue that would feed an army ? And is there
a sinner, a miserable, wretched sinner,—Holy
Mother, ora pro mihi!—who does more to atone
for his manifold transgressions ?”
“ My son,” replied Orosmandel, “ the pope hath
done thee wrong; but even if the bauble which
thou art refused had been worth the seeking,
methinks a moment so critical as this should leave
thee no time to regret it.”
“ A bauble! not worth the seeking! Why,
166 THE MAGICIAN.
what is a crown but a bauble ? Wbat is a sceptre
but a metal rod ? You surely do not think that 1
covet the bit of lace which declc6 the mitre of a
bishop ? These things are but the outward sym­
bols of grandeur and dominion, the trappings
which address themselves to the imaginations of
the multitude, and make them fall down and
worship. A king without subjects to acknowledge
his sovereignty, is nothing; and, in like manner,
if I attained to the power of moving this terres­
trial globe, even as a football, I should feel all to
be in vain, unless the worms who inhabit it
crouched down before me in wonder and admi­
ration. You call it philosophy to despise the
incense of the ignorant; and if it be so, I am
some half way a philosopher myself: for I loo
scorn it, even while acknowledging its necessity to
my very existence! A man is not born to live
within himself. Every feeling to which he is
subject, has some reference to the crowd of fellow-
beings by whom he is surrounded, and amidst
whom he lives as in an atmosphere. The very
THE MAGICIAN. 167
planets move in subjection to the systems of which
they form a part.”
“ Man is not bom free,” said Orosmandel, “ and
the planets are not spirit, but merely the bodies of
spirit. There is a power notwithstanding, in human
nature, to elevate itself above its own instincts;
a power, however, which is by no means identical
with mere reason, or what is vulgarly called phi­
losophy. Man is only an intermediate link in the
universe; but he hath enough within him of divine
essence to raise him far beyond his apparent grade
in creation. This motability is visible in all nature.
The flower, by culture, may be amended in beauty
and perfume, and changed even in form ; the wild
beast may be educated into almost human civili­
sation ; and man himself, though always clogged
by the matter of which his outward form is com­
posed, may, by a still loftier instruction, attain, in
all respects of power and knowledge, to a class
of being infinitely more elevated than his own.
Thou, even thou, weighed down as thou art by
prejudioe, and mingled as are thy noblest aspi-
ibyGooglc
O
lQ
.
168 THE MAGICIAN.
rations with the vapours of the earth, thou 6oarest
as high above the mass of thy fellows as thou art
lower than the demons.*
“ My father,” replied the baron, in an altered
tone, “ I bow to your correction; and, reasoning
by what I feel within myself, I acknowledge the
wisdom of your admonitions. If I am not supe­
rior to the sluggish nature by which I am clogged,
whence is this longing, and craving, and hunger­
ing, and thirsting of my soul ? Why have I
turned aside from the paths of other men ?—from
the pride of rank, the excitement of ambition, the
glories of war ? Bom among the noblest of the
noble, fortune fell upon me, unsought, in a golden
shower; successful in love, a dowry equal to the
apanage of a princess was laid at my feet; tri­
umphant alike in the council and on the held, I
was overwhelmed with honour and dignities by the
* This word is used throughout in its original sense,
rpiriti or angel», whether good or bad; and not in the
restricted meaning given to it by Christian writers.
THE MAGICIAN. 169
gratitude of a king. Were not these enough?
Why did I turn away from the banquet spread
before me, sick with disappointment, faint with,
the hunger of the soul ?—"
“ Because these things,” weut on Orosmandel,
catching the word, while the impetuous baron
drew breath, “ because all these are but the aims
and attainments of human nature. Thy spirit
demanded something higher. Thou didst feel,
without comprehending, that there was a yet
loftier field for ambition. Thou didst grope in the
dark, lamenting and crying out, even like a man
who knoweth there is light somewhere, if he can
but find it. Knowledge was to thee like a dream
which thou hadst forgotten; even like the dream
of the Babylonian of old, whose spirit was vexed
unto madness, in seeking to lay hold of that which
had fled. Then, like unto that heathen prince,
didst thou ask of all nature, what was thy vision.
Thou didst question the sea, and the wind, and
demand revelations from the stars. Thou didst
send forth to summon around thee the wise men—
VOL. II. i
vGoogle
170 THE MAGICIAN.
the magicians, the astrologers, the sorcerers, the
Chaldeans of our time. And, behold 1 there came
at length One—”
“ Orosmandel!—my friend, my father, bear with
me ! Your voice was like a voice from heaven to
my Bpirit; and the energies which before were
wasted in vague endeavours, became at once con­
centrated in the pursuit of a single glorious aim.
Still I am not as you. My soul is yet enthralled
by my human nature. Bear with me a little
longer. Bear with me, even now, while I ask,
Whether the gratification of the passions be as
adverse to our advancement in occult knowledge,
as it is contrary to the dictates of religion ?”
“ The gratification of the passions,” replied the
philosopher, with a benignant and pitying smile,
“ is in itself a matter of small moment; for these
have reference only to the body. In so far, how­
ever, as it interferes with the task of the mind, it
is injurious. If, for instance, thou lavish on osten­
tatious grandeur the means that are requisite for
thy advancement in science, thou sinnest against
Oig Google
THE MAGICIAN. 171
the spirit. If, in the pursuit of power, or honour,
or beauty, thou spend the time which should be
devoted to study, thou art a robber of thyself.
For mine own part, the human passions have long
been dead within me: still, for such as thou, I-
hold,with more than one heathen philosopher, that,
under the restrictions I have alluded to, the grati­
fication of the body is conducive to the tranquillity
of the soul.”
“ It is well!” said the baron. “ And for re­
ligion—” but this he muttered in soliloquy—“ if
alms, if prayers, if vows for the future—” and his
voice died away in a deep sigh. He paced through
the room in silence for some time, and then turned
again to Orosmandel.
“ You have observed,” said he, “ that a moment
so critical as this should leave no-time for vain
regrets. The moment is still more critical than,
perhaps, you imagine. The Duke has refused to
make the farther purchase I proposed.”
“ And thou hast tempted him by more favour­
able terms. This I know, and I know also that
i 2
Digitizedby Google
172 THE MAGICIAN.
of which thou art ignorant. The vague rumours
which have reached thine ear, touching hostile
cabals among thy kindred, are true. The conspi­
rators await only the completion of this pending
sale ; when the storm will burst in thunder on thy
head.” .
“ Let it burst—I fear it not. Leagued with the
Duke, I may defy Brittany. But who are they
who forge these perilous bolts ?”
“ The chief nobles of the land: but Claude
Montrichard and his neighbour, assisted by the
German cut-throat, and the English adventurer
Beauchamp, have already one foot in the stirrup.”
“ Let them mount. This, then, is not a mere
rumour?”
“ The meeting was witnessed by one on whose
v isdom and courage thou mayest implicitly rely.”
“ And the new liveries ? What says Houpe-
lande ? Does the slave hesitate V’
“ He did hesitate,” replied Orosmandel, in a
tone approaching to contempt, but whether of the
barpn or the tailor it was impossible to determine;
Digitizedtiy G o O ^ I C
THE MAGICIAN. 173
“ my agent, however, succeeded in overcoming his
scruples, and he will bring the merchandise hither
himself.”
“ That is well. Ail goes as I could wish. The
duke will buy; the rebellion will burst forth ; and
we shall take the field, with a splendour that will
be eclipsed only by our victory. Never has my
good fortune failed me in war. The spoils of
battle with which I shall return, will enable me to
do all you command; and the moment will at
length arrive, when my long, long dream shall be­
come a reality.”
“ But, if the Duke do not buy ? If thou be
worsted in the fight ?”
“ Do you think I shall retract? I, who have
lost fortune, fame, peace, occupation, perhaps sal­
vation, on the hazard ? By heaven and hell, I
will not blench ! My 6oul is already seared with
sin ; these hands are stained with murder. Whither
should I return, and for what purpose ? I tell
you, I will sign the bond ! But, remember—” and
the baron wiped the perspiration from his brow,
m2K )b ,G 0 0 Q lc
174 THE MAG1CIAK.
“remember—all, all—honour, obedience, service—
I will give all, savethat which is myself—mysoul!
I will have some ray of hope to look to—some hair
to grasp at, as I hang shrieking over the abyss. I
know you do not believe as I ; but you admit that
there are mysteries hidden even from the demons.
To this one will I cling. I could not die without
it; I could not fling myself into eternity without
a hope. You hear my covenant: enough.” Gilles
de Retz looked round mechanically for a seat, and
finding none, walked totteringly to the wall of the
mystic chamber, and leant against it.
Orosmandel continued to gaze at him for some
moments; and then replied in his usual tone ofvoice.
“ I have already looked to this; and, although
I do not believe as thpu, for such was notthe creed
of my time and country, I freely concede that itis
at least possible thou mayst be right. I pretend
not to know more than the angels. The clause, I
feel confident, will be admitted. Now, tell me,
art thou equally resolved as to the manner of com­
pleting the bond ? Thy daughter?”
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 176
“ I am resolved that the bond shall be com'
pleted.”
“ And thy daughter ?”
“ Talk not of her,” said the baron, hastily, “ I
have as yet, it is true, failed in obtaining a substi­
tute ; but there is hope even till the twelfth hour.
It must be done willingly ?”
“ Willingly.”
“ And by a pure and spotless virgin ?
“ Thou say’st it.”
“ Such is Pauline ; and as she resembles me in
the betterpointsofmy character, and even in those
that touch most closely upon what is evil, there
is hope, nay, there is certainty of her being brought
to consent.”
“ Then why not at once conclude ?” .
“ Because, in the first place, there is no imme­
diate necessity ; and because, in the second place,
I am her father. I have already pleaded guilty to
some lingering prejudices, if prejudices they be,
of human nature ; and this is one of them. She
was a child of love, not of sensual passion ; and
D
i
176 THE MAGICIAN.
I often think that her mother is in heaven, inter­
ceding with the blessed saints in my behalf. She
promised this on her death-bed. Pauline lay upon
her bosom—Bah ! The lamp smells so sickly.
What is that ? Away! Do not come to me
here—Catherine, I will not do it, your child shall
meet you in heaven !”
A brief pause again ensued; and Orosmandel
recommenced the conference.
“ I will not upbraid thee,” said he, “ with what
is evidently more physical weakness than mental
relapse. The perfume of this place, and the
gloom, in which we appear to each other’s eyes
like spectres, have affected thy nerves. Tell me,
however, for the time presseth, hast thou yet hope
of a substitute ?” .
“ I have. Why else has this Jewish damsel
been forced upon me, as it were, in a manner
wonderful, nay, awful, both to her and to me. We
met at the dead of night, among tombs and ruins,
at the moment when I was despoiling of a portion
of its dust a forgotten grave, and when she was
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 177
flying from me (who had never heard of her) with
the speed of a hunted deer! Had I not come
forth at the sound of her breathing, for the place
was as still as death, she would have entered the
vault the next instant, and taken refuge from my­
self—in my arms! At Nantes, too, whither I
suffered her to go, in confidence that we were
destined to meet again, she was flung in my
way by an unconscious crowd. Again she took to
flight; again she escaped ; and yet, by a fatality
which it seems impossible to explain, she was the
first person I saw on entering my private apart­
ments in the hfitel de la Suze !”
“ Hast thou spoken with her?” inquired the
philosopher, with interest. “ Doth she listen
with understanding ?”
“ She is neither startled by the truths of
science, nor affrighted by the consequences of
error: nevertheless, I have not as yet ventured
upon full explanation. She is daring, high-
minded, even enthusiastic ; yet, she has a way of
trying even the sublimest speculations by the
i 3
178 THE MAGICIAN.
common analogies of life, which cripples her
progress down to the snail-pace of vulgar minds.”
“ Is she here of her own free will ?” demanded
Orosmandel-
“ She isrep lied the baron; •*but, as it seems
to me, not so much out of love of science, as from
some principle of honour, or filial piety. She
would prevent her father—you understand me—
from being an accomplice in what she conceives to
be a third mortal sin. She expected to be here
under the protection of my daughter; and to be
able to save from danger the young man you have
obtained from the Jew. It is in vain, however,
to expect anything from constraint. She must
return to Nantes, to the house of her kindred;
and our intercommunication must go on in the
natural course.”
“ That may not be,” said Orosmandel, quickly.
“ She must remain in your hands, a hostage at
once for her father, and lover—for such is the
young man she designs to save. Let her be
transferred to my private apartments.”
Olgmzed by C j O I C
THE MAGICIAN. 179
“ How !”
“ Where the foot of woman hath never trod
before. There may be some meaning in the
apparent coincidences thou describest; and, till I
have leisure to seek counsel thereon, as unerring
aa mere human reason is fallible, it were unwise to
permit her departure.”
The baron still hesitated.
“ You do not yet know her,” said he. “ To
detain her by violence would frustrate my purpose
at once; for she would distrust the reasonings of
an archangel, if she listened to it under compul­
sion. She has, indeed, become already suspicious,
since she has seen nothing of Pauline.”
“ And why not admit her into the Damsel’s
society ? The same instruction would serve for
both.”
“ She is a Jewess,” replied the baron, “ and
Pauline at least shall hold no communion with
the accursed race.”
“ Truly a conscientious scruple 1 Your fountain
of Diana is so pure that it will not mingle with
Digitizedb y G o o ^ l c
180 THE MAGICIAN.
wine, yet would you consent to incarnadine its
waters with—”
“ Hush! hush! that shall not be! We shall
obtain treasure enough for all that is necessary—
and even if we fail, there is yet time for other
means. If Hagar will not consent to peril her
soul for me, her body at least shall be mine; and
that is something, for she is passing fair. If she
prefer the lighter risk, be it so: there is yet an­
other whom I have thought of again and again.
Indeed, had she not been a kind of protog6e of
my daughter, peasant though she be, I should
have made the attempt before now.”
“ Behold her!” said Orosmandel suddenly ;
and at the instant, a portion of the drapery which
covered the wall of the chamber opened like a
curtain; and the peasant Marie was seen tra­
versing a narrow passage beyond. The girl
paused, and looked steadily into the room for an
instant. She then crossed her bosom, and passed '
on.
“ I foresaw,” said Orosmandel, before Gilles de
Digitizedby G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 1 8 1
Retz had recovered from his surprise: “ I foresaw
that it would come to this; and therefore is she
here. She is in a bridal dress, thou seest, but is
still a virgin, and no wife. Her education has
been good, and her natural understanding is
better; but the circumstances of her condition
will render temptation more easy, and she will
listen the more readily that communication with
such as thou will be reckoned an honour. Leave
Hagar to me, as the more difficult of persuasion.”
“ Well, it shall be as you counsel; but not till
I despair of success myself. Yet remember, if she
will not be the abettor of my spirit in its exalted
aspirations, she shall be the ally of my senses in
their lowly pleasures. When your task becomes
hopeless, return her to my charge. For the
present, farewell;” and the baron, making a low
reverence to Orosmandel, who slightly bent his
head in return, left the apartment by the opening
in the hangings which Marie had passed.
Digit
182
CHAPTER VIII.
It waBat the moment when the above conversa­
tion ended, that David Armstrong was summoned
by the dwarf to the study of his new master.
He followed his conductor in silence, marvelling
as he went at the grotesque agility with which
the elf-like shape sprang up the steep stair; and
not a little startled by the grin, half of exultation,
half of mockery, with which he turned round
every now and then to regard him. When they
gained the landing-place, however, the equivocal
creature paused suddenly, and crept towards the
door, as if in terror. When David reached him,
he saw that he shook, as in an ague fit; and
his voice was scarcely intelligible, when he said
ayGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 183
in a whisper, pointing with an expression of
solemn meaning to the entrance, “ He is there. In
with thee, for thou canst not choose. Behold, it
is written!”
David went in as he was bidden, treading softly
in unconscious imitation; and he felt that the door
closed itself, behind him, as noiselessly as snow
falls upon the ground. Startled by the sudden
and mysterious gloom, by the solitary light, gleam­
ing like a lamp in a burying vault, and by the
strange objects it disclosed with the indistinctness
of a dream, he hung back; but almost at the
instant of his entrance, the curtain unclosed, and
he saw a figure at once elegant and soldier-like
enter the apartment.
“ Pardon me, my father,” said the lord de Retz,
“ one other word,”—and the speaker paused
abruptly, and stood still. David now observed
the tall, dim form of Orosmandel, erect and
motionless, within the circle which surrounded the
table. His back was turned to his visitors, and
his eyes fixed, as it appeared from his attitude,
DiQr ,Google
184 THE MAGICIAN.
upon the half luminous plan of the heavens. A
deep silence prevailed for some minutes; during
which the scholar, standing against the black wall
and beyond the reach of the feeble rays of the
lamp, had opportunity to see without being seen,
and to accustom his eyes to the spectral gloom of
the place. Gilles de Retz, in the meantime, with
his hands crossed upon his bosom, and his head
bent, remained without motion, watching the
moment of his preceptor’s return to sublunary
things.
At length it appeared as if a shadow passed
across the picture, or that the paintings themselves
moved upon its surface; a sudden stream of air
entered the apartment; the flame of the lamp
flashed, and flickered; the dark hangings of the
walls moved; and a hollow sound, articulate like
a human voice, though unintelligible, was heard
sounding at an immense distance, yet seeming to
stir with its breath the whole atmosphere of the
room. Then all was silent as before. Orosmandel
turned round.
oagle~
THE MAGICIAN. 185
“ Baron de Retz,” said he, coming forward, but
in a tone of more solemnity than sternness, “ I
warn thee that I will brook no intrusion. Look
to it.”
“ I crave your pardon most humbly,” said the
baron, “but I had hardly reached the end of the
corridor, when I bethought me of something I
had forgotten; and conceiving that you had not
had time to forsake the thoughts of the world—”
“ Enough. Say on.”
“ It was of your relation, or protoge, I would
have spoken; he whom you banished from your
presence, and who sailed away upon unknown
seas, and there perished. Pauline avers, and
holds to it obstinately, that she saw him, either in
$
body or spirit, in Paris.”
“ Not alive!”
“ Moving and breathing like another man. But
whatisstranger still—for this I should else have set
down as a young maid’s fancy—the same idea
has possessed itself of the cooler if not stronger
mind of Hagar.” At this name David’s heart
Digitized by G o o g le
186 THE MAGICIAN,
leaped within him; but, repressing his emotion,
he scarcely permitted himself to breathe.
Even casual resemblances,” replied the sage,
after a pause, “ are deceitful; but there be also
those that are produced of purpose. I shall in­
quire into this; and on some early night, which I
shall hereafter name, if the Damsel will honour
roe with a visit at the mid hour, she shall know
all—even to the number of fathoms of salt-water
which cover the bones of Prelati.”
“ Are you certain ofhis death ?”
“ Certain : yet will I furnish proof to her.”
“ It is well. In the matter of Hagar, on farther
thought, your counsel is wise. It is not unlikely
that we may require a yet farther supply from the
Jew ; and with her in our possession it will be all
the easier to come to terms. Yet, be as watchful
over her, father, if she do not league herself with
us, as if she do: for mine she shall be in either
case. As a Jewess, she has already as much un­
cleanness as my soul can brook: take care, I
beseech you, that in your hands she receive no
Dioitizod b y G o O ^ l c
THE MAGICIAN1
. 187
contamination as a woman. As for this young
man you mention, if I find that he so much as
lifts his eyes to her unbelieving face—St. Mary!
he shall scarcely run even the brief course of his
predecessors. And now, father, once more adieu.”
“ Have no fear for Hagar,” said Orosmandel,
following him ; “ and as for the young man,
though in general I permit no interference with
my servants, thou mayst deal with him as thou
thinkest fit. He is too shrewd, and too forward,
as I am given to understand, for his calling; and
even yonder holy book, if not protected by a circle
which he durst not pass, would be no more secure
from his gaze than the fair face of a Hebrew
maiden. In the pupil of the alchemist, I expected
nothing more than a wild, yet simple enthusiast,
who would do what he was bidden, with the un­
derstanding of one familiar with science.”
“ Then why not, since it is his nature to pry
into what does not concern him—why not send
him at once to fathom the secrets of the Erdre ?
You know that I am already doubted ; that men
Dsjrtu G o o g le
188 THE MAGICIAN.
look grave when my name is mentioned, even at
the feast; that the church begins to stir; that in
fine, this infernal mitre—may the saints forgive
me! has been refused, not to Gilles de Retz, but
to the suspected pupil of occult science. Why
run any risk ?”
“ We run none. He cannot deceive me i and
a single thought of the heart, not to say a word,
or a look, would be his death warrant. 1 foresee,
however, that another loan which thou dost con­
template as a possibility, will be absolutely neces­
sary ; and this young man—whose services are at
any rate necessary to me at this moment—from
the entanglement of his affections, will use all
the talents he is said to possess to unlock the
treasure-chest ofthe Jew. But hearken,father,”—
Here they passed out of hearing, Orosmandel fol­
lowing the lord de Retz along the nurrow cor-
rider.
When David Armstrong was left alone in the
mystic chamber, he did not waste the precious
moments in endeavouring to arrange his ideas.
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 189
To gain some knowledge of the localities of the
place, and of its real nature—this was the object
which his quick mind saw should be paramount.
The book —the altar — the mysterious circle—
these occurred to him as being of the most im­
portance. If it be daring alone, thought he, that
is wanting, I dare pass, even if the protecting line
should be of toads and serpents—and that is
something to boast of: if it be of anything as ab­
horrent to God as these are to the nature of man,
I put my trust in the evei^Virgin, and in the
most holy St. Bride! And so thinking, he sprang
lightly across the floor ; and although, on coming
nearer, he saw that the circle was composed of
skulls and other bones of men and animals, he
took with a good heart a leap which should have
carried him to the side of the altar. In crossing
that ill-omened barrier, however, he received a
blow upon his breast, as if with the blunted edge
of a sword; and he staggered back several paces,
half fainting with the sharpness of the stroke, as
well as with the surprise and terror of the moment.
D<
190 THE MAGICIAN.
He had attempted to cross the circle in the very
middle of the room, at the 6pot where he had
seen Oroamandel pass freely. There was no form
of man, beast, or bend, within sight; and, from
the distance to either wall, it would have been
impossible even for a giant td have wielded a
weapon so long as would have been requisite, or,
if he did, to have struck such a blow with it.
David’s mind wavered for an instant. Prelati
and the Black Knight were identified with each
other; and both were agents of Orosmandel.
The old man, therefore, gentle and high-minded
as he appeared, must be engaged in some scheme
of systematic and tremendous villainy. Was his
game the soul of the lord de Retz; whose dis­
honourable passions he seemed willing to indulge
rather than repress? Was he, indeed, one of
those men—whose existence David had always
doubted—who were at once slaves and masters of
the fiends, repaying service for service ? At this
moment the object of his meditations entered the
room.
THE MAGICIAN. 181
“ Who art thou?" demanded Orosmandel,
sternly.
“ My name is David Armstrong ; and I come
from messire Jean of Poitou."
“ Methinks your place should have been the
door, till commanded to enter.”
“ I was commanded to enter," said David,
determined to lose at least one part of the
character he had obtained ; “ but finding no one
here, I would have gone towards yonder painting,
where the room is lightest.”
" And didst thou dare 1”
“ I did dare, an it like you ; but I was punished
for my presumption by a blow upon the breast,-
which would assuredly have cut me in twain, had
the weapon been as sharp as it was well wielded."
“ It is well it is no worse,” said Orosmandel,
resuming the sweetness of tone which was
natural or habitual to him : “ Thou art yet
a stranger here, my poor boy, and we must not
deal too hardly with thee. The ways of science,
however, are steep and arduous; and, if thou
»g.woaB,C.OOglc
192 THE MAGICIAN.
wouldst climb, thou must be bold, determined,
and unwearied; but above all, obedient to him.
who is thy guide. Another time we will confer
together on thy progress in high chemical studies;
and yet another time, I will explain to thee
yonder painting, which is the object of thy
curiosity, and unfold its uses in astrological
science. For the present I have a word for thine
ear, which must serve as an introduction to thy
apprenticeship. Say, is thy soul open ? Canst
thou listen with thy two ears ? or art thou yet
stunned with the blow thou hast received ?”
“I am never stunned long at one time,” replied
David ; “ and at present, I could hear a mouse
cheep at forty yards ?”
“ Listen then to my words, and treasure them
in thy heart. Alas! they might already have saved
blood as young and bold as thine. Beware,”
continued Orosmandel, advancing close to the
student, and speaking in a distinct whisper into
his ear: “ Beware of the master of this house!
beware, I say unto thee, of Gilles de Retz!”
r«b,G o o g le
THB MAGICIAN. 19Q
f
David could not help manifesting, by a sudden
movement, the surprise with which he heard an
admonition so different from what he had ex­
pected. .
“ Receive this hint," went on Orosmandel,
“ as a text for meditation. Confide in me, who
will be thy friend, so long as thou art a friend to
thyself. With all others dissemble, as thou
wouldst live. Even I, for mine own purposes,
sometimes hide my face behind a mask: but,
observing this, thou shalt not doubt of me, know­
ing me as I am. For the present, farewell.”
The sage turned away as he spoke; and the
curtain opening at the same moment, David
saw the dwarf in an attitude of grotesque
beckoning, yet his face expressive of profound
awe. The scholar made a deep reverence to his
new master; and left the study in as much doubt
as ever as to his real character.
He took care not to permit his eyes to be
diverted from more important occupation by the
antics of his conductor. The information which
VOL. II. K
DlQItiKM i y G O O g l C
194 THE MAGICIAN.
these organs collected enabled him to form an
accurate idea of the localities of this part of the
tower. The study of Orosmandel was not bounded
at the sides by the wall of the tower, but by a
wall of its own; the narrow space which inter*
vened forming a passage or corridor. This passage
had two outlets; one to the private apartments of
the lord de Retz, and one, farther on, to the
narrow staircase by which he had himself as­
cended horn the public part of the house. The
aperture, by which he had just quitted the study,
was not defended merely by a curtain, as might
have been conjectured by a person in the interior,
but also hy a strong door, which was left open or
shut, according to the pleasure of the mysterious
guest, How access was obtained by Orosmandel
to his private apartments below, was not apparent.
As for David’s own lodgings, they were not so
handsome as might have been desirable ; and yet,
in truth, they could scarcely have appeared alto­
gether destitute of dignity to an inhabitant of the
Scottish college. They were situated in the conical
D
iort.zM
b,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 1 9 6
roof of the tower, and access was gained to them
by nothing more than a moveable ladder. While
his conductor was gambolling up the steps, gri­
macing and chattering like an ape, the scholar
was measuring with his eye the height of the
aperture above from the ground.
. “ They are mistaken,” said he within himself,
“ if they think that by their merely taking away
the ladder, I am to be caught like a fox in a
trap!” When he had entered the apartment,
however, the audacity of his glance was somewhat
blanked. The roofwas so low, that he could only
stand upright in the middle of the floor; and the
only light was derived from a window opening
upon the sky. The furniture consisted ofa truckle-
bed, a chair, and a table ; and several old books,
a small broken mirror,, the fragment of a comb,
and other articles lay in a corner, like memories of
the former inhabitant. It was, upon the whole,
the true chamber for a hard student; withjust light
enough to study, a view of the heavens to elevate
the soul, and nothing at all to seduce the senses.
k 2
D o w M t w G o o g le
1 9 6 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Art thou content with thy lodgings?” de­
manded the dwarf, with a grin.
“ The air doubtless is good,” replied David
composedly, as he pushed open the skylight, “ and
the view is as extensive as the eye can well master.
Here are books for study or amusement; a chair
to sit, a bed to sleep upon : what more is requisite
for one whose life is destined to pass away in
meditation ?”
“ What more indeed !”
' “One thing more. If this table were furnished
with a platter of something comfortable to the
carnal man, and a leathern bottle of wine, not
overly thin in the brewing, the accommodation
would be complete. You perhaps think that a
man does not come away from a bridal with an
empty stomach, and you are indeed so far in the
right. Still my morning meal was taken shortly
after sunrise, and it is now well on in the after­
noon. The walk, besides, in the open air—an
occurrence which is rare with me—has not been1
without its stimulating effects; and, in fine, it is
THE MAGICIAN. 197
on this I must lay the blame, if there seem to be
anything of over-greediness in the craving which
has beset me.”
“ Your students are always hungry, I think/'
said the dwarf. “ For my part, I run or ride, as I
am bidden, morning, noon, and night; and I de­
sire neither bread nor wine for my pains.”
“ And on what, in God’s name, do you live,
my mannikin !”
“ On thought—the food of the wise.”
“ It is excellent food for the mind,” said the
scholar, “ and indeed, since you possess so little of
the carnal part, perhaps it should not be consider­
ed very extraordinary that you forget it altogether.
Butto lay this aside, myhomulus—if you be indeed
‘homulus ex argilla et luto factus (to make free
with the words of the great master of Latin elo­
quence) I would pray you in plain terms to send
me something to eat and drink, if it should be but
a crust of bread, and a pitcher of water.”
“ Truly, thou art ill to please, if thou musteven
stipulate for the things which thine appetite -
Dig G o o g le
198 THE MAGIC!At/.
chanceth to affect I know nothing of. hunger
myself, but if people must eat, methinks they
should be satisfied with what they get.”
“ Give me, then, you toad-fisher, and I will be
satisfied! But before you gibe at me farther, call
to mind, I pray you, the adagium, which is as old
as Terentius, and older, ‘Fames et mora bilem in
nasum consciunthunger and delay breedwrath !
David, as he pronounced these words, started up
indignantly from the chair, where he. had seated
himself; but before be was fairly on his legs, the
dwarf had dived down the ladderand disappeared«
The student wasj ust at that epoch of life when
the delay of a meal, for five or six hours, is felt as
a heavy grievance; and although the short com­
mons of the University had inured him while in
Paris to the most philosophical abstinence, the
air and exercise of the last few days had com­
pletely restored its original tone to his stomach.
It was therefore with no small anxiety he waited
for news from the larder, and with a degree of
satisfaction, ill becoming his character, either as an
d c y G o o g l c
THE MAGICIAN. 199
embryo priest or a scholar, that he at length saw
the deaf and dumb slave make hiB appearance,
carrying a basket covered with a white cloth.
The sinister countenance of the slave, however,
alarmed him.
“ What, if the imp has put a.trick upon me?”
said he, “ and if this savory steam arises from a
toad-stew ?” All his fears vanished, however, at
the sight of a roasted capon, which would have
done honour, as he averred, to the table of Apicius.
Bread, as white as snow, formed no unworthy aux­
iliary; and a very large bottle of excellent wine,
with a vessel of water of corresponding magnitude,
completed the meal. By the time David had
finished hiB demonstrations in comparative ana­
tomy, he would willingly have agreed to receive
the maxim of Orosmandel as true philosophy;
“ that the gratification of the carnal part conduceth
to the tranquillity of the soul.”
Of the wine, however, he drank little, dilating
plentifully what he did take, with water; affirtn-
. ing at the same time, that the fellow Staphylus,
Google
200 T H E M A G I C I A N .
who, according to Pliny, was the inventor of the
practice, deserved more credit for bis ingenious
contrivance than he usually received. The cravings
of nature being appeased, David then began to
ponder over the events of the day, hispresent sitttr
ation, and future prospects. ,
The Black Knight and Prelati, it appeared, were
one and the same individual; and this individual
wasthe confidentialagentof Orosmandel. The ques­
tion,then,came tobe,what was the real characterof
the former mysterious person ? He had attempted,
it was true, the forcible abduction of the Damsel of
Laval; but in the eyes of the young Scot, living
as he did in those wild and lawless times, this was
by no means sufficient for his utter condemnation.
His repeated and successful attempts to despoil
the Jew were, inlike manner, in the opinionof that
age, a point of still more doubtful culpability;
and, therefore, notwithstanding the prejudices, if
prejudices they were, of Hagar and her father, the
only deeply important part of the inquiry was, hi*
share in the murder of David’s two predecessors.
THE MAGICIAN. 201
Orosmandel had hinted, and more than hinted,
that the lord de Retz was the author of these
horrible crimes ; and the slight manner in which
the baron had spoken of sending him to fathom
the secrets of the Erdre, seemed to the scholar
something almost approaching to a confirmation
of the fact If relieved from this accusation,
what was the position of Prelati? The agent ot
Orosmandel, retained for the service of the lord de
Retz, he had effected, in the terms nb doubt of
his instructions, a successful négociation with
messire Jean and Houpelande ; the latter of whom,
it appeared, was an important creditor. He had
penetrated, at no small personal hazard, into the
midnight counsels of the baron’s enemies; and
when a project was agitated for carrying off the
Damsel of Laval, he had insisted, whether in the
view of private advantage or not, upon his re­
taining her in his own possession. . .
With regard to Orosmandel himself, the caæ
was more equivocal. If he was really a magician,
what was the need for his wearing a mask ?
k 3
»yGoogle
Diom«K]
202 •THU. MAcnciAtr.
Could he not have prevented the murders? Nay,
did not his expression) that " he did not in générai
permit interference with his servants," prove that
he had at least done so on these occasions ? *Wat
not ihe carte blanche he offered to the lord de
Retz, with regard to David himself,a “permission"
of a similar kind ? But, whether magician or
not, his whole conduct to his noble friend) pupil)
and patron, was a tissue of systematic deceit. He
persuaded him that Prelati was dead, when be
knew him to be alive; he even cautioned his own
personal assistants against their common employer,
hinting a charge against him amounting to blood
itself! • ' i.
Yet, on the other hand, if the hinted charge
was true, was it not his bounden duty to make it ?
Was it a crime of extraordinary magnitude to
l'étain a faithful agent, necessary perhaps for his
own designs, even at the expense of a falsehood ?
Might he not have been placed in circumstances
impossible for a stranger to estimate, in which the
law of self-preservation might have authorized him
ob,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 203
to give way to the headstrong passions of Gilles
de Retz, when these led on to assassination ? As
for the question of magic, David was so much
puzzled by all he had seen and felt, that he rather
eschewed it in his present inquiry.
Upon the whole, Prelati, he was inclined to
think, was comparatively innocent ; and, at any
rate, it was mainly impossible that under his
present cloud he could obtain access to the
château. Hagar was therefore safe as regarded
him.
Orosmandel was in a doubtful position. In
David’s estimation,he hung like Mahomet's coffin,
suspended between heaven and earth ; but still
his age placed criminal designs of the kind he
dreaded out of the question ; and Hagar, therefore,
was safe also as regarded him.
The lord de Retz, then, whose character, in at
least one point, was manifest enough, was the
only enemy from whom immediate and pressing
danger was to be expected; and,,in conclusion,
our scholar, while determining to watch cautiously
IgaaMby Google
204 THE MAGICIAN.
the turn of events, was not the less resolved, if
circumstances called for desperate interference,
to preserve Hagar, and avenge the victims,number
ope and two, by plunging tbe dagger, with which
he had been provided by the Jew, into hiBbreast.
His own situation did not claim in a less degree
(ha consideration of the ex-8tudent: but here his
task, if not more satisfactory, was less complicated.
His private apartment had, indeed, the air of a
kind of a prison ; but this was of no consequence.
Even in the very middle of the court, he would
still be as little at liberty, as a toad pent up in
the heart of a stone. He would be confined by
three walls, and three ditches, on one side, and
Dy the ramparts and the Erdre on the other; all
well-guarded by night and day, and defended not
only in the usual manner, but also by culverines,
serpentines, and the other vehicles of earth-born
thunder, whose general name was “ cannon.*'
• Here he was, in fact, like his namesake, in the
lion’s den ; but with this difference,that the beasts
around him were not at all likely to be operated
GooqIc
THE MAGICIAN. 205
npon by sentiments either of piety or mercy: He
could not expect a miracle to be wrought in his
favour; and if he was really intended for the third
victim, whether of men or demons, that victim he
must be. In a case like this, where he could stir
neither hand nor foot in his own behalf, but must
wait the turn of events, like a thing without life
or sense, his thoughts received employment, and
his mind derived even a species of comfort, from
the interest they took in the fate of another.
He forgot that Hagar was a Jewess. He only
remembered that she was a woman ; and the only
one of her sex with whom he had exchanged even
the commonest charities of life since his boy­
hood. The religious scruples which had fenced
her round, almost from his imagination, disap­
peared ; his heart drew near to her, without shame
or confusion, in that moment of common danger;
and the passion which might otherwise have
served only as an episode in his life, now became
an inseparable portion of its history. She was
within those fatal walls, he firmly believed, for
Digitized by k j O O g l C
2 0 6 THE MAGICIAN.
hit take. Here she was, in the first instance, to
be tempted to “ league herself” with murderers
and sorcerers; and if her soul was proof against
the enchantments whether natural or preterna­
tural that might be used for her seduction, she
was to be delivered over a prey to the infamous
lusts of Gilles de Retz.
The student remained for a long time immersed
in these painful meditations. He saw at length,
that although iiis little apartment became darker
and darker,it was a brilliant and beautiful evening
out of doors. No one came near him, either to
remove the fragments of his meal, or to bring him
a light. Was he really to consider himself a pri­
soner, or was he at liberty, like any other inhabit­
ant of the house, to walk about at his pleasure ?
He resolved to put the matter to the test; and de­
scending the ladder, without however making
more noise than was necessary, he groped his way
gently, yet not stealthily, along the corridor.
The curtain-door of the study was shut, and
proved, by the touch, to be a solid piece of wood,
D lg iizM b y G o O g le
and as firm as any other part of the wall. The
almost otter darkness of the passage was caused
by the loop-holes, which had served as windows,
being now closed up, in what manner be could
not asoertain; and the only rays of light which
the place received at all, were borrowed from his
own apartment, the trap-door of which gleamed
above his head like the moon behind a thick haze.
The door leading to the baron’s private apart­
' ments were also shut; and David could feel that
the fastenings were on his side, and therefore not
at the disposal of the lord de Retz, but of Oros-
mandel. Farther on, he reached the staircase by
which he had ascended from the hall; but, to his
great disappointment, the access was now closed
by a gate composed of thick iron bars. He was a
prisoner, then, to all intents and purposes; a vic­
tim fatted up for the sacrifice—stuffed in the
dark, like a turkey for the spit!
The gate was at least twelve feet high; but it
was impossible to ascertain from below whether it
exactly met the roof or not. If not, thought
THE MAGICIAN.. 207
DlQlUM dbyGOOglc
208 THB MAGICIAN.
David, it is no such impassable barrier as they
think; and I will show them that at least 1 am
not consenting to my own captivity. Why, the
very owls go forth in the evening from the tower
where they roost all day !—else yonder mannikin-
elfwould want somewhat of the variety of which
he boasts in his pastimes.
To climb to the top of the gate was a matter of
little difficulty; but here it met an arch of the
roof with such nicety, that a man's hand could
scarcely be inserted between the iron and stone.
David, as is usual in such cases, felt his inclina­
tion to surmount the obstacle increase in the ratio
of the trouble he had taken; and out of pure
vexation, rather than with any hope of moving
them, he began to tug at the large rough stones
of the arch, from the interstices of which the
mortar had long since crumbled away.
One of the largest of them, to his surprise, and
almost alarm, moved under his hand, with hardly
an effort, and he found that he could wheel it
round with perfect ease, so as to leave an aperture
DiQitlJ 7Google
THE MAGICIAN. 209
between the gate and the roof just large enough
to admit his body. His first difficulty was what
to do with the stone, how to poise it to prevent its
falling : but the idea' he at once dismissed as
absurd. No human arm could have drawn, with
such facility, a mass like this from its bed, had it
not been so constructed on purpose; and accord­
ingly he found, on examination, that the stone
moved upon hinges, and was intended to serve as
.a concealed door.
“ This then,”thought he, “ is the hole by which
our homulus pops in and out, when he would take
his midnight recreation. By the mass! I wish
he may be at no worse sport than even enticing
toads in the ditches, and hunting corpse-
candles over the swamps.” He then swung him­
self through the aperture with the agility of a
squirrel; and descended upon the 6tair on the
Other side of the gate.
His appearance in the hall, issuing suddenly as
he did, and probably at an unaccustomed hour,
from this mystic staircase, was the signal of
D^«bvGoogIe
210 THE MAGICIAN.
general commotion among the persons therein
assembled ; who consisted of soldiers, domestic
servants, and women. Not a few of the more
timid sex screamed outright, and all of them re­
tired hastily by the door nearest at hand. The
men rose up at his entrance, looking surprised and
uneasy, yet respectful ; but on one pretence or
another, took themselves off without delay.
“ Give you good even, friend,” said David to
one in a military dress, as he was moving away ;
“ Don’t let me disturb you.”
“ No I wont,” replied the man—“ if I can help
it and he marched out in double quick time.
“ Hollo, you, sirrah !” cried the student> be­
coming indignant, and addressing a valet who was
in the act of vanishing ; “ What kind of night is
it out of doors ? ” . .
“ Tell you in a moment, sir,” replied the fellow,
with the readiness of his profession, as he darted
out of the house.
“ By Mary’s might! ” cried the adventurer, in
astonishment; “ one would think that my father
Digitizedby Google
THE MAOJCIAN. 21]
was Phornjus, who begat the Gorgoos!” He
went out into the court; but everywhere met with
the same reception. He was, in fact, sent to
Coventry by the whole establishment: and at
length, wearied and disheartened, he gave up the
attempt to hold communion with his own kind;
crept back through his hole; and replacing the
«tone in its bed, betook himself once more to his
solitary roost.
Here, for want of other employment, he set
himself to rummage, by the little light which re­
mained, among the relics of the former tenant of
the place. The books were chiefly treatises on
astrology, with one or two religious homilies, and
a copy of the Offices of Cicero. The last men­
tioned work was fairly written out; for as yet,
although near at hand, the accomplishment of its
glorious destiny—as the first literary work
printed in Europe—was not arrived.
But it was not merely from the circumstance
of its being the only classic in the collection, that
it attracted more especially the attention of David.
Google
212 THE MAGICIAN.
In the cover there was a pouch, similar to those in
our pocket-books, which contained some scraps of
verses, written, doubtless, with more feeling than
taste, yet rendered interesting by their being
wrapped round a lock of golden hair, to the owner
of which they seemed to refer. David was affected
even to tears, as he looked upon these memorials
of a passion, for which the poor youth, to whom
they had belonged, amidst all his cares, studies,
and dangers, seemed to have preserved some
nestling-place in his heart. He conned over the
rude verses more than once ; and then, placing
his hands upon his eyes, sunk into a reverie, from
which he did not awake till the moon was high in
the heavens.
He now resolved to put into execution a plan
which had suggested itself almost on his first
entrance into the room; and the object of -which
was, to obtain some precise notion of the local
situation of the chateau. The roof of the tower
in which be lodged was conical, as has been
already said, and was covered with large tiles;
Ok Google
THE MAGICIAN. 213
and his idea was, that by getting out by the sky­
light, placing his feet upon the ledge of the little
window, and leaning back towards the apex of
the roof, he might be able, without much risk of
falling, to command the view he desired. The
exploit, owing to the steepness of the roof, and
the decayed state of the work which covered it,
was not without its difficulty; but David knew
that he was at any rate engaged in a desperate
game, and he resolved to trust, as he had often
done before, to the steadiness of his brain, and
the strength of his limbs. The attempt was suc­
cessful ; and in a few minutes he found himself
. lying on his side, upon the summit of the tower,
the apex of which (a grotesque head, carved in
wood) he encircled with one arm, while his feet
rested upon the window below
He was now on the loftiest point of the edifice;
for the tower, which projected into the ramparts
from the body of the building, dominated the
whole. He could here trace minutely the succes­
sive lines of fortification, including the Erdre,
Google
214 THE MAGICIAN.
the strongest and most important of all ; and the
sight caused him to forget for a while his own
situation, in emotions of surprise and delight.
«
David had been little used at home to such spec­
tacles. The border strongholds, to which he had
been most accustomed, were in general nothing
more than a single square tower, with walls of
enormous thickness, and defended by a ditch.
They had been the scene of deeds, rarely paral­
leled, perhaps, in the annals of human daring, yet
executed only by a handful of men, and in some
private feud, or for the sake of some pitiful
plunder. La Verrière, on the contrary, although
the old black building was only the habitation of
an individual noble, looked like a spot where the
cause of a nation might be upheld, and the quar­
rels of kings decided.
David’s eye, after following the fortified lines,
was attracted towards those singular natural de­
fences of the place, the floating swamps of the
Erdre. They extended so far round the river-ward
side, that at first sight the castle might have been
THE MAGICIAN. 215
supposed to stand at some distance from the
water; but on closer examination, the pools which
gleamed here and there, amidst the intense green
of the vegetation that covered them, raised a sus­
picion on the part of the spectator, that it was
not terra firma he beheld. If even a bird of toler­
able size happened to alight on the questionable
spot, a tremulous motion was perceived to run
through nearly the whole mass; but if a heavier
animal (as in the case of oxen already mentioned)
ventured into these treacherous meadows — as
tempting as the gardens of the daughters of Hes­
perus—his fate was certain. He might, indeed,
go on for a short space, noting on the beautiful
verdure as he passed; but speedily he was inter­
cepted by a.channel sb narrow, as to be invisible
tfll close at hand. Retreat then became almost
impracticable ; and to proceed, entirely so. Even
if by a furious effort he succeeded in escaping
from the blink of the channel, before the ground
sunk, he found it impossible, in the surprise and
terror of the moment, increased by the shaking
OigitizodbyGoogle
2 1 6 THB MAGICIAN.
and shiTting of the floating mass, and the bub­
bling, hissing, and spouting of the black water, to
find the way back. A new channel gave the des­
perate creature pause; a new retreat was at­
tempted ; and, after convulsing the whole swamp
by his maddening, efforts, he plunged into the
abyss, and disappeared from the surface of the
earth for ever. .
David fancied, at the moment, that he beheld
the commencement of 6ome such scene, although
in the person of a much smaller animal than an
ox. Some dark object appeared at the edge of
the swamp, at a little distance beyond the outer­
most ditch. It glided out so far, that he faneied
it to be some aquatic animal, which intended to
swim the river ; but suddenly changing its course,
it approached the castle with all the velocity, as
well as with all the turnings and windings of a
hunted fox. David’s interest and curiosity had
been raised to a very high pitch ; when the moon,
suddenly entering a cloud, his eye was hardly
able to follpw the little, and either reckless or
Google
TH « MAGICIAN. 217
■ tupid creature, careering over the swamp, like a
small patch of shadow.
When the moon emerged again from her prison-
house, the object of his attention was at an incon­
siderable distance from the ramparts; and the
sensation he experienced may be conceived, when
he saw that it was no other than his intended
comrade, the dwarf!
“ Holy Mary !” cried the student, “ It is he
himself!—there he is indeed, taking his nightly
pastimes! Rather would I drop from this tower,
and plunge head foremost into the ramparts, than
thread with him that trembling bog. Toads and
serpents! Were there no other game in the
world, I would forswear hook and spear. Your
water-death I abhor—especially in element as
black and thick as that. Nay, I could not let
forth my spirit in the water; but should continue
gasping and choking till the day of judgment!”
By this time the unworld-like creature, whose
motions he had followed in surprise and conster­
nation, had climbed up the ramparts, he knew
VOL. II. L
D.giw«lt,v Google
218 THE MAGICIAN,
not by what means, and disappeared from his
view.
The student crept back into his hole, as little
satisfied as ever with his situation ; and, shutting
the window, he lay down upon hie bed, but with­
out undressing. Notwithstanding all his troubles,
however, youth, exercise, and a good constitution
triumphed, and he speedily fell asleep. But hie
mind was still vexed. Dreams took the place of
waking thoughts ; and before midnight he awoke,
and sat up suddenly in his bed.
“ I will not die in bogwater,” said he, “ on that
I am resolved! They may Bhoot m e with their
culverines and serpentines, if they will, for I can­
not prevent it; but, if it comes to fair stabbing,
by St. Bride, it is a game that may be played at
by m ore than one !” And bo saying, the scholar
felt that the loop by which he had fastened his
dagger to his right hsnd was secure, and, laying
his head again upon the pillow, fell fast asleep.
OOtoM byGoogle
219 I
CHAPTER IX.
S ir Archibald.Douglas, when his friend left the
village to go on to La Verrière, stood looking
after him for some time. When David’s athletic,
yet graceful form had at length disappeared
among the trees, he turned away with a sigh,
burdened with many evil forebodings, and fol­
lowed the bride, and some of her party, back into
the house.
It was not yet time to proceed to the church,
and many other rustic ceremonies were still to be
gone through ; but Marie had been ao much dis­
concerted by her cousin’s ill-omened song, that she
demanded a little while to recollect herself. When
her companions sat down in the humble parlour,
l 2
b
,Google
220 THB MAGICIAN.
she wandered out into the garden behind the
house; and such was her character for firmness
and superiority of mind, that even the busiest of
the gossips thought it best to leave her alone for
the brief space which could be afforded to her
own reflections.
The moment at length arrived when the bride
could no longer be wanted, and she was called
from the lattice. There was no answer. The
bride-maidens then went out to seek her. They
traversed the garden; they entered a small shrub­
bery beyond; they made the whole country side
ring with her name. Victoire then began the
search, followed by the other men of the party.
All was in vain. The village bride had vanished
as suddenly and completely as Genevra herself.
This extraordinary occurrence, it may be
supposed, was not less perplexing to Sir Archibald
than to any of the rest; but it was attended by
some vexatious circumstances which applied to
him alone.
It was recollected that David, Marie, and
OgttadbyG o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 2 2 1
himself had been engaged in divers private con­
fabulations ; and that the bride had whispered his
friend just before she had sat down to be sung
at by her cousin. The moment the song was
ended, the scholar had taken himself off without
a word of good-bye to anybody; and immediately
after, as if following on his heels, the ill-advised
girl had made her escape through the garden.
This damning proof was rendered still fuller by
the fact, that the strangers, even on their first
arrival at the village, were evidently no strangers
to Marie.
The young knight could not conceive what was
the meaning of the altered looks with which he
was regarded, and the committee work that was
going on. He more than half suspected, it is
true, that the interest so evidently taken by
Marie in his friend arose from a blind and mis­
placed passion; and that the poor girl, startled by
the bridal-song, and terrified at the thought of
marrying a man whom she did not love, had fled,
even at the twelfth hour, to follow the footsteps of
Digitized I G o o g le
----- «
the third victim. Bat what had he to do with
thia ? He had not shared in the transaction,
even with the unconsciousness of David ; but was,
to all intents and purposes, as mere a looker-on as
any one there.
The black looks of his hosts, however, although
certainly disagreeable, were not a matter of much
moment. He had arranged to remain at the
village for a few days, in expectation of tidings
from La Verrière ; and bad even paid Jehan in
advance (supposing the money at a moment of
festivity like the present would be more welcome
than at another time) the sum which he meant
to exchange for his hospitality. He was, there­
fore, under no obligation ; and in those days, the
prestige which surrounded a knight rendered him
well able to return only smiles of contempt for
the hostile glances of a hundred peasants. Doug­
las, therefore, resolved to take no account of the
sullenness of the villagers, but to remain among
them till the expiratiou of the appointed days,
and to keep the adventurer’s horse with him,
2 22 THE MAGICIAN.
THE MAGICIAN. 223
lest David should come suddenly, with the cry
upon his lips—which was by no means unlikely—
“ Sauve qui peut !”
No incident worth relating occurred during this
period, till one night, after having retired to rest,
Sir Archibald heard a tap upon his window ; and
on springing up, instead of his friend, whom he
expected to see, he beheld the rather pretty faceof
Lisette. The knight was not a little scandalised
at this adventure ; for in his romantic ideas, which,
by the way, were not less uncommon in that age
than in ours, infidelity in love took rank with
heresy in religion.
“ What is the matter, girl ?” said he, opening
a chink of the lattice, and speaking in a tone of
austerity which would have become an anchorite.
“ O dont you be alarmed, sir knight,” replied
Lisette, tossing her head, “ I have no evil designs
upon you. My brother Jehan, however, has just
returned from La Verrière, whither he went in the
morning to search for Marie ; and, being somewhat
in his cups, I can gather as much from him as
would seem to make it well worth your while to
D^«i6yG o o g le
224 THE MAGICIAN.
ride at the earliest peep of day to some safer
shelter than our village.’'
"Tell me first, what are the tidings of Marie ?
Has the lost bride been found ?”
“ Meddle, messire, with what concerns you. I
trow you will have enough ado to save your hel­
met strings from the misericorde that is even now
sharpening for them. I give you this warning,
partly because I suspect it is Jehan himself who
has been the means of getting you into the busi­
ness; and partly,because 1 know that Marie, God
help her! has but too little to do with that kindly,
good-humoured, well-favoured friend of yours,
who had the civility to offer her a kiss, if she had
had the sense to acceptof it.”
“ I thank you sincerely,” said the knight, “ for
your information, to whatever motive I may be
indebted for it. Will you add to the favour, by
letting me know at whose hands I may look for
the compliment you hint at ?”
“ At the hands of half-a-dozen men, armed to
the teeth, and better mounted than you. Ride
if you be wise, ride early, and ride hard!” and
Dtgiw yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 225
with this injunction, delivered in a tone of too
serious warning to be neglected, Lisette disappeared
as suddenly as she had come.
The knight was sufficiently well acquainted with
war to know that retreat may, on some occasions,
be as becoming in a brave soldier, as advance.
Under present circumstances, to think of opposing,
single-handed, the power of the Black Knight, on
ground where he, no doubt, was all-powerful,
would be to abandon the cause he had underta­
ken, and surrender Pauline de Lavalinto the hands
of her enemy. It had been his intention, as soon
as he had given up all hopes of hearing from
David, to ride openly to La Verrière, and state to
its lord the conduct, from first to last, so far as he
was acquainted with it, of the mysterious person in
question, as well as the fact of his being alive,
if that was indeed unknown to the baron. Gilles
de Retz, he knew, was by no means a man to re­
fuse him permission to offer the mortal defiance,
which would follow as a matter of course; and,
thus the arrangement of the affair would be left
l 3
os«»«*G o o g le
226 T B B MAGICIAN.
to his own prowess in the field, of which the re­
sult would doubtless be the destruction of Pre­
lati, and the deliverance of David from the fate
which, by that time, it would be plain enough,
was intended for him.
It wasin meditating upou this plan, gazing from
the neighbouring heights upon the towers which
contained the lady of his love, and weaving
together those gossamer visions which float in the
fancy of the young and the brave, that he had
hitherto been able to preserve in some degree the
tranquillity of his spirit. Nor, we confess, was he
lesspleased with the idea—for Douglas, although a
preux chevalier, was yet a man—that the result of
his enterprise would prove to David, that the
lance of the knight was sometime* as good a wea­
pon as the wit of the scholar; or, as his friend
would have said himself, that it was idle to waste
time in unloosing the knot of the Phrygian hus­
bandman, when it might be cut in twain by the
stroke of a sword.
Sir Archibald, with a heavy sigh, gave these
t»GoogIe
THE MAGICIAN. 227
golden dream» to the wind, at leaat for the pre­
sent ; and at the appearance of the first streak of
the dawn, took his horse out of the stable, and
rode briskly towards Nantes. From this city, it
was his intention to send a herald to La Verrière,
with the cause and terms of his cartel ; and even
if Gilles de Retz had forgotten the usages of chi­
valry in the extraordinary studies to which he was
■ aid to be abandoned, he did not doubt that his
own name would procure him a sufficient number
of friends among the Breton nobles to insure him
the chances ofan honourable field.
It was already full day when, on gaining the
top of a hill he came within sight of the place
where the by-road on which he travelled joined
the great highway from Angers to Nantes ; and he
could see two large wagons at the bottom of the
declivity preparing to re-commence their journey
to the latter city. Some men were engaged in
yoking the oxen by which they were to be drawn,
amounting probably to not less than thirty for
each carriage ; and from the small number of
these persons, and their lazy motions, it appeared
Digiti Google
228 TH K MAGICIAN.
that the caravau was only just astir, and that the
greater part of the travellers were yet in the way­
side hosteirie, girding up their loins for the fatigues
of the day.
Just at this moment a sound from behind made
Douglas turn his head, to reconnoitre the opposite
direction; and it was not without some quicker
pulsation of the heart that he saw six men, armed
cap-a-pied, riding at full gallop after him. These
were no doubt the assassins against whom he had
been warned by Lisette—the Black Knight and
his companions.
To encounter them alone would becertain death;
and this, therefore, must be avoided if possible.
The great highway afforded some chance of sue-
0
cour; and even the caravan, although apparently
of a mercantile description, might include some
persons brave or generous enough to take his
part. These thoughts flashed quicker than light­
ning through the brain of the knight; and putting
spurs to his horse, he galloped down the hill at
full speed.
This phenomenon was not unobserved by the tra-
THE MAGICIAN. 229
vellers; for in an instant several other figures, in
a greater or less state of readiness for the road
protruded themselves at the door. Little, how­
ever, was to be expected from their aid; for two
among them were evidently using persuasions,
and even some degree of force, to restrain the
curiosity of their companions; and the pursuers
had no sooner come in view, in full strength,
than the whole of them went in, and the road, for
miles round, was entirely deserted except by the
flyingknight, and his six enemies, thundering down
the hill after him.
When Douglas reached the hostelrie, he struck
hastily against the door, which was shut, with the
pummel of his sword.
■“ Pass on,” cried a voice from within, “ pass on,
sir knight; you will find neither rescue nor har­
bour here, I’ll warrant you, if such be your ene­
mies !”
“ Yea, verily, pass on thy way,” said another,
in a thin eager voice, “ for we be men of peace,
and old men; and the Lord also hath sent faint­
ness into our hearts in a strange land.”
Digitizeday G o o g le
230 THE MAGICIAN.
“ I speak neither to old men, nor to cowards,”
replied Douglas, in a loud voice ; “ but if there be
here who will strike on my side, either for the
sake of chivalry, or in honour of the lady they
love, they will serve a good cause. And so, God
defend the right!” He then wheeled round his
horse ; and, planting himaelf in the middle of the
road, in the manner of a knight who justed
against all comers, he drew his sword, and pre­
pared, with a courage not less high that it was
hopeless, to meet the shock of his assassins.
The six horsemen, in the meantime, came gal­
loping down the hill in regular file, as if they had
been trained soldiers; and, when they saw that
Sir Archibald stood still to receive them, they
slackened their pace, drew their swords, and ad­
vanced upon him coolly, though still at a brisk
trot, like men too much accustomed to such busi­
ness to transact it with more hurry or effort than
was necessary.
“ Halt!” cried the Scottish knight, when they
were within hearing; “ and if it be indeed me
whom you seek, show what is your quarrel; or
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 231
at least give me a fair field with one enemy at a
time, beginning with the best and boldest among
you!” The six, however, took no notice of the
appeal, but came spurring on in silence; and their
leader had just raised his sword to commence the
attack upon their victim, when the door of the
hostelrie was burst open, and two men sprang
across the road. They were both young, and they
wore little defensive armour except a steel cap;
but they had swords in their hands of formidable
dimensions, which they wielded as easily as if
they had been willow wands.
“ Hold, messires !” cried the taller of the two,
stepping in between the belligerent parties, and
addressing the six; “ do not your honour such foul
wrong as to fall thus upon a single man! If it be
fighting you want, if you will only descend, in
equal numbers, from your horses, my comrades
and I will blithely take a part, giving you all the
advantage of your defensive arms.”
“ Back, vassal!” exclaimed the leader of the
six, whose voice Sir Archibald recognized at once
«dbyGoogle
232 THE MAGICIAN.
as that of the Black Knight, although he was
differently accoutred—“ Back, peasant! or I will
strike thee to the earth !” and almost at the same
instant, he swept his heavy sword down with such
force, that if it had entered the shoulder at which
it wag aimed, it must have cleft the intruder to
the waist. The blow, however, was received ob­
liquely, on a weapon of equal weight; the two
blades struck fire as they clashed; and the next
moment, that of the tall stranger was deep in the
bowels of his antagonist’s horse.
“ Hurra, my mates!” cried he, as the wounded
animal reared, and fell,—the toga to the rescue !
Strike forbouuy Scotland ! Strike for the Bleed­
ing Heart!” Several of the six sprang from their
steeds to rescue their leader, when he fell; and the
Scottish knight, darting into the melee, crying
hiafamily name, “Douglas ! Douglas! ” unhorsed
another at the same instant.
A shower of large stones, too, from behind a
wall, proved that in numbers at least the assas­
sins were not the stronger party: but in a very
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 233
few minutes it was clearly seen that all was un­
availing. Half that time was sufficient to re­
establish the six in their saddles, two of the men
bestriding one horse; the stones rattled and
smashed against their armour, and that of their
steeds, without doing the smallest injury; and
forming into a compact body, rather from the
habits of war, than from an idea that such pre­
caution was necessary, they pressed upon the
knight and his generous defenders, who were only
two in number, evidently with the purpose, and
with the power, of cutting them to pieces.
“ Andrew, ye villain !” shouted the tall young
man, at the extent of his voice, as his party were
thus forced back towards the wagons—“ Will
you not strike in for Bauldy and me, even if you
will not stir for honour or country ? But he was
ever at the hinder end—even in a retreat, where
he was sure to get all the blows.”
“ I am here, Nigel,” cried Andrew, at the in­
stant, from the back of the nearest wagon; the
canvass cover of which he had drawn aside like
Digitizedby Google
234 THE MAGICIAN.
a curtain : “ Stand out of the way, BauWy, and
you, Sir Knight!”—and he had no need to re­
peat the injunction, when he was seen, with a
lighted match in his hand, coolly taking aim with
a culverine, resembling those that were usually
carried on men’s shoulders, but which in this
instance was fixed to the wagon on a swivel.
At this unexpected sight, which in the early
period of the invention, was more terrible, even to
trained warriors, than it would be in ours to an
unarmed rabble,—the six horsemen, including the
chief himself, wheeled round on the instant, and
took to flight, scattering in all directions.
“ Recreant and coward !” shouted Douglas;
“ this is the third time I have seen you fly like a
beaten hound!” The Black Knight raised his
clenched hand above his head, as he rode, but
made no other reply.
Sir Archibald was too much engaged for some
time in exchanging greetings with “ Bauldy, and
Nigel, and Andrew,” David’s old comrades of the
University, to inquire by what unlooked-for
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 235
chance he had met them in Brittany. At length,
however, when more than one round of hand­
shakings had been gone through, he found oppor­
tunity to put the question.
“ As for me,” said Nigel; “ being tired of the
humanities after David jumped the window
yon morning—and, to say God’s truth, some
while before—I even took on with a certain
ancient doctor to whom he recommended me ;
although I cannot precisely say in what capacity.
I fancy, however, that I may be considered what
David calls an ‘omnium horarum homo,’ a facto­
tum, as it were, or doer of all work. The doctor
is a useless body; and, to say nothing of the
trouble we were in before leaving Paris, unless I
had ruffled it for him a little on the road, we
should scarcely have got on so far as this before
the Greek calends.”
“ And, as for Andrew and me,” said Bauldy,
" did it behove us to stay behind, when the two
men of most mark in the class had departed—
that is, the longest head, and the longest body ?
Gono le
236 THE MAGICIAN.
We were as dull as howlets, and out of absolute
grief, so choked with thirst, that study was out of
the question. At last one evening, at the Pomme
du Pin, discoursing of our trials with Jacquin
Houpelande—a respectable man, Sir Archibald,
none more so, an echevin of the city, and by
trade, I may say profession, a—a—a sartor—”
“A what ?”
“ That is, a vestiarius, a maker of garments, as
it were. He is a man well to do, being the very
first fashioner and contriver in Paris; and I
assure you, he is not anxious to deal with any one
under a graduate.”
“ Unless the money be paid in advance, ha ? I
know him well: he is the first acquaintance I
made in Paris; and I have myself drank wine of
Bordeaux at his cost; a circumstance which I the
rather remember, that David would fain have
flooded our cups at the same time with Latin
verses, made by one Decimus Magnus.”
“ Ausonius,” assisted Bauldy. “ Well, Sir
Archibald,” continued he, rubbing his hands like
D*™*bvGoogIe
THE MAGICIAN. 237
one whose mind had been relieved from some
apprehension; “ our friend Houpelande, who, as.
you say, is a man of the very highest respecta­
bility, and company for an earl; and who, more­
over, has a daughter, with cheeks like a fresh
rose—but that is beside the question—Houpe­
lande, I say, seeing that we were just in the
mood to fly down the wind, whichever way it
blew, invited us, for the sake of our assistance and
protection, to accompany him, and the aforesaid
young lady, to Nantes, with a wagon load of
liveries worth a king’s ransom. You may be sure
we were not slow of accepting a proposal which
should re-unite the disbanded class; and in fact,
on the very first day of our journey we overtook
Nigel and his wagon.”
“ And you, Andrew, to whom we all three
owe our lives this morning, how came you to
think of defending your wagon in that fashion, as
if it had been a castle ?”
“ Faith,” replied Andrew, “ I can hardly tell
you that; but peradventure my being always at
238 THE MAGICIAN.
the hinder end, as Nigel says, may be owing to
my dividing my time, share and share alike, be­
tween thought and action: whereas, it is the
common idea, that only the body requires time,
and that the mind, being spirit, is able to do
without it. Now, all the while that Bauldy was
packing up the bit clouts of Jacquin Houpe-
lande’s daughter, as if they had been made of
gossamer, and every thread spun by the Parc®,
I was contriving in my own mind, how to turn to
account an old culverine which lay in the ware­
house. You see what 1 have made of it On
that swivel it is more obedient to the hand, and
surer to the mark, than if it lay on a man's
shoulder; and I thought that, in case of our
meeting any fractiousness on the road, while Nigel
and Bauldy were laying on like gladiators, I might
myself be pointing it leisurely at the enemy."
“ But how, in God’s name," demanded Nigel,
“ came you by the powder and balls, when even
Jacquin himself was ignorant of what was going
on?”
DlglliHKIbyG O O O I C
THE MAGICIAN. 339
••Oh, as for that, I will not just undertake to
■ ay that the creature is loaded. Powder and
balls, let me tell you, do more harm than good.
If even now, for instance, 1 had shot one of these
six cavaliers, there would have been an end at
once of my utility; and we should all have had
our throats cut, without tail, by the remaining five.
As it was, I’ll warrant you, there was not one of
the half-dozen but thought we were aiming at his
own peculiar self, and saw in imagination, as he
fled, our muzzle pointed at his hinder end. The
idea, ray friends, of defending a wagon with a
culverine is obvious enough; but an unthinking
person, such as Nigel, would bave loaded it, and
so have spoiled all.”
This explanation was received with a shout of
laughter, which had the effect of drawing Jacquin
Houpelande out of the hostelrie; where he had
been standing at the window, listening to the con­
versation of the young men, and turning ever and
anon a glance up the hill. His face was pale, and
his manner somewhat flurried ; but he saluted the
Digitaed by Google
240 THE MAGICIAN.
knight with great cordiality, apologizing for not
having coiue out to his assistance, on the plea of
having had to attend to his daughter, who would
needs faint when she saw him catching up his
sword.
“ After all,” said he, “ I could have been of
little use, as the cloth was cut; for the prisoners
I should have employed myself in taking (after
the instinct of a magistrate) would have been of
more burden than profit. However, Andrew cer­
tainly deserves credit for his courage and fore­
thought. That culverine, you must know, I pro­
vided fpr the defence of mine own house, during
the English troubles, intrusting it to the manage­
ment of the foreman of my business: but could
you conceive it ?—the senseless beast had the
folly to put powder and ball into its mouth, and
the consequence was, that when it went off it
alarmed the whole street. For my own part, I
am not easily moved; but such was the diabolical
report, that I did not cut even for a twelvemonth
after. However, Andrew, there is no need for
Digitizedby Google
THF. MAGICIAN. 241
over-hardiness; and now that you have scattered
your enemies upon the four winds of heaven, I
would recommend you just to come quietly down
—and the quieter the better—and leave the ugly
monster, since it is there, to itself. I assure you,
for all the noise it made, I will not undertake to
say that it went off entirely.”
“ Be not alarmed for me,” said Andrew, “ for I
am now in some sort acquainted with the creature;
pid when time serves, I would willingly hold a
discourse with Sir Archibald, who is a man of
war, touching such matters. I must say, however,
that it is not so much to me he is beholden, on
the present occasion, as to Nigel; for if he had
not brought yonder horse to the ground, and his
rider with him, the battle would have been finished
before I had time to light my match.”
“ It is just on that subject,” said the knight,
“ that I meant to have craved a moment’s hearing
from Nigel; but it was my purpose to have spoken
with him in private, lest what I should find it my
duty to say might have more the air of reproof
VOL. 11. M
242 T H E M A G I C I A N .
than would be palatable in company. The blow,
Nigel, to make my admonition the shorter, since
we are not alone, was foul; and I beg of you
earnestly to remember for the future, that you
are ever to strike at the rider, and not at the
steed."
“ Holy Mary !" cried Nigel, “ heard ever being
the like of that! Why 1 might as well hammer
upon an anvil all day, as strike at a man clothed
in steel from top to toe! And suppose I had taken
your advice in the present fray, pray where would
you have been now, sir knight, with six such horse­
men against us three ?”
“ The excuse," said the knight, mildly, “ is a
bad one. Your true defence, Nigel, consists in
your want of experience in arihs. What signifies
it, where you or I are at' the end of a combat, or
whether the odds were for or against us? The
laws of honour must be upheld, whatever becomes
of the individual; and these strictly forbid any
interference with the enemy’s horse. In a duel
fought on equal terms,you must only strike within
owttadb
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 243
the four members ; but in such sudden encounters
us the present, where odds are not reckoned, it
may be that some relaxation of the rule might be
permitted,—though certainly not so far asyou have
unadvisedly carried it. I beseech you, Nigel, for
the future, touch not the horse !’’
While thus conversing, the attendants having
left off their stone battle, had made ready the
wagons for starting; and Houpelande’s pretty
daughter came forth in a riding-dress that would
have done no dishonour to a woman of quality.
She did not travel on horseback, however, but in
front of the wagon; to which Bauldy lifted
her with devout assiduity, only taking a longer
time in the transit than might have been expected
from a youth of his agility. The fortified wagon
now only waited for the other, which was before
it, to clear the way; and its owner at length came
forth, in the person of a little, sallow, withered
old man, wrapped up from head to foot in a dark
cloak, with his hat slouching over 1m brow in the
fashion of a modern Spanish bravo. He was pre­
m 2
.Google
244 THE MAGICIAN.
sented to Douglas in due form by Nigel, as his
worthy employer, Messire Jean—”
“ Of Poitou ?” exclaimed the knight. Messire
Jean started suddenly back at the emphasis, and
his face grew even paler than usual.
“ Who asketh ?” said he. “ Friend, I am not the
man thou seekest—as the Lord liveth, my mother
knew not the name.” •
“ That is likely enough,” returned the knight.
“ Even if you be he whom I seek, I trust your
mother, honest woman, was spared seeing that day
whereon you exchanged the name of your father,
for that of a contriver of cantrips, and unlawful
spells. Tell me, know you aught of one David
Armstrong ?”
“ I do,” said the old man, reluctantly, “ he was
some while my apprentice in science; but alas!
my poor and humble dwelling became too small to
hold his ambition, and he forsook me in my age
and poverty.”
“ Know you where he is now ?”
“ He is in the family of him who is called the
THE MAGICIAN. 245
lord de Retz; but, I pray thee, good youth, let
me alone; for I am old man, and I must make
haste on my journey e’er my strength fail.”
“ Old man, though you be,” said theknight, with
sternness, "unless you answer my question dis­
tinctly, your journey shall have a different termi­
nation from what you expect. There is not one of
us four but would lay down his life in the quarrel of
that David Armstrong, whom I fear me you have
betrayed into the snares of hell. What say you,
Nigel?”
“ I say,” answered Nigel, moodily, “ that he
shall go without skaith or scorn to Nantes while I
have tongue or sword to protect him.”
“ How! Even if I prove that he has delivered
up David to the death ?”
“ That is a consideration which must and shall
come on afterwards. In the meantime, I am
under bond of fidelity to convey messire Jean in
safety to yonder city. It is a point of honour,
Sir Archibald, more important than slaying a
horse in defence of my own and my neighbour’s
lives.”
D^itized byG o o g le
246 THE MAGICIAN«
“ It iB, Nigel,” said the knight, candidly, as he
held out his hand to him— “ or at least, it is of
equal importance: for a man’s honour, look you,
is like a woman’s chastity, of which the least in­
fringement is fatal. Let us proceed then, in the
meantime ; but I warn you, old man, that you are
on the eve of rendering a fearful account of your
iniquity!”
“ As God shall judge me,” replied messire
Jean, relieved from his apprehensions, “ I keep
honest accounts both with Jew and Christian.
As for the matter of the young man, David, I
loved the lad, as if he had been my own son.
Could I help it, if he would go? Was it I who
turned him out of his college ? Did I not even x«
warn him of the danger he would run ? yea, and
gird him with a weapon wherewith to defend him­
self? If my intentions had been evil towards
him, is it likely that I should have intrusted to
his care mine own daughter— my only child— the
promise of my house— the stay and hope of my
years— the only link that remaineth of those which
fastened me to the earth ?”
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 247
“ Hearken, Jew," said the knight, solemnly,—
“ If your intentions with regard to our friend
were good— if you indeed did not betray him, as
men say yon did, into the snare— then shall you
find Hagar in safety with your kinsmen at Nantes.
If, on the other hand, you be the agent of Satan,
and his minister Prelati— ay, start, and shrink,
and shiver at the name !— if, after two previous
blood-oflferingB, you have bound our David upon
the altar as the Third Victim— then no daughter’s
smiles shall welcome your arrival; but where you
look for comfort and joy, there shall you find only
darkness and desolation ! And now, comrades, let
us on ; and while we journey, I shall unfold a
tale to you, so far as I know it, as wild as ever
minstrel or fablier imagined.”
Digitized by G o o g le
248
C H A P T E R X.
T h e travellers arrived without farther adventure
at Nantes; but in a very different mood of mind
from that in which they had quitted Paris.
Jacquin Houpelande, not only daunted by the
actual perils of the journey, but his faith shaken
by the strange stories he had heard of La Verrière,
in more than one road-side hostelrie, was no longer
the brisk, pompous echevin, who dreamt of the
sovereignty of the tailors, and who conceived that
the professional risk he might incur would be
amply compensated for by the homage of his
.brother dignitaries of Nantes, and by his daughter
enjoying the condescending smiles of the Damsel
of Laval. In fact, after the sort of “ fractious­
D
W
.I
Z
O
0h
,G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 249
ness,” as Andrew called it, which they had wit­
nessed on the part of the six horsemen, Jacquin
would have turned his bullocks’ heads without
ceremony, and made his way back to France, had
he not been assured that in that case his Scottish
allies would have deserted him. As it was, when
he found himself fairly within the gates of Nantes,
it was with a kind of desperate calmness, a tra­
gedy-tranquillity, that he took leave of all his
comrades of the journey, except Bauldy and An­
drew, and commanded the wagons to drive to the
hotel de la Suze.
A change, also, had come over the dream of his
daughter Felicite. The vague shadows that flit
across the imagination of a maid of eighteen had
resolved into a definite and tangible form. The
attentions of Bauldy had been sucli as she had
never before received, and had never before been
in circumstances to receive, from mortal man; and,
at an age when a girl’s heart is in search of some­
thing to love, it is not surprising that hers should
have bestowed itself upon the young Scot, even
m 3
^«byGoogle
260 THE MAGICIAN.
before she was herself aware. That this was pro­
ductive of unhappiness, could not be said ; but
still her happiness was of so serious a complexion,
that it might have been easily mistaken for some­
thing directly the reverse. She smiled more rarely,
and laughed never. The future was no longer her
amusement, but her business ; and ever and anon
the roses fled from her rich cheek, as some sudden
thought crossed, like a cloud, the horizon of her
fancy.
The three young men— “ Bauldy, and Nigel,
and Andrew,” according to David’s classification
— slumbering no more under the shadow of iheir
Alma Mater, like dogs sleeping in the sun, to be
awakened, every now and then, by a kick, or a
buffet, or the pinch of hunger, had now fairly
opened their eyes upon the world. They felt, at
length, that they had duties to perform, and dan­
gers to dread or to dare. Their first anxiety, their
first determination, was to deliver their comrade
from what they believed to be his forcible incar­
ceration at La Verrière; and for this purpose,
Dtgd> ,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 261
they resolved to put shoulder to shoulder, with
the young knight for their point d’appui. But,
independently of the shade of serious thought
which David’s peril had cast upon their brow,
their own ulterior destiny was before their eyes
like an apparition. They could not return to the
university. They were fairly launched upon the
wide ocean; and now, instead of breaking heads
out of pure pastime, they had to keep a sharp
and stern look out for the casualties of the wea­
ther, spreading their sails to catch the wind, or
trimming them to meet the gale.
The Jew had left Paris in an agony of terror,
trembling at once for his gold and his life; but,
on entering the territory of Brittany, where his
nation was tolerated, his mind, relieved from at
least one species of apprehension, had room for
other and scarcely less harassing thoughts. Upon
the whole, however, he felt satisfied with the
change which had taken place in his situation.
He was still rich, and might establish a laboratory
at Nantes equal to the one he had forsaken.
OwmabyGoOgle
252 THE MAGICIAN.
Forgiven by the lord de Retz— even if the money
he had lent should be the price of forgiveness—
and surrounded by his wealthy kinsmen, all under
the protection of the Duke, he might, at least,
avoid the persecutions of Prelati, though he dared
not defy him. For his daughter’s safety he had
little fear. For some years past, he had been
himself accustomed to lean for support upon the
strength of her mind— to look up to her as an
adviser and a protectress; and there was there­
fore mingled with his speculations concerning her
fate, little or nothing of that alarm with which the
eye of a parent follows the exodus of a child—
more especially of a young, innocent, and beau­
tiful girl— into the world.
The combat on the road, however, had terrified
him, chiefly because the horsemen, as he was in­
formed by the people of the house, wore the liveries
of the lord de Retz ; and following this, the sudden
and emphatic manner in which his assumed name
was pronounced by a stranger, deprived him of all
self-possession. The solemn denunciation of the
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 263
knight, therefore, sounded in his ears like a pro­
phecy. He felt like a man who was under a curse.
In vain his old expedient of alms and suppli­
cations occurred to him. He could not pray. He
moved along the road as if he was walking in his
sleep.
When the two wagons stopped for a moment
till Nigel should take leave of his comrades, mes-
sire Jean looked on with feverish impatience, yet
without daring to make a remark. His white lips
moved in reply to their stem salutation, but no
sound came; and when at length he turned round,
and walked away stricken in heart, shrinking into
himself, and bowed down both in body and spirit,
lie presented such a picture of meanness, feeble­
ness, and cowardice, combined with guilt, that the
indignation of the young men was overpowered by
their disdain.
“ To-morrow,” said the knight, in parting with
his comrades, and appointing a rendezvous for the
same evening, “ to-morrow we will wring out of
him such information as may be needful; but God
\ D u W b , G o o g le
264 THE MAGICIAN.
forbid that we should twist such a neck as that
further than just to make him speak ! ”
That evening Douglas was visited in his
lodgings by the three students, and grave debate
was held among them as to the steps proper to
be taken in David’s behalf. On the plan of the
challenge being mentioned, Nigel entered his
protest on the score of its uncertainty. He said
that the cavalier he had accidentally overthrown,
by wounding his horse, was a match for any
knight in Europe; that he had the air of a man
who had lived in his saddle from the days of boy­
hood ; and that such had been the force of his
blow, that if the blade on which it was received
had not been held obliquely, it must either have
been broken, or forced into the wearer’s (Nigel)
body, who would thus have been slain with his
own sword.
He did not doubt either the skill, or the valour,
of Sir Archibald. He knew that he was both a
Scot and a Douglas; whereas the other had
perhaps never in his life seen a border foray, and
/
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 266
if he was indeed called Prelati, it was but the
name of an Italian, who was no more to be com­
pared to his ancestor the old Roman, than a South­
ron could be to a Norlander. Still he was a
man of middle age, with the bone and muscle of
Hercules in the form of Apollo; and he must,
therefore, have the advantage of experience,
weight, and strength over Sir Archibald, who was
yet in his adolescence. .
“ If you mean that I am a boy,” said the young
knight, colouring— ”
“ Pardon me,” interrupted Nigel, “ I mean
simply that you have not yet arrived at the full
weight and strength of your manhood. As for
the word adolescentia, it is used by Latin writers
when speaking of people even of forty years of
age; and David, poor man, if he was here
among us, would give you book and chapter for
the fact.”
Bauldy, on the other hand, was for trusting to
the prowess of his countryman, provided he would
only abate some jot of his military honour— which
DnjiMWl b / G o O g l c
256 THE MAGICIAN.
in his (Bauldy’s) opinion should only be strictly
adhered to in combats for state and show— and
strike where and when he could, without con­
sidering any other end save the downfal of his
enemy. This condition, however, the knight re­
fused point blank to agree to ; and, in fact, he
began to consider within himself, in some dudgeon,
whether he ought to prolong a counsel in which
the advisers were such singularly incapable per­
sons.
The opinion of Andrew, however, was more sen­
sible ; and it was just this : that till further in­
formation was obtained, no opinion should be
formed at all.
“ What we have as yet learned,” said he, “ is
from hearsay, and surmise, and old wives’ stories :
and, in truth, we are not at this moment in abso­
lute certainty that David, poor fellow, is at La
Verrière at all. Now, if one of us were to go to
the château, say in the character of an ambassa­
dor from Jacquin Houpelande, to announce the
arrival of liis goods, I am thinking that, provided
Digitized byGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 257
he took the precaution of carrying his eyes and
ears with him, he would be likely to come back
somewhat wiser than he went.”
“ Excellent,” said the knight— “ that is as good
as the culverine !”
“ And better loaded,” observed the other two.
“ Then the question is, which of us four would
make the best spy.”
“ I claim as mine,” said Douglas, “ whatever
risk may be going in this adventure. As a sol­
dier, besides, I may be expected to know some­
thing of ruses and ambushes, as well as of
defences, and onslaughts; and I am, therefore,
better qualified for the task than men of peace
like you.”
“ It may be so, sir Archibald; and yet I fear
me, the idea of being the envoy of a tailor— for
that is the plain Scottish of sartor and vestiariu s—
would sit upon your Douglas stomach like un­
canny and unnatural food. Your knightly hon­
our, besides, would be wofully in the way of your
duty; and I even doubt whether you could play
158 THE MAGICIAN.
the spy, without raying as you peeped, ‘ by your
leave, meraire !’”
“ Then I am your man,” said Nigel : “ for I am
already guilty of a horse ; and Ood knows, I am
B6 ignorant of punctilio as if I ran upon four legs
myself.”
“ Nigel, you are too long. Instead of spying,
you would be spied by the whole castle, man,
woman, and child. In five minutes you would be
as well known, and as much thronged with com­
pany, as the postern gate ; against the roof of
which, by the same token, you would knock your
head sorely, both in going in and coming out.”
“ Then it is I after all,” said Bauldy, “ for whom
the adventure is reserved : seeing that I am neither
a knight, nor a giant.’'
“ But you are worse than both, my man, for you
are in love. A prisoner yourself, how should you
know to break the chains of another ? Depend
upon it you would see nothing at La Verrière but
Jacquin Houpelande’s daughter, and when it
behoved you to put your mouth to a keyhole, and
b
yGoogle
Dtgdu
THE MAGICIAN. 269
whisper *David!’ you would cry, in a caterwaul
that would draw the sentry’s bowstring to his ear
in a crack— *Felicite ! ’ After-all, I am thinking
it must be just Andrew himself.”
This conclusion had been privately come to by
the other two students, from the very first; for
Andrew enjoyed the reputation of being the second
wisest in the class. Indeed, Nigel had said of
him on a former occasion, that he wanted only a
little more quickness, both in thought and action,
to be nearly as good a man a6 daddy David him­
self. Before any resolution was taken, however,
the matter of the Jew was thoroughly canvassed,
and the mode in which they were to attempt to
extract from him such information as they sup­
posed he could give.
The knight again went over the details he had
more loosely given on the road; and it must be
said, that even the wildest part of the narrative
was received without ridicule by his present
audience. They remarked (what was indeed the
fact) that David had in all probability repented of
O
y(-1OOQ1C
260 THE MAGICIAN.
his scepticism before now; and Andrew even
ventured to blame generally the master-student
for jumping too hastily to conclusions that were
against the sense both of scripture and oral
tradition.
To say nothing of the magicians of Egypt, who
could turn a rod into a serpent, and water into
blood, in the twinkling of an eye, were there not
as certain traces of this abominable art in com­
paratively modem times —even in the reigns of the
later kings of Judah ? Under Hoshea, we know
that human sacrifices were offered up to the
infernal deities— that enchantment was used—
and that men sold themselves to the enemy. Still
later, the same enormities were committed by
Manasseh; who is also said to have “ observed
times,” that is to say, to have practised judicial
astrology, and to have dealt with familiar spirits
and wizards. Nay, in the time of the apostles
themselves, when St. Philip walked, in the body,
through the streets of Samaria, was there not a
sueck-drawer called Simon, who had thrown his
Ogmntfh, G o O g l C
THE MAGICIAN. 261
cautrips over the city for some years past, and
“ bewitched the inhabitants with his sorceries?”
The instance of Simon, as Andrew went on to
remark, together with that of the divining spirit
of the Philippian damsel cast forth by St. Paul,
occurred a fter the crucifixion; and were sufficient
of themselves (to say nothing of the traditions of
the church) to overturn the opinions of certain
speculators, who hold that the visible kingdom of
darkness on the earth was overthrown at the same
moment when the veil of the temple was rent in
twain. He, therefore, had no hesitation in taking
upon himself to blame severely the overhastiness
of those who, for no other reason than that it
surpassed their human reason, presumed to doubt
of the existence of the art magic— of an art
described, as aforesaid, by Moses fifteen hundred
years before the Christian era; and mentioned,
with more or less circumstantiality, by various
succeeding authorities in holy writ, down to the
days of the apostles.
The knight listened earnestly to this ratiocina-
ovtM b
yGoogle
3 6 2 THE MAGICIAN.
tion, and regretted, perhaps for the first time,
that he was not a scholar himself. The evidence
of the Jew, however, was the true subject before
them; for without it, there would be no possibility
of telling whether or not David was really as one
intended to pass through the fire to Moloch. Ia
order to extract this evidence, a system of intimi­
dation was considered the only one likely to suc­
ceed ; and in case offailure, they determined with­
out scruple to realize the fears of the unbelieving
dog, and put him to the actual torture. How to
get him again into their hands, however, was the
question, now that Nigel’s point of honour had
been disposed of; and they were hotly engaged in
discussing this momentous topic, when the door
opened, and messire Jean walked into the room.
“ Lupus in fabula!” cried the students in a
breath.
“ By Mary’s[might,” exclaimed Douglas, “ he
comes in good time !” and all four sprang upon
their feet. The Jew turned round calmly, and
bolted the door.
THE MAOIClAff. 363
“What would ye?” said,he, advancing to the
table. “ Lo ! I am here, Caleb, the son of Ben­
jamin, of the broken tribes of Israel. Speak, for
I will answer you again !” •
“ That you shall do,” replied Douglas, “ but it
suits our purpose that you should answer calmly'
and collectedly, taking heed that, if one word of
falsehood pass your lips, you shall never leave this
room alive. Sit down then, old man, and ease
your weak limbs, that you may have more leisure
to bethink you of your perilous situation.”
“Speak not to me of peril ! Speak not to me
of ease ! Behold ! the staff is in my hand, and
my bones shall not have any rest, neither shall my
steps turn back, were therea dragon in the path !”
“ Answer, then : Are you he who delivered up
to slaughter the two young men who perished by
assassination, at La Verrière ?”
“ I am the man.”
“ Are you he who devoted to the Evil One
our comrade, David Armstrong?”
“ Thou gayest it.”
Google
2 6 4 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Wretch! What fate may we expect for our
friend ?”
“ Death—cruel, bloody, and secret!”
“ And have you left a spare life at home,” burst
in Nigel, “ that you come thus within our grasp ?”
“ Speak not to me of life! Speak not to me
of home! Silence, young men, for I laugh at
your threats, and defy your power! It is true,that
but a little while ago I should have knelt at your
feet, and implored your pity for my grey hairs. I
should have hidden mine iniquity from you, as with
a cloak, and have fenced it round about with lies,
and with oaths. I should have trembled at your
voice; and when your eyes saw me, my marrow
would have melted within my bones, and my blood
would have become as water. I should have
withered away before your face, and shrunk aside
out of your path, creeping on my belly like a
worm. In a word, I should have been, and
seemed, that abject thing into which the laws of
the ignorant and brutal Christians have converted
the sacred people. And why? Because, even
THE MAGICIAN. 265
in the midst oF obloquy and contempt, I had
still something to live for—some secret hope—
some lonely consolation—some object for which
to strive—to dare—to suffer—to lie—to deceive—
to lose earth—and to hazard heaven. I am now
free. My gold is as dross in my eyes, for I have no
child to inherit it. The savour of my life is gone,
and I fear not death. I am a Jew no longer.
Behold, I am a man !”
As Caleb spoke, his swarthy features seemed to
be lighted up by the supernatural glare which
shot from his eyes; his insignificant figure ap­
peared to expand; and his action, open, bold, and
picturesque, was invested with the wild dignity of
despair. The knight and his comrades gazed in
silence at this phenomenon; and it was not till
the old man had finished, and a sinking of the ‘
chest given token that his physical energies were
not equal to those of his spirit, that they turned
eyes of inquiry and astonishment upon one another.
Douglas, however, had a clue to the emotions of
the Jew, which the others did not possess.
VOL. II. N
oas, G o O g l c
Digitizi
2 6 6 THE MAGICIAN.
“ I could pity you,” said he, “ but that yon
have no touch of pity yourself. Even natural
affection, which in all other men is so lovely, in
you is nothing more than the meanest and most
contracted selfishness. The whole world seems
to pass away from your eyes with your own lost
child—yet it does not cost you a shudder to
give up to the assassin’s knife the child of an­
other !”
“ Go to,” said Caleb, hoarsely, “ thy talk is
foolishness; for thou talkest like a Gentile, for­
getting that I am a Jew. Natural affection is the
gift of Jehovah ; and nowhere is the good seed
more largely scattered than among the remnant of
Israel. Pity! Is it of me thou demandest pity,
whose life has been hunted like that of a wild
beast, from his earliest hour? whose blood has
been scented after like a sweet smell, even from
the womb? Ye drive us away with blows and
curses, from all honourable employment, to trade
in monies; and if, peradventure, a lust of gold
arise in our hearts, ye cry, ‘Avarice is the nature
dw,,mtvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 267
of the Jew !’ Ye rob, beat, and insult us; ye
tear the flesh from off our bones; ye burn us with
fire; ye rend ourchildren from our arms; and if in
self-defence, orin vengeance, we shed but one drop
of Christian blood, ‘Behold !’ ye cry, ‘the Jew is a
murderer from his mother’s belly!’ Away ! thy
words are emptiness. Can a man satisfy his hunger
with the east wind ?”
“ It is idle arguing,” interposed Andrew; forthe
knight looked somewhat blank at a view of the
case which was new in his day. “ He knows not,
and will not know, that in persecuting his people
we do what is appointed, even unconsciously, to
ourselves. But tell me, Jew, you who defend all
things by the lex ta/ionis, do you come hither to
preach the doctrine to us, of express purpose that
we may avenge the blood of our friend, by taking
away from you a life which has now it seems be­
come worthless in your eyes ?”
“ I come with no such purpose; but if ye de­
mand, shall I not answer? If ye accuse, shall I
not defend myself? And, my life having lost its
n 2
a b y G o o g l e
OlQ.
268 THE MAGICIAN.
savour, are ye surprised that I speak asonewhohath
no fear? Now, hearken, for I will show ye where­
fore I am come. My daughter, whom I intrusted
to the care of your comrade, never reached the
homes of her kin. She is now—she—Hagar —
my child—she is now—there !” and his voice sank
to a whisper of inexpressible horror, while he
pointed with his arm, as if unable to name the
place.
“ She has no concern,” said Douglas, hastily,
“ in the danger of our comrade. Gilles de Retz,
voluptuary though he be, will not defile himself
with a Jewess ; and Orosmandel is far more likely
to protect than to injure her.”
“ Tell me not of Gilles de Retz—tell me not of
Orosmandel—for there is one mightier than they
at La Verrière ! Never did he own superior on
the earth. The great ones of the world are his
servants, and the wise ones his tools. Where he
is, there is he alone ; moving and swaying all
things by the power of the prince of hell, and
doing diligently the work of that invisible spirit,
DivuMby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 269
of whom he is the agent and representative in the
flesh. Now hearken: my daughter is in the
power of that man, in the possession of that devil.
Peradventure, ye think, because I am an Hebrew’'
—and a ghastly smile spread over the old man’s
face—“ that it ismybusiness now to savethe golden
casket, after the jewel hath been stolen ? I say
unto you, nevertheless, that I care no more for
my daughter’s life than for my own ! Mine shall
be the vengeance of Shechem, and of Absalom;
and by this blade ”—drawing as he spoke a long,
straight knife from beneath his cloak—“ shall
Hagar be avenged, and David set free !”
The Jew paused for some moments; during
which he looked eagerly into the eyes of the three
young men, one after the other. •
“ Now tell me,” continued he, “ what will ye
dare for the sake of your comrade ? What will
ye hazard for his life ? A piece of gold, or an
ounce of blood 1 How many hours, how many
days, will ye sacrifice to his need ?”
“ We have but little gold,” replied Douglas,
D ig,.««.by Google
270 THE MAGICIAN.
“ and we weigh not our blood by the ounce ; yet
.have we a life a-piece of our own, which we will
gladly put in jeopardy for David. As for time,
that belongs to life, and must therefore go into the
bargain.”
“ It is well—excellently well. Now, this will
ye do for the sake of your comrade. As for the
Hebrew woman, I know that she is even as a scom
and a laughter in your eyes ; yet, nevertheless, she
must not dwell abroad in the world, to be a re­
proach to her mother’s womb. Ye must also
swear unto me, that ye will surely bring her forth
with David, and deliver her into the hands of
Rabbi Solomon, the son of Jacob, of this city.”
“ For what purpose?’* demanded Douglas, with
interest.
“ It concemeth thee not. Yet will I answer,
that in his house will Hagar sit down for the rest
of her years, with her garments rent, and with
dust upon her head.”
“ It may not be as you fear. I will not—dare
not believe it.” The old man shook his head; his
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 271
face being yet paler than before ; and notwith­
standing the efforts of his spirit, he appeared
ready to faint. .
“ Sit down,” said Nigel, pressing him down
upon a bench by mfiin force, “ and tell us, when
you take breath, what is your plan, and how we
are to assist in it.”
“ Fear not for my weakness,” replied Caleb ; “ I
know of a drug which, when the time cometh,
will give me the strength of a lion, for the brief
space I shall require it. One of you, the boldest
and wisest, must enter within the walls of La
Verrière, and hold communication with David of
the nature I shall show. He must bring back
unto me certain answers to my message ; and on
receiving these answers, he shall deliver unto the
young man a paper which will teach him how to
escape when a fitting moment arriveth. The rest
of my plan I shall declare after the return of the
envoy.”
“ Till we hear that plan,” said Douglas, “ we
shall enter into no compact. So far as you have
d
io
im
o
o
o
vGoogle
272 THE MAGICIAN.
now required, however, you may depend upon our
assistance ; for it was already determined that one
of us should go to the château upon espial.
For myself, I still think, as I have told my friends,
that the question should be brought to the arbitra­
ment of arms ; and unless circumstances of ex­
treme emergence occur, I shall require of you to
defer your attempt till 1have first tried my fortune
with Prelati in the field.” The Jew rose up in
astonishment. ‘
“ Art thou mad ?” said he—“ Didst thou ever
feel the weight of that arm thou wouldst chal­
lenge to open war ?”
“ I can only answer for the fingers,” said
Douglas ; “but they are every whit as good as my
own.”
“ Young man ! young man ! If thou hast aught
to bind thee to the world—if thou hast any com­
fort left, even in the midst of poverty and terror—
if thy glory hath not been turned into shame, thy
hope into despair—if thy only child hath not
beeu reft away from thee, and cast forth into re-
OVftM ltyGoÔgk
THE MAGICIAN. 273
proach and dishonour—strive not, as man striveth
against man, with Prelati!”
“ If he is man,” said Douglas, “ he may be
conquered by the arm of a man : if he is devil,
he may be subdued by the aid of the Holy Spirit.
But in the meantime, this is unprofitable talk.
Andrew will visit you to-morrow morning, and
then set forth on his mission of espial; and on
his return we five shall meetagain.”
On this understanding they parted.
n 3
Digitized byGoogle
C H A P T E R XI.
David, in the meantime, unconscious of the
exertions that were to be made in his behalf, felt
himself dependant on his own energies, which he
accordingly called up with proportionate force.
During the day-time he was busily engaged in
preparing, under the directions of Orosmandel,
certain chemical combinations, with the nature
and powers of which he was unacquainted.
Among other things he concocted a drug, in a
fluid state, chiefly composed of the expressed
juice of two Indian plants, which he had seen
before, the potam antis, and the ge/atophyllis.
Their properties, he remembered, were mentioned
by Pliny; but he knew that, when united, their
DiQihzod yG o o g le
THK MAGICIAN. 275
operation was somewhat similar to that of the
nepenthet of Homer, given by Helen to Tele-
machus.
When the student, however, was directed to
mingle among other things, with the sap of the
latter plant, a liquid extracted from the grains of
the datu ra, (used in the last century, if not in the
present, for infamous purposes, by the Portuguese
of Goa), he substituted, unobserved, a less equi­
vocal article. He was aware, even while he did so,
that the composition might be benefical, although
some of the parts individually were dangerous to
virtue; but Orosmandel was waiting at the mo­
ment to receive the mixture in a small golden
phial, and he had no time for reflection. Some
other drinks received so considerable an admix­
ture of myrrh, that David, who possessed a
general knowledge of the common drugs, was
convinced that they must produce a certain
degree of stupefaction.
“ It was out of compassion,” said he, “ that
they offered our Lord wine mingled with myrrh,
do
m
mbyGoogle
276 THE MAGICIAN,
when he was expiring in the torments of the
cross. I pray Heaven that these brewings may
be intended for as good a purpose !*
Besides potions of various kinds, valuable as it
appeared from the minuteness of the quantity,
there were other compositions on a greater scale,
the component parts of which were almost all of
a mineral nature. Some of them were phosphoric
substances; and some partook so decidedly of the
charaoter of gunpowder, and were produced in
such large quantities, that David concluded the
supply for the defence of the castle to be manu­
factured by Orosmandel.
It was in vain, however, to reason on the uses
of these things; for as yet he was treated merely
as a subordinate drudge, whose knowledge of
chemical manipulation •
enabled him to obey as
skilfully, though as blindly, as a machine. He
knew that physical agents were used in the
invocation of fiends, and other purposes, by the
professors of magic, from the days of Pharaoh;
and he knew that even the drugs, which were
mm b
yG o o g le
Digrt
THE MAGICIAN. 277
said to work by enchantment, did not depend
entirely for their virtue upon sorcery, but were
composed, at least, in the natural vehicle, of
juices extracted from plants or minerals. If Oros-
mandel, then, was a magician, his present studies
could be easily accounted for, without supposing
that the preparations were to be turned to any
unlawful account, except as regarded his own
soul.
David, however, who had naturally a taste for
occult studies, had reasoned himself into the
idea— now, it must be said, somewhat shaken—
that magic, although in reality the highest branch
of physics, was nothing more; and that its super­
natural achievements were only delusions practised
by knowledge upon ignorance. The struggles of
Moses, for example, for the deliverance of his
countrymen from the Egyptians, were nothing
more than a trial of skill between him and the
magicians of Pharaoh, in whose art he was a
proficient. It was God who wrought upon the
side of the Hebrew, and confounded him, no
DigitizM by G o o g le
278 THE MAGICIAN.
doubt, as much ss his antagonists. Even in their
own art, Moses, who was a man of extraordinary
genius, showed himself in some instances, but not
in all, to be their master; yet, if the Lord had
not assisted him with pestilence and famine,
Pharaoh would have hardened his heart till
doomsday.
But it was not entirely with such labours and
such speculations that-David’s time was filled up.
The staircase gate was open during the day ; and,
as frequently as he found opportunity, he went
out to walk on the ramparts, in the hope of foiling
in with mademoiselle de Laval, whose protection
he intended to invoke for Hagar. He always,
however, returned disappointed. He saw neither
the Damsel nor the Jewess ; and never met with
a fingle inhabitant of the castle, who did not
avoid him as if he had been a spectre.
His only hope now was in the expected visit ol
Pauline to Orosmandel; and every night he
watched for her coming, till long after the mid
hour. These prowlings very soon gave him so
o<g»i»x(b,Google
THR MAGICIAN. 279
perfect a knowledge of the localities, that he was
able to traverse the passage in utter darkness with
the same ease and freedom as at noon-day. No
light was permitted to be brought into the pas­
sage ; and he flattered himself that he should find
opportunity to whisper a word into the young
lady’s ear as she passed. If this was impossible,
might he not glide into the private apartments of
her father, from which she would come, and the
door of which would no doubt remained unfastened
till her return ? Might he not thus be enabled
to penetrate even to the chamber in which Hagar
was confined ? This would indeed be a perilous
adventure; but the scholar knew, that what in
other cases would be madness, in circumstances of
extremity is true wisdom.
His mind more and more misgave him with
regard to Hagar’s situation; for the dwarf was
not the only traverser of the dreadful swamps of
the Erdre. One night he had seen, from his
watch-tower, when broad awake, and in the pos­
session of all his usual faculties, the figure of an
280 THE MAGICIAN.
armed man glide along that extraordinary path !
It is true, he resembled more an apparition than a
human being ; for he appeared to be independent .
of the common laws of motion. The dwarf was
accustomed to leap and gambol along, wanting
only a light in his hand to be a true ignis fatuus ;
but this Appearance skimmed along the surface of
the swamp like a shadow. The night was dark,
and David could not catch distinctly the outline
of the figure; but in a certain quiet majesty of
deportment, it resembled the mysterious visitor of
the alchemist in his subterranean abode. The
heart of the scholar quaked as the idea flashed
through his brain. Prelati possessed access to
the castle, unknown, perhaps, to its lord himself.
Prelati would be a confidential visitor in the prison
of Hagar. Prelati and Gilles de Retz— these
were the Scylla and Charybdis of the unfortunate
Jewess ! David was more and more determined
to risk his life, even for the purpose of whispering
a word of caution into her ear.
One night, after meditating on these things,
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 281
and when just preparing to descend the ladder as
usual, for it was near the middle hour, his quick
ear caught a sound, as if of some one coming up.
He lay down instantaneously, but noiselessly, on
the bed ; and when, in another instant, the dwarf
made his appearance at the trap-door, he started
as if from sleep.
“ Who is there?” cried he, with the ill-humour
of one suddenly awakened, “ what do you want?
1 am for none of your amusements; and I cannot
work both night and day.!’
“ Thou must do what thou art bidden,” replied
the dwarf with asperity, “ and that instantly, for I
have no time to parley. The master calleth for
thee. Descend q u ic k ly a n d so saying, he dis­
appeared. David obeyed at once; and soon found
himself in the presence of Orosmandel in his
study.
“ I was minded,” said the philosopher, address­
ing him with his usual mildness, “ to have ex­
plained to thee this night yonder plan of the
heavens; but even now I am to have a visitor
C 0 0 3 I
282 THE MAGICIAN.
from the private apartments of the baron. When
thou shalt hear a knock, open with this key.
Take heed that thou admit no more than one,
and that thou lock the door the instant after.
Betake thee then to thy rest; and another time,
perhaps to-morrow, the thirst of thy soul shall be
satisfied.”
. “ I thank you humbly,” replied David, " but
how shall I find the door in the dark ?”
“ True: I had forgotten that thou art yet a
stranger. Here is a light”— and, putting his hand
behind the curtain which covered the wall, he
delivered to him a small lamp of a very singular
form. David still waited.
“ Get thee gone,” said Orosmandel, stepping
into the circle which inclosed the altar ; “ and do
what thou art bidden.”
“ Sir,” exclaimed David, in surprise, “ the lamp
is not lighted !” The philosopher raised his hand
above his head, as if to say that he might not be
spoken to there; a kind of hushing sound ran
round the walls; and the student left the apart­
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 283
ment. No sooner had he gained the passage,
than a flame rose up from the dead lamp in his
hand, and burnt steadily; and at the same mo­
ment, the startled novice heard a knock at the
door.
He opeued promptly, and found mademoiselle
dc Lnval alone, and without a light.
“ Damsel,” whispered he, while shutting and
locking the door after her, with as much noise as
possible, “ I am a friend and kinsman of Douglas.
Protect, I beseech you, for his sake, the young
woman whom he recommended to you at Paris,
and who is now within these walls, in imminent
peril!” Pauline started ; but instantly recovering
her self-possession, replied in the same tone:
• “ Have no fear for her if she is here. And
Douglas—
“ He watches over you: but it is needful for
you to know— ”
“ What art thou about?” said the voice of
Orosmandel, at the moment, almost close to his
ear. •
DiQilizedbyGoogle
284 THE MAGICIAN.
“ The lock is difficult; and you cannot expect
the hand which holds for the first time a lamp
like this, to be perfectly steady.”
“ Give it me, my poor boy— and the key. Now
get thee to thy rest; for I shall summon thee
early to-morrow.” David needed not to be bidden
twice. With a profound but hasty obeisance, he
made for his own premises, as if receiving the
order as a boon; and presently the turning of the
passage concealed him from their eyes, and he
was once more in the dark.
The door of the study was open as before,
while he passed. The lamp which hung from the
ceiling rendered apparent the mysterious gloom of
the place. Here Orosmandel was about to ren­
der an explanation highly interesting and import­
ant to a ll; in the course of which a clear light
would probably be thrown upon the character of
the sage himself. David, naturally daring, and
filled with that strong curiosity which is the soul
of adventure, did not hesitate for more than a
second; and, although he would far rather have
b,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 285
plunged unbidden into the privacy of Gilles de
Retz, yet since in the present case there was no
choice afforded him, he glided into the chamber of
mystery, and concealed himself behind the black
hangings.
Some moments of suspense ensued. He put
out his hands at each side to feel that he bad no
neighbours in this perilous retirement; when one
of them encountered a human skeleton, and the
other an unfolded mummy standing upright. The
scholar would fain have had these things ex­
changed for a couple of living men cased in
armour; but he determined at all events to get
out of such awful society. Beyond the mummy,
however, there was some object which required
to be moved to allow him to pass; and the hand
of the skeleton was raised, as if to serve as a bar­
rier against intrusion. David, mastering a repug­
nance stronger than we can well conceive in our
philosophic age, took hold of the fleshless mem­
ber to try if he could put it aside without noise.
The dead fingers, instantly closed upon his ; and it
O vtaxl bvG00gle
286 THE MAGICIAN.
required the strongesteffort of courage and presence
of mind to repress the shout of surprise and terror
which rose to his lips. He extricated himself,
however, as gently as possible from this unnatural
grasp; and Orosmandel and the Damsel having
now entered the room, he put back his damp hair
from his brow, wiped away the drops of perspira­
tion that were falling into his eyes, and prepared
to look and listen with all the intelligence he could •
at such a moment command.
Pauline followed her conductor shrinkingly.
She seemed afraid of the noise of her own foot­
steps; although that was little louder than the
sound produced by a dry leaf falling onthe ground.
“ Father,” she said, at last, “ I can scarcely see
you. Is it forbidden to have more light in this
place ?”
“ In this place,” replied Orosmandel, “ we see
with the eyes of the soul ; while artificial light—
such is the preponderance of the senses in our
earthly tabernacle— would only confuse and be­
wilder. In a little while, when thou art more ac-
dwmmwG o o q Ic
THE MAGICIAN. 287
customed to the gloom, thou wilt see more clearly;
but in the meantime, in order to dissipate uncer­
tainty, whence arise fear and trouble of mind,
behold the form of that small chamber, where a
votary of science seeketh to extend his hitherto
unimportant a c q u isitio n sa n d , touching the
lamp, which hung motionless above their heads,
with a slender black wand, a column of flame
arose from it, which enlightened for an instant the
whole apartment.
David had cause at that moment to congratulate
himself on his forethought; for, instead of looking
through the opening of the curtain, he had drilled
in it a small hole for his eye, with the point of his
dagger. The light, momentary as it was, seemed
to be divided into different colours; and it was this
perhaps which gave a strange appearance of
instability to the whole scene. The curtains, with
which the walls were completely hung, except at
the altar-place, appeared to move and wave; and
it was seen that they were not entirely black, but
diversified with various figures, of a dull red co-
ovw«ib
yGoogle
2 8 8 THE MAGICIAN.
lour, representing men and monsters, which ac­
quired the appearance of living but [still shadowy
motion. The brilliant specks with which the roof
was studded, reflected the many-coloured light in
such a way, that they looked like a crowd of stars,
thrown suddenly into confusion. The signs of the
constellations, in like manner, which adorned the
picture behind the altar, seemed to wheel round in
a mystical dance. All was motion; yet shadowy
and indefinite, like the phantasmagoria of a dream.
When the column of flame sank down into the
lamp, as suddenly as it had arisen, and only the
usual, small, dim light remained, a double gloom
seemed to fall upon the place; and at the moment
a hushing sound, like the one formerly noticed by
David, ran round the apartment. On the present
occasion, it approached so close to his ear, that he
extended his hands to lay hold of the mysterious
whisperer. They met, however, only the solid wall
behind; and the sound passed on, and died away
near the altar.
. “ Darkness,” said the sage, after a pause, and
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 289
in that sweet, rich, half-melancholy voice, which
lingered on the ear that heard it like a spell,
“ Darkness, my dear daughter, is the light of the
soul. The beams of the sun awaken the body to
its functions, reminding us of our wants, and sti­
mulating our passions and desires. Then the
senses rise up, like an armed troop, to combat, and
too often subdue, the mind; and thus we live
through the daylight, as if the earth, its business,
its glories, its delights, were the proper objects of
human ambition, and the impassable boundaries of
human pride. But in the night time, in the soli­
tude of our chamber, with nothing accorded to our
weakness, save the dim lamp which seems to re­
flect upon the studious scholar the experience of
by-gone ages, we are no longer of the things which
crawl upon the earth, build their habitations with
its fragments, satisfy their aspirations with its re­
wards, and at last lay their heads in its dust. We
are beings— fearful, mystic, wonderful beings of the
universe. Our spirits traverse the immensity of
space. Bound no longer in the chains of time,
VOL. II. o
Digrtui Google
390 THE MAGICIAN.
we plunge into eternity. We feel a craving after
knowledge, a hungering and thirsting after power,
which are not of the world ; and our souls, indig­
nant at the destiny to which they appear to be de­
voted by their mortal birth, at length doubt, ques­
tion, deny its power, and assert their freedom and
majesty, as spirits of the universe.”
“ Go on, my father— O go on ! I have no longer
any fear. I would not tremble before the demons.”
“ Alas ! alas ! it is thy soul which speaketh ;
forgetting that earth-born as thou art, the spirit
cannot look even into the sublimest mysteries, save
through the eyes of the body. Fear must be his,
and trembling of the limbs, and quaking of the
heart, and doubt, and shrinking, and horror, and
self-reproach, who would seek to climb one step in
the scale of being ! The mind cannot soar, except
by trampling on the body. And what is the body
in its connexion with spirit? Prejudice, habit,
instinct, strong affections, all that we are taught to
practise, admire, esteem, and love, even from the
womb ; and wisely so, if we are satisfied to re-
THE MAGICIAN. 291
main on the surface of the earth, herding with
the other things of clay.”
“ The virtuous affections of the body,” said
Pauline, “ cannot be harmful to the spirit; and, as
for the vicious ones, I feel that my courage would
hold, even to obey literally the injunction of Scrip­
ture, and cut off or pluck out the member that
offended me.”
“ What dost thou know, my child, of virtue or
vice? What canst thou know, inured as thy
spirit hath been, even from the womb, to follow
the line drawn for thee by others ? Come, answer
me, didst thou form thy own habits, even of
thought ? or didst thou merely pour them, accord­
ing as thou wert bidden, into the mould prepared
for them by the society in which thou hadst the
chance to grow ? *This is right,’ thou wilt tell
me, ‘ because thus said my grandame,’ and ‘ This
is wrong, because it is so written in a book!’
Who were they who watched over thy infancy,
and taught wisdom to thy youth ? Were they
themselves wise ? Did their own spirits soar
o 2
282 THE H M IC U K .
above their haman nature ? Or were they, on the
contrary, lower in intellect and meaner in aspira­
tions than thyaelf— the abecedarii of philosophy,
who teach the elemental forms they hare learnt,
without knowing their uses or properties ? Such,
1 know, were thy instructors; and such are the
instructors of the great buss of mankind. This
is why prejudice flourisheth, while mind standeth
still. This is why the search after knowledge is
so difficult; yea, after that knowledge which is
virtue as well as power, and which comprehendeth
everything great, good, and desirable.”
The sage folded his arms upon bis bosom with
a deep sigh; and Pauline, half fearing that she
had offended him by her ignorance, and half
panic-struck at the consequences which might be
deduced from his reasoning, gazed on him in
silence. David, although he could not distinguish
her features, was able to guess at the tumultuous
emotion into which her soul was thrown, by the
unequal heaving of her chest.
“ Yes, Pauline de Laval,” resumed Orosmaudel,
THE MAGICIAN. 293
“ /earful is the penalty of that ambition which
acorns the playthings of the great of the earth;
fearful, even though suffered merely through the
affections of the body. It is the punishment of
Prometheus, for daring to penetrate into the far-
hidden mysteries of knowledge— the tearing and
gnawing of that vulture, by which is figured Re­
morse. Not courage alone is wanting, but also
endurance ; not the will to dare, but also the con­
stancy to suffer. The enemies which we must con­
quer are not so much the senses, as the habits and
prejudices which mingle even with the operations
of mind, and chain our spirits to the earth. Many
there be who soar as boldly as Icarus; but whose
weak hearts and waxen wings at length dissolve
as they approach the sun. Enough, my daughter.
The time has not yet arrived when thou shalt be
put to the test; when that question regarding thee
shall be determined, the solution of which an
order of spirits bom far higher than we, await at
this moment in fear and curiosity.'’
"W ould that the moment were come!" ex-
Digitized by Google
294 THE MAGICIAN.
claimed Pauline. “ And yet, no—I am like one
who approaches, with intense longing, some fateful
secret; and yet feels a strange joy, mingled with
terror, in hovering darkling round the brink.
Your words, my father, sound not like the words
of other meu. They come as if from afar off,
wafted to the ear over the gulf of time, and rich
with the music of an earlier world, when the gods
talked with men. While I listen, the remembrance
of more youthful days comes back upon me;
when, wandering by the shores of the lake of
Grand Lieu, I heard the tones of church-bells
from within, and stretched my head over the
brink, to look in the deep waters for the towers of
the buried city.”
“ And thou hast been there?” said Orosmandel,
suddenly, and with more of human interest than
his voice usually expressed—“ Thou hast heard
the bells of Herbadilla; thou hast seen the towers
of the Nannetes! Alas! albs!” and a warm
smile broke over the old man’s face ; “ these are
the toys of imagination ; for the morsels of carved
gttibiGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 295
work, and the utensils of forgotten form, which
are occasionally cast forth by the tide, are now the
only remains of the city of the ancestors of thy
people. And yet I, who dream no longer the
dreams of youth ; 1, too, have wandered by that
lonely lake, and its sounds were in my ear, and
its palaces before my eye ! But in vain I at­
tempted to syllable the sighs of the wind into her
voice; in vain I demanded of the sullen wave to
give me back even her mortal form ! It is strange
this retentiveness of mind, which, after a lapse of
time sufficient for an empire to crumble into dust,
still continues to preserve intact the images of an
early superstition. Why, Herbaddla itself is a
heap of shapeless stones, covered by fifteen thou­
sand, acres of deep water! and she stands there
at this moment before me, as perfect in life and
limb as that beautiful and graceful form of
eighteen summers!”
Orosmandel spoke as one communing with
himself—seeing his visitor, yet unconscious of her
presence. Pauline hardly breathed, so much was
DigitizodbyC l O 0 9 1C
296 THE MAGICIAN.
she t mazed and perplexed by words capable of
bearing so extraordinary a meaning; and David
forgot at that moment both mummy and ske­
leton.
" Father,” said the Damsel at last, impelled by
a curiosity which she could not control, “ I have
heard that Herbadilla was submerged in the time
of St Martin, in the sixth century.”
“ It is a vulgar error,” replied the philosopher,
calmly.
“ Is it not strange that even the learned are
unable to assign a date to an event of such mag­
nitude ? ”
“ Not at all. The men of the present day are
only learned in the learning of former ages. At
the time of the destruction of the city, ignorance
was so general, and so profound, that events still
more stupendous took place{unchronicled or unob­
served. On the night of the seventeenth of Sep­
tember, eight hundred and eighty-four, Herbadilla
was ;—before sunrise, on the following morning,
it was not. The surrounding marshes themselves
OiQttiZ Google
THE MAGICIAN. 297
were drowned in the waters they 6ent forth ; and
a vast lake slept tranquilly in the valley, where,
but a few hours before, the atmosphere had
vibrated with the manifold and mighty voices of
a city.”
“ Then the story is untrue, that the catastrophe
took place on account of the sins of the inhabit­
ants—that the holy St. Martin led out from the
devoted walls a single righteous family, who had
received and protected him—and that the mother
of that family, looking back, in disobedience to
the saint’s commands, was changed into a pillar
of stone!”
“ It is the story of the virtuous and hospitable
Lot, plagiarized by the priests, at a time when
there existed not sufficient genius in the order to
give originality to their fabrications. St. Martin
was long since gathered unto his fathers : yet one
was there, to whom chance and a knowledge of
the phenomena of nature, had revealed the
coming catastrophe. A single individual, not a
single family, was led out by him :—not even the
o 3
D ig .ti7 « fb y G 0 0 g Ic
298 THE MAGICIAN.
family of his only sister—of his twin-sister—of
his sole-blood relation upon earth ! It is true, the
individual was fair, was passing fair ; and he loved
her with the love of the spirit as well as of the
senses. The sacrifice, however, he had made for
her safety, was unavailing. She was torn from
his arms by the tide, and plugged into an abyss,
whose black waters cast him forth to wander deso­
late, and alone upon the earth. If you knew his
feelings—if you heard the shrieks of his despair,
while he fled from the spot!” Orosmandel’s.voice
sunk to a whisper, while he added, relapsing again
into unconsciousness of the presence of another;
“ They sometimes come back upon me even now ;
but they seem as if they were not my own !”
“ Your sister’s family,’’ cried Pauline, incohe­
rently, as if striving to lay hold of the sympathies
of nature for support, in a moment of supernatural
awe, “ I would say the sister of that—that—man ;
did they all perish ?”
“ All save one; a boy who chanced to be from
home on the fatal night. His uncle watched over
• ,G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 299
him, and led him on to honour and distinction.
His son, his son’s son, his grandson’s son—all, in
like manner, arose in worldly preferment.”
“ And the line is still unbroken?” Orosmandel
crossed his arms upon his bosom, and raised his
head, till the faint beams of the lamp falling upon
his noble features, displayed the traces of as much
grief as a superior being may be supposed to feel
at the casualties of human nature. He then
slowly fixed his eyes upon those of Pauline, and
ansyvered her question with a mournful wave of
the head.
“ The name of the last of the line,” said he,
“ was Prelati.”
At this name the interest of the lurking
student was increased to a painful degree; and
Pauline seemed to be preparing her mind for
something formidable.
“ Father,” said she, at length, in a steady tone,
“ According to your doctrine of the dissipation of
the spirit, when it leaves the body, there can be no
spectral appearance of the dead. Am I correct?”
o w M d b v G o o g le
300 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Thy supposition,” replied Orosmandel, “ is
correct as a general rule; for such is the law of
what is called nature.”
“There are, then, exceptions to this rule ?”
*•There are. When a man raises himself by
his acquisitions in occult knowledge, to a higher
grade of being than that in which he was born—
this is an exception to the general law of nature,
an infringement of the universal system of classes,
achieved by individual daring and wisdom. Such
a man is a rebel against that species of order
which is vulgarly called destiny; his aim is power,
not over matter, but mind; and if successful,
although he cannot restore life to the dead, or
even bloom to the withered plant, yet, after mortal
life hath departed, can he enchain, for a certain
space, the spirit in its earthly tenement, and even
compel it to his service. But I perceive what
troubleth thy mind—thou hast seen Prelati ?”
“ In body—in spirit—with these eyes—with my
soul—and with my senses !”
“ Even for this have I invited thee hither.
G o o g le
the magician. 301
Listen. There approacheth a crisis in the fortunes
of thy father, which thou alone canst avert, but
which it is mine to delay till thou art schooled
enough in wisdom for the effort—Nay, hear
m e!”
“ But I must speak! Describe the effort-­
name the sacrifice; and, by the aid of Him who
planted filial love in my breast, 1 will save my
father, if all the demons of the abyss should con­
spire to thwart and affright me !”
“ Thou knowest not what thou sayest. The
demons are not subdued by defiance, but pro­
pitiation ; and it is not spectral enemies thou shalt
have to combat, but the habits and prejudices of
thy human nature. Again I say, no more of this
for the present. It is not by living men I do my
work; for over living men these aged limbs could
have no control—yet I purpose not now to disclose
unto thee what in the meantime it boots thee not
to know. Against the testimony of thy body,
however, of thy spirit, of thine eyes, of thy soul,
of thy senses, I say unto thee, Prelati sleepeth with
the dead!”
DigitizedbyG o o g le
302 THE MAGICIAN.
Pauline’s head sunk upon her bosom; and an
air of dissatisfaction, which in moments of meaner
emotion would have been called sullenness, seemed
to spread over her whole figure. Orosmandei
stood looking at her with a calm but earnest
gaze.
“ Father,” said she at length, raising her head,
and standing erect; “ the trial, to which you hint
that I am to be subjected, requires, I may per­
ceive, by the preparation that is necessary, a
courage passing that of woman. Put mine to the
proof ! even here, in this mystic chamber, and at
the dead hour of night! You imply that you
have power over the dead : summon, then, before
me the spirit of Prelati!”
Orosmandei stepped back in surprise; and
gazed at her for some moments before answering.
“ I expected not this,” said he, “ for thou art a
woman, though of the blood of Laval. Yet the
visit would be less terrible to thee than to me
for with it will arise the apparitions of memory
which, in somecases,are more harrowing to the soul
than those of the dead. But I force not this upon
a
b,Goot}Ie
THE MAGICIAN. 303
thee ; for it is not necessary. Thy trial, believe
me, will be sore enough when it comes. Yet, if
after consideration thy desire holdeth, I will not
refuse.”
“I do not retract—I am ready.”
“ Yet, at least, wait till the morrow; when
thou mayest enter here with the consciousness,
that only these walls are between thee and the
daylight.”
“ I beseech you, my father !”
' “ Then be it so. But hearken to my counsel.
Bethink thee that thou art in thy father’s house—
that thou art surrounded by the bravest and most
faithful in the province—that darkness is nothing
more than the absence of the beams of the sun—
that thou art thyself a spirit—and that the only
difference between thee and the spirits of the
dead is the want or possession of that feeble
breath of life which may be extinguished as easily
as the flame of a lamp. Summon up the energies
of thy mind ; and suffer not thy understanding to
be bewildered by thy fears. Gaze boldly around
thee. Look at things as they are; and not as thy
G o o g le
304 THE MAGICIAN.
imagination would make them: and so, even thy
human nature will bear the shock unmoved.”
Orostnandel then, entering within the circle,
glided slowly and noiselessly towards the table.
The lamp burnt still dimmer than before; the
gloom was like that of a sepulchre; and the
majestic form of the minister of that equivocal
altar resembled a tall, dark, shadow. He bent
over the mystic book, without opening it; and
then waving his slender wand in the air, a small
blue flame appeared at the point; by which Pau­
line saw that he searched among various oblong
pieces of parchment, projecting from the end of
the volume, and impressed with seals. •
The speck of flame was so small, that it
scarcely illumined a hand’s breadth around it;
and yet the light, as the wand was moved from
time to time—falling now upon the antique vessels
upon the table—now on the remarkable head of
the operator—and now bringing out, for an in­
stant, some fantastic figure on the picture behind,
added greatly to the effect of the scene.
Having found the one which he sought among
Oigtfiax) byCiOOQIC
THE MAGICIAN. 305
the ends of parchment, forming, as it appeared,
the index of the book, he opened the pondrous
volume at the place; and at the same instant a
rumbling sound was heard throughout the apart­
ment, resembling the muttering of distant
thunder. Stooping over the leaves, he seemed to
read for some time ; during which the silence was
so intense, that David could hear distinctly the
breathing of Pauline. He then repeated the
words aloud ; first in a low voice, but soon
waxing by degrees, till the whole atmosphere of
the room vibrated with the sound. Orosmandel,
then, snatching a golden vessel from the table,
turned hastily round ; and, at the instant, before
the eyes of the spectators, the black girdle which
he usually wore changed into a circle of fire.
A thick smoke issued from the vessel, which .
was formed like a censer; and which the Ma­
gician waved about'in all directions. As the
fumes reached Pauline, she appeared, from the
sinking of her form, to be struck with sudden
faintness; but the next instant she rallied; she
»Google
306 THE MAGICIAN.
raised her figure to its utmost height; and then,
bending forward, seemed to watch the event with
an intensity of expectation which was visible in
the convulsive heavings of her bosom.
David also experienced a slight sensation of
sickness, as the vapour, eddying round the room,
arrived at his place of concealment. This speedily
went off, however, or else was controlled by
strong resolution ; and he gazed at Orosmandel,
as if he would have pierced into his very soul.
But his sight became at length confused. The
.fiery girdle of the magician dazzled his eyes ; the
curtains were shaken, as if by a blast of wind ;
the hushing sound was repeated in his ear, first in
a whisper, and then louder aud louder, till the
sound became a continuous scream. Terrified
lest he should fall, for everything seemed to reel
around him, he snatched from his pocket a phial
of strong essence, with which he was in the habit
of counteracting the effects upon his brain of cer­
tain drugs he sometimes compounded; and after
inhaling for some time the spirit, he found that
Digltuod by Google
T
THE MAGICIAN. 30?
the delusions which had beset him wore partially
off—or else, that the real confusion of sights and
sounds around him began to subside.
He now saw that Orosmaudel had left the en­
chanted circle, and advanced towards Pauline;
who remained in the same agitation, and in the
same attitude, only leaning further forward, as if
she would have fallen on her face.
“ He comes ! ” cried the magician— “ Rally,
daughter! Courage, noble spirit! for I shall not
leave thee : although I may not myself look upon
the countenance of him who was in life the only
remaining link which connected me with the
world and Orosmandel, walking to the side of
the apartment, covered himself with the curtains.
The attention of the scholar was now directed
exclusively to the space within the circle; and
after an interval which appeared painfully long,
he saw a light-coloured vapour rising from the
altar, which was followed by a sudden flame, illu­
mining for an instant the whole apartment. But
the smoke and flame vanished as suddenly as they
had arisen; and at the same moment the Appear-
308 THE MAGICIAN.
ance of a man clothed in black armour stood by
the table.
It was the form of Prelati. The features wore
the same calm and dignified expression which
David had remarked on two former occasions.
They were stamped by nothing of the ghastliness
of death; and the attitude and manner of the
figure, composed and unaffected, were altogether
free from the appearance of m ystery which is vul­
garly associated with the idea of a supernatural
being. The scene, however, the gloom, the hour,
the evocation, the suddenness of the vision— all
combined had such an effect upon the sensibilities
of Pauline, that when the apparition advanced,
as if for the purpose of speaking, and a kind of
radiance broke over its face preparatory thereto,
she fainted, and fell to the ground.
At this sight, David, who in the deep interest
of the moment, had neglected to defend himself
against the magic vapour which filled the room—
was thrown into a state of feverish excitement,
almost resembling frenzy. He laid his hand upon
the curtain, for the purpose of tearing it open,
jb»GoogIe
I 1•
#
THB MAGICIAN 309
and rushing to the assistance of the Damsel.' But
his habitual presence of mind triumphed; and, in­
haling the essence strongly, he looked once more
through his hole of observation.
The spectre had vanished; and Orosmandel
with his back towards him, now bent over Pau­
line, chafing her temples with ointment. She was
therefore safe. This was the moment of escape,
if escape were possible at a ll; and David, after an
instant’s reflection, glided forth from his lurking-
place, and, although reeling, from the confusion
of his brain, contrived to step so lightly, that he
succeeded in gaining the door unperceived. When
he was fairly in the passage, he was fain to lean
for some moments against the wall; but the cool
air speedily revived him, and presently he found
himself once more in his own dormitory.
Here his first business was to drink largely
from the water-pitcher, and to bathe his head in
the refreshing element. He then threw himself
down upon the pallet, wondering within himself
whether the adventures of the night were over.
His doubts on this subject were soon at an end;
310 THE MAGICIAN.
for two or three minutes had scarcely elapsed,
when he heard Orosmandel at the bottom of the
ladder calling him by his name ; he sprang up on
the instant, loosened his dagger in the sheath, in
case of need, and descended to the passage, where
he found the sage, with a lighted lamp in his
hand.
“ Thou slumberest lightly, my son,” said the lat­
ter, in his usual tone, “ and this is well, for it indi­
cates a preponderance of the intellectual over the
corporeal part.”
“ It is acustom,” replied David, “ which we have
over the water; where sometimes, if a sleeping
man start not up ere the voice is well out of the
lips that call, he has a fair chance of awaking in
purgatory.”
“Thine, I know, is a wild country; but casual­
ties sometimes occur, even in the dwellings of
science. Here is a maiden, whose physical strength
hath proved unequal to the vigour of her mind.
Take her up in thy arms, and carry her through
the private apartments' of the baron; delivering
her at the end of the corridor into the hands of
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 311
her attendants.” He led the way as he spoke, to
the door of the study ; where Pauline lay upon
the ground, resting her head against the wall, and,
to all appearance, fast asleep.
“ Take her up in thy arms,” continued Oros-
mandel, “ and have no fear, for the baron is forth
to night. And be sure, that when her hand­
maidens have laid her down, thou linger awhile,
till she awake. Then shalt thou put thy lips to
her ear, and demand, *Where hast thou been ?
What sawest thou V for the answer thou shalt bring
me will indicate the description of medicine she
must receive to-morrow.” David did as he was
commanded, without reply ; and the philosopher
lighted him with his fair burden, along the pas­
sage, and opened the door with his own hands.
After descending some steps, and turning
round a sharp angle, the student found himself in
a corridor of great length, lighted at intervals by
lamps hung from the roof. The doors on either
side opened into the private apartments of Gilles
de Retz ; and one of these, no doubt, was the pri­
son-house of Hagsr.
312 THB MAGICIAN.
David knocked at a venture, at some of these
doors, as he went along; and at length, one was
opened by an elderly woman, who demanded, in
some surprise, but with infinite respect, what he
wanted ?
“ The lady,” replied he. She hesitated, looking
frightened, and perplexed.
“ Conduct me to her instantly,” said he, sternly,
and pointing behind with a significant gesture
towards the magician’s tower. Her scruples im­
mediately vanished: and she led the way to a
door a little further .on, where she knocked softly.
“ Who knocketh ?” demanded a voice within.
“ It is I,” replied the woman, “ you must open
at once.”
“ Not at this hour, to any one— not till the light
of God shine upon the world.”
David knocked in the manner he had been wont
to do at the subterranean door, and repeated aloud
the word, “ Trismegistus!” when immediately,
as if wrought upon by a spell, the barrier flew
open. On entering the room, he turned round de­
liberately, and shut the door in the face of the
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 313
astonished gouvemante. He then laid down his
burden upon Hagar’s bed, which had not yet been
pressed by herself, and applying his phial of essence
to the nostrils of the sleeper, she started, and
awoke.
“ Where hast thou been?” said he softly.
“ What hast thou seen V’
“ l have been beyond the clouds," answered
Pauline, but without returning to consciousness of
the things or persons around her, “ and I have
seen him, Prelati, who came from the grave to
meet me.”
“ And when he vanished from before your eyes,
what then ?"
" I followed him, for I could not help it. He
called my name; and I mounted after him into
the air,, higher, higher than the lark soars, or the
cloud rolls. The stars swept in circles above our
heads, hissing through the golden air, and the
earth was like a star beneath our feet, only sta­
tionary and alone. Then Prelati turned round,
and I saw that he was a demon of the abyss; and
VOL. II. p
O' Google
314 THE MAOICIAN.
I flew shrieking down the fields of space, till the
whole universe rang with my cries. But he seized
me; he caught me by my long hair, that streamed
in the wind— when suddenly his arm was struck
from his body by the blow of a sword. We are
now safe. Hide me, love, in thy coat, and lay
the Bloody Heart next to mine. But take away
the dead arm that still clings to my hair.— Faugh!
it makes me shudder. Cut off the tress— there—
“ ‘ 0 Douglas, Douglas,
Tender and true !” ’
Pauline’s voice wandered into a well-known
tune, as she repeated these lines of a Scottish
ballad ; and at the close she sank into a profound
sleep.
Hagar, in the meantime, had been employed in
arranging the bewildered lady in her bed; and
David lost some portion of the answer to his
questions, in observing the grace of her motions,
and the kindness and pity of her looks.
“ Hagar,” said he at length, taking hold of
t,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 3 1 5
both her hands, “ I must be brief, for every mo­
ment is counted. The Damsel of Laval has pro­
mised to protect you; and you have indeed need
of all the protection you can receive, both from
earth and heaven. Taste not of their potions or
elixirs; let not their ointments touch your skin;
and when their perfumes assail your senses, inhale
the contents of this phial. Avoid the philosopher’s
tower, as you would avoid the abyss of hell; for
Prelati is there— the friend, the confidant, the ac­
complice of Orosmandel. Be wary, yet let not
yourheart fail; and, in whatever circumstances of
peril you may be placed, remember that there is
one within these walls who would cheerfully lose
his life to save one hair of your head !"
“ Friend ! Brother! Why is this ? I know thou
hast the wit and the power to escape. Fly, I
entreat, I implore thee, and leave in the hands
of the Most High a life far less precious than
thine !”
“ May God do so to me, and more also, if I fly
without you !”
„«,7«»»Google
3 1 6 THE MAU1CIAN.
“ O wherefore is this? Merciful providence,
this is the sorest trial of a ll! Get thee gone to
thy people, to thy home, to thine altar; and I
swear by the living God, that the desolate Jewess
will bless thee with her last breath !”
“ Here,” said the student, “ all creeds are
alike; for this is the gate of death. Christian
and Jewess no more, we are fellow-beings, twin-
children of mortality, with one God for our Judge,
one earth for our grave. Farewell!”
She could not answer for weeping. He opened
the door, and signed once more an adieu. She
clasped her hands upon her throbbing bosom, and
threw them towards him, as if they contained the
deepest, dearest blessings of her heart.
" Hagar !” cried he, with a sinking voice.
“ David !”
And so they parted.
end op von. II.
London : Haddon and Co., Doctor»’Common».
vGoogle
THE
M A G I C I A N
L E I T C H R I T C H I E
. THREE VOLUMES
VOL. Ill
LONDON
JOHN MACRONE, ST. JAMES’S SQUARE
MDCCCXXXVI
Digitizedby Google
ïm¿sy,3ÿ
J . H a d d o n a n d C o . D o c to r» ' C o m m o n s .
Digitizedby Google
THE MAGICIAN.
C H A P T E R I
In this well-read age, it is needless to say, that
the Jew’s proposal to assassinate an enemy, too
powerful to be brought to public justice, was
listened to by his audience of the fifteenth century
without the slightest manifestation either of surprise
or horror. Douglas still thought, however, that he
had a better chance of success with the sword,
than the feeble old man with the dagger; and
besides this, like a true knight-errant, he would
almost have regretted the liberation of his mistress
from the dragon which haunted her, if the adventure
had been achieved by another. As for the three
students, they were satisfied with neither champion.
VOL. III. B
D
ioiw
oae,GoOgle
2 THE MAGICIAN.
ITiey thought— and, perhaps, with reason— that the
habitual punctilios of the knight would pass very
well at a toumay, but were altogether out of place
in the present emergency; while the deadly pur­
pose- of Caleb, after they had withdrawn from the
fascination of the old man’s glare, appeared to them
almost ridiculous.
But the cool, or rather cold judgment of Andrew
mastered even his own temperament; and, on the
morning of his adventure, he took the way to the
house of the Jew, determined to listen attentively
to his instructions, and to obey them so far as he
found it practicable and prudent.
The house of Rabbi Solomon was easily found ;
and he was conducted through several dark and
narrow passages in it to the apartment occupied
by Caleb. The room was large, but scantily fur­
nished ; and he found its tenant sitting at a table
placed in the middle of the floor. No books, no
papers, no food, were before him: his occupation
was gone. No more the busy, restless, feverish
alchemist we have seen him, he sate leaning his
head upon his hand, his eyes round and dilated,
.Google
THE MAGICIAN. 3
staring upon vacancy, and his features as destitute
of colour and mobility as those of a corpse.
“ Cover her with a veil!” said he, as Andrew
approached the table, but without moving even
his eyes, and in the voice of a sleeper who dreams.
“ I will not look upon her: not if my heart
breaketh ! Begone!” He looked up; and, after
resting for an instant upon the visiter, his glance
wandered round the room, as if in search of some
one. The next moment he recovered himself,
with a sound like that of a repressed shiver; and,
crushing his withered fingers together, he rose up.
“ It is cold,” said he, with a ghastly smile; “ but
I cannot give thee a warmer welcome, for my fire
is out; see! there is not a spark left!” and he
walked towards the chimney, which, indeed, bore
no vestige of fire, save the ashes of last winter.
“ Who hath done this ?” continued he, starting
back. “ Here be two stools ! For whom is the
second ? W hy, what a fool am I ! Sit thee down,
friend Andrew, for thou and I make two; sit thee
down— sit thee down.”
Caleb betrayed no farther wandering of mind
Dig* Google
4 THE MAGICIAN.
during the interview. His thoughts, disturbed by
the entrance of Andrew, in the midst of a reverie
which had probably lasted several hours, seemed
to recover their tranquillity as easily as the waters
of a lake broken by the plunge of a stone ; and
the communion held between the two allies— with
one brief and slight exception— was steady and
business-like.
The questions to be propounded by Andrew
related chiefly to the changes that might have
taken place in the localities of the Magician’s
tower, and their connection with the rest of the
building, during the residence of Orosmandel— a
personage with whom Caleb appeared to be alto­
gether unacquainted. He was particularly desirous
of ascertaining whether the same interior commu­
nication, as formerly, still existed with the general
storehouses of the castle ; and he described
minutely the manner in which it had been the
custom to remove bulky articles from these dépôts
into the tower.
If there was no change of importance, David was
instructed to descend secretly, and in the night-
b
V
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 5
time, to the storehouse, immediately after the
arrival of Houpelande’s bales, and to cut one of
them open, distinguished by stripes of green and
red; in which he would find every thing that was
necessary for the furtherance of their design. But
in case circumstances should render his flight
necessary before that moment, Andrew was fur­
nished with a sealed document, addressed to his
friend, which, he was assured, would materially
assist in his escape.
“ Having treasured in thy mind,” concluded
Caleb, “ the answers of the young man, and
delivered unto him this plan, which shall guide
him, when he findeth opportunity of escape,
through the watery wilderness, thou wilt ask him—
No: what needeth this?— thou wilt ask him no­
thing. Thou wilt straightway hie thee back unto
me? from whom thou shalt receive neither thanks
nor silver, but gold— yea, much fine gold for thy
pains. Yet, peradventure, he wall open his lips
unto thee without asking; and if so, thou wilt give
ear unto his words.*’
\
“ What words ? On what subject ?”
b 2
iw
odbvGoogle
6 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Touching the Hebrew girl,” replied Caleb, irt
a hoarse whisper, “ whom he received at my hands.
M y soul knowcth her fate; but I would also hear
it with mine ears. Peradventure, thou laughest in
thy sleeve at the folly of the Jew? Laugh on;
for it is the weakness of human nature, and thou
art a man as well as I. I tell thee I have seen that
girl in my dreams; and all this day she was present
before my waking eyes. And how ? Sitting upon
the ground? her garments rent? her face covered
•
with a veil ? and dust upon her head ? I say unto
thee, N ay: but in raiment of angel whiteness; her
dark hair crowned with the flowers of spring; with
the soft, yet exulting step of the gazelle; with a
face fairer than the fairest among the daughters of
Jerusalem— fair as that of Eve before she sinned—
as that of Dinah ere she visited the daughters of
Shalem— as that of Tamar when as yet Amnon
was her brother! O God of Jacob, how hard of
belief thou hast made the heart of a father!” At
this moment a noise of loud voices, and tumultuous
steps, was heard in the passage ; and Andrew, glid­
ing to the door, slipped in the bolt.
ON Google
THE MAGICIAN. 7
“ It is ill conversing,” lie remarked, “ with
fractious people about one; and may be Messire
Caleb would not like to be intruded upon just at
this moment.”
“ Open the door, signor Jew,” cried a rough
voice from without, after a rougher hand had
tampered with the handle, till the whole machine
shook in its frame: “ we are here, two cavaliers of
name and honour, upon lawful business; and if,
before we go, we have not an answer, yea or nay,
from your lips, call me no more Claude Montri­
chard !”
“ Then I answer, Nay,1
* replied Caleb; “ and
now go in peace, and go speedily, or it will be the
worse for you both.”
“ We take no answer till you hear our business.
The old fool must be crazed, I think. Lend me
your shoulder, Beauchamp, and I’ll warrant you we
shall be admitted to the honour of an audience with
his highness in half a second.”
“ I draw you to observe, sirs,” said Andrew,
“ before you offer violence, that you intrude, at
your own proper peril, not only upon a Jew, but
Digi Google
8 THE MAGICIAN.
upon a Christian, and a Scot to boot— one Andrew
Kerr, whose blood is as red as that of the laird of
Cessford himself. The beleaguered garrison,” con­
tinued he, in a whisper, “ should always put a good
face upon the matter; and in the present case, the
odds are desperate enough to require the bravest
words in the vocabulary. By the gingling of their
spurs, and the clank of their metal, our assailants
are men-at-arms, ready accoutred for the field; and
you, Caleb, it cannot be denied (to say nothing of
myself, which would be indecorous), are but a Jew
after all.”
A part of this aside was drowned in the scornful
laugh of Beauchamp.
“ A Scot and a Jew !” said he. “ By my hali­
dome, a right well assorted pair, and perilous to
boot! I pray thee, Montrichard, be not over
valiant; let us keep the windward side of the door,
if thou love me.” Caleb, stepping before Andrew,
whose hand instinctively grasped the hilt of his
sword as he heard an English voice, withdrew the
bolt, and threw open the door.
“ What would ye? ” demanded he, imperiously.
D
i
g
i
t aC^gle
THE MAGICIAN. 9
“ Money ! money !” replied Montrichard. “ The
knave Solomon is too cautious, and refuses to deal;
but you, I remember— if you be indeed Caleb the
Jew— have a spice of speculation in your spirit,
which induces you to lend an ear for your own
advantage, even when no tangible security is in
the way.”
“ I am Caleb, the son of Benjamin ; and I know
thee well, Claude Montrichard. But for the pre­
sent I am engaged— every moment of my time,
every ounce of my capital. I pray thee be satis­
fied.” •
“ And so I will, when you hear me. Your
money, of course, is engaged ; but then, you know,
you can borrow from another, and that demands
double interest. Come, come, we are no strangers to
each other, although we may not have chanced to
meet for a few years. W ill you hear my project ?”
“ N o ! I say unto thee again, that I cannot, and
will not, assist thee— even were ample security
deposited in the palm of my hand.”
“ Then the toads of La Verrière may croak
unmolested for Claude ! Come, Beauchamp,” and
b 3
Do«!«* byGoogle
10 THE MAGICIAN.
lie was just striding out of the room, when Caleb
sprang after him with a sudden bound, and caught
him by the arm.
“ How now, sir Jew?’ cried Montrichard, shak­
ing him off with disgust and indignation, “ what is
the bond between us, that you dare profane my
person with your unbelieving fingers?”
“ Pardon me, valiant knight— or pardon me not,
for it is all one. If the project of which thou hast
spoken relate to La Verrière, I will hear it Speak,
and to the point !”
“ Crazed, by the mass !— hopelessly crazed !”
“ I opine,” said Beauchamp, “ that the respect­
able person, into whose presence you have intro­
duced me, is one of those who have been compelled,
for some years past, by the magic of Gilles de Retz,
to keep full the purse, which he, at the same time,
toiled with both hands to empty. If so, it is nothing
more than natural that he should wish to go shares
with the spoilers of La Verrière.”
“ It must be so. W ilt be one with us, Caleb ?
Say, wilt buckle harness on ? Or act as the banker
of the camp? Choose!”
Digiw«Jt,GoO^Ic
THE MAGICIAN. 11
“ It may be that I shall do both. But to con­
vince you that the crawling Jew hath already his
hand upon his bow and his spear— know, Mont­
richard, and thou who art called Beauchamp, that
this young man is even now setting forth, on a
visit of espial, to the castle of La Verrière.”
“ Ha ! Is It even so ? A perilous adventure, if
report speak true !”
“ Not for our red-blooded friend,” said Beau­
champ ; “ for a Scot is like your cat-o’-the-woods,
who can creep as well as spring ; and he hath also
the feline property, that if you throw him league-
high over the ramparts, he will alight upon his
feet— and that, too, on the sunny side of the
ditch.”
“ I accept the compliment,” replied Andrew,
“ and forgive the sarcasm. It is owing, no doubt,
to those same qualities of courage and sagacity, that
a Scot makes his way where a Southron dares not
show his face.”
“ No more of this !” cried Montrichard, step­
ping between them, “ our present meeting may
turn out fortunate for all parties, if we only improve
D
ia
m
M
d
b
vG o o g le
12 THE MAGICIAN.
the opportunity. Prithee, Beauchamp, forget
your national animosities, and, since the youth
claims to be of noble descent, receive him as a
comrade.”
“ I am the slave of my friends,” replied the
English knight, superciliously; and turning to­
wards Andrew, he bent forward, in a scarcely
perceptible degree, and moving no more a joint of
his body than if his armour had been a single
piece of cast metal. This salute, having been
imitated by the Scot with mathematical precision,
the meeting then proceeded to business.
Montrichard explained frankly— for the matter
had now become public— that the family of Laval
with their friends and kinsmen, had resolved to
look on no longer as indifferent spectators at the
dismemberment of the princely property of Gilles de
Retz. They had determined not only to prevent
the further sale of his lands; but to wrest back
from the Duke, if necessary by main force, those
which that grasping potentate had already ac­
quired.
The first step, in any case, would have been to
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 1 3
get possession, if possible, of the baron’s person,
and garrison his castle with the troops of the
malcontents; for this was the usual opening of
proceedings in a question even of law, which
related to a noble. But Gilles de Retz was, in
other respects, placed in very critical and peculiar
circumstances. The vague rumours concerning
him, which had echoed all over Brittany, had now
begun to assume some intelligible meaning. The
cry of blood was heard from the ditches of La
Verriere. The church, neither cajoled by his
appearance of piety, nor bribed by his gifts,
demanded an inquiry into the magical abomina­
tions into which he was reported to have fallen;
and the Legate of Rome, then in Nantes, exerted
himself openly to procure his arrest as a suspected
sorcerer. The Duke himself, though steadily
pursuing his own aggrandisement, in defiance of
his nobles, could no longer affect deafness in the
midst of such a clamour. The alleged crimes,
both against religion and nature, were in fact at
this moment the subject of discussion in the
council; and it was confidently expected that in a
Digitized by Google
H THE MAGICIAN.
day or two the enemies of Gilles de Retz would
be backed by the government of the country.
But let not the reader miscalculate the effect of
so formidable a hostility. Gilles de Retz was so
strong in personal connections, and so well
entrenched in the fortifications of his castle, that
he might have set at defiance even a combination
like this. A general would have brought the
warrant for his arrest at the head of an army; and
his process would have been carried on by the
losing and winning of battles. . If it was his fate to
fall, he would have been defeated, and perhaps
slain, on his own ramparts; but, if the contest
could be sufficiently prolonged, the chances were,
that circumstances of national emergency might
occur, in which it would be the interest of all
parties to terminate the affair by means of treaties.
The war, therefore, which the family of Laval
contemplated, was tedious and doubtful; and Mont­
richard sought to make preparations for the part
he was to take in it, by raising a loan of money
for the opening of the campaign. With the
assistance of Beauchamp and his troop, he intended
lM>,Google
Dig*
THE MAGICIAN. 15
to capture one of the inferior fortresses of the Lord
pay his debt to the Jew. Beyond this his definite
*
views did not extend. For any thing farther, he
resolved, like a true soldier of fortune, to trust to
the chance of arms.
His conference with Caleb, however, opened a
clearer and prouder vista for his ambition. The old
man assured him, in defiance ofall received opinions,
that the castle might be taken by surprise; and
then, if successful, he, Montrichard, a subordinate
leader in the cabal, would achieve the adventure
in his own person. The wealth still at La Ver­
rière, not only in money, but in precious articles of
every description, was reported to be immense;
and, as in single combats the horse and arms
of the vanquished became the prize of the victor,
so in assaults and sieges, if the conqueror did not
help himself freely, he was held to be a person
ignorant of the laws and privileges of arms.
As for Beauchamp, he had, no doubt, the same
golden dreams as Montrichard ; but, cold and
supercilious as he appeared, he had also some that
de Retz, and compel the surrounding tenantry to
16 THE MAGICIAN.
were tinged couleur de rose. Want of employment,
love of adventure, and a dwindling purse, all three
causes combined, had induced him to take a part in
the dangerous game now going forward; but no
sooner had his eyes rested on the nobly beautiful
face of Pauline de Laval, than a new impulse was
added, which served, at once, to strengthen and
elevate the others.
He became, from that moment, in the language
of chivalry, the vassal of her charms; and, himself
of a high and haughty family, he saw no impedi­
ment in the way of his love, which valour and
good fortune might not remove. The enterprize
to which the Jew darkly pointed— for he would
give no explanation till the return of the spy—
appeared to him to be an enterprize opened out for
him expressly by his patron saint; and he turned
towards the young Scot an eye, divested of every
expression but that of the keen and critical inquiry
with which practised soldiers examine their agent
or comrade in a perilous adventure.
As for Andrew, who read nothing in his com­
panions’ looks, but that they longed mightily to
Digitizedby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 17
appropriate to themselves the honour and danger
of an adventure, which he had privately determined
to reserve for his own countrymen, he was little
disposed to sympathize with the change in their
demeanour. He continued to look first at one, and
then at the other, with a coldness, but at the same
time, with a keenness of observation, which at
length gave some annoyance to the Englishman.
“ By my faith,” said he, “ if you will only use
your eyes as well àt La Verrière, you are the very
man for our purpose.”
“ You mistake,” said Andrew, quietly, “ I thrust
not my head into the lion’s mouth, for any purpose
of yours. I go to La Verrière upon mine own
errand ; and while, there, if I further the views of
Caleb, it is because he lends himself, in like
manner, to mine. This, Sir Southron, is our way
in the north.”
“ And a very excellent way it is !” said Montri­
chard, biting his lips. “ For our parts, we are
ready to reciprocate with you, in every possible
manner, if you will only let us know how.”
“ That will I readily do on my return ; and it
18 THE MAGICIAN.
may be, that the only demand I shall make for my
intelligence, will be a post in the forlorn hope of
the attack. I might indeed boast of some little expe­
rience in culverines, and such like engines of war
— but let that pass for the present. I shall now go
forth, to creep into La Verrière; and if I only have
the fortune to alight on my feet, when they throw
me over the ramparts, we shall all four talk
further;” and with a stiff bow to the knights, and a
patronizing nod to the Jew, Andrew left the apart­
ment
“ He will do !” said Montrichard, following him
with a hawk’s glance. “ Bold, tranquil, keen,
smooth, and tough as twisted steel, that fellow
wants nothing but a little rashness and stupidity,
to be an accomplished soldier ! And now, friend
Caleb, comes the most unpleasant part of the
business;— we cannot stir, hand or foot, without
money.”
“ It is ready.”
“ Bravely spoken ! And the security— hum !—
let me see— what say you, Beauchamp ?” Beau­
champ shrugged his shoulders, and began to whistle.
Digit« ^Google
THE MAGICIAN. 19
“ Sir knights,” said the Jew, “ It may come to
pass that, through my means, ye shall enter in
triumph within the gates of La Verrière. There is
one there— a daughter of our people— whom ye
will know by her rent garments, and the ashes on
her head. Swear unto me, that ye will bring that
woman forth, and place her within the hands of
my kinsman, Solomon, of this house? W ill ye
swear ?”
“ W e will pledge our honour,” said Montrichard.
“ But we will not profane the name of our
Saviour,” added Beauchamp, “ by taking it in
question at the demand of a Jew.”
“ I accept your word,” said Caleb, with a
ghastly smile ; “ for I know that ye think it more
base to lie unto man than unto God.”
“ And the security ? When will the bond be
ready ?” .
“ Security ! Bond ! Do ye think that the Jew
will demand more assurance for his gold, than for
his— Away ! Begone ! The money will follow
you ; and when the young man retumeth, it may
be, that we shall meet again.”
20 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Crazed, by the Holy V irgin!” ejaculated
Montrichard in a whisper, as he went out, “ wild
— frantic —clean distraught!”
“ If so,” said Beauchamp, with a shrug, “ it is
fortunate that his gold, for which he can have no
further use himself, fells into the hands of true
believers.”
o*ta*byGoogle
C H A P T E R II.
It is necessary that we anticipate, by a brief
space, the arrival of Andrew at the castle of La
Verrière.
When Hagar and David parted, on the night
when he had entered her room.so unexpectedly,
the heart of the young Jewess was in such confusion
that it is no wonder if her usually steady brain
shared a little in the disorder. She stood by the
door, listening to his footsteps ; and long after they
had died away, continued to hear them in imagina­
tion ; while tears, half of pity, half of a wild and
fearful joy, streamed down her cheeks. She had
at the same instant learnt to understand both
David’s feelings, and her own. There was no
o^ocb,Google
22 THE MAGICIAN.
longer any room for either doubt or fear. All
was certainty*—awful, dreadful certainty.
She at length turned round, with a faltering
step, and whirling brain, and approached the bed.
The Damsel remained buried in profound sleep;
and it was some moments before Hagar could
remember how she had come there. David was
in her mind, and not his actions as regarded
others. His words were still sounding through
the innermost depths of her bosom— “ Christian and
Jewess no more, we are fellow beings, twin children
of mortality, with one God for our judge, one
earth for our grave!”
Summoning those energies, however, which she
rarely summoned in vain, Hagar at length com­
prehended every thing; and it was with a gleam
almost of hope, that she followed out in her own
mind the adventure of which she traced the cause.
Pauline, it appeared to her, was, in one respect, in
a predicament resembling her own: she was the
expected neophyte of some new and extraordinary
doctrine, of which her own father was the apostle.
What was the end or object of this attempted prose-
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 23
lytism, IIagar could not tell, and hardly ventured
to imagine. The philosophy of the calm and
stately Orosraandel had come forth from the lips of
Gilles de Reti in words of fire; and, on more
than one occasion, the eyes of the Jewess had
lightened, and her bosom throbbed high with
enthusiasm, as she listened. The doctrine itself—
grand, massive, lofty, and shapeless from its very
vastness— was such as only a daring imagination
could conceive, or follow. It was based upon
pride and intellectual ambition. It asserted the
equality of spirit throughout the universe, sinking
man to the level of the worm, and yet raising him
to the glory of the angels. It laughed at the
immutability of nature, and preached rebellion
against the decrees of destiny.
What was there in this to affright ? It was not
absolutely irreconcilable with some interpretations
of revealed religion; it enlarged and elevated the
mind; exercised the imagination; opened out
more extensive views of the power of the Deity,
and the vastness of the scheme of creation; and
explored at least a portion of the immensity of the
h
g
i
l
u „Googl
24 THE MAGICIAN.
universe which before was an abysm of darkness
imperviable to the human gaze.
The evil was, tliat it was not merely a specu­
lative philosophy, such as sages and poets might
ponder over by the light of the midnight lamp. It
was of a directly practical nature; and its prose­
lytes were admonished, that they were to exchange
slumber for waking, rest for action, the life of the
body for the life of the spirit. By the body was
meant, not merely the material form, but those
sympathies which bind the human race together,
and chain the individual to his place in creation.
This bond was to be broken; the links of the
habits torn asunder; the lessons of human wisdom
unlearnt; and the soul, even while tenanting a hu­
man form, set free from the trammels of humanity.
A curious distinction, however, was made
between the habits, and acquired desires of the
mind, and the instincts of the body. . It was the
former that were to be repressed, changed, or cast
away; while the cravings of the latter, because the^
might be harassing to the spirit, were to be appeased
by gratification. Was not this to strengthen the
4
owind*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 25
meaner part of our nature, at the same moment
when we attempted to liberate from its control
the nobler? No, it was replied: it was to dis­
unite for ever the two parts of our being. It was
to confine the body to its sensual cravings, and
leave the mind free to its intellectual pursuits.
The passions might be indulged without danger;
but the affections, which were the connecting links
between the animal and the spirit, must be de­
stroyed.
But here Gilles de Retz had hitherto stopped
short. What was to be the application of so
startling a lesson ? No longer bold in reasoning
or plausible in sophistry, at this point he hid him-
t
self in mysticism. With some reference to Oros-
mandel, as the master sage— with many hints that
the moment for full explanation was not arrived—
or that the mind of the novice was not sufficiently
prepared, he retired from her presence, leaving her
to digest what she had heard, and to lose herself
in conjecture with regard to what was to come.
Hagar believed, from some words which had
dropped unconsciously from the baron, that his
vol. in. c
Digitized by Googk
2 6 t h e m a g i c i a n .
daughter was undergoing a similar course of
instruction; and the adventure of this night
inclined her to think, that the noviciate of Pauline
was at an end, and that she liad been admitted
by Orosmandel into the secret. What secret
this was, communicated in the dead of night,
administered at the same moment with narcotic
drugs, and followed by delirium and stupor, she
dared not imagine. The whole, she could gather
from the words of David, was a system of fraud
and delusion. Yet how suppose that a father
could be engaged in a plot against his own
daughter ? It mattered not: Prelati was the
accomplice of Orosmandel, and if so, whoever
were the other abettors, it must be in the perpetra­
tion of some gigantic crime.
At all events, her own situation and prospects
were rather better than worse. In the morning
she would make a confidant of Pauline; and that
lady would perhaps be prevailed upon to take
her under her protection. She would appeal to
the baron’s honour in behalf of David, whose
liberation had been solemnly promised to her; and,
now«"*G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 27
through the influence of his daughter she might
herself be permitted to leave the castle. Such were
the reveries of Hagar, when the attendants of the
Damsel entered the room to seek their mistress.
Mademoiselle de Laval was carried, still sleep­
ing, to her own apartments; and the Jewess
followed close to the heels of the attendants, not
daring to raise her head, and hardly believing her
own good fortune. This, however, was soon at an
end. The private corridor of the baron was
separated from the other portion of the building
by an iron door; on the inner side of which a
porter sat constantly, day and night. The man
recognised the two attendants, whom he had
admitted but a few minutes before, add also the
Damsel; but when Hagar attempted to follow
them he thrust her back without ceremony.
Remonstrances were vain; and she would have
seized the young lady’s gown to attempt to awaken
her.
“ It is needless,” said the porter coolly, as he
turned the key; “ the damsel has no power on
this side of the door. You can only pass by the
OighizedIvGoogle
2 8 THE MAGICIAN.
express orders of the baron.” It may be conceived
with what dismay the Jewess returned to her
prison !
The next day, instead of waiting, as formerly,
till she was sent for, she demanded an audience of
the baron; and, having received permission, she
glided with a pale cheek, but a stately step, and a
collected manner, to the room where he received
publicly his visiters.
Gilles de Retz was striding rapidly through the
room, with more of decision and exultation in his
manner than she had ever witnessed before; and
Hagar paused, involuntarily, at the door, to con­
template for a moment his appearance. His step
was firm, yet elastic; his chest was thrown open
with pride and determination; his eyes blazed
with a steady light; and every part of his singu­
larly handsome countenance bore the impress both
of will and power. He was at an age when the
passions are at the strongest; and the frame in
which they were lodged seemed to be as yet
unwasted by the feverish workings of the. spirit
within. Even his hair, which was flung back
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 2 9
from bis face in glittering clusters, exhibited no
trace of that untimely change which prophecies
decay, when man ¡9 still in the zenith of his
strength, and whispers to the proud heart of forty
years— “ In the midst of life we are in death!”
Hagar knew, while she looked upon him, that this
man was a being either to be loved or dreaded,
and she grew- yet paler at the thought; but,
summoning all her courage, she crossed her hands
firmly on her bosom, and advanced into the room.
“ M y Lord de Retz,” said she, steadily, “ Thou
didst tell me that the damsel, thy daughter, was
absent from the castle on a visit. She hath now
returned, for 1 saw her last night; and I claim thy
promise to be permitted to lodge under her pro­
tection, so long as it is thy pleasure to keep mo
here a captive.*’
“ You are a captive, Hagar,” replied the baron,
“ and so am I. Yet we are not captives of each
other, but of a higher power which modifies the
actions of us both. W hy did you thrust yourself
upon me in the solitude of yonder midnight hill,
sacred to the forgotten dead? T>id I summon
c 2
IIWODyGoOgle
30 THE MAGICIAN.
you ? Why, after we had parted, did you appear
before me, like a spirit, in the midst of the private
apartments of my own house? Were you sent
for by me? You accuse me of contrivance and
duplicity— it would be as rational for me to suspect
you of forwardness and coquetry.”
“ Suppose, then, that neither thou nor I have
been to blame thus far— ” .
“ I know it. I call God to witness that, from
the moment of our first meeting, I have been as
unconscious an agent in our destinies as a straw
dancing on the waters of a torrent! You appeared
before me; and, from the loveliness of your
person, and the radiance of mind shining through
your eyes, I believed you, for a moment, to be of a
higher order of beings than we on the earth. I soon
found my mistake. I saw that you were a woman
— yet a spirit; a thing of dust, created lower
than the demons, yet possessing within you the germ
of that power which may be rendered capable of
controling and commanding them. What is it
you desire ? Liberty ? It is neither mine to give
nor yours to receive. Come, let us put it to the
DlgilmMBy G 0 0 g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 3 1
test, and observe what will be the result. I bid
you be free ! Aw ay! The doors shall be opened,
till they strain their hinges. Vanish from my
presence, and betake you, if you will, to the
uttermost ends of the earth !”
“ Let me first ”—
“ Not a word!. Begone— I bid you be free!
W hat! you hesitate ! Your cheek flushes, and
then grows pale ! You will not accept of liberty ?
Because you cannot f You are mine, because my
fortunes cannot be accomplished without your
aid; and I am yours, because without mine you
cannot rise from the earth. I tell you, Hagar, we
must on; for there is no turning back. This
world shall soon be no longer any thing to us but
as one of the planets. Our home shall be the
universe; our dominion, the realms of space.
Even our material part, which must still dwell
below, will be sublimed by the dominance of
spirit. Every fibre of the body will thrill with
new and more delicate life; till the meanest
pleasures of the senses shall equal in poignancy
the most ecstatic enjoyments of mind in an ordi­
,Google
32 THE MAGICIAN.
nary state of existence. The connection which
will exist between us can be only faintly shadowed
forth by the name of love. Cnt off from the upper
beings by the difference in onr created form, and
from mankind by the acquisitions of our spirit, we
shall be alone in the universe. The thoughts,
and pursuits— as deep and vast as the immensity
around us— which will be common to us both, but
which cannot even be comprehended by others,
will form the links of that chain which will bind
us together, body and soul, as if in a single life !”
The baron spoke with headlong impetuosity.
His words rushed forth, unselected and unimpelled;
and his cheek burned the while, and his eye
blazed, with an enthusiasm which would have
fascinated, if it had not terrified, his hearer. This
was no contrivance— no deceit It was the
earnestness of a man fully impressed with the
truth of what he liad said, and labouring under the
influence either of inspiration or delusion. Hagar
stood like one amazed; and looked upon the per­
sonification before her of W ill and Power both
with terror and admiration.
DigitizedfryL»oogle
THE MAGICIAN. 33
“ I would cheerfully,” continued he, “ assign
you a lodging in my daughter’s apartments; but
the hour of our fate is at hand, and all trivial consi­
derations must be laid aside. It is impossible that
you can have any serious apprehension for your­
self; for although as completely in my power as if
we were in the midst of a desert, I have never, in
look, word, or action, offended your delicacy. The
hour, I tell you, is at hand; and the intermediate
time it is necessary that you pass in the study of
Orosmandel.” At these words, the Jewess, clasp­
ing her hands, uttered a stifled scream.
“ Not there !” she cried, “ not there! Bury me
rather in the subterranean dungeons of thy house!
Shut me up in damp, and darkness, and hunger,
and cold— and see if there shall escape one tear
from my eye, one murmur from my lips!”
“ This is phrenzy, Hagar,” said the baron.
“ Orosmandel, besides being a man without human
passions himself, has a stake almost as deep as my
own in your safety. Do you think that any consi­
deration on earth would tempt me to place you in a
c 3
Digitizedby Google
34. THE MAGICIAN.
situation of danger ? Do you at once doubt my
love as a man, and my honour as a knight?”
“ For thy love, my lord,” replied Hagar, proudly,
“ it is a question in which I can have no interest;
and which, indeed, as yet, to give thee due honour,
thou hast not had the meanness to force into the
ear of a captive. Last night, however, thy daughter
was brought into my chamber by the young man
whom thou didst solemnly promise some days ago
to set at liberty. How am I to reconcile this with
thine honour?”
“ Easily: for the young man was in the service
of Orosmandel, not in mine. My influence, how­
ever, has already been used, and I have received
permission to do with him as I please. To-day—
this instant, he shall depart. Will this satisfy
you ?”
“ I thank thee, "humbly and gratefully,” replied
Hagar; her mind relieved of one of its loads of
care. “ It is but to die,” continued she, mentally,
“ and to die alone. I praise the Most High that
David will neither witness nor share my fate!”
Google
The baron, who seemed eager to re-establish
himselfin the good opinion ofthe Jewess, and also to
give her some breathing-time before renewing the
subject of their conversation, sent immediately to
desire the attendance of Orosmandel’s assistant.
The servant whom he called for that purpose took
the opportunity of announcing, that a messenger
firom Jacquin Houpelande waited without for an
audience; and thus it happened, that David and
Andrew entered the room at the same moment, by
opposite doors.
Andrew bowed first to the lady, and then to the
lord; and then looked steadily at his quondam
comrade, thinking it prudent to wait for his recog­
nition, and not a little marvelling at the newchange
which had taken place in his costume. David had
doffed his cloak, and appeared now in a dress of buff*
leather, made so tightly to the form, that it must
have been taken for his skin, had not his neck and
chest, which were exposed, borne testimony against
the fact, by their greater delicacy of colour. A
red shawl, wrapped round his waist, completed his
equipment; forhisheadwas adorned onlyby hisown
TUX MAGICIAN. 35
Dia*»Kn»GoogIe
36 TUG MAtilCIAN.
dark hair, which was thrown back in damp masses
from his forehead. His face was flushed, and
glistening with perspiration, like one who had been
engaged in some hot and laborious employment;
and his hands were completely bedaubed with
the traces of his occupation. After one glance
round the room, he looked neither to Hagar nor to
Andrew, but, fixing his eyes on Gilles de Retz,
awaited his expected communication.
“ Young man,” said the baron, after eyeing him
keenly, “ I have a commission for Nantes, which i
is my purpose to entrust to you. You shall be
furnished with what is necessary in half an hour at
the latest ; when you must immediately set out, and
spur on, without drawing bridle, till you reach the
city. After having performed your task, and
received a sum of money—much larger, probably,
than you expected to earn in this house—you will
consider that you arc your own master, and choose
any of the paths of the world, save that which leads
to La Verrière.”
“ And I would pray thee,” said Hagar, stepping
eagerly forward, “ to bear, also, a message for me.
Digitized Google
THE MAGICIAN. 37
Pardon me for interrupting the thanks thou wert
about to pay to the Lord de Retz—and which are
well due—” this she said with significance ; “ but
I humbly entreat that thou wilt go to the house of
Rabbi Solomon, and inform my father—Caleb, the
son of Benjamin—that his daughter is well. What
more, my lord, ought thy handmaid to say unto the
Jew ?”
“ Nothing,” replied the baron, “ it is enough.”
“ Bethink thee. Is it really thy design to deliver
me up into the hands of Prelati?” -*
“ Of Orosmandel, girl! Prelati is dead, as my
daughter can now testify.”
“ He liveth !—but I know that it is vain for me
to endeavour to oppose his plans. Wilt thou abso­
lutely consign me to the tower which, if not now,
was formerly inhabited by him?”
“ It is necessary for the welfare of us both. But
I swear------”
“ Enough ! Young man, thou must also say
unto my father, that his daughter is a captive, and
that he must ransom her—instantly if at all—with
as many shekels of gold as he may think her life
O'gin; Googl
38 THE MAGICIAN.
worth. Wilt thou do this? Wilt thou hie thee
to Nantes, for my sake, as swiftly as horse may
speed?”
The look which Hagar rivetted upon the face of
the scholar hardly outdid, in eagerness of interest,
that with which Gilles de Retz and Andrew awaited
his slow, calm answer.
“ Were it my purpose,” said he, “ to visit Nantes,
I would obey you without fail; but I am, at pre­
sent, under voluntary engagement to Orosmandel,
and I acknowledge no other master."
“ My lord baron, I claim thy prQmise ! With
this, the private inclinations of the young man have
nothing to do; and if he will not go freely—thrust
him forth ! Look to it, if thou desire that 1 am
ever again to hold converse with thee, as with one
on whose word I can rely !’’
“ My lord,” said Andrew, who could no longer
withhold, “ after taking your instructions regarding
certain bales, furnished by Jacquin Houpelande,
the arrival of which at the hotel de la Suze, I am
come to announce, the young man, if it so please
you, can proceed to Nantes with me.” Gilles de
DioWMtyGoOglc
THE MAGICIAN. 39
• Hetz stood all this while glaring at the scholar, with
a mixture of surprise and indignation in his feel*
ings, to which he thought it beneath his dignity to
give vent
“ You hear!” said he, in a suppressed voice.
“ I have answered,” replied David; “ and as for
you, Sir meddler, since you will concern yourself
in other people’s affairs, I advise you to ride back
to your tailor’s clouts, as if the devil was behind
you, and do the lady’s errand to her father yourself.”
“ My lord,” said Andrew, “it is ill reasoning with
fractious persons; and if you will only cause him
to be mounted behind my saddle, I undertake to
carry him as clean off, as if he had been caught up
in a whirlwind.”
“ Silence, Sir !” cried the baron. “ And you—
did you actually comprehend that it was my plea­
sure you should proceed to Nantes.”
“ I cannot deny it; for your lordship is suffi­
ciently plain spoken when you condescend to
address your inferiors in station.”
“ Do you hear this, Hagar ?”
“ Oh ! it is phrenzy,” she replied, crushing her
vGoogle
Dtgi
40 THE MAGICIAN.
fingers within each other; “ but he must go never- •
thelcss.”
“ Then, by St Mary ! he shall go—like a clod
flung over the ramparts ! Within there !”
“ I call you to notice, my lord baron,” said
David, “ that I am neither servant; nor liegeman,
nor kinsman of yours; and that yon have authority
over me neither by law, nor blood, nor custom.”
“ Silence vassal, or I will pin you to the wall!”
and Gilles de Retz, who was but little accustomed
to opposition, more especially within his own
entrenchments, drew his sword, and advanced
upon the contumacious dependent David, in the
meantime, stood his ground; only slipping one
hand into the shawl which girded his waist, and
where, no doubt, his dagger was concealed, while
he warned off his assailant with the other.
“ Take heed what you do, my lord,” said he,
“ for, although unarmed, I am not to be slaughtered
like a calf, at any man’s pleasure. Beware, if
you love your life; for the Borderer, when he
turns to bay, is as dangerous as the stag of his own
hills !”
d by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 41
At this moment, Orosmandel entered the room;
and the baron, recollecting himself, fell instantly
back; his face, which before was pale with rage,
becoming red with shame. He muttered an
apology between his teeth; but threw the blame
upon die young man’s insolence.
“ What is this thou hast been about?” demanded
the philosopher, turning mildly to his appren­
tice.
“ Obeying your instructions,” replied David,
significantly, “ and also declining to forsake my
employment, at the command of a stranger, with
whom I have nothing to do. I should say, indeed,
at the command of three strangers; for all the three
now before you, would have thrust me forth of this
castle, without rhyme or reason ! As for the tailor’s
ambassador, who was to have caught me up like a
whirlwind—have you a sword under your cloak,
messire, that you talk it so bravely ?”
“ I have,” replied Andrew; “ and one that
glided out of its scabbard of its own accord, when
you talked of turning to bay.” And, opening his
mantle partially, the gleam of a well-polished blade
Google
Dig*
42 THE MAGICIAN.
was seen extending more than half the length of
his person.
“ A sword,” said David, with an appearance of
heat, “ that only shows itself when there are odds
in its favour, is worth no more than a windier-
straw. What would yours do in a case of equal
numbers?”
“ Try me, ray man ! when it comes to cold steel,
I can take a hint as well as another.”
“ I pray you all to pardon me. I could bear, in
a case of necessity, being put to death by a baron ;
but the interference of this person has somewhat
chafed my blood. To lay aside for the present,
however, such idle converse, I have an explanation
to make, which regards most parties here; but, as
I have heard that the doors in great men’s houses
have the property of ears, you must permit me to
shut these u p a n d the student deliberately bolted
both.
Orosmandel, in the meanwhile, continued to
regard him with calm attention, and the Lord de
Retz with a scowl of impatient disdain. Alarm
and expectation were in the eyes of the Jewess;
C .o o g lc
Dig
THE MAGICIAN. 43
but her manner otherwise was tranquil, and her
figure as rigid as a statue. Andrew looked on
with a grave and observant face, from which it
would have been altogether impossible to predicate
any thing, except the entire self-possession of the
wearer. -
“ It is this lady," said the student, after glancing
at his audience one after the other, “ who has
egged on the baron to take me forcibly from the
engagements I am under to him whom I serve,
and to thrust me forth of the castle. Now, it is
meet you should know the connection which
subsists between her and me. She is the daughter
of one to whom I acknowledge myself indebted,
not only for the raiment which I possess (slightly
diminished in amount, no doubt, by an epit^ium of
my own, somewhat the worse for wear, which
I left in his hands), but also for the instructions
of several years in the sublime science of alchemy.
In lieu thereof, and in full settlement of all scores
between us, I, on my part, when my preceptor
and his family were flying from Paris, in peril of
their lives, undertook the charge of this young
Dqiuedtiy Google
44 THE MAGICIAN.
woman’s safety—solemnly promising to convey her
to her relations at Nantes. Now, messires, that
bond is unfulfilled. Instead of conducting her
myself, I had the folly—should I not rather say
the baseness ?—to entrust her to another ; and, in
fine, she is now in the castle of La Verrière.
“ What may be her anxiety to remove me from
the house, who am, as it were, the representative of
her father, I cannot say ; but that does not interfere
with the line of my duty—which is, to protect her
at the liazard of my life. She is here—not to
mince the matter—a prisoner; and, although her
father, I have no doubt, is ready to pay down for
her a king’s ransom, yet is there no talk of négo­
ciation. Under these circumstances, she is to be
confined—aye, my lord, confined is the word—in a
certain tower of the building, of which, right or
wrong, she has an insuperable horror and aversion.
It is not for me to speak of that place, seeing that
I know but little of it myself; but this I may say,
without transgressing my duty, that her repug­
nance, whether founded in prejudice or not, is
natural, and easy to be understood. It is, more­
» . j i t e w b y G o o g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 45
over—and this is all which concerns me in the
question—a place of darkness and mystery, which
the eye of man cannot penetrate; and thither,
therefore, to speak plainly, I will oppose her being
taken, even to the sliedding of my blood!”
“ Here is a peroration !” cried the baron. “ Ky
my faith, father, we shall be well served, if our
business is to be entrusted to maniacs! The cure
for this malady, I think, is a solitary dungeon,
chains, straw, bread and water. Is it not so ?”
“ The youth for the present,’* replied Oros-
mandel, “ will betake himself to his employment,
already too long interrupted; and the young
woman, whose terror, as he remarks, is nothing
more than natural and feminine, may remain in
her present abode for a few days, till I find time to
consider her case. A word, my l ordand he drew
the baron out of hearing.
“ Thy triumph," said he, “ is premature. The
Duke hath indeed made the purchase ; but the
money hath not arrived. Till then, this Jewess
must be sacred, and it is better that she remain
in a public part of the castle; else it will be in
&
o«izodbyGoogle
46 THE MAGICIAN.
vain to demand either loan or ransom from her
father. As for the young man, he must live till
the gfeat minute of thy life hath arrived, for I have
need of his services—but not longer.
“ Hagar,” said David, in another part of the
room, “ you have gained but a short respite; yet
keep up your spirits, and remember my words of
last night”
“ Thou hast cast away thy life,” she replied—
“and for me, wretch that I am ! Oh, be careful, my
best, my only friend! for I watched the face of
him whom thou callest Orosmandel, and I saw
suspicion lurking under the calm, deep moonlight
of his eyes!”
“ Andrew,” said David, “ meet me secretly,
after it is dark, at the top of the stair-case in the
hall, which they will tell you leads to the magician’s
tower.”
“ I will, daddie,” replied Andrew, “ but you are
out in your policy for once. I have learnt that of
the baron which would have justified us in smiting
him, hip and thigh, as you no doubt intended; and
that done we could easily have gagged the old
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 47
man, and made our way out of the castle—Jewess
and all.”
Hagar was then remanded to her prison ; David
sent back to his manipulation ; and Andrew, having
been invited to partake of the hospitality of the
house for the night, dismissed with a condescending
message to Houpelande, inviting him to bring his
goods forthwith to La Verrière.
Digd'ZOtiby Google
CHAPTER III.
Andrew’s inspection of the defences of La
Verrière, although, to a mind like his, a very
exciting amusement, while it lasted, was by no
means satisfactory in the results he obtained. The
castleappeared to him to be absolutely impregnable ;
and when, in walking round the ramparts, he
arrived at the twocolossal culverines which adorned
the principal gate, his heart died within him.
“ Alas ! daddie David,” groaned he, “ it is all
over ! If, with my little son of a gun, I defeated
half-a-dozen of the best soldiers in Europe, its
great-grandfathers l4fe, would scatter the army of
Alexander ! Our only chance is, that the can-
noniers may be fools enough to load. Even a ball
OgltUMfy G 0 0 g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 4 9
of diameter like this, could not sweep away
more than twenty men at a time; and it would be
morally impossible to make such a monster dis­
gorge twice in the same hour. After the firstshot,
therefore, the prestige would be destroyed, and the
besiegers might approach close to the walls; as
safe under the very chin of the giants, as if they
were twenty leagues off. What could have come
over David, that he did not smite the enemy when
we had him in our power ! But was it not rather
my own fault? He, poor fellow, may have been
bound by enchantment; and I, who was a free
agent, should have struck the blow. I’ll warrant
me, if I had once stood fairly committed in the
quarrel, David would have sprung to the aid of
his comrade, if fifty spells had been over him.”
Andrew was permitted to make his observations
without the slightest hindrance. It seemed,
indeed, as if the authorities in command, rather en­
couragedhis inquiries, than otherwise; in the perfect
confidence, no doubt, that ifl^report could not be
otherwise than favourable. While he was still
lingering near the gate, with his eyes fixed, as if
VOL. III. D
vGoogle
50 THE MAGICIAN.
by fascination, on the enormous culverines, De
Briqueville, before whom he had been brought on
his arrival, came up to where he stood, with a lady,
whom he appeared to be attending on her after­
noon’s walk.
“ You admire our cannon, friend!” said De
Briqueville, with a smile. “ This one, you must
know, is the Duke, and the other the Baron; and
if you want to match them, you must look among
the Twelve Peers of France. I fancy you have
hardly such things at home!”
“ I will not precisely undertake to say,” replied
Andrew, “ that we have culverines, or serpentines,
of such unwieldly dimensions. The Scots, you
must kpow, sir and madam (who are a very ancient
• people, being the Caledonise of the Romans, and
descended from the old Scythian race), have a
prejudice against the alliance of such inanimate
things as they cannot wield with their own hands.
They do not even affect so much as the English,
their fractious neig^ours, the use of arrows;
holding it to be something less than manly to send
such deadly missives through the air, on business
THE MAGICIAN. 51
that ought to be transacted face to face. How­
ever, I would by no means disparage your cul-
verines, which at least do credit to the founders;
but with us at home, in fact, they could be of little
use, for I assure you this bit hillock of yours
whereon they have been so easily placed, compared
with our mountains is an absolute wart!”
“ Perhaps, also,” said De Briqueville, with a
sneer, “ these same mountains may be deficient in
the materials for powder.”
“ By no means,” answered Andrew, hastily;
“ We have enough of willows for charcoal, which
you think the best; although in my opinion honest
fir or larch wouldanswerthe purpose better,ofwhich
we have a still more abundant supply. Those
timbers we burn to cook our victuals, and so pre­
serve human life rather than destroy it Then we
have nitre enough, God knows, which the old
wives use, with common salt, to cure their beef;
and as for sulphur, you may think it is plenty,
when I tell you, that the» are few of us who
spare to employ it, for a kind of malady—brought
,Google
52 THE MAGICIAN.
to us, it is said, across the channel by the south
wind.”
“ Since you do not patronise cannon,” said
Pauline de Laval, who seemed desirous of pro­
longing the conversation, “ pray what are the
arms of your countrymen ?” ,
“ Madam, we have a dagger, fit for stabbing;
and a sword that, if well applied, would slice you off
a man’s head so neatly as to leave no stain upon the <
blade. Then we have a pike, or spear, eighteen
feet, six inches long, sufficient to keep offa charge
of horse; and thus, with our steel coat and cap,
defended at the joining between the two by a
thick kerchief wrapped round our neck ”—
“ Sir, do you know Sir Archibald Douglas?”
Andrew glanced at De Briqueville, who had just
stepped aside to speak to the sentry; and then
looking slily at the young lady, drew in his mouth
like a purse, and gave an affirmative nod.
“ Is he well ?” said Pauline, colouring deeply.
“ He is sound in body—butfor the sana mens”—
and Andrew shrugged his shoulders.
Digtttz«J byG o o g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 58
“ For the what?”
“ I would not just like to commit myself by
affirming that he is well in spirit”
“ Did he know—did he send—that is—
“ It would be improper to answer categorically,
that he did not send; for, in fact, he looked more
messages than I could carry, yet without ever
uttering a word. If I could see as well into the
mill-stone as my neighbours, I might venture to
predicate that he would have thought it an enor­
mous sacrilege to have mentioned a certain sacred
name in my ears. Indeed, I have little hesita­
tion in conjecturing, that he is somewhat wild—a
little crazed, as it were—on the subject of punctilio.
Would you think it? It was but the other day
that he rated my comrade Nigel soundly for saving
his life by slaying a horse, instead of striking
unprofitably at a man cased in armour. Nay, if
the culverine withwhich I put the assassins to flight
had actually gone off, I do believe he would
never have forgiven me, lest the shot might not
have had the gumtion to strike within the four
members !”
d 2
54 THE MAGICIAN.
“ By whom was his life attempted ?”
“ By six horsemen, with their vizors closed.
Know you an individual called Prelati?” Pauline
started, and grew pale.
“ Nothing will satisfy our knight,” continued
Andrew, “ but he must have a fair fight with this
Prelati, face to face; and, there being special
reasons why he should be dissuaded from so doing,
for at least a certain time, if your ladyship—”
“ Tell him,” interrupted Pauline, eagerly,
“ that I entreat, and command him to forbear!
Tell him that if he disobey me in this instance, I
shall ever after hate as much as I have—have—
esteemed him ! Will you do this7”
“ Assuredly I will. But there is another sub­
ject— At this moment they were rejoined by
De Briqueville ; who immediately after walked
away with Mademoiselle de Laval, leaving
Andrew staring after them with disappointment
and mortification.
“ They may well call me slow!” said he.
“ What a beast was I, to lose moments so precious
in prating of culverines, punctilios, charcoal, sul­
o,o.i«w
cvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 55
phur, and cutaneous disorders! Sir Archibald’s
business is done—for which he will by no means
thank me, and David’s name not even mentioned
in her ears!” By the time he had made the
entire circuit of the ramparts, it was completely
darkj and, watching his opportunity when there
was no one in the hall, he glided into the staircase
which he had previously ascertained led to the
Magician’s Tower.
Andrew, with all his shrewdness, was by no
means insensible to the superstitious feelings
almost universal in that age; and when he found
himself, in ascending the stairs, receding from
even the grey light of the hall, and entering a
region of darkness and mystery, it was not without
- some quicker motion of the heart that he repeated
mentally an Ave.
His caution, however, did not forsake him. He
crept up the steps as stealthily as a cat; and when
every gleam of light had deserted him, he went
upon all fours, and thus might easily have been
taken for the animal whose pace he imitated.
Digitized Google
56 THE MAGICIAN.
The stair led to the highest floor of the tower,
and was therefore of considerable length; but
multiplied by Andrew’s imagination, it seemed to
extend to a distance beyond all natural bounds.
He at length began to conceive it possible that,
for the offence of entering upon such an adventure,
he was now travelling eternally through the void
of space—when suddenly his head came in contact
with the iron gate at the top.
When he had ascertained the nature of this
obstacle, and the fact that he had really reached
the landing-place, he raised himself cautiously, and
put forth his feelers to examine the lock. The
bolt was in, as thick as a man’s arm: the gate was
made fast, in such a manner, that it would have
taken a well sized culverine, indeed, to open it
without the key. Had David been aware that
this would have been the case? Or was he now
an unexpected prisoner? Might he not have
been waiting in utter darkness for an hour past,
and gone away in disappointment and dudgeon ?
Andrew pondered, and pondered—felt the thick
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 57
bars of the gate—endeavoured to insinuate his
little finger into the bed of the bolt—and at length
sat down, to meditate more at his ease.
Although the space around him was as black as
night, he could see the dim light of evening
beneath, at a distance which appeared to him to be
immense. On this spot his eyes were fixed for so
long a time, that his imagination began to grow
confused; and at length he felt the sensation of
being about to fall. He immediately starte1 up ;
and, turning his back upon an appearance which
only bewildered him, he grasped the bare of the
gate with both hands, and gazed into the abysm of
darkness beyond.
Before him, if all he had heard were true, was
the study of the Magician; and still higher up,
the lodging of his friend. A strange curiosity
took possession of Andrew’s mind. If David
could not, or would not, keep the rendezvous,
might not he visit him in his own quar­
ters ? Who could tell what discoveries he might
make—what wonders he might behold—in tra­
d 3
Google
58 THE MAGICIAN.
versing the space between? Was it creditable
either to his wit, or his courage, to have passed a
day and night in La Verrière without having been
able to obtain private speech of him to whom
his errand was in reality done ?
Andrew, after listening calmly to the sugges­
tions of his prudence, and combating them
successfully, seized a firmer and farther grasp of
the iron; and inserting his knees between the
bars, began to heave himself noiselessly up, with
very little misgiving on his mind, that in a stair­
case where the walls were so roughly and
slovenly built, he should be unable to insinuate
his body between the gate and the roof.
The attentive reader will recollect that this
gate was of no common altitude ; and it is
therefore not to be wondered at if Andrew’s
wandering of the imagination should have recom­
menced before he had reached the top. Often
was he tempted to give up the adventure as hope­
less, and allow himself to slip down ; but as often
did he find himself instigated to proceed by a still
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN« 5 9
stronger feeling—he knew not of what nature:
till at length, it would have taken little to per­
suade him that he was enchanted.
On reaching the top, it may be a question
whether he was more gratified or disappointed,
to find that the gate and the arch of the roof
met so nicely, that the human finger could not
have been inserted between. At ;all events he
hung suspended for some moments, as if to digest
the annoyance, his fingers wandering almost
incessantly over the surface of the stone; till, at
length, he felt one of the blocks of granite
move sensibly in its bed, without the smallest
agency of his, and turn round, as if to fall, for
the express purpose of crushing him.
It required all Andrew’s intrepidity to prevent
the escape of a cry of terror which rose to his
lips at the moment; but, mastering this weakness,
he first endeavoured—but in vain—to stop the
motion of the stone; and then, considering that
to descend perpendicularly would be certain death,
he sprang suddenly aside, catching by chance at
a distant bar. In the midst of this manoeuvre,
D
W
i™
ib
yGoogle
6 0 THE MAGICIAN.
however, he was brought to, by the grasp of some­
thing, not unlike a human hand in the feel, upon his
neck; and he heard these words pronounced in a
low voice almost close to his ear:—
“ Hold, you misbegotten elf I Let not our
homulus prove a homunculus, and sneak out of
his comrade’s way, without so much as a ‘ God
be with you !’ Is it to play the spy you are
here, you tiny corpse-candle ? Were it nota shame
to cheat the fishes of the Erdre, I would this
moment crush you to a pinch of dust, you bog-
trotting, serpent-hunting, toad-inveigling little
devil!”
“ As God shall judge me," said Andrew, half
strangled in the powerful grasp, “ I am five feet
eight and a half! I a spy ! Alas ! Is it for
the purpose of espial that a man thrusts his head
into utter darkness? You mistake me for another;
and, if you will only come down into the blessed
light of heaven, you may convince yourself of the
fact"
“ Why, in the most sacred name, are you here,
Andrew?” Could you not have waited on the
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 61
stairs, like a decent man’s son, till I came to you ?
Did you expect to find a crow’s nest, that you
would needs climb in this fashion ? By the holy
St Bride, when I felt your head, as I opened the
wicket my heartjumped into my mouth !”
“ The devil take your heart and your hand to
boot!” said Andrew. “ Have I been climbing here,
by the hour, for your sake, to be throttled by you
at last? Do I feel like an elf, or a corpse-candle ?
By the mass ! I fear you have gotten into ill
company in this house; and a man they say is
known by his comrades.”
“ It is all the effect of unlawful curiosity,"
replied David; “ but I forgive you for the terror you
have caused me; and the rather that the feeling
was unreasonable in itself, seeing that he for
whom I took you is at this moment playing his
gambols among the toads and serpents of the
swamp. Come, since you are farther ben than
you were invited, you may as well rest where
you are. There are few likely to stumble upon
our counsels here!”
• “ I shall remain, David, since you desire it; but
Digitized b,Google
62 THE MAGICIAN.
as for rest upon these upright bars, it is out of the
question. Had you provided but a nail projecting
crossways for the accommodation of your guests,
little fault need be found; but as it is, let me tell
you, it is no mighty matter of a parlour.”
Here the two students held high converse for a
considerable time. Andrew was informed by his
friend, that no change whatever had taken place
in the mode of communication between the general
storehouses of the castle and the tower; and that
David was able himself to descend into the former
whenever he had a mind. He was, in fact, at
more liberty than he could account for; except on
the supposition that his days were already num­
bered, and that it was thought impossible for him,
in the interim, to make any dangerous use of such
facts as might come to his knowledge.
“ If your days are numbered in the castle,” said
Andrew, “ why, in the name of God, did you not
betake yourself to the outside of the walls, when
your liberty was offered to you ? One would think,
that you really are bewitched; and although such
a thing might well take place with Nigel, Bauldy,
Digitized by ( j O O ^ iC
THE MAGICIAN. 63
or even myself, I actually marvel at its occurring to
you !'*
“ Did you not hear me explain, that, consistently
with honour, I cannot leave the young woman,
whom I solemnly engaged to protect, in the hands
of her enemies ?”
“ There is no dishonour in your abandoning a
postwhere you can be ofno use. Nay, it isfolly, and
something worse, to shut yourself up to die with
her, instead of bestirring yourself without the
walls in obtaining her release. I can tell you there
is warm work forward; and it wouldbe more both for
your temporal and eternal advantage to come out,
and take a hand in the game, than to stay here
consorting with imps and goblins, and brewing
drugs to raise the devil.”
“ 1 am not wholly unacquainted, Andrew, with
what is going forward out of doors, and I desired
to see you here for the express purpose of taking
a hand in it, and an important one too. Where is
Douglas?”
“ At Nantes.”
Digitizedby
64 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Know you aught of Montrichard and Beau­
champ ?”
“ They are at Nantes also; and have borrowed
moneyfrom Caleb the Jew, to fit them outforaction
against the Lord de Retz.”
“ Then let Archibald join them; and with this
secret, fit to buy the swords of their whole force
—that the money paid by the Duke for his last
great purchase comes hither to-morrow afternoon
by the river, with such slender and disguised escort
as may awaken no suspicion of its value. If they
sieze this fund, it will cripple the baron at the out­
set. He will be compelled to borrow from Caleb ;
and Hagar, therefore, will be delivered up intact,
and I shall be set free. Tell these things to
Douglas; and add, that Prelati resides secretly in
this house, and that his mistress is in worse peril
than he dreams of.”
“ By my faith, David, it is not so unreasonable
an enchantment that has beset you after all! But
why, if it was really a dagger which you were
grasping in your shawl—why did you not embrace
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 65
the opportunity of escape which presented itself
to-day ?”
“ Because the slaughter of the baron would not
have opened the gates to us, since we had not the
the word. That deed I would only have attempted
in the event of their putting hands upon Hagar, to
remove her to the tower by force. If successful,
we must have taken our chance for the rest.”
“ Vastly well. I see you are so much at your
ease, that perhaps it will be impertinent to inter­
meddle further. Yet in case circumstances should
occur more instant than the risk of such trifles as
assassination, here is a paper sent to you by Caleb
the Jew, by means of which he thinks you may
escape from the castle. And now, David, while I
have blood enough left in my arms to get me well
down to the surface of the earth, I shall bid you
farewell.”
“ Tell me first, how is Nigel ?”
“ He is as long as ever, poor fellow, but that is
the only evil report I have to make of him.”
“ And Bauldy ?”
“ He is making cogent love to Felicite, the
dD
vGoogle
Digit*
66 THE MAGICIAN.
daughter of Jaquin Houpelande; and he, you
know, although an echevin of Paris, is nothing
more than a tailor. What think you of it, David?
A tailor’s daughter!
“ Is she a woman?”
“ A woman ! Aye, marry is she; and as bonny
a lass as ever looked at her own fair face in the
waters of the Seine ! A woman, every inch of
her, I’ll warrant”
“ Then is she a match for a man. Greet me to
them all, Andrew; and if 1 should never see them
more, let this shake of the hand be the poor scholar’s
legacy. Say to the Jew, in case of the worst, tliat
I forgive him my blood; and that I died to save
his daughter. Farewell 1”
Andrew wrung his comrade’s hand, but could not
trust his voice to reply to his adieu. He suffered
himself to slip down to the landing-place, and then
slowly descended the stair, and betook himself
unobserved to the apartment assigned to him.
David, in the meantime, when he had heard the
last footfall of his friend, and observed the faint
light at the bottom of the staircase darken for a
^«ibyGooglc
THE MAGICIAN. 67
moment, and then gleam as before, retreated, with
a heavy heart, to his own roosting-place. The
appearance of Andrew upon the scene, associated
as it was with hope—freedom—companionship—
and the thousand visions of daring and presumptu­
ous youth, had acted as a stimulant upon his mind;
and now that this factitious influence had been
withdrawn, a corresponding reaction took place.
He was once more left to his own unassisted ener­
gies. Before to-morrow’s sun was fairly risen,
there would not be a human being in the castle in
the remotest degree interested in his fate—save
one.
In the statement of the circumstances in which
he was placed, made to Andrew, he had touched
only upon the few specks of hope in the picture,
leaving the rest in shadow. Even if the money
were seized by the malcontents, .however, it was
hardly likely that Hagar would be delivered up to
her father. Some juggle would, in all probability,
be resorted to; and Caleb would be defrauded at
once of his money and his daughter. There seemed
to be an importance attached to her detention, to
agw
oaoyGoogle
68 THE MAGICIAN.
which the purposes of mere voluptuousness on the
part of the baron were subordinate. She was first,
it appeared from all he had been able to gather, to
be tempted to the performance of some dreadful
and impious deed; and, if her seducers failed in
this, she was then to be given up to the criminal
desires of Gilles de Retz. In the formeralternative
she was to be the substitute of Pauline de Laval;
and from the course of instruction he had seen
adopted with that young lady, David could not but
come to the conclusion, that the required service
was one which could only be performed by a mind
perverted from its integrity, or maddened into
feverish delusion by drugs.
The time,however,whenallwould becertaintyon
this point, he hadascertained, was now near at hand.
The catastrophe of the drama was approaching; the
arrangements were nearly ready; and little more
was wanting than the drawing up of the scene.
The arrival of the money was to be the signal—or
its loss.
On the morning of this day, he had determined
to inform Gilles de Retz that Prelati was alive, and
Digitized by Googk
THE MAGICIAN. 69
even to explain, so far as was in his power, the
delusions practised upon his daughter. The circum­
stances, however, which had subsequently occurred
rendered this out of the question. The baron was
now his enemy ; and any attempted revelations of
the kind would only accelerate his fate, by with­
drawing from him the support of Orosmandel.
That it was the philosopher, and he alone, who
had hitherto kept him suspended over the abyss, he
knew—as well as he knew that it was his intention
to allow him to drop, as soon as his services could
be dispensed with. David even knew, by observa­
tions connected with his employment, that the
moment of his fate was that of the catastrophe in
which either Hagar or Pauline was to be involved.
The day of the arrival of the money, therefore, or
of the news of its loss, was, in all probability, to be
the last of his life.
These reflections kept him awake so long, that,
after he did fall into a heavy and feverish sleep, he
was only awakened by the beams of the sun glanc­
ing on his eye-lids. He started up, and proceeded
to examine the paper sent to him by the Jew ; a
Okjiti/ed Dy
70 THE MAGICIAN. I
purpose for which he had not thought it worth
while to strike a light before going to bed.
The paper contained a minute plan of the
swamp; by the assistance of which, it appeared,
that any one light of foot, and steady of brain,
might easily perform the exploit which had made
Prelati seem, in the scholar’s eyes, a supernatural
being ! This was, indeed, a document of impor­
tance ; and for a moment David’s heart beat high
at the idea of escape. The selfish feeling, how­
ever, was soon repressed, and he considered the
subject in a different light. If one man could
traverse the dreadful path, why not a hundred?
Could the Jew, possessing knowledge like this,
have been seriously anxious to favour the designs
of Montrichard? or was his merely a purpose of
private vengeance, to be completed by others only,
in case of his own failure? The latter must, no
doubt have been the case ; and Caleb, in putting
into David’s hands the plan of the swamp, not only
provided for the escape of the victim he had half
bound to the altar, but added to the chance of
success in any attack upon the castle, which might
DigittZOd Google
THE MAGICIAN. 71
be made, after his own design had been either
accomplished or frustrated.
In the hands of Douglas, a document like this
would be invaluable. How to get it there was the
question, for Andrew had left La Verriere before
sun-rise. The student was almost frantic. This
was the only probable chance that had as yet pre-'
sented itself; and it was to elude his grasp, because
he had not taken the trouble of lighting a lamp
before going to bed !
On examining the paper farther, he found that
the ramparts were descended by means of irregular
steps, broken, as if by accident, in the wall. But
there was also another intimation given with a
view to escape, which, in the student's eyes, pos­
sessed a still higher interest. Near the middle of
the plan of the heavens—which existed, it seemed,
during Caleb’s residence—there was a brazen hand,
which, on being bent downwards, opened an
avenue to the private apartments below. This
accounted for the well-managed appearance of
Prelati’s spectre ! By this means, in the case of
Hagar being finally conveyed into the tower,
David would obtain access to her prison, in
vGoogle
72 THE MAGICIAN.
time to preventthe last violence, or to die withher!
As for the obstacle which had so successfully
opposed his previous attempt to enter within the
enchanted circle, he had discovered its nature
during the instantaneous illumination of the apart­
ment, on the night of Pauline’s lesson. It was
nothing more than a thin sharp-edged bar of iron,
which ran breast-high from wall to wall. Two
slender rods of the same description, which sup­
ported it in the middle of the floor, formed, no
doubt, the door-way; and, even if he could not
find the secret of opening the bar at the top, he
would have nothing more to do than to stoop his
body, in order to pass under it.
The brazen hand seemed, to David, to be of
still more importance than the guide through the
swamp; and he continued, with renewed zeal, the
plan hehadadopted fromhisfirstarrival, ofprowling
about after dark, and entering secretly the Magi­
cian’s study, on every opportunity which presented
itself. On the night of this very day, an adven­
ture occurred to* him, while thus engaged, of
consequence enough to be treated of in a new
chapter.
CHAPTER IV.
D avid was once more ordered to usher into the
study a visiter from the private apartments of
Gilles de Retz. He was then to shut the door,
and betake himself to his own dormitory for the
night.
On the present occasion, the countenance of
Orosmandel was more touched with care, amount­
ing almost to anxiety, than he had ever seen it.
In general, his expression, though mild and indul­
gent, was too little associated with the tilings
common to humanity to excite a wanner feeling
than reverence; or, at least, than that species of
admiration which we bestow upon the idea of a
superior being, invested with form and substance
VOL. III. E
D,g.K«)Ly G o O g l C
71. THE MAGICIAN.
by the enchantments of genius. To-night, how­
ever, there was a human light in the eye, and a
mobility of the lip, which spoke of meditations
more intelligible, though, perhaps, not less pure,
than those of which the planets and the demons
were the objects; and David, as he looked upon
him, felt strongly the recurrence of an idea which
had often stolen round his heart, that he had done
this remarkable man injustice.
On such occasions, the scholar in vain inquired
what could be the plans, for the furtherance of
which so gifted a being was induced to hide his
actions behind a cloud ; and even to stoop to what
appeared to be contrivance and duplicity, for the
purpose of acquiring that ascendency overthe minds
of other men, to which he would have been entitled
by the unassisted strength of his own intellect. All
this was hidden in impenetrable mystery, and the
fact alone remained as evident as it was astonishing
—that an individual, endowed with every noble
quality of mind and heart, was the friend of the
atrocious Prelati, and the ally of the voluptuous
and abandoned Gilles de Retss.
i
/
t
Digitilo G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 75
The ideas which passed througli the student’s
mind could hardly have been unobserved by the
bright and penetrating eye which now rested upon
his. The old man’s expression softened as he
looked; and a gentle smile broke gradually over
his face, as if from some fountain of light within.
“ I observe, by thy conduct to-day,” said he,
“ that thou hast treasured my advice; and I forgive
thy distrust for the sake of thy fidelity. Continue
to avoid and suspect him of whom I warned thee.
Believe not evil of me, even if thine own eyes
Bhould be the accusing witness; and rest assured,
that the hour is at hand, when the light of heaven
shall stream upon a path which appeareth to thee
to lead through clouds and darkness!” David
bowed himself humbly before the Magician; and
walked away towards the private apartments,
resolving to think for the future, that Orosmandel
was an angel in disguise.
This time he had not been furnished with a
lamp, and he did not ask for one; but by the faint
light of the private corridor, when he opened the
door, he observed that it was again Pauline who
76 THE MAGICIAN.
sought admission. It was impossible for her, how­
ever, to recognise him, as he stood shrouded in the
darkness of the tower; and she suffered him, after
she had shut the door, to lead her on by the hand,
without a word of communication passing between
them on the subject of the Jewess for whom he
had besought her protection. David did not advert
to the cause of this seemingly cruel neglect; and
he walked on in sullen mortification.
“ And this is the goddess of Archibald !” said he,
within himself. “ Alas ! is it not truly said, that
love is blind? Quisquis amat ranam, ranam putat
esse Dianam!” It was, perhaps, owing to the
irritation he felt, that he abandoned his just-formed
intention of obeying the philosopher’s commands,
and retiring for the night. Nothing new, indeed,
had occurred to re-awaken his suspicions; but ill-
humour is always an infidel. Having ushered
Pauline into the study, and seeing her advance
several paces, he 6hut the door, and glided into his
old retreat between the mummy and the skeleton.
Orosmandel was, as usual (when he received
company), standing near the table with his face
DigitizedbyC i O O g l c
THE MAGICIAN. 7 7
towards the picture; and several minutes elapsed
before he turned round. He at length did so, and
glided noiselessly forth from the circle.
“ My daughter,” said he, “ I hardly thought that
so much courage could exist within so frail and
delicate a frame. Thou hast already sought again,
of thy own purpose, a place which must be asso­
ciated in thy imagination with every thing inos
ghastly and unnatural. I lament, however, that
thou hast chosen the midnight hour for thy visit;
because it is my interest, in order to prepare thee
for that which must soon arrive, to tame down thy
youthful fancy, and leave thy reason free.”
“ Sir,” replied Pauline, “ I had no choice. I do
confess that this place is abhorrent to my thoughts,
but were it hell itself, I would still enter, prompted
and supported as I am by those feelings which are
the good angels of the soul.”
“ I know thy purpose,” said the philosopher,
coldly; “ and as it at least belongs to the highest of
theinstinctsofourhumannature,itisentitledto some
respect A treasure, bought with the fairest, and
almost the last, portion of thy father’s estates, and
e 2
yG o o g le
Ok
78 THE MAGICIAN.
sent to him this afternoon by the Duke, has been
intercepted by brigands. Thou desirest, perhaps, to
know whether its recapture is possible? Thou
wouldest inquire into the fitting moment for the
attempt? Thou wouldest ask of me to examine,
and calculate, the position of the stars, and so
determine whether the celestial influences are
favourable or otherwise? But thou art in error.
The day, indeed, has been, when I looked into the
book of nature, and opened the heavens before me
like a map. But it is many years—many, many
cycles since I closed the page in discontent. Mine
is a far higher pursuit than astrological science; and
thy father must look beyond the planets for salva­
tion from the destruction which threatens him.”
“ It is even on that point I would speak. The
destruction which threatens my father, if I may
judge by his manner, is instant, and terrible; and
from some words which escaped him in the agony
of his mind, connected with your own communica­
tions to myself, I am led to infer, that it is in my
power to save him. The means, if I interpret
rightly your broken hints, and the wincings of his
Digm«xlbvGoOgle
THE MAGICIAN. 7 9
paternal love, are painful, awful, horrible—startling,
not only to the weakness of woman, but to human
nature. So far am I prepared. By the ghostly
vision which stood before me on that spot, I can
well guess what sights and sounds 1 may en­
counter; and, by the terrors which followed, I
already know that the spirit of man lives, and
dares, and dreads, and suffers, independently of the
body; and thus have I learnt to look down with
contempt on the feelings of mere mortal nature.
Speak then! Tell me what is to be done ! On
the first trial I was found wanting, because unsup­
ported by any thing higher than curiosity. The
case is different now. I dare you to show me that
from which I shall shrink, or command me to do
that which I shall not venture!” Pauline ap­
proached close to Orosmandel as she spoke, fixing
upon him a look which seemed to the scholar to
emit sparks of light, even in the midst of the dark­
ness which surrounded her; and, as she drew her­
self up to her full height, assuming a wild and
picturesque majesty which gave the idea of one
80 THE MAGICIAN.
inspired, David’s heart smote him for the injustice
he had done her.
“ There spoke the spirit of Laval 1” cried the
philosopher, with exultation. “ I hold as nothing
the labours of years, since they have conducted me
to thee—for thou art alone among the daughters of
the human race ! It is neither the stars nor the
destinies which have brought round the period of
thy probation, but the energies of thy own mind.
To-morrow, at that moment when we say,
‘to-night,’ and ere the sound hath left our lips,
it is morning—thou shalt know all—dare all—
do all. Thy father shall be saved, and by thee;
and a new course of existence entered upon by
you both, better, higher, and nobler than as yet
thy soul can conceive.*’
“ Be it so,” said Pauline, “ I will now to the
chapel, and spend the intervening time in fasting
and prayer.”
“ There is nothing connected with religion,” said
Oro8mandel, hastily, “ in that which cometh. If
there were, thou and I could not be engaged in the
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 81
same work. Religion is as far beyond even the
sublimest science as God is beyond the spirits he
hath created; and, although men must still believe
as they are taught, yet it befitteth not the beings
of earth to imagine that they know surely that of
which the demons are ignorant. The work to be
done toucheth not the welfare of the soul as
regardeth its Maker, but as regardeth itself; and
the powers to be invoked must be its own courage
and energy. Fasting is doubly injurious, inasmuch
as it not only weakeneth the mortal part, which is
the vehicle of mind, but, through that weakness,
disordereth the fancy.”
“ Alas, myfather!” exclaimed Pauline,withatrou­
bledsigh. “ Strange and terrible must be that deed,
in which the protection and assistance of the holy
saints avail nothing ! There are secrets, you seem
to say, hidden even from the Demons! To me
this is extraordinary doctrine; for I imagined that
in tliat other world they inhabit, all was as clear as
daylight to us.”
“ Thou believest as thou wert taught; and thou
wert taught erroneously even from the books of thy
e 3
D
ipt) abvGoOglc
8 2 THE MAGICIAN.
own faith. The ignorance, in some respects, of
the Angels—who, according to the Christians, are
of the highest order of Demons—is asserted by the
apostle Matthew; and Job declareth, that the
Almighty taxeth them with folly. All knowledge
is relative. What we know is as nothing compared
to the knowledge of the meanest of the Demons;
and the knowledge of the greatest is less than
nothing compared to that of God, their Creator.”
“ There are ranks, then, among the Demons as
among us?
“ There is a scale extending throughout all crea­
tion. Man is the highest of that series of beings, the
vehicle of whose spirit is the visible and tangible
substance we call matter. The series beyond are
of another frame, so highly etherealized by spirit,
that, except by their own consent, they are invisible
to mortal eyes. Among them, the same gradations
of excellence and power prevail as among the
things formed of clay. This was known to the
Hebrew sages; and is mentioned, among others,
by the prophet Daniel, and by all the apostles.”
“ And these beings—so high, so dreadful—if
Digiuzed by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 83
created like us, have they also our portion in death ?
Are their bodies of light dissipated in the waste of
space ? and their glorious spirits shed abroad over
creation, like a perfume that loses itself in the
air ?’
“ Such, reasoning by analogy, may be pro­
nounced to be their fate ; but of this we can know
nothing with certainty. The idea of any thing
without end cannot be grasped by the human
intellect; and the immortality accorded to the
Demons is probably nothing more than a space of
time beyond our conception. This we know, how­
ever, that the same who existed in the earliest times
of tradition exist at this day—for -their names,
differing with the languages in which they are
pronounced, cannot conceal their identity. Long
before the Babylonian captivity, the Hebrews had
beheld those terrible shapes which alighted on the
hill-tops of Chaldea. These are few, however;
they are even as a handful compared to the myriads
alluded to by Daniel, and by the apostles; and it
therefore seemeth to me, that there are some among
the race, as among us, who, by superior daring and
hQ'IH „ G o o g le
84 THE MAGICIAN.
knowledge, have made themselves exceptions to
tliat rule of creation, which is vulgarly called
Destiny.” The philosopher drew himself up
majestically, while he spoke; and Pauline looked
with awe at the wild and proud expression of his
eyes, on which the light of the lamp at the moment
fell—appearing to receive illumination, rather than
bestow it.
” What a pity," thought David, as he gazed
with admiration upon the old man, “ that the youth
of the body cannot be made immortal as well as
that of the soul! But this I fancy is impossible;
for even Aurora could not accomplish it in the case
of her sweetheart Tithonus.”
“ Go now, my daughter,”said Orosmandel, taking
her hand, and leading her away, “ Go in peace,
satisfied that thy request is granted. Strengthen
thy mind against itself—against the habits of
thought and affection which have been instilled
into it from the cradle. Remember that the salva­
tion of thy father dependetli upon thee; but keep
still more before thine eye that glorious destiny
thou art about to achieve—the accomplishment of
Digitizod by G o o d ie
THE MAGICIAN. 85
which would be eheaply bought by the immolation
of one half of the human race !” Pauline started,
and turned round at the singular conclusion of this
address; she gazed in the old man’s face, and her
lips opened to speak, but the words seemed to
freeze in her mouth; and pressing the hand which
was at liberty upon her bosom, she walked slowly
away.
When they had left the study, Orosmandel con­
ducting the Damsel in the dark, David glided
from his retreat A thought struck him, as he
crossed the floor, that itmight be possible, in the few
moments at his disposal, to ascertain the important
fact, as to the existence of the brazen hand, which
opened the avenue to the apartments below. He
hesitated for a second; and that second rendered
his escape impracticable. A loud voice,and a quick
tread, were heard approaching along the corridor;
and he had liardly time to regain his station behind
the curtain, when Gilíes de Retz strode into die
room.
“ It must be done !” he said, forcing the words
between his clenched teeth. “ And why not now
D
w
itfodb,Google
8 6 THE MAOICIAN.
as well as again? Earth, heaven, and hell com­
bine to drive me on; and what avails my resist­
ance? Orosmandel” — for the philosopher re­
entered the study at the moment— “ you wonder,
perhaps, at my agitation, and at the abruptness
with which I have broken upon your privacy ?—
but no, you wonder at nothing. You are aware of
the seizure of the money. M y last resource is
gone. The means by which I thought to keep my
destiny at bay, or at least, to bring it round in the
form and manner I chose, exist no longer. Do
you know this ?”
“ Ido. It is a trifle.” •
'
“ A trifle ? you will drive me mad ! Look at me.
I am Gilles de Retz— he who was not so much the
child as the master of fortune— whose possessions
were so numerous that his memory could not retain
their names— whose eye brightened or withered that
on which it fell— the sound of whose tread was
waited for like the foot-falls of an approaching
deity ! What am I now ?”
“ An immortal spirit,” replied the philosopher,
“ whose mortal form hath been stripped of the
,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 87
paraphernalia with which it was invested by the
accident of birth. For what wert thou deified,
proud tiling of dust ? For thy lands ?— for thy
money ? Behold, they are gone, and thou art a
man ! Is this all ? What wouldest thou ?”
Gilíes de Retz did not reply for some moments;
but David could see that his whole ñame was con­
vulsed. The mien of Orosmandel, on the con­
trary, was proud and lofty, and the habitual calm­
ness of his look, just touched, and no more, by
indignation.
“ Cast me not off,” said the baron, at length,
“ for, although weak and overthrown for the
moment, I am resolved ! It was but time — but
a little time 1 demanded, and all would have been
well. Have I not sought like one who was
determined to find? Have I not trampled, and
tortured by turns ? Have I not shed blood, as if
it had been water? Have I not writhed under
the pangs of guilt, till the moral sensibilities
became callous, and I slept, like a victim amidst
the torments of the wheel ? There is only one
point in which I can still be wounded— one nerve
og»*»*G o o g le
8 8 THE MAGICIAN.
which, when wrung, will make me shrink and
shiver, through my whole being. Pauline!— my
own daughter! my only child !— the sole link
which remains for me between earth and heaven !”
“ Weak indeed!” exclaimed Orosmandel, in a
tone of contempt mingled with pity. “ The loss
of thy paltry treasure hath not only overturned thy
courage, but upset the whole fabric of thy mind.
Art thou indeed the vile and guilty thing thou
describest ? Or is this a moment of what may be
said to be nothing more than physical prostration,
since the blow hath been struck through the things
of the body ? Dost thou now writhe in that
sick-bed repentance, in which the spirit, succumb­
ing under mere pain and weakness, howleth forth
the recantations which are received by bigots and
idiots, with more reverence than is due even to the
avowals of healthful conviction ?”
“ I recant not!” said the baron; “ I repent not!
Neither heaven nor hell shall move me from my
purpose ! If I had not the sensibilities of a man,
where would be my merit in controlling them ?
where the strangeness of my destiny in surmount-
*«D,Googlc
Oigd*
THE MAGICIAN. 89
¡ng the fate of humanity ? 1 have but one humau
feeling remaining; and, if I shrink when that i9
rent away, so far from blaming my weakness, you
should admire the courage which submits to so
fearful an infliction. I tell you, that if no other
can be found, my daughter— yes, Pauline— Aye,
gaze and point, and wring your hands, pale
shadow ! Hence ! Begone ! This is no place for
you !” His eyes wandered, as if following some
object round the room, till they rested on the fold
of the curtain behind which David was concealed.
“ You think to affright me from my purpose !”
continued he. “ Aw ay! for I am more horrible to
look upon than you.”
“ Thy fancy wandereth,” said Orosmandel, lay­
ing his hand upon hi9 shoulder. “ These be
shadow sand touching the lamp with his wand,
it threw a dull glare round the room.
“ I know it,” replied Gilles de Retz, without
withdrawing his eyes; “ but, for all that, is it not
enough to curdle a man’s blood ? Do you call me
coward now? See, I look upon her without
blenching. Can you not speak as well as gaze?
d*Google
90 THE MAGICIAN.
Sight — sound— yea, touch itself— I can bear
any thing. There is my hand — count if my
pulse throb quick with fear;” and he crossed the
room to the spot on which his eyes were fixed.
“ What, vanished !” cried he ; “ Did I not say
I was the more terrible of the two ? Art thou
indeed gone ?” and, throwing open the curtain, he
paused for a moment, as if transfixed, before the
skeleton, which stood dimly visible in the gloom,
confronting him with outstretched arm.
“ I will not retract,” said the baron, faintly.
“ There— there is my hand !” and, as the dead
fingers closed upon his, he sunk lifeless to the
ground.
David, on the baron’s approach to his lurking-
place, had shrunk behind the mummy; where he
waited, with his dagger ready drawn. The head
of the conscience-stricken wretch, when he fell,
was only a few feet from where he stood; but so
deep was the shadow in which the scholar was
hidden, that he could see all that passed, without
running any risk of being observed himself.
Orosmandel drew near.
D«0)b< Google
THE MAGICIAN. 91
“ This might have been good service, Ismael,’’
said he, addressing the skeleton,” if circumstances
had coincided better: take thou care, Eugene”—
to the mummy— “ that thou mark times and occa­
sions more attentively.” These were the names of
the two murdered apprentices ! The old man then
stooping down, lifted up the baron, as if he had
been an infant, and carried him out to the middle
of the floor.
David, as the fold of the curtain closed,
shutting him up once more, in utter darkness, with
the ghastly remains of his two predecessors, felt
his blood run cold. The details of Marie’s legend
came back upon his memory, and, with the dead
witnesses beside him, he could not doubt its truth.
He felt that he was indeed the'Third Victim; but
more than ever resolved to sell his blood dearly,
and, in fact, on consideration, somewhat better
reconciled to the society of his two companions,
from the idea of his being destined to be their aven­
ger, he resumed his place, between them, and
applied his eye as before, to the hole of espial.
The baron was already on his feet once more,
92 THE MAGICIAN.
having revived instantaneously on the application
to his nostrils of a distilled spirit, so pungent
that even the scholar, although at some distance,
could with difficulty hold from sneezing. By the
assistance of this powerful drug, he seemed to
regain his recollection at once, without passing
through the intermediate stage of confusion; and,
after a brief, but steady glance at the place where
he had fallen, he turned to the philosopher.
“ I crave your pardon for the interruption,”
said he, in a tone, half of haughtiness, half of
shame; “ but, with all your immobility, you will
remember, I presume, that I have not yet passed
my noviciate, and that my soul has not yet
been altogether rent asunder from its earthly habits
and prejudices.”
“ Talk not of it,” replied the sage calmly;
“ that is a trifle;’’ using the expression for the
second time during the intercourse, and in the
tone of one who held all obstacles alike in habitual
scorn. “ The question is,” continued he, “ Doth
thy resolution hold ?”
“ Do you ask of a swimmer, who has nearly
G o o g le
Dig
THE MAGICIAN. 9 3
gained the opposite shore, having left behind him
a breadth of water, over which there is no return,
whether he will actually cross the gulf?”
“ Then the thing is to be done— when ? W ilt
thou linger yet a little while ? W ilt thou still
send forth to gather the virgins of the land, even
when thou observest that the lot hath already
fallen ?”
“ Not fallen,” said the baron h a s t i l y o r , at
least, the sacrifice is not inevitable. Do you
remember the Trojan prince— for you are learned in
the learning of all times and countries— whose
daughter, chosen by lot for destruction— ”
“ Pshaw ! I remember that Hesione was saved,
and Laomedon slain.' But at present I have no
time for idle tales.”
“ Nor I !” exclaimed Gilles de Retz, with a
sudden effort. “ Hagar is as firm as a rock in the
obstinacy of her unbelieving race. This night I
could have slain her where she stood— but not till
after I had bent her, in a humble matter, to my
will, and so have reduced to be the plaything of
« » G o o g le
9 4 THE MAGICIAN.
my senses, her who might else have been the
agent and companion of my soul’s ambition.”
“ It is well. The Jewess must remain intact, till
the moment when thou canst dispense with her
father’s wealth ; and that moment dependeth upon
thyself. The peasant Marie — what of her?”
The baron shook his head.
“ Hast thou tried her well ?” demanded the old
man. “ Hast thou touched upon the main-spring
of her heart ? She is fair, and therefore vain;
poor, and therefore a lover of gold; proud, and
therefore ambitious of title and nobility; a woman,
and thereforegiven to pleasure, andpomp, and sway.”
“ I have tried her in all these. I have wrought
upon her love and her fear— her pride, vanity,
avarice, and ambition. For the tithe of what I have
offered her, I would decimate mankind !”
“ Then thou art resolved ?”
“ It must be so— I am,” replied the baron, in a
hoarse whisper. “ Are you sure— of— her ?”
“ Absolutely. She hath inherited from thee a
portion of thy own spirit.”
D fffW M IiyG O O ^IC
THE MAGICIAN. 95
“ Alas, poor Pauline ! W ill you not try her
again— to-morrow? You may be mistaken.”
“ I never mistake.”
“ And the bond ?”
“ It is ready.”
Orosmaftdel walked into the circle ; and, extend­
ing his wand towards the altar, a small blue flame
issued from the point, by which a sheet of folded
parchment was seen lying upon a pile of bones.
It was sealed with a black seal, still larger than
those with which the princes of the time confirmed
their public deeds.
“ Art thou ready ?” demanded the Magician.
“ I am. But you have repeatedly told me, that
all must be completed in a single night, and it is
now almost morning.” _
“ I tell thee we have yet time; for the Damsel
is prepared. Dost thou hesitate ?”
' “ I pray you bear with me,” said the baron, in a
faltering voice; “ she is my daughter; and I
thought, even at the worst, to have had one being
in the world to pray for me in heart and spirit! I
left Marie— although with faint hopes of her, I
Google
9 6 THE MAGICIAN.
confess— yet on the understanding that she was to
consider farther of what I had said. Let her be
brought here, and deliver her answer in this sepul­
chral gloom, and in the midst of these forms of
mystery and terror. Perchance her mind may be
wrought upon by fear, although it is deaf to
reason.”
“ The experiment will be vain,” said Oros-
mandel, “ and at present I have no time to await
the result"
“ Then I will receive her alone. Give me this
one chance; and if, when it fails, I do not act as
you would have me— then abandon me at once
to contempt, poverty,and death!” The philosopher
hesitated.
“ In a few minutes,” said he, at last, “ I must be
far hence; and for this reason I would have refused
compliance with thy desire. Here, on the uninter­
rupted portion of the floor, thou art safe; but if, in
forgetfulness, or curiosity, or passion, thou attempt
to penetrate beyond, thy life is forfeited. Away!
and bring the young woman hither. Thou and I
shall meet again to-morrow.” The baron, relieved
Digitized By Google
THE MAQICIAN. 97
as it appeared, by the respite of a single day; and
perhaps hoping that something might really occur
in the interval to snatch his daughter from the
horns of the altar, thanked Orosmandel humbly for
the boon, and left the apartment.
The Magician maintained the same calm dignity
of deportment when supposing himself to be alone
as when in the presence of his protege or victim;
and David, who had expected some demonstration
of private character and feelings, was more than
ever confounded and amazed.
Orosmandel approached the altar; and after
dipping the end of his rod into one of the vessels,
struck smartly with it a portion of the circle on the
floor. On the instant, a low, hissing sound was
heard; and almost at one moment, a thousand
small tongues of flame rose up afliong the bones of
which it was composed. So dull was this light,
that it disclosed nothing more than the forms of the
things among which it played without burning
them; now illumining a skull, now peeping through
the eye-holes, and now thrust out of the grinning
mouth. David was absorbed for an instant in the
vol ill. r
Digitized by G o o g le
98 THE MAGICIAN.
effect of this phenomenon. When he raised his
eyes, the apartment was vacant— the Magician had
disappeared.
The scholar was not slow of following the
example. At that moment even the brazen hand
had no longer any power to excite his interest;
but slow, and feeble, and well-nigh sick at heart,
he glided from his retreat, and regained his own
apartment.
So far the secrets of his prison-house were
unveiled. The baron, not satisfied with the paction
he had long ago virtually entered into with the
enemy of mankind, would needs put his hand to a
bond; of which bond, as it appeared, his own
daughter, failing the peasant Marie, was, in some
terrific, yet inconceivable manner, to be the secu­
rity ! And what was the part taken by Oros-
mandel in this strange drama, in which was blended
so much of the ludicrous with the horrible? David
was so confounded by all he had heard and wit­
nessed, that he was incapable of answering the
question. It seemed to him that he had been in a
dream, from which he had not even yet awaked; and
abyGoOglc
THE MAGICIAN. 99
he lay for some time on his bed, quaking with the
feeling of indefinite tenor which besets a man who
is bestridden by the night-mare.
Hagar, however, was absolutely safe for twenty-
four hours. This was something; but at the end
of that period would come the struggle, of which
no possible termination could be foreseen, save the
destruction of both. O for some messenger to
carry the plan of the swamp, with one whispered
hint to the ear of Douglas! But this was out of
the question. Could he not fly himself? By
means of the secret outlet at the top of the gate,
the court and the ramparts were accessible to him
at all times; and, fearing no failure either of heart
or limb, the success of the attempt, he persuaded
himself, would be beyond a doubt. But this
would be to leave Hagar— to forsake her at the
very moment of her approaching trial; and to
trust to the iaithless tide of circumstances for his
return.
Even while abandoning this idea, however, he
sprang up from his bed; and going out by the
skylight window, sought his old post on the roof of
abyGoogl
D
.
100 THE MAGICIAN.
the tower. Near the surface of the earth, the
atmosphere was as calm as death; but in upper air,
it seemed as if the Demons were keeping their
sabbath. Black and heavy clouds hurried across
the sky; and as their shadows, cast earthwards by
the struggling moon, passed and repassed over the
Erdre, its smooth waters now resembled a lake of
molten silver, and were now buried in unfathom­
able gloom. Two figures were visible on the
swamp, receding from the castle; but at too great
a distance to be recognised by a common spectator,
even as human; yet David, whose eyes were
taught by practice, and sharpened by exigence,
had no difficulty in discovering them to be those of
Prelati and the dwarf.
, He lingered for some time on the roof, his eyes
fixed, as if by fascination, on those mystic wanderers
of the night; but at length, when they had com­
pletely vanished from his view, he crept back to
his bed, and endeavoured to compose his troubled
mind to sleep. This, however, was impossible.
Prelati and the dwarf still flitted like spectres
before him; Hagar and Pauline, with clasped
D,g«w
o,G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 101
hands, white lips, and burning eyes, were by his
side; and in the distance, Archibald, and his three
comrades, stood by the brink of the impassable
swamp, extending their arms towards him, and
their faint voices floating mistily over the deep.
He started up between sleeping and waking, as
a louder cry smote upon his ear. He thought his
own name had been pronounced; and listened, with
intense impatience, for a repetition, to know
whether or not he was the sport of a dream. The
sound returned, however, feint yet intelligible:
and he heard distinctly the word “ David ” uttered
in the midst of a succession of shrieks. He sprang
at a single bound from his bed, rushed down the
ladder; and was in the middle of the Magician’s
study, before one other idea had crossed his mind
than that the kind hearted Marie was in danger,
and had summoned him to her assistance.
The peasant girl was still struggling, though
almost exhausted, in the arms of Gilles de Retz;
whose face, illumined at the moment by the ghastly
lamp, exhibited the paleness, not of passion, but
despair. When the scholar entered, he stared at
f 2
d
,*.«*tvGoogle
102 THE MAGICIAN.
him, as if he had been a messenger from another
world, but still retaining Marie immoveable in his
gripe.
“ Who art thou ?” demanded he, hoarsely.
“ The comrade of Ismael and Eugene,” replied
David. A spasm appeared to pass across the
baron’s face; his arms relaxed their hold; and
Marie fell to the ground. He did not bestow a
glance upon her prostrate figure, but strode towards
the door; addressing a single word to the intruder
as he passed, in a tone of menace mingled with
exultation, and given forth with all the energy of
hate.
“ To-morrow night!” said he, shaking his
clenched hand above his head; and the next
moment he disappeared in the darkness of the
corridor.
“ Marie,” said David, raising her up, and speak­
ing in a quick yet clear whisper, “ are you suffi­
ciently composed to listen to words, on which life
and death depend ?”
“ I am M y mind is strong, though my frame
THE MAGICIAN. 103
is weak; and even that would soon recover, could
I obtain a draught of fresh air.”
“ Here, then, is a plan of the swamp, describing
the mode of descending the ramparts, and tracing
minutely the path which leads across the abyss.
Is your heart stout ? Is your brain steady ? Is
your foot light and free ?” .
“ Fear not for heart, brain, or foot I am a
native of the banks of the Erdre; and when a girl,
I have played upon marshes where the wild
duck would scarce trust himself to alight”
“ Mark me, then. When you have gained the
firm land, search instantly out Sir Archibald
Douglas. I must trust to your wit to find him;
for I can only inform you that he is known to
Caleb, the Jew, who lodges with Rabbi Solomon
of Nantes. Put the plan into his hands; and tell
him, that if he can turn it to fitting and soldierly
account before midnight, he will save his love and
his friend from destruction. W ill you do this ?”
“ I will, if I have life and strength to do it, so
help me heaven !”
Google
104 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Then give me your hand and he led
her beneath the bar of iron, and into the enchanted
circle ; Marie following with a firmness of step,
which even at that moment excited his admira­
tion.
“ On descending to the apartments below,” said
he, “ I believe I can promise that you will meet
with no interruption. The dumb slave will ques­
tion no one descending from this place; Oros-
mandel must long ere now have gone forth, having
announced his intention of so doing in my own
hearing; and Prelati and the dwarf I know, have
already crossed the swamp. To the floor below
these apartments, which is on a level with the
ground, you will no doubt find a descent of the
usual kind; and there, in fine, a door, opening
upon the ramparts, will let you forth to light and
liberty. Let us now search, in this accursed
gloom, for a hand of brass, on turning down which
the avenue will be disclosed.”
“ It is here !” said Marie, stepping forward.
She turned down the hand ; and in the same
instant sunk through the floor, and disappeared
DigitizedbyC | c
THE MAGICIAN. 105
with the speed and silence of light. Not a cry
escaped from the lips of the dauntless girl; and
when, in another minute, the trap-door as noise­
lessly rose again, and recovered its place,
David could have believed that all was a
dream.
Giving up not an instant, however, to surprise,
he left the study, and, darting up the ladder, soon
found himself on the roof of the tower. How long
he waited for the appearance of Marie it is
impossible to tell. The sands of time never seemed
to run so slowly; and he had almost determined to
return, and inquire into her fate in person, when
he saw her make her appearance upon the ram­
parts. The moon was then obscured for some
minutes; during which the whole world was
wrapped in gloom. When again the light
streamed suddenly down upon the earth, the white
figure of the adventuress— who was still dressed in
her bridal garments— appeared far out upon the
swamp, gliding among the moonbeams, like a
thing as fair, and unsubstantial. Sometimes it
paused, as if uncertain of the path; but anew,
F 3
Digitize G o o g le
106 THE MAGICIAN.
darting away, flitted swiftly on, till it looked like a
thin, pale vapour skimming along the surface of the
morass. The moon was again eclipsed; and David
saw it no more.
G o o g le
C H A P T E R V.
Andrew, in the meantime, had left the castle,
agreeably to his intention, soon after sunrise ; and
it may be supposed, that, with a commission like
that which he had received from David, he did not
draw bridle till he reached Nantes. He went
straight to the lodgings of Sir Archibald; and
there found his two brother students in deep
conclave with the knight.
“ If this be really Andrew in the flesh,” cried
Nigel, ' “ there must indeed be magic in La
Verrière ! Why, mein, we thought you would
have taken at least a week to consider of the
prudence of giving yourself another day. Houpe-
lande’s oxen, in the meantime, have all gone out
<iW
Google
Dio
108 THE MAGICIAN.
to grass; Bauldy there has set himself down before
Felicite, to attempt palisade, ditch, rampart, and
finally curtain, in regular succession; and the
knight, and his esquire— that is, I myself— were
just setting about defying Prelati to the field, and
so finishing the adventure out of hand.”
“ It is every word of it true,” added Bauldy;
“ and in case of failure in the duel— which indeed
was to be looked for, with a ’squire as long as a
lance, but neither sharp nor polished— we were to
have had war in your absence, Andrew, glorious,
gallant war. Nigel and I were to serve as men-
at-arms with Sir Archibald; who was to take on
for a while under a certain valiant commander,
whose name is Montrichard.”
“ What is the news ?” demanded the knight,
impatiently. “ Did you get private speech of
David ? Have you brought us a plan of the castle
in your memory ? Or were you pitched <
rver the
ramparts the moment you got in, as one Beau­
champ, a strolling Englishman, told us would be
your fate ?” Andrew looked sedately at the
speakers, one by one, as they addressed him, and
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 109
then replied to them seriatim, beginning with the
last.
“ Sir Archibald of the Braes,” said he, “ I did
get private speech of David ; and, by the same
token, a most uncomfortable parlour he has yonder,
for any two Christian men to commune in. I will
not precisely undertake to say how many miles it
may be above the surface of the earth; but, certes,
there is no crow in all the Borders of Scotland who
could not offer better accommodation to a friend.
The plan of the castle of La Verrière is this : impass­
able ditches, unapproachable ramparts, impregnable
walls ; with a gate defended by two culverines, each
four times as long as Nigel, and wide enough in
the mouth to swallow us all three. I was not
pitched over the ramparts ; but if the lord de Retz
had been just a trifle more fractious, David and I
should have been under the necessity of pitching
ourselves, after slaughtering him in his own den.”
“ By the mass !” cried Nigel, “ there would have
been some sense in that”
“ As for you,” said Andrew, turning to him,
“ you are unfit to be an esquire, as Bauldy has
Digit»; »»Google
110 THE MAGICIAN.
justly observed, by reason of your unconscionable
length. You are to conduct Jacquin Houpelande’s
waggon to La Verrière to-morrow; and I myself
will remain with the knight.”
“ Heyday !”
“ You, Bauldy, are to give up the idea of being
a man-at-arms. You are to continue the siege of
Félicité, all the time that Nigel is conducting you
to La Verrière. I assure you I took David’s
counsel touching that matter, with no small appre­
hension on my mind ; for you know he was always
a stickler for propriety. I reminded him that
Jacquin Houpelande was a tailor.”
“ And an echevin of the city !” added Bauldy,
hastily.
“ True : but it was no redeeming circumstance
of rank that weighed with him. It was all on
account of Félicité herself.”
“ God bless him !” cried Bauldy, breaking into
a glow of delight. “ He never saw her three
times in his life, and yet----- Well, it is
wonderful, the sense, the understanding, the gump­
tion possessed by that daddie David ! But what
,vGoOQle
THE MAGICIAN. Ill
did he say, man ? what were the qualities he more
particularly distinguished ?”
“ T u t!— we have no time for that now. He
said, that though a tailor’s daughter, she was still a
match for you, because she was a----- ”
“ W ell ?”
“ A woman. And now, Sir Archibald.”
“ Aye, now comes my turn. May I crave to
know what it is David’s pleasure that I am to do,
and what he wills that I must leave undone ? Per­
haps, since I am deprived of my esquire, I ought
to consider myself forbidden to challenge Prelati
at all?”
“ Undoubtedly you ought. On this point, you
are not only entreated, but commanded to forbear;
and, in case of disobedience----- ”
“ S ir!”
“ Don’t interrupt me, or I shall never remember
the message. In case of disobedience, I say, you
shall know, to your cost, what it is to be bated,
as well as to be loved----- ”
“ Holy St. Bride !”
“ By a woman.”
112 THE MAGICIAN.
“ What ! This message was not from David ?’
“ No. I am just coming to his. You are by no
means to take on with Montrichard, or any body
else. You are to hire them , if they will accept of
service; or, at least, you are to be the leader of
the enterprize, assisted by me, in the character of
esquire, or henchman, or any thing you please.
The treasure, you must know, on which the enemy
mainly depend, is to be sent to them in the dusk
of this evening, by the river. It will probably be
contained, for the purpose of exciting no suspicion
of its value, in a market-boat, followed by two or
three others, like a convoy of peasants returning
homewards from the city. They must of course
be met with by an equal fleet, chancing, at that
moment, to come down the Erdre ; of which you,
Sir Archibald, shall be admiral. It order that your
pennon may not be unattended, Bauldy and Nigel,
if sufficiently well disguised to prevent them from
being known afterwards, may be with us for an
evening’s amusement; but they must take care, if
not killed, to return unsuspected into the city, as
they set out for La Verrière, with Jacquin Houpe-
THE MAGICIAN. 113
lande and his cortege, in the morning. And now,
my friends, set about mustering your force, without
loss of time. I shall return before you are ready
to set out; but, just at this moment, I have other
affairs before me. All I have to add, by way of
news, is, that David is in hourly and imminent
danger of his life; and to you personally, Sir
Archibald, that Prelati resides privately in the
house, and that Pauline de Laval is in worse peril
than you ever dreamt of. Further details as we
row up the river. Meantime, adieu !”
Andrew then went to the house of the Rabbi '
Solomon, and was admitted, as before, to the pre­
sence of Caleb. The Jew was in the same room,
sitting in the same attitude, at the same table; and
so completely unchanged was the whole scene,
since his last visit, that the emissary could have
believed, that all which had taken place in the
interval was only a gambol of the imagination,
performed in the winking of the eye.
“ Awake, Caleb,” said he, “ for I have good
news!” The old man started.
D„.i,«MovGoogle
114 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Good news !” repeated he. “ Then she was
not overcome ? She died by her own hand; and
gave forth her spirit to Jehovah, as pure as she
received it !” His countenance was lighted up,
while he spoke, by a fierce and terrible jo y ; and
his eyes were fixed upon the calm face of the
messenger, as if they would have pierced through
the cold and immoveable surface.
“ Your daughter,” replied Andrew, “ is alive and
well, both in body and mind. She spoke as bravely
to them as if she wore a steel doublet instead of a
silken vest; but she indeed looked like one who
would not hesitate, if occasion called, to give up
her life for her honour— or, to speak the truth, for
any idle whim which the imagination of woman
consecrates into something divine.”
“ Is she in the tower ? Answer me that, young
man!’’
“ Not as yet.”
“ When goeth she thither ?”
“ I fear me, to-morrow night”
“ It is well, it is well. It is indeed good news.
Digitizedby G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 115
Thou shalt now have much gold for thy tidings;
and that will satisfy thy Christian heart better than
thanks and blessings.”
“ Gold is a blessing of itself, Jew; and truly
one wherewith the Lord hath not blessed Andrew
very abundantly. You must know, that we of the
true faith think it as much our bounden duty to
spoil the Jew of his gold, as your ancestors did to
cheat the Egyptian wives out of their bits of
trinkets, and bravery, and pots, and pans, and
so forth, when they went up yonder from Ramases
to Succoth. Alas !” continued Andrew, accepting
a well-filled purse, and fastening it under his
girdle, “ to think of the sin of covetousness! I
doubt whether that same itching after the gold,
and silver, and utensils, and old raiment of other
people, is at this blessed day clean out of the fingers
of the children of Israel.”
“ The young man David,” said the Jew im­
patiently, “ what didst thou learn from him ?”
“ Let me first have done with your daughter.
She wishes you to know that she is a captive; and
that you must ransom her— instantly if at all— with
Digiliz .G o o g le
116 THE MAGICIAN.
as many shekels of gold as you may think her life
worth.”
“ Her life, young man, is worth not a tithe of
one of these coins!”
“ But if honourably delivered ?”
“ Not with gold— that cannot be with gold. No
more of it. What sayest thou of David ?”
“ The localities of the castle are unchanged; he
ha9 refused to fly alone ; and, in case of the worst
befalling him, you are to know that he forgives
you his blood, and that lie died to save your daugh­
ter.”
“ Oh, that he were an Hebrew !” cried the Jew,
smiting his hands together, “ oh, that he were of
the house of Israel, and of the blood of the sacred
people! Alas! my senses again wander; for
there is no hope but of revenge. When goeth the
waggon of Houpelande to La Verriere ? Answer
me that.”
“ To-morrow morning.”
“ Good, good. I would speak with thy comrade
who is called Bauldy; and in private, where the
ear of Houpelande may catch no echo of our
OiQdizodby G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 117
voices. W ilt thou send him hither ? Away, good
Andrew, and do my bidding. Go at once.”
“ I w ill; for you have somewliat overpaid me
for the message, and I am scarce of change.
Look, however, that you stir not out, for he will
be here soon, as in the evening we take an airing
upon the river.”
And the evening at last came. It was a soft
and mysterious twilight, the tranquillity of which
was undisturbed by a murmur among the trees, or
a ripple on the water. The wiud was not yet
bom, the existence of which a few hours later, was
manifest to David in the rack hurrying across the
sky, while all was peace below. The heavens
were closely packed with those wave-shaped clouds
which sometimes give them the appearance of a
sea; and, although the moon was risen, it seemed
as if her beams had not as yet acquired strength
enough to break their prison. The scene to which
we would transport the reader has been thus
described, on another occasion, by the same humble
pen of which he now follows the traces.
“ The Erdrc resembles more a basin of the
118 THE MAGICIAN.
Loire, than a river felling into it. Its motion is
invisible, its current imperceptible. You glide in
a canoe-like boat over its waters as calm as
death, shut in by melancholy banks, that look like
the sides of a grave. The very mariners are
silent, and their oars dip into the heavy' element,
as if they feared to disturb it. You fancy yourself,
at length, on some lake, over which you are trans­
ported by the mute ministers of enchantment, and
look forward with curiosity to the end of your
voyage, which seems to be near at hand. If in
the meantime, a trout should leap out of the water
to look at you, as you pass, you are carried
instantly to the Arabian Nights, and the Ebony
Islands, and remember, with a pleasing shiver, the
lady stepping out of the kitchen wall, and tapping
the fish in the frying-pan, with her magic rod,
as she inquired, ‘ Fish, fish, are you in your duty ?’
to which the fish answered and said, with equal
mystery, ‘ If you are in your duty, we are in
our duty; if you reckon, we reckon ; if you fly,
we overcome, and are content.’
“ On reaching the end of the lake, however,
Dtfl b
,G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 119
and near the bank, just as you are preparing to
disembark, the canoe shoots round the corner, and
you find another lake before you, of nearly the
same form, and precisely the same character. You
are reminded of the changes of a pantomime,
though this one is much more cleverly performed.
Before it took place, the river around you looked
like a plain of black marble, polished like a mirror,
in which the stirless trees on the banks were
reflected with magical precision. But at the
instant of the shifting of the scene, you are smitten
— and the occurrence is not a rare one— by a blast
of wind, which stops your breath, and almost
upsets your frail bark. A sail would have been
fatal. The blast whitens the black river where it
passes, and some faint surges rise, as if unwillingly.
But, in another moment, the foam disappears; the
waters relapse into their enchanted slumber; and
all is calm, and black, and mute, and lifeless as
before.”
On the present evening, in the very midst of
the calm twilight, when it would have been
impossible to say whether the hour partook more
Digitized by G o o g le
120 THE MAGICIAN.
of night or day, two boats were drifting down
between those mysterious banks. They were
filled with men dressed in the slouching hats, and
large holiday cloaks of peasants. The hour was
late for such persons as they seemed, to be sailing
towards the city; but they appeared to have no
desire to abridge their voyage, using neither oar
nor paddle, but permitting their rude vessels to
glide sullenly along, at the almost imperceptible
pace of the current.
On arriving at the embouchure of the little river
Cens, the navigable part of the stream became
more confined; the confluence of the two waters
taking place in a bay, the surface of which
was so completely covered with aquatic plants, as
to resemble a marsh. On the opposite side, there
was a projection of the land, corresponding, in
some measure, to the concavity of the bay; only
sharper, and in the form of a low promontory. As
the boats approached this place, the current drifted
them so close to the shallow part of the river, that
one of the passengers, afraid of getting aground,
eaught hold of the steersman by the arm.
THE MAGICIAN. 121
«I warned you,” said he, sternly, “ and by St.
Bride, I will keep my promise either way ! If
you perform your task faithfully, you shall be well
rewarded; if not ”—
“ Silence,” Sir knight! said the man—“ or if
you must threaten, at least speak lower. On this
river, you may hear a trout leap at many hundred
yards. That I know myself; but there be some
who say, that words spoken where the stream
enters the Loire at Nantes, are instantly heard at
La Verrière, and the answer returned in the same
minute.”
“ For all that, take care we do not ground upon
the shallows. At this moment we cannot see fifty
yards of the river; and, for aught I know, the
company we come to meet may be on the other
side of yonder rocks. I promise you, my man, I
do not like your looks; and, if you are a native of
these parts, as you say, it is not a little suspicious
that, instead of yielding slowly to bribes or threats,
you should have undertaken a service like this, as
recklessly as if the object were to break the crown
of a brother peasant”
v o l . h i . G
DigiMod by Google
122 THE MAGICIAN.
“ And what then ?” said the pilot, “ Is it because
I am a peasant that I cannot have my motives like
other people ? Now, I’ll warrant you, if I were a
knight, I might be as ugly as sin, and as close a
neighbour of Gilles de Retz as Satan himself—the
Lord preserve and forgive me!—without exciting
your suspicions. You would say—‘ Ha ! he hath
his enmities and revenges—he holds him at feud,’
and all would seem well. Why, do you think I
am not a man as well as you? You may grind us
to dust, messirc, but that will not take the human
nature out of us; which is a part of the very
substance of our souls and bodies !”
“ I have heard the like impertinences before,”
said a young man slowly* who was leaning against
the gunwale, as iffatigued with inaction, “and by St.
George, I think they are spreading in our England !
What will the country come to, if such monstrous
ideas should get abroad among the great mass of the
common people? If all men are alike, there can
be no need for an hereditary nobility at all; but
each man, having inherited his father’s fortune,
should scramble for distinction ns he might There
DigitizedDyGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 123
would be a chaos for you! When England sees
that day, instead of being one of the great nations
of Europe, she will be nothing more than a rock in
the sea, the haunt of fishermen and pirates!”
“ You mistake, Sir knight,” said the first
speaker, “ It is not the doctrine, but its applica­
tion which is wrong. All men are indeed alike in
their human nature, and its feelings and passions,
as this fellow would seem to urge; but some are
born great and noble, and some little and mean.
It is the duty of the former to grant shelter and
protection, and of the latter to render service and
fidelity. As the clump increases to the grove, and
the grove to the forest, so individuals planted by
God in this reciprocal connection, if they are only
true to their several duties, become at length a
mighty tribe. He who sows dissension among the
parts, is guilty of the dismemberment of the whole.
The chief who turns his dependents against
him by oppression, cuts down the roof-tree of his
fathers; and the clansman who would infringe
upon the just privileges of his chief, is a parricide
and a cannibal, who should be hung up alive
Google
124 THE MAGICIAN.
to feed with his body as foul carrion as himself!”
“ Silence with your arguments!’’ cried a third
passenger, “ in which, so far as Claude can see,
both Scot aDd Englishman agree like good fellows,
in the main : that a peasant is to be a peasant, and a
lord a lord, to the end of time. I even now heard
a sound down the river, which more resembled the
dip of an oar than the leap ofa trout; and our pilot
heard it too, forhe pricked up his ears like ahound.”
“ If you will take my advice,” said the person
referred to, “ we shall lie to, under the shade of
this promontory. Two strokes of the oars will
bring us out to the middle of the stream when
required; and those you expect, if they attempt to
fly, will ground upon the shallows of the bay.’’
This counsel, being deemed judicious by the
leaders of the party, was immediately acted upon.
The boats were brought close to the bank, with
their heads outwards. A sufficient space was
between to prevent their oars from getting en­
tangled; and in both vessels, these were extended
parallel with the water, and ready to dip simul­
taneously as soon as the signal should be given.
wuyGooqle
THE MAGICIAN. 125
In one boat, as the reader may have perceived,
the principal persons were Douglas, Beauchamp,
and Montrichard; and in the other, besides some
friends of the malcontent baron, there were Bauldy,
and Nigel, and Andrew. The last three, who
had had rarely the luck, since they left the Bor­
ders, to fall in with an adventure of the kind on so
respectable a scale, were toodeeplyabsorbed in the
sport to utter a word. They sate in watchful
silence, eyeing one another with a grim smile;
which the good humoured Nigel, however, had
occasionally some trouble to prevent from breaking,
on his part, into a chuckle of boyish delight."
In the first boat, the leaders were too much
accustomed to such scenes to exhibit any token of
more than ordinary emotion; yet Douglas, who in
spite of the resistance of Beauchamp, had assumed
the direction of the enterprise, felt not a little of
that anxiety which is the penalty of rule. His
eye was fixed so intently upon the pilot, that the
latter, who seemed to be habitually of a downcast
look, could not help at length manifesting his
annoyance.
g 2
Digitized by Google
126 THE MAGICIAN.
“ Sir knight,” said he, in a low voice, “ you
stare at me, as if 1 was a wonder ; and yet you have
even now acknowledged, that a peasant may have
the same feelings and passions as a noble. Now,
the case is tliis. 1 was born on the estate of the
Lord de Retz ; and 1 have not only paid faithfully
all his dues, but also served him zealously in other
matters to which I was in nowise bound. It was
but the other day that I delivered, by stratagem,
into his hands a woman who fled from him.”
“ A woman !”
“ Yes—but she was only a Jewess. She was
fair, however, almost as fair as the Damsel of
Laval herself, and noble looking, and kind withal :
and she gave me gold, when I looked but for
silver. Yet I betrayed her; to recommend myself
to the lord of the land, and to save my family, who
had harboured her, from persecution. Well;
what do you think was my reward? Why, the
very next day, they carried off by force my cousin
Marie, who was brought up with me from her
cradle; and she is now caged in La Verrière, the
plaything of the lordly appetite of Gilles de
ad by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 187
Retz, to be polluted, and then cast forth into the
ditch.”
“ By the mass!” cried Douglas, “ I thought I
had seen your face before. You are Jehan, the
brother of Annette, the same who ”—
“ Precisely. The same who would have de­
livered you into the hands of assassins. This was
all for the sake of Marie; for they had the art to
persuade me at the castle, that she had gone off
with your friend, through your seduction. Now,
are you satisfied? Have I cause, or not, for
throwing off my allegiance to my chief? You
only wonder that I should have found the courage!
Yet it is you yourself who have torn away the
prestige which encompassed La Verriere. When
I saw that expedition flying homewards, as if the
devil was behind them; and more especially, when
I saw one in the midst, who seemed to have been
raised from the dead to command it—‘Ho! ho !’
said 1, ‘Is it you who will trample upon your
peasants, and make their women harlots?’ And so
I swore to be revenged!”
“ Silence, fellow!’, whispered Beauchamp, “ or
D
,0i„iO
db,Google
1 2 8 THE MAGICIAN.
your equality in human nature with the Scottish
knight will hardly save your churl’s blood.”
“ Yes, silent all!” said Montrichard.” They
come ! Now, be ready, my men, to send us out into
the middle of the stream at two bounds.” The
measured dip of oars was distinctly heard.
“ Beauchamp,” whispered Douglas in the
knight’s ear, “ I shall forgive your taunts, if you
only show me that your sword is as sharp as your
tongue !”
“ Thanks for your clemency!” replied the
other; and in token of the bargain, they pressed
one another’s hand till the splints of their gaunt­
lets crackled.
The sound of the oars came nearer and nearer;
and then some voices were heard speaking in a
muffled tone, which showed that the enemy,
even on approaching so near to the termination of
their voyage, had by no means laid aside their
caution. The next moment, two boats, close to
each other almost to touching, darted round the
promontory; and Douglas, raising his battle-axe
above his head for a signal, the ambush sprang
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 129
upon their prey, with no other notice of their
approach than the shock and crash of the collision
of the vessels.
Even the treasure-carriers found no time for
exclamations, but assisted by their silence the
policy of the assailants. The rowers, with one
hand interposed their oars to protect their heads
from the blow, while, with the other, they tugged
at their swords, concealed and entangled, in their
peasant’s cloaks. The men-at-arms, lying perdue
at the bottom of the boats, raised themselves up,
with smothered curses, to meet an attack, of which
they knew not the nature or strength; and thus
the conflict went on for some time, with hardly any
of the usual sounds of battle, except the clash of
swords and battle-axes.
Such was the suddenness of the assault, that the
affair would have been decided almost at a blow,
had the numbers of the parties been equal; but on
the side of the treasure-carriers, there were three
boats, well manned, while Douglas commanded
only two. This, even taking into account the dis­
o 3
Digitized by Googk
130 THE MAGICIAN.
advantage at which men fight who are set upon
unawares, kept the balance pretty nearly equal;
and in a few minutes, the shouts of the Laval
party, when they had recovered recollection suffi­
ciently to know that noise was their true policy,
threatened to bring assistance even from the castle.
The middle boat of the three was evidently the
one which contained the money; for the other two,
instead ofattempting to fly, pressed in to its assist­
ance. The fight was thus concentrated in a single
spot; and the majority of the combatants, crowd­
ing round the fewwhowere actually engaged, could
only take part in the conflict by their cries and
gestures.
“ Sir Englishman,” said Douglas, when they had
both stood back to breathe foran instant. “ Will
you put it to the trial of our strength and courage
which has the fairest mie?”
“ Agreed,” replied Beauchamp. “ May I crave
to know which of the red-haired daughters of
Caledonia has the honour of calling you her ser­
vant?”
THE MAGICIAN. 131
“ The daughters of Caledonia,” said Sir Archi­
bald, “ are fairer than your mother’s fame; but
to-day I strike for Pauline de Laval!”
“ And I also, in the name of St. Michael and
St. George !—as witness this blow—” and Beau­
champ, forcing his way to the front, raised himself
upon the gunwale, and swinging his axe round
his head, let it fall, with deadly aim, upon the
casque of one who was clothed in complete mail,
with vizor down, and who seemed to be the chief
of the adverse party. This personage, however,
stooping his head adroitly at the instant, the
weapon just touched the smooth steel, and glancing
away, the luckless knight, borne down by the
impetus of his own blow, dived headlong into the
enemy’s boat.
“ Douglas to the rescue !” cried Sir Archibald,
bounding after him like a tiger. But he was down
the same instant, felled by a blow from the
redoubtable leader. At this sight, a shout burst
simultaneously from three voices in the second
boat; and Nigel, and his comrades, hewing down
all opposition, farced their way into the enemy’s
Digitized by Google
132 THE MAGICIAN.
vessel, crying, “ A Douglas ! A Douglas ! St.
Bride for the Bleeding Heart !”
“ The heat of the battle was thus suddenly
transferred to the treasure-boat; and one of the
others, imagining that its principal was taken, and
the affair decided, made off at full speed, pulliDg
lustily towards La Verrière. The crew of the
remaining vessel, which was now stuck immoveable
among the soft, deep mud, and aquatic plants of
the bay, were not so fortunate. Some, indeed,
contrived to reach the nearest land by swimming;
but others were shun before they could spring from
the gunwale; and others, attempting to strike
across the river, were borne down by the weight
of their armour, and disappeared before they had
gained the middle of the stream. The waters of
the sluggish Erdre, in the immediate scene of the
fight, were one puddle of blood ; only diversified
here and there by a white bubble rising to the
surface, with the last breath of one gasping be­
neath.
The pilot, in the meanwhile, sat immoveable in
the stern of the boat; which, by this time, had
DiQh'Z bvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 133
been whirled into the bay, and lay wedged among
its floating turfs, and matted plants, with the trea­
sure-boat close outside in deep water. He gazed,
in stupified fear, not so much at the bloody scene,
as at one of its principal actors. His eyes appeared
to be fixed, as if by fascination, upon him who
appeared to be the leader of the escort This
individual, indeed, performed such feats of strength
and valour as excited die admiration of the whole
of the combatants. The sweep of his arm appeared
to be resistless; and his batde-axe struck to the
ground whatever it touched. But, to turn the fate
of the day, was impossible even for him; his com­
rades were slain by his side, or taken prisoners one
by one; and, retreating from beam to beam of his
own boat, he was at length driven into that of the
pilot.
The dread which seemed to have takenpossession
of the mind of Jehan, instead of diminishing as
the defeat of its object became certain, acquired
new force every step that the stranger was forced
backwards; till at length, on seeing him retreat
alone into the boat where he sat, his stare became
D^.aM
bvGoogle
134 THE MAGICIAN.
ghastly, his jaw collapsed, and his whole counte­
nance assumed the colour and immobility of death.
The capture of this formidable personage, however,
was now certain; for the distance from the bank
was at least twice more than a man could overleap,
and the shaking and splashing, during the struggle,
of the grassy surface between, proved the nature
of the gulf beneath.
“ Demand quarter!” cried Douglas, following
the stranger, with some of the others, into the
boat. “ Keep back, my friends; it were shame to
slay so brave a man !” And the generosity was
ratified by his comrades, who all cried out with one
voice, “ Yield, Sir stranger ! We grant you life
and liberty !”
The vanquished knight, after turning one glance
upon the space between him and the bank, paused
for a moment, waving back his pursuers, as if he
intended to accept the proffered grace. Bnt the
next instant, he turned round as quick as thought,
caught up the pilot, with no more effort than if he
had been an infant, and threw him, like a lifeless
clod, midway to the land. He then leaped upon
D
ioiw
w
bvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 1 3 5
the gunwale, sprang upon the breast of the fated
wretch, and thence bounded anew far enough to
reach the brink. Jehan uttered neither word nor
cry; although the clutch he caught of the floating
surface, when he descended upon it first, showed
that he was still sensible. His body, which
might else have floated for some time, spurned by
the foot of the stranger sunk at once; and when
the convulsion occasioned by the plunge was over,
the tangled weeds of the Erdre closed over it for a
pall.
Douglas did not this time repeat the comtemp-
tuous reproaches he had showered after his intended
assassin, when he took to flight before the unloaded
culverine !
“ It is he!” was all that he uttered, in a tone of
wonder and deep anxiety, as he followed with his
eyes the retreating form of the stranger.
“ It is he!” said Nigel, who overheard him.
“ There is but one in Europe !”
“ It is indeed he,” repeated Andrew, musingly,
“ as sure as a gun !”
D q iH M flb y C iO O ^ Ic
C H A P T E R VI.
After the campaign had been opened in so
brilliant and decisive a manner, it was necessary
for Montrichard and his party, to throw off all
disguise; and messengers, therefore, were des­
patched the same night from Nantes, to acquaint
the more powerful lords of the family of Laval
with what he had done, and to summon his im­
mediate friends and neighbours (who awaited
impatiently the signal), to a common rendezvous,
with what force they could muster.
The money taken was not completely divided
among the captors, because it was prudent, at least
in the meantime, to represent their proceedings as
arising from public and disinterested motives. A
DiqiIizoO b y G o O Q I c
THE MAGICIAN. 137
sum, however, was subtracted from the fund, and
equitably apportioned, sufficient to repay all parties
for their trouble; and, among the rest, our three
students found themselves possessed of what
appeared to them to be inexhaustible wealth. The
business in which they had assisted, was indeed, in
some of its details, not altogether such as could be
dwelt on with pleasure by the imaginations of
youths raw to the world; but this was all the
better reason why they should be paid handsomely
for what they had done. As they pocketed the
gold, they thought that war was not so very
horrible a trade as it seemed; and then they set
their faces to further adventures, with the grave
looks of men who are “ getting on,” and waxing in
the prosperity of life.
Early in the morning, the four Scots separated
into two parties; Andrew and Douglas taking the
road with Montrichard, and Nigel and Bauldy
setting forth with Houpelande’s waggon. Before
they parted, Andrew ascertained that the culverine
Was still properly fixed, and took great pains to
teach his comrades how to point it: only cautioning
G o o g le
1 3 3 THE MAGICIAN.
them strongly not to be guilty of the extravagance
and impolicy of charging it with powder and ball.
He then took Bauldy aside, out of earshot, and
said to him in a low voice:—
“ You have seen Caleb, the son of Benjamin?”
Bauldy nodded.
“ He is a decent man that, for a Jew.”
“ Is he ?”
“ You had doubtless some cracks with him?”
“ Doubtless.”
“ He is not so ill-spoken neither. I dare say he
told you what he wanted ?”
“ If he did, it was only natural.”
“ Something, I guess, that is not to be cried in
open market, like a proclamation ?”
“ You have hit the mark.”
“ Well, well, God preserve you, Bauldy ! I see
you can keep your tongue within your teeth, and
that is a rarer accomplishment than fiddling. But,
between ourselves, if David should take me to task
about the Jew’s communication— supposing I meet
him first, poor fellow !— what am I to say f*
“ W hy, this,” said Bauldy, with a grave and
Digiti G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 139
mysterious look, as he put his lips close to
Andrew’s ear, which distended visibly to catch the
secret; “ Just this,— and then God bless you till we
meet again— that you know nothing at all about
the matter !” and so saying, the canny Scot pushed
his friend away from him, and went to lift Felicite
upon the waggon.
Bauldy felt supremely happy. The assent given
by David to his love-speculation was no less
welcome than surprising; for, although hardly
conscious of the fact himself, he had awaited the
decision of the master-scholar with more dread and
anxiety than if he had been his legal guardian.
But how David’s whole theory of sentiment and
action could have been so suddenly overturned, was
a puzzling question. He had always, as Andrew
said, been a “ great stickler for proprietyw hich
meant, as touching the present subject, that he was
for having every body enter into the holy estate of
matrimony, like the brutes into the ark, each male
and female after his kind. The lion was to mate
with the lioness, the boar with the feminine pig;
and the gentle blood of such a beast as Bauldy,
G o o g le
140 THE MAGICIAN.
was by no means to intermingle with the red
puddle of a ruturier animal.
But Bauldy was unacquainted with the history
of David, since he had leaped the window of the
Scottish college, and withdrawn for ever from the
maternal shades of Academia. In great political
convulsions, rank and birth are forgotten; high
families are overthrown; mean ones rise up from
the dregs of society; and men begin to reckon by
a new scale of honour— which, however (though
this is beside the question), wants nothing but
antiquity to identify it with the old. In like
manner, when the individual is taken suddenly
away from the routine of every day existence, to
find himself involved in the shock and struggle of
the world— with the allegorical winds and waters
of life howling round his head and hissing in his
ears— it is no wonder that he should forget the
nice rules which he had planned for the government
of society. In such a situation, all men are his
fellows; only distinguished by their greater, or
less capacity to battle with the waves, or ride
db,Google
Digltij
THE MAGICIAN. 141
out the gale. His human instincts and affections
have fair play; beauty'is beauty, whether on the
cheek of a peasant or a queen; and the companion
— if such there should happen to be— of his toils
and dangers, is considered worthy of his love, not
as a member of this or that gradation of rank— but
simply as a woman.
As Bauldy lifted up his fair burthen, to place
her on the waggon, he pressed her more warmly
in his arms than he had hitherto ventured to do.
Her hand was temptingly near. He put his lips,
unperceived, to the cool, fresh fingers; and almost
lost his balance, when he felt the young bosom,
which leant upon his shoulder, throb suddenly and
wildly at the touch. The poor girl trembled as he
set her down; her cheek paled and flushed alter­
nately ; and her eyes, dewy and half closed, were
fixed upon her feet.
“ Felicite,” said Bauldy softly, “ the last few
days have been the happiest of my life. How has
the time passed with you ?” She tried to speak,
but seemed unable; and, in lieu of words, a
142 THE MAGICIAN*
demure smile just touched, without stirring her
features, and then fled suddenly, as fearing it had
said to much.
“ Our journey,” continued Bauldy, “ is a type
of the journey of life. Oh, if I could have you for
a companion, not only on this smooth road, but on
the long, and rough, and dreary ways of the
world! I would guard you, Felicite, as a young
mother guards her first-born. In the green fields,
you should walk by my side; near the cool and
murmuring fountain, I would lay you down to
rest; in the mountain paths, I would bear you in
my arms ; and in storm and thunder, I would wrap
my plaid round your head. I am poor, Felicite—
but what then ? I am young, and strong, apd I
am come of a gentle line. M y heart is stout; and
my bold father’s sword hangs by my side. What
say you? W ill you with me, over valley and
mountain, plain and rock, in peace and war, in
storm and sunshine ? Speak!” During this
address, the blood rushed tumultuously to her
face, suffusing neck, and cheek, and brow with the
DigitizedbyC .O O ^ I e
THE MAGICIAN. 143
same bright glow; her eyes glistened with tears;
and her lips quivered.
“ Not to rest by the fountain," she almost
sobbed; “ not to oppress you with my weight; not
to add to your cares, and dangers, and fatigues;
but to help— and sooth— and cheer— to lighten
your journey with my songs— and bring down
blessings on your head with my prayers!” Bauldy
looked in his young mistress’s face, through the tears
that stood trembling in his bold, blue eyes; and
read there, in the midst of its ingenuous pride,
and virgin shame, the apology and assurance of
our high-hearted Juliet—
“ But trust me, gentleman, I’ll prove more true
Than they that have more cunning to be strange!”
Such was the wooing of Bauldy.
Nigel, in the meantime, who, with all his rash,
daring, off-hand mode of doing business, was as
clear sighted as a hawk, guessed at once what was
going on; and he took especial care to keep
Houpelande out of the way. The worthy echevin,
iiM«jbyGoogIe
144 THE MAGICIAH.
indeed, was in nowise inclined to ride in front of
the waggon, where, on turning his back, he might
have seen the lovers. He remembered the “ frac­
tiousness,” as Andrew called it, which he had
witnessed on this very road, and was well con­
tented to keep his horse close to the wheels of the
vehicle, seeming to derive an idea of protection
from its very bulk.
On the present occasion, he was dressed in all
the finery of his municipal office ; and, being really
a personable man, the tailor was completely
merged in the alderman. The idea of being
admitted to the presence of the Lord de Retz, in
his own house— of paying him a family visit, as it
were, was highly flattering to his vanity, and he
assumed a coresponding dignity of demeanour.
Added to this, there was the pride of wealth— the
idea of accommodating one of the greatest nobles
of his time; and it was no wonder that he had
peremptorily declined listening to the suggestion
of Bauldy, that his daughter should be left behind
till their return.
, The reports, indeed, respecting La Verrière
ïGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 145
were by no means favourable ; but he had the
pledge of the accredited agent of its lord, that his
bill at least was secure. The rich cloths, besides,
were already made up,and into dresses of so rare and
splendid a description, that if Gilles de Ketz did not
have them, they might lie upon his hands for ever.
As for the habitual gallantry attributed to the
baron, Felicité would be, in some sort, the guest,
or at least under the protection, of Mademoiselle
de Laval ; and that was enough to ensure her
honourable treatment at the hands of the Damsel’s
father.
They arrived, without adventure, at the village
near La Verrière ; and, much to his surprise, Nigel
found the very scene going on which had been
described to him as taking place here, by Sir
Archibald. The knight had explained, both to
him and Bauldy, the words and motives of Jeban ;
and it was, consequently, with some interest, that
they proceeded to inquire into the fate of Marie,
and the particulars of the new nuptials that were
going forward so soon after her disappearance, and
on the same ill-omened spot
VOL. in. H
n o .» « * by G o o g le
146 THE MAGICIAN.
The villagers were in the height of their glee;
tables were spread on the green, with wine in
abundance; the rude song, and ruder jest went
round; and when Nigel strode, like a youthful
giant, into the midst, his appearance was marked
— especially by the women— with shouts of wel­
come.
“ Sit down, Sir stranger,” cried they, “ pass not
by, without drinking a cup to the health of the
bride and bridegroom, who are soon to be man
and wife!”
“ Two of them, if you will !” replied Nigel
joyously; “ but permit me, in the meantime, to
ask a question.”
“ Drink first, and question afterwards," said the
bride, presenting him with a cup, after having
touched it with her lips. She was a pretty bru­
nette, with sharp, sparkling eyes; and looked still
prettier in her dress of virgin white, and coronal
of flowers.
“ To your health, then, I drink, my bonny May,
and to his whom you have favoured with your
choice— a strapping youth he is, by the same
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. H7
token, and well-favoured— and I wish you a life of
honey-moons, and a knave-bairn every year that
there is not a lass !” This speech was received •
with a shout, during which Nigel emptied the
cup.
“ And now for the question,” said he to the
blushing and smiling bride; ‘‘ although it is one
that may awaken unpleasant recollections to some
of you here. I would demand of you news of
Marie.”
The ill-omened name had no sooner escaped his
lips, than the bride, uttering a loud scream, dropped
senseless upon the ground. A storm of exclama­
tions arose from the whole group ; and all crowded
round to offer their assistance, or indulge their
curiosity.
“ This is Marie’s cousin, Lisette,” said one of
the peasants, observing the inquirer stare at them
in amazement; “ and the bridegroom is Marie’s
betrothed, Victoire !”
“ Let the jade lie then !” cried Nigel, indig­
nantly. “ To step thus into another’s shoes, and
even before her fate is fairly ascertained !”
Digitized by G o o g le
148 THE MAGICIAN.
MAlas !” replied the peasant, “ there is no need
to trouble ourselves about that It were enough,
if she had only passed one night within the walls
of La Verrière— Yes, lady,” addressing Felicité,
who had joined the group, “ your cheek may well
grow pale at thought— enough to render her ever
after unfit to step into an honest man’s bed.
Whatever may become of her, she can never be
the wife of Victoire ; and, as Lisette had always
a hankering after the young man, who is as well-
pleased to have her as.Marie for a wife— why, the
sooner the thing is done the better ; and now we
only wait for the return of Jehan, as the priest
will not do his office, without the personal sanction
of her brother."
“ I will have more than Jehan's sanction !”
cried Lisette, getting up from the ground in strong
agitation. “ I will never marry without the sanc­
tion of Marie herself— so help me the Virgin
Mother !” and she burst into hysterical tears.
“ Have then your wish !” cried a voice from
behind. “ Marry the choice of your heart, if such
be Victoire, and may God bless and prosper your
Digitized by L .o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 149
union !” Marie, who had joined them unawares,
in the pre-occupation of the moment, now stepped
into the circle ; and the two brides, dressed in their
wedding-garments, stood confronting each other.
The new-comer was for more beautiful than
Lisette, and the dignity of intellect sat so visibly
on her brow, that the rude peasants felt an uncon­
scious awe as they looked upon her. As for the
suspicion that she had received stain or tarnish, at
La Verrière, it was dismissed to the winds the
moment she appeared.
Marie took off her chaplet, and considered it for
a moment with a grave smile.
“ The flowers are withered,” said she at last,
“ and that is a sure sign that my wedding was not to
be. Thus do I break the betrothing, and set
Victoire at liberty !”— and tearing the garland in
pieces, she threw the fragments at the feet of
Lisette.
“ And now,” continued she, “ in token of good­
will to my cousin, who but fulfils her woman’s
destiny, and of forgiveness to Victoire, who was
never intended by heaven as a mate for me, I
h 2
D
W
««!.,,G o o g le
150 THE MAGICIAN.
would fain see the sacred knot tied which makes them
one. If this can be, however, it must be at once ;
for I have pressing business before me for the rest
of the day. Where is Jehan ? Has he not
already signified his assent to the priest?”
“ He did not think it worth while,” said one of
the friends, “ as he intended to assist at the cere­
mony himself. Yesterday afternoon, however, he
went down to the river-side, after a horse which
had strayed, and he has not been seen or heard of
since.”
“ What horse was that ?” demanded she.
“ The horse left here by the strange gentleman,
with whom it was at first supposed that you, Marie,
had gone off; but who is now said to be----- ”
“ Hush ! Hush !” cried the others.
“ The Third Victim!” said Marie. “ That
horse must have been an instrument in the hands
of Heaven; but whether of preservation or destruc-
I fear to inquire.”
“ Fear no longer for Jehan !” said Nigel. “ He
who one day betrayed a Jewess to destruction, and
the next, delivered a Christian knight into the
Dtylizod by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 151
hands of assassins, could hardly miss his reward.
Go search for him in the bay of Cens, to the left of
the embouchure of the stream, and you will find
his body stiff and stark, in the thick waters, with a
pall over it of the obscene plants that furnish food
neither for man nor beast!”
“ M y brother! my brother !” shrieked Lisette;
and she tore the bridal garland from her hair, and
scattered its flowers upon the ground.
“ This comes of being over-hasty,” remarked
Nigel to Bauldy.
“ It is a just punishment,” replied the other.
“ Tell me, messire, for the love of God,” said
Marie, “ by whose hands did Jehan perish ? ’
“ He had the honour of meeting death at the
hands— or, I should rather say, at the feet— of
the stoutest warrior in Brittany; whose name is
Prelatl.”
“ Mysterious heaven ! And the knight betrayed
by Jehan,” continued she eagerly, “ he did not
fall?”
“ No. It was he who, without recognising his
face, invited the dark-looking peasant to pilot him
Digiti G o o g le
152 THE MAGICIAN.
down the Erdre, and thus unconsciously delivered
him to destruction. Know you that knight ?”
“ I do. Ever since day-break, I have sought
Sir Archibald Douglas; and on an errand on
which hang life and death.”
“ Then you are sent by David Armstrong!
Fear not to explain yourself to us; for we are
friends and comrades of both, and leagued in the
same cause.” Marie, after some hesitation, ex­
plained herself fully, although declining to trust
the plan of the swamp out of her own hands. In
vain Nigel offered to be the bearer of it himself;
reminding her of her incapacity to defend herself,
if attacked upon the road. She replied, that her
very insignificance would be her protection, and
that, wrapped, in her peasant’s cloak, she would be
able to penetrate, where swords and spears would
oppose the progress of one like him. Yielding at
length to this reasoning, they described the place
of rendezvous where she would find the knight;
and, bidding her God-speed, the two friends
resumed their journey. As they followed the
waggon, which had gone slowly on, they could see
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 153
the marriage guests separating sadly, to their seve­
ral homes; and, by and by, they observed a woman
come out from one of the huts, completely wrapped
up in a cloak. She waved her hand to them, as
she entered the moorland behind the village; and,
for a long time, the solitary figure was occasionally
visible, skirting along the low hills in the direction
of the Loire.
Felicité had heard enough to alarm her both for
herself and her lover; although she had still no
suspicion that he who had taken his leave so ten­
derly, yet so gaily, on the evening before, to meet
her in the morning with a glowing cheek and a
laughing eye, had been engaged in the interval in
a desperate and deadly fight, which cost the life
not only of Jehan, but of many better and braver
men. She stated her fears so strongly to Houpe-
lande, that the echevin, who doated on his daugh­
ter, regretted that he had not taken Bauldy’s
advice; and at length, although groaning at the
idea of depriving himself of so trusty an escort,
proposed to the Scot to carry her back to Nantes.
“ It is impossible," said Bauldy, firmly, but
h 3
Google
154 THE MAGICIAN.
sadly, “ I cannot accompany Felicité myself; but
she will ride on Nigel’s horse, and he and I will
conduct the oxen ourselves, that she may have the
attendance and protection of the drivers.” His
mistress opened her eyes upon him with astonish­
ment.
“ Ay, you may stare,” said her father, “ but it is
the way with the students; whichever place holds
out the fairest promise of drawing of blood, and
breaking of heads, thither they will go, in spite of
all the fathers and daughters in Christendom. 1
know them well, Felicité; and I can say, that there
are more garments torn and dabbled in one night
on the hill of St. Genevieve, than in the rest of
Fiance in a twelvemonth.”
“ Are you resolved ?” said the young lady, in a
low voice, as Nigel drew her father aside.
“ I am. But you must not leave me in anger.
We are leagued with Douglas in a plan to deliver
a comrade of ours, who is now a prisoner at La
Verrière, in instant peril of his life. We have
just heard, most unexpectedly, that a surprise is to
be attempted this night ; and surely even you, my
Digitize Google
THE MAGICIAN. 155
gentle love, would not advise your friend, who lias
nothing in the world to depend upon, save his
courage and his sword, to skulk out of the
danger ?”
“ Come Felicité,” cried the echevin, turning
round, in a flutter, determined that his daughter
should be safe at all hazards, “ are you ready to
mount t"
“ Yes, father,” said she—“ the waggon.”
“ But I say, the horse. Come, up with you;
and go, Nigel, and give the men their instructions.
Quick, quick; we are too near La Verriére
already.”
“ It is thither I am going,” said the young lady,
“ and no more needf be said about it. If there is
no danger there, why should I turn back ?—and
if there be danger, is it not fitting that your
daughter should share it?”
“ But there is no danger for me. Lord loveyou,
I am the first man of my guild ! Danger indeed!
Why girl, I am an echevin of Paris !”
“ And I am an echevin’s daughter. No more,
dear father, for I have ceased to be a child.
D
m
156 THE MAGICIAN«
Ever since we set out on this journey, I have felt
myself growing into a woman ; and I am deter­
mined to have my way for once !” Nothing that
could be said by the whole three, had the slightest
effect on Felicité, and she at length resumed her
seat in the waggon, which moved on as before.
The fortress, as we have already observed, was
not particularly imposing in its distant aspect; and
when a low black building, appearing and dis­
appearing by turns, according to the inequalities of
the road, was pointed out to the travellers as the
castle of La Verrière, a weight of care seemed to
be removed from the breasts of the whole party.
Jacquin Houpelande remarked, that the French
nobles were much more splendidly lodged than
those of Brittany ; although, in all probability, the
Lord de Retz considered it beneath so great a man
to take any care about the house wherein he con­
descended to reside. And yet I must say,” he
added between his teeth, “ that it was ill thought
of by the baron, to provide himself with no
better a castle when he ordered my magnificent
liveries !” .
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 15T
Felicite amused herself with asking questions
about the Damsel of Laval, touching her age, her
beauty, and her dress; and with conjecturing
whether the brave knight who was to take the
castle by surprise, looked forward to her hand as a
part of the goods and chattels which would be the
fruit of his victory. As for Bauldy and Nigel,
they thought that their luckless comrade must be
spell-bound indeed, to remain in such a place a
single night longer than suited his own pleasure
and convenience. “ At this distance, in fact,”
said Nigel, “ I am inclined to doubt whether
yonder walls are much more difficult to descend
than those of the Scottish college.”
On the first view of the ramparts, however,
which they found suddenly barring their way, on
emerging from a wood, an instantaneous change
was operated on their minds. At the sight of the
enormous culverines, both the echevin and his
daughter turned pale; while Bauldy and Nigel
broke into exclamations of astonishment and admi­
ration. The garrison were now closely on their
guard, doubtless from their loss the evening before;
and it seemed to be as difficult a matter to enter,
D^oab
yGoogle
158 THE MAGICIAN.
as they had heard it was to leave, the enchanted
stronghold. The waggon and its contents were
scrupulously examined; the bales were pierced
through with a sword, to ascertain that they held
nothing more dangerous than garments; and
the feces of the whole party were subjected to
severe scrutiny in the guard-house.
This last was a ceremony which the students
had by no means expected; and they began to
consider, in some trepidation, whether their dis­
guises during the fight on the river had been
complete enough to enable them to escape detec­
tion. To be startled at midnight by the cry of
“ treason !” and the clash of arms, and to find
themselves in the midst of the hurry and danger of
an assault, were adventures for which they were
completely prepared; but to be laid hold of as
spies, and hung instantly up, to gasp and choke in
the face of the blessed sun, were contingencies no
less new than revolting to their imaginations. No
remark, however, was made on their appearance;
and in a little while, waggon, oxen, servants,
travellers, and all, were swallowed up by the pon­
derous gates; which, shutting behind them with a
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 159
crash, and a roar, made more than one of the group
quake to the very centre.
The party passed on in profound silence, only
interrupted by an occasional exclamation of
wonder from Nigel, or by a soft whisper addressed
by Bauldy to his mistress. Jacquin grew more
serious, and his face more pale, as they proceeded
through the intermediate fortification; but on
arriving at the last gate, where he saw the two
culverines on the top, one at each side, supported
on men’s shoulders, while another stood behind,
blowing his match, and pointing the deadly instru­
ment full at his head, he had well nigh fallen from
his horse. '
“ Hold, for the love of God !” cried he. “ I am
an echevin of Paris !”
“ It is but a form,” said Nigel; “ See, the gate
opens. Pass on.”
“ To the bottomless pit with their forms, say I !
Why they might go off—those bloody-minded
culverines—before the men themselves were aware!
O my God! was the like of this ever heard or
seen? And I an echevin of Paris !” He passed
a*Google
Dig
160 THE MAGICIAN.
through this gate, bending over his horse as low as
if he had been riding for a prize; and when they
had entered into the court, the perspiration was
seen falling, in large drops, down his pale face.
He was somewhat re-assured, however, by being
invited, the moment he dismounted, into the pre­
sence of Gilles de Retz; an attention, he thought,
which it was civil in the baron to pay, and honour­
able in himself to receive.
“ You see,” said he, wiping his brow, “ that no
time is lost. Why, in the court-yard of a lesser
noble, I might have kicked my heels for hours! It
must be owned, however, that I have done the
handsome thing by his'lordship; and above all, that
I am an echevin of Paris, and the first man in my
guild!” But when it was signified, that his
Scottish allies must accompany him, he could
hardly account for such a clause in the politeness;
till, on the young men endeavouring to excuse
themselves, on pretence of having to attend to the
discharge of the waggon,a file of soldiers began to
move towards them, at a signal from the obliging
messenger. Jacquin saw at once, that, in a place
Digilizedby Google
■ PHE MAGICIAN. 161
like this, it was ridiculous to have any thoughts of
his own—that the ceremonial of the court of La
Verrière was as unalterable as the laws of the
Medes and the Persians. He therefore followed
his conductor in silence, with Félicité clinging to
his arm, and Bauldy and Nigel bringing up the
rear.
In the hall of audience, they found Gilles de
Retz, seated at table, with Sir Roger de Brique-
ville, and other officers, standing unbonnetted
around. The baron seemed surprised at the
entrance of Félicité, but he rose up, with habitual
politeness, and pointed toa seat His eye wandered
over her figure for an instant ; but speedily relaps­
ing into the stern and gloomy abstraction from
which their appearance had roused him, he seemed
to forget that such persons were in the room.
“ My lord,” said De Briqueville, after a pause,
“ the prisoners are here.” The strangers started
at this announcement; and Houpelandc made a
sudden step,forward, as if about to speak.
“ O,” said the baron, with a careless bend of the
head, and the slightest possible approach to a smile.
162 THE MAGICIAN.
“ You have brought the liveries? That is well.
We shall confer touching them to-morrow; but in
the meantime, you will stand aside, and answer
whatever questions may be demanded of you. Are
these the men, De Briqueville?”
“ Yes, my lord.”
“ Where were you last evening at sunset,
fellows?”
“ We are no fellows,” answered Bauldy, “ but
Scottish gentlemen, and somewhile students of
humane learning at Paris.”
“ Very well. Where were you at sunset?"
“ Fighting pell-mell on the river!” said Nigel,
suddenly. “ You see it is nonsense to deny it,
Bauldy.”
“ And after slaughtering our men unawares, and
stealing our money, you come hither to add the
part of spy to that of murderer and thief? We
doom you to the gallows. Let them swing, De
Briqueville!” and the baron rose up.
“ My lord,” said the officer, “ I have already
suggested, that the men, who are Scots, and will
therefore fight for any body, if they are paid well,
Google
THE MAGICIAN. 163
might be as useful on our side as against us; and
at present, you know, we have needof recruits.”
“ But are we to take their fidelity for granted ?
Who knows any thing about them? Do you—
tailor ?”
“ My lord,” said Houpelande, “ I am an echevin
of Paris! I will take my oath that they are poor,
innocent, God-fearing youths; and if they were
taking their pleasure on the river last evening, and
may be drank a bottle or two of wine, and' drew a
few drops of blood, or broke three or four heads—
what then ?•—
they are students of humane learning,
as they have informed you, and were brought up
to such things as naturally as to Greek and Latin.”
“ What then, indeed! By the mass, this is a
most valiant tailor, and an admirable witness to
boot! We shall fall upon a plan of requiting him
for his testimony before he leaves La Verriere.
“ They are perhaps known,” said De Briqui-
ville, “ to Orosmandel’s assistant; who isa country­
man of their own, and was also a student at the
university.” David was accordingly sent for, and
Digitized by Google
164 THE MAGICIAN.
made his appearance before another word had been
uttered in the room.
“ Do you know these men?” said the baron.
The eye of the witness wandered slowly round the
room, examining each person, individually, from
head to foot
“ I do,” he replied. “ That is Jacquin Houpe-
lande; whom I scruple not to recommend to your
lordship as the best fashioner of an epitagium in
Paris: although, in his accounts, as I have often
urged upon him, he will occasionally confound the
Latin particles.”
“ And the other two?”
“ I doubt whether so much can be said in favour
of them. They are clerks of the university,
indeed; but, alas! it is not always piety and learn­
ing that are to be found under the cowl. They
were sore fighters, I remember, and given to drink
wine, when by any chance they could get at it.
But, in truth, I can say little about them; being
myself, from my youth up, a lover of peace, and a
hater of brawls.”
0 tg tU i« lD y C iO O ^ IC
J
THE MAGICIAN. 1 6 5
“ The turn-coat villain!” groaned Houpelande,
half aloud.
“ That is nothing against them,” said De Bri-
queville; “ at least nothing that we do not know
already. But can you tell us what security have
we for their honour, in case of their being admitted
to save their lives by entering into the service of
my lord ?”
“ I can answer that best, if you will tell me for
what crime they have forfeited their lives.”
“ Only murder and robbery.”
“ As for murder,” said David, “ by which you
no doubt mean, in general terms, a violent death, I
should think that man over bold who would under­
take to guarantee, either that they should refrain
from giving it, or escape receiving it. But robbery,
brings usdirect to the question. We Scots, you must
know, valiant sir, and my honourable lord, are some­
times in the case to leave our own beloved country ;
either because we have not wherewithal left to live
in it, or because our enemies—or, as it may happen,
the laws of the realm—will not permit us to do so.
Now, suppose us landed in Brittany, at our own
CKaniMdbyGoOgle
166 THE MAGICIAK.
charges, and with our own sword by our side, come
hither all the way, of express purpose to take a
hand in what may be going forward—how think
you we determine as to our course of action? Ob­
serve, you are all alike to us; there is not one drop
of your blood in our veins; we know you not from
Adam; and we have, therefore, no duties to bind
as, no predilections to consult”
“ You sell your swords, of course,” said De
Briqueville, “ to whomsoever will hire them.”
“ Of a surety we do ! And then you ask, what
security you can have for our honour? Why, our
honour goes into the bargain with our swords; and
the honour ofa military adventurerts fidelity. You
have said, and said truly, that we do not give our
fidelity: we sell it But fidelity is not a material
object, like house or land, which you part with in
perpetuity. The service and the hire, go on from
day to day; and thus 1 humbly opine, that you
may absolutely depend upon a soldier’s honour, so
long as you pay him better than other people.”
“ A most wise conclusion !” said the Lord de
Retz. “ Hire them, De Briqueville, since you
OmllLM
dbyClOO^Ic
THE MAGICIAN. 167
will iiave it so; for the question of their life or
death is not worth the words it has cost” Bauldy
and Nigel looked at each other for a moment and
then the former stepped forward.
“ M y lord,” said he, “ we humbly thank you for
the honour you intend us; but till our present
engagement be at an end, we cannot possibly
accept of it.”
“ Think better of it, young men!” said De
Briqueville, sternly. “ You will find that this is
no boy’s play. You are offered instant choice
between the gallows, and a fortune which half your
beggarly nation might covet.”
“ It is clear at least,” cried Nigel, with a bitter
and haughty laugh, “ that your nation covets the
the strength and valour of ours. I take all here to
witness, that we die, partly for conquering in
battle, against odds of three to two, which this
man calls murder and robbery; but principally
because we refuse to forfeit our honour, by entering
into the service of the Lord de Retz !”
“ De •Briqueville,” said the baron, in a low
voice, but which was heard distinctly all round the
Dlgilized Dy G O O J j lC
168 THE MAGICIAN.
room, “ I am in no mood for fooling. Awny with
them at once !”
“ Let there be three of them, then,” replied the
officer, whose cheek was burning with shame and
anger. “ We owe the taunt to this other Scot; and
if he dangle with the rest, Orosmandel will never
miss him.'’
“ Whatever you owe me,” said David calmly,
“ I could excuse your paying in such a manner as
that But I really cannot comprehend your anger.
You have put the courage of your prisoners to the
most ample proof; and if you were desirous of
engaging them before, you ought, in common rea­
son, to be doubly more so now. You do not know
our countrymen. These young men are at this
moment piqued in honour. Their pride is wounded,
and their very valour impeached, by the alternative
you have offered them. Manage them as is the cus­
tom of our canny country. Give them a night to
think of it. Fill their bellies with the rich meats
and strong wines of the castle, that they may com­
pare them with the hungry diet to which they have
been accustomed; and let them walk round your
Dlgltuod by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 1 6 9
impregnable ramparts, and think the while of the
brown heaths and naked hills of their own home.
If by this time to-morrow, they do not crave ser­
vice under your banner as a boon, without consult­
ing Orosmandel at all on the subject, I will place
my head at your disposal.”
“ Will you do this?*' cried the Lord de Ret
suddenly, while a baleful smile lighted up hiscoun­
tenance. “ It is agreed ! Not another word, De
Briqueville ! Away, all of you. I bid you wel­
come to my poor house of La Verrière; and I
pray you to feast your fill !”
VOL. in. i
Digitized by Google
CHAPTER VII.
T h e audience-hall not being in the private
apartments of the baron, David left it by the
public avenue as well as the rest. Houpelande
was in no state of mind to speak to him, and
Felicite, with pale cheek, and staring eyes, looked
like one walking in a dream. His fellow-students,
however, were broad awake. They acknowledged
the wisdom of his policy as regarded them; and
comprehended at once that the lives of all three,
together with the property of Houpelande, and
perhaps the honour of his daughter, depended
upon the success of Sir Archibald. It was now
well on in the day; and by midnight, at latest,
their fate would be sealed for good or bad.
DqlUMby G o O g l c
THE MAGICIAN. 171
Even supposing, however, that Douglas secured
his footing within the walls, Bauldy and Nigel
could by no means understand how a vast fortress
was to fall into the hands of so small a force as
could cross the swamp unobserved: but David
informed them that this consummation was neither
necessary nor possible. Douglas knew too well the
art of war not to give himself the advantage of a
division, by causing a simultaneous attack to be
made on the outer works of the fortress. But,
even if this were left undone, the forces of Mont­
richard were known to be assembling in the
neighbourhood; and on this night the dwelling-
house would be comparatively deserted, and almost
every man capable of bearing arms posted on the
fortifications nearest the expected enemy. Bauldy
and Nigel themselves might open the doors to the
knight, if he could not accomplish it himself by
force; and once in, they might defy, at least for
some hours, the whole garrison out of doors.
The house of itself was a fortress of considerable
strength, defended by a thick curtain; and being
niched in the angle toward the river, it commanded
D.0. w « i b y G o o g l e
172 THE MAGICIAN.
the passage of the Loire. Thus if the knight’s
enterprise succeeded, all who chose would be able
to escape in the boats; and even the property of
Houpelande might find its way back to Nantes in a
much shorter time than it had taken to come.
This explanation, which David did not give, till
they were in the court, and out of hearing even of
the walls, was so satisfactory that a slight tinge of
rose-colour began to revisit the cheeks even of
Felicite. Her father, however, was still gloomy
and disheartened.
“ I am an echevin of Paris," said he; “ but
when the moment of strife comes, they will mind
me no more than a cast-off coat. I can fight, for
that] matter, as well as another; but then it must
be in the day-time, and in a sober, citizen-like
manner. To be cutting and slashing, in utter
darkness, and with all the noises of hell in my
ears—why, it would make me mad. I should
thrust straight on, and embowel my own mother if
she stood before me. Now, if you, David, who
always know what you are about, and who mind
whether it is light or dark no more than a cat—if
D
^
t
o
o
db
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 173
for old acquaintance sake you would only let me
take hold of your cloak, when it comesto escaping ?
—What, you wont ?”
“ Mygood friend,” replied the scholar, “ 1 grieve
to say that you must not depend upon me for
any thing. I have another, and a far harder task
before me.”
“ I thought so. Nobody cares for the old tailor.
I don’t mind to be called sartor now, or vestiarius
cither; ami I doubt whether, even if you did lend
me a catch of your new cloak, the stuff is good
enough to hold. The knight, Sir Archibald—he
and I have drank together as good fellows, and I
have seen him eat like three counsellors. Do you
think he will remember me in this pinch ?'
“ Unhappily, he will have the Damsel of Laval
on his hands.”
“ Not a doubt of it; or any body else but
Jacquin. It is needless to speak to you, Nigel;
for you go on as if you had as many lives as inches
—and these are not far from four score.”
“ I should be quite at your service,” replied
Nigel; “ but I must tarry behind to speak a word in
i 2
Digitized ny Google
174 THE MAGICIAN.
the ear to De Briqueville—he who is so ready
at tying up Christians in bunches, like haddocks to
dry.” •
“ I could have taken my corporal oath of that !
Bauldy, you have more sense than Nigel, though
not much neither. If you will save me and my
property, you shall have one half for your reward.”
“ And who will save your daughter ?”
“ Sir, my daughter is myself; and the one
cannot be saved without the other. Is it agreed ?”
“ Agreed. For my half of the property, I shall
accept of a very moderate sum of money; and for
my half of the persons, I choose Félicité !”
“ What is that? You ! Come, this is nonsense.
We have no child’s play before us, as De Brique­
ville most justly said.”
“ Keep your money then, since you grudge the
price of my service ! Félicité has already given me
her heart, for that was her own to bestow; and I
ask of you, in full of all demands, nothing more
than her hand. Even this, however, I shall leave
to your generosity, when all is over. In the
meantime, you may be assured, that if I leave
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 1 7 5
this house alive, you and she shall be with
me!”
David recommended to his two comrades, to
play the part of unwilling guests for an hour or
two, but to allow their ill-humour to subside
gradually under the influence of good cheer. If
they could even affect intoxication towards bed­
time, it would be so much the better; as in that
case suspicion with regard to them would be laid
asleep for the night But when thus disposing, as
it were, with their heads, they were to have their
eyes and ears in their breasts, like the Blemmyes
of Ethiopia, mentioned, as they no doubt remem­
bered, by Strabo. They were to observe the
geographical position of their dormitory, so as to
be able to find the great door in the dark; and,
while waiting for the sounds which should call
them to such course of action as their prudence
and courage might suggest, they were, above all
things, to spend the interval in supplications to
God, through the mediation of the Virgin Mary
and the blessed St Bride.
David then bade a solemn adieu to the whole
176 THE MAGICIAN.
party individually; but, on arriving at Felicite, he
lingered for a moment, and raised her hand to his
lips.
“ My bonny May,” said he, “ I leave you in
good hands. Instead of the wealth and municipal
distinction to which you might have looked, you
have chosen a stout arm, a true heart, and a blythe
blue eye. In times, and countries, like these, the
election is not only honourable to your womanly
affections, but to yourjudgment; for the youth of
the city are not only dissolute but effeminate, and
truly it becomes a prudent lass, who would walk in
safety through this perilous world, to have a man
for her companion, and Aot to go to and fro in the
image of the nymph Hercynna, the companion of
Proserpine, with a goose at her side. Deii vertant
bene! The dearest blessings of heaven be upon
you ! Away now with you alL Eat, drink, and be
merry; and let not the thought cast a shade upon
your brow, that we five, in all human probability,
shall never meet again !”
David betook himself again to his employment;
but it appeared that all was now at an end. The
„G o o g le
Digit*
THE MAGICIAN. m
fire was extinguished; the crucibles were thrown
into a heap in a corner; and what remained of the
various substances, which it had been necessary to
separate with so much care, was swept into one
heterogeneous mass. The object of his blind, but
incessant labours, was no doubt accomplished.
This night was to end the noviciate of Gilles de
Retz; to fulfil the purposes, whatever they might
be, of Orosmandel; and to see at length attempted
the long projected villany of Prelati. What these
things were, David knew no more than the man in
the moon: yet he knew, that they involved the
safety of Pauline’s soul, of Hagar’s honour, and
his own life.
As the shades of evening began to fall, his cheek
may have become paler, but his heart grew firmer
and firmer. He had sharpened and polished the
blade of his dagger, till it resembled a huge lancet.
He had girded up the loins of his soul, as for a
journey on which there was no turning back; and
though somewhat confused by the mystery in which
the coming catastrophe was enveloped, he had
accustomed himself to look so long and so steadily
i 3
Digitized by G o o g le
178 THE MAGICIAN.
into the darkness, that his mental optics were pre­
pared to seize the faintest glimmering of light the
moment it appeared.
He had leisure enough allowed him for reflec­
tion. His appearance, even in the passage, was
observed with indifference. The Lord de Retz,
indeed, deigned to notice him once as he passed
with a scowl of disdainful triumph; and the dwarf,
as he looked up in his face, perpetrated a grin,
filled with so much devilish glee, that the scholar
could hardly refrain from uttering an invocation
aloud. But Orosmandel, his arms folded in his
‘ cloak, his head erect, yet the eyes fixed upon the
ground, glided past him like a spectre. No one
asked what he did there. It seemed as if the
plans, which were approaching the moment of
completion, were too securely laid to have any
thing to fear from him. His day was past—his
apprenticeship was out; and, like the crucibles and
chemical agents in the laboratory, he was laid aside
till the morning, when there would be time to
break all in pieces and cast them into the river.
He was, at first, greatly puzzled to account for
,G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 179
the escape of Marie having attracted neither
suspicion nor attention of any kind; but at length,
on mature reflection, he ascribed it to what must
have been its true cause. Gilles de Retz, ashamed
of the circumstances of his defeat, was not likely
to have mentioned the subject at all, unless inter­
rogated; and Orosmandel was far too busy with
more important reflections to think of the fate of a
peasant girl. If her idea crossed the mind of the
philosopher at all, he must doubtless have con­
cluded, from the silence of the baron, that his per­
suasions had been unsuccessful, and that he had
sent Marie back to her prison-chamber, to' await
his leisure for seductions of another kind. For
Gilles de Retz, it was enough that he had left her
in the Magician’s study, and in the hands of his
assistant: and as for a thought of her escape from
the fortress, it could hardly have entered the brain
of either party.
David, therefore, had come under no suspicion
on this account; and he was snared so inextricably
in the toils, that now even his cries and struggles
would have provoked no more notice than the
Digitized by G o o g k
180 THE MAGICIAN*
dying agonies of a fish in die angler's basket But
it was not the moment for resistance; and as the
evening darkened apace, he crept mutely up and
down the ladder which led to his garret; now
perching himself upon his tower of observation,
and now gliding, like a shadow, through the
corridor. All here was now as calm as death. The
communications which appeared to liave been
going on throughout the day between the baron’s
private apartments and the study, were at an end.
The quick, irregular step of Gilles de Retz, as he
came and went, was heard no more; the goblin
messenger of Orosmandel hud performed his last
commission; and the tall, still, spectral form of the
Magician himself had vanished in the interior of
his den. The elements which had been so long
preparing, were ready; and there hung, brooding
over the tower, that preternatural stillness which
prepares the seaman for the bursting of the hurri­
cane. .
But when the air is stillest, and the ocean
smoothest; and when die dark grey mist which
curtains the sky, and the broad and dense shadow
»9iu G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 181
which belts the horizon, let forth no sound to tell
of what is coining—the elementary agents are at
work within and beyond. The strife is going on;
the chaos is in motion; although man, owing to the
weakness of his outward senses, only feels that the
evil spirits of nature are at hand by the quaking of
his own heart.
In like manner—although to the ear and eye of
the scholar all was silent and motionless around—
within that mystic chamber at the very moment
the war of the human passions was at its highest.
The place was so constructed, that when the pon­
derous doors were completely closed, no sound
could escape from within; and to this circumstance,
no doubt, was owing the facility with which David
had found access, whenever he chose, to the
interior; for the time and labour which were
requisite to shut up the room could not always be
spared.
Ever since night-fall, Orosmandel and Gilles de
Retz had been in colloquy, as secure from listeners
as if they were in the middle of a desert. The
baron, when he first entered, was calmer in his
182 THB MAGICIAN.
motions and manner than on former occasions; but
his face was deadly pale, and the tone of his voice
was so much changed, that it hardly appeared to be
the same, although one would have been puzzled to
describe the difference.
The arrangements of the place were the same as
usual, with the exception of a light which burned
upon the table, gleaming faintly through the
crevices of a human skull. The parchment, with
its black seal, was thus rendered more distinctly
visible; while a brazen hand behind the altar,
touched by the rays of the lamp, appeared to
point, with extended finger, to the mysterious
document. On this object the eyes of Gilles de
Retz were fixed.
“ All is prepared?” said he, when Orosmandel
had secured the door.
“ AIL”
“ And there will be time ?”
“ Yea.”
“ That is well. You do not believe in destiny ?
I do.”
“ What, the vulgar call destiny,” said Oros-
»G o o g le
Digltae
THE MAGICIAN. 183
mandel, “ is nothing more than a general rule, by
which the universe of mind and matter is governed.
It is practicable for individuals, by means of
superior knowledge and higher daring, to step forth
from the crowd, and frêe themselves from the yoke.
The days of a man, for instance, are numbered at
three score and ten years. How many overstep
the bounds ! To extend the term by ten, twenty,
or thirty years, is easy, even for common men.
Shall it be said, that it is im possible to turn these
acquisitions into cycles— scores— centuries? When
Adam, by eating of the tree of knowledge, became
even as a demon, his next step, according to thy
Scriptures, would have been to take also of the
tree of life, and so live for ever.”
“ Not believe in destiny !” said Gilles de Retz,
who apparently had not heard, or else was unable
to follow, the reasoning of the philosopher. “ Why,
look you here ! Was it I who formed for myself
that peculiarity of mind which incited me to the
pursuit of occult studies? Did I shape out the
circumstances which have Jed me here? These
hands, which were once as soft and stainless as if
184 THE MAOICIAH.
they had known no other bath than new milk, are
now so incrusted with blood, that it is only use
which enables me to bear the sight or smell! Was
this done of my own will ? I am ambitions, it is
true; but so are other men. * I am voluptuous; and
so are other men. W hy did I not do as they?
W hy did I not pass my life, or throw it away, in
the chace after love or honour ? When I reached
at distinction, it yielded itself, without an effort, to
my grasp. When I looked with desire upon beauty,
it melted spontaneously in my embrace. Even she
— my wife— Catherine— who could have filled this
wild bosom, as she filled my arms, when she had
just suffered me to taste of the fulness of content—
she died! Was this my doing? Why, if every
drop of blood in my veins had been a separate and
individual life, I would have given them all to save
her!”
“ M y son”— said Orosmandel.
*
*Nay, hear me still. Bond after bond was
loosed of my grasp of heaven, till only one golden
thread remained. When you proposed to me to
sever that blessed tie, by making Pauline a thing
D
ig.ta«ibvGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 185
as gnilty as myself, I could have stabbed you to the
heart And what held me ? Amazement, not somuch
at the wickedness, as at the folly of such a thought!
I put back the clustering ringlets from the face of
the innocent, and bright-minded girl, and looked
through her’s into her mother’s eyes. And then I
renewed my covenant with Catherine; and my
heart was glad within me, as I thought, that come
what might, I should still, while she lived, have
one being on earth to pray for me, not for gain,
but in spirit; and when she died, an angel in
heaven, to join her mother in pleading for my soul
at the throne of God.”
“ The time flieth apace,” said Orosmandel im­
patiently.
“ And then I tried the spells of love, and the
allurements of wealth and power. I sounded the
depths of woman’s heart, and found vanity, ambi­
tion, voluptuous desire— all bad things that may
coexist with maiden purity; but I found not what
I wanted. When argument was unavailing, I sub­
stituted threatening; and when persuasion failed,
I had recourse to force. Screams were heard within
oowodbyGoogle
186 THE MAGICIAN.
these walls, instead of laughter ,
*and for wine, the
banquet furnished blood and tears. The noble
would gladly sacrifice her pride at my bidding; the
wealthyher wealth; the virgin her modesty; and thus
my senses were pampered, while my soul brooded
lonely, and afar off, over the late she prophesied.
The secrets of nature were invoked in vain, and
gold was showered into the crucible, as if it had
been water. Still there was hope. Still some
new victim presented herself, almost unsought— for
no other purpose than to baffle her destroyer; and
at length, a mighty sum, obtained with almost the
last of my possessions, and at the probable expense
of a civil war in the country, was the only chance
left of saving father and daughter from destruc­
tion.” The baron paused, as if exhausted.
“ The money was intercepted by brigands,”
said the philosopher calmly, “ and what then?”
“ Why, there it is ! The last stake was
lost----- ”
“ The last but one,” interrupted Orosmandel.
“ Did I not tell you ? I am like a man sinking
into a gulf, and catching desperately at the lichens
Digitize Google
THE MAGICIAN. 187
above his head. There is but one remaining—
just one !— and that is small, and delicate----- ”
“ But strong as twisted steel.”
“ And graceful, and beautiful— twined round
with the virgin flowers of spring, and glistening
with nature’s holy water, the dews of morning!
T o that must I cling; on that must I fix my
foul grasp— or perish.”
“ The lichen will transplant,” said Orosmandel;
“ it will take root anew, in a firmer, loftier soil;
and its crushed flowers will be no whit the worse.
Still, if thy heart fail, there is time to retract, even
at the twelfth hour. Thou art ruined, it is true.
Lands, money, power, and place— all are gone.
Verily one half that thou hast spent in this pursuit,
would have sufficed, with prudence and house­
keeping economy, for many years!”
“ Do you dare to taunt me !” cried the baron,
stung by the tone of voice in which this was
uttered. “ Is it not you who have led me on
from the first step ? Did I seek your presence or
your counsel? Did you not appear before me,
like a demon of the abyss, unsummoned, save by
Ofl a*Google
188 THE MAGICIAN.
the evil thoughts that were in my heart ? Retract ?
What if I do retract ? The world has yet wealth
to win, and there are armies to command, and
states to govern! What would the Duke refuse
to the request of him whom his purchases have
ruined 1"
“ Liberty!”
• “ How ?”
“ The Duke hath signed the decree for thine
arrest”
“ Mother of God, can this be possible ? But I
will be revenged ! I will take back my lands by
the strong arm. By St Mary, I will light a
brand, which'shall set one half of Brittany in
flames !v
“ If thou do this, it must be alone; for the
church hath already stretched forth her hand to
set the mark of Cain upon thy brow; seeing
which, men will hide their faces when thou passest
by.”
“ Can you mean this ?" said Gilles de Retz,
trembling.
“ The crimes imputed to thee, are murder and
DigitUM byG o O g l e
THE MAGICIAN* 189
sorcery ; and the president of thy trial is to be the
\
Nuncio of the Pope. If thou refuse to surrender,
then cometh excommunication; if thou give thy­
self up— the fire and the faggot.”
The baron was stunned by this communication,
which lost no part of its effect from the calm, cold
manner in which it was delivered. His head
drooped upon his bosom; and his chest, which, the
moment before, had been heaving with tumultuous
passion, exhibited not even the motion of life.
Orosmandel continued to regard him with a calm,
but observant look.
“ And you will not believe in destiny ? ’ said
Gilles de Retz, at length, as he raised his head;
“ Come, I am ready. Forgive me for the idle
words I have used; and let us proceed. Are all
things ready?”
“ All.”
“ And I a l s o a n d the baron deliberately bared
his left breast. The magician, then entering within
the circle, approached the altar. He lifted up the
parchment, and opened it ; when a powerful and
D igiteW bv GoO^Ic
1 9 0 THE MAGICIAN.
exhilarating ■ odour escaped from its folds, and filled
the whole apartment.
“ Art thou prepared ?” demanded Orosmandel,
solemnly.
“ Tell me first, if you remember our covenant?
All things will I give, save one. When in the
very gulf of sin, I will still have a hope— famt
though it be— of salvation.”
“ Fear not. All is according to.thy desire.”
“ Then am I ready.” .
“ Approach, then. Do what thou doest quickly;
for, until all is accomplished, thou must not draw
thy breath within this circle. Come!” The
baron paused for a moment; but then walking
steadily towards the altar, he wounded himself with
his dagger, and dipped in the blood a pen, which
he received from Orosmandel. As he stooped over
the bond, he was bewildered rather than guided by
a sudden blaze of light. But he signed his name,
and in the midst of a convulsion, resembling the
slight shock of an earthquake, which shook the
tower at the moment, he staggered out of the
circle, and fell upon the floor.
Digitized tn C . O O g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 191
When he recovered, he was again on his feet,
supported by a grasp which Orosmandel held of
his arm.
“ Is it done ?” said he. “ Did I sign ?”
“ All is well. Thou wilt now prepare to go
instantly forth whither thou knowest.”
“ And Pauline ? Has she consented ?”
“ She is prepared; but, as yet, in ignorance of
the precise task that is before her. Whisper it not
till the moment arrive; when every lingering
scruple will be lost in enthusiasm. Aw ay!” and
Orosmandel, opening the massive door, the baron
went out, and reeled, rather than walked, through
the corridor to his own apartments.
D
ig
.w
o
o6
,Google
C H A P T E R VIII.
W hile these things were taking place in the
tower, Sir Archibald Douglas, and his allies, at
some miles distance, were concerting measures for
prosecuting the contest which they had commenced
under such favourable' auspices. The mind of the
young knight, however, was by no means easy
under the part he was playing; and, there was
frequently so much inconsistence observed in his
counsels, that he already began to lose the place he
had acquired in the estimation of his companions.
He had opened his wooing, indeed, in rather an
extraordinary manner— by robbing the father of
his mistress of a large sum of money; and he was
now openly in arms against him. He more than
DigKizotiby Google
THE MAGICIAN. 193
half repented the reliance he had placed on David’s
judgment; and condemned the facility with which
he had bent his neck to a yoke, which, however
reasonable for the fellow students to bear, was
unworthy of a belted knight. Pauline, it seemed,
“ was in worse peril than he had even dreamed o f”
— but surely not from her own father; and was it
his wisest course to league himself with the
spoilers of her house, and force his way to his
high-born mistress at the point of the sword ?
Andrew, however, who had by this time become
the confidant of his plans and wishes, held strictly
to his original opinion of the wisdom of the
master-scholar. David, he observed, was not over­
much given to explanation; but, neither would he
suggest any plan to another, on which he had not
previously brought to bear the resources of a mind
far less given to miscalculation than is usual. It
was difficult, doubtless, to conceive the nature of
the danger which menaced the Damsel in her
father’s house— but was not the place a den of
mystery altogether ? Sir Archibald might depend
that every thing would turn out for the best; and,
VOL. in . k
Digitize Google
194 THE MAGICIAN.
in the meantime, lie had nothing to do but to
follow out the suggestions of David, by prosecuting
the war as briskly as possible.
In the midst of these debates, the new9 came to
the camp, that the Duke had at length listened to
the remonstrances of bis nobles; that he had
consented to surrender his last purchase on receiv­
ing back the money; and that an ordinance had
been published, by sound of trumpet, forbidding
the farther alienation of the family estates.
This, although certainly not quite unlooked for,
came like a shock of thunder upon Montrichard
and his comrades. The enterprise which had
occupied their thoughts so long was to be aban­
doned; their German auxilaries were to be turned
adrift without satisfaction ; and worse than all, the
money they had so fairly earned was to be given
up! Curses, both loud and deep, ran through the
camp; and many a petty baron there prepared to
ride home in headlong haste, to shelter himself
from the creditors that had been gathered like
harpies around him by the news of his expedi­
tion.
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 195
Beauchamp was perhaps in secret more discon­
tented than any; although no one could have
discovered this through the habitual apathy of his
manner. He congratulated Douglas, sarcastically,
on the wisdom he had exhibited, in seeming to
doubt of the expedience of pursuing an adventure
which he had himself commenced; and speculated
on the advantage which the prudent Scot would
enjoy, in the prosecution of his love suit, when
undisturbed by the bustle of war.
“ You cannot anger me, Beauchamp,” said Sir
Archibald gaily; “ for at this moment I am glad to
the heart at what has occurred. When we have full
leisure, however, if you will try with me, either on
foot or on horseback, either with sword or lance,—
not which has the fairest mistress— but which is
the worthiest servant, I will exchange as many
gibes with you in that fashion as you please.”
“ And why not now ?” said the English knight
“ Neither you nor I are much encumbered with
men to take care of; there is not a better field in
Brittany than this whereon we stand; and here
Digit««!B
VG 0 0 g l e
196 THE MAGICIAN.
be judges euow to determine our pretensions.”
The rude chiefs of the rising, gathered round them
in expectation of the duel.
“ Come hither,” answered Douglas, “ and I will
tell you why it must not be now;’’ and the two
knights— whose talk was of hewing one another to
pieces— walked out of the group, arm in arm. On
getting beyond ear-shot, the Scot, much to his
rival’s amazement, explained— if he can be said to
have explained what he did not himself understand
— the situation of Pauline de Laval; and proposed
that, for the present, they should lay aside their
mutual jealousies, and join hand in hand to save
her. Beauchamp, although more a man of this
sinful world than Sir Archibald, was not less a
knight, and he at once pledged himself as
required; but, in the midst of the arrangements
consequent on their new confederacy, another
messenger reached the camp, whose news turned
all things upside down.
This was an officer of the law, bearing a warrant
for the arrest of Gilles de Retz, on a charge of
Digd'Zod Dy Google '
THE MAGICIAN. 197
murder and sorcery; and he called on all who
heard, to assist him, in the name both of the church
and the Duke.
If it be remembered, that many of the chiefs
present were blood relations of the house of Laval,
and that the ostensible object of the whole was
simply to preserve the integrity of the family
estates, it will easily be imagined, that this intelli­
gence acted by no means as a sedative upon their
disturbed nerves. The consultations that ensued,
were brief, but conclusive. The Duke, before
rendering justice, had put them to the trouble of
taking up arms ; and it was surely not in his ser­
vice they would use them. The charge of murder
might be brought against any baron in Brittany;
but Gilles de Retz had murdered no kinsman of
theirs, and what had they to do with it ? As for
sorcery, it was an affair they did not understand,
and with which they would not presume to med­
dle ; being well satisfied to leave such delinquences *
in the hands of the church, which they more
immediately concerned.
Montrichard was the first to give the signal for
vGoogk
k 2
198 THE MAGICIAN.
breaking up the rendezvous. Each chief collected
his own men round his standard ; and, by and by,
the parts of the mass were seen detaching them­
selves by degrees, and successive bands marching
sullenly away, to all points of the compass, and
losing themselves in the shades of evening. Beau­
champ, however, with about twenty spears of his
own countrymen, still remained on the ground;
and also Douglas (with Andrew for his esquire),
surrounded by about as many more, consisting of
foreign mercenaries, or isolated adventurers, who
apparently not well knowing whither to betake
themselves, looked up to him as to a leader, in as
desperate a plight as themselves.
“ Sir Knights,” said Andrew, after a silence of
some minutes, “ if you will take my advice you will
ride your several ways with what speed you may. If
the Lord de Retz get an inkling of your situation
here, he will send out a force sufficient to cut you
in pieces; and I pray you to observe, Sir Archi­
bald, that being without my culverine, you can
reckon me only as a common man. I have
observed a figure, for some time past, crossing the
DigitizedbyC . O O y l e
THE MAGICIAN. 1*9
hills from the direction of La Verrière ; and,
although it is now lost in the shadows that are fall­
ing around, I can almost undertake to say, that its
errand is to us.”
“ You are right, friend,” said Beauchamp, “ for
see, it appears again, advancing steadily to the
mark— and in the semblance of a woman ! If you
do not claim a monopoly in that way, Douglas,
perhaps you will permit me to receive her?—
Pshaw, it is only a peasant!” and, as he spoke,
Marie stepped into the group, and approached Sir
Archibald.
“ I am late,” said she; “ I have lost precious
minutes in pursuing those whom I took for yonr
party. Tell me, Sir knight, for the time presses,
are these your friends by whom you are sur­
rounded ?”
“ All friends.”
“ Yet speak low, my woman,” interposed
Andrew, “ for you shall know that friends are
oftentimes unsafe confidents. Bend down your
ear, Sir Archibald; and if need be, you can
take to yourself the merit of publishing the secret”
Digitind byG O O g l C
200 THE MAGICIAN.
“ He speaks well,” said Marie; “ step aside
with me, for a moment, for my errand is of life
and death.”
“ He speaks like a true Scot,” observed Beau­
champ, superciliously, when they were gone, and
measuring Andrew with his eye, from head to
foot.
“ It is gratifying to me to hear the acknow­
ledgment,” replied the latter. “ But you seem
to be astonished, Sir knight— and the feeling is
nothing more than natural— at finding a grain of
common-sense beneath a steel cap ! Now, I would
haveyou tounderstand, thatalthough possessingsome
slight knowledge of military matters— as touching
culverines, for instance, and such engines of war,
I by no means consider myself as a mere soldier; I
am a votary, you must know, of that virgin-goddess,
who had Jupiter for a mother, and Vulcan for
a midwife; and who is not only the patroness of
arms, but of wisdom, and the liberal arts.”
“ Silence, Andrew, for the sake of heaven !”
cried Douglas, rejoining the group; “ for this is
a moment in which wisdom must give way to
/
/ Dignited by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 201
daring. Sir knight, I have received sure intelli­
gence, that the Damsel of Laval, if not saved this
night, is lost. A plan has been put into my hands,
which will enable us to cross the supposed impassa­
ble swamps of La Verrière, and so surprise the
castle. W ill you assist me ?”
“ W ill you assist me ?" replied Beauchamp, with
heat. “ It is my turn to lead ; and there are
twenty pairs of hands that go with mine, while you
are almost alone. In any other adventure, I
would second you at your request; but an enter­
prise which concerns the Damsel of Laval must be
conducted by me.”
“ That cannot be,” said Douglas ; “ yet it is not
from any idle jealousy I refuse your offer. At a
crisis like this, I would not hesitate to follow your
standard, in a field on solid ground ; but the habits
of my boyhood, and the nature of the wild country
where I was born, give me an unspeakable advan­
tage over you, in an adventure like the present.
What say you, gentlemen, are there none here
who will follow me, for the sake of chivalry, and ia
honour of the lady they love ?”
K. 3
-408 THE MAGICIAN.
f‘ And fpr a rich booty, withal!” added Andrew
quickly. “ I know every inch of the ground. The
bulk of the garrison, you must be aware, will be
out to-night, on the more distant fortifications; and
the house, if we once get into it—rand which com­
mands the passage of the river— may be defended
against them all. As for the swamp, it has already
been traversed by this bonny lass, and js there a
man among us who would hesitate ?” These
appeals had no effect on the Englishmen, who
stood firmly, and in silence, by their chief; but
almost all the other desperadoes ranged themselves
on the side of Douglas. They tied their horses in
a neighbouring thicket; and a rendezvous near the
swamp, and a signal, being agreed upon, they
began their march separately, in order that the
point to which it tended, might not be discovered;
although, before setting out, they gave a loud
shout, in order to apprize the scouts of the castle,
if any were within hearing, that enemies were at
hand. It was, indeed, the true policy of the
adventurers, to keep the garrison that night in a
state of constant alarm.
G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 203
The two rivals saluted each other sternly and
stiffly as they parted; but Beauchamp, with a
degree of awkwardness, which contrasted strangely
with the dignified, yet supercilious apathy of his
usual demeanour.
“ The danger which threatens the Damsel,”
thought he, as he looked after the retreating figure
of the knight, “ cannot be within her father’s
castle; and without the gates, I shall be as likely
to protect her as he. M y numbers, added to his,
would give him at least the possibility of success—
and that would be to put her into his hands. Yet he
is a gallant fellow, though a Scot, and Pauline will
weep for him when he falls !” The young knight’s
eye fell upon the peasant-girl, who turned round
several times to look at him, as she walked slowly
away. He imagined that wonder and scorn sate
upon her features. “ It is a daring enterprize !”
continued he mentally; “ such an one as minstrels
will celebrate with songs, and ladies with tears.—
What ho! gentlemen!” and the ring of arms fol-'
lowed his sudden voice, as every one moved to
o
,<im*Google
204 THE MAGICIAN.
hear him. “ Shall it be said that we alone hung
back when danger like this was to be dared ? ’
“ I was just thinking,” replied the lieutenant,
“ that the Scot, by some miracle, may escape
alive, and get back to tell it one day on the
borders !"
“ That were shame !” cried they all. “ Let him
lead across the swamp if he w ill; but once upon
the ramparts, the best man will be first!” On the
instant the awkwardness of the leader disappeared,
as well as the island taciturnity of his troop.
They tied their horses to the trees, the young
knight gave the word, and, as they commenced
their march, stepping lightly and cheerily along
the sward, the cry of their nation rose clear and
high in the evening air, “ St. George for merry
England! ’
Douglas, in the meantime, followed by Andrew,
walked swiftly on; but it was as yet far too early
for action, as the fitful beams of the moon were
•only beginning to be felt amidst the flying twi­
light. He at length directed his companion 'to
Digitizeddy Cj O O ^ I c
THE MAGICIAN. 805
proceed alone to the river side, and collect the
men at the rendezvous; determining himself to
approach within view of the principal gate, and
endeavour to ascertain whether the garrison
mustered there in such force as to leave a proba­
bility of the house being comparatively unde­
fended.
His walk, owing to the nature of the ground,
was much longer than he had expected. Occa­
sionally, on reaching the summit of an eminence,
he caught a distant peep of the Erdre, with a dark
object at the brink which he knew to be the abode
of Gilles de Retz; but his progress towards it
was so slow, that he could have fancied himself in
the condition of some knight of romance, who
sought in vain the avenue to an enchanted castle.
He was not yet within the circle of its attraction;
and it seemed as if some good genius, operating
through the natural intricacies of the ground, was
warning him away from the fatal spot
A large lake of the Erdre was at length before .
him; and, although the house was invisible, he
recognised the localities, and knew that he could
a»,Google
Digiti;*
20 6 THE MAGICIAN.
be at no great distance from the place be sought.
The dimness of evening was creeping rapidly
around. The frame-work of the picture was misty
and indistinct; and the dull sky seemed to be
showering down shade upon shade over the whole '
piece. There was just light enough to gratify the
eye, and darkness enough to excite the imagina­
tion ; and nature looked like some lovely face,
which is not the less lovely when seen through a veil.
He passed through an amphitheatre, and ascended
a steep beyond. The view here was magnificent,
embracing the large lake of the Erdre, and many
of its windings before and behind; but Douglas
bestowed not a glance upon the scene : he pressed
forward through valley, and over steep, threading
the forest with the intuitive instinct of the forest-
bom, and leaping the marsh-pools with the agility
of a deer. He was able, for some time, to steer
his course by the direction of the river, which was
visible from every height; but, by and by, the
mist gathering upon its surface, and rising from
the marshes at its sides, rendered its form so
indistinct, that it no longer served as a guide.
f
01» „ G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 207
Douglas, whose fears for Pauline increased every
moment, plunged on almost at random, till at length
even the dusky twilight was no more, lost and ab­
sorbed in the darkness of night. He had by this time
entered an extensive wood, which had appeared, to
his hopes at least, if not to his conviction, so long as
there was light enough to enable him to form
some idea of its shape, to resemble the forest
scenery that surrounded the castle of La Verrière.
He still pressed on, therefore, in expectation of
seeing lights in the windows, which might direct
his further search.
And his expectations were realized; for he bad
not stumbled on in the dark for many minutes,
when he saw something in the distance which
resembled the glimmering of a taper. The light
increased in magnitude, as he approached, till at
length, he was somewhat startled to find that it
must proceed from the flame of a torch. An
opening in the wood, besides, by enabling him to
catch a glimpse of the dull sky behind, convinced
him that no human habitation intervened ; and he
paused, in some perplexity, to consider.
206 THE MAGICIAN'.
No one who is unacquainted with the manners
of that epoch can enter into the feelings which this
simple object— a torch seen at night in a lonely
wood— awakened in the bosom of the knight. Of
all the dangers which he had prepared to
encounter, this seemed the most terrific; and,
while the wild and singular tales connected with
La Versière, forced themselves like realities upon
his imagination, he drew near with as much fear as
a brave man can be supposed to feel.
It was fortunate for Douglas that some revulsion
of his feelings had taken place, to.diminish the
rapidity of his approach, otherwise he must have
fallen over a precipice of naked rocks, which
intervened between him and the object of his
wonder. The hollow below, of inconsiderable
area, but great depth, was almost circular in form,
and bound in by a range of cliffs, the sides of
which were naked, but the jagged tops surmounted
by uncouth-looking trees, twisting their ungainly
branches over the gulf. The bottom of the amphi­
theatre itself was swollen here and there into
irregular mounds ; but, with the exception of a tall
d by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 209
yew- tree, which stood in the middle, it was wholly
naked of foliage.
On the upper branches of this tree hung the
light which he had supposed to be a torch. What
was its nature lie could not tell; but it seemed to
be placed there as a lamp to enlighten this strange
scene, on which it shed a steady, but dull and
sepulchral glare. At the bottom of the tree there
was a pit, which the shuddering witness speedily
recognised, by its oblong form, to be an open grave;
and near it lay a human figure— the corse, no
doubt, as Douglas thought, destined for such
unholy burial. At a few paces distant, there was
a heap of large stones, of a reddish colour, rudely
placed together— resembling, perhaps, a Druidical
altar; and near it an object which seemed to be a
basket covered with a white cloth.
All this was so strange and unworldly, that
when the first emotion of superstitious fear was
over, the knight could easily have persuaded him­
self that he was in a dream. There was, indeed,
spread over the whole scene, the same kind of
dimness which attends our impressions in sleep.
D
ig.™
*tb,Google
210 THE MAGICIAN.
The aide«of the amphitheatre were without definite
form; and their projecting points, and indented
fissures, brought into play, in light and shadow, by
the lamp, seemed like unearthly shapes waiting for
the unhallowed rite; while the unchanging sur­
face of the sky, seen among the twisted trees
above, gave the idea of spectral faces looking down
through the branches. The silence was so intense,
that Douglas feared to interrupt it with his own
breathing; and at length, dreading that he was
fascinated there by a spell, he recited the pater­
noster inwardly; and, turning resolutely, but
noiselessly away, prepared to leave a spot dedi­
cated, it was too evident, to services at which
no Christian man ought to assist even as a spec­
tator.
The next moment, however, a stir below caused
him, half in fear, half in curiosity, to resume his
observation. The supposed corse had moved its
position, and discovered itself to be a hideous
dwarf lying fast asleep. The light of the lamp fell
upon the grotesque features of the face, that was
turned upwards ; and Douglas, as he gazed, could
O
iO
'ltX
K
Ib
yCTìoo^lc
THE MAGICIAN. 211
easily li&ve believed, that be saw, in bodily
presence, one of those goblin-sprites, whose
business it is to mislead and destroy.
A sound was now heard, apparently from the
opposite precipice, but so faint that Douglas could
not have detected it but for the preternatural still­
ness of the moment. At the instant, however, the
sleeping dwarf sprang upon his feet, and throwing
one of those somersets— heels over head, which
are common on the modern stage, stood immove­
able. Presently a tall figure entered the arena
slowly, by the further end. His dress resembled
in some measure the robes of a high priest; but,
on his breast and forehead, were large plates,
apparently of polished gold; and he carried a long
black wand in his right hand. Behind him two
other persons approached still more slowly, who, at
the exclamation of “ Hold !” from the Magician,
for such Douglas deemed him to be, stood stiU.
The priest then prostrated himself before the altar,
remaining, however, at a little distance; and on
rising, touched it with hi* wand, when immediately
a clear blue light arose from the summit. His face
D
tf.tr«b
yGoogle
212 THE MAGICIAN.
was now distinctly visible; and the knight saw, in
the commanding and majestic features, and the
beard as white as drifted snow, the likeness of
Orosmandel.
“ Approach !” exclaimed the old man, and his
voice ran like music through the amphitheatre. The
two persons behind obeyed; and, as they came
within the light of the altar, Douglas almost fell to
the ground, when he saw that one of the actors in
this accursed rite was Gilles de Retz, and the other
— Pauline ! For some moments he was affected by
a reeling of the brain, and a swimming of the eyes,
which prevented him from either seeing or hearing;
but, on recovering his faculties, the two lost ones
were close to the altar, which he now observed was
surrounded by a circle of human bones.
Pauline looked like a Pythoness, in the moment
of inspiration. A small circle of jewels surrounded
the crown of her head; but her hair, otherwise
unconfined, Boated wildly over her shoulders. She
reeled in her walk, as one who had drank of some
intoxicating drug, and a feverish brightness shone
in her wandering eyes. Instead of being blanched
DigiitadSy G o O g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 213
with fear, a red spot burned on either cheek; and
she looked round upon the scene with an inquisi­
tive wonder, which seemed almost to partake of*
strange, unnatural mirth. The yew-tree—the
lamp—the circle of human bones—the altar—all
by turns were singled out by her flitting glance;
and then a sound resembling laughter escaped from
her lips. But when her eye rested upon her father,
a strong shudder shook her frame, and she drew
close to his side, embracing his arm convulsively,
as if at once to give and receive protection.
What passed afterwards was in dumb show. A
dagger was placed in the hand of Pauline, and her
father appeared to solicit her aid in vain to use it in
some manner. He at length bared his arm, and
held it close over the sacrificial fire. She still
appeared to hesitate; till a groan of pain escaped
his lips; when she suddenly plunged the point of
the blade in the scorched flesh. The blood spouted
from the wound upon the flame, which rose up with
a sudden flashthat rendered the whole amphitheatre,
for an instant, as clear as day. A moment’s pause
ensued; and then the ground seemed to move
m
u«:»»6»Google
2 1 4 THE MAGICIAN.
beneath their feet, as if shaken by an earthquake.
Some stones fell from the altar; and a thick blue
smoke rose up from a thousand crevices around.
“ It is accepted!” cried the high priest, who
stood without the circle. “ Another blood-sprink-
ing, and all is accomplished!” A pause took
place. Pauline gazed in the face of Grilles de
Retz, who seemed to shrink from the look. At
last, siezing both her hands, he addressed her for
some time in a low, but earnest tone.
She appeared, at first, not clearly to comprehend
his meaning; but soon, as gathering conviction
_ forced itself upon her mind, she raised her bands
in horror and aversion. He became more animated,
and urgent—Seemed to entreat—promise—threaten
—command; while Pauline remained silent, at
first in determination, and then in stupefaction. At
this moment, the hideous dwarf caught up the
basket covered with a white cloth, and with a grin,
half of malice, half of gTatulation, handed it over
the circle to the Lord de Retz.
“ Strike!” cried the high priest, in a voice of
thunder, as the baron drew aside the cloth.
,Google
Digdis
THE MAGICIAN. 215
The cry of a young child followed; and, at the
sound, Pauline, starting from her trance, dashed
the dagger upon the earth, and, catching the infant
to her breast, covered it with tears and kisses.
Gilles de Retz sprung out of the circle, and
rushed towards the priest, who, in pacing to and
fro 'with impatience and disdain, had now stopped
short under the cliff on which Douglas leant.
“ Father,” said the baron, in a voice of despair,
“•is there no other means? She is obstinate. Her
hand may be forced to do the deed, but her heart
never.”
“ Then thy trouble is lost,” replied the Magician
gloomily. “ The blood must be shed by a pure
maiden, and of her own free will.”
“ And is there no other means?” Orosmandel
was silent for some moments.
“ None ?—None ?” persisted the baron.
“ Yes—one !” cried he, suddenly, in his smooth,
sonorous tone no more, but with a voice as hoarsely
ominous as that of a raven grating on a sick man’s
ear. “ The maid must first be sacrificed by thee;
Dig«.»»IVG O O g lc
216 THE MAGICIAN.
and then the blood of the infant will be accepted
at thine own hands !”
“ My own daughter !—My own daughter !”
“ Perish, then, infirm of heart! I leave thee to
thy fete.”
“ A moment!—another moment!—I adjure thee
in the name of the master thou servest!” and the
desperate man rushed again towards the altar.
What he said it was impossible to distinguish ; but
one moment his face grew bright with enthusiasm,
and the next black with rage: Pauline, in the
meantime, only straining the infant closer to her
bosom. At length, in sudden phrenzy, her father
caught up the dagger, and grasping her by the
hair, while he held the blade to her breast,
exclaimed—in a tone which seemed to make the
whole atmosphere vibrate—
“ Speak ! in a single word—or, sign but with
thy finger in answer. Wilt thou kill, or die ?”
“ In the name of the Father, the Son, and the
Holy Ghost!” cried a voice at the instant—but
before the abjuration of Douglas was complete,
the flame on the altar, and the lamp on the tree,
OiO'Nxwl B y G o O ^ J I c
THE MAGICIAN. 217
disappeared. A sound, like the rattling of bones,
ran round the amphitheatre, mingled with sobs
and wild laughter; and as the lover of Pauline
descended the cliffs, with headlong impetuosity, it
seemed to his excited imagination as if he heard
also the gushing of blood.
By the time he had reached the plain below, all
was silent; but he heard, or fancied he did so, the
distant trampling of feet; and, assisted by the
faint, grey light of the sky, where not a star was
visible, he rushed towards the place where he had
seen the actors in this memorable scene enter the
arena. The faint twinkling of a lamp, although
several hundred yards before him, served for some
time as a guide; but soon, even this disappeared;
and, having entered the forest, which extended
far beyond the amphitheatre, he groped his way in
utter darkness.
The loyalty of the knight must be ill-understood
by those who imagine, that even the spectacle of
his mistress taking an active part in ceremonies
accursed of God and man could weaken his attach-
-ment, or change his heart. Douglas felt absolutely
d
vGoogle
VOL III. L
218 THE MAGICIAN.
convinced that Pauline was the victim of enchant­
ment, and was, vulgarly speaking, under a spell;
and he praised more the virtuous heroism of her
nature for refusing to complete the sacrifice, than
her weakness for commencing it Was this the
peril—more imminent, indeed, than he had ever
imagined—alluded to by David? Was his mid­
night attempt intended to save both her soul and
body ? If so, the deed was accomplished. The '
magical ceremony was broken off in the midst;
and however desperate might have been the inten­
tions of Gilles de Retz in the impious phrenzy of
the moment, it was absurd to suppose, that, in cold
blood, and without having any advantage to ex­
pect, he would take his own daughter’s life. -
Pauline’s farther safety, then, must be provided
for in daylight. By the first peep of dawn, he
would spur to the court of John V.; he would
declare what he had witnessed in the presence of
the Nuncio himself; if necessary, he would send
his voice throughout Christendom, and call to the
rescue of his mistress all the chivalry and nobleness
of the time. The Lord de Retz, with an arrest
C
M
o
u
o
ob
yCookie
THE MAGICIAN. 219
hanging over his head, and a bull of excommunica­
tion thundered against him, even if there survived
not one natural feeling in his bosom, would not
dare to increase wantonly the fury of his enemies.
Even when defying the power of the state in his
own person, he would give up his daughter to the
protection of the laws; and thus Pauline would be
saved—and by her lover.
As these reflections passed through his mind, the
knight slackened his pace. David, it seemed, had
been wrong in the hour, which was now elapsed,
although it was not yet midnight. His warning,
notwithstanding, had been effectual; and it was to
the scholar he owed the salvation of his mistress.
This idea called up another, which made the heart
of Douglas leap with affright It was not Pauline
alone who was to have been saved by his prowess,
but David also! On these precious moments,
which he was now wasting in idle meditations,
perhaps hung the life of his friend ! Was he to
be guilty of the selfish baseness of abandoning the
enterprize the moment his own purpose was served ?
The young knight scorned the thought. He knew
G o o g le
220 THE MAGICIAN.
that the adventure was desperate; and he felt
convinced that on his own life depended the even­
tual safety of his mistress. What of that? He
believed in honour with a religious faith. He
would do his duty, and leave the rest to heaven.
Bitterly regretting the moments he had lost, he
ubandoned all thought of approaching the castle
Malls. He was determined that no appearance he
might see there should prevent him from attempt­
ing the enterprize; and, bending his steps towards
a part of the Erdre which he had recognised when
as yet there had been light enough to observe dis­
tinctly, he found himself, in a much shorter time
than might have been expected, approaching the
brink of the swamp.
“ Who goes there ?” cried AndreM', emerging
from a thicket.
“ It is I. For God’s sake make haste ! Where
• are our men ?”
“ Haste, indeed ! And is it you who give the
injunction ? Where, in the most holy name, have
you been this livelong night ?”
« I have been at a sabbath of sorcerers; and that
Digitized by k j o o o l e
THE MAGICIAN. 221
same most holy name—to it be the praise for ever!
—was to me even as a sword and a spearand,
in a few words, he gave him an account of his
adventure. “ But come, make haste, I say,” con­
tinued he; “ for, judging by yonder misty moon,
the night is now in the death-grips with morning.
Pray heaven a bloodier struggle be not even now
going on in those dark towers! Where are our
men ?”
“ Couched close by; their limbs stiffening in
their armour in the night air, like a blade rusting
in its scabbard- Will you sit for a while ? Fye~1
you breathe as quickly as a young wench after a
dance.”
“ That is no wonder; for I have not had time to
breathe at all for the last half hour. But it will
pass.”
“ And so it will; there is nothing like exercise
for the asthma. I trow that shaking bog will give
ussomething else to do than count our breath; and
these black pools—lo you there! it is a head thrust
up fromthe waters to see what we are about Down
again it goes—I wonder what the toads think of
t 2
G o o g le
222 THE MAGICIAN.
the business! Come, gentlemen, up and be doing.
Remember, the word for the onslaught is, ‘Douglas
to the rescue !’”
As the adventurers gathered round their leader,
their practised ear caught the tread of a body of
men approaching softly through the trees; and,
forming into line instinctively, they drew their
swords with one motion, the sound of which ran
through the thicket like that of a brief gust of
wind striking upon the leaves.
“ Are you for Douglas ?” cried Sir Archibald.
“ Speak, ere you come nearer !”
“ We are for God and our standard !” answered
Beauchamp. “ But, to say the truth, Sir Scot, I
now see that you were right in the matter of the
leadership. I never yet stepped upon field which
would not bear the weight of a man and his horse;
and, with or without a plan, I should have been
but a poor guide over yonder swimming, quaking,
gurgling swamp. They say the lowlands of Scot­
land are mostly composed of such soil, and the
highlands of granite!”
“ Come one day and see, my friend,” said
Digitized d
*Google
THE MAGICIAN. ' 2 2 3
Douglas; “ but, in the meantime, be sure that you
put your feet in the very prints of mine. Here is
now a gleam of the unsteady moon, which will
light us from the firm land, and yet last not long
enough to betray us. Come on, Sir knight—a
better friend, or a braver foe, could not be desired.
Andrew, you are next. Follow, gentlemen, one
by one ; and heed not the shaking of the bog, for
we will not give it time to sink. Holy and imma­
culate Mother of God, be thou as a lamp to our
feet!”
The adventurers bowed down their heads during
the invocation, and a rough whisper ran, like a
breeze, through the crowd. The next moment, they
stood again erect; and the rustling of their armour,
and catching of their breath, preparatory to taking
the first step upon their perilous path might have
been heard at some distance. They then, following
their leader one by one, forsook the firm land.
The motion of the floating mass, under so unusual
a weight, communicated itself to the whole river,
the waters of which rose in huge waves upon the
bank; and the rushing, gurgling, groaning noise of
G o o g le
224 t h e m a g ic ia n .
the convulsed swamp seemed to fill the atmosphere.
These desperate men, however, pursued their way,
if not without fear, yet without shrinking; till, the
moon diving suddenly into a thicker mist, they
were enveloped by the shades of night; and a
spectator on the main land would have supposed
that they had been swallowed up, and had passed
away for ever from the surface of the earth.
DigitizedbyG o O g 1C
C H A P T E R IX.
Long and anxious was the watch that night of
David Armstrong. Hour after hour passed on,
and the portentous tranquillity of the castle was
uninterrupted. He had observed Orosmandel go
into the private apartments of Gilles de Retz, from
which he did not again return; all was silence and
solitude in the study within; and without, the.
swamp was only traversed by the shadows of the
dull leaden clouds which moved slowly between
the moon and the earth.
In vain he caught at the idea, that the appointed
time was deferred. The very silence undeceived
him. The stillness of the air— the veiled moon—
the slow-pacing clouds— all were omens and wit-
l 3
Diom
zodbvGoOgle
226 THE MAlilCIAN.
nesses. It was not the muteness of sleep, but of
watching, which pervaded the elements, and the
spirit of the winds did not seem so much to rest as
to hold his breath. ■
In this state of the imagination, the inaction to
which the scholar was condemned, had in it some­
thing inexpressibly terrible. He was plunged
among his own thick-coming fancies, like a man
thrown bound and naked, in a den of wild beasts.
He glared at the monsters, as they moved around,
glaring at him; and envied the fate of the slave
condemned to fight with tigers in the arena. As
midnight drew near, his agitation increased almost
to insanity. The shadows of night were converted
into shapes of terror; mysterious voices filled the
silence of the air; and, ever and anon, a wild
scream, which he knew to be an illusion, yet felt
as a reality, pierced through his brain.
He tried to compose himself, first by prayer, ahd
then by passing methodically in review before him,
the circumstances of his situation. Both of these
employments, had their effect; and, when in the
midst of the latter, he suddenly remembered the
OionwodbyGoO^lc
THE MAGICIAN. 227
request of Caleb the Jew, transmitted to him by
Andrew, to search in one of Houpelande’s bales
for some object which would assist his purpose.
That he had forgotten this so long, may be ascribed
partly to the confusion of his mind, and partly to
the little importance he attached to the request
With arms he had already been provided, and
with a means of escape, if he had chosen to use it.
What, then, could this further aid be— if, indeed,
it was not the sovereign good of messire Jean,
gold ? He caught at the idea, however, now that
it had suggested itself to his mind, as a positive
relief; and set about fulfilling the Jew’s desire,
with the same zeal as if he had expected salvation
from the result.
The stores of the castle communicated with the
laboratory, by means of a long and steep stair; and
David had once descended on business connected
with his occupation, and more than once on a visit
of espial. In the vaults themselves, a strong door
opened into the ground-story of the tower, for the
purpose of admitting such articles as could not
conveniently be introduced through the study; and
Google
228 THE MAGICIAN.
a» the scholar had observed that Hagar had never
been received in the latter, he had some notion
that, if taken into the tower at all, it would be by
this avenue.
Having lighted his lamp, he descended the steep
stair without interruption, and soon found himself
in the vaults. The vast and massive door of the
tower was closed as usual, and seemed as stedfast
as the wall in which it was fixed. The door, also,
opening to the court, strengthened by heavy bars
of iron, was locked on the outside; and, added to
these appearances of security, the low-browed
arches, stooping as if they sustained the whole
weight of the building, gave the idea of a dungeon
where even hope could not live. Above, whence he
hadcome, the well-closedavenueinto Gilles deRetz’s
apartment, and the immense iron gate of the stair­
case leading to the hall, afforded the only outlets from
the tower; so that it is no wonder, if both Oros-
mandel and the baron, who were unacquainted with
his knowledge of the turning-stone, looked upon
the apprentice, as a victim already bound inextri­
cably to the altar.
D
ipita*b
yGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 229
David looked round among the anomalous
objects which filled the place, and at length
discovered the large bale indicated by Andrew.
It was marked with stripes of blue and green; but
near them there was one also, more irregular in
figure, the colour of which was red.
As a strange idea came into his head, he hastily
touched the place with the point of his finger. It
was moist and clammy; and, with an ejaculation
of surprise, not altogether unaccompanied by
horror, he cut open the bale with his dagger.
In the middle of the package, surrounded by
a thick layer of cloth, and laid out as if in a coffin,
although with an air-hole opposite the mouth,
intended, no doubt, for breathing, lay the body of
Caleb the Jew!
“ Holy Mother of G od!” cried the scholar,
almost dropping the lamp, “ Is this a time for such
legacies? Even gold itself, though useless here,
would have suited better as a posthumous gift.
Unhappy old man, why hast thou sent thyself to
me?” But, recollecting the next moment, that
the blood was still moist, he began eagerly to
«Google
230 THE MAGICIAN.
search for the wound; and at length discovered
that a sword, or some other sharp instrument,
had passed through the flesh of the side beneath
the arm-pit The ribs, however, though grazed,
were uninjured, and almost hoping that Caleb might
have fainted from pain or weakness, he applied a
phial of essence to his nostrils.
Life still lingered in the body, but only like the
sunken flame of a lamp, which a breath may extin­
guish. An indistinct murmur came from the lips,
and the hand twitched, as if the muscles were
called, and called in vain, to perform the functions
they now disavowed.
“ Speak!” said David, whispering softly in the
wounded man’s ear. “ Try to speak ere your soul,
which is flickering upon your lips, takes its depar­
ture ! Show me your wishes; and, in token that
I forgive you my blood, I swear to obey them, in
so far as they compromise not the safety of Hagar.”
The lips of the Jew moved, but the sound that
came from them was unintelligible. His hand
again twitched convulsively; and David, raising it
in such a manner as to assist, without directing its
OigteMby G o O g l C
THE MAGICIAN. 231
motion, found that the fingers rested on the breast.
Something hard was concealed under the dress on
this spot; and the student, well knowing his
quondam master's knowledge of drugs, was not
surprised to find that it was a small bottle.
He applied it hastily to the lips of the wounded
man, from which the hue of life, recalled for an
inBtant, was fast fading ; and no sooner did a small
portion of the contents enter the mouth, than
Caleb opened his eyes. He tasted a second time
and then rejected the phial.
“ Enough for the present,” said be, in a low but
distinct voice. *
•A time cometh for the rest.”
David then dressed his wound to the best of his
ability, staunching the blood, which had began to
flow anew; and in another minute, to he great
astonishment, the Jew was able to sit upright.
“ W hy art thou yet here ?” said Caleb col­
lectedly.
“ Because I have sworn not to fly without
Hagar.”
“ What hast thou to do with Hagar, young
man ? She is a Jewess— thou a Christian.”
OigllilodbyG o o g l e
2 3 2 THE MAGICIAN.
“ She is a woman—I a man! thus much my
apprenticeship has taught me ! We are of the
same species—of the same human family; and we
worship, though under different forms, the same
God. What I have to do with her, is to watch
over, protect, and save her—or lose myself.”
“ This is foolishness,” said Caleb, but his voice
faltered with emotion. “ Fly, for it is in thy
power. Lo! I have made thee the heir of my
wealth. Away, and forget, in the lap of pleasure
or of glory, the daughter of the stranger, and
the old man who would have delivered thee up to
the death!”
“ You waste time,” replied David. “ To take
your fortune would be to spoil the orphan, and
that is forbidden alike by your law and mine. But
it will be wiser employment for the present, if we
consider how we are to save the gem about the
disposal of which we argue so idly.”
“ That is my task, young man. I am now here
to save my daughter, if she can yet be saved, or to
avenge her, if fallen. Do thou care for thy own
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 233
safety, for thou canst not meddle in the business I
have in hand.”
“ Your business, I guess, is with Prelati. In
that case, mine must be with Gilles de Retz, by
whom the dishonour of Hagar, is as a thing
sworn.”
“ By Gilles de Retz ! God of Abraham !
Hath not my sin been yet redeemed? What
wilt thou do, good David ? What is thy plan ?”
“ I had some hopes—but these begin to die
away—of the castle being surprised to-night, by
my friends, through the secret avenue of the
swamp; and, in that case, we all might escape in
the boats. Should it happen otherwise”—and the
student drew his polished dagger from its sheath—
“ Hagar herselftold me to keep this to guard the life
ofits master; andso I will—yea,even his lifeoflife!”
“ At this period of the conversation, the Jew
again became weak, and he directed David to
lift him up, and set him upon the ground.
“ Is be gone forth !” said he, in a faint voice,
« or do they tarry within ?”
Digi1
.ZK.cy G o O g l e
234 THE MAGICIAN.
“ My impression is,” replied David, “ that there
is no one in the tower, except, perhaps, a deaf and
dumb slave; yet I cannot speak with certainty but
for Orosmandel. Him I saw, two hours ago, enter
the private apartments of the Baron. If Prelati
and the dwarf have gone forth, as I believe they
have, it is not by way of the swamp.”
“ It is well. And Hagar?—she hath not yet
entered within these precincts ?”
“ Does this blade look else than a virgin ?”
answered David, smiling grimly.
“ It is excellently well. Praise be to the Lord
of Hosts that thou Wert here !—for the strength
was gone from my limbs; and, instead of rising
up, like a lion from his couch—even like the lion
of the tribe of Judah — I should have died
where I lay, slain by the sword which the infidel
dog at the gate thrust through the bale.”
“ You did not cry when he smote 1” said David,
with involuntary admiration.
“ Patience,” replied the Jew, “ is the badge of
our nation; for Issachar is an overladen ass stooping
between two burdens. Were Israel as ready tostrike
Ov u m b , CoO^Ic
THE MAGICIAN. 235
as to endure------but it may not be; the word is
spoken, and w6 must await the day of the Lord.”
At this moment, a faint scream was heard, as if
from the top of the stair-case, and David, grasping
his dagger firmly, made a step forward. Caleb
drank off what remained of the drug, and threw
the phial away.
“ Back, young man !” whispered he, catching
hold of the scholar’s arm, with a force which made
him start; “ I tell thee again, this is no business
for such as thou. If it be Prelati who cometh, he
is cased in steel, against which thy blade would
shiver like new ice; if it be not, the moment hath
not yet arrived. Extinquish thy lamp; hide thee
in yonder recess; and, as thou lovest the life and
honour of Hagar, take no part in what thou shalt
see !” Another scream showed, by the sound, that
the victim had descended midway; and presently,
the deaf and dumb slave made his appearance in
the vault, with De Briqueville, bearing Hagar
in his arms.
“ I pray thee pardon me,” said the Jewess,
looking round, when she was set down. “ Had I
d
o
im
m
o
,Google
2S6 THE MAGICIAN.
known that it was to a dungeon thou wert
conducting me, I should have offered no resis­
tance. Leave me, and I will forgive and pray for
thee!”
“ Nay,” cried De Briqueville, forcing a laugh,
“ youare toouncharitable in your conclusions ! This
is only the ante-chamber of your destined lodgings;
within which you will find better accommodation
than at Huguemont, and a hospitality that will not
hear of refusal.”
“ Art thou a knight ? Art thou a man! Nay
friend, not yet”—and she took hold of the arm of
the slave, who was about to unlock the door;
“ give me but another minute, for the love of gold,
if not of God ! I have a father, messire; and he
is rich, and loves his child. Only leave me to
myself; let me but hide in this vault, and trust in
Jehovah to find a refuge; and a ransom shall be
thine that might befit a princess !”
“ And how shall it come into my hands?” asked
De Briqueville, from whose heavy features, it was
impossible to gather, whether or not he thought
seriously of the proposal.
.«b,Google
D
i
THE MAGICIAN. 2 3 7
“ Thou shalt bear a message from me, with
this ring as a sign; and thou shalt take with thee
the young man, David Armstrong, to prove_that it
was given of my own will.”
“ And what if he will not go ?”
“ Thou must then compel him, for my father
will not believe thy words.”
“ That is hard ! I would I could manage it
alone !”
“ But thou canst not,” said Hagar eagerly.
“ Dost thou fear the young man? Take him even
as a captive, bound hand and foot! Thou shalt
have half the riches of my father; and, if it be
not ready for thy hand in gold, he will borrow
from his kinsmen, who are the wealthiest of their
tribe.”
“ But this David Armstrong. Truly I would
it were otherwise. It cannot be done without
him?"
“ It cannot.”
“ That is a pity ! for look you here—I could not
set out for Nantes before day-break, and in less
than ten minutes, David Armstrong will be feeding
Digtoodt*Google
238 THE MAOICIAN.
the fishes of the Erdre !" and the knight broke
into a discordant laugh, which rang through the
vault. Hagar appeared to be stunned.
“ Dost thou mean this ?” said she, at length;
“ Say that it is but a jest—that thou laughest
at my misery, and I will forgive and bless
thee !”
“ It is no jest,” said the knight; “and, rough as
you may think me, I am your best friend to do
away with this maiden fancy at once. Do you
think David would have kept his roost, which was
not twenty yards distant, if he had heard your
voice? He did not hear—and why ? Because his
wine to-day was drugged—and our friend has a
commission”—touching the slave’s dagger, who
grinned, and pointed up the stair-case—“ to see
that he awaken not from his stupefaction.” The
faint colour, which her varying emotions had sent
into Hagar’s face, disappeared suddenly, and bad
she not been supported by the slave, whose quick
eye watched all her motions, she must have fallen
to the ground.
“ In with her now,” said De Briqueville, making
TUB MAGICIAN. 239
a sign, “ By my faith, she is a rare wench after
all; and, if I believed that she was to come to
bodily harm in the tower, I should think twice
before she entered ! As for her delicacy about the
Lord de Retz—why, she will get over those whims
in time, with every thing else that pertains to
maidenhood. By the mass, if she were not an
infidel, and therefore forbidden to me by our holy
religion, it would take little to persuade me to
think of her myself!”
“ Yet another moment!” said Hagar, recovering
her recollection, but not her colour, and standing
upright, without assistance—“ I have wept, prayed,
screamed, struggled, bribed—and all in vain.
Hope is no more. Lo, the door opens ! I am on
the threshold. Will the Most High, under these
circumstances, impute it to me as a crime, if I
transgress his divine laws ?”
“ That he will not!” said De Briqueville—“ I_
will take my oath of it And if he should—
why, you are a Jewess, and will be damned at any
rate !"
“ In His mercy I put my trust; and I deliver
Digiiizad by Google
240 THE MAGICIAN.
myself into His hands—thus !” and with the speed
of lightning, she drew a small dagger from beneath
her vest. Even the quick eye of the slave was too
slow. He could not turn aside the blow ; but he
instantaneously covered her heart with his broad
hand, which she pinned to her side with the blade.
Hagar, in all probability ignorant that her design
had failed, was then carried senseless into the
tower, amidst the muttered curses of De Brique-
ville, and inarticulate cries at once of pain and
triumph from the slave.
During this scene, the Jew had maintained his
hold of David; sometimes pressing his arm, and
sometimes drawing him back, as the rebellious
motions of his charge required. At the proof,
however, given by Hagar at that trying moment,
of her deep love and feminine devotion, the breast
of the scholar rose with such painful convulsions,
as must in another instant have betrayed them, had
he not been relieved by a gush of tears. The
burning drops fell upon the hand of her father; but
the old man remained as calm and firm as a statue.
As for the attempt upon her life it was so sudden
THE MAGICIAN. 241
and unlooked for, that there was no time for inter­
ference even by a cry.
“ All goeth well,” said the Jew, when the door
had shut. “ I feel that the God of Israel is on our
side. In a little while they will come forth again,
and when they are gone, I myself will enter.”
“ And I also,” added David.
“ Hast thou not something else to do before •
hand?”
“ I like it not,” replied the scholar. “ The
slave will doubtless seek my roost, for the purpose
of murdering me in my sleep; and if he return,
his account of my absence, where flight seems
impossible, will cause the very tower to be
searched, and so we should be discovered. Yet I
like it not—for he saved the life of Hagar!”
“ And for what purpose ? Because it is the
living whom his master lusteth to dishonour, and
not the dead ! Let that thought nerve thee—but
hush! they come.”
The door opened, and De Briqueville and the
slave reappeared, the former muttering and
grumbling, as he walked.
VOL. m . M
Digitized by Google
242 THE MAGICIAtr.
“ I do not understand these women,” said he,
“ and never did in all my life. Their flesh is as
soft and smooth as the leaf of a lilly; and yet I
could as easily persuade three men, in full harness,
to do what they did not choose as one of them !
However, she is safe enough now, and I wash my
bands of her. Go first, sirrah, and light me up the
stairs. I never could abide the looks of the dumb
villain; and I will have nothing to do with his
present errand. David should have swung to­
morrow on the gallows, if condemned to death, for
then it would have been the baron’s affair: but to
slay a sleeping man in his bed goes against my
conscience. Well, well, if this night were once
over, I trust we shall all be quiet and happy to­
morrow !”
When the sound of his voice was lost in the
staircase, Caleb pressed strongly the hand of his
companion.
“ In case we meet not again,” said he, “ I
bid thee farewell. Thou shalt inherit my wealth,
and my laboratory, with all its utensils and materials
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 243
for the great search, which thou knowest, could
hardly be bought with gold.”
“ If you are slain,” replied the scholar, “ and if
I escape, I shall keep your wealth in trust for your
orphan. But, as for the Miraculous Stone, and
the Elixir Vitae, I tell you plainly I have done
with them. Among the secrets I have learnt in
my apprenticeship are these: that human life is
long enough as it is; and that gold, except in the
moderate quantity required for ordinary purposes,
and attainable by honest industry, is the most
useless of all commodities. And now, farewell; if I
get over yonder grewsome business in time, I shall
join you in your ambuscade.” The Jew then
wrung his hand once more, and entered the tower
—shutting and bolting the door after him, as
David, to his great wrath and amazement could
distinctly hear!
“ That is not in the paction!” cried the indig­
nant scholar, knocking loudly. “ Do you forget
your age and infirmities, and will you trust the
salvation of Hagar to so weak an arm ?” But it
«dbyGoogle
«0*
244 THK MAGICIAN.
was vain to remonstrate. The sullen echoes of the
place were the only reply to his blows; and, in
the midst ofall, the slave, with a lamp in one hand,
and his long dagger glittering in the other, re­
entered the vault.
David crossed his hands upon his bosom, and
stood immoveable, looking towards the assassin;
who, after a moment’s scrutiny, came stealthily
towards him, rising upon his tiptoes, at every step,
as if about to spring, while his eye-balls glared in
the red light of the lamp, like those of a beast of
prey. No words were wasted; for one of the
party could neither hear nor answer. They held
communion only with the faculty of sight; and
David’s calm, but observant, glance was not with­
drawn from the eye of the slave even to wink.
When the latter had come near his intended
victim, he stepped aside, circling round him, like a
bird of prey; while the scholar moved at the same
time, as if turning slowly on a pivot. When the
slave was at length within striking distance, he
dropped the lamp suddenly, and sprang; but, as if
the form before him had been but incorporal air,
Google
Or»'
THE MAGICIAN. 215
lie darted through the space where it had seemed
to stand, and almost in the same moment, the
dagger of the student was three times sheathed in
his body.
David, as soon as he had ascertained that the
wretch had ceased to breathe, drew him away;
and, groping as well as he could in the dark,
deposited the body in the package which had
so nearly been Caleb’s coffin, and fastened down
the lid. He then ascended the stair, half hoping,
since this adventure had terminated so well, that
on regaining his tower of observation, he might
see the expedition of Douglas crossing the swamp.
When he reached the door of the laboratory,
however, he found it locked; and he was under
the necessity of retracing his steps in the dark,
to take the key from the dead man. This, firm
as were David’s nerves, was more difficult than
to snatch the life from its casket; aud his hand
was for less steady when dabbling in the blood
he had shed, than when grasping the dagger with
which he had struck the blow.
But he at length reached the corridor in safety;
m 2
Digitized by Google
246 THE MAGICIAN.
when he found that the enchanted silence of the
castle was at an end. The tramp of the guard was
distinctly heard without, and calling voices, and
clapping doors within. Was he alone to remain
inactive? How could he tell that Orosmandel
would return by the private apartments, and thus
afford him an opportunity, either by craft or force,
of descending by the study ? He crept out upon
the roof of the tower by his skylight window.
The night was dark; the swamp was covered as
with a veil; the wind had arisen, and swept, with
a low moaning sound, along the waste.
A sound, notwithstanding, came upon his ear,
which was different from the accustomed noises of
night. It came from the abyss; and the veil
which covered it began to move tumultuously.
The scholar waited no longer; but, seeking his
nightly egress of the turning-stone, he glided down
the stair, like a shadow passing along the wall.
DigitizedI'i O O O q Ic
C H A P T E R X .
T h e sounds heard by David were, in all proba­
bility,’ occasioned by the return of the Magician,
and his cortege, from their broken sabbath; for at
the same moment, Hagar heard the rampart-door
of the tower open. Her prison was a small, but
well-furnished room, on the ground floor, of which
even the party walls were of enormous thickness.
The door, like all the rest in this portion of the
castle, was strengthened with iron, and on the pre­
sent occasion, was locked on the outside. A single
window, too narrow to admit the body even of a
child, threw a dim light into the apartment.
Hagar, when she fully recovered her recollection,
did not regret the loss of her dagger; nor did the
Digitizedby C .o o g le
248 THE MAGICIAN.
observant glance, which she threw round the room,
inquire whether any substitute were at hand. The
preservation of her life appeared to her to partake
of the miraculous. It was a direct interposition of
God himself ; and, believing herself to be in hands
so powerful to save, she now awaited the event,
rather in awe and wonder than in fear. This, how­
ever, was not the uniform mood of her mind.
Mingling with her religious confidence, there came
fits of faintness and trembling ; and pangs of terror
shot ever and anon through her heart, even in its
moments of loftiest enthusiasm.
Her enthusiasm, however, partook no more of
that hue which glorifies the dreams of woman.
David was slain, and the current of her life had
changed. Her crushed heart could emit no tears.
Sick of the daylight, she fixed her eyes on the
darkness of the grave ; and the boon she looked
for at the hands of Providence, was to descend
therein pure and unblemished. The doubt, how­
ever, which occasionally swept across her mind, as
to whether this boon would be granted— and,
perhaps, even a small and lurking hope which
* G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 249
sprung up, unconsciously to herself, that the tale of
her lover’s fate was untrue— prevented her from
sinking completely into the apathy of despair.
The dread of Prelati had been early instilled
into her mind. She had seen her father tremble
before him like an infant; and she had observed on
all things around her, the impress of his irresistible
power. At his command, the hoards of the
avaricious Jew had poured themselves at his feet;
and Caleb, without a tinge of inhumanity in his
disposition, had given up the blood of his depen­
dants, one by one, to the same inexorable master.
Beauty was rather the toy, than the serious desire
of this unfathomable being— the toy which a child
plays with for one moment, and breaks in pieces
the next His passions were not the lords, but the
slaves, of his judgment; and when he designed to
permit them gratification, it was like a chief, who
calmly and scornfully gives up to the fury of his
soldiery a conquered city.
- When she heard the outer door of the tower
open, a chill, like that of death, ran through her
frame. She stood transfixed upon the floor,
m 3
G o o g le
250 THE MAGICIAN.
breathless, motionless, and glaring towards the
wall, as if she saw beyond it. Two persons
entered. She heard their footsteps; she heard the
breath of their lips— it seemed as if at that moment
her ear, sharpened by intense terror, could have
distinguished the waving of their hair ! One, she
knew, was Orosmandel, the other the dwarf. Was
there yet a third ? The door moved— it shut. Hagar
fell, first on her knees, then on her face ; and tears
of weakness, rather than of joy, gushed from her
eyes.
Calmly, yet sternly, the philosopher passed on,
throwing a brief glance towards the room. He
ascended a stair which led to his private apart­
ments, and entered the one immediately under his
study. This seemed to be the retreat of pleasure
refined by taste. Elegance, combined with luxury,
reigned around ; and so well adapted was the very
magnificence of the place, that an idea of fitness
rather than splendour was conveyed. A sofa,
covered with the richest velvet, embroidered with
gold, appeared to be used as a bed, the scantiness
of space permitting no separate chamber; and the
ow
w
cob
yG o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 251
curtains of the narrow windows were voluminous
folds of the same material, corresponding in colour
and workmanship.
“ All is over,” said Orosmandel, throwing him­
self upon the couch, “ and the catastrophe hath
turned out somewhat different from my expecta­
tion. How came it that thou, who canst hear a
gossamer thread breaking under a flake of snow,
knewest nothing of the presence of a witness?
Art thou tired of my protection ? Wouldst thou
try the world without me ? Wouldst thou sell thy
weakling body to some strolling brotherhood of
the Passion ? or buy thee a jackanapes, and earn
copper pieces by puzzling the crowd to tell which
is which?”
“ I knew not of the witness,” growled the dwarf,
“ and that is enough. But even were it a fault not
to hear a man breathe at two hundred yards dis­
tance, I can afford to bear it. I ! I did not fly
from an unloaded culverine!— I did not lose a
treasure, when attacked by inferior force— ha ! ha !
thou art indeed a fit organ of reproof! Protection !
What do I give thee in return ? Is it for myself
i * G o o g le
Dm
252 THE MAGICIAN.
that I travail ? Is it to gratify my own evil
passions that I traverse the earth like a wind which
bearetli pestilence on its wings ?'
“ If my passions be evil,” said Orosmandel, with
n sardonic smile, “ still they are passions; and that
is excuse enough for my deviations from what the
vulgar name virtue. But thou !— who gatherest in
what thou canst not hold, and destroyest what thou
canst not feed .upon— how shalt thou be justi­
fied?”
“ Why, that is it !” cried the dwarf, his limbs
shaking with rage, and his eyes flashing with a
baleful light “ That is the excuse which might
justify the blackest devil in hell! Does the lame
man help his neighbour along, or bear him down
with his weight? Does the sick man exhale
health, or disease, upon those who surround him?
A speck, a blot on the face of nature— a loathing,
a hissing, and a horror among the human race— is
it I who should labour for the happiness of man­
kind, and the order and beauty of creation ? Look
here— I am a man as well as thou ! There, where
thou sittest, is the frame which the old sculptors
THE MAGICIAN. 253
embodied from the whispers of their dreaming
mistress. There are the limbs which the original
Mother sometimes moulds, to show that even the
visions of poetry have their source in her. There
is the brow, encircled by that starry halo of com­
mand, before which all meaner creatures fall
prostrate in the dust Now look on this— ha!
ha! ha! Are these legs made for any thing but
to spurn ? Are these nails— or talonB? Are these
hands for rending or embracing ? Are these eyes
for the smile of love and pity, or the glare of
hatred and revenge? But the curse was not
enough ! I was made supple, that my gambols
might draw down the laughter of mankind upon
my head; crafty, that the passer-by might spring
out of my path, and turning round, pursue me
with shouts and stones: but the strength to execute
followed not with the will to dare, and the
thirst of vengeance; and so was I turned into the
crowd of my fellow men, to endure their scorn,
even when doing my utmost to deserve their
hate !”
“ It is enough. In me thou hast found an ally
OiQitlZOd b
,G o o g le
254 THE MAGICIAN.
sufficient to make up for the unkindness of nature.
Watch better in future; for if I am the directing
mind, thou art the faculties of sight, hearing,
touch, taste, smell, which it sendeth forth for
observation.”
“ And Prelati is the active force, the energy, the
body, as it were? Good, good. But it is not
enough. I know not why I should recall these
things now— but they will come. Who would
think, to look on us, that the same minute ushered
us into life— that the same womb gave us birth—
that we hung at the same breast! Thou!— ha! ha!
— thou art my brother ! W hy was this ? What
crime had I committed against nature ere I was
born, that, step-dame like, she should have mixed
all the bitterness in my cup, and all the sweets in
thine? Answer me that!”
“ Thou art somewhat mistaken,” replied Oros-
mandel. “ In me the passions are stronger, be­
cause more practical, than in thee; and their
disappointment, therefore, hath a bitterer sting.
Ambition, for instance, which can find but little
place in thy bosom, is the god of mine. Had
vG o o g le
Digiti
THE MAGICIAN. 255
Prelati succeeded in his attempt upon the Damsel
of Laval, through her it would have been easy to
have obtained her weak father’s forgiveness— and
then no island of the ocean would have held his
greatness ! If to-night I had but once steeped her
hands in guilt— she was ours, body and soul! That
Demon, in whom I devoutly believe, although his
abiding-place is not the empty air, but the minds
of men, would then have truly come when called
upon. I should have restored, by the magic of my
will, the vanished hoards of Gilles de Retz. By
the wisdom of my counsels, insured by thy omni­
presence, and enforced by a sword which never yet
met its equal, I should have scattered his enemies;
and when it pleased the baron, in some speedy
moment, to withdraw into a grave, or a cloister, it
would hardly have dazzled the eyes of the victo­
rious Prelati— the husband of his heiress— to look
towards the ducal crown itself!” Orosmandel,
appearing to forget his age in the picture thus
conjured up by his imagination, started from the
sofa, and with a burning cheek, and flashing eye,
vGoogle
256 THE MAGICIAN.
walked with a warrior’s stride through the apart­
ment.
“ Didst thou love her f ' said the dwarf, with
curiosity. “ Is the sting of that passion left rank­
ling in thy heart with the other?”
“ As a man loves the hand that smites him— the
tongue that reviles him— the eye and lip that scorn
him ! The day will yet come, when she shall
repay with tears of blood, the years which Prelati
hath spent in her pursuit! But enough of this.
It is now almost our time. Is the boat ready ?
Where is the slave?”
“ All is ready; and the slave is doubtless with
the boat” .
“ Armstrong, then, is disposed of?”
“ His bottle of wine was, as usual, half empty
when the dinner-things were removed; and thou
knowest our friend Iglou loves the use of his
dagger too well to make half work.”
“ It is well.”
“ He was too sharp for his vocation,” added the
dwarf, with a grin. “ Such as he do not deserve
Ol0l»a byG O O g le
THE MAGICIAN. 257
to live; for they can answer no purpose but to
interrupt the business of life. Besides, he scorned
and gibed at me. Had my presence not been
required at the intended sacrifice, I should have
loved to have dealt with him myself, between
sleeping and waking.”
“ Yet it is not for such demerits he hath
perished,” said Orosmandel; “ for our sojourn here
was at an end, and so was his vocation. But he
loved Hagar, and the Jewess loved him.”
“ And thou? Thou lovest her not? Thou wilt
carry her with us, only as a hold, should circum­
stances render it convenient to use it, upon the
purse of her father?”
“ Thou art mistaken. At first it was curiosity—
interest— then admiration of her courage, and lofti­
ness of mind which beset me. I saw that she was
beautiful; and that, if fairly tutored, she might be
useful. I marked her for my own; and when
Gilles de Retz would, as usual, have taken the
lion’s share, I swore to foil him. She shall be mine,
and remain so, if all her father’s gold were ten
times told down as a ransom. With the wealth I
o«,M
d*Googl
25 8 THE MAGICIAN.
have heaped up, and now safe at Florence, and
Hagar for my mistress, I shall by and by cease to
regret the time we have spent at La Verrière.”
“ Calculate not too surely,” said the dwarf.
“ This is an unlucky night, and the Jewess is as
slippery as an eel. Once in the open air, I should
not wonder if she vanished like a shadow— thanking
thee in her heart for her escape from the Lord de
Retz !”
“ She shall be mine,” replied Orosmandel, “ ere
she reach the open a ir ! Mine within these walls,
were an army beating at the door ! Mine, now and
for ever ! To be foiled once in a single night is
enough, and more than I am accustomed to. Go,
liberate the flutterer from the cage, where she
doubtless is, since its gate is fastened on the out­
side, and send her hither.” The dwarf received the
mandate with a discordant laugh, which resembled
a succession of screams.
“ Get all things ready for departure,” continued
Orosmandel, “ when I give the signal. I will myself
lead Hagar to the boat”
When the dwarf had left the room, Oros-
vGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 259
mandel continued standing in the same attitude for
some time, looking towards the door. Although
his features were not so tranquil as hitherto, and a
deep flush had risen to the brow, yet so much of a
proud dignity remained, that, even setting aside
the question of age, no one could have imagined
that, at the moment, he meditated a deed of fright­
ful violence. As he heard the soft footsteps of
Hagar ascending the stair, he withdrew several
paces back into the room; and when she entered,
he received her with a bend of the head, at once
graceful and commanding.
Hagar, after throwing a quick glance round the
apartment, appeared to be somewhat re-assured;
and she advanced several paces, crossing her hands
upon her bosom, and bowing low before the master
of her fate. When she raised her head, however,
there was an expression in her face, which seemed
to move the surprise of Orosmandel. There was
less fear than he had anticipated, and also less
courage of the mind. When the slight, momen­
tary agitation, which she had experienced at the
door, had passed away, a deep and death-like still­
d
q
k
u
h
id
,Google
260 THE MAGICIAN.
ness descended upon her features—an air of deso­
lateness, rather than of grief.
“ Thy handmaid is here,” stud she, in a low,
calm voice, whose calmness was not that of
peace. *
“ Dost thou guess why?” asked Orosmandel.
“ Doubtless, to pay my thanks for my rescue
from the hands of Gilles de Rets, and to arrange
with thee the terms of the ransom which shall
deliver me up in safety to my father.”
“ Thou art mistaken. I value thee at too high
a price to permit thy departure.”
“ The Jew is rich, and so are all ourkin ! But,
even were it otherwise, thou wilt not distress an
old man for his daughter ? Thou hast indeed the
solitary look of one who knoweth not the ties of
blood; yet thou hast no baseness in thy mien, and
no cruelty in thine eye; and the many winters
which have shed their snows upon thy beard, must
have brought with them lessons of mercy to thy
heart. Send me away, 1beseech thee, in the name
of the Most High God, from this den of horrors—
in the guilt of which it isimpossible that thou canst
participate !”
Dtguuod Dy
THE MAGICIAN. 261
“ Horrors! What are these horrors ? Thy
cheek is as pale as a monument of Parian marble,
the transparency of which showeth only cold,
hard stone within; thine eyes beam not with
natural light, but with the enchanted flame which
hath brightness and no heat; and thy voice is even
as a memory of music— a faint, hollow, lifeless
echo of tones that have passed away! What blight
hath fallen upon thy heart? Thy father liveth,
and no death hath taken place since I saw thee
last—save one.” The Jewess started. A flush
rose to her face, and instantaneously faded away,
into a more death-like paleness than before.
“ Heed not my words,” she cried. “ Grant me
my prayer—or shew me thy commands.”
“ What aileth thee ? I talked of the youth who
served in my laboratory. Thou art too proud to
have loved such as he; and thou art too pure to
permit thy cheek to flush at the idea of any man.”
“ Sir,” said Hagar, “ the love of the dead cannot
be otherwise than pure! He was a stranger—
even as I. For me he perilled his life—and lost
it!” Her voice faltered; but it was only for an
D
i
g
i
t
iz
e
db
yGoogk
262 THE MAGICIAN.
instant: “ On this subject,” she continued, almost
sternly, “ we twain can hare no mutual inte­
rest. I pray thee, once more,' let us to busi­
ness.”
“ Thou art a splendid creature, Hagar!” said
the philosopher, looking at her admiringly:
“ There is more within thee, than the common
vapour which women call their soul. I would thou
hadst not loved this youth;—and yet, if I judge
thee aright, thy mind is still stronger than the
passion it contained. Were it possible, I would
give thy wound time, and trust to nature for a
cure : butjust now, the moments are precious; and
those who deal with the soul have their violent
remedies, as well as the mediciners of the body.
I remember, in earlier years, I loved a woman,
who was fair and young, and whose case resembled
thine. Dost thou smile at my white beard ?”
“ I smile not at all.”
“ She loved a youth, lofty enough, if compared
with the mass of mankind, but far below her in the
scale of intellectual being. She was one of those
rare creatures, in whom thou canst not tell where
..uwb,Google
D*
THE MAGICIAN. 263
body endeth, and spirit beginneth. She was
instinct, one would have imagined, with thought,
instead of animal life. The very tone of her voice,
the touch of her hand, spoke directly, as it were,
and not through the agency of the senses, to the
mind; and the sound of her foot, as it touched the
earth, resembled the low, light wind, when it
whispers mysterious things among the leaves.
Such she was—or such I imagined her to be : and
that in love, thou knowest, is the same. Now,
this youth he comprehended her not. He thought
of her only as of one of the daughters of men,
' and of her beauty as of the beauty of women. Yet
he stood in my path ; for the damsel, ignorant that
among mankind there were spirits kindred with her
own, loved him. What then was there to be
done ? My destiny called me away to other
climes, and there was no time to allow her to find
out her delusion. Canst thou guess what I did?”
“ I cannot guess.”
“ I slew him.”
“ God of mercy ! Thou !”
Dtgitaod by Google
264 THE MAGICIAN.
“ I bore her away in my arms; revived her
crushed heart, till it smiled and budded anew;
opened out to her new worlds of thought, and
prouder vistas of ambition; and this magnificent
creature, who, in the arms of my rival, would have
turned to clay, in mine became one of those spirit-
women, to whom the antique world erected altars,
and offered up sacrifices!” Orosmandel looked at
her with a gaze so intense, and so dazzlingly
bright, that he seemed to have not only. the
desire, but the power, to read her inmost soul.
“ What thinkest thou of it?” said he.
“ As of a deed abhorred of God and man,” she
replied solemnly. “ But it was perpetrated in
thy hot youth, when even the proudest reason is
sometimes obscured by passion; and, judging by
the accustomed serenity of thy brow of age, I feel
that thou hast long since repented of thy crime,
and received forgiveness and peace !”
“ I thank thee,” said Orosmandel, with a smile,
which made her look at him with surprise. “ Both
thou and I have spoken, at least partly, in auticipa-
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 265
tion; and with the prospect before me of such
future calm, I may now follow out what I have
commenced with an untroubled mind.”
“ What meanest thou ? Have I heard aright ?”
“ Thou hast heard thy fate in that of the
imagined love of my earlier years.”
“ This is phrensy ! Thou! Dost thou jest
with a heart like mine— before the blood of him it
loved is yet cold ?”
“ Hagar, it is no jest! If I afford thee not
time, it is no fault of mine, but of circumstances
over which I have no control. The moment
approaches, when I must fly from this house— and
with thee. Not to fly would be to give myself up
to the death ; and to fly without thee would be to
render life worthless. Thou art wise as well as
beautiful Embrace willingly the fate thou canst
not avoid; and so change passion into love, and
strengthen love with gratitude !’’
“ Dost thou mock me ?” cried the Jewess, her
surprise lost in indignation, which had something
fierce as well as majestic— “ Willingly ! And
with thee!— whose soul is freshly stained with
VOL. ill. N
d^Google
266 THE MAGICIAN.
blood dearer than my own ! Hence, coward, nor
dare to raise thy craven eyes to the face of woman l
Hence, murtherer, to thy skulking-place, with
horror at thy heels, and scorn hissing in thine
ears!”
“ Damsel,” said Orosmandel, stepping suddenly
forward, and grasping her by the arm, “ thou hast
nerved my heart, which even now began to plead
in thy behalf. Besides, thou art more beautiful in
anger than in despair. The glow of life hath
revisited thy cheek, and all the woman flasheth in
thine eyes; thy bosom panteth and swelleth to the
touch; thy limbs round, and expand, with passion
— Nay ! it is in vain to struggle; and thou feelest
that it is so. See, I confine not thine arm mere
closely than with the soft pressure of love; and
yet an armourer’s hammer could scarcely undo the
clasp. I but now thought to fly with thee first,
and then woo thee to be mine. M y plan is
changed. Tltou shalt be mine now, and we shall
fly afterwards.”
“ Dreadful man ! add not to the guilt which hath
already brought thy soul to perdition. Use not
OlgozMty G o O g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 267
the miraculous strength with which heaven hath
endowed thee in the transgression of its laws. O
shame! O horror! think of thy white hairs ! I
might be the daughter of thy daughter! In the
eyes of thy people, I am of an unclean race !”
“ What is age,” exclaimed Orosmandel, whose
face was now fiery red, “ if it chill neither the body
nor the soul? But yet to throw off a score, or
two, of years methinks is no heavy miracle for
love !”— and, tearing away his cloak, his beard, his
eyebrows, he stood before her, on the instant, a
man in the prime of life, cased in the hauberk of a
knight.
“ Lost! lost!” cried the Jewess; and her
screams rent the air: but they suddenly ceased
when she knew, from the dull, heavy sound given
back by the massive walls and impenetrable door,
that all hope of being heard was vain. As she
gazed on the apparition before her, the light
forsook her eye, and the colour her cheek; her
form seemed to sink, and her heart to die
within her; and although her eyes were open to
an unnatural extent, she seemed more to have an
Dk,itaM.iyG o o g l e
268 THE MAGICIAN.
inward consciousness of the presence of her
enemy, than to see him with the external organs of
vision.
“ How dost thou like the metamorphosis ?”
demanded the knight.
“ As I like a bad man,” she replied, in a hollow
voice, “ changed into a fiend of the abyss ! W ill
not money win thee to mercy— money that will
buy thee whole years of pleasure ? W ill my
blood not save me ?— for thou art greedy alike of
blood and of gold. Speak, Prelati, wilt thou indeed
consummate a life of crime by a deed so coward­
like and so atrocious ? A man ! Thou a man !”
“ Ay, and a bold one I” cried Prelati, who was
hastily releasing himself from his hauberk, and the
other heavier pieces of armour— “ or I should not
trust myself thus with a desperate woman. Not
for years before have I dared to doff this harness—
not even within these walls; and now, methinks,
my muscles play with a new life, as if they rejoiced
at their emancipation.”
At this moment a knock was heard at the door.
‘‘ Make haste,” said the dwarf from without;
Digitized by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 269
“ for there are sounds abroad, which I know not
of; and the night being now at its darkest, the
moment of our departure hath arrived.”
“ Presently,” replied Prelati. “ Were an army
before the walls, or even the secret of the swamp
discovered, we should be safe here for hours, and
be able still to command access to the river. And
now, Hagar, thou art mine!”
Another long, wild scream broke from her lips,
as he approached.
“ Father of mercies!” she exclaimed, shutting
her eyes, and clasping her hands upon her bosom,
“ Do thou give ear unto my cry, for man will not
hear me ! Help, thou Hearer of Prayer! Arise,
O Holy One of Israel, for thine own name’s
sake !”
As she uttered these words, Prelati had
approached close beside her; and she sank, power­
less, and almost senseless— not into his arms, but at
his feet. At the instant he had been about to
clasp her, he felt a sudden sting of pain, he knew
not, in the tumultuous confusion of his thoughts, of
N 2
Digitizedby G o o g k
270 THE MAGICIAN.
what nature, and a voice behind rang, like a knell,
in his ears:
“ The Lord, he is the God !* it cried— “ The
Lord, he is the God !”— and at every word, the
long knife of Caleb the Jew darted deep into die
vitals of the ravisher. Prelati sprang round, too
late for life, but not too late for vengeance. With
the last convulsive energies of nature, he caught
up the unresisting Jew, and whirled him over his
daughter’s head against the wall; and then,
staggering back to the farther end of the apartment,
he sank down upon the floor.
The senses of Hagar had not completely fled;
and this surprising event recalled her at once to
life and recollection. A single bewildered glance,
indeed, round the room told the confusion of her
thoughts— her amazement at the apparently preter­
natural appearance of her deliverer— and even her
doubt as to the condition of her own intellects.
But in one moment this was over; and in the next,
she was seated on the ground, with her father’s
grey head in her lap, and immersed in all the cares
THE MAGICIAN. 271
and attentions which, in sickness, and at the hour
of death, render her a ministering angel, who was
before only a woman.
No cares nor attentions, however, were of any
avail: the Jew sunk rapidly; and in a few
moments, Hagar saw that she was to be alone in
the world.
“ Speak,” she whispered, “ O my father ! Show
unto me thy last commands; for the seal of 'death
is on thy brow.”
“ I am slain,” said Caleb feebly, “ but not by
him. 1 arose from a bed of death, to save, or
avenge thee. The transitory strength of my arm
was from a drug; and that of my heart from above.
Away, my daughter, and open the door which
leadeth into the stores.”
“ Fathei, I cannot leave thee !”
“ There wilt thou ‘perhaps find the young man,
David.”
“ Alas, alas ! it is thou who goest where thou
shalt find him!”
“ Away, I command thee ; for I cannot die till I
know that thou hast one friend upon the earth.”
DW
taKib,Google
272 THE MAGICIAN.
As Hagar darted down the stair, to obey her
father, a hollow, rumbling noise resounded through
the apartments below; and she paused for an
instant, as she found that this proceeded from an
attempt to force the door which she was directed to
open. There was no time, however, to think;
and besides, a wild hope had sprung suddenly up
in her heart She withdrew the bolt— and in an
instant was in the arms of her lover.
“ My God, I thank thee!” cried the scholar. A
gush of tears from the full heart of Hagar thanked
God too for her risen-again.
“ Tell me all,” said he, “ and in one moment.
Is Prelati here?” She ascended the stair, yet
weeping.
“ There,” said she, “ is all!” and David com­
prehended the scene in an instant.
“ Hast thou hope of escape ?” demanded the
Jew.
“ Yes— hope. But the struggle is even now
going on; and, having seen that Hagar is safe, I
must away to rejoin it.”
“ Go then, and may the Lord of Hosts fight on
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 273
thy side. I bless thee, O my son, as fervently as
I curse-----”
“ Curse him not!” cried Hagar, throwing her­
self suddenly upon her knees. “ Enter not the
presence of the Father of mercies with such a
thought in thy heart ! Tell me that thou forgivest
him, I entreat— I implore thee! Tell me, with
thy last breath, that thou art fit to meet thy G od;
for the films of death are already closing over thine
eyes!”
“ Is he dead ?” said Caleb, faintly.
“ Not yet But thou forgivest him ?”
“ I would I could live to hear that he was dead !
Yes, yes, I forgive him, in the hope that God will
forgive me.”
“ With thy whole heart — with thy whole
soul ?”
“ Yes, yes. Art thou sure he is dying? If I
could but live----- ” but the words died on his
tongue, and his head fell back. Hagar put her lips
to his ear, and continued to whisper comfort and
exhortation.
David, in the meantime, who had crossed the
> N 3
DigitizedbyG o o g le
274 THE MAGICIAN.
room, treading on the Magician’s disguise, which
lay upon the floor, stood gazing, with mingled
feelings upon Prelati, who yet breathed, although
the damps of death had settled on his brow.
Suddenly, a ray of returning animation appeared
on the wounded man's features, and he signed to
the spectator to stoop down. His efforts to speak,
however, were for some moments unavailing; but
at length he uttered, in feeble, interrupted accents,
these words:
“ Knowest thou whether my brother— whether
the dwarf— hath escaped ?”
“ I saw him spring through the crowd of my
friends,” replied David, “ as they climbed up the
ramparts, and then he vanished upon the swamp.”
A gleam of satisfaction spread, like sunlight, over
the face of the dying man, and then slowly melted
away. He spoke no more. No other change took
place in the expression of his features; and no
man can tell what was the nature of his last
thoughts.
“ He is dead !” said David solemnly, and he
turned away.
z '
ab
yG o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 2 7 5
“ Dead !” cried the Jew, raising his head, with
a sudden effort, and striving to look across the
room, through the films of death. “ Dead! and
by my hand !— ha ! ha ! ha ! The destroyer !
the invulnerable! Hagar, I forgive him now!
ha! h a ! ha!” And Caleb, suffocated by the
exulting laugh which mingled with the death-
rattle in his throat, gave up the ghost.
G o o g le
C H A P T E R XI.
If David had not descended to the hall, after
his successful duel with the slave, the attempt of
Douglas and Beauchamp upon the castle would, in
all probability, have failed. Immediately after the
return of the Magician, and his cortege, he found
Nigel and Bauldy fighting their way desperately,
and almost in the dark, to the door, which was
already attacked by the surprise party. The odds
were so great against them, that even the accession
of the master-scholar, as an individual, would not
not have saved their lives; but, in addition to his
stout arm, he brought to their aid a prestige,
before which all who saw him fled in dismay. The
door, which no efforts from without could have
DigitizedDyG o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 277
forced, was speedily thrown open to the invaders,
who entered, at the moment when the alarm had
been sounded from post to post upon the walls,
and the whole strength of the garrison was crowd­
ing to the spot.
i It is a remarkable indication of the state of mind
that night of Gilles de Retz, that he heard not the
rushing of armed men through his house, nor the
cries for mercy, and shrieks of pain and terror,
which filled the air. When Douglas and Beau­
champ entered the room at the same moment,
sword in hand, he was sitting at the farther end, in
an attitude of stupor, his face as bloodless as that
of a corpse, and his eyes fixed. Pauline was
stretched upon the floor, her head resting upon a
footstool, her arms clasped round one of his legs,
and fast asleep !
*
*What would ye ?” cried the baron, starting
up, and laying his hand mechanically upon his
sword.
“ W e have come, my lord,” said Douglas, “ for
the purpose of saving your daughter from a fate
too horrible to think of; and it is our purpose to
D
iQ
’tizK
it*Google
278 T U I MAGICIAN.
remove her this night to the ducal court for pro*
tection.”
“ H ow have you come ?” cried the baron, in a
voice of thunder. <
aAre my people traitors, and
are both heaven and hell against me ?”
“ Your people are true,” replied Sir Archibald,
“ and a warrant having been issued against you,
charging you with dreadful crimes, you will
speedily have need of all their valour and fidelity.
W e have surprised your castle by a secret path
across the swamp.”
“ One of the many means, my lord,” added
David, who had now entered the room, “ which
have been used to delude and destroy you!”
The baron dropped bis sword at these words,
and sank down upon the seat, trembling and
aghast
It was evident that the sleep of the Damsel of
Laval, was the effect of the drugs with which they
had attempted to work upon her mind; but
Beauchamp, who had no clew to explain it, looked
with wonder upon the scene, and with still more
wonder, upon the comparative coolness of Douglas.
D
ioJlza)byGO IC
THE MAGICIAN. 879
He proposed, notwithstanding, >
that, since the
lady could take no part in the affair, it should
be left to the decision of her father, which of them
should have the honour of her escort. This was
agreed to; and the Lord de Retz, to whose ear the
name of Beauchamp was familiar in the later wars
of Brittany, had extended his hand to designate
him as the one he chose, when Andrew entered
the room.
“ Choose him ,” said he, walking up solemnly to
Gilles de Retz, and pointing to Douglas, “ in the
nam e o f the F ather, the Son, and the H oly G h ost /’’
and the baron obeyed.
An unwilling truce was now established with the
garrison ont of doors, although it threatened to be
of short duration. Not one of the soldiers could
comprehend that this amicable arrangement was
proposed with the serious concurrence of Gilles de
Retz. They believed him to be a prisoner : igno­
rant that his only chains were a paralysis of the
soul; and by and by, they were seen re-assembling
in large groups, and dragging culverines to a part
Dig* Google
280 THE MAGICIAN.
of the walls which would command the embarka­
tion.
All things were at length ready. Pauline de
Laval, Hagar, with the body of her father, and
Felicité, were placed In the same boat— when it
was discovered that Jacquin Houpelande was miss­
ing. The echevin, when the first alarm of the
attack was over, and all things were going on
smoothly, had occasioned some discussion even
among his friends, by insisting upon carrying his
property back with him. Beauchamp had strictly
prohibited his men from taking booty; and David
had promised so large an indemnity to Sir Archi­
bald’s followers— to the knight’s unspeakable asto­
nishment, it should be said— that they also gladly
consented to forbear. Jacquin, however, argued,
that the goods, as they were not paid for, were his
own, and by no means the spoil of battle ; and at
length, by the consent of the Lord de Rete him­
self, he obtained the leave he sought He had now
been gone long enough to have effected his pur­
pose, leaving Felicité in the care of Bauldy; and
DigK’zad by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 2 8 1
it was only when the patience of the party had
been exhausted, and their fears awakened by the
hostile dispositions on the part of the garrison, that
he made his appearance.
“ Are the bales coming ?” asked Bauldy. “ A
boat is ready for them, and we have not another
moment to lose.”
“ Push off!— push off!” cried the echevin, step­
ping in and sitting down beside him, with a
bewildered and ghastly look.
“ And the bales?”
“ Let them go! I wash my hands of them !
O holy and immaculate Mother, to think of the
devices of Satan! What think you my rich
cloths, and gold and silver trimmings, have turned
into? Another man would have fainted upon the
spot; but I looked on for more than half an hour,
without moving my eyes even to wink.”
“ And what did you look at?” cried more than
one voice, eagerly.
“ Why, at a corpse— stark, stiff, and black-a-
viced, and weltering in blood!”
“ What, in all the bales ? ’
282 THE MAGICIAN.
“ In all, as I am a sinner ! This it is to w ork
for a M a g ic ia n .
The boats were at length fairly under weigh,
and floating down the river; but, even when all
fear of interruption from the garrison had passed
away, the party Continued to gaze in silent awe
upon the castle of La Verrière, as it slowly receded
from their eyes. As the circumstances of his
strange apprenticeship passed in review before
David’s mind, he needed the spectacle of the dead
body of the Jew, with its head resting upon
Hagar’s lap, to convince him of their reality. The
Third Victim had been redeemed from the horns
of the altar— and at the exact cost predicted in the
superstitions of the peasantry ! Messire Jean,
able no more to pay his tribute to the Demon
under whom he had fallen, had broken the bond at
the forfeit of his own life !
Apart from the rest of the garrison, on an angle
of the ramparts, there stood a solitary figure ; and
on this the eyes of Pauline were fixed with a wild­
ness of gaze which might have seemed to partake
of insanity. As the boat receded, she rose up, and
Digiliz Google
THE MAGICIAN. 283
bent so eagerly forward, that she must have fallen
but for the support of Douglas. At length the
figure on the ramparts moved, and the right hand
was extended towards her. A scream broke from
the lips of Pauline at the sight—
“ M y father blesses me !” she cried, and sank
fainting into the arms of her lover.
T h e reader may expect, in this place, some
account of Prelati; but we have none to give. It
is supposed, but even this is not fully known, that
he was a Florentine by birth, and of good family.
His education must have been a brilliant one for
the age; and he must have fallen very early—
perhaps when yet a child— into hands skilful to
pervert even good and noble qualities to bad uses.
His brother, the dwarf, who had talents enough to
render lovely and respectable, even an unsightly
DigitizedbyGoogle
284 THE MAGICIAN.
form like his, but who fell into the absurd error of
supposing the body to be all in all, was never heard
of more. If he did not perish that night in the
swamp, he must have fled the country.
Their hoard of ill-gotten wealth was found at
Florence, by David Armstrong— who did not leave
La Verri^re without possessing himself of the
papers of Prelati; and some years after, it formed
part of the rich dowry brought to his friend
Douglas by the heiress of Gilles de Retz. The
lapse of time which took place before the marriage
of the knight was not considered by him as a mis­
fortune. He had never contemplated aspiring to
her hand, however eager he might have been to
win her love, till he had rendered himself worthy
of his fate, by distinguishing himself in arms. This
consummation at length gradually came; and
although some men laughed at his chivalrous punc­
tilios, in an age when the loftiness of chivalry was
a tale and a dream; yet all allowed that nobler
deeds of valour and generosity had never been
performed—
“ Since the old Douglas’day."
Diglllzad by Google
THE MAGICIAN. 285
When the time was expired allotted for mourn­
ing among the Jews, David Armstrong and Hagar
bade adieu to their friends, and turned this faces
towards a far and foreign land.
“ The time will come,” said the ex-scholar,
“ when men will judge of their fellows by their
deeds; and when it will be left to God to inquire
whether or not he is worshipped in forms agreeable
to him. Yet it is, indeed, a delightful thing, and
beneficial to the soul, to have the same form of
religion, as well as the same habits of taste, with
her we love; and I trust that my example will
induce no child of mine to look out for a wife,
except among those whom he meets at the foot of
the Cross. But, in the extraordinary circum­
stances in which we have been placed, I could see
in Hagar only a woman: and after all, if she
believe not in the man Jesus, is not her
Jehovah the God Jesus? and do we not meet thus
in the hour of prayer, and may we not hope to do
so after the hour of death ?”
It may be doubted whether Jacquin Houpelande
would not have refused, after all, the suit of
Digiti» Google
286 THE MAGICIAN.
Bauldy, had it not been for the shock his nerves
had sustained at the sight of the dead slave in one
of his bales. Had he returned to Nantes with his
property, the idea of his own consequence would
have come back upon his mind; and he would
hardly have thought of matching his daughter
with a poor adventurer. But as it was, he felt a
positive relief in the alliance; and on the day of
the marriage, surrounded by the bold and cheerful
Scots, he enjoyed a feeling of security which he
thought had been lost for ever.
But the most singular marriage was that of the
cool, quiet, sagacious Andrew— with the peasant
Marie! The first time he saw her, he was struck
in a remarkable manner both with her beauty, and
her thoughtful, collected air; and when circum­
stances, which it is unnecessary to detail, made
them better acquainted, he felt justified in the
opinion he had then instinctively formed. His
first mention of the projected match exposed him
to some good-humoured raillery, especially from
Nigel, who had determined to follow the fortunes of
David, “ without encumbrance.”
Google
Digitize
THE MAGICIAN. 387
“ And then,” continued be, after some mock
objections bad been answered, “ What is the Venus
of the proverb to do without Ceres and Bacchus ?
Suppose Marie brings you children ?----- ”
“ Silence, young man !” interrupted the master
scholar, with indignation. “ Since he loves, let
him marry her; and God, and his own industry, to
say nothing of David Armstrong, will take care of
his family. The children of Marie shall be pro­
vided for, if she had as many as Eutyche— and she
had thirty!”
Andrew was the only one of the comrades who
settled at Nantes; where he rose, assisted by the
influence of Douglas, into a station of profit and
honour in the service of the Duke. His name,
Kerr, in some of the documents of the time, is
Frenchified into Caire; and in the following
century, one of his descendants, proud, no doubt,
of his Scottish ancestry, transmuted it into
M ’Caire, or Macaire.
* *
>
Three years after the date of our story, in the
month of September, 1440, a procession, of which
Gilles de Retz was the hero, passed Andrew’s
Or»' ,Google
2 8 8 THE MAGICIAN.
house. This weak-minded and strong-passioned
nobleman had at length been taken, and con­
demned to the death which his crimes deserved.
To these, the superstition of the age added
s o r c e r y ; and he who had been only a dupe, was
burned for a wizard! Marie, on that dreadful
morning, caused the doors and windows of the
house to be shut up; and retiring to the room
most distant from the street, she fell upon her
knees, and remained there, with pale cheek, and
mute yet moving lips, till the procession had
passed by, and the sound of the death-hymn died
away upon her ear.
E n n.
Google
NOTE
VOL. n r. o
Digitized by Google
D igged by Google
N O T E .
A F rench critic is surprised, that in so many
romances there should be a M agician, while in not
one is there any M agic. The reason is, no doubt,
that the authors, capable of opening the mystic
book have been withheld by those associations
which connect the superstitions of infant science
with the miraculous stories of our boyhood. The
other subjects of vulgar credulity were believed to
be less dangerous ground. The dread of spectres,
for instance, even in this educated age, is not con­
fined to the professedly ignorant, but exists, in a
greater or less degree, in all classes of society; and
therefore no scruple was made, either to withdraw
boldly the curtain which separates the two worlds,
2 9 2 NOTE TO
or, after working upon the imagination through its
instinctive and involuntary fears, to explain frankly
the illusions that had governed it.
But, when referring incidently to the operations
of E nchantment, or the popular belief in them,
our romancers cautiously abstained from entering
into details. The Magician was either a miserable
juggler, whose tricks were unworthy of serious
explanation, or a grand and shadowy personage,
whose sublime pursuits would have become
ridiculous, if too closely examined. They did not
introduce the reader into the Circle, nor afford him
more than a peep of the smoke of the Cauldron;
and, when interrogated, with indiscreet curiosity,
“ What is't je do?”
they replied, with the Witches of Shakspeare—
“ A deed without a uame !"
It seems to me, however, that the influence
exercised, in the middle ages, upon the human
Digitized b
»Google
THE MAGICIAN. 293
mind, by a belief in Magic—to say nothing of its
earlier history—would warrant something more.
I have even thought, that in describing the manners
of the French nation in the fifteenth century, it
was necessary to afford a large and important space
to the superstition which delivered up the immortal
Virgin of Dom-Remi to the flames. I considered,
that a delusion operating so deeply upon the
destinies of man, even when treated in its most
grotesque details, could not be looked upon as con­
temptible. In the history of the too famous Gilles
de Retz, 1 found unoccupied ground, and all the
materials I could desire for my conjurations; and,
in the shadowy portrait it was my business to draw
of the Personage who really governed the fate of
that remarkable criminal, I thought I should not
offend probability by mingling with his own
individuality the historical features of his class.
What these features were may be discovered
with very little research.
It is needless to repeat the arguments which
have been so frequently used, to prove that Magic,
in early times, was nothing more than a knowledge
o 2
Digitized by Google
2 9 4 NOTE TO
of the natural sciences. Moses was a still better
magician than the priests of Pharcmh. Even
without the divine asssistance, he could have beat
them at their own arts; or, in the poetical phra*
seology of his history, the rod of Aaron would have
swallowed up theirs. This, however, would have
gained him nothing but the crown of martyrdom;
for the king himself was of the adverse sect, and
was by no means dismayed at the occasional
success of the strangers. It was the God of Israel
who assisted the “ enchantments ” of the Hebrew
sage by miracles, and thus drew forth the chosen
people out of the land of Egypt, and out of the
house of bondage.
In those days, and long before and after, the
sciences were hidden in the temples, and that god
was the greatest whose priests were the most
learned. The whole progress of the Israelites is a
religious struggle; and the first and greatest com­
mandment given to this fickle and ignorant people
is, “ Thou shalt have no other gods but Me.”
Their frequent disobedience, notwithstanding the
magnitude of the miracles of God, as compared
(%
«»>*Google
THE MAGICIAN. 295
with die juggleries of the pagan priests, can only
be explained, by supposing wlnt was no doubt the
ase, that the latter were expressly and skilfully
adapted for the purposes of delusion and imposition.
Moses himself was too well acquainted with the
men he had to deal with to disdain the use of
artifice. The column of flame, for instance, seen
by night, and of smoke by day, arose, in all proba­
bility, from the sacred fire carried before the ark;
and it could not have been intended to serve as a
pilot through the wilderness, since Hobab was
entertained expressly for this purpose—“ to be to
them instead of eyes.”
The knowledge of the priesthood was carefully
retained withintheir own body. In general, it was
guaranteed by tremendous oaths; and their secrets
were written in unknown tongues, in ciphers inex­
plicable without a key, in languages composed of
emblems. Their books were kept in the inner­
most recesses of the temple, and hedged round
from curiosity by mysterious denunciations.
Men thus set apart from their fellows imbibed a
peculiar character. They were themselves the god:
Google
296 NOTE TO
for it is not to be supposed that they believed in an
idol in whose service they were every day employ­
ing the truths of science for the purposes of decep­
tion. Elevated far above the ignorant crowd by
whom they were surrounded, their chief charac­
teristic was a disregard of human .life and human
feelings. They trampled upon the ties by which
they were not bound themselves. They poured
blood upon their altars like water. Human sacri­
fices are common to almost all the early religions;
and Abraham himself was neither surprised nor
horrified at the command to slay his only son for a
burnt offering.
At the gradual intermingling of the East with
the West, of the unstable with the stable form of
civilization, Magic necessarily declined in impor­
tance. The massacre of the Magi, after the fall
of Smerdis, scattered abroad the secrets of the
temple. The integrity of the pontifical order in
Egypt was broken up by the consequences of the
Roman conquest. Christianity, while as yet unde­
based by the juggles of the clergy, had no
mysteries but moral ones; and all men were invited
THE MAGICIAN. 297
to enter within its pale without money and without
price.
The mystic union of the magi, however, still
lived for a while in the various Secret Societies of
Europe; and the wandering priest of Egypt, who
had fled from his impoverished country, with no
other riches than his manuscript of occult science,
became the ancestor of the modern Sorcerer, and
his magic book.
The portrait I have desired to draw of a Magi­
cian, in the foregoing work, comprehends, as I have
said, the general historical features of the class;
although the individual is a real personage. His
magical tricks I have rendered few and unimpor­
tant ; because the very best I could describe might
be performed as well by any natural philosopher of
the present day. His moral power, however—and
in this I have exaggerated nothing—could only
have been acquired and preserved by the union I
have assumed to exist, of the highest qualities of
intellect with the utmost depravity of mind.
The odours made use of in the Magician’s study
were well known to the miracle-workers. Jam­
o 3
Google
298 NOTE TO
biichus informs us, that certain perfumes rendered
the mind more fit to receive the inspiration of the
Deity ; and Produs describes a composition of this
kind, made up of the amalgamation of various
different odours, which was used by the institutors
of the ancient priesthood. The property of the
fumes of henbane, as disposing to strife and anger,
it may be mentioned by way of illustration, is well
known to modern medicine. A husband and wife,
as is recorded in a French work of science, sup­
posed themselves to be under the influence of
witchcraft; because, although agreeing perfectly
well on other occasions, they never could remain
long at work together without a violent quarrel
On a packet of the troublesome grains being
removed from the stove where it lay, peace was
instantaneously restored in the family.
Of all the magical agents, fire is the most com­
mon. A box of phosphorus—or, still better, of
Lucifer—matches, now in the hands of every old
woman, would have terrified half the ancieut world.
Zoroaster, according to Hermippus (in Arnobius),
possessed a fiery girdle as well as Orosmaudel; but
o o itu M b y G o o g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 299
this, with the aid of any of the pyrophoric sub­
stances, might be manufactured in the next street.
If Horace had Hved in our day, he would not have
refused to believe in the miracle operated in the
santuary of Gnatia, when the incense kindled of its
own accord.
Spontaneous combustion sometimes produces as
disastrous effects as if it had been the work of
sorcery. Some years ago a man was tried in
London for setting lire to a floor-cloth manufac­
tory ; which, there was as good reason to believe,
had set fire to itself, by the casual meeting of
different chemical substances. The jury, however,
if the thing had occurred to them at all, would
have been ashamed to be thought more credulous
of impossibilities than a heathen poet; and the poor
wretch ( who was hangedJ, it is hardly unchari­
table to believe, fell a victim to the ignorance of
the nineteenth eentury, and the stupid brutality
still remaining in the criminal laws of England.
The flame that does not burn, and the artificial
earthquake, are well known to the readers of
different little treatises on chemical recreations.
Digitize« Googlt
300 NOTE TO
The time of the story, it will be remembered,
was the epoch when the glorious Virgin of Dom-
Remi was burnt for sorcery; but the peculiar
character of the prevailing superstition is shown so
clearly in a contemporary oration ofa doctor of the
Sorbonne, that I may be excused for adverting to
it here.
“ Superstition was so universal in France at this
time, that in the oration pronounced before the
Dauphin and the Court in justification of the Duke
of Burgundy, by Master John Petit, professor of
theology in the university of Paris, one of the
principal charges made against the Duke of Orleans
was, for having conspired against the life of the
king by sorcery, charms, and witchcraft.
“ His agents, according to the learned professor,
took up their abode in the lonely tower of Mont
Zay, near Laigny-sur-Marne, and their principal,
an apostate monk, performed there numerous invo­
cations to the Devil. At length, on a Sunday, one
grand invocation was made on a mountain near the
tower, and the priest of darkness, stripping himself
naked to the shirt, kneeled down. He stuck the
Digitized by G o o g le
THE MAGICIAN. 301
points of a sword and dagger belonging to the
Duke of Orleans in the ground, and near them laid
the Duke’s ring. Whereupon, two demons ap­
peared to him, in human shape, and clothed in a
brownish green, one of whom was called Hermius,
and the other Estramain; and the monk paid them
the same honour and worship which is due to our
Lord.
“ The demons then seizing the weapons and the
ring, vanished; but the monk soon after found the
sword and dagger lying flat upon the ground, the
point of the former being broken off and laid in
the midst of some powder. In half an hour, the
second demon reappeared with the ring, which was
now of a red colour, and presenting it to the monk,
said to him, ‘Thou wilt put it into the mouth of
a dead man, in the manner thou knowest,’and then
vanished. The whole oration, which is highly
curious throughout, is embodied by Monstrelet in
his Chroniques.”*
* “ Romance of Frenoh History.” By the Author of the
Magician.”
Digitizedby G o o g le
302 NOTE TO
The impositions of Orosmandel, if more refined,
would have been less true, both to the manners of
the epoch, and in fact ; for, after the above extract,
even the least informed readerwifi not be surprized
to hear, that there is ample foundation for the
wildest pages in the book.
The following is an account of Gilles de
Retz, taken from a memoir of an excursion I
made some years ago, among the localities of the
story. It appeared in a publication which is now
only to be found in the cabinets of the lovers of
the arts ; and which was discontinued, because the
taste of the “ general public,” was not sufficiently
refined, to appreciate justly the drawings of
Turner.
“ The bay of La Verrière, beyond the Cens,
exhibits, in its tracts of mud, and shallow and
stagnant waters, a striking picture of the fertility
of nature. These are covered with vegetation,
and present the botanist with a remarkable variety
of curious plants. Near it an ancient ruin, con­
cealed among the thickets, and scarcely distinguish­
able from the rocks on which it is raised, recalls to
THE MAGICIAN. SOS
our memory a character, remarkable for the same
rank growth, and which, although now forgotten,
or buried in poetry and fable, excited, at one time,
the interest of all inquirers into the mysteries of
the human mind.
“ These ruins are all that remain of the abode
of Gilles de Retz, the veritable Blue Beard, the
hero of the celebrated tale of Perrault He was
Lord, also, of Ingrande, Chantoce, Machecore,
Bourgnoeuf, Pornic, Prince, and many other places
—each of which claim the distinction of having
been the principal theatre of his crimes. Without
entering into this controversy, however, all that we
can do at the present moment is, to offer a very
slight historical account of the Marechal de Retz,
who flourished—if the Upas tree can be said to
flourish—in the reign of Jean V., Duke of Brit­
tany, in the early part of the fifteenth century.
“ Born of one of the most illustrious houses of
Brittany, he found himself an orphan at twenty
years of age, and the possessor of enormous
wealth. He was of course immediately surrounded
by parasites, who, by flattering the weaknesses, and
DlgituzodbyGoogl
304 NOTE TO
cherishing the evil passions of his nature, and
introducing new ones, contrived to turn both his
was a man of extraordinary bravery; and, while
yet in his youth, acquired, by his services in
war, the honourable title of Marshal. This, how*
ever, although high enough for his ambition, did
not suffice for his vanity. He would be known to
the world, not only as a brave soldier, but as a man
of illustrious birth, immense fortune, and bound­
less generosity. The world, he knew, can only
distinguish characters by their outward manifesta­
tions, and he therefore assumed a state befitting
the exalted personage whom he imagined himself
“ When he went abroad, he was followed by
two hundred men of his house, well mounted, and
magnificently equipped; and, on rteturning to the
chateau, he was joined, at some distance from the
house, by his almoner, attended by a dean, a
chanter, two archdeacons, four vicars, a school­
master, twelve chaplains, and eight choristers, each
handsomely mounted, and followed, like his body
follies and crimes to their own advantage. He
to be.
THE MAGICIAN. 305
guard, by valets. The clothing of this ecclesiasti­
cal company was splendid in the extreme, consist­
ing of scarlet robes trimmed with precious furs.
In religious pomp, in fact, he was scarcely
surpassed by the wealthiest churches. His travel­
ling chapel dazzled every eye by the numbers it
displayed of crosses, chandeleere, censers, vases of
gold and silver, and other ornaments. The pro­
cession was closed by six organs, each carried by
six men.
“ All this state, however, which might have well
satisfied a monarch, was vanity and vexation of
spirit to Gilles de Retz, on account of one little
desideratum. He wished that the priest of his
chapel should have the privilege of wearing a
bishop’s mitre; and this, in spite of his entreaties,
his ambassadors, and his gifts, the Pope had the
insolence to refuse! The chateau in which he
deigned to reside, emulated the splendour of one
of those fairy fabrics which cost a poor author only
a page or two of words. The roofs were painted
in imitation of azure skies, sprinkled with stars;
the gilded cornices were carved so as to resemble
Digitized by G o o g le
306 NOTE TO
foliage, and the walls were tapestried with cloth of
gold, which cost six hundred francs the elL Often,
however, he forsook this palace of the genii, in
order to dazzle the wondering citizens, accompa­
nied by a train of flatterers, dancing and singing
boys, musicians and stage-players. He betook
himself to some great town, where he not only
treated the people to gratis representations of
mysteries—the only sort of drama then known—
but distributed refreshments to all who were polite
enough to look on.
“ It is hardly necessary to say, that a very few
years were sufficient to exhaust a fortune subject *
to such demands, and pillaged at the same time,
by the owner’s friends. Gilles was by no means
alarmed at this consummation. His estates were
so numerous that he could hardly repeat their
names without book; and he looked upon them as
possessing the same kind of inexhaustibility which
he had attributed to his vanished millions. He
began to sell. First went one Lordship and then
another, till at last, his relations, taking the alarm,
petitioned the king to forbid the further alienation
Digitized by G o o g l e
THE MAGICIAN. 307
of the family property; which, after many distur*
bances, threatening a political convulsion, was at
length done in due form, and the proclamation
published by sound of trumpet.
“ This was a blow which almost upset the brain
of Gilíes de Rete, enfeebled by continual de­
bauchery. Was he to sink at once into the station
of a private individual, and drag through an igno­
minious life, the remembrance of his past glories,
converted into present shame ? Money, it seemed,
was the one thing needful—the bauble which he
was accustomed to play with and throw away.
Were there not other means of obtaining it than
by the sale of estates ? Could it not be dragged
from the mine, or the deep, by other methods than
the employment of capital and the working of
machinery ? His thoughts darted themselves into
every hole and corner of human and superhuman
speculation; and he gave to things possible and
impossible, the same eager and devout attention.
The following is the result, as it is related by a
Breton historian.
“ *God not having listened to the impious
d,q
*«wbyGoogle
308 NOTE TO
desires of the Marshal, this warrior resolved to
obtain, by other ways, the power and riches of
which he was ambitious.
“ ‘He had heard that there existed on the earth,
men who—for certain considerations, and by means
of great intrepidity—had been able to overstep the
bounds of the known world, and to tear away the
veil which separates finite beings from forms of
incorporeal air; and that the spirits subjected to
their power, were compelled to minister to their
smallest wishes. On the instant, his emissaries set
out to traverse Italy and Germany, to penetrate
into distant solitudes, and the depths of primeval
forests, and to sound the gloomy caverns, where
report had placed the servants of the Prince of
darkness. Soon malefactors, rogues, and vaga­
bonds of all orders, formed the court of Gilles de
de Retz. He saw apparitions; he heard voices;
sounds of terrible import were muttered from the
bosom of the earth, and in a little while the
subterranean vaults of the chateau resounded to
the cries of victims.
“ ‘The most odious ideas that ever entered into
Digitized by V ï O O g l C
THE MAGICIAN. 3 0 9
the depraved brain of the alchemist were put into
practice, to effect the transmutation of metals, and
obtain that philosopher’s stone which was to confer
on them riches and immortality. Mysterious fur­
naces were burning night and day; but the real
treasures which disappeared in them were not suffi­
cient to satisfy the cupidity of the adepts by whom
he was surrounded. They presented to him, at
length, an Indian sage, who, as they informed him,
had travelled over the whole earth, and from whom
Nature had been unable to preserve a single
secret.
“ ‘An imposing, and severe countenance, eyes
that dazzled those on whom they shone, and a
beard as white as snow, distinguished the man of
the East; while his simple, but elegant manners,
announced that he had lived habitually with the
great ones of the earth. Nothing appeared new
or strange to him; no name, no person, no event.
He was almost always buried in profound silence:
but when he did condescend to speak, his discourse
was of things so extraordinary, so wonderful, or so
terrible, and all occurring in his own presence, that
Digitized by G o o g le
SIO NOTE TO
Gilles de Retz became fascinated while he lis­
tened, and delivered himself up, with all the re­
mains of his fortune, to this remarkable stranger.
*“ It was then that the dungeons of his chateau
echoed with groans, and were watered with tears.
It became necessary to call up the Prinee of the
Fallen Angels, the contemner of God, the devil,
Satan himself, and the only cuirass which could
preserve the invoker from the first effects of his
indignation must be cemented with human blood.
Nay, the Marshal himself must plunge the poniard
into the heart of the victim, and count the quick
convulsions that preceded and accompanied the
instant of death.
“ ‘At a short distance from the chateau there was
a forest as ancient as the world, in the centre of
which a little spring, bursting from a rock, was
absorbed and disappeared in the ground. A
thousand fearful tales were told of this solitary
spot; phantoms glided shrieking through the trees;
and, if any of the neighbours, attracted either by
pity or curiosity, approached the unhallowed
precincts, they were never more seen. Their
Digitized by G o o g le
TUB MAGICIAN. 311
bodies, it was supposed, were buried round the
spring. It was here that the Indian proposed to
subdue the rebel angels, and to bring the most
powerful among them under the dominion of the
Marshal.
‘“ One night, at the mid-hour, the sage pro­
ceeded to this [spot, armed at all points, protected
by the cuirass cemented by human blood, and
furnished with the seal of Gilles de Retz, who
followed him alone. He first dug a grave, round
which he traced various circles, and these he inter­
mingled with strange figures, in which he deposited
some odd or hideous objects. He then built an
altar with the earth taken out of the grave, and
some flat stones that he had set carefully apart,
placing upon it, when ready, the bones of the
victims buried round the spring.
“ ‘A new crime was then committed. The blood
ofan infant flowed into the grave; and responding
to its death-cries the voice of an owl was heard,
which the stranger a few days before had set at
liberty in the forest. Up to this moment, the
theatre of the dreadful sacrifice, had received no
(tlizod by G O O g l e
312 NOTE TO
light except from some rays of the moon darting
fitfully through the foliage; but when the Indian
had pronounced certain barbarous and impious
words, a thick smoke appeared round the altar,
and was followed by a bluish light, so brilliant that
the eye could scarcely endure it The magician
then struck fiercely on a buckler, which resounded
to the blow: and in the midst of a terrific noise
which filled the forest, a being resembling an
enormous leopard, whose horrible form was long
imprinted on the imagination of the Marshal,
advanced slowly, with seemingly articulate roars,
which the Indian explained in a low and troubled
voice to his wretched employer.
“ ‘ It is Satan,’ said he, ‘he accepts your homage.
But curses on my soul! I have forgotten the
most important part of the incantation. He cannot
speak to you. W hy did I not think of this
sooner ?’
“ *Can we not begin again ?’ cried the Marshal,
trembling with hope and fear.
“ ‘ Peace, in the devil’s name!’ whispered the
Indian, appearing to listen. ‘ At Florence,’ con-
ib,GoogIc
THE MAGICIAN. 313
tinued he, ‘ yes, in the depths of that cellar— Do
you then consent to the death of”—
“ ‘Just heaven !’ shouted the Marshal in a fury,
‘ May the great God confound you! have I not
already promised ?’ But, at the holy name of the
Father of mercies, the vision vanished; the echoes
of the forest repeated a thousand wild and mourn­
ful cries, and the dazzling light expired in thick
arkness.
“ ‘ I recommended silence to you,’ said the
Magician, after according an instant to human
weakness, ‘ but the name which escaped from your
lips has lost to you for ever the power you were
on the eve of acquiring over the spirit. He said
enough, however, to enable me to render you the
possessor of all the treasures buried in the bosom of
the earth. The talisman, by means of which this
must be effected, is at the bottom of an urn in a
tomb near Florence; and behold, continued he,
stooping, and picking up a plate of gold which the
Marshal had not before observed, behold the sign
which will introduce me into places however
deeply hidden.’ ”
VOL. in . p
314 NOTE TO
“ The Marshal returned to his chateau ; placed in
the hands of the Indian the whole amount he was
able to raise— saw him set out on his journey to
Florence, and with a heart full of rage for having
lost, by his own fault, the immense advantages he
had expected, awaited with anxiety the expiration
of the year, which the impostor had marked as the
period of his return.
“ Disappointed in his search after the philosopher’s
stone, and in his longings for dominion over the
powers of the air, Gilles de Retz sought in
marriage a means of replenishing his coffers. The
dowry of his wife was soon exhausted— or her
charms palled upon his senses— and she dis­
appeared ; a second supplied her place— a third—
even to the seventh wife! The cry of blood at
length rose to heaven, and Jean V. Duke of
Brittany, determined to arrest this gigantic
criminal. After some difficulty he was taken— not
in his own chateau, which was too well defended,
but by means of an ambuscade, and thrown into
the dungeons of Nantes.
“ The Indian was next seized, who proved to be a
j
O
iom
/w
oyGoogle
THE MAGICIAN. 315
Florentine called Prelati. He was put to the
torture, and confessed every thing. Gilles himself
could not stand unmoved the appearance of the
rack; but, forgetting the resolution he seemed to
have taken to die in silence, poured forth a decla­
ration of his crimes which filled his judges with
horror. Even in the midst of such revelations,
however, he endeavoured to relieve himself of a
part of the blame, by complaining of a bad educa­
tion, and of the arts of Prelati and his accomplices,
who, working upon his infatuated predilections for
forbidden studies, had led him on insensibly from
horror to horror, till at length his mind became
seared to the sense of guilt. It is remarkable that
the audience at this period of the trial, forgot the
horror which such a monster ought to have in­
spired, and melted into tears of compassion.
“ Gilles de Retz was then condemned to be
dragged in chains to the meadow of the Madeleine,
near Nantes, and there to be bound to a post
raised on a pile of faggots, and burned alive. The
fathers and mothers of families who witnessed the
trial fasted for three days after, according to the
Digitized by Google
310 NOT« TO
custom of the period, in order to obtain a hearing
for their prayers in behalf of his souL They at
the same time scourged their children with great
severity, to impress upon their memory the awful
lesson they had received.
“ The Marshal was conducted to the place of
punishment, in the midst of a vast procession,
formed of the monastic orders, and the clergy, and
secular congregations of the city. He was much
cast down, and seemed to dread the sufferings he
was about to undergo; but these, through the
interest of his friends, were in part commuted, and
when the flames rose, he was strangled, and with
comparatively little pain, yielded forth his spirit to
the latter judgment.
“ The ruins of the chateau of La Verrière, and the
whole scene around them, have an air of melan­
choly and desolation that disposes the mind to
reverie. A stair cut in the rock leads to a little
hall tapestried with ivy, and round this are planted
seven funereal trees, as monuments to the manes
of the seven murdered wives. At some distance
from the chateau, there were found, in 1810, a
Dm«««,Google
THE MAGICIAN. 317
number of slate coffins. Near the Verrière, the
ruins of an old bridge are seen under the surface
of the Erdre; but the date of this construction is
altogether unknown.
“ ‘ None of those associations, ’ says M. Richer,
‘ which connect the epochs of history, are attached
the banks of the Erdre. This tranquil river is
the image of oblivion; and on its shores, as on
those of Lethe, we seem to lose the memory of
the past.’ ” *
* “Turner’s Annual Tour.” By the Author of “The
Magician.”
John Haddon and Co., Doctors' Commons.
DtQitlzedby
