{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__stanhope___tracts_relating_to_caspar_hauser.pdf","mytitle":"Tracts Relating To Caspar Hauser","mylang":"de"}
TRACTS
azLATliiG TO
CASPAR HAUSER.
't'RANSLATt:D FROM TilE 01\lGINAL GUM.Ul.
----
~
"
LONDON:
J Al\IES S. HODSON,
Ill, FLEET STREET.
1836.
Digitized by Coogle
__...--
--G~ loco! G;, y'
I fr
I di ..Jtcvu:;{..,2,.,2-.
'ffcx.flz,'V :B~~tC.s!-0·;
.....,.../ _ .... .
HAk.V· '
Pr intrd hy J. S. Hno:!mN,
U, Ca on Slnr&, li•Uun Oardtn.
Digitized by Coogle
....... -
---
; .£iJ~ /:Jf
_!;c
~trbuYe- for-.sZe- i.r lltA-1'~/IVu""' tJ/IAe tWrtu-.,, "if/"al"".r
t(fa~fftmnr. rtfkr.W run'Wd ra .Jurt'mkJy..
Digitized by Google
PREFACE
BY THE PUBLISHER.
THE following Tracts, which were writ-
ten by Earl Stanhope in the Gennan lan-
;uage, were intended by him to explain,
in justice to himself, and for the satisfac-
tion of the world, the reasons which in-
duced him, who had taken under his pro-
tection Caspar Hauser, and had believed
the truth of his Narrative, to consider it
afterwards as fictitious. They relate
some facts which were hitherto unknown,
and which will probably be thought in-
teresting (the story itself having become
so celebrated), and, amongst others, an
authentic statement of the circumstances
connected with the tragical termination
of his short life. They are, however,
Digitized by Coogle
iv PRBI'ACB.
principally a refutation of M. Von Feuer-
bach's Work, which, so far from being
founded upon official Documents, con-
cealed many most important facts, and
misrepresented the whole story. This
was proved to be the case by the testi-
monies of those persons that bad the
earliest opportunities of seeing and ob-
serving Caspar Hauser after his arrival,
and were examined in February and
March, 1834, by Earl Stanhope, who was
anxious to ascertain the truth, and who
refers to their statements in his Letter to
M. Merker. It is presumed that the
reader of these Tracts is already acquaint-
ed with M. Von Feuerbach's Work, of
which the EnglishTranslation bas reached
the third Edition, and of which a know-
ledge is requisite for understanding them.
Although the interest which this sub-
ject inspired has in a great degree sub-
sided, and although Caspar Hauser him-
Digitized byGoogle
PkBJ'ACB. ...
self, who occasioned so much discussion;
now sleeps in his grave, his story will
always remain one of the most remark-
able that has yet been recorded, and it
must excite our astonishment that at his
early age, and deficient, as he must have
been, in knowledge and experience, be
was able, and, as it appears, without pre-
vious preparation, to act a part which de-
luded so many persons of talent, and,
amongst others, even M. Von Feuerbach
himself. It seems also very extraordinary
that neither on the arrival ofCaspar Hau-
ser, nor during the period of nearly six
years which be passed in Bavaria, nor in
the interval of three days that elapsed be-
tween the infliction of his wound and his
death which it occasioned, was any con-
fession made by him or any discovery
by others, as to his name, his family, his
former residence, and his early life. We
have learned that in tbe opinion of Earl
Digitized by Google·
vi PREFACE.
Stanhope, who possesses much informa-.
tion upon this subject and who thought
it his duty to examine it with great at-
tention, Caspar Hauser was by trade
a journeyman Tailor or Glover, and
an inhabitant of one of the small
Hamlets on the Austrian side of the
River Salzach, which forms part of the
North Eastern frontier of Bavaria.
'fhose Hamlets are opposite the Bavarian
Towns of Burghausen and· Tittmoning,
and it is probable that Caspar Hauser
passed through Alt-Oetting, obtained
there the Catholic tracts which he
brought with him, and proceeded
through Newmarkt and Ratisbon to
Nuremberg. It might be tedious to ex-
plain at length the reasons by which
these opinions could be powerfully sup-
ported, but, even now, his portrait, a
fac-simile of his hand writing, and that
of the letter to the Captain, might, in
Digitized by Coogle
PRBI'AC.K. vii
those Hamlets, lead to a full discovery of
the circumstances about which so much
curiosity has been excited.
His story acquired an importance
which in no way belonged to it, from
his having been supposed to be the
rightful heir of a Sovereign Prince in
Germany, and M. Von Feuerbach, who
entertained that impression, alludes to it,
in figurative but expressive language, ·at
the end of the seventh chapter of his
work. That idea forms the subject of
a novel, which is admirably written and
extremely interesting, called " Caspar
Hauser, the Foundling, romantically
represented,'' (Kaspar Hauser, der Find-
ling, romantisch dargestellt), published
at Stuttgart in 1834; and which, should
any curiosity remain on the subject, may
be brought before the English public.
Digitized by Coogle
o;g,llzed by Coogle
I. Rath
Ro
2. The!
PU.
3. Resit
4. Profi
{).The
6. TI1e
Tbe I
tio1
cc,
N.B.
the
eac
o;g,llzed by Coogle
Digitized by Coogle
'rHAC'J'S
RBLATJIIO TO
CASPAR HAUSER.
Extt·act ofa Eeller from EAnL STANIIOP.K, to
Ll.KUT. HlcK..:L, of tile Bat•ariau Gem cl'ar-
merie, dated Municll, IOtlt February, 1834.
SooN after my arrival in this capital, I was,
in consequence of a requisition from Anspach,
examined upon oath by the Municipal Tribunal
,. in the affair of Caspar Hauser; in order to give
evidence, both generally and as to my own par-
ticular"conjectures." In my first examination
on the third of last month (January), I made
thefollowing statement: "The confidencewhich
I originally placed in his (Caspar Hauser's)
sincerity, although I had 110\V and then detected
him in telling fall!ehoods, and had heard tlu~
s;ui1e from other persons, was first shaken by
the circumstance that the last inquiries in Hun-
n
Digitized by Coogle
2 TRACTS RELATING TO
gary seemed to me to prove that the apparently
strong excitement which he experienced on
hearing the Hungarian lunguage, and particu-
larly under circumstances which rivetted his
attention, (such as the mention of the name of
a castle and of a family in Hungary,) could
only be attributed to impostnre."
Upon that point I have to relate as follows :
It is very possible, and indeed probable, that
Caspar Hauser knew already, before Lieut.
Von Pirch made experiments with him in the
Hungarian language, that he was considered
to be an Hungarian. Many newspapers, f&·om
which Schmidt Von LUbeck, (in his 2nd No.
page 31-37) givE's extracts, mentioned a re-
port that Caspur Hauser probably came from
Hungary, and a snspicion that the Governess
Dallbon was an accomplice. It appeared that
Caspar Hauser was not able to translate any
word in the Hungarian language; but that he
knew the four words, "father," "mother,"
and" mydear.'' in the Polish language, which is
said to ha\·e a great similarity to the Bohemian.
Amongst other experiments which Lieut.
Von Pirch and Dr. Saphir made with Caspar
Hauser, it was related to me, that they read
before him nil the [J ungarian proper names, in
order to remark which of them would produce
an impression ; and he maintained that Illvau
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSBR. 3
{or Stephen) was his own name. He said to
me very often, that he remembered he was in
his early childhood called Istvan, and on many
opportunities he stated to the person who was
then his guardian, that " something should
come after Istvan," but it was impossible for
him, notwithstanding all his efforts, to recollect
what. I thought it probable that it might have
been" my dear," "my darling,"" come here,"
" be quiet," or something of that sort; and
several trials were therefore made in my pre-
sence by an Hungarian gentleman, who then
resided in Nuremberg, to discover whether
this was the cnse. He understood none of
those expressions ; he believed, however, that
the Hungarian word which signifies" horse,''
~ad bten pronounced by him while he lived in
the tower. At each experiment with the Hun- ' '
gnrian language, he shewed the most violent
excitement, which always produced head-aches.
He appeared neither to hear nor to see, but to
fall into the deepest reveries, or to be trans-
ferred into another world.
Caspar Hauser, who, in his \Valks was usually
accompanied only by one police soldier, came
once to me, in October, 1831, attended by two
police soldiers, and on my inquiring the cause
of this change, he said that three strangers,
who were supposed to be Hungarians, hadar-
a2
Digitized by Coogle
4 TRACTS RKTATING TO
rived in Nuremberg, and that. his Guardian had
given him a double gunrtl for protection. Thill
tilUst naturally have suggested to him the idea
that something important was to be expected
from the arrivnl of the three strangers, ret>pect-
ing whom so much apprehension was enter-
tained, and from what they might state when
he should be brought to them.
In the afternoon I vi~>ited his Guardian, who
mentioned to me thatthese Hungarians had been
with the Burgomaster Binder, and had at>ked
permi~>sion to speak alone with Caspar Hauser.
He added that they had been referred by the
Burgomaster to him, and that they were to be
expected about the time that I \vas with him.
As, however, they did not come, and were to
depart on the following moruing, I endeavoured
to persuade the Guardian to visit them nt theh·
hotel ; cousidering that their intentions, per-
haps, were good, ur.d that they were going to .
make great di!!closures; but that if they should
net in !Inch n manner ns to excite suspicion, it
might be hoped that some traces to further in-
<JUiry would be discovered. He went, there-
for~, accompanied with au Hungarian gentle-
man, who then resided in Nuremberg, and
found that these three strangers ':''ere au Hun-
garian nobleman, his son, and tutor, and that
they had wished to speak alone with Caspar
Digitized by Coogle
J
.
CASPAR HAUSER. 5
Hauser, in order lo ascertain whether he under
stood the ScJa,·onian dialect, which is spoken
in the neighbourhood where the Go,·erncss
DaJlbon had passed some time, and which waa
well known to them. Caspar Hauser was
brought to them, and understood nothing at
all of the Sclavouian language; but when he
heard in tbe Hungarian language," Istvan goes
to--" a castle, (the name of which, like the
others, I conceal, in order not to disquiet inno-
cent families,) he was not only most vehemently
t>xcited, but almost comulsP.d; and he said, with
an emotion which exceeded all others that had
on any former occasion bt>en observed in him,
"Yes, yes; that is what I have so long sought."
They mentioned to him the name of a family
living in the neighbourhood, and he exclaimed
with horror, "That is my mother." His agi-
tation was so violent that apprehensions were
entertained for his health, and he was immedi-
ately sent home. "\Vhen he arrh·cd there, he
\Vas, as usual, tranquil and compot>ed ; and the
only remaining sign of excitement which I re-
markl•d in him was, thnt his hand trembled a
little when afterwards he snuffed a candle. I
asked him ·what the Hungarians had said to
him; and he answered, "They mentioned to
me th.e word which I have so long sought."
" ·what was it ?" I asked again. Here to my
n 3
DigitizedbyGoogle ·
6 TRACTS RELATING TO
great astonishment, he replied, "I don't know
it any more." It might indeed hnve nppcared to
me very suspicious, that such a strong impres-
sion had so soon vanished. I believed, how-
ever, that he had at the time a reminiscence of
the name ; but there were other circumstance11,
as well as the former statements in respect of
the Governess Dallbon, which made me conjec-
ture that a place in the immediate neighbour-
hood of the castle, the name of which Caspar
Hanser "had so often sought," was the resi-
dence of his family. In order to communicate
this hypothesis (which appeared to me very in-
teresting) to Feuerbach, and to converse with
him upon it, I went two or three days after-
wards to Anspach, where I found him in the
greatest perplexity, as he was then pregnant
with his work upon " The example of a crime
on the life of the soul," and had not yet come·
to a happy delivery. He had found an alm<4
insuperable difficulty in filling up properly ;II\
chasm, which is still very apparent in his work,
namely, that portion of time which Caspar
Hauser passed in the tower. It was, therefore,
disagreeable to him to be disturbed by my visit, ,.
and my narrath·e seemed but little to excite hi11 '
attention; afterwards, however, during two
months that I resided in Anspach, it was deter-
mined to inquire further into this business.
\·
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSBR. 7
This inquiry, which you began in Ft:bruary,
18.12, and executed with an accuracy and an
ability which are not sufficiently to be praised,
furnished certainly the most decisive proofs
that, as Fenerbach himself ~Said, " nothing was
to be sought or to be hoped in Hungary" by
Caspar Hauser. J received on the 2:Jrd of May
a very detailed report which you made to me
on the subject, and which proved, with positive
certainty, that all the apparent reminiscences of
Ca&par Hauser were nothing more than delu-
sions. The castle, the name of which he "had
so long sought," must have been ns new to him
as that of the lady whom he supposed to be his
mother. In the whole district around it, they
knew nothing of any child who had disap-
peared; and the Hungarian nobleman, who in
the October of the year before, had come to
Nuremberg, said, it was evident to him and to
his son that Caspar Hauser had played a part
with them, and they had since very often
laughed about it.
In mentioning, on my first ex&mination, the
result, which to me was quite unexpected, of
your inquries with regard to Caspar Hau11er, I
remarked :
" I was, through this occurrence, induced to
examine the whole his1ory carefully and tho-
roughly; taking advantage of all the sources of
B4
Digitized by Coogle
:.-~
8 TRACTS RELATING TO
information which the first nbmber of Daumet·'s
publication offered to me ; and I found therein
several circumstances, some of which appeared
to me physically impossible, some quite incre-
dible, some highly improbable, and some very
suspicious."
A minute examination of the narrative of
Caspar Hauser, excited in my mind the doubts
which, in the autumn of 1832, I stated to you,
to Feuerbach, and to the Councillor of Appeal
Schumann, and gave me a full conviction, that,
on several important points, his story was and
must be unfounded; that his own statements
seemed to be partly fictions, and partly mis-
representations ; that uo reliance was to be
placed in them ; and that the tl'Uth had been as
little ascertained in this respect as in the in-
quiries relating to his family. I S\tspected that
when he was 1·eleased, he was threatened with
death if he should relnte any thing \Vhich might
lead to a discovery ; and that he was in conse-
quence, and from a regard to his own safety,
obliged to conceal the real facts. It appeared
to me, that an involuntary concealment, or
falsificatiou of the facts, would, undet• such
circumstances, be excusable; but it was also
clear to me that it was absolutely necessary
to correct these statement11, in order to conduct
the inquiry with success. The more I re-
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER, 9
fleeted on those doubts, the more desirable and
important was it, in my opinion, to examine
thoroughly the fads.
The first doubt, which I had already stated
to you in Anspach, was, whether he could have
come to Nurembergin the manner which Feuer-
bach represents without being observed by
many persons at the gate, or in the str1~ets lead-
ing to the town. Schmidt von LUbeck remarks
very justly in his 1'1·act upon Caspar Hauser
(page 14 of the 2nd No.), "the thousands of in-
habitants who were scattered about in the
country, and in all the neighbouring villages,
were so many advanced posts, which guarded
the immediate approache~ to the town, and to
import, through such a cordon, so singular and
striking an article of contraband as Caspar
Hauser was, would have been quite hopeless
and fool-hardy; if, however, it had been at-
tempted by the unknown individual, it might
have been considered as a miracle that not u
single person of the many thousands should
have remarked the singular spectacle."
Fcnerbach thought it very possible that Cas-
par Hauser might have conae in a carriage. In
this case, however, he must have retained a dis-
tinct recollection of it, oor his guide mu~:~t have
conveyed him in n state of sleep ; and this is , v t·, :
\'cry improbable. There docs not nppear any ..) s ,. •
{ . ! I .
,• ~
LA'. I ',- .
.. I
o;gitizedbyGoogle ~ ..
~
10 1'RACTS RELATING TO
reason why his guide should not have left him
at one of the gate11 of the town, or on one of
the public walks; why he brought him into
the neighbourhood of what is called the
Uuschlitt-Platz, which is at some distan ce
from all the gates of the town; why he should
have had the imprudence to go further than
was requisite for his purpose, which might
ha\·e placed him in the greatest possible em·
barrassment if Caspar Hauser through weari-
ness had sunl< down, and thi11, according to
his own relation, had frequently occurred dur-
ing the journey? It is called "a journey,''
though it is hardly to be considered a long
walk, for, as he himself states, l1e had
not, during the whole time, any want of
nature.
Several pet·sons have related to me, that in
the same year in which Caspar Hauser appeared
in Nuremberg, the lawyer Fleischmann died
there, and that in a back room in his dwelling
was found his son, who from the age oftwelve
years, to the age which he had then attained of
thirty-eight years, had always lived in it, but
who, from long habit, had become accustomed
to this retirement.
Can one believe that Caspar Hauser was able
to recoUect so little of the juurney, when here-
lates so exactly every thing which took place in
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR BAUSBR. II
the house of the Captain, in the guard-room,
and in the tower l
The narrative in which Caspar Hauser
states every thing that happened immediately
after his appearance in Nuremberg, is to be
found in the tract of Professor Daumer (pages
47 to 51, of tbe lst No.), and is a complete re-
futation of the assertion, that he was then in a
"situation devoid of consciousness, and similar
to that of an animal." Among mauy proofs to
the contrary, 1 may relate what a General and
his Aid-de-Camp, who visited Caspar Hauser,
three or four clays after his arrival at Nurem-
berg, related to me not long since : that be
could speak, not well, but intelligibly; and
that he knew them three or four weeks after-
wards, and made the remark that they then wore
pantaloons of a different colour.
Itisalsoverysiugularthat both theshoemaker,
Weichmann, who found Caspar Hauser, and the
servant of the former Captain (now Major),
Von W-- gave e\·iclence that Caspar Hauser
had spoken to them ; and a third witness states,
that in answer to the question, "Where do you
come from?" he replied, "I do not venture
to say." I believe also, that he did not ven ·
ture to say it ; and it is very probable that
Caspar Hauser, when he was brought to tbe
police, and afterlvards to the tower, and when
Digitized by Coogle_..
-"'
12 TRACTS REL.-\TING TO
the businrss took u turn, which appeared to
. him ~mbarrassing, formed the very judicious
resolution to be careful in his expressions, to
uvoid speaking too much, and to await the re-
sult, which soon afterwards shewed him very
different prospect11. It is, however, inconceiv-
able, as well as inexcusable, that no inquiry
was then made, or has since been made, to rec-
tify the very striking contradiction between
the power of spealdng, which the two first wit•
nesses remarked in him, and the dcliciency of
llpl:'aking, which he afterwards assumed. I have
been assured that the two witnesses, who
had first the opportunity of observing him, af-
ter his arrival in Nuremberg, were free from
all suspicion, etncl impartial, and were 'Iuite
uncouuected with each other.
Professor Daumcr mentions (in the preface
to the lst No. of his work), that Caspar
Hauser came to his· care in July, 1828, and
(page 21) that he formed his acquaintance
" about three weeks earlier," that is, at the
·end of June, or the beginning of July. What
were the reports which were received of him,
what were the observations which were made
on him, in the preceding month of June, du-
ring a period of the greatest importance in his
history? Why did Feuerbnch publish only 1m
extract, and not the entire report, which the
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER, 13
Yery experienced and intelligent jailer, Hiltel,
had delivered ? lVhat were the reports of the
police soldier, Bleumer, who accompanied him
in the streets, as was afterwards done by the
police soldier, Wimmer?
The statement which Caspar Haus<:r ga\'e of
his imprisonment appears to me, in several
very important points, and especially in the
following, to be quite incredible.
Caspar Hauser very often as!lured me, that
as long as he was in his pri11on he had always
sat, tuul never stretched himself out, or laid
himself on one side. According to his descrip-
tion, the only change in his posture cousisted
iu this,-that he sat quite upright when he was
awake, and that when he slept, he lent on a
bundle of straw which was behind him. I leave
it to the judgment of the world, whether he
would have been able to have btood or walked,
after liitting so many years; whether he must
not have been crippled,-- wln·tht>r his legtt, wheu
he rose up, must not have sunk under him ?
By sitting a number of years, would not thot>e
)>arts of his body have become galled which
were always in contact, as often happens to
persons who lie long in bed, and always pre-
au~rve the same rosture? .
Caspar Hauser said that he had never heard
a sound in hi~ prisou; but that he received
Digitized by Coogle
)4 TRACTS RELATING TO
blows when, by rolling his horses to and fro,
he had made too much noise. If, however,
such a noise was heard from without, nnd he
was on that account chastised: a much louder
noise, as, for example, that of thunder, must .
have been heard by him from within. On this
point Professor Daumer gives an explanation,
which seems to me devoid of foundation. Be
says (in page 28, of the 1st No.), " The little
activity to which he was forcibly limited, to
which his soul was confined, through.imprison~
ment, bonds, and opium, sufficed to secure his
senses from all external impressions." Accord-
ing to this explanation, therefore, Caspar Hau-
ser was to be considered as a second Archi-
medes, who was so absorbed in the solution of
a problem, that he did not perceive that the
town which he inhabited was taken by storm.
The very contrary is observed in children ; and
every one knows from experience, how difficult
it is to fix their attention particularly on things
to which they are accustomed.
After an imprisonment of many years in a
dark place, he must ha,·e fallen into a state, not
only "similar to that of an animal," but in-·
deed, to that ofa bird of night.
How comes it thnt Caspar Hauser, when, on
his first instruction in wl'iting, his hand \Vas
seized by a person who was behind him, did
Digitized by Coogle
c,\SPAR HAUSI<~R. 15
not turn round ? which, under similar circum-
stances, every animal would have done.
He maintained that be had never seen the
face of tlu1t person, and states in his own nar-
rative, which Feuerbach would not allow to be
printed, as he said to me, that it. might excite
doubts, " When he took me by the band, it
never came into my bead to turn round to look
at the man ; I did not know indeed that there
was such another being as myself."
When he resided at Professor Daumer's, he
immediately broke ofT when questions were
asked him with respect to the man, " with
whom he had always lived," and said, "You
trouble me with so many questions, that I get
a head-ache." This was recently related to me
by a very intelligent and credible witness, who
often saw him.
How could he say, "The man had always
taught me to do what I was told," as Feuer-
bach relates (English edition, p. 73), if this
person had never spoken to him during his im-
prisonment ? When I mentioned to Casp3r
Hauser this very remarkable contradiction, he
answered, "I did not say so."
; Caspar Hauser related to me further, that the
man, "with whom he had always lived," said
nothing to him till he was on the journey. He
mentions, however, in bis written narrative,
Digitized by Coogle
16 TRACTS RELATING TO
that the man, during his imprisonment, said to
him, "Say this after me, and then you shall
lul\'e pretty horses from your fathet·." "Say
' horse,' and then you may roll them.'' And
that he said to him during the journey, " You
must immediately cease crying, or yon shall
have no horses :" "You must learn and observe
very well how to walk :" " You must become a
horseman, as your father is :" "You shall have
pretty horse11 from your father:" "You must
look on the ground:" " When you can do this
very well, you shall have pretty horses:" "Now
you are coming soon home to your hot·ses :"
"You are coming soon to your father:" "You
must learn to walk still bettet•:" "You shall
have soon pretty horses us you know how to
walk so well." " It has rained." "As you
hnve learned to wnll• so well, you shnll
have pretty horses." " In the great village
there is your father, he will give you pretty
horses; and when you are a hor:~emnn I
shall see you again:" " Remark this, and
don't forget it:" "Show where the letter
belongs:" "When he comes do so." The~;e
recollections of Caspar Hauser do not confirm
the supposition that he arrived in Nuremberg
in " a situation devoid of consciousness, and
similar to that of an animal;" but they con-
.firm the opinion which Feuerbach expressed to
Digitized byGoogle
C.ASr.AR HAUSER, 17
me, that his narrative might excite doubts. Cas-
par Hauser himself relates in this narrative,
that immediately after his arrival in the tower,
be said the following sentences : " Show me
where the letter belongs"-" horse"-" home"
-" in the great village there is your father."
Professor Daumer relates (page 25) that Caspar
Hauser had learned the following sentences
from his guide. "When you are a horseman
like your father, you will go home." "It rains."
" Your name is Caspar Hauser." " You shall
have pretty horses from your father." Feuer-
bach mentions only three sentences : " I wish
to be such a horseman as my father was :"
" Shelv me the way home:" "Don't know."
An imprisonment which began in the uncon-
scious state of earliest childhood cannot be sup-
posed possible, and at a later period it must
have made a deep and painful impression
which never could have been obliterated from
the mind of Caspar Hauser. He thought, how-
ever, that he recollected things which could in
no degree have made a similar impression : as
for instance, that he was carried by his nurse in
an avenue before the castle of his father ; t~nt.
he bad st>en in that castle several portraits
similar to those of which prints were shown to
him in my presence ; that be had even known
personally two gentlemen whose portraits were
c
Digitized by Coogle
18 1'R,\CfS REL.-\.TIN'G TO
among the number-a Burgomaater who wore
a gold chain romad his neck, and another who
did" not always behave kindly" towardll hio1.
Feuerbach believed that all this was the effect
of imagination, and not of deceit.
Feuerbach endeavours to prol·e that the quali·
ties both ofbodyand mind ofCasparHausercon-
firmed his story. If,however,we should admitas
true and certain all that is related upon the pecu-
liar bodily powers of Caspar Hauser, there re-
mains always the very important question, whe-
ther these are to be considered as consequences
of n long imprisonment which does not in other
cases yield any similar results; or whether
they are not to be considered as individual pecu-
liarities ; and whether they were uot height-
ened by a strong excitement ofthe nerves aris-
ing from illness ~ Upon that point Jet Phy-
sicians decide. Aphilosophical and psycological
examination of facts is not only requisite for
the object, but also very desirable in all other
respects. Experiments, however, which seemed
to assume the credibility ofthe facts, must ne-
cessarily have had the effect of exciting or in-
creasing Caspar Hauser's wish of attracting
notice, and of giving to him also hints how
this was to be attained.
The peculiar conformation ofthe knees could
not, according to the opinion of aome Phy11i-
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 19
ciana with whom I have spoken about it, ha,·e
arisen from sitting during n1any years, and -
must therefore be considered as an original
conformation.
Was Caspar Hauser able in three weeks to
learn every thing which Professor Daumer re-
lates (in the 1st page of the ht No.)? He
says that Caspar Hauser was troubled with·
frequent visits in the tower, and adds, "How-
ever, he learnt in three weeks to read tolerably
well, to count, to write figures, to add and. sub·
tract, made progress in writing a good hand,
nnd learned a simple tune on the harpsichord."
Did not Caspar Hauser receive hints by which
he afterwards learned to profit, from the con-
versations at which he was present,. and which
were supposed to be unintelligible to him ?
In ·the year 1817 .or 1818, there appeared
upon the south-west coast of England nfemale
impostor who was born not far from the place,
who two years before, disguised in man's
clothes, bad been employed in n farm, and had
afterwards made the acquaintance of some
gypsies. She appeared under the name of
Caraboo, as a native of India, and had an un-
known language and writing. She seemed on
her arrival very weary ; her hands showed that
she had not been accustomed to hard labour ;
she ate no meat, drank only water, and had the
c 2
Digitized by Coogle
20 TRACTS RBLATJNG TO
greateat horror of wine and spirituous liquors.
She was extremely neat in her dress, very mo-
dest in her behaviour, and her whole conduct
made such a favourable impression as removed
all suspicion of imposture. After this cheat
was discovered by an English Physician, with
whom I am acquainted, she related that she had
played this part without any preparation ; that
-the had learned it through the different obser-
vations which were made in her presence, and
lvhicb were supposed to be unintelligible to
her.
The story of the pretended attempt to assas-
sinate Caspar Hauser in Nuremberg appeared
to me to contain very suspicious circumstances.
"After the accident be first stated distinctly
his previous apprehensions," as Professor Dau·
mer says (pnge57 of the Jst No.), "He hnd
a precise anticipation ofbeing struck, (and not,
for example, of being pif•rced,") as Profest~or
Daumer says (in page 58 of the 1st No.). After
Caspar Hauser had read the lst No. of Schmidt
Von Lubeck's Tract, in which (page 17) he
expresses the opinion that Caspar Hauser had
such a fine organ of smelling, that he could very
well ha\•e smelt the unknown person if he was
in the neighbourhood, and even in the same
house: he said to me, this was actually the fact,
but, as far as I know, he had never mentioned
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR BAUIBR. 21
any thing before on the subject: his imagina-
tion was always active, as well as his dexterity
in employing any hint.
While be was sitting in the privy, he said,
"You should open the door, the bell has been
rung," as Professor Daumer says {page 61 of
the 1st No.), Feuerbach, however, says {page
132), that "the gentle tone of the bell did not
appear to proceed from ringing it, but from
immediately striking the bell itself.''
Accordingtothe account ofProfessorDaumer
(page 61 of the 1st No.), the man stood in
such a posture, " that the wall and the privy
were behind him, and that he struck the blow
backwards with his left hand.'' Caspar Hauser
said he remarked that the man wore "new
boots;" these, however, were not visible be-
hind the screen, and when the man appeared
before him with an instrument of murder in his
hand, the eyes of Caspar Hauser must first have
been directed to it, without being able to ob-
serve exactly the man's dress. He also re-
marked that the man wore a ring on his fore-
finger, as he perceived an elevation in his glove
on that finger.
If Caspar Hauser bad been the rightful heir
of high rank, or of great fortune, and if his
history is in this manner to be explained, it
maywell be presumed that the criminal who de-
c3
/ /
Digi.:./edbyGoogle
2-2 TRACTS RELATING TO '
prived him oftbe one or ofthe other, must have
had enemies amongst his,relations or connec-
tions, who, in order either to remove or to con-
firm their suspicions, would have made inqui-
ries as soon as the narrative came to their
knowledge. If, however, Caspar Hauser was
not in those circumstances, it is difficult to in-
vent an hypothesis, by which his treatment
could be explained.
The opinions do not appear to me satisfac-
tory, though they should even have been given
by a Physician, that the long imprisonment of
Caspar Hauser is proved by the extraordinary
size of his liver ; that his having eaten only
bread is proved by the nature of his bile, and
that his former inactivity of mind, and the im-
perfect development of his brain is proved by
the size of this organ, which was similar to
that of an animal. 1t would not become me
to judge of these reasons: I would, however,
propose as que11tions, whether the size of his
liver is not to be explained in a very simple
manner, as he ate much and took very little ~x­
ercise ~ whether a large liver is only to be
found in those persons who have been long in
confinement~ whether the peculiarity of his
bile did not. arise from the jaundice 1vith which
he was seized after he was wounded ~ whether
the nature of the bile must not have been very
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. '23
much altered in the period of nearly six years
which had elapsed since his first arrival? and
whether it could be concluded from thence how
he bad lived previously to that time ? whether
similar bile is found in most persons whose
nourishment consists of bread and water ? and
whetberthe smallness ofhis brain, and its simi-
larity to that of an animal, prevented him from
possessing the most distinguished powers of
understanding?
His dexterity, his courage, and his indefati-
gability as a rider, are in open contradiction
with an imprisonment of many years. Pro-
fessor Daumcr, who refers to the evidence of
the riding- masterRumpler and ProfessorW urm
in Nuremberg, remarks in an essay published
in the Gent>ral Nt-wspaper of the 5th of this
month, "Caspar Hauser learnt. inde«>d so ra-
pidly and so easily the art of riding, that it ex-
cited astonishment ; but it was obvious that
he learnt it, and he did not appear to have
already acquired that talent before his arrival
in Nuremberg." A Professor who had oppor-
tunities of seeing him in Nuremberg, said to
me, when I spoke to him upon this point. that
Caspar Hauser, after he had received instruc-
tion, for a month or six weeks, was always so
clumsy and awkward (although he constantly
sat firm in his saddle), that the other scholars
c 4
Digitized by Coogle
24 1'BA.Cl'S RELATING TO
laughed at him. Without such instruction he
could not ride according to the rules of art, and
it is obvious that this must have been learned
by him ; but the question is, whether a pre-
vious habit was not necessary, in order that he
should sit firm in his saddle, and ride with
courage. By his own statement it was found
that he never was galled, and that his thighs
were never wearied : but these unconfirmed and
improbable statements were perhaps only fic-
tions to excite attention. If he had remained
alive I would, with the consent of the govern-
ment of Bavaria, have had him examined by
one of the first Lawyers in Germany ; and if
this had led to no results, I would have shewn
him that it was quite impossible ever to dis-
cover the circumstances of his family, if he
would uot or could not state the real facts, and
that the inquiry itself could otherwise rest on
no other point than the hand-writing of the
letter he brought with him. It is not yet too
late to revert to the first witnesses, as Merker
in his "Observations" (page 173) advisee ;
.. ~nd he adds, very justly, "It is only from thia
·aource that information can be drawn."
The communication of the first documents of
the police, which he long since required, and
which are essentially different from the judi-
cial, or from those which regard the inquiry,
•
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR H.AUSKR. 25
would have been of the greatest importance,
and could not, as appears to me, have been re•
fused with propriety or justice. No person
ever expressed a wish, which would have been
indiacreet and unreasonable, to know any thing
about the judicial inquiries : but the observa-
tions and facts by which Caspar Hauser ~aa
psychologically to be judged, were ofsuch ana-
ture that they might, without hesitation, have
been communicated to the world ; and ought
to have been so communicated, in order to
ascertain the truth : as the authorities could
not wish to distort or to conceal the facts,
and thus to falsify the history. A due in-
quiry into the history is still more desirable,
as Feuerbach often said to me, " If one reads
the official documents of Nuremberg one must ·
think that Caspar Hauser was an iptpostor ;"
and he sometimes added, " they ought to be
burnt.'' Although I could not judiciaJly, or
with the b\lents which are requisite, conduct
such an inquiry; I am, however, very desirous
of learning from the first witnesses, and indeed
from their own mouths, bow Caspar Hauser
first conducted himself, how be acted and
spoke, and bow he appeared to them immedi-
ately after his arrival in Nuremberg.
Should it be confirmed that Caspar Hauser
Digitized by Coogle
26 TRACTS RELATING TO
during many months had not the inclination, or
even the power, of taking any other food than
bread and water, this circumstance woulcl not
indeed prove, though it might in some de•
gree tend to show,. that he had hitherto led a
mode of life, not to be accounted for, except
on the supposition that the man " \Vith whom
he had always Jived," had educated him in this
manner to prepare him for serving in the ca-
valry, as a soldier is principally fed with bread,
and would very much recommend himself by
his abstinence from spirituous liquors. If he
had not had a very peculiar education, or a very
unusual course of life, it is difficult to conceive,
and it belongs to the wonderful circumstances
of his life, how at his age, which did not admit
of long experience, and with his want of know-
ledge, he was nble constantly, and for years to-
gether, to play such a part without betraying
himself, and without being detected by the
many persons who visited him, and some of
whom were learned and intelligent I He de-
clined, indeed; as much as possible, all inter•
course with those who wished to ask him ques·
tions, and to examine his story; and as soon
as he remarked their intention, he endeavoured
to avoid persons who were so curious. This
was told me before I made bi11 acquaintance, by
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSKR. 27
a thoroughly credible and respectable gen-
tlema~ at Nuremberg, who was a friend of his,
&nd this circumstance ought even then to have
peared to me somewhat suspicious.
Digitized by Coogle
28 TRACTS RRLATING TO
Ezlract of a Letter from EARL STANHOPE
to the Schoolmaster MEYER in .A.nsbach,
dated Carlsruhe, March 27th, 1834.
You bad during two years the opportu-
nity of observing the unfortunate Caspar
Hauser ; and you must have perceived that
he possessed qualities which are seldom uni-
ted, and which cannot fail in producing much
effect. He was lively and natural, good-
humoured and amiable, and, to appearance,
open-hearted as a child ; without ever be-
coming importunate, noisy, or restless, and
consequently troublesome ; tranquil and com-
posed, inspired with the wish, and also endowed
with the talent of pleasing others, and of excit-
ing attention ; with an unerring tact which
always dictated to him what he ought to say or
to do ; with a wonderful facility of observing
every thing quickly and accurately; with an
acuteness which gave him the means of inftu•
encing the minds of others ;-with a discretion
and a dexterity which appeared to have been the
result of long experience, and a cunning which
seemed to have been formed by varied prac-
tice ;-with a self-possession which prevented
Digitized by Coogle
CASrAR HAUSER, 29
him, on every occasion, from becoming embar-
rassed, and enabled him constantly to find new
excuses,-Caspar Hauser was a most P.xtraor-
dinary and interesting phenomenon.
Among other proofs of his great address, the
following appeared to me very remarkable. On
his arrival in Ansbach, at the end of November,
1831, he was received in a cold and unfriendly
manner by Feuerbach, to whom the report had
been made that he was become arrogant. Cas-
par Hauser then began a long and well con-
nected discourse respecting his education in
Nuremberg, and the defects which be had
remarked in it, and spoke with so much ex-
citement that perspiration appeared on his fore-
bead. Feuerbacb listened to him with patience,
casting upon me, from time to time, a look
which shewed clearly the effect ofthe discourse,
imd he became at the conclusion of it entirely
converted. He found some remarks in this
discourse so striking that be mentions them in
the last chapter of his work.
I did not make CasparHauser's acquaintance,
as the Clergyman Fuhrmann relates in his
funeral discourse, through an accident that
happened to my carriage on my journey to Nu-
remberg, in October, 1829, but it gave me the
opportunity of learning some circumstance•
with respect to his history, of which I bad not
o;gitizedbyGoogle ,
30 TR.\CTS RRL.-\.'rlNG 1'0
then heard any thing, and also with respect to
the pretended assassination, which had occurred
some days before. I saw him for the first time
on the 28th of May, 1831 ; and after I had
passed some days in his neighbourhood, and
had often seen him, I returned in September
of that year "to Nuremberg, where I had, during
two months, the opportunity of observing him
daily, and for several hours together; which
was also the caseafterwards at Ansbach during
six weeks. I was often witness of the singular
and most extraordinary excitement which he
manifested on hearing the Hungarian language,
and which was only to be explained through
reminiscences, or through imposition.
When I saw him for the first time, I was
very much struck at perceiving that be was not
awkward or helpless in his motions, or his at-
titude,although I had often heard, and therefore
expected to find, the reverse. It is also very
remarkable that he became at last passionately
fond of dancing, as a friend assured me, who
observed him during the last t\vo years: al-
though dancing requires a much greater exer-
tion ofstrength than walking, which; according
to his statement, so much fatigued him. He
always sat in an upright posture of the body,
and did not appear to have been accuatomed to
lean backwards or sideway!'.
Digitized by Coogle
C,\Sl'AR HAUSER. 31
He retained always, but not in an exaggerated
degree, that " love for order and for cleanli-
ness" which bad distinguished him during his
residence in the tower, which certainly contra-
dicted the statement that he bad passed many
years in a dark dungeon, and which seemed
rather t.o arise from long habit, or perhaps from
a very careful education in that respect. I
beard, howel·er, from the former jailer Hiltel,
that he had accustomed Caspar Hauser to or-
der and cleanliness, qualities which he had
not before possessed.
I believed, when I \Vas in the neighbourhood
of Caspar Hauser, that the untruths which 1
nolv and then J>crcch·ed iu his statements, were
to be explained, and in some measure to be
excused, from the circumstances of his former
life, and that the improbabilities in his story
were occasioned partly by a deficiency in his
expressions and ideas, and partly by his not
having been fully understood. 1 admonished
him, therefore, both in writing and verbally,
that truth was to every person a sacred duty,
and to no person so iudispensible as to himself,
since his narrative appeared always so extra-
ordinary, and to many persons fictitious. When
he wus placed under my care, I did not know
that he <leserved so little credit as I afterwards
judged, from many circumstances; and he had
Digitized by Coogle
32 TRACrS RELATING TO
not at that time shewn himself in so unfavour-
able a light, as afterwards was the case.
You know very well that I had not any in-
tention to have him placed under my care as
an object of curiosity. I learned, however,
that his former Guardian would no longer have
the charge of bim,-that the Municipality of
Nuremberg was not inclined to continue the
eupport which it gave to him whom it had
hitherto considered as its " adapted son," and
that he must in the following year go as an
apprentice to some trade. I took, therefore,
under my protection this youth, who so much
required support, for whom I felt much friend-
ship, and who always showed to me the great-
est attachment, gratitude, and docility.
Even when I was at Ansbach, a circumstance
occurred which I mentioned in my letter of the
24th of May, 1832, to Lieutenant Hickel, with
the remark, that it seemed to " require further
explanation." In my first examination, I made
the following statement respecting it:
"I have learnt from Lieutenant Hickel, that
.no journal wns found among the papers of the
deceased. The decea11ed bad talked to me
several times of a journal in which he daily en-
. tered every thing which seemed to him import-
.ant or interesting. I heard also from a person
'. at' this place, that the dcceued kept such a
:.J/;. t
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 33
journal when be Jived in Nuremberg with Mr.
Biberbach, as the latter, or his daughter, bad
told that person. According to the state-
ment of thP. deceased, he kept thi11 journal
even when be lived with Professor Daumer. In
the latter part of my residence in Ansbach, in
January 1832, t.hc deceased offered to read
to me some time or other parts of it. I
thanked him, and said that it would be very in-
teresting to me. In the afternoon of the day be-
fore my departure from Ansbach, I called at the
house of the schoolmaster Meyer, to take leave
of him, and went first to the room of the de-
ceased, where I asked to see his journal, with-
out having time, or, indeed, the wish to
read much of it, but only to see the size, the
form, and the manner in which he kept it.
The deceased said he could not do so, because
the journal was lying under many other things,
and it was very iucom·cnient to get at it. This
excuse appeared to me a falsehood, because n
journal which is d_aily used is not generally
kept in that manner. I made no obsen·ation,
however, and went to the room of Mr. Meyer,
who accompanied me to the stairs after I had
taken leave of him. The deceased then begged
me to go with him to his room, which I
did, attended by Mr. Meyer. When we were
in his room the deceased said to me, " I \Vill
D
Digitized by Coogle
34 TRACTS RELATING TO
sllow you my journal, but you must first pro-
mise me not to read any thing in it." I an-
swered, " You will do me the justice to believe
that I will not, without your permission, read
any thing which you have written." He then
opened a drawer which was in his room,
lifted up a coat, under which lay a thin book
sewed in light blue paper, which, however, he
did not take out of the drawer. He said there-
upon, to Mr. Meyer, 'this book contains things
wbich are only for myself, and of which neither
the Earl nor others need know any thing.' Mr.
Meyer said to him, that he did not require to see
things which the other kept only for bimself.
(Sincethedeath ofthedeceased, I have learned
from Lieutenant Hickel, that in consequence of
a letter which I wrote to him or to Feuerbach,
and in which the abo\'e mentioned circumstance
with respect to his journal is related, he had
gone to the deceased and expressed my wish,
as also the wish of Feuerbach, that he should
send this journal immediately to the latter,
which the deceased absolutely refused to do,
and said he would give it only to me, or would
read to me parts of it.) Mr. Meyer came then
into the room ; and as the deceased persisted
in saying, that he certainly woul<lnot send the
journal to Feuerbach, Lieutenant Hickel ob-
served,tbnt it should be taken from him byforce;
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER.
on which the deceased said he had long since
burnt it. Lieutenant Hickel, however, had
his drawers and his other repositories searched
in his presence, and in that of Mr. Meyer; and
as no journal was found, Mr. Meyer asked the
deceased where he had kept the journal ; and
the deceased then shewed to him a drawer,
where, as far as I understood, it had Jain con-
cealed under a board."
You probably recollect that when I was in
Ansbach, I expecte<l very confidently a speedy
discovery of the history of Caspar Hauser ;
ns a circumstance, which I was not then at
liberty to mention, bad inspired me with the
conviction that all the localities of his former
residence were thoroughly known, and that
on the spot itself we should not fail to find
what persons had been concerned. These cir-
cumstances are stated by me in a letter which
I wrote last month to Lieutenant Hickel ; and
his Report which I received on the 23r<l ofMay,
1832, 'vith respect to his inquiries in Hungary
had necessarily the effect of disappointing my
hopes, and also of destroying the confidence
'vhich I before placed in the truth of the story.
It would be superfluous, and would also lead me
too far, to relate here the particular statements,
which, even a year and a half ago, appeared to
me unfounded, and which I have noticed in the
D 2
Digitized by Coogle
36 TRA.CI'S BBLA.TING TO
above mentioned letter to Lieutenant Hickel.
The conviction, which I by dt>grces ac'1uired,
that the story was not, and could not be, such
as be related, received new strength and con-
firmation through the observation!! which were
published last year by the Counsellor of Police,
Merker, in Berlin, who has so much ability
and experience, and which I consider as a real
model of correct logic, of an acute im·estiga-
tion, and ofa luminous statement, and also as a
complete refutation of the representations of
Feuerbach. The opinion~ of Feuerbach ap-
peared to me to have found very little credit in
England, where last year a translation of his
work appeared, and where many rt>aders asked
me," How much of it can we believe?" He
concealed also the most important facts which
are contained in the first documents of the
I>olice, and which I very well remember to have
read in them ; so that his work is by no means
to be considered as founded upon authentic
documents. Does it not appear in those docu-
ments, that Caspar Hauser, on his first exami-
nation, stated his name and his age; as "also
that he was a Catholic ; and that the official
person who examined him wrote at the end of
the protocol, that be " concenlcd the truth,
wa11 deceitful, and crafty?" Have I not also
read in them, although the first documents of
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER.
the Police were only communicated to me for
a short time, and not Jikt! the others which I
was allowed to keep for a longer time, that
Caspar Hauser spoke to his first acquaintance
in · Nuremberg, the Shoemaker Weichmann,
and also to the servant of the Captain, and that
in the guard-room, when ht' was asked where
he came from, he answert'd, "I dare not say?"
Even when I was in Ansbaclt, I mentioned
these circumstances to the CounseJJor of Ap-
peals, who was employed to make reports on
this business. Instead of waiting till the
Shoemaker came to him, as Caspar Hauser
related, he went to the former, and, indeed, with
very "firm steps," dOlvn a stt'ep declivity.
Caspar Hauser, when he appeared at Nurem-
berg, instead of being in a u state devoid of
consciousness and similar to that ofan animal,"
bad, as the former jailer Hiltel informed me,
a " powerful understanding ;" and instead of
llitting on the ground and stretching out his
legs, this was never his posture. I could re-
late many other examples of the same sort.
It is not, alas ! to be denied, and I must con-
fells it to be the case, that no reliance was to be
placed on the statements of Caspar Hauser;
that he invented and disfigured much of what
be said; and that be deceived us in many points,
if not in the whole, of his narrath·e. The
D3
Digitized by Coogle
38 TRACTS RELATING TC'f
question, however, remains to be considered
lvhether he was, in the proper, or in the usual,
sense of the word, to be called an impostor;
and I hope that the world will in this respect
judge filirly the unfortunate foundling. I have
no reason whatever to believe that he appeared
in Nuremberg with the intention of playing
the pat·t which he afterwards acted, and in
which he conducted himself so much to the
astonishment of the world, and to the full con-
viction of many intelligent persons.
The former Captain (now Major) Von W-
whom I personally know, and who appeared
to me a very kind and good-hearted person,
was almost on the point of taking under his
care the unfortunate youth : and had this been
the case, the world, in all probability, would
never have heard the name of Caspar Hauser.
It is also very probable that he would ha\'e re-
mained entirely unknown if he had been imme-
diately sent away, and had thus been allowed
to seek his fortune elsewhere. But on this, as
on many other occa~:~ions, the most trifling
circumstances produce often important result~
which have very extensive consequences. The
Captain had made an excursion into the coun-
try with two friends, one of whom was em-
ployed by the Police, and he was requested to
take thither Caspar Hauser.
Digitized byGoogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 39
When he came to the guard-room a ne\v
epoch began, which must have appeared to
him very important : and a police soldier who
saw him there related to me that he afterwards
became anxious, wished to go away, and said
often, " Shew me the way home.'' Hi;; situa-
tion, as he remained locked up in the tower,
continued in some degree dubious, till, through
many questions and hints, a story was put into
his mouth, which must have excitedcompassion
as well as interest, which, from the kind dispo-
sition of the inhabitants of Nuremberg, must
have procured him assistance, and which was
very attractive through the curiosity and cre-
dulity which are every where to be found.
He also became more and more involved in the
story \vhich had been suggested to him ; and
the longer he acted this part the more difficult
must it bave been to him to extricate himself
from it ; till at last he found satisfaction in it,
and ns Professor Daumer states (in an article
in the Universal Gazette of the 6th of last
month}, "lying and deceit were become to
him a second nature."
His vanity, which in his very peculiar situa-
tion was unavoidable, and therefore pardon-
able, his unfortunate inclination always to
attract notice, the necessity which he thought
\Va& imposed upon him to act and sustain the
D 4
Digitized by Coogle
40 TRACTS RELATING TO
part he had undertaken, must be considered,
in judging morally, as \Vell as psychologically,
l1is character: but his celebrated history,
which will be transmitted to posterity, will
always continue to bring misfortunes on his
fellow men, and will always excite mistrust
even towards those who do not deserve it,
and who are innocent, though they may not
appear to be quite unsuspected. An unjust
judgment, and therefore un unldnd treatment,
will often be the melancholy lot of many who
otherwise, and if we l1ad not lmown this rc-
marlcable and unfortunate history, which may
well serve as a warning, would have ex-
perienced kindness and indulgence.
I was well aware that the principal defect
of bis character-his entire want of veracity-
could not remain concealed from your acute-
ness which had long been kno\vn to me,
and that you would earnestly exert yourself
to bring him, as far as possible, into better
paths. In order to promote those exertions,
to form his moral character, and to check "
·disposition which could not be entirely era<li-
cated, and which bad led him to much deceit,
I thought it very proper that he should re-
ceive instruction in the moral doctrines of
natural and rcvealccl religion, m1d I cannot
conceive bow the Clergyman Fuhrmann hnd
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 41
the notion (as he mentions in pnge 51 of his
publication), of giving Caspar Hauser theolo-
gical instructions, which bad for him no object
or utility.
The plan of study which you had first
formed for him was very well adapted to it~:~
purpose, and had my entire approbation. The
history of the Bible was part of that plan; and
Feuerbach concurred in my opinion that Cas-
par Hauser shoultl receive general, but not
special, instruction in religion, and should
uot be confirmed in the doctrines of any par·
ticular church, since it was not at all known
who he was, whence he came, or what was
the religion of his parents or of his con·
nexions ; aml it might have been concluded,
from the tracts which he brought with him
to Nuremberg, thnt he was a Catholic. It
seemed improper, therefore, to confirm him
in n church in which he might not afterwards
remain. If, however, any creed were to be
chosen for him, the Catbolic appeared the
most suitable, as it brought with it the obliga-
tion of confession. He was, however, con·
firmed in the Protestant religion, as I learned
by a letter which I received from him a short
time before the solemnity took place.
Feuerhach expressed to me the wish that
his work, of which I had ordered many copies,
Digitized by Coogle
42 TRACTS RBLA.TJNG TO
should not be communicated to Caspar Hau·
ser, as it might increase his vanity. I had
however no intention of doing so, and I told
Caspar Hauser that he ought not to read the
work, as it contained nothing new to him, but
a very vivid description of his former mis-
fortunes which might affect him. After my
departure I learned from him that Feuerbach
himself had given him the work : and I lately
heard that Caspar Hauser spoke ofit in a pub-
lic company in Ansbach, and said that many
things were in it of which he knew nothing.
Amongst other obligations which I, as his
foster father, had undertaken towards the mu·
nicipality of Nuremberg, was this: "To adopt
all measures which are requisite for his per-
sonal security." The most precise measuretJ
were for this purpose ordered by me, and ex-
ecuted by you ; and if he bad been a state
prisoner who had been confided to me, I could
not with more anxiety have taken care of him,
or have made, with more precaution, the pro-
per arrangements iu ord~r to secure him from
aJl external danger, as well as to prevent any
person from being admitted to his room who
was not eutirely free from suspicion, and could
prove himself to be such. In a conversation
which I had upon it with Feuerbac-h, he said
to me, " You cannot do more for him if you do
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER, 43
not lock him up.'' When he came into your
domestic care he was placed under the imme-
diate superintendence of my friend Liedtenant
Hickel, who, in the institution for the Cadets
at Munich, had acquired much experience and
talent in education ; and from a thorough
knowledge of his heart and understanding, I
had formed a very favourable opinion of him,
and had given him my confidence. Caspar
Hauser was positively forbidden ever to go
out, even into the streets, without being ac-
companied ; and in the hours which he had
at his disposal, he was attended by a soldier
who was much distinguished by his courage,
and who was in the sen·ice of Lieutenant
Hickel. If this order had been always ob-
served, it would have been impossible for him
to have been wounded as he was, either by his
own hand orbythatofauotherperson. When,
however,he wasno longerattended in thestreets,
he could not be prevented from going further,
or into secluded places. After my departure, and
during the absence of Lieutenant Hickel, who
had made a journey on his military duties,
Caspar Hauser, who had formerly appeared to
be very anxious and uneasy about his own
safety, employed this opportunity to perauade
Feucrbach to l'Cvoke the order; and he re-
ceived permission from him to go alone in the
Digitized by Coogle
44 TRACI'S REL.-\TING TO
streets, but not out of the town, and therefore
not to the Court Garden. 'fhis happened
without my will, and even without my know-
ledge, and I first learned the circumstance
after the death of Caspar Haust'r. On this,
as on several other occasions, Feuerbaeh arro-
gated to himself a power which in no way
belonged to him, and which, together with the
responsibility connected with it, belonged
solely to me. I was, as you may well SU[>·
pose, as much a11tonished as afflicted by the
new~ thut Caspar Hauser, whom I had sup-
posed to be in a state of the utmost security,
had been wounded. I abstain, however, at
present, from saying anything on the unfor-
tunate end of his short life, arid reserve to my-
self at the proper time to write to you more
fully on the subject.
Digitized by Coogle
CASP.-\ R IIAUS~R. 45
Ezt1·act of a Letter from EARL STANHol•E to
M. MERitER, iu Berlin, Counsellor of Po-
lice to the I(ing of Prussia, dated Heicl~
elherg, 14th August, 1834.
You are aware that the detection of impos-
ture was formerly considered a service rendered
to the world; but no\V those persons are at-
tacked who express any doubts as to the
wonderful story of the "Foundling of Nurem-
berg." You, who first had the meritof apply-
ing your long experience, your various acquire-
ments, your talents, which are every where so
much respected, and your very acute mind, to
the examination of this narrative, and in this
respect also have so honourably distinguished
yourself, have been calumniated. I, who con-
sidered it as my duty openly to confess that I
had been deceived, and had formed erroneous
opinions, have been termed by a certain Coun-
sellor of State, "the enemy and persecutor of
CasparHauser." HO\vever,his first foster-father
acknowledged to the world that "lies and dis-
simulation bad become a second nature" to
Digitized by Coogle
""·
46 TRACTS RELATING TO
him ; and, already in the year 1830, his guar-
dian officially declared that he had observed in
him " palpable lies."
The opinion formerly prevailed, which per-
haps in the present enlightened age is to be
considered as an antiquated prejudice, that a
liar was not worthy of credit, and that his
statements had no weight whatever, if they
were not confirmed by unexceptionable testi-
mony. It has been proved that Caspar Hauser
deceived many, even his most intimate ac-
quaintance, and his best friends; but some
persons still consider his evidence to deserve
credit, in a story which is not supported by a
single witness, which in its most essential
parts is contrary to the course of nature, and
which bears evident marl<s of falsehood.
It has, indeed, been contended, that his nar-
rative, incredible as it must appear, is confirmed
by his pretended assassination. Is this fact,
J10wever, proved? And upon what grounds
would such a supposition rest, if undeniable
facts, and even the conduct of Caspar Hauser
himself,should furnishthe most powerfulreasons
to consider his last, as well as his first, narra-
tive to be only a fiction ? I confine myself at
present to this single remark, that no rash
judgment ought to be formed, and that it would
be most unreasonable to draw conclusions from
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 47
a supposition, which is in no degree proved,
and which is perhaps entirely unfounded.
It is also singular that some persons will not
believe Caspar Hauser to have been an im-
postor, because it has not been ascertained
what was his former course of life, to what
family be belonged, and where he had resided.
What however would such persons have
thought, and very justly have said, of us, if we
had refused to believe his narrative, because it
had not been stated when, \Vhere, by whom,
and at whose instigation, he l1ad been impri-
soned? This demand, however, would not
have been more unreasonable and absurd than
the other. If the story of his imprisonment is
proved, we must believe it, although it is im-
probable, and the particular circumstances of
it remain unknown to us ; but if, on the other
hand, we are justly entitled to consider the
story as altogether fictitious, this conviction
should not be shaken, because we remain igno-
rant of the former circumstances of his life. If
another Miinchausen were to appear, and tore-
late adventures which were incredible, and
partly impossible, should we not doubt it,
although we do not know who were his parents,
where he had lived, what he had done, audcir-
cumstances of that sort ?
There are others also, who for the very reason
Digitized by Coogle
48 TRACTS RELATING TO
that his narrative ia romantic, readily believe
it, who find it unpleasant to be disturbed in
their dreams, and to have the creation of their
fancy placed in a just view. As Schmidt Von
Liibeck observes in an article (Literilrische
11111/ter der 1Jor1et' Halle, No. 902,) "A part
of the world chooses to beJieve the story for the
reaaon, of which they are not themselves con-
scious, that the romance of Caspar Hauser,
which hue hitherto been so interesting, would
at once be com·crted into a paltry and ordinary /
occurrence. It is true that the romance with
the title 'Caspar Hauser, an amiable and dis-
guised prince,' is infinitely moreinteresting than
the simple tale of Caspar Hauser, a poor sickly
and wandering young man." Such persons
mny perhaps be sensible, bnt will not, however,
nllow that the whole story, as you have most
satisfactorily shewn (in your .Nachrichlm iiher
Caspar Hauser, pages 118 to 138), is easily to
be explained.
In this, as in every other narrath·e which is
examined, either judicially or philosophically,
the first question is, whether it is proved by
credible witnesses, or by undoubted facts ? and
if it is shewn that this is not the case, the se-
cond question is, whether in the conduct and
character of the relator, there are reasons to
consider his narrative as fictitious?
Digitized by Coogle
.CASPAR HAUS:KR, 49
You will allow me to make some remarks on
both these questions ;·and I will omit those ,
observations which are the best and the most
important, that is to say, your own ; they are
as weighty as they are acute, and are much
more powerful than any which I could urge.
It is already known to you, that before I saw
Caspar Hauser, I had read the printed official
documents which Feuerbach had prepared in the
hope of confuting your opinions ; that these, as
well as the pretended assassination in Nurem-
berg, seemed to me a confirmation of the story
of his imprisonment ; that the falsehoods of
which he was guilty, and which I partly re-
marked myself, and partly beard from others,
appeared to be such as are found iu the cases of
uneducated children, and that they were not
considered by me as suspicious, till, through
his own conduct, my confidence in him was
thoroughly destroyed.
But before I come to the consideration of
these official documents, I must examine a
little of Feuerbach's Romance. He himselft
taught by his own experience, began, in the last
period of his life, to doubt the truth of his
narrative, as I have learned from a witness,
in every way deserving of credit, said,
" Perhaps Feuerbach has written a romance in
his old age." He did not, howcVC¥ allow the
B
Digitized by Coogle
50 TR.-\CTS REL.-\TING TO
matter to be further investigated, and did
nothing tO\l·arcls rectifying the errors which he
himself had disseminated, and to throw light on
n story which had received great weightfrom
his authority.
He relates at the commencement of his ro-
mance, (See Caspar Hauser, by A. Von Feuer-
bach, 3rd edition, pp. 1, 2,) that "a citizen"
(that is to say, the Shoemaker 'Veichmann)
" was tarrying before his house, intending to go
from there to what is called the New Gate, when
looking round, he saw, not far from him, a
. young man dressed like a peasant, who was
standing il} a \'cry singular attitude, similar to
one who was intoxicated, endeavouring to more
forward, without being able to stand upright,
or to use his feet. The said citizen nppronchcd
the stranger, who shewed to him a Jetter,"
&c.&c.
In this are no less than the following false-
hoods:
First-The Shoemaker Weichmann was not
"tarrying before his house," which would be-
sides have been very improbable, as he was
going to the New Gate. He stood, but not
" before his house," with the Shoemaker Heck,
and \Vas conversing with him.
Secondly-Caspar Hauser did not stand in a
" very singular attitude, similar to one who is
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. bl
intoxicated, without being able to stand up-
right, or to use his feet." He came, as Beck
says, "with firm steps," down the steep decli-
vity of the BilrleinMUerbcrg, and as Weich-
mann says," walked in the usual way, did uot
stoop nnd did not totter.''
Thirdly-Weichmann did not "approach the
stranger;" Caspar Hauser went up to him and
Beck.
Fourthly-Caspar Hauser did not c: shew to
him a letter.'' The letter was taken afterwardl4
by Caspar Hauser out of his pocket.
The two following facts also are entirely
concealed by Feuerbach. First : Beck, who
was present, confia·med the evidence of Weich.;
mann on the three first points. Secondly :
Caspar Hauser said to them, without being ad-
dressed by them, "Where Ne\v Gate Street?"
If a Judge, whose duty it is to investigate the
truth, and to represent it faithfully, has in this
manner falsified a narrative, it cannot be con-
tended that he wrote " in conformity to official
documents ;" and one cannot be astonished
if be expressed a wish that those documents
might be "burned."
Under the pretext that those documents are
"so much exposed to t.he doubts of historical
criticism," and that " they are only to be used
with the greatest caution as materials for bis·
s2
Digitized by Coogle
52 TRACTS RRLATING TO
tory," he has, as be says," related very shortly
the particular circumstances, as Caspar Hauser
wentwith the aforesaidcitizenfrom the Unschlitt
platz to the Guard House, and from thence to
the residence of Captain Von W-." He
relates, however, what is quite false, viz. that
" the stranger appeared to understand none of
these questions ;" and be adds, " be appeared
to hear without underlitanding, and to see with-
out rcmnrking any thing.'' TheGroom, Mark,
with whom he remained till the Captain re-
turned home, states, on the other hand, that
" Caspar Hauser appeared to understand every
thing that was said to him, and he spoke also
intelligibly, but not well." Further he says,
that " he wrote his name with pencil, and read
what Mark had written."
The romance of Feuerbach relates, moreover,
that, after the arrival of the Captain, " nothing
could be extracted from Caspar Hauser by
questions, except 'Become a horseman,' and
so forth, or 'I don't know;' " which is an
equally unfounded assertion. The Captain
(now Major) Von W--, states, on the con·
trary, "Caspar Hauser answered to one of the
first questions, 'My foster-father desired me to
say,'I don'tknow,yourWorship.'" After which
he tool\ off his hat, and added, " He told m«J I
should always say 'your Worship,' and tuke o!f
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUBER. 53
my hat." So faithful and so conformable to
the evidence is Feuerbach's representation of
Caspar Hauser's conduct, in the first hours
which he passed in Nuremberg I
Those first hours, when he bad had still the
hope of becoming a "horseman," when
he had not yet been brought before the Police,
and when he had not yet played the part,which
after,vards excited so much astonishment, form,
in the history of his life, as far as it is kno\vn
to us, the first epocha which is essentially dis-
tinguished from those that follow. It might
be more tedious than interesting to you, to
go through the whole romance of Feuerbach,
and to make a complete commentary upon
its innumerable misstatements.
Equally false as his statement of the facts,
is his representation of the intellectual and
bodily condition of Caspar Hauser, and equaJJy
unfounded and untenable is his theory.
Caspar Hauser shewed (English translation
page 6) "almost the stupidity of an animal."
He was (page 40) " a half dumb animal man."
He was " stupid like an animal, and blind
though he saw." His mind was "in the state
of an animal devoid of reason and not only his
soul, (page 55,) but also many of his senses
appeared at first to be entirely torpid, and only
to awake gradually to the impression of ex-
E3
Digitized by Coogle
54 1'RACTS RELATING TO
ternal objects.'' He " appeared (page 22) in
general to take no interelit in what passed
before his eyes." He had (page 19) " an
entire want of \vords and notions, and was
utterly unacquainted with the most common
objects." In a word, he was, according to an
expression which Feuerbach very often used,
" in a state devoid of consciousness, and similar
to that of an animal.''
All this is contradictc<l not only by india·
putable testimony, but e\·en by Caspar Hauser
himself.
Caspar Hauser related in writing, and with
the greatest detail, every thing which hap-
pened after his appearance in Nuremberg,
and even the very trifling circumstances, that
"a pewter plate" was brought to him with
meat and beer-that "the lustre of the plate
and the colour of the beer" pleased him very
well, that he " drank three or four glasses" of
water, thAt he was delighted with the" sabre"
of the Captain, that the gate of the To,ver
"had n singular sound," that his room had a
stove "which was of n green colour and was
well glazed," &c. However, Feuerbach con-
tends that Caspar Hauser was "stupid like an
animal, and blind though he saw," and that he
\vas " utterly unacquainted with the most
common objects.'' Those who defend Feuer-
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR IIAUSKR. 55
bach's theory must indeed lament that Caspar
Hauser's memory was too weak to relate more
particulars with respect to the journey which,
according to his narrative, immediately pre•
ceded it, and also that hia memory was so in-
accurate as to state, " I stood for some time
in the same place in which the man hacl left
me, till the other man took my letter, and led
me to the house of the Captain:" a statement
of which the falsehood bas been proved
through the concurreut testimony of two citi·
zeus of Nuremberg.
What are the statements of these and of
other most credible witnesses who had the
opportunity of observing him immediately af-
ter his arrival, and amongst others of the Cap-
tain (now Major) Von W--? Casparaakell
the two first, " Where New Gate Street?"
and said afterwards, " New Gate, newly
built?" He answered to the questions whence
he came ? "from Ratisbon," and if be had beeu
before in Nuremberg? "No, this is the first
time." He took oft' his hat before the Cor.
poral nt the New Gate, shewed his letier, re-
ceived information where the Captain dwelt,
understood it, aud went alone to the bouse.
He related that he had "gone every day ol·er
the frontier to school ;" and be said wheu
horses were she,vn to him,'' "There were five
B4
Digitized by Coogle
56 TRACTS RHLATJNG TO
such where I lived." Even the former jailer,
Hiltel, proves that Caspar Hauser had "a pow-
erful understanding," and "learned every
thing immediately."
From these and from some other parts of the
evidence which are above quoted, it will be
judged whether Caspar Hauser, as Feuerbach
represents, was then in " the state of an
animal devoid of reason," nnd "had an P.ntirc
want of words and notions."
.With respect to the bodily condition of Cas-
par Hauser, ·Feuerbach relates the following
circumstances amongst others.
When he visited him in the Tower (page
65) his eyes appeared " very sensitive" to the
light. The contrary, however, is proved by
the Police Officer Wiist, who states that" his
eyes were not sensitive to the light, and that
he came close to a great light when he wrote
his name:" and the Police soldier Bleumer
states that ''the light ofday did not dnzzle him,
only artificial light."
"The staring look of his eyes {page 15)
shewed the dulness of an animal." The
Officer of Police, before whom Caspar Hauser
was examined the very day after his appear-
ance, remarked in him a "tranquil inquiring
look.''
He " was almost unable to use his hands
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR IIAUSER. 57
and fingers" (page 16); but Feuerbach himself
confesses (page 70) that Caspar Hauser soon
after his arrival in the tower made considerable
progress in drawing : and many witnesses
confirm the circumstance that on the very day
of his arrival, when he wrote his name, be held
the pen "very properly" and ''like other per-
sons" (p. 8).
"The soles of his feet (page 14) were cov-
ered with fresh blisters." The former jailer,
Hiltel, states " his feet were not excoriated,
but only swelled, as his boots were too
tight."
He sat (page 27) "with his legs stretched
out before him on the ground." According to
the evidence of Hiltel, Caspar Hauser " could
not stretch out his legs without pain ; and
he never sat upon the floor with his legs
stretched out ;" and "when he sat on the
floor he did not stretch out his legs, but folded
them under him like a tailor."
"His stt'ps, similar to those of a child
which makes its first attempts in leading-
strings, could not so we1l be called walking
as a waddling, hesitating motion--a painful
medium between walking and standing up-
right" (page 16). It is proved, however, by
the evidence of Weichmnnn, that Caspar Hau-
ser " walked in the ordinary \Vay, did not
Digitized by Coogle
58 TR.\CrS RKLATING TO
stoop, nnd did not totter," and, by the evidence
of the Police Soldier Le Marrier, that Caspar
.Hauser moved " in an erect posture," and that
he "stood" two hours together, "always in an
erect posture" without requiring " to sit."
" He often fell down at full length in hia
little room on meeting the least obstacle or
impediment" (page 16). But he was not Jed
either by Weichmann or by the l,olice Soldier
Bleumer, who accompanied him in his walks
while he remained in the tower ; and he passed
over a great number of gutters, and went also
.upon a pavement, part of which was very bad
and rough, and had e\·ery day a steep declivity
to ascend and descend. Beck also proves that
Caspar Hauser came " with firm steps" <low'l
to the Bllrleinhuterberg.
"It was necessary long after his arriva. >
lead him when he went up and down stah. '
(page 16). But on the very evening of h\s
arrival he mounted alone and without any help
the staircase ofthe tower, consisting of94 steps.
Such a falsification of history, as is shewn
in the points above mentioned, would have
been conceivable if Feuerbach had been a
writer of romance, Ol' a poet. It is not, how-
ever, permitte<l or pardonable in n Judge, to
whom truth should be sacred, to trample it
under foot in order to defend his theory.
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUsER. 59
llis theory, which appears from the facts
above stnted to be entirely groundless and
void of reality, is explained by Feuerbach.
He says "the truth of the narrative i~t crr-
tified to us by the personal qualities of the
relator, in whose body, mind, and disposition
the act is still written in legible characte.rs."
He considers also (in a note to page 41) as a
proof that "is entirely confirmed by the traces
which still remain in his body and which must
be recognized," that he "always sat, whether
waking or sleeping, in an upright posture."
It is, however, quite obvious to plain com·
mon sense, and it requires no proof since it
cannot be doubted, that if Caspar Hauser had
sat for years together in this, or in any other
posture, be would have become crippled or con·
tracted, and that he could not have learned to
atand or to walk in a few days.
'Vhnt, however, are these "traces \
remain and which must. be recognized ?"
Dr. Osterhausen mentions (pages 17 and 18)
a particular conformation of the knee, and
with such details, the unusual position of par·
ticular muscles, as if be had already, dcring
Caspar Hauser's life time, dissected his knee.
But, as Dr. Heidenreich states in his Report
(pages 30 and 31), there was, on his post
Digitized by Coogle
60 TRACTS RELATING TO
mo1•lem examination, " nothing of the sort
tJerceived."
Caspar Hauser had on his arrival not a
pallid countenance like one who has been con·
fined for years. According to the evidence of
the former Captain Von W-" he appeared
well fed and healthy;''' according to the evi-
dence ofthe former Groom, Mark, "he appeared
healthy;" according to the evidence of the
Police Officer, Wiist, "he had a very henlthy
colour ; he did not appear pale or delicate as
one who had beensome time confined;" accord-
ing to the evidence of another Police Officer
at Nuremberg, "he appeared healthy, and had
not the pallid colour of a person who had been
long in prison," and according to the evidence
of Hiltel, "he had a healthy colour."
Towards the end of May, and in. the after-
noon about 4 o'clock, he went with Weich-
mann to the New Gate, and bore the light of
day; which would ha\·e been utterly impossi-
ble if, according to his statement, he had
passed many years in a dark dungeon. Hiltel
states, indeed, that " his eyes were very sen-
sitive to the light, and he complained of it."
The question is, however, how he conducted
himself at first, and not how he conductlld him-
self afterwards, when he had begun to act a
new part.
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 61
His body, as Feuerbach himself states,
"shewed a perfect proportion" (page 14);
nnd be appeared, therefore, as one who had
been accustomed to free exercise, and who
had not been stopped in his development and
growth.
He was not deficient in bodily strength, for
immediately after his journey, and on the very
day of his arrival, he went from the Unschlitt
platz to the New Gate, from thence to the
house of the Captain, from thence to the
Guard Room in the Town House, and from
thence to the Tower in the Lugimland-not
less that 1757 paces, and then to his room up
astaircase consisting of94 steps ; the whole way
without any stick, and without being led or
helped by any one, although be himself related
that he had learned to walk only a few days
before.
At the tJOst mortem examination, it was
found that Caspar Hauser had a very large
liver, which one ofthe Physicians, Dr. Albert,
considered as a sign of his former imprison-
ment,which, hmvever,Dr. Heidenreich thought
"quite natural in conjunction with his lungs,
which were very small in proportion." With
respect to this circumstance there exists the
anatomical question, which I as a layman do
not venture to examine, whether all those
Digitized by Coogle
62 TRACTS RELATING TO
pe1·sons who are confined, and no others, ha,•e
a large liver?
'Vas not this the case with the Duke of
Reichstadt, who died very early, and certainly
had not been confined ?
Great importance appears to be attached to
the circumstance, that Caspar Hauser, on his
arrival at Nuremberg, shewed an a\·ersion to all
food except bread and water, although it is not
proved that at that time he could not bear any
other. This circumstance was, perhaps, to be
considered as an individual peculiarity, or as
an idiosyncracy, as the Physicians term it, and
is not a sufficient proof of his former confine·
ment. An experienced Officer of Police, who
is quite deserving of credit, assured me that
similar cases occurred with soldiers ; and that
be had !mown severn! of them who having lh·ed
before on bread and wakr, were only able to
accustom themseh·es by degrees to other food.
I shall mention afterwards other peculiarities
which it was pretended were observed in Cas-
par Hauser, when I make some observations
on the Reports of Dr. Osterhausen and of Dr.
Preu (who is now deceased), which Feuerbnch
had prepared.
Feuerbaeh himself seemed to think that the
bodily condition of Caspar Hauser was not the
chief foundation of his theory ; and he remarks
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 63
(page 59) that " the proof of the crime exists
principally in the state of his soul, which is to·
be considered quite pschycologically, and is to
· be established and confirmed by observations
on the state of the mind and disposition of the
person who r~ceived the injury." He adds
(page iO), "The proof of this almost incredi-
ble fact rests principally upon pschycologica)
foundations." He adds further, "the facts
which are disco,•ered in this manner give a·con-
firmation which exceeds in strength e\·ery other
}>roof"!! I
'Vc haYe nlrmcly seen thnt the intcllcctnal
condition of Caspar Hauser was quite different
from that which Fl~uerbnch represents, and that
his theory is confuted by Caspar Hauser
himself, as \vel1 as by incontrovertible facts.
Feuerbach, who saw Caspar Hauser for the
first time on the lith of July, and therefore
more than seven weeks after his arrh·al, was
unable, from llis own experience and obser·
vatiou, to say any thing as to his first ap-
pearance; so that he stated from the relation
of others, as far as they suited his theory, cir-
cumstances which were partly distorted, and
partly invented ; but he despised the official
documents, and concealed, as far as possible,
the evidence.
Fcucrbach rrpresents as falsely the disposi·
,
Digitized by Coogle
64 TRACTS RELATING TO
tion ofCaspar Hauser, as, in what has just been
stated, his intellectual and his bodily condition.
"There was not a spark of religion" to be
found in the soul of Caspar Hauser (page 30).
He had "no notion of God" (page 116). But
an Officer of Police, by whom he was examined
the day after his arrival, states, that he men-
tioned he was of the Roman Catholic reli-
gion, which was to be concluded from the
Catholic tracts that be brought with him.
Caspar Hauser related to the Burgomaster
Binder, that he had learned from his guide,
and during the journey, "the Lord's prayer,
and another prayer, both of which he had never
before heard ;" and the Burgomaster adds,
"and he can still say them very well.'' Cas-
par Hauser, who, according to the representa-
tion of Feuerbacb, was" as dull as an animal,"
and "an animal man half dumb," could, ac-
cording to the evidence of the Burgomaster
Binder, say "very well two prayers."
"His docility {page 73) was unconditional
nnd boundless;" but Feuerbach does not ex-
plain bow this quality, to which children arc,
in many cases, only to be accustomed with
great trouble, was taught Caspar Hauser, who,
according to his own narrative, was as long as
he remembers, excluded from all human so-
ciety, and only a short time before his release,
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER.
had received instructions in writing, but no
other of auy kind. Since, however, his dex-
terity as a rider was, according to the very
philosophical and ingenious theory of Feuer-
bach, to be explained by the circumstance (page
J35), that Caspar Hauser " was born of a na-
tion of horsemen," perhaps his docility was to
be f'.xplained by the circumstance that he had
parents and ancestors who were also very do-
cile in their childhood.
" His love of order and cleanliness which he
carried even to pedantry" (page75), cannot be
reconciled 'vith the hypothesis that he hat\ pass-
ed many years in darkness and in solitude ; but
Hiltel told me that Caspar Hauser, learned
from him these habits which "he formerly did
not possess."
Feuerbach, who, through his fiery imagina-
tion, and his poetical representations, has so
much distinguished himself, although these
qualities are not very suitable to a Judge, re-
lat.es (page Ill) that " the soul of Caspar
Hauser was full of childish goodness and mild-
ness," and that " be shewed himself in every
respect as pure and spotless as an emanation
of the Almighty in the soul of an angel." His
soul was, therefore, "in every respect," quite
spotless, although, and indeed at the very time
r
Digitized by Coogle
66 TRACTS RELATING TO
he was lh·ing with Daumer, the Profes~or
frequently and seriously admonished him
with respect to his lying; which was not to be
excused, as he experienced the tenderest care,
and the kinde11t treatment. E\'cn on the day
of what is called the attempt at assassination
he \Vas again reprimanded for that fault, and
Professor Duumer said to him, in a very impres-
sh·e manner, and, as it would appear, almost
with a propheticul spirit, "you will certainly
come to a bad end." If, however, he had been
in other respects what Feuerbach represents
him, would the goodness of Caspar Hauser'11
disposition have proved that he had passed
many years in a dark and solitary dungeon ?
Cun it be supposed that through such cruel
treatment he would not have become \'ery ob-
durate, and more or less similar to an animal ?
You remark, very properly (in your Nash-
richten iiber Caspar Hauser), that" two ofthe
persons who had related in the printed official
documents what they knew respecting him, did
not see the young man immediately after his
arrival in Nuremberg, and therefore could not
atate from their own observation what the facts
were, and are consequently unable to confirm
entirely the truth of the narrative," and that the
l>hysicians did not, " in their Reports, dis-
Digitized by Coogle
CASP,\R HAUSER, 67
tinguish what they themselves observed, from
what was communicated to them by others,
and hardly ever mentioned their authorities."
These official documents are, as you know,
thefollowing: I. TheReportofDr.Osterhausen,
dated 30th December, 1830. 2. The Report of
Dr. Preu, dated 3rd December, 1830. And 3.
the Ueport of Baron Von Tocher, dated 5th
December, 1830, all of them, therefore, a year
and a half later than Caspar Hauser appeared
in Nuremberg. And, 4. Professor Datuner's
Report on the attempted assassination.
Dr. Osterhausen, who states that he saw
Caspar Hauser " about three weeks after his
arrival," mentions in his Report many circum-
stances which he only heard from others; ami
a valid testimony must be founded not upon .
hearsay, but upon personal knowledge. Led
into err01: through others, he relates also much
which bas been already shown to be unfound-
ed; .as for example : " Caspar Hauser when he
arrived could not read, and could not \Vrite any
thing except his name," Immediately after
his arrh·al he filled four sides of a sheet of
paper in which the word "horseman" often
appears, aa Fetierbach himself relates (page
44); and he read what Mark had written.
''CasparHauser knew when be came here hardly
fifty words." Feuerbach states (page 25) that
1'2
Digitized by Coogle
68 TRACTS RELATING TO
his vocabulary consisted scarcely of half a
dozen words. " Caspar Hauser came from hiH
prison as a child who was yet without consci-
ousness :" he was " at that time less than a
child of two or three years old. The soles of
Caspar Hauser's feet were, when he arrived,
<JUite excoriated; his way of walking, as well as
the position of his body, was tottering and un-
steady ; and he was obliged to be led as he
walked up and down stairs. It is imposible
for him, even now, to stand on one leg and to
raise and extend the other, or to move it
round and bend it." How was it possible then
for him to get on horseback 1 I beg Dr.
Osterhausen to. bave the goodness to explain
it. " The case has never yet occurred among
the many hundreds of pP.rsons, natives nnd
foreigners, of all ranks who have seen him and
observed him, of any one having the slightest
suspicion c.. the possibility of imposture."
How could Dr. Osterhausen know the opinion
of all these" many hundreds of persons, natives
and foreigners, of all conditions?" Dr. Oster-
ha~sen, who resided at Nuremberg, might have
known, and ought to have known, that many
of his fellow-citizens considered Caspar Hau-
ser as an impostor; and that this was, as
Hiltel related to me, the case of an eminent
and very distinguished servant of the state who
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER, 69
is now a Bavarian Minister, and who saw
Caspar Hauser about a fortnight after his ar-
rival.
Baron Von Tocher, who observed Caspar
Hauser since September, 1828, relates that
which is also unfounded, and which he could
not state from his own personal knowledge,
that "Caspar Hauser's first appearance showed
perfectly the situation of a young man who for
the first time entered a ne'v world, and who was
then entirely ignorant of all the notions and
habits which are found in ordinary life."
Dr. Pren, whom I personally kne,v, and
who had very unreasonable opinions upon
many subjects, contends, although many facts
prove the contrary, " he hadformerly taken very
little, ifany, exercise," he "had not, for a long
time, experienced the influence of the light of
day, and the effect of ordinary life upon his
senses," he had lived during several years se-
cluded "from all human society."
In these three Reports, of which the two
first were, as Feuerbach himself told me, mu-
tilated, a number of particulars are mentioned
which were learned probably from Professor
Daumer, who, in his "Mittheilungm," relates
them in great detail, and adds others which
far surpass all the usual bounds of credibility.
I do not by any means wish to deny the merits
F3
Digitized by Coogle
70 TRACTS RELATING TO
of l)rofessor Daumer, who~ with indefatigable
patience all<l with parental care, as well as
with philanthropic and scientific zeal, devoted
himself to the instruction of the stranger. It
cannot be doubted that he states from thorough
conviction what he thought he bad remarked.
The question is, however, whether his credulity,
which must be obvious to every impartial
reader, and . his love of the marvellous, ren-
dered him capable of examining accurately the
facts ? whether he did not consider the case
ns already proved ? and whether the experi-
ments which be .made in various ways bad
the object of removing the doubts which might
· exist upon the narrative itself, or of establish-
ing se\·eral hypotheses about magnetism nml
the homoiipathical doctrine.
I remarked in a letter to Lieutenant Hickel,
"If, however, we should admit as true and cer-
tain aU that is related upon the peculi~r bodily
powers of Caspar Hauser, there remains always
the very important question whether these
are to be considered as consequences of a long
imprisonment, which does not in other cases
yield any similar results; or whether they
are not to be considered as individual pecu-
liarities; and whether these were not increased
by a strong excitement of the nerves, arising
from illness.
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR IIAUSER. il
Dr. Ostt'rhausen himself says, in his Report,
"I consider as a state of disease the peculinri·
ties which W('re at first observed," and " upon
the whole and justly considered, this state was
over-excited activity of the organs of sense.''
It is very obvious that when Caspar Hauser \Vas
obliged every day, and in the presence of all
the persons who visited him, to act a new part,
this required constant efforts, which must
have had a very strong t>ffect upon him, must
have shnkt'n his nen·ous system, and must have
produced a state of unusual excitement. He
was at first not so sensible to external imprcs·
sions ; and I can mention as a proof, that he
was, soon after his arrival, taken to a public·
houst', aud passed many hours amidst the
smoke of tobacco and the fumes of wine and
betr.
lu my Jetter which has been above mentioned,
and which you did me the honour to publish in
your BeyMige (Nos. 18 and 19), I have made
several remarks upon the pretended nsRallsina·
tion of Ca11par Hauser; nnd I will only add,
that according to his statement, it was not the
first which he had experienced. I learned from
n Indy, whose husband then filled a high station
in Nuremberg, that Caspar Hauser having re·
turned very hastily, and with his horse much
heated from a ride, related to her that some per·
F4
o;gitizedbyGoogle _
....
72 TRACTS RBLATING TO
son bad shot at him. It is not true, as Feuer•
bach states (page 121), that Caspar Hauser
remained at home since be found himself un-
well, arul at the desire of his instructor, for th~
Grocer N. in Nuremberg, told me that about
half an hour before the accident happened
Caspar Hauser came to him alone, to buy some
sugar. Caspar Hauser pretended indeed, and
told me very often, that he had, during the
whole morning, a strong anticipation of assas-
~:~inntion, and that he felt very uncomfortable
when he went into the streets, as it seemed
to him that an assassin watched him and fol-
lowed his footsteps. The other circumstances
which Feuerbach relates are equally unfounded,
with respect to the traces which were found ;
and according to the evidence of the }>oJice
Officer Wiist, "the statement was not con·
firmed, that, immediately after the attempted
assassination, a man, who was dressed as Cas-
par Hauser described him, came out of the
house of }>rofessor Daumer, ·and the woman
who first snid 110 contradicted it when a~:~ked
about it. Wust does not know nny thing with
t·espect to the other statement, that a man
similarly dressed, washed his haiH!s in a stone
trough in the street, aud spoke about Caspar
Hauser with a woman who went towards the
town. Wiist said, we have taken all possible
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 73
trouble, and made every inquiry without having
been able to discover any truce of any thing
whatever!'
Another Police Officer in Nuremberg states
also, " that no trace was any where to be found
of any person who attempted the as&assina-
tion."
I endeavoured not long ago, to pro,•e to
a distinguished literary character, that neither
in the mind, nor in the disposition, nor in the
body of Caspar Hauser, were found any of
these " indubitable marks," as they are called,
of a long imprisonment, and be could only
answer that, according to the statement of
Feuerbach (page 62), Caspar Hauser's saliva
\Vas as tough as glue. If this circumstance,
should it indeed be an undoubted fact, is to
be considered by any person as a proof of the
imprisonment, he is easily satisfied, and it
were superftuous to argue with him any further
on the question.
You know already the reasons stated by me
in the letter above mentioned, which there-
fore I do not now repeat., and which more than
two yt>ars ago ga,·e we the conviction that I
expressed when I was first judicially examined,
and it has been confirmed by evt>ry thing
which 1 subsequently learned, that in the nar-
rative of Caspar Hauser " many circumstances
Digitized by Coogle
i 4 TRACTS RELATING TO
are statt'd, some of which appeared to me phy·
sically impossible, aome quite incredible, some
highly improbable, and some very suspicious."
Feuerbach himself calls it " an almost incred-
ible occurrence." " I confes!l (page 59) that
at present we have no other evidence as to
the history of the deed than the relation of the
person on whom it took place."
I leave to the judgment of every impartial
person whether this history, ns Fcuerbach gives
ns to understand, "appears every where when
it is examined as the purest truth, all personi-
fied truth!' It seems to me .by no means
doubtful that the judgment of all persons who
lmow the facts, and who consider them with
impartiality, would be unanimous, that the
story is not proved, and would ans\ver in thi11
manner the first question. I proceed now to
examine the second question, namely, whether
rea11ons are found in the conduct and character
of the narrator to consider his statements as
fictitious.
All~w me, •in this place, to repeat, that the
first hours after the arrival of Caspar Hauser,
when he had not yet been brought before the
Police, formed a short but a very distinct
epoch in bi11 life, which is esscntiully ditl'erent
from those which followed. This remark, by
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR H.AUSBR. 75
which many circumstances may be explained,
should be constantly kept iu view.
At the beginning of the first following
epoch, lVhen Caspar Hauser had no longer
the hope ofbecoming a horseman, and fell into
the hands of the Police, the Police Officer
Wiist states that Caspar Hauser answered to
the question, "Where do you come from?"
"I dare not mention it." Wiist asked fur-
ther, "Why do you not dare to menti~n it ?"
"Because I don't know." He was not at first
embarrassed lvhen he was brought to the
guard-room, but afterwards became anxious,
wished to go away, and repeated often, "Shew
me the way home." Wiist " remarked in
him much deceit, and had from the begin-
ning very little confidence in him. Wiist be-
lieved then, and still believes, that he was
able to relate much, ami that he was not as
sincere towards others as others were towards
himself." The Police Soldier Le Marrier
states also " it was believed in the guard-room
that he was deceitful, and could say more."
A Police Officer by whom Caspar Hauser
lVas examined on the following day, was of the
opinion which he states at the end of the
Protocol, that Caspar Hauser " knew and could
say much, but that he was concealed, deceitful,
and crafty." Caspar Hauser appeared after-
Digitized by Coogle
76 TRACTS RELATING TO
wards to avoitl this Police Officer, would not
again recognize him, and said, " he is a bad
ntan."
Feuerbach must bave had knowledge of this
Protocol ; he wrote, however, more as an Ad-
vocate than as a Judge, and would not make
use of documents because " one found in them
exactly the contra·ry of what one wishetl to
ji1l{l.''
Such were the opinions which, even nt the
commencement of the t~econd epoch, those
persons e!ltertained of Caspar Hauser who
were qualified, by their situation and expe-
rience, to form an accurate judgment respect-
ing him.
About ten days afterwards Caspar Hauser
\Vas brought before the Municipal '1'ribunal,
when Weichmann was there. He \Vonld not
recognize him, and on Weichmann's question,
"Don't you remember me?" Caspar Hauser
answered angrily, "No, no." As Caspar
Hauser remarked that Weichmnnn observed
him tranquilly and attentively, he said, "Why
do you look at me so?" In this respect also
the conduct of Caspar Hauser was very sus-
picious.
If, as we cannot doubt, he wished to evade
all questions about his family and his name,
it was very proper for such n purpose that he
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 77
should represent himself as rather stupid, and
get rid of those who were curious or inqui-
sitive, by the answers, "don•t know,.. or "be-
come a horseman,.. &c. In order to play his
new part more naturaJly, he began to speak
of himself in the third person, Caspar ; al·
though, on his arrival, he spoke in the first
person, I. This part was so much the easier,
because, (as Feuerbach mentions,) "after the
first days he was not treated as a prisoner,..
and be had not to fear the usual consequences
of deceit, but, on the other hand, must very
\veil have perceived that be was considered
nnd treated ns a destitute youth, not as a
crafty impostor, and that the only question
was in what manner he vras to be provided for.
It appears very J>robable that in the first ex-
amination which the Burgomaster personally
conducted, and which, as the latter told me,
lasted five hours, the foundation was laid for
the \Vonderful tale that afterwards excitetl so
much attention.
It is false that Caspar Hauser confirmed
upon oath the truth of his narrative; and
Feuerbach, who states this (page 40) ought
to have known that this was not, and could
not be the fact. Even in Ansbach, Caspar
Hauser was not exantined upon oath after his
mortal wound.
Digitized by Coogle
78 TRACTS REL.-\TING TO
Equally false is the statement of Fenerbach
(page 40), that Caspar Hauser in his relation
"always r<'mained consistent with himself.''
This i11 such an important point that it is ne-
cessary to state some facts.
Caspar Hauser relates in his very remark-
ably written narrative, "I remained some time
in the same position in which the man had
left me, till another man took away my Jetter,"
and so forth. He related, howe,•er, to Hiltel that
" his guide left him before he came to the
gate of the town," and in the same manner
to the Burgomaster Binder, with the addition
that·he received the order from his guide "to
go with the Jetter that was gh·en to him into
the great viJJage, to show it to a person, and
to go \vhere he would lead him.''
He relates in the written narrativejust quot-
ed, that the two windo,vs of his prison were
" stuffed up with pieces of wood which appeared
quite black;" but he related to Hiltel that he
" saw from the window of hi11 prison a pile of
wood, and above it the top of a tree.'' If be
had during many years the top of a tree always
before his eyes, he must haye remarked that it
was sometimes quite destitute of leaves, at
other times covered with snow, and at other
times clothed with green or dry leaves : yet
when he lived with Professor Daumer all these
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER, 79
appearances were quite new and striking to
him ; and the cheea·ful view from his windows
in the tower was called by him "ugly," be-
c-ause he considered it to be "only a window..
shutter daubed with ,·arious colours," as he
afterwards related to Feuerbach (page 77). JC
he ahvnys smv the top of a tree he did not live
in darkness, as he otherwise represented.
Caspar Hauser relates in the same narrath·e,
that" the man with whom he had always been"
said to him several things during his imprison•
ment, but he told me on every occasion that
this person said nothing at all to him till he
was on the journey.
In ho\v many points, which he could not
hal'e forgotten, does his story to the Burgo-
master Binder vary from his last, which is still
more improbable, and which is found in the
above-mentioned written narrative. Yet Feuer-
bach relates that Caspar Hauser, amongst other
qualities, ga\'e "the most striking proofs of
his astonishing memory, which was equally
quick ancl tenacious" (p. 72).
The Burgomaster Binder is attacked l'ery
harshly und unjustly by Feuerbacb, who states
(page 23, note)," that the documents of the Po·
lice in this business were prepared in such a
manner, contain so many contradictions, as-
sume too lightly many circumstances, and are
o;gitizedbyGoogle _ ~
......
,
80 TRACI'S RELATING TO
in their essential parts such strange anachron-
isms, that they are to be used only with the
greatel.\t caution as materials for history." ·The
Burgoma11ter Binder proved to me, with a mi-
nuteness and accuracy which must convince
every one, that according to the checks wl1ich
are introduced in Bavaria an anachronism is
ab11olutely impossible. A Police Officer in Nu-
remberg states also as follows, " he does not
know,and does not believe that any Protocol has
an erroneous date, or that the documents con-
tain anachronisms, or that the proceedings were
in any respect not conformable to the established
practice, and is convinced that the Magistracy
of Nuremberg can, in this respect, justify itself
entirely."
If, however, these documents were not accu-
rate, why did not Feuerbach let them be cor-
rected ? WM it from an apprehension that a
new inquiry would, perhaps, entirely overthrow
his own theory?
Although I feel for the Burgomaster Binder
much respect and personal friendship, I think
myself able to judge of his conduct with impar-
tiality, and though he did not lead this inquiry,
which afterwards became so important, in such
n manner ns might well have been expected
from a person who had already acquired the
reputation of a most distinguished criminal
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR IIAUSER. 81
lawyer, though he, like so many others, was
deceived in this matter, he ought however to re-
ceive full justice. He took, certainly, an erro-
neous view of the subject, but his proceedings,
in o.rder to unravel the mystery, were extremely
proper for the purpost', so far forth as by his
desire a very good 1il<eness of Caspar Hauser
was engraved, soon after his arrival, by an
eminent artist in Nurt>mberg, in which, how-
ever, the costume was in some respects inac-
curately represented, and it was accompanied
by a fac-simile of his hand-writing, so that it
was the best of all possible descriptions. By
his desire also a fac-simile was made of the
letter to the Captain in order that it might be
distributed as well as the portrait, in tht)se
districts where Caspar Hauser, to judge
from his dialect, had probably resided, in
the hope that the band-writing, or the portrait,
might again be recognized ; and it is hardly
possible to suppose that this would have been
done without producing any result. F~uerbach,
however, as if it had been his destination to pre-
vent everything which could lead to a discovery,
forbad the execution of tltill plan, under the pre-
tence that a crime (perhaps " a crime against
the life of the soul,") had been committed, and
that the aft'nir was not to be considered as a
matter of Police, but as one of Criminal Jus-
o
Digitized by Coogle
82 TRAC'fS RELATING TO
tice. Feuerbnch would not execute, through
the means which were in his own power, this
plan, which \Vas very judiciously devised, and
was well adapted to the purpose ; it is there-
fore not at all astonishing that the inquiry so
far as it was conducted by him, led to no
result.
Schmidt Von I...Ubeck shews that he is not
sufficiently acquainted with the facts, when he
saye, " the fac-simile and the poa·trnit were sent
in ull directions without, however, Cnspar
Hauser being recognized."
If Caspar Hauser had for years together
suffered solitary confinement, every object ufter
his arrival in Nuremberg must ha\'e nt>penrcd
new to him, and many objects mu~t ha\'e ex-
cited his curiosity and attention. Hut Feuer-
bach himself confesses {page 29) that "ou
objects to which he was brought near he
star~d stupidly, and only occasionally with a
look of curiosity or astonishmeut." And the
Police Soldier Bleumer, who accompanied Cas-
par Hauser when he was in the Tower, states,
" he did not observe with attention any object
which he saw in his walks."
Feuea·bach relates (page 71), Caspar Hauser
was anxious to return to " the man with whom
he has nlwnys lived," aml (page 72) llttid, "The
man did not do me any hnrm.·• Is it probable,
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAVSKR. 83
can it be considered natural, that this should
have been the case ?
Schmidt Von LUbeck remarks that such a
part as Caspar Hauser acted in the Tower
was not necessary in order to attain his object
of serving in the cavalry. Certainly not-but
it must not be forgotten that when he was in
the Tower, the hope of serving in the cavalry
had been already disappointed, and it was not
as Schmidt Von LUbeck supposes, "to be
anticipated" that Caspar Hauser " would not
be received'' by the Captain; on the contrary,
that benevolent and l>hilanthropic person \vas
almost induced to take him under his care.
lVben Cupar Hauser was released from
the Tower, and came to Professor Daumer,
that is, on the 18th of July, 1828, a new
epoch began which, indeed, is not distin-
guished so essentially from the second as that
is from the first, but which is diffet·ent,
and is marked by many particularities. In
this epoch of "eternal experiments" (as
it was very properly named), the great secret
was first brought to light, that Caspar Hauser
became a firm rider, from the magnetic power
of the iron in the stirrups, and the very re-
markable discovery was made by him thnt he
had ears, which he considered, however, as
" something suptrfluous," as n sort of cx-
o2
Digitized by Coogle
Si TR.\CTS RELATING TO
crescence, so that he expressed a wish to have
them "tal<en off!' I will not tire you any
more with all the absurdities which Feuerbuch
relates (in ch. vi.) with respect to the ex-
pel·imcnts upon Caspar Hauser, aml to which
Professor Daumer adds others thut are still
more ridiculous, and pro,·e nothing else than
the exaggeration with which Caspar Haust'r
acted his part. During this period his situa-
tion bt'came always more secure, and if now
and then a person '"filS found who, like Pro-
fessor H., wished to question him with respect
to his former mode of life, or to his pretended
jailer, &c., a head-ache immediately occurred,
and the inquiry which was commenced mud
be forthwith concluded. He had already
learnt over again all which he had learnt
before : a new progress was not l'isible; his
wonderful qualities had disappe.
ured ; the as-
tonit>hment which he anxiously sought to
obtain, was no longer excited in the same
degree as before; his \'lmity was less and
Jess gratified, and he was on the point of ex-
periencing the misfortune of being almost
forgotten by the world, when in the l1ouse
of Professor Daumer occurred the celebrated
attempt at assassination.
The two following epochs, when be lh·ed
under the care of Mr. Biberbncb and of Baron
Digitized by Coogle
C.-\SP.'\R HAUSER. s;;
Von Tucher, are much less remarkable, as
neither of these gentlemen bud any fondness
for experiments, and neither of them wished
to feed the vanity of Caspar Hauser. The
last allowed him as little as possible any in-
tercourse with strangers ; and Caspar Hauser
was, as Feuerbach very justly expresses it,
" screwed into the p1·ess of a Latin school"
(p. 139).
As credulous as Professor Daumer was,
Caspar Hauser's disposition to lying bad not
escaped his notice, although be was not in-
duced by it to consider attentively and accu-
rately the foundation of the nanative. Alz10,
when he lived with Mr. Biberbach, who was
well qualified to take charge of him, this dis-
position, with its usual consequences, appeared;
and C\'en on the day when, by the explosion of
a pistol, he received a wound in the head,
he was, immediately before the accident, ad-
monished as to his lying, when he fell into a
''iolcnt passion, struck with both his hands
upon the table, and said be would rather die
than suffer such treatment. You remember
also the remarkable case with respect to his
journal, and other circumstances, which arc
mentioned in my letter to the Schoolmaster
.1\Ieycr, 1mblished in your" Deytriige."
The last epoch of his short life will, as I
G3
Digitized by Coogle
86 1'R.\C1'S REL.\TING TO
have reason to believe, be described circum-
Mtantially by n person who is much more
fitted for the task than myself, nnd shall
therefore be passed over by me in silence.
If I am asked who he was ? where he had
lived? what was his condition ? and so forth, I,
alas ! to these and similar questions return at
present no other answer than his own," Don't
know." I believed him formerly, from reasons
which with you are well acquainted, to be an
Hungarian nobleman, not however the son of n
Prince, as Feuerbach gives us to understand
very intelligibly (p. 137). I provetl to him
that this conjecture, which was founded on the
most absurd and ridiculous of all phantoms,
was quite devoid of foundation. I do not,
however, belie\·e that I convinced him, although
he suppost>el afterwards tl1at Caspar Hauser
was the son of a Roman Catholic Priest,
and maintained that " his physiognomy and
all his manners exactly denoted the pecu-
liarities of a Catholic Priest;" so that he
was "as it were a Canon or a Dean in minia-
ture," in whom " the tonsure alone was
wanting."
As Schmidt Von LUbeck remarks, " the
1'ribuual of Inquiry hns announced n 'moun-
tain in labour,' and the world will laugh when
it is delivered of a mouse." I have no doubt
Digitized by Coogle
CA!IPAR IIAUSRR. 87
whatever that it is a mouse, and perhaps we
shall at last know of what sort of mouse the
mountain is still pregnant. Although the death
of Caspar Hauser, nnd the lapse of several
years renders now the inquiry more difficult,
it could still, if properly conducted, lead
to n full explanation.
If this, howe\·er, should not be the case, I
ha,·c a conviction that in this affair truth will
at last prevail, and if not I have at least the
consciousness that I have sought it sincerely
on C\'ery occasion, and valued it above every
thing else. The more I \Vas deceived in this
affair, and the awwe erroneous were my vie\vs,
the more is it now my duty to net with zeal,
and, if it were in my power, with ability, to
preset·vc others as far as possible from si-
milar errors. Though I have ou that account
appeared in an unfavourable light to some of
those who arc known or unknown to me,
though I have been abused and e\·en calum-
niated, I find a sufficient consolation in my
O\VD conscience.
G4
Digitized by Coogle
88 TRACTS RELATING TO
E$/ract of a Leiter from E.uL STANHOPE to
the Schoolmaster, MEYER, in Ansbach, upon
the tleath ofCA~PAR. HAUSBR.
THE most remarkable facts which relate to
the wounding of Caspar Hauser, and which
were stated partly by yourself, and partly by
other witnesses, appear to me, with the excep-
tion of those which will find their place in the
following remarks, and which, on that account,
1 here pass over, to be these:
On Wednesday, the 11th of Decembtr, in
tl1e forenoon, when he was in the Buildings of
the Court of Appeal, where he waa occupied
in copying, he was, according to his statement,
accosted hy a person who wore a smock-frock
and a cap, nod who invited him to go in the
afternoon to the Court Garden, to see several
sorts of clay which had been found by boring a
well. The wife of Lieutenant Hickel, to
whom, in the afternoon, be mentioned that
he wns going to the Court Garden, advised him
not to do so, but rather to visit the }>resident
Von St.ichaner, who had an evening party.
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 89
Caspar Hauser went not to the Court Garden,
but to the President Von Sticbaner's, with
whom he passed the evening ; but neither on
that nor on the following day, when he again
visited him, did he mention the invitation
which he had received, and ofwhich neither the
court gardener nor his labourers had the least
knowledge.
On the following day, he was, according to
his statement, again accosted, at nine o'clock
in the morning, in the same place, and by the
same person, and invited to.go nt half-past two
o'clock to the Court Garden. Caspar Hauser
left about that hour the Clergyman Fuhrmann,
and said that he was going to a daughter of
the President Von Stichaner, to execute some
works in paste board. Instead of going there
be went to the Court Garden, and, as he stated,
to the well, where he found nobody, and after-
wards to the Monument of Uz, in the neigh-
bourhood of which he met a man, who was not
the same that had spoken to him in the mom-
ing. This man gave him a silk bag, and struck
a dagger in his breast as he was going to sit
down. He did not mention whether this ma1i
had spoken to him, and gave only a general
description of his person. He remarked that
his cloak bad only one cape, which, as he be-
Digitized by Coogle
90 TRACTS RELATIXG TO
lieved, came down lower than the sleeves, but
l1e- could not mention its colour.
In the bag laid a note, which was folded,
written in pencil and backwards, so that it
could only be read in a looldng glass. The
note had, instead of an address, the words,
. "To be delivered," also written in the same
way, and was as follows: "Hauser will relate
to you very exactly how I appear, and whence
I come. In order to save Hanser the trouble,
I will myself tell you whence I come: I come
from--, the Bavarian Frontier, --, on the
River --. I will also tell you even my name.
M. L. 0." Caspar Hauser let the bag fall,
and hastened home, and when he came into
the room he pointed to hi11 left side, and you
renutrl(ed the wound. Caspar Hauser, however,
said nothing, and hurried yon along with him.
The Pa11try cook, Vogel, who lived in the same
house and on the ground floor, saw Caspar
Hauser "come groaning and moaning down
stairs," and asked "what had happened?..
to which he received no answer.
Neithfr dld Caspar Hauser return any
answer to the urgent questions which you ad-
dressed to him on the \ovay, in order to ascer-
tain the circumstances which had occurred ;
but as you came with him to the neighbour-
Digitized by Coogle
C.\SPAR IIA tiSKR. 91
hood of t.he Riding School, which is at a dis-
tance of 480 paces from your house, and of
496 paces from the Monument of Uz, you
"thought it right not to go further with him,
but to return home;" and on his return he
said to yon ns fo11ows : "Went Court Garden
-Man-had a knife-gave n bag-struck-
1 ran what I could-bag must lie there." You
conducted him home, and the wound was ex-
amined, which Dr. Heidenreich considered
"very dnngerous" (as he states in page 7 of
his Report), but Caspar Hauser, on the even-
ing of the 16th, spoke of the works in paste-
board which he would execute after his re-
cm·ery, and only three or four hours before
his death one of the Physicians who had the
treatment of him expressed some hope, if no
bad symptoms should occur; which, however,
took place in half an hour afterwards. He
wus examined upon the 16th, but not
upon oath. His subsequent examination was
on the 17th, and at ten o'clock in the evening
of that day he expired, with the greatest tran-
quillity and composure.
The wound was, according to the Report
of Dr. Heidenreich, "two inches and a half
under the centre of the left breast, and three
inches from the middle line of the body," was
" sharply drawn, with hl'o edges thut were
Digitized by Coogle
92 TlUCTS RRL.o\TING TO
quite slmrp," and from one end to the other
three quarters of an inch long; the sides hardly
opened the Lwelftb part of an inch; so that it
could only have been inflicted by an instru-
ment which was, even to its extremity, "sharp
and two-edged."
It appeared, by the post mortem examina-
tion, that the wound had passed between the
sixth and seventh ribs, through the bag which
·contains the heart, and through the diaphragm
into the stomach. Dr. Heidenreich (page 20)
says it had " pierced for the sixth part of an
inch in length the stomach," that it had
" injured" the point. of the heart " to the
depth ofthe twdfth part of an inch" (page 18),
and that it had " pierced the left side of the
liver to the depth of half an inch" (page 19).
The wound was " four inches or four inches
and a half deep"(page 27); had the same form
below as above, but only half the breadth
there as at its upper extremity, uml the instru-
ment with which it was inflicted must, accord-
ing to the opinion of one of the f>hysicians
who attended him, have had "the form of the
blade of a common knife." Dr. Heidenreich
remarks (pnge 17), that "it mny not have been
even an ordinary dagger ;" and that " it did
not require the knife of an assassin, for what
Digitized by Coogle
CAS.P,\Jl IJAUSKR, 93
is called a Low Country Dagger was exactly
qualified to inflict such a wound."
One of the Physicians who treated Caspar
Hauser, was of the opinion that "mortifica-
tion in the stomach" was a consequence of
its being injured, and the " proximate cause"
of his death ; and that the jaundice with which
he \Vas seized arose more from alarm tllan
from the unusual size of his liver.
Upon these circumstances, as well as upon
others which I ha,·e learned from credible
sources, I haye to remark as follows :
First: There had not, as far as I know, been
found any trace whate,·er which gave reason
to expect a discovery; and it appears to me,
therefore, inexplicable bow the person who,
as is represented, had instigated the imprison-
ment of Caspar Hauser, and who, under such
circumstances, might have considered himself
sccurt-, should have also instigated a murder
which must make a great noise in the world,
and which would have exposed him to the
most imminent dange-r in case the inquiries
had been successful.
Secondly: If even traces had been found,
and if the greatest interest, whPther of birth or
of fortune, are supposed to have existed, the
end would ha\·e been much more efft•ctually
answered, by sending some of those who were
Digitized by Googk.
...
94 TR.-\CTS RELATING TO
accessary to the crime, or who were concerned
in it, to a distance, or by sending them out of
the world ; for in this manner 110 much sensa-
tion would not have been excited in the public,
and there would not have been such an eager
inquiry.
Thirdly : It is probable that an assassin
would have killed Ca~:~par Hauser on the spot,
instead of allowing him to go home, to give a
description or the person, and of his dress, and
to have him pursued. If he had mmdcrcd
Caspar Hauser on the spot, and in an tmfrc-
quented place, as he sometimes returned home
after spending the evenings in company, it
is probable that no apprehension would have
been excited about him before bed time, and
he would have been supposed to be in the house
of some friend or acquaintance; the assassin
\VOuld thus have gained several hours, which
would have been \'ery desirable for his O\Vn
safety.
Fourthly: It is alsoto be supposed that an as-
sassin would have strucl( through the heart, and
not in an oblique direction, pat·ticularly as, ac-
cording to the opinion of a Physician who was
asked upon the subject, a wound similar to
Caspar Hauscr'11 would not have been mortal
if it had been inflicted one rib lower.
Fifthly: The place and the day appear to
Digitized by Coogle
CASP.\R HAUSKR. 95
have been chosen incautiously, and without re-
ference to the object, as it was the market-day,
and many persons pass in the neighbourhood
of the Monument of Uz when they return home
in the afternoon.
Sixthly : The instrument was, as the wound
shewed, extraordinarily slight; and it is pro-
bable that an assassin would not have used so
brittle a weapon, and therefore one so little
suited to his object.
Seventhly : There is no imaginable reason
why the assassin should have left n note in a
bag, \vhich, in case the inquiry had a fortunate
result, would have become subjects of investiga-
tion ; and e\·ery one who commits a crime must
have the precaution to leave as few traces of it
ns possible.
Eighthly : Caspar Hauser said to the Pastry-
cook, Vogel, that a man, who was not the
same as invited him to the Court Garden, met
him in the morning, and asked him, " Are you
Caspar Hauser? and do you often walk in the
Court Garden ?" which is \·ery improbable, as
the assassin would have learned these circum-
st!lnces in another mode.
The conduct of Caspar Hauser appears, in
many points, and amongst others in the follow-
ing, to be very suspicious.
Fint: He had every day during three weeks
Digitized by Coogle
96 TRACTS RKLATING TO
or a month, locked himself up in his room for
an hour together, aml drawn down the blind.
Secondly: Letters, which a week before
were in his podsession, and which were not
suited to fall into the hands of strangers, were
not found after his death.
.Thirdly : You obser,•ed that <luring the last
period he seemed " more silent, and absorbed
in thought," and that on the day of his being
wounded he ate very little, spoke very little,
and seemed to reflect.
Fourthly: He said nothing at all to the
Mealman, Brechelsbauer, who met him in the
Court of the Pulace at half-past three, or a
quarter··before four o'clock, as he returned from
the Court Garden, and who remarked " nothing
important" in him.
Fifthly : When he came to you he did not
say a word upon what had occurred, although
under similar circumstances every child would
have done so.
Sixthly : He wished immediately lifter-
wards, to return to the Court Gartlen, where,
according to bis own statement, be hnd
received the wound.
Seventhly : Although he possessed the ex-
trr.ordinary faculty of remnrking every thing
quicldy and accurately, he coultl give only a
general, very imperfect, and by no means
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR II.~USBR. 9i
satisfactory description of the person and of
the dress of the assassin.
Eighthly: He related that he had bern twice
invited by the same man, on the same spot ;
and said, on his first examination that the per-
sou who spoke to him had "light coloured
\vhiskers.'' When the Protocol was read to him,
and he was asked if his statement was pro-
perly taken down in writing, and if there was
any thing to alter? he said." No I quite right
-1 have nothing to alter.'' He said, however,
in his next examination that the person who
had spoken to him hnd "broad black
whiskers," and ns it was remarked to him
that in the former examination he had slated
that the m.ln had "light coloured whiskers;"
he answered, " there you have made a mis-
take: I said brown and rather blacl( whiskers,
do not forget to have it altered.''
Niuthly : 'Vhcu he \Vas asked in the last
examination, bow, after a similar accident in
Nurembet·g, he could venture to accept an
invitation to meet an unknown person in a
retired spot ? he answered, " I did not believe
any longer that an attempt would be made
against my life as I have a foster-father, and
therefore I took it more lightly." This an-
swer stands in direct contradiction with all
the anxiety which he formerly expressed for
II
Digitized by Coogle
9S 1'R,\C1'S RELATING TO
his personal safety, and which in the August
preceding he had very strongly stnted. Since
he left the Tower he had constantly had a
foster-father; and a foster·father who is absent
could only provide for his safety by the per-
sons who were placed about him, nnd by regu-
lations; but at his earnest request my positive
order, that he should not go out without being
attended, \vus rev<lhd.
Tenthly: When he was asked in hit; examina-
tion why he went out in such bad weather
without a cloak ? he said, that he had to exe-
cute some works in pasteboard for the Clergy-
man Fubrmnnn and that he was afrnid of
spoiling his fine cloak. Thill answer contains
an untruth, since he would not have worn his
cloak while he wa!J executing his works iu
pasteboard.
Eleventhly: He was very anxious that the
b11g should be found, but afterwardl! never
asked what was in it, ns if the contents wcr~
known to him.
Twelfthly : Although he was not accu11tomed
to Wl'ite with pencil, he said, aftea· hi11 wound,
"I have to-day written much with pencil," oa·
"I must write much with pencil," and "the
writer ought not to write with pencil so thnt
one can rend it," und "much work, wl'ittcn
much, and an in pencil."
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 99
'fhirteenthly: When you asked him whethe1·
he had any thing more to say? he answered,
"Much-a great deal should I have to say,
but I cannot say it.'' He said afterwards,
" Sin - Perdition - no more extricate- the
monster was stronger than myself.''
Fourteenthly : The observation of the Phy•
sician of the Municipality, quoted by Dr.
Heidenreich (pages 29 and 30), was, "that
all those pc.~rsons who are wounded by the
hand of another are anxious with respect to
their wound and to their fate ; but that those
who wound themselves do not shew any con•
cern about it, remain indifferent, and hardly
take the trouble of asking any question as to
their situation ; which last was the case with
Caspar Hauser.''
The following circumstances also appear to
me very important.
First, you remember ,·ery distinctly to have
seen a similar bag in tbe posses11ion of Caspar
Hauser.
Secondly, your wife was alarmed as she saw
the note taken out of the bag, as "it was folded
exactly in the same manner as Caspar Hauser
was accustomed to fold his letters.''
Thirdly, there was found in the snow only
the footsteps of a person who had gone back-
wards and forwards, and no footsteps to\vards
H 2
Digitized by Coogle
}OQ TRACTS RELATING TO
the well or towards the outlet of the Garden
on the side of the country.
Fourthly, it is very improbable that Caspar
Hauser would have gone out in bad weather
to have seen, as he stated, different sorts of
clay, as he neither occupied himself in natural
history, nor was a traveller passing through
the town.
Fifthly, it is improbable that after he met
no person at the well be sl10uld have gone to
the Monument of Uz, a distance of about 300
paces, instead of returning immediately home,
as the weather was bad, and he took no plea-
sure in walks.
Sixthly, the place wht>re the bag \vas found
is in the turning of the path through the
shrubbery, and could not be observed by the
inhabitants of the neighbouring houses, which
is the case at the Monument of Uz.
I will only add the following remarks.
First, a very sharp and very slight instru-
ment which inftictt>d the wound might by
pressure, not by a blow, have penetrated much
deeper than was intended, as soon as it over-
came the resistance of his coat, which was
wadded.
Secondly, Caspar Hauser, who about a week
before bad been seriously admonished by you
" on his great tendency to lying, and had been
Digitized by Coogle
CASPAR HAUSER. 101
shown the conse-quences of that tendency,"
knew that a great many persons did not con-
sider him as worthy of credit; he had also
learned from Feuerbach that I entertained
doubts on many parts of the story ; he might
have expected a full and minute investigation
of all his statements, and had perhaps the in-
tention through a pretended assassination to
place the stamp of truth and of importance on
·his story, as also to revive the general interest,
and to shew that be could not live in safety
in Ansbach, and must be tnkcn elsewhere.
And thirdly, the pretended assassination of
Caspar Hauser is by no means to be considered
as an insulated fact, or as one related by a per-
son lvorthy of credit, but stands in connexion
with his other statements, and with his well
known disposition to relate falsehoods and to
excite attention.
END.
Digitized by Coogle
