{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__stone___maria_monk_and_the_nunnery_of_the_hotel_dieu.pdf","mytitle":"Maria Monk And The Nunnery Of The Hotel Dieu","mylang":"de"}
•
•
0
/ .
I .
....___;
.t.XD TR&
NUNNERY OF THE HOTELDIEU.
B&INO .t.N
ACCOUNT OF A VISIT
TO TBa
CONVENTS
OF
M 0 N 'l' R E A L ,
.t.ND
REFUTATIO~ OF THE "AWFUL DISCLOSURES."
AUDI ALTERAIII PARTE.M.
. (.
BY WILLIAM L. ~TONE.
NEW YORK:
H 0 WE & B A T E S.
• 1836.
•
:; 1/ ~-4 ~-···~
....
•
•
.•
_,~.--·
v
~- "" \ ' ' .
ENTI:R.r.D according to the Act of Congreas, in tho year 1836,
By HU\VE &. BATES,
in the Clerk's Office oftbe Southern District ofNew York.
CRAIGHEAD AND AI.LEN, PRINTERS,
Coroer of Aao and Nuuu-.otretts.
PREFACE.
It is possible that the strong and general-perhaps I might say
universal-interest with which the revelations ofthe young woman
who declares herself to be a nun of the convent of the Hotel Dieu
at Montreal, have been and still are received by the people of the
United Statei, may he thought. to obviate the necessity of this
prefatory notice; the object of it being simply to make known
in part, the reasons which have Jed to the present publication.
Nevertheless, a few words of explanation may not be thought au•
perfluous.
The statement contained in the following pages was written for
the New York C~~~~!ci~l _ A_~y_e_~tiser; and when it was com•
menced, the intention was merely to give a newspaper article of
at most two or three columRs. As the writer proceeded with the
work, however, the importance of his undertaking became more
and more obvious to the mind, and with it a feeling grew upon
him that the subject admitted and required a more full and elabo·
rate treatment than he had originally contemplated. This feeling,
and perhaps the influence of a destiny which seems to have cast
upon his shoulders the task of showing up impostures, by throwing
in his way the 1·equisite materials, in a number of instances, for
that useful though generally ill-rewarded office, caused the two or
three columna to extend to seven, and even with the enlargement,
''
•
iv
...
much remained untold. Some inaccuracies too, were the
unavoidable consequence of the haste with which the MSS.
required by, and furnished to, the printers; the statemenl
written in ten consecutive hours, and some important errors
the necessary fruit of this celerity. The eagerness with 11
copies were demanded, and the general notice excited b~
publication, led to the belief that it was worth repeating with
rections, and the addition of some facts that had a bearing '
the merits of the controversy, and had come to the knowled1
the writer after the completion of the original MSS. In addl
to all which, as will be seen in the· sequel, the writer was 1
unexpectedly thrown into the company of a second impost(
kindred character, who has either come to this city to try,
hand in the same business, on speculation, or has been bro1
I
hither by the associates of Maria Monk, to sustain her wretc
inventions. I allude to Miss Frances Partridge, or St. Patri~k
she says she was called in a convent in which, although an ina
of twenty yea111 and upward, she was yet ignorant ofthe locat
Of cot:rse, as the reader will see in the end, the tales of the :
cond impostor will fall to the ground with those of the 1i
Hence the issue 'of the pamphlet now before the reader. ]
object, from the beginning, has been simply to ascertain and 1
clare the truth; this I have done conscientiously and faithfuD
if good arise therefrom, to the power of truth must the merit
awarded.
W. L. S• .
THE HOTEL DIEU, &c.
IN the course of a recent flying excursion through a portion of
the province of Lower Canada bordering upon the St. Lawrence,
it waa both desirable and convenient to pus a few days in Montreal.
The sojourn, in good weather, upon that rich and beautiful island of
which the city bears the name, could scarce be otherwise than
pleasant to the inqwring traveller, under any circumstances.
Doubly so was it rendered to us by the kind attentions and hos-
pitalities of intelligent friends, who spared no pains in contribu-
ting to our comfort, and ministering to our curiosity. V
To an American who has not "been abroad," and whose
eye is accustomed only to the light and airy towns and cities o!_
our own country, the narrow streets, and dark, massive-built stone ·:
dwellings and store-houses, erected with an eye rather to use,
convenience, and comfort, than to the gratification of taste, or
any correct principles of architecture, the city itself presents few
external attractions. But its location is very beautiful. The
wand, upon the southeastern aide of which the city is built, is
.formed by the St. Lawrence on the south, and by a branch of the
Ottawa on tho north. It is thirty miles in length, by ten and a
llalf in breadth-constituting a very large seignory, and belonging
to tbe Roman Catholic Seminary.
With the exception of a single mountain rising near the centre,
to the height of from five to six hundred foot, the island il
perfectly level, and for the most part, in a high state of cultiva-
•
•
6
tion. The base and sides of thie mountain are adorned 1
orchards, gardens, villas, and substantial country seats 4
most opulent citizens, while it is crested with a noble ar
primitive forest trees. The orchards are numerous and thr
producing an abundance of apples of the finest varieties, 1
of which were entirely new to me. All the usual garden
.are produced in great abundance and perfection. . In ridin'
the side of the mountain, and at the left, as we were eli
the road that passes over it, among other fine country 61
my attention was directed to an ancient atone edifice, o
skirt of the ascent, surroun.ded by a wall, formerly disting~
by the appellation of the Chateau de• Seigneurs de Mm
but now generally called LtJ Maison des Pretres, or the P
Farm, as it belongs to the seminary, and is occupied as a su
retreat and place of recreation during the warm weather.'
grounds are ample, comprising spacious gardena and orch
1
and all the members of the seminary, priests, tutors and p
resort thither once a week in summer.
From the summit of this mountain, the view is exceecl
picturesque and beautiful. The island itself, and the e1
shore of the St. Lawrence-pouring the mighty floods o
great lakes into the Northern Ocean-are thickly inhabite
the extent of many miles. The parish churches are numerou
every where surrounded by neat white cottages of the peas
clustering around them. The rapids of Lachine in a rerF
foam above the sweet island of the Nuns on the South i
charming island of St. Helen's, with its fortifications in frc
the city, and the lofty mountains of Vermont and Chambly i1
az~e distance on the eo~at and south east ; with a le'\'el ;
sprinkled with villages, farms, orchards and gardens, all'ar
from the St. Lawrence to the Ottawa, spreading beneath tiM
of the beholder, combine to make up a landscape such as is r.
excelled, either for luxuriance variety or beauty. But enou
perhaps already too much-of description. I will now pn1
to graver matters.
Among the religious and other public institutions of Mou
demanding the attention of the inquisitive 1tranger, the moll
'
emblishmentl of the Roman Catholica are not the least prominent.
The history of Jl011tulaima, from the dayl of Paul the Egyptian,
who leach the van in the army of the monastic saints as the first
Christian hermit-to say nothing of the Eaaenes and Therapeutes,
the recluses of Palestine and Egypt before the commencement
of the Christian era-is rich in instruction and of absorbing
interest. The tint monastery was founded, according to the Rom-
ish legend-and the tale is a beautiful one-in the deserts of Upper
Egypt, by the aforementioned Paul, in connection with St,
Antony, in the year 803, or thereabout. The legend is this :-
"Paul, at the age of fifteen, is said to have ·been versed in the
learning both of Greece and his own country-Egypt-and deeply
imbued with principles of the severest piety. He lived with a
married sister, whose husband wu a pagan, and who, in order to
get posae..ion of Paul's property, informed against him as a chris-
tian, during the terrible penecution of Decius. The youth dis-
covered the treachery in time, and withdrew into the desert. His
intention had only been to remain there tiJI the danger had gone
by ; but the villainy of one with whom he wu so nearly con-
nected, had diaguated him with mankind, and as time passed on,
ibltead of being wearied with solitude, he acquired a love for it.
Thus wandering farther into the uninhabited country, he came
to some ruined dwellings, which, according to the story, had been
tJ~e mint of Egypt in the days of Antony and Clcopl\tra. Near
these ruina was a eave, the entrance to which was closed by a
lltone ; removing this rude portal, he entered, and found within
•hat his biographer, SL Jerome, calls a large vestibule, open to
the •ky ; an old palm-tree was growing there, forming a canopy
with its broad head ; onder the palm a clear fountain welled from
tbe ground, and presently was absorbed again. Believing that
Providence had brought him to this place, he determined to re-
main ; the dates supplied him with food, the fountain with drink,
aud from the fibres and net-work with which the branches of the
Egyptian palm are interlaced, he made himself a close covering."
The Egyptian solitary was afterward joined by Rt. Antony the
Great, who ·had been told in a dream that there was a Monk in
the deaeru, more retired and holy than himself, and of whom he
•
v
. '
8
immediately went in search. Having found the cave, after
importunity he was admitted into his abode and fellowship. ,
a time Antony was ~tent back for a vest which St. Athanasi11
given him, and in which Paul desired to be buried. On hL
turn to the cave he was apprised of the decease.of his cqmpz
by seeing his soul ascend in glory : he found the dead .ber~
his knees, his body erect, his hands and head and eyes upra
in the attitude of prayer, &c. Antony subsequently collect
number of hermits around him, who built their huts near
other, and attended their devotions in common. Such wa
origin of Christian Monasticism. Female monasteries, or
vents of nuns, were instituted about a century afterward.
have been at times eminently useful, and both at other t
eminently corrupt. They have served as places of refuge
persecution, of retirement and repose from the cares of the w
of religious study and meditation, and as scbeols of learning,
nevolence and virtue. They have also at times degene1
into dens of debauchery and crime. Still, when we con1
that it was to them, for many centuries, that the world ww
debted for all it knew of letters and religion, and that they 1
the abodes of such meek and holy spirits as Bede and Tho1
a-Kempis, it is not to be taken for granted by every oppo
of the Roman See, that a monastery must necessarily be
nstibule of hell, and every recluse worthy only of such an at
With such views and impressions, I waa of course glad <
opportunity of looking at an establishment of this description
my own eyes ; and having from my youth heard much of
Christian monasticism of Lower Canada, it may well be co1
tured that the excitement recently enkindled in the United S1
against the priests and nuns of Montreal, by the startling P'
cations of ~nk, in connexion with the writings of se1
Protestant controversialists of acknowledged talents and p:
had not abated the desire, which, under any circumstances, I sh
have felt to visit their communitie~.-Of the verity or falseho(
the truly "Awful Disclosures" of Maria Monk, I had form~
very definite opinion previous to entering the province. lnd
I had not read the book in any other m~ner than by an o
•
•
9
sional and very cursory glance ~t a few of its pages. Still I had
read much from and ofit, and heard much more ; and I am con-
strained in candor to confess, that, although at times a partial be-
liever, and at others a sceptic as to the truth of her fearful reve-
lations of hypocrisy, lust, and blood, I was rather a believer
than otherwise during the earlier part of my Canadian visit.
True the tale was most revolting, and it was not a little difficult
to bring the mind to believe it possible, that even the most har-
dened of our species could be guilty, from year to year, of the
frightful abominations charged by Miss Monk upon the priests and
nuns of Montreal-much less that the professed ministers of the
Christian religion,-of any faith,-however widely they might
have strayed from the truth, or however deeply been plunge.d in
error, or however much involved in the .gross and mystical fanati-
cism of the "scarlet lady"-could haTe been guilty of the.horrible
auccessions of crimes imputed to them. Still more difficult was
it to suppose it possible that woman, gentle woman-who bad
sought in solitude a protection against the corruptions and temp-
tations of the world-assuming a name indicative of purity as well
as its garb-could resign themselves by whole communities, as the
ready and willing instruments of lust and murder. But on thel
other band, IDJ prejudices against the Catholic faith were strong.
Its monstrous corruptions in the old world were notorious. Tho
work of Maria 1\lonk I knew to have been written by one of our
most estimable citizens--a gentleman of character and approved
christian piety-who had taken every pains, as he supposed, to
record the exact truth. I knew from his own lips, that he was"
religious believer of all that he bad thus written. I knew that
other intelligent a111l pious gentlemen, had, by repeated examina-
tions, endeavored to detect tho girl'~ imposture, if impostor she
was, without success. I knew that these men, and multitudes of
others, were firm believers in the truth of her revelations. I had 1
heard that emissaries from the priests were prowling about New i
Yortt, and that several attenapts had been made to spirit the poor I
.;irl away, _an~. hr.iug ~.t:r_~nc~ ~or~ fur£i'l!ly ~itbint.hcir power at
Montreal. I had beard of her repeated offers to go to Montreal
tnd i;;tablish the truth of her disclosures by examinationa-which
:l
•
•
•
10
propositiOnS had been refused. I had been nught to regard
mysterious silence ofthe accused as ominous of evil, and had 1
assured by numerous publications, that circumstances nume
' and strong had transpired, going to show that extensive alterat
within the nunnery, had been made, for the purpose of preve11
detection, should an examination ever take place. A variet
incidents, moreover, had been communicated to me as facts, "
on the way to Montreal, which had materially strengthened the
pression upon my mind, arising from this formidable array of
cumstances, until I had almost arrived at the belief, that, aftel
there might be more of truth in the tale than I had beE>n wi:
at first to admit,
I soon ascertained, however, that such was by no means
opinion of the citizens of Montreal. I did not indeed expec
find the people generally, or even the half of them, believet
the entire revelations of the fair fugitive. But qaving been assu
from time to time, by the publishing friends of the interes
victim, that her work was causing some excitement in that cap
and that the army of believers would be vastly greater but for
terror in which the Protestants were held by the Romanists,
the dang"lr they would incur by the expression of any opi1
unfavorable to them, I did expect to meet now and then 1
some one courageous believer, with a multitude of others stea
timidly along, looking unutterable things, and shivering
shuddering at every apparition of cowl and cassock as tho
expecting every moment to ue soizcd and pulled to pieces 1
hot pincers. But it was not so. Such a city of sceptics, ir
that pertained to the disclosures of the wronged frail one, was m
\
before seen. Nay, more, so perfectly absurd and ridiculous
the people with one accord consider the whole affair, that t
seemed to look upon the inte~~~-~~!_d_enjz_e~~-~~~!:~-~~ited Sta
as_l~9odng ur!!l~!.!..lri~!l!.Y ~_xtended monomania ! There was
one voice upon the subject-protes-ta~ts and catholics-thoSE
every and all denominations, born and bred upon the spot-[
of intelligence and unquestioned piety-those who had passed
open gates of the Hotel Dieu, or looked from their casemt
over its frowning walls every day of their lives--were all stubb
••
11
\mbelieven ;-end I may add in this place, instead ofelsewhere,
that I was able to.hear oftwo believe..,. in the" Awful Disclosure~"
in Montreal, one of whom, as will be seen in the sequel, was evi-
dently afraid to visit the nunnery, lest he should be forced by ac-
tual demonstration to change his opinion !
But the fact that the whole town and province disbelieved
the narrative ofMiss Monk, was no good reason why I should not
take a survey of the establishment, in which the reported enor-
mities were occurring---more especially as there were at least
twice the number ou the Yankee side of the line, (that is to be)
who were most devout believers of the whole. And as for any
supposed advantages derived by the former from their ncar loca-
tion and acquaintanceship with the accused, did not the increase
of numbers on the other side, bring the balance to a equipoise 1
l)erhaps not: but I was determined in any event to visit the
Catholic establishments generally, and look as closely into the
fearful Hotel Dieu as the guardians of its portals would allow me
to come.
The friends accompanying us were John Frothingham, Esq.,
President of the City Bank, of Montreal, and Duncan Fisher, Esq.,
to whose kind attentions we were greatly indebted. Our first
visit was to the Hospital Ge~~tral de• Saur• Grise•, a convent of
the Grey Sisters-an institution founded in 1750, by Madame de
Youville, as a refuge for the infirm poor, for invalids, and thedestitute
aged. It occupies a space of 678 feet along the little river St.
Pierre, by nearly the same depth, containing a convent for the
residence of the aun~ a depot, ample wards for both sexes, all the
requisite offices for such an extensive establishment, and a detar.hed
building for persons laboring under diseases of the mind. This
convent is governed by a superior and thirty-four aisterJ. We
passed through the wards, which were spacious, and well aired and
kept. Both departments were filled with the lame, the halt and the
blind, and every species of decrepitude, and among the subjects
were many who were very uld. One of these, with whom we con-
vened, had not only been many years an inmate, but was cheerful
at the advanced age of one hundred and four years-having been
born ia ta same year with WashiDBton. The.eyes of the old
•
• •
L
••
,.
12
eentenarian brightened at the recollection, as though it was no ·
honor even to have drawn his first breath in the same year
such a man. It was a gratifying spectacle to observe the kint
and attention received bythese aged and infirm fellow•beings 1
misfortune had thrown upon the benevolence of this commu1
l
and however much we may deplore the errors of their reli
lfaith, we could not but admire their zeal in alleviating tiM
tresses of suffering humanity.
From these apartments we were next led into the room1
eupied as an orphan asylum, or foundling' hospital-! aDi
certain which 1 perhaps both. In the first division we found t'
or thirty boys of ten years and under, and a like number of
in the second. They were all cheerful, but much more viv
was exhibited in the second ; characteristic alike of females
the French. In each of the apartments visited, articles of f
needlework were produced, sales of which are made to visite1
the benefit of the institution.
We entered the Grey Nunnery at 11 o'clock; just as tbl
ters had gone to dinner. The nuns and the priests, at the &
nary, dine at the same hour. They take a very light brea
at half past 4, consisting of a piece of bread and cup of tea ;
at 11, and are summoned to the chapel for their mia·day i
tion at 12. With the ringing of the bell, we, by request,
tonducted to the chapel ; where the nuns, having entered
were already upon their knees in a column of two deep ir
centre aisle. They told their beads, and repeated their pr1
in chorus, and having concluded, rose at a signal from the sup
in the gallery, wheeled round to the right and left, and retur.
scarce raising their eyes from the polished floor. They wen:
nerally middle-aged or young women•
. The habit of the grey sisters consists of a dress of drab bo~
zine, made in the fashion of our Quaker friends, only that
sleeves are long and ample, a la Bishop, terminated with bl
cuffs of the same material. They wear a black Italian c1
cap, with a plain border of crape, lined with black silk. ~
cap, too, is after the Quaker fashion. While in the nunner
observed that the skirt is always turned up, and fastened under
•
•
IS
waist behind with a hook and eye. We saw \hem aftetwal'd
going in procession to the cathedral, and then the skirts, I believe,
were not thus turned up; but am not quite certain.
The chapel is a,very neat apartment, well supplied with picture~,
none of which are good, and for the most part they are very bad.
The altar was richly gilded, and adorned with vases of v~rious
freshly gathered flowers. Among the relics displayed, was a
fragment cut from tho veil of the sacred statue of the Virgin, if
I do not misrccollect; of Yery great antiquity. It is carefully
framed within glass, together with the certifir.ates of its authenticity.
There are various other emblems used in the Catholic mode of
worship, as well in the Chapel as in all the principal departments
of the convent ; among which crucifixes and pictures of tho Vir-
gin were the most frequent. In several of the rooms, morl'over,
of both nunneries, were waxen dolls, dressed out in tawdry finery
of gold and silver lace, ribbons, spangles, flowers, &c., accord-
ing to the different tastes of the nuns who had made them in
honor of tho infant Saviour. To devout Protestant eyes such\\
representations cannot but be viewed with regret, as calculated to
inspire most grovelling and unworthy ideas of the great object of
adoration who was declared to be " the brightness of his Father'•
glory, and the expre• image of his person." I took a suitable
opportunity to remonstrate with one of their higher ecclesiastica,
against allowing such unworthy emblems of the second person in
the Trinity ; but he said if the nuns chose that method of honor-
ing the Saviour, it was at least ·harmless. I thought di11'erently.
From tho Grey Nunnery wo drcwo to the terrible theatre of tbe
" Awful Disclosures "-tho Hotel Dieu itself--tl•e portals of
which, from the publications ofMaria Monk and her collaborateurs
in this city, we might very well have expected to find guarded
by •• gorgons, hydras and chimerasdire." But it was not so. The
broad and ample gate-way into the yard was wide open, as OIIJ'
kind companions assured us it always had been during the day•
time, these thirty yean--and how much longer they could not telL
A very civil-spoken man met us at the door and conducted us into
tho hoapital. This now so celebrated institution fronta upon St.
••
I
14
Paul street, on the east, extending along that etreet 324 Et
feet, by 468 feet in depth on St. Joseph street, from which
\\'e entered. The whole buildings belonging to, and conn
with the establishment, include the hospital, the convent, or ,
ter, a chapel, kitchen, bake house, stab!es and a cemeter'
large garden is likewise attached. It was founded in 166
he Dutchess of Bouillon-as a hospital for the reception o
sick and diseased poor of both sexes, and without regard to
gious creeds, and is conducled'by a Superior and thirty-six :
Its funds are chiefly derived from some landed estate belongi
it, but the income is scarcely sufficient, and contributions
other sources, together with the avails of their own industry,
to augment their means of supply.
Notbwithst'lnding the favorable appearance of all that we
and the universal scepticism before spoken of existing amon~
' people, I cannot deny the fact, that the publications alread:
ferred to, had in some degree prejudiced our minds against
inmates, and rendered us suspicious of almost every thin@
were to see. On entering the first ward, Mr. F. enquired of
nurse in attendance for Miss Beckwith, one of the sisterhood
speaks English, and with whom he was acquainted. After a
moments she came and we were introduced to her. She rece
us with great kindness. Her whole appearance is extrer
agreeable. She conducted us to the chapel, through both w
of the hospital, and through the apothecary's apartment. E•
variety of disease finds alleviation here--without any quee
being asked as to sect, or country. If laboring under a di&o
which is not contagious the patient is received on application,
when restored, is dismissed without any compensation, or
questions being asked. The beds and rooms were in perfect
der, each bearing the name of a Catholic saint; a male, ifin
men's apartment, and female in that ofthe women. The sick
quietly in their respective beds, n~atly curtained ; looking 1
tho hand of friendship and female sympathy had smoothed and
ranged them. All was still and serene.
Can these walls, thought I, witness so much self-denial and .
lienee, so much toil and watching1 without expectation of fee
4 ..
15
reward on earth, and yet be the abode of vice and prolligacy which
it is a shame even to name 1 Is it possible for beings depraved
as these have been reported to be, to find that pleasure in doing
good, which sustains them amidst all their privations 1 Is it pro-
bable-is it at all reconcilable-that persons living in habits of
criminal sensuality, can be found'so disciplined in spirit as to attend
upon cases of disease most revolting, and for that class of society,
too, which exhibits disease in its most revolting features, because
. its subjects are destitute of refined feelings, and that delicacy which
conceals as much as possible what has a tendency to disgust or
offend 7 And this cou•·~e of conduct is not an occasional gush of
feeling exhibited before the world for effect, but is undertaken as
a permanent employment, from which sickness or death only can
release them. As these thoughts passed through my mind, Mr.
F. mentioned Miss Monk's book to Miss Beckwith, and asked her
if she knew the lady who had written it. She replied that the (
reputed author never had been there as a nun, though it was
possible that she might have been in the hospital, as the namea
of patients were never mquired. She said she had not read the
b~hoiigli-she 'llii(fheanformany things contained in it. She
ll&id she had herself taken the veil ten years since, and during
that time had never heard of Maria Monk. She then observed
that within the last few months strangers visiting the hospital had
often inquired if there was a nun with them named Jane Ray.
She told them she never had heard of one by that name since
abe had been there, but the question being so often put, at length
excited some curiosity, and induced her to ask thu Superior, who
told ber she had never been there, and they then bethought them~
selves of making an inquiry of Mrs. 1\l'Donel, who kept t~
Magdalen Asylum. 1\'lrs. M'D. immediately rPplied that Jane
Ray wat' then in her establishment, and that Maria Monk had
1
formerly been an inmate there also. __.J
It wu then, for the first time, and from 1\'lrs. M'Donel, if 1
•ndentood .
Miss Beckwith correctly, that they received intelligence
of the " Awful Disclosures." In continuation, she remarked, that
abo had never r11ad the book herself; but from what abe had heard
o( ita contents, she abould auppoae that no one could write aucb
•
;
•
16
details, unlees Yery depraved; and a pure-minded person.1
not have imagined them. When it was told her that the booj
\
believed by many in the states, she said " the Protestant~~
the Catholics so much, that they are willing to believe every
said against them." "But," she added, "how can they IN
such statements as these disclosures, when Mr. Perkins hi!
amined the cloister,-for he is a very decided Protestant, a
no wise favorable to our religion." Still, on asking her ,
could be permitted to extend our observations into other 11
ments, she said no. This nunnery was a cloister ; and ~
priest nor layman, man or woman, was ever permitted to
farther, unl~ss by an express order from the Bishop. Th
1
part was the New York story confirmed, that no examinatic
the nunnery itself-its heavy iron doors and dark passages
rooms of prostitution and vaults of gloom-would be allowed
a In closing this account of our first visit, however, I mu
permitted en passant to.note the fine condition and beautiful 4
of the ltpothecary's apartment. It is extensive and arrangE
a manner that would gladden the sight of the New York co
of Pharmacy. The jars and gallipots are all of the ancient tJ
lucent dark-blue and white china, of the same size and pat
rendering the· shelves perfectly uniform. Nothing could
been more neatly and beautifully arranged than fhe various
des making up the assortment of medicinal preparations in
department. The retort&, bottles, vials, and a hundred des•
tions of fancy glass, containing drops, extracts, essences, solut
&c., &c., comprising an ample store for every bodily ache
evil "which flesh is heir to," were disposed with the nicest 1
and skill. Two of the nuns are in constant attendance on
establishment, manufacturing and preparing medicine. They
cup and bleed. The physician in attendance merely prescri
and they execute his orde'rs. Two of the nuns are also in ,
stant attendance upon each ward of the hospital, night and o
they take their turns, and in a community of only thirty-six,
occasion does not seldom come round.
Thus ended our first visit to the Hotel Dieu-having ~
nothing of" masks, hatchets, racks, and vipers," nor experien
17
any thing to remind us of the 1anctum officium, of Pope lnno·
cent III., or of Torquomada. Still we bad been permitted to pro"
coed no further than the hospitals-all beyond was secret, silent
and mysterious. We bad heard no groans ; but some of the be-
lievers in Maria Monk may suppose that half a dozen infants
might have bE'Cn very gently smothered, during our visit, and
some pretty rebellious nun trodden to death b~tween two feather-
beds, for all that. Nevertheless, we took our departure, and pro-
ceeded next to the Cathedral standing a few rods farther to the
north, on the left of St. Joseph street, fronting upon Notre Dame
street, and directly upon a• diagonal line from the Hotel Dieu to
the Seminary of tho Priests-tho Cathedral well-nigh filling the
intermediate block between them. The Cathedral is a new edi·
fice, and is in some respects tho most splendid temple in the netD
world, and as said a Jato foreign traveller, O(lly surpassed by the
old in interior grandeur. Its length is 225 feet, and its br~adth e
234. It was commenced in 1824, finished in 1829, and dedicated
to tho Virgin Mary. Tho height of its walls is 112 feet. The ar-
chitecture is of t~o rich Gothic of tho 13th century. It has six
massive towers, between which is a promenade along tho roof
25 feet wide, elevated 112 feet. There are seven altars, and the
cast window behind tho grand altar is 70 feet high, by 33 feet
broad. Tho other windows are 36 feet by 10. It is surrounded
by a fino terrace, and tho chime of bells, "
tho clocks, altars, &c.
llfO comparatively rich. But as a whole, tho interior is not equal\
to the exterior, nor by any means equal, in point of taste, •plen-
dor of decoration, and beauty of its paintings to tho Cathedral
of Baltimore. This structure is larger, however, than that of
Baltfmore, being sufficiently capacious to accommodate 12,000
persons. My reasons for the particularity"ofthis description in this
place, will appear in the sequel. I attended high mua in this
noble edifice on two Sabbath mornings, before tho commence-
ment of worship in tho protestant churches. On both occasion•
the Cathedral was filled by as attentive and well-ordered a congre-
gation as I have over seen in New York. The organ is too
smnll for tho plnce ; but aidocJ by other instruments, and a full
s
•
18
choir around the great ~ltar, the muaic was aa deep, ri~
solemn.as the big " base of the ocean."
The seminary of St. Sulpice, situated upon the corner of
cois-Xavier and Noqe Dame street, opening upon the latto
directly west of the cathedral, was next visited. Thia
general residence of the priests of Montreal-~hose prllet
is, according to Maria Monk, to be continually visiting the
Dieu, for purpeses of seduction and murder, by the subterr
passage, which, if it exists, must lead directly under the stupe
pile of the cathedral, just described. This seminary extend
feet upon Notre Dame street, and 449 on Francois-Xavier 1
It was founded in 1657, by the Abbe Quetua, who waa sent c
the seminary of St. Sulpice, in Paris. The original object
institution was the education of youth, through all departmen1
eluding the higher branches of philosophy and mathematic
has an able superio;, and professors of eminence in the dif
sciences, who are said to pursue a judicious plan of gene{'l
struction. In order to exten.d its usefulness, a new .colleg
been erected by the seminary in the' Reeollet suburbs-a
and handsome structure.
I was introduced,'at the Seminary, to many ofthe clergy
some of the dignitaries of the church-among whom well
lord bishop M'Donald of Uppar Canadf and .the bishop of
River, both being on a visit to the lower province. I waa
introduced to Father Richards, who figurea in the" Awful
closures" as one of the most humane of the priests at the m1
of tho nun St. Francis.-Father Richards ia a short fat perso1
has a mild blue eye, and is exceedingly fair-spoken. He was
a methodist minister in Virginia; but ;conceiving the proje
converting the catholic clergy of Montreal to the true fait
proceeded thither for that purpose. But in the end he wa
badly off as the count O'Reilly, who went to take Algiers-
giers took him! Bishop M'Donald is a Scotch gentleman o.
old school; affable, intelligent, and for a Catholic, not intole1
He allows his people to read tho Bible, and gives away all
he can obtain for that object. In passing down the St. Lawr,
with him to Quebec, I found him to be a most agreeable tra
ing companion.
19
The subject of Maria Monk's" Awful Discloaurea" having been
introduced at the Seminary, those of the clergy who spoke linglish
entered freely upon it, without hesitation, and with an air of con-
scious innocence. Having intimated that there was nothing of, in,
or about, tbe Hotel Dieu, respecting which they desired conceal-
ment, the idea fint seriously occurred to me of putting their sin-
cerity, and that of tho nun1, to the test, by applying for permis-
sion to visit the cloister, and make a thorough scrutiny. They
repeated what had been said to us by tho nuns, that no penon
could be permitted to enter the cloister without an order from
the Bishop of Montreal, who was thon absent from tho city.
But Bishop M'Donald and Father Richards entered at once into
my views, and promised their good offices in obtaining the neces-
sary order, as soon as tho bishop should rqturn. I assured them
that my only desire was to arrive at the truth, and that if I entered
upon tho duty, I lhould not be satisfied without making thorough
work or it. And thus I left them.
The more I reflected upon the subject, the more evident did it
seem, that tho cause of truth and juatico required at my hands an
investigation of this kind, placed there as I was, without any
previous design of making such a visit, and wholly uncommitted,
and unconnected with any of the parties to tho controve..Sy. If
i
tho priests and the nuns, were actually guilty of the fearful prac-
tices imputed to them, tho truth ahould be known. If, on tho
contrary, tho horrible stories respecting them wore not true, tho
slander, whether originating in the malice of a wicked woman,
or tbo distempered imagination of ono who added insanity to her
frailty, ahould bo arrested. In any event, tl•e Catholics were as
much entitled to justice, as any other aect of Christians; and I
could not but hope and believe, that in the event of being allowed
to muko a thorough inveatigation of the premises, I could not
only arrive at a satisfactory conclusion myself, but should ba able
to aid in giving tho public mind io my own country ·a proper di-
rection. Should it in the end appear that Maria Monk bad told
the truth, no punishment ever invented by the HolylJtqtAiri,_
would be too severe for such lustful, bloody, and hypocritical
villany. But, on the odaor hand, should it be arparent that they
•
we1·e tho victims of calumny, it was high time tha~ the cJ
should be at an end ; since I could perceive nothing mort
mendable in Protestant, than in Catholic persecution. Enu
ing and pondering these views, I sought and obtained an intE
with the Rev. Mr. PERKINs, of the American Presbyterian d
the able, zealous and pious successor of tho lamented CE
11us in that city ; and a son of the late Hon. Enoch Perki
Hartford.-Mr. P. warmly approved of my design. Ht
himself visited the cloister, as one of a committee, in J uiJ
was smarting under the cruel attacks of the friends of Maria
in this city. He was therefore exceedingly anxious that I 1
l1ave the testimony of 'my own senses, to the correctness <
conclusions at which he had arrived, or discover to him his
if he was wrong. He did not hesitate to express to me hi:
feet conviction, however, that an examination would bring:
the unshaken conclusion, that, however bad the Catholics
t be in other respects, or in other countries, they are entire!,
nocont in this matter. There was no mistake in his opinion
the subject. He had resided there several years ; was wei:
quainted with the general character of the priests and pet
as also by common fame with the character of Maria Monk ;
he did not hesitate to pronounce bar disclosures the most E
and atrocious collection oflies that could be conceived. Thu1
lieving-nay, thus knowing-be had endeavored as strongly
could by letters to the writer of Maria'!! book, to prevent its
lication. He had admonished him of the falsity of her tales
implored him to desist.
Other gentlemen, of different churches, were also consultE
Their opinions were the same, both as it respected the charact
the disclosures, and the propriety of my proposed examina
The result was, that I resolved on making the attempt ; ant
turning to Montreal from Quebec on Saturday morning the
ultimo, I was informed that an order for the admission of
Frothingham, Mrs. Stone and myself into the cloister, had I
issued by the bishop on the preceding day. A gentleman 1
Richmond, (Va.) Mr. Shepard, and his lady, having unders
our design, obtained an order through a friend, on that mofll
to be permitted to accompany us in the visitation.
il
The editors of the Montreal Ga:r.ette and the Ami d" Pe»ple
in calling for the present narrative, have both taken occasion to
introduce the name of the Rev. Mr. Clary, a congregational cler-
gyman recently from this state, and now the pastor of a congre-
gation in that city. Regretting as I do, that the name ofthat gen-
tleman should have been thus brought before the public, the duty
is nevertheless devolved upon me of making on explanation, in
justice to both of us, and to all. On the morning of tho day
appointed for the exploration of the riunnery, Mr. Clary favored
me with a call, and gavo me the first information I had received,
that his nome had been associated with mine, in tho order for
opening tho cloister of tho Hotel Dieu for our inspection. It is
not necessary, were it oven proper, to give a detail ofall the con•
versation that passed betwt>en us. An abstract will be all-suffi-
cient for the purpose in hand. Mr. Clary informed me frankly,
that his position was peculiar, and he seemed apprehensive that
were ho to accept tho invitation, it might place him in an un-
pleasant situation. He said his name had already appeared in
some of tho New York publications in connection with tho con-
troversy on this subject-a letter of his having been published, in
which he had declared that admittance into the cloister had been
denied him ; and ho evidently apprehended that the present spon-
taneous offer had been made to entrap him. He said that that
letter was strictly true, as he had onco boon promised admission
into tho Nunnery, but when he subsequently applied for permis-
sion to search tho building in company with Maria Monk, ho had
been refused. llo was particularly desirous to know whot~er it
was my intention to make merely a cursory and superficial exam-
ination of the premises, or to make thorough work of it. In reply,
I assured him repeatedly, that my determination was inflexible,
to make as thorough an investigation as could be desired-that tho
priests had given me to understand that every facility for that
end should be granted, and that I was rc10lved to scrutinize the
whole atructure, in oll ita ramifications, from garret to cellar--to
lift every trap door-to inspect every secret nult--41nbar every
rloor-scarch every collar-and thread evory subterranean pu-
!'agc.-!tlr. Clary did not admit that be was a bclict:er in Mils
Monk's book, but he wat evidently not a disbdie"et. A
the objections he started, was the probability that were 1
make the visit, we should be called upon to write upon the su
To which I replied that I could perceive no objection to
should the examination be full, and free, and fair, we
say so. And, on the other hand, should we leave the ia
tion unsatisfied, there need be no hesitation in proclaiming
fact likewise. But he intimated his apprehensions that we al
be deceived by tho wiles ofthose with whom we were to ha
do, and repeated his reluctance to place himself in a positior
would compel him to write any thing upon the subject. We .
ed before he had determined what course to pursue, with ar
dcrstanding that I should call upon him in tho.course oftho n
ing, and apprise him of the hour or entering upon the invea
tion. This engagementwas fulfilled, but Mr. C. was undeter
ed whether to go or not. Being very anxious that he should ll
one of the party, I urged him to accompany us--but was ob;
to leave him again in a state ofuncertainty. At the hour ap(
ted he called at my hdtel, and stated that on tho whole he tho
it best to decline the invitation. I hinted to him the uuplea
dilemma in which he might be involved by the .refusal.-Butt
purpose. He retired, and I saw him no more.
The hour appointed for commencing our researches, was
o'clock, and the residue of the morning was devoted to tho 11
of tho latest edition of the "Awful Disclosures," which is
companied by the drawings of the premises as laid down in
tablets of Maria Monk's memory, and for a copy ef which I
indebted to tho politeness. of Mr. Clary. A few passages
special reference were marked in pencil, and tho leaves tur
down at others. But my determination was to make the exam:
tion book in hand, and refer to its pages as occasion might rcqt
Such was the course pursued.
Punctual to the appointment, we arrivod at five minutes a
two, and were received in tho • apothecary' by the assist
superior Miss Weeks' an American lady, and two other alst'
who had boon designated to attend us. I inquired for I\
Beckwith, also from the Unitod States,whoso parents reside in
2S
neighborhood of Batavia; she waa immediately sent for, and soon
made her appearance. Our ~ting was like tbat of old frieuda.
She is certainly one of the most prepossessing ladies with whom
I have ever met. Her countenance is full of intelligence, and ex-
pressive of great tenderness and sympathy, and the tones of her
voice harmonise with these qualities. I remarked to them that I
presumed from what had been dropped at our former visit, they
were fully apprised of the object of our call-being, if possible,
to test the truth or falsehood of Maria Monk's publications in
New York. I informed them that I should be satiafied with
nothing abort of a minute examination of any and every part of
the institution. I said to them, frankly, that I had been admoniah-
ed of their arts of deception, and bad been told that they would
mislead .me at every turn, and throw dust in my eyes at their
own pleasure ; and that consequently I trusted they would be
noithur diapleaaed nor surprised if the scrutiny I was about to
institute should seem over-nice and particular. They replied
that it was their desire to have the investigation satisfactory to me,
and that tho keys and their auiatance were at my dispoaal. The
Lady Superior, (siater Lapilleur Devoiay,) they informed me, wu
confined to her apartment by indispoeition-otherwise it would
have been her pleasure to receive us in person. She would, bow-
ever, be happy to receive us in her own apartment.
Wo then commenced oar travels and researches-being soon
joined by several additional members of the sisterhood, who
accompnniod us through our examination. Others wo met in
their respective apartmentl, busied in their regular occupationa.
llaving passed through tho hospitala u before, wo entered the
cloister, and proceeded through the various apartments of tbe
first atory. Every door, of every room, closet antJ pantry, wu
readily opened at my request, and there was not an apartment, in
either story, which I did not examine with the closest scrutiny,
from floor to ceiling, to note whether there had or had not been
any alterations-any removal of partitions, closing of doors, new
painting, or auspicious whitewashing, or any 1\Jch things-not
forgotting ono truth, inserted by tho amanuensis of Maria, in
the sequel of her latoat edition, that " IDieate,er alteratior11 .ay
24
bt attempted, there are change~ fiJhich no mason or ctJrJ
can make, and effectually concet«." But in this story
had been no changes of any kind. The work and tho fu
wore all, evidently, time worn and ancient.
There were, however, trap-doors in several of the apartme
several more than are specified in the drawings of Maria D
Every one of these trap-doors I opened myself, and into •
one of the vaults I descended, sometimes alone, but mon
quently accompanied by Messrs. Frothingham and She
These vaults were usually store-rooms for the accommodati
the particular apartments immediately above. Every wal
carefully examined, both as to its appearance, the texture <
mortar, &c. &c. After these examinations were ended, tb
ters took us into the yards, and conducted us into the celllirl
vaulted rooms. The same scrutiny was every where made.
the texture of the mortar .tried by an iron-pointed cane. I
door and passage way was opened and examined, with the
results.
We now re-entered the convent, and ascended to the
story, examining every apartment with the most deliberate
eagle-eyed.attention. We visited the cells of the nuns, an(
amined their furniture. The unsophisticated reader may per
think these " cells" are very dark and gloomy places, with 1
floors, and locks and bars, and grates. No such thing. '1
are neat little apartments, containing a single bed with 1
curtains and counterpanes, two old-fashioned high-backed ch
a little desk, with a small case for books, and within which ii
a crucifix. The books, 10 far as we looked at them were sue
good protestants might become still better by reading. Ha
ascended to the attic, we had now examined every part ell
one of the.long attic rooms, into which I looked carefully thn
a glass window at the head of the stairway-Miss Weeks ba
forgotten to bring tbe key to the door. The room was usee
drying clothes, for which purpose, as it was well lighted, I
the necessary fixtures, and I did not think it necessary to sene
lady down all the stairs for the key.
15
Soon after we commenced our investigations, we wero pre-
aented to the lady superior, at the door of her apartment, into
which we were admitted. She was suffering from an attack of
rheumatism. She is a,lady of dignity and refinement of manner;
somewhat advanced in years. She received us with the utmost
urbanity, nay, with cordiality; and regretted not h.eing able to
accompany ua through the inatitution. Indeed the nuns have all
the ease, simplicity, dignity, and grace which distinguish the high
bred and truly genteel. I have rarely seen so many ladies togeth-
er, possessing, in so groat a degree, the charm of manner. They
were all affability and kindness. CheerfulneBB was universal, and
very unlike the notions commonly entertained of the gloom ofthe
cloister. Their faces were too often wreathed in smiles to allow
us to suppose they were soon to 888ist i!l smothering their own
children, or that those sweet spirits were soon to be trodden out
of their bodies by the rough-shod prieats of the seminary. The
costume of the black nuns is different from what I had supposed.
The dress is of black bombazine, with ample skirt, and bishop
aleeves ; the neck dreas consists of a large square white linea
collar, reaching up to the chin; to this is attached a strap paaiag
across the top of the head, to wffch the b.mdeau is fastened. This
is a white linen band bound round the fo~hoad, and reaching dowa
to the eye-brows, so as to conceal the hair entirely.-To this the
black veil iw attached, which is mada of a large double square of
black Italian crape, and reaches from the top of the bandeau hal{
way down the skirt behind. The face is not at all covered by the
veil, nor the front of the person. The skirts are turned up like
thote of the grey nuns. The ttnd eue.hla is dignified, becoming,
and rather graceful.
In the recreation room we were introduced to the novices, some
four or five. Tile conversation wu gay and cheerful, and 10
pleasant was their laughter at some of our remarks, that I asked
them in badinage, what right they had to laugh-that in such a
place their business must be to leok grave and gloomy, and never
amile I The greater number oftbe nuns are advanced in life, and
some of them are very aged. In the infirmary of the cloister we
were introduced to quite an aged member of the community.
4
!6
Although an invalid for many years, she was cheerful and Ill
able ; receiving u~ with marks of kind consideration. Indc
have never witnessed in any community or family more unaffi
cheerfulness and good humor, nor more satisfactory eviden
entire confidence, esteem and harmony among each other.
Among the instances of innocent sportiveness which occu
proving that the merry mischief of woman does not always I
her on taking the veil, was the following: I bad been diligt
looking for the" purgatory," as laid down in-Maria's book.
sisters told me I must find it. At length we came to a small •1
ment, less ancient than the other wood-work, built out fron
wall, in one corner ~f a large room in the apartment in w
the hired women, seamstresses, spinners, &c., were at 1
The door was locked aod there was no window, except a ICJ
hole cut through the partition deals, high up from the floor. "J
I exclaimed; "Miss Weeks what have you here1" " Nothillf
aaid she with an arch smile ;-" nothing-but--a poor nun d
penance l" "That spinning wheel," I remarked, "would be i
ance enough for many young ladies in our country. But give ut
keys" "No," she said; "you must look for yourself." Taki
chair, I thereupon climbedup toth,dark hole,and thrusting myI
through, discovered that the mysterious cell was a store roou
loaf-sugar hanging round the walls, and a few barrels of ~
family supplies. And this was all the " purgatory" disco'tl
by us.
And here, perhaps, I may as well remark as elsewhere, tit
the course of our inspection I took frequent occasion to reft
tho drawings and the pages of the "awful disclosures," and ]
constrained to say, that I was utterly unable, throughout, to di11
any mark, or sign, or trace of resemblance to any thing she
l;tid down or described, other than the external localities, wl
rlobody could well mistake. But so far as it regards the wl
interior, neither I nor my companions could discover, from
drawings, the least evidence tlat the author had ever been wi
tbe walls of the cloister. By way of excusing the inaccuracie
or rather the total 1111d all but universal dissimilarity of the ma
the friends of .Maria first assert that great changes have been m
in the building ; and if that is not sufficient, they imploringly ex-
claim-" Oh what can a poor girl dot We do not pretend to
perfect accuracy -but she has given drawings from recollection,
the best tha't were in her power." To the first excuse it may
be replied, without fear of contradiction from any one but Ma-
ria herself, that there have been no changes. To the second it
may be well said that the girl must be an incorrigible blockhead
not to be able to remember somewhat of the interior of a house in
which she pretends to have been so long a resident, and in some
apartments of which she maintains that such terrible scenes have
been enacted. But she does not ; and it is a little remarkable
that the only internal resemblance to,the diagrams she has given,
are said to be found in the recent Catholic Magdalen asylum 'of
Mrs. McDonell, which was dissolved about a week before our
visit. and in which the celebrated Jane Ray remained until it wu
closed.
Having descended again to the apothecary, Miss Weeks informed
us that the task was over. I told her that there was another
cellar under the wing in which we then were, which I had not
explored. She remarked that u that did not properly belong to
the convent, my permission did not extend to it. For a moment
my suspicions were awakened. I replied that I must explore
that cellar, and the trap-door which I had just discovered near
where we were, or my work was not done. Miss Beckwith
was thereupon despatched to the Superior for permission, which
. wu immediately and readily granted. The task of exploration
was forthwith undertaken and executed. It was most thoroughly
done, and we were now about to take leave, when I discovered
another cellar door, leading from the outside directly into that
part of the building from beneath which, according to the plan
of the book, tho secret subterranean passages lead to the seminary
one way, and tho Congregational (School) Nunnery the other. I
asked if I might examine that cellar 1 Certainly, they said;
but at it is merely the kitchen cellar, we did not suppose you
cared about looking into it. An Irish laborer near by was then
dircctcd to go into the kitchen for the keys, and Mr. Frothingham
and myself were inducted by Pat into the receptacle of potatoes
and tnrnips--for such it proved to be. But here, true eDA
we discovered what Maria calls " a great, gloomy iron dt
To be sure, it was in quite a different place from tba~ desig.
by her. But it was locked, and would not yield to my atte
upon it. Perhaps, thought I, we shall find the range of prison
here-poor nuns with gags, and a charnel house of skeleto1
told Pat be must open that door. Well, he aaid, ho muat
upon the other side--and away he went. In a moment 1
the massive iron turned upon ita ponderous binges, and lo
were-let into the daylight on the other side, in a store
which we had examined before. There was al1o a kitchen
in this cellar-small, and furnished with an old iron pump
other rather dilapidated fixtures. Not supposing that tbe
would throw their murdered sisters and children into the SJ
from which they draw their water for their tea and cookiJ
did not descend. The walls, however, as before, were
thoroughly examined, into every nook and corner-and I
compelled now to conclude my subterranean researchea, wi:
being able to stroll under the deep foundationa of the cathe
and startle the priests of the aeminary by coming up througb
of their own trap-doors !
I have already remarked, that tho cellars in genorai were
for store-rooms. In one of them into which I descended thr,
a trap-door, I found a number of large stone jugs. RecoUet
that Maria bad spoken of some vessels, which from her des•
tion, must have been carboys of sulphuric acid, used, as she
mates, with lime, to destroy the remains of the murdered victim
examined these jugs. From the odor of the corks, and the a
of the jugs themselves, I presumed their contents had been sya
essences, and medicinal decoctions for the sick and the apo
cary. The only lime that I discovered, was jn a bot-bed
gardener had been making, for radishes, I believe.
Thus ended this examination, in which we were most acti·
engaged for about three hours. The result is the most thorc
conviction that Maria Monk is an arrant impostor-that she
never a nun, and was never within the walls of the cloister of
Hotel Dieu-and consequently that her diaclosures are wholly
'
unequivocally, from beginning to end, untrue-either the Tag&[iea
of a distempered brain, or a aeries of calumnies unequalled in the
depruity of their invention, and unsurpassed in their enormity.
There are those, I am well aware, who will not adopt this coo-
elusion, though one should arise from the dead and attest it-
even though "Noah, Daniel, and Job" were to speak from the
slumber of ages and
1
confirm it.
These will ask why, if the "disclosures" were not true, the
nunnery was not at once thrown open to the public-lhy its doon
were so long clOJed, and why did silence .u to those chargea 10
long reign within ita walls 1 There are ~~everal reaaona : In the
fint place, the tales were so Improbable of themaelvea, and the
character of Maria Monk henelf so utterly worthless and deteat-
able, that it was not deemed necessary to pay the least regard to
them.-They did not suppose in Montreal, either within or with-
out the convent, that there could be found in the United State~,
or elsewhere, persona so weak. and so credulous as to lend the least
credence to them. But the beat answer is found in the aensibla
remarks of the nona themlf'lves. "You see," said Miu Weelu,
" how impossible it would be for us to conduct this establishment,
if visiten were usually admitted into the cloister for no other o~
ject than the gratification of their own idle curiosity-more
aapecially such crowda of visitors as we should have had after
the publication of the work." Proceeding with her conversation,
abe added-" We are constantly employed, and each bas her
portion of occupation. If our labon are interrupted, our sick most
aulfer, and the whola business of the establishment come to aa
end." And besides all this-a man's bouse is hia castle, and what
man or woman among us-or which of our hospitals, or public
inatitutiona, would consent to auapend their labon, and relinquish
all their comforts, to gratify successive awarms of Canadians or
otben, whose curiosity might be atimulated by the acandaloua talea
of one of Mr. M'Dowell'a pupilat
I• answer to my objection, that the drawnings furniahed by
Maria 1\lonk. do not, ao far as I or any one else bu yet been able
to discover, correspond with the internal fixtures and localities, i&
bu been aid, and will be aaid again, and apin, that great altera-
•
tions have been made in the.nunnery-that masons and carpe:
anJ painters, have been at work these nine months; and that
newlyescapednun-(FrancesPartridge)declaresthatsomanyi
ations have been made during that period, that she should seal
.recognize the fiaws herself. To this I answer, most emphatic
IT Is NOT TRUE. There have been no such alterations, eitht
the building within, or the vaults beneath, or the walls wid
All things remain as they were. Let it he.re be borne in 1
" that whatever alterations may be attempted, there are cha.
which no mason ur carpenter can make and effectually conct
Impressed with this truth; and it is almost the only one I I
been able to discover in the l:iook, I went prepared upon
point. 1 thought it not unlikely that I might be mystified
paint and whitewash. But it was not so. There is not an··
ward w'all, nor a cellar, nor a vault, that has been whitewasl
The mason-work is all, every where, of stone-work; ancient
massive. The mortar, moreover, has become every where so
durated in the lapse of time, as to be impenetrable as the sto11
serves to cement together. N~t builder could break up an
stone wall, ·or partition, and rem~ve it, or stop up a vault,
build up agate-way, without leaving indubitable evidence ofthe 1
work, and the alterations. Could any builder in New York b1
up the doors and windows of the Bridewell, without th~ use
paint or whitewash, so as to prevent detection, or so as to m1
the new work in all respects correspond with the old 1 'J
thing is impossible.
Again ; Maria Monk has laid down the track by which she s:
she escaped, and has given a narrative of tho way she proceec
to get out, which, in the first place, the walls. she must h1
climbed, prove to have been impossible, and to which the inter.
regulations of the house, as I believe, give a positive contradicti'
By the course she has marked out on the map, she must ha
come first to within a few feet of the broad gate, always open
the day time, leading into St. Joseph street. In the yard whE
she then was, there are various doors opening into several pa
of the buildings. Well-having been near the broad gate, s
-says she wheeled round to the right, almost crossed her vack
81
tuming a wing, and finally _escaped through the garden ground•
into Jean Baptiste street. Now this whole tale is not only im-
probable, but absolutely impossible. There is no passage that
way. She must have leaped a succession of walls; the outer
wall some twenty feet high ; walls which no unaided mortal, man
or woman, could have surmounted.
When reminded of these facts by Messrs. Jones and Le Clerc,
gentlemen from Montreal who. bad an interview with Maria at
Messrs. Van Nostrand & Dwight's book store, in August, she
resorted to the usual subterfuge, that there were a door and a gate
there then,; but intimating that they had been altered! Again I
say it is not true! The walls have stood a century ; thero was
no gate, and no passage-way has been filled up. As well might Al-
derman Woodruffsend a bevy of masons to build up the portals of
the City Hall, and the people of New York not know it, as that
such works could have been executed in Montreal, and the people
of Montreal kept in ignorance of the fact. But whence this great
difficulty of escaping~ There are plenty of doors and gates, and
every nun has a key at her side. Their restraint is voluntary, and
they can break their vow and retire if they please. Or, if their
health will not bear the confinement, they can leave after the
white veil, and before taking the black. Such instances are not
rare. The whole tale is one of falsehood.
Again, as to the secret passage under ground to the Seminary.
Whence its necessity, since the gate is always open, and the
hospitals with communicating doors to the cloisters always acces-
sible T Ifsuch passage had ever existed, it must neceuarily have
led under the present foundation of the stupendous cathedral before
described. The foundations of this structure were laid broad and
dcep.-Thoy dug until they came to water, and had such a path-
way existed, it would have been discovered then. Mr. Froth-
ingham, and hundreds of others, passed the spot daily, and viewed
the progres~ of the workmen continually. Yet no such passage
was ever seen or heard of. And there has been no filling up.
There wa!l indeed an old passage way to the river-perhaps from
tho old French church in Notre Dame-street, now pulled down,
constructed according to tradition, for use in time of war-per-
• .
S!
hapt for the procurement of water-but that has long y.,.
been tilled up. It was probably some reminiscence of this ~
fair, that gave the hint for the story of the passage to the semi
But no such passage exists.
Again, as to the births and murders of children: In the
place, the whole tale is improbable, both as to the' murd
nuns and ir.fantl. Do murderers cluster in numbers to perp1
their butcheries, and thus purposely furnish the means of co
tion 1-Would they be so foolish, and so mad, as to keep a WI
record of their murders 1 And would so many mothers COl
to strangle their own offspring 1 Can a woman forget her 1
ling child 1 It is not so ! The voice of indignant nature riM
to proclaim the falsehood I And · moreover, as to the numt
novices and infants : Miss Monk states, that on a certain occa
abe discovered a book in the Superior's custody, containing tiJ
cord of the admissions of·novices, and births of infants who
murde.red. And twenty-five of these pages were written l
containing about fifteen entries on a page. " Several of 1
pages," she says, were occ'upied with the records of the birtl
the murdered infants. And all the records were either of ad
lions or births. Now, we wiU allow twenty pages for the rec
of admissions of novices, and five for the births of the murd
children. · Fifteen entries on a page, twenty pages, will
us the number of TBREB B11NDREJ) admissions in two years.-
there are but thirty-six nuns in all, and seldom more than
or five novices, or postulants.-A.gain, as to the infants-iJ
allow five pages to have been devoted to these records of bi
we have SEVENTY-FIVE births during the same period! I Now,
have already said, there are but thirty-six nuns : more
half are " past age." Certainly not more than fifteen of 1
could " in the natural course of human events," become motl
Taking Maria's statements, therefore as correct data, and eac
these fifteen nun~triking the average-must give birth to
and a half children every year I ! A most prolific race, tru
What nonsense, and how great the popular credulity to swallo1
But I weary in the exposure of impossibilities.-Nor is it
cesaary to proceed farther with them. I might indeed write a
•
3S
lume as large as her own, in the exposure of the multitudinous
inconsistencies, and contradictions of the "awful disclosures."
But" the game would not be worth the candle." And besides,
with the ample refutation I have given the great and essential
features of her work, the minor and; less important fabrications
fall to the ground of course. I will therefore now close this pro-
tracted narrative, by e,xpressing my deliberate and solemn opi-
nion, founded not only upon my own careful examination, but
upon the firmest convictions of nearly the entire population of
Montreal-embracing the great body of the most intelligent evan-
gelical Christians, THAT MARIA MONK IS AN ARRANT
IMPOSTOR, AND HER BOOK IN ALL ITS ESSEN-
TIAL FEATURES A TISSUE OF CALUMNIES. How-
ever guilty the Catholics may be in other respects, or in other
countries, as a man ofhonor and professor of the Protestant faith,
I MOST SOLEMNLY BELIEVE THAT THE PRIESTS
AND NUNS ARE INNOCENT IN THIS MATTER.
Naw-You, Octobel' 8, 1836.
INTERVIEW
WITH MARIA Mol'fK AND FRAl'fCES PARTRIDGE.
After the copy of tho foregoing narrative was placed in tho
bauds ofthe printer, at the urgent solicitation of some oftho friends
of Maria Monk, I havo had an interview with her, together with
the newly escaped nun, as she calls .herself, Frances Partridge,
wbo has arrived in season to confirm all Maria's statements, and
add diven other tale• of terror of her own. The result is, that,
so far from giving me reason to alter a single line that I have
written, I would add to the force of my contradictions of tho ca-
lumnies contained in tho " Awful Disclosures," if language would
allow of it ; for if I IM:fore had entertained the least lingering
!j
84
fragment of a suspicion, that I could in any respect have bee1
ceived, the interview would have done all away. The frie•
Maria have looked upon the arrival and confirmatory atatel
of Miu Partridge as a god-send : but if they are ner hl'OUI
their right minds upon this subject, they will lament in bittll
of heart, that they ever had any thing to do with either. In1
that the public may be enabled to judge u to the credibili
those wretched women, from their own teatimony, I procec
give a succinct account of the interview referred to. We
by my own appointment, (after repeated invitations,) at the I
of the Rev. Doct. Brownlee, at half past 4 o'clock P.M. of F1
last. The two pretended fugitives were attended by the ·
Messrs. Brownlee, Bourne, and Slocum, and by three lay-ga
men, who feel a deep interest in this controversy, and of 11
one was the writer ofMaria Monk's" Awful Disclosures." 1
was also another lady present.-The pretended nuna •
aeated aide by side, in close proximity, able and willing, a
event proved, to aid and assist each other by suggestions if nt
sary. After an introdu.ction and a pause of a moment, the com
sation was commenced, I believe, by the Rev. Mr. Slocum,
guardian of Miss Monk, and with whom Miss Partridge is
now residing. Mr. S. began by a series of preliminary quest
to the following effect.
" You have recently been in Montreal, I am tcld ~"
"Yes."
" How were you pleased t"
"Very well."
" Did you see the Re.. Mr. Clary t"
"Yes."
\
"I am surprised that he has not written to me: I have l
expecting letters from him for some time. Did you see mue
bim1"
"I saw him three timca."
" Did you visit any nunneries~"
"I did."
" Which of them 1"
"Two ; the Grey Nuns, and the Hotel Dieu."
35
"' Which il the largelll of the two~,.
"The convent of the Grey Sisters occupies the most ground, I
belieTe."
"Are you not mistaken t The Black Nunnery is nry large."
" True : but I believe the grounds of the other are of the
greatelll eliteat.''
" Well : where did you go next t"
" To the Hotel Dieu."
•• Which way did you enter itt"
"Through the broad gate, in St. Joseph street."
By .M"us Monk. " You found younelf among a number of out-
buildings there 1"
" Yes : SeTeral."
Thus far I had submitted to the questioning, because the pre-
liminaries were not material. Another question was now put to
me, I dlink by Mr. Slocum, the effect of which would have been
to make me open the doors of the conYent to them. This was
not the plan I bad adjusted in my own mind, to bring the Ycracity
of the pretended nuna to the teat. My reply to the question was
u foUowa:-
" Gentlemen, I did not come here to be catechised. I have
answered thus far cheerfully. But I am neither a party in this
matter, nor a witneu. I came hither on invitation, to meet these
ladies, and hear what they and you have to say. My only object
is to arrive at the troth u to tho matter in hand."
To which there was a general reply from the gentlemen, that
that was also their only object.
After a pause, and a few indifferent remarks as to the emllar-
raument of the position in which we were all placed, Maria Monk
spoke up quite pertly :-
"I should think that such an old man as you, Mr. Stone, would
Dot be afraid to speak to such girls as we [or before us upon this
subject, I am not certain as to tho words.] ·
"Not 10 Yery old, Mia Monk: how could you say so 1 I have
Dot a grey hair yet I"
Jlu• Jltnalt: But can't you tell us how you found the nun~~ery t
We should like to bow IOIDething about it, u you have been tllere
10 lnor since we have.
S6
" So I suppose. But I don't choose to be questioned abc
now."
Another briefpause then ensued. The truth was, I bad re84
in my own mind, ifcalled to examine the pretended nuns, to
them upon two or three definite points, so simple that they c
not be misunderstood, and of such a nature as would most li
test the question at once, whether or not they were acquai
with the institution. It would indeed have been a pretty atl'ai
me to have given a lecture upon the internal struct11re and p
of the institution, from which these women-impostors :
doubted not they were-might derive facts and hints for
proving their plausibility, and thus serve to aid them in kee
up the deception. It was a trap in which I was not to be CBI
However, after looking at each other a few seconds, and thl
terchange around the circle of a few words of no importan'
finding that the interview was likely to result in nothing, I
them, if it was their desire, I would break the silence by aski
few questions ; to which all assented. The following is the a
ofthe examination that ensued, and nearly in the very words.
Question by Mr. Stone. Miss Part1·idge,you are lately frou
Hotel Dieu 1
Miss Partridge. I am.
Qu. Well, Miss Partridge, about these alterations that 1
been going on in the nunnery ; I am told that you say they 1
been so extensive, and the place is so much changed, that you W•
hardly know it yourself1
AM. Yes, it is so.
Qu. Very well: Be so good as to tell me which of the "
in the cellar has been built during this season~
Am. A wall across the East side of the cellar.
Qu. The East side 1 You are quite sure, Miss Partridge·
Ans. Yes.
Qu. What kind of a wall is it ~
Ans. It was a wall--
Qu. Of stone, I suppose 1
Aas. Yes.
Very well ; all the walls are of stone, of course.
87
Q~ Now u to the pl~tstering of the ceiling-Do you bow
any thing of that t
A,.,. Tho ceiling was all newly plastered, and partly down oa
the wall, where it broke oft'. You could see ' a blue or green
streak where the new plaster was joined on.
By Ih. BrMDnlee. Was it light in the cellar 10 that yoa
could aee7
~~~~. Yes: perfectly light.
By Mr. Sto?U. Thn cellars are all very well lighted, Doctor.
Qu. Miss Partridge, you aro quite certain of all this t
AM. Yea.
Gentlemen, it is important to pay attention to these points.
Q•e.tion by Mil• Partridge. Did you go up aU the stain t
Am. I believe I did.
Qu. by Mils P. Did you go up the long stairway leading from
Notre Dame Streett
Aru. The stair way, did you say, leading from Notre Dame
street! .Are yoo quite sure 1
At this i01tant Maria Monk jogged her, and interposed-" The
congregational nunnery, you mean !"•
Mr. Stone. I am talking to Miss Partridge, Miss Monk. Yoa
are certain, Miss Partridge, thatit is the long stair-way leading from
tho Hotel Dieu into Notro Dame street 1
•Tho connnt of La Conpgation de Notre Dame,iain Notre Dame~tree~,
and fi>rms a range of building• t34 feet in front, and 433 in depth, along SL
Jean llaptieto atrect; besides the principal edifice, it contain• numerous de-
tached building., and a large garden. The Hotel Dieu 1tands on the ieutb
or South East comer of a large block, formed by St. Paul street on the Eut,_
St. Jean llapti1testreeton tho North, Notre Dame Streetonthe W01t, and St.
Joseph streeton tho South. Tho Congregational nunnery1tand1onthe North,
or north wcat comer of tho block fronting on Notre Dame 1treet. Thua the two
nunncriet1 aro ontho opposite 1ide1 ofthe block, and at diagonally oppolite cor-
nerw-one fronting tu the Eut, and the otherto theW01t. The Congregational
nuoery ia compoHCI of.my Siaten, and the object ofthe inltitation i• f-Ie
iuatrac:tion ia ill different branch01. The bulinea11 of the Siaten ia gi.U.g ia-
atroction ; and they often tend miuionarie• into diJTerent parta or the Diatriet
to take charge of pari~h school•. It bu formerly been the u11wi11 P.JUtiee
of many protoltanll in the United StatCI, to send lheir daughten to thia nun-
nery lOr lhcil education.
S8
.An•. Yes-that is the one. [or words equinlent.)
Gentlemen, these inquiries are important, and must be IU
mind.
Que.tior& by Mr. Stone.-Well, Miss Partridge, we wiU
to the cellars again : Pray tell me which of the cellan uod4
hospital bas been the latest whitewaahed, duriag the pi
season 7
Ans. Why-they have all been whitewashed this aumma
Qu. What-all the vaults and cellan t Are you quite·
Miss Partridge t
Ans. Yes: all ofthem have been thoroughly whitewashed
Qu. Are you not mistaken about all being whitewashed1
Au. No : I know it, for I helped to whitewash them .._
Why, (turning to Miss Monk) Maria, you have helped me to1
wash them, bav'nt you t
To which I understood Maria to assent.
This e:i.amination of the latest pattern t • an escaped D1JIIi
sufficient. I told her that that was enough, and turning t
friends I remark.ed-Gentlemen, that woman has not been il
Hotel Dieu at all. She is an impostor. Sbe is imposing f
hoods upon you. I assure you, upon my honor, and fro11
own personal knowledge and observation, that all abe has tO
here is false. There has been DO new wan built where abe
scribes, or in any other place. I have examined every iw
ground. There have been none of the alterations of which
speaks-not the removal of a wall, a partition, or a board.
does not know, gentlemen, even where the Convent is sit•
for she has located it on the wrong street, and on the wrong
of a very large block. Three times baa she said there is a I
stairway, and a passage from the Convent directly into Nc
Dame street,-whereas the Convent is far away from that sb
without any opening or communication thither. But, more I
all, gentlemen, on the subject of the whitewashing. All that
bu said is false. Not a single cellar, or vault, of that ConY
has tfler been whitewashed I The walls are as dark and bar
lime as when they were first built, a century ago. This fat
know, from having just examined every one of them with
89
closest scrutiny. And yet she says she helped to whitewash them~
and Maria, too, says abe hu formerly helped her ! It is all falae,
gentlemen.
Qrumon by Dr. Brt~~DJ~lee.-But, Miss Partridge, ~ow man1
stories are there, underground 7
.Atu. Only two, underground. Oh, I believe the lower one
underground hu not been whitewashed.
By Mr. 8t0ftl!.-That does not help the matter at all, Doctor-
In the fint place there is no such thing as two stories underground.
And in the second, the first and only story underground has never
been whitewashed at all. It is all false.
Having thus spoken, Miss Partridge drew back with aB'ected
dignity, intimating that sbe would say no more to me, if I presumed
to deny her having been in the Nunnery. I thereupon turned to
Miss Monk. ·
Qu. Well, Miss Monk, how happened it that when you escaped
from the Nunnery, aier co111ing round the wing into tl1e yard,
and within a very few feet of the wide gate into St. Joseph street,
you turned so short about, almost crossing your track, and
finally went out across the grounds, and into Jean Baptiste street f
By Mr. 8l0Cflfii.-We have never supposed that the drawing
was laid down exactly right ; the poor girl was so frightened that
it is no wonder ifshe did not know exactly how she did get out.
Qu. You are quite sure, Miss Monk, that you p8110d out across
the [garden] grounds, into 1ean Baptilte street 1
.AM. Yes.
Qu. But, Mia Monk, there are several high walla in the way-
all solid stone walls-and the outer wall is some twenty feet bigb.
-Pray how did you get over these obstacles t
.&u. I went out through the gat~s.
Jlr. Stone.-But there are no gates-the walls are solid, mu-
siYe stone.
M'u• M011k.-It was so then: I don't know what alterations
have been made since.
I now turned, and remarked to the company-" Gcotlemer-,
this is utterly untrue. There is no passage in that direction.
The,. are no gates. The wall is as solid as when built a cen-
tury ago."
.40
Some general remarks were made by the circle, abol
pouibility of the alterations having been made, and yet the
tator, or the public, being kept in ignorance of them. I rep]
these objections much in the manner of my remarks up01
point, in the preceding narrative of my visit to the Convent. :
Dwight," I remarked, "Do you suppose it would be poasill
a builder to send his workmen to the Park and build up tb
tala of the City Hall, with solid mason work, without the ;
men being seen, or the alteration attraetiog the public notice I
do you suppose that by the day after such an alteration bad
made, the people would forget that there had ever been 1
portal there 1 The thing is impossible : and equally impel
would it be for the priests and nuns to make the alteratio1
which you contend, without the knowledge of the people of
treal, who are passing and repassing the Convent every hou
moment of the day.
I now resumed the examination of Marla Monk•
.Qu. Miss Monk, in your book you speak of finding a e~
book in the Superior's room, containing a record for two ;
of the entrance of novices into the Convent, and the bir
chilchen, all of which were murdered1
.Am. Yes.
Qu. How many pages did that book contain 1
Ans. I do not remember.
Qu. Can you not recollect how many pages are stated in
book 1
Ans. No-I told Mr. Dwight as near as I could recollect
he put it down.
Mr. Stone.-Very well : I will help you. Your book
there were about one hundred pages. Now, Miss Monk,
many pages did you say were written over 1
Am. I don't recollect. I told Mr. Dwight as near as I c
By.Miu Partridge, and Miss Monk-We could never
time to count the pages of such a book-We should not da
look at such a book more than two minutes, and bow coul
count the pages 1
Mr. Stone. Very well : I will help you agaiu. You sa
41
your book, that one quarter of the book waa written through-
making twenty-five pages. Now, Miss Monk, can you tell how
many entries there were on each page~
Aru. I do not recollect.
Mr. Stone.-Then I will assist you again. You say there were
about fifteen entries on a page. Now, Miss Monk, can you inforrn
me how many of these twenty-five pages were devoted to record-
ing the entries of novices, and how many to the births of infants,
all of which were murdered 1
An1. No. I don't remember the enct number. I told Mr.
Dwight as near as I could.
Mr. Stone.-Very well: your book says" Several of these
pages" were devoted to recording the births of infants. Now,
bow many do you mean by " several1"
Am. Why, that's a strange question. Of course more than
one.
Mr. Stone.-But that will not answer. If what you say is true,
those were deeply important records--nothing less than the births
and murder of children.-We must .endeavor to arrive at some
degree of precision. About how many do you mean by several1
Surely you can form some opinion.
Miss Monk hesitated; and several of the gentlemen intimated
that I was pursuing an unfair method of examination ; to which I
replied, "Not at all, gentlemen : this is an important point. It
must be pushed home to get at the truth."
Mr. Dwight.-You might as well ask her how large is a piece
of chalk.
Mr. Stone.-That will do very well for a get-off, Mr: Dwight.
But I must have an answer of some sort. Now, Mr. Dw1ght,
what do you understand by several, in the sense you have used it
iB writing the book t Suppose a book of one hundred pagea-
twenty-five of which were writttm over, and "several" of which
were devoted to a particular subject. In such a case you would
auppose that "several" would imply as many as five or six, would
you not t
Mr. Dwight.-1 should think that about right.
Mr. Storu.-Very well-we will take five. (To which Mia
fJ
42
Monk assented.) We have now five pages of the records of I
of infants, which have been born and murdered within two :
-fifteen on a page. Now, gentlemen, I remarked, there ar
tbirty-~ix nuns in the convent--
Miu Monk turned round, smiling at my assertion, and
there were many more.
No, gentlemen, (I continued) there are but thirty-six nunt
some four or five novices.•
Dr. Brownlee.-We say there are more. How can you 1
that there are but thirty-six 1
Mr. Stone.-Nay, Sir, the proof does not rest upon me.
sert the fact.
Several Gentlemen.-You must prove there are no more.
Dr. Broronlee.-Miss Partridge, you were in the Nua
when Mr. Perkins, with the committee, made their examina
were you not t
Miss Partridge.-I was.
Dr. Brownlee.-How many Nuns were in the Convent
day 1 How many were sent off before the committee came1
Mi_$s Partridge.-! don't know how many were sent 1
There were only nineteen in the nunnery that day. A good 1
were sent off.
Mr. Stone.-Gentlemen, this is all nonsense. That w'
bas never been in the Nunnery at all, and there were none SE
on the occasion referred to-it's all folly to suppose any
tl1ing.
Several.-But the proof rests witp you.
Mr. Stone.-No, gentlemen: not at all. I assert the fact.
there are, and have been but thirty-six nuns in the Hotel :
That was the original number of the foundation-it has al
been the number, and no more. For the truth of this asserti
can appeal to the history of the institution-to the whole p4
ofMontreal-to my own observation. I then added-
" GentleRlen, there are but thirty-six Nuns in that CoQV€
* There are, in fact, hut thirty-four nuns at preseRt in the Convent-1
1il: being tb~ lull number.
48
more-considerably more-than one half of those Nuns are too
far a.dvanced in life to become the mothers ofyoungchildren. And
yet we have, by Miss Moo k's statement, five pages of recordu
fifteen births and murders to the page, and all within the period
of two years, and not more ·than twelve or fifteen nuns who would
probably bear children." . Then turning to Maria, I asked-
" Pray, Miss Monk, will you be so good as to inform me how
many children a•piece those Nuns hue every ·year?"
There was no direct answer.
I next adverted to her plan and drawings of the interior of the
Nunnery, and asked how it happened th11t every thing was so un-
like, that we found it impossible to trace any resemblance 1 Re-
ference, in reply, was again made to the alleged alterations. These
I of course denied, from my positive knowledge that none such
bad been made.
Mr. Slocum. We never supposed they were put down exactly
correct. They were according to the best of her recollection.
We never supposed they were correct as to feet and inches.
Mr Stone.-I care nothing about feet and inches. I merely
ask for some remote similitude-some distant resemblance-
which there is not. And I asked them-Gentlemen, do you be-
lieve it possible that any woman of common intelligence, could
have resided in any building, no matter what, for a series of yean,
without being able, on leaving it, to retain some distinct impression
concerning the location and general appearance of some one apart•
mentl
Mill M011k. But I am willing to go to Montreal, All I want is
to go, and prove what I say on the spot.
Mr. Sttnu.-Still you appear to be dreadfully afraid that the
priests will kill you.
Mr. Slocum. It is not so. She is not afraid, and is anxious to go.
Mr. Stone.-Very well. It may be so. 1 have only her own
word for it. 1t is so stated by herself half a dozen times in the
pamphlet giving an account of your interview with tlae Canadiu
Gentlemen at Mr. Dwight's book-store.
To my own personal knowledge it was objected that the time
occupied by me in the exploration was altogether inadequate to
a tborouch examination. I replied that they were mistaken ; and
assured Doct. Brownlee and Mr. Dwight that if they would 01
go to Montre~tl, and visit the Hotel Di!lu, tbey would see in twe;
minutes time how utterly mistaken they were in all this mafi
They would see the utter impossibility of the ridiculous 1
baseless tales of these women. But Dr. Brownlea said he wo
not venture to place himself there, nor would he think of mak
an examination unless he went with masons and carpenters &c. ~
But I had yet one point more in reserve, and proceeded-
Qu. Miss Monk, about those said trap-doors-hor many 1
there t
By Several.-What do you call trap-doors t
Mr. Stone. I mean the old-fashioned trap-doors-such as w
formerly common in farm-houses-raised up from the floor
opening, and leading to the cellars : How many were tl.ere, :&j
Mookl
Ax1. One,
Qu. Only one 1
Am. I never saw but one.
Qu. Where was that 1
Am. In the cellar, leading to the secret eassage of the ptiest
Gentlemen, (I remarked,) it is very clear that this woman l
Dever been in the cloister of the Hotel Dieu. There are quitt
number of trap-doors, opening from the principal apartments i:
the vaults and store-rooms below. These could not have bt
unseen and unknown by a resident. I have opened them all •
examined the vaults below. I certainly opened from four
aix, and there can be no mistake. As to the one trap-door
which she speaks, I know there is none there-and never was.
mean where she has laid dow11. the secret passage-which also de
not exist. These, gentlemen, are facts upon which it is not possil
that I should be mistaken.
I had now proceeded far enough, and attained"my object. T
proof was as clear as though written with a sun-beam, that t
women were both impostors, and had never been inmates of t
cloister. I rose, and in taking my departure, once more oearnes
appealed to the gentlemen ·present, to discard them at once.
told them it was high time that they should cease listening to t
ailehooda-as falsehoods their stories were, from beginninr
45
end,-and it was high time, moreover, that this community should
be disabused of their impostures. They urged me to remain
longer-saying that they were not half through with their proofs.•
I replied that no farther proofs were necessary. I had proved
tbem to be impostors from their own lips; 11nd with such aban•
doned women I could have nothing more to do. Nor would I re·
main longer with them. Perceiving, moreover, as I thought, that
the gentlemen were so blinded by their prejudices, as to be inclined
to believe them ratherthan me,I was the more determined todepart.
Dr. Brownlee attended me to the door, and urged me to return. I
still declined-and remarked to the good Doctor, at the door, that it
was high time that men of sense should give up this business,-
that within my own knowledge, those women were imposing on
them a p11ck of lies,-whereat tho Dr. waxed rather warm ; and
said-
Dr. BrOfDnlee.-I have as much right to call you a liar, as you
have them.
Mr. StOfU.;-Very well, if you choose to do so;
Dr. BrOfDnke.-In the same sense in which you say they lie,
I may say you lie. You say they have not been in the Nunnery.
I have a right to say you have not been there. ·
Mr. Stone.-But I have been there, and from my own know•
ledge I know that they are telling you falsehoods.
Dr. BrDtDfllee.-Your story is all a humbug ; and if you go to
publishing any thing, recollect that we have got a press too I
Mr. St011e.-I shall take my own course, Doctor, [or word•
equivalenL] .
Dr. BrOfDnlee.-In the same sense in which you say tbey lie, I
[may] aay you have not been there, and that you lie, [or are a liar.]
Mr. St01U.-Good afternoon, Dr. Brownlee !
Such il a faithful account of my first and only interview with
the pretended Nu01, and their special friends. I have endeavored
to write it out with all fairness and impartiality-preserving all
that wu essential to the case, and, as far as possible, in the worda
that were uaed. The sense, certainly, has been faithfully pre.
aerved-for my memory is rarely at fault, when I have the busj.
aess of reporting in band.
,,
46
The reader will probably agree with me, that it was tiiJM
close the interview; and it would, I fear, have been termini
with less of courtesy on my part, had it not been for the cloth,J
for the peraonal regard which I have ever entertained for the ,
verend gentleman. I well understood that in his honest 1
against the Papal cause, he bad become more excited than
was aware of, and I took my departure, only pained that mea
-sense should show such a spirit, and allow themselves to be oa
ncb egregious dupes of, by two of the most shallow impostors 1
I had ever seen. One of the apostles speaks of certain men
latter days, who among other things, were to" make captive 1
women." The case is here reversed-" Silly wolben,"
·u making captive" men of sense. How melancholy, rnethoua
while wending my steps homeward, to see grave theologians, 1
intelligent laymen thus pinning themselves to the aprons of 11
·women!
Maria Monk bas now been sufficiently long in New York,
·enable all who may have desired the honor, to form an estim
of her character from a personal interview. I am •informed t
:she bas for most of the time been easy ofaccess, and has not b4
back.ward in exhibiting herself in our churches, and at other pol
places, nor in visiting among those of our citizens who ta
opened their doors for her reception. She has been frequen
aeen in the stores and offices of her several publishers, and es1
cially in the houses of that small portion of our clergy who hi
taken a benevolent interest in be1· welfare, regarding her, as ti
probably have done, as a penitent and reformed profligate-a lCI
and desolate female, who needed sympathy and counsel. I
character in Montreal is notorious. She was a vicious protliga
'• on the town," and was taken into a Magdalen asylum, in IS:
with the hope of reformation. It was a Catholic establishment
the rites, ceremonies, discipline adopted by Mrs. M'Donell, '"
those of conventual life, and it is from these that she has borrow
what her book contains upon that subject, and by an inaccun
representation has attempted to palm off upon the world a carrie
tore of the same, as the observances of a convent of which it
as clear as any established·truth whatever, that she was never 1
inmate. Several of the pe'9 whom she has represented 1
47
lister nuns, were merely sister Magdalens, of whom the celebrated
Jane Ray was one. Persisting in her sinful and impure propen-
lities, she was dismissed from the asylum in a state of pregnancy,
and thence, connected, probably, in some way with Mr. Hoyte,
a Protestant Jesuit, in no good odour among the truly religioua
people of Montreal, she found her way into this city. She is not
very old, and is pert, brazen and rather pretty.
Since her residence in this city, there have been many attempta
to reawaken interest in her behalf, by marvellous tales of attempts
to spirit her away, and several times, for longer or shorter periods.
she has been found among the missing. At one time, it waa aaid
she had been abducted and was kept in mysterious durance at
Brooklyn. At another time, as I have been informed, she was
concealed by the Rev. Mr. Bourne, in Springfield, (N. J.)-pro-
bably at her own request, to escape the importunities and annoy-
ance of Mr. Hoyte, whose presence and interference in her affairs
had lben become offensive to her. But albeit Mr. Bourne took
her to Newark in one conveyance, and to Springfield in another.
with all possible secresy, the jealous eyes of Mr. Hoyte were too
sharp for him, and he dogge~ them all the way. And when the
latter fouud that he could not gain access to her, because of the
discreet protection of the lady whose house bad become her place
of retreat,-ascertaining, moreover, that his numerous letters,
conveyed to her by artifices resembling a lover's ingenuity, and
betraying all the ardor of another youthful Romeo, remained UD•
BDSwered-he contrived by the aid of some ladies in his own
interest to decoy her again into his power-thus defeating the
vigilance of the faithful matron to whose care she had been coo•
fided, as well as the plans of her friend Mr. Bourne.
•
There have also been some "quarrels," not only of" authors," •
but of printers and publishers, and book sellers, &c. in regard to
the copyright of her" Awful Di3closures," a relation of which
might contribute more to the amusement than the edification of the
reader. I therefore pass them over, for the benefit of aome
future D'hraeli, who may desire to write the history thereof for
the benefit of poaterity. Some of tile suits, moreover, are still
peadiDg ; aocl respect for the cwtituted authorities forbids tb.
48
discussion of suc:h delicate matters .ubjudiu. Of her book, how-
. ever, many thousand copies have been sold, from which the book-
sellers have made a good deal of money, while as yet poor Maria
has probably made very little. Indeed she is a fitful creduloUJ
creature-a child of freak and impulse-who has probably been
as much of a dupe herself, as the public have been dupes of her
Moreover her sanity is seriously questioned by many, and some res-
pectable physicians who have met with her, have declared that
upon their professional oaths, they would pronounce her to be n011
eompos mentis. There is said at times to be a wildness in her
eyes-an unsteadiness and spasmodic starting of her nerves, an
incoherent raving, and an absence of mind, which lead her fre-
quently to fly off in a tangent from one subject to another ;--and
dwelling upon some circumstance connected with real or imagi-
nary wrongs, and an imaginl\ry conspiracy against her life, of
the Popish priests, she is sometimes suspicious of the motives and
designs of every one she meets. These, and other peculiarities
have induced, in so~e scientific men, the opinion that she is of
unsound mind. If such be the fact, she is doubly an object of
compassion. Certainly she is a supject of great mental imbe-
cility ; and it is not impossible that her crimin.tl courses have
been more her misfortune, than her fault-and that the guilt of her
sins will lie at the door of others whom God will judge.
Having fallen into the hands of Mr. Hoyte, after her dismissal
from the asylum of Mrs. M'Donell, that gentleman, knowing the
blind zeal and credulity of the anti-Papists, par excellence, hit upon
the expedient, as it is believed, of eliciting the public sympathies
in her favor, and bringing out a book, from which great profits
. were to be realised. When her case became known in New
York, certain Protestant clergymen, morbidly credulous in relation
to every thing concerning Popery, convents, priests and nuns,
became greatly interested in her story-the fancy-work, probably,
of mere imaginations than her own. Her tales were all endorsed
by Hoyte, and the houses, hearts, and purses of all were opened
to the supposed nun and her guardian. It was soon discovered,
however; that Hoyte bad.." seven principles" upon the subject,
viz: "the five loaves.and two*es ;" and his judicious advisers
49
cauied his dismission from her affairs, and as her protector. The
Rev. Mr. Slocum became her guardian, and a very estimable and
conscientious literary gentleman, Mr. Dwight, was employed to
write her narrative from her own verbal recitals.
In due time the vol11me w,as ushered forth to the public, and
then came the scramble already referred to, among ministers and
writers and printers, for the division of the spoils-each party claim-
ing to favor the interest of Maria, while she, poor creature, knew
not whom among the whole she ought to trust. Her ancient
predelictions for Hoyte, had induced her to give him a legal
claim to the copyright, and yet her distrust having been
awakened, she gave similar powers of attorney, to one or more
of the other parties-revoking the former; and when the
stereotype plates were prepared, it was found that more than one
· or two claimants were 11waiting their delivery, all having written
orders under the sign manual of Maria Monk. Again, when the
book was published, there were injunctions granted and rescinded,
and divers other tribulations, giving a brisk business to the pro-
fession, from the Chancellor himself to the Attorney, until there
was danger that the whole of the profits would be swallowed
up by litigation. To end the difficulties, it was agreed, as I have
been informed, that Maria should receive eight cents per copy
from the sales. These sales have been great, notwithstanding
the manifold internal evidences of the imposture contained in the
work itself. The reason is found in the mystery which hangs
about a Convent, and in the fact that it is a tale of lust and blood
--essential ingredients in but too many of the anti-popery pub-
lications of the day. So much for Maria Monk. And now-
Who is this Frances Partridge, the newly arrived nun, who
hu recently arrived among us not only to confirm the "Awful
Disclosures" of Maria Monk, but freighted with disclosures more
awful still t The following is an extract from an account of her,
published in this city by her friends, anjfontained in a ridiculous
appeal whicJWlese enthusiasts are makmg to the venerable Chief
Justice Sew~ of Lower Canada, founded upon the stories of
1\laria, and this her new ally :-
"On the sixteenth of August, 1835, verbal intelligence wu
7 '
50
• received i~ New York, that a nun from the Hotel Dieu Con'
• of Montreal, had taken refuge in a Protestant's house, in
• interior of the state of New York, and on the 22d day of
• month, a letter arrived from a gentleman, confirming that 111
· • ment. Measures were immediately taken to ascertain aU
• circumstances which are connected with that unexpected
1
surprising event; and on the 26th of August, that nun a,rr
' in the city of New York. I have thus been minutely expl
'that if any person can invalidate my exposition of the occurre
• they may have every facility to detect Its incoherence.
"The nun's conventual name was Sainte Frances Patt
' Some months ago, five nuns in connection with two of tho pri•
'all of whom had become in a measure disgusted with the hJ
' critical mummery and the inordinate dissoluteness of t
' habitual course, agreed to escape from their horrible bond
'By some means, which it is unnecessary to detail, their plot
' discovered ; and the vengeance of that prelatical inquisitt
'Monsiegneur Jean Jacques Lartigt1e, Eveque de Telmess•
• Lycie," ~c. ~c., was effused upon those rebels to Papal aut
'ity. One of the priests has been'murdered; two of the nuns
• have been despatched into the eternal world-and Fra1
'Patrick herselfwas immured in one ofthe" dungeons ofdesp1
• attached to that melancholy habitation, where "owls dwell,
'satyrs dance,"-Isaiah xiii, 21. There she was immured
' weeks and three days, and was finally released through thE
• tercession of some of her canonical relatives ; upon the imr
' engagement, to exert all her ingenuity and to devote all her
'ergies to the destruction of Maria Monk, and her "Awful :
' closures."
"For this purpose Frances Patrick, or Partridge's, depar
' from the Convent was tacitly permitted ; that she might aic
1
the Jesuits designed, in trepanning Maria Monk into their po·
"She departed fr01Ae Convent on July 20; ~nd it was
'stantly suspected by the priests, that as the resulflhr her ema
' pation from their thraldom, she would add her testlmony to tht
'Maria Monk, and thus seal the deathless infamy of the Cana•
'nunneries. Having made all needful arrangements to escape
. .
51
'the United States, she left Montreal on Jdy 21; ..but she had
'travelled a few miles only, ere her flight was discovered, and two
'Roman priests, Joseph Marcoux and Louis Dibla followed in
'pursuit, and traced her from one place to another, until she waa
'upon the very point of being recaptured, at Turin, N. Y.
''It is proper also to state to you, that Frances Patrick, or
'Partridge, has been an inmate ofthe Convent during twenty-three
• years; that she is now about 27years ofage ; and that nearly ten
'years'ago, she assumed the veil. These circumstances are thu1
' minutely detailed, that the utmost exactitude may be attained, and
' that her personal identity may be defined so as to preclude all
'mistake." G. B.
"G. B," written out in full, undoubtedly means the Rev.
George Bourne. And a most pro'.>ablc talc, truly, has he made
of it !! Two of the priests agreed with five nuns, to escape from
their horrible bondage. Pray who had imprisoned the priests1 Surely
th~y must have imprisoned themselves, and had plotted a plot to
escape from themselves ! But tho plot was not well plotted-they
were found cut; and one of the priests and two ofthe nuns, have
been already murdered ! Surely both priests and nuns must be
very fond of being butchered, else they would hardly remain where
they arc killing each other off at that rate ! St. Frances was next
taken from the dungeon where she had been placed as a punish-
ment for attempting to run away, and employed as the hopeful
agentof the priests to inveigle .1\Iaria Monk back into the Convent !
Most wise and sagacious priests, to employ such an agent, upon
such an enterprise ! But after the bird had flown, they bethought
themselves that instead of protesting the paper of Maria, she
would endorse it-and instead of bringing her back, would stay
away herself! I ·And so they repented of what they had done,
and went in pursuit ! Most wise disciples of the Society of Jesus!
Most sagacious descendants oflgnatius Loyola I ! Ifwisdom don't
expire with those sapient priests, she will yet Jive a long time!-
Only think. of these poor priests locking themselves up in grated
dungeons, which nobody but 1\Iaria 1\Ionk, and Frances Partridge
ever saw, and crying like Sterne's Starling-" Let me oul !"
\Veil : being pursued, and nearly taken, the flying saint finds her-
aelf in the town of Turin, deep in the woods about half way be-
52
tween Utica· and Sackett's Harbor,-and about as connnie11
place to stop at on the way from Montreal to New York, as I
Greenland would be in going from New York to Charleston!
But even this is not all. St. Frances Partridge don't know 1
actly whose daughter she is, but she thinks her paternity belo1
to a gentleman in Vermont,-wbo, forgetting to marry
mother, sent her to the Hotel Dieu, at a particular season, wll
she, the said saint, first opened her eyes upon that interest
community ! After haviDg been a nun twenty-three years, she
caped as aforesaid, on the 21st July last past. She made the first 1
at Turin-from thence she says she went to Rome, and was tb
engaged in teaching a school, and was nevertheless in New Y1
within about four weeks of her pretended flight I It seems certain
deed that she bas been in Rome during the late summer, for she 1
contrive to open a correspondence with one of wisdom's own 11
who is pressing into his goblet the grapes of wisdom that clus
around the tongue of Doctor Beriah Green, of the Oneid~ lnt
tute. The ingenuous youth addresses her with deep and aw
reYerence, as a superior being to himself, and countl upon I
well-stored armory, I believe, for weapons to use in an effort
intends making to overturn the papal throne, and hush forever t
thunders of the Vatican I
Nor yet is this all the personal history of Miss Saint Fran<
Partridge. She declares that she was deputed among the Sistt
of the Hotel Dieu, to accompany the committee, of which the Rt
Mr. Perkins was one, in the examination made by them of t
cloister on the 15th of July-six days before she eloped,-and s
rolates with great glee, many amusing instances of the manner
which that committee was duped and laughed at by the nur
Among other things she declares, that in one of the rooms whi1
this committee examined in her presence, there was a closet whi1
the assistant superior invited the committee to examine, but whit
they politely declined doing as unnecessary. In that closet, 1
that precise moment, as she affirms from her personal knowledg1
lay tho bodies of two dead infants-the victims of clerical adulter
and matol'nal infanticide! Now according to this modern Saint,
this committee had only accepted the invitation of the acting s~
perior to open that cloaet, they would have discovered this t~
5S
:e.,idence, though not living witnesses, of the truth of the "Awfttl
Disclosures," with which Maria Monk has edified the world, and
which that committee have pronounced to be false I She also
states, that while dissembling with the priests for the purpose of
making her escape, she was employed by them to write a volume
in reply to that of Maria Monk, which work she executed ; and
that after she had restored Maria to their power, she herself was to
have been sent to Spain. And yet, such is the invincible blind-
Den of the partisans of Maria Monk, that they swallow these most
wretched and prepostero"'? inventions as sober matters of verity!
In regard to the story of the dead infants in the closet, while the
committee was there,-although it may be true that priests and
Nuns live in the indulgence of illicit amours-(though we saw
nothing in either of the Nunneries to lead us to question their
moral purity)-although, I rep~>at, it may be true that children
have been born and murdered in nunneries-yet, never since the
world began, was a more absurd and incredible story fabricated
than this, that a committee who were searching the establishment
for the express purpose of finding the evidences oflust and murder,
should be introduced by the nuns into the very room, and pointed
to the closet, containing the double proof of their damning guilt,
and requested to examine it, cannot be believed by any effort of
faith of which a sober mind is capable. To credit it implies that
the inmates were not only daily repeating their deeds of infamy
and blood, but that these murdered child.-en were left there at the
hazard of detection and exposurr, under circumstances indicative
of downright insanity. Yet, astonishing as it may seem, there are
Christian men and ministers in the city of New York, who grC!edi-
ly swallow the whole, and regard this "awful disclosure" of the
latter Nun, as " confirmation strong as proofs of holy writ" of
the former.
It would seem, indeed, as though these people had yielded them-
selves to this species of monomania, until from mere habit, they
yield .a willing credence to any story against the Roman Catholics,
no matter what, or by whomsoever related, 80 that it be sufficiently
horrible and revolting in its details of lic~>ntiousness and blood. It
is melancholy to be obliged to contemplate such credulity, and
such deplorable fanaticiam ; and yet tbe in1tances are multiplied
..
..
54
w'bercin such delusion has been wrought by the passio~ate apt
of the anti-papist pres~es. Nor is it to be denied, that sucbJ
lications as are now deluging the country, fomP-nting the PO!
prejudices and appealing to the basest passions of our na~
teeming, as they do, with loathsome and disgusting details of q
nal voluptuousness, under the garb of RELIGION, are omin~
., fearful results, especially from their influence upon the risint
neration· of both sexes. No patriot, philanthropist, or Chri
if not already inoculated with the virus of fanaticism and int
ance, can reflect upon this subject, unll~r its present as:pect, .
out painful forebodings of the future. '
But I am not even yet ready to conclude this appendix t
narrative of my visit to the Convent of the Hotel Dieu. In c
quence of the occasional dash of pleasantry with which the n
tony of the visit was relieved, and which was preserved in w;
out the account of the visit, remarks have been made which
already reached my ears, insinuating thatI am disposed to coiDI
the monastic system. It has been kindly hinted that I have be
"semi-papist," and that in putting down t~.e wretched imp<l
of Maria Monk, in disproving her" disclosures," I have writ
panegyric upon the life of the nuns, as led in the cloister o
Hotel Dieu, the tendency of which will be to attract novices 1
its gloomy walls. Others have intimated that now that the J
ures of a monastic life have been attested by a protestant
witness, there is danger that our wives and daughters will
from their husbands and parents to enjoy the domestic swe1
the nunnery !
The infatuation of the public mind upon this subject, an'
necessity of remonstrance and expostulation, can scarce be
dered more apparent, than by this simple relation of the fact
I have been thus misrepresented even in circles of intelligen1
testants. In self-vindication, I have only to say to those not
bewildered, that, in my view, a sense of justice and commo1
nesty, requires the truth to be spoken alike of popery and m
ries, tl10ugh we may have no fellowship with the one, or desi
approving the other. Far be it from me to contribute in th
motest degree to the vindication of the system of popery, in
of its forms, from the charges justly made against it by Luthe
...
•
\..-~~
~-
lJ5
.J:be Reformers ; nor has my visit to Montreal in any measure
weakened my protestant faith, or diminished my hostilit.Y to the
manifold corruptions of the Church of Rome. On the contrary,
stronger than ever, if possible, is my belief, that the celibacy of
the priesthood, and of the female recluses, is contrary to tho laws
of nature and of God; and I can but attribute the vows and pri-
vations voluntarily assumed by the Nuns, as the effects of misan- f
thropy or delusion, to which Christianity is unalterably and irre-
concilably opposed.
Still, however, I haveJijteon asked, " Cui bonn 1 Why should
you defend the Romanist;1 Even if the ".Awful Disclosures" of
Maria .Monk are untrue in relation to the Hotel Dieu at Montreal,
is there not ample evidence that such practices have prevailed in
other nunneries, aQd other countries 1 And is it not the legitimate
fruit of the system of monachisnt, that corruption nnd crime may
easily exist under the concealment of tho cloister 1'' To which I
reply with the christian sentiment uttered by a heathen-.f'iat
ju1titia, ruat c(l)lum." There is, moreover, an essential difference
between taking ·sides with satan, and defending even him from
false accusation. The question I have been examining, is not
whether Popery be true, or the priests of Rome holy, or the nuna
virtuous, but simply and only this.: Whether the loathsome reve-
lations of Maria 1\lonk, and Frances Partri.Jge, are true or false,
in regard to the priests and nuns of Montreal1 The importance
of a correct decision of this question, grows out of the extensive
credit which her book has obtained, and the interest which every
• man, whether Protestant or Catholic, has in the suppression of
vice, the prevention of crime, and the maintenance of truth. The
fact already confessed, that I was, myself, at times, almost if not
quite a believer in her book, to common with multitudes of others,
of perhaps less credulity, led to the desire of an opportunity of
examining for myself; and as circumstances fnored the gratifica-
tion of this desire, I entered upon an inspection of tho premises,
• with a determination of making a rigid and impartial scrutiny,
The result is before the reader; and having ascertained from -tht1
evidence of their own dedarations, and my own senses, that nei-
ther Maria .Monk DO\ Frances Partridge bas been an inmate of
tbe Convent from which tbey pretend to have eacaped, I caanot,
..
•
••
I
'
.~-
56
and will not, withhold the public expression of my deliberate
viction, that the book of Miss Monk is a vile and infamous f,
cation ; that she and the pretended St. Frances are both 8J
impostors ; both of which if not protected by the convenient
of insanity, deserve to be punished by the laws of the land•.
I cannot but lament, in common with all Protestants, the Cl'
• and c<.rruptions of the Church of Rome ; especially do I deJ
the increase of the professors of that creed, in our own c·
OUI
But still I cannot as a professing Protestant, withhold the evicl
in my possession to protect them frllfl' calumny and falsei
At the same time, I am free to confess'tllat I have yet anotbe1
ject in view, viz: the emancipation of my own countrymen frou
bondage of prejudice, superinduced by the most flagrant impo11
• This task I have attempted to perform, honestly, and accor
to the best of my ability, without fear, favor, or affection. I
doing, I have believed myself to be likewise performi1
duty to Protestant Christianity in the light of truth; since l
lieve the most sovereign antidote to the march of popery will •
be found in that divine attribute; and if the Papal power can,
be overthrown by fraud, falsehood and imposture, I say, for·,
let it stand.
•
And now, having thus acquitted myself in this matter, I l
little anxiety how many or how few among my fellow citiz
choose to believe what I have written. I shall not be surpri1
or personally affiicted, ifthe whole tribe of the believers in M:
Monk, should believe in her still ; since, in this free country, e1
man has a right to the enjoyment of his own opinion. Still,
the sake of the public morals and the public tranquility, I cc
heartily wish that no more of this deseription of anti-popery litt
ture should be thrown from the American press. The evils
fiicted upon ~ur whole population, by such publications, are
properly appeciated, or they would long since have received
stern rebuke of our moralists. They are extensive and_ to a t
gree irreparable. Among the most prominent of these evils is
iiu;rease of-Popery itself-the certain result of intolerance 1
persecution-more especially when such persecution is founde.!
falsehood and imposture.
New York, Wednesday, October 12. fss6.
•
