{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1836__vale___review_of_the_awful_disclosures.pdf","mytitle":"Review Of The Awful Disclosures","mylang":"de"}
;Jz1- 2. / rz. ,s_J
A REVIEW
OF THE
AWFUL DISCLOSURES
,-. OF · •·•
•.) '\ ..
MARIA MONK.
IN WJIICII TilE l'At;TS ARE FATRI.Y STATED, ANI) C,;ANDIDLV
EXAMINED.
BY G. VALE,
No. 84 Rosevelt Street, New- York.
1836.
6=-110
(
E~Tr.RF.n, according to the Act of Congress, in the ye11r 183G,
by G. Vale, in the Clerk's office of the District of the Southern
District of New-York.
13G,
eru
A REVIEW
OF TUE
DISCLOSURES
01'
We are informed by the Rev· Mr. Tappi11, Chaplain lo the
Alms House that there is such a person as Maria Monk, that
she came to this eity last summer 1835: and we leam from her
work that she was then with child, as she says by Father
Phelin parish priest of Montreal: she was admitted into the
Alms House, and the child was born in the autumn of last I ear.
We learn too from the book, that Mal'ia Monk related the sub-
stance of the contents of the book to Mr Tappin in the Alms
House; and that gentleman confirms this statement to us. We
learn also that, a Mr. William K. tT
.Jyt, took Maria from out
of the Alms House, received her testimony and took her to
Canada, and represented her case to the British authorities
there; that these obtained a manuscript copy of her statements,
and now retain it, to forward we suppose to the head of the
Colonial Department in London, and then wait for instructions :
from that quarter wa do not however expect an}' action, as
pol·icy will govern the British Government. Mr Hoyt,it appears,
on his return prepared to publish this account, from a second
copy which he had preserved and applied to the Rev. Mr
Bourn and Dr. Brownlee for literary assistance; but Mr Hoyt
becoming jealous of his new associates, and fearing they meant
to rob him of the honour and profit of publi"hing, by procuring
from Maria Monk the facts of the story suddenly transported
her out of their reach, and placed her as l1e thought in a seques-
tered spot near Bellevue: but Dr. Brown!ec's son, by uccident
or design, rode out in that direction and discovered the spot, but
was himself discovered,and his object being suspected, Mr Ho>'t
again transported Maria Monk, and placed her somewhere In
Jersey, and we suppose hurried ost tbe book, w1thout further
assistance from those gentlemen ; and this we believe to be the
.j
4
history of the boolc published hy Howe & B,\lcs, in which how-
ever, the name of Hoyt is not mentioned. The copy right it
11ppeur~ is sc,~u rctl hy 11ne P. G•,nlon, anJ as fa r off us the Dis-
tl'iet eourt uf Massachtt~ctt~; umJ bein;!; thus secure•I hy a person
not well known in New York, am\ in uuuther ~tate, while the
publishers where in this city, at Jirst awaked our suspicion :hat
all wns not right: anJ we llcriously t\uuLteJ, ifany such ptr~on
cxistetl as Maria Monk, ur the persons tu whom she refers in
her book. F rom the Catholic Bisl:!op of New York we first
learned thnt there were such convents ns those nnmetl by Maria,
aml that there w~~ such a Bishop, anJ that such priests did
exist as she names in connexion with the convent; thus confirm-
ing the ground work of Murin's story. Wo then visited the
chaplain of the Al111s Ilou~c, ami from him obtained the fact
that the contents of the book accordi!d with what she had toltt
him. He also related, or ruther we extracted from him the iacts
we have ~ivcn in relation to Mr Hcwt, Dr. Brownlee and the
Rev. Mr. Bt•urn; the ohjcct of the latter gentlcmon waa to se-
cure un interest to Maria Monk in the work; while he speaks
also respectfully of Mr Hoyt, as deserving a remuneration for
the rxpcnse and trouble he has been at in making public this
affair. With the subject ofthe property we have nothing to do,
nor do we know that our readers have: b·,u we have to do with
the contents of the book; nnd RO has every person in the com-
munity.
This book the111 contains the following facts: That there are
three coAvents in adjacent buildings in Montreal, nnd a semi-
nary very near the convents; the~e convents ure the Congrcga-
tional,the Black, and the Grey Nunneries; the first devoted to
the education of girls; the second to the care of the sick, dis-
tributing bread and medicines ; and the last for the benefit of
the insane. The inmate~ are novices and nuns; the former
may at any time leave the convent, and are only admitted to a
part of the building; the nuns of the Black Nunnery never
leave the building, but are admitted to all the rooHls in the nun-
nery, and take oaths when they take the veil, which bind
them to obedience to theJpriests; those of the Congregational
nunnery go out, and form the teachers for a considerable di~­
trict about the country.
Of the Blnck Nunnery we shall chiefly speak, for of that
Maria was a Nun, and she informs us thllt tn addition. to the
charitable object of the institution, that the nuns1
about one
hundred and eiQ"hty, were all prostitutes to the pnests, about
one hnndred and fifty, including those for a large district, mak-
ing the seminary in the naighborhood of the nunnery their
)\V-
.t it
)is-
,;on
the
hat
~011
. in
irst
ria,
did
rm.
the
fact
L
olli
tcts
the
se-
aks
for
this
do,
vith
om-
arc
mi-
!ga-
d to
dis-
it of
mer
to a
:ver
un-
•ind
nal
dif-
hat
the
one
>
OUt
ak-
leir
5
home; that the decency of selection wns not even obsCI'vcd,
but that promiscuous intercourse wa~ carried into effect by bru-
tal force and cunning on the part of the priests, and generally
by an unwilling consent on the part of the females, who are de-
ceived on taking the veil, when they expect to lead a life of
chastity; but nfter taking an oath to obey the priests in nll things
are immediately unceremoniously informed hy the Lady Supe-
rior, that that oath extends to prostituting their persons if re-
quired by the priests, who bein~ priest5, ;:annot sin; and this
is followed up by Murin in!"ormmg us that on the very evening
of her taking the veil, that Father Dufrene violated her per-
son, and then two other priests, who treated her brutally i that
Father Dufrene again visited her on the same evening,anc. con-
tinued with her till mornin.,., She informs us too, that these
thinl?s are done in the mostbrutalizing manner, corrupting the
minu by the most extreme grossness; and when the females are
shocked by such conduct, they are informed that they must
consider it as the will of God, and that it is intended to morti-
fy the flesh in them. The consequences of this extended scn-
~uality, including all the priests and dl the nuns in the Black
Nurmny, is that a great many children are born in the year
and Maria seriously informs us that these are at first bapti~eJ
and then murdered by strangulation, and privately buned or
thrown into a der.p hole in the cellar, into which quirk-lime is
thrown, and a fluid poured in to take off the smell, and destroy
the body, bones and all. The nuns too, are murdered, if they
resiat the will of the priesta, or are known to wish to escape ;
and !Maria gives a minute account of one such murder, a\
which she assisted. She declares too, thnt there was nearly a
uniform disappearance of an old nun with the apf•enrance of a
new one, thus implying that the old ones are murdered, leaving
very few to die a natural death: even one Lady Superior was
liuddenly missing, and another appointed by the B1shop. Of
the Bishop, whom slte distinctly names, she declares that she
let him in one night by a private door, and passage which led to
the Superior'li room, and that he lay with the Superior for that
night, while Marin slept or: n sofa in the same room. Priests
frequently retirt>1
Maria o'oscrves, into the Holy Retrent, suppo·
sed by the worlu for prayer and meditation; but which, Maria
declares to be a pretence, and that in those .:ascs they are dis-
essed, and that in consequence of their disease nuns are dis-
eased also; and that when she left the convent, Father Tombau
was in the Holy Retreat. Even the times of confession nrc
said by Maria to be prostituted to voluptuousness; and that the
priests corrupt the minds of young girls and novices at that pe-
'I
•
)'
\
6
riod, by proposing qunstions, implying the grossest conduct,and
hy iwlulging in gross sensuality with nuns who go to t:ou(c.;~
;done into a room with them.
The Seminary, we remarked, is tho receptacle of the priests
all around the comury, nml from that pla<:e they visit the nun-
,. cry for the purposes now mentioned : Mnritl, too, assures 11!1
that a subterranean passage leads from the seminary to the nun-
nery,nnd that nnother lends from the Congregational Nunnery to
the Blnek, nnd that nuus from thl' former cst:tblishmcnt v1sit the
other for ir.1proper purposes. Thus Marin mokcs tho brmuJ :lS·
sertion that thr. whole cstablishm•mt is a hi'Othcl for the pricHt~,
who indulge in gross sensuality und murder without compunc-
tion. '
The~c facts, if true, cannot be too extensh·ely circulated, and
if false, the baseness of publishin~ them should be unmasked ;
csp<•ctnlly u~ rcsncct'lblc r•nmes on'both :;1dcs nrc connected with
the publication, 'though 110 such 11nmc is ntt;,ehed to the book;
and if the truth be <lonbtf'ul from the manner of getting up the
book, then the simplicity of those who have a~~istcd Muria. iu
getting up the book, should be made manifest, ami some other
persons lllOI'C competent ~honld tuke up the :subject, ami produce
such proofs of the above facts, if bclicvcu true, us would be in.
controvertible.
THE GENERAL ASPECT.
Gross as the charge is, as made by Marin Monk, there is ccr·
tainly :.\ eonsisttncy in the whole; and therefore the probabilit,Y
i::~, that the whole is either true or false, with exception of ind1·
vidunl cases: if all the priests are given to gross voluptuous·
ness, then that spirit would be seen in their confessions of young
girls, as explained by Maria: chihlren would be born, and must
be disposed of; while the fenr of exposure would even suggest
t11c murder of any one who should attempt to e~cape; for one
crime leeds to :.nother: but thtlt the oltl nuns should he killed,
or mysteriously disappear as young ones are introduced, ex-
coeds credibility, at lenst at first si~ht; for if the idl'a. was pre-
valent in the nunnery, surely thr. old 1111ns would seek to escape,
und nn exposure would have taken place long ago. In the case
of the old nuns, the at:count exceeds that of any talc of the
worat o.ges of the church, or when royal protestant and rcallv
interested commissioners hat! authority thoroughly to investi-
gate nunn11ries: the utmost extent of their reports was that they
discovered so1ne convents where the priests and nuns were who!·
ly given up to voluptuousness : it was never pretended that all
the nunneries were in this state; or that ull the priest& were thus
,and
l(c.;~
insts
nun-
s ll!l
nun-
ry to
.t the
t.f :\S•
icHt~,
•nne-
, and
;k~d;
with
ook;
'the
ia. j II
>ther
duce
·e in-
1 cer-
Jility
imh-
Ious-
Jung
must
~gcst
one
lied,
, ex-
pre-
:ape,
case
the
:nllr
CStl·
they
hol-
t all
thus
7
corrupt; anti never, ns wn recollect, thnt the olt.l nuns were Lle-
st;·oyctl,·-thi11 i~ t!l!rtainly =
l lllOdcru discn\'cry.
W c think it witlJin th' --augc of po~~ ibility 1hat a whole!emu·
tnunity of Jlriesls, pus:;essiu g- single IJksscdncss, in " llllllllllll ion
with women sintilurly slluatcu,shoultl corrupt tht: womcn,huund
hy oaths to oucy in nlllhiugs; nnd we think a youug priest so
sJtllittPd, frequently cnull;sslll ~ a beautiful yoLlll~ nuu si1uilnrly
situated in n ruum where uouc uared to enter; lllnt in most ca-
ses the naturulJm~sions would prevail over every olhor f•~diu :;.
but that all the nun·• ~ houltl enter in i;ruorance et' this slate of
thiugs, aud t!Xpectillg the rnorlifi ~allt•n of sueh pns~ious, und
the exercise of pe r;oual piety, that these should be immcdiattdy
immersed into iuvoluntury voluptu cntsnt·s~ uf the ~russ l'St kind,
involving child-tnunler in anticipatiOn, am\ that several (If tl.ehc
should not make tl11•ir cseBpe awl declare it IO the world, is al·
most incredible; · ·~ peciully ns most of these YJUill-( wunlcll nrc
really very pious, nnd in sincPrity t:.il\e the veil; lhnt snch per-
suus should ::.o uct, without frc•tueut t:tlort:; 10 escape, greatly
increase~ the incred ibility.
There i'i indeed UtJe v1ew uy whidt we may suppos:: the con-
vent at montreal mure conupt thun others; alll.l that is the fact,
that;. • -· ..,,,, .t with the l;'rl?nc:h at H very corrupt peri•Jtl, :t.llll
the •
. ·IlK in•.o the h'an ds of the llritish at'lcr the llct(n-
matt • ' tl,c purilying intlucnre of thu~c scarcltin :_:
tilllt:;. · ;nch 1rnn~!i.· r took place Lefore Ihe French
ltc;-u. d alsn, the equally purilyin:; cflcct:s of tbat
great l S a counter halancc it is now unda the
pwtcctio.. :rfnl and ellective Protestant GovernnteJJI,
surrounded hy r .v•
.estantc, (new colonist,) and a nPighb•Jnr,
the indepcndaut Prntesumt United Slales; thns affordiJJg lllcnns
ofprutcction to any individual whu sl·.,ntld make disclosures.
The· British Government often oppre s sume f•x po!ic,v; b11t
they tlu afiurd cotuplclc pr•>tt·r:tion to wl,\1! arc callctl their suh·
jccts, r.·om injury hy other ~ubjcct~, howe\'er powerful: the
Morgan murde1
·, ruul the murder;; iu the South, would nut ha,·c
been committed with impunity, under t:•e powerful protectiun
of the British Govcrmnent. The Truth of 1'hc bool< howenor
depends upon other circ.ui1Jstanecs ; lrus-1. ls Maria Monk
credible fo r lnets, wl•erc her evit';cnce could have no colatcral
support 1 2. What cvidenee does ~he ofli~r in her power 10
obtnin bcsid••s hr.r own? :l. Is there such an ace:ordance between
the several of parts of the dct<~il, as tu ~stablish the pre..,umption
of trnth? In the ab~ence oi almost 0111 external evidence we
i
• j
l
• f
8
shall investigate the internal, by examining tho nbovc ques-
tions.
Is Maria ~1ottk crerlihlcforfa~/.~ where her evidence ~ould h.we
?tu colalr.ral support.
After Muria 'had been ns a uuviec in the 11 unnery for four er
five yenr~, (avera!{etl 4k) she left the nunnery wnhout leave,
and became nn asststnnt teacher Ill a com men school. \Ve shall
now quote a part from the book itself.-
" \Vhile en)!aged in tl•is manner, ! bccam: nc.quainted with a
man who soon proposed marringe; and your!;,' unJ ignorant of
the world as 1 wa~, I heard his otfers with tii V0\\1 . On cor.suit·
ing with my fl ien1l, she expressed a fr·i·md!y interest for me,
:ulvised me a~"nin st taking such a step, and espedally us I knew
:iule about t~e man, except that n report wns circulated un-
favourable to his char~cter. Un fortunately 1 was not wi~;:
enough to listen to her· advice, nnd lraG
tily married. Jr. a few
wee ks, I had occnssion to ro:pent of the step ! ;,ad taken, as the
report proved true-a 1cport which I thought justified, nnd in-
deed required our sepcratiun. After I had been in St. Denis
about three months, fimling myself thus situated, nod not know-
in"' what else to d.>, I determined to return to the Convent, and
pu~sue my former intention of !.Jccoming n Blacl~ nun, could I
gain admittance. Kn.owing the ma!lY lllquiries that the Supe-
rior would make relative to me, dnrrng my absence before leav-
ing St. Denis, I agreed with tbe lady with whom I had been
as~ociatcd us n teacher, (when she went to Montreal, which
she did very frequently,) to say to the L ady Supcri, r I had
been uuder her protection during my absence, which would sa-
tisfy and stop furt1
rer inqury as I was sensible, should they
know 1 had been married, I should nut gain admittance."
Thus we find Maria a married woman for a (c11J 1vcd s, witl\·
out stating who is her husband, ttnd what were the peculiar
cirt:.umstnnccs of her separation : and she distinctly informs us
that she entered the convent under false pretences, previously
arran~ed; in which she ill(!ucr,d her friend to act a part: and
thus fixes upon herself the character cf a deliberate liar. Her
motive, too, for entering the convent is 110 higher than "not
kilO\\·iug what, else to do" she docs not appear to have been even
in distress, and being on friendly terms with 'her iate imployer,
who eveuliccl to serve her, we suppose she might have return-
ed from her few week's marriage tu her school again. By this
means Maria procured admittance iroto the nunnery, for tne
third time, on which occasion she thus speaks:-
:s·
or
·c,
ill
a
of
t·
c,
w
rl·
w
IC
1·
is
,_
d
I
~-
r-
n
h
d
l•
y
,.
!f
s
~
r
,,
11
" The money u~ually rcqu ired fnr tho atlmi£~ion of noviccM
lnulnut bf'f'll c.x pel'ted fl um me. I hnd hl'lm adlllith~ll the fin.t
~i111c without any :;u,.Ja reljllisitiuH; hut now I t•hn:;c to 1'"-Y it 1
\•r
111y rc-aJmi~sion. I knew that ~he (the ::iu111!l'ior) w.1~ able tu
tlispcu~c with ~ u c h a dcUHIIHI as well in tl.isa>~ thcfchul<'l' emw,
and she knew tlaat I wu~ not iu possl'ssiun of a:1y thiug like the
sum she required.
But 1was bent on paying to the Nunnery, nrul aecustoaucd to
receive the Ll~•ctriuc often repeated to n•e before that time, that
whcu the all vantage of the church was consulted, the :~teps tak-
l'll were justiliaule, let them be what they would1
I thcrelin•:
resuh·ed to obtain mon ey on false prctonccs, cuuhdcnt, that if
all were known it would a,, 1', r from displeasing the ::;upcrior.
l went tL' the brigade , ·;>!·::, 1\Nll nskcd him w give me the
money paya1
Jie to my m..::.acr from her pension, which amount-
to about thirty dollurs, and without questioning u.y authority
to receive it in her nam•·, he gaYc me it.
From several of her frie nds l obtained small sums unuer tlte
name of loans, so that altogether I had soon raised a numLer
o' ; ov.ndH, with whit!h I ha~teneu to the Nunuery and clepositetl
a part in the hands of the Sup•:rior. She rcco:ived tl1c woney
With evideut sntisfactiou, thot~gh ~l •c must have known that l
could nut h:;.ve olnaiucd it ),uncstly ; :1nd I wus at once rc-tlll-
mittcd as a novice."
Now unfortunately Maria !\Ionk, c~tnhli.;hcs her character by
this portion of he1· IJook we h!.ve cxtract!'d as a lkie{, extending
her deprcdat!ons to several of her friends, and undertaken deli·
berately for no nry pre~·sing ohjeet: l\faria attempts to palliate
this cnnduct by11sscrting that the Stlpcrior M,ust have known tht:
money dishonestly obtainctl1 nnd, thus mailing her as bad as
herself; blll this is ciearlythe t~s~c·rt·ion ofan acknowledged thief
and liar: the Superior may be as bad as herself, we ure not dis·
posed to defew.l her, but the proof is certamly wanting. Maria
in another paragraph insinuates that this conduct is agreeable
to the religious Llud.rines or instructions she had received, and
that if aU were known it would ''be far fron1 displeasing the
Superior." This we mnst remark, really savors of Protestant
influence in getting up the boi>k; it looks Tery mnch like a Pro-
testant suggestion : we :ll'c not partial to Catholicism, but iu
moral honesty, Catholics appear o.l a level with oth"rs, varyin:;
like other people with cuculllstunees. In pa~es 8'1 ll1Hl 8f>,
Maria shows that she wus in~tmcted in lying by the Superior,
and that she voluntarly lied to deceive the t'riends of the Novi-
tiats, and in page 82 and 83, she shows that the priests instructed
.I
( I
I
.)
l
I
I
I
.,
I
I
'I
I I
10
her in lying and in the distinction between a religious lie and
a wickc... lie : und in various parts of the work, she shows that
she habitually lied, sometimes in conjuur.tion with a nun called
Jane Ray, and so111etimes on hc1· own account, for her own
benefit. Now put together her mysterious few week's marriage,
her deliberate de~eptions, her obtaining money from s~veral of
her frie11ds as well as her mother's pension by deception, her
acknowh:dgcd habituallymg iu the convent, and the ltttle prin-
cipal which induced her to enter thnt establishment on the third
timil, and the conclusions we must como to, is, that Matia Monk
is a weak unprincipled woman whose single testimony cannot
be depended on. We proceed now to the second questions.
What evidence docs Maria offe·r, 1vithin !LeT poUJer1 11r that of
her pat?'ons, bestdcs her own?
The answer is, !!one, from one end of the book to the other
there is s~urcely a single reference that is accrssible, confirm-
ing any important point in the book; and yet there was the
~eans of obtaining some, and if this some had been procured
lt would undoubtedly have led to othcr.cvicl .nee: if however no
Itttempt bus been made to support her testimony by other evi-
dence, there are some indirer,t references, from which we glean
a little, and which in the hands of an intelligent ami diligent
per11on, would have been the means of ferreting out tht: truth,
if the truth was desired. In p. 2'H, Maria s.hows that Mr.Con-
roy the Catholic priest of this city called o.• het· in the Alms
House, but that she declined to sec him ; she declares he called
several times, and that he waited once an hour in a room where
sbt: sometimes was, but still he neve•· saw her; that finding
shl! declined seeing him, he sent to herseveral messages by one
or more Irish or other women, and among other things these
messages contained the following, " That I (Maria) need not
think to avoid him, for it would be impossible for me to do so.
That I might conceal myself as well as I could, hut I should be
found and taken." He informed her too, "that he had receiv-
ed full power aud authority ever me (l\laria) from the Superior
of the Hotel Dieu Nunnery of Montreal." She says at lenglh,
that she agreed to sec him in the presence of Mr. T. (Tal'. :u
the chaplain) or Mr. S. "which however was not agreed tt•."
She concludes by saying, t!!at she heard that Mr.Conroy eoPti-
nued to visit the !louse: 'once,' she remarks,' I had determ.n-
t:d to leave the institution, and go to the Sisters of Charity; I ut
circumstances occurred which gave me time for further relh:c-
tion; and I was saved front the destntctiO?£ to whick I should
lr.ave been exposed." The last line was marked in italics just
ie and
'S that
called
: own
-riage,
·ral of
n, her
:prin-
: third
Monk
annot
s.
iat of
other
nfirm-
ls the
~ ured
•er no
:r evi-
glean
ligent
truth,
.Con-
Alms
:ailed
vhere
1ding
yonc
these
d not
fo so.
ld be
:cciv-
erior
lll!'lh,
LJ>. :n
lt,•."
Ollti-
m.n-
t ut
:Jlec-
O?tld
just
!1
as we have done. Now here we have an indirect referei\Ce;
Mr. Conroy is mentioned, and Mr. Tappin referred to. We
have not seen Mr. Conroy, we find it unnecessary, for we get
better testimony. Mr. Tappin, the Chaplain, informed us that
he believed the book true " except in the case of Mr. Conroy,
that there were a few things said about him that were not cor-
rect; that Maria Monk was surrounded by a set of idle vaga-
bond women, who to frighten her told her all mannc!' of tales."
If these are not the exact words, they are the exact sense ;
and thus we find that the only !act we have the means of test-
ing is a lie! in which Maria is supposed to have been deceived
by a set of idle vagz.bond women ; and this certainly 11uggests
the possibility of her having bc11n deceived in other parts, by
perhaps n set of idle vagabond men. Mr. Tappin, too, tells us
that Mr. Conroy never was there an hour, out that he called
perhaps several times, and as she would not see him he declin-
ed calling: this precisely ncconls with the bishop's stntement
to us on the subJect, and therefore we conclude this account
correct; and Mr. Tappin's testimony extremely honorable to
himself, whatever may be his opinions. When Mr.Hoyt went
to Canada with Maria, he had a fine opportunity to te'St some
points of importance, and these as we before observed, would
necessdrily lead to other discoveries: :u1d if he neglected such
an opportunity of strengthening her testimony, it satisfies us
that ellher he dared not make the inquiry1 or was incapable of
getting up the work, with what assistance he got. ln page 27,
Maria relates that a girl told hcl' of certain indecencies of a
priest when at confession, she after.vards repeats, p. 29, that
several young women told her similar stories, and that these
a~:reed with her own experience : yet·not one of these girls are
named, who are not said or supposed to be nuns; and these
could have been sought out, and this part of her testimony sub-
stantiated, and thus have rendered probable othtr parts, in
coanection with this fact. In p. 28, is the account of the mur-
der' of a youn~ beautiful squaw, by a priest, who ran away,
and whose bioody knife was fnunt! near the body; but the name
of the girl is not given. In p. 113, is an account of a horrid
and brutal murder of a young nun, St. Francis, who had been
abused by some priests, and had imprudently spoken of escape,
and determiraed not to yield to prostitution. This woman was
murdered in the presence of Maria and a large body of nuns,
the Bishop, Superior, and several priests : her friends had been
informed that " she had died a glorious death, and some of her
heavenly expressions were repeated:" yet St. Frances was well
known to Miss Louise Bosquet, of St. Denis, the school mis-
I
)
l
}
:r
I
l
l
12
tress with whom Maria had lived : through her, Mr.Hoyt when
in Canada, might have fo~>nd her friends, who hatl been cheat-
ed; and they might have demanded a legal enquiry, under the
protection of the British Government; and in this way the truth
m1tsf. have been confirmed : butl\Ir. Hoyt or Maria has given us
no such inforination, and if each individual wants to test the
truth, he must now go to Canada, and indict certain individual::;
belonging to the convent upon the testimony of Maria, an ac-
knowledged liar and thief; but Mr. Hoyt could have done
this for the whole community, and thus established the truth of
his statements, and made his publication respectable: at the
same time too and from the same people, Mr. Hoyt could have
known the fact of her few week's marriage, and thus have
tested other parts of her story. Jn page 16!'> Maria relates that
the Superior cheated an old priest, a little in liquor, by impos·
ing on him an old unsalcable ornament made in the house, and
adds,' WE all approved the ingenious device, and assisteE! in
deceivin~ him:' the ornament was charged to 4is account, and
he was ooli~cd to have it. Now this priest is not named,but he
was access1ble to Mr. Hoyt, and as no man likes :o be cheated,
the facts could hav<! bee1>d:·awn from him, and then we might
believe that a Superior who would cheat, nnd avail herself of
the assistauce of the nuns to assist in the cheat, that she might
in~truct young· nuns to prostitute their person~: this would not
have been positive evidence for other parts, but it would go
far to render other parts probable. Mr. Hoyt too, might have
had the child sworn to Father Phelin, parish prie:;tof Montreal,
and thus have brought the nfi:.tir into court, aud gradually have
brought out the truth : or he might have st;cn the holy father
privately, and if a liar in the case of Maria, he might have de-
tected it, for liars do not make a very straight story when elosly
examined.
Now as Mr. Hoyt has done none of these things when he
migP.t have done some of them at least. 1Nc conclude that
Maria has not snpported her testimony by any other, when
from her character, such support was essential to the credibil·
ity of the work.
Is tltere S1tclt an accordance between the se'veral parts of tlte
detail tts to establish tlte pnsum]!tio?t of tlw trutlt.
We noticed in the former part, that Maria had given no re-
ference to persons that were available; there is the same neg-
lect of dates, for which indeed she partly accounts, when she
says that in the nunnery dates were neglected, either by design
or accident. IC Maria is sincere and her narrative true, this
omission of dates is very nnfortunate for her; but if ~he has
.vhen
heat-
'f the
truth
m us
:t the
luals
1 ac-
~one
th of
: the
~ave
1avc
that
pos-
nnd
El in
and
tt he
ated,
ight
If of
ight
not
I go
laVe
•
en)1
laVe
ther
de-
)s\y
he
that
hen
:bil-
tl1c
re-
eg-
;he
:gn
his
laS
13
not told the truth, the omission of dates may be designed on
her part: but it is hard to conceal the truth, and l\lariu com-
mlts herself on the subject of her age, if Mr. Tappin is correct
in his supposition. In page 20 she relates that she entered the
Catholic school or School of the Nunnery, at ten years of age.
In page 30, she relates that she left the school after two years,
at wh1ch time she must have hc!l!!"ru·clve; anrl bcftlle this pe-
riod she relates, p. 29, that si•e heard at conft·:ssion '~·ords from
the mouths of priests, what o.:.e cannot ·relate, and experienced
treatment corresponding; and that other females experienced
the same. On leaving the nunnery, Maria informs u ~ that she
!loon became di~satisfied, especially with her home, the p:uti-
culars of which are not explained, and she conclude:;, "While
out of themtnnery 1 saw notkingo{1·eligion; if I had I believe
1neve·r should have thiJ1tght of becoming a mm." This expres-
sion struck us on first reading, as not natural to Maria, l>rought
up a Catholic, anrl who did r..:>t a short time since, even after
the manuscript w1.s written, acknowledge conversion. '\Ve
thought at first, and we think so now, that it savor~ of protes-
tant influence, and thus partly deteriorates the work. Being
as she says soon dissatisfied, (without designating the exact
time,) she entered the Black Nunnery as a novice; after some
prudent delay, and caution on the part of the principals of the
Convent. Maria in forms us, p. 4:.!, that she left this con\'ent
after a residence of about two and a half years; her expres-
sion as to time is this :-' After I had been a Novice four or
five years, that is, {ron~ Ihe time I commenced school at t!.e Con-
vent, &c." that is, from the time she was ten years of age, and
hence she would bent thP. time·of thus leaving the Black Nun-
nery, fourteen and a half, taking the average of [ou1· or flu
ywrs. Maria left the Nunnery, it appears, without leave or
notice : admitting that no opposil ion would ha,·e been made
to her departure, had she made her wish known. On thus lea-
ving the Convent in disgust at the behaviour of fome of the
nuns to her, she went to St. Denis, and resided at first as an as-
sistant to a young lady, her friend, who kept a common school,
and while thus engaged, she married, as before related, before
she was fourteen and three quarters, for at that/eriod she had
been married. and separated from her husbRn , and returned
again to the C*-lvent; as shn remainrd at St. Denis only three
months altogether : we hHe before related how long she re-
tnained married. and what meat s she used to get into the Con-
vent, and we now only notice it for the sake of the time. 'Not
knowing what else to do,' she says, &he again entered the Nun
nery, and soon after took the veil, as if she were a maid, and
14
expecting to be devoted to chastity and religious duties, as she
herself says. Now in the title page, we find that she was a
nun two years, and this would make her not quite seventeen
when she left the nunnery with child by Father Pnelin, parish
p~iest of Montreal,aa she says. She was admitted into the Alms
HouiSe, anti delivered of a child last Autumn, as we were in-
formed by Mr. and Mrs. Tappin, the chaplain and his lady;-
and Mr. Tappin informs us, that ohe was then, when in the
Alms House, or when he was in the habit of seeing her, about
twenty-five years old: now 111lowing that she wus six months
out of the convent before 8he was delivered, and that is the ut·
most she could be, for she left in horror of child-murder, as
she says, (and she could not be sure of being with chil<l mNe
than six months before her delivery,) then her age would beta-
king the average only, and that in favor of he1· statement, ehe
would then be seventeen years and a half at the time of her de-
livery, and now she would be about ~iglttccn; but Mr. Tappin
told us he thou~ht her ahout twenty.five, and his lady sitting by
and hearing the conversation, made no correction ; and there-
fore ,;he would now be twenty-five and a half, an age much more
agreeable to the nature of the narrative than that of sevcnte~n
and a half: but the two 11re incompatible. We htwe no interest
in this inquiry, nor do we suffer any influence: we called on
the Catholic Bishop, and we called on 11'/r. Tappin, as a strang-
er, and we left as we called, leaving in both cases our name,
but without expressing either our faith CIT views, which indeed
were :Jot then delinite,as we were only enquiring after the truth.
Mr. Teppin may hnve been mistaken in the acre of Maria, yet
we asked more tbnn onee, but not so as to aw11k~n any curiosity:
we wanted to get the facts without awakening prejudice; af11l
we believe we did; had he said eighteen, we should have pub-
lished it: and we now give the fact as the means of testing the
truth.
If Maria is now etglttecn, it snpports that part of her testi·
mony which refers to the time of her acquaintance with the
nunnery, and some of the transactions: if she is twenty-five
and a half, it destroys a part of her evidence. Our object i~
truth, and this the means of testing it. We have sel!n in some
periodicals le.tely, that she is estimated by appearance at about
20, by some who have just had a peep a.t her sinc.
e he~· good for-
tune; the state of her feelings, her dress, ane circumstances,
will make some difference in the appearance of her age, and this
may account for the different esllmates: but the chaplain was
her confidant, and was much with her: and the facts can be u·
s she
vas a
Heen
arish
Alms
rein-
ady;-
n the
>
bout
)nths
le ut·
r, as
mC>re
>eta-
t, ahe
.r de·
1ppin
lg by
here-
more
ateen
crest
?don
·ang-
ame,
1deed
ruth.
1, yet
oslty:
arul
pub-
gthe
testi·
1 the
r-five
!Ct i~
;orne
1
bout
. for-
1ces,
Ithis
was
c as-
15
eertained, and ought to be ; and she herself ought to have macle
this matter clear, it was within her power.
In connection with her age are several facts : she must haTe
br~en married at the early age of fourteer• and a half, yet thi1
unusual early age is not noticed: she must have become a nan
between the age3 of fourteen and fifteen or before she was fif.
teen; yet she does not notice the fact, although she even notice•
that the youngest girl entered 11s a nun was but ftYUrteen; and
when mentioning this fact we should expect a reference to her
own age, which did not much exceed it. Of that young nun•he
says she hea1·d she was much ill-used hy the priests, and died
in consequence. W e can too scarcly concetve of the Lady
Superior instructing a young girl of 14, or 15 years of age, in
the practice of prostitutwn on herfirst taking the veil,as Maria
asserts,in connexion with the fact, of the girl's being pious and
sincere,anrl the in~titution a religlous one; this conduct exceed•
that of the most ab<
mdaned procuress or keeper of houses of ill
fame that exist in the mosl COlTUpt and voluptuous cities in the
Old World : yet the thing is possible. In Maria's case, who
entered, not knvwing what P.lsc to do, and after a few weeks
mnr1·ia<te, the case might bl! different, and the efiects ditferP.nt
upon h~r ; but t.he Superior was rleceived, supposed her a vir-
gin, and therefore we ean sc·:~rcely credit this initiating io:.true-
tion.
In page 62 Maria shows that on the day in which she took
the veil Father Dufrene took he1· into a ''private apartment and
treated her in a brutal manner" two other priests afterwards
did the same that evening, after which Father Dufrent. return-
ed and compelled her to pas,; the night with him. In Maria's
discription of the nunnery she mentions priva/.e rooms appro·
priate::l to corruptions, and even at confession when in P!'tvate,
with the prio3t, while other nuns were outside eac:h urgmg the
other to go in first, becatt3e of the consequence5; still the proe-
titution wa1 in private ; and this is the general idea preserved
in the book; yet 1
\h ria mentions singular exceptions, wh1ch if
true are not reconr.ileable with this general pri·;acy of the
practices referred to. In page 35 there is a dcscripticn of tha
sleeping rooms ofthe no\'ices: thu~-
''I'he beds were placed in rows,without curtains or any thinr
else to obstruct the view ; ami in one corner was a small room
part tioned off, in which was the b~d of the night-watch,that is,
the •>ld nun that was appointed tc. oversee us for the night. In
ead. side of the partition were two holes, through which sl).e
coui :l look out upon us whenever she pleased. Her bed.was
a little raised above the level of the others. There was a1amp
I
n
~
, I
I
I
·I
I
{
l
16
hung in the middle of our chamber showing every thing to her
distinctly; ami ns she has no light in her !ittle room, we never
could perceive whether she was uwake or asleP-p."
Now there is no deliberate description of the nuns bed room,
but we learn indirectly that the apartment for the nuns is nearly
the same: thus, in page 64, speaking of thE' nuns she thus pro·
cceds:-
" On Thursday morning, the bell ruug at halt-pass six to
waken us. The old nun who was acting as nigllt-watch im-
mediately spoke aloud :
" Voic1 le Seigneur qui vient." (Behold the Lord cometh.)
The nuns all respo<Jded :
"Allons-y devant lui." (Let us go and meet him.)
We then rose immediately, and dressed as expeditiously as
possible, stepped into the passage-way at the foot ofour beds as
~oon as we were ready, and taking places each beside her op-
posite companion. Thus we were soon drawn up in a double
row the whole Iength of the room, with our hands folded across
our breasts, nnd concealed in the broad cuff~ of our sleeve.~. Not
a word was uttered. \Vhen the signal .1s given, we all pro-
t::eeded to the community-room, which is spacious and took our
places in rows facing the entrance, near which the Superior
was seated in a vet·giere."
After repeating the various ceremonies of the day, .Maria
concludes thus :-
" Standir.g near the door, we dipped our finger~ in the holy
water, crossed and blessed ourselves, and proceeded up to the
sleeping room in the usual order; two by two. When we had
got into bed, we repeated a prayer beginning with:
".llfon Dieu, je vous donne mon creur,"
" My God, I give you my heart;"
and then an old nun, bringing some holy water, sprinkled i~
on our beds to drive away the devil, while we took some and
crossed ourselves ngain.
At nine o'clock the bell rung, and all who were awake're-
peateJ a prr.yer, called the ofl'rande; those who wete asleep
were considered as excused."
Thus then it appears they slept in a body, a watch over them1
and a light in the room; for the watck or guardian old nun, ana
the exercises, supposes a light in the nuns rooms as well as in
the novices; the parties in bed too were to observe silence. Now
Maria in page 145 after noticing the discovery ofa secret pa&sage
lea~:ng from the Seminary, remarks, that she now saw how it
:o her
1ever
room,
early
s pro·
ix to
him-
1eth.)
;ly as
~ds as
!r op-
ouble
.cross
Not
1 pro·
k our
?erior
11aria
1 holy
to the
e had
led it
e and
re·re·
.sleep
them1
•,ana
as in
Now
&sage
OW it
1.7
.vas that priests appeared among them without her before know-
ing how they ~ot in, and that they could "come up to the door
of the Superior's room at any h·nu,~cn up the stairs into our
sleeping room or where they chose. :And often they were in
our bl:lds before us." We must her remember that the nun1
slept in !\ public ronm, with a light and a watch; that they re-
peated prayers,and those who were awake, renewed their pray·
ers one hour after they were iu bed, aRd with the exception o(
these prayers were to keep silence: now, if this grossness were
practised, which we can scarcely conceive commen, even in
brothels·-if we can conc.eive of this public prostitution, in con-
junction too wit.h the ceremonies of the sleeping room; then
we can see no necessity for uny private or secret debauches;
and yet the tenor of the book supposes, and expressly says, pri-
vate apartmenls were the scenes of ~ross corruptions. Maria
gives a fnct in relat!nn to this shameful publicity ofpr'lstitution,
incompatible wi1h the secret vice, and common prudence: She
describes, I>· 149, a young f;irl having taken the veil, and the
name of St. Martin, sleepmg on the first night nearly opposite
to her, that she shrieked out in the night, and that :;;he disco-
vered the voice cf Father Quiulicr, and severRl nuns assured
ber that that priest was there : the S uperior commanded audi-
bly the young woman to obey. !\ow that any experienced priest
should invade in a public room, \he bed of u supposed maid, a
pious girl, and not previously corrupted, except by the suppos·
ed recent instructions of the Superior, is improbable; for there
was no possibility in public or his using succe8sfully either per-
suasion or force; and that Father Quiblier, jf he had really
the experience ascribed to him, must have known. Lord By·
ron gets Don Juau into a situation something like that of Fa·
ther Q.; hut Don J•.1an's lady, was one of the Turkish harem,
under restraint, with D'l religiou'l feelings or recent vows of
chastity; no previous bad 8pirits; and yet with all this differ
cnce, Byron docs not make his hero succeed. Maria gives one
other t'ase oi publicity, and on this occasion ~he selecti noble
game-the E!shop Latique and the Lady Superior. Maria
shows that while she was one night attending on the Lady Su-
perior, and sleeping in her room on a sofa, a bell was rung,
le~ding from the street to the Superior's room : Marltt wa~ sent
along the well known secret passage to answer the bell, when
she heard the signal hio~sing, used by all the priests at any late
hour; and tnis she answered by the usual 'Hum, hum,' and
then let in Bishop Latique, who finding she was a rtcei~ed,
that is a nun, directed her to con•luct him to the Superior'• a.
partment, which she did; he then "went to bed,' ( w1th the su-
•
l<i
I
\
('
~·..
I
,,
I
I
I
I
I.
i
I
I,
I
I
·
-
'
18
perior, we are left to suppose)' drew the cu••ains behind him,
and 1 lay down on the sofa until morning, when the Superior
called me at an early hour, about day-light, and directed me to
show him(the Bishop,) the door." Now this Bishop story,be-
sides the grossilesi of sleeping with the Lady Superior, while
l\larill was in the room, involves other peculiarities which must
be remembered. That any but r• reccited, or a nun, should be
acquainted with the secret passage leadiug to the outer door, ia
not to be supposed, and he•occ the Bbhop asked a foolish quea·
tion; but these apparently foolish things, serve to detect the
truth; the other inferences we shall leave for the present.
In page 73 and following pages Maria gives a minute descrip-
tion of the intcrerior of the building, and ascribes several room•
to particular purposes; among the rest, one for the nuns to give
birth to children in; another for priests deseased from sen-
suality; and a third for nuns affected by the diseased priests;
one for the bapti:sm of infants before they nre st.angled, and a
deep hole in the teller into which murdered bodies ure thrown
on which quick li111e and afterwards oil of vitriol is thrown: the
majority of the rooms howe\'er are for ordinary purposes. Maria
sets her crediuility on this description of the npartments,und this
is a very weak point, for the discriptiolil of the room be correct,
eXCPTJt the purposes to which some of them are appropriated,
and yet the tale of infamy wrong. Maria's best evidence is her
being with child, if it can be clearly shown that she becume
with child while a nun; and that as a Black Nun she never left
the nunnery, while priests alone where the only men permitted
to visit her and other nuns : this is ~oou evidence and what
she could have established to dem<.~nstralion, if true: she could
have 8hown on what d11 y she left the Nunnery, and that she was
with child at that time ~ and if the conductors of the Nunnery
could. not show that she was turned out of the establishment
for !!Citing with child, by u heui!h of some order, the inierence
would ue that the father of the child WR!l 1\ priest j and Father
Phelin might be he as well as any other. If Maria could not
recover dates wh1le in the Nunnery, it is at-surd to say she
could not remember the day she lel't it, and who she first saw,
and all the step~ since till the uirth of her child; yes, you read
from the p~gc 220 to the end auo•.lt her leaving the Nunnery,
and coming to New York up to the present time with out a sin-
gle rcl~ren ce. This fact we think conucmns the book as false,
or the authors as men incapable of conceiving, collecting and
presenting the proper evidence for such important facts: Maria,
the publishers1 and those who assisted her have only said she
was with child while a nun, and that none but priests had acces1
totheNunncry; she haditinhcrpower ·"-prove it: shehasnol
I him,
>erior
me to
ry,be-
while
1 must
uld be
oor, is
' quell-
ct the
I.
!Scrip-
rooms
.ogive
1 sen-
riests ;
and a
3rown
n : the
Maria
ld this
orrect,
riated,
: is her
~cu me
·er left
mittcd
what
~ could
hewns
muery
hment
~renee
!?ather
ld not
1y she
tsaw,
u read
mery,
11 sin-
false,
g and
daria,
:d she
ICC:eSi
as not
19
done so, and thus rendered the story dependant on ll th1evish
!yin& girl, without references which would establish her credi-
bility evtln if a liar, and which refere:ices she might have
given.
In page 93 Maria says that three or four days after she entered
the ~unnery, l!he was sent for coal (charcoal) and she thm;
describes her l'erilo:.ts journey involving mauy awful particulars,
This charcoal ·~xpedition, is we think <>lle of the most extrava-
gant statements ·in the book,for Maria does not say sl:e lost he1·
way she dues not say that the dr"adful hole which she discovered,
wu~ uncover!ld by uccident, she docs not say that it w:1e unusual
to have charcoal in so inconvenient u place; all is related as a
common statement of' facts, and these are her words :-
"Three or four days nftcr my reception, the Superior sent
me into the cellar for coal; after she had given me din>t:tions,
I proceeded down a staircase, with >1 lamp rn my hand. I soo11
found myself U('On the bare eurth, in a spacious place, ~o dark,
that I could not at once distinguish its form, o~ ~izc, but I obser-
ed thnt it had very solid stone walls, ami was arched over-
head, at no g•·cat el evation. Following my direction I proceeded
on warJs from the foot of the stai:s, where appeared to be one
end of the cellar. After walking about fifteen paces, I passed
three small d1>
ors, on the right fastened with large iron holts
on the outsiJe, pushed into poMs of stone work, and each hhving
1\ small opening a bove covered with a fine g•ating, secured by a
smaller bolt. On my left, were three similar doors, resembling
these, and placed op:JoFite them.
Beyond rhese, the space became broader; the doors evidently
closed small comp11rtments, projcctin"' from the outer wall of
the cellar. I soon stepped upon a woo"'den floor, on which were
heaps of wool, coarse linen, and other articles, apparently de-
-posited there for occasi,mal use. I soon crossed the tloor, and
lound _
the bare earth ll"'ain under my feet.
A httle further on, f found the cellar again contracteri in
1ize, by a_row of closets, or smaller compartments projecting
on each s1de. These were closed by doors of a dillerent rlc·
scription from the first, having a simple fastening and no open-
ing through them. '
Just beyond, on the left side, I pass_
ed a staircase lea_ding- up,
and then three doors, much resembling those first d1~cribed
ttanding opposi!e three mor" on the oth~r side of ;he cellar:
Having passed tnese, 1 found the cellar again enlarged as be-
fore, and here the earth appeared as ifmixed with some whitish
substance which attracted my attention.
'!
I
!I
t
I !
I
I
I
I.
i
I·
I
I l
20
As J proceeded, I found the whiteness increase, until the sur-
fnce looked alrnu~t like snow, and in a short time I observetl
before me, a hole du;; so dt!ep into the earth that I (:>uld percci ve
no bottom. I stopped to ohsen·e it.-lt was circular, perhaps
twelve or lifteen feet across; in the middie ofthe cellat· and un-
protected by any kind of curb, so that one might easily have
walked into it, iu the dark.
The whi:J substance which I had observct.l, was :;pread all
over the surface nround it; and lay in such quantity on all aides,
that it seemed ~s if a great d1~al of it must ha\·e been thrown
into the hole. It immediately occurred to me that the white
subst.wcc was lime and that this musi. be the place whero the
infants where buried, after being murdered, as the Superier had
informed me. I knew that the lime is olien used by Roman
Catholics in burying-places ; and in this way I accounted for
its being scattered about the spot b1 such quantities.
This was a shocking thonght to me ; but J can hardly tell
how it affected me, as I had already ~ecu prepared to expect
drea!lfulthings ill the Convent, anti had undergone trials which
prevented me from feeling us 1should formerly have done in
similar circumstances.
I pnssl•d the spot, therefore, with distressing thoughts, it is
true, ahout the little corpses, which might be in that sccre~
burying-place but with recollections al so ofthn1leclarations which
1 had heard about the iavour done their souls hy sending tbcm
straight to heaven, and th e necessary virtue accompanying all
the ::.ctions of the prie;;ts. .
Whether I noticed them or not, at the time, there is a wmdow
o1· two on each, nearly against the hole, in at which are some-
times thrown articles brought to them from without, for the usc
of the Convent. Through the window on my right, which opens
intv the yard, towards the e1·oss street, lime is receiycd from
cart:s; and I then saw a large heap of it near the place.
· Passing tl1e hole, I came to a spot where was another projec-
tion on each side, with threll cell~ like those 1 first described.
Beyond them, in another broad part of thu cellar, were heaps
of vegetables, and other things: ou the left, I found the charcoal
1 was iu sench of. This was plaerd in u heap against the wall,
as I miaht then have observed, ncm· a small high window, like
!he rest~ M which it is thrown in. Beyon1l this'spot, at :1 6hort
distance, the cellt~r termmated ·
The top quite to tht•.t point., is arch ed overhead, though at
different heights, for the earth on the bottom is uneven, and in
some places, several feet higher than in others.
Not likin~ to be alone in so sp~cious and gloomy a part of the
21
Con'feot, especially after the discovery, I haatened to return.''
/.Now this extract is to us satisfactory : Charcoal for daily
use nner could be put in so inconvenient a place : the terrible
hole in the floor DC\'er would be left unco,·ered. This hole,
properly examinf'tl, serves to determine the whole questirn :
the Catholio priests ought to submit this cellar to examination,
and M~~ria, Mr. Ho)'l, nnd othtrs who have promotulthis hor-
rible Disclosure, ought to be obliged to promenade this cel!ar,
and Maria ought to point out thl!spot where this hole is, or was,
for if it be filled up, the Jpot will yet remaiu, nntlthe filling up
mu5l be distinguished from the other parts which b!IVC not been
disturbed : if this hole has not becu disturbed, the cnntents at
the bottom sho:;ld then Lie cht>mically nnd mechanically exam-
ined, and the remains of murdered bnmanily must be detrr.ted;
for we lind by an entry in a book, Maria says she discovered
with Jane Ray, that every month affords a new supply to the
amount of three or four children, besides the majority of old
nuns, and marderetl young one.;, who may not submit to brutal
force or voluntary prostitution: but if the bodie~, bones and all,
be decomposed, then the result, or compound substance will re-
main, and tell a talc as trul!; for tht>re is no deception in che-
mistry; ant! if the bottom be dug out or nltereJ, a mechanical
or close investigation will discover sur.h £1ltPrations, ant! afford
at least strong grounds for suspicion; besides, the use to,~hich
this hole is applied, must be explained. This hole, then, £If-
fords the means of testing the truth of Maria Monk's and her
assistant's story. Should it be fount! true, the guilty should be
brought to justice and suffer the indi(}'natilln of the public; and
should it be proved fnlse, Maria and'her guilty partners sho11ld
be mdde ta feel the pains ant! penalties due to calumniator~ of
the blackest die. As to the passage to the Seminary, and that
to the Congrcgation:~.l Nunnery, these might be sought alter
too; but they woull~ prove nothing material; for these might
exist like the general order of the npartmente, and be harmless:
the use to which they are alledgPd to be put, being only crimi-
nal.
The death of St. Frances, in the presence of the Bishop and
the Supl'rior, five priests and many nuns, iitr.luding Maria, who
took a part in it, us related in pnges 114, 15, 16, 17, &c., is in-
credible; for why should it be so public; people disposed to
murrlPr, seldom call witnc~ses, when the murder could b~ rqnal-
ly well effected without it, and the old n1ms, we arc let. . , un-
derstand, are q1detly m•Jrdered; whereas, Maria says, this St.
Franees was gagge~, thrown on a bet!, covered by another, and
that then the priests and nuus jumped on the bed with much
·I
I
·1
22
aatisfaction, till the victim was ol.'stroyetl: the priest Bonin ie
diatingui11hed in this transaction as most ferociot•s, nnd Father
Rir.h11rds is refresentt:d as wishing to save hl'r.
Equally puh ic ure the children murd~red, who nrc ~;aid to be
strangled by the old nuns, aftrr being baptis~d. Mn• in saya
the witnessed ihc 1!cnth of th e twins of St. Cnthtuine, but one
month after the death of St. Frances: and het· presence appears
accitlcntl l, as if no ci.lre w<~s taken either to conceal or fami·
liarizc the nuns to these scenes. One of the nuuneri~s, were-
mllrk too, took in foundlings; snrely some of the children said
to be horn in the Convent, might have fonnd a safe assylum
there, wilhout recourse to un if(H m murder.
In p. 219, &c. i\1aria relates her escape, (without d<
lle, or
whom she first ~aw as before related) she show s the difficully
she had !o escupe, and implies thut nuns cunuot get out if they
would; yet she shows in nno~ her pt~rt before refet·red to, that
priests come in at all hours in the llt"ht ; ring the bell leading
to the Superior's mom; that they nJ':1ke u h1ssing noi~e, alld
that the nuns let them in after replying by 'Hum, hum,' in or-
der that they might nnt be decl!ived. She shows, too, that she
actually let 111 the Bishop through this secret Jil!lSilage to the su-
perior's room, and let him out nguin by the direc:inn of the Su·
perior. She had also access to all th e r, oms by her condition
as a nun, and sometimes slept in the Superior's room, ns on the
very night she says the Bishop slept there : What difficulty
was there then in letting herself out 1 None, according to her
own showing; and she and uny other nnn could go out at any
time with very little contrivance ; just as easy as she could let
in the Bishop and show him out.
If Marin was very young and not 2!i or 2G, as the Chaplin
stipposcs, then there is an immense difticulty is her having a
companion in Jane Ray, about30 years of age: and in all her
actions with that female, which iiUppo~es a person of maturer
age, instead of a girl of fifteen or sixteen at most: her employ-
ments of reading to the novices &c. uut ill comports with that
early age, for many of the novices must then lie her superiors
in age,kl!0"''!~d("',nnd behnviour,as she docs not represent herself
as be,ng extrno1 nary in ubility.
Maria relates that all the prtests including a large tli trict of
country, nre debaudle.-!s, uruJ purt:tke of the crime of 111urder,
by being actually engaged in it, or sanctioning H, and that alt
the nt,
ms are prOfttitutes to the priests: and 1hat thusliPf :iJC Con-
gregational Nunnery, or some of them visit the Black ;·..unnery
through tlo. subterranean passnge for improper purpos ~s: now
the Nuns of the Congregational Nunnery Maria informs us are
the teachers !ill about the country, and ~urely some of these
·nin ia
'ather
lobe
liSAJI
1t one
·peare
fnmi-
ve re-
I said
ylum
te, or
culty
they
1 that
tding
, aild
in or-
it she
1c su-
e Su-
lition
n the
culty
J her
: any
ld let
aplin
ng a
I her
turer
?loy-
that
riors
!rself
ct of
.-dcr,
t alt
:;on-
nery
JlOW
; are
hese
21
would hnve repented ami have disclosed the secrets of the esta-
hli~hment; but no tli~clo::;urrs have been made by them. The
prests to<. ento>r ou their sttllliesJo•mg ; anrl some r.ome from
abroad; anrl some arc eon\'crte from nthcr rrligions; some
rnny no doubt be very wicked men, lmtthat nil should becc.;me
debauchees nnd murderers is inc.·ediblll: 11 1 what time are
youn~ nnd innocent ~tudents initwtrrl; when arc the foreigners
mtrnctuced into tlll'sn abnmhtahle corruptions 1 Wheu arc the
crmrerts made rt•quninted with these new l'l·idt•nce~ of the trUih
of this religion. Fat her Richards is Wt•lllmown in thi:s city as
a former M cthotli~t preacher, anti as n mau of gr~at humanity :
he it was who wis!J,·tlto save Sl. Francis, and thi~ fact has hel'll
pointed out to us by so111c respectable i\lethodist as proof of
Marin's story : but if Father Richards wns sincere in his con-
version, and retains his ltumnnity, ami honesty, could he sane-
Lion child murrl c·r: ccnld he sanction the murder the St. Francis
by his consent, ancl af,u sih'nce, even though he dirl apparent·
ly wish to SllVe her; or is this a~sumption of his wi~h to s:,
her put in to suit hi5 lim ncr known character: 11111! thus in ~­
nlity sets hint r:gainst liirnsl'!f. A :Vlethodist preacher antl hu-
mane man beco mes u Canndian Cntholit: priest, and then prac-
tice• a!loitery, and partakes in the murdt•r of infants, refractory
nuns, ami ohl nuns, to make way fnr ncl>' ones, but yet retains
his humanity, and wishes to ~ave St. Francis: the thing is au-
surd: in the course of years there must have been .~onte priesta,
who would have bcl'n conscience smitten, and h11vc divulgPt.l
the Recrets: yet no priest, convertcr.lor not, has e1·er exposed the
supposed inhumanity nnt.l corruptions.
Throughout Maria's boc.'k there is a marked P.rotestnnt tone
and inllut:nce; concenlcd mclecd ns much as poss1ble: we have
no objection to Protr9tantism; indeed we prelcr it to Cnthol iei~m
in every form but we must he impartial, anti we mu•t admit that
there is thro~ghout the book ~trong marks of Protestant in-
fluence and prt•judnce, which sng~e&t the idea that tho5e who
assisted l\1arir1 were nmong that class who woultl wish the con-
tents of her book true. 1\larks ofthi• kind will be found on the
title page, in the Scriptur~ quotation; in p~(!e !>!J,whete she says
"being unaccustome...t to Prolr..~lant societ!,, !'ht: hrardno appeal
to the.Bible," ~t!C also pages 20, 21,25 and 26, and 31. In page
101 she says she did'nt know what!. H. S. means; this perhaps
was the case, hut that she shoultl txpre~s it in the prese' .' ten~e
and not sav thnt she hacl since learned it, from Mr. Ho , l, Dr.
. Brownlee or others nssisting her in her hook, shows n Protestant
wish to prove Catholic ignornncP; rmd an attempt to conceal the
author of the sugge&tion : in 20!) is the same sp::it, she is made
to say spe~king of the liquid poured into the holo in the celler,
1
I
'h
she" thinks the liquor was called vitriol or some such name;"
ehe adds it will penetrate flesh and even bones; now this som.c
suelt name, can only be explained by a contracted wish to make
out Cr.tholic i~norancc; as if any woman had never heard of
oil of vitriol, by its common Hame,and know its costic properties.
The marks throughout the book of Protestant iutluence are too
numerous to note, for this the book itself must be seen.
We now notice ngain that the book accumulates all that has
ever been said against the worst nunneries in the worit ages ;
and makes even additions to them. We do not however think
it a reprint; this accumulation of crimes in· one nunnery, and
that she should witness them all in two ycnrs, at a Yery young
age, is a miracle.
We noticed also, th;.t the bo<
>k had no ostensible author, or
responsible persons r.onnected with it, but the publishers, who
must mal<e money, anti could therefore nffllfd the risk; Maria
is irresponsible, from her character and situation , :\1 r. Hoyt
has not put his name to it; Dr. Brownlee and Mr. Bourne have
not publicly acknowledged \That assistance they rendered : Gor-
don, to whom the c!lpy-rtght is secured, was paid as an agent,
we learn from Maria's present friends ; and he is to receive a
small sum from each edition. 1\Jaria, too, was to receive $80
on every new edition of 1000, guaranteed by the Harper's. We
have this from an attorney who saw the documont, and who
concludes unfavorably of Maria, from her rude manners in pri·
son, when she visited Hoyt there, and her familiarity with him.
" Hoyt, what l>as that fellow Conger against you ; you know I
have plenty of money; you shall not stay here an hour," were
among her familiarities. Maria in disll·es:., in the Alms House,
and with child, has turned these untoward circnmstnnces to ad-
mirable account, with the assistance of l'vlr. Hoyt, who is not
now in repute, even by Maria's fric~Jd3. The Catholics should
prove, if possible, where :\1aria was, if not in the Convent, or
at c>n.-:c admit her residence; the formet· may be difficult: but
Mana should have sworn the child to Father Phelin, and made
other individual charges, which must ha\'e brought on un ex-
amination; and she should have given her history out of the
Con\•ent, as tho means of tracing her to and from the Convent,
and fixing the fact of her being with child while in the Blark
Nunn.,ry. She has net done so ; we have therefore no confi-
dence in her Narrative, in herself, Mr. Hoyt, Gordon, Dwight,
the alledged editor, :'Ar.Bourne, or Dr. Brownlee, names unfor-
tunately Ctlllnected with strong prejudices against Catholics,
and With most intolerant spirits.
J'll.st out '2d.Pt. 'Faaaticism,' or Nar·rati·r
;i of Isabella, by G. V.
