{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V33 1943-46","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_journal_v33_1943-46.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V33 1943-46","mylang":"de"}
JOURNAL
/ ^
V OF THE
Society tor Psychical Research
VOL. xxxni
1943—1946
•
For Private Circulation among Members
and Associates only
*
r .
'
THE SOCIETY'S ROOMS
31 TJFISTOCK SQUJRE, LONDON, W.C. i
.1 All rig/its reserved
/
CONTENTS ,
>
'
( I
PACE
Annual Report of the Council for 1942 - - - '
- > - i
A Note concerning the Nature of Paranormal Awareness - - 12
A Percipient's Account of some Guessing Experiments - - 18
Case : Two Dreams apparently conveying Paranormal Impressions 2."
Case : Haunted Plouse - -- -- -- -34
Annual Report of the Council for 1943 ----- 42
" Displacement " : Some Comments on Mr Russell's Paper - 52
Case : An " Out-of-the-Body " Experience - - - - 58
Quantitative and Qualitative Methods of Research - - - 60
Case : Apparition - -- - - - - 72
A Note on Negative Deviation ------- 74
Fallacies in a Criticism of E.S.P. Assessment - - - - 77
Case : An apparently Precognitive Incident in a Dream Sequence 88
The Sensitivity of Card-guessing Experiments - - - - 91
Annual Report of the Council for 1944 ----- 99
Some Recent Investigations into the Borley Rectory Case - - 107
Precognition and the Uncertainty Principle - - - - 121
Some Recent Communications received through Miss Geraldine
Cummins - - - - - - - - -126
A Discourse given through Mrs Leonard and attributed to Sir
Oliver Lodge - - - - - - - - -134
Case : A Hallucination including a Veridical Element - - 160
" The Reality of Psychic Phenomena " - - - - - 161
Reflections on Mediumship - - - - - - - 16(1
A Case of Prediction of Illness - - - - - - -177
An " Out-of-the-Body " Experience - - - - - - 179
Annual Report for 1945 - - - - - - - -187
Experiments in the Relief of Pain - - - - - - 194
Oxford Phantasmological Society 208
B.B.C. Telepathy Experiment - - - - - - - 216
Questionnaire -------- - 220, 270
Hauntings - -- -- -- -- - 222
Case : Poltergeist - -- -- -- -- 224
Case : Telepathic Dream ------- - 230
Case : Veridical Messages through Automatic Writing - - 236
Case : Recognised Apparition seen by two Percipients - - -39
Broadcast Experiment proposed ------ 250
Case : Prevision - - 254
Research Officer Appeal ^ ^ ^ - : r - 2t;6
327025
.Ill', Contents •
.
»l ^ '
I .
'
PAGE
Survival, Dr Gardner Murphy on, - - - - -
'
- 256
Case : Malvern Poltergeist 25^^
Donations -
372
New Members ;
10, 17, 26, 33, 49, 57, 72, 87, 98, 118, 126, 157, 166, 173, 186, 205,
234.249
'
.
Meetings of the Council
I, ID, 17, 33, 50, 87, 98, 118, 126, 158, 166, 174, 1S6, 206, 235, 250
Meetings of the Society
8, II, 18, 34, 51, 52, 72, 88, 99, 119, 126, 155, 158, 159, 174, 186,
187, 207, 208, 221, 233, 249
Correspondence - 54, 62, 79, 92, no, 122, 130, 171, 175, 200, 252
Reviews - - 13, 23, 30, 40, 56, 68, 84, 172, 179, 203, 242, 263, 271
Obituaries - - - - - 11, 26, 58, 99, 166, 174, 193
Index 273
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
January-February 1943 Vol. XXXIII—No. 590-591
CONTENTS
New Members -
Meetings of the Council - -
Annual Report of the Council for 1942
Accounts for 1942 - - - -
Experiments in the Relief of Pain
Proposed Meetings for Discussion
PAGE
I
I
I
4
8
8
NEW MEMBERS . .
{Elected 12 December 1942)
Cowan Mrs., 1 5 West Parade, Lincoln.
{Elected 7 January 1943)
Hunter, Mrs., Rails, Thaxted, Essex.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 390th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 7 January 1943, at 3 p.m. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs
Goldney, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton,
G.B.E., Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G.
Soal and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond,
Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. One new Member was elected ; her name and address are
given above.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1942
(1) General. To the war-time difficulties mentioned in the Annual
General Reports of the last three years must be added restrictions on paper
which have seriously curtailed the amount of matter which can be printed
in either the Proceedings or the Journal.
(2) Research. Notwithstanding this and other troubles, much useful
research work has been done.
{a) Mr Richmond reports as follows : The group of percipients work-
2 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1943
ing for the Precognition Committee has met regularly at the S.P.R. rooms,
and thanks are due to its members for giving their time in a period when
leisure is not plentiful. The results of the experimental work in which
they are engaged have illustrated, so far, the elusive character of " psi
"
phenomena (E.S.P.) when an attempt is made to induce these to follow
a prescribed course, and while the technique employed has elicited some
new and interesting effects in the field of paranormal cognition—effects
extensively confirmed by similar findings on Mr Carington's re-examining
the results of work previously done upon the paranormal cognition of
drawings—the attempt to isolate a precognitive effect has not hitherto in
these experiments met with success. Experimental work is continuing
with a view to exploring the nature of the new effects and at the same
time extending the field of search for evidence for precognition.
In the summer of 1942 the Society had the opportunity of investigating
a number of cases in which painful conditions due to physical causes had
been relieved, temporarily or permanently, after treatment of a psychical
nature from which suggestion, verbal or other, was to a great extent
eliminated. The collected statements of patients and witnesses having
shown a prima facie case for medical investigation, this process of the
relief of pain has now been under weekly observation for some months at
3 1 Tavistock Square or in the consulting room of a surgeon who is kindly
giving regular co-operation in the exact verification of results. These are
of distinct interest and include especially the relief of painful and stiffened
joints in conditions where such an effect would be well outside medical
expectation. It is hoped that further observation may throw some light
upon the circumstances, other than those favourable or unfavourable to
suggestion, which affect the incidence and the duration of relief.
{b) The Council have renewed for another year, till 29 Sept. 1943, the
grant in favour of the " Cambridge Committee ". Mr Whately Carington
has continued his researches on the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings.
Between twenty and thirty independent experimenters have now used the
technique recently evolved, with very satisfactory results. This technique
has also been regularly used by Mr Richmond in the experiments on pre-
cognition, and by Mrs Frank Heywood in a successful series of experi-
ments conducted by correspondence with a group of private percipients.
Perhaps the most interesting point that has recently emerged is that,
when a packet of folded slips of paper, each bearing the name of an object,
is supplied to a sub-experimenter, from which the latter selects at random
a certain number for actual illustrations as originals, percipients score
significantly high on the objects named on the unused slips, though not,
in general, so high as on those actually drawn and used. This was first
noted in connection with Mr Richmond's experiments, and confirmed by
several of Mr Whately Carington's own experiments.
In Experiment IX, also, the effect was tried for the first time of using
originals drawn in different colours, and there are strong indications that
percipients score more freely on originals drawn in red or green than on
those drawn in black.
A large scale experiment conducted by Dr Gardner Murphy and the
American S.P.R. is in process of analysis.
Unfortimately, difficulties of paper shortage, etc. have precluded the
JAN.-FEB. 1943 Annual Report 3
publication of this work in full, but it is hoped to publish an abbreviated
Progress Report in Proceedings shortly.
{c) During the summer of 1942 Mrs Goldney and Mr Soal continued
the experiments in Precognitive Telepathy with Mr B.S. and further
results of striking interest were obtained. The arduous task of statistical
evaluation and discussion of data has now been completed. It is hoped
that a report on this interesting and important work will shortly appear in
Proceedings.
(d) In preparation for the F. W. H. Myers Memorial Lecture, which he
delivered in October, Mr Tyrrell has submitted to a thorough re-
examination the early work of the Society in regard to apparitions as set
out in Phantasms of the Living and the Report on the Census of Hallu-
cinations. The Lecture will be published shortly.
{e) Notwithstanding difficulties of travel spontaneous occurrences in
various parts of the country have been investigated. The Council would
be glad if members would keep a sharp look out for Press reports of
hauntings, poltergeists, apparitions, premonitions etc., and investigate
cases occurring in their own neighbourhood ;
they would find the advice
of the officers of the Society helpful. The Council would also be glad
if members would bring to the notice of the officers cases they were not
themselves able to investigate.
(3) Financial Position. The income from subscriptions has been well
maintained as compared with the previous year, in fact it shows a small
but welcome increase. Sale of publications has also brought in a larger
amount. A saving has been effected in the cost of printing, partly because
the cost of an important paper to be published in Proceedings will be
incurred in 1943, and not 1942 as originally intended. On the adverse
side the rent for the tenancy of the upper part of the building is, as was
foreseen, less and rates show a substantial increase. There has further
been an exceptional item of expenditure in the cost of gift books for the
Forces, mentioned in paragraph 6. In accordance with the provisions of
the Deed of Trust for the Endowment Fund the Council adopted a reso-
lution authorising the Trustees to make contribution to General Expenses
from any surplus income in that Fund. This has been done to the extent
of ^\']% as compared with the £120 contributed in the previous year for
cost of printing.
The year ends with a somewhat larger balance in hand which, in the
difficult circumstances prevailing owing to the war, the Council consider
to be a satisfactory result, particularly in view of the expenditure of
^70 IIS. 3d. for gift books for the Forces- mentioned above.
The Endowment Fund has continued to assist the Cambridge experi-
ments and has further financed in conjunction with the Blennerhassett
Trust the experiments in precognition, mentioned in paragraph 2 (a). It
ends the year with a balance in hand of £110 17s. lod. more than the
previous year.
As far as can be foreseen the prospect for the coming year is that, pro-
vided the measures of economy now in force are maintained, the work of
the Society will be capable of being carried on without having to trench
upon reserves ; some extra expenses will be incurred but it is hoped that
these will be met from our present sources of income.
X CO ' ' o o ' '
o CO o cr. t--
rH
O CO c o O CO :0 i-HCO
1-1 CO oo O O I> ^ CO
OCX) O (>1 rH
5 lO CC
oc;
3 X CO C. (M X C' CO O !C 1—I Ci
i-H 1-1 i-H i-H
rH CO i-O uO C I- 01 O CJ
CO rH
1. O
CO Hi
c
« o
00
5)
I £ s
^ ci <s » ?s
» ~
lili
: s
g s
S o
coo
CO o
rH
a
CO Ci
CO CO
r-l
3
t-* O ® o
W t> Tj* o
to
• c
'3
c
c
S
• PS
t-i 13 <D
rH K p p
K5
CO O O O O (M :C ^0 O --I ir5
^ O iM O en O CO O C-l C. CO
iH rH T-H rH rH tH
CO CI eg (M rH O CO O (M X CO O
CO -f rH rH r-f rH 00 CO CO
(M rH !M CO
rH rH
c: COO
CD CO rH
CO XrH
^i- >—i "M CO
-t- -t -f
c. c:
OXt}<
rH
COCO rH
'
CO
~ So -3 o O •
e So
, II! ssBs-^
O . ^ O
••S e
s 5S a o s
CO CO CO
O) Tt<
rH
iC irt O:
CO X
Cj —
& s
" 3 Set:
e
s
8
>.
l>CO
(M to
(M
c *
ooooo CO
O(MC0 Oi -+
O r-( tH 00 o
i-H
=+!
^ ^ S
^ o o ^
O o .„
^-<<!-^
io « s
s « = c
o
El
a
B
3
o
CO
CO
<1
O w o
0-* 30
^ a-—
CIS •
^ ta o ®3
OS U —I *a
a CO
3 3 C
O O =S
o o j::
'« 3 «
O M
^ 3 S
o o
o
rH
oo
T—
(
1-1 o
c c
lg§
a o o
g ^ "
;a-i"S" 3
« S s „
l|S|oc
^ 3 p=
c;> o
ij o w
^ 3
s c a
sOO
.
lb
If I
ill
s s
*'
6 C&H
2.S S
O O O '-O O
or- O i>
O rH O o
OO CI
o o 00
I—
I
r-i
O X fM
o rH
CO 00
>1
,25 . w
<10 5! «C 'i) *J
2» O ffj
Co
r-l
(M CO lO
(M-*r-l
I-H
to CO
> 1
1
S ...t " o c
m -
(o as
see"
N o
coco
«1
lag
o
Eh
OS ^ o
4) C
"2
o a
OS a.?!-*"
i o
o
,3
a c3 p
<u 3 O
ft A_c
a
oo-g
as o
Ee|
o
OP *^
5 4)
2 ta «
O oJT) eS
c: ^ '1 0-1
• ^ « 9
O tn 3 cj
O ca CO M
OOOOt-lOO ooo oooo
oooooco ooo oooo
o o o o oo o
to O O O O O Oi
-f CO 00 CJ I-
i/S O CO
m o
O QO<N
-* o oo
r-* (D CD o
(N l-
%
En
in oi ca
r-l in rH 9
O o >.
^ (U CO
• CD a> mm
'"lis
2 " d ^
22 « "2
5 oj O
(US eg e?
— m t»H "
= S ^o-o
^ d OS m S
Oh 13 gd
s g oj t; =3
a H ^ to o
1 't?M^
3 « t« n 3S
w w O ^ o
o (ft OT o
O C3 «
O
13
ci
P.
a
o
o
>>
Q
pa
m
H
EH
w a
M o
PS
o
PS <o
5: o
a o
rH
o oo o o o
iH'*i-4000>0000
rH rH
o O 00 o oo
0005(00l0000r-t
lOCOoQrHOOinOtO £562
£1,540
£23
£423 £750 £250
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Annual Report 7
(4) Presidency. Dr R. H. Thouless, whose work in psychical research is
well known, was elected President for the year. His Presidential Address,
which was delivered on the ist May 1942, has been published in Pro-
ceedings.
(5) Mrs Goldney has been co-opted a member of Council.
(6) Books for H.M. Forces. An appeal by a former member of the
Society for books for a Mobile Library under her charge met with such a
generous response from our members, and the books proved so welcome,
that the Council decided to have part of the Society's surplus stock of
Proceedings bound and issued, with a brief Introduction, to the Libraries
provided for men and women of the three Services. A set of three
volumes was made up consisting of material which would not be too
technical for a reader having no specialised knowledge, and which would
give a comprehensive and impartial view of psychical research. Fifty
copies of Vol. I and seventy-five each of Vols. II and III were presented.
In addition Messrs Bell & Co. kindly arranged to print in paper covers 50
copies of each of the books in the series on Psychical Experiences recently
published by them, the authors agreeing to forego their royalties to this
extent. It is hoped that these books will not only provide interesting
reading for members of H.M. Forces during the war, but will encourage
them to make a serious study of psychical research when they return to
civil life, and that they will make the Society's work better known to
sections of the public not ordinarily reached by the Society's publi-
cations.
(7) Library. Fifty-eight members borrowed books during the year and
56 books were borrowed by the National Central Library. Members also
availed themselves of the privilege of borrowing a number of books from
the National Central Library.
(8) Obituary. Among the losses by death during 1942 may be nien-
tioned : Sir Francis Younghusband, The Earl of Selborne, Lady Butt,
Mr J. A. Spender, and Canon F. W. Cooper ; some of them were members
of very long standing.
(9) Membership of the Society. Thirty new Members and one Student-
Associate were elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations, and other
causes is 18 Members and 7 Associates, leaving a net increase of 6 in the
total membership of the Society, which now stands at 582.
(10) Publications. One Part of Proceedings was published during the
year (Part 166) in September.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amount to ^^13 19s. 8d., and
to Members of the Society ^46 6s. lod. and through the Society's Agent
in the United' States, j^ii 9s. 4d., a satisfactory increase of ^^29 over last
year's sales.
(11) Meetings. The following Meetings have been held during the year :
25 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
" The Work of the Precognition Committee ", by Mr Kenneth
Richmond.
25 Mar. " A Psycho-Therapist's View of Telepathy and Mediumship ",
by Dr H. J. Ehrenwald.
8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1943
*i May. Presidential Address.
2 Oct. " Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy ", by Mrs Goldney
and Mr Soal.
*3i Oct. Seventh Myers Memorial Lecture. " Apparitions ", by Mr G.
N. M. Tyrrell.
* General Meetings.
EXPERIMENTS IN THE RELIEF OF PAIN
The experimental work mentioned in the Annual Report above (Section
za, 2nd paragraph) will be helped forward, and sufferers may gain relief,
if members can send any cases known to them of painful conditions which
can definitely be classed as arising from physical causes ; if possible,
patients should be able to visit the Society's rooms at 6.30 p.m., but other
arrangements can be made in special cases.
PROPOSED MEETINGS FOR DISCUSSION
A LETTER in the following terms has been circulated by Mr Tyrrell to
certain members of the Society :
" The value of discussion as a means for promoting understanding and
stimulating interest in a subject is now widely recognised, and it has been
suggested that periodical meetings for discussion might be welcomed by
members of the S.P.R. and their friends.
" There are difficulties in the way of holding such discussions in war
time, and before steps are taken to realise the proposal, the opinion of
members is desired : it would also be necessary to know approximately
the number of attendances that might be expected at each meeting. In
the event of the project being realised, meetings would be held in the
evenings, say, once a fortnight, in the Society's Rooms at 31 Tavistock
Square, and the discussions, although informal, would be conducted by
a chairman, who would, as a rule, be a member of Council, or one of the
older members of the Society.
"It is thought that, by discussing some definite aspect of psychical
research on each occasion, members, and those of their friends who are
interested, would come to appreciate more fully the problems which the
S.P.R. is trying to solve, its policy and methods, and the wider significance
of the subject as a whole.
" If the suggestion appeals to you, it would be appreciated if you would
inquire among your friends and let me know how many, on an average,
you think you could bring to a fortnightly discussion. Also the tirfte which
would be most generally convenient."
Any Members or Associates who are interested in this proposal are
invited to communicate with Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, c/o S.P.R., 31 Tavi-
stock Square, W.C. i.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulatmi amongst Members and Associates only
March-April, 1943 •
Vol. XXXIII—No. 592-593
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - - - - - - - -10
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - -10
Annual General Meeting - - - - - - - n
Obituary - - - - - - - - -11
A Note Concerning the Nature of Paranormal Awareness 13
Reviews - - - - - - - - - -13
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Wednesday, 26th May, 1943, at 4 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
THE THEORY OF PARANORMAL COGNITION
AND ALLIED PHENOMENA "
will be read by
Mr W. WHATELY CARINGTON
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
There will be an interval, in which tea will be served, between the paper
and subsequent discussion.
10 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1943
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 25 February 1943)
Duddington, Mrs N. A., M.A., 19 Onslow Gardens, Highgate, London,
N. 10.
Hill, H. Ellis, 10 The Oval, Garden Village, Hull.
Powell-Edwards, Major G. H., M.C., South Novington, Plumpton,
Sussex.
Student-Associate
Robertson, A. J. B., St John's College, Cambridge.
[Elected 27 March 1943)
Laws, Miss M. K. P., 36 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Strong, L. A. G., Salterns, Bashing, Godalming, Surrey.
Strong, Mrs L. A. G., Salterns, Eashing, Godalming, Surrey.
The Hon. Treasurer has pleasure in acknowledging the following
contribution to the Society's Funds :
Mrs Carpenter iiC^^s. od.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 391st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 25 February 1943, at 3 p.m., The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Mrs Goldney, Miss
Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Newton, Mr G.
Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr Kenneth
Richmond, Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Three new Members and one Student-Associate were elected :
their names and addresses are given above.
The 392nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, after the Annual General Meeting. The President in
the Chair. There were also present : Mrs Goldney, Miss Jephson, the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Newton, Mr G. Redmayne,
Mr W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
Dr R. H. Thouless was re-elected President for the year 1943-1944.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, R.N., Hon. Treasurer, and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor
of Proceeditigs.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The President, Professor C. D.
Broad and Professor H. H. Price.
House and Finance Committee : Mr G. W. Lambert, Miss I. Newton,
Mr Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
MAR.-APR. 1943 Meetings of the Council ii
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Miss I. Newton, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the year
1943-44 as follows :
Corresponding Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Dr George H. Hyslop, Professor P. Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count
Carl von Klinckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy,
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner and Mr
C. Vett.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Miss H. A. Dallas, Mr
J. Arthur Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, the Rev. W. S. Irving, Dr Eva
Morton, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. M. Sage, Mr G. H.
Spinney, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr W. H. Tenhaeff, Dr R. H. Thouless, Miss
Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 25 February 1943,
at 3.30 p.m.. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mrs Goldney,
Mrs Frank Heywood, Mr S. G. Howell Smith, Miss S. Jephson, the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Muir Mackenzie, Miss Newton,
Mrs Norman, Mr D. Parsons, Mrs Phmmer, Mr G. Redmayne, Miss
Reutiner, Mrs Richmond, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ;
and Mr Kenneth Richmond (Hon. Associate) and Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
The Assistant-Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting,
the accounts and the Report were presented. After a discussion, in which
several Members took part, Mr W. H. Salter moved the adoption of the
Annual Report and the Accounts of the Society, which had already been
circulated in the January-February yoi/rwa/. This resolution was seconded
by the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election
to membership of the Council other than the six members who retired
by rotation, and the following six members were accordingly unanimously
elected : Lord Charles Hope, Mr G. W. Lambert, Dr T. W. Mitchell,
Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt,
R.N.
On the proposal of Mr W. H. Salter, seconded by Mr G. Redmayne,
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the forth-
coming year.
, . OBITUARY
We record with deep regret the death of Mr H. F. Saltmarsh, in whom
the Society loses a valued friend and a trusted coadjutor in many regions
of its work, both practical and theoretical. A fuller appreciation will appear
in a later issue of the Journal or of Proceedings.
journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1943
A NOTE CONCERNING THE NATURE OF
PARANORMAL AWARENESS
The following extract is taken by the permission of Professor H. H. Price
from a letter written by him in the course of discussion on some experi-
mental results observed by the Precognition Committee. His remarks
arose from a particular problem of discrimination between effects classi-
fiable as " precognitive " and " clairvoyant " ; but the point of view which
he here describes has a general as well as a particular application, and is
perhaps insufficiently considered when we endeavour to classify para-
normal events under the headings of this and that psychical " faculty ".
This point arises, in another aspect, in an article by the President
{Experiments in Paranormal Guessing) noticed on p. 15.
—
Ed.
" The more I consider clairvoyance, the less I seem to understand it!
I begin to think it is really more puzzling than precognition itself. But
part of the trouble is, I expect, that we use the one word '
clairvoyance
'
to cover several different phenomena. The clairvoyant who '
sees '
ghosts
or spirits in the room in which he is seems very different from the one
who '
sees '
contemporary objects many miles away, with or without the
aid of a crystal, and he again seems different from the psychometrist (if
you count him as a clairvoyant) who '
sees '
long-past events associated
with a present object. Finally, the clairvoyant who '
sees '
auras sur-
rounding the people in front of him seems different again, and his per-
formances might perhaps be explainable in terms of ordinary physical and
physiological optics. But I see that I have forgotten the man who '
sees
'
the contents of sealed envelopes and parcels, or the underneath cards in
a pack. He seems to be different again. Leaving out the seer of auras,
the others seem to have in common only the negative characteristic of
being freed from the limitations of ordinary sense-perception.
" If there is any one theory to cover the whole lot, I think it will have
to be on Bergsonian lines. We shall have to change the question, and
puzzle ourselves not about clairvoyance, but rather about normal sense-
perception, treating it not as '
normal ', but rather as a sub-normal and
biologically-explicable limitation imposed upon an inherent and aboriginal
omniscience. We shall have to say (as Leibniz did) that in principle
every mind is aware of what is going on everywhere ; and then the puzzling
thing will be that in most people at most times this awareness is repressed
—which puzzle we then solve by invoking Bergson's attention a la vie
with the brain and physical sense-organs as its instrument.
" If this is indeed the right line to take, we ought not to expect to get
light upon the modus operandi of clairvoyance (or indeed other super-
normal cognition) from experiments. For it will not have any particular
modus operandi, being so to speak the natural and inherent condition of
the psyche. What we must seek light on is the manner or manners in which
the ordinary processes of sense-perception and everyday consciousness
are switched off—a question of '
modus inhibendi '
rather than of '
modus
operandi '. It is as if we were experimenting not on vision but on methods
of temporarily curing blindness—or again (if you prefer another analogy)
methods of temporarily cleaning the slate or the mirror. But actually we
MAR.-APR. 1943 Paranormal Awareness
have tended to regard clairvoyance as an extra '
sense '
—parallel in prin-
ciple to sight or hearing—and then we naturally ask ourselves how it
works, just as the physiologist asks himself how ordinary sight or hearing
works. We ought to have asked not how works, but how the '
de-
inhibiting '
factors work, which sometimes allow the data it provides to
reach the upper levels of consciousness. (Philosophers sometimes say that
it is wrong in principle to seek for a causal explanation of '
rational '
or
'
valid '
thinking. What requires a causal explanation is erroneous or
invalid thinking—which indeed is not really thinking at all, but the tem-
porary cessation or inhibition of it.)"
REVIEWS
An Anatomy of Inspiration. By Rosamond E. M. Harding, Ph.D., Litt.D.
Heffers, pp. xiii + 145, 7s. 6d.
In the Preface to this interesting book Dr Harding explains that her
object is " to classify the enormous amount of historical data that exists
relating to the '
mind in creation '
", as a first step to providing " a solid
basis from which to start specialised enquiry " into the working of the
creative mind in literature, art, music and scientific discovery. Her main
sources are the statements of the authors themselves, and other contem-
porary records.
" It is important ", she says, " to recognise that there is a definite tech-
nique ; a clearly marked '
path '
which is common to all types of creative
thought." The principal stages are : (i) preparation by specialised study
of the particular subject-matter and its appropriate technique, and by
general reading and reflexion : (2) the spontaneous and uncontrollable
" flash " of inspiration, or, in the case of longer works, series of " flashes ",
often accompanied by the feeling that the resulting work is not the author's
own (lines 20-47 of Book IX of Paradise Lost are the locus classicus for
these two stages) :
(3) after an interval, expansion, revision and comple-
tion. But within this general framework there are, as Dr Harding's
instances show, notable divergences. With some authors the whole work
seems to be " given " and is unreservedly accepted without later revision ;
this is more commonly true of short poems than of longer compositions,
though George Sand sent off her novels to the publishers just as they were
written, without any attempt to revise them. Others deliberately try to
induce fresh " flashes " for the purposes of completion. Others again
complete by conscious effort in a normal state. A few proclaim an entire
distrust of inspiration.
It is well known that many most inferior artists and authors have
claimed inspiration for their works, but it would be of interest to ascertain
whether, as regards the work of any particular man, those portions for
which he claimed a special degree of inspiration were recognisably different
from the remainder. Housman, whose account of his own methods of
composition Dr Harding quotes, set an agreeable problem when he
specified one of his poems, two stanzas of which had come " into his head
just as they were printed ; a third stanza came with a little coaxing after
tea ;
one more was needed but it did not come : I had to turn to and com-
Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1943
pose it myself, and that was a laborious business ". His readers were left
to guess which stanzas were due to which process.
Inspiration may come at any time, but seems to be favoured by the stage
of passing from sleep to full wakefulness, which also favours the perception
of veridical " phantasms ". Sleep, Dr Harding suggests, promotes in-
spiration by facilitating fortuitous combinations of ideas already existing
in the mind. Some of the ideas thus combining would be " fringe-ideas
"
that have become associated with, though apparently irrelevant to, the
ideas on which attention has been focussed. Because of their apparent
irrelevance the " fringe-ideas " are set aside by the waking judgment, but
are never wholly excluded from the lield of consciousness. There is, on
this view, no need to call in the operation of the subconscious, as distinct
from the subliminal, mind.
Dr Harding does not deal with the very curious subject of " calculating
boys ", which plays such a large part in the chapter on Genius in Myers's
Human Personality. The rapidity and accuracy with which boys, some
of them of poor intelligence and little education, solved the problems set
them suggest the use of methods of reasoning quite different from those
in general use. This has perhaps some bearing on the function of inspira-
tion in the objective sphere of scientific discovery.
In literature, music and art, where the standards are subjective, the
authors frequently assert that their works are not their own, but come to
them from some external source. In Dr Harding's view this means that
the author externalises the compulsive force of artistic truth. For
example, a novelist having created a character, and lived in his thoughts
with that character for a long time, cannot make that character act contrary
to his conception.
It may, however, be doubted whether this is a sufficient explanation of
the sense of external origin, and it is here that Dr Harding's theory is
cramped by the limitation she has imposed on her work in excluding what
she styles " occultism ". Where is the boundary to be drawn.? It is true
that the authors whom Dr Harding quotes seldom claim to identify the
source of their inspiration, and that, taken as a whole, their work has a
higher literary value than can be claimed for most automatic writing.
But some of the writers she quotes, e.g. Blake and Tennyson, are placed
definitely on the " occult " side of the frontier by their claims to have
been in contact with their dead friends. Nor must " the affable, familiar
ghost ", who helped the Rival Poet of Shakespeare's sonnets, be forgotten.
When once this arbitrary dividing line is crossed several problems arise
which throw doubt on the sufiiciency of Dr Harding's explanation. There
are, for instance, cases where persons normally devoid of literary inclina-
tion or training have shown in automatic writing considerable literary
powers : although some of the claims made for her may have been
exaggerated, " Patience Worth " was a case in point. Then, to come to
more objective matters, there are the instances where an automatist has
imparted information concerning verifiable facts outside her normal know-
ledge. It is to be hoped that Dr Harding's success in exploring the limits
of her subject as defined in this book will encourage her to extend the
bounds of her enquiry. W. H. S.
MAR-APR. 1943 - Reviews f,
'
' '^'15
Intuition and Survival. By T. Glen Hamilton, M.D. Pp. xiv+292,
illus., Macmillans (Canada), S4.00.
Accounts have already been published in the Journal of the American
S.P.R. and in Psychic Science of the sittings conducted by Dr Glen
Hamilton, a Canadian doctor of high standing, with the ectoplasmic
medium, Mrs Mary Marshall (" Mary M "), but a fuller account in book
form, admirably illustrated by numerous photographs, is to be welcomed,
Dr Glen Hamilton did not live to complete the book, a task accomplished
by his son, Mr J. D. Hamilton.
About 1922 Dr Glen Hamilton formed a group for investigating a
medium, Elizabeth M., whose phenomena were telekinetic. In 1925 Mary
M. began occasionally to attend the group, of which she became a regular
member in January 1928. From 1928 to 1934 she produced teleplastic
phenomena not very unlike those occurring with Eva C, masses of white
substance looking like cotton-wool, in which were embedded flat surfaces
with human faces or features on them : several of the faces closely resembled
photographs of real people, Spurgeon, Conan Doyle, Raymond Lodge.
" Throughout his work Dr Hamilton insisted upon contra-fraudulent
conditions and it is not our purpose to dwell here on the question of fraud
in psychical matters for the xtry good reason that fraud did not and could
not exist in the Mary M. experiments." This statement would carry more
weight if there was anything to show that the authors realised that the
other mediumships quoted as parallel to and confirmatory of Mary M.'s
phenomena (Eva C, Kathleen Goligher, Rudi Schneider, " Margery ")
are one and all open to grave suspicion. Where phenomena are produced
in a room " kept continuously and absolutely dark, except for the free
use of red light whenever necessary ", in a circle of which another medium,
besides Mary M., was a regular member, the fullest description of the
measures taken to prevent fraud is desirable. W. H. S.
Experiments in Paranormal Guessing. ByR. H. Thouless. The British Jour-
nal of Psychology (General Section), Vol. XXXHI, Part I, July 1942.
The President here reports on some simple but exactly observed experi-
mental work in card-guessing, " not to bring forward fresh evidence for
the reality of telepathy and related phenomena " (this is taken as estab-
lished), " but rather to suggest a method of experimentation which may
easily be reproduced by any psychologist wishing to test the matter for
himself ". In some of this work the ordinary pack of 52 plaving cards
was used and a system of " regional " scoring employed to take proper
account of displacement effects—the " region " being the card ostensibly
aimed at and the group of cards on either side of it. The calculations of
significance are clearly described and a table is given to facilitate the work
of experimenters in assessing their results. A note (pp. 21-22 of the
article) on the attempt to discriminate between " telepathy ", " clairvoy-
ance " and " precognition " is relevant to the subject of Professor Price's
communication printed in the present Journal, p. 12. Dr. Thouless writes :
" There may not be different types of process. There may be only one
process which does not have the exact restriction to present time and to
present sensory stimulation that is characteristic of the process of obtaining
knowledge by ordinary sense-perception." K. R,
i6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1943
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 6. No. 4. Dec. 1942.
The Editorial deals with " The Progress of Parapsychology as a Univer-
sity Study ", and in particular takes note of the difference in the academic
outlook which could be taken as a basis of discussion by three exponents
of psychical research, all holders of the S.P.R. Presidency : William James,
William McDougall and Robert Thouless. The acceptance of our subject
as a branch of scientific study has become a fact of observation. Mr Gerald
Heard, in " Some of the Convergences which Initiated Parapsychology ",
considers the type of change in the intellectual climate of the present age
which has made this acceptance possible. Convincing evidence can be
in existence for a long time before opinion swings to the conclusion to
which it points ; and the scale turns not only when the evidence reaches
a given mass, but when the facts begin to be seen as part of a coherent
order. And for this, other facts have to converge into a system of com-
prehension within which the new facts will make sense and become
integrated into an acceptable world-picture.
Mr Heard adduces not only the growing realisation of physical scien^ e
that " the human mind was dealing with a universe which was demon-
strably extra-sensory ", as the material environment resolved itself into a
nexus of mathematical energy-concepts ; the growth of a critical study
religious and mystical experience, the tendency of field work in anthr
pology to throw up evidence of paranormal processes, the increasing
attention of the Western intelligence to records of Eastern wisdom—all
these are convergent trends of open-mindedness, and Mr Heard cou i
have added more than he has taken space to consider about the influence
of modern developments in psychology. He concludes with an interesting
speculation, derived from Bateson, that there may be a genetic reason
for the obscuration and recent re-emergence of psi-phenomena in Europe :
the fury of late medieval witch-hunting may have resulted in a widespread
extermination of people with psychical capacities, so that the phenomena
largely disappeared and the age of witch-trials was succeeded by an age
in which men blinked and wondered what all the fuss had been about.
But the nearly exterminated stocks would reassert themselves after a few
generations, " especially in those distant areas, the Scotch and Irish
highlands, where the Inquisition had never functioned effectively. Hence
in the nineteenth century we should expect a steady increase in people
carrying this faculty ".
Experimental work is represented in this issue by J. L. Woodruff and
J. B. Rhine's article, " An Experiment in Precognition Using Dice ",
describing a repeatable piece of research which could well be followed up
by others, with due attention to the authors' careful treatment of possible
sources of error ; and by William Russell and J. B. Rhine's experiments
on " A Single Subject in a Variety of E.S.P. Test Conditions ". These
show a marked superiority of performance during " Informal " as against
" Formal " tests, and add something to our data on the important question
how far scientific stringency lowers ostensibly positive results by being
accurate, and how far it inhibits them by failure to preserve psychological
ease. Dr J. A. Greenwood contributes a survey, partly historical, of " The
Role of Mathematics in E.S.P. Research ". K. R,
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
May-June, 1943 Vol. XXXIII—No. 594-595
CONTENTS
PAGE
'
New Members ........ in
t '
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - - 17
Meetings of the Society - - - - - - - 18
'-^
A Percipient's Account of Some Guessing Experiments - 18
i
Reviews - -- .- -- --23
dlG
"The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Saturday, 31 July until
Wednesday, 15 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to the
S<liff during this time. The next number of the Journal will be issued in
October.
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 14 April 1943)
Croft, D., Signavis, Blackwell, Darlington.
De Vitre, Mrs Denis, Gresgarth Hall, Caton, Lancaster.
Ross, F., 149 Uxbridge Road, Hanworth Park, Feltham, Middx.
{Elected 26 May 1943)
Amherst of Hackney, The Dowager Lady, Clarence Lodge Cottage,
Englefield Green, Surrey.
Anderson, Mrs K., 3 Bentley Road, Cambridge.
Fairbairn, Miss J., 69 Carlton Avenue East, Wembley, Middx.
Harrison, J. M., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing Common, London, W. 5.
Hindson, M. T., 11 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Hughes, Mrs, Empshott Vicarage, nr Liss, Hants.
Sciiacherl, Dr M., 60 Talgarth Mansions, London, W. 14.
Taylor, R. A., 59 Ranelagh Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Thompson, Mrs E. Roland, Oakhayes House, Crewkerne, Somerset.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 393rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 14 April 1943, at 4.30 p.m. The Hon.
Mhs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present :
Mr W. H. Saker and Mr S. G. Soal ;
later, Miss I. Newton and Mr G.
1 8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY-JUNE, 1943
Redmayne ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary. Although there
was no quorum for the first part of the meeting the members present
decided to transact the business before them, subject to confirmation at the
next Meeting of the Council.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1943-1944 :
Professor W. Macneile Dixon, Mrs Goldney, Sir Robert Gower, Mr
Gerald Heard, Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell
and Miss Nea Walker.
Three new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Dr R. H. Thouless was elected a member of Council to fill the vacancy
among the elected members of Council, caused by the death of Mr H. F.
Saltmarsh.
The 394th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 26 May 1943, at 3.15 p.m.. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Mr Whately Carington,
Mrs Goldney, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton,
Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter and Mr. G. N. M. Tyrrell ;
also.
Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting, when the Council failed to secure a
quorum, were adopted and confirmed.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are given
above.
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
The 176th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Wednesday, 14 April 1943, at 6 p.m. A paper entitled " A Percipient's
Account of some Guessing Experiments " was read by Mr D. J. West.
The 177th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Wednesday, 26 May 1943, at 4 p.m. The President in the Chair. A
paper entitled " The Theory of Paranormal Cognition and Allied Pheno-
mena " was read by Mr Whately Carington. A discussion followed in
which several members took part. It is hoped that this paper will be
published later in Proceedings.
A PERCIPIENT'S ACCOUNT OF SOME GUESSING , ,
EXPERIMENTS!
By D. J. West
The main feature of these experiments was that the experimenter acted
as his own percipient, making clairvoyant guesses and recording his own
results. The sole aim was a study of the mechanism at work. The
experiments were entirely exploratory, unwitnessed and unevidential
with regard to fraud.
Card-guessing methods were used to establish the fact that the percipient
^ Resume of a paper read at a Private Meeting of the Society on 14 April, 1943-
MAY-JUNE, 1943 Account of Some Guessing Experiments 19
possessed an extra-sensory faculty. Playing cards were employed, the
percipient guessing their colour—red or black. The percipient did his
own shuffling, looking at the backs of the cards as little as possible, and
introducing a fresh pack every few hundred trials. The following is a
summary of the card-guessing methods :
" Ordinary " Technique. A cut of about 30 cards was taken from the
pack and guessed through one by one. As each guess was made, the
guessed card was lifted off and placed down on a left- or right-hand pile
according to whether it had been successfully guessed or not. A signifi-
cant result was obtained. The outstanding objection to this method is
that, by adhering to a rigid system (noting which colour predominates in
the cards that have gone before, and guessing the opposite), it would
be possible to produce spurious deviations. Now, in some of the trials,
the cards were placed down in order in a row as they were guessed, the
" successes " being somewhat displaced. This enabled the distribution of
successes to be noted at leisure afterwards. Examination of these trials
showed no indication of the percipient having adhered to any such rigid
system, and a significant positive deviation, which could hardly have been
spurious, was observed over just the first 15 cards of the cut. Moreover,
later trials were performed in which the cut guessed through was drawn
from eight packs all shuffled up together. The rigid system could not
assist here, yet scoring continued highly significant.
" Separate Pile " Technique. The percipient endeavoured to separate
the pack into separate piles of red and black cards without looking at the
faces. When the full pack was separated out before checking no result
was obtained, but when a check was made every time a dozen or so cards
had been sorted a highly significant score was produced.
" Cutting " Technique. The percipient would cut the pack at random
and guess at the bottom card of the top cut. This card would then be
removed and a second cut and guess made. When about 20 cards had
been removed they were replaced and the pack reshuffled. More trials
were performed, replacing and reshuflling every time 10 cards had been
removed. Very significant results were obtained.
" Down Through " Technique. The percipient guessed the order of the
colours down through a shuffled pack, all 52 guesses being recorded in
writing before checking. Result significant.
All the methods produced positive results, viz. : •
Description of Method N D CR
" Ordinary " Technique - . . .
4.570 298 871
,, ,, (cut taken from 8 packs) 2,000 129 577
" Separate Pile " Technique (fuU pack) -
3,016 -6
,, ,, ,, (approx. a doz. cards) 1,000 90 570
" Cutting " Technique - . . - 3>05o 120 4-35
,, ,, (reshuffling after 10 cards) 2,500 190 7-60
" Down Through " Technique - - -
1,508 59 3-04
Total - - - .
17,644 880 13-25
20 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june, 1943
The " cutting " technique and " down through " technique seem fairly
protected against hyperaesthesia, memorising of card backs and so on. The
main weakness is the possibihty of sensory leakage during shuffling. The
shuffling was thorough, and performed as far as possible without the per-
cipient looking at the card backs. Moreover, with some of the " ordinary
"
technique trials, in which the guessed cards were drawn from 8 packs
shuffled together, the cards used were new to the percipient and some-
one else did the shuffling. Even so, a statistically significant result was
obtained. Later precognitive trials gave confirmatory results when
sensory leakage was a physical impossibility. It therefore seemed well
established that E.S.P. was at work, and fairly safe to assume for compara-
tive purposes that all the positive results were produced by E.S.P.
Rates of scoring varied with the different card-guessing methods. The
average deviation per hundred trials was 6. But any interruption of the
quick smooth flow of guesses, as when each trial was recorded individually
in writing, lowered this scoring rate considerably. High scoring methods,
(8-9), corresponded to those the percipient found most interesting.
The " down through " method gave a low score (3), apparently because
it did not allow of guesses being checked immediately one by one.
Precognitive methods were employed as follows :
Cutting Technique. Same as before, except that the guess was made
before cutting the pack—i.e. foretelling the result of a cut. The pack
was reshuffled after every 10 trials. The result was significant (N = 25oo,
0 = 187, CR = 7-48). It was conceivable that the pack was being cut in
positions predetermined by E.S.P., but efl^orts were made to make the
cutting as " haphazard " as possible.
Doivn Through Technique. As before, except that the pack was shuffled
after guessing and before checking—i.e. foretelling the result of a shuffle
—result was significant, but low scoring. (N=4024, D=98, CR = 3-i).
Here again it was conceivable that an E.S.P. shuffle was occurring, the
cards being manipulated towards the guessed order.
Mechanical Shuffler Trials. As a final answer to the problem of clair-
voyant pseudo-precognition as opposed to true precognition, a mechanical
shuffler was constructed. In essence it consisted of a vertical tube down
which were passed red and black balls. Small paddle wheels revolving
within the tube at about 3000 revs./min., with associated baffles, effected a
thorough shuffle. The balls were then guided on to sloping rails, down
which they ran in single file. The percipient would try to foretell the order
of the first ten balls to arrive at the bottom. The statistics were compli-
cated by the fact that only a limited number of balls were fed into the
machine. However, the percipient succeeded in foretelling the order
completely correctly a larger number of times than would be expected
from chance. A highly conservative estimate gave the associated pro-
bability as -015.
Foretelling the casts of an unbiassed die also yielded significant results
(see later). True precognition might thus be said to be confirmed.
The clairvoyant and precognitive " cutting " techniques were alternated
over 5000 trials—10 precognitive guesses followed by 10 clairvoyant
guesses throughout the series. A graph was plotted showing deviation
over preceding 250 trials against number of trials completed, for the
MAY-JUNE, 1943 Account of So7ne Gtiessitig Expermenis 2i
two types of guesses. The scoring over the precognitive and clairvoyant
trials was thus demonstrated to be closely approximated in magnitude,
and the variations were obviously closely correlated (r = 715, with p = -02,
by method in Fisher, p. 202). Factors causing the variations must have
been atfecting both " types " of E.S.P. similarly. The deviation per 250
trials in each case varied between about 27 and 10 in what was almost a
rhythmic cycle. If these cycles were not just chance configurations and
really corresponded to some genuine rhythmic manifestation, the inter-
pretation is difficult, since the 5000 trials were distributed in an irregular
manner over a large number of sittings.
The most interesting observations of all were some curious variations
in mode of extra-sensory manifestation, apparently correlated with
changes in psychological conditions. To investigate the normal mode of
response, the distribution of runs was examined over those trials with the
*'
ordinarv " technique in which the guessed cards were placed down in
order for future reference. Taking into account the fact that the prob-
ability of success has been altered by the E.S.P., the following table shows
a significant deficit of runs of failures against what would be expected from
a chance distribution of the successes.
No. of Expected Observed Expected Observed
consecutive frequency of frequency of frequency of frequency of
trials in run successful runs successful runs runs of failures runs of failures
5 17-58 7
6 67-0 93 6-12 I
7 39-9 56 2-63 0
-8 24-3 32
Apparently the E.S.P., when working normally, was working specifically
to inhibit runs of failures. In other words, the production of a positive
deviation was not its primary concern.
Interspersed among the later precognitive " down through " trials
were more trials in which there was a variable delay between recording
of guesses and shuffling and checking the pack. Result, N = 1040,
D=34, CR = 2-i. Though possibly due to chance, it seems more likely
that psychological bias was causing a tendency to negative scoring.
The effect of fatigue was investigated on two occasions by performing
1000 " ordinary " trials at a single sitting. Rate of deviation was plotted
graphically against number of trials completed. On both occasions it
was found that there was an initial high rate of scoring, coming quickly
down to an average value, which declined slowly. After about 400 trials
the scoring began to decline rapidly. When it reached zero it did not stop
there but " declined " further, finally producing a steady negative rate of
scoring of about the same magnitude as the previous positive rate. The
experimenter felt that this might have been a psychological mechanism
tending to arrest a distasteful experiment by neutralising the score.
The effect of interest has already been noted. A. psychological attitude
of great confidence produced startling results. One black card was placed
among 26 reds and the percipient went through the 27 cards over and over
22 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june, 1943
again, turning over only those he felt sure were red. The aim was to
leave the black to the very end, and so effect a separation of a given card
from 26 others. Extraordinary successes were obtained by this method,
which was designed to give the percipient confidence. On the first
occasion on which it was tried, out of 8 sets of 27 cards, the black was
left to the last 6 times, and turned up next to last in the other two.
On another occasion, 13 blacks were successfully separated from 52 reds
by a similar process. However, the phenomenon was only transient.
Arrangements for witnessing were made, but by the time the date for the
witness trials arrived the scoring had fallen to chance level. This method
was the weakest as far as the possibility of sensory leakage, but it worked
successfully with brand-new cards. The result would suggest that the
E.S.P. capacity possesses unsuspected latent capacity, ready to show itself
under appropriate (psychological?) conditions.
Arrangements were made to have the " ordinary " technique witnessed
under stringent conditions. Attempts made before several witnesses
produced no definite result. Yet when exactly the same technique was
performed " unofficially " before these same witnesses, it succeeded as
usual. We are forced to conclude that the psychological effect of the
knowledge of the significance of the particular trials in question was the
inhibiting factor.
A curious effect occurred in the precognitive dice trials, when the
percipient guessed the number (1-6) which would result from the cast
of a die. First, 1410 trials were completed, with a customary positive
result (D = +32, p = -o2). The next trials were officially witnessed with
apparently no result. Further trials were completed after the witnessed
experiment, but still with no significant deviation. (Altogether N = 1590,
D =-15). These curiously " affected " trials were then split up into con-
secutive groups of 6 trials each and the frequency distribution of different
degrees of success in these groups was examined.
No. of successes in group 0 I 2 3, 4, 5 and 6
Observed frequency 105 84 64 12
Expected frequency 8872 106-5 53-26 16-52
Deviation + 16-28 -22-5 + 10-74 -4-52
= 1 1 -
14. p = approx. o-
1
The distribution showed a significant extra-chance effect. There was
a deficit of groups containing exactly chance expectation of one success,
and an excess of other groups. This is what one would expect were the
E.S.P. having a sort of tug-of-war with itself, producing positive and
negative scoring anternately.
All these bizarre forms of E.S.P. manifestation appeared to correspond
to psychological factors. The conclusion would seem to be that the E.S.P.
was more powerful than the customary meagre rates of card scoring would
suggest, but that psychological factors were making it perform other tasks
than the mere production of positive scores.
MAY-JUNE, 1943 . Review > .
23
REVIEW :
The Psychic Sense. By Phoebe Payne and Laurence J. Bendit. Faber
and Faber. 7s. 6d. net.
The primary object of this Uttle book is to show that those innate
perceptions, variously called " psychic ", " supernormal " or " extra-
sensory ", with which a few people are gifted in marked degree, but which,
in reality, are in some degree possessed by all, should be frankly recognised,
should be utilised by psychologists and allowed for in education. More-
over, the book offers good and kindly advice to the possessors of such
faculties regarding their training and management. To those who, like
Miss Phoebe Payne, live in the exercise of a highly developed faculty of
this kind, the scepticism of the world must seem peculiarly absurd and
irritating ;
yet she and her co-author show themselves uniformly tolerant
towards all points of view.
In a book intended for the general pubHc, it would, perhaps, have been
better to have adhered to this main object and to have avoided the per-
plexing problems raised by psychic and psychological mechanisms.
Admittedly any attempt to understand extra-sensory perception will, in
the end, carry us out of our intellectual depth ; the more reason, therefore,
for retaining absolute clarity of thought as far as we can go. In no subject
is clear thinking more important than in psychical research. Nowhere
else is care in the use of terms, or criticism in coming to conclusions,
more necessary ; for metaphysical problems cluster around us. Dis-
ciplined thought should be maintained until the point is reached when we
can no longer grasp the ideas demanded of us. Even then, at the end of
our tether, we may, if we are careful, be able to note the direction of the
signposts pointing into the unknown. But the authors of this book have
short-circuited at once the difficulties and the hope of enlightenment by
assuming the literal reality of the psychic's descriptions of his experiences.
" Clairvoyant investigation ", they say for example, " tends to suggest
that the psyche does, in fact, occupy space and is a structure consisting
of energy-matter." (page 25).
" Auras ", " etheric bodies " and other
kinds of sense-imagery experienced by the psychic, appear to be accepted
literally and assumed to consist of some kind of matter. Even mind is
reduced to a material thing! " The clairvoyant investigator", they say,
" considers the mind as a thing, as a three-dimensional body which moves
from place to place." (p. 102). And what is the reader to make of the
statement that the " psychic world " is "a material but non-physical
region ".?
(p. 28). This naivety and laxity of statement and argument
is inimical to all real progress ; moreover it causes trained minds to turn
away from the subject. Let it be granted that the ultimate causes of the
sensitive's experiences are real features in a real world ; it does not
follow that the imagery in terms of which these experiences are expressed
is to be taken literally. The imagery may be supplied by the sensitive
himself : for this there is ample precedent. Neither the sensitive's feeling
that a supernormal intuition has been separated from associated ideas and
imagination, nor the fact that the imagery is generic, is sufficient proof to
the contrary. Veridicality is perfectly compatible with modes of expres-
sion which are not to be taken at their face value. The task of probing
24 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june, 1943
for entities and processes behind presentational forms is, indeed, precisely
the aim of psychical research. This is where psychical research begins
and spiritualism ends. And the best starting-point for an inquiry into the
processes of supernormal perception is surely the ground which philo-
sophers have already prepared.
All this, however, does not detract from the value of the therapeutic
work, both in the physical and psychological fields, which Miss Payne
has accomplished ; nor from the value of the information regarding
psychical powers in practical life which the present book sets before its
readers. G. N. M. T.
What Lies Beyond? By A. M. Kaulback. Pp. 115. London. 1942.
Rider & Co. 7s. 6d.
Mrs Kaulback is the mother of the celebrated explorer of Tibet. This
book gives much of the evidence supporting her conviction that through
psychic channels she was kept informed of his surroundings and adventures
during periods when he was far distant from any means of sending
messages by post or radio. The evidence is given in detail and includes
descriptions of the various means by which the information reached her.
Although Mrs Kaulback had previously been familiar with the broad
fact of communication with the discarnate, it was from the time of her
husband's death in 1929 that she had the advantage of his assistance in
her psychical explorations and, somewhat later, gained the interest of an
experienced Control. This Control enabled her to achieve a form of
psychic writing which kept her in close touch with the explorer son in his
travels and also with a soldier son then in distant lands.
Sometimes it would be an incident happening at the moment which the
Control was able to visualise for her; at other times she received more
general descriptions of recent happenings. With regard to the latter it is
interesting to note that the Control occasionally mistook for an accom-
plished fact something which had only existed as an intention in her son's
mind. The Control's clairvoyance varied in accuracy from time to time
as if influenced by conditions not always easy to discern.
Two chapters are devoted to experiments which brought final conviction
that a Control manifesting through different mediums could prove his
identity by " cross-tests ".
The aim of the book is stated in its final pages and readers might with
advantage study this before taking the book as a whole. Briefly, the aim
is to display " evidence of the work done by those who are discarnate with
one who is incarnate ", and then to indicate the conditions essential for
success in such work.
As the authoress states her facts with clarity and considerable detail
readers can form their own conclusions. There would seem to be no
doubt that the mother was kept generally informed of the doings of her
distant sons. It will probably tax the ingenuity of sceptics to suggest
any feasible explanation other than that asserted in the communications
and confirmed by the recipient's repeated endeavours to test other
hypothetical causes.
Here is a book equally suitable for students of psychical research and
for those seeking evidence for the reality of intercourse with the departed.
C. D. T.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
September-October, 1943 Vol. XXXIII—No. 596-597
CONTENTS
>
' • -
. PAGE
New Members - -- -- -- -26
Obituary - --26
Gift to the Society --------26
A Step in the Recognition of Psychical Research - - 27
Case : Two Dreams apparently conveying Paranormal
Impressions - -- -- -- -27
Reviews ----------30
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
. . will be held in .
* The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Thursday, iSth November 1943, at ^ p.m.
WHEN A paper ON
" PSI-PHENOMENA AND POLTERGEISTS
WILL BE READ BY
MR JOHN LAYARD
1 ^ -
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
Tea will be served after the Paper.
26' Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1943
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected -J July 1943)
Albrecht, Mrs Charles, Chilton Foliat Rectory, Hungerford, Berkshire.
Dighton, Miss E. M., 22 St Petersburgh Place, London, W. 2.
Grensted, Rev. Professor L. W., Oriel College, Oxford.
Lord, Mrs T. A., Thorns, Boars Hill, Oxford.
Student-Associate
Stark, H., 65 Osbaldston Road, Stoke Newington, London, N. 16.
OBITUARY
We regret to record the death of Dr H. Godwin Baynes, who contributed
to the Society papers of considerable interest on psychical phenomena
viewed from the standpoint of analytical psychology. Dr Baynes was
for a number of years Dr C. G. Jung's assistant at Zurich, and organised
the expedition for psychological exploration among African tribes from
which he and Dr Jung derived interesting data about the workings of
the primitive mind. Of recent years Dr Baynes had been working as a
consultant in England. His writings were mainly devoted to analytical
psychology ; a point of recent interest to students of psychical research
has been his suggestion that Hitler is of a morbid mediumistic type, giving
expression to an abnormal aggressive drive in the collective mind of
Germany.
We also regret to record the death of Miss Radclyffe Hall, a former
member of the Council. In collaboration with (Una) Lady Troubridge
she carried out a very full investigation of Mrs Leonard, and made an
important contribution {Proceedings, Part LXXVIII) to the study of her
mediumship.
We also regret to record the death of Mr Hubert Wales, who contributed
to Proceedings (Part LXXX) a report on a series of cases, which had come
under his own observation, of "Apparent Thought-Transference without
Conscious Agency ".
GIFT TO THE SOCIETY \ i'
The Council has accepted with much gratitude a donation from Mr
Charles E. Ozanne, whose letter we print below.
1830 Nela Ave.,
East Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
May 6, 1943.
The Society for Psychical Research
Gentlemen,
I have been making a fairly substantial gift for the work of Psychical
Research, the larger part of which I have sent to Rhine at Duke Univer-
sity, for whose widely extended efforts I have very great respect. Before
making my final decision, I consulted Professor Gardner Murphy, for
SEPT.-OCT. 1943 Case : Tivo Dreams 27
whose wide knowledge of the field and good judgment I have high regard.
He highly approved of the gift to Rhine, but added that if I could arrange
it to send a contribution to your own work also, it would be a very desirable
thing, and would help to strengthen the spirit of co-operation between
American and British scholars.
On thinking matters over, I heartily concur in his judgment, and count
it a privilege by this gift to give concrete evidence of my appreciation of
the splendid record which the London Society has made. I am at present
giving a good deal of time to the study of Theosophy. We have there the
story of a quest carried on for the most part by sincere seekers, but by a
method by which free rein is given to all sorts of fancies, and there is no
effective check placed on the excesses of the imagination. I am deeply
impressed by contrast with the highly competent and scientific work
which your society has carried on from the first days when Professor
Henry Sidgwick helped to establish standards which won the respect of
thoughtful people everywhere. Of that work I feel that I personally
have been a beneficiary, as have many other people the world over.
I am sending a gift of approximately $500. I hope that this sum may
assist you to some degree in the prosecution of your own research, and that
it may carry a message of good-will and friendly co-operation from those
who are interested in these enormously important investigations across
the sea.
. Sincerely yours,
^
. , Charles E. Ozanne
A STEP IN THE
RECOGNITION OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
We note with satisfaction the acceptance by the Faculty of Medicine at
Cambridge University of a thesis by Dr L. J. Bendit dealing with para-
normal perceptions as occurring in psychopathological states. This
appears to be the first doctorate in medicine that has been given, at any
rate in this country, for a thesis embodying the findings of psychical
research, and we may congratulate Dr Bendit on his successful presenta-
tion of the subject.
CASE : TWO DREAMS APPARENTLY CONVEYING
PARANORMAL IMPRESSIONS
For the following reports we are indebted to Mr Lawrence Nathan, of
35 Armley Grove Place, Leeds 12, who states in a letter to the Assistant-
Secretary that he has experienced " various manifestations covering a
number of years ", besides the two dream-impressions now communi-
cated to the Society. Mr Nathan appears from the personal details which
he provides as a steady-going man, 42 years old, of good reputation with
employers, married since the age of 21. He notes that since his youth he
has always had profound faith in certain of his dreams ; not in all. In
certain instances, he writes, " I know immediately on awakening that some
'
other power '
has communicated ".
28 Jowual of Society for Psychical Reseai cJi sept.-oct. 1943
Mr Nathan writes as follows ^ in describing the first of the two experi-
ences reported to us :
" From 1929 until 1934 I was in business on my own account at Aber-
deen, Scotland. My father lived in that town from 1934 until 1936,
when he died. I had left Aberdeen in September 1934. My father and
I had not been on speaking terms since I left Aberdeen. We had never
corresponded during this time. I was in business in South Shields when
my father died. My father had been known as a strong, healthy, vigorous
man. Illness was not his. He died at 57 years, on 7 February 1936, at
about, say, 8 p.m."
We may interpolate here that Mr Nathan subsequently wrote to the
Registrar of Deaths, Southern Aberdeen, to verify the time of death,
and has sent us his letter of enquiry bearing upon the back the Registrar's
official stamp and the following statement :
" The time of Death is given
as 7.30 p.m. W. Hustwick, Registrar." Mr Nathan's report continues :
" At approximately 2 a.m. on the 8th of February, 1936, I awoke from
a deep sleep, awakened my wife, and told her that my father was dead.
Why was I so sure.' Because I had just '
heard '
my father's mother
(dead some 20 years) say to my Mother's mother (dead some 25 years),
'
Joe is coming to us ' —' Joe '
being the abbreviation for my father's
name, Joseph. I not only '
heard '
the speech, but I '
saw '
both my
grandmothers, very vividly. I know of course it was in my dream.
" During the day of the 9th, loth or iith of February 1936, a telegram
came to me from an aunt in Bradford, Yorks, asking me to come and see
her, and stating that '
something had happened '
to my father. Please
note—no official word of actual death yet. I learned of this over the
telephone from an uncle in Leeds some 2, 3 or 4 days afterwards. The
aunt in Bradford was my only relative who knew of my exact residence at
that time."
Mr Nathan adds in a subsequent letter to the Hon. Secretary that his
two grandmothers lived in different towns and to his certain knowledge
had not seen each other for at least 20 years ; neither did they correspond.
" Yet ", he remarks, " in my dream they seemed very closely allied and
appeared to be in earnest conversation." In reply to the Hon. Secretary's
request for any available corroboration, Mr Nathan encloses the Regis-
frar's statement quoted above, and regrets that he is not in possession of
any relevant newspaper cuttings. He adds :
" But I certainly read a long
account of the affair, either in the Leeds '
Yorkshire Evening Post '
or
'
News '. I understand there was an account, also, in a Glasgow evening
paper."
It will be remembered that Mr Nathan writes of having awakened his
wife and told her that his father was dead, on waking from his dream ;
he does not say that he recounted the dream itself. Unfortunately Mrs
Nathan's memory does not enable her to give definite confirmation to the
incident. Her statement is as follows :
" My husband has on very many occasions told me of his dreams. He
can also, with uncanny accuracy, interpret most of his dreams. With
^ The account is here slightly abridged frorti the original statement in the Society's
possession.
SEPT.-OCT. 1943 Case : Two Dreams 29
regard to the dream now in question ; I am a firm believer in absolute
honesty and truth. Therefore, I will not say that I can remember what
dream my husband had in the early hours of the morning on the 8th
January, 1936 ;
but, I certainly have a hazy remembrance of such a dream
as he appears to remember so well.
Anne Nathan."
Mr Nathan explains that when Mrs Nathan speaks of his ability to
" interpret " his dreams she is alluding to dreams of a telepathic and pre-
cognitive kind which have for him the character of visions and are particu-
larly impressed on his memory as conveying some paranormal informa-
tion. Mr Nathan further points out that his wife's inability to recollect
the incident clearly could well be explained by her being only just awakened
from sleep in the early hours of the morning.
The second experience reported by Mr Nathan is not capable of real
verification as a " crisis " dream comparable to a " crisis " hallucination ;
but there is a considerable body of evidence for telepathic impressions
received in moments of crisis, and it may be worth while to study cases
which appear to be of this character but in which, as in the present
instance, the impression seems to have been more or less distorted or
dramatised into a different form. Assuming that telepathic impressions
do occur, we could expect that only a small minority of them would
" come through " undistorted : and it should be useful to observe what
kind of distortions seem to occur, and what kind of main impulse appears
to show through the distortion. In this case a strong emotion of panic
caused by a fear of choking is the common feature between the dream
reported by Mr Nathan and the actual experience of his baby son who
was at the time in a difTerent part of the country.
Mr Nathan records the occurrence as follows :
" Some years ago I was on holiday. I was visiting an aunt in Bradford,
Yorkshire. At that time my home was in Glasgow. My eldest son was
with me. The baby boy was in Glasgow with his mother. On a certain
day in August, about 1926, we had just finished the mid-day meal, I was
overcome by a distinct desire for sleep. It was overpowering. I left my
aunt, uncle, two cousins and my eldest son in the dining room and went
upstairs to sleep. It was exactly 2 p.m. I slept almost immediately.
By 2.15 p.m. I was again in the dining room. I told my relatives of the
peculiar dream I had just experienced. It was so vivid that I puzzled
myself endeavouring to find a conscious meaning. At the time I could
not do so. However, on my return to Glasgow some 10 days later, my
wife related to me that our baby boy had almost lost his life by suffocation.
Instantly and without hesitation I said, '
Wait ', and I told her correctly
the day and the time of the catastrophe. It coincided absolutely with the
day and the time of my dream. My wife was positively annoyed at my
knowing, as she had refrained from writing to me any word of the above
quoted incident.^
" At much the same time, I should say the identical time, as I dreamed,
my baby boy was eating potatoes and a piece lodged in his throat. It
^ Corroboration here is not available ; this was the experient's first wife.
30 Jounial of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1943
transpired that the obstruction was removed only in the nick of time. A
few more seconds and it would have proved fatal. So the Doctor, said.
A Doctor lived across the road and the boy was rushed to him.
" I dreamed that I was back in Glasgow, I was walking. My desire
to reach an unknown destination was very strong within me. I came to an
overhead railway bridge which is in Nelson Street, Glasgow. As I was
passing under the bridge a thick, black, dense smoke came rolling through
the archway towards me. I was determined to reach my destination, so I
pressed forward. The further I went on my way, the thicker became the
smoke, until I began to cough and choke. The choking sensation became
so acute that I suddenly developed panic. My desire to go on was still
strong ; but I had a deeper, more intense feeling to '
about-turn '. So,
precipitately, I turned and ran for my life, out the way I had come. On
again reaching the light of day I awoke."
(The study of dreams has led the present commentator to observe a
recurrent association of road and rail crossings—and not of level crossings
only—with ideas of danger to life : the association would be natural
enough at childish and primitive levels of the mind. Dense black smoke
could be considered as combining an ostensible cause for a sensation of
choking with an impression of the physiological experience of suffocation,
in which there is a progressive darkening of the field of vision until a
complete " black-out " supervenes. Ed.
REVIEWS
The Journal of Parapsychology. Vol. 7, Nos. i and 2, March and June
1943-
In the reviewing of these two numbers chief attention must be paid to
three articles in which experimental evidence for telekinesis, obtained over
a long period and systematically observed and analysed, is now in part
presented to research workers at large. Further publication is to follow,
presenting successive instalments of the large quantity of significant data
which are said to have been amassed. The three articles before us give
sufficient basis for consideration of the surprising claim that emerges, and
the technique is one that can easily be repeated by other experimenters.
The writers, Professor Rhine and others, prefer to replace the term
" telekinesis ", for psycho-psychical action at a distance, by the term
" psychokinesis " which, with the abbreviation PK, is used throughout
the papers under review. The emphasis is thus on the hypothesis of
psycho-psychical action rather than on the observed fact of distance
between the supposed mover and the thing moved. Also, past associations
are avoided of the word " telekinesis " with ectoplasm and the various
claims of physical mediumship. The present experiments are of a very
different character.
The work started nine years ago, from an idea of method suggested by
the statement of a young man interested in gambling, that he and others
believed they could influence the fall of dice by a mental effort. The
throwing of dice appeared to be an excellently simple method for experi-
ments that could be readily performed and repeated, and adequately
SEPT.-ocT. 1943 Reviews .
''
31
observed. Here we should first consider the elementary possibilities of
error, which seem to resolve themselves into two : faulty dice having a bias
towards the throwing of this or that number, and conscious or unconscious
tricks of throwing, by which preferred numbers might be caused to fall
uppermost to an extent that would show a cumulative result against
chance.
The authors observe that no dice can be absolutely perfect. With dice
in which the " pips " are hollowed out in each of the six faces, the faces
with more " pips " are presumably lighter than those with less, though
apparently not to an extent that produces any observable effect on scoring.
But in these experiments the practical question, whether any bias in the
dice can be affecting the results in a relevant way, seems to be correctly
answered in the negative by observation of the results themselves : in the
simplest instance, by the fact that with the same dice either high or low
scoring is found to occur according to the intention of the thrower. It is
not stated whether the dice used had sharp or bevelled corners : supposing
anything like a slight physical push or pull at the last moment to be
exercised, it could be expected that the kind of die which rolls more easily
would show a higher proportion of positive results. Perhaps the point
has been tested in some of the experiments not yet published.
The question of presumable tricks of throwing is answered, in the
simplest instance (there are other answers, again from the nature of the
results), by a device which eliminates muscular propulsion of the dice :
they are released at the top of an inclined board upon which corrugated
paper is fastened, so that they roll over and over on their way down the
slope. This form of experiment is easy to repeat, and the board can be
so arranged that the dice fall into an armchair, first bouncing against the
back and then falling on to the seat. For release, the dice can rest against a
ruler placed across the top of the board on two nails, the ruler being lifted
to let the dice go. It appears that dice " thrown " by this method give
positive results of the same order as those produced by throwing from a
dice-box, cup or other container ; and also produce scores which show a
similar curious patterning. Results of the same order are also produced
when as many as six dice are thrown, manually, at one time.
The most immediately interesting feature in the prevalent pattern of
the scoring is the phenomenon called, by the authors, " decline ". Scoring
persistently starts high (or low, when low figures are being aimed at) and
the positive scoring decreases, or declines, until past the middle of the
prescribed series of throws, to rise again somewhat during the conclusion of
the run. Further, when a number of runs are recorded (in view of the
thrower, it seems) in a series of columns filling up a sheet, a similar decline
and recovery is apparent on examination of the scores both from top to
bottom of each column and from beginning to end of the sheet. This is
reasonably explained as in all probability a psychological effect dependent
on variation of interest and so of effective intention during the performance
of a set task with its successive limits spatially represented—as in the case
of an amateur gardener planting or weeding a row, whose keenness on the
job is strongest at the beginning of the row (and also of the whole job),
declines up to and beyond the middle, and revives as he realises that the
end is in sight. It will be seen that the " decline " effects noted in these
32 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1943
experiments show kinship with the " saHence " effects that have been
observed in E.S.P. work.
While these experimental findings have to encounter a stronger feeling
of their antecedent improbability than those of E.S.P., it is argued that
E.S.P. itself involves some degree of psycho-physical interaction, since it
is a principle of physics that the act of observation entails some physical
action upon the thing observed. Psychokinesis can thus be regarded as
logically coherent with E.S.P. : this argument assumes the reality of the
direct clairvoyance of physical objects and events, a class of phenomena
which on Mr Carington's One Mind theory may be referable to the
interaction of minds only, or rather to their underlying indivisibility. Be
that as it may, the causative linkages between the mental aim adopted and
the actual fall of the dice observed in these experiments is difficult to
conceive, and the first thing to do is to make careful study of the reports
issued by Professor Rhine and his colleagues and to endeavour to repeat
their experiments.
The Jotirnal of Parapsychology also contains, in its March number,
an interesting study of patterned results in E.S.P. work, by Betty M.
Humphrey ; a discussion by J. H. Rush of the difficulties of linking E.S.P.
with the concepts of physics ; cases quoted and discussed by Gardner
Murphy to illustrate the relative credibility of telepathy from the dead or
from the living as accounting for certain kinds of spontaneous hallucina-
tion ; and a letter from the late H. F. Saltmarsh on the likelihood that a
rhythmic effect may be prevalent in the emergence of E.S.P. into con-
sciousness and may be concerned in the phenomenon of salience. In the
June number, A. A. Foster reports a test of new against older E.S.P.
techniques, of particular interest in that the percipients were 50 American
Indian children ; an examination of E.S.P. records for displacement
effects is reported on by W. Russell. The findings, on a fairly extensive
survey, appear to be almost entirely negative. The Editorials in both
numbers are chiefly occupied with the subject of psychokinesis. K. R.
A Believer ifi the Future Life : F. W. H. Myers, 1843-1901. By the Very
Rev. J. S. MacArthur, Provost of Cumbrae. Tlie Hibbert Journal,
Jan. 1943.
A lucid biographical sketch of Myers as the young poet who wrote
" St Paul ", as a founder of the S.P.R., as the welder of evidence and
metaphysics who set up, in Human Personality, at least a provisional land-
mark of coherent thought in the newly-mapped field of psychical pheno-
mena. The Provost of Cumbrae writes with full appreciation of the task
which Myers undertook, and gives a scholarly and sympathetic estimate
of the bearing of his work upon the world of thought, of belief and dis-
belief, in which his conceptions took shape. K. R.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
November-December, 1943 Vol. XXXIII—No. 598-599
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - -- --'---33
Meeting of the Council - -- -- --33
Meetings of the Society - -- -- --34
Case : Haunted House. By G. N. M. Tyrrell - - - 34
Rjsview - - - - - - - - - -40
Further Recognition of Psychical Research - - - 40
NEW MEMBERS
Adams, P. W., 27 Park Avenue South, Northampton.
Gurassa, W. P., 104 Thurleigh Road, London, S.W. 12.
Hardy, C, Barataria, Ripley, Surrey.
Marland, E. A., 45 The Vale, Golders Green, London, N.W. 11.
Norris, J. H., 286 Cherry Hinton Road, Cambridge.
Paton Brown, Miss H. A., 558 Park West, London, W. 2.
Train, Miss D. E., 124 Langham Court, London, S.W. 20.
Warren, A. O., 4 Porchester Gardens, London, W. 2.
Wilson, A. J. C, St John's College, Cambridge.
Student-Associates
Hay, R. M., Dane Court, North Park, Gerrards Cross, Bucks.
Wadsworth, P., 23 Watson Road, Blackpool, Lanes.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 395th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 20 October 1943, at 4.0 p.m., the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., in the Chair. There were also present :
Sir Ernest Bennett, Mrs Goldney, Miss I. Jephson, Sir Lawrence Jones,
Bart., Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of
the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst.-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Nine new Members and two Student-Associates were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
34 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1943
MEETINGS OF THE SOCIETY
The 178th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Wednesday, 20 October 1943, at 5.45 p.m. Mr G. N. M. Tyrrftll in the
Chair. A paper entitled " Paranormal Cognition : Its Place in Human
Psychology " was read by Dr L. J. Bendit.
The 179th Private Meeting was held in the Library on Thursday, 18
November 1943, at 3.0 p.m., the President in the Chair. A paper
entitled " Psi-phenomena and Poltergeists " was read by Mr John Layard.
CASE: HAUNTED HOUSE
By G. N. M. Tyrrell
A request was recently received that a member of the S.P.R. might visit
and investigate a house in the country, reputed to be haunted and unlucky.
I undertook to visit the house, and went there on 28 October 1943,
accompanied by Miss G. M. Johnson, who came with me as a possessor
of extra-sensory faculty, in case sounds or other impressions which I
might miss should be received by her. Since it is considered that the
publicity might adversely influence the value of the house to the owner if
its whereabouts were known, all the names used below are fictitious.
In her first letter, addressed to the Secretary of the S.P.R., the present
tenant of the house, Mrs Knight, said that she, with her sister. Miss Irwin,
had been in the house about three years, having rented it furnished in
1940 from a widow, whose husband had died in the house suddenly.
Soon afterwards this widow had had a bad cycling accident and had broken
her arm, and she then decided to let it. Mrs Knight at this time was
living in a distant part of England and knew nothing whatever of the house
or its history. She heard of it through her stepson, who went over to see
it from a town three miles away, and she took it on the strength of a tele-
phone conversation with him. No one told Mrs Knight anything about
the ill reputation of the house until August 1943, when she had been
there about three years and had had the following experiences of her own.
In the above letter to the Secretary, Mrs Knight said (the letter is here
abbreviated) :
" There is some evil here, which manifests itself in illnesses,
our visitors, resident maids, all seem to get ill and my husband died early
in July last. . . . Other manifestations—most notably from January 1943,
are rappings, alarming noises such as might be made by an animal worrying
a big bone on bare boards, or a big parcel of books falling, unpleasant and
inexplicable odours. My sister has twice awakened suddenly with a
feeling of hands round her throat trying to strangle her, and a sensation
of an evil presence. Most of the noises have been heard by two people."
On our arrival, as Miss Johnson and I were walking from the 'bus
towards the house, we were met in the road by Mrs Knight, who said that
she had intended to meet us at the 'bus, but that her sister a few minutes
ago had fallen down in the house and broken her wrist ! We found Miss
Irwin reclining on the sofa, her right wrist swollen and out of shape. The
doctor was sent for and splinted it temporarily. Later she was taken to
hospital in a car and the wrist set under an anaesthetic. In the meantime
she pluckily told us about her experiences in the house. Miss Irwin's
account of her accident was that she was running along the hall to open
the front door to her sister when her heel slipped on the boards and she fell.
NOV.-DEC. 1943 Case : Haunted House 35
I examined the place. The hall carpet ended a foot short of the door-mat,
leaving a space of bare board. The boards were old with a rather rough
surface, stained and floor-polished, but not highly polished, and they did
not appear to be slippery. But of course one may sHp and fall anywhere.
The house, which is No. 13, is situated in Meadow Lane, a secondary
road turning out of the main road which runs through the village of
Whereham, which lies within a sixty mile radius of London. Meadow
Lane is fringed for some distance with small, detached houses, some quite
new and some older. No. 13 is a prosaic little two-storey house built of
red brick with a slate roof and standing back some 25 feet from the road
behind substantial iron railings. It is rectangular in shape with a kitchen
built out at the back. The front door is in the middle with a bow window
on each side, while above are three windows in a row. At the back is a
rectangular kitchen garden. The house is believed to be about 120 years
old. Inside it is particularly light and cheerful, the fittings and decorations
being quite modern. It is the last house which one would suspect of
being haunted.
Mrs Knight and her sister told us freely of all their experiences, the
most important of which were noted down in Mrs Knight's diary at the
time, and this she kindly allowed me to inspect. On 27 August 1943, Mrs
Knight's married sister, Mrs Fox, then in perfect health to all appearances,
came to stay at No. 13. Next morning she felt a pain in her back, and
about II a.m. was seized with a terrible internal pain. As soon as there
was a vacancy in a ward, she was carried out on a stretcher and taken by
ambulance to hospital, where she remained for a fortnight. There was
some abdominal swelling and her mouth and throat became inflamed and
bad, but an X-ray photograph revealed nothing. On account of the facial
trouble, the doctor sent her to a dentist on her return home to have her
teeth extracted, but the dentist refused to do this, saying that there was no
infection of the teeth or gums. Day to day notes of the case were entered
in Mrs Knight's diary ; but the nature of the illness never seemed to be
clear. I spoke to the doctor, who is a friend of the family, when she came
to attend to Miss Irwin's wrist, and she told me that, although Mrs Fox
appeared to be quite well when she came to stay, she had previously under-
gone a considerable strain.
Mr Knight (Mrs Knight's husband) sufl^ered from thrombosis before
coming to Whereham, but at the time of his arrival was in reasonable health
and was able to play golf. He was obliged to go into hospital for an opera-
tion on 20 July 1943, and died a week later. Mrs Knight feels that this
might not have happened had it not been for the evil influence of the house.
A nurse who came to stay was taken suddenly ill just after her arrival,
and Mrs Knight and her sister together have counted the cases of thirteen
maids or visitors who have been taken ill in a similar way shortly after
arrival in the house, during the time they have been there. Mrs Roberts,
who works in the house daily, told me that she does not feel so well as she
did before coming there and that the place makes her feel depressed.
Other phenomena occurring in the house were as follows. On 27
January 1943, at 1.30 p.m., Mrs Knight was not well and was in bed, and
Mr Knight was downstairs in the drawingroom. Five loud raps occurred
in the bedroom. Mr Knight heard them as well as his wife and asked the
latter if she was knocking. Miss Irwin, who was in the kitchen, did not
36 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1943
hear them. The entry in Mrs Knight's diary on that date is :
" Feh
symptoms of cold. In bed. Pecuhar five raps as on door or bedstead at
1.30 p.m. Jack [Mr Knight] heard it downstairs too." Mrs Knight
thought there might be something of a warning nature in the raps, and
noted that her husband went into hospital five months later (20 June).
The next night (28 January), there was a queer noise in one of the bed-
rooms. The diary records :
" Queer noise in one room like parcel of
books falling oflf table." Mrs Knight was in her bedroom ; Mr Knight
in bed in the next room, and Miss Irwin in the further room. Mrs Knight
went into her sister's room to see what had happened and found that her
sister had also heard the noise'and thought it was in Mrs Knight's bedroom.
They then thought Mr Knight must have fallen out of bed, but found that
in his room nothing had happened. There was no explanation of the noise.
On 29 January there was a noise like a basket of laundry being heavily
dumped outside the back door. Miss Irwin, though in a bedroom at the
back of the house, did not hear it. Mrs Knight, who was in the kitchen
(into which the back door opens), opened the back door but found no one
there. There were thus three inexplicable noises on three consecutive days.
On 25 April 1943, the following entry occurs in Mrs Knight's diary :
" Jack in bed, very poorly. I went to the doctor to get tablets. Bad,
windy weather. Noise in night like dog eating big bone." Both Mrs
Knight and her sister gave me a full account of this incident, and showed
me where it happened. Mrs Knight said she was awakened in the night
by the noise, which came from under her bed. In her own words, " it
was terrible." She turned on the light, but the noise still went on. She
then went down on her knees and looked under the bed. There was
nothing to be seen but the noise still continued. She then fetched her
sister, who was asleep in another room and had not heard the noise.
When they returned to Mrs Knight's bedroom, the noise had nearly ceased
but not quite, and had become intermittent. It had moved to another
part of the room, and they both heard it. No such noise has been heard
before or since. I asked the usual question as to whether there were any
rats in the house, but no rats have ever been suspected. There were at
one time some mice, but since a cat has been kept they have disappeared.
The bed stood away from the wall, except that the head is against a short
partition let into the room to accommodate the door, the carpet extending
half way under it. It was on the boarded half that the noise appeared to
be taking place. Looking at the place, it seemed to me incredible that a
rat should have got into the house for one night only, made the noise
described, left no traces of any kind and never come again.
One day when Mrs Knight was in the drawingroom, something slashed
the window outside on the right hand side, as if a whip had been used.
On a later day, June 17 1943, this was repeated, but this time on the left
hand side of the window. Both Mr and Mrs Knight were present on the
second occasion and both heard it. Mr Knight went to the window but
could find no cause for the sound. I examined the window outside. There
were no creepers or climbing roses on that side of the house. There is a
creeper on the other side of the front door, but it is a rather fragile looking
plant, and certainly could not be responsible for the phenomenon, being too
small and too far away.
Miss Irwin said that in the winter of 1 940-1 (the exact date had not
NOV.-DEC. 1943 Case : Haunted House 37
been recorded), when she and her sister were both sleeping in the front
bedroom, she was awakened with a feehng of two hands at her throat and
a sensation of evil. She is certain that it was not a dream. Later, when
she was sleeping alone in the smaller bedroom, she had a similar experience
of hands at her throat accompanied by a feeling as if something were
scrabbling rapidly at the bedclothes. She had been quietly asleep and had
not been having a nightmare. Again she had a sensation of something evil.
One morning (date not recorded) Mrs Knight went into the bathroom
and found it filled by a horrible smell. Her description was that it was
like a charnel-house, and suggested, in her own words, nothing but " death
and the grave ". She returned to her room. When she went back to the
bathroom five minutes later the smell was still there, but afterwards dissi-
pated. Another day a horrible smell, which she described as a " dirty
"
smell, permeated the hall and passage, and the hall door was opened to
let it out. A similar smell was once smelt in the pantry. The smell in the
hall was smelt collectively. No normal explanation could be found.
I asked whether any phenomena of a poltergeist type had occurred in
the house, and Mrs Knight said they had not, with tht'ee possible excep-
tions. On one occasion an explosion had occurred in the portable wireless
set (not connected to the mains), and smoke came out! The expert found
signs of burning but could find no cause for it. Mrs Knight said :
" The
wireless set never ceased functioning all through the noise like a pistol
shot, and the smoke, and is going to-day as it was then. No repair has
been done to it." On another occasion the bathroom light came on when
no one was near it, and during the short time Mrs Knight took a visitor
up to get her hat and coat. No light was in the bathroom when they came
upstairs, but ten minutes later when they came out of the bedroom the
light was on. No one had come up the stairs for several hours. I tested
the switch, which was of a new type and fairly stiff and found that it took
a good deal of care and patience to get it to stay in an intermediate position
between on and ofl^. I do not think it could possibly have been left accidently
in that position, so as to have come on from a position of unstable equi-
librium by itself. It needed very delicate adjustment to get it there.
On 4 September 1943, Mrs Knight and her sister came home in the
daytime to find lumps of mortar strewn on the front lawn and narrow
flower border inside the front railings, and some of the bricks of the
pillar into which one end of the railings was fastened forced about three
inches out of the pillar inwards from the road. A friend who called
later knocked them back into position with a pickaxe. His view was that a
car had run into the raihngs. I inspected the railings very carefully. On
either side of the front gate was a soHd brick pillar 18 inches square, sur-
mounted by a heavy capstone, and at each of the two front corners of the
garden was another similar pillar. The two spaces from pillar to pillar,
each about 10 feet long, were filled in by old-fashioned iron railings of a
solid kind, supported on brick footings about 18 inches high, on which
were three lengths of flat stone into which the raihngs were fastened.
These stones projected over the brick footings underneath, being about
1 1 inches wide. The upper horizontal member of the railings was fastened
at each end into a square stone block, which was built into its brick pillar.
The whole was very strong and solid. I tried with all my might to shake
the railings on the intact side of the gate but without making the slightest
38 '
Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1943
impression. The bricks which had been forced out of place were those in
the pillar at the further end from the gate and were against the stone block,
showing that the force had been exerted on the railings and not on the
pillar. Indeed, all the bricks on the outside of the pillar were imtouched,
although any car which had run on to the pavement and given a glancing
blow to the railings would have been bound to collide with the projecting
pillar. It must also have scraped along the edge of the stone slabs forming
the top of the footing. Moreover, when the railings were painted green,
these slabs were painted also, and the green paint along their edges was
not even scratched, and was in the same condition as on the firm railings
the other side of the gate. It was quite clear to me that the force had not
been caused by a passing car or lorry. Mrs Knight said, also, that there
were no skid-marks on the pavement. In only one way, I imagine, could
a lorry have produced the effect. If a lorry with an overhanging back had
turned there and backed into the railings at right angles to them, it might
. have forced them inwards without touching the stone or brick work. But
the back would have had to be well padded not to mark the paint. The
road at that point is only 18 feet wide and no lorry driver in his senses
would attempt to turn in it, since Meadow Lane offers an ideal turning
place only ten yards away, on the opposite side of the front gate. The
flat stone at the bottom of the railings next the pillar had been forced a
quarter of an inch inwards. Very great force must have been used.
Mrs Knight has had only two visual experiences in the house, or,
indeed, in the course of her life. On 6 August 1943, she and her sister
were sleeping in the large, front bedroom. Both were awake, and the
time was 11.55 P-"^- Miss Irwin got up suddenly and pulled the clothes
off Mrs Knight's side of the bed. When asked why she did so, she could
only answer that she had got up to look at the time. She said afterwards
that she felt she had to get up. At the same time she saw a fan of white
light on the skirting near the door, and said :
" Do look !
" Mrs Knight
then saw a pillar of soft, golden light with a pencil of blue-grey light
dividing the lower half in the middle. Both said they saw this.^ Mrs
Knight particularly noticed the height of the pillar because it formed close
beside the wardrobe, and reached a little above the place where her own
head would have come to. While they were still looking at it, suddenly it
was not there and the room was dark again.
In mid-July, Mrs Knight had seen an oval spot of light moving under
the window sill, along the wall, which she could not account for by any
normal light. This was about a fortnight after her husband died, and she
associated both the visions with him.
It is extremely difficult to find out much about the past history of the
house. According to rumour, one former occupant went into a neighbour-
ing town and drowned himself. The child of another died suddenly with
no apparent cause when just under two years old. The husband of the
widow lady from whom Mrs Knight took the house died suddenly, and
she herself met with an accident shortly afterwards. People who may
know more are unwilling to say anything for fear that their statements
^ Mrs Knight thinks a figure was beginning to form and that this pencil of
light was the division between the legs. See formation of head from yellow-
blue light in Proc. xxxiii, p. 174. Also formatien of brow and eyes from blue,
luminous mist in an Experimental case in Journal vii. pp. 252-3.
NOV.-DEC. 1943 Case : Haunted House 39
might depreciate the value of the house and place them in an undesirable
legal position. Mrs Knight writes :
" Never before this last three years
has a maid or visitor been taken ill on coming to my house. On the
contrary, they have always benefited by being in my house." This I can
well believe, for seldom have I felt myself to be in such a cheerful and
hospitable atmosphere.
The fact which needs accounting for is that Mrs Knight and her sister
heard nothing against the house till August 1943, having taken it in- 1940.
Yet, before this August they had made up their minds to leave on account
of their own experiences in the house. When they were told, it was by a
friend who knew something of the house and its reputation—a Miss
Hardy. .
Mrs Knight writes :
" Miss Hardy called to say how sorry she
was to find my sister, Mrs Fox, had be^n taken suddenly ill so soon after
the loss of my husband. I said, '
Miss Hardy,' it's this house.' '
Who
told you ', she said. I replied, '
Nobody, it is what we have experienced
here ourselves.' Then she told me how sorry she had been to hear we
were coming (we had known Miss Hardy and her family for years) as it was
well known -to be the unluckiest house in Whereham. '
But', she said, '
I
couldn't say anything, could I ?
' " Certainly, apart from these happen-
ings, Mrs Knight and Miss Irwin have every inducement to stay. The house
is bright and cheerful and easy to run. She and her husband were both
very popular in Whereham and had many friends. Mrs Knight is a good
and accurate witness : she knows nothing about psychical research. There
seems in this case to have been no prepossession or bias of any kind to
favour the hypothesis of expectation or suggestion.
It is exceedingly difficult to estimate whether or not it is reasonable to
put down any remarkable sequence of events to chance. Taken indi-
vidually, it is not impossible to put down some of the illnesses, accidents
and deaths which have occurred in the house (so far as is known) to normal
causes. Mrs. Knight says that they stand in complete contrast to her
experiences before she came there ; but suppose that a person, after
taking a house, had a phenomenal run of good luck, would he put it down
to the good influence of the house, or would he say that his own fortune
had changed for the better } The latter seems the more likely. Why not,
then, in the converse case A good deal depends on establishing whether
abnormally bad luck dogged all the previous occupants ; and this is very
difficult to do. But the sounds, smells and visions certainly seem to have
b.een supernormal (though the visions may have had nothing to do with
the house), and it may be held that the fact that the items of ill luck were
conjoined to these strengthens the ground for regarding the misfortunes
as supernormal also.
In the present state of house shortage. No. 13 is not likely to remain
empty for long after Mrs Knight leaves, and it will be interesting to
observe how the next occupants fare, if the information can be obtained.
One interesting question is whether the sounds and smells experienced
in the house were due to physical, though supernormal, causes, or were
non-physical and hallucinatory. The clearest test of non-physical charac-
ter is when several persons possessed of normal senses are present so that
all must have heard the sound or smelt the smell if the cause were physical,
but when, in fact, only some did so. In this case, although several of the
experiences were shared by two persons, it is not clear that anyone was
4© Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1943
ever so situated that he or she must have shared the experience had it been
physical, but did not. On the whole it seems probable that both sounds
and smells were hallucinatory or non-physical in character, as is most
generally the case. The case of the railings, which was certainly due to a
physical cause, remains puzzling. If the non-physical character of the
sounds and smells be granted, the case provides up-to-date evidence of
collective percipience, which is of great theoretical importance.
In conclusion, I should like to thank both Mrs " Knight " and Miss
" Irwin " for the extremely kind and generous hospitality they extended
to Miss Johnson and myself under very trying circumstances, and for the
willing help they gave us in the inquiry.
REVIEW
One Hundred Cases for Survival after Death. By A. T. Baird. T. Werner
Laurie, pp. 195, los. 6d.
To keep the mind fully conversant with their subject, specialists find it
desirable to re-study their own publications after some years' interval.
In course of time detail becomes blurred and important facts may pass
beyond easy recollection if not occasionally called to mind. This is
relevant to Psychical Research in which so many isolated incidents come
before one's notice. One frequently finds that critics seem unaware of
evidence which they must at one time have known, but which they have
conveniently forgotten, with the result that their conclusions are not in
accord with ascertained fact. Mr Baird has done good service by gathering
under convenient headings well verified cases representing the several
types of evidence on which conclusions may be logically based. It makes
a convenient reference book for students and at the same time affords
interesting reading for the general public. It shows how strong is the
evidence for human survival. Half the cases are selected from the publi-
cations of the English and the American Societies for Psychical Research,
a sufficient guarantee for their soundness, while the remainder have passed
the scrutiny of intelligent observers. The author's Preface alludes to the
embarrassing amount of good material from which this selection was
made and suggests that it would have been t^asy to have presented five
thousand cases for survival instead of the mere hundred chosen. It con-
cludes with these words, " I think that all the writing in the world will
not convince any one so thoroughly as evidence found for oneself, but
that is no reason why the investigations of others should not be collected
and placed on record in a convenient form. Hence this book." With
that conclusion we agree.
It should be added that each type of evidence is prefaced by a brief and
well-informed explanation ; the allusions to Apparitions, Deathbed
Visions, Automatic Writing, Trance Phenomena, Proxy Sittings and
Direct Voice Phenomena being especially helpful. It is a book which can
be confidently recommended. C. D. T.
FURTHER RECOGNITION OF PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
We are glad to be able to record that the Trustees of the Leverhulme
Research Fellowships have recently awarded a grant to Mr Whately
Carington, for a period of two years, in support of his researches into
Paranormal Cognition.
/
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
January-February, 1944 '
Vol. XXXIII—No. 600-601
CONTENTS
PAGE
Annual Report of the Council for 1943 - - - - 42
Accounts for 1943 - -- -- -- -44
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
THE SOCIETY
will be held in . .
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Friday, 25 February 1944, at 3 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
the 21 January 1944, and already circulated.
MR KENNETH RICHMOND WILL SPEAK ON
PRECOGNITION
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of the
Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present.
42 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1944
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1943
(i) Research, {a) The Precognition Committee has continued its work
with a small group of percipients and is now engaged on a large-scale
experiment to see what effects can be obtained with a number of percipients
approaching 100. Significant results have been obtained which suggest
precognitive telepathy, but more extensive experiment is desirable, and it
is hoped that the large-scale experiments now being conducted will make
the results already obtained easier to understand. Mr Carington has
given valuable assistance in examining and assessing the results ; Mr
Parsons has also been good enough to help in this work.
Mr Richmond hopes shortly to read a paper on the Committee's work.
{b) The important experiments conducted by Mr Soal and Mrs Goldney
have been continued. An account of them was given by Mr Soal and Mrs
Goldney at a meeting of the Society in October 1942, and a full report of
them as continued to April 1943 has now been published in Part 167 of
Proceedings.
(c) Mr Carington reports that he has continued his researches in Para-
normal Cognition in co-operation with the Cambridge Committee. The
difficulty of obtaining percipients under war-time conditions has greatly
restricted the possibilities of experiments, and work has been mainly con-
centrated on developing theoretical conclusions from the results already
obtained and from others in this field. Mr Carington gave an outline of
his theory in the paper referred to below, and it is hoped to publish a full
account of it in Proceedings shortly.
(d) Investigation of the relief of pain carried out by Mr Frederick
Knowles has been continued weekly since the summer of 1942. Patients
suffering from various physical conditions causing pain have come forward
as subjects for the silent mental concentration which Mr Knowles applies
for the relief of painful symptoms and in some degree for a general better-
ment of the condition. Over 40 complete cases are now on record. A
debt of gratitude is due to Dr Morna Rawlins who has given much time
to the investigation, and attended the proceedings on a large number of
occasions, besides lending a room in her house where patients do not have
to negotiate steps, as at the Society's rooms.
(e) The Council wish to call attention to the most important experi-
mental work in all forms of extra-sensory perception and also in " psycho-
kinesis " now being conducted in the United States. It is difficult at the
present to conduct large-scale experiments in this country, but members
who will consult recent numbers of the Journal of Parapsychology, espec-
ially those for March and June 1943, and also of the Journal of the American
S.P.R., will probably find types of experiment which they can conduct
with groups of friends. The S.P.R. Working Group has begun to experi-
ment with the techniques described, and the Council congratulate those
members who have already undertaken experimental work on their own
initiative, and would gladly receive reports from still more members.
(/) Reports of spontaneous phenomena in various parts of the country
have been received and such enquiries as are practicable in present circum-
stances have been made : an interesting case, investigated by Mr Tyrrell,
has been printed in the Journal for December 1943.
JAN.-FEB. 1944 Annual Report 43
(2) Finance. In February the Society suffered a very severe loss by the
sudden death of Mr H. F. Sahmarsh, the Acting Trustee of the Research
Endowment Fund, and, since the beginning of the war, the Acting Hon.
Treasurer of the Society. A tribute to his valuable work both in admini-
stering the Society's finances, and also in research, has appeared in Pro-
ceedings, Part 167. The Council have not found any one able and willing
to take Mr Saltmarsh's place. Fortunately the Hon. Treasurer, Admiral
Strutt, is now in a position to resume some of his former duties, and to
assist him the Council have increased the membership of the House and
Finance Committee.
The general financial position is that the Society is living within its
income, if the General Fund and the Endowment Fund are taken to-
gether, but that it has in recent years (though not in 1943) been necessary
for the Endowment Fund to subsidise the General Fund out of its surplus
income. The General Fund ends the present year with a substantial
balance in hand {£354 4^- lod.). This is due partly to a welcome donation
of £125 from an American friend, who writes most appreciatively of the
Society's work, and partly to the accident that Part 167 of Proceedings,
though printed in 1943, will be paid for in 1944.
(3) The year has seen two useful developments in the Society's activi-
ties, the formation of a Discussion Group, and of a Working Group.
In the spring of this year the Council decided, on the initiative of Mr
Tyrrell, to revive the practice of holding informal meetings for the dis-
cussion of various aspects of psychical research by members and their
friends. Although the S.P.R. is a scientific body, whose main task is the
pursuit of scientific research, its labours have a direct bearing on many
other fields, the relation of which to psychical research needs free discus-
sion. Such discussion, it was thought, would at the same time serve to
bring members together and to stimulate thought and interest in our
subject. Seven meetings have now been held, the first of which took
place on i April 1943, and during these the following subjects have been
discussed : The Relation of Psychical Research to Spiritualism ; The
Evolutionary Aspects of Extra-Sensory Perception ; Mr Whately
Carington's Work and Theory ;
Cross-Correspondences ;
Apparitions ;
The Relief of Pain by Mental Concentrations ; Reincarnation.
Attendances have been good (though the return with winter of the
early black-out has caused some reduction), and may be taken to indicate
that meetings for discussion are appreciated by members.
The kindness of Mr and Mrs Richmond in assisting these discussions
and in offering their flat for the first meeting is greatly appreciated.
A number of younger members, with the collaboration of Mr and Mrs
Richmond and Mrs Goldney, have formed a group meeting on Wednesday
evenings to work on practical problems. These have helped in the
checking of index cards for the third volume of the Index to Proceedings
and Journal (reported in paragraph 5). Experiments have been started
by the group on dice-throwing to investigate the " psycho-kinetic effect
"
reported by Rhine. A sub-group under Mr N. Richmond has also studied
Mr Knowles's methods of alleviating pain referred to above {id). This
group has also had some discussion meetings addressed by members of
the Society. Most of the members are war workers and their attendance
CD 1-1 o
GOO? o O Ci c; 03 in w CO (M urs o cc ir:' X
I 1—1 rH r-H rH i-( rH i-H
a. CD o
CM
>r. o
t--
t^fMcooCiCDirsXcoocOwu::
r-H Cl tM rH T-t i-H CO
rH
'N CD
rH rH
rH
COrH I
,-lOX
OOo
ooo
o o o o
til
rH X
rH
, . CD-"*
rH rH
CO (M
^fc
rH
U.S.A.,
Square.
£
cripHoni
!1
Tavis
.
M.
Tyr
micle
ronicle
So'-' s
O fc) >i ^
5 ^ O «
^5 tS lag
2 sO gl:; a, §
^
t ° » p ^S's =
J S S;
J ^ » e S =^
Oi.=|isll
S S
So
<X>
rH 1—
1
CO -* X
-* 0
cr.
0 CO
CO CO
c+i
00
s. (= s
S «
g O H-l
?J 5i M
rH (1
CO 3 «
C ^
c;o T-H 0 CD rH 0 0 Ti4 X
rH rH
rHO-t' CO CO 0 rH X 0 X
l"^ CO rH >0 rH rH rH rH -f 0
0 CM CD CO _
CO CD in CO 00 01
I-- 0 CO >*
CO CO
0 OCD 0 0 31 00 ' ' 0: X
rH CD XO CD
1 t
^
^•1 ^- M rH -*Xc^ UO -rt* 0
rH lO (M C+( rH
CO
CI
„ ^ CO -h
(M CO *+ "Tt^ -t< -t<
Tfi -f Gi o; cs 01
C; Ci O rH rH rHrH
|.H&
£ 3 d
"5 CJ o'^
^ CO o c;
s
P
^ rH
_r cj
rH r—
r
0
00 ^ 5?) fij
S '^S
I- lO O CD O
in O
£ S c
S gM;
75 apu «
H <D CO
C! i-^
O
I—
1
O
CO
0(00
iHrH
O o c*s
O O
«j i=; CO
CO
CO
o CO CO
o .
C. o
QC O
OOO
5) tc
sl3
"S O O
o cj
- - S I
" c F
CO c?
O CO T-l O w
r-H rH aO I>
oo
wo
^ 3 13
2 o 5
S o o
-aj o o
^ P o
S S p.
CO — o
g c c
o
S S e
^ ^ § 5J
aqoo
ccco
— _J — — CO 00
w
O o o
m o
'-i CO O <-( in o
CO
s
2 ^ '
5j *^ f-i
I
cc> O
« 5Li
g CO
~ Pi. o
CO 'a
c« ^ Co CO
s § ^ ^
oo "
ii=rtCO-g g
O O ^ CO s
S s
CO T-H rH i-H O
1 O LO QC
: i> o o
scOrtO;
-f CO
OS--.
< <v •
.%
1 1
Co ^ g
<ij ^ ^ ^
^ e e r
•6^
;
^
g ^ g
.2 ^
1
<4i e ^ ^
o
o <M iM
o in
e s u
« « o
s « ^
§ » £
o o o
C: O
o
CO
^ '-S
•
o c
at, 4) o w
«5o§
s* C
dj .0) O
in
-
p, c.
>-i lo 1-^ C c
o
s:
z
O
o>
J<) .-I
2 S "
= 03 J
S S S c
g o a o
CJ « ^ "jIS
« 0) cj ^
^! o _ a-e
3 j= c c
&u 0.5 55
—• b-
8 §^
§ is
CP c-a
•I
^
a
aj ill
— C
CO o
, h cj.
\p.a-
= fi a
fc- O ft
gS? DO
-ClOOOO
fl m O
O OS O
T-H'^rHCOOiOOOO
CM"
oo
000000 000 0 0 01 0
000000 000 0 0 C5
0 0 0 O' 0 1~ in 0 00 H< ot-
OOOO'OO 10 0 'n
-* 0 CO 00 0 1> 0 00 01
U7 Srf --^J 5*1
PS <D
a
o O
c o
.2-3!
^ a
o o
ift CO
00
JAN.-FEB. 1944 Anrmal Report 47
has' been affected in many cases by necessary changes in their arrange-
ments, but the Council much appreciate the keenness of those who con-
tinue to give of their scanty spare time and to keep a nucleus of this
valuable activity in being : they hope that other members will get in
touch with Mr Richmond with a view to joining this Group.
(4) There is growing evidence that the importance of Psychical Research
is being recognised in quarters which have hitherto held aloof. Mr
Carington has been awarded a grant by the Trustees of the Leverhulme
Research Fellowships for the prosecution of research into extra-sensory
perception. Dr Bendit was given the degree of Doctor of Medicine by
Cambridge University for a thesis on " Paranormal Cognition : Its Place
in Human Psychology ". This is believed to be the first time that a
British University has accepted a thesis for a doctorate in medicine on a
subject connected with psychical research.
It is also of interest to record that the Medical Superintendent of a
County Mental Hospital lately asked the Society to give appropriate
guidance to a patient whose unsuitably developed automatism had led to
pathological hallucinations ; the patient and his wife were seen by Mr
Richmond and have since written expressing gratitude to the Society for
the help that they received.
(5) The absence of a Combined Index of the Society's Proceedings and
Journal since 1913, when the last instalment was published, has long been
*
a serious hindrance to the study of our subject. A Committee to supervise
the preparation of a new Index was appointed in 1940, and made recom-
mendations to the Council as to the general lines the new Index should
follow. The work of preparing it was entrusted to Mr Richmond who
reports that it is now completed in the form of a comprehensive card index
which is being checked and revised section by section. Special thanks
are due to Lady Hedley, Miss Muir Mackenzie and Mrs Richmond for
their help in the long task of preparing the card index. It is hoped that
the paper situation and the financial position will permit of publication at
an early date.
(6) The Council have appointed a Committee to take such action as is
practicable now to make better known the Society's work, and the signi-
ficance of psychical research and its relation to other branches of thought,
and also to plan out a more extensive scheme with the same objects in view
to be carried into effect after the war.
(7) Presidency. Dr. R. H. Thouless kindly consented to act as President
for a second year.
(8) Obituary. In addition to Mr Saltmarsh, the Society has lost by
death two former Council members. Miss RadclyfTe Hall and Mr W. R.
Bousfield, K.C., F.R.S., and also Mr Hubert Wales, all of whom took an
active part in the Society's work.
(9) Library. We are glad to record an increase in the number of
Members who borrowed books from the Library during the year :
77
Members borrowed 545 books, as compared with 58 Members who
borrowed 439 books in 1942, and 63 books were borrowed by the National
Central Library.
(10) Membership of the Society. 37 new Members and 5 Student-
Associates were elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations, and
48 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1944
other causes is 24 Members and 12 Associates, leaving a net increase of 6
in the total membership of the Society, which now stands at 588.
(11) Publications. One Part of Proceedings was published during the
year (Part 167) in December ; also the 7th Myers Memorial Lecture
entitled " Apparitions " by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell in March.
The Secretary's sale to the general public amounted to £25 3s. id. and
to Members of the Society £^ i8s. gd., and through the Society's Agent in
the United States, 6s. 8d. The sale of the 7th Myers Memorial
Lecture, especially to the public, has been remarkable, 98 copies having
been sold up to date.
(12) Meetings. The following Meetings have been held during the year :
25 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
14 Apl. " A Percipient's Account of Some Guessing Experiments ",
by Mr Donald J. West.
26 May " The Theory of Paranormal Cognition and Allied Phenomena ",
by Mr Whately Carington.
20 Oct. " Paranormal Cognition : Its Place in Human Psychology ", by
Dr L. J. Bendit.
18 Nov. " Psi-phenomena and Poltergeists ", by Mr John Layard.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Coimcil. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
March-April, 1944 Vol. XXXIII—No. 602-603
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - -- -- -- -49
Meetings of the Council -------50
Annual General Meeting - - - - - - - 51
Private Meeting - - - - - - - - 52
" Displacement " : Some Comments on Mr Russell's Paper 52
Correspondence - .- -.---54
Review ----------56
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 10 December 1943)
Ballard, P, B., M.A., D.Lit., Hazel Cottage, Chute Forest, nr Andover,
Hants.
Dribbell, Mrs G., 131 Marsham Court, Westminster, London, S.W. i.
Hibbert, Mrs L., 80 RedclifFe Gardens, London, S.W. 10.
Macdonald, Arthur, Hazely, Tring, Herts.
Soal, Mrs S. G., 28 Thurleigh Road, Wandsworth Common, London,
S.W. 12.
{Elected 1^ January 1944)
James, W. S., M.Sc, Beck Allans, Grasmere, Westmoreland.
Manning, W. E., 5 Queen's Grove, St. John's Wood, London, N.W. 8.
Maxwell, W. H., 85 Plaistow Lane, Bromley, Kent.
Scott, J. Terrell, M.D., 525 Bank of America Buildings, San Diego i,
California, U.S.A.
Student-Associates
{Elected 10 December 1943)
Marshall, Miss M. J., 34 Saxon Road, Southall, Middlesex.
{Elected ig January 1944)
Bewley, D. K., A.D.R.D.E., Pale Manor, Malvern, Worcestershire.
Kowalska, Miss K., 48 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Parsons, Mrs Denys, 20 Barter Street, London, W.C. i.
50 jfoiirnal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1944
{Elected 25 February 1944)
Chitty, Miss P., 12 Rawlinson Road, Oxford.
Culmer, G. E., 175 Upper Street, Islington, London, N. i.
Dillon, W. J., Sheen Lodge, Limerick, Eire.
Le Chene, Major J. W., 33 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Macardle, Miss D. M. C, 16 Bedford Gardens House, London, W. 8.
Sendall, Mrs, 25 Chalcot Square, Regent's Park, London, N.W. i.
Verniers van der Loeff, Major-General H. J. W., Oatlands Park Hotel,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Student-Associates
Burman, J. P., 4 Ashburn Place, London, S.W. 7.
Clark, Miss P. M., 120 Reigate Road, Ewell, Surrey.
Hooker, M. A., 5 Bath Place, Holywell Street, Oxford.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 396th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Friday, 10 December 1943, at 2.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett,
Professor C. D. Broad, Professor W. Macneile Dixon, Mrs Goldney, the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton, Professor H. H.
Price, Mr W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also
Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant - S ecretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Five new Members and one Student-Associate were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
It was agreed that the rules regarding Private Meetings should be
extended to allow any Member or Associate to bring one friend, or more
than one if permission were first obtained from the Secretary. The
understanding was to be that no friend should attend more than three
meetings without applying for membership of the Society.
The 397th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 19 January 1944, at 3.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett,
Mrs Goldney, Sir Robert Gower, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss I. Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ;
also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Editor of the Journal, and Miss E. M. Hor-
sell, Assistant- Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Four new Members and three Student-Associates were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
MARCH-APRIL 1944 Annual General Meeting 51
The 398th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Friday, 25 February 1944, at 2 p.m.. The President
in the Chair. There were also present: Mrs Goldney, the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Saher,
Mrs W. H. Salter and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant- Secretary
.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Seven new Members and three Student-Associates were
elected ; their names and addresses are given above.
The 399th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, after the Annual General Meeting. The President in
the Chair. There were also present : Mrs Goldney, the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss Newton, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
Dr R. H. Thouless was re-elected President for the year 1944-45.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, R.N., Hon. Treasurer, and Mrs W. H. Salter Hon. Editor of
Proceedings.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The President, Professor C. D.
Broad, Professor H. H. Price and Mrs W. H. Salter.
Finance Committee : Mrs Goldney, Mr G. W. Lambert, Mr G. Red-
mayne and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
House Committee : Miss L Newton, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,
Miss L Newton, and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Hon. Associates were elected for the year
1944-45 follows :
Correspondifig Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Dr George H. Hyslop, Professor P. Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count
Carl von Khnckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy,
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner and Mr
C. Vett.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Miss H. A. Dallas, Mr
J. Arthur Hill, Professor R. F. A. Hoernle, the Rev. W. S. Irving, Dr Eva
Morton, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. M. Sage, Mr G. H.
Spinney, Dr A. Tanagras, Dr W. H. Tenhaeff, Dr R. H. Thouless, Miss
Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, on Friday, 25 February 1944, at
3 p.m. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Mrs C. Albrecht, Miss H.
Carruthers, Mr G. W. Fisk, Mrs Goldney, Miss Kennedy, the Hon. Mrs
Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Miss E. G. Mountford, Miss 1. Newton,
52 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1944
Mrs C. H. Norman, Mr D. A. H. Parsons, Mrs R. H. A. Plimmer,
Mr R. S. W. Pollard, Mr G. Redmayne, Mrs K. Richmond, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mrs C. Sitwell, Mr S. G. Soal, Mrs Gale Thomas,
Miss Traill and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
The Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
accounts and the Report were presented. After a discussion, in which
several members took part, Mr W. H. Salter moved the adoption of the
Annual Report and the Accounts of the Society, which had already been
circulated in the January-February J^owraa/. This resolution was seconded
by Mr R. S. W. Pollard, and carried unanimously.
A vote of thanks to Mr Salter was proposed by Mrs Lyttelton in appreci-
ation of the time and energy expended by him during the twenty years he
had acted as Hon. Secretary. Mrs Goldney, in seconding the vote of
thanks, said that it was not realised by those who did not come into close
touch with the detailed work of the Society how many-sided was the work
done by him, both at the Society's rooms and at home. The vote was
carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that there were no candidates for election to
membership of the Council other than the six members who retired by
rotation, and the following six members were accordingly unanimously
elected : Professor C. D. Broad, Mr W. Whately Carington, Professor
E. R. Dodds, Miss Ina Jephson, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E.,
and Professor H. H. Price.
On the proposal of Mr Salter, seconded by the Hon. Mrs Alfred
Lyttelton, Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors
for the forthcoming year.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 1 80th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Friday, 25 February 1944, after the Annual General Meeting. The
President in the Chair. Mr Kenneth Richmond spoke on Precognition.
" DISPLACEMENT " : SOME COMMENTS ON
MR RUSSELL'S PAPER
In the June number of the Journal of Parapsychology Mr William Russell
reports the results of his examination of a few American (E.S.P.) series
with Zencr cards from the standpoint of " displacement ". In four of the
series discussed the experiments were " distance " tests and the subject
obtained high scores on the actual or " target " card. In two other series
chosen the subjects had shown previous ability to score successfully on the
" actual " card but their scores had fallen apparently to the chance level in
the runs under examination. In none of the series discussed is there any
satisfactory evidence that the percipient was scoring hits on the cards
immediately before or after the " target " card. In fact the phenomenon
of " displacement " noted by Mr Carington, Mrs Goldney, Dr Thouless
and myself was conspicuous by its absence.
MARCH-APRIL 1 944 " Displacement " : Some Comments 53
The first, and perhaps most important point to be observed, is that in
the case of the majority of the series examined the timing conditions were
almost certainly very different from those which obtained throughout our
work in England with the subject (B.S.). During the past two years we
have demonstrated with reasonable certainty that the displacement effect
noted is one of temporal and not of spatial displacement. And we have
shown further in the case of (B.S.) that he possesses a span of precognition
which reaches from 2^-4 seconds in front of the instant at which the
" target " card is presented to the agent. If the interval between succes-
sive presentations is increased even to 5 seconds the subject fails to score
significantly on either precognitive or postcognitive hits. It is quite pro-
bable that this span of prehension in time varies with different subjects
but it would have to be found for a given subject by experiment unless it
were hit upon by good luck. But for the fact that B.S. insisted on the
calls being made at an unusually rapid rate we should, in all probability,
have missed the phenomenon entirely in his case. Actually I believe the
rate of calling with my first subject Mrs (S.) was somewhat slower than in
the work with (B.S.). But in the " Pearce-Pratt " series examined by
Mr Russell there was I believe an interval of a whole minute between
successive calls, and it is certain that in the other series discussed (" Turner-
Ownbey " and " Marchesi "), in which agent and subject were separated
by distances of perhaps hundreds of miles, it would have been quite im-
possible without the use of the telephone to have carried out an experi-
ment with intervals of less than a minute. The same remark applies to
the " Riess " series carried out at a distance of about a mile. If therefore
the temporal conditions were in the series discussed incompatible with the
subject's span of prehension the failure to obtain displacement is easily
accounted for.
But other conditions may also have to be taken into consideration. We
obtained incontrovertible evidence in the case of our subject (B.S.) that
he fails entirely to produce these displacement effects when the conditions
are those of " clairvoyance What he appears to succeed in doing is to
become aware of an image that is going to be in the agent's mind in two or
three seconds time. But if I remember rightly the " Pearce-Pratt " series
was one in which the agent did not look at the cards. In the " Riess " and
" Turner-Ownbey " experiments on the other hand the telepathic condi-
tion prevailed.
During our two years' work with (B.S.) on only one occasion did he
obtain a highly significant score on the actual or target card and on this
occasion the (±1) scores fell to the level of chance expectation. In the
case of this subject at any rate " target " scoring and " displacement
"
scoring seem to be mutually antagonistic to one another.
It is perhaps unfortunate that Mr Russell should have written his paper
in complete ignorance of the extensive investigations of displacement
which Mrs Goldney and I have carried out during the past three years.
As these have now been published {S.P.R. Proc, Part 167), we hope he
will be able to study them. In our view they constitute evidence for E.S.P.
in general and for temporal displacement in particular which is incontro-
vertible.
One other remark seems worth making. It appears to me that E.S.P.
54 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1944
is a creative activity working out its own patterns in the individual subject.
We must not then expect to find " laws " governing parapsychological
phenomena of the type observed in physics, nor must we expect that
subjects will conform to type. Rather I expect we shall discover infinite
diversity in the types of paranormal functioning displayed as we examine a
larger number of gifted percipients. By observing the work of say a mere
half-dozen good subjects it is quite impossible to predict what the next
good subject will reveal.
Persons who can produce E.S.P. effects over any extended length of
time are I believe very rare, and it is to be hoped that when the next
E.S.P. " star " appears in America Dr Rhine or Dr Murphy will pay some
attention to the important question of varying intervals between successive
calls. I believe there is little to be hoped for from the study of subjects
whose E.S.P. powers are so weak and uncertain as to be almost negligible.
To apply routine tests to everyday people in the mass does not make for
progress since all that results from such a study is a cancelling out of a
number of opposing idiosyncrasies.^ It is with gifted individuals that the
important work of the future is likely to be concerned.
S. G. SOAL.
CORRESPONDENCE
To the Editor of the Journal
Sir,—On reading the account of some poltergeist phenomena of an
apparently unintelligible nature in the Journal for Nov. -Dec. 1943, I was
reminded of the general tendency to conclude that, because a manifesta-
tion is incoherent, there can be no intelligence, or only a sub-human
intelligence, behind it. The possibility of the unintelligibility being due
to lack of facility for expression should not be ignored, and it is my opinion
that it is a good plan to have reputable mediums visit the scenes of haunt-
Somewhat relevant in this connection is an interesting incident which
came within my personal experience, and which I should like to describe.
It is a case of automatism which illustrates that a guiding intelligence may
be present even when, for some reason of unfavourable conditions, the
" messages " have no meaning.
The incident took place in 194 1. I was invited to investigate the
phenomena of two ladies who found they had an aptitude for obtaining
spiritistic messages. They were reputable people, and regarded the matter
rather in the light of a curiosity. It was arranged that I should have an
evening to try out any experiment I wished at the residence of the mutual
acquaintances who had introduced me to the automatists. The ladies
employed an inverted glass tumbler, placed on a polished table, in the
centre of a circle of slips of paper marked with the letters of the alphabet.
They each placed a finger tip on top of the glass, and waited for it to slide
about, touching the letters one by one and so spelling out " messages ".
^ It is to be remembered, however, that the " displacement " effect was discovered
(by Mr Whately Carington) through experiments with many ordinary people, and
that this led on to the investigation of the special case of Mr B.S.
—
Ed.
MARCH-APRIL 1 944 ' Correspondence 55
On the occasion when I was present, the results were poor, and most of
what was speh out was meaningless. However, I resolved to continue
with the experiment I had determined upon, and it turned out very
fortunate that I did so. First of all, the automatists were securely blind-
folded with materials that I had brought with me for the purpose. I had
practised on myself beforehand to make sure the method was effective.
Twenty-eight slips of paper, prepared by myself, bearing the letters of the
alphabet and the words " yes " and " no " were arranged in a circle round
the inverted glass in the usual way. The automatists' fingers were then
placed in position for them, and the customary questions were addressed
to the " glass " in the hope of obtaining replies under these unusual con-
ditions. It was necessary to inform the blindfolded operators what was
being spelt out, but this did not matter as I was constantly rearranging the
letters so that their positions could not be memorised. Most of the slips
of paper were reshuffled every time the glass touched a letter. The move-
ments were more clumsy, and the glass had to be periodically replaced in
the centre of the circle, but the letters were so spaced that there was very
little difficulty in determining which letter the glass was touching.
Notes were taken during the proceedings of every question asked and
every letter that the glass touched,^ but nothing intelligible was obtained,
and everyone present, including myself, thought the experiment had been
a complete failure. Not until I arrived home and examined the notes at
leisure did I realise the significance of what had happened.
No question which required an answer other than " yes " or " no " had
received any proper reply, but of the seventeen questions where the answer
" yes " or " no " was at all appropriate, the glass had in seven cases
straight away approached and touched one of the two papers marked " yes
"
or " no ". In three more instances, the " yes " or " no " was touched
after a first attempt had apparently failed. This result was far above what
could have come about by chance. If the movements of the glass had been
random, the probability of a hit on either the " yes " or the " no " would
have been 1/14, and at least seven hits were obtained in seventeen trials.
The conditions of the experiment were moderately stringent, and the
result was not the type of thing that could reasonably be expected to come
about by fraud, so that one is forced into the conclusion that some intel-
ligent psychical influence was guiding the glass. This was certainly not
apparent at the time, and the other observers could hardly credit it when
I explained the result to them later on.
If the experiment of having automatists work with letters they cannot
see, and arranged in an order unknown to them, were more frequently
repeated, it is likely that remarkable evidence for E.S.P. would be obtained.
Yours faithfully,
Donald J. West.
Sir,—We feel a word of apology and explanation is due to readers of
our Report, Experiments in precognitive telepathy, lately published as
Part 167 of Proceedings. We realise only too well that, from the point of
view of the average reader, the Report is both too technical and too
laboured to be " readable ". But it is not possible to write a Report on
Full details of the experiment have been communicated to the Society.
—
Ed,
56 Journal of Society for Psychical Research march-april 1944
experiments of this sort which flows along and is easily assimilated and
which, at the same time, gives the statistical matter and minute detail
which the occasion demands.
We had been fortunate enough to find in Mr Basil Shackleton a Subject
with whom we could demonstrate not only a remarkable emergence of the
psi faculty but also an apparent precognitive faculty unique in its persist-
ence and character. In these circumstances we felt we should sacrifice
everything to substantiating our hypothesis of precognitive telepathy.
The " Abstract " on p. 35 of the Report summarises in non-technical
language the main results of our experiments.
Yours etc.,
.
. S. G. S.
K. M. G.
REVIEW
" Psychical Phenomena and Human Needs " ; and " Removal of Im-
pediments to the Paranormal ". By Gardner Murphy. Journal
of the American Society for Psychical Research, Oct. 1943 and Jan.
1944.
War-time constriction of space confines us to regrettably scanty notice
of the admirable Journal of the A.S.P.R., and in selecting Dr Murphy's
important contributions for brief attention we leave aside much else that
is of interest. Dr Murphy corrects a tendency of research to simplify
paranormal reactions into events that occur, and to neglect a main
condition of their occurrence—^the human motives, conscious and un-
conscious, which govern all acts of perception. These are reducible to the
" needs " which, using the term in a wide psychological sense, he proceeds
to discuss. He cites a number of cases from S.P.R. and other records to
show how intimately paranormal perception may be bound up with the
inner motivations of the percipient. This, clearly, is the proper psychologi-
cal starting-point, in a not unknown field of mental action, for the explora-
tion of the wider and largely unknown field of good and bad " conditions
"
for the occurrence of paranormal events. At present we talk glibly of
repeating an experiment when the circumstances of the " repetition
"
may have altered the determinants of the expected effect to an incalculable
extent.
From this it is only a step to the subject of his second article, the
removal (or circumvention) of mental " needs " which block the emergence
of psi-impressions. In the first place, distraction arises from habitual
processes of attention to here-and-now needs and so to the messages of
the senses ; thus paranormal receptivity usually requires a greater or less
degree of dissociation from normal sensory awareness. But dissociation
is only a device, not a royal road. " We discover, now and then, more
subtle ways of focusing the unconscious activity of the subject upon the
specific material intended." Dr Murphy again quotes several cases, and
his discussion considerably clears our view of the problems with which we
have to deal in trying to understand and to facilitate the percipient's
function, K. R.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
May-June, 1944 Vol. XXXIII—No. 604-605
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notices ----------57
New Members - -- -- -- -
57
Obituary ...------58
Case : An " Out of the Body " Experience - - - 58
Quantitative and Qualitative Methods of Research - - 60
Correspondence - -- -- -- -62
Reviews ----------68
NOTICES
Owing to restrictions on travel, no meetings of the Society are being held
at present. This does not apply to any Discussion Group meetings of
vi^hich members belonging to this group may receive notification, nor to
meetings of the Working Group.
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after Monday, 31 July until
Friday, 15 September. Correspondence will be forwarded to the Staff
during this time. The next number of the Journal will be issued in
October.
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 12 June 1944)
Colborne-Kitching, Rev G. F., New Church College, Woodford Green,
Essex.
Colborne-Kitching, Mrs G. F., New Church College, Woodford Green,
Essex.
De Silva, L. M. D., K.C., 14 Folly Road, Havelock Town, Ceylon.
Gorle, Mrs F., 64 Dry Hill Park Road, Tonbridge, Kent.
Halstead, Frank, Ph.D., 2301 Bowditch Street, Berkeley, Calif., U.S.A.
Lawrence, Mrs A. S., Argovie, Tatsfield, nr. Westerham, Kent.
Medcraft, A. S., 102 Ashgrove Road, Goodmayes, Ilford, Essex.
Sanders, F. W. T., 42 Sydney Road, Chatham, Kent.
Tennant, B. V. S., M.A., Hams Plot, Beaminster, Dorset.
58 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
Turner, J. W., 22 Oakwood Avenue, Southgate, London, N. 14.
Wilson, G. L., 3 Sheridan Road, Merton Park, London, S.W. 19.
Wilson, R., 3 Sheridan Road, Merton Park, London, S.W. 19.
Student-Associates
Fletcher, L, 17 Arkwright Mansions, Finchley Road, London, N.W. 3.
Onions, Miss C, 17a Manley Road, Whalley Range, Manchester 16.
Pryce-Jones, P. M., Westminster Hospital Medical School, Horseferry
Road, London, S.W. i.
OBITUARY
We regret to record the death at an advanced age in November 1943 of
Mr Neil Matheson McWharrie, for many years a member, and a most
generous supporter of the Society. Mr McWharrie was of a very modest
and retiring disposition, and would not allow any of his many gifts to be
acknowledged in our Journal under his own name. He was keenly
interested in the Society's work, and used often to write enquiring as to
our progress. He had a special admiration for the work of F. W. H.
Myers, of which he often spoke, and he distributed many copies of the
unabridged edition of Human Personality among his friends. He reported
several cases to the Society, including the " Chaffin Will Case " {Proc,
vol. XXXVI, p. 5 17), 'which has become the best-known case in our
time of the apparition of a dead man conveying information unknown to
the percipient, or, so far as could be ascertained, to any other living person.
We also regret to record the death of Mr L. H. Myers, the eldest child of
Frederic Myers, one of the founders of the Society. Mr Myers, who had
been a Member since 1907, was well-known as the author of several books
of which the most notable was " The Root and the Flower ", a long novel
with the India of the Emperor Akbar as its setting and the interaction of
the religious and philosophical systems of that time as its subject.
Mr L. H. Myers was a trustee of the Myers Memorial Trust ever since
its foundation in 1929.
We also regret to record the death of Miss Helen Dallas, for many years
a valued member of the Society and a contributor of thoughtful comment
from the standpoint of Spiritualism.
CASE : AN " OUT OF THE BODY " EXPERIENCE
The following case is of interest as an addition to the records of a particular
type of dissociative experience, in which the experient seems to himself to
travel in space, perceiving his body as an object left behind. Mr Kenwood
(pseudonym) had the experience in 1933, and has recorded it recently
as a still vivid memory : the lapse of time is of the less importance in that
the case has no claim to be veridical. His description of a subsequent
sitting at which a medium alluded to the episode is included as a matter of
MAY-JUNE 1944 Case : An " Out of the Body "Experience 59
interest, but there is no evidence to show that the medium did not know
of Mr Kenwood's experience.
Such experiences are infrequent in the hterature of psychical research,
but they show certain common features worth studying, such as the
impression of a cord uniting the non-corporeal self to the body. A special
feature of this case is a definitely developed impression of a discarnate
personality with whom contact is made during the experience. In the
Wiltse case [Proc, vol. VIII, p. 180) a " presence " is encountered and
expounds the meaning of the experience ; and in the Geddes case (re-
viewed in t]\t Journal oi July 1937, p. 103) a somewhat similar personalised,
external " mentor " appears to fulfil a similar purpose. In Mr Kenwood's
case the " presence " is a recognised individual : it first takes the form of a
star, and this changes to human form and descends into the percipient's
body. In Milton, Book I, Blake—whose vision or fantasy seems often to
have been at the fringe of sensory hallucination—has a comparable image ;
Then first I saw him in the Zenith as a falling star
Descending perpendicular, swift as the swallow or swift :
And on my left foot falling on the tarsus, entered there. . . .
Experiences of apparent separation from the body seem to be precipitated
by conditions of illness or mental stress : in the present example, Mr
Kenwood had administered to his wife who was ill and in severe pain an
injection of a drug of whose action he had no previous knowledge, and
was anxious as to the effect. His ensuing experience is given in his
own words.
" My wife quietened down rapidly until I could hardly detect pulse or
respiration. I was genuinely afraid of leaving her, and sat on the edge of
the bed watching her in my pyjamas, determined to sit up through the
night. That was my last conscious thought.
" I awoke the next morning at 8 a.m., to find my wife much better
after a good night's enforced sleep. I then told her I had enjoyed an
amazing experience in the night. I had no recollection of getting into bed,
which I must have done since I was there in the morning, but I remem-
bered lying there and looking up. The ceiling seemed to disappear as
also the roof, and I clearly saw a star, or what appeared to be a star. Then,
I can only describe this my own way, I was given psychic vision, for my
Spirit left my body which I saw by my wife's in bed. I seemed to resemble
the shape of a flame with a long silver thread attached to my earth body.
I enjoyed, what I can only liken to, the Peace of God which passeth all
understanding, I have never enjoyed sach mental exhilaration before or
since.
" I looked up at the '
star '
and remember thinking '
I've gone through
the roof and the ceiling but I mustn't break that cord '. The star came
nearer, and in passing me assumed the head, neck, and thorax of my
Father-in-law (deceased). He told me by impressing it on my mind that
my wife would be all right. He shot down and I turned to see him enter
my body. By this time my silver cord seemed very long indeed, but I
again went up and then my memory ends for a space. There was defi-
nitely a space of time during which I had no conscious memory although
it was impressed on my mind that such was the case. My memory came
6o Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
back as I came shooting earthwards. Again I passed my Father-in-law
who impressed the thought on my mind, '
Don't worry about her, she is
quite all right '. I remember the cord getting very short but I am unable
to recall anything of the re-entry into my body.
" All this I told my wife and after a short while when she was well again
we had a small circle in our own house : my mother-in-law, my wife,
myself and the Medium. The '
Control '
wished us good evening and
said a gentleman wished to speak to me. The Control went and my
father-in-law came. After establishing his identity by telling us his earth
nickname, I asked where we had last met. He said, '
You want to know
if your experience of a little while ago was real or imaginary. Believe me,
it was very real. We considered it was necessary to take you, to relieve
your anxiety. You must excuse me for using your body for a short while,
but I'm sure you found I had done no harm. Now forget all about it
'."
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE METHODS OF
RESEARCH
The growth of the statistical method in psychical research raises the
question of how this Society should shape its programme of research.
Have we, in this method, an instrument for solving the main difficulties
of the subject ; or must we regard it as only an important auxiliary.''
An impressive list of advantages are claimed for the statistical method :
(i) that it can deal unanswerably with the chance-question ; (2) that it
affords the only means of convincing the scientific world of the validity of
our evidence ; (3) that it provides the only form of repeatable experiment ;
(4) that a weak and widely distributed extra-sensory faculty can be detected
by it, and in no other way ; (5) that it affords a means of distinguishing
between the difterent modes of the faculty, as, for example, between tele-
pathy and clairvoyance ; (6) that, by introducing measurement, it raises
psychical research from the status of natural history to that of science ;
(7) that it enables the experimenter to start from simple situations and work
towards the complex ; (8) that in consequence of (6) and (7), it offers the
only hope of unravelling the theory of paranormal phenomena.
Space does not allow me to say more about the first five of these claims
than to register a general agreement with them. But I would remark that
in the richer phenomena a probability-figure concerning chance is often
neither possible nor necessary ; and that many non-quantitative experi-
ments are repeatable, though admittedly they are not repeatable in the
same controlled way as are statistical experiments. The crux lies in
claims (6), (7) and (8).
With regard to (6), one often hears it said that science is measurement,
and that the application of measurement to psychical research has rescued
it from the region of " anecdote " and placed it in the laboratory. I would
point out that the essence of science does not lie in measurement but in
the appeal to experience as opposed to a priori reasoning. Science con-
sists in finding out by experiment or observation what is instead of reason-
ing about what otighl to be or must be on the basis of assumed postulates.
y
MAY-JUNE 1944 Quantitative and Qualitative Methods of Research 61
Professor Whitehead shows this clearly in Chapter I of Science and the
Modern World. Whether, in finding out what is, a qualitative or a quan-
titative method of experiment is used is merely a matter of common sense
and not of scientific principle. It is a question of adapting the method to
the subject-matter. The idea that science means measurement has arisen
because metrical methods are eminently suitable in physical science ; and
physical science has set a fashion in the matter. By introducing statistical
methods into psychical research we are not ipso facto rendering it scientific ;
it can be quite as scientific while using qualitative methods. The question
is whether statistical methods are best adapted to the elucidation of
psychical phenomena.
With regard to (7), the unprecedented nature of the phenomena we deal
with entitles us to ask whether it is true that our task is to work from the
simple to the complex. In his introduction to the papers by Mr Whately
Carington and Mr Soal in Proc, vol. XLVI, p. 28, Professor Broad says
that "if we insist on delivering blind frontal attacks on unanalysed
problems of immense complexity, we are likely to share the fate of the
scholastic physicists ". My difficulty in agreeing with Professor Broad is
that I cannot see that we are in the same boat as the scholastic physicists.
Surely the diiference between our subject-matter and that of any other
science (possibly excepting psychology) is such that it carries us a long
way from precedent. Is it a fact that the richer or more advanced pheno-
mena of psychical research are more complex than the poorer or more
elementary.'' I cannot see that they are. The dilTerence does not seem to
me to be one of complexity but one of poverty or richness, or of goodness
or badness—the difference between a good specimen of a thing or a bad
one. Is there, again, any reason to suppose that the essential processes
underlying paranormal phenomena are complex processes? In telepathy,
for example, is the relation between agent and percipient a complex
relation? Presumably it must consist of some kind of non-spatial relation
between some factor of the agent's subliminal self and some factor of the
percipient's subliminal self. We get more light on the nature of this
relation by turning to the richer examples of telepathy than to the poorer ;
and everything seems to me to suggest that the relation is simple. What
complexity there is in a telepathic situation lies in the mode of expression.
In as far as we are working from the expression of the extra-sensory
faculty towards the essential process, we seem to be working from the
complex to the simple. Our difficulty in understanding this essential
process is not that it is complex but that it is qualitatively new to us. The
difficulty is one of unfamiliarity, and arises from the fact that what gives
rise to telepathy is something of a totally different kind from what we are
accustomed to in the familiar world. It is a qualitative and not a quanti-
tative difficulty. Eugene Osty, as a result of his wide acquaintance with
sensitives producing a rich quality of phenomena, was deeply impressed
with this. He says :
" The attempt to work from the known to the un-
known and from the simple to the complex, as in ordinar}'' science, is but
to create illusions and to lose time ". One reason for this appears to be
that if we leave the marginal phenomena, which the statistical method
deals with, and examine the richer phenomena, we find that a far larger
part is played by individual " brute fact " than is the case with the
62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
physical sciences. It seems not unlikely that any laws which we may seem
to discover among the marginal phenomena will be swamped with excep-
tions when we come to the depths of the subject. Osty even thought that
there are as many different kinds of telepathy as there are human
beings!
With regard to (8), I would suggest, then, that neither the introduction
of measurement nor the attempt to work from the simple to the complex
is likely to take us to the heart of our subject. Perhaps we shall never
reach the heart of it ; but I would suggest that we are likely to advance
furthest towards it by examining the best phenomena we can find and by
freely using qualitative methods. We can of course always introduce
statistics to evaluate chance if there is any advantage in doing so. Our
greatest difficulty, as I see it, is not that of analysing complex situations
into their elements, or of building up a synthetic theory out of information
gathered piecemeal. It is that of trying to accustom our minds to pheno-
mena which are simple hut utterly strange. From one point of view we are
in the position of a zoologist who wants to form an idea of what some
prehistoric animal was like. Clearly he will do better to study a complete
fossil skeleton, if there is one, rather than piece together information
gathered from fragments. The reaching out of the mind to form new ideas
is the attitude of the explorer. There is the opposite attitude, which seeks
to draw back a strange phenomenon into the orbit of familiar ideas and to
make it immediately logical in terms of them. The latter attitude w ould,
I think, stultify all progress in psychical research.
Anyone who points out the predominantly qualitative nature of para-
normal phenomena is sure to be accused of trying to " debunk " the
statistical method. I would say, for the first five reasons given above,
therefore, that I believe the statistical method to be very important and
one that should be energetically pursued. I cannot, however, see that it
is applicable to the major phenomena of the subject. By its very nature
it seems to be adapted for exploring the normal-paranormal borderline :
for one thing it deals with faint impressions occurring in an almost normal
state of consciousness. But in its own field, owing to its sensitivity, it
acts like a magnifying-glass.
I have no space in which to outline a possible programme of qualitative
research ; but the field is obviously immense, and I suggest that our
Society should run statistical and qualitative research in double harness,
giving equal attention to both.
G. N. M. Tyrrell
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—May I be allowed to congratulate Mrs Goldney, Mr Soal and B.S.
on their well devised experiments reported in Part 167 of Proceedings.
They have presented " cast iron " evidence of the existence of E.S.P.
under conditions acceptable to the most sceptical critic.
I have no criticism to make of the experimental technique, but I should
like to make one or two observations on the conclusions drawn by the
experimenters.
MAY-JUNE 1944 Correspondence 63
All the work done on psychical research shows that the " psi " faculty
is a product of the unconscious mind on the part both of the agent and
percipient. In the case of the percipient (whether he be a medium at a
spiritualistic sitting or a subject in a laboratory experiment) significant
material, together with a mass of chance guesses, just " appears " in his
conscious mind. He is unable to say from where it comes, he is unable to
select the significant from the chance material and to a large extent he is
unable to state the physical and mental conditions and environment most
favourable to the appearance of the significant material in his conscious
mind. Much the same conditions exist in the case of the agent, he is
unable to say which of his thoughts have been " transmitted ", he is
unable to state why he is a good agent with one percipient and a bad one
with another, and so on, but there is one fact that he can fairly safely
depend on and that is that those thoughts which are " transmitted " are
unconscious thoughts. It is rare that a medium is able to give, without
difficulty, evidential names or facts present in the sitter's conscious mind
although forgotten facts and names are given in abundance (I have often
been upbraided by a medium for thinking too hard of an evidential fact
that she is trying to produce). Similarly, the work of Thouless, Whately
Carington, Soal, Goldney and others shows that the percipient scores on
card symbols that are not at the forefront of the agent's conscious mind.
Now let us examine, in the recent experiments, the results obtained with
B.S. and the particular agent with whom he obtained minus one hits.
The following facts can be abstracted ; («) B.S. does not draw upon
information present in the forefront of the conscious mind of the agent ;
(6), a minimum speed (normal calling rate) is necessary to enable him to
score significantly ;
(c), the agent must look at the cards.
Dealing first with {a) we see that B.S. ignores the " contemporary
"
card as would be expected, but he does not score indiscriminately on the
other forty-nine, but only on the card before (the precognitive effect is
discussed later). As an example, let the contemporary card be the ele-
phant, the agent will have a picture of the elephant in mind and will
attempt to " transmit " it to B.S. The card before the elephant, say
the pelican, was looked at approximately three seconds ago and its mental
image has already receded to the fringe of consciousness, the card before
the pelican (looked at approximately six seconds ago) has receded even
further from consciousness and so on back through the cards already
called. We are forced to the conclusion that the image of the card looked
at three seconds ago has receded to the optimum (and perhaps the only)
level in consciousness for " transmission ".
Turning now to {b) we find that B.S. can only score significantly when
there is a certain time interval between presentations. If this interval is
more than approximatelv three seconds no significant score is obtained.
Now we have seen from the paragraph above that B.S. does not, at the nor-
mal scoring rate, score significantly on minus two cards because these
cards have passed, by three seconds, the optimum level in the conscious-
ness of the agent. If the scoring rate is reduced, the card before the
contemporary was looked at more than three seconds ago, and at the word
" right " from " EA " there is no card in the optimum level of the agent's
consciousness and hence B.S. is unable to score. We can see from (c) that
64 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
it is definitely the mind of the agent that is read and that B.S. has no
clairvoyant faculty.
It is to be noticed that B.S. only succeeds with some subjects, a fact
which may be explained in two ways. Firstly, it may be that the image of
the card takes more or less than three seconds to reach the " optimum
level ", in which case a different normal scoring rate is necessary (this
requires experimental check), or secondly, it may be that no " optimum
level " exists in unsuccessful agents. From experiments conducted
(myself as percipient and using Zener symbols) between a friend and
myself it appears that it takes an image about half a minute to reach my
friend's " optimum level " as my significant scores were postcognitive
by half a minute.
Of all the adequately demonstrated ways in which the E.S.P. faculty
manifests itself, I find precognition the most diflicult to swallow. There
is no doubt that B.S. obtains a plus one significant score but the mass of
time dimensions and observers necessary to explain this on, for example,
J. W. Dunne's precognition hypothesis are not capable of any sort of
demonstration or proof. The facts of psychic research show that the
percipient reads the agent's mind and we are therefore forced to the
conclusion that images of the plus one cards are present at the " optimum
level " of those agents with whom B.S. scores significantly. To explain
the presence of these plus one images in the mind of the agents we can
assume, either that the agents have precognitive powers (of which we have
no proof) or that unconscious telepathy takes place between the agents and
the individual who drew up the list of random numbers for the experi-
ments (the counters experiments are considered below). As we have very
good evidence of the existence of telepathy and its unconscious nature, I
find it more reasonable to adopt the latter of the two foregoing assump-
tions. To give an example, let us assume Soal, acting as EA drew up the
list of random numbers being used in any particular experiment. At the
start of the experiment the agent is not aware of the order of the five
cards in front of him and is not aware of the contents of the list of random
numbers. Soal is aware, unconsciously, of the list of random numbers
but not of the order of the five cards. After the first few calls of a run of
fifty, the agent will have seen all the five cards and will therefore know
their order unconsciously if not consciously. We now have a state of
affairs in which Soal and the agent know between them the order of the
cards and if Soal's knowledge of the order of the numbers in the list of
random numbers is passed, by telepathy, to the agent, the latter is aware
of the plus one card, and it appears, from the scores obtained by B.S.,
that this card is at the " optimum level ". This hypothesis can be checked
(at any rate in part) by a re-examination of the scoring sheets of the Soal-
Goldney experiments. If it is found that B.S. scores a significant number
of plus one hits in the first five calls (this means getting a minimum of
three plus one hits in the first five calls) then precognition will have to be
postulated to explain the results, if however, this is not the case the
unconscious telepathy theory comes to the fore.
In attempting to explain the precognitive effect observed in the
" counters " experiments it is necessary to assume that Mrs Goldney (or
other person selecting the counters from the bowl or bag) is able to
MAY-JUNE 1944 Correspondence 65
determine the colour of all or some of the counters by touch. Again I
prefer this assumption to precognition, especially as there is some evidence
for the discrimination of objects by touch.
On page 52 of the report Mrs Goldney explains that to attain the normal
scoring speed of B.S. she used both hands to select the counters. While
showing the contemporary counter at the screen with, say, her left hand she
was selecting the next counter with her right. In other words she may
become aware of the colour of the plus one counter while presenting the
contemporary counter at the screen aperture. If this information is passed,
by telepathy, to the agent, he or she becomes aware of the plus one card,
its image being at the " optimum level ".
It does appear, at first sight, that this hypothesis is put out of court by
the plus two significant scoring obtained during the rapid run counters
experiment. The claim that Mrs Goldney becomes aware of the colour
of the counters at the surface of the bag, unconsciously, and that she forms
a choice (also unconsciously) of the colour that she intends to select two
" guesses " ahead is extravagant. But is it as extravagent as the claim that
future events can be cognised in the present?
A word now about " multiply-determined " guesses. With one agent
B.S. obtained both plus and minus one significant scores and it would
appear, therefore, that with this particular agent both the plus and minus
one images are at the optimum level in consciousness for " transmission
"
to B.S. If both the plus one and minus one cards are, say elephants, we
should expect the two images which are both at the optimum level to aid
each other in " transmission ". With the other two agents it would appear
that the plus one image is in a slightly more favourable level for " trans-
mission " than the minus one image, but in a " multiply-determined
"
"guess the minus one image mav be in a sufficiently favourable position in
consciousness to aid the image (plus one) at the " optimum level ".
It can be seen quite plainly that doubling the scoring rate should pro-
duce plus two significant hits. We koow that with the successful approxi-
mately three seconds is required by them for the card image to reach their
" optimum level ". If the cards are presented at the rate of one every
one and a half seconds a time interval of three seconds represents two cards
and we should expect the scoring to shift from plus and minus one to
plus and minus two cards.
It will be seen that the hypothesis of an " optimum level " shifts the time
displacement scoring ability from the percipient to the agent. B.S. can only
draw his knowledge of the cards from a certain level in the unconscious
mind of the agent. The hypothesis suggests a new line of attack in E.S.P.
experiments. Instead of trying, as has always been done in the past, the
effect of various drugs on the percipient, I suggest that the drugs should be
administered to the agent and the effect on the scoring noted. On the face
of it, it appears that stimulants should increase the time displacement
effect while depressants should do the opposite. However, in the absence
of data it is unwise to speculate too far.
Yours faithfully,
J. M. Harrison
66 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
Mr Soal writes : I can follow Mr J. M. Harrison quite easily when he
suggests than an image can be transmitted only when it has reached a
certain level below the Agents' threshold of consciousness. At the present
instant the Agent is looking, say, at an elephant but three seconds ago he
was visualising a pelican. The image of the pelican has, during the three
seconds, sunk just sufficiently below the threshold and reached a state in
which it has the best chance of being apprehended by the Percipient. But
while this suggestion might throw some light on the ^o^f-cognitive successes
I fail to see how it helps us to understand the ^recognitive guessing. Let
us say that E.A. is showing the number 4 at the little aperture in the screen
and that the next number on his prepared list is 5. According to Mr
Harrison this number 5 is transmitted telepathically to the subconscious
mind of the Agent who, knowing already the order of the pictures in the
box, now possesses subconsciously the knowledge that in three seconds'
time he will be looking at (say) the elephant. B.S. then presumably reads
the Agents' mind. But in the first place why should the number 5 have
any better chance of being transmitted than say the number which follows
it on the list which we will suppose to be 3. While he is showing the 4,
E.A.'s eye might just as easily light on the 5 as on the 3. Indeed when the
interval between calls is halved it is the 3 and not the 5 which is apparently
transmitted to the Agent. Since, according to Mr Harrison, these tele-
pathic transmissions occur at the instant when E.A. is presenting the
number 4, what difference can the alteration in the time interval make in
the case of the ^re-cognitive guesses?^
Mr Harrison suggests as a check on his theory that we might discover
that B.S. failed to score significantly on the first few calls of each new sheet
owing to the Agent's lack of opportunity for learning the order of the cards
in the box. A fair test would be to compare the rate of scoring on the
first four guesses of the {a) columns (during which the Agent is progres-
sively learning the order of the five cards in the box) with that on the first
four guesses of the [b) column (at which stage the order is completely
known). Taking for instance Group I Agent's at Normal Rate we have
the following table :
( + i) Hits on first 4 ( + i) Hits on first 4
trials of (a) columns trials of (b) columns Totals
Whence with Yates' correction we find =0-378.
Thus there is no significant difference, and so far as it goes the result does
not support Mr Harrison's hypothesis. Even on the first tivo trials or on
t\\t first trial alone there is no significant difference between the {a) and {b)
columns.
In order to explain the ( + 2) Precognitive successes at " rapid " rate
when counters were drawn from a bowl (or bag) Mr Harrison has to fall
1 Mr Harrison's theory seems to suggest that there is an optimum moment for
telepathic transmission of the number shortly before (as well as after) the moment
of conscious attention upon presenting it at the aperture : the intention of E.A. to
present each successive number can be conceived as reaching this optimum level,
say 3 sees, before the intention is carried out. Ed.
D = i27
E = 132-5
138 265
265
132-5
MAY-JUNE 1944 Correspondence 67
back on the suggestion that (E.A.) (Mrs Goldney) selects unconsciously
(by touch) the counter which she is going to draw two " calls " ahead. I
find it hard to credit the suggestion that Mrs Goldney possesses a touch
sensitive enough to distinguish the pigments on smooth bone counters
all of identical size, shape and weight. " Marion ", the vaudeville
" telepathist ", could pick out a playing card which he had previously felt
when mixed with five others in the dark. But he relied on the detection
of slight variations in flexibility and he was quite unable to distinguish
between a red pip and a black pip. I find it simply incredible that Mrs
Goldney should be able to make these delicate discriminations at the
tremendous speed with which the experiments were conducted.
It would in fact be much simpler to suggest that Mrs Goldney really
sees the counters in the bowl without being consciously aware of the fact
and decides upon her ( + 2) choice by sight. But why should she have
done this on the first occasion the experiment was tried—at which time
none of us even suspected that a ( + 2) displacement was going to occur?
But even the " selection by sight " hypothesis has its difliculties for on two
occasions at least the counters were drawn from a cloth bag by touch alone.
On one of these occasions Miss Jephson selected the counters from a cloth
bag using one hand only.
I fully agree with Mr Harrison that " clairvoyance " (in the ordinary
sense) is a very improbable explanation but neither Mrs Goldney nor I
share his aversion to the idea of " precognition ". Surely, as Mr Salt-
marsh pointed out, there is a very respectable collection of spontaneous
cases of prevision many of which would appear to be inexplicable by
ordinary telepathy or even clairvoyance. Personally I conjecture that if
the ^i/-faculty transcends the limitations of space it probably also tran-
scends those of Time since Time and Space are so intimately connected
in most modern theories of the physical Universe.
It seems to me that the only way in which we could definitely settle the
question as to whether the results of our experiments are to be attributed to
precognition would be to select the random numbers by means of a machine.
At present we can only suggest that " telepathic precognition " is still the
most economical hypothesis and neither Mrs Goldney nor I would wish
to claim more than this.
Yours etc.,
'.
S. G. SOAL
[Widely divergent views seem natural to different people in regard to
the antecedent improbability of precognition, and the divergence is related
to a wide variation in our primary assumptions about the nature of time.
These have also divided the philosophers, whose different attitudes to the
subject are lucidly discussed in a book recently added to the Library :
Time, by M. F. Cleugh (Methuen, 1937). The author's chapter on Pre-
diction puts the case strongly in disfavour of any direct relationship
between the mind and future event, and is of value in emphasising that,
logically, precognition is no easy subject. Ed.]
68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
REVIEWS .
•
Paranormal Cognition : its place in human psychology. By Laurence
J. Bendit, M.A., M.D.{Cantab.), D.P.M. London : Faber and
Faber. Pp. 79. Price 5s. net.
The publication of this little book is of peculiar interest to all students of
psychical research for, as we are told in the preface it is, with slight
emendation, the text of a thesis which was accepted by the Faculty of
Medicine of the University of Cambridge for the degree of Doctor of
Medicine. Only those who do not know the story of our long struggle for
recognition of our work by the world of science can fail to realize the
significance of this statement. The acceptance by the Faculty of Medicine
of any British University of Dr Bendit's first sentence
—" I am beginning
this paper with the assumption that Paranormal cognition (P.C. for short)
is a fact
"—is in itself sufficient to show the changed attitude in recent
years of academic science to psychical research.
In discussing Paranormal Cognition the convenient term Psi or Psi
function, suggested by Dr Thouless, is adopted throughout to indicate the
particular form of P.C. that we meet with in telepathy, clairvoyance etc.
as opposed to such Paranormal Cognition as may be due to hyperacuity
of the normal senses. Readers who are conversant with the Society's work
on this topic as set forth in our Proceedings znA Journal will find themselves
on familiar ground throughout the greater part of the book. A new angle
of approach, however, may be found in considering the implications of the
occurrence of P.C. in the course of psychotherapeutic treatment ; Dr
Bendit records some of his own clinical experiences in which Psi pheno-
mena were observed. But he rightly points out the difficulty and danger
of trying to combine therapy with psychical research. Most of the cases
cited are not put forward as having evidential value but they serve the
writer's purpose of illustrating the various types of Psi function that may
be met with.
Perhaps the most interesting part of Dr Bendit's book is the last section
in which he tries to assess the biological and evolutionary significance of
Psi. In an admirable discussion of the problems involved he asks : is
Psi " to be considered as a relatively new development of the mind, or is
it, in present day civilised man, a vestige of something outgrown and
biologically useless? Or, on the other hand, is it perhaps today a function
which should develop pari passu with the rest of the mind from some
archaic and protopathic root into an epicritic form which serves a teleo-
logical end?
"
Dr Bendit rejects the suggestion that Psi may be regarded as a relatively
new development of the mind and he puts forward some evidence which
suggests that Psi has its roots in evolutionary antiquity. But although he
accepts its archaic origin, he does not think that it is a vestige of something
outgrown and biologically useless when it manifests in present day civilised
man. Rather does he believe that Psi is " a function which should develop
pari passu with the rest of the mind ". This seems to imply a reflection
on the success of the evolutionary process so far as it has gone, for if it
should have so developed from the beginning the general abseaice of overt
MAY-JUNE 1944 Reviews 69
Psi function in civilised man would point to its not having done so. But
Dr Bendit thinks that it is not even now too late and he looks forward to
a time when Psi function may become integrated with the ego and prove
to be an asset in the conduct of everyday life.
T. W. M.
After Pentecost. The Alexandrian Chronicle of Cleophas. Written by the
hand of Geraldine Cummins. Rider & Co., 9s. 6d. net.
In his introduction to this book Miss E. B. Gibbes claims that Miss
Cummins is only the amanuensis, the real author being the Spirit of Cleo-
phas {; identical with the Cleopas of Lk. xxiv, 18). In his previous revela-
tions through Miss Cummins' hand " Cleophas " undertook to elucidate
the drama of primitive Christianity in Athens, Ephesus, and Rome. Here
he concerns himself with the Church in Alexandria, and with its Jewish
and Pagan environment. We are introduced to Jewish pogroms, self-
torturing Jewish ascetics, penitent harlots, and Christian missionaries
patiently enduring the cruelty of those they seek to convert to their faith
in Christ as Logos and Messiah. St. Mark, whom earlv tradition makes
the first Bishop of Alexandria, and St. John are shewn in friendly relations
with Philo, the famous Jewish mystical commentator on the Pentateuch,
who for the first time is revealed to us as inclined to acknowledge the truth
of Christiainity, though held back by old prejudices and fear of his co-
religionists.
The Rev. John Lammond, D.D. is quoted by Miss Gibbes as testifying
that, if we refuse to accept the Spiritualist explanation of Miss Cummins'
script, only " a careful study of the literary sources " by her can account
for it ; but she has never studied " Early Church History " or " ancient
Greek and Pagan thought ".
Is it necessary to assume vast erudition as an alternative to the hypo-
thesis of spirit-control.'' The subconscious mind seems capable of
absorbing and retaining masses of facts seen, heard, or read, and latent
powers of weaving these into a plausible romance may emerge in the
mediumistic state. Could not a good knowledge of the New Testament,
and a certain acquaintance with the w-orks of Josephus and Eusebius'
Ecclesiastical History be responsible for most of the historical features of
this book?
While there is nothing in Miss Cummins' script that may not be reason-
ably attributed to the operations of her subliminal self, it contains state-
ments no Jew of Alexandria or Palestine, contemporary with St. Paul,
could have made. We are told quite correctly that there was a large
synagogue in Alexandria. But this " mighty synagogue " is absurdly
equated with " the great Temple which was in splendour second only to
the Temple at Jerusalem "
(p. 23). Cleophas must have known, though
Miss Cummins may not, that a synagogue and a temple are very dift'erent
buildings. There was no Jewish temple in Alexandria. The only Jewish
temple in Egypt of the first century of our era was at Heliopolis.
Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History may have introduced her to the Thera-
peutae, an Egyptian version of the Essenes of Palestine. But though
both Philo of Alexandria and Eusebius have presented the Therapeutae as
7° Jownal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1944
a fraternity of ascetics, neither of these authors can be quoted for the
hideous self-tortures described in the present script, which are remini-
scent of Christian hermits and Hindu sanydsis.
Judas the Therapeut seems to be an echo of Judas the Essene, the
Prophet introduced to us by Josephus [Antiq. xiii, xi, 2), but we seek in
vain from the Jewish historian for any trace of Rabab, also a Therapeut of
some fame, whose adventures and backslidings interest Cleophas so deeply.
In Chap, xvii we read of " Petronius, Governor of Jerusalem ", secretly
visiting St. John. There was a Publius Petronius, Governor of Syria,
whom the mad Emperor Caligula sent with an army against the Jews to
compel them to set up his image in the Temple. This Petronius, who is
certainly the one described in the script, could not properly be described as
" Governor of Jerusalem ". The " Governor of Jerusalem " would be
the " Procurator of Judea ", who served under the Emperor's representa-
tive in Syria. The only Procurator of Judea contemporary with Petronius
was Marullus (a.d. 37-41 ). After his term of office Judea passed under the
rule of Herod Agrippa I until a.d. 44. On the death of Agrippa it was
again subject to Procurators until the outbreak of the Jewish war against
Rome.
Many things are told in the Cleophas script of St. John's Life in Alex-
andria, of his miracles, his encounters with the hitherto unknown Irinus
the Wrestler, and his conversations with the aged Philo. Strange that not
only the New Testament but all the Fathers of the Church, and the early
Christian historians, should tell us nothing of this important phase of St.
John's missionary career ! Tertullian mentions his being rescued from a
cauldron of boiling oil in Rome. Eusebius relates a number of legends
about St. John, all of them connected with Ephesus. Apart from the
Cleophas script, what grounds have we for believing that St. John was
ever in Alexandria?
Cleophas is quite innocent of Higher Criticism. An appendix tells us
of a weird book " written before Genesis ", which was " kept back from
the people " (that would appear to be the reason why we have heard noth-
ing of it until now). Miss Cummins (or Cleophas) do not seem to know that
Genesis is composed of at least three documents, which can be traced in
other books of the Pentateuch, and that its literary growth covers a very
long period, not being completed before the fifth century B.C. or later.
She (or her spirit informer) takes quite seriously the forged correspondence
of Jesus and Abgarus King of Edessa, who in the script is made to talk
like a Christian. The first Christian King of Edessa was Abgarus VHI
(a.d. 176-213). While Cleophas betrays a surprising acquaintance with
the Authorised Version of the English Bible, his theological thinking and
phrasing are more suited to a Gnostic of the second century a.d. than to a
Jew of the first (see especially Appendix HI, p. 108).
A. D. Howell Smith
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
Sept.-Oct., 1944 Vol. XXXIII—No. 606-607
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notices - - - - - - - - - - 71
New Members - -- -- -..72
Discussion Group - - - - - - - - 72
Case : Apparition - -- -- -- -72
A Note on Negative Deviation ------ 74
Fallacies in a Criticism of E.S.P. Assessment - - - 77
Correspondence - -- -- ..-79
Reviews ----------84
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Saturday, \th November 1944, at 3 p.m.
when a paper on
" SOME RECENT INVESTIGATIONS INTO
. THE BORLEY RECTORY CASE "
WILL BE READ BY
.
.
MR A. J. B. ROBERTSON
Members and Associates vdll be admitted on signing their names at the door.
72 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 26 July ig^^)
Dalgleish, Philip H., M.B., Ch.B., Bangour Hospital, West Lothian,
Scotland.
De Baughn, Mrs W., Vega, Thurston Park, Whitstable, Kent.
Gwynn-Jones, Mrs M. M. D., Harthover, Blackwater, Hants.
Hyde, Dennis H., 44 Hougoumont Avenue, Waterloo, Liverpool 22.
Mather, Mrs A. De Ville, Claremont, Todmorden, Yorkshire.
DISCUSSION GROUP
Discussion Meetings arranged for the remainder of 1944 are as follows :
Wednesday, 4 October, subject, " Death, from This Side "
—opener, Dr E.
Graham Howe ;
Thursday, 2 November, subject, " Spontaneous Pheno-
mena : how they are Investigated, and their Significance "—opener,
Mr W. H. Salter ;
Thursday, 7 December, subject, " Can we Develop the
Psi Faculty? "—opener, Miss Theodora Bosanquet. The Group meets in
the Society's Rooms at 5.45, usually on a Thursda)' ; discussions are
opened at 6. Any members who do not already receive notice of these
meetings by post and would like to do so are invited to communicate with
the Assistant- Secretary. Members may bring guests to Discussion
Meetings without previous arrangement, it being understood that the
same guest does not attend more than three meetings without becoming a
member of the Society.
CASE : APPARITION G. 299.
Cases of apparitions are not reported as frequently now as they were in
the past ; but the following case closely resembles some of those of
former times. It occurred to Mrs Dick-Cunyngham, and was brought
to notice through the good offices of Mr Douglas Fawcett.
The vision seen was of Mr Eustace Neville Craig, a close friend of Mrs
Dick-Cunyngham. The latter, writing to Mr Fawcett recently, said in
reference to her experience : "I did not even know that he had been
suddenly taken ill (operation). One Sunday I had gone to church in
London with my mother. Suddenly I got the clearest vision I have ever
seen. It was like a shutter opened slowly and then closed again slowly.
For two seconds I saw Eustace lying quite motionless on a bed. His eyes
were closed, he was as white as a sheet. There were two nurses in white
caps ; one was advancing holding a glass of medicine. Then the vision
vanished. I came home and said to Dickson [her maid], T believe Mr
Craig is ill '. The following Tuesday his death was in the Times. After-
wards I heard he had never recovered consciousness after an operation."
In reply to a request for further details, Mrs Dick-Cunyngham wrote:
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Case : Apparition 73
The Empress Club,
35, Dover Street,
August 26th, 1943. London, W. i.
Dear Mr Tyrrell,
. . . Unfortunately it [the incident] took place a long while ago, in
May 1932. . . . Though so long ago I remember it as if it had occurred
yesterday. The " vision " came to me during morning service (during
the prayers after the first hymn) at the church of St Paul's, Knightsbridge.
It seemed to me as if I suddenly saw a spot of light, round in shape. This
enlarged rather slowly. Then I saw the picture I described inside the
circle only for a second. Then, as if curtains were drawn over it, very
slowly it faded. No, I had no special reason for thinking of Eustace Craig
at that moment, except that I had not heard anything from him or of him
for some time, which was unusual, as we were very great friends, and I
did not know he was il{ "
mentioned the incident to my maid (who has
been with me about 20 v rs) because she is, I think, genuinely psychic.
Yes, she remembers about it, and would corroborate. . . . The exact date
(offhand) I cannot remember. I believe it may have been May 14th or
i8th, but I know it was May 1932. The vision was Sunday. Notice of
death, Eustace Neville Craig, in the Times, two days later, Tuesday. . . .
Some weeks after Eustace died I had another vision of him (not so strong).
I saw him quite plainly standing at the end of my bed. He did not speak.
I have had talks with him through a medium. . . . He himself was not
interested in psychic things. No, I do not very often have " visions ";
that is why I said it was the " clearest vision I have ever had ", but I
very often seem to know things that are going to happen. . . .
Yours very truly.
Vera Dick-Cunyngham.
Mrs Dick-Cunyngham's maid, Mrs Young, corroborated as follows:
98, Walton Street,
October gth, 1943. Chelsea, S.W. 3.
Dear Sir,
Yes, I quite remember Mrs Dick-Cunyngham telling me of seeing
Mr Craig in church lying on a bed or couch with nurses attending him,
but the date I can't remember. I wish I could help you, but, being so
long ago, one forgets dates.
Yours faithfully,
Ruth Young.
Reference to the files of the Times revealed the following obituary
notice in the Times of Monday, May i6th, 1932. (Not Tuesday, as stated
in Mrs Dick-Cunyngham's letter.)
Craig.—On May 14th, 1932, in London, Eustace Neville Craig, of 55A,
Palace Gardens Terrace, W.8, aged 62 years. Funeral at Ham Common
Churchyard, Surrey, on Wednesday at noon.
It appears from this that the vision took place between 11 a.m. and
12.30 p.m. on Sunday, May 15th 1932, and the death sometime on the
previous day, Saturday, May 14th.
74 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
This case bears a striking similarity to the older cases in the Society's
collection. The phrases, " the clearest vision I have ever seen ", and,
" though so long ago I remember it as if it had occurred yesterday " echo
almost verbally the comments of many bygone percipients with regard to
the vividness and impressiveness of their experiences.
The vision possessed, also, two special features : (i) On the first
occasion it appeared in a special space of its own (cf. Case in Proceedings,
vol. X, p. 371 ; and Case 200 in Phantasms of the Living). (2) It emerged
out of a bright spot or cloud (see Journal, vol. XIX, p. 45 ; and Phantasms
of the Living, vol. I, p. 527). But on the second occasion it appeared in
physical space. There is a popular tendency to believe that an apparition
which appears in physical space, and takes its normal place among the
surroundings, must be in some sense more really " there " than an
apparition which appears in a special space of its own, or appears in a
dream. But the apparent indifference of apparitions to the kind of space
they appear in would seem to negative this belief. The kind of spatial
setting is surely merely part of the chosen dramatic form given to the
figure: it is not evidence that an apparition is personally present when it
appears in one kind of space and not when it appears in another kind.
The present case falls exactly into line with previous cases in this respect.
Mrs Dick-Cunyngham has kindly given permission for the real names
and addresses to be printed.
A NOTE ON NEGATIVE DEVIATION
By S. G. Soal
On pp. 192—193 of rriy paper Fresh Light on Card-Guessing {Proceedings,
Part 162), I examined an interesting case of below-chance scoring obtained
by the Subject B.S. on (
- 2) post-cognitive guesses in the year 1936 and
I advanced certain tentative psychological explanations to account for it.
In the more recent work with B.S. reported in Experiments in Precognitive
Telepathy {Proceedings, Part 167), this particular effect appears to be
absent, but Miss Betty Humphrey of the Parapsychological Laboratory
at Duke University, has drawn my attention to a negative effect which
runs consistently through the whole of B.S.' work in co-operation with
the agent J.Al. This is a highly significant tendency of the Subject to
score belo-iv chance on the " actual " or " target " card, and it appears to
admit of a paranormal explanation. In 1936 B.S. ,
working mainly, though
not exclusively, with the Agent J.Al. obtained a slight but quite insignifi-
cant positive deviation on the actual (o) presentations and with the Agents
R.E. and G.A. in 1941 he obtained likewise an unimportant positive
deviation. It is very surprising therefore, to note this negative deviation
with the Agent J.Al. during the years 1942-1943. The tendency to score
below chance expectation occurs not only in the experiments carried out
at " normal rate " but likewise during those at " rapid " tempo.
If the reader will turn to Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy (List of
Scores : Sittings 31-40) he will find under the columns headed (" o ")
ample evidence of the tendency to score below expectation. Omitting the
experiment on 7 August '42 at which no agent was present, the experiment
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 A Note on Negative Deviation 75
with Zener cards on 26 August '42 and three columns in which non-
random sequences were employed we have under the heading " o " 69
columns of 25 presentations equivalent to 1,725 trials. The expected
number of correct hits is 3 x 1725 = 345, whereas the observed number is
only 281. There is thus a deficiency on the " actual card " of 64 hits - the
equivalent of 3-85 standard deviations. Of the 69 columns 23 were guessed
at " rapid " rate and the remainder at " normal " rate. The columns at
"normal" rate show significant ( + 1) or (-1) displacement hits and
those at " rapid " tempo ( +2) or (
- 2) displacements.
Now it is well known that most subjects tend to change their guess
from one symbol to another more frequently than would occur in a
random sequence of the digits 1-5 compiled from mathematical tables.
In a truly random series of n + i guesses we should expect on an average
|h changes of guess. In what follows in experiments at " normal " rate
a " change of guess " will be understood to mean a change of symbol in
passing from any one guess to the next but in the " rapid " experiments it
will mean a change of symbol from any one guess to the next but one.
By the term " precognitive hit " I mean a ( + i) hit in columns guessed
at normal rate but a ( + 2) hit in columns guessed at " rapid " rate. In
order to make the most of our material ( + i) and ( + 2) hits will be lumped
together in the ensuing discussion.
If the Subject scores a ( + i) precognitive hit at " normal " speed or
a ( + 2) precognitive hit at " rapid " rate and follows this by a " change of
guess " he will clearly get the actual card ivrong—that is the card which
corresponds contemporaneously to his changed guess. If therefore a
person scored significant ( + i) or ( +2) hits and changed his guess more
frequently than if he were guessing randomly this in itself would tend to
generate a " below-chance " score on the " actual " or " o " card, and no
further explanations might be necessary.
Now after the 1633 " precognitive " trials B.S. changes his guess 1361
times, whereas in a random sequence the expected number of changes is
1306-4. B.S. therefore shows a highly significant tendency to " change
guess ".
We must next examine how he distributes these changes of guess
following (i) precognitive successes and (ii) precognitive failures. This
may be shown by the following contingency table.
1633 Precognitive Trials
No. of
precognitive
Guesses correct
No. of
precognitive
Guesses incorrect
Totals
Cases followed by change
of Guess - - -
425 936 1361
Cases followed by no
change of Guess -
54 218 272
Totals -
479 "54 1633
76 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
After making Yates' correction we find for this table = 13-6 (a highly
significant result). An inspection of this table shows quite clearly that B.S.'
changes of guess are not distributed randomly but occur most frequently
after he has scored a precognitive success. In fact after the ii54precog-
nitive failures he changes his guess 936 times, which is not significantly
different from the 923 changes to be expected in a random sequence.
On the other hand after the 479 successful precognitive trials he changes
guess 425 times as against the 383-2 expected in a random distribution.
Now considering the " actual card " successes which follow precog-
nitive successes we should, if the change of guess were distributed ran-
domly over the whole work, expect to record: 479-^^^ ^479 hits on
" o "=79-8, whereas actually there are only 54. Thus there is a defi-
ciency equal to 25-8 - the equivalent of about 2-9 standard deviations.
It is easy to suggest a motive for this " change of guess " after a succes-
ful precognitive hit. We may assume that the subconscious mind of the
Subject knows when it has " got through " a successful precognitive hit
on a given ( + i) or ( + 2) card. It also knows that at the next guess (or
next but one) if it does not change its guess it will score on the " actual
"
card. But it is anxious to avoid scoring direct hits and is aiming generally
at precognitive or postcognitive successes. Quite naturally therefore it
tries a change of symbol after a successful precognitive hit.
The observed number of " actual " or " o " successes which follow
precognitive failures is 201 as compared with an expected number = ^
X 1
154 nearly = 230-8. This gives a deficiency of 29-8 or the equivalent
of about 2-2 standard deviations. This negative deviation is not very
significant, but if it is really genuine we might account for it by a similar
explanation to the one put forward on p. 193 of Fresh Light on Card-
Guessing. We might suppose that after a precognitive failure the correct
card image is present in the percipient's subconscious mind but has not
succeeded in getting over the threshold. At his next guess this " correct
"
image continues to worry the Subject who, in order to exorcise it, avoids
this particular symbol and chooses one of the other four.
The total number of observed successes on the actual " o " presenta-
tions =54 +201 = 255. It will be seen that this total differs by 26 from
the grand total of 281 " actual " card successes quoted at the commence-
ment of this note. The difference is accounted for by noting that an
actual hit which heads a column at " normal " rate or which occupies
places I or 2 in a column at " rapid " rate cannot be included in the above
analysis since such hits do not follow precognitive trials. It is, however,
interesting to observe that on the 92 such " o " trials we obtain 26 sac-
cesses as compared with an expectation of 18-4. This group therefore
shows no tendency to negative deviation as might be expected, since it is
free from the psychological mechanisms described above.
The more general question is : Are negative deviations on the "actual
card " always accompanied by displacement, or are there cases of negative
scoring which exhibit no displacement? It is important for us to know
the answer and I much hope that those experimenters who have recorded
below-chance scores will re-examine their records for possible displace-
ment effects.
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Fallacies in a Criticism of E.S.P. Assessment 77
FALLACIES IN A CRITICISM OF E.S.P. ASSESSMENT
V By Donald J. West
In a book entitled Beware Familiar Spirits by John Mulholland (pub-
lished 1938, Charles Scribner and Sons, New York and London), there
occurs a criticism of the statistical basis of Rhine's E.S.P. experiments,
which seems to have escaped notice and to have remained unanswered.
In collaboration with Professor Pitkin, Mulholland begins his attack on
theoretical grounds (p. 221). The main argument seems to be that, since
runs of successes of any size may be found anywhere in an infinitely large
chance series of trials, no run of success which is observed in a limited
number of trials is incompatible with the hypothesis that the observed
trials form part of an infinitely large chance series. Theoretically, this
proposition is undoubtedly true, but it can be shown by sampling statistics
with what frequencies varying degrees of success will be expected to turn
up in finite random samples, and some of these frequencies are so small
that they can be safely neglected for all practical purposes. Thus, if an
experimenter assumes that all experiments yielding a -oi level of signifi-
cance are not the result of chance, he will be right 99 times out of a
hundred, which is good enough for practical purposes. The same argu-
ment could be applied to every scientific experiment, for every observation,
whether evaluated statistically or not, could, in the last resort, be due to
coincidence.
In an endeavour to obtain some experimental support for their argu-
ment, Mr Mulholland and Professor Pitkin commissioned the Inter-
national Business Machines Corporation to produce 'a random sequence
of 200,000 cards bearing the numbers i to 5 in equal proportions. These
were divided into two groups of 100,000 and paired ofi' so as to produce
a series of 100,000 " mechanical E.S.P." trials. As Mr Mulholland says,
" Just as with Dr Rhine's test there was one chance in five of the pairs of
digits in any given line being the same—that is matching. But with our test
there was no possible chance of mind reading or clairvoyance as a factor."
Statisticians say that it is exceedingly difficult to produce a pure random
sequence mechanically, especially if the method entails the shuffling of
cards, so that we have some reason to distrust the reliability of Mr Mul-
holland's shuffle, no details of which are revealed. However, we can
accept provisionally that the series really represents 100,000 chance trials
and proceed to examine Mr Mulholland's figures.
Here again we are confronted with the difficulty of insufficient informa-
tion. Instead of the raw figures being presented in the usual form, all
that is given is a series of incomplete statements, from which the reader
has to deduce what the observations really were. The statements may be
dealt with one by one.
(i) p. 225. " There were as many as 32 lines of figures in sequence
without one matching pair ". This statement means that a run of 32
failures has been found somewhere in the series. The expectation of
runs containing r failures in sequence in a series of N trials, where the
probability of an individual failure is p, is given by the formula E =
Np''(i -p)2. Substituting, we find that the expectation of runs of 32
78 Journal of Society for Psychical Research SEPT.-OCT. 1944
failures in the present series is 100,000 (4/5)^^^(1/5)^ = 3'2. It is surprising,
therefore, that Mr Mulholland should be surprised to find one such run
in his series.
(2).
" Runs of 5 matching pairs in sequence fell 25% below theoretical
frequency, while runs of 6 rose to 25% above theoretical frequency. Runs
of seven jumped still higher to 59% above chance expectancy, and with
runs of eight we went to 780% above theoretical frequency." Now it is
possible to calculate, from the formula already given, the expectations of
runs of successes of different sizes and to deduce from the given per-
centages what the actual deviations were:
—
Size of run Expected frequency Observed frequency
5 20-5 (20-5 X 75) = 15-4
6 4-1
j
( 4-1 ^ 175)= 5-i|
7 •82 5-o8 ( -82 X 1-59)= 1-3 W-8
8 •i6j ( -16 X 8-8 )= i-4j
Fractions of runs are meaningless, so we should expect the figures in
the observed frequency column to be whole numbers. The fact that they
are not whole numbers leads me to suspect that Mr Mulholland has,
without mentioning it, calculated his expectations from the formula Np'',
which gives the expectation of runs of r including those contained in
larger runs, i.e. a run of (r + a) successes is counted as (a + i) runs of size
r. Preparing a fresh table on this basis we obtain :
—
Size of run Expected frequency Observed frequency
5 32 24-00
6 6-4 8-00
7 1-28 2-03
8 •256 2-00*
This certainly brings the observed frequencies nearer to whole numbers,
but whichever table is correct it becomes clear that Mr Mulholland 's per-
centages give a very false picture, because the chance expectations are so
small. Moreover, instead of considering runs of all sizes, he has picked
out the larger ones and examined only the tail of the frequency distri-
bution, an utterly unjustifiable procedure as the " tail " is known to
be statistically unreliable. To apply a valid test to the first table,
it is necessary to combine the last three classes, and when this is done
a value of x^ = 2-8 is obtained, with 2 degrees of freedom, which is insig-
nificant.
(3) p. 226. " In the first forty thousand pairs there were almost three
times as many runs of five as there were in the next sixty thousand." It
would seem that Mr Mulholland has quite arbitrarily divided his trials
* Taking 780% above chance as 7-8 x chance expectation.
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Fallacies in a Criticism of E.S.P. Assessment 79
into these unequal groups. One can produce any effect one likes by such
a procedure ; it is a wonder Mr Mulholland could not devise something
more startling, but such results will never be comparable with Dr Rhine's
experiments, in which all forms of arbitrary selection were most carefully
avoided.
(4) .
" When we arbitrarily selected segments for their high frequency
of matching pairs, we could find twenty-five and twice twenty-five with
half the pairs matching." For myself, it is impossible to tell by inspection
whether this observation has any significance, nor do I know of any
statistical method to test the point, and I strongly suspect Mr Mulholland
is in the same position.
(5) p. 226. Lastly, Mr Mulholland divides the trials into 100 groups
of 1,000 trials each. In 24 of these groups the matchings came within
2% of expectation, in 30 the expectation was exceeded by more than 2%,
while in the remaining 46 the successes were more than 2% below expec-
tation. Apparently the reader is intended to find it surprising that only 24
came within 2% of chance expectation.
The expectation of successes in a group of 1,000 trials is 200 ; a 2%
deviation therefore equals 4, which is -316 times the standard deviation.
We can find, from normal distribution tables, what is the expected pro-
portion of deviations falling outside this range, and the following table
results :
—
Deviations Expected frequency Observed frequency
>+4 30 37-5
±4 24 25-0
<-4 46 37-5
It will be seen that Mr Mulholland's result is in close agreement with
chance.
To conclude, there is little doubt that Mr Mulholland's figures, despite
their superficial impressiveness, show no evidence of any extra-chance
effect. The only question is whether they were cited as evidence through
an extreme ignorance of statistical method, or in a deliberate attempt to
mislead the reader. It is unfortunate that so public a figure as Mr Harry
Price seems to have fallen into the trap, for, in his book Fifty Years of
Psychical Research (p. 182-3), quotes Mr Mulholland's figures at length
as a cogent argument against E.S.P. experiments.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—I should be grateful for a few lines of your space in which to
comment on Dr Layard's Paper, PSI Phenomena and Poltergeists, in Part
168 of Proceedings. In the interests of brevity I will confine myself to one
item only, namely the first " case " which Dr Layard regards as " eviden-
tial "
(p. 242, bottom) in respect of his views.
The gist of this is that a lady in a state of acute mental conflict (I speak
8o Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
untechnically) wandered about the streets of Zurich from about 10.30 one
morning until 3.0 a.m. the next. At about 9.30 in the evening (p. 245) she
underwent an experience which produced, or initiated, at least a temporary
cure. Shortly after 7.0 p.m. apparently (p. 244, middle) the top of an old
wooden bench in her physician's consulting room suddenly split. Dr
Layard contends (p. 246, top) that "... the breaking of the psychic
tension which brought about the patient's release was directed in the form
of message towards the healer, the splitting of the massive bench signi-
fying the division of differentiation she had at that moment achieved
between the Conscious and the Unconscious " (My italics).
The words " at that moment ", which greatly add to the dramatic effect,
appear to be most gratuitously, if not wilfully, misleading ;
for, so far as
can be ascertained from the record, the bench split some two or two and a
half hours before the process of release was even begun.
But even if the coincidence in time were much closer than it seems to
have been, I fail to see any shadow of warrant for supposing that there was
any trace of causal connection whatever between the splitting of the
" massive bench " and the lady's state of mind.
I am not at all prepared to deny categorically and a priori that " mind "
may act on " matter "—in some sense or other yet to be determined—even
at a distance, without the usual physiological mechanism intervening. But
I do say that to assume such action in so extreme a case as this, and then to
use this assumption as an " evidential fact in support of a theory, is to
indulge in irrationality for which the term " pseudo-science " would be all
too flattering.
Yours, etc.,
Whately Carington
Sir,—I am in favour of the informal wartime Discussion Meetings held
during the last few months, in spite of the lowered standard involved in the
impromptu nature of the occasions. I do not, however, think I am alone in
hoping that there is to be no lowering of the standard of publication in
Proceedings, and in regretting the inclusion in the last issue of Dr John
Layard's " Psi Phenomena and Poltergeists ".
The author in his opening sentence admits " I come here ... to speak on
a subject . . . which, so far as poltergeists are concerned, I have only
fleetingly encountered ". This fact does not deter him from stating " it is
my belief that all true poltergeist phenomena, such as are recorded in the
publications of this Society, are also purposeful and probably occasioned
by . . . conditions of unresolved tension in the psyche of those involun-
tarily producing them ". Psychical researchers are familiar with the
commonplace of fraudulent poltergeist phenomena being connected with
the psychological make-up of the agent, but have not had the opportunities
they would welcome of studying the alleged genuine variety. Dr Layard is
lucky to have encountered them even " flettingly " ; but I suggest the
happenings described by him should not be included in the category
" poltergeist phenomena " at all.
Dr Layard states that " as a practising psychologist of the Jungian
school I might say that at least half the phenomena dealt with in such a
practice may, I think, justly be reckoned as coming within the category of
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Correspondence 81
psi ". Maybe : and maybe not. I am not objecting to the crack in the
massive seat of the gothic wooden bench. After reading that far, my only
surprise was that the bench was the only thing that cracked. Incidentally,
was the crack a + 2 precognitive crack? It occured apparently shortly after
7 p.m., whereas the patient's psychological climax which caused it, and
after which she can " begin her homeward way ", occurred it would seem
about 9.30 p.m. " The journey . . . was a long one. Forward progress
was not a matter of course. For she still had to follow her nose," says
Dr Meier. What happens on the occasions when she doesn't.? A well-
attested record would be most interesting.
It is a pity such happenings and such descriptions found perpetuation in
Proceedings. They belong neither to our subject nor to our standard.
Yours etc.,
K. M. GOLDNEY
P.S. I hope Dr Layard will not consider me ungrateful. I derived
considerable diversion and enjoyment from hearing him speak.
K. M. G.
Sir,—I am grateful to you for allowing me to see the letters of Mr
Carington and Mrs Goldney, and also to them for putting their points so
clearly, as they both raise issues of great importance in the study of these
matters.
I must first, however, express my deep regret for the serious typist's
error to which they both call attention, namely the typing of the figure 7
(as it appears on line 26, page 244) instead of 9, thus giving rise to the
apparent discrepancy in time of which both letter-w riters justly complain.
This sentence should read " It was after 9 o'clock when we sat down to
dinner ", and, since it was during this meal that the bench spUt, this
coincides with the time, between 9 and 9.30, of the patient's crucial
experience outside the Concert Hall (see p. 245). I apologise deeply, both
to the readers and to Dr Meier himself, whose account this is, for having
failed to notice this error when reading the proofs, and more particularly
to the letter-writers themselves for having allowed them indeed to
be " misled "into using expressions they might not otherwise have used.
The really mischievous trouble about such mistakes is, unfortunately,
that by the raising of false issues the real ones are apt to be obscured, so
with relief I now pass on to the really substantial criticisms they both
make.
With regard to Mrs Goldney's statement that " psychical researchers are
familiar with the commonplace offraudulent poltergeists phenomena being
connected with the psychological make-up of the agent, but have not had
the opportunities they would welcome of studying the alleged genuine
variety ", this raises, of course, the whole question of unconscious motiva-
tion, which is what psychotherapy deals vv^ith. It is what we all sufli^er from
in everyday life, not recognising that most of the misfortunes we meet with
are unconsciously manufactured by ourselves. The ignorant put these
down to " chance " or " circumstance ", but the wise look to themselves.
The conscious deceiver is comparatively easy to deal with. It is the
unconscious deceiver who is the real menace, both to himself and others,.
82 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
but such is the materiaUsm of our day that, in rejecting the fraudulent
persons who use consciously fraudulent methods to produce fake
poltergeists, we are only too apt to " throw away the baby with the bath-
water " and blind ourselves also to the real matter in hand, which is the
investigation of the unconscions manipulations brought about by the
unruly because uncontrolled spirit (using this term in the sense not of a
spirit, but of the spirit of man himself). As for the expression of surprise
that " the bench was the only thing that cracked ", I may remark that it
was not, for the patient's complex cracked at the same time, that is to say
that the schizophrenic barrier was pierced, allowing the two sides of her
nature to meet and form a healing union. It may be that one day an even
bigger crack will occur in the one-sided consciousness of modern man that
may at last let in the light which will illumine the dark places of our minds
and allow us to see the power of spirit over matter, and in this case of the
human spirit over what are usually considered to be inanimate things. I
heartily agree on the need for further investigation on these lines (indeed
it was with the purpose of stimulating such research that the paper was
written), but would point out that this must be accompanied by psycho-
logical knowledge and an eye not only on the aetiology but also on the
teleology of the phenomena, that is to say on the purpose for wliich they are
produced.
Mr Carington in his letter admits the possibility of " mind " acting on
""
matter " without the usual physiological mechanism, but does not like it
to be " assumed " in such an " extreme " case as this. Here I of course
agree, and should like to call attention to the second paragraph in my paper
in which I emphasise that what I am putting forward is a hypothesis based
on this teleological view. Admittedly a large number of cases would have
to be psychologically investigated to prove or disprove it. Nevertheless I
would point out that, even on the hypothesis advanced, it was not only the
lady's experience which caused the bench to split, but rather that it was the
relationship between her and her physician which caused the happening to
occur in his house, thus testifying to the joint nature of a healing process in
which the physician is quite as much involved as the patient. Indeed, had
he himself not been slightly rattled by her continued absence from home,
that is to say, had his unconscious processes not also to some extent been
involved, it would probably not have occurred. When psychic tension is
set up there are invariably two factors producing a third, and the third
factor is always of a new and often unexpected order. But the unexpected
is unexpected only by us, not by the to us unconscious but in themselves
purposive factors that produce it. Thus, in this case, tie patient's own
psychic experience, the concern of her physician and the splitting of the
bench were all part of a single dramatic episode of which the purpose was
-the heahng of a human soul, and I submit that only from this angle can it
be understood.
John Layard
Sir,—Dr Layard may safely be left to deal withthe criticisms of his paper ;
I will confine myself in this letter to considering whether, as a member of
ihe Committee of Reference, I was right to recommend its publication. I
:should like to begin by laying down the general principle that any indivi-
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Correspondence 83
dual or committee making a selection of papers suitable for publication in
our Proceedings should look primarily not for freedom from defects but for
the positive quality of making a useful contribution to thought on our
subject. Such a contribution may be a set of experimental results proved
with all the rigidity of statistical method or it may be a new suggestion
which later workers can submit to experimental proof or disproof. Dr
Layard's contribution seemed to me to be a very valuable one of the
second kind. It makes the suggestion that poltergeist phenomena are
telekinetic expressions of an unconscious conflict in the mind of the agent.
That seems to me a valuable and original idea, which it would be stupid to
suppress because the paper gives no rigid scientific proof of its truth and
because its author's m.ethods of thought seem to me to be obscure and
unfamiliar. The opinion of a psychotherapist of Dr Layard's ability,
experience, and width of knowledge deserves consideration even if at
present we regard its truth as not proved. Others may prove or disprove it
by experimental methods, and their work will be one of the fruits of Dr
Layard's suggestions. Others too may state the theory in language more
familiar to those of us who are better acquainted with the logic of science
than with that of analytical psychology, although surely we have some
ground for doubting whether the logic of science as at present understood
is going to prove an adequate instrument of thought for dealing vv'ith the
problems of psychical research.
My own feeling is that we want more, not fewer papers of the quality of
Dr Layard's. The reason so few are published is that there are not many
people who can produce them.
Yours faithfully,
Robert H. Thouless
Sir,—In conversation with several members of the Society, I have heard
expressions of sharp disapproval of Dr Layard's contribution [Proc,
Part 168, July 1944.) The critics appear to deny the evidential value of
the observations submitted by the author, and imply that by this test the
paper should not have been published.
To me it seems that such criticism neglects the potential value of a
general theoretical approach to psychical research—for so long limited to
the establishment of a museum of observations. Undoubtedly, Dr Layard
has provided an avenue for further thought. He suggests that seemingly
pointless phenomena may reflect states of conflict in the medium just as
seemingly subjective experiences and actions may be interpreted as mani-
festations of non-conscious conflicts. In accordance with a psychological
theory he further suggests that these psychokinetic projections are not
mere epiphenomena of the conflict, but are directed towards its solution ;
and he regards them as symbolic just as other manifestations of conflict
employ a tortuous and often chaotic symbolism. In Dr Layard's article
this general view is presented against the background of a specific psycho-
logical theory, which however is not the only theory with which the inter-
pretation of the phenomena is compatible.
It is indeed to be appreciated that Dr Layard does not, in the final
paragraph, suggest that only a Jungian should be chosen to interpret
84 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
Poltergeist phenomena etc., but that any competent psychologist,
acquainted with symbolism, may find such study profitable.
It might have been preferable if the theory had been developed in the
abstract, and without reference to specific instances of doubtful evidential
value. Again, one might well quarrel with various single statements, e.g.
the astonishing reference on p. 239 to the autonomous nervous system in
human subjects and its extension to the insects. But the many criticisms
that can be levelled in detail against Dr Layard's paper do not detract from
its original and stimulating suggestions ; nor from its courageous attempt
to link a particular set of psychological theories to psychical research. It is
to be hoped that the Society will receive more contributions of this type,
though perhaps it might be advisable to make it clear that they were
published as a possible basis for discussion and research, rather than as
results of such research.
Yours faithfully,
B. P. WiESNER
REVIEWS
" Experiments on the Paranormal Cognition of Drawings. III. Steps in
the development of a repeatable technique," By W. Whately
Carington. Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical
Research, Vol. XXIV, pp. 3-107 (Jan. 1944).
There is always a fascination about trying to beat chance, and in E.S.P.
experiments, unlike roulette, there is nothing to lose. The reveiwer has
had the advantage of direct contact with Mr Carington 's method in the
roles of percipient and of cataloguer. He found that making drawings was
much more amusing than guessing Zener cards or coloured counters, and
in the cataloguing the few doubtful points encountered only added to the
interest of the work.
Mr Carington has devised a wonderfully simple tool for E.S.P. research,
which is already beginning to shed a glimmer of light on the mechanism of
paranormal cognition. With its " catalogue " and notes the paper forms
an indispensable and comprehensive treatise. Every doubt or quibble that
might arise in the mind of experimenter or critic is exhaustively and con-
vincingly dealt with, and there are valuable chapters on the technique of
cataloguing and scoring hits. (An index would have been a welcome
supplement to the bare table of contents.)
There is one serious omission : a brief statement of the method in heavy
type at the head of the paper. As it is, the newcomer cannot easily get a
bird's-eye view of the method, which is developed gradually over 100
pages. He is not much better off with Gardner Murphy's " Statement of
the method for the non-mathematical reader " which occupies a three page
appendix full of mathematics. Hazelden, the cartoonist, once complained
of the complexity of income tax forms and devised a simpler formula which
began :
" It's like this ;
just fill in your income for the year ..." The
germ of Mr Carington 's catalogue idea can be stated in three paragraphs in
simple (if not basic) English.
SEPT.-OCT. 1944 Reviews 85
An experimenter has a bag containing a large number of paper slips
bearing the names of common objects. He picks out ten at random— Dog,
Table, Spear, etc., and makes a drawing of each. In the next room twenty
people, the percipients, are trying to guess and draw the target-drawings
the experimenter is looking at. They make ten drawings each which are
collected after a given interval. Brown has drawn a Table, Smith a Spear.
Nobody else scores a hit.
Now anybody asked to draw ten simple objects might include a table,
i.e. Brown is quite likely to draw a table even if Table is not one
of the target-drawings. Not so Spear, a less common object which will
also crop up by chance, but seldom. If a spear is drawn and Spear is
a target-drawing, one might say it was an odd coincidence. Given
enough " odd coincidences " one soon reaches a statistically significant
result.
But how do we estimate the probability of spear or table being drawn by
chance? We collect all percipients' drawings over a sufficient number of
experiments and enter them in a catalogue which thus shows the total
number of each object drawn. It is now possible to find how many spears
were drawn on the day when Spear was a target-drawing, and how many
were drawn on days when it was not, i.e. when only chance can have been
operating. If significantly more spears were drawn on the spear-target day
than the chance expectation given by the catalogue, then there is evidence
of paranormal cognition. Similarly for Tables, but these being more
common it will take a good many of them to " beat " the catalogue chance
value.
That is the method. Its beauty lies in its simplicity and repeatability.
Interesting experiments with drawings have been done for many years, but
there was no known method of evaluating them and there was nothing to
refute critics who said that all the results were due to chance.
The catalogue solves the problem, and Mr Carington should have
emphasised more strongly than he has done that the compilation of a
" local " catalogue is the very essence of the method. (Those who have a
phobia of card-indexes can use an alphabetical ledger or loose-leaf book.)
Instructions for the guidance of the experimenter are given on pp. 57-61.
These should be reprinted in our own Journal or Proceedings with a brief
statement of the method, or preferably made available as a leaflet and
widely circulated. Psychologists and others attracted by the method could
then obtain a copy of the paper under review and use it as a handbook,
which is really what it is.
There is no space to discuss the positive results obtained (which go
rather further than establishing de novo the existence of paranormal
cognition) or the numerous safeguards against over-optimistic scoring.
The development of a repeatable technique free from the boredom of card-
guessing is a great step forward and no experimenter should have any
difficulty in collecting a willing band of percipients.
D. Parsons
86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research sept.-oct. 1944
" Telepathy in the Psycho-analytic Situation." By H. J. Ehrenwald.
The British Journal of Medical Psychology, Vol. XX, Part i, 1944,
pp. 51-62.
Dr Ehrenwald here surveys the not very conclusive evidence for the
occurrence of telepathy during analytical treatment, with the aim not of
demonstrating telepathy in this field, but of considering the extent to which
psi-reactions between analyst and patient may need to be taken into
account in psycho-theraphy, now that on other evidential grounds tele-
pathy is coming into the region of accepted fact. He points out that the
analyst is unlikely to observe these reactions very often, if a frequent con-
dition of their occurrence is, on his own part as well as the patient's, that
they should arise from subliminal motives. But he mentions a striking
general fact, which the present reviewer can confirm from observation :
the way in which patients rapidly respond to a given analyst with dreams
that accord with that analyst's doctrine of symbolism, producing dreams
of typical Freudian structure for a Freudian, and full-blown mythological
symbolisms for a Jungian. This seems to occur before the patient can have
any conscious grasp of the analyst's preferred system, of imagery.
On several grounds the situation between analyst and patient is seen to
be one that favours subliminal action in both minds, and a case emerges for
the view that a good deal of subliminal interaction may also take place.
This view gives something more definite for discussion than the contested
point whether " intuition ", a vague term in this context, has a real part to
play in the therapeutic procedure.
Dr Ehrenwald 's article is a further indication that psychical research
has light to throw upon some of the obscurities in psvchological medicine,
K. R.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal in
1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only ". The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with,
them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
Nov -Dec, 1944 Vol. XXXIII—No. 608-609
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members ..--.---87
Meeting of the Council ------- 87
Meeting of the Society -------88
Discussion Meeting --------88
Case : An Apparently Precognitive Incident in a Dream-
Sequence ---------88
The Sensitivity of Card-Guessing Experiments - - - 91
Correspondence - -- -- -- -92
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 24 March 1944)
Firebrace, Brigadier R. C, 10 Wilbraham Place, London, S.W. i.
Montague, Frederick, M.P., 16 Claremont Road, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
Student-Associate
Williams, I. P., Westminster Hospital Medical School, Horseferry Road,
London, S.W. i.
[Elected 26 October 1944)
Acheson, J. W., Glendhu, 427 Cregagh Road, Belfast.
Conran, Philip C, M.D., Sunwayes, York Avenue, Hove, Sussex.
Flavell, Arthur, 1 1 Clanricarde Gardens, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
Healy, Mrs H. M., 26 Park Road, Radlett, Herts.
Johnston, Rev. A. B., Welney Rectory, Wisbech.
Kelsey, John A., 167 Church Street, Woking, Surrey.
Lafitte-Cyon, Mrs F.j 62 Friern Park, North Finchley, London, N. 12.
Leslie, W. E., 37 Yale Court, Honeybourne Road, London, N.W. 6.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 400th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Friday, 24 March 1944, at 3 p.m. The President in
the Chair.
Part I. (For elected members of Council only) : Present ; Professor
88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1944
C. D. Broad, Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr W. H. Salter and Mrs W. H.
Salter ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The following co-optations were renewed for the year 1944-45 : Pro-
fessor W. Macneile Dixon, Mrs Goldney, Sir Robert Gowcr, Mr G. Red-
mayne, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell and Miss Nea Walker.
Part II. There were also present : Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Mr
Kenneth Richmond, Secretary and Editor of the Journal.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct.
Two new Members and one Student-Associate were elected. Their
names and addresses are given above.
MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
The i8ist Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on Satur-
day, 4 November 1944, at 3 p.m., the President in the Chair. A paper
entitled " Some Recent Investigations into the Borley Rectory Case " was
read by Mr A. J. B. Robertson. It is hoped that a summary of this paper
may be printed in a later issue of the Journal.
DISCUSSION MEETING
A Discussion Meeting will be held at 5.45 on 18 Jan. 1945 : Opener,
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ;
subject, " Telepathy and Precognition : What do
they signify ?
"
CASE : AN APPARENTLY PRECOGNITIVE INCIDENT
IN A DREAM-SEQUENCE
This case has been reported to us by Professor C. D. Broad, to v/hom the
dreamer, here called " Y ", sent the following written recollection of
dreams experienced a week earlier. It will be seen that Y had also related
his dreams to Professor Broad on the morning after their occurrence.
" Oct. gth, 1944.
" Sometime during the night of October ist-2nd 1944 (probably towards
morning), I had the following dream while staying with Professor C. D.
Broad at Trinity College. As the dream was rather unpleasant and
extremely vivid it stayed in my mind, and I related what I could remember
of it to Professor Broad at breakfast on the following morning (October
2nd). I of course related the dream of my own accord and was not
prompted by Professor Broad. The following account is not so full and
probably not so accurate as that which I gave to Professor Broad on
October 2nd, as I have not thought much about the incident since.
" There were three more or less distinct incidents in the dream, all
connected with trains. I can now remember only two of the incidents,
though I am fairly certain that there was another and that I related it to
Professor Broad on the morning after the dream. I am also now not
certain of the order in which the incidents occurred.
NOV.-DEC. 1944 Case: Precognitive Incident 89
" Incident i. I was about to leave a large terminus station in a rather
crowded train. The train started when I was still standing on the plat-
form. I was unable to open the compartment door so I jumped onto the
footboard outside the door. I was still unable to get the door open and I
was carried away still clinging on outside. There were people inside the
compartment. I cannot remember whether they tried to help me with
the door but they were sympathetic. I was not particularly frightened
until one of the people inside the compartment told me that another train
was coming in the opposite direction along the adjoining line. He (or she
—I cannot remember which) told me to squeeze myself up against the
outside of the compartment door as I should quite probably be knocked
off by this second train. I cannot remember what happened then but I do
not think that I was knocked off.
" Incident 2. I think that this incident came after incident i, but I am
not absolutely certain. Anyhow, I was standing on a platform of the same
station. As I have said, it was a terminus station, and, as on many London
stations, taxis drove right into the station itself. This time I was standing
much further back in station than in incident i. (Nearer to the taxis and
ticket office.) A train was standing at a platform (I think at the platform
from which I had started in incident i). The whole station sloped gently
upwards from the ticket-office end in the direction in which the trains
normally left the station. Suddenly the train, which was standing some
way up the platform, began to move slowly backwards (downhill) towards
the ticket office. I knew that the brakes had given way. The train moved
quite slowly but I knew that it would crush the taxis. I am not quite cer-
tain where exactly the taxis were, but I think that they had driven a short
way up the platform. Anyway there was a great panic and the taxis all
tried to get away. (For some reason they could not leave in the normal
manner.) I can remember one taxi down on the line, between the plat-
forms and bumping over the rails between the train and the buffers at the
end of the platform. The train, however, which was still moving very
slowly along the lines, turned towards the taxi which had almost gained
the further platform—I think the train turned off along points to do this,
I cannot remember what happened then, but I was perfectly certain that
the train would crush the taxis and I was extremely frightened.
" I related a sequel to the dream in a letter to Professor Broad. But I
should say here that the station (Ely) was not in the least like the station in
my dream. Moreover the carriage was open and had no compartments,
while in my dream I distinctly remember that there were compartments."
The dreams were on the night of Sunday-Monday, 1-2 Nov., 1944.
In a letter dated " Tuesday " and marked by Professor Broad as received
by him on 4 Nov., 1944, Y related the " sequel " as follows:
" Do you remember the account I gave you'of the very curious dream
that I had on Sunday night? There was a rather remarkable, though not
exact, repetition of it in real life yesterday. When my train got to Ely an
American officer in the carriage got out to go to the bookstall, leaving the
compartment door open. The whistle blew, the train started and a porter
slammed the door shut. 1 shouted to the officer and tried to get the door
open but it had jammed. He ran like a hare and jumped onto the running
board. We both struggled to open the compartment door—he clinging on
Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1944
outside amid shouts and screams from the station officials. It was not
until the train was clear of the station and going at some speed that we
managed to open the door and he could climb in.
Of course in my dream it was I personally who was clinging on outside.
I am glad to say that none of the other incidents of my dream recurred!"
Having obtained from Y the written account of his dream which is
printed above, Professor Broad wrote to him as follows :
" October 13th, 1944
" My dear Y,
" Many thanks for your letter of October 9th, containing an account of
your dream as you remember it.
" Incident i agrees entirely with my recollection of what you told me
at breakfast, except that I am_ sure that there were rather more details in
your original narrative. I am pretty sure that your wife was in the carriage
in the dream, and that when she showed some anxiety about your not
getting in you took a rather haughty attitude as if clinging to the footboards
of running trains were child's-play to you.
" Oddly enough I have no recollection whatever of your narrating
Incident 2, the story of the train running backwards down the slope into
the terminus and endangering the taxis in the station. If you did relate it
to me, I have completely forgotten about it, and that seems unlikely.
" On the other hand you certainly did narrate an Incident 3, which you
seem to have forgotten or to have thought irrelevant for the present pur-
pose. So far as I remember it was roughly as follows. You found yourself
in company of a number of what you took to be members of the left-wing
intelligentsia. One of them said to you '
It is no use going on any longer ',
or words to that effect, and they made it plain to you that they and all
those whom they regarded as '
the best people '
were intending to commit
suicide at once. They were going to do this by all getting into a kind of
large box, which they showed you. In it they would perish, either by
suffocation or by some poisonous vapour as in a lethal chamber for des-
troying cats or dogs. They pressed ycu to join them. You disliked the idea
very much, but felt that you would have to do so in order to be '
in the
movement '.
I can't remember whether you actually got into the box or
not. But either you woke before doing so or immediately afterwards. Do
you remember any of this now? It has no bearing on the incident at Ely
station, but I think it ought to be reported as part of the dream which was
not verified.
" Yours ever,
" (Signed) C. D. Broad."
In his reply to a letter enquiring whether he often had dreams about
railway travelling, Y wrote to the Editor :
" I do not think that railway travelling is a very frequent feature of my
dreams. However, I think that I should reiterate what I said to Dr Broad
—that the train in my dream and the train in which I actually travelled
when the incident occurred bore very little resemblance to each other, and
that the station from which I left in my dream bore little or no resemblance
to Ely station."
Nov.-DEC. 1944 Card-Guessing Experiments 91
THE SENSITIVITY OF CARD-GUESSING EXPERIMENTS
By A. J. C. Wilson
On comparing the recent experiments of Soal and Goldney^ with the clas-
sical experiments of the Committee on Thought-Reading,'^ one is imme-
diately struck with the greater difficulty of demonstrating the card-guessing
faculty. The Committee's results would appear convincing to anyone
satisfied of the honesty of the experimenters and subjects, whereas the
more recent experiments require an elaborate mathematical technique to
show the existence of any non-chance phenomena. The Creeiy family
may have been more gifted card-guessers than is Mr B. S., but it would
seem that there is a real advantage in using a large number of difterent •
cards (say twenty or fifty) rather than the five of the Zener or modified
Zener packs.
The advantage arises thus. Mr B. S. seems to get approximately one
card in ten right through some factor other than chance. He gets two in
ten right by chance. The non-chance effect is therefore superposed on a
chance effect of double its magnitude, and considerable analysis is needed
to demonstrate its existence. Suppose however that there were fifty
different cards, and he still got one in ten right through the non-chance
factor. The non-chance factor would then be the main cause of getting
cards right, with only a small chance disturbance, in magnitude about
one-fifth of the non-chance eifect.
It is perhaps desirable to put this argument in mathematical form. It
is essentially the same as that in Appendix A (page 130) of Soal and Gold-
ney's paper, but with an additional variable : the number of different cards.
If the number of different cards is M, the probabihty (C) of getting a card
right by chance is i/M. If the probability of getting it right though the
non-chance effect is P = i/G (i.e. if the chance of getting a card right
through the non-chance effect is one in G guesses), the number of correct
guesses to be expected in N trials is
NP + (N-NP)C = N[P4-(i -P)C] (i)
The value to be expected for the observed probability of a correct guess is
therefore
p = P + (i -P)C = (M + G-i)/MG, (2)
and, if the distribution is binomial, the standard error in p will be
•^P(i-P)/N (3)
In normal scientific work p would be considered significantly different
from C if p - C exceeded three times the standard error of p. (The odds
against this happening by chance alone would be about 350 to i.) The
probable number of trials (N) required to reach this level of significance
is given by
p-C>3Vp(i-p)/N
^ Soal and Goldney, Proc, Soc. Psych. Res., XLVII, 21, 1943.
-Barrett, Guiney andMyers, Proc. Soc. Psych. Res., I, 13, 1882, and later reports.
92 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1944
or N>9p(i-p)/(p-C)2 (4)
= 9(M-i-G-i)(G-i)/(M-i).
For any fixed value of G, this decreases rapidly with increase of M, and
therefore the number of trials required to test, say, the effect of drugs or
fatigue would be reduced by using a larger pack. This may be an im-
portant consideration, as, for a given percipient, the ability to make correct
guesses seems to decrease with time (see, for example, references ^' ^).
Some numerical values of N as a function of M and G are given in the
accompanying table.
The above argument rests on the assumption that the fraction of non-
chance correct guesses is independent of the number of different cards.
This is perhaps untrue, but it would be strange if G depended on M in
such a way to keep N constant. (Thouless ^ has noted some increase of G
with M, but it may be due only to the above mentioned decrease of ability
with time.) It would seem well worth while to make experiments to test
the theoretical increase of sensitivity with the number of different cards ;
an increase in sensitivity would in any case be welcome, and failure to find
an increase might throw some light on the mechanism by which the non-
chance correct guesses occur.
The following table gives N, the approximate number of trials required
to establish the existence (with odds about 350 to i) of non-chance correct
guesses for varying numbers of different cards (M) and ability (i in G)
to make non-chance correct guesses.
M G = 3 10 30 100 300 1,000
3 45 500 4,200 45,000 410,000 4,500,000
5 32 280 2,200 23,000 200,000 2,200,000
10 24 170 1,100 1 1,000 92,000 1,000,000
30 .
20 1 10 530 4,000 30,000 320,000
100 19 90 340 1,800 11,000 99,000
300 18 84 290 1,200 5,400 39,000
1,000 18 82 270 1,000 3>Soo 18,000
00 18 81 260 900 2,700 9,000
CORRESPONDENCE
SiR,^—Mr Donald West has performed a useful service in demolishing
another bogus " criticism " of the card-guessing experiments. As far
back as 1939 I remarked to Mr Harry Price that Mr Mulholland's " per-
centages"—so impressive to the uninstructed layman—meant just nothing
at all to anyone who had the slightest acquaintance with statistical method.
1 Thouless, Brit. J. Psych. (General Section), XXXIII, 15, 1942.
^ Carington and Heywood, Proc. Soc. Psych. Res., XLVII, 229, 1944, especially
§ 5, 6.
" Thouless, Proc. Soc. Psych. Res., XLVII, i, 1942, especially p. 12.
NOV.-DEC. 1944 Correspotidence 93
I have checked a good many of Mr West's figures and fully agree with
him that, on the scanty data available, there is no reason to suppose that
the results of this matching experiment violated the mathematics of proba-
bility in any way. It is unfortunate that while the educated public will
have access to Mr Mulholland's garbled and misleading percentages, few
of them will see Mr West's excellent reply.
As it is, the ignorance of the reading public with regard to the present
position of modern experimental work in Extra-Sensory Perception is
appalling. Only last March a writer in the magazine World Review
stated that it had been found impossible to confirm Dr Rhine's experi-
ments in this country. This commentator on scientific topics apparently
knew nothing of the work of Tyrrell or of Mrs Goldney and myself.
In the new edition of his A.B.C. of Psychology, C. K. Ogden still
repeats the out-of-date comment that "the statistics (of card- guessing)
are complicated and the matter is still sub jiidice." Far from being
" complicated " the statistics are so simple and so well estabhshed that
almost any schoolboy ought to be able to use them correctly.
What is the remedy for all this ? Surely it is that psychical researchers
of standing must not be content to write only technical articles for the
Proceedings and Journal. They must lecture, write books and reviews
that will appeal to the general public and take every opportunity of
dealing drastically hut in simple language v;ith such people as Mr Mul-
holland. Sir Leonard Hill and other materialists who rashly tilt at Psychical
Research with arguments that will not bear a moment's serious exam-
ination.
Yours etc.,
•
S. G. SOAL
Sir,—I. Even accepting Dr Layard's corrected chronology, I still fail
to see any kind of warrant for the supposition that there v/as a causal
connection between an event in the patient's mind and the splitting of the
bench. If it were an established fact that the release of psychical tensions
in patients' minds was always or often approximately synchronous v/ith
the occurrence of overt mechanical effects, otherwise inexplicable, at a
distance, then it would be reasonable to suggest that this was an instance
in point ; or if there were a comprehensible mechanism whereby such
releases could be shown likely to produce such effects, the same would
apply. But to postulate a causal connection merely because something
rather odd and unexpected happened at approximately the same time as a
" release " (which, incidentally, v/as not objectively observed) seems to me
in the highest degree implausible, and to provide no occasion for theoreti-
cal enquiry.
2. I cannot help feeling that, with all respect, Dr Thouless and Dr
Wiesner miss the important point. If it were established that benches
split, or other mechanical events occur, in so frequent close synchrony with
identifiable psychical events at a distance as to make the deduction of a
causal connection virtually inevitable, then Dr Layard's suggestion would
be timely and plausible—indeed, there would seem to be but few possible
alternatives. But this is very far from being the case, and it seems to me
extremely poor policy to cross probably non-existent bridges in public
94 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1944
before we come to them. It is uphill work enough, Heaven knows, trying
to persuade the scientific world to take seriously even such well-established
phenomena as Telepathy and Apparitions—let alone Precognition, or
" PK " which seems to be knocking vigorously at the door. But when it
comes to accounting for the splitting of benches by distant psychical
releases, they might be excused for grading us with those who deduce the
existence of a Cosmic Cow from the fact that the Moon is made of green
cheese.
Yours, etc.,
W?IATELY CaRINGTON
Sir,—Owing to extreme pressure of work and also for other reasons I
had hoped to avoid being drawn into this discussion, but the remarkable
letters of Drs Thouless and Wiesner printed in the Sept.-Oct. Journal
compel me to enter the fray.
In scientific work it is usual, I think, for workers who enter into public
discussion to have a fair practical acquaintance with the material with
which they deal. Dr Layard says that he has only " fleetingly encoun-
tered " poltergeists, a statement which we can either accept or reject.
What is clear, however, is that he does not seem to have any idea what
psychical researchers mean when they speak of poltergeists and, moreover,
little idea what he means by them. Turn to p. 239. We are told there
that psi (by which I suppose he means whatever E)r Thouless means by
that word) " uses " actual objects and that these objects are poltergeists. I
do not know what this means even if it means anything at all. Take two
of the most famous examples of poltergeist phenomena in history, those
which were said to occur for some thirty years with the Cure of Ars and
those which convulsed Stans, near Lucerne in 1861. Did the psi of the
gentle Cure and of the servant in Stans " use " objects and were the objects
noisy spirits or the pictures covered with excrement in the first case or the
moving massive walnut table in the second ? Later in his paper Dr Layard
adds to the confusion by calling them effects—but I v/ill not insist further.
With regard to the main part of the paper I would again suggest that it is
usual in scientific work to give references where convenient for important
authorities quoted. Now it appears that Meier's paper was read and later
printed in some form, although the source is not given. In 1938 Meier
gave an account of the case in Copenhagen which, it seems, excited some
interest and I suspect a little amusement in German psychological circles.
Moreover in the Zentralblatt f. Psychotherapie (1939, XI, 284-303), a
paper by Meier appeared under the title of Spontanmanifestationen des
koUectiven Unbewiissteti which may be the one referred to by Dr Layard.
This is not the place to discuss the case or indeed to inquire too closely
how Meier was able to give " a long and exact description "
(p. 244) of
what happened to his absent patient during sixteen and a half hours when,
among other exploits, she had to cling to a parked car to avoid a possible
levitation. I will pass to the main point at issue.
As far as I can understand Dr Layard's theory, which seems to me so
hopelessly muddled as to be almost unintelligible, it is that poltergeist
phenomena are, as Dr Thouless puts it, telekinetic expressions of an un-
conscious conflict in the mind of the agent. This, Dr Thouless thinks, is
NOV.-DEC. 1944 Correspondence 95
a " valuable and original idea " {Journal, p. 83), an opinion echoed by Dr
Wiesner on p. 84. I confess I find it vei^y gratifying that some people are
beginning to find these ideas " stimulating "
(p. 84), even though they
seem to think they are original. The truth is, however, that they are
commonplace. For over fifteen years at the minimum they have been
discussed verbally by the very few serious and experienced students of the
physical phenomena. The reason that they have not been developed in
print is because of the doubt which surrounds all the physical phenomena
and the extraordinary view which has so long been held by the leaders of
the S.P.R. that what only is of interest in these phenomena is whether
they are " genuine " or not.
Now anyone who knows anything about what Mrs Robert Browning
called " the mystery of iniquity " concerning D. D. Home or the whis-
pered tales of Vianney, Palladino, Eva C. and the rest knows that the
physical phenomena, whether genuine or fraudulent, are closely connected
with unconscious human conflict ; and it is precisely this which makes
their study so fascinating and so important. But what we require are not
confused and highly dubious stories put out by psychotherapists who
declare, like Dr Layard, that at least half {sic) the phenomena dealt with
by Jungian psychologists may be reckoned as coming within the category
of psi but reasoned discussion based upon properly checked experimental
data and conducted by those who have both the historical and practical
knowledge. I think therefore that our Proceedings is not the place to print
articles by persons, who, however distinguished in their own fields, do not
even know how to employ the correct nomenclature in ours.
V '
. Yours etc.,
- .
_
E.J.Dingwall
Sir, —I shall be obliged if you will allow me, as a member of the Council
of the S.P.R. for over forty years, to support Mrs Goldney and Mr Car-
ington in protesting against the low standards of evidence which are now
accepted by the Proceedings and Journal.
It is impossible under space Hmitations to go into detailed criticism, but
I will take three recent examples of the tendency to which I refer.
(1) . In the Journal of Nov.-Dec. six pages are taken up by the story of
a " haunted house ". I wonder what Myers, Podmore or Mrs Sidgwick
would have said about the quality of the evidence in this case 1 Detailed
quotation is impossible ; let anyone accustomed to our scientific standards
of evidential value read the narrative and judge for himself. Suffice it to
note that the temporary derangement of a wireless set, a passing noise
outside on a window pane, a bad smell in the bathroom, noticed " collec-
tively " and " suggesting death and decay ", the broken wrist of a lady
who slipped on the floor, slight damage, during the family's absence, to a
garden wall (obviously due to a motor vehicle)—incidents hke these,
ordinary happenings in everyday fife—are seriously discussed as either
possibly or certainly " super-normal ". The evidence of this " haunted
house " case falls far below even the standards of Borley Rectory ; further
comment is needless.
(2). In the current issue of the Journal we are presented with an experi-
ence twelve years after the date of its occurrence. It comes from a lady
96 Joiunal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1944
who " often seems to know things that are going to happen ", and is
i-emembered by a maid who is " genuinely psychic ".
The momentary vision (" one second ") of a sick friend appears " in
a special space of its own " ; a vision " not so strong " some weeks later
of the same friend after his death " appears in physical space ". As to the
alleged " striking similarity " between this nebulous narrative and those
collected by the Society " in former times ", I can assure the writer that
in those days the Society would never have printed a case of such feeble
quality, or the editorial comment which accompanies it.
(3). Mrs Goldney and Mr Carington have already called attention to
various details in Dr Layard's fantastic paper. I will therefore confine
myself to stressing the point that practically the whole of the main eviden-
tial story depends on the unsupported second-hand testimony of a single
witness—and what a witness ! The lady in question interviews her doctor
who remarks that a " good psychiatrist " would have consigned her forth-
with to a lunatic asylum. He nevertheless lets her leave and she wanders
about Zurich for sixteen and a half hours. She makes for the concert hall,
which, because of its central position, is " symboHc of her complex ", but
is deterred from entering because a concert notice is printed in violet and
" violet means death to her The juxtaposition of some lamps brings
her great relief, but this was only temporary, for on her homeward journey
she has to clutch at motor cars and even holly bushes to avoid levitation.
She then finds that on the covers of street drains " no evil can reach her
"
so she rushes from drain td drain " swift as the wind, for she still
had to follow her nose ", and finally reaches the doctor, who gives her the
startling news that at or about the time of her temporary improvement
outside the concert hall the seat of an old chair in his consulting room had
suddenly split—the causal connection between these two incidents seems
to Dr Layard quite obvious and convincing. The lady had walked for
i6| hours " without a break ", and apparently without food. This means
that she had covered some 33 miles under conditions too severe for the
best trained troops. On the unsupported testimony of this deranged wit-
ness this farrago of absurdities has been olTered to an audience of S.P.R.
members. How it was ever accepted by the Committee of Reference
passes my comprehension.
Yours truly,
E. N. Bennett
[The Journal prints the best cases that it can get, but under the stress of
present conditions the material brought to our notice gives small choice
and the best may seem of thinner quality than in the past. If so, we have
no desire to shift the weight of Sir Ernest Bennett's disapproval to those
members who take the trouble to investigate and present such cases as
can be gathered in these preoccupied times.
—
Ed.]
^
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
Jan -Feb., 1945 Vol. XXXIII—No. 610-61
1
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - - - - - "
,
"
Meeting of the Council ______
Donations to the Funds of the Society - _ _ -
Obituary - -__-.___
Annual Report of the Council for 1944 _ _ - -
Some Recent Investigations into the Borley Rectory Case
Correspondence - -_-_-__ 1 10
98
98
98
99
99
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
-
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
Saturday, 24 February 1945, at 2.1,0 p.m.
To transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
20 January 1945, and already circulated.
DR R. H. THOULESS WILL READ A PAPER ON
AN EXPERIMENT ON SYMBOLISM IN
TELEPATHY
ON
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of the
Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present.
98 'journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN.-FEB. 1945
NEW MEMBERS
Barker, Mrs C. M., 24 Rosslyn Hill, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Cranston, J. A., D.Sc, 25 Hillside Road, Glasgow, S. 3.
Duddington, Dr A.J. E., 19 Onslow Gardens, London, N. 10.
King-Smith, Mrs, 102 High Street, Lewes, Sussex.
Librarian, South African Public Library, Cape Town, S. Africa.
Richardson, Rev. Dr C. C, Union Theological Seminary, 3041 Broad-
way, New York 27, N.Y.
Sassoon, Mrs Siegfried, The Manor House, Winterbourne Dauntsey,
Salisbury, Wilts.
Stretton, T. R., Waylands, 57 Valley Drive, Withdean, Brighton 5.
Wood, G. A., 23 Cyprus Avenue, Finchley, London, N. 3.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 401st Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Saturday, 16 December 1944, at 2.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett, the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mrs Goldney, Mr W. H. Salter,
Mrs W. H. Salter, Mr S. G. Soal and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also
Mr Kenneth Richmond, Secretary and Editor of the Journal, and Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct.
Nine new Members were elected. Their names and addresses are
given above.
Letters were read from Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., and Professor W.
Macneile Dixon resigning from the Council on account of age, and the
Council accepted their resignations with very much regret.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected members,
caused by Sir Lawrence Jones's retirement, by appointing to it Mr
G. N. M. Tyrrell, hitherto a co-opted member.
DONATIONS TO THE FUNDS OF THE SOCIETY
The Hon. Treasurer has pleasure in acknowledging the following con-
tributions to the Society's Funds :
^ s. d.
W. J. Farmer - - - - - - - 050
Journal of Parapsychology - - - - -1170
Mrs Carpenter - - - - - - - iio
Miss B. E. Popham - - - - - "55°
A. Winterbottom - - - - - - - 17 18 o
T. Eugefne Wood (for the purchase of books for the
Library) -•- - - - - -iio
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Donations to the Funds of the Society 99
The Council very gratefully acknowledge a donation of five guineas to
the Society's funds from Mr Alexander Baird, the author of " One
Hundred Cases for Survival after Death ", who wishes to express his
appreciation of the help received by him in the preparation of that book
from the Society and its officers.
OBITUARY
We record with deep regret the death on December 19th, 1944, of Dr
Thomas Walker Mitchell, a member of the Council ;
and, on January
14th, 1945, of Gerald William, 2nd Earl of Balfour, a past President of the
Society and for many years a most distinguished and scholarly exponent
of psychical research.
Fuller obituaries will appear in Proceedings.
DISCUSSION MEETINGS
The following Discussion Meetings have been arranged :
15 Febi'uaiy 1945.—Mr C. Abdy Collins on " The Goligher Circle ".
15 March 1945.—Mr Kenneth Richmond on " Conditions Favourable
to Psychical Phenomena : Do Methods of Research Tend to Destroy
them?" . ,
-
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1944
War conditions in 1944 have not been such as to make the conduct of the
Society's business any easier. It is clear, hov/ever, both from the good
attendance at the Discussion Meetings and by the applications of intending
Members and Student -Associates that interest in the Society's work in and
outside the Society has not suffered. The Council particularly welcome
the increase in the number of new Student-Associates vv^ho will, it is hoped,
in due timie become full Members and provide a new generation of active
workers.
With the liberation of a great part of the Continent of Europe the Council
hope that it v/ill be possible in the near future to resume co-operative work
with the Continental researchers, particularly with those who have been
associated with the Society in the past.
The Society has received an appeal from the Inter-Allied Book Centre
to provide Parts of its own Proceedings and other standard literature on
Psychical Research to help in restocking University libraries in this and
other countries which have been destroyed or damaged by the war. The
Council consider this appeal desei"ving of the fullest support, and proposes
to present a large selection of Parts of S.P.R. Proceedings. They would
appeal to individual members to send to the Society's rooms any Parts of
Proceedings or any books on psychical research they can spare. Literature
so sent will be sorted out ;
publications adapted to academic needs will be
sent to the Inter-Allied Book Centre : other books and periodicals can be
sent to H.M. Forces.
lOO Journal of Society for Psychical Research JAN.-FEB. 1945
As the need for replenishing libraries will continue for, perhaps, twenty
years, the Council would urge members to direct in their wills that all
Parts of S.P.R. Proceedings should be sent to the Society to be disposed of
as the Council may determine.
The organisation of the Society. In February Mr Richmond was
appointed part-time residential Secretary for three years as from i January
1944, and thereaftervuntil such time as a permanent Secretary or Research
Officer be appointed. He was to be in attendance at the office as should be
necessary on five days a week and available for interviews by appointment
at times not within office hours. In present conditions there are many
enquirers and applicants for advice who are unable to call at the rooms
except in the evening and at week ends.
Instead of a joint House and Finance Committee a separate House
Committee and a separate Finance Committee were appointed, the former
consisting of Miss Newton, the Hon. Secretary and the Hon. Treasurer,
and the latter of Mrs Goldney, Mr Lambert, Mr Redmayne and the Hon.
Treasurer. In November Mr Redmayne's health compelled him to resign
his membership of this Committee. The Council wish to take this oppor-
tunity of thanking him for the invaluable and important services he has
rendered to the Society, especially in connexion with finance, ever since he
became a member of the Council.
A List of the Officers of the Society and of the Members of Committees
appointed in 194^}. will be found in xht Journal for April 1944. The Council
propose for the future to place on a table in the library a book with a
list, kept up to date, of Officers and Members of Committees.
Miss Newton, who had been co-opted a member of Council early in the
war, and to whom jointly with the Hon. Secretary very wide powers were
at the same tim.e delegated by the Council, expressed a wish that her co-
optation for 1944 should not be renewed. The Council received informa-
tion of her wishes with the very greatest regret in view of the length and
distinction of her services ever since she became an officer of the Society.
They wish to place on record their warmest appreciation of the self-
denying readiness with which she consented to come out of her well-
earned retirement at the beginning of the war and to bear a very large
share of the burden of carrying on the Society's work. She has very
kindly consented to remain a member of the Flouse Committee.
The Council regret to announce the resignation from their number of
Sir Lawrence Jones, a very old member of Council and former President
of the Society, and also of Prof. Macneile Dixon, neither of whom find it
possible to continue in present conditions to take an active part in the
Council's work. The Council wish to tender their warmest thanks to both
of them for valuable service to the Society. In the place of Sir Lawrence
Jones, who was an elected member, they have appointed Mr Tyrrell.
Research : Mr Richmond reports as follows :
[a) Interest in the work and aims of the Society has been evinced in a
wide variety of calls and enquiries. Among callers we have had members
of the United States, Netherlands and Czechoslovakian Forces, some of
high rank, enquiring about the doings of the Society and in some cases
recounting experiences and experiments of their own which they wished to
discuss in the light of S.P.R. experience. An interesting visitor was a
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Amiual Report of the Councilfof ig^^ lOI
Chinese Professor on his way to residence for reseaixh at Trinity College,
Cambridge, introduced to us by the China Section of the British Council.
A number of enquirers have called for help and advice over problems of
automatism, " psychic development " and ostensible spirit messages :
some of these people were on unsafe ground and needed psychological
help. Others are being encouraged to experiment and record their results.
A desirable tendency is developing in newspaper offices to consult the
S.P.R. by telephone (at any hour) as to the attitude to be taken towards
news stories on psychical subjects.
The V/orking Group has been under the difficulty that several of its most
interested members have had their place of employment changed and
can seldom attend : it is chiefly due to the steady interest of Mrs Goldney
and Mr Denys Parsons that the work of the Group has been kept going.
Mr Parsons reports as Secretary of the Group :
" Thirty-five meetings were held during the year. A preliminary inves-
tigation was made of two clairvoyants, but the results were not encouraging.
The chief work of the Group has been an intensive investigation of the
claims of L. E. Eeman, a practitioner, of 24 Baker St., W. i. Mr Eeman
claims, riiter alia, that if a person in a relaxed state is connected by wires to
a small tube containing a drug, he or she will experience the symptoms
which would be produced by the drug if administered in the normal way.
We have tested four subjects and, although pronounced reactions are
always obtained, we have not so far found any correlation between the
reactions and the particular drug in circuit. The investigation is pro-
ceeding. The next problem to be tackled by the Group will be a reinves-
tigation of Kiiner's claims that the human aura is rendered visible to
many people by means of a dicyanin screen, and the co-operation will be
welcomed of any members or their friends who have had the experience of
seeing auras, by this means or otherwise."
Mention should be made of two pieces of apparatus constructed by
Mr Parsons, one a device of his own by which pure clairvoyance of the
colours of uns^een counters can be tested (the results appear to be negative
when clairvoyance is isolated from any possible telepathy), and the other
a version of the electrically-driven machine devised for experiments in
psycho-kinesis" at Duke University.
Thanks are due to Mr Carington for his labours in assessing the
voluminous |results of experiments in precognition, and to Mr Parsons
and Mr Burman for preparing a catalogue of the data obtained. The cal-
culations are not quite completed, but the attempt with 95 percipients to
obtain precognition of drawings appear to show results just short of being
significantly below chance expectation as assessed by Whately Carington's
Catalogue method. If significant results below chance expectation were
obtained this would be of interest as confirming the suggestion that the
human mind normally resists the manifestation of precognition, but the
experiments under review do not at present provide evidence that this is
the case.
Investigation of the relief of pain efl^ected by Mr Frederick Knowles's
method of mental concentration upon the sufl^erer has been brought
to a conclusion, and it is hoped that a report on this will shortly be
published.
-+ J-i ooco
rfj o c
I—1 1—
(
CO ^
-+
C^
1(2'-': S
s — g S
sis
^r- <i> r- ^
P s Hi
-+ CC: C^l C. 1-1 O O iC CO rH '^D
cc 'X c: —I X' -+ ic ir:. -i' t-h x
CoC^Oi-HOOOOi-iC'-*
it: 00 CM 1-H 1-i
o o c
rH I—
I
WC] -JH CO
(M
CO O OO rH rH
'M -+ c: o -H t-
I—( t-H
CO c: o o O CO X rH C'
lO >-i O i-t
CO 'M rH
--r> . 1 --^^
^ "
—
O hH
^53
§2
S «J
^Lj'
O <7i CO
T-H
CO CX)
h GO CO
CM
0
00 0
960/7 £144
OS
s ^ o
-53
a
'^5
71
ra
5^
CO o o o o
O C^l O I-'
iqOOX CM --^CO -i-
ryjOirrj 1-1 CM C
L': w
00 c: CO CM -t
0
O C: O' T-H r
1 I '^g-^
3J "to
03
=5 c^j O I
&5
o
H
6 . . ^
II
^ G-'
f S g^f^
tMcM
^ rH
CO
0
tH
r-l
rH
tJH iH
rH
CO
\n
CO iM
(M
CO
SOfl
o
O 00
I—
i
oo CO
CI
=4>
ft;
to e
we
2 e
S o o
2 o o
coo
S C S
e
ciO OO
XI o t-^ o
OOO i-H O
(Mia CO ^
OO
GOO
GOO
lO I>
<a O O
o o
goo
O
^ r-
loo
fa
=) S g »
o s s S
o
5; ^ C>
P
O
ft
o
!55
O"-! O -+
o o o 71
o to o CO
O T-H
T-l o CO
rH
= o
s 5
o'S
'22.^
• .'^ So
S 'ij S
3 - -
Q 3
I—
1
CO |Zi
71 O Tt* O o
CO T-l o o
rH
O oo CO
OL^ :DCO
O .-I
r 3 2
o ^ ^ ^
ft
w
o
<1
CO
P3
H
H
H
CO
<J
M
H
—
.
JO
o (N
r-t iH
o o O
CO
s-o S
S; 5 o
Klco
o jTO
esq
> ,
H -
o o
O I—
1
OO o
Ol CO
CO
o ^
<a o
-CJ o
S o c:
CO 'g g
c.
to cS ^
in o
C cS
5
ft
a S
o
3 S
§ ^ o
=
s5
-
o*- -*> °^
cc CO CO
C C3 'cS =S
o 35 fS -a
3 S S
P .J tn rr, 11^
C3
-f a o
Pi O
EC
O ct
C c"
PS o
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0 0 c 0
0 0 0 0 I> iri 0 CX) 1^ 0
CO 0 0 >o tn 0 0
^^ 0 00 0 00 o_
I—
I
A
1^ i5
>.
. a
. m P.
3 S
o t-.
s %
a 5
o "
=3 S?
o 03 ^ 1-0
« -i I g ^ -2
5
o o
5 k
c
p.
g
o
.c
S -o
a c
> -c
O D J
O -g
— O
. p.
6i
S o. o
C3 C3 CO
3 H a
•a -s ^
£ -a P
<ij 7^ .« o
ft -2 -g S
CS £ C M
^5 S 3 .S
CO > c
m O -
ca O o
ft
O
IS
P4
.P o
t- o
(vqOr-^t^CiOOOO
i-H-^rHOOOOOOO
coCncDOOlOOOT-H
iriCOoOr-'OOU^OeO
CJ rH p—
t
<o
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Annual Report of the Councilfor 105
Revision of the Combined Index is proceeding, in preparation for the
time when the printing can be undertaken.
Mr Whately Carington has been continuing his work on Paranormal
Cognition under a grant from the Leverhuhne Research Fellowships
Trust. A paper describing the theoretical conclusions to which he has
been led was published in Proceedings, Part 168.
Attention is being mainly devoted at present to the differences between
individual percipients, between sexes and between originals, and to the
interactions of these factors with each, other
—
e.g. such questions as
whether women are superior or inferior to men, whether some percipients
are really more successful than others, or whether the superiority of one
sex over the other (if any) is independent of the nature of the original. It
is hoped that a full report will be available shortly.
{b) The recent publication in the United States of America of articles on
psycho-kinesis, mentioned in the last Annual Report, has caused many of
our members to conduct experiments in this matter so far as their limited
leisure permitted. The Council hope that circumstances will soon make
possible the undertaking of experiments on a larger scale.
(c) Several cases of interest have been reported to the Officers of the
Society or to individual members and have been followed up as far as
practicable in war conditions.
At a Council Meeting held on 26th May, 1943, it was suggested that
there should be a repetition of the Census of Hallucinations. So
ambitious a project was considered unlikely to succeed in war time, and
another was proposed, not so much to test the frequency and distribution
of apparitional experiences, as to get in some more cases.
This was to use the principle of the " round-robin " in order to pass
the original Census question to a number of people without involving
a lot of clerical work. Starting with a number of circular letters, bear-
ing the Census Question and certain instructions, these were sent to
selected individuals who were asked to divide the packet into two and
send each half to a friend, who was asked to divide again and send on, and
so on. Anyone having had such an experience as the Census Question
referred to was asked to coro.municate with the S.P.R. for further quest-
ioning.
Six packets of circular letters were sent off from six centres simultane-
ously on or about the 3rd July, 1943. Only two poor cases were the result,
and it is to be presumed that many people did not send on the packets of
letters they received.
The Discussion Meetings referred to in the last Annual Report have
been successfully continued this year. The general interest aroused by
them has resulted in the meetings being thrown open to all members of the
Society and to their being announced beforehand in the Journal whenever
practicable. In fact they differ very little from the Private meetings of the
Society except that the papers are shorter and less formal, and a longer
time is allowed for subsequent discussion, which is usually lively and well
maintained. They give the ordinary member an opportunity, which he
apparently appreciates, of putting forward his individual point of view
without undue formality. A Hst of these meetings is printed at the end of
this Report.
io6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
The finances of the Society are in a sound condition, and it has not been
found necessary during 1944 to ask the trustees of the Research Endow-
ment Fund for any assistance to the General Fund. It should however be
borne in mind that as soon as paper control is released, the expenditure
on printing will rise, so that every effort should be made to increase the
Society's income.
The Council feel sure that all their members will be glad to learn of the
generous gesture of the publishers of the Journal of Parapsychology (Duke
University Press, Durham, N. Carolina) in notifying all subscribers who
are members of our Society that " those who wished to do so might con-
tribute the subscription price of four dollars a year to the work of the
S.P.R. with the compliments of the Parapsychology Laboratory ".
With a view to maintaining the financial position of the Society's
General Fund the Society let on a yearly tenancy from Midsummer three
rooms on the ground floor to Dr and Mrs Bendit, both of whom are mem-
bers of the Society, for use as consulting rooms.
Presidency. Dr Thouless kindly agreed to a third year of office as
President. The Council feel that their and the Society's special thanks are
due to him for the great amount of time and care he has devoted to the
Society's work at a period of great difficulty.
Obituary. Among the losses by death during 1944, besides Dr T. W.
Mitchell whose death is recorded in the present issue of the Journal, must
be mentioned Mr N. M. McWharrie, a very generous benefactor of the
Society ; Mr Leopold H. Myers, a son of F. W. H. Myers, of whose
Human Personality he edited an abridgment ; Professor R. F. A. Lloernle
and Miss H. A. Dallas.
Library. We are glad to record an increase in the number of books
borrowed by members during the year. 86 Members borrowed 669 books as
compared with 77 who borrowed 545 books last year ; and 30 books were
borrowed by the National Central Library for Students.
Membership of the Society. 47 new Members and 10 Student-
Associates were elected, a record for recent years, being equal to 1934 and
higher than any other year for the last ten years. The total loss from
deaths, resignations etc. is 34, leaving a net increase of 24 in the total
membership of the Society, which now stands at 612.
Publications. One Part of Proceedings was published during the year
(Part 168) in July.
The Secretary's sale to the general public amounted to £38.3.7 and to
members of the Society 44.0.7, and 2,3-4-ii through the Society's Agent
in the United States, showing an increase of ^(^49 on last year's sale of
the Proceedings and Journal.
Meetings. The following Meetings have been held during the year :
25 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
" On Precognition " by Mr Kenneth Richmond.
4 Nov. " Some Recent Investigations into the Borley Rectory Case " by
Mr A. J. B. Robertson.
Discussion Meetings :
20 Jan. Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell on " The Subliminal Self."
17 Feb. Dr Hettinger on " The Ultra-perceptive Faculty."
16 Mar. Mr D. Parsons on " Spirit Photography."
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Investigations into the Barley Rectory Case
13 Apl. Mr Abdy Collins on " The Morton Ghost?."
II May Mr Tyrrell on "Apparitions."
15 June Mrs Heywood on " Extra Sensory Perception."
4 Oct. Dr E. Graham Howe on " Death, from This Side."
2 Nov. Mr W. H. Salter on " Spontaneous Phenomena: How they are
Investigated and their Significance."
7 Dec. Miss Theodora Bosanquet on " Can we Develop the Psi
Faculty?
"
SOME RECENT INVESTIGATIONS INTO THE BORLEY
RECTORY CASEi
By a. J. B. Robertson
BoRLEY Rectory, near Sudbury, Suffolk, is one of the more important
examples in recent times of a building said to be associated with certain,
phenomena usually described by the term " haunting ". Mr Harry Price
has directed much attention to the case, his earlier findings being
published in a book entitled The Most Haunted House in England : Ten
Years Investigation of Borley Rectory. The material presented in this book
carries on the story to 1939 : in February of that year the building caught
fire and was reduced to a ruin. Since then, various further investigations
have been carried out, including a number of nocturnal visits by students,
mostly from St John's College, Cambridge. These form the subject of
this report, and I am greatly indebted to my colleagues, without whose
collaboration such attention as we have been able to direct to this case
would not have been possible.
The number of persons who have spent one or more nights at the
remains of the Rectory during this investigation is fifty-eight, the total
number of visits amounting to twenty-five. In nearly all cases the ap-
proach of these observers to the question of haunting in general was one
of some scepticism. About one-third of the investigators reported nothing
at all out of the ordinary, about another third described incidents which
they thought might not be expected to occur in the normal way, and the
remaining third described events which seemed to them to be definitely
rather unusual. It seemed to us desirable to record those happenings
which were not obviously explicable in normal terms, even though it
might have been possible, with the help of a sufficiency of hypotheses, to
suggest a normal explanation for the various incidents. An examination
of the reports prepared by the various parties of investigators reveals that
noises, and in particular sounds of knockings and footsteps, are the most
common of the curious incidents. They have in fact been described by so
many of the investigators that it does not seem necessary to doubt the fact
of their occurrence, although the question of whether it is necessary to
advance any explanation for these noises, other than purely normal events,
as for example doors banging and beams creaking, is a matter on which
it is perhaps desirable to express more cautious views. Apart from the
^ Summary of a paper read by Mr. Robertson at a Private Meeting of the Society,
4 Nov. 1944.
io8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
auditory phenomena, no other effects of relatively frequent occurrence
have been observed by us. On a few occasions, however, certain events of
a non-auditory nature were noted : in particular, a few visual impressions,
some peculiar temperature effects, two uncertain cases of markings
appearing in pencil on paper, and one doubtful case of the displacement of
an object. It is convenient, before discussing the auditory phenomena, to
consider briefly some points concerning these other happenings.
Only six cases of interesting visual phenomena have been reported
during our investigations : they consist of two occasions when one of the
observers present thought he saw a luminous patch of light appearing
on the wails for a few seconds, another occasion when an observer who
was proceeding to investigate some definite noises resembling footsteps
thought he saw a black shape which moved from the moonlight into the
shadows and was not visible on subsequent illuminatioh, and another
time when an observer thought he saw a white object crossing the lawn in
front of the Rectory. In these four instances only one person witnessed
the effect, and since it is so easy to be mistaken with fleeting impressions
of this kind, it seems desirable to attach little weight to these obsei-vations.
It is, however, more difficult to dismiss the two remaining accounts of
visual phenomena, since the appearances were of much longer duration
and were both seen by two observers at the same time. In one case, in
June 1943, two investigators on the first floor of the Rectory saw a white
shape at the base of a tree just outside the building. The shape was
som.ewhat globular in outline, and about six feet high. On shining a torch
on it they could see nothing unusual, but on switching oft the torch
the shape was again visible. The observers then departed to take some
temperature readings, and on their return they could not see the shape.
They suggested that the eff ect might have been due to the bark of the tree
fluorescing. In the other case, in April 1944, an investigator watching the
ruins from the garden reported a white, pale and indistinct light, which he
saw hovering over the ruins three times at different places during a period
of half an hour. On the third occasion he woke up a colleague with him,
who also saw the light. Three other observers sleeping in the ruins in the
region of this light were not affected in any way.
Mention is made in many accounts of haunting of cold feelings and
breezes which are said to accompany the appearance of apparitions, and
in some cases to arise spontaneously. If these are of an objective nature,
they raise problems of some interest from a physical and thermodynamical
viewpoint. During our visits to the Rectory, we have made altogether
about one thousand observations of temperature, mostly at a particular
point in the Rectory known as the " cold spot ", where strong and dis-
agreeable sensations of cold have sometimes been noted by people who
stand there. On only one occasion, in June 1943, was any unusual effect
reported from readings at this place. Two similar mercury thermometers
were placed a few inches apart on the " cold spot ", one being inserted
into a glass test-tube through a closely fitting rubber stopper, whereas the
other was freely exposed to the atmosphere. According to the readings
taken by the investigators, the enclosed thermometer cooled to 11° F.
below the exposed one. This effect, if not due to an error of some kind,
could arise from the operation of a process of heat removal in the neigh-
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Investigatiojis into the Bovley Rectory Case 109
bourhood of the enclosed thermometer. On another occasion, some rather
large fluctuations in temperature were noted at another part of the Rectory
away from the " cold spot ". On repeating the experiments on subsequent
occasions nothing significant was found, so that it would be unwise to
regard the experimental data as in any way established. It is in fact
generally true to say that during our investigations at Borley the non-auditory
phenomena have been so sparse that it does not seem desirable to draw
any special conclusions from them, except perhaps in a speculative manner.
Turning finally to a consideration of the auditory phenomena, it is
apparent that these are on the whole rather attenuated in comparison with
similar phenomena which have been described in connection with other
cases, including the Borley case itself before the fire in 1939. The fre-
quency with which curious noises have been reported (slightly less than
half the total number of nights) is sufficiently high to enable several
general features to be discerned. It is, of course, important to note that
of the effects we have experienced, noises are probably the most likely to
arise from quite normal causes. The noises are variously described by the
investigators as footsteps, knockings, tappings, hammerings, thuds, bangs,
cracks, rumblings, the padding of feet, the stamping of horse's hooves,
and whisthngs. They usually consist of a regular repetition of the
same sound, or a sequence of similar noises. The duration of the sounds is
usually only some seconds, but more rarely it may be a considerable num-
ber of minutes. The definite noises have nearly all been experienced in
the ruins of the building, the chief exception being the sound of horse's
hooves which, according to five investigators, arose in the lane outside the
building. The footsteps appear to be distinguished from the other noises
by the manner in which they seem to traverse part of the building, pro-
ceeding for example round a room or along a corridor. Thus three inves-
tigators in September 1942 heard footsteps crossing the room above that in
which they were sitting for several minutes. Again in June 1943 two inves-
tigators heard many noises, there being at one time a sound as of someone
travelling round the room in which they were in, and flicking the walls
with a duster. Nothing, however, was visible. In general there appears
to be no special reason why the footsteps should arise when they do, where-
as the knockings and thuds are most frequently noted some five or ten
minutes after an investigator has called on any " entity " to demonstrate
its presence by knocking. For example, two observers in December 1941
made this request, suggesting a code of one knock for " Yes ", two for
" No ", and three for " I don't know " : five minutes later they heard
nine double knocks, which according to the code might have replied " No "
nine times. Somewhat similar eftects were noted on other nights, and on
one occasion (July 1944) the knockings continued for three quarters of an
hour, answering by the code over fifty questions put by the investigators.
The situation was rendered rather more complex than usual on this
night by the presence of persons endeavouring to fake ghostly phenomena.
The five investigators on arriving at Borley found that the Rectory had been
almost completely pulled down and removed. They therefore retired to
a small wooden summer house in the garden to sleep. Meanwhile four
more students arrived and prepared a faked apparition which, following
the general path of a traditional spectral nun, walked several times across
no Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
the lawn without being observed. This lack of attention on the part of the
investigators was rectified by some " poltergeist " phenomena, whereupon
they observed the apparition and were duly impressed, thinking it genuine.
At about three a.m. the fakers retired to a haystack for the night, and about
fifteen minutes later the investigators heard a considerable number of
faint knockings coming from somewhere amongst them. After some
minutes they asked questions, using the code already mentioned. The
knockings proclaimed their origin to be a nun who had died about 1250,
and also claimed to have been responsible for the faked apparition and
poltergeist etfects. It is interesting to note that this erroneous claim
corresponds to the ideas which the investigators had at the time, a fact
suggesting that the knockings were associated with the investigators in
some way, and not with any objective " entity ".
The auditory phenomena we have experienced at Borley have been
perceived by all the observers in a suitable position to do so (with one
minor exception) : this makes more difficult any hypothesis based on the
assumption of the subjective nature of these noises. Another generalisa-
tion becomes apparent on examining the distribution of the noises with
respect to the position of the observers. In nearly every case in which the
location of the noises is described, they are separated from the observers
by a wall or ceiling : in a very few cases more than one wall intervened,
and in only one case w^ere the noises produced in the same room as the
observers. It is also apparent from our experiences that the noises are
heard more especially when the observers are in or near a particular room
(the sewing room). It is very unusual for any noises to be noted when the
observers are moving about in the ruins.
Such in brief outline are the main facts emerging from our investiga-
tions. It is clear that any argument for the intervention of some para-
normal factor in these experiences would have to be based essentially on
the auditory phenomena, and it is precisely these which are most likely
to arise in a normal manner. The nature of the noises in some cases, and
the apparent manifestation of a certain modicum of intelligence in others,
together with the various generalisations already mentioned, render some-
what difficult an explanation in terms of the usual fortuitous happenings
which might be expected to arise in ruined buildings. There is also, of
course, much independent work bearing on the Borley Rectory case.
Bearing these points in mind, I am myself inclined at present to refrain
from expressing very definite views as to the true meaning of our observa-
tions, but it seems that further investigations into other cases of haunting
might yield results of an interesting nature from a physical as well as a
psychological viewpoint : and possibly some of the indications we have
obtained may be of some use to future investigators.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—Dr Wilson's article on " The Sensitivity of Card-guessing Experi-
ments " raises a question of some practical importance, since it is desirable
that those using card-guessing experiments should use the most economi-
cal number of alternatives and there is no reason for supposing that the
JAN.-FEB. 1945
'
Correspondence iii
number of alternatives (five) provided in the Zener pack is the most econ-
omical. I have, in fact, reason for supposing that it is not, and I have
found a return to the old-fashioned method of using the 52 alternatives of
the pack of playing cards gives a more sensitive method of experimenting.
But we do not know that 52 is the right number to use; it may be 100 or a
higher number.
Dr Wilson is undoubtedly correct in saying that if the number of cor-
rectly cognised cards is independent of the number of alternatives then the
sensitivity of the experiment will increase with the number of alternative
choices. But if the number of correctly cognised cards is not independent of
the number of alternatives, then the determination of what kind of pack will
be most sensitive is a matter of experiment and not merety of mathematics.
I have some experimental evidence bearing on this question. First, I
found {British Journal of Psychology, July 1942), that if success in guessing
playing cards was scored by the number of times the hit was on the num-
ber instead of on the whole card, the deviation from expectation was just
about the same in the two cases. But the sensitivity of the experiment
was, of course, greater when the guess was on the whole card since the
mean chance expectation was lower. Many years before I had pointed
out that the same thing was found in Coover's card-guessing experiment
{Proc, S.P.R. XLIII). So sensitivity is raised by increasing the number
of alternatives from 13 to 52.
On the other hand, I had some indications that it v.as of no use to try
indefinitely to increase the sensitivity of the experiment by increasing the
number of alternative choices. When I substituted 3 -figure numbers as
the material to be guessed, I had no successes at all. So with 999 alter-
natives, the rate of scoring was zero. It is true that, by this time, my rate
of scoring with the playing cards had also become low. But it was not
zero and the same proportion of successes with the three-figure numbers
as was at the same time obtained with playing cards would have given a
highly significant result. So it appears that the number of rightly cognised
guesses may not be independent of the number of choices, but may go
down after the number of choices is made too high.
I should, of course, have liked at this stage to go on to determine what
was the optimal number of alternative choices for maximum sensitivity of
the experiment, but the rate of scoring was too low for this to be possible.
For the solution of the problem we should need a subject who consistently
scored at a high rate. Mrs Goldney and Mr Soal have been working with
such a subject. Other psychical research workers would be grateful to
them if they would obtain a solution of this problem.
I have assumed in the above discussion that the number of alternative
choices is the only factor determining frequency of correctly cognised
responses. I think it is doubtful whether this is the case. I found that
using the conventional five alternative choices I got no significant difii'er-
ence from mean chance expectation when guessing Zener cards and vv'hen
guessing five difterent colours, but a significant excess of right guesses
when the problem was to guess the number of dots on cards with i, 2, 3,
4, or 5 dots. Apparently the difference between the numbers from i to 5
was more interesting (or for some other reason more eft'ective in determin-
ing responses) than the difl^erences between Zener cards or the difl^erences
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
between colours. Failure to guess the three-figure numbers may, there-
fore, be due to the sam.e kind of difficulty and not merely to the large num-
ber of alternatives. It must be remembered that Mr Whately Carington
has had positive results with picture guessing experiments where the num-
ber of alternatives is indefinitely large.
This consideration removes the problem of getting maximum sensitivity
even further from the region of mathematics. Nor is it likely that the
problem of the optima! kind of guess can be solved for us by any other
experimenter. It may well be an individual factor and it may be necessary
for every experimenter to find out for his own subjects, what kind of
guesses they can most easily make.
The simple problem still remains. Within any one kind of material
what is the number of choices that will give maximum sensitivity to a
card-guessing experiment? Dr Wilson has asked the question. It is for
somiC experimenter to answer it.
Yours etc.,
R. H. Thouless
Sir,—In a letter to the Journal of Nov.-Dec, 1944, Sir Ernest Bennett,
complaining of the evidential standard of two recent Journal cases (Vol.
XXXIII, pp. 34-40 and pp. 72-74), contrives to give a distorted account of
both. Without claiming that these are among the best cases on record,
it may yet be pointed out that the strength of the first lies in the fact that a
meticulously accurate witness stated that she and her sister had lived for
three years in a house which, they had never heard was haunted and had
decided to leave it at the end of that time on account of their haunt-like
experiences. What explanation does Sir Ernest Bennett suggest.'' Vivid
imagination coupled vv'ith chance, or that the witness was deliberately
falsifying the facts?
The whole of the witnesses' account was naturally published, although
it was pointed out that the chance-factor in respect of some of the details
was difficult to estimate. A normal, though improbable, explanation was
suggested for the bent railing ; but a detailed examination of this showed
that Sir Ernest Bennett's view that it v/as " obviously due to a motor
vehicle " would have been more satisfactory to Dr Watson than to
Sherlock Holmes.
With regard to the second case, if Sir Ernest Bennett refers to the early
cases published by the S.P.R., he will find that many of them were not
recorded till long after the event. He again m.isrepresents the evidential
standing of the case by quoting incidental remarks of the witness as if they
formed the principal evidence on which the case depends.
Yours etc.,
G. N. M. Tyrrell
Sir,—May a member of the rank and file ask for guidance? In the Novem-
ber-December number of the Journal Sir Ernest Bennett pleads for more
scientific standards of evidence in the Society's publications. He then
refers to the Haunted House case in the Nov.-Dec. No. of '43 and states
that slight damage to a garden wall was " obviously due to a motor vehicle."
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Correspondence "3
Did he examine the wall at the time? If not, how is he, by his own stand-
ards, able to make so categorical a statement in the face of detailed technical
reasons against such a view given by a trained engineer and research
worker, who had seen the wall.-' He then mentions only " the bad smell
in the bathroom " but not that a similar smell was reported to occur in
other places and on each occasion disappeared by itself. One could wish
physically caused bad smells shared this good habit. And so on with
other pieces of evidence. Is not Mr Tyrrell's the more scientific attitude?
He merely records that an unusual number of unpleasant events occurred
in a given time, that for some of them no physical cause could be traced
and that subsequently it was learned that before these events the house
was said to have a bad reputation. He then suggests that it would be
interesting to observe if such events continue.
Sir Ernest comments on the apparitional case in the Sept. -Oct. number
of the Journal, 1944, and seems to imply that because the percipient uses that
illtreated word " psychic " and writes " I often seem to know when things
are going to happen " she must either be a fool or a knave. Why does the
fact that the percipient uses simple rather than technical wording make
her account less worthy of credence? She might have written " I have
known my maid receive apparent spontaneous extra sensory impressions
resembling those induced experim.entally by Carington and Soal. I myself
have frequently experienced what appeared to be precognitive extra sen-
sory impressions." Could we then have taken her seriously?
I am not competent to comment on Sir Ernest's third cause of distress,
Dr Layard's paper. Mr Dingwall says that the theory that " poltergeist
phenomena are telekinetic expressions of unconscious conflict in the mind
of the agent " is commonplace to our leaders. In that case do not we of
the rank and file owe our thanks to Dr Layard for having been the first to
attempt to step it down to us ? And is it not a matter of interest that such
a theory should have been arrived at, though possibly in a more intuitive
manner, by an expert in another branch of research?
Yours, etc.,
,
- •
Rosalind Heywood
Sir,—I agree with those members of the Society who have been writing to
you to protest against some of the papers and cases recently printed. But
as my objections are of considerably wider scope, including even contribu-
tions by one of the protestants, it may be judicious for me to abstain on this
occasion. I must, however, protest against the editorial note on page 96 of
the current number of the Jouynal. If " the Journal prints the best cases
that it can get " is a considered statement of policy, then it implies an
abandonment of critical standards which will inevitably relegate the
Society to the level of a non-scientific body. If not, this unfortunate
phrase had better be withdrawn quickly and emphatically.
Yours, etc.,
Theodore Besterman
(The note in question did not say that the Journal is prepared to print
stories which should not be classed as cases. Considered criticism of our
114 ' Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
standard is far from unwelcome ; but the main need is for more material
of high quality, and we look expectantly to our critics for help in bringing
such material to light.
—
Ed.)
Sir,—Although less competent than others to criticise Dr Layard's paper,
the undersigned younger members of the Society deprecate its publication
without comment in Proceedings. We therefore suggest that a precis of the
Journal correspondence should appear in the next part of Proceedings.
(Signed) D. Parsons
D. West
G. Medhurst
P. BURMAN
-
. .
F. Jackson
J. M. Harrison
Sir,—It is with some cheerfulness that I have read the renewed criticisms
of my paper which have appeared in your November-December issue,
since it has dawned on my simple mind that the lowering of the standard
of publication by the S.P.R. about which four out of the six correspondents
complain has not come from my serious contribution but from the cloud of
largely personal and often ignorant abuse that has emanated from» these
members themselves.
In fact, this exhibition . itself illustrates on the psychological level
precisely what poltergeist phenomena do on the spiritual level, namely
that when the solution of a knotty problem is in sight but is at the same
time blocked by prejudice, that is the moment when dirt begins to fly.
This parallel is not a witty joke but is a true parallel, because sarcasm
instead of argument issues from the mouth or pen for just the same reasons
as inanimate objects become wantonly activated, that is to say through the
tension produced in the human soul by being brought face to face with
some deep inner truth which the one-sided intellect refuses to accept.
The power thus generated then gets out of control and runs amok.
This correspondence has been a perfect if not very edifying example of
this none too uncommon phenomenon. Each correspondent is fighting
blindly for " truth ", and, as such, receives my respect, but, being blind in
one eye (the psi eye), he misses the mark and his arrow nearly manages, as
in all such cases, to kill the very thing he needs. For years this Society has
played cat-and-mouse with its own marvellous material, being fascinated
by it (as is the mouse) but at the same time killing it by slow degrees (as
does the cat). The stalemate thus produced is at first irritating but finally
becomes a habit, and bad habits (including intellectual ones) fight like the
devil against any solution of their deadlock.
Mr Carington complains that Dr Thouless and Dr Wiesner have missed
the point. They are the only ones who have seen it, apart from many
private correspondents who, on seeing offprints, have written " Is the S.P.R.
at last going to move? ". He also complains that it is such uphill work
to persuade the scientific world to take the S.P.R. seriously. It certainly
will not take them seriously if this is the kind of reception considered
contributions receive. Nor can I add anything more in the course of a
short letter in answer to his renewed enquiry regarding causal connexions
JAN.-FEB. 1945 Correspondence "5
than what I have already said in my paper and subsequent letter appearing
in your September-October issue, except to repeat what I have said in both
places, namely that I do not claim to have proved anything, but simply to
have put forward a few cases out of many possible ones as a basis for
future research. That such research will be carried out and brought to
a successful conclusion I have no doubt. Psychologists have great wealth
of material to support it, though they are handicapped in producing it on
account of the confidential nature of much of their information. But the
psychical research worker has no such check placed on his activities, and
should take advantage of it, though he will have to have psychologists to
help him.
Dr Dingwall interests me, since, while maintaining the standard of this
correspondence in the generally devaluing tone of his remarks, having
referred to my paper in one phrase as being " almost unintelligible " he in
the same sentence shows his perfect grasp of it and proceeds to support
almost all my contentions while at the same time claiming them as his own.
This is of course quite typical of a mind that works brilliantly along one
track but unwittingly contradicts itself by totally denying the other. I
willingly concede to him a few verbal inaccuracies such as the use of the
term " poltergeist " instead of " poltergeist phenomena ", but do not in
:any way go back on my suggestion that psi (meaning the un-named force)
uses not only visual impressions (to which, since he mentions them, I will
add noises) but also actual objects with which to convey its message. I
also plead guilty to not having seen Dr Meier's article in the Zentralblatt
to which he refers and which is unobtainable in Oxford, but the whole text
(in English) of the paper from which I quoted and which was delivered to
the Psychological Club in Zurich in 1938 has been sent to the head-
quarters of the S.P.R. to be copied for reference in case anyone wishes to
see it. I am particularly grateful to him for providing, with his wide
technical knowledge further valuable support for my thesis regarding the
causation and purpose of poltergeist phenomena by so aptlv recalling the
case of the Cure d'Ars. For this saint was well aware of the message con-
tained in the poltergeist phenomena that assailed him over a period of
thirty-five years (from 1824 to 1858), which he considered to be due to the
coniiict between what he regarded as the powers of good and evil raging
around his saintly person, a conflict he never fully resolved and which
therefore declared itself in this way. At first terrified bv them, he finally
came to recognise them as always heralding the resolution of some par-
ticular conflict, declaring that " when the persecution to which he was
subjected was more than usually violent, he received it as a sign of some
signal mercy or some special consolation about to be granted to him "
{The Cure D'Ars, by G. Molyneu,x, London, 1868, pp. 246-7). Some-
times the resolution of conflict that the phenomena heralded was not his
own but that of others, as on many occasions when pilgrims who were
great sinners came to him from a distance in order to be confessed by him
their approach was accompanied by especially violent phenomena {ibid.,
p. 426, and The Secret of the Cure D'Ars, by Henri Gheon, London, 1929,
p. 153. I take these references from books I happen to have to hand,
but similar statements occur in all the accounts). As for the special
messages conveyed, in the particularly humiliating instance mentioned by
ii6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1945
Dr Dingwall of the Cure's favourite devotional picture of the Assumption
being covered with excrement the message is clear, namely that he had not
yet achieved within his psyche a true synthesis between the highest and
the lowest, and that this was a problem he still had to tackle.
This correspondence has already occupied far too much of your valuable
space, so that I will not waste ink or time combating further pinpricks.
The last letter by Sir Ernest Bennett is best passed over in silence.
In winding up this correspondence and thanking the Committee of
Reference for its support, I should like to point out one thing, which is that,
what my paper was really about was the healing of split human souls.
Yours faithfully,
"
John Layard
(This correspondence must now cease.
—
Ed.)
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE :
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal
in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only." The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy. . , . •
'
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
March-April, 1945 Vol. XXXIII—No. 612-613
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting - - - - - - - 117
New Members - - - - - - - - ri8
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - 118
Annual General Meeting of the Society - - - - 119
Private Meetings of the Society - - - - - 120
Obituary - -- -- -- -- 120
Honours to Dr Soal and the Rev. V. G. Kirk-Duncan - 120
Precognition and the Uncertainty Principle - - - 121
Correspondence - - - - - - - - 122
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Saturday, 12th May 1945, at 3 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
THE INVESTIGATION OF NEUROSES BY THE
ULTRA-PERCEPTIVE FACULTY
WILL BE READ BY
MISS GERALDINE CUMMINS
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
ii8 Jojmtal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1945
r:. .
NEW MEMBERS -
•
{Elected 5 February 1945)
Beausobre, Mrs J. de, 60 The Grampians, London, W. 6.
Bullen, F. J., 23 Worthing Road, Heston, Middx.
Christie-Murray, Rev. D. H. A., 24, Overcliffe, Gravesend, Kent.
Clark, Mrs J. B., Overleigh House, Street, Somerset.
Ford, E. B., M.A., D.Sc, University Museum, Oxford. '
' ' "
Gardner, Lady, 23 Courtfield Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Gibbings, Robert, The Orchard, Wakham-Saint-Lawrence, nr Reading,
Berks.
Murton, H. J. D., 16 Queensberry Place, London, S.W. 7.
Rees, Ben, 73 Hounslow Road, Whitton, Twickenham, Middx.
{Elected 24 February 1945)
Barclay, Miss Vera C, 17 The Midway, Felpham, Bognor Regis.
Hankey, Mrs M. W., 1 1 1 Parkview Court, Fulham High Street, London,
S.W. 6.
" "
Johnson, Miss G. M., 25 Chester Row, London, S.W. i.
Pierce, W. M. L., 78 Faversham Road, London, S.E. 6.
Robinson, Lieut. J. W. C, R.N.V.R., Royal Naval Quarters, Blyth,
Northumberland.
Winby, Lt-Col L. P., Esher Lodge, Esher, Surrey.
Wydenbruck, Countess Nora, 13 Addison Gardens, London, W. 14.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 402nd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Saturday, 24 February 1945, at 2 p.m. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett, Mrs Goldney,
Mr G. W. Lambert, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr G.
*
Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal and Mr
G. N. M. Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Seven new Members were elected, and the election of nine new
Members elected by postal ballot on 5 February 1945 was ratified. Their
names and addresses are given above.
The Council filled the vacant place among their elected members, caused
by the death of Dr T. W. Mitchell, by appointing to it Mr Geoffrey
Redmayne, hitherto a co-opted member.
The 403rd Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, after the Annual General Meeting. The President in the
Chair. There were also present : Sir Ernest Bennett, Mrs Goldney, the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H.. Salter,
MAR.-APR. 1945 Meetings of t/ie Council 119
Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Dr R. H. Thouless, and Mr G. N. M.
Tyrrell ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell was unanimously elected President for the year
1945-6.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon A. C.
Strutt, R.N., Hon. Treasurer, and Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of
Proceedings.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The President, Professor C. D.
Broad, Professor H. H. Price, Mrs W. H. Salter and Dr R. H. Thouless.
Finance Comtnittee : Mrs Goldney, Mr G. W. Lambert, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Mr Percy Wilson.
House Committee : Miss I. Newton, Mr W. H. Salter and Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, the Hon. Mrs Gay, Mr D.
Parsons and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected for the
year 1945-6 as follows :
Corresponding Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Dr G. H. Hyslop, Professor P. Janet, Dr C. G. Jung, Count
C. von Klinckowstroem, M. Maurice Maeterhnck, Dr Gardner Murphy,
Professor T. K. Oesterreich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner, Mr C. Vett
and M. Rene Warcollier.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Mr J. Arthur Hill, the Rev.
W. S. Irving, Dr Eva Morton, Mr Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. Sage,
Mr B. Shackleton, Mr G. H. Spinney, Dr W. H. TenhaetT, Dr R. H.
Thouless, Miss Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
V
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, on Saturday, 24 February 1945, at
2.30 p.m. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Sir Ernest Bennett, Dr E. J.
Dingwall, Mrs Goldney, Mrs F. Heywood, Miss G. M. Johnson, Sir
Lawrence Jones, Bart., Mr G. W. Lambert, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lytteltdn,
G.B.E., Miss E. G. Mountford, Miss L Newton, Mr D. Parsons, Mr G.
Redmavne, Mr B. Rees, Mrs K. Richmond, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H.
Salter, Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, Dr B. Wiesner, and Mr G. A. Wood ; and
Dr Eva Morton (Hon. .\ssociate) and Mrs D. Parsons (Associate) ; also
Miss E. M. Horsell, y\ssistant-Secretary.
The Hon. Secretary having read the notice convening the Meeting, the
accounts and the Report were presented. Mr W. H. Salter moved the
adoption of the Annual Report and the Accounts of the Society, which had
already been circulated in the January-February Journal. This resolution
was seconded by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, and carried unanimously.
The Chairman announced that since the circulation of the Statutory
120 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1945
Notice Lord Balfour, one of the six members due to retire by rotation, had
died, and Mrs K. M. Goldney (hitherto a co-opted member of Council)
had been proposed to fill the vacancy. No other candidates having been
proposed, the following six members were accordingly unanimously
elected : Sir Ernest Bennett, M.P., Mrs K. M. Goldney, Dr S. G. Soal, the
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas, Dr R. H. Thouless and Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell.
On the proposal of Mr W. H. Salter, seconded by Mrs W. H. Salter,
Messrs Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors for the forth-
coming year.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 182nd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday, 24 February 1945, after the Annual General Meeting. Dr
R. H. Thouless read a paper on "An Experiment on Symbolism in Tele-
pathy".
The 183rd Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday 24th March 1945, when Dr E. J. Dingwall read a paper on
" Lights and Shadows on D. D. Home ". Dr Dingwall has kindly left a
copy of his paper with the Secretary, who will send it to any member wish-
ing to read it, on receipt of the postage.
OBITUARY
We learn with deep regret of the death of Dr Angelos Tanagras of Athens,
an Honorary Associate of our Society, and a leading member of the
Hellenic S.P.R.
Dr Tanagras took the initiative in promoting the Fourth International
Congress for Psychical Research held in Athens in 1930, and it was largely
due to his friendliness and tact that the Congress proved so enjoyable to all
who took part in it. He actively co-operated with the S.P.R. in long-range
telepathy experiments between Athens and London.
The time and circumstances of his death are at present unknown to us.
HONOURS TO S.P.R. MEMBERS
Our members will learn with lively gratification that the University of
London has conferred the degree of Doctor of Science on our Council
Member, Dr S. G. Soal, for his work in E.S.P., and will wish to congratulate
him on this distinction which crowns many years of difficult, ingenious and
patient research.
Last Summer our member the Rev. V. G. Kirk-Duncan of Magdalen
College, Oxford, was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy by
Oxford University for " A Study of Certain Aspects of Prima Facie Extra-
sensory Cognition ".
Thus in little over a year Oxford, Cambridge (Dr Bendit) and London
Universities have each for the first time awarded the degree of Doctor for
work in psychical research.
MAR.-APR. 1945 Precognition and the Uncertainty Principle 121
PRECOGNITION AND THE UNCERTAINTY PRINCIPLE
A Note by Richard Wilson
1. Heisenberg's Principle of Uncertainty states that if we have two con-
jugated co-ordinates p, q (such that pq is an " action "),
then if^ is measured to an accuracy Ap, an inaccuracy in q is introduced
which has an average value Aq where Ap, Aq = h, h being Planck's
universal Quantum of Action.
2. Lord CherwelVs fundamental thesis.
In his book " The Physical significance of the Quantum Theory " Lord
Cherwell builds up Quantum Mechanics from a fundamental thesis, which
can briefly be stated as follows :
{a) The present conceptions of space and time are inadequate to
describe atomic phenomena ; the concept of length depends on the use
of a measuring rod which cannot be used without disturbing the bodies
whose distance apart we desire to measure.
{b) The human mind developed these concepts of length by considera-
tion of the common macroscopic phenomena. It is incapable of con-
sidering a more fundamental system.
(c) We must pay the price for our inadequate representation of reality ;
the price being Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle.
(d) It is of no value to discuss a co-ordinate of a particle unless we con-
sider that we have measured the co-ordinate.
(e) If we do so measure the co-ordinate to an accuracy Ap intro-
duce an average error in the conjugate co-ordinate of Aq where
Ap, Aq = h.
(/) The time integral of any co-ordinate must be equal to the classical
value calculated for that co-ordinate. \
Using this thesis, Lord Cherwell deduces Sommerveld's fundamental
assumptions, and Pauli's Principle, and reconciles the Fermi-Dirac and
Einstein- Bose statistics.
3. Application to E.S.P.
Lord Cherwell 's thesis does satisfy many of the requirements of
Quantum Mechanics. We may therefore take it as a basis upon which to
build a theory of E.S.P.
Assumption i.
E.S.P. is a physical process or semi-physical process.
Assumption 2.
It requires a certain amount of energy E, where £ is a function of the
sensitive concerned.
122 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1945
Observation i.
The conjugated co-ordinate of Energy is Time. ;
Observation 2.
The energy capable of being used is probably very small, for it has not
yet been detected. " -
Observation 2-
It is no use discussing the magnitude of this energy unless we attribute
to the conjugated co-ordinate—time—the appropriate average error.
Observation 4.
: The maximum average error with which we can measure E, is E itself
_
for the time-integral of the error is zero and we cannot have a negative
energy.
Deduction.
There is an inaccuracy Zl; in the time where •
.
At.E = h= J X 10^^'' erg.sec. " '
' *
4. Suggestion fur an Inaccuracy theory of E.S.P.
(a) If an energy S is used for a certain cognition, then an average error of
hjE results in the time.
This appears to occur in the case of Mr Basil Shackleton. He either
cognises 3 seconds in advance or 3 seconds in retard. It appears, therefore,
that for the conditions of the Soal-Goldney experiments, Basil Shackleton
has a value of
E = h/2 sees. =2 X io~^' ergs.
If this is true it is no wonder that E has not yet been detected.
Presumably the error varies about the mean value by a Gaussian Error
law. This ought to be verified—or otherwise—by experiments with more
accurate timing.
(b) A sensitive who has some sort of vision may have a clear, distinct
image. If this is so, one would expect him to be vague about time.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—We are comparatively new members of the Society. But for some
years we have felt that a time must soon come when it would have to take
stock of itself and its position in the scientific world. For, according to
what it decides, it can either keep alive the pioneer spirit of its founders,
who, despite the unpopularity of the subject, set to work and established
psychical research on a scientific footing, or else it can become a kind of
geological museum of dead facts, carefully docketed and labelled and
locked away in cases—and as dreary as only a geological museum can be.
Recent events and correspondence seem to show that this time has come.
The crux of the matter seems to be whether we are to be allowed to con-
sider new ways of approach to the problems of the human psyche, which
involve subjective experience, or whether we are to be compelled to stick
MAR.-APR. 1945 Correspondence 123
closely to what its protagonists still believe to be the only scientific attitude,
eliminating from our researches everything but objective assessment.
Let us not, from the first, be misled into thinking that the highly vocal
section of the membership which, in the sacred name of Science, deplores
and decries what it claims to be a depreciation of critical standards, is
actually being scientific : it might have been, fifty years ago. But science
has changed, and nowhere more so than in the field of psychology, of
which psychical research is a branch. Originally, science was defined as
measurement. This was enough where the physical sciences were con-
cerned. But biology meant that the definition had to be extended to
include the assessment of facts, observed by the human mind, but often
unable to be measured by the physical yardstick. When it came to the
study of the mind itself, still further extension was needed. Behaviourist
psychology was a failure for the simple reason that it told us nothing about
the psyche except from the very outermost fringes. It was found necessary
to include, besides assessment of fact, assessment of meaning and values :
i.e., the subjective field, and one almost entirely beyond the scope of the old
methods. And here the scientific mind (" scientific " means knowledge-
making, let us remember) had to adopt a new standpoint, and to be willing
to study and consider material of an elusive and intangible kind, but never-
theless essential to any real understanding of the subject. Science thus
took up the attitude expressed by Professor MacMurray when he said that
no statement or opinion expressed must be considered as entirely untrue :
if it were quite untrue, it would not have been made. The task became, not
one of sticking labels, " True " or " False " on to such things, but to see
wherein the truth lay, and how it fitted in with or modified other established
knowledge.
This is what some people tell us we must not do, because to do so means
abandoning objective standards. But the real scientist is surely one who is
concerned first and foremost with trying to understand his material, and
who himself remains objective whether the material be itself subjective or
objective.
Experimental work is essential, and has been well done in the past. We
need have no fears that it will not go on being well done in the future. But,
if we want to understand the human mind, it is surely equally essential to be
willing to study the fruits of subjective experience as well. The experi-
mentalist is the map-maker of the psyche. But one gets only a very flat
idea of a country by studying a map. One needs to add to what the sur-
veyor tells us, the far less objective and accurate results of what the painter
or the photographer shows us. But this is precisely what the objectors do
not want us to do.
We joined the S.P.R. because we wanted to get to know about matters
psychical in their relation to the mind in general. We imagine that in this
we are not alone, and that the majority of the members, like ourselves, are
more interested in the subject itself than in the question whether it is
approached by one particular road or by another, or by many. And it
would surely be wrong, as well as in the true sense unscientific, to allow
ourselves to be tied down to an orthodoxy which is really outworn and
outmoded. Granted that critical standards must be upheld: but there are
many more ways than one of upholding these, and we sincerely trust that
124 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar-apr. 1945
those responsible for the policy of the Society will insist on this eclec-
ticism, and not allow it to be forced into a narrow dogmatic channel from
which no departure is allowed.
Yours etc.,
Laurence J. Bendit
Phoebe D. Bendit
Sir,—" The Sensitivity of Card-guessing Experiments " by Dr Wilson,
and Dr Thouless' subsequent letter, will have been read with especial
interest by those who contemplate the design of apparatus which involves
the use of selector mechanism for determining, in a random fashion, the
sequence of symbols which is to be presented to the subject ; for the
flexibility of such apparatus (in relation to probability of success per trial)
has obviously to be considered in the initial stages of design.
While few designers would care to choose a probability of (say) on
account of the complexity of the switching system, it is suggested that
probabilities between \ and yo might reasonably be considered, from the
technical aspect.
Within the limits mentioned above, and bearing in mind particularly the
question of sensitivity, it would appear that the most suitable probability is
j^, for the reasons following :
It is assumed that most apparatus will make use of commutators or
analogous switching systems. If the apparatus is designed to operate with
the standard probability of \, no flexibility in probability is normally
possible—that is to say, one cannot readily make adjustments to alter the
probability of success per trial, for the reason that five commutator seg-
ments cannot be grouped so as to bring about a balanced change. Here we
see evidence of the vice inherent in commutators when employed for the
purposes under review. Suppose, however, that a probability of has
been chosen for the apparatus for the following additional probabilities
—
\, J, |. Thus it will be seen that a probability of xe will give a flexibility to
the apparatus which would not be possible with any other value within the
limits mentioned above.
On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the proposal to
abandon entirely the probability of \ is not without its disadvantages, in
view of the various tables which are available for use in respect of a proba-
bility of success per trial of \. If the sacrifice in this respect seems to be
too great, then the apparatus could be designed to operate with a proba-
bility of which will permit of adjustments to give, in addition, proba-
bilities of Yo 3nd 3:. But there are reasons, peculiar to test apparatus of the
type with which we are here concerned, which lead me to suppose that -jV
is to be preferred—quite apart from flexibility per se.
It may be that some apparatus about to be designed would not permit of
adjustments calculated to give a flexibility of the type described ; but I
find it difficult to visualize a case in which the principles outlined above
would not apply.
Yours, etc.,
Geoffrey Redmayne
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
for Private Circulation amongst Members and Associates only
May, 1945 - Vol. XXXIII—No. 614
Notice of Meeting
New Members
Meeting of the Council
Discussion Meeting
Miss Cummins Case
Correspondence -
CONTENTS
PAGE
125
------- 126
126
126
126
130
NOTICE OF MEETING
A GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held at
Manson House, Portland Place
, ON _
Wednesday, 20 June, 1945 at 6 p.m.
WHEN
THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
Mr G. N. M. TYRRELL
N.B.
—
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Visitors will be admitted on production of an invitation card signed
by a Member or Associate.
126 Journal of Society for Psychical Research
NEW MEMBERS
MAY 1945
Carter, John A., 3 Stoughton Drive North, Leicester.
Cullen, Gerard, 24 Alms Hill Road, Manchester, 8.
Douglass, Ernest, 16 Newton Terrace, Glasgow, C. 3.
Frew, W. M. A., Paradise, Pa., U.S.A.
Harris, Rev. Bernard J., 42 Hamilton Road, Reading, Berks.
Neff, F/O Douglas A., R.C.A.F. Station, Topcliffe, Yorks.
Rhondda, Viscountess, Churt Halewell, Shere, Surrey.
Stapledon, Olaf, Simon's Field, Caldy, West Kirby, Wirral.
Stott, M. D., 9 Pembroke Crescent, Hove 3, Sussex.
Troup Horne, Mrs P. M., Connaught Hall, 18 Torrington Square,
London, W.C. i.
Vernon, John G., 6 Gertrude Terrace, Exmouth, Devon.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 404th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 12 April 1945, at 2.30 p.m. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Mrs K. M. Goldney, the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr W. H. Salter, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas and Dr R. H. Thouless ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Eleven new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The co-optation was renewed for the year 1945-46 of Sir Robert Gower.
Miss Theodora Bosanquet, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mr D. A. H. Parsons and
Mr D. J. West were co-opted members of Council for the year 1945-46.
DISCUSSION MEETING
14 June 1945. Captain W. H. Trinder on " Dowsing ".
SOME RECENT COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED
THROUGH MISS GERALDINE CUMMINS
Miss Gibbes reports to the Society the following case of communications
received by her through Miss Geraldine Cummins from a friend of Miss
Gibbes, of whose death Miss Cummins, then living in Eire, had not heard.
Several correct statements were made as regards facts unknown to Miss
Cummins, some of them being also unknown to Miss Gibbes. Pseudo-
nyms are used for the names (other than the Christian name) of this friend
and of her family and her residence.
In December 1943 a Mrs Alice Horley of Brickhill near Longmead,
—shire, died and her death was reported in the English press. Mrs
Horley had been an acquaintance of Miss Gibbes, and a friend of her
MAY 1945 Miss Cummins Case 127
sister-in-law, Hilda, who died in 1941. From Hilda Miss Gibbes has
received several communications through Miss Cummins, some of which
are reported in the Journal for May-June 1942. The nephew, Nigel, there
mentioned as having been wounded, died in 1942 of wounds.
Miss Gibbes had been in the habit, while Miss Cummins was resident
in Ireland, of sending to her from time to time letters to various dead
friends asking her to get into touch with them and obtain their replies.
Following this practice Miss Gibbes on the 21st December 1943 wrote to
Hilda through Miss Cummins mentioning that her friend " Alice " had
passed over, that she would remember that " she " did not particularly
reciprocate " Alice's " affections for her, and requesting her, if they met,
to tell " Alice " how sorry Miss Gibbes was not to have replied to " Alice's
"
last letter, as she was on the point of doing when she had seen " Alice's
"
death announced in the Times, after an operation. On the ist January
1944 Hilda replied that she would look out for " Alice ".
Miss Cummins (see her statement below) had heard of Mrs Horley from
Miss Gibbes in 1938, but did not know that Alice was her name, or that
she had died. She did not while in Eire see the Times or any English
newspaper in which Mrs Horley's death was likely to have been announced.
On the 31st December 1943 Miss Gibbes wrote to Nigel through Miss
Cummins, without mentioning Mrs Horley. In the course of his reply,
on the 8th January 1944, he said " I saw that old dame, Mrs Hawley, just
for a moment. She isn't over here, is she? " On the 29th January 1944
he wrote again, mentioning Mrs Hawley, and referring correctly in very
characteristic language to the relations between her and his mother, Hilda.
It is to be noted that Nigel, when alive, had been well aware how Mrs
Horley spelt her name.
For several months no further allusion was made to Mrs Horley except
a casual remark from Hilda saying that she was always rather shy of
political women " even of Alice " : Mrs Horley's husband had been an
M.P. for several years.
On the 17th August 1944 Miss Gibbes sent a few lines to Hilda in which
she casually asked " What of Alice? ", and received a reply dated 26th
August 1944, "... Oh, Alice. Well, I played hide and seek with her for a
long time. ... I was a little afraid it wouldn't be a case of Alice for Short
but Alice for Long, if we met. I used if you remember to find her at times
too talkative. .
.." These remarks are extremely characteristic of Hilda.
With this message was sent a script, the last page of which ran as follows :
" Astor [a control of Miss Cummins]. There is a lady here with Hilda,
a stranger—elderly I think when she passed to us. She wants to try and
write.
" Brickhill. Is this Brickhill? It is so dimly lighted. I was looking
for Harry, Henry. . . . Hilda says write to Bea [Miss Gibbes] . . . (Miss
Cummins asked the writer's name). My name? Oh yes, it's Alice Poole,
no Pole, Longmead . . . Mrs Alice Pole (these words were followed by a
scrawl, apparently meant for an attempted surname)." The script went
on to refer to Alice's death in a nursing home, and to the letter which Miss
Gibbes had intended to write to her, matters stated or implied in Miss
Gibbes' letter of 21st December 1943, and ended " I am the same old
woman, but not so very old—well-preserved." In forwarding these scripts
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAY 1945
Miss Cummins wrote, "The Alice lady had great difficulty in writing. I
suppose it's the one you mention in your letter to Hilda or is it some other
Alice? Or is she subconscious invention?"
Brickhill was the name of Mrs Horley's house : this was not known to
Miss Cummins, who however may have known of her connection with
Longmead : see paragraphs i and 3 of her statement below. Henry is her
husband's name. The most interesting point, however, is the name
" Poole ", corrected to " Pole " ;
" Pole " was Mrs Horley's second name,
a fact unknown to Miss Cummins, and also, at the time she received the
script, to Miss Gibbes, but the family pronounce it " Poole ". The final
remark about being " well-preserved " is described by Miss Gibbes as
characteristic of Mrs Horley.
On the 3rd October 1944 a script was written by Miss Cummins con-
taining the following passage :
" Astor is here. Harold and Hilda are
close by and I see Muriel with an elderly lady who passed over fairly
recently. I think it is the lady, Alice, and with her now is a man and I
catch the name of Draper. (Here Miss Cummins asked Astor to tell her
about Alice.) Yes he is Draper or some name like that. He thanks Muriel
for having brought him and the lady, Alice, together. ..." In the latter
part of the script further reference is made to the relations between Hilda
and Mrs Horley. Mention is also made of Mrs Horley's love of flowers,
known to Miss Cummins, and of Mr Horley's career as a public speaker
and politician. At the same time Hilda wrote about Alice, saying she had
been impressed by Muriel's gift for making a garden, and " At any rate
Muriel did one real service to Alice : she found her father for her."
After the end of Hilda's letter the writing changed, and the script pro-
ceeded :
" Alice Pole. My dear, have you seen my husband? He is very
low I feel. I saw his mind or a bit of it and it told me he didn't at all like
—
as Hilda put it—the Beveridge England is going to be given. . . . What a
pity you don't know him better for you could tell him he won't have to
live in a Beveridged England. He will be here with me. Charming and
kind miss M found my dear father and brought us together. It has
given me great happiness. Address to send this to,
Miss Beatrice Gibbes
23 Jubilee Place
from Alice Pole."
Harold and Muriel (Miss M ) are a brother and sister of Hilda's.
The error as to the number of Miss Gibbes 's house, which is 25, not 23
Jubilee Place, is very curious, since the real number was well-known to
Miss Cummins.
This group of communications is largely concerned with Mrs Horley's
husband. Miss Cummins was not aware that he had survived his wife, and
in view of his age, it was not an inference which could have been made with
any certainty. The allusion to his political opinions is correct, but not in view
of his position definitely significant. The most interesting feature of Alice's
communication is the name Draper, which meant nothing at the time to
either Miss Cummins or Miss Gibbes. On the 14th October 1944 Miss
Gibbes discovered from Who's Who (1925 edn.) that Mrs Horley was the
daughter of P. H. D. Roe, the initials only of the first three names being
MAY 1945 Miss Ctmmins Case 129
given. Thinking that the D was encouraging, Miss Gibbes wrote to the
postmaster of the place mentioned in Who's Who as P. H. D. Roe's home,
enquiring as to his full names. The postmaster forwarded her letter to a
member of the family, who on the 22nd October 1944 wrote informing
Miss Gibbes that his full name was Pole Henry Draper Roe.
The relevant parts of the original scripts of 26th August and 3rd October
1944 have been seen by the Hon. Secretary.
The significance of this case obviously depends on the extent of Miss
Cummins's normal knowledge of Mrs Horley. The Hon. Sec. accordingly
put to Miss Cummins in March 1945, when she was back in England,
some questions which, with her answers (dated 24th March 1945), are set
out below. The questions were enclosed in a letter to Miss Gibbes who
read them out to Miss Cummins.
Q. I. Did you ever know the Mrs Horley who died in Dec. 1943?
Had you ever heard of her before the 3rd Oct. '44?
A. I. I never knew Mrs Horley. But when I was staying with Miss
Gibbes's sister-in-law [i.e. Hilda] some time in 1938 I remembered that
Miss Gibbes had told me that Mrs Horley was a friend of her sister-in-law,
was fond of gardening and lived in the neighbourhood.
Q. 2. Did you before that date know of any connection between her
and any of Miss Gibbes's relations?
A. 2. Is answered in above.
Q. 3. Before that date did the names Alice, Pole, Draper, Brickhill
mean anything to you in connection with each other, or with Mrs Horley.
A. 3. None whatever.
Q. 4. While you were in Ireland in 1944 did you see any, and which,
English newspapers?
A. 4. The Times Literary Supplement, The Irish Edition of the Sunday
Dispatch were the only English newspapers I saw when I was in Ireland.
Q. 5. Do you think it possible you may have seen a reference to Mrs
Horley in any newspaper, English or Irish, about the time of her death?
A. 5. No. None whatever. In fact until a few minutes ago I had no
idea that Mrs Horley had died when Miss Gibbes told me.
In a letter to the Hon. Sec. accompanying Miss Cummins's answers.
Miss Gibbes states that before putting the questions, she led up to them
by a conversation in which Miss Cummins spoke of Mrs Horley as if she
were still alive. It was on this occasion. Miss Gibbes says, that Miss
Cummins first learnt that " Alice " was Mrs Horley. When Miss Gibbes
read the first question. Miss Cummins asked how the name Horley
should be spelt. This is of interest because at a sitting shortly before
Astor had spelt the name correctly. Miss Gibbes adds " I think it quite
unlikely that any mention of Mrs Horley's death would have appeared in
the Irish Edition of the Sunday Dispatch. She had no connection with
Eire as far as I know . . . .the Eire edition deals only with what is likely to
interest the Irish ".
The London office of the Sunday Dispatch states that it cannot trace
any reference to Mrs Horley's death in their Irish Edition of the time in
question.
The communications received through Miss Cummins go beyond her
normal conscious knowledge, as set out in her answers, in several partic-
130 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1945
ulars, and are presented in a dramatic setting which Miss Gibbes describes
as highly characteristic of all the parties concerned, some of them not
personally known to Miss Cummins, and as reproducing accurately the
psychological situation between them. The appropriateness of the manner
of presentation is, she points out, illustrated by such small mistakes as the
mis-spelling of the name Horley, suggestive of the kind of error made
when unfamiliar names are taken down from dictation, and the error as to
the number of Miss Gibbes's house, an address much better known to the
automatist than to the communicator.
In all cases where a medium has, or has had, some link with the com-
municator such as Miss Cummins had with Mrs Horley through Miss
Gibbes and Hilda, the question of the extent of the medium's cryptomnesic
knowledge raises difficulties. Nobody can say with certainty what they
have or have not been told about their friends' friends : they can only be
certain as to what they remember. But cryptomnesia will not account for
the statements in Miss Cummins's communications, from Nigel's message
of the 8th January 1944 on, as to Mrs Horley 's death, since this was of
quite recent occurrence (December 1943). Telepathy between Miss
Gibbes and Miss Cummins is not, of course, ruled out, and may have been
assisted by subconscious inference on Miss Cummins 's part from the terms
of Miss Gibbes's letter of the 21st December 1943.
But telepathy from Miss Gibbes will not account for the names Pole and
Draper which meant nothing to her in connection with Mrs Horley.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—As a matter of general interest, not to say historical justice, I should
like to put on record the fact that my Association Theory of Telepathy^
appears to have been anticipated, in outline at least, no less than some
thirty years ago.
I have before me an unpublished paper, written in 19 14- 15 by Mrs
Hugh Lewis, discussing the ideas put forward by Maeterlinck in his book
Tlie Unseen Guest. In this she adopts the hypothesis of what we should
now call a Common Subconscious, or Universal Mind, or the like, of
virtually unlimited knowledge and powers, with which the individual
finite mind may somehow or other '
make contact '. There is nothing
very remarkable or novel in this ; but the author goes on to point out
that such a contact might be liable to " overwhelm the finite mind with an
access of knowledge too vast for it to grasp "
—i.e. she clearly realises the
need for some selective mechanism enabling the individual mind to pick
out the relevant items—and goes on " would not the psychological law of
the Association of Ideas continue to operate in these subconscious realms
and save the situation . . .
". This is pretty well the essence of the whole
matter, so far as I am concerned, though I should rather develop the
notion of a Common Subconscious from the facts of Telepathy, etc., than
postulate it to begin with.
^ Cf. Proc. S.P.R. Part 168, July 1944, or my book Telepathy recently
published.
MAY 1945 Correspondence
Dealing with phantasms and the like, Mrs Lewis writes " We may take
as an example of the point of contact some such simple idea as the percep-
tion of the room or place in which the individual is at the time. Immedi-
ately the contact is made his idea of the room becomes enlarged by some
addition from the Infinite Consciousness. This addition may be borrowed
from the past or the future. . . . Thus the individual may become sud-
denly conscious of some scene formerly enacted in that spot, or he may
have a prophetic vision of events that are to come ". Compare my own
attempts to deal with Apparitions.
She even goes so far, also, as to envisage (in her own terms, of course)
the role I have assigned to '
K-objects '
in psychometry. Referring to
the case of " the medium Madame M. who ascertained the fate of an old
gentleman . . . and discovered his dead body by handling ... a scarf which
he used to wear " she says " Here the point of contact was the idea of the
scarf, and when communication was established between the mind of the
medium and the Infinite Consciousness, the medium was able to describe
in detail the appearance of the old man . . . and the actual position of his
dead body ".
I should not have put it quite like that myself, because I am a little shy
of using words like '
infinite ', but the anticipation, in all essentials, of the
suggestions I have recently put forward is most remarkable.
I should like to express my gratitude to Mrs Lewis for bringing this
paper to my notice.
I am, Sir etc., Whately Carington
The Goligher Circle
Sir,—At the recent discussion group I was asked, if I could give any
information as to what happened to the medium and whether she retained
her powers. In reply I gave some information which I now find to be
incorrect. I should be glad therefore if you would publish the true facts
which may be of interest to our members.
Miss Goligher married a Mr S. G. Donaldson and owing to her experiences
with Dr Fournier d'Albe refused to sit any longer. Mr F. McCarthy
Stephenson always kept in touch with her and eventually through the good
offices of her husband she was persuaded to sit to be photographed by
means of infra red rays. The results may be seen in Psvchic Science
for July 1933, January 1936 and July 1936. The first article is by her
husband and gives a full description of the apparatus and controls used.
The other two are by Mr Stephenson. In the January 1936 article it is
stated that two lady doctors were present " who searched Mrs Donaldson ".
In regard to the photographs taken by Dr. Crawford it appears from the
extracts from his diary published in Dr Fournier d'Albe's book that when
some at least were taken Miss Goligher came alone to Dr Crawford's
house, was examined by a lady doctor, then dressed in the presence of
ladies before being photographed.
I might add that the real cause of the breakdown of the Fournier
d'Albe's experiments as alleged from the medium's side has never been
published. It might be a good thing if this was placed on record but not
for publication for some years yet.
132 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may 1945
Some of our members who are interested in psychical research would
find a perusal of the earlier numbers of Psychic Science of great interest.
They will be found to contain much of value. For instance, in the issue
for April 1934 there are copies of four of the original photographs of
" Katie King " taken by Sir William Crookes. A careful examination of
them will alone go far to convince anyone of the reality of Sir William
Crookes' experiences.
Yours faithfully, B. Abdy Collins
.Sir, —In the light of the recent experiments of Dr S. G. Soal and Mrs
Goldney, it has occurred to me that an explanation might be found for
Rhine's " Terminal Salience ". It arises as follows.
One would expect any percipient to cognise a mixture of direct and dis-
placed hits, though the proportions of each might differ from percipient
to percipient. If the percipient is making a displaced " true cognition ",
it debars him from making a direct " true cognition " (as distinct from a
hit) and vice versa. Thus a high percentage of displaced cognitions reduces
the percentage of direct cognitions ; if by some means the displaced cog-
nitions can be avoided, one would expect a higher direct score.
This occurs at the beginning and end of a " run " of card guessing. For
at the beginning it is impossible for the percipient to score a retrocognitive
hit (without going back to the previous run) and at the end it is impossible
for him to score a precognitive hit. Thus the number of displaced hits
will be reduced at the beginning and end of a run, and the number of direct
hits will accordingly rise. This effect is precisely the effect noticed by
Rhine which he calls the " Terminal Salience ".
Yours sincerely,
R. Wilson.
NOTE
Except during holidays, the rooms of the Society will as from June 7th
be open every Thursday evening from 6.30 to 8 p.m.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal in
1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only ". The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy.
This Number need not be regarded as Private.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
June, 1945 Vol. XXXIII—No. 615
SPECIAL NUMBER
CONTENTS
PAGE
A Discourse given through Mrs. Leonard and attributed to
Sir Oliver Lodge - - - - - - - -I34
Comments thereon by C. Drayton Thomas, the sitter.
The Rooms of the Society will be closed after 31st July, 1945,
until iith September, 1945. Correspondence will be forwarded to
the Staff" during this time.
Members are asked to return, renew or exchange Library Books
before 26th July, 1945.
Each member may borrow as many as six volumes for the vacation
before the Rooms close.
134 Journal of Society for Psychical RcsearcJi JUNE, 1945
.
_ A DISCOURSE
given through Mrs. Leonard and attributed to
. SIR OLIVER LODGE
Comments thereon by C. Drayton Thomas, the sitter.
When tlie communicator is a person we have l^nown, we receive his
messages with a certain amount of respect, though we always have to
allow for possible or probable sophistication by the channel through
which they . come. A landscape seen through coloured or imperfect
glass may be changed and distorted, and yet it is something like reality.
(Sir Oliver Lodge in Phantom Walls, p. 184.)
During a sitting with Mrs. Osborne Leonard on April 20th, 1944, 1
received a long communication. It was said to be given by Sir Oliver
Lodge. Having submitted it to several experts I am encouraged by their
advice to offer it for consideration by members of the S.P.R. From any
point of view it has interest for psychical research. It began as follows :
Feda : Here is somebody who wants to talk to you, somebody Feda
knows, and has been waiting to talk to vou. Do vou know who it is?
It's S 'Oliver.
C.D.T. : He is most welcome.
Feda : He says, I wanted to come before, but I felt it was not worth
while until I had progressed. in soxne of my studies and arrived at
certain conclusions.
C.D.T. : I shall be most interested to hear them.
Feda : He thinks that there is nothing very remarkable in them, but
perhaps coming from me, he says, it may interest you and carry a
certain amount of weight.
Then came messages for his family, including the following, which is
quoted on account of the comment by Mr. Brodie Lodge.
Feda : Will you tell Brodie ... I would like to tell his wife that she
was perfectly correct when she thought that I was standing beside
her. She thought that she felt me there and that I was impressing
her, not about any speciiic thing but in a general way. . . . She was
very much aware of me, and I would like her to know that she did not
imagine that I was there. It was some time recently and was in the
daytime, quite recently. She had been, or was, in the garden. I
have an impression that I sensed at the time plants and I think she
was examining or taking some special interest in plants at the time.
Mr. Brodie Lodge writes : "So much is known to Mrs. Leonard
about the family that the best evidence in these messages is about my
wife who recollects very well the episode in the garden and her sensations
on that occasion. She was weeding hard and very conscious at the time
of my father's personality and power. That was one day last week."
To those who, after reading the following discourse, incline to attribute
it in essence to Sir Oliverj it will have value as embodying his experience,
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 135
and some of his conclusions arrived at after several years in the Beyond.
To those who are not convinced, it will present one more example of the
problem facing us in such trance communications.
I notice that it reproduces several of Sir Oliver's beliefs and opinions
as recorded in his published books. This has a bearing on the question of
the communicator's identity, and I have therefore quoted a few passages,
placing them next the paragraphs to which they relate. Limitation of
space has necessitated omission of some less important passages in the
communication.
Feda : He wanted you to know that now he has gone back a consider-
able number of years, and that he found no difficulty in so doing, he
calls it, so doing. He says, I think you might say that I have knocked
off, he calls it, knocked off, about thirty to thirty-five years.
C.D.T. : How very pleasant !
Feda : And the process of—what did you call it? Rejuvenation?
The processes of rejuvenation have been very easy. I don't think
they are to all people, but they have been very easy to me.
C.D.T. : Were they done voluntarily or automatically?
Feda : They seemed to me, in my own case, to be more automatic than
voluntary. It is on that subject that I wanted to speak to you to-day.
You have brought up the question of voluntary versus automatic.
Now this body, this body in which one finds oneself after death—huh !
—this body is indeed a body. It seems to be very much more a body,
a material body, than I had supposed would be possible. The status,
he says, the make-up, let us call it, of this body seems to be ready-
made ; that is, you see, we have made it during our earth-life ; and
I feel that there is a considerable difference in the content or make-up
of each body. I see greatly
—
What did you call it? Something, I've missed something some-
where ; I'm sorry.
Well, he says, I see great differences, you can put it so, Feda ; I
see great differences in the grades and qualities of different indi-
viduals on this plane.
Wait a minute. On passing, what? I would say that the condition
of—now I am going to call it the spirit-body. I am going to call it
the spirit-body ; I am not going to call it the etheric body or the
astral body ; I am going to call it the spirit-body. I would say that
the condition of the spirit body is governed voluntarily during the
earth life and automatically after passing. The process seems beyond
our control now. This is a big, a very big subject, Thomas. It is
very important, I feel, and I hope I can get something through to
you about it. The process is more automatic after death than it is
during what we call life on the earth. It is more within our power to
bend, to shape, to govern that spirit-body during our earth lives than
it is after. That is why it behoves us to have some knowledge, some
working knowledge, even of a simple and elementary kind, about
these matters. We do make, we create in a way, the quality, the
strength, the power of our spirit-body during our earth lives. We
pass into it, the body that we have made, and it is there, and, believe
136 Jourtial of Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
me, it is more difficult to shape it and alter it after than it is during
the earth life.
Spirit Body
The following quotation is from Sir Oliver's paper in S.P.R. Proc. for
June, 1929 :
My doctrine at present is that this transcendental, immaterial entity
needs and always will need something physical—physical, not neces-
sarily material—for its manifestation, that it never is really without a
" body ", even though it be discarnate. The mechanism of flesh which
was utilised here was indeed temporary, but that was never its primary
mechanism. The primary physical mechanism associated with spirit
is not gross matter, spirit can only interact with matter under difficulties
for a time ; its real permanent existence is in the freedom of space, with
an etherial mechanism, whose properties do not appeal to the senses,
and therefore are at present beyond our ken. (p. 499.)
On the hypothesis that we can ever enter into communication with
those in that order of existence, we ought to learn from them something
of what it is like. I consider that we have learnt something, not very
much, but sufficient to carry on with. I do not expect to be much
surprised when I get there. So far as it goes, the testimony is in favour
of a still continuing full-bodied existence, not indeed of matter, but of
something else which, though it does not appeal to our present senses,
is otherwise equally real, equally substantial ; freer and less hampered,
it seems to be, but not revolutionarily different. We appear to remain
ourselves, and the conditions around us are of somewhat the same
order, (p. 503.)
Feda : Now I feel that what I am saying and what I may say to you on
different occasions may arouse a certain amount of controversy
—
controversy (D.V.) but I must give you my impressions, my deduc-
tions, the result of my observations, as they have come to me.
And this opportunity, for which I have been waiting a considerable
time—well, I have delayed making it so that I could be sure to my
own satisfaction that I am giving you the correct deductions, that I
am giving you facts founded on the observations I have made since
my transition.
I think I've got his words. Perhaps I missed a few, because he
gives a sign, and that means Go on, but I think I missed something.
He says, Feda, if you miss a word or two, if you use the particular
vernacular idiom understood by your medium, automatically, auto-
matically what? Something, I don't know what that word is—auto-
matically something by your medium, it doesn't matter so long as
you get my ideas and as many words as you can of mine. That will
suffice. That's what he says.
In the above passage, where italics are used followed by the letters D.V.
in brackets, it should be understood that the italicised word was spoken
in the direct voice. It was clearly heard in a strong whisper, which sounded
as if originating from a little distance in front of the medium. We shall
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 137
meet this again later. Whether this direct vocaHsation is caused by, what
might be termed, a sudden gust of psychic force, or whether it is due to a
desire for special emphasis, is uncertain. Often it would seem to mark
special emphasis, at other times a wish to help Feda over a difficulty in
" hearing ", but occasionally it is undoubtedly useful in correcting an
error in transmission. Some communicators produce it more frequently
than do others, and the same communicator will produce it more often at
one sitting than at another sitting. Feda usually repeats the word, or
words, as if quite unaware that they have been heard by me. I have
known her to miss it and to proceed as if the words in direct voice had
not been spoken. There is an interesting reference to this phenomenon
in jMr Kenneth Richmond's article on Leonard material in S.P.R. Proc.
for May 1936.
Sir Oliver was, of course, well aware of the difficulties of communica-
tion. Speaking of the best professional mediums, he writes :
The element of sophistication, from the knowledge or mental deposit
of the medium, is here reduced to a minimum, at least when the trance
is strong and the conditions good ; that is, quiet, peaceful and un-
perturbed. But even so the brain of the medium has to be employed ;
the limitations of its capacity are therefore apparent ; its habits or usual
channels, or brain deposits, have to be utilised or selected from ; and
only by special effort can intelligence be got through of a kind quite
beyond the medium's normal brain capacity.
—
{Phantom Walls, p. 154.)
Feda : Now, during the earth life I kept an open mind about this vexed
question of what is called reincarnation. I kept an open mind about
if. I didn't know, I didn't know. How could I know? I had no
memory of previous lives. As far as I remember I was not told
anything very definite about them as to whether I had, or had not,
had any. But my wife had certain experiences and certain communi-
cations, I believe, a great many years ago, which interested her : but
I let them be. There were other problems, questions of a vital
character, that needed my attention. I let it be till I knew. Well,
now I know that it is a fact. It is true, therefore I must state it as
true, that, according to my personal experience, it is true ; and I
have had many talks with my friend Myers about it. I have asked
him why he did not tell me more about it, especially during my many
sittings with Feda. He said that he thought that at times the medium
had had an aversion to the idea. I think that has made a certain
barrier, and possibly also she was acting in what I might call a con-
scientious sense about it, and was anxious that I should get what she
felt was right and founded on what she calls fact. She was uncertain
about it herself, thought there was a certain amount of imagination
and what she calls rubbish talked about it, and I think that that built
up a barrier.
It is interesting to compare the foregoing with what Lodge wrote on
the subject :
—
As regards reincarnation, it is probably a mistake to suppose that
the same individual whom we knew in bodily form is likelv to appear
138 Journal of Society for Psychical Research june, 1945
again, at some future date. There may be exceptions, but as a rule that
seems unlikely to happen. What may happen, however, is that some
other portion of the larger self becomes incarnate.
—
{The Making of
Man, p. 170.) -
My message is that there is some great truth in the idea of pre-
existence—not the obvious truth, nor one easy to formulate—a truth
difficult to express, not to be identified with the guesses of reincarnation
and transmigration, which may be fanciful. We may not have been
individuals before, but we are chips or fragments of a great m.ass of
mind, of spirit and of life—drops, as it were, taken out of a germinal
reservoir of life, and incubated until incarnate in a material bodv. . . .
"What happened before earth-life we have forgotten ; if we ever knew,
we have forgotten. Our individual memory begins soon after birth.
Before that we cannot trace identity. Perhaps we had none. Either we
had none or we have forgotten.
—
(Reason and Belief, pp. 19, 28.)
It is this earth-life that has been the strange and exceptional thing.
The wonder is that we ever succeeded in entering a matter body at all.
Many fail. . . . But it may be said of that viev/. If that is so it seems to
require a kind of pre-existence, an admission that we existed in the
invisible world, in the ether or in space, and then condensed on to
matter and moved about here for a time and then went back whence we
came. Well, in a sense that is my view ; but we must discriminate
between life, on the one hand, and individual life, personality, on the
other. I do not say that the individual has pre-existed. What I liave
said about life in general would apply to every kind of life, animal and
plant life also. No kind of life has been explained in terms of matter.
But most living things have no personality. When the question of pre-
existence arises I should say that the individual as we know him is a
fresh apparition, a new individualisation of something pre-existing. . . .
My view thus is that this individual self did not pre-exist, but formed
its character while in association with matter during this present epoch,
this particular episode, of earth-life ; and that then it rejoins its larger
self, its pristine permanent reality, taking with it its developed character,
but having shaken off the dust of the earth.
—
{Phantom Walls, p. 96.)
Feda : Well, now, he says, this body, this spirit body, is unable to
adapt itself completely, in complete harmony, complete unity, and
therefore happily with the conditions of this side until it is perfected,
let us call it, to a certain extent, until it has had certain experiences
and benefitted by them, benefitted. And, believe me, these experi-
ences have to be all round. They have to be varied, and I think
that there are few people who can get the sufficiently varied experi-
ences and tests in one incarnation that will enable them to stay per-
manently on this side. They have to come back until the spirit body
is built up, built up. In other words, this body has to be made, it
has got to be created. The spirit is there, but the spirit body has to
be made like the garment clothing the spirit. And this garment
takes a long time in the rnzking, a long time. They tell me it is
extremelv difficult to adjust oneself to the conditions on this side.
People can say what they like, but it is an extremely difficult task to
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 139
adjust oneself perfectly to the conditions on this side : that is to say,
if j-ou are going to use your powers to their full extent, if you are
going to avail yourself of the opportunities that are there. Now I
would say that the average individual is only able to avail himself of
ninety per cent, of the opportunities that should be open to him.
C.D.T. : Ninety per cent? Ninety?
Feda : Is that what you said? Not able {J}. Y.) The average individual
is not able to avail himself—I've got something wrong.
C.D.T. : He cannot avail himself of ninety per cent. He only avails
himself of ten per cent.
Direct Voice : Ten per cent.
C.D.T. : Thank you. That is clear.
Feda : And of course should he live such a life—that is to say, a ten
per cent, life, let us call it, he stagnates. You cannot stagnate on
this side. You can stagnate more easily and com.fortably on the
earth, but here you would lose identity, and that cannot be allowed.
You lose what progress you have made, you lose your ten per cent, if
you stay too long in that status of stagnation that you would un-
doubtedly fall into, drift into, without the weapons on which to sharpen
your spiritual faculties. Thomas, do you see? You haven't the
weapons here. You haven't the machinery here. You have got to
go back to the earth to have them at your command again. You must.
You get a certain amount of help on this side, but nothing is done for
you that you must do and should do for yourself. Your father tells
me he has always made that plain to you. Admiral idea, he says
Admirable (D.V.). An admirable idea, to make that clear to you.
" The weapons, the machinery ". Compare with the following :
Evidently the episode of earth-life is of importance ; we can surmise
that the difficulties we encounter in Matter, the troubles caused by our
animal ancestry, and all the struggle and effort which is here necessary,
even for maintenance, have a training and disciplining effect ;
strength-
ening our character, sifting the wheat from the tares, and constituting
an experience of the utmost value for the future stages of our develop-
ment.
—
{Making of Man, p. 33.)
Also the following from Why I Believe in Personal Immortality :
Terrestrial incarnation is of value, and we can partly see why. The
individual appears to us through his bodily manifestation, and common
experience shows that an individual is thus to a great extent isolated
from his fellows, and has in any case to live his own life and develop his
own character as best he can ; at the same time encountering others in
like case and having an opportunity of making friends. The material
body is a psychic screen, but a physical uniter : we encounter people
—
in the street, so to speak—whom we should never otherwise have met.
Through our bodily mechanism we can learn about historical characters
and even about those who only live in literature. The body is a fine
instrument for education, (p. 29.)
The difficulties met with are part of the soul's training ; the value of
the individual character depends on the success with which the special
140 Journal of Society for Psycliical ResearcJi june, 1945
conditions are utilized, and the wisdom with which they are employed.
The episode of earth life is therefore of great value in developing char-
acter, in enlarging knowledge, in cultivating new friendships, and
generally adding to the richness of life. --(p. 30.)
Feda : But when it comes to the point, when it is seen that this person
must come back, help is given. In other words, his education is taken
in hand hy those who are competent to deal with him, and he is told,
as a child would be told, in what way he has to learn certain lessons
and what other lessons there are in which he has failed, or which he
must learn, and which he must go back into the school of life to learn.
The testing ground, the school, as Myers always called it to me in
communications with him, the school, the testing ground, the earth.
And with that amount of understanding which is alive in him he can
use it ; he can use it because he is aware that others are doing things
he cannot do. He is aware of it. lie looks up and he sees those who
have, let us say, grown wings, those who can soar, those who can
have adventures and experiences of a rem.arkably interesting kind
from which he is debarred. He feels weighted. Now that embraces
it all to me. He knows there is something wrong, and he usually
acquiesces in the suggestion that he should volunteer' to go back.
And, if he is willing, he has the advantage of being taught and pre-
pared to a certain extent for his next experience. He is taken in
hand, and he is instructed in the things in which he is lacking. At
least he is told what they are, broadly speaking, broadly speaking, and
he is told that these same instructors, teachers, will watch over him
when he comes back to the earth, and that, if he should be willing
and attain a sense of unity with them, believe in them, with which he
is sent back to the earth, with which every human being is sent back
to the earth, the knowledge of the spiritual embedded in his con-
sciousness, embedded there, which is in us all. It is in us all—we
can turn it out and refuse to admit it, but it is there, as you know
—
he is told that if he will react to that he will find himself in touch
with these same leaders. He will probably be introduced to them
should he have the good fortune, or the misfortune (he's looking
naughty !) to become interested in psychic research. He will most
probably have them introduced to him as the Guides. I i^emember
hearing far too much about the Guides at several of my earlier sittings.
In fact, I was rather bored with the Guides. But now I understand,
I understand ; I have met them and I have recognised them as old-
time friends, friends from a very long time ago, and I appreciate, I
deeply appreciate, their faithfulness and their patience with me.
Sir Oliver wrote :
We also experience—whether we recognise it or not—the guidance
and help we are vouchsafed during our incarnation ... It is contended
that we cannot admit of interference from another world : that we
cannot allow for assistance by higher beings. The conservation of energy
has been supposed to prevent that. I reply, No, for it doesn't prevent
us from helping each other, or from helping the lower animals.
—
(Phantom Walls, p. loi.)
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 141
They tell us from the other side that they follow our progress with
keen interest, and are ahvays ready to help, when we are willing to
receive help : not only ready, but able ;
though, of course, their
powers are limited, and, like us, they can but do the best that is possible
under the circumstances.
—
{71ie Making of Man, p. 33.)
Feda : In the hearts of men? What's he trying to sav? In the hearts
of men. I don't know what it is ; is he saying some poetry.' He said
something about something—I'm going back for a moment to what
I told you—with that instinct for understanding, for keeping hold of
the spiritual, that is in us, but is knocked out of us, beaten out of us
by misguided people, by a misguided system of education ; but it is
there in us. He says, I was thinking of something that I remember,
something I was fond of at one time, and the line—I can't get this
word—something in the hearts of men—" It is an attribute of God
Himself ". It's something in the hearts of men which is an attribute
of God Himself, he says, like that ; it's a long word ;
perhaps he will
be able to say it by itself after. It's enshrined, in it. It's enthroned
in it. The poem had it " in the hearts of men ", and I say it is there
in the heart of man, the soul of him, which the soul has inherited
from the spirit in its first birth.
The attempted quotation evidently refers to the lines on Mercy, in
The Alerchaut of Venice, Act iv, Sc. i :
" It is enthroned in the hearts of kings.
It is an attribute to God Himself ".
The above, much blurred in transmission, centres round the thought
that man has ability to respond to spiritual impulses, and that this ability,
deep seated in his being, is God-given.
Feda : Now there is nothing whatever, as far as I can see, in the facts
regarding physical incarnation and the ordinary processes of physical
evolution as science has understood them, there is nothing that need
contradict the foregoing. The physical processes by which man has
evolved are not interfered with. He evolved, he reached a certain
stage before he began to reincarnate. I feel the time will come when
science will embrace so much more of what we have called the meta-
physical—Is that right? When science will find itself incomplete
without a union with metaphysical truths, metaphysical knowledge.
It must be so. There must be a true science of spirit, mind and phy-
sical. We cannot separate them ; not one of the three can do without
the others. That has been our trouble, Thomas. It has been our
trouble. We have tried to monopolise one and concentrate on one
and cut off the other two. Usually w'e allow the two, the physical
and the mental. We cut out the third, the spiritual, for the purpose
of what we call scientific investigation and scientific truth. It cannot
be done. It is not complete. Even those who are convinced that
they are right in doing so much see that there are certain conditions,
certain facts, that evade them, certain questions, certain problems
they cannot resolve. While they limit themselves to these two the
processes of life cannot be solved in their entirety. We may evolve
142 Joiinial of Society for.Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
certain short-lived automatic orocesses, but we have not that eternal
memory, that immortal process of life which comes from God. We
cannot harness that. We cannot as as . We cannot what?
Oh, I can't get that word, S'Oliver. Well, try it another way, Feda.
We cannot make it our own, we cannot bring it down into the grossly
material and divorce it from the spiritual, from its spiritual origin.
We miust learn the laws, the spiritual laws, the Divine laws, and co-
operate with them. Then there will be more hope for us ; there will
be a greater perfection in whatever we do or try to do with regard to
the other two.
The above was undoubtedly one of Lodge's convictions and may be
found in his writings, among others in S.P.R. Proc, June 1929 :
The whole of nature might be likened to an organism of which we
study the functions. On this view, the vital thing is not the structure
but the function. An organism guides and controls its own workings ;
it operates on and uses matter, and in that guidance the secret lies.
The working of the whole is analogous to the working of our own bodies
controlled by an animating principle which may be called soul or spirit.
But such terms seem alien to present-day science.—(P. 496.)
Final causes may be the business of philosophy and religion, but not
of science ; there we are seeking, as far as we can, the physical, the
chemical, the mechanical explanation. Those aspects are truly part of
the whole ; the only mistake is for those who so successfully and de-
votedly study material things to think that they are all, that they are
final, and to exclude or deny all the others.
—
{Phantom Walls, p. 85.)
Everything excluded is weakness. To exclude the Ether is a terrible
weakness : an effort to understand the connection between mind and
matter is hopeless if we exclude the tei tium quid, the essential intermed-
iary. To exclude life and mind is another weakness : it is the basis
of a materialistic system.
—
{Ether and Reality, p. 20.)
Feda : I am glad—if I may be allowed to be personal—I have every
reason to be extremely thankful that 1 allowed myself to be led from
the material through the mental to the spiritual. I know there were
those who railed at me, thought I had a bee in my bonnet and so
forth, but, he says, I had a firm conviction that there was a Being,
an intelligent and benef Beneficent (D.V.) beneficent Being
above and beyond and in all things, and that we could not do without
Him, and that if there were things in which we felt we did not want
Him those things were not good. I wanted to let them alone. But
if there were things in which I felt He could co-operate or would
wish to co-operate, I felt eager to do those things. I kept God in my
life and in my plans and in my ideas, and I have every reason to be
thankful that I did so. It gave me—if I may put it so at the risk of
sounding somewhat self-complacent—it gave me a great advantage
in my personal conditions, and in my ability to do that which I felt
-- inclined to do and wished to do ; a greater interest in the life into
which I had recently come, a greater ability to enjoy the companion-
ship of others who had been here longer than I, a greater zest for
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 143
living ;
my faculties seemed remarkably keen and clear. I contrast
my condition with the conditions of some people, people who have
lived a long life on the earth, people who have attained a certain
amount of—eminence—What did you call it? Eminence (D.V.)—
•
in their professions or their work, their lives generally, yet who come
over here and seem at such a disadvantage, who come over here and
have to crawl, virtuall}^ crawl, whereas one can oneself walk and run
and leap. I was overcome with the joy of life : and I see those others,
poor creatures ! coming over from what they would call material
success on the earth and feeling, well 1 at a great disadvantage, at a
great disadvantage. And those are the people, the only people, who
v/ish to return to the earth. I don't like to stress the fact of my joy,
my feeling of satisfaction that I had allowed myself to be guided in my
natural inclinations towards, shall I say? spiritual knowledge, spiritual
thought, that I had allowed myself to be guided to, that knowledge
which was augmented by my friend Myers and others while I was on
the earth. I felt the deepest satisfaction that I had done so, the
deepest satisfaction.
No reader of Lodge's books can fail to realise that he was a sincerely
religious man.
Feda : Now this body, to come back to this body, this spirit body.
The earth body we know. The earth body is a covering made up of
certain constituents. We know so much, so much, so much. We
know it is composed of certain chemical, chemical something—
I
can't get it. Never mind. I must say what I can. They are held
together by certain processes and dependent to some extent on the
substance called the ether, and that this body, this physical body,
has only a temporary existence in the nature of things ; as we under-
stand them at present it can only have a temporary existence. The
will of man can only help him to live, the understanding can only
help him to live, no matter what it is, a certain number of years, a
certain number of years, more or less, more than another man, more
than his next-door neighbour or less than his next-door neighbour,
according to his habits and so forth. But this other body, this spirit
body, it is within the power and the will of man to create and to
shape so that it will have immortal and eternal existence after the
death of the physical, after man has made it sufficiently harmonious
to its spiritual conditions and surroundings, that is to say, those into
which it will enter after death. If he is able to do that, it is not in-
cumbent upon him to enter into another physical body at some later
period and go through the same processes. It is not necessary. But
most people find it necessary. Some at a very low ebb, you might
call it a low ebb, are compelled to come back—at least, I don't want
to say that word compelled, but they come back automatically. When
I say compelled I think I mean there is no choice in the matter. They
have to go back. They are drawn back. It is the spirit within them
knows it must go back. There is an attraction for it to the earth to
continue its progress or attempt at progress. There is always that
that we call, for want of a better term, the Divine Spark, the Divine
144 your7ial of Society for Psychical Research june, 1945
Spark, that animates us automatically. We may commit crimes, we
may sink into a slough of ignorance, and we may think there is no
hope for us, we have got beyond hope. But the Divine Spark within
us is alive, we cannot kill it. We can suppress it and keep it down,
we can damp it so much we are scarcely aware of it, but it is there,
and it is, as I say, alive, and that which is alive animates, as you
know. It has the extrem.e—let me call it extreme for want of another
term—the extreme of energy within itself. It is Energy, Divine
Energy. Small as it is, buried as it is, it is bursting with Divine
Energy, the need to express itself. Feda will remember that I used
to say, and your father has often talked to me about it, that human
beings were bits struck off the Rock of Life, the Rock of Life, and
that some God might w.ish to be struck off, and some were struck off
wantonly, but they had become human individual egos and the
Divine Spark therefore enthroned in each piece that was struck off
the Rock of Life. You can't strike a piece off, chip a piece off the
Rock of Life but it has to be animated ; the animation is there, in
every infinitesimal piece that you strike off. He used to talk sometimes
to LIncle Fred (i.e. Myers) about the Rock of Life and the unwanted
child. Yes, he says, the unnecessary life, and unnecessary increase
of life on the earth. You see what I mean.?
C.D.T. : Oh yes, quite ; I do.
Feda : The congestion of the undesirable is opposed to the perfecting
of the material which is already there in its process of evolution.
Well, this Spark ; it is this Spark which is always calling men ^back
to God, back to the Rock, back to that from which it has sprung. It
is always in—what ? Something man : inciting, is that right?
C.D.T. : I think it is.
Feda : Inciting man to do this or that or the other that they may bring
his efforts in train, in harmony with that Divine Source from which
it springs. And it does it. He says, probably that is the good angel
who tapped on one's shoulder, you know. It probably is. Or the
good angel, or saint, is symbolised in that form.
Divine Spark : the idea is, of course, familiar. It was one of Lodge's
fundamental beliefs.
We have an animal body, and have many difficulties associated with
it, but we have a divine spark which is something from the other region,
brought into this transitory field of existence.
—
{Phantom Walls, p. 105.)
So we are led to apprehend Wordsworth's immortal poem in a livelier
way, as not only poetically true, but as an inspired expression of actual
fact :
" Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting ;
The soul that rises with us, our life's star.
Hath had elsewhere its setting.
And cometh from' afar :
Not in entire fo'rgetfulness
And not in utter nakedness,
But trailing clouds of glory do we come
From God Who is our home."
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 145
Yes, fragments of the Great Spirit wiiich is God. This has gradually
dawned upon us.
—
{Reason and Belief, p. 32.)
Feda : Now this being so it is—it is what? It is something—wait a
minute—I'll get that in a minute. It's something—I've missed that
—man will eventually attain to, the state in which he can continue
his life, his progress, his evolution on our plane, the plane on which I
exist now, the plane on which I function now. But it may take him
some considerable time, and I think that we could, in modern
language, speed up the evolution of man if we let him know why he
must evolve and the trouble he will save himself if he chooses to
endeavour to do this. If it is explained to him, Thomas, that these
two bodies are his here and now, here and now, they are in his possess-
ion, they are, you might say, or can be, the servants of his will, the
clay to the potter—Is that right?
C.D.T. : Go on ; we shall tell.
Feda : The clay to the potter, he will know it is worth while endeavour-
ing to take not only himself, as he calls this limited physical body, in
hand but to take his two selves, as he might call them, in hand and
perfect them so that he has a second body, his spirit body, ready
perfect to enter when the time of death comes which is so inevitable.
It is inevitable. One cannot escape it. He knows that. But I think
in present conditions, the conditions of ignorance of this subject, he
ignores death as much as he can. He doesn't embrace the idea and
examine it and try to understand its possibilities. He ignores it. It
spells or seems to spell extinction to him, or something which is so
vague, so incomprehensible to him that it dismaj's him. Now, if we
can take away that fear and show him there is the other body, the
spirit body, and that it is within his power now to shape it, strengthen
it, so that he will thoroughly enjoy living in it from the moment in
which his physical body collapses, then I think, Thomas, he will begin
to see to it, or, shall I say? a considerabty greater number of people will
see to it than do at present.
C.D.T. : One would certainly hope so.
Feda : He says, I think they will. I think they will. But—but what?
Wait a minute, please. I do wish to emphasise that point, that it is
within man's power not only to create—No, don't let us call it create,
but to perfect and shape his spirit body and to become more and
more familiar with it as he does so. And I think he gets—I am not
quite sure but I think, I think, from what I have seen, I think that
as he becomes familiar with it he may be able to enjoy certain excur-
sions in it while he is still in his physical, enough to enjoy these
excursions, which v/ill give him an appetite for more and an idea of
what advantages and adventures will be his after death. Now this is
also my own thought. I am not sure of this, but a deduction I have
drawn, that the more people who are doing these things, who are
studying and who are consciously and voluntarily following up the
study of the spirit body and who are therefore able to enjoy a certain
amount of exercise in it, the more, the greater the number, the more
it will grow. The more it will grow, because I think that these people
146 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
will meet each other ; one will meet one's neighbours, may I put it?
one will inevitably meet one's neighbours, one's next-door neighbour,
out of the body and there will be a sense of farhiliarity which will
grow until the v/hole—the whole what? The whole custom, the
whole operation, let us call it, custom and operation, the whole
custom and operation will become a more familiar thing to us. I
have noticed, Thomas, that in those who are able to exercise them-
selves in the spirit-body while still operating in their earth-bodies,
their physical bodies, that should there be an instance of that kind,
like meeting their next-door neighbour who is connected with the
everyday events of mundane life, an occurrence of that kind repeated
twice or three times affects the mind, the consciousness, the ordinary
consciousness, and prepared the mind for other occurrences and other
opportunities and also for accepting them as part of the ordinary
normal life.
C.D.T. : Yes ; that seems clear.
Feda : When an individual escapes from his physical and visits our
state, seeing and meeting en route people he knows, it is more difficult
for him to remember (realise?) what he has done, because those
people with whom he communicates, with whom he fraternises on
the spirit side of life generally seem to him to be part of his normal
everyday life. We have split up life into two parts far too drastically.
We have drawn a line, and we must gradually erase that line. We
have talked about the spiritual life and the earth life or the physical
life. The two are one and we must make them one again. There is
no line, there is no line at all. Man has drawn a line and it must be
erased, and it will take some time to erase it completely, but we must
work towards that, the erasing of that man-made line, that man-made
boundary. We must do that in the same way that we must erase
shall we call it? national boundaries, national boundaries and limita-
tions, racial ones. All these must go, and especially the boundary
that we have quite unnecessarily erected between what we now call
our two worlds, which are one. It is only one world. There is only
one world and we must take down these barriers, these barriers of
illusion that compelled us to think there must be two, because through
our limitations and ignorance we are unable to look over the self-
erected barrier, or to look through it. It must come down. It is
your work, it is our work, to erase it, to take it down.
One world, not two. The meaning of the above is clear and some would
be disposed to agree with it. And yet, for the purpose of ordinary speech,
it is desirable to make a distinction between our mundane life and that of
the Great Beyond. I have never felt able to agree with Lodge's, idea that
descriptions of the Beyond were actually depicting the ethereal side or
aspect of earthly scenes. That seemed to press unification too far. But
how familiar to Lodge was this " one world " conception may be seen
from the following extract :
Really the word " next " is inappropriate. There is no " next
"
world, save subjectively. The Universe is one : it is not so much a
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 147
sequence as a co-existence. What we call "the next world" is co-
existent and simultaneous with this.
—
(The Making of Man, p. 32.)
Feda : We must make man understand that the spirit body is to a
certain extent in his own power, his will power, that he can do as he
pleases with it, that it is even more at his mercy than his physical
'body is. He has thought of the spirit body, if he thought of it at all,
as something—What did you call it? Elusive, he calls it, elusive,
something that is beyond him. It is exactly the contrary. He is
shaping and making that body every hour of his life. He is dealing
with it in every action and every thought, far more than he is doing
with this physical body. This physical body, being temporary and
being subject to certain inherited tendencies of thought, that can
elude him. It is not his so much, Thomas, do you see my point?
This physical body is not so much his as his spirit body is. His
physical body belongs to the physical world. It has inherited, shall
we call it? instinctive powers which belong to it more than to the
spirit body, which, in fact, have nothing whatever to do with the
spirit body. You might say, if you like to call it so, it has a mind
—
Oh, dear! That he, What? The physical body— See if this is right
—
has a mind, that is, it partakes of a great consciousness, of the great
physical mind, the great physical consciousness which we call instinct.
Separate them if you like and say that the mind, the other mind, the
greater consciousness which is always with us, which we take with us
after death, is the intuition : the one is the intuition, the other is the
instinct. They are both forms of consciousness, but the one of
which I am speaking now,, of which his physical body partakes, has
come from the physical and can only last while the physical lasts ;
but it is a very strong one. It is very strong, and it has more power
of its own than man has ever had, while he has complete control and
complete power with—and I will call it over—his spirit body. It is
that that we shall have some difficulty in ramming home to him,
because he has thought of it exactly the opposite, as being exactly
the opposite. It is wrong teaching, he says ; it is wrong thought.
He says. This physical, Thomas, this physical consciousness, this
physical instinct is v/hat is known as evil. Do you see? We talk,
many have talked, as you know, philosophers, teachers, thinkers
generally, of the spirits of good and evil. Well, I haven't come across
any devil yet, or saint either. I haven't come across any embodiment
of evil, but I look upon the purely physical instinct, or the great
physical consciousness, which has existed down the ages as far as the
history of man goes, I look upon that as containing whatever evil
there is in the universe, and that the spirit of man, being pure, is
separated from it, but that the will of man poised between the two
states can be affected by the evil thoughts, the mass-consciousness,
you see, of the physical. It is that that is tempting. But that evil
spirits tempted Him, Satan tempted Him, an evil spirit tempted
Him—No ! He is merely reacting voluntarily to the spirit of heredity,
evil in the physical mass-consciousness, or instinct. That's what I
•
think he said. You see, there must be the intelligent desire for pro-
148 Journal of Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
gress. And there must be the intelligent desire for effort, personal
effort to attain that progress. Animation, again, and as soon as the will-
power reacts to that desire, the Spark helps. Now that Spark, he says
—not a bad term for it, because that Spark can be fanned into a flame ;
the will-power is the bellows. The will-power is the bellows that fans
the Divine Spark into a flame from something which is so buried, so
obscured that it is invisible—one cannot believe it is there. But it
can be fanned by the bellows of the will-power. The will-power
is there. I am not sure myself that this something that we call will-
power, which is possessed by every man and woman living—I am not
sure it is not an offshoot, a sort of secondary spark from the Divine
Spark. At any rate it is there, do you see? It is not something that
man has to attain or to develop ; it is there : but he can develop it
further. He has the nucleus of it. Nothing is beyond man—that is
my point. God has not set a standard for man to attain which it is
not within his power to attain. Make that clear, Thomas ! Do you
see? Make that point clear. Then we shall have less of this hopeless-
ness of attitude and outlook, this " I can't hope to attain to such per-
fection". The truth is that I can attain any perfection that is possible
to anybody. In other words, I can come back to God. That is to
say, I can be as God, I can be Godlike. It is my inheritance. I can
attain it when I am ready for it. I can attain it when I choose. It is
in man's power to attain anything that is possible to any other man.
I want to take away this attitude of limitation from the minds of men.
I want to make it seem easier to man to attain, and to therefore give
him an increased eagerness to do so. Yes, you are right. There must
be the intelligence of the soul and spirit, the intelligence, the bright-
ness ; that living quality in the mind there must be. He is not com-
plete without it. As I see that state of negative goodness, well, it is
negative in operation. If things occur to you, he hopes that you will
tell your father, and your father will then tell him, so that he can come
again and elucidate them.
C.D.T. : Thank you. I shall be very pleased to do so.
Feda : That is, if it is within my power and my present knowledge.
You may ask me something which I shall have to say Wait ; I don't
know ; I don't know. I shall be frank with you and I shall tell you.
Characteristics of Sir Oliver's Extemporaneous Speaking
There is a footnote to the first page of Sir Oliver Lodge's booklet. Rela-
tivity. It reads, " Lecture to the Literary and Philosophical Society of
Liverpool on October 31, 1921, reported by a stenographer from short-
hand notes taken upon the evening of the address." In reading this
Liverpool Lecture one notices conspicuous points of style. First the
frequency of crisp, short sentences standing between others of ordinary
length ;
by a short sentence I mean one of seven words or less ; of these
there are eighty-three. Next, one notices a habit of interjecting, in the
midst of a longer sentence, a short one which has to be written between
dashes ; of this there are eleven instances. Then there is the more or less
unnecessary word, " Well !
" standing at the commencement of a new
.1
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 149
paragraph, or before a summing-up of argument ; and similarly the word,
" Now, ". The former appears seven times and the latter ten. The
assertions, " I do not know " or " We do not know " are found eight times.
Let us compare the above with the Lodge-Leonard communication.
As the latter is about one-seventb shorter than the Liverpool Lecture, I
subtract one-seventh from the latter to make the comparison approxi-
mately exact. The figures so obtained are.
Short sentences
Interjected sentences
" Well !
"
" Now—,"
" Do not know "
This similarity will appear still more significant if compared with
verbatim reports in the public Press, or in reports of other Leonard
communicators. It looks like something for which chance coincidence
cannot account. If I am right in this conclusion, we can at least say that
internal evidence strongly suggests that this discourse originated in the
mind of Sir Oliver Lodge.
There is one further characteristic which appears in both documents.
It is the kind of repetition in which a word used in one sentence is repeated
in the next following. Here are examples from Relativity.
" What is our standard of size? Have we a standard of size? I
think our standard is the human body ".
(p. 4.)
"... What about smallness? Is there a limit of smallness? Is the
atom the smallest conceivable thing? The electron is very much
smaller ". (p. 5.)
" When did it happen? When you saw it? You know well that it
did not happen when you saw it. It happened a good time ago ". (p. 1 1.)
The figures for this kind of repetition are. Relativity 8-6 and Lodge-
Leonard 8.
With regard to the sprinklings of " Now " and " Well ", there is of
course nothing exceptional in this. Many public speakers slip in these
interjections far more frequently than they realise. So also with hyphened
sentences and repetitions beyond necessity. But I think we do find
something exceptional in the strikingly close proportions of the above as
they occur in separate speeches, one by Sir Oliver and the other attributed
to him as communicator. Let this be tested by inspection of Press
reports of the speeches made by public men, whether dealing with politics
or science, or religion. I think it will be then conceded that there is a
distinctively Lodge style in which certain habits of speech appear in more
or less similar proportions, and that this renders his style distinctive. It
looks so to me, but I do not claim absolute certainty in absence of further
material for examination.
Reverting to the frequent use of the short sentence ; I have just opened
one of Lodge's books at random. At once a short sentence caught my eye.
I turned to another page at random ; here were three of them at the end
Relativity Lodge-Lsonard
71-2 62
24 20
6 9
8-6 13
6-9 6
^5° Journal of Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
of -an ordinary paragraph :
" We are free agents. We can choose. We
know good from evil ". Taking up the S.P.R. Proceedings of June 1929
for the purpose of scanning an article by Lodge, it opened by chance at
p. 484. There I noticed no fev/er than five of these short sentences in a
single paragraph ! So it would seem that, even in his written work, the
unique use of the bi'ief sentence appears just as it does in our Lodge-
Leonard communication.
I need not go further with the examination ; the curious can do this for
themselves.
What have we found? Extracts from Sir Oliver's published works show
that the topics introduced in this talk were those on which he held pro-
nounced opinions in his life-time. Also there is a striking similarity to
Lodge's style of extemporary speech.
It remains to ask three questions ;
they concern, identity ; is there
adequate reason for thinking the communication originated with Sir
Oliver? Transmission ; "Were the communicator's thoughts correctly
transmitted? Intention : Was anything attributed to him other than
he intended? .
Identity
It will have been noticed that, with the one exception of Re-incarnation,
the beliefs and opinions touched upon had been Sir Oliver's, as shown by
his books. And a scrutiny of our verbatim stenographic report shows
similarities of style with the stenographic report of Lodge's Liverpool
Lecture.
The strongest evidence, however, is one of which I regret my inability to
share with others ; it is the convincing impression of Sir Oliver's presence
and personality which I felt while listening to this discourse. It was as if
the years had rolled back and I was again hearing Sir Oliver broadcast,
as he did on occasion not long before his death. Here, once more, was the
deliberate, impressive manner ; the distinctive vocalisation, the little
pauses and repetitions ; the sense of presence. I am aware that Lodge
often took sittings with Mrs. Leonard, that she had visited his home and
was on intimate terms with him. Yet this knowledge does not in any way
modify my conviction that his was the originating mind in this discourse.
It may very properly be objected that, if Feda is such a past mistress in
imitating and reproducing the manner of a communicator as to convey all
the above to me, then she might equally well have been imitating Lodge's
mannerisms, as remembered by her and the medium. I am not moved by
this objection. And why not? Because Feda has been equally successful
in transmitting for several of my deceased acquaintances whom neither
she nor the medium had known, heard speak, or even seen ! Yet in these
instances, too, an impression of their personal presence came compellingly
on me, and their respective habits of speech were unmistakable. This is
fact ; whereas it is but toying with fancy to suppose that such convincing
mannerisms and sense of presence can be produced when the individuals
concerned have been unknown to the medium. Is it satisfactory to reject
evidence m.erely because alternative hypotheses can be imagined, especially
when such hypotheses are unsupported by observed fact?
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse
That Feda's imitation is not wholly unconscious may be gathered from
the following remarks which I give verbatim, words and grammar :
Feda : I have got now into a good habit of imitating the way their
voices goes up and down, up and down.
C.D.T. ; That is most valuable.
Feda : When they goes up and down, up and down, I imitates them,
because it might have a meaning.
C.D.T. : It does. It helps out the meaning very much.
. Feda But I can't do it unless I hear the voices. Sometimes they show
me things ; and sometimes they give it in thought ; and then I don't
hear.
C.D.T. : Do you get the idea of up and down even in thought?
FED-iV : Sometimes, but at other times I only get the meaning, only the
meaning, like they would give me the idea of some kind of music,
but I wouldn't hear them saying, " There's a nice piano in that
house ", do you see? I would just get, " There's some music in that
place ". Do you see? Like that.
The sense of presence is described so well by Lady Barrett in her
excellent book, Personaliiy Sui-vives Death, that I venture to quote there-
from, (p. 199.)
There is a more intangible kind of evidence which should be men-
tioned, though only those who have had personal experience of similar
sittings can appreciate it. In a Leonard sitting we cannot see the
visible form and the changing expressions that used to come and go
with interest in discussion ; we cannot hear the spoken voice, with the
exception of a few whispered words and sentences in direct voice ; we
cannot feel the grasp of the well-known hand ; but though sight,
hearing and touch are excluded, we can and do get a sense of the
presence of our friend in a way that must be experienced in order to be
realised.
This sounds the m.ost elusive and deceptive of all modes of recog-
nition, j'Ct I have known men of sceptical mind, previously sure that
telepathy from the mind of the sitter explains all, become absolutely
convinced of their friend's presence in a sitting, though everything said
was already known to the sitter ;
yet veridical messages given through
a proxy sitter, who had no knowledge of their truth or value, have carried
no conviction to the same person. Such conviction, however, cannot
be passed on to others ; it concerns the individual alone who has had
the special experience.
But there is, I believe, something rhore to be said in explanation of this
convincing sense of presence and personality. Feda will occasionallv tell
me, after a communicator has done particularly well, that " he was verv
close to-day and that made it very easy for Feda." I gather that she
alludes to a condition in which the communicator, while ostensibly
transmitting to Feda, was partially controlling the medium, perhaps
sufficiently to impress the latter at the same time that he impressed Feda
with his thoughts. Thus he had, to some degree, short-circuited Feda
and conveyed to the sitter more of his personality than if Feda had been,
as is usually the case, an indispensable link in transm.ission. It is onlv
152 Joiinial of Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
persons of forceful character and dominating personality who are likely
to produce this effect. Sir Oliver was certainly such an one.
There may be a few readers who will feel the need of knowing the psy-
cho-analytical attitude of a sitter's mind, both conscious and subconscious.
They will possibly say that I found it easy to regard as evidential anything
which pointed towards that which I wished to believe, and that I was not
on my guard against " wish-fulfilment." To such I can say that the evid-
ence is here placed before them and they are at liberty to disregard such
personal opinions as I have added. Tihe convictions expressed are my
own and added because they have some kind of value ; and one is always
interested in learning how an observer was impressed by the happenings
he recounts.
I am not one of those who pretend that they are entirely devoid of
preferences ; that for them, one thing is as welcome as another. Far
from it. I am pleased when finding my previous opinions justified, and
also pleased when new facts compel their abandonment for opinions
closer to truth. But my very desire for truth and nothing but the truth
makes me conscientious and careful over the minutiae of research and the
estabhshment of its data.
In the present case I had not expected to hear from Sir Oliver. The
announcement that he was present pleased me, and I was glad to hear
that he proposed to speak of his experiences. The statements made were
mostly in accord with my previous opinions, or slightly expanded ; that
naturally pleased me. But the introduction of the reincarnation theme had
the opposite effect. Not that I disbelieved, or did not wish to believe ;
my mind was open and I should have welcomed evidence warmly. My
feeling was that no evidence could be given and that therefore one could
get no further with that subject. Whether I have since modified that
opinion would be beside the point and has no place here.
Transmission
Much has been written about Mrs. Leonard's trance, both in S.P.R.
Proceedings and in books giving the experience of sitters. It is assumed
that a communicator sends his thoughts to Feda who then sends them to
the medium's mind or brain for vocalisation. The " sending " in both
instances being presumably by telepathy. But it would seem to be tele-
pathy of a stronger and more successful kind than that which we find in
spontaneous cases, or succeed in producing experimentally. Indeed, so
good is this telepathy that Feda speaks of " hearing ", and there is no
doubt but that she seems to herself to catch actual words during the periods
of a sitting when conditions are at their best. At less favourable times
Feda would seem to receive only the general ideas, which she then ex-
presses in her own way. The difference is very marked. On the occasion
of this Lodge discourse I had the impression that Feda was usually
transmitting word for word, sentence by sentence. Where she deemed
she had failed, her questions and remarks (all recorded) are self explanatory.
Communicators agree in saying that, while in the sitting, they are
under some difficulty with memory and their general mental ability.
They explain that, on entering the conditions of a sitting, they find their
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 153
mind much as it was during earth hfe. It has reverted to conscious and
subconscious, available and non-available memory. At death they had
found these mental aspects uniting and so atfording them a more accessible
memory and greater mental facility. This temporary reversion to the
former state is inconvenient, inasmuch as they may find during message-
giving that some memories, of which they had proposed to speak, are now
" outside " in the memory area not available to them.
Another difficulty of which they speak is the necessity for " slowing
down " in order to synchronise with the lower rate of human mental
action. That this might necessitate special attention and care will be
realised by anyone who has tried to dictate at the rate of, say, one word
every three seconds instead of his usual ten words. And those who have
had much to do with persons suffering from advanced cerebro-arterio-
sclerosis will understand what " slowing down " means in practice. For
such invalids are " slow in the uptake ", and leisurely in response, in
addition to being more or less incapable of drawing an inference, or
following a line of reasoning to its conclusion. And so, in talking with
them, one falls back on short, simple phrases which but ill express all one
would wish to say. Their lack of mental alertness and speed makes the
difficulty.
Owing to his temporarily divided memory a communicator may fail to
marshal his facts in the order and detail he had proposed to himself.
Also, while engrossed in formulating his next message or idea, he may not
notice the way in which his previous thought is being expressed, and he
is therefore unable to rectify a mistake. Feda sometimes fails to catch his
words and, guessing by the context, may mutilate the thought ;
especially
is this likely to happen when the ideas to be conveyed are beyond her
understanding. Again, any indiscreet question by the sitter may seriously
interfere with the thread of a communicator's thought, or with the mental
condition of the sitting, so raising complications which it is impossible to
clear up.
Feda, too, has her problems ;
for, according to her own remarks, she is
far less alert and balanced than while in her own state and sphere. Her
mind and that of the medium have partly coalesced and the medium's
mental activity may resist an unacceptable idea, or may even interpose
with some strongly held notion. Once such favourite theme is started it
may run on for awhile, despite Feda's efforts to check it.
These and other considerations which I have dealt with elsewhere (see
S.P.R. Proceedings for July 1928) might well account for imperfections of
transmission.
Nevertheless, taken as a whole, this communication seems to run with
logical smoothness and clarity of expression. And it is what we might
expect from one so well aware, as was Sir Oliver, of the intricacies of
trance mediumship.
Intention
With one great exception the chief ideas in this discourse are to be
found in Sir Oliver's books : the extracts given above might have been
extensively increased. One can pass from a study of this sitting to read
154 Journal of Society for Psycliical Researcli JUNE, 1945
Lodge's books without feeling any break ; the same personality and the
same outlook on life permeate both.
The one exception is the definite teaching about reincarnation. In
life Lodge was non-committal. The following represents a view which
he at times repeated in other words :
The psyche or unidentified soul gradually leaks into the body as the
body is fitted to receive it, beginning with an infinitesimal portion in
its early stages, and gradually growing in amount up to a certain measure,
dependent on the individual's own exertions and opportunities. . . .
After an interval for development, the now identified soul goes back
whence it came, either gradually, in the natural course of things, or
suddenly if a catastrophe happens, but in either case retaining the
powers, aptitudes, tastes, memory and experience attained during
incarnate life. That increase of value it carries with it and contributes
to the Whole which it rejoins may be—perhaps a larger or sublimal
self, parts of which may possibly be liable to some modified form of
reincarnation hereafter. On those questions I withhold judgment.
{Why I believe in Personal Immortality, p. 27.)
But now we find it stated explicitly that return to earth for further testing
and experience does take place, at least with some if not with all. I
cannot say that I was pleased when the discourse took this turn. It had
always seemed to me that no actual evidence could be forthcoming either
to confirm or to deny reincarnation. I held an open mind and had never
felt an urge to form conclusions about it. Of Mrs Leonard's earlier
views on reincarnation I am ignorant ; at the present time she believes
that some persons are " old souls " and others not. Being aware of this
I thought that possibly the introduction of the subject might be due to an
intrusion of her opinion and interest. But as the talk proceeded it became
apparent that reincarnation was the final teaching, up to which well-
ordered thought had been leading.
Reincarnation was rarely mentioned by my father in the earlier years
of my sittings. He held that it certainly took place with some people,
but he did not think actual proof was probable for us on earth. But in
recent years he and two other regular communicators have spoken more
freely about it, taking it for granted and occasionally touching on its
implications. My father has also tried to make somewhat more clear to
me what it is which can return to inhabit a physical body and again
experience life on earth.
I cannot think that my interest in the subject was sufiicient to warrant
supposition that the introduction of this topic was due to my mind, either
conscious or subconscious.
It is to be remembered that the Feda-Leonard mental combination
might facilitate an infiltration of ideas from Mrs Leonard. Once begun,
this process might be difficult or impossible for Feda to check. As my
father once explained, "Over-pressure taps the subconscious mind of the
medium and then something escapes before Feda can stop it. Even after
hearing the escapes and inaccuracies, she cannot always so control the
medium's mind as to put things right. As each thought is given, it is
JUNE, 1945 A Discourse 155
fixed on the co-operative mind which is created partly by the metlium
and partly by Feda. Once it is registered there, a counter-suggestion is not
easily put through." Yet Feda has become in the course of years an
expert in her work. In connection with Word-Association experiments
which I undertook some years ago under the guidance of Mr Whately
Carington, it was possible to establish that Feda, while responding to the
stimulus words, was able to resist very strongly any influence from the
medium's mind. For Feda replied with 377 words which were not given
by either of the other three who were being tested at the same time, viz.
John, Etta, Mrs Leonard ; and of these words she repeated no fewer
than 142 during the Reproduction Test. This indicates that Feda was
the most markedly independent of the three, or shall we say, better able
than either John or Etta to resist being influenced by the medium's mind.
(See S.P.R. Proceedings, July 1935, p. 391-)
We may suppose that so strong a personality as Sir Oliver Lodge, and
one so well acquainted with the intricacies of mediumship, would be able
to exert the maximum of resistance to a medium's interference.
It may be asked how one may know which part of a communication
should be considered as representing what was intended and how much
has been added, misunderstood or otherwise blurred in process of trans-
mission? Alas ! no strict rule can be given. It must inevitably be left for
the experience and discernment of the sitter to decide.
I should be glad to know certainly whether Reincarnation was de-
signedly asserted by Lodge, or whether the topic was due to infiltration.
Can one be sure?
Any hesitancy we may feel would be regarded by Sir Oliver with under-
standing sympathy ; for he once wrote, after describing a conversation
(through Mrs. Leonard) v/ith his son Raymond and Myers ;
It should be needless to say that I take these conversations as akin to
a discussion between friends, none of whom is infallible but some
better informed than others. They are not to be treated as oracular,
but they are often suggestive. Any tendency to put too much faith in
imparted information, attained by other than our own exertion, is to be
deprecated. The unwisdom of this can be illustrated from ancient
examples.
{Why I believe in Personal Immortality, p. 108.)
Speaking for myself, I cannot say that I confidently trust the validity
of communications which I am unable to test. I try to treat them for
what they may be worth, as unverifiable matter, and I have a feeling
that we possess an instinct which tells us more or less clearly when we
are on the right path.
—
[Phantom Walls, p. 183.)
The amount of evidence required for any particular belief varies with
different persons and with the importance and implications of the matter
in question. An easy and hasty acceptance of some things makes but
little difference, if any, to one's life and thought. It is quite otherwise
with such statements as are given in this discourse. No one need be the
worse, or at any disadvantage, for accepting them, even if they were but
156 Joiinidl nf Society for Psychical Research JUNE, 1945
fanciful dreams. If on the other hand they correspond broadly to facts of
life here and hereafter, then their importance is immense and should
influence thought and action, our philosophy and our religious life.
Facts are facts, and they remain unaltered by our opinions, our acceptance
or our disbelief ; but these attitudes of mind can make a vast difference
to us !
Sir Oliver hinted that he might have yet more to say. Let us hope it
may prove so.
The following is added for documentary completeness. There had
been one previous brief communication from Sir Oliver. This was at my
Leonard sitting on March 7th, 1941. He had died in August, 1940. My
stenographer was absent, but here are my abbreviated notes.
Feda : Sir Oliver says, I never regret the day that I embarked on the
study of psychical research. I bless the day when I first came into
touch with these matters. It was a great comfort to me while on
earth and still is. It made many things clear to me which might
otherwise have remained obscure. Life is most interesting. One
sees many different angles from here. How soon prejudices of earth
pass ! One gets a different sense of values and different ideas of what
is worth while. It is even diflncult to remember what it was that
puzzled, and still does, men on earth about this life. So if you will
formulate some questions, say one or two, I might be able to answer
them.
Feda added that Sir Oliver had been " called " from every part
of the globe, but felt he would get involved in controversial matters
if he allowed himself to be drawn. " He means to be cautious, not
wishing to comphcate things, but to do some useful work in the
future."
Then came a message for his secretary. Miss Alvey, which I forwarded.
From her reply it would appear that Sir Oliver had been aware of certain
happenings and that his reference to them was timely and appropriate.
Here is the relevant part of her letter :
" How grateful I am to you for
sending on the message from Sir Oliver ! It came exactly when I was
needing it. I was wanting to know if he approved of what I have done
with his papers ; it is a relief 'to know that he does. His words '
sorting
and arranging '
exactly describe what I have been doing. Also it is true
that there has been a collapse of a plan about a new post which was
disappointing to me. So you see it was all most appropriate and I bless
him for sending the message just now."
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
August 1945 Vol. XXX1 11—No. 6i6
CONTENTS
PAGE
Discussion Meetings - - - - - - -i57
. New Members - - - - - - - - i57
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - -158
Private Meetings - - - - - - - -158
General Meeting - - - - - - - -159
Dr Tanagras—A Welcome Correction . - - - 159
Dr Tenhaeff -------- - 159
Case : A Hallucination including a Veridical Element - 160
The Reality of Psychic Phenomena - - - - -161
DISCUSSION MEETINGS
The next Meeting will be held at 5.45 p.m. on Thursday, 13 September
1945, at 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, in the Society's Library.
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell will open a discussion on " Quantitative versus
Qualitative Work in Psychical Research ".
Members are invited to bring their friends to Discussion Meetings, but
on the understanding that no friend will attend more than three meetings
without becoming a member of the Society.
NEW MEMBERS
(Elected 5 May 1945)
Baker, Dr Audrey Z., The Sundial, Norwood Road, Tiverton, Devon.
Cole, J. F. I., la Alton Road, Roehampton, London, S.W. 15.
Fielding, Dr Una L., Dept. of Anatomy, University College, Gower
Street, London, W.C. i.
Johnston, Sidney, 81 Fountain Street, Manchester 2.
McConnell, Dr Laura W., Garrick's Lodge, Hampton, Middx.
Panama, Maurice, Hercies, Sweetcroft Lane, Hillingdon, Middx.
Wheeler, Miss A. M., 6 Beaumont Street, Oxford.
Wright, Rev. J. Sta{ford, 9 Beaconsfield Road, Clifton, Bristol 8.
Student-Associate
Cooper, A. S., Thatchings, Weldens Lane, Chalfont-St.-Peter, Bucks.
(Elected 20 June 1945)
Archibald, Miss E., c/o Baalham, 21 Kilworth Avenue, Southend-on-Sea.
Bazett, Miss L. M., The Firs, Redhill, Surrey.
158 Journal of Society for Psychical Research august, 1945
Blundun, Dr Jessie, 41 Queen's Drive, Hassocks, Sussex.
Bosanquet, Mrs G. C, Croft, Seal, Sevenoaks, Kent.
'
Dunnet, F/Lt. J. B., R.A.F., IVIanby, near Louth, Lines.
Gardner, G. B., 47 Ridgmount Gardens, Torrington Place, I^ondon,
W.C. I.
Kerawalla, R. D., 8 Manson Place, London, S.W. 7.
King, W. H., Rosend, Park View, Gt. Bookham, Surrey.
Librarian, Fisher Library, University of Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.
Murrell, A. W., 253 Greenford Road, Greenford, Middx.
Swallow, Miss I., 12 Park View, Royston, Yorks.
Wycherley, S. R., Windyridge, Woodhouse Lane, Uplyme, Lyme Regis.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 405th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Saturday, 5 May 1945, at 3 p.m. The President in
the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs Oliver Gatty,
Mrs Goldney, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Mr D. Parsons, Mr W. H.
Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal and Mr D. J. West ; also Miss
E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Eight new Members and one Student-Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The 406th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 20 June 1945, at 3.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs
Goldney, Lord Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, Mr G.
Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, Dr R. H. Thouless and Mr D. J. West ; also Miss E. M. Horsell,
Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Twelve new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
Mr D. J. West was appointed Assistant Hon. Secretary.
PRIVATE MEETINGS
The 184th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday, 12 May 1945, when Miss Geraldine Cummins read a paper on
" The Investigation of Neuroses by the Ultra-perceptive Faculty ".
The 185th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Saturday, 9 June 1945, when Mr D. J. West read a paper entitled " The
Reality of Psychic Phenomena : An Imaginary Discussion between a
Sceptic and a Believer ". A summary is printed in this number of the
Journal.
AUGUST, 1945 General Meeting 159
GENERAL MEETING
The 189th General Meeting of the Society was held at Manson House,
26 Portland Place, London, W. i, on Wednesday, 20 June 1945, at 6 p.m.,
when Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell gave his Presidential Address. The Address
will be published in Proceedings.
DR TANAGRAS—A WELCOME CORRECTION
We are very glad to learn that the report of Dr Tanagras' death, which
reached us some months ago and was recorded in the Journal, proves to
have been unfounded. A letter has now been received from him, dated
14 May 1945, in which he informs us that all the staff of the Hellenic S.P.R.
are safe. " Our sufferings have been great but we are glad that our sacrifice
of 1941 has not been in vain and served the final victory."
DR. TENHAEFF
We were also very glad to receive from another Hon. Associate of the
Society the following letter :
Dear Sirs,
To-day, the third day after our liberation, I will write to you to inform
you that I prepare myself to resume my work as a psychical researcher.
The years of the war were terrific. Thousands of my country-men have
been murdered by the Huns and among them many intellectuals. I myself
was hunted by the Germans for many reasons and lived a year as a
" onderduiker " ( = 1 made myself not to be found). One of the reasons
for which the Germans would arrest me is that I refused to give my
lectures at the University of Utrecht when they tried to " Germanize
"
(I hope this is a good English word) our Universities. The properties of
the Dutch S.P.R. have been stolen by the Germans. Not only the money
but also our library. This very good library has been presented by Dr
Seyss Inquart (the Austrian traitor who was the deputy of Hitler in the
Netherlands) to Dr Alfred Rosenberg, the " philosopher " of the third
" Reich ". Our " Tijdschrift voor Parapsychologie " has been suppressed.
The Germans told me that psychical research = American humbug. When
I told them that they had very good psychical researchers in their country
(Driesch, Bender and others) but none of these Nazi barbars had heard
the names of those. (I believe that many of them never heard of Goethe
and Schiller.)
As to psychical research—I collected many cases of zvar predictions {some
very interesting). I hope that you in England will co-operate with me {our
Dutch S.P.R.) to collect a great many {zvell established) cases of telepathy,
prediction etc. in ivar time.
I hope that in future our co-operation will be very close. Our soldiers
and sailors fought side by side with the soldiers and sailors of your
admirable country. Yesterday your troops entered our town and the
enthusiasm of the population was beyond description. So there will also
i6o Journal of Society for Psycliical Research august, 1945
be a close co-operation between the scholars of our countries. This will
be to the profit of Humanity.
I hope to hear soon from you in a favourable way.
Kindest regards,
W. H. C. Tenhaeff.
We have received a letter from another Dutch Member, Mr Zorab, to
much the same effect. He adds that the library of the Dutch S.P.R. was
put on show at an " Exhibition of Anglo-American depravity " organised
by Rosenberg.
CASE : A HALLUCINATION
•
INCLUDING A VERIDICAL ELEMENT
This case, dating from June 1943, was described in a letter to the Hon.
Secretary from Mrs Siegfried Sassoon, who was recently elected a member
of the Society. The percipient, Mrs Sassoon's sister-in-law, Mrs Richard
Gatty, subsequently wrote the following account of her experience, dated
24 April 1945. It will be seen that the experience had been mentioned by
Mrs Gatty in a letter to her husband dated 21 June 1943, the day after the
experience occurred : he was then serving in North Africa.
" As far as I remember I was lying in bed (I had just had a baby) about
10 o'clock on June 20th. The unlined chintz curtains were, I think,
drawn, but the room faced west and the sun had not gone down and the
room was well lit with a golden light. My bed was standing with its head
just to the left of the window facing the door. The room was painted
v/hite. My impression was that the door opened and my husband came in
looking sunburnt and wearing a grey flannel suit. I only saw his head and
shoulders round the side of the door but I felt as if he came across to the
bed and made as if to kneel down beside it. At this point I '
came to '
and
noticed that the bedside table stood in the spot where I thought he had been.
" My husband looked completely and absolutely real—no insubstantial-
ness, no ghostliness—and he smiled and moved (it wasn't a fixed tableau).
It wasn't in the least like the pictures you conjure up in memory. I
definitely, for about 30 seconds, thought it was him. My heart began to
thump and I altogether manifested all the signs that I would have done if it
had been him in the flesh. The lighting was completely natural. One
point is that the first visual impression was the strongest and that it all
'
tailed of '
until my realisation of the bedside table completely broke the
spell. I remember feeling that, when I had realised it wasn't really him, it
might have been possible to have prolonged the sensation of his presence
but that it was not possible to see him again. Of course, though, while it
was actually happening I didn't think about it at all as it seemed fact not a
psychical experience.
" I may say that I have never had an experience that could be considered
out of the ordinary before and am rather a matter-of-fact and materialistic
person."
Mrs Gatty has allowed the Hon. Secretary to see the two contemporary
documents which refer to her experience, and to the interesting fact that at
the time of the hallucination her husband was wearing a grey civilian suit
AUGUST, 1945
"
Case 161
during a short period of emergency and was particularly conscious of his
appearance in it. The first of the following extracts is from the letter,
mentioned above, in which Mrs Gatty told her husband briefly of the
experience. The letter was sent by air mail and is dated 21 June 1943 :
" Last night just as I was going off to sleep I had an extraordinarily
vivid impression of you opening the door and coming in very sunburnt and
dressed in a grey flannel suit! It made me feel just as if you really had
appeared but unfortunately I came to only too quickly."
This dates the experience as having occurred late on 20 June, 1943. The
next extract is from a letter dated 9 July, 1943, from Capt. R. Gatty to his
wife :
" You talked in the most appetising way of my coming in to see you in a
grey flannel suit. I only wish it could have been true : but at the moment I
seem to be completely stuck here. Curious though it may seem, however,
on the 2ist June I was wearing a grey suit of civilian clothes, as all my
uniform except that at the wash had been blitzed in Pantellaria by a most
ungentlemanly Bosch bomb. You certainly would have laughed to see me
in that suit—it was made for a man with a waist of at least 54"—I was lost
in the trousers."
In reply to questions Mrs Gatty added the following information in a
letter dated 3 May 1945 :
" I doubt if I could have noticed that my husband was wearing an ill-
fitting suit because I only saw his head, shoulder and arm round the edge
of the door—like this. (A sketch is given of a figure holding a door partly
open and looking round the edge of it.) He was wearing a collar and tie
and I have ascertained from my husband that he was in reality, though in
that great heat I should have expected him not to. The suit was the kind
of suit I had seen him wear in civilian life. He is not absolutely certain
whether he first put it on in the evening of the 19th or the morning of the
20th and he continued wearing it for 3 or 4 days.
" The baby was born at 12.30 a.m. B.D.S.T. on June 19th. My ex-
perience was therefore about 44 hours afterwards. I had the baby with
little trouble but with some anaesthetics, and I was not running a tempera-
ture or in any way ill."
It is not beyond chance coincidence that Mrs Gatty should have visual-
ised her husband as wearing a grey suit, " the kind of suit I had seen him
wear in civilian life ", when in fact he was wearing a civilian suit of this
colour, but the fact that he was wearing this suit for only a short period and
was conscious of its odd appearance suggests some probability that the
veridical element in the hallucination was not due to chance.
" THE REALITY OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA "
{A Summary of the paper read at the Private Meeting on gth June, ig45)
By Donald J. West
The discussion was opened by the sceptic saying that the evidence for the
reality of supernormal phenomena is not as conclusive as is supposed by
the average S.P.R. member. Believer and sceptic agreed that the crucial
point was telepathy : if that were not established as a true psychic pheno-
1 62 Journal of Society for Psychical Research august, 1945
menon, then nothing was. There were three main types of evidence for
telepathy, crisis apparitions, experimental ESP and mediums. The
evidence from apparitions was discussed first.
The believer cited the census of hallucinations as refuting the chance
coincidence hypothesis. After more than ample corrections had'been made
for all possible sources of error, the census showed that one in every forty-
three recognised human apparitions coincides (within twelve hours either
way), with its agent's death ; whereas death statistics show that only one
person in nineteen thousand of the general population dies in a given
twenty-four hour span. The sceptic remained unconvinced, mainly
because the figures were produced on the assumption that all of the sixty-
five cases included in the census count were genuine. Hardly any of the
cases reached what the sceptic considered a satisfactory evidential level,
so that the vast majority could be explained normally by fraud, delusion,
faulty memory and hallucinations due to expectancy. The odd one or two
cases that were fairly evidential could have been chance-coincidences.
The believer then proceeded to mention apparitions that give a great
deal of veridical information, quoting the well-known case of Robert
Mackenzie ^ as an example. The sceptic agreed that the case was typical
and replied with a destructive analysis, in which he pointed out the case
depended almost entirely on the percipient's unsubstantiated word.
Then the believer began to argue that the clearly recognisable common
features running through the narratives was evidence of genuineness. The
sceptic maintained that common features in psychic hallucinations might
be due to the popular ideas of how a telepathic apparition should appear
and behave. The believer went on to say that not only did genuine cases
have features in common, but they also conformed to type, e.g. haunting,
poltergeist, crisis case etc. The sceptic retorted that none were truer to
type than the poltergeist, yet this was the one variety the supernormality
of which is doubted by psychical researchers themselves.
The believer passed on to experimentally induced apparitions and col-
lectively perceived apparitions. The sceptic would accept neither. There
were only half a dozen rather unsatisfactory cases of experimentally
induced apparitions in S.P.R. literature, all of which belonged to the last
century. Collective cases were viewed with distrust by the early investi-
gators and when H. and E. B. Hart ^ conducted an exhaustive search for
examples they could not find a single first class evidential crisis apparition
collectively perceived.
The believer concluded the discussion on apparitions by saying that
although no single case or single line of evidence was conclusive, the evi-
dence as a whole all pointed in the same direction, namely that of the
telepathic hypothesis. The sceptic insisted that it was a matter of opinion
whether this supposed unity of pattern ijiade up for all the flaws and
weaknesses of the evidence.
Experimental evidence was discussed next. The sceptic violently
criticised the lax conditions of the earlier qualitative experiments. The
reports were never detailed enough to assure one that fraud and hyper-
aesthesia had been excluded. The question of fraud was particularly acute,
because qualitative experiments would only work with specially gifted
^ Proc. S.P.R. in. 9S- ^ Proc. S.P.R. xli. 205.
AUGUST, 1945 The Reality of Psychic Phenomena 163
percipients. The believer argued that motive for fraud was absent and
that the research was under the competent control of well-known experi-
menters. The sceptic replied that acumen displayed in another science
was not necessarily transferable to psychical research, that authoritarian
opinions carry little weight and that fraud should be excluded by the con-
ditions and not by the reputations of the experimenters. Also there had
been two cases of fraud,^ one of which was only discovered by accident,
-
which prove that early experiments were not fraud-proof and suggest that
many charlatans may have escaped unchallenged.
The Gilbert Murray experiments were criticised because hyperaesthesia
had been suggested as a probable explanation and experiments had never
been carried out to disprove that explanation. Dr Hettinger's experiments
with psychometrists were said to be unsatisfactory, not in principle, but on
account of the lack of information given in the reports. Hettinger's
quoted examples were said to be a selection, but the amount of material
from which they were abstracted was not indicated. Some of the supposed
coincidences appeared far-fetched.
The believer went on to discuss statistical experiments and the sceptic
was forced to admit that some of the latest card-guessing experiments
were statistically perfect. However, he would not admit that they
amounted to a scientific proof of ESP. There were several suspicious
features. Firstly, the results were meagre, nothing like the wonderful
coincidences that were said to occur in spontaneous psychic occurrences.
Secondly, results had fallen off as conditions improved. Thirdly, the ex-
periments were not repeatable. English experiments had failed to re-
produce the consistent successes obtained in America with unselected
percipients and PK subjects. Lastly, it was bad enough that statistics had
to be used at all, but the manoeuvres indulged in by ESP experimenters
were positively Machiavellian. When a percipient failed to score above
chance expectation, one would think there would he nothing more to be
said, but the ESP genius starts looking around for other effects, such as
salience, displacement, negative deviations and abnormal hit distributions.
In any ordinary research problem, such as the determination of whether
a chemical reaction is exothermic, the experiment is designed to give a
direct positive or negative answer to whatever question is being asked.
In this case a simple rise or fall in thermometer reading is all that is looked
for. The sceptic thought it strange how people who could see the absurdity
of hunting for meaningless patterns in thermometer readings, would
nevertheless condone a similar absurdity in ESP experiments. The
believer replied that ESP effects, although they could be estimated by a
large variety of statistical tests, really boiled down to a few consistent
phenomena that were capable of a theoretical interpretation by the Associa-
tion Theory. The sceptic disagreed and maintained that the Association
Theory did not explain the nature of the link between psychons of different
minds, which was the crux of the difficulty.
Mediums were the last item in the discussion. In the sceptic's opinion,
the great skill and cunning possessed by first class mental mediums was
underestimated. Wonderfully dextrous methods of chicanery were justly
^ Proc. S.P.R. i. 161—215 ;
Joitrn. xv. 115-32.
^ Proc. S.P.R. v. 269; Journ. iii. 164.
164 Journal of Society for Psychical Research august, 1945
attributed to physical mediums, but people failed to see that mental
mediums were equally accomplished in their own lines of fraud, namely,
spying, filching information, picking pockets and reading letters and
judging character and circumstances from sitters' involuntary reactions
and tones of voice.
The believer said that there were mediumistic cases which fraud would
not explain, to which the sceptic retorted that chance coincidence was
another possibility. " Readers of psychic literature ", he said, " only hear
of the successes of famous mistresses of the art; They do not realise how
rare good mediums are." The believer pointed out that the best
evidenced mediums, like Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard, were the ones t^iat
were most consistently successful and difficult to explain either by fraud
or by chance coincidence. To this the sceptic put forward a fresh sug-
gestion, namely that mediumistic phenomena might be hallucinatory.
" In his recent paper on D. D. Home, Dr Dingwall mentioned an American
physical medium in whose presence sitters would see and feel animals and
other manifestations that had no reality outside their own imagination.
Why can't sitters with mental mediums receive spirit messages of similar
subjective origin?
"
The believer challenged the sceptic to explain away successful proxy
sittings. " Fraud won't help, because the sitter has no more information
than the medium. Hallucination won't help because there is no one
present who could conjure the necessary vision ".
The sceptic claimed that fraud was the explanation. He drew attention
to the fact that proxy sittings were becoming things of the past, and that
there weren't a great number on record. He said that the reports omitted
the most important details, namely how closely the proxy sitter guarded
from all and sundry the name, address, letters and other information
pertaining to the absent sitter. " It might be thought that attention to
such details is fantastic, but it is no more so than the precautions necessary
in the face of freaks like the regurgitation of cheese-cloth phantoms ".
Lastly, the question of supernormally acquired knowledge or technical
information was discussed. The believer mentioned Patience Worth, but
the sceptic tersely rejected this and all similar cases. " Since the language
of the communications was recognised, a knowledge of it must have been
in existence. I would rather suppose that the medium had somehow
acquired this knowledge surreptitiously, than assume there was anything
supernormal. The available records obviously could not give such a com-
plete account of the medium's life as to convince one that it was impossible
for her to have at one time carried out some stealthy philological research."
An interesting discussion followed the reading. Mrs Goldney, who
was in the chair, mentioned the Soal-Goldney experiments, which
excluded every normal explanation so far suggested. Mr West replied that
the sceptic's argument was not tliat some apparently perfect experiments
had not been pcrform.ed, but that unlike all other scientific experiments
they were not repeatable. Mr West urged that attempts should be made
to repeat the few experiments that possessed the appearance of repeatability;
namely Carington's paranormal cognition of drawings and Hettinger's
experiments.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
October 1945 ' Vol. XXXIII—No. 617
' CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting - - - - - - - -165
•New Members - - - - - - - -166
Obituary - - - - - - - - -166
Reflections on Mediumship - - - - - -166
Reincarnation - - - - - - - -170
Correspondence - - - - - - - -171
Review - - - .- - - - - -172
: NOTICE OF MEETING
THE EIGHTH
FREDERIC W. H. MYERS MEMORIAL LECTURE
ENTITLED
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH: WHERE DO WE STAND?
WILL BE DELIVERED BY
MRS. W. H. SALTER
AT
Manson House, 26 Portland Place, W. i
-
ON
2ist November, ig43, at 6.J0 p.m.
N.B.
—
Members and Associates ivill be admitted on signing their names at
the door. Additional tickets for the use of visitors can be had on application to
the Secretary, Ji Tavistock Square, London, W.C.i.
Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCTOBER, 1 945
NEW MEMBERS
Adams, J. H., 5 Edgel Street, Wandsworth, London, S.W. 18.
Ball, Dr Doris B., Willoughby, Albury Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Barbanell, M., 8 Adelaide Court, Abbey Road, London, N.W. 8.
Barrow, Harrison, 40 Wcoley Park Road, Selly Oak, Birmingham.
Callow, Denys M., Chester Lodge, 81 North Side, Clapham Common,
London, S.W. 4.
Dunbar, Mrs J. L. Duff, Ackergill Tower, Wick, Caithness.
Evans, D. R., 26 Paradise Street, Coventry.
Garde, Dr. G. W., 5 The Grove, Hammersmith, London, W. 6.
Gatty, Mrs Richard, Pepper Arden, Northallerton, Yorks.
Haskell, P. T., Applegate, Heath Road East, Petersfield, Hants.
Kelynack, Dr Agnes V., 9 Arden Grove, Harpenden, Herts.
Saul, Miss M. H,, 147a High Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Vasse, Mrs Paul, 36 Route de Rouen, Pont-de-Metz., Somme, France.
Wynne, Dr A. T., 50 Sackville Gardens, Hove 3, Sussex.
The 407th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Tuesday, 25 September 1945, at 3 p.m. The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs
Goldney, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr D. Parsons, Mr
W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Mr D. J. West ; also Mr Kenneth Richmond, Secre-
tary, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last meeting of the Council were read and signed
as correct. Fourteen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
Prof. T. K. Oesterreich. We are glad to learn that our Corresponding
Member, Prof. Oesterreich, who was one of the earliest victims of Nazi
tyranny, is safe. We should be glad to have news of any of our other
members in the recently liberated countries.
OBITUARY
We regret to record the death of Lady Barrett, the widow of Sir William
Barrett, F".R.S. Lady Barrett, who held a distinguished position in
medical science joined the Society in 1916. In 1937 she published a book,
Personality Survives Death, in which she gave an account of communica-
tions received by her through Mrs Leonard, and purporting to come from
her late husband. The book is reviewed in the S.P.R. Journal for
December 1937.
REFLECTIONS ON MEDIUMSHIP
The statement made by Sceptic in Donald West's paper that " readers of
psychic literature do not realise how rare good mediums are ", may be
OCTOBER, 1945 Reflections on Mediiimsliip 167
true for those people who are satisfied with being but readers of psychic
Hterature. But for those who carry out research on their own it is evident
that, not only are good mediums rare, but probably non-existent in what
concerns proof of communication with the dead. I incline to endorse
Sceptic's opinion that manifestations tending to prove communication
may have no reality outside the sitter's imagination, though I would add:
or of the medium's. For myself I have never obtained from mediums
anything but reflections of my mind, either conscious, semi-conscious,
or unconscious, with colouring which I view as from the medium's.
Instances of my experience may be of interest.
In September 1944, after the liberation of Paris, I booked a private
sitting with Miss Mary Methuen through The International Institute for
Psychic Investigation where I was unknown. I gave no name and no
address. The Secretary, from our few minutes' talk, may have gathered
that I am French. But she had no possibility of seeking particulars of my
French relatives, for the lapse of time between booking and the sitting-
was but two days, and this in War time. At the sitting French names were
given me, correctly pronounced. One, Lise, is a rare name in France (I
know but one), and in the case of my sister who bears it, it is not an abbre-
viation but her actual name. The medium gave it without hesitation,
stating that it was my sister's. I replied :
" For all I know Lise is alive ".
" Yes," said the medium, " she is, but people on the other side have been
anxious about her as you are ;
they tell you not to be ; all will be well ".
The statement was extremely vague, but it was staggering to hear the
name.
On the 5th of June 1945, I sat with Mr Arthur Bhaduri, a sitting again
arranged by The International Institute for Psychic Investigation, but this
time both my name and address being given. Yet the lapse of time
between booking and sitting was less than one week. It is impossible
that information could have been obtained about my family in Paris.
Had the medium such information, he made such poor use of it that this
would give him away as a fool rather than a fraud. He gave me many
names, in three languages and all accurate. A series of five names was
especially interesting, since I could not remember them all and had to
look them up in a genealogy which I had read years previously but for-
gotten, though the names must have dwelt in my subconscious. Then
came the name of Lise, perfectly pronounced and without beating about
the bush. He said :
" I see her close to you, a near relative." " Yes, my
sister, but Lise two months ago was alive ". "I am sorry to say ",
explained the medium, " that now she is dead ". There were no further
explanations, this being but a group sitting. As soon as I reached home
I telephoned my son to inform him, wishing to have a witness, no matter
what evidence might follow. For 25 days I felt anxious, then came a
letter from Lise, dated posterior to my sitting.
What had happened.? Twice a name, uncommon, foreign and closely
connected with me had been given independently by two mediums who
could not know anything about my Lise. But what did / know.''
First sitting. Without being aware of having Lise especially on the
brain, I had yet for weeks wondered if I would now hear from her direct.
But I did not imagine her dead, for I had received indirect news of her
1 68 Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1945
throughout the War from a nephew, a prisoner-of-war in Germany. I
felt sure she was alive, but was worried about her welfare.
Second sitting. I had, between the two sittings, received three letters
from Lise containing news of much hardship. In April The Lancet and
other medical papers here reported a fairly bad epidemic of typhoid fever
in Paris. By June, I had been without letters from Lise for two months.
There is no doubt but that my mind was overshadowed by Lise's diffi-
culties, and her silence at a time of epidemic led me to think that she
might be dead.
Reflections : It is admitted that messages can come from the sitter's
subconscious rather than from the disembodied astral agent called a
spirit. It is also claimed that the trained sensitive is able to discern which.
Is this true? I doubt it. In actual practice the medium sometimes guards
himself against possible error. Mr Bhaduri did not. He emphatically
stated that Lise was dead.
This brings my mind back to 19 15, when I consulted Mrs Osborne
Leonard and Horace Leaf about a " missing " brother. I am now (1945)
convinced that these sittings reflected my and my sister-in-law's frames
of mind, for she was with me. The information that we had received at
the time of the notification that my brother was " missing " had given us
hopes that he was alive, though we were completely puzzled as to where
he might be. What was the result? Both Horace Leaf and Mrs Leonard
pronounced our beloved alive, but otherwise all was confusion. Quota-
tions from letters show that Horace Leaf stated that my brother " had
been ill but was recovered ", while Mrs Leonard spoke of " shock and a
fall ", adding " he has not the pain now ", but " passed from a state of
suspended animation to a state of irritation ". In fact, the mediums read
our states of mind of hope and confusion. Until thirty years later no
medium explained my brother's death, which yet I came to presume.
The belated explanation was extremely vague but, characteristically, it
fitted a vivid dream I had had at the time of my brother's disappearance
(it may even have been pre-cognitive ; I was not then sufiiciently inter-
ested to notice the date, which was, however, just a few days before or a
few days after his disappearance). The medium who gave this belated
explanation was Mr Bhaduri at the sitting of June 5th 1945, when he
stated that it was my brother's " death " which had first brought me to
investigate psychic phenomena, which is true. Then he casually men-
tioned the way of death, which fitted the dream mentioned above and
also a vision, some twelve years after the said dream, a vision which was
a prolongation of another vivid dream. But all through these years I had
had several vivid and dramatic dreams about my brother's fate, and all
contradictory. Why should I believe one more than the others? But,
naturally in the course of thirty years, my mind has, unconsciously,
accepted as probably true the two dreams which showed him dead. The
others showed him alive, though demented, etc. At last one medium
read my acceptance, and pictured it much as I had twice done in dreams
and one vision.
These instances form a suggestive sequence once illuminated by the
climax, i.e. the evidence that Lise is not dead. I have had besides these
many interesting proofs of mind reading by mediums, but never of
OCTOBER, 1945 Reflections on Mediumship 169
communication. This mind reading can be bad, middling, good and,
now and again, striking, though always queerly limited. It remains so
interesting 'that I, for one, have no objection to a medium fishing for
information, for by so fishing he is thoroughly tested by the sitter, at least
as to this power of mind reading. Thus a medium recently introduced me
to his German guide, asking if 1 objected. I said :
" No, I am a pacifist ".
This was a clue. But this medium was a poor mind reader. Instead of
telling me of Tolstoy's influence in my life, of a German friend who died
in this country during this war, and suftered a great deal on account of
being both German and a pacifist, the medium pictured Dick Sheppard
standing behind me, a man who has not influenced me.
What inferences do I drcnv from my experience? (a) A firm belief that
that mediums possess a gift for mind reading which may lead to greater
discoveries if fully understood and developed.
(b) An equally firm doubt that this gift has, so far, enabled them to
communicate with the dead. So even in the evidential cases which some
psychic researchers accept as proving communication, I often see but
reflection of either the sitter's mind, or the medium's or both. A typical
example is my reaction to the Discourse given through Mrs Leonard and
attributed to Sir Oliver Lodge published in June Journal. I remember
foremost the words of Lodge quoted at the opening of this Discourse.
But to the statement that " a landscape seen through coloured or imperfect
glass may be changed and distorted and yet it is something like reality ",
I give a slightly different interpretation, since the reality is, for me,
through the glass of my own mind, i.e. the sitter's mind ; but it may also
be the medium's, as perhaps in this Discourse.
(c) A realisation that (since the medium only contacts my states of
mind), had my anxiety been justified in June 1945 and Lise proved dead,
it was even then but my anxiety the medium had seen. It was not com-
munication. In so called predictions (and how many do we not get
through mediums !) it feels the same. The reality is probably the sitter's
imagination, and predictions turn out true or false in the ratio in which
the sitter's mind is apt to wish accurately or otherwise.
{d) Yet I retain one or two unexplainable cases which might prove
communication. The most striking is The Ear of Dionysius with its
abstruse classical knowledge. Yet even here, for lack of sufficient acquaint-
ance with the psycho-analytical attitude of the sitters' and mediums'
minds, I give great weight to Miss Stawell's criticism (Vol. XXIX, Part
LXXIV).
Conclusion. It is so obvious that no sitting should be held without the
employment of a competent psychologist to help both medium and sitter
to analyse the evidence, that it is to be hoped that, now the war is over,
the sole scientific body well placed to provide this scientific guarantee,
i.e. The Society for Psychical Research, will renew its pre-war investigations
of mediums, and place those more easily within reach of the keen and
critical sitter.
Fran^oise Delisle
.
'
;
(Mme F. Lafitte-Cyon).
Journal of Society for Psychical Research October, 1945
RE-INCARNATION
In Mr Drayton Thomas's interesting paper, printed in t\\&'joiirnal for
June last, on some communications from Sir Oliver Lodge received
through Mrs Leonard, occurred (p. 137) the following :
—
" Now during the earth life I kept an open mind about this vexed
question of re-incarnation. . . . Well, now I know it is a fact. It is true,
therefore I must state it as true, that, according to my personal experience,
it is true ; and I have had many talks with my friend Myers about it. I
have asked him why he did not tell me more about it, especially during
my many sittings with Feda. He said that he thought that at times the
medium had had an aversion to the idea ..."
It is perfectly true, as Mr Thomas points out, that Sir Oliver's state-
ment as to keeping an open mind on re-incarnation can be supported by
quotations from his books : see the passage from Why I believe in Personal
Immortality, quoted p. 154. But the discarnate Myers had not left it an
open question: he had pronounced most definitely against it.
No one knew this better than Lodge during his " earth life ", as can be
seen by reading the paper he contributed to Vol. XXV of our Proceedings ;
see particularly pp. 122, 123. In order to test the classical knov/ledge of
Mrs Piper's Myers control, Mr G. B. Dorr had put to Mrs Piper in
America a question relating to Lethe. In order to ascertain whether Mrs
Willett's Myers control had any knowledge of Mr Dorr's question, Lodge
handed to Mrs Willett a sealed envelope containing the following question :
" My dear Myers, I want to aks you a question—not an idle one. What
does the word Lethe suggest to you ? .". . Oliver Lodge."
This envelope was opened by Mrs Willett on the 4th February 1910,
when, sitting by herself, she was producing automatic writing. The
script began at once : - .
-
Myers the Will again to live
the Will again to live the
River of forgetfulness
not re-incarnation
Only once does the Soul
descend the way that leads
to incarnation.
The words " the Will again to live " are taken from Myers's own
translation in Classical Essays of a famous passage in Vergil (Aen. VI,
748-751), which mentions Lethe : See Proc. XXV, p. 131. They should
not be taken as representing the views of Willett-Myers, the expression of
which begins with the emphatic repudiation, " not re-incarnation ".
The opinions of Myers during his " earth life " are not strictly relevant,
but it may be noted that in his books he accepts the idea of pre-existence,
as appears from the poem in Fragments of Prose and Poetry beginning
Soul, that in some high world hast made
Pre-natal, unbewailing choice;
pre-existence, however, does not necessarily imply re-incarnation, and the
tone of his references to re-incarnation in Hitman Personality (Vol II,
OCTOBER, 1945 Correspondence
pp. 137, 139) suggests a dislike of the idea going beyond his criticism
of the unsatisfactory nature of the evidence for it.
It is of course quite possible that Myers, who appears in the extract I
have quoted from Mr Thomas's paper as a believer in re-incarnation, has
changed his views since Mrs Willett's script of 4th February 1910 ; but
it seems to me extremely strange that Lodge, who during his life attached
very great importance to Willett-Myers communications, should in com-
municating through Feda make no reference to this script, and show no
awareness of any discrepancy calling for explanation.
W. H. Salter
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—The Uncertainty Principle has been put to all manner of use since
it was first postulated by Heisenberg in the field of wave mechanics.
Statements such as " the Uncertainty in the Universe shows the Finger of
God " have made us shudder. And now Mr Wilson propounds an
Inaccuracy Theory of E.S.P.
In his article, he starts off with an account of the Thesis of Lord Cher-
well, which, he sa\^s, " does satisfy m.any of the requirements of quantum
mechanics. We may therefore take it as a basis upon which to build a
theory of E.S.P." Why?
Next, he makes two assumptions. Both of these are, as far as I know,
without foundation. First, " that E.S.P. is a physical process or a semi-
physical process ". Second, " that it requires a certain amount of energy
E, where E is a function of the sensitive concerned ". I do not know
what " semi-physical " means. But I know of no shred of evidence which
suggests that E.S.P. has a physical nature. Nothing so far discovered can
fit in E.S.P. with the theories developed by phj-sical science to account
for the world of the five senses. Of the conditions under which it functions
we know little. The time displacement effect recently discovered has
further indicated the depths which remain to be investigated. We seem
to be dealing with a class of phenomena so strange and so new that experi-
ment, and not preconceived theory, is more than ever necessary for head-
way to be made.
Apart from this aspect of Mr Wilson's letter, I find it rather curious
that Soal's 3-second displacement could be identified with '
an inaccuracy
At'. Surely the Uncertainty principle applies only to microcosmic
single observations. Inherent uncertainty in measurement tends to cancel
out in a large number of observations, and statistical interpretation is
required to analyse the results.
Yours sincerely,
•
-
Joyce Fairbairn
Sir,—Dr and Mrs Bendit's letter in the March-April number of the
Journal advocates less exclusive preoccupation with objective experimen-
tation and more attention to psychological observations. By studying the
172 Joiu nal of Sociely for Psychical Research October, 1945
psychological background of psi, they hope to gain a deeper insight into
the mechanism of the phenomenon.
Without doubt, this is a laudable ambition. I have myself expressed
the opinion that the key to the explanation of bizarre ESP effects, such as
were observed in my own card guesses, will be found in the psychological
factors at work. Dr Dingwall believes that there is a correlation between
psychological conflict and physical mediumship.
All the same, the psychological approach has its dangers. The psycho-
logist's role is of necessity that of a passive observer rather than an active
experimenter. Even in its own sphere, this method is notorious for its
liability to error ; witness the conflicting systems of psycho-analysis that
have evoked much derisive comment. Application to psychical pheno-
mena calls for special caution.
Efforts at introspection of paranormal processes have been conspicuous
failures. Sensitives' beliefs appear to be a matter of individual environ-
ment. Joan of Arc and other saints might attribute their powers to angelic
guidance, but witches put their trust in magic rites, dowsers in " radia-
tions ", fortune-tellers in palmistry and modern mediums in spirits of the
dead.
I would suggest that the policy recommended by the Bendits be followed
only with the utmost reserve. The technique of psychical experiments
has been brought to a fine pitch, and there are no grounds for complaint
as to their productivity. The S.P.R. is at last getting some academic
recognition for the high quality of its researches, and it would be a great
pity to do anything to lower the standard at this jimcturc. Observe as
much as possible by all means, but reserve judgements until they can be
put to the test of controlled experiments.
Donald J. West
REVIEW
The Dawn of a New Day. A Revelation. By C. C. Keith. Burton
Publishing Company, Kansas City, Missouri. 1945. $3.00. Pp. 303.
This book gives an account of some of the communications received by
an American professional man through what is usually called automatic
writing ; in fact for many readers who may find it difficult to attach any
great degree of credence to the messages, the author's description of the
way in which the messages are dictated to him will seem the most inter-
esting feature of the book. The messages claim to be of divers origin
from former inhabitants of this planet such as Socrates and King Alfred,
who rather oddly describes himself as " King of the Britons ", as well as
from beings of former creations and the inhabitants of planets that have
ceased to exist. The author claims that " when the activities of the mind
are under complete control it is possible to speak understandingly with
other intellects throughout the universe. This is what is termed Mental
Communication." -
W. H. S.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Nov.-Dec, 1945 Vol. XXXIII—No. 618-619
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - - -
Meeting of the Council -
Obituary - - -
An S.P.R. Pamphlet
The Journal - - - -
Correspondence _ - _
A Case of Prediction of Illness
An " Out-of-the-Body " Experience
Reviews _ . . .
173
174
174
174
174
175
177
179
179
NEW MEMBERS
Archer, Miss V., Old School House, Albury, Guildford, Surrey.
Balfour, Major David, British Embassy, Athens, Greece.
Bowers, Miss D., 7 Chester Avenue, Tupsley, Hereford.
Edmonds, Mrs., The Lodge, Flat 18, Kensington Park Gardens, London,
W. II.
Fordham, E. W., 65 Harley House, Marylebone Road, London, N.W. i.
Grant, L. C, Mount Clwyd, Dyserth, Flintshire.
Grbndahl, I. C, University College, London, W.C. i.
Harvey, Mrs Oliver, 51 South Street, London, W. i.
Keep, Mrs, Eastmark, Woodhall Spa, Lincolnshire.
La Page, John, 6 Salisbury Avenue, Baildon, Yorkshire.
Longman, Mrs H., 16 Michelham Avenue, Twickenham, Middx.
McNeil, W., M.A., 7 Mountstuart Street, Millport, Isle of Cumbrae,
Buteshire.
Potous, Mrs, 661 Kensington Close, Wright's Lane, London, W. 8.
Rake, B. C, Fishley Place, Acle, Norfolk.
Richards, Dr O. W., C.M.G., Downes, Monkleigh, Bideford, Devon.
Shaw, Mrs, 53 St John's Road, Petts Wood, Orpington, Kent.
Traneker, Miss K. G., 37 Boley Drive, Clacton-on-Sea, Essex.
Welsh, Cecil, Beverley, Poles Lane, Otterbourne, nr Winchester.
Student-Associate
Ward, Peter, 12 Highgate Avenue, Fulwood, Preston, Lanes,
174 Journal of Society for Psych teal Research nov.-dec. 1945
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 408th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 31 October 1945, at 3 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet,
Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Mr D.
Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas and Mr D. J. West , also Miss E. M.
Horsell, Assistant- Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Eighteen new Members and one Student-Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
Mrs Frank Heywood was unanimously elected a co-opted Member of
Council for the year 1945-46.
MEMORIAL LECTURE
The Eighth Myers Memorial Lecture, entitled Psychical Research :
Where do zve stand ? was delivered by Mrs W. H. Salter at Manson House,
Portland Place, on the 2 1 st November 1 945, the President being in the Chair.
In spite of a thick fog there was a good attendance.
The Lecture has been circulated to Members, and is also published, price i s.
OBITUARY
It is with the deepest regret that we record the death, on the 30th Novem-
ber, 1945, of Mr Kenneth Richmond, Secretary of the Society and formerly
Editor of the Journal. On behalf of all our readers we offer our sincerest
sympathy to Mrs Richmond and the family in their bereavement. An
account of Mr Richmond's work for psychical research will be printed later.
AN S.P.R. PAMPHLET
A TWENTY-PAGE pamphlet, entitled The Society for Psychical Research :
What It Is : What It Has Accomplished : Why Its Work Is Important,
has been printed by the Society : the title adequately describes the nature
of the contents. It deals with matters famihar to Members, and while
not designed to make a popular appeal, is intended mainly for distribution
among such non-members as might, if more fully informed, take a con-
structive interest in the Society's^ work. The Council hope that it will
meet the need that has often been felt when editors, publishers and others
who have the public ear, have asked for a brief account of the S.P.R. and
the work it has done and is doing.
Members wishing for copies can obtain them from the Secretary,
price 3d. each, including postage. It should be added that the number of
copies printed is limited.
THE JOURNAL
The Council have decided that the time has now come to make some
change as regards the privacy of the Journal.
Founded in 1884 with Sir William Barrett as its first Editor, the Journal
was designed to give information as to business transacted at Council
NOV.-DEC. 1945 The Journal ^75
Meetings, to provide abstracts of papers later to be published in full in
Proceedings and to print communications of minor importance not suitable
for Proceedings.
These purposes the Journal has served, but it has also been the first,
and sometimes the only, place in which have appeared most of the spon-
taneous cases reported to the Society and thought of sufficient interest to
print. The privacy of the Journal undoubtedly in the early years of the
Society favoured the receipt of reports of many cases that the persons
concerned might have shrunk from making public, and may have induced
many of such persons to allow their real names to appear. The Council
believe that popular sentiment has changed, and that the old practice has
outlived its utility. They propose for the future, whenever circumstances
are such as to make a wish for some privacy reasonable, to offer persons
contributing cases the protection of fictitious names, but not to give an
undertaking that the report of the case, if any is printed, will appear in a
private Journal.
It was a grave disadvantage of the old rule that many Journal cases of
interest and importance were not as well known as they deserved to be.
Anyone wishing to quote them, e.g. in a book, had to institute a cumbrous
process of obtaining the consent of the Council, who had themselves to
consult the persons concerned. In consequence some good cases have
not been published till after a long lapse of time, and some not at all.
There are however other matters for which privacy is desirable, such as
the finances and internal organisation of the Society. A private Journal is
also a convenient medium for a franker discussion on matters of interest to
our members than any publication could provide.
It is intended therefore to issue two types of Journal to members, the
first a private issue of the kind with which they are familiar, and another
to which no privacy attaches. This latter kind will be issued from time
to time, at least once a year. Copies will be available for sale to non-
members at a reasonable price, and it is hoped through it to reach readers
who at present see neither our Journal nor our Proceedings. With this end
in view the non-private issue will contain not only reports of recent good
cases, if any are available, but articles on recent research, reviews, etc.,
all as regards substance not below the Society's standard, but not too
technical in style for the general reader.
Each type will be distinguished by a notice on the front page stating
whether it is private or not. Both types will be alike in size of page, and
will be included in the bound volumes. To prevent misconception as
regards the non-private Journals, each issue of this type will bear a notice
to the effect that the responsibility for statements of fact or opinion rests
solely with the contributor.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—I think it may be doubted whether Miss Fairbairn's letter in the
last number of the Journal shows a just appreciation of the value of
Mr Wilson's note on the Uncertainty principle. A scientific hypothesis
may be worth making without being true. We must not treat as an
assertion " X is true ", a form of thought whose essential character is.
176 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1945
" If X is true, Y follows ". Mr Wilson has pointed out various conse-
quences of the hypothesis that E.S.P. displacement followed from the
uncertainty principle. Amongst others, that the displacement of correct
responses would he normally distributed about zero. In fact, there is no
need for further experiments on this point since we already have ample
evidence that this is not the case. So the hypothesis is not true. The
justification for Mr Wilson's speculation is that he has put forward a new
ph3fsical explanation of a psi effect, and has clearly indicated experi-
mentally verifiable consequences of that explanation by means of which
the speculation can be proved to be wrong. Few of those who speculate
on psychical research have done so much in so little space.
It we are to justify the proposition that E.S.P. has not a physical basis,
it is not by saying that there is. no evidence for this proposition which
merely leaves the matter in doubt, but by thinking out all possible physical
theories of E.S.P. and proving experimentally that their expected conse-
quences are not fulfilled. We shall do no service to Psychical Research
by trying to discourage those who undertake the arduous work of exploring
all the blind alleys which must be explored in an attempt to elucidate its
nature.
Yours faithfully,
R. H. Thouless
Sir,—I was much interested in the contribution by Drayton Thomas in
the June issue of the Journal. In my experience of trance sittings with
Mrs Edith Thomson during the past ten years I have observed many
things which support his comments.
On the question of evidence of identity, too much stress cannot be laid
on the compelling nature of the evidence when it portrays fully a person-
ality unknown to the medium. Personality is a complex affair. It may
be shown physically by gesture of the hands, by shrug of the shoulders,
by movements of the head or parts of it; it may be shown mentally by
knowledge of facts, by dialect, by idiom ; it may be shown spiritually by
vivacity, by sensitiveness and so on. Each of these is subtle and capable
of infinite shading. The sum of them makes up the personality of the
human being; and the variety of the ingredients is testified to by our
common experience that no two persons arc alike. We have no difficulty
in identifying our acquaintances from their personalities. Hence in the
seance room, the sense of conviction of the presence of a communicator is
overwhelming when that communicator is known to the sitter and the
personahty is vividly portrayed. When, during the course of a sitting,
a dozen or more personalities of known communicators are accurately
transmitted, the effect is correspondingly enhanced. I have had over a
hundred such sittings, and so have had many friends of mine.
Unfortunately, such evidence of identity must by its nature be personal
to the sitter. It cannot be assessed quantitatively, nor can it be conveyed
adequately in print. A Society such as ours must concentrate more on
the accumulation of evidence of a particular type, such as the production
through a medium of facts unknown to himself or herself and preferably
unknown to the sitter. To a person whose conviction of identity has been
achieved by the rich path of recognition of personality it seems a desolate
NOV.-DEC. 1945 Correspondence 177
undertaking to submit factual evidence in support of that conviction. Few
of those who have received conviction have the training to report their
factual evidence ; still fewer have the inclination to do so.
All this is written not to minimize the importance of the Society's work
in collecting evidence. It is a duty to continue to do so. Rather is this
written to emphasize the importance to the individual of evidence of per-
sonality. It has a practical bearing on conduct at sittings. Notwith-
standing the advice of experienced sitters, there are honest enquirers who
approach the delicate atmosphere of a sitting so intent on giving nothing
away factually that they destroy any chance of obtaining the personally
richer evidence of personality. If they thought of it, they would see that
personality becomes fully evident only during free intercourse and would
become rapidly quenched if one party indulged only in monosyllabic
replies. Further, the experienced sitter knows that the best evidence is
that obtained spontaneously, that is, the kind that slips out unintentionally
by the communicator. There is then an absence of those conditions of
strain or anxiety which are apt to be fatal to good transmission.
I am glad to see, further, that Drayton Thomas has devised a method of
indicating by italics followed by (D.V.), a phenomenon which I have
frequently observed. The " distance " between communicator and
control is a continuous variable according to the conditions ; when these
are good, and intimacy between communicator and sitter is established,
the personality of the control is often submerged and the sitter feels to be
in direct communication. Again, when the communicator is not appar-
ently in direct control, a desire for special emphasis or the correction of an
error seems to produce the necessary psychic force to occasion a momen-
tary taking of complete control. It is convenient to have a recognised
method of recording this, though whether it is necessary to postulate
" direct voice " with its implication of the presence of ectoplasmic vocal
organs I am not so sure.
Mr Thomas's observations (p. 153) on the difficulties which arise
through the comparatively more rapid rate of thought of communicators
is very pertinent. This has been a grave source of misunderstanding
between my communicators and myself on occasions before I realized its
effect. During discussions with them, my slowness, on the one hand, has
exasperated them, and they have felt that I was evasive or uncertain ;
their quickness, on the other hand, has made me feel that they had not
given sufficient consideration to my views. The speed with which a reply
involving consultation between communicators can be given is quite
remarkable.
Yours etc.,
John A. Cranston
A CASE OF PREDICTION OF ILLNESS
Dear Sir,—The following example of precognition may be of interest to
our members :
I was intending to go away with my family on August 4 for a four-weeks
holiday at Aldeburgh in Suffolk. On August 2 I went with Mr Percy
Wilson, also a member of the Society, to pay a friendly call on the well-
178 Journal of Society for Psychical Research NOV.-DEC. 1945
known medium Miss Jacqueline, who had expressed a wish to see me.
We arrived about 4.45 p.m., had tea and talked for about an hour on various
subjects. Nothing was said about my health and according to my friends
I was looking as I was feeling, remarkably well.
Next morning, soon after I arrived in office, I was rung up by Miss
Jacqueline first and then by Mr Wilson. Miss Jacqueline seemed in a
great state of anxiety about my health and begged me not to go away or
at any rate before going to see a homeopath (whose address she gave me)
in whom she had great faith. I thanked her for the interest she was
taking in me and said I felt perfectly well. I would, if I could, see her
doctor but as it was my last day_,before going away for a holiday I had
several engagements and I doubted if I could fit it in. A little later Mr
Wilson rang up and told me that Miss Jacqueline had rung him up last
night when he was out and again that morning and said that if I went
away for a holiday I should spend most of it in bed and begged him to use
his influence with me to prevent my going.
I felt perfectly well and naturally enough went off to the seaside as
arranged the next day. For a week I played golf every day and continued
apparently in perfect health. On the tenth I wrote to Miss Jacqueline
thanking her for all the trouble she had taken and telling her that I was
quite well and playing golf regularly. Then during the night of August 1
1
I had what seemed a bad attack of indigestion. Next day and the following
days my temperature kept up and I stayed in bed. On the 17th a specialist
was called in and advised an immediate abdominal operation. I was
removed at once to Ipswich Hospital, operated on the next day and re-
mained in hospital in bed for over five weeks.
I am sure that Mr Wilson will be ready to corroborate these facts so far
as they are within his knowledge. How are they to be interpreted? It is
difficult to believe that Miss Jacqueline foretold my being bed-ridden
from my appearance. Otherwise, surely she would have said something
to me on August 2. Her insistence of something overhanging me was
something much more than that of one who thinks a friend looks ill.
Above all, her definite prophecy that I should spend most of my holiday
in bed went far beyond a casual warning of impending ill health. In any
case I was looking very well, as I am assured by all my friends, and I
certainly felt very well myself. I feel convinced therefore that it was a
genuine prophecy based on some kind of clairvoyance—I suppose that
nowadays I should call it a psi faculty.
In some cases impending danger, if foretold, can be avoided. In my
case this was impossible. My condition was such that only a prompt
operation could save my life,
Yours faithfully,
B. Abdy Collins
Mr P. Wilson writes fully confirming the statements in the first two
paragraphs of Mr Abdy CoUins's letter, remarking however that he would
not himself call the messages from Miss Jacqueline precognitive in the
usual sense of that term : he would say that they were an excellent
example of psychic diagnosis.
In answer to enquiries by the Hon. Editor Mr Wilson writes :
" At the
NOV.-DEC. 1945 Reviews
time there were no normal indications of impending health trouble with
Mr Collin*. He was looking forsvard to his holiday and I surmise that this
would have caused him to mention any feeling of being unwell or run
down or anything of that sort if it had existed. He definitely did not do so.
Miss Jacqueline's message to me came as quite a shock.
" To my certain knowledge Mr Collins has not had a sitting with her
during the four years of my acquaintance with her."
Mr Wilson in his letter encloses a postcard in pencil from Mr Collins
from the hospital at Ipswich, dated " August 18 " (postmark 18 August
1945) in which he states he is to undergo an operation, and a letter dated
" 21-8-45 " saying that the operation had been successful.
AN " OUT-OF-THE-BODY " EXPERIENCE
In view of the keen interest aroused by cases of this kind, our members will
be interested in seeing the following report contributed in November 1944
by Dr A. E. Duddington, late House Surgeon, St Thomas' Hospital, and a
member of our Society.
The following account of her experience was given me by a woman
patient at St Thomas' Hospital some time at the end of June 1944. She
had been in one of the buses close to where a flying bomb exploded in York
Road, by the exit from Waterloo Station, and was brought to hospital
suffering from wounds of the face and mild shock. I quote her own words
as nearly as I can remember them :
" The bus was crowded, and no one heard the approach of the bomb.
The first thing I knew of it was hearing a loud crack close behind me, and
then I felt myself to be high up in the brightness of the clouds. I hardly
had time to think to myself—what does it all mean, when there came the
realisation '
I am going to God ', and with it an intense feeling of bliss.
Immediately after this I felt as though someone said to me :
'
No, it is not
yet time '
—and I returned to earth to find, myself in the wrecked bus,
which I noticed to my surprise was empty. I got up and walked out of it."
This account was given me on the morning after the occurrence, when I
first had the opportunity of talking to the patient. She was about 30 years
old, a clerk in some office. She struck me as being a particularly sensible
person, and not all " neurotic "
—in fact, her mental outlook compared
favourably with that of several other patients who had been no more
seriously hurt. In telling me about her experience she several times
stressed its extraordinary vividness, and said that it felt as though it had
occurred not " in time " i.e. that describing the phases as temporal
relationships seemed somehow not apt, and that she had no idea " how
long " it took.
REVIEWS
Poltergeist over England. Three Centuries of Mischievous Ghosts.
By Harry Price. London : Country Life Ltd.
That indefatigable investigator, Mr Harry Price, has added one more
voluminous book (400 pages) to the numerous works he has already pub-
i8o Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1945
lished. And that book, Poltergeist over England, is a very valuable contri-
bution to the literature bearing on one of the most important—and also
rnost enigmatic—branches of Psychical Research.
We should of course carefully differentiate between Poltergeists and
Hauiitings ; and in this respect Mr Harry Price's new work is perhaps not
altogether above criticism. For a few of the numerous cases he narrates
are clearly instances of Haunting, not of Poltergeist, and some of these
cases might, I think, have been omitted altogether (e.g. those narrated in
Chapter XHI and Chapter XVI). What we want in Psychical Research
evidence is far more quality than quantity, do we not?
Some of the incidents described by the author have long since enjoyed
wide notoriety : such are the Drummer Poltergeist of Tedworth (1665) ;
the Epworth or Wesley Poltergeist (1716-17); the mysterious bell-
ringing at Great Beahngs, East Suffolk (1834) ; the manifestations in the
house of the Rev. E. Eliakim Phelps, in Stratford, Conn., U.S.A. (1850)
and others less and more recent, such as the mysterious happenings during
many years in the Borley Rectory, " the most haunted home in England ".
With regard to the Epworth case some of the passages from contempor-
ary documents quoted by Mr Price seem to me to suggest that at times a
rather prosaic explanation is not out of the question. (In saying this I do
not lay claim to any priority!) Could not the mysterious being whom
Emily Wesley once saw running from under a bed and which looked
" most like a badger "
(p. 93) have been a big rat? Could not the " some-
thing " which looked like a " rabbit " and which Robert Brown saw
coming out of the copper hole in the back kitchen (p. 95) have also been
a specimen of the same rodent, I wonder?
In the Phelps case one of the features of the " manifestations " was the
" construction " of human figures with the aid of clothing gathered from
all parts of the house in spite of the strict watch " which was kept to see
that nothing of the sort could possibly happen "
(p. 27). This has re-
minded me of a Russian Poltergeist case I heard about when a young man
from Father C. I. Katchenovsky, a St. Petersburg priest whom my
mother and all her family had known very well for many years. When a
boy C. I. Katchenovsky lived for some time in the family of an uncle of
his somewhere in the Ukraine, who was also a priest. Mysterious
happenings began which were more or less of the usual Poltergeist type
and which culminated in a " doll " made of clothing suddenly appearing
before an archimandrite (Orthodox " super-abbot ") as the latter was
saying prayers in the uncle's house in order that the manifestations should
cease. The worthy archimandrite was of so exalted virtue a man that he
even avoided looking at a woman's face(!): therefore the incident in
question had an obviously ironical meaning as the " doll " represented a
woman. Such similarities are interesting and perhaps striking, though not
decisive so far as the question of genuineness or otherwise of the pheno-
mena is concerned. I have been particularly struck by the comparison
made in different accounts of certain sounds of supposedly supernormal
origin with " the winding up of a jack " : this comparison is made in at
least three accounts. But such coincidences, I repeat, are merely puzzling
and do not much enhance the evidential value of the strange incidents
themselves.
NOV.-DEC. 1945 Reviews 181
On the other hand we must not jump too quickly to the conclusion that
everything observed was necessarily fraud on account of one or two cir-
cumstances looking suspicious. I say this with special reference to the
Cock Lane ghost (Chapter^). I am inclined to agree with the author that
EHzabeth Parsons (the supposed medium) was never in the strict sense of
the word, detected. The matter must remain sub diibio in this case as also
with regard to the whole of the Poltergeist " infestations ".
Chapter XXVII on " Poltergeist Incendiaries " has reminded me of
one other Russian case at least where the same highly unpleasant feature
was prominent. If I mistake not, it was mentioned by me in our Pro-
ceedings many years ago.
On the other hand I must mildly protest in passing against the author's
tendency to attribute a supernormal origin to such facts as the disappear-
ance of ships " without trace ", with special reference to incidents occurring
in 1880, 1893 and 1928 (p. 35) ; or the disappearance of crews, the ships
sur\aving {Mary Celeste in 1872 and others). Nor do I see necessarily
anything " paranormal " in the spontaneous disappearance out of doors of
various objects sometimes accompanied by mysterious detonations (p. 33 1
).
At Cupar, Fife, we are told, on June 30, 1842, women were hanging out
clothes on a common. It was a bright, clear day. Suddenly there was a
sharp detonation and the clothes on the lines shot upwards and, though a
few fell to the ground, " others soared up and up and vanished "
(p. 332).
I shall require, I confess, a good deal of evidence to believe in such occur-
rences, and I consider that mentioning them does not enhance the value of
evidence for Poltergeists, but rather the reverse. By the way, in a footnote
on p. 332 Mr Price refers to a Wisconsin case when, it is alleged a tornado
" sucked upwards, on May 23, 1878, a horse and a barn of which not a
trace was ever seen again " ; but as there was no tornado in the cases
mentioned as having occurred in Britain, one does not well see how the .
alleged Wisconsin " disappearances " suggest an explanation for the
British ones.
In the chapter devoted to " Poltergeist Mediums " (Chapter XXII)
various mediums beginning with the notorious Frau Maria Silbert and
ending with the not less famous Eleonore Zugun are paraded before us.
I confess I looked upon Frau Silbert as definitively exposed, but Mr Price
seems to believe in her genuineness. It would be as puerile as it would be
useless to deny that there is much resemblance in some respects between
".manifestations " engendered by these mediums and spontaneous
Poltergeist performances ; but it seems to me that such resemblance is
within certain limits unavoidable whatever be the character of the phen-
omena, i.e. whether authentic or fraudulent. On p. 249 we are re-
minded of Mrs Samuel Guppy's famous flight in 1871 from her home at
Highbury to a house three miles away. The connection of this extra-
ordinary performance with usual Poltergeist phenomena seems to me of
the slenderest kind ; and I do not quite understand what Mr Price means
when he writes :
" Of course the whole thing was a swindle but this modern transit of
'
Venus '
. . . was never proved to be a swindle.'
If the " flight " was a swindle, why mention it at all.''
Mrs Guppy's flight over London is shown by the way in a line-drawing -
Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1945
by Mr John Hookham on p. 250. I wonder whether there are readers of
Mr Price's who are unaware that all these line-drawings in the book are
simply the product of artistic fancy. This ought to have been, stated
plainly, I think. ^
In chapter XXX we find some considerations on the " Poltergeist
Problem " from a physicist's point of view, by Mr Andrew J. B. Robert-
son of Cambridge ; and some views as to how the manifestations might be
explained by Mr Percy Pigott of Kirk Ella, Hull. The latter communica-
tion has especially interested me since Mr Pigott expresses an opinion I
have long since tentatively held, almost using the very words I might use.
He writes (p. 383) :
" I have read that Ann Bullen still haunts Hampton Court and that
the sound of her footsteps and the wail of her anguish as she fled from her
husband . . . are heard at certain times. Her form may have been seen, I
do not know. Is it not incredible to suppose that Ann Bullen has been thus
employed at intervals at least, for four hundred years? Is it in the least
incredible, in these days of gramophone and radio, to believe that the
sound of her distressed wail can be, and is at times, reproduced."
I entirely agree—provided (is it necessary to add t) that the manifesta-
tions are genuine ;
provided also that we apply Mr Pigott's theory only
to hauntings, since it is obviously quite inapplicable to most Poltergeist
phenomena. It is no less obvious, I will note in passing, that this theory
permits us to dispense with " spirits " altogether, which feature in the eyes
of some persons—not necessarily in mine—may be an advantage.
Before I end I wish to add an account of the only instance when I found
myself face to face with alleged Poltergeist phenomena. This only instance
exemplifies, I think, the major importance of not omitting in the accounts
incidents at first sight unimportant and unsignificant and yet likely to have
played a major part in the production of enigmatic " manifestations ".
Here is the instance above referred to :
In the beginning of 1903, I think, the St. Petersburg Spiritistic weekly,
the Rebus, published an account of some Poltergeist " phenomena " said
by a M. Richter to have occurred in his flat in Reval (now Talinn, Es-
thonia). I wrote him asking for permission to come and be an eye-witness
of the occurrences, to which M. Richter—a government oflicial, it turned
out later—readily consented, meeting me at the railway station. We drove
together to the house he lived in, and that very morning, in full daylight,
the first phenomenon occurred, a small vase which stood on a shelf on
the wall suddenly falling down with a crash. There were present besides
myself only M. and Mme Richter and their niece (their daughter was not at
home—or vice versa). I noticed nothing suspicious but attached no par-
ticular importance to the incident. Then on the daughter (or the niece!)
coming back home, the phenomena began to occur rather frequently.
They consisted of crockery, plates, glasses, etc.—whether of the cheaper
sort or not I do not remember,—suddenly being projected into the air,
falling down and being often broken to pieces, but I noticed that all such
occurrences took place unexpectedly and that the eye-witnesses did not
know beforehand the moment and the place of the occurrence. At these
happenings a good many " observers " were present at times since the
phenomena were a matter of common knowledge and many people
NOV.-DEC. 1945 Reviews 183
took interest in them. The very last incident deserv^es being mentioned
specially. I spent altogether some thirty-six hours at Talinn, sleeping
purposely in the room where the occurrences were said to have originated,
but nothing happened there. On the evening of my departure M. and
Mme Richter, the two girls, an officer (visitor) and myself were sitting in
the dining-room out of which a door led into the room just mentioned.
Suddenly we heard a loud crash. I rushed into the adjoining room and
found that a stone egg which I had placed on a table in the expectation that
something supernormal would occur to it (as, I was told, had happened
before) had fallen down on the floor. I picked it up and brought it into the
dining-room. It should be added that I had placed close to the egg
another object so as to prevent it rolling off accidentally.
So far so good. There is, however, one little " but ". At a certain
moment the officer and the two girls had left the dining-room, gone into
the other room and then come back ; the crash occurred soon afterwards.
The door leading into the other room was not shut. Would it have been
possible for one of the three to throw the " egg " through this door without
such a gesture being noticed? Undoubtedly, I think. Was I sure of the
good faith of all three? How could I? And so this circumstance annuls,
strictly speaking, the whole " egg " incident.
It is of course possible that numberless other cases of Poltergeist
phenomena, too, were evidentially weakened by similar suspicious cir-
cumstances
—
such circumstances remaining, however, unmentioned. Sapienti
sat.
I will add a few more words on a possible motive for fraud—if fraud
there was. The Richter family were living in a spacious and rather attrac-
tive flat. And yet I accidentally learnt in conversation that Mme Richter
—and, I think, also the two girls—were for some reason or other desirous of
moving to some other house. If deception there was, there was therefore a
motive for fraud, and in such a case it would have been interesting to
know how the idea of using so very peculiar a method for compelling a
move out of the house had originated?
In conclusion I wish to emphasise the great interest with which I have
read Mr Price's new and bulky work and the gratitude which I consider
all Psychical Researchers owe him for his unsparing eflForts to record and
save from oblivion so many curious and instructive incidents, of which
some may be after all authentic.
Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo
P.S. I wish to add that at my request the Fr Katchenovsky mentioned
above wrote an account of his experiences referred to, which account was
published without his name in the Rebus. I have not got it with me but I
remember that among the phenomena he mentioned was the sudden
disappearance of money. By itself such a disappearance does not, I am
afraid, necessarily suggest a supernormal origin, but, then, the money
was returned if the mysterious agency was requested to do so. This
undoubtedlV looks more promising.
P. P. S. .
184 Journal of Society for Psychical Research nov.-dec. 1945
The Betty Book. By Stewart Edward White. Published bv Robert
Hale. Price 8s. 6d.
This is an interesting book for several reasons. It is not evidential in the ^
ordinary sense at all—but claims to be a synthesis of teachings given
through an unprofessional medium, and collected together by an American,
Mr Stewart Edward White, himself an author. The book has impressed
me greatly in spite of its unprepossessing title because it is eminently cool,
impartial and sensible, but chiefly because it gives an account of automatic
thought expressed by the medium through what one may describe as-
inspirational speaking. Having done a good deal of work of this kind with
the late Lord Balfour I can say that " Betty's " account of the proceedings
is an exact and accurate description of experiences exactly like my own. %
The technique is difficult and halting and does not involve real trance.
Certain portions of my automatisms—many of them no doubt telepathic
in spite of the elaborate precautions taken by the alleged communicators
to convey information unknown to anyone living—have carried their own
credentials. I have hardly ever spoken of this series to anyone, as most of
it is highly confidential. I have not yet made a prolonged study of the
teaching conveyed, but in many ways, and those not obvious, it seems to
tally with remarks in my own automatic product and in that of at least
three other people known to me. I believe many more exist and it is
partly for this reason that I feel the S.P.R. should make an effort to
investigate and to co-relate the various teachings, for it looks as if some
understandable synthesis may emerge. Fresh light might be thrown not j
only on process, and methods of tapping outside knowledge and instruc-
tion, but also on critical attitudes at the present time. It is my belief that
much could be learned now by determined direction and effort on the part
of the S.P.R. to study this class of paranormal product, basing its impor-
tance not on evidential material, except of a general kind, but on possible
explanations of some puzzling inconsistencies due to sub- or super- ,
consciousness in the composition of the human mind.
'
Edith Lyttelton
Witchcraft in England, by Christina Hole. B. T. Batsford. Svo, pp. i68.
In a clear readable style Christina Hole has outlined the beliefs and
practices of witchcraft down the ages. Magic rites and their connection
with alien worship, good and evil witches and how they were detected,
familiar spirits and prophets are all discussed.
The subject is not treated from the point of view of psychical research
and no attempt is made to establish the reality of psychic phenomena, but
the book is none the less instructive. It shows how liable is the human
mind to a horrible mass hysteria, in which the most fantastic beliefs become
acceptable. Under its influence thousands of people indulged in strange \
rites in the hope of bringing about magical effects. Hundreds confessed
and sacrificed their lives for their beliefs. For centuries the mass of the
public shared the delusion and countenanced unspeakable horrors in the
name of justice. Such happenings have a definite moral for the contem-
porary psychical researcher.
Mervyn Peake has added considerably to the interest of the book by nu-
merous illustrations in a style admirably suited to the macabre. D. J. W.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Jan.-Feb., 1946 Vol. XXXIII—No. 620-621
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting - - - - - - - -185
New Members - - - - - - - -186
Meeting of Council - - - - - - -186
Private Meeting - - - - - - - -186
Discussion Meetings - - - - - - -187
Annual iReport - - - - - - - -187
Accounts - - - - - - - - -190.
Obituary - -- -- -- -- 193
Experiments in Relief of Pain - - - - - -194
Experiments in E.S.P. ------- 200
Correspondence - -- -- -- - 200
Review - - -- -- -- - 203
NOTICE OF MEETING
THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Wednesday, 27 February 1946, at 3.30 ^.w.
2^0 transact the business set out on the formal notice dated
23 January 1946, and already circulated.
MR D. J. west will READ A PAPER ON
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF Mrs HELEN DUNCAN
N.B.
—
Members alone have the right to take part in the business of the
Annual General Meeting, but Associates may be present.
i86 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
NEW MEMBERS
Abraham, Dr J. Johnston, c/o C. F. Cassell & Co., Recent House,
Fitzroy Square, London, W. i.
Binney, Mrs Max, 69 Murray Road, Wimbledon, London, S.W. 19.
Bury, Henry, The Gate House, Alumdale Road, Bournemouth.
Chitty, The Rev. G. J., Sandrock, Knoll Road, Godalming, Surrey.
CoUett, C. B., Melrose, 32 The Downs, Wimbledon, London, S.W. 20.
Crooks, Alan, Heathfield, Thorverton, nr. Exeter.
Crooks, Mrs Alan, Heathfield, Thorverton, nr. Exeter.
Crowlesmith, The Rev. J., 3 Lyndewode Road, Cambridge.
Dayet, Baron Maurice, 186 St James's Court, London, S.W. i.
Guy, J. J., 168 Plum Lane, Plumstead, London, S.E. 18.
Homer, Dr J., 3355 Wilshire Road, Los Angeles, Calif., U.S.A.
Jones, W. D., Ph.D., 708 Nelson House, Dolphin Square, London, S.W. i.
Kingston, L. J., 22 Spencer Park, London, S.W. 18.
Lockyer, Miss I. de B., 32 Whitelands House, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Munro, Dr Hector, 31 Portland Place, London, W. i.
Parker, C. E., Holm Dale, Gregory Street, Old Lenton, Nottingham.
Roberts, Miss E., 3 Brynton Road, Macclesfield, Cheshire.
Tonkin, The Rev. J. B., 16 Irwell Road, Warrington, Lanes.
Student-Associate
Butt, David K., B.Sc, 20 Becerton Road, Hitchin, Herts.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 409th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 12 December 1945 at 4.30 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet,
Professor E. R. Dodds, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Mrs F. Heywood, the Hon.
Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr D. Parsons, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr
W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Mr D. J. West ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Assistant-
Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Nineteen new Members and one Student Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 1 86th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Wednesday, 12 December 1945, at 6.30 p.m. when Dr E. J. Dingwall read
a paper entitled " St Joseph of Copertino : The Friar who Flew ".
Dr Dingwall informs us that this paper, as also his paper " Lights and
Shadows on D.D. Home " will appear with additional matter and full
documentation in his forthcoming book. Some Human Oddities, to the
publication of which we shall all look forward.
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Annual Report 187
DISCUSSION MEETINGS
The following Discussion Meetings have been arranged :
7 Feb. 1946. Mrs Sitwell on " The Tibetan Book of the Dead ".
7 Mar. 1946. Mrs de Beausobre on " A Child's Perception : is it
Extended Sensory Perception or a Mental Activity?
"
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE COUNCIL FOR 1945
1. Increase in Membersliip. At the end of the Second World War the
Society finds itself possessing the first essential for future success, an
expanding membership. At the beginning of the war there was a sharp
decline, which was gradually checked. By 1944 there was a marked re-
covery which has continued progressively during the past year, when
93 new members and 3 student associates were elected, a greater number
than in any year for at least twenty years past. The increase in numbers
not only strengthens the financial position of the Society : it enables re-
search and other activities to be carried on at a distance from London.
2. Financial Position. The limitations on research and printing due to
the war have resulted in enforced economies which have enabled the
Society to increase substantially the capital of the Research Endowment
Fund. The prospect of a revival of research and of an increase in the size
and frequency of Proceedings and Journal is most welcome, but can only
be realised to the full, in view of the rise in costs, if the Society's finances
are strengthened by still further expansion of membership and in other
ways.
3. The success of Mr Whately Carington's book on Telepathy and of
Mr Soal's broadcast are signs of a gratifying increase of public interest in
psychical research, to which they have themselves, with other members of
the Society, notably contributed.
4. Mr Soal reports as follows on the work carried out by him :
'
Since October 1945 weekly experiments have been carried out with
Mrs S. who with Mr Basil Shackleton obtained displacement effects in
1936. Up to date ten sittings have been held and upwards of 4000
guesses recorded. The general lay-out of the experiments was similar
to that used with Mr Shackleton and the i\gent and Subject were in
different rooms. Unquestionable evidence for ordinary telepathy has
been obtained with three agents. Special thanks is due to one of these,
Mr F. Bateman, M.Sc, who has undertaken the laborious work of
decoding and entering scores. Though there is no evidence so far for
precognition there is some interesting evidence of an indirect kind for
occasional post-cognitive displacement. It is hoped to continue the
experiments which provide ample evidence for telepathy but none for
clairvoyance or precognition. Three other subjects have been tested
but the results were not sufficiently promising to justify a continuation.
5. Several members of the Society have been engaged on experiments
in psycho-kinesis, some of which have been reported in Part 170 of Pro-
ceedings.
i88 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
6. The Council have been glad to receive news from psychical re-
searchers in several of the liberated countries of Europe. During the
war our Society and the American S.P.R. have worked together with a
success that is a good omen for wider international co-operation.
7. Mr G. N. M. Tyrell was elected President for the year. He de-
livered his Presidential Address on the 20th June, 1945 : it has since been
published as Part 171 of Proceedings.
8. Changes on the Council. During the year two members of Council,
who had also been Presidents of the Society, died ; the Earl of Balfour
and Dr T. W. Mitchell. Both had rendered to psychical research ser-
vices of the highest distinction. Obituary notices appeared in Part 169
of Proceedings.
Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs Heywood, Miss Bosanquet, Mr Denys Parsons
and Mr D. J. West were co-opted Members of Council. In December
Mr West, who had accepted the post of Editor of the Combined Index
(see next paragraph) resigned his seat on the Council.
9. Officers of the Society. The Society suffered a very severe loss by
the death on the 30th November, 1945, of Mr Kenneth Richmond, who as
Resident Secretary, and for some years until June 1945, as Editor of the
Journal, had rendered very valuable services to the Society.
In June Mr West was appointed Assistant Honorary Secretary, and in
December he kindly undertook the task of editing Vol. Ill of the Combined
Index of Proceedings and Journal. As Vol. II of the Combined Index
was issued as far back as 19 14, no new volume having been issued when
one was due, owing to the financial position and, latterly, owing to paper
control, Mr West's task is likely to be neither short nor easy. An up-to-
date Index is urgently needed, and is essential for efficient research.
When Mr Richmond relinquished the Editorship of the Journal, the
Hon. Secretary temporarily accepted the duties of Hon. Editor.
Members will be glad to learn that the Research Officer, Mr C. V. C.
Herbert, who has for some time past been on active service in the East,
has come safely through the war and was recently demobilised.
ID. The Eighth Myers Memorial Lecture, entitled " Psychical Re-
search : Where do we stand.' " was delivered on the 21st November,
1945, by Mrs W. H. Salter. It has been published.
11. In the November-December issue of the Jour>ial, the Council
announced their intention of issuing from time to time numbers of the
Journal to which the usual rule of privacy should not attach. It is hoped
thereby, without lowering the standard of the Journal, to interest in the
Society's work members of the public who do not read Proceedings.
The Council have also printed, in a limited edition, a pamphlet. The
Society for Psychical Research : What it is : What it has done : Why its
Work is important. The pamphlet is not intended to make a wide popular
appeal, but to be a convenient means of spreading a knowledge of the
Society and its work among seriously minded inquirers.
12. Obituary. In addition to Lord Balfour, Dr Mitchell and Mr
Richmond, whose deaths have already been mentioned, the Society has
lost by death Lady Barrett, Canon G. H. Rendall, Mr A. W. Trethewy
and the Baroness de Kakucs, all of whom had taken an active part in the
Society's work.
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Annual Report 189
13. Library. During the year 676 books were borrowed by Members,
70 books were borrowed by the National Central Library for Students,
and Members of the Society borrowed from them 15 books.
It is hoped to issue shortly through the National Book Council a new
list of psychical research literature recommended for reading, and that the
new list will for the first time give brief accounts of the books and articles
recommended.
14. Membership of the Society. 93 new Members and 3 Student-
Associates were elected. The total loss from deaths, resignations etc. is
40, leaving a net increase of 61 in the total membership, which now stands
at 673.
15. Piibhcations. Three Parts oi Proceedings were published during the
year, Parts 169, 170 and 171, and also the Eighth Myers Memorial Lecture.
The Secretary's sales to the general public amounted to -(^49 i8s. 4d. and
to members of the Society £103 os. 4d. ; and £43 i is. od. to members and
the public through the Society's agent in the United States, showing
altogether an increase of £111 on last year's sales.
16. Meetings.
24 Feb. Annual General Meeting.
" An Experiment on Symbolism in Telepathy " by Dr R. H.
Thouless.
24 Mar. " Lights and Shadows on D.D. Home " by Dr E. J. Dingwall.
12 May. " The Investigation of Neurosis by the Ultra-perceptive
Faculty " by Miss Geraldine Cummins.
9 June. " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena. An Imaginary Dis-
cussion between a Sceptic and a Believer " by Mr D. J. West.
20 June. Presidential Address.
21 Nov. Eighth Myers Memorial Lecture :
" Psychical Research r
Where do we Stand? " by Mrs W. H. Salter.
12 Dec. " St Joseph of Copertino : The Friar who Flew " by Dr E. J.
Dingwall.
Discussion Meetings.
18 Jan. Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell on " Telepathy and Precognition. What
do they signify.?
"
15 Feb. Mr B. Abdy Collins on " The Goligher Circle ".
15 Mar. Mrs L. J. Bendit on " Personal Impressions of Clairvoyance ".
19 Apl. Mr L. A. G. Strong on " The Words on the Window Pane ".
17 May. The Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton on " Various Forms of
Precognition ".
14 June. Captain W. H. Trinder on " Dowsing ".
26 July. Mr D. J. West on " Recent Experimental Advance ".
13 Sept. Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell on " Qualitative and Quantitative Work
in Psychical Research ".
18 Oct. Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell on " How can Members of the S.P.R.
help in its work?
"
8 Nov. The Rev. C. D. Thomas on " The Communicator at Leonard
Sittings with special reference to alleged Mediumistic
Emanation ".
o o°o
o
o
CM ^
irSOCOr-lr-lCOOOTtfiOOOi-liHO
l-H
o c-j CO -* 01 lO o rH T-( CD CO CO ca
-*(Mt-lOC^],-trHi-H(N (M i-H
If ci|
c 5 3
•S p 3 3
X C. »1 ' OO 1 1
OO CO O i-H (M
3 to o o o o CO
l-i r-H i-H
OO O (N w T-H m
31 CO 0(N
<M
1 « 1 i
o
3
6^
p '
C-i
c
CO 0© r
^ ^ ;
f3
s £ g
C I-
*
-is
/Ml
'
?
'
o
-
an 55,
CO
»^
•
O 6->
ft. SO
S ?:
a.
s S ~ s
» S o
» c>, ; ? s 2 fei
o O 1-1
r-t
O CO CO l>
I>
CO SpH^
-ij^ sc'3
O
o
in
(N w
CO
a
c
M CO OO -fH o uO O M o o l> o UO
lO .
-+ O C' o o CM CO 1—
1
rH iH iH
O 1^ (M t-- lO .-H Cl zo vn
o (M rH CO O tM l-^ 00
T—( I—
1
Ol tH CO
<M
-.-too O O C: O O
ClCi
-t, -1, -I, -f -t, Oi oc;
2
-t o
t~ o
o
PQS'
^8 'gas
5- e 53 cj"
ft, CO cc
O Ci CO
001-100
S o lo
SCO
"S
«1
o o
00 o
£144
o
a ^
c =
MS
m
- CJ
>• CO
3 *
s *
5^
o , ,5300
III
5l p!„ r-l n a
^ =- ^ — r-i
c: o o 71
in o !> o ~
J
CO o <o
s s s
o
CO
O 3 -* O
I
01 0 0
0
I—
1
ITS
r-t
0
£59
r-(
00
00
i-H
Ci
c X c
o so o
C: O O O
CO CO
CO -* i-H
c3 ^
=: - ^! ?:
u O
' 3
So
H
H
H
an
<
M
0 0
0 7J
CI CI
CO
o
c5
aj ^ O
p
Z:
EH
o
Q
"2 -
f3 o ^
o (3 OJ
,f!
^
o ^
c 9
o
Hi
o o o o o o
o o o o o o
ci o
\0 -^O
r*!
CO CO CO CO
rf ^
O O) c
t- t-. o
o o h^;
O
CO
a;
z;
is
o o o o o
O O O O
-t^ O CO « o
^ M r-r
crt t*i crt
« co"
O
la
o
«
a
^ 2
P-^ C CO
ai cs
w IS
3 °
5 °
0^1 M
a o
^ .2 ^
) o c3 it:
CO O o3
c
P.
Q
= a a
-5 -a a
! CO O
.-i O ;
.Ef g
rHr+<rHQ0ClOOOO
g
a
a
.3 5
c4
o r3 .a
1:^ !«
H CO
O
^ PI •§
2 « S
S M g
g .S a
« > o
B c3 O
CS CO „
CO CO
OOOOCiCiOOO
inCOXrHOOOO
trti-Ht+^iMCOCOG^OJ
_J" c+i «rt
CO CO o o
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Obituary 193
OBITUARY: MR KENNETH RICHMOND
KENNETH Richmond was the son of Canon Wilfrid Richmond, author of
Personality as a Philosophical Principle, and headmaster of a public school.
The son inherited the father's taste for philosophy, and following in his
footsteps, adopted the teaching profession. He was for a time headmaster
of a pioneer school. It was in the psychology of education that he was
especially interested, as is shown by the titles of his books, TJie Permanent
Values in Education, and Education for Liberty. From this it was a natural
step for him to adopt the profession of educational and re-educational
psychology, of which subject he made an intensive study.
Towards psychical research his attention was turned by a request to
review Oliver Lodge's Raymond for The Times Literary Supplement. He
sought sittings with mediums under research conditions, and explored his
own faculties through automatic writing. He was always more interested
in the problems of unexplored human faculty, than in proof of survival,
which he regarded as a hypothesis necessary from the nature of mind, but
not capable of being established by any canons at present available to the
enquirer.
In assessing the data of psychical research it is necessary sometimes to
apply standards of evidence approximating to those used in courts of law,
and on other occasions to use statistical technique : we most of us recognise
alike the necessity for such methods, and their inadequacy. For Richmond
the inadequacy outweighed the necessity more heavily than it would for an
enquirer who had neither his subtlety of mind nor the habitual contacts of
a practising psychologist. His habit of transferring to psychical research
modes of expression appropriate to the requirements of his practice made
some of his writings obscure to his readers. This is perceptible in his
Preliminary Studies of the Recorded Leonard Material {Proc. vol. XLIV),
where his method of approach departed from the pattern to which previous
studies of mediumistic phenomena had accustomed readers of Proceedings.
The completion of his very thorough investigation of the Leonard material
was prevented by a variety of circumstances.
Among these must be reckoned the many duties he gladly undertook for
the Society during the war, editing the Journal, conducting experiments of
various kinds, and latterly acting as Resident Secretary. There were,
however, two directions in which his great gifts were of especial benefit to
the Society. The first was in conducting the general correspondence of
the Society (apart from financial and administrative matters), and in inter-
viewing visitors to the Society's rooms, both of them tasks requiring a
high degree of sympathy, insight, knowledge, and (where the corres-
pondents or visitors are non-members, of course) unlimited patience. His
acumen, and his charming modesty, made the discussion of a case with him
at once a delight and an education.
The second, in which Mrs Richmond was his enthusiastic partner, was
in welcoming new, and particularly young, recruits to the Society, and in
encouraging them to feel at home there and to engage actively in its work.
Without the Richmonds' constant help the Discussion Groups could
hardly have started nor have become so promising a development. If the
Society survived many difficulties during the war, and is now renewing its
194 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
activities with increasing membership, no small share of the credit is due to
them.
For several months before his death Richmond was compelled for
reasons of health to reduce the amount of work he was doing for the
Society. It is characteristic of his sense of duty and his consideration for
others that he did not forget, during his last hours of consciousness, to
dictate notes that would make it easier for others to carry on work that he
realised he could never complete.
EXPERIMENTS IN THE RELIEF OF PAIN
[The report which follows was completed by Mr Kenneth Richmond
not long before his death.]
In July 1942, by the courtesy of the Works Manager I was permitted to
interview a number of persons engaged in war-time production at an
engineering works : these were colleagues of Mr Frederick Knowles, and
it had been reported to the Society that they could give evidence of the
relief, following a psychic procedure carried out by Mr Knowles, of pain
due to a variety of physical causes. These persons—for convenience I shall
use the term " patients " throughout this article, without implying that
Mr Knowles is in any way trespassing upon the domain of medical
practice—were for the most part men of scientific training, and all were
active workers with an environment not likely to be favourable soil for
fanciful ideas.
There were ten patients on the list provided by Mr Knowles, and I was
able to interview eight of these, separately and alone, in a private room.
Two were absent on leave from the works and I received reports on their
cases from others ; I was also told of four further cases of relief from pain,
the patients not being employed at the works but being known to the
witnesses whom I saw. All these struck me as being good witnesses and
their evidence was clear and positive. In each case relief of pain was
reported, and in five cases of chronically painful conditions there were four
in which no pain had recurred over at least a period of some weeks. Pains
that could be considered " nervous " in origin were not prominent in the
total of cases, and Mr Knowles reports that he does not usually obtain
positive results in such cases. A case which appears to be typical of his
results was that of a rheumatic knee showing old and hardened swellings :
the patient reported that this had been consistently painful in use, and on
movement after rest, until he had had one treatment from Mr Knowles two
months ago, and since then had given him no pain. No change had been
noted in the physical condition of the knee.
These results seemed to present a prima facie case for investigation of
the phenomenon, and Mr Knowles has now been treating patients under
medical and S.P.R. observation for more than a year, a detailed contem-
pory record being kept of the effects obtained. Before reporting upon
these, it may be as well to outline the procedure which Mr Knowles
employs, and it will be of interest to have his own brief account of the
method and of the steps by which he arrived at it.
" Several years ago I began to try an Indian method of psychic healing,
wherein I laid on hands and concentrated my mind on the desired cure, or
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Experiments w the Relief of Pain 195
made passes with my hands over the patient's body, without contact,
whilst concentrating similarly. I found most cases of painful disease
became painless by this process, sometimes temporarily, and sometimes,
especially after repeated efforts, permanently.
" When I had cases of obstinate disease, where pain had regularly
recurred after each temporary relief given by this process, I tried variations
of the process, hoping to make it more eifective. I also wanted to know
whether any parts of the process were inessential in order to attend more
to the essential parts. Thus it became apparent that the laying on of hands
and tjie passes were superfluous. By omitting them, and attending only
to my intense concentration of mind, the process seemed to become even
more rapidly eifective.
" As the patient's expectation of relief is said to be an important factor,
I then made trials without concentrating my mind, and just waited for a
few minutes for the patient to become painless in my presence. But little
or no relief came, even in cases where the patient had been accustomed to
get regular rapid temporary relief at every previous visit when I had used
concentration. After such futile waiting, a brief effort of the usual con-
centration brought the usual relief. As the patient was not told whether I
was concentrating or not, I think the concentration may act in an extra-
sensory manner.
" The pain relief is sometimes accompanied or followed by other favour-
able changes in the patient's condition, but usually these changes follow
with delay.
" The process has been tried with success on several hundred human
beings, and on a few animals."
Frederick Knowles
It should be added as a matter of observation that Mr Knowles does not
apply verbal suggestion and does nothing to give visible or audible sign of
the mental concentration of which he speaks above. After enquiring from
the patient as to the nature of the pain and the area in which it is felt, he
may go so far as to say in a non-committal tone, " Well, we'll see what we
can do "
;
often, he makes no remark. There is no preliminary instruc-
tions to the patient as to the attitude of mind he should adopt ;
only, in
some cases, the advice to sit quietly and at ease. Mr Knowles expresses the
opinion that faith on the part of the patient is not a requisite, and, if any-
thing, prefers a sceptical attitude. His own demeanour is calm and
unimpressive and this naturally induces a quiet and passive attitude in the
patient. Mr Knowles reports that he seldom has success with pains of
psycho-neurotic origin.
During a " treatment ", so to describe a period of concentration usually
lasting about two minutes, there is silence, Mr Knowles usually stands a
few feet from the patient gazing somewhat abstractedly in his direction,
and to all appearances nothing whatever is happening. After this he
enquires whether the pain is now felt and in what degree, sometimes
asking the patient to rise from his seat, walk a few steps, or perform any
movement that previously was painful. Further " treatments " are given
according to the result reported by the patient, usually from three to five at
one visit. If the pain has been abolished, the patient is asked to call again
196 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
the following week and report to what extent the relief has lasted. If relief
has been only partial, or has not occurred, the patient is also asked to
return in a week's time. If no clear result is obtained after about three
weeks the case is usually abandoned. When relief continues to be only
partial, or pain continues to recur after a shorter or longer period of relief,
visits may be continued for as much as ten or twelve weeks in the attempt
to establish comiplete and permanent relief. (It will be obvious that per-
manence of relief cannot be attributed to the treatment in the case of
conditions such as lumbago and sciatica which clear up spontaneously after
a tirrie ; it is another matter with conditions such as osteo-arthritis, in
which physical impairment persists and the continuance of pain would
normally be expected. Actually, complaints like sciatica seem much less
responsive to the treatment that those in which there is a manifest physical
cause of pain.)
Observations have been conducted for more than a year under the
surveillance of Dr Morna Rawlins, and for the most part at her house in
Devonshire Place, where there are no steps for infirm patients to negotiate,
and where Dr Rawlins has very kindly put a ground floor room at the
disposal of the Society for one evening a week, with service and heating.
In each case notes are taken upon a printed form on which the patient has
first recorded details about his complaint and any medical and hospital
treatment that he has had. Record is kept of the duration of each brief
" treatment " and of its effect as reported by the patient. Patients who
show any hesitation in reporting negative results are encouraged by Mr
Knowles to speak quite frankly and objectively : as a rule this frankness is
observed spontaneously, and in general the atmosphere of the investigation
is that of a research experiment. There is seldom any talk between
patients, and no more comment is made upon a success than a brief remark
such as " Good! " uttered in an impersonal tone by Mr Knowles. It will
be seen that the procedure is not of a kind to build up a feeling of expecta-
tion or to foster suggestion through sensory channels. The calm and
silence that obtain during a " treatment " may be favourable to the
occurrence of telepathic suggestion, and equally of induced auto-sugges-
tion. But to make use of the term " suggestion " in either sense is merely
to afiix a label to the phenomenon and does nothing to explain its operation.
It seems probable that the word " suggestion " as commonly used is an
omnibus term for the results produced by several different psychic
processes, singly or in combination, and the effect apparently produced
by Mr Knowles's process of concentration gives some hint of a specific form
of mental action underlying the various empirical techniques of suggestion-
therapy. Mr Knowles's habit of eliminating techniques and getting his
effect without them may do something to elucidate this underlying factor.
The cases now to be mentioned do not include those described at the
beginning of this paper, nor various others concerning which we have oral
or documentary evidence but no record of direct observation before, during
and after treatment. The figures to be given refer to forty-three cases
treated at 31 Tavistock Square or at Dr Rawlins's house, 28 Devonshire
Place, with an observer in attendance taking notes in the manner which has
already been described.
Of these forty-three patients, thirty-five reported either that a painful
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Experiments in the Relief of Pain "
197
condition was relieved at the time of treatment or that a chronically
recurrent pain ceased to recur after a greater or less number of treatments.
In two cases no relief was noted, and six cases have been classed as inde-
terminate, either because the relief, if any, was not such as to give rise to a
positive statement from the patient, or because the connexion between
treatment and subsequent relief appeared to be doubtful.
Of the thirty-five cases in which relief was reported there were five in
which it was relatively transient—lasting, that is, for a period between a
few hours and a couple of days in the patient's estimate ; twelve in which
relief was said to have lasted for more than two days but did not show
promise of becoming permanently established ; and thirteen in which
freedom from pain appeared to become established, so far as continued
observation was possible. This cannot be taken as a reliable figure to
represent cases of permanent relief, but it fairly represents the cases in
which patients themselves appeared satisfied that a " cure " of the painful
condition had been effected.
It may be noted that the value very naturally set by patients upon a
" cure ", in the sense of the permanent aboHtion of the specific pain, tends
to obscure their memory of occasions when they reported definite but only
tempoi^ary relief. It is not uncommon for a patient who has reported
definite relief from pain on several occasions, as is shown by the record of
his remarks and reactions at the time, to express the opinion later, if the
effect has proved transient, that no relief occurred. There appears to be a
a natural tendency of the mind to think in terms of " cure " and to £.cel that
transient relief does not count.
On the other hand, the question arises whether, in reporting transient
relief, patients may not have let their imaginations run with their hopes and
wishes, or merely given a polite and encouraging response. The impres-
sion of the observers has been that this is not so, and that patients have
given an objective account of their actual sensations. It is also to be noted
that in most of the cases under observation the pains involved have been
pretty severe, so that there could not be much doubt whether they were
relieved or not, and that in many cases of pain on attempting particular
movements it was a matter of visible evidence that movement was freed
after a treatment and could be carried out without reactions indicating the
twinges of pain.
It has been surprisingly difficult to collect suitable cases for treatment :
cases, that is, in which the pain seems definitely referable to a physical
cause and the patient is able to attend under the required conditions of
observation. It is natural, however, that there should not be very many
patients available who are suffering pain from an identifiable physical cause
and are not under some kind of medical treatment, and it is necessary for
clear results to deal with cases in which improvement cannot alternatively
be put down to another treatment which is being applied over the same
period. This has given us a fairly high proportion of obstinate ailments of
long standing, for which medicine has done what it could and apparently
can do no more, such as chronic rheumatism and arthritis.
Nine cases of arthritis and eight of rheumatism furnish groups just large
enough to suggest the probable incidence of relief in these two conditions :
in each group seven patients reported definite relief of pain, and each
198 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
group contains three cases in which rehef appears to be permanent so far
as observation has gone. It seems permissible to consider these two
together as representing a class of ailm.ent in which the prospect of relief is
good under Mr Knowles's procedure. It has been mentioned that sciatica
does not seem to respond so well to the treatment, and relief when it is
obtained appears to be fugitive. Figures are not sufficient for a clear
opinion on this point, but sciatica can suitably be grouped with lumbago
and various kinds of neuritis : all these Mr Knowles reports to be among
his less satisfactory cases, and when they do clear up after treatment there
is little to suggest that they would not have done so spontaneously. Other
ailments have been too miscellaneous to furnish groups about which any
useful inference could be drawn, but a general impression has grown
among the observers that the more the pain is focused upon some definite
physical lesion, the more likely it is that relief will be given. This may
suggest that the effect produced is primarily one of decongestion, a point
to which we shall have occasion to return in connexion with experiments
on induced pains.
Two particular cases may be cited, in which opportunity for observation
has been especially complete. The first is the case of Mrs Tolhurst, wife
of the caretaker at the S.P.R. rooms, who has severe osteo-arthritis of long
standing, and has been from time to time, for many years, a patient at the
Elizabeth Garrett Anderson Hospital, of which Dr Rawlins is the Medical
Officer. With the development of the complaint Mrs Tolhurst had
suffered an increasing amount of pain, and in September 1942 her condi-
tion was such that movement of the left hip joint was always painful and
she was regularly awakened during the night by painful stiffness of the joint
after a few hours of rest. X-ray plates showed the bone surfaces to be
badly roughened and the hospital radiologist commented that the patient
had no business to be able to bend that joint without its hurting. There
were skiagraphs taken shortly after Mrs Tolhurst had reported the
condition to have become entirely painless since her second visit for
treatment by Mr Knowles under S.P.R. observation. At the time of her
first visit Mrs Tolhurst was in part-time employment at a large canteen
and was considerably overworked, which may have some bearing on the
fact that the treatments given on this occasion had no perceptible effect.
From her second visit onwards, Mrs Tolhurst reports that she has had no
recurrence of pain—over a period of seventeen months at the time of
writing—and has had unbroken nights. It is not certain in this case
whether the establishment of the painless condition owed anything to
subsequent treatments, carried out for some weeks to see if any improve-
ment could be effected in the flexibility of the affected joint. No such
improvement was observed (in some of Mr Knowles's cases there has been
visible evidence of increased mobility of stiffened joints, possibly due only
to decrease in the inhibitory effect of pain), but the continued treatments
may have done something to consolidate the freedom from pain observed
ever since the second visit.
The second case to be specially cited is that of Dr Rawlins herself who,
more fortunately for the investigation than for her own comfort, was
suffering in the autumn of 1942 from persistent and often severe pain in
the region of a fractured thigh, repaired with the aid of a thick steel pin
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Experimenls in the Relief of Pain 199
Avhich had been left in situ. Dr Rawlins, as a surgeon of long experience,
may be considered as good a witness as could be hoped for in reporting her
own sensations and correlating them with a surgical condition. This was
not one of the cases in which at a given moment the pain was dispelled
during a treatment and thereafter ceased to recur, and it is not possible to
judge whether the eventual clearing up of the painful condition was accel-
erated bv the treatments given : but Dr Rawlins's experience, of the effects
that followed a large number of treatments, gives an excellent criterion of
the actuality of temporary relief. This was also very noticeable to the
obser\-ers, judging by the greatly enhanced ease of movement after many
of the treatments. At one period the condition was complicated by sciatica,
and the interesting point was noted that while the pain associated with the
injury yielded to treatment, little or no relief of the sciatic pain was
obtained.
The question arises, from all these cases and others which Mr Knowles
has recorded, what the actual process of relief may consist in. Experi-
mental checking-up on the effect of varied procedures is to a great extent
precluded when we are dealing with sufferers in whose interests the
scientific approach must take second place ; and ip practice, all complica-
tions of procedure are apt to deter patients from attending for treatment.
It is to be hoped that more continuous observation of patients after the
treatment may be possible through its application to hospital cases. A
small group of S.P.R. members under Mr C. N. Richmond has carried
out experiments, with Mr Knowles, to test the effect of the treatment upon
artificially induced pain. Subjects had the circulation in an arm checked by
the application of the pneumatic band of a sphygmomanometer, a pro-
cedure which regularly causes an increasing pain in the arm and hand,
becoming acute in a few minutes. It was taken as the requisite for a
positive result that the time should be prolonged before the pain reached
greater intensity than the subject could reasonably tolerate. With one
subject and on one occasion this limit of tolerance was extended while
Mr Knowles 's concentration was applied : otherwise experiments carried
out at a numbepof meetings of the group gave a uniformly negative result.
On the other hand, Mr Knowles reports some positive results from a
similar experiment in which, instead of pneumatic compression all round
the upper arm, the brachial artery only was effectively compressed by
means of a pad controlled by a screw attachment. It can be conjectured
that when this method was used the arterial circulation could make better
use of subsidiary channels under the effect of the treatment ; and if any
inference can be drawn from these experiments it may be that Mr Knowles's
effect operates upon the vasomotor system and relieves the local congestion
which is concerned in a painful condition. (It is obvious that in the case of
pneumatic compression, with the arterial flow almost completely inhibited,
the treatment would be mechanically prevented from inducing de-
congestion.)
Other possible conjectures may be that an element of spasm is concerned
in the production of pain, and that a spastic protest, so to call it, of the fine
tissues involved may be relaxed by the treatment ; and that interruption
may occur of the neural arcs concerned in the transmission of painful
sensation. The last appears to be the least probable suggestion, but these
200 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb .
1 946
possibilities are not, of course, mutually exclusive. An organic process is
often inattentive to our tidy preference for a this-and-not-that explanation.
Records which were made upon the printed forms, giving details as to the
nature of each case and of the results observed, are on file at the Society's
rooms and can be studied by members and by any medical practitioners
who may be interested.
K. R.
Dr Morna Rawlins, who has read the report, writes :
" I only saw some
of the Knowles experiments and practically none of the later ones but I
agree with Mr Richmond's remarks."
EXPERIMENTS IN E.S.P. /
Mr. Cecil Welsh, of " Beverley ", Poles Lane, Otterbourne, near
Winchester, who has recently joined the Society, and has been conducting
E.S.P. experiments, would be very glad if any members in the Winchester
district, who are willing to be tested for E.S.P., would get into touch with
him.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—There are one or two points in Mme Lafitte-Cyon's article,
" Reflections on Mediumship ", appearing in the October ('45) issue of
the Journal, upon which I should like to offer brief comment. ... I am^ in
sympathy, in the main, with the author ;
my own experiences during more
than forty-five years of continuous investigations being very similar to her
own. Her remark that mediumistic " mind reading ", as commonly
noted, " can be bad, middling, good and, now and again, striking, though
always queerly limited ", seemed to me exceptionally accurate ... I should
like to point out once again to our readers, however, the enormous problem
presented by such mediumistic " mind reading ", from the point of view
of memory [Journal, March, 1936). I feel that this difficulty has never been
sufficiently stressed—or met!
My main point, however, is in connexion with the experience, in which
the writer's dream seemed to be " tapped ", in a mediumistic message.
This is a most interesting and suggestive instance—strongly reminding me
of an experience of my own, some years ago, which was briefly this :
A young lady called on us one evening, and suggested table-tipping.
Messages were tapped out, including a name unknown to my wife and
myself, but which we were told was the " nick-name " of a friend of this
young lady's, whom she had not seen for some time. In the course of
further " communications ", it was stated (by the table) that this friend of
hers had lost her position, and that her mail was being tampered with. The
sitter exclaimed that this was " impossible ", since she had been connected
with the firm for many years, and had lived in her present apartment for a
similar length of time . . . However, the next morning, she telephoned
excitedly, to say that she had spoken to her friend, over the 'phone, and
learned from her that the latter had dreamed, two nights before, that she
had lost her position, and that her mail was being opened!
Here, then, we have a case in which a dream (of someone we did not
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Corresp07idence 20 r
know, and who was known only slightly to our visitor) came through the
table, as a supposedly veridical " communication! " This shaws us, I
think, how subtle and circuitous such " communications " often are ; also
how illusory, and how they often seem to depend upon the telepathy a troh
factor, stressed by Mr Andrew Lang. . . . This seems to me a thought-
provoking and instructive case, which I am prompted to send to the
Journal, because of the analogous instance above mentioned. ... If any
of our members know of similar instances, I feel sure that the Editor
would be glad to hear of them.
Very truly yours,
Hereward Carrixgton
Sir,—In her interesting, but all too brief, review of the Betty Book in the
previous number of the Journal, Mrs Lyttelton points out that the material
it contains is not evidential in the ordinary sense. It is true that it does not
contain, for the most part, the kind of evidence now-a-days called
" objective " , but it does contain internal evidence of a kind which is of
the highest importance for psychical research.
Apart from the more obvious features of the book—its sanity and clarity
both as regards the author's style and the substance of the communications
—there are interesting correspondences between the way in which Betty
gives out her material and the way in which Mrs Willett gave out hers.
The three methods described with Betty, (i) the speech of the " Invisible
"
given in the first person, (2) the emergence of words as if by dictation, and
(3) reporting in the third person, preceded by the words, " they say ",
compare interestingly with the descriptions of the Willett material given
in Chapter III of Lord Balfour's Report in Vol. xliii of Proceedings.
Both the " Invisibles " of the Betty Book and the Willett communicators
declare their ignorance and their need for experiment. Again, jMrs
Lyttelton points out the similarity with her own scripts. " Betty's account
of the proceedings ", she says, "is an exact and accurate description of
experiences exactly like my own." It is doubtful, from the way in w^hich
the author of the Betty Book writes, whether he had ever read Lord Balfour's
Report on Mrs Willett ; and he had certainly never had access to Mrs
Lyttelton 's private scripts.
The first step in investigation would be to find out more about the
compilers of this book ; but it contains the kind of evidence which the
S.P.R. should surely follow up with zest. There is likely to be some divi-
sion of opinion on the value of this kind of evidence : it is not the evidence
which all psychical investigators want. There is a school of thought
W'hich would ignore it in favour of " objective " evidence, that is to say
evidence in which each experience of the subject can be shown to corres-
pond with a definite event in the external world. The evidence which is
found in automatic speech and writing is, for the most part, different. It
is of a kind which, if watched with a patient and open mind, conveys
information like a developing photograph. And it contains a still worse
feature from the " objectivist's " standpoint. It is interwoven with
" teachings ". This teaching in the present instance, and probably in all
high-grade automatism, is not mere moral " uplift " : it is a recipe for
adjusting the investigator to his subject-matter. Essentially, it teaches
202 Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
that progress in understanding the nature of the human being cannot be
made by the intellect alone ; the whole personality must be trained to
something akin to inspirational perception if the problems connected with
the self are to begin to clear themselves.
All this, though really no more than common sense, is unacceptable to
the school which relies on " objective " evidence alone. This school of
thought assumes that methods of research which are adequate for physical
science must also be adequate for paranormal science and can be carried,
step by step, right through the paranormal field. This, in effect, is to
assume that the world to be discovered by looking into the human per-
sonality is similar to the world to be discovered by looking through the
senses at the external environment. I can see no justification whatever
for this assumption ; and it seems very desirable that those who make it
implicitly by ignoring all that is not, in the above sense, " objective
"
evidence, should justify their assumption explicitly. We need to recognise
clearly that " objective " research, as exemplified in experimental E.S.P.,
is limited to the fringe of the paranormal, and that those who constitute
it their sole court of appeal will remain for ever on the threshold of
psychical research. Once this is clearly recognised in our Society, effort
can be justly apportioned between the limited field of " objective
"
experiment and the wider and more informative field of automatic and
trance-like states.
The Betty Book illustrates, further, the superiority of the method of
using private sensitives, who are themselves co-investigators, as compared
with the method of examining professional mediums. That this method
can be extended to physical as well as to mental phenomena is illustrated
by the second Appendix in the book. It is well to note this when we re-
member how sterile were the efforts of the former Research Officers of
our Society in the region of physical phenomena. It is often objected that
private and co-operative sensitives cannot be found. But how much
effort has been made to find them.' We surely need not confess that the
Society for Psychical Research cannot achieve what private investigators
have already accomplished.
Yours faithfully,
G. N. M. Tyrrell
Mr Abdy Collins also draws attention to the experiments described in
the Second Appendix to the Betty Book as containing " data of great value
to all students of materialised forms ".
Sir,—In my letter on Dr Layard's paper on Psi Phenomena and Polter-
geists {Proc, Pt. 168) which was printed in the Journal for November and
December 1944, I mentioned a paper by Dr Meier which I thought might
concern the case discussed by Dr Layard and which was printed in the
Zentralblatt f. Psychotherapie (1939, XI, 284-303).
I have now been able to have this paper examined in a library in Switzer-
land, and my informant tells me that it does deal with the case outlined by
Dr Layard, but that the whole incident of the split bench has been omitted
JAN.-FEB. 1946 Revieio 203
in the printed version of the story. It seems clear that Dr Meier thought it
wise to omit the tale when publishing the details in the Zentralblatt, and
that our Proceedings is the only place where the story has been printed
!
Yours, etc.,
E. J. Dingwall
[The last sentence of Dr Dingwall's letter suggests that the Part in
question may become a " Collector's Piece ", with resultant enhancement
of value to the possessor. Hon. Ed. Journal.]
REVIEW
Fairies. By Edward L. G.ardner. (Published by The Theosophical
Publishing House.) 9s. 6d.
A Book of Real Fairies is an attractive publication with excellent illustra-
tions of the Cottingley fairies, the first two of which were published by
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle in the Christmas number of the Strand magazine
1920 and the remaining three in the issue of the same magazine for March
1 92 1. Mr Gardner sets forth his evidence for the genuineness of these
photographs with a straightforward clarity which is impaired in Part II
by long and unconvincing narratives of clairvoyant investigations. As the
end of the book approaches, the deterioration is accelerated by amazing
descriptions of the ramifications of nature spirits and the like.
Mr Gardner makes much of the evidence of a trade photographer whose
examination of the first two negatives resulted in a verdict that they were
entirely genuine. The photographer claims that they are single exposures,
that the fairy figures show movement and that there is no trace whatever
of work involving models, etc. The views of other equally skilled photo-
graphers do not coincide. Double, or even treble, exposures can be made
which are absolutely indistinguishable from single exposures. The very
slight indications of movement in the fairy figures do not occur just in
the limbs or wings but are " all over " movements which would naturally
result from holding a camera in the hand when making exposures.
These fairy photographs were taken by two girls. The evidence for the
age of the elder of the two girls (Elsie) is conflicting. Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle on page 464 of the December 1920 issue of the Strand gives her
age, when the first results were obtained, as 16. This age is confirmed by
a representative of The Westminster Gazette who made an investigation
on the spot, early in 1921. Mr Gardner on page 14 of his book gives her
age, at the time as 13. There appears to be a general agreement that the
age of the younger of the two girls (Frances) was 10 when the first photo-
graphs were taken.
How on earth could two young girls possibly fake photographs like
these? The reply is that such effects could easily be produced by persons
possessing the necessary skill in photography and sketching. Apart
altogether from the information obtainable from an examination of the
results themselves, the evidence in regard to the ability of the elder of the
two girls to produce these photographs by fake methods is very definite.
Elsie was an art student with no common gifts. Friends who examined
her sketches and paintings, when these photographs were first published,
20-[ Journal of Society for Psychical Research jan.-feb. 1946
assure me that she would be able to draw fairies, such as those photo-
graphed, without the slightest difficulty. So much for the artistic side
but what of the photographic knowledge? It would appear that at the
time the first photographs were taken, Elsie was employed by a photo-
graphic firm in Bradford! It is stated that she was engaged on " spotting
"
and it is difficult, therefore, to give credence to the claim that she knew
nothing whatever of photography.
A detailed criticism of the prints, in the absence of the actual illustra-
tions, is beyond the scope of this review. There are differences in the
lighting of the humans and the fairies, the pipes are grasped in most
awkward positions for experienced fairies, whilst the humans, when they
appear in the picture, are very obviously posing. A pity! It would be
nice to be able to believe in fairies. Some recent comments by Bertrand
Russell are particularly applicable to this and similar claims. He writes :
" It might happen that all the air in a room would collect itself in
one half of the room, leaving a vacuum in the other half. We cannot
say that this is impossible, but it is so improbable that a rational man
would disbelieve the statement that it had happened on a certain
occasion, even if the statement were made by all the fellows of the
Royal Society together with the Archbishops of Canterbury and York."
The rational man will continue to be sceptical of the reality of fairies
in general and of the Cottingley fairies in particular, in spite of Mr Gard-
ner's persuasive attempts to convince him to the contrary. Now, alas,
the scene of these fairy revels is built up with modern houses. The trees
have disappeared but the stream still meanders among the houses and the
glen is now known as " Fairy Dell ". Fred Barlow
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private nature
of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made without the
previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of the Journal in
1884, much of the material appearing in it has been contributed on the
definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated on the cover, issued " For
private circulation among Members and Associates only ". The Council
hope that all Members and Associates will continue to co-operate with
them in maintaining this privacy.
As stated on p. 188 of this issue, the Council intend from time to time
to issue numbers of the Journal to which the above restrictions will not
attach. Their get-up will be such as to distinguish them from the ord-
inary issues.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
JNIar.-Apr., 1946 Vol. XXXIII—No. 622-623
CONTENTS
PAGE
New Members - - - - -205
Meetings of the Council ------- 206
Private Meeting - .- - - - - - - 207
Discussion Meetings - > - - - - - - 208
Annual General Meeting 208
The Old Oxford Phasmatological Society - - - - 208
A Radio Experiment in Telepathy - - - - - 216
Replies to the Questionnaire - - - - - - 220
NEW MEMBERS
^ : {Elected 8 February 1946)
Aicock, Mrs K., 14 Kayemoor Road, Sutton, Surrey.
Cayce, Major William, M.C., 247 Ransom Street, Grand Rapids,
IN'Iichigan, U.S.A.
Harding, Miss Hilda, 57 Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Jaffa, Mrs H., 26 Fitzroy Square, London, W. i
.
Kruisinga, J. C. M. 372 Almelose Weg, Vriezenveen, Holland.
Lubbock, Mrs R., 1 1 Tennis Court Road, Cambridge.
Masham, F. W., 10 Northwood Road, Harefield, Middx.
Moore, E. Garth, Eliot Vale House, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Moritz, M. R., 76 Hillway, Highgate, London, N. 6.
Patto, S. F., 74 Girdwood Road, Southfields, London, S.W. 18.
Swinscov/, Captain T. D. V., R.A.M.C., 73 Marlborough Mansions
Cannon Hill, London, N.W. 6.
Watkin, F. I., 6 Highfield Street, Sutton, St Helens, Lanes.
Webster, D., Idlewild, Fountainhall Road, Aberdeen.
Wedgwood, John H., Aston House, Stone, Staffs.
'
• Student-Associates
Marsh, M. C, 32 Whites Road, Bloemfontein, South Africa.
Parsons, P. L., 51 Empress Avenue, Woodford Green, Essex.
Scott, C. S. O'D., 8 Warwick Mansions, London, S.W. 5.
2o6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research MAR.-APR. 1946
{Elected 27 February 1946)
Austin, Rev. Stanley, Withersfield Rectory, Suffolk.
Bell, Rev. Theodore, St John's Chapel, Del Monte, California, U.S.A.
Bentley, Daniel, 37 St James Terrace, Doncaster.
Bishop, Fuller, 646 Crane Blvd., Los Angeles, 31, U.S.A.
Earl, C. C, 82 Fairfax Road, Teddington, Middx.
Secretary, Oxford University Society for Psychical Research, Oxford.
{Elected 20 March 1946)
Bright, S. R., 71 Portland Place, London, W. i.
Burton, Mrs E. D., 12 Shelley Court, Tite Street, London, S.W. 3.
Humpfner, Rev. Dr Winfrid G., 3103 Arlington Avenue, New York 63,
N.Y., U.S.A.
Laurie, Mrs A. H., Allaleigh, Blackawton, S. Devon.
Lyle, Miss E. J., Strathroy, Portrush, Northern Ireland.
Morreil, F. T., 57 Richmond Hill Court, Richmond, Surrey.
Plesch, Peter H., M.A., Dept. of Chemistry, The University, Manchester.
Sitwell, Sir Osbert, Bart., Renishaw Hall, Renishaw, nr. Sheffield.
Student-Associates
Pauwels, Robert D., c/o Imperial College of Science, South Kensington,
London, S.W. 7.
Wrench, Paul, The Cottage, Priston, nr. Bath, Somerset.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 410th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Friday, 8 February 1946, at 3 p.m. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet, Mrs Gold-
ney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, the Hon. Mrs Alfred Lvttelton,
G.B.E., Mr W. H. Saher, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt
and Dr R. H. Thouless.
Fourteen new Members and three Student-Associates were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
The 411th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 27 February 1946, at 3 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet,
Professor C. D. Broad, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope,
Miss Jephson, Mr D. Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and
the Rev. C. D. Thomas ; also Mr West, Hon. Asst-Secy. and Miss E.
M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Six new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The 412th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, after the Annual General Meeting. The President
MAR.-APR. 1946 Meetings of the Council 207
in the Chair. There were also present ; Miss T. Bosanquet, Professor C.
D. Broad, Mrs Goidney, Mrs Hevwood, Lord Charles Hope, Miss Jeph-
son, Mr D. Parsons, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter and the Rev. C.
D. Thomas ; also Mr West, Hon Asst-Secretary, and Miss E. M. Horsell,
Asst-Secretary.
Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell was unanimously elected President for the year
1946-7.
Mr W. H. Salter was re-elected Hon. Secretary, Admiral the Hon. A. C.
Strutt, R.N., Hon. Treasurer, Mrs W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of Proceed-
ings, Mr. W. H. Salter, Hon. Editor of the Journal, and Mr. D. J. West,
Hon. Asst-Secretary.
Committees were elected as follows :
Committee of Reference and Publication : The President, Pfofessor C. D.
Broad, Professor H. H. Price, Mrs W. H. Salter and Dr R. H. Thouless.
Finance Committee : Mrs Goidney, Mr G. W. Lambert, Admiral the
Hon. A. C. Strutt, and Mr Percy Wilson.
House Committee : Miss L Jephson, Miss L Newton, Mr W. H. Salter
and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Library Committee : Professor E. R. Dodds, the Hon. Mrs Gay, Mr D.
Parsons and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
Corresponding Members and Honorary Associates were elected for the
year 1946-7 as follows :
Corresponding Members : President Nicholas M. Butler, Dr Max
Dessoir, Dr G. H. Hyslop, Dr C. G. Jung, Count C. von Klinckowstroem,
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, Dr Gardner Murphy, Professor T. K. Oester-
reich, Dr J. B. Rhine, Dr R. Tischner, Mr C. Vett and M. P.ene Warcollier.
Honorary Associates : Miss H. Carruthers, Mr J. Arthur Hill, the Rev.
W. S. Irving, Dr Eva Morton, Mrs Kenneth Richmond, Professor C. Sage,
Mr B. Shackleton, Mr G. H. Spinney, Dr A. Tanagra, Dr W. H.
Tenhaetf, Dr R. H. Thouless, Miss Nea Walker and Dr Th. Wereide.
The 413th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 20 March, 1946, at 3 p.m. The Presi-
dent in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T. Bosanquet, Mrs
Goidney, Mrs Hevwood, Lord Charles Hope, Miss L Jephson, Mr D.
Parsons", Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G.
Soal and Dr R. H. Thouless ; also Mr West, Hon. Asst-Secretarv, and
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last two Meetings of the Council were read and
signed as correct. Eight new Members and two Student-Associates were
elected. Their names and addresses are given above.
The following co-optations w^ere renewed for the year 1946-47 : Miss
Theodora Bosanquet, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Sir Robert Gower, Airs Frank
Heywood and Air D. A. H. Parsons.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 187th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Libran,- on
Wednesday, 27 February 1946, after the Annual General Meeting, when
Mr D. J. West read a paper on " The Medium.ship of Airs Flelen Duncan".
This paper will be published later in Proceedings.
2oS joiiJ iuil uf Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
DISCUSSION MEETINGS .
; , ,
The following Discussion Meetings have been arranged :
4 April 1946. Brigadier R. C. Firebrace on " The Direct Voice Home
Circle ".
2 May 1946. Mr I. C. Grondahl on " Intuition and Mysticism ". •
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
The Annual General Meeting of Members of the Society was held at
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 27 February 1946
at 3.30 p.m. The President in the Chair.
The following Members were present : Dr L. J. Bendit, Mrs Max
Binney, Miss Theodora Bosanquet, Professor C. D. Broad, the Rev.
G. J. Chitty, Mr B. Abdy Collins, Dr E. J. Dingwall, Mr G. W, Fisk,
Mr E. W. Fordham, Mrs Goldney, Mrs Hanson, Miss H. Harding, Mrs
Heywood, Lord Charles Flope, Mrs Troup Horne, Mr A. D. Howell
Smith, Miss Jephson, Mr L. J. Kingston, Mr E. Garth Moore, Mr H, J.
D. Murton, Mr D. Parsons, Mrs Plimmer, Mrs Richmond, Mr A. J. B.
Robertson, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Mrs C. Sitwell, Admiral
the Hon. A. C. Strutt, Rev. C. D. Thomas, Miss Traill, Mr D. J. West,
Mr G. Zorab ; also the following Associates : Miss M. Day, Mrs Gantz,
Mrs Lyon, and Dr Eva Morton ; also Miss E. M. Florsell, Asst- Secretary.
The Hon. Secretary having read the notice convening the meeting,
the Accounts and the Report vv'ere presented. Mr W. H. Salter moved
the adoption of the Annual Report and the Accounts of the Society, which
had already been circulated in the January-February Joi/riial. This
resolution was seconded by Professor C. D. Broad, and carried unani-
mously.
The Chairman announced that since the circulation of the Statutory
Notice, Mr B. Abdy Collins had been noininated by Mr Percy Wilson and
Mr Richard Wilson as an additional candidate for election to the Council.
On a show of hands the following six members were elected : Lord
Charles Hope, Mr G. W. Lambert, C.B., Mr Geoffrey Redmayne, Mr
W. H. Salter, Mrs Salter and Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt.
On the proposal of Mr W. H. Salter, seconded by Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt, Messrs. Miall, Savage, Avery & Co. were re-elected Auditors
for the forthcom-ing year.
THE OLD OXFORD PHASMATOLOGICAL SOCIETY
[Prof. Sir Charles Oman, one of the earliest and most distinguished mem-
bers of the S.P.R., kindly allows us to print a paper, recently read by him
to tlje Oxford Society for Psychical Research. This account of the early
days of psychical research cannot fail to interest our members. Hon.
Ed. Journal].
It is curious to find history repeating itself after an interval of sixty-six
years. On October 29th 1879, ^ small meeting of undergraduates interested
in Psychical Research—a term (by the way) which had not then been
invented—sat in LTniversity College to discuss the formation of a society
MAR.-APR. 1946 The Old Oxford Phasmatological Society 209
for the investigation of the Occult. They were a chance assembly of people
who all happened to have some curious story current in their own family or
neighbourhood which had puzzled them, and deserved (as they conceived)
further investigation. Each had supposed that his own particular problem
was a unique one, and was surprised when he found someone else with a
similar or parallel story. It was the discovery that there were so many such
tales abroad, far more than anyone had expected, which induced the origi-
nal founders of the society to form themselves into a club for the investiga-
tion and testing of alleged manifestations of the supernatural.
This mentality was not at all a common phenomenon of the iime, for the
large majority of my contemporaries of 1879 l'^*-^ been brought up in a
stalwart Victorian disbelief in all things abnormal, and to profess interest
in hauntings, apparitions, or premonitions was likely to provoke kindly
contempt from the healthy and normal undergraduate. The spirit of
Dickens's Mr Gradgrind was still abroad, and facts repugnant to common
experience or common sense were put down by a large majority as deliber-
ate inventions, or at the best cases of malobservation and careless reporting.
Stories like Bulwer Lytton's " House in Berkeley Square " were pure
fiction.
As at that time mere ghosts were the most commonly discussed psychical
phenomena, the society took for its title the queer word " Phasmatological
"
from (f)d(jjj.a a ghost, though it never from the first confined its investiga-
tions to such apparitions, but was ready to take account of premonitions,
coincidences and inexplicable sounds or sights in which no ghost was con-
cerned, in short, things occult in general. I was not one of the first eight
or ten members, who were mostly undergraduates of University College
—
the first two chairmen of the society, E. Ridley and A. P. Keep, were both
from that ancient house. But I was among the earliest recruits, as were
two or three other New College men, and I find that I was present at all the
meetings from about six months after the foundation of the society, and
only the first ten or twelve stories which it investigated did not come under
my own observation.
The Phasmatological Society existed for about six years, and had four
presidents, Ridley, Keep, myself and Dr Headlam, Bishop of Gloucester.
It petered out in 1885, mainly from two causes. The first was that the
original group of men who had started the society had been scattered all
over the world, and the second generation of members also, while a third
generation did not form itself, because the Society for Psychical Research
had been instituted in 1882, and had rather taken the wind out of our sails.
It was such an important concern that our small local enquiries seemed
petty in comparison, and most of our keen members joined it—as I did
myself. Our Oxford meetings gradually grew less frequent ; communi-
cations from outside correspondents were not met with the alacrity of
1880—it became difficult to send out emissaries to visit them and to
investigate their local phenomena, for there were few of us residents who
had not become immersed in University teaching : we found that we had
no time for excursions, however promising in the matter of occult ex-
periences. Dr Schiller and I made about the last of these perquisitions
in 1885. Finally the last secretary " went down " and the box of records
remained in my hands.
2IO Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
The Phasmatological Society numbered among its members a good
many people whose names are not entirely forgotten. We were not by
any means an uncritical body, or given to accepting on inadequate evidence
the stories that came before us. Our records show that while we voted a
good many stories " unexplained " , in many instances we resolved that
phenomena were due to natural causes, to hallucination or illusions,
personal or collective, to malobservation, or (in a very few cases) to prac-
tical jokmg or hoaxes. I can only remember two instances of the last-
named sort—one a very elaborate deception practised on a whole family
by an impish neighbour. Our investigations were pretty thorough, and
our sceptical members often produced explanations that were ingenious,
if not convincing, of narratives that seemed to rest on good bases. Dr
Haverfield (as I remem.ber) had generally plausible doubts to urge, and
Dr HeadJam was a stringent represser of inadequate evidence.
When VvC could induce any percipient v/ho claimed to have been a
personal witness to abnormal phenomena to present himself before the
society for cross-examination, we did our best to test his tale without
giving him offence. I have a ludicrous memory of one personal investiga-
tion which never " came off ". A country clergyman who had been
troubled by a wraith, came by invitation to University College in December
1880 to be examined. Unfortunately he arrived just in time to see the
whole College sent down, including the President and Secretary of our
society. This was the occasion on which Dr Bradley, then Master of
University, sent down the whole College at an hour's notice, for the
" screwing up " of the senior tutor Mr Chavasse. Of course our president
and secretary had not been of the " screwing up " party of criminals, but
the whole College, guilty and innocent were departing in a procession of
Hansom cabs at the very moment when our ghost- seer presented himself
on the steps. He lost his journey, and was not at all pleased.
From first to last the Phasmatological investigated about a hundred
stories in the six years of its existence, not counting cases where we could
only get second-hand evidence—tales of " what happened to my grand-
father or my aunt ". The correspondents with whom we dealt and whom
we cross-examined were of all classes—the two most distinguished (I
think) were Dr Paley the editor of Aeschylus and Euripides who thought
that he had seen the family ghost of the Shrewsbury family, and Dr Bar-
tholomew Price the Master of Pembroke. Narrators differed in the most
striking way in precision and power of lucid answer, but we never came
on deliberate inventors—in the two cases of hoaxing, our informants had
been the victimised parties. Our correspondents were about equally
divided between male and female witnesses, and ranged over every stratum
of society from the head of a College and a professor to housemaids and
carpenters.
Looking back on the whole bulk of our investigations, I have one primary
generalisation to make. No genuine tale of the occult is like the magazine-
story, where the ghost, or the premonition, or the mysterious voice, be-
trays a murder, discovers a lost will, or reveals a hidden treasure of rose-
nobles or spade-guineas. Any tale of this sort may be put down at once as
a " fake ". I can not make out that any single apparition or phenomenon
in our whole list had anything of that kind to reveal. Ghosts, as we came
f MAR.-APR. 1946 The Old Oxford Phasmatological Society 211
to know them, seemed to be self-centred in their ways, with the single
exception of the class whom we used to call " death wraiths " in our
vocabulary of 1880—the apparitions of persons who communicate their
demise to relatives or friends at the moment that they are passing away
—
or very soon after it. There are scores of such cases recorded in Phan-
tasms of the Living, though I think that the title is a little misleading—
as many of the " agents " were apparently already deceased. We had our
allowance of such depositions from the " percipients ", some of them very
well substantiated.
This sort of communication takes us into the region of telepathy, in
which generations of the members of the S.P.R. have been so deeplv
interested. But we had at least two cases in which the telepathy seems to
have " gone wrong ", where the fatal message was not received by the
desired friend or relative, but by someone connected with that recipient.
One particularly well-authenticated case, when the persons concerned were
interrogated personally, was one in which the form of a lady in extremis
appeared, not to her best friend, but to her friend's husband. He was
awake in bed, and recognised the apparition, to him a barely-known
acquaintance ; but his wife, asleep beside him, never woke, and missed the
manifestation, which disappeared when her husband roused her. The
coincidence of times between the death and the visitation was exact. I
believe that there are parallel instances in the records of Gurney and Myers.
In several narratives given to us there was a visitation by the figure of a
friend or relative who was not dying, but in deadly danger by shipwreck
or war-chance, and seems to have succeeded in sending a telepathic
apparition while the stress was upon him, though he survived. This type
of deposition had some variants, when the " percipient " clearly perceived
the figure of the " agent ", but the latter denied any intention of com-
municating, and was in no special stress. Such figures the critics in our
society put down to mere hallucination or illusion. But we had two well-
authenticated first-hand depositions in which our informants, in each case
two witnesses, vouched for the appearance of a person who denied alto-
gether an)' intention of manifesting to them. In one case there was ex-
pectation, in the other none whatever, of the coming of the apparentlv
unconscious agent. There was no possibility of a misidentification of
persons seen.
All these variants were exceptional cases, which led to much discussion
and in some cases to cross-examination of our percipients. The critics
among us often fell back on a suggestion of hallucination—even of two
persons simultaneously—and were often plausible.
But these divagations on the part of the presumed agent were not com-
mon—more usually the communication reached a desired recipient. This
was on the whole almost the most frequent class of story that came to us.
Occasionally there was, as a variety, no definite apparition but a premoni-
tion—a sense of unexpected lassitude and sorrow descending on a person
who had no reason to feel particularly depressed at a certain moment,
which moment was afterwards discovered to be that of the death of one
very dear. Our critics suggested that some people are in the habit of
getting sudden fits of depression, that they forget them .normally, but
remember them if any disaster chances to synchronise with the day of
212 Joiinial of Society for Psychical Research imar.-apr. 1946
gloomy feeling. I have had such unjustified depression myself on three
occasions.
Putting aside narratives of apparitions coinciding with the death of a
friend or relative, the type of story which reached us most frequently was
that of haunted houses or spots, " fixed locals " as we called them. Nearly
all these very numerous stories coincided in one thing—the haunting was
purely objectless, the visitant showed no purpose of frightening, warning
or instructing the unfortunate observer. The ghost seemed in all these
tales to be merely " earth-bound ", hanging about a spot where either
some crisis, perhaps a murder, had taken place, or where he or she had
spent many years of unhappiness. As far as we could classify our haunting
apparitions, they were about equally divided between harmless figures
which pervaded their habitual haunts in a quiet way, and distressful and
distraught figures which seemed to recall some long period of distress, or
less frequently, murder or suicide. Occasionally they showed an agonised
face, or a wounded head.
We were sent some dozens of records of simple haunting of houses, or
less frequently of spots out of doors, where our correspondents declared
themselves to have had definite sight of supernatural things. Usually
they saw single figures, but occasionally two figures, and very rarely
groups of figures. In the last named cases the experience would seem to
partake more of the nature of a pictorial vision than of a mere apparition.
The most surprising case of this kind which we ever came across was that
of two resolute witnesses who were cross-examined in great detail by one
of our most energetic members. The vision was of a whole procession of
semi-transparent figures passing along a high-road. But haunted houses
and spots seem reasonably common, if we may trust our informants. In two
cases we had depositions of three separate people \Vho at long intervals of
time saw the same figure in the same dwelling—one was a West of England
manor, the other a house in a northern watering place. The informants
in the latter case did not seem to have had any knov.^ledge of each other, or
to liave heard of the previous visitation.
But, as Napoleon was wont to observe, there is but a step from the
sublime to the ridiculous. Of the hauntings which we investigated, three
cases were not by human figures but by animals—in one story a vast black
creature as big as a pony or a donkey was seen, which vanished abruptly in
the road. The second was (still more surprising) a white bear with small
gleaming eyes; in the third it was a large shaggy creature more like a sheep-
dog than anything else. The observants in these cases were respectively
a famous classical scholar, a schoolboy of twelve, and a Welsh J. P. None
of them seem likely to have been under the influence of alcohol, according
to their very detailed narratives. This class of story, though quite, in date,
modern, seems to run back to mediaeval tales of evil spirits in non-human
form, like Mauth Dogs, kelpies, and phantom bulls or horses. But I think
they may also be scheduled as " Terrors of the Night "
—all belonged to
the dark hours.
But hauntings do not seem to be confined even to visible forms; we got
some cases, elaborately detailed, where mere sounds were alleged to adhere
to certain spots or houses. A very odd one was where a noise, twice heard
by our informant, like repeated slashing, with a cart-whip on a metal tube
M.\R.-APR. 1946 llie Old Oxford Phasmatohgical Society 213
or gong, portended disaster in a certain house. And we have two cases
where the noise of a galloping vehicle, in a lane or a drive, was vouched for
by intelligent witnesses, who were positive that no actual horse-driven
conveyance was anywhere near them, when the sound had swept past.
We were always very sceptical about uncanny noises, being aware of the
strange tricks which hearing plays with mankind, more especially at night,
or on lonely roads through woods or moors, or in ancient houses.
Before passing on from haunted houses or spots, there is one remark
which presents itself after a comparative study of all our cases. Haunting
apparitions are apparently, almost without exception, figures of people
who lived in comparatively recent times, or certainly not much over two
hundred years ago. I never came across an apparition of a woad-painted
Briton, of a Roman centurion, or of a mediaeval knight, or of an Elizabethan
or Jacobean courtier or lady. Two cases of monks are the only figures of
any apparent antiquity that we have on record, and both of these were
ill-observed and vague figures with cloaks or hoods, which may not have
been monks.
The limit of age for haunters appears at present to be in the eighteenth
century—gentlemen in knee-breeches and ladies with high-dressed hair
are on record, but Victorians and Edwardians are m.uch more common.
An ingenious Frenchman, who had made this same observation from the
study of continental ghost stories, came to the conclusion that ghosts are
spirits who are earth-bound for a varying term of years, according as their
associations with the place which they haunt are more or less vivid. After
many years have passed away they drop ofl^ in their visiting of the spot
-where they passed some crisis of agony, or spent long years of worry or
tedium, having something better to do than to terrify casual sleepers in the
haunted room, or passers by in the fatal lane. There is one house with
which I am acquainted where a frequently seen form of a lady in widow's
w^eeds, very clear at first, gradually grew more thin and transparent, and
finalljf ceased to " walk ". It chanced that I knew the family—as did
Myers. Our records have several instances of the type of the harmless but
earth-bound haunter, pervading for long years places in which he or she
spent dreary periods of misery or unhappiness. These are quite as
numerous as the cases in which the apparition seems connected with a
single moment of crime or violent crisis.
We have three very well-authenticated cases in which visitors in a house
with which they were unacquainted, and quite unaware that they were in
•a room connected with unhappiness, declared that they saw respectively,
an old lady with a crossed fichu and diseased eyes, a stout old gentleman
dozing, apparently in a state of senile deca)^, and a middle-aged man who
seemed to be asleep on a bed, with marked features and much hair about
his face. In each case the figures were identified on enquiry from the
owners of the houses, with persons who had spent some years in those
rooms. Two were cases of mental infirmity, the third of long depression
ending in suicide. None of the figures took any notice of the casual
visitant. They simply remained quiescent. This indeed is the habit of
most " fixed locals
"—they are apparently unconscious of anything but
their own condition—if indeed they are conscious of that, and are not mere
shells of ancient memory of unhappiness.
214 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
In the depositions in which the haunter is said not to have remained,
inert and motionless, but to have been seen on the move, passing a room,
or mounting a stair, or sweeping along a corridor, there is in most cases
the same report that the figure took no notice of the percipient, but went
on its round—not only when adjured to speak, but once when shot at with
a revolver—this last is a first-hand narrative. There were, however, two
cases in which the visitant is declared to have taken the initiative—once by
waking a sleeper by a sharp slap, in the second case by leaning over him
and giving him a burning and blistering kiss. This was in a historic castle:
the percipient could only say that he sav/ the upper half of a draped female
figure, which passed away through a bolted and firmly fixed door. There
was corroborative evidence by a friend in an adjoining room, who declared
that such a figure had passed through his room and vanished through a
wall. Both informants were well-knovm men; the depositions were among
the strongest that came to us.
Exactly a dozen of the depositions which our society investigated had
reference to dreams. This was a rather disappointing section of our
enquiry. The reasons are obvious. Millions of dreams come to the
sleepers on their pillows. They are mostly trivial and soon forgotten.
But some are disquieting, and if a bad dream coincides more or
less in time with a disaster of any sort, it is remembered, and per-
haps an account may go down on paper. Here is an example : a lady
whose brother is sailing for India has a tragic dream of a shipwreck, her
mind being, no doubt, set on her brother's voyage. The brother reached
Bombay in perfect safety, but another vessel on which there was a different
person, in whom the dreamer was interested, was caught in a monsoon and
lost with all hands, on a night somewhere about the same time as the dream.
The exact date could never be fixed, but to explain the dismal vision as a
telepathic impression of the shipwreck was natural. And as such it was
sent in to us. Who can say that it was not mere coincidence ? Or a dream
may bring about its own fulfilment—as thus. Mr A, a man of business,
was on the eve of signing a large contract. On the night before his signa-
ture was due he had a vivid dream, in which his wife—dead a few months
back—implored him to drop the affair, or it would be his ruin. He did
break off the transaction, which turned out to be a swindle. But was it not
his own subliminal self, doubtful about the venture, which warned him
—
the appeal taking the form which would be most impressive ? We had
another case, concerning the custody of some orphan children, in which
the dreamer was implored by the deceased mother to keep them at all
costs out of the hands of certain relatives. This was done, and the relatives
turned out badly. But was not the dreamer's other self supplying the form
of the suppliant mother ? Dreams to be truly considered veridical must
pass very close criticism both of date and of details. Many of ours did not.
We had one account of a " levitation " by a Welsh spiritualist ; it was.
altogether too wild, and unconfirmed by any witnesses. Also several
" poltergeist " stories of rappings, movement of objects, etc., which did
not bring conviction. For my own part I have always regarded poltergeist
phenomena as the work of perverse children, set on mere mischief and
gifted with some dexterity. We had a case near Oxford very recently of a
boy who caused unaccountable fires in sheds and haystacks, and long
MAR.-APS. 1946 The Old Oxford Phas'matological Society 215
escaped detection. The phenomena are common abroad no less than in
Great Britain. The young agents often display considerable cleverness in
contriving alibis and employing sleight of hand or ingenious booby-traps.
I ran on a very good case near Mantua, where household utensils had been
flying about and deafening noises produced—and the very name " polter-
geist " testifies to the German side of such manifestations.
While the London Society for Psychical Research was largely occupying
itself with apparitions and hauntings, in the days of Frederic Myers and
Gurney, I was greatly interested in its researches, and saw a great deal of
Myers—who was a neighbour in Cheltenham. I went out on several
excursions with him—he was twenty years older than myself but an in-
spiring comrade. I collected for him* some of the stories which are printed
in Phantasms of the Living, and. a hundred cases for his "Census of
Hallucinations ". About six of them needed careful verification. But in
later yeai^, when both Myers and Andrew Lang were dead, and the society
went ofl^ into elaborate thought-transference and coincidence statistics, my
interest flagged. I could not take seriously the interminable interviews with
Eusapia Palladino and Mrs Piper. Nor was I much impressed with Sir
Oliver Lodge's theories. Hence a gap in my touch with the occult, lasting
through the war of 19 14- 18 and my sixteen succeeding years in the House
of Commons 1919-36. The old box of the Phasmatological Society reports
remained locked, till I opened it again quite recently, and reviewed old
narratives and some cryptic correspondence.
As a last legacy from the old Phasmatological Society to the new Oxford
venture I may formulate a few suggestions—rules familiar to the specialist,
but often ignored by the beginner in research.
(1) Before filing a story as unexplainableand evidential, enquire how long
after the recorded manifestation it was written down. After long intervals
of time the human memory is prone to round off a tale, stressing the strong
points and ignoring weak ones. Contemporary correspondence is, of
course, invaluable, but not very often to be procured.
(2) Discover, if you can, something about the mentality and the past
life of a communicator. I had almost said " watch his future ", which
sounds absurd, but means that subsequent doings or sayings of a corres-
pondent sometimes shake one's complete confidence in the depositions
which he has sent in. I must confess that I find myself receiving with
caution, the evidence of those who develop into habitual witnesses of
marvels. And I mark with special approval that report of Andrew Lang
on B. House, when, staying in an atmosphere of the occult, where addicts
were seeing and even conversing with spirits, he refused to be led awav
by mass-suggestion. As he pointed out, some of the " visitants " v;ere
historically impossible
—" the v/rong ghosts ".
I remember one of the correspondents of the Phas. Soc. who sent us
a well-documented report of an uneasy night, but in later communi-
cations owned that he had seen at various tim.es a large unpleasant-looking
dog, two veiled female figures side by side, a big blac'K bird flopping
round the ceiling, and a tall man in a cloak. " // y en a pour tons les
goiits ". On the other hand some of the most interesting depositions
in the records of the Phas. Soc. were from witnesses who had onl}'
had one experience, and stood cross-examination upon it with complete
2l6 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
success, dates and details being satisfactorily verified. Frederic Myers
once owned to me that he supposed, to his regret, that he was " immune "
to the occult, for he had placed himself in the most suggestive spots
—
where others had frequent experiences—but could never get anything
evidential himself. Frankly, I view with some suspicion, witnesses who
see "too much", and "too often". But there are plenty of a more
reliable sort, whose depositions the objector finds it impossible to explain
away by his usual methods.
(3) A good many stories can be ruled put of the sphere of the Occult by
considerations of malobservation, hallucination or illusion. When the
percipient is expecting som.ething to happen with overstrung nerves,
something often happens. It is much more satisfactory when the visitor
to a haunted house or spot is completely unaware of its reputation. When \
he does visit a sinister locality I have sometimes found that he sees the
" wrong ghost "—a " lady in white " instead of a " man in black ".
Andrew Lang in one of his more humorous papers speculates on the
possibility of " aphasia " among apparitions—that a vexed spirit might'. J
make an imperfect or illusory manifestation.
(4) After going into dozens of cases, beside those in the reports of the
Phas. Soc, I distrust the dramatic. With the exception of that class of
visitants who came on a special occasion to communicate to a friend or
relative a warning of death, or perhaps of deadly danger, (the telepathic
cases) most Vv^ell-evidenced visitants take no notice of spectators, and go
their rounds as it were automatically. Despite the evidence of traditional
stories from Pliny's philosopher, through Hamlet, down to Sir Walter
Scott's " Wandering Willie ", the visitant is not set on revealing old
crimes, lost wills, or buried treasure. Very seldom is there intention shown
to scare or molest the percipient. Alleged exceptions are rare, and to me
suspicious. Beware of any resemblance to magazine stories !
(5) Credulity and on the other hand a blind tendency to reject
unwelcome evidence on a priori grounds are equally to be deprecated.
Charles Oman
A RADIO EXPERIMENT IN TELEPATHY
Our Members may be interested to have a short analysis of the results of a
telepathy experiment, in which many of them probably took part, carried
out by the B.B.C. on 17 October, 1945. The officials of the B.B.C. who
were arranging the programme of which the experiment formed the con-
cluding part did me the honour of inviting my co-operation in their plans
and of asking me to evaluate the results which I am permitted to print in
the Journal. most readers will recall, pictures of a rose and a skull
were shown at five seconds interval to a group of six agents—three men
and three women. The instructions to listeners were announced by a
member of the cast, who stood at a microphone seventeen feet distant from
the row of agents and was separated from them and the experimenter by a
huge opaque screen some ten or twelve feet high. The experimenter
(S.G.S.) sat beside an official of the B.B.C. at a small table on which stood
1 sloping reading desk whose slant side faced the agents. Against this
sloping face rested a sheet of red and a sheet of black paper. In addition
:\rAR.-APR. 1946 A Radio Experiment in Telepnfliv 217
to pictures of a rose and a skull the experimenter was provided with ten
playing cards—5 of red and 5 of black suit. A few minutes before the
experiment was due to begin, and while the iirst part of the programme
was in progress, the B.B.C. official thoroughly shuflied the ten cards and
laid them in a random order. On the agreement that red stood for rose
and black for skull this order determined that of the presentation of the
ten pictures in the first or " odd birthd£f}'s " experiment. The order was
recorded -by both S.G.S. and the B.B.C. official in their notebooks. The
complementary series was used for the second or " even birthdays " ex-
periment.
Thus : 12341^6789 ID
" Odd Birthdays " : R R S S S R S R R S
" Even Birthdays " : S S R R R S R S S R
As the announcer called out the serial number of the call S.G.S. lifted the
appropriate picture of rose or skull from its place of concealment behind
the reading desk and exposed it to the agents for four seconds against
either the red (rose) or black (skull) background on the sloping face. The
listeners were asked to leave no blanks but to write an R or an S at each
call whether they got any clear impression or not. They were also told
that there might be two or more roses (or skulls) in succession. At the
end of the experiment S.G.S. extracted a promise from each agent that
he or she would not divulge to anyone the order of the ten pictures even if
he happened to remember it. At my request the postcards received from
listeners were sent direct by the B.B.C. to the Statistical Bureau of Empire
House, St Martins Le Grand, E.C.i and the counting of correct hits,
separation of odd and even birthdays, and classification of guesses into
categories, were carried out by the Bureau. All incomplete sets were dis-
regarded and an equalisation of the numbers of " Odd " and " Even "
birthdays was effected by randomly discarding a few hundred of the
" odd " records which were naturally slightly in excess of the " evens ".
Owing to the fact that the B.B.C. needed the final results by 28 November,
the analysis undertaken by the Bureau -was of necessity very incomplete
and owing to the expense being prohibitive no complete analysis has yet
been accomplished.
Statistical Basis of the Experiment
By m.eans of " odd " and " even " birthdays the listeners were divided
ultimately into two large random groups of 12,221 each. It was of course
fully anticipated that certain of the 1024 patterns in which 10 guesses at
R and S may be written down would be popular while other patterns would
be less popular. But it was reasonable to assume that, within the limits
of random sampling, any guess pattern appearing with a given frequency
in the " odd " series would occur with an equal frequency in the " even
"
series. Hence, since the presentation series for the odd birthdays differed
from that of the " evens " only by having R in place of S and S in place of
R, it was plausible to assume that in the absence of telepathy or other dis-
turbing factors the total number of correct hits on the even and odd
experiments taken together would be (within the limits of sampling
error), one half the total number of trials, {i.e. h of 244,420 = an expectation
of 122,210 correct hits).
2l8 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
Steven's formulae could not be used since while these formulae recog-
nise that people distribute tlieir guesses in different categories {e.g. 4R,
6S ;
3R, 7S ;
etc.) they assume that within these categories the guesses
are distributed randomly which is far from being the case. Theoretically,
it is quite easy to calculate the expected number of sets with all ten guesses
correct on the assumption that people distributed their calls randomly.
To get 10 correct hits a person must obviously guess exactly five roses and
five skulls. Now in the whole experiment 11,577 persons guessed in the
(5—5) category and as there are 1005 = 252 ways of placing the 5 roses it
follows that the expected number of sets with all ten guesses correct is
11,577/252 = 45-9. But actually there were 83 persons with 10 guesses
correct. The discrepancy seems clearly due to the fact that the expectation
45-9 is based on the false assumption that people are equally likely to
utilise any one of the 252 ways possible of writing down 5 roses and 5
skulls. As it happened the two presentations used in the actual experi-
ment were not unpopular and in consequence the number of sets with all
10 correct is almost double expectation. But all the other observed num-
bers also differ wildly from the expectations calculated on a false assump-
tion of a random permutation of guesses in each of the different categories.
To get 8 correct hits, for instance, you must guess in one of the categories
(5> 5) (3' 7) o'' ill 3) ^r^d the total number of sets expected with 8 correct
liits works out at 1281-34 whereas the observed number is as high as 1425.
Similarly, there are wide differences between expected and observed
numbers of sets with o, i, 2 etc., correct hits. Even had we used 50
instead of only 10 presentations I am certain we should have noticed
similar discrepancies though probably less marked.
Analysis cjf Results ,
The observed numbers of correct hits were :
" Odds " " Evens " " Combined "
61,155 60,005 121,160
Taking the expected number of " Combined " to be 122,210 {i.e. half
the total number of guesses) we have a negative deviation on the whole
experiment of —1050. Assuming a binomial standard deviation of 247 or
one calculated by Steven's method (based on " categories ") of 256, the
negative deviation is seen to he highly significant and exceeds 4 standard
deviations.
How is this negative deviation to be accounted for ? I think there are
strong reasons for suspecting that the " even " birthdays have chosen
somewhat different patterns from those popular with the " odds ". If we
score all the " even " sets, not against their own presentation list, but
against the complementary list actually used for the " odds " we should
find the total number of correct hits to be 62,205 whereas on the same
presentation list the " odd birthdays " actually scored only 61,155 cor-
rect hits—a difference of 1050. It is not easy to account for such a large
variation except on the assumption that in some respects the "odds" must
have employed different average patterns from those of the " evens ".
Perhaps the very fact of the " evens " having to remain inactive while the
" odds " were doing their own experiment may have caused the " evens
"
MAR.-APR. 1946 A Radio Expejimeiit in Telepathy 219
to choose somewhat different patterns than they would have done had they
taken part in the first experiment. If this really happened of course the
statistical assum.ptions on which the whole experiment was based are
vitiated and it becomes useless as a test for telepathy.
In order to throw some light on how the listeners actually distributed
their roses and skulls over the ten trials of each experiment, a randomly
picked sample of 1000 " odd " sets was taken and compared with another
random sample of 1000 " even " sets. The numbers of times rose and
skull were guessed in the 10 trials are given in following tables :
Table (A) (1000 sets) " Odds "
Trials :i23456789 io Totals
Rose 583 477 463 522 490 477 482 476 498 526 4994
Skull 417 523 537 478 510 523 518 524 502 474 5006
Table (B) (iooo sets) " Evens
"
Trials :i23456789 io Totals
Rose 570 487 441 522 466 460 496 527 438 484 4891
Skull 430 513 559 478 534 540 504 473 562 516 5109
A glance at each of these tables shows that the proportion of roses and
skulls in the different trials is far from constant, and the most obvious
feature is that both " evens " and " odds " show a strong preference for
starting off guess No. i by writing " rose ". The number of roses
guessed then declines over guesses No. 2 and No. 3 to recover a little on
guess No. 4.
If we consider Table (A) as a (2—10) contingency table we find x" = 45'9
with a similar high value for Table (B). With n = 9 degrees of freedom
the values of P for each table is well below -001 ; in fact = 45'9 is right
outside Fisher's tables. There can be no question of the significant
variations in the proportion of rose to skull on the different trials.
But I am afraid the samples are too small to show any difference in the
general distribution of roses in Table (A) and that in Table (B).
A contingency (2, 10) table applied to the first rows of Tables (A) and
(B) gives X" = 9'0 which with n = 9 gives 0.5 > P > 0-3 which is not signifi-
cant. This sample therefore does not throw much light on the question
as to whether the " evens " and " odds " have employed different patterns.
On the whole 20,000 guesses comprised in the above samples there are
9,955 correct hits—a negative deviation of —45 which is not significant
X though it is of the same sign as the deviation in the whole 244,420 guesses.
Until a similar analysis can be carried out for the whole material it does
not seem that much reliable information will be available as to the reasons
for the large negative deviation. If any of our members would be willing
to analyse samples of 500 or 1000 as in Tables (A) and (B) I should be verv
grateful and would arrange for the cards to be sent to them.
In conclusion, I would like to add that I have every confidence in the
meticulous accuracy with which the Statistical Bureau carried out its task.
Their system of checking was admirable and the 1000 postcards which I
chose at random myself and re-checked, did not show a single error.
S. G. SOAL.
220 Journal of Society for Psychical Research mar.-apr. 1946
REPLIES TO THE QUESTIONNAIRE
The Council wish to thank very warmly the many members who have
given time and trouble to answering the Questionnaire. They hope that
mem.bers, who do not receive an individual reply from one of the officers
of the Society, will not suppose that their suggestions are not valued.
The Council intend in a future issue of the Journal to comment on some
points which several members have raised.
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CmCULATION
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be made with-
out the previous consent of the Coimcil. Ever since the first issue of
the Journal in 1884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on the cover, issued " For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
May-June, 1946 Vol. XXXIII—No. 624-625
CONTENTS,
PAGE
Private Meeting - - - - - - - - 221
Haunting Ghosts ------- - 222
A Poltergeist Case ------- - 224
Telepathy in Dreams ------- 230
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
WILL BE HELD IN
•
THE SOCIETY'S LIBRARY
31 TxWISTOCK SQUARE, LONDON, W.C, i
ON
WEDNESDAY, lo July 1946, at 6 p.m.
WHEN A PAPER ON
" THE TELEPATHIC EXPLANATION OF
. APPARITIONS
"
WILL BE READ BY
MR D. J. WEST
(Research Officer)
Members and Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the
door. •
222 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1946
25 Wool Road,
Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.20.
Dear Sir,
Haunting Ghosts
May not a haunting ghost be the representation on this plane of
existence of a l^ind of subconscious complex or secondary personality in
the mind of the spirit represented by the ghost ?
I refer to haunting ghosts and not to occasional apparitions nor to
poltergeist phenomena as these appear to differ from ordinary haunting.
This theory assumes, of course, that we continue to exist after death
and that the surviving spiritual consciousness contains the equivalent of
a conscious and subconscious mind. Such, indeed, has been stated to be
the case in communications such as those recorded by the Earl of Balfour
in " The Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship ".
If the spiritual conscious and subconscious mind bears any resemblance
to its incarnate counterpart this theory would help to explain the follow-
ing ghostly characteristics.
The ghost's state of mind. Haunting ghosts never appear to be in a
happy state of mind. Generally they are obviously unhappy and if they
can be identified tragic circumstances in connection with the life or death
of the person represented by the ghost can usually be traced. This is
what v/ould be expected for it is not happy but tragic circumstances
which lead to the formation of complexes.
TJie ghost's intelligence. Ghosts appear to have a very limited intelli-
gence. They are frequently described as moving in a dreamlike auto-
matic manner without taking any notice of observers or replying to ques-
tions. At best they seem unable to make known their wants except in a
very incoherent manner. They give the impression that they are not full
personalities which according to the theory suggested here is what would
be expected.
The strength of the complex would determine how lifelike and intelli-
gent the ghost would appear but it seems unlikely that it would ever reach
a stage of being able to speak on matters outside the complex of which it
is a manifestation. Investigators should not, therefore, expect to obtain
any knowledge of the spiritual world from it or, indeed, any true idea of
the conscious condition of the spirit it represents.
Duration of haufiting. Haunting may last a long time and some ghosts
have been reported of people who have been dead for hundreds of years.
It seems incredible that these spirits should be earth bound for such a
length of time. Time values, of course, may be different in the spiritual
world, but an alternative suggestion is here provided, for just as many
people suffering from complexes in this world can still lead a normal life in
many respects so it may be assumed that the spirit whose ghost is mani-
festing is not precluded from functioning in the spiritual world at the same
time.
The spirit's subconscious mind would, of course, be unaware that its
ghost was manifesting, the only indication that anything was wrong would
probably be the spirit's inability to adjust himself to certain conditions of
MAY-JUNE 1946 . Haunting Ghosts 223
his spiritual existence. Only when the complex was resolved, probably
by some form of spiritual treatment, would the haunting cease. The suc-
cess which Spiritualists claim in laying ghosts may be due to treatment of
this nature given by the circle and the " guides " in which the fact that its
ghost is causing a disturbance is brought home to the spirit. This is
possibly a psychological treatment analogous to that in which a patient's
repressed memories are brought back into his consciousness by the
psychiatrist.
Anniversary and sporadic appearances. There is a traditional belief that
a man's ghost is more likely to be seen on or near the anniversary of his
death than at any other time and that ghostly phenomena are likely to recur
at annual intervals. This is a belief which is supported to some extent by
the facts, and we may assume that even if the spirit is no longer concerned
with such earthly anniversaries the subconscious complex may still be
sufficiently bound up with the things of this world to be stirred into activity.
We know that the subconscious mind can keep track of the passage of time
in a remarkable manner, and it may be that the complex is automatically
stirred into activity when the anniversary date returns.
On the other hand ghosts sometimes appear and disappear without
apparent reason and such cases are probably due to some incident in the
spiritual life stirring into activity the subconscious complex which accord-
ingly manifests.
The ghost's clothes. Ghosts generally appear in the clothes the person
represented wore during life or at death. If it really were a spirit manifest-
ing it seems strange that he should still find it necessary to appear wearing
his old clothes, or even, as was reported in one case, a dressing gown.
This, however, would not be strange if it were only a complex manifesting
for the clothes would then naturally be those worn at the time the complex
was formed.
Ghosts of innocent victims. The ghost sometimes represents an innocent
person who has been murdered and the question arises as to why an
innocent spirit should suxTer while the aggressor rarely seems to undergo
this fate v/Iien he dies. The theory here proposed while not explaining
the injustice does suggests that this is what one would expect, for the shock
of murder might possibly affect the mind of the murdered more tlian the
murderer just as in this world an innocent person may be so maltreated
that his mind is deranged while the aggressor is not so affected.
I do not, of course, suggest that this theory accounts for all the pheno-
mena of haunting but I hope that Members may apply this theory to cases
of haunting with which they are acquainted and let the Society have the
benefit of their comments.
Yours faithfully,
.. • B. NiSBET.
[Members may like to compare Mr Nisbet's theory with the view ex-
pressed by F. W. H. Myers in Human Personality, 11, p. 75 : "I am
inclined to lay stress on the parallel between these narratives of haunting
and those phantasms of the living which I have already classed as psycho-
rrhagic. In each case, as it seems to me, there is an involuntary detach-
ment of some element of the spirit, probably with no knowledge therpnf
224 Journal of Society for Psychical Resfarch may-june 1946
at the main centre of consciousness." The infrequency, however, of well
established cases of Haunting Ghosts, of the kind specified by Mr Nisbet,
makes any theoretical account of them difficult. Hon. Ed. Journal]
A POLTERGEIST CASE
[Mr Ian Fletcher, a member of the Society, has contributed the follow-
ing report of his investigations at a bungalow in the Home Counties. His
attention had been called to the case by reports in the Press. In accord-
ance with the usual S.P.R. practice in similar cases, the real names of the
persons concerned are suppressed.]
I WROTE to the owner of the bungalow, which was the place said to be
haunted, and asked if I might investigate the phenomena. Having been
invited to spend the night there I arrived at 5 p.m. on Sunday, 27th Janu-
ary 1946. The following is an accurate account of what happened during
my stay.
On my arrival I had tea with the occupants of the bungalow—Mrs White
and her grandson David White, aged 13 years i month. They told of
various phenomena which had occurred since August 1944 when a Morrison
shelter was installed during the flying bomb raids. The first thing to be
noticed was tapping on the shelter while they were inside. This tapping
seemed to take the form of a tune and later it was noticed that objects had
been moved from one place and put in another and then objects were
actually seen and heard flying across the rooms. No one room was
specially picked out for these phenomena although the room in which
David slept seemed to attract the most activity if he was present. Things
such as clothes pegs, china ornaments and pencils were moved from one
room to another or might be missing for some time. The gramophone
was played by itself. On the afternoon of my visit David said he had
removed the handle and sound box but they had been put back in
place again. On more than one occasion the fire had been laid and lit
while both Mrs White and David were out. A fire screen had also been
taken away from the grate and put in the corner while the place was empty.
Notes had been written by both Mrs White and David to this unknown
entity (referred to as Wily Willie by David) and replies had appeared,
sometimes on the same paper as the note, sometimes on another piece
which floated down from the ceiling. The reply was written in a peculiar
curly script and often with spelling mistakes. Sometimes notes were found
demanding that the " gram " should be played or there would be " truble ".
Nobody had been injured by the flying objects but David had had his
face slapped and small objects had sometimes hit him. I examined the
notes written by Wily Willie and obtained a specimen of writing from
David. I was shown the bed in which David slept with his grandmother.
The paint along the side had obviously been beaten away. There were
some deep scratches on the rail at the foot of the bed. These had ap-
parently been made by a toy car which belonged to David and which had a
notched wheel underneath it.
During the evening some missing clothes-pegs and a screw-driver were
found under a cushion on the settee. I was told of many other similar
MAY-JUNE 1946 A Poltergeist Case 225
phenomena and that on one occasion the handle of the gramophone was
purposely left in the house next door but was brought back without anyone
knowing.
At about II p.m., after playing a few records, David went into the
kitchen while Mrs White and myself were in the living room. We then
heard two objects fall on the floor and the next minute David gave a shout
and came into the room holding two pieces of lemon peel, which he said
had been thrown at him. A small toy aeroplane made of metal and
measuring about two inches long, together with a piece from a draughts
set, had been thrown across the room. At my suggestion David wrote a
note asking Wily Willie to do some disappearing tricks. This was left
on the kitchen table with a pencil and we all went into the living room and
closed the door. David, however, went into the kitchen again to fetch
something and was away for about two minutes. When he returned, he
said that a reply was on the kitchen table but on another piece of paper.
This note stated that some letters had been burnt and also told us not to
write notes.
David then said he would lie down on the ottoman in the kitchen as that
sometimes caused trouble. I went into the kitchen with him and sat on
a chair nearby, with him in full view. About five minutes later the otto-
man flew violently towards the centre of the room and deposited David on
the floor. He replaced it, and almost immediately the same thing hap-
pened again. This time I suggested it was left where it was and asked
Wily Willie to push it back again by the wall with David on it. This,
however, did not happen but while we were waiting a crash sounded on
the floor behind David's head and a pencil box was recovered from the
floor. Having waited for about ten minutes without anything further
happening, we put the ottoman back in place and I stood at the foot of it
while David lay on it. Again it spun violently into the middle of the room,
David landing on the floor behind it. As I had seen this happen three
times, I thought it best that we should go into the living room and I left a
note on the kitchen table, with a pencil, asking " What else will you do ?
"
We waited for about five minutes and then David went into the kitchen
so I stood up and watched the note by gazing at its reflection in a picture.
David came back without touching the paper and we sat and talked for a
short time when David again went into the kitchen, and as I was in the
middle of a conversation with Mrs White I could not see what was going
on, so decided that this piece of investigation would obviously be invalid.
However, David returned and said the note was still as I left it—un-
answered. He remained in the room for another five or ten minutes and
when he again went into the kitchen, I immediately followed him, only to
see my note folded up on the table. (I had left it unfolded.) When we
opened it out my message was seen to have been crossed out and under-
neath it in the usual curly block capitals, was written ; DONT MAKE
YOURSELF SEEM A MORE FOOL THAN YOU ALREADY ARE.
After this it was decided that David should go to bed so he went into the
bedroom, which adjoined the living room and undressed. Within a few
minutes I heard some loud knocking coming from the bedroom so I went
in and was told that it had come from the bottom of the bed. Just after
going out of the room I heard some object clatter on to the floor and I
226 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may~june 1946
found the cover of an electric light switch on again entering the bedroom.
I took it out with me, only to return in a few seconds when I heard some-
thing else clatter across the room and discovered it was the bottom of a
flat electric torch. It was identified by David who was in bed during tliese
occurrences. I went out and left the door ajar but was immediately recalled,
only to find the bulb and top of the torch on the spare bed. I took them
out remarking the rest of the torch would doubtless make itself known.
As I was about to enter the living room, however, I heard a clicking sound
so I looked around but could not find anything to account for the noise.
I asked David if he knew what it was and he said it sounded like an electric
light switch. There was a spare one, apparently, in the tool shed and I
already had the cover of it. I waited outside the bedroom door and went
in as soon as I heard the next sound, which was the torch case falling behind
a chair at the foot of the bed. As I stooped to retrieve it the battery fell
down at the side of the fireplace about a yard from me. I sprang up and
looked at David who was still lying down with his hands under the bed-
clothes. Taking these two parts of the torch out, I assembled them all and
returned to the bedroom as I heard knocking.
This time I stayed in the room with my back to the boy but watched
his reflection in a picture on the wall. Suddenly a crash sounded at the
foot of the bed beside me and I stooped to pick up the electric light
switch, which had apparently been responsible for the clicking we had
heard. The moment I bent down David's bedroom slippers hit me on
the back, so I asked him where he had left them and learnt that they had
been under the spare bed (well out of his reach). I placed a box of
matches on the table at the side of the bed and asked for them to
be moved. No sooner was I outside the room than they were heard to
fall the other side of the room. Having picked them up I chose a china
candle-stick on the chest of drawers in the far corner of the room and
well out of David's reach. This I asked to be moved while I waited
outside. He called me back and I saw the brush and comb from the
side table now on the bed. As I replaced them I remarked that the
candlestick was still in its place. I retired to the next room only to hear
another object fall ; this turned out to be a brooch belonging to Mrs White.
I noted the candlestick still in place and went out only to return on hear-
ing knocking coming from some part of the bed, but nothing had moved.
This time I closed the door as I went out but burst in suddenly only to
find David lying quietly in bed and everything in order. Again I burst in
and this time found a china ornament on the spare bed. I replaced it on
the chest of drawers and realised the candlestick was now missing, so I
looked round the room for it but could not see it. I felt on David's bed
but did not make a thorough search. Not being able to find it I went into
the next room to wait a matter of a few seconds when David again called
me in and pointed to the missing candlestick on his bed. After replacing
it I took the bottom of the torch and smeared it with vaseline and then
placed it on the table by the bed without saying what I had done to it. I
then asked him if he would mind my tying his hands to the bed as I wished
to see how the knots could be untied. He consented to this so I tied his
wrists to the bed rail with thick cord and tested the knots, and then asked
Wily Willie to move the piece of the torch. No sooner was I outside than
I
MAY-JUNE 1946 A Poltergeist Case .
227
he called me in saying the left hand was free. The cord was still round his
wrist but had come untied from the bed. I retied it and looked at the
other knot (which was the side nearest the torch part). Again I was called
in only to find the same thing had happened but as I was retying the right
hand the left became loose although I saw it was tied as I entered the
room. I tied both securely and went out but within a minute David called
me back and I saw the piece of the torch on the bed together with a small
wooden board and also noticed both hands were free. I dusted the
vaselined object with powder and looked for any finger prints which might
be there.
As the time w"as then 2.40 a.m. I decided on the last part of my tests.
This- consisted of bandaging David's closed hands, separately, with a
three inch by six yards calico bandage, and then enclosing the whole fist
in a large triangular bandage tied firmly on the back of the hand. I then
tied a piece of rope round each wrist and secured it by three firm knots.
The other end of the rope was tied equally securely to the outer bed rail.
Next I tied a piece of rope round each ankle and secured the other ends,
together, to the foot of the bed. After testing all the knots, I placed a box
of matches on the table on the right of the bed and asked for them to be
moved, then went into the next room closing the bedroom door behind
me. The time was then 3 a.m. and I waited for five minutes and then
went in as David called me. One of the knots had become loose but not
undone. I tightened it and found that it was just possible for him to reach
his hand with his mouth so I shortened the length of rope, making it im-
possible for him to reach the knots with his teeth. I went out and im-
mediately heard knocking coming from the room so I went in again but all
was quiet and as I had left it. 'The knots on wrists and ankles intact.
Again he called me and said that the ropes on his feet had been pulled
viciously and that those on his wrists had been pushed up his forearms.
I eased them back on his wrists and went out but he called me again in a few
minutes. I saw the pillow from the left side of the bed was on the floor on
the right of the bed and all knots firmly intact. So placing the pillow on a
chair I again left him alone, only to hear violent knocking, so I went in and
placed the pillow behind his head, telling him that was in case Wily Willie
decided to bang his, David's, head on the bed rail. There was more
banging and this time I found the bedclothes almost on the floor so I
straightened them and then found a small metal box in the bed which had
apparently come from the table at the side, although I had not seen it there
before. No sooner was I outside the room than there was a loud crash
and I went in to find the stone hot water bottle on the floor so I replaced
it in the bed. As I went out David shouted and told me a pin had been
stuck in him. All this time the knots had remained intact and I waited
outside again for about ten minutes without hearing anything more, so I
released him at 3.35 a.m. and went to bed in the next room. No sooner
was I in bed than I heard heavy banging and then some form of tune which
I learned later was supposed to be God Save the King. After this some-
thing crashed on to the floor and I went to sleep in the ensuing silence.
I experienced nothing more throughout the night but in the morning
when I went into the kitchen Mrs White showed me a note she had written
before going to bed, saying " Who is the bigger fool, you or I ?
" Under-
228 JoiiriiaJ of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1946
neath was written in the usual hand HE IS. This note had been left in
the kitchen and David was still in bed, but he got up a quarter of an hour
after me.
I experienced no more phenomena after this and returned to London by
mid-day.
Conclusions
1. Early in the evening while I was talking to Mrs White, I noticed
David get up and put his new propelling pencil behind a picture on the
gramophone. About a quarter of an hour later he remarked that his pencil
was missing and after looking for it said he had it only a few minutes before.
I then reminded him that he had put it on the gramophone and he said
" Did I " somewhat puzzled that I should have seen the incident.
2. I asked if I might borrow one of the messages written by Wily Willie
also a specimen of his, David's, writing as I should like to have them both
psychometrised. I explained that this might determine the author of the
writing. He looked quite perplexed at this request but complied.
3. David told me that Wily Willie sometimes announced his presence
by a clicking noise. This was demonstrated to me but when I asked if this
always occurred David said " Oh, no I —eh, he doesn't always do it ".
The " I " was cut short immediately but was enough for me to catch.
4. On examining the bed I noted that all the paint was chipped off along
the side nearest the head end on the side David slept.
5. When David left the note on the kitchen table he later went out
through the kitchen but did not stay in this room. While he was out I
assumed he wrote the reply and then left it on the table beside the note as
he came through again. Had I, therefore, looked into the kitchen while
he was out I should have seen everything as it had been left with the note
still unanswered. When I later examined the reply I noted that it had
obviously been written on some dark surface as the letters showed through
as if written on faint carbon paper. I looked for an impression of the
writing on the tablecloth but could see nothing, so I tested this for myself
by writing on the paper and saw that the impression did come through
quite clearly.
6. Most of the phenomena seemed directed against David rather than
in his favour so I was surprised to see one note left by Wily Willie, at
Christmas, insisting that David should be given an accordion.
7. Another note was signed " Polish lunetic " but it was in the same
style as the other notes including one signed George. On no occasion
was any Polish written.
8. When David lay on the ottoman he pressed his feet firmly against the
wall behind him and he had his knees well flexed. So all he had to do in
order to move this piece of furniture was to press his feet hard against the
wall and push his body downwards and outwards on to the ottoman. It
did not move once it was away from the wall.
9. Later when I left a note to be answered, David went into the kitchen
and shut the door behind him. As I was in conversation with Mrs White
I did not follow him. However, when I later discovered the answer, I was
unable to decipher the first word but David immediately read it out.
MAY-JUNE 1946 A Poltergeist Case 229
10. Shortly before going to bed David put a small paper book into a large
album belonging to his grandmother, who asked what he was doing. He
said it was to prevent Wily Willie getting at it. I thought probably Wily
Willie would be blamed for putting it there, not taking it out.
1 1 . When David was in bed and the top of the torch made its appearance
I found it was quite warm, so was the switch and I presume they had both
been in the bed.
12. When I stood in the bedroom with my back to David I observed his
reflection in a picture over the mantelpiece and saw him move as the
switch was thrown at me.
13. When I asked David where his slippers were before they were
thrown at me, he said they were under the spare bed. This would have
been out of his reach, but I saw them a few minutes earlier on the floor
beside his bed and well within his reach.
14. When I suddenly entered the bedroom the second time, without his
calling me, I saw him sitting bolt upright in bed with his arm outstretched
pointing to the china ornament on the other bed. I assumed the pointing
posture had, a second before, been one of throwing. As the candlestick
I had asked to be moved was missing, I purposely stayed in the room for a
few minutes pretending to be looking for it. I suspected it of being in the
bed and was giving it a chance of getting warm. When I discovered it the
next time I entered the room, it was quite warm.
15. I tied his wrists with rope but one came undone while I was actually
in the room beside him. This could have been accomplished by his
previously loosening the knot and making a slip knot out of it.
16. The vaselined article revealed a small portion of a flnger-print
which was not mine, i did not attempt to prove it was David's as I felt
quite sure without this extra evidence that he was doing all the " pheno-
mena ".
17. All the experiments I had carried out did not seem to upset the boy
in any way until I was about to bandage his hands, and he then seemed
almost frightened but assured me he was not afraid of being tied up.
Once he was securely tied, a much longer interval ensued before anything
happened and then I found the knot on the right wrist was loose and
definitely wet where he had tried to undo it with his teeth. After shorten-
ing the ropes so he could not reach them with his teeth nothing more
happened to them.
x8. The only things which occurred when he was securely tied were
knockings, which could have been accomplished by banging the back of his
hand on the bed rail, or similarly his head. Then the hot-water bottle
could easily have been kicked out of the bed, even with his feet tied, as there
was some slack rope when he pushed himself right down in the bed. The
pillow could easily have been worked across the bed by his body and, if
necessary, he could have aided its progress with his teeth. Although three
objects had been moved at my request, namely a box of matches, a candle-
stick and part of the torch, the box of matches was not moved again when
he was securely tied to the bed. In fact nothing happened which could not
have been done by him.
19. The knocking I heard after I had gone to bed was produced by
David banging the electric light switch on the side of the bed. The switch
230 Journal of Society for Psychical iResearch may-june 1946
was found on the floor in the morning badly chipped and it was David who
recognised the tune of God Save the King which to my mind is unUke the
finale to be chosen by a Pole.
20. The note found in the morning by Mrs White could easily have been
written by David as he said he had seen the note before it was answered
when he got up to get a drink before going to sleep.
21. After breakfast I went for a walk with David and told him the above
mentioned points and then told him I was quite convinced he was entirely
responsible for all the phenomena and he replied " Well not all of it ".
However he admitted he had done everything the previous night and I am
sure that, by the way he did it, it was not the first time he had done it.
I told him that if he stopped his poltergeist-like phenomena I would say
nothing to his grandmother and let people assume the entity had gone of
its own accord. He agreed to this but I learnt a few days later that it had
not ceased and when 1 saw him on ist February he said he could not help it.
I then wrote to Mrs White saying I would like to see her while the boy
was out, which I did on the 5th February and I told her exactly what I
thought about the matter, and when he came in I had another talk with
him. Mrs White could not believe the boy was responsible until he ad-
mitted it, but even he began to believe in Wily Willie and I feel that some
of the things he did were performed unconsciously. I learnt that it was
David who discovered the fire alight when he came home while his grand-
mother was out, so it was quite possible for him to have lit it.
I learnt that he did not play much with other school children as they
lived too far away, and as he had no normal outlet for his somewhat highly-
strung nature, I think he subconsciously invented Wily Willie to take the
place of a play-mate. He was very nervous during the flying bomb raids
and it was then that the trouble first started. No doubt he wanted some-
thing to take his mind ofl^ the raids and the tapping on the shelter—pre-
sumably an unconscious nervous reaction—gave him something to think
about.
Since I told Mrs While that David was responsible nothing more has
been heard and I suggested that he should be allowed to mix with other
children when he returns from his holiday which he commenced a week
later.
Mr Fletcher, writing on the 18 April 1946, adds :
" David White went
away for a holiday last February and was still away up to three weeks ago.
He seemed to be enjoying himself and was mixing with other children,"
and that, about a week after he had investigated the case the boy was taken
to see a doctor who is a member of the S.P.R.
TELEPATHY IN DREAMS
Mrs Miriam Lane, a member of the Society, contributes three recent cases
of apparently telepathic dreams.
The first occurred towards the end of February 1946.
" I dosed off in a light sleep (with the wireless playing) after listening to
the 8 o'clock news. I was awakened by the telephone ringing at 9.15 a.m.
MAY-JUNE 1946 Telepathy in Dreams 231
I told the caller, Mary Roberti, that she had roused me from a particularly
vivid dream. I recounted the dream to her as follows :
" '
A nursemaid I did not know dismounted from her bicycle and re-
minded me that I had forgotten to go to the rescue of a nest of young birds
which were star^'ing. The parents had built on the nursery mantelpiece
and now the windows were closed they could not feed the young. She had
been sent to fetch me. Apologising for my lapse of memory I hurried to
the nursery and caught one of the young birds and one of the parent birds
in a tin box. I then took the box into another smaller room to examine it,
and establish the species of bird. On opening the box only the parent
bird flew out, the other I assumed to be dead although I did not see the
corpse. Much to my disappointment I saw the bird was a common
sparrow. I turned to my companion and said, " Only a sparrow." It was
at this point the phone rang.'
" Within the following five minutes my secretary, Mrs G. Fischer, rang
me up. At the end of the con^-ersation she said, '
You were much in de-
mand this morning. Last night the car injured a sparrow and Jane (her
six-year-old daughter) put it in the small empty room here. I thought it
would be all right as it ate some food, but when we went in this morning it
was dead. And Jane said, " You aren't any good! I wish we had Miriam
here—we should have fetched Miriam."
'
" I checked up as far as possible on the time. The episode occurred
'
just before Jane left for school '
—thus, any time between S.45 and 9 a.m.
" It should be explained that I have many tame birds and rearing of
young birds is always in my mind. I do not however, remember having
dreamed of it before. The clearest points of the dream were {a) the kind
of bird—i.e. the word sparrow was heavily underlined, and the parent
bird's plumage, noted in detail as it perched on the edge of a chest of
drawers, {b) the death of the young bird."
Mar}'' Roberti, Mrs Fischer and another friend confirm jVIrs Lane's
account as follows :
Mrs Lane recounted the dream to me as written above W'hen I woke her
by telephoning at approx. 9.15 a.m. I do not remember the detail of the
bicycle nor of the nest on the nursery mantelpiece.
[Signed) Mary Roberti.
Mrs Lane roughly outlined the dream to me shortly after 9.15 a.m.
before Mrs Fischer telephoned.
(Signed) Grace Hinton,
'
194 Queen's Gate,
"
London, S.W.
The account of our telephone conversation is correct.
(Signed) Gabrielle Fischer,
5 Cavaye Place,
S.W. 10.
Mrs Lane adds the following note :
" L^nfortunately, the m.oment you write down this type of dream you
lose some of its vividness. On re-reading the dream about the sparrow I
thought it seemed very feeble, whereas in actual fact it was extremely
232 Journal of Society for Psychical Research may-june 1946
vivid, and it was this very character which induced me to tell it to two
witnesses immediately on waking, for as a rule one is inclined to spare
friends accounts of dreams !
"
The second and third of Mrs Lane's dreams, both confirmed by her
husband, are set out below. It will be noticed that the correspondence of
the dreams with the facts was not exact, but seems closer than one would
expect on the hypothesis of chance.
" The second dream was in the spring of 1944. On awakening I men-
tioned to my husband that I had dreamed that a volcano had erupted in
Italy. I said I fancied it was an island volcano. A facetious remark was
passed to the effect that there was enough trouble in Italy without volcanoes.
One day later the account of the sudden and violent eruption of V'esuvius
appeared in the press. It should here be noted that in the dream I did not
think it was Vesuvius but inclined to the view that the erupting crater which
I was looking at was an '
Island volcano, possibly Etna '. In the dream I
could not remember the name '
Etna ', but visualised its position on the
map.
" The third dream concerned rny husband who was on manoeuvres at the
time [November, 1943]. I dreamed a very short dream. I saw my hus-
band standing on rocky ground and being struck on the right thigh by a
bright green fiery object, falling from above. I did not see my husband's
face but noted he was in battle dress. I was merely an observer in the
dream and felt no alarm. The most striking part of the dream was the
green colour of the fiery object and rocky ground. I told the dream to
two people.
" A few days later my husband telephoned me and said he had had a
narrow escape when, during practice, a phosphorous bomb had fallen on
him and set his clothing alight. At this point I stopped him and said, '
It
fell on vour right leg above the knee " and he said, '
Yes—who has been
gossiping.? '
I then explained about the dream. The detail about the
colour of the bomb was correct. When the accident occurred the ground
had been smooth and totally devoid of rocks."
THE JOURNAL IS PRINTED FOR PRIVATE
CIRCULATION
'
The attention of Members and Associates is drawn to the private
nature of the Journal, from which no quotations should be madp with-
out the previous consent of the Council. Ever since the first issue of
the Jo'urnal in 1 884, much of the material appearing in it has been
contributed on the definite assurance that the Journal is, as stated
on th(^ cover, issued For private circulation among Members and
Associates only ". The Council hope that all Members and Associates
will continue to co-operate with them in maintaining this privacy.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Aug.-Sept., 1946 ^
Vol. XXXIII—No. 626-627
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notice of Meeting - - - - - - - -233
New Members - -- -- -- - 234
Meetings of the Council - - - - - - -235
Private Meeting - -- -- -- - 236
Veridical Messages Obtained through Automatic Writing 236
A Recognised Apparition seen by Two Percipients - - 239
Reviews - -- -- -- -- 242
Notices - - -1- - - - - - - 248
NOTICE OF MEETING
A PRIVATE MEETING OF THE SOCIETY
will be held in
The Society's Library,
'
31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i
ON
Tuesday, 8 October 1946, at 6 p.m.
WHEN A paper ON
THE MODUS OPERANDI IN PARANORMAL
COGNITION
WILL BE READ BY
The President, Mr G. N. M. TYRRELL
N.B.
—
No Tickets of Admission are issued for this Meeting. Members and
Associates will be admitted on signing their names at the door.
234 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
NEW MEMBERS
{Elected 7 May 1946)
Bridges, Mrs C. M., M.B., 10 Curie Avenue, Lincoln.
Creswell, H. B.,'7 Heath Mansions, Hampstead Grove, London, N.W. 3.
Grant, W. J., 16 Harrington Road, London, E. 11.
Harley-Mason, J., Corpus Christi College, Cambridge. ' . ,
Knight, Ray, 59 Silverdale Road, Eastbourne.
Loretz, Dr Philip H., Green Meadows, Ascot, Berks.
Mack, Mrs N. M. L. 33 Causevi^ayside, Cambridge.
"
Matthews, Mrs E. de P., 212 East 48th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Mickel, A. W., 17 Cleveland Gardens, Hendon Way, London N.W. 2.
Mitchell, B. G., The Queen's College, Oxford.
Morton, Captain N., Ballygarvey House, Ballymena, Co. •
Antrim,
N. Ireland.
Perry, A. R., 18 Cartaret House, Australia Road, Shepherd's Bush,
London, W. 12.
Priestley, J. B., M.A., LL.D., B4 Albany, London, W." I.
Robinson, Sir Christopher, Bart., 59 Campden Hill Court, London, W. 8.
Tickell, Mrs Renee, 41 Wellington Square, Oxford.
Webb, Mrs D. B., Stapley, Chard, Somerset.
Wenberg, Mrs E. D., 182 Washington Park, Brooklyn 5, N.Y., U.S.A.
{Elected 23 May 1946)
Kitzinger, Mrs A. M., D.Sc, E. 10 Kenilworth Court, Hagley Road,
Birmingham, 16.
Sewell, Mrs C. H., Evendine, Stoke Hill, Stoke Bishop, Bristol, 9.
{Elected i"] July 1946)
Bohdan, Dr. Kieszkowski, nl. Gontyna 11, Cracow, Poland.
Bailey, Mrs V., M.B.E., Walden, Staplehurst, Tonbridge, Kent.
Baker, Roland A., 318 West Fifth Street, Sioux City, Iowa, U.S.A.
Caldwell, Robert A., 31 Tavistock Square, London, W.C. i.
Fisk, Lieut-Colonel E. K., Hyde Park Hotel, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W. I.
Keen, Montague V., 24 Gloucester Terrace, Lancaster Gate, London,
W. 2.
Leicester, Peter, M.A., c/o Anglo-Saxon Petroleum Co., St. Helen's
Court, Leadenhall Street, London, E.C. 3.
Librarian, Benares Hindu University, Benares, India.
Lucas, Mrs E. B. C, Craston's Orchard, Yattendon, Newbury.
McAlpine, Rev Duncan S., The Manse, North Ronaldshay, Kirkwall,
Orkney.
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Meetings of the Council 235
Peake, Walter S., 327 East Street, Corry, Penn., U.S.A.
Richfield, Frederick J., Ph.D., 126^ N. Hamilton Drive, Beverly Hills,
Calif., U.S.A.
Stanley, Arthur, 24 High Street, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Ste%vart, Mrs. M. M., Queen's Acre, Lymington, Hants.
Stoner, Stephen H., The Cabin, Hillfield Road, Selsey-on-Sea.
Strutt, Hon. Hedley V., 19 William Mews, Lowndes Square, London,
S.W. I.
Wintle, Prier, 72A Duddingston Road, Portobello, Edinburgh.
Student-Associate
Batcheldor, K. J., 18 Byron Avenue, Watford, Herts.
MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL
The 414th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Tuesday, 7 May 1946, at 3 p.m. The President in
the Chair. There were also present : Miss Bosanquet, Mrs Goldney,
Mrs Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Professor H. H. Price, Mr Redmayne,
Mr W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev.
C. D. Thomas and Dr R. H. Thouless ; also Mr West, Hon. Asst-Secy.
and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Seventeen new Members were elected. Their names and
addresses are given above.
The 415th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Thursday, 23 May 1946, at 2.45 p.m. The President
in the Chair. There were also present : Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs K. M.
Goldney, Mrs F. Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Miss I. Jephson, the
Hon. Mrs Alfred Lyttelton, G.B.E., Mr D. Parsons, Professor H. H.
Price, Mr G. Redmayne, Mr W. H. Salter, Mrs W. H. Salter, Dr S. G.
Soal, Admiral the Hon. A. C. Strutt, the Rev. C. D. Thomas, and Dr R. H.
Thouless ; also Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Two new Members were elected. Their names and addresses
are given above.
The 416th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 17 July 1946, at 3 p.m. Admiral the
Hon. a. C. Strutt in the Chair. There were also present : Miss T.
Bosanquet, Mrs Oliver Gatty, Mrs K. M. Goldney, Lord Charles Hope,
Mr D. Parsons, Mr W. H. Saher and the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas ; also
Mr D. J. West, Research Officer, and Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
Seventeen new Members and one Student-Associate were elected.
Their names and addresses are given above.
Mr West was appointed Research Officer of the Society.
236 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
PRIVATE MEETING
The 1 88th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on
Wednesday, 10 July 1946, at 6 p.m., when Mr D. J. West read a paper on
" The Telepathic Explanation of Apparitions ".
VERIDICAL MESSAGES OBTAINED THROUGH
AUTOMATIC WRITING
A member of the Society, Mrs Watson (pseudonym), who several years
ago practised automatic writing, and then, after discontinuing it, resumed
it at the beginning of March 1946, reports the following instances of
apparently veridical messages. Mrs Watson and her husband, it should be
explained, carry on a small-holding.
In 1944 I lost my wedding ring. I first noticed its loss while working
in the cowstalls. I looked for it but could not find it. On many sub-
sequent occasions my husband and I, and sometimes a friend, searched
for it without success. Cows are fond of eating bright things, and we
came to the conclusion that it must have slipped off my finger into the
manger, and that it was now reposing in some cow's inside! I did not
buy another ring, but wore my grandmother's wedding ring which had
been given to me by an aunt.
On March 14th [1946] I put my mother's engagement ring on my
finger before starting to write. I wrote " Can you see what I am wear-
ing to-night?" "Yes, my engagemeut ring, rather ugly, and my
mother's wedding ring, my dear mother. Your wedding ring is in the
cow-stalls you will find it next time you go down look in the sack look
in the sack behind the door."
I was unable to go out at the time, and my husband was too busy to
go that night ; but next day he went to the stalls and returned with the
ring
On March i8th a Book-test read " This Ring the Bridegroom did for
none provide, But for his Bride ".« /
The husband writes on the same day :
My wife reported the loss of her ring to me between June 25th and
July 3rd, 1944. I was ill at the time, but when able to go out to the
stalls I searched for it with considerable thoroughness, and looked for
it on many subsequent occasions. On March 14th 1946 she showed
me the reference to the ring in automatic writing. On March 15th I
went to the stalls where there were two sacks. Neither was actually
behind the door, but one was behind a wooden partition adjoining the
door. This sack was not in the stalls when my wife lost her ring in 1944.
During 1945 I had filled it with waste paper ready for salvage. Between
the seventh and eighth or eighth and ninth pieces of paper I found the
ring.
In reply to a question from the Hon. Secretary as to whether she might
have subconsciously remembered some occasion on which the ring
slipped off her finger among the papers where it was ultimately found,
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Automatic Writing 237
Mrs Watson gave reasons for thinking this improbable. When she and
her husband bought the property
. . . there was a quantity of hme stacked in large paper bags (special
lime bags) against the wall. This was later carted away by the rightful
owner. Many of the bags burst when moved, and it was these torn bags
that my husband put into the sack for salvage. I should have passed
fairly close to the bags of lime in mixing food for the cows, but at no
time did I handle the bags, and I lost the ring long before they were
carted away and the paper collected by my husband. . . .
My theory since the ring has been found is that it slipped off my
linger when my hands were cold and slippery . . . , rolled out of the
dairy door into the back [i.e. a part of the cowstall where the bags were
kept] and into' some hole or crevice in the floor where it was hidden
from our view, that later rats found it and carried it into the sack where
there were evidences of their having started to make a nest. It is too
far from the dairy door to the wall where the sacks are stored for it to
roll right over to them.
Mr Watson adds that the ring was not hidden in a fold of paper or
tucked away in an " envelope " corner when he found it, but lying flat on
a flat piece of paper covered by another flat piece, and that he could hardly
have failed to see it when he put the paper into the sack, if it had been
there then. This makes it most improbable that he might have sub-
consciously noted the ring among the paper at that time, and later on
telepathically conveyed to his wife the substance of a memory latent in his
own mind.
Mrs Wdtson has given a full account of the book tests, to one of which
she alludes above. It illustrates very well the difficulties and complexities
of evidence of this type. All the tests are taken from books on her own
shelves,, and the communicators are her father, her mother and a friend,
D.K., who died on the 2nd March 1946.
The first test was given on the i8th March 1946, when Mrs Watson
asked the three communicators " Will you think out some book tests, or
any definite tests that we can try together.' " The reply was, " Yes, of
course we will. I will give you one now. You go to the third shelf of the
case by the stairs second book from right and turn to page " : here came a
pause while Mrs Watson " stiffened ", as she describes the occasional
check in automatic flow, and tried to catch the number of the page ; she
then wrote with some hesitation, "
243 you go now we will wait."
Mrs Watson went to the case in question, which she found had four
shelves and not five as she had supposed. As the script did not say whether
the shelves were to be counted from the bottom or the top she took
{a) the second book on the right from the third shelf down, and {b) the
second book on the right from the third shelf up. She adds, " I did not
hesitate about taking both books but had a sudden feeling that I should do
so." {a) was a copy of Studies in Literature by Quiller-Couch, {b) was a
copy, formerly belonging to her father, of Way's verse translation of the ,
Iliad. Finding nothing appropriate on p. 243 of either book, Mrs Watson
carried them both to the table where she was writing and said, " I don't
see anything there. What did you mean? " In her own words, there waa
238 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
" a pause and then I felt the number 123 being hammered into my brain
with such clearness that I did not stop to write it down, but at once turned
to page 123 in {a) " and having read that to the same page in {b).
Now the first rule of a book-test is that the book and the page must be
identifiable without any ambiguity. If there is any doubt about either,
the possibility of subjective selection opens too wide a door to chance
coincidence. Before discussing the passages which Mrs Watson thought
were indicated, and appropriate to the circumstances, the double difficulty
created by the ambiguity as to the book and the mistake as to the page
must be faced. Mrs Watson states most definitely, " I did not hesitate
about taking both books " ; from this point the test must be taken as an
attempt to indicate an appropriate passage on the same page of each of
two books. Success in it would be enormously more significant than success
with a single book, provided it was unequivocal success. But the page
first given was wrong as regards both books, and the success described
below was only reached at the second shot. Even when due allowance
has been made for the hesitancy as to the first choice of page, and the
emphasis with which the second choice was " hammered into her brain ",
only a special degree of appropriateness could make the test significant.
Page 123 in Studies in Literature quoted Henry Vaughan's poem, the
last two lines of which read :
This Ring the Bride-groome did for none provide
But for his Bride. '
.
The appropriateness of this is obvious. As to the possibility of Mrs
Watson having, consciously or subconsciously, known where to find these
lines, she writes :
I have read this [i.e. Studies in Literature^ once, certainly twenty years-
ago, and have not opened it since. I did not remember it [i.e. the poem]
was in the book nor did I recognise it when I read it. Nor did I remem-
ber the position of the book on the shelf. My conscious visual memory
is atrocious. ... Of course my subliminal memory may be brilliant in
contrast to my conscious one.
Page 123 in Way's Iliad gives his version of the last two lines of Book
XVI, in themselves irrelevant. Under them was a small pencilled date in
the handwriting of Mrs Watson's mother. On taking the book to the light,
Mrs Watson found the date to be April 14. This was D. K.'s birthday
and one of the few dates Mrs Watson was in the habit of remembering.
From comparison of other pencilled dates in the book it is clear that Mrs
Watson's mother read the last ten books of Way's translation during April
1929, marking the end of each day's reading with a date. Mrs Watson was
not then living with her mother, did not know her mother had been reading
the book in April 1929, and had not herself opened the book since.
On the 19th March 1946 Mrs Watson informed the communicators that
the tests of the day before were excellent, to which her father replied,
" We are glad about the ring. Wasn't the reference good last night?
I chose that one bit. D. K. chose hers."
On the 2 1 St March Mrs Watson's father wrote :
" D. K. wants you to
take the little New Testament on the table and turn to p. 83. There is
a message for you. She hopes you will understand."
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Automatic Writing 239
The Nezv Testament in question was an edition in Basic English in which
Mrs Watson had till then read no more than part of St. Matthew. The
edition is printed in two columns to a page, and the first column of p. 83
contains Mark XI, 2-10, i.e. the story of Palm Sunday. Mrs Watson
could see no point in this, and told her communicator so : he told her to
be patient. Later it occurred to her to find out on what day Palm Sunday
fell in the present year : she had no idea, as the religious body to which she
belongs does not recognise " special times and seasons ". She found it
was the 14th April. On the 23rd March 1946 she got this message from
her mother :
" D. K. says she was so pleased you got the clue." Mrs
Watson adds that she made a note of these three tests in a separate note-
book on the days they occurred, and got her husband to witness them.
There is a curious pattern in these three tests. Mrs Watson found in
each a message appropriate to her thoughts and feelings at the time.
The first two are linked together by the fact that both were to be found
on the same page of two books chosen at the same time. The second and
third both point to the same date, a date having a special association for
Mrs Watson. Notwithstanding the element of confusion as regards both
book and page affecting the first two tests, it seems unlikely that such a
pattern should come about fortuitously.
A RECOGNISED APPARITION SEEN BY
TWO PERCIPIENTS
Dr Douglas Swinscow, a member of the S.P.R., contributes the following
account of the apparition of a young man, about nine months after his
death in action, to two ladies for whose veracity Dr Swinscow is prepared
to vouch. The real names have been communicated to the Society, but
pseudonyms are used throughout.
The young man, David Western, joined the R.N.V.R. in 1940 and was
drowned when his ship was sunk in December 1941. In 1940 he and his
wife shared house with Mrs Carter, one of the percipients, and her hus-
band, and it was in this house that Mrs Carter saw the apparition. The
other percipient. Miss Janet Mack, had never known David Western, or
seen a photograph of him : she knew that he had joined the R.N.V.R.
and been killed.
The apparition was seen on the 15th September 1942 when' Mrs Carter
made this entry in her diary :
A most curious experience for both Janet and me as we both inde-
pendently saw D. W.—she in the garden and me in the house—very bogy
and odd!!
On the 28th September 1942 she gave a fuller account in a letter to a
friend, as follows :
I tell you the following story for what it is worth : all I can assure you
is that it is not a fairy tale and that as you know neither Janet tior I are
given to strange imaginings!
About a couple of weeks ago . . . whilst I was busy with tea etc.
Janet went and toiled in the garden. She came in at supper time and
afterwards we helped Dick with homework until 8.45 and then set
tracks for bed. ... I went off down to the bathroom to do my teeth :
240 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
we then settled ourselves and listened to the news and embarked upon a
desultory conversation about this and that including D. W.
Suddenly Janet said rather timidly, " You may think me very silly,
but I could swear I saw D. W. in the garden this evening," whereupon
I nearly dropped because I too had seen him on my way to the bath-
room.
Her story was that she was busily weeding and not thinking of anyone
in particular when something made her look round, and there she saw a
man approaching : her first instinct was that (a), it was Ben [the husband
of a member of the household] {b), owing to the naval uniform it was a
caller, and she was about to be social and think of finding me when it
slowly faded out ; it was perfectly distinct, she said, but surrounded by a
grey mist : she forced herself to collect her gardening things and then
swiftly made tracks for the house and some more solid human contacts!
My story was that as I ran down the first few stairs something made
me look over the bannisters and at first I thought it was Beatrice [her
sister] coming upstairs, the same grey mist which I thought was her grey
hair. I didn't see the uniform but I saw his face quite distinctly (one
couldn't see clothes very distinctly anyway looking over the bannisters).
Reeling slightly I fled into the bathroom and completed my ablutions
by which time the atmosphere was clear again!
Neither of us had any actual fright at the time, only retrospectively,
and I must admit that when we had both had the same experiences
within a couple of hours we did feel a trifle shaken!
On the 2nd May 1946 Miss Jawe/ Mack gave to Dr Swinscow the follow-
ing quite independent account
:
In the summer of 1942 I was staying at the house of a friend of mine,
Mrs Carter. One evening at twilight in late August or September,
when I was working alone 'in the garden, I suddenly felt the urge to
turn round, as though someone were looking at me ; and on doing so I
saw a man walking up the garden path about 20 yards away. I saw him
perfectly clearly : he was dressed in naval uniform, appeared to have
the same reality as his surroundings and though I did not recognise his
features I retained a clear recollection of them. I then noticed that
there was something peculiar about him ; he seemed to be surrounded
by a misty radiance, and his outline was slightly blurred. As I became
aware of this a doubt came into my mind, and as it did so the figure
seemed to disintegrate and to become merged into the path. I could not
say exactly what the doubt was about but a feeling of chill foreboding
then pervaded me ; I gathered up my gardening tools, and fled into the
house, feeling the need for human company.
I then had dinner with Mrs Carter, but did not discuss the matter with
her because I wanted to get used to the experience, to assimilate it first.
About 2\ hours after I had seen the figure, that is, about 9.15 p.m.,
I told Mrs Carter all about my experience, and as I did so I noticed that
her face became fearful and white, and she seemed much moved by
something.
Miss Mack then gives her recollection of how Mrs Carter described her
own experience : substantially it corresponds to the two accounts given by
Mrs Carter in her letter of 28th September 1942, and below. Miss Mack,
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 A Recognised Apparition 241
in reply to an enquiry by Dr Swinscow, amplifies her account of the way
she told Mrs Carter of her experience, thus :
When I described the ghost to Mrs Carter I remember saying " Do
you think it could have been D. I saw to-night when I was gardening :
his face was rather glum-looking, he was fairly thick-set, and he had
large eyes.
On receiving Miss Mack's account of the 2nd May 1946, Dr Swinscow,
who had not then seen Mrs Carter's letter of 28th September 1942, wrote to
Mrs Carter asking for her version of the incident. After recording her
conversation with Miss Mack soon after 9 p.m. on 15th September 1942,
Mrs Carter proceeds :
I then told her that just before 9 p.m., when on my way to the bath-
room, something had made me look over the bannisters on to the lower
part of the stairs. I saw what I at first took to be my sister's grey hair
coming upstairs, but then I saw that it was D. W.'s head and shoulders
surrounded by a thick grey haze which obscured his body entirely. I
went straight to the bathroom, turned on the light, and looked back,
but by that time the face had gone, though the haze remained. After
finishing my ablutions I looked again, and found that the haze too had
disappeared.
We lived in the house until the summer of 1945, but as far as I know
no one ever saw anything of this kind again.
It is generally recognised (see Proc, X, 98, 304) that particular care is
needed in examining the records of visual experiences occurring out of
doors to make sure that the experience really was hallucinatory. Miss
Mack writing more than three years after the experience, describes it as
taking place " at twilight " in late August or September, and later in the
same account fixes the hour as 7 p.m., i.e. 2j hours before 9.15. Mrs
Carter in her letter of 28th September 1942 merely places it as happening
before supper. But at 7 p.m. on the 15th September 1942 at the place in
question the sun would have been still above the horizon, and visibility
should have been good. The figure was seen at 20 yards' distance ; the
uniform and the features were clearly seen : and finally " the figure
seemed to disintegrate and melt into the path ". It is very hard to suppose
that in these circumstances Miss Mack, whom Dr Swinscow describes as
" an active, practical business woman, not interested in paranormal pheno-
mena ", should have mistaken a man of flesh and blood for a phantasm.
The Ben of Mrs Carter's narrative did not wear naval uniform and was not
in fact within ten miles of the place.
Mrs Carter's experience occurred indoors at between 8.45 and 9 p.m.
She does not in either of her accounts describe the lighting on the stair-
case when she first saw the face which she took for the moment to be her
sister's, who, as it happened, was not in the house at the time. But she
saw the features clearly, and after she had turned the bathroom light on,
saw the haze into which the face seems to have resolved itself.
It would appear then that on the same evening within about two hours
both percipients had hallucinatory visual experiences. Were they two
apparitions, or one apparition seen twice and in two places.? The second
percipient recognised her apparition as that of a man she had known well,
and after hearing the description given by the first percipient, who had
242 . Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
not known him, seems to have had no doubt that the person seen by both
was the same.
REVIEWS
What is Life? By Erwin Schrodinger. Pp. viii + 91. Cambridge
University Press, 1945. 6s.
The main theme of Professor Schrodinger's book is the inabihty of the
laws of chemistry and physics, as at present formulated, to account for the
phenomena of life. All those relevant to the functioning of living organisms
are based on the improbability of large fluctuations from statistical
averages. The small particles—electrons, atoms, molecules—making up
animate and inanimate matter behave individually in an unpredictable
way, but the smallest visible particle contains so many of them that orderly
laws result from the mutual cancellation of individual idiosyncrasies of
behaviour. Physical science at present deals only with the order based on
disorder. Further, one of the most important laws of physics is that
disorder always increases until it is' as great as possible. Any portion of the
universe when isolated from the rest soon reaches a state in which nothing
appears to be happening—unless it contains a living organism. Living
organisms keep active for long periods in apparent disobedience to this
law. The disobedience is only apparent ; the organism absorbs well-
ordered (in the physical sense) portions of its surroundings as food, and
discards them in a poorly-ordered state. It thus counteracts the increase
in disorder in itself, which otherwise would soon reduce it to inactivity, by
extracting order from its environment. But there is a more fundamental
way in which physical laws fail to account for the behaviour of life. The
general form of a species remains unaltered for many generations, and
each member of the species develops from a small speck of matter, the
fertilized egg. Somehow the egg must contain within it the whole pattern
of the organism, the mechanism for realising it, and for ensuring its repro-
duction in future generations. It seems certain from the biological
evidence that this pattern is contained within a small part of the egg, called
the chromatin network, which produces an exact copy of itself in every
cell division. This network contains far too few atoms to function as an
ordinary physical mechanism, producing orderly results by the mutual
cancellation of random disorders. Somehow it must produce order from
order, must produce an exact copy of itself by, so to speak, the force of its
example. The closest analogy with a process familiar in non-living
matter is crystallization, but the most a crystal can do is increase in size
by the orderly arrangement of atoms or molecules deposited on its surface.
The production of a complex, active order by replication is not included
within the present scheme of physical science. Professor Schrodinger
has however no doubt that science will progress to include it.
The description of the functions of life and particularly of the mechan-
ism of inheritance and of the change in the character of a species by
naturally or artificially produced mutations forms the greater part of the
book. It is not without bearing on psychical research, or at any rate on
poltergeists. It has been suggested that these acquire the energy required
for their disturbances by removing heat from the environment, an explana-
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Reviews 243
tion that would at the same time account for the cold shudder or cold spots
sometimes accompanying such phenomena. The poltergeist would thus
bring about an increase of order, but would contravene a well-established
physical law which applies, as Professor Schrodinger shows, to living
organisms. These function in a way not foreseen in the development of
physical science, but do not disobey its established laws. This suggestion
concerning the paranormal functioning of poltergeists is therefore without
analogy in the normal functioning of life.
More important however is the short epilogue on determinism and free
will. The events in the body of a living being that correspond to the
activity of its mind, to its self-conscious actions, are at least statistically
determinate. In Professor Schrodinger's view quantum indeterminacy
plays no biologically important role. On the other hand each of us has an
immediate experience of free will ; we direct our actions, foresee the results,
take (and are expected by others to take) responsibility for them. Most
people who have thought on this problem consider either the determinacy
or the free will an illusion, but Professor Schrodinger argues that both are
inescapable facts, and draws the conclusion that he—and every conscious
mind—is the Being that controls the universe through the laws of nature.
There is thus a single consciousness for the universe, and we are windows
through which it manifests. The concept of individual souls is a hasty
inference from the plurality of similar bodies, and the concordant experi-
ence of western as well as eastern mystics, Dens factiis sum, is ultimate
truth.
Given the premises, the conclusion is logically inescapable, but Nature
has a way of transcending human logic, and there is much of the irrational
in modern physics, some of it introduced by Professor Schrodinger himself.
One may therefore be permitted to suspend judgement on the biological
demonstration of the existence of God and His plurality in unity of mani-
festation in man, but it is interesting that Mr Carington has arrived at
somewhat the same conclusion through his telepathic experiments : so
far as these phenomena are concerned, things happen not as if many minds
were involved, but only one. Convergence of independent approaches
confirms belief in a conclusion, and if Mr Carington points to Andrew
Lang's Brahma :
I am the batsman and the bat,
I am the bowler and the ball,
The umpire, the pavilion cat.
The roller, pitch, and stumps, and ALL,
Professor Schrodinger reaches Emerson's :
If the red slayer think he slays,
'
Or if the slain think he is slain,
They know not well the subtle ways
I keep and pass and turn again. ...
They reckon ill who leave me out ;
;
When me they fly, I am the wings ;
I am the doubter and the doubt,
And I the hymn the Brahmin sings.
. , A. J. C. Wilson
244 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
Beyond the Five Senses. By Margery Bazett. Pp. 96. Basil Blackwell,
Oxford. 7s. 6d.
Miss Bazett recounts many personal experiences due to the voluntary,
or to the spontaneous, exercise of her natural psychic endowment. Being
versed in the literature of the S.P.R. and familiar with its problems she is
able to view them from both sides, that of the student and that of the
medium. Hence she is able to tell us what it feels like when information
reaches her by supernormal means (pp. 16-17 !
21-22 ; 55). Her ex-
periences include psychometry, clairvoyance, forecasts of the future, the
successful tracing of missing people ; besides the reception of messages
for the bereaved, both when the latter were present and also when the
only link with them had been a letter of appeal for help.
Miss Bazett 's attitude to her psychic gift is seen in the following (p. 5) :
" These things should urge us to ask ourselves of what nature is this
impact upon our world from the supernormal source.? Has it any meaning
for us? Can it serve any useful purpose.? Does it enlarge our knowledge?
That is how I regard the matter, and it is in that way that I am trying
^ to examine it ".
The incidents recorded by Miss Bazett may prompt inquirers to
examine afresh some of the problems of psychic research. Let us take -
an instance of what is popularly termed " Psychometry ". About this
we are almost as much in the dark as when in 1840 Buchanan, a professor
of physiology in four medical colleges, first wrote of it, and Denton, a
professor of geology, published in 1854 his three volumes entitled The
Soul of Things, or when much later Dr Pagenstecher concluded, after
long experiment, that Psychometric sensations are initiated with the skin,
the original sensitive organ of biological history, the special senses being
later differentiated from it : these primitive sensations being usually
ignored because we have better organs of sensation which are only placed
in abeyance during states of trance or dissociation.
On pp. 53-54 Miss Bazett describes an interesting psychometric
experiment. Three small bags of sand were sent her from a site in the
East where excavation was in progress. These bags were alike in size
and numbered One, Two, Three. Impressions from Two and Three
corresponded with the facts relating to ancient customs of pre-civilised
times, while Number One seemed definitely connected with a person.
" This surprised me, as I believed it to contain sand only, the feeling to
one's fingers through the canvas being exactly the same ". It actually
contained a fragment of skull from a Christian burial of the sixth or seventh
century. Notes taken down by a friend while this bag was being psy-
chometrised run thus :
This is entirely different from the others . . . the others are out of
door scenes, as it were . . . this is something of an entirely different
character. I might be psychometrising a personal letter, or article. . . .
It is like the feeling of a person ... I rather wonder whether this person
or persons would wear some very large jewel, or cross-like object, on
the breast . . . one piece across the other, not necessarily a cross ... its
length greater than its width ... I should rather wonder if it had been .
lying inside something for a long, long time . . . holding it, I almost feel
as if I were buried . . . lying in an extremely quiet spot, rather a wonder-
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Reviews 245
ful spot ... I feel an atmosphere as if sleeping in great peace, resting
in a wonderful spot ... a feeling of being underground, that kind of
thing ... as if I were myself under the ground, or shut in somewhere
... I should suggest that there might be considerable interest about
the person or persons ... an outstanding figure or figures ... it seemed
to be on the left-hand side, as if the head were in a corner. If it is
connected with one person, it is a man.
Since this can be paralleled by many other psychometrical experiments
we may rule out chance coincidence and proceed to ask how is the
INFORMATION OBTAINED.-^ There would seem to be at least four possible
hypotheses ; two of them relating to the medium's unaided ability, and
two requiring co-operation with the mind or memory of another person.
Let us examine the probabihty of each.
1. The medium's interpretation of impressions in, or upon, the psy-
chometrised object.
In this the medium's attention would be concentrated on the primitive
sense of Feeling (from which our five senses are specialised) and obtain
by this means certain Indications. These indications are then somehow
interpreted as facts relating to the object, or to its owner.
2. The medium interprets impressions in the Common Unconscious,
or World Mind, or Akashic Records.
But how could a medium find the particular required facts amid the
innumerable stores of such supposed Mind or Records? When we wish
to recollect something we usually flash attention along our store of mem-
ories and look with the mind's eye for something relevant to the thing
required. But in psychometry the medium does not know what the
target may be, or what is, or is not, relevant!
3. The object links the medium with the owner.
This assumes that, while slightly dissociated, the medium's etherial
body can link with the etheric part of the article to be psychometrised.
This linking, let us suppose, gives the individual vibration, or key-note,
which brings touch with the owner of the object, who may be on earth
or elsewhere. The information required is then received from that
person, whether yielded voluntarily or otherwise.
4. The object links the medium with a Control, or a Communicator,
who gives the required impressions.
Mrs Osborne Leonard's Control can undoubtedly perceive the personal
character of sitters and also of Communicators. She will sometimes
remark that a would-be Communicator is not sufficiently within range for
messages and that she will meanwhile " get something from him ". Then
follow remarks about his character and mentality. With the poorer class
of mediums one may get nothing but this psychometrising of the sitter,
which yields merely general remarks about one's character and interests.
In better sittings this psychometrising preludes messages from genuine
Communicators. Of this relationship between psychometry and com-
munication Miss Bazett provides illustrations (pp. 26 to 29).
In Dr Hettinger's remarkably interesting book, The Ultra-perceptive
Faculty, he records numerous experiments in the psychometrising by a
sensitive of an article in the absence of its owner. He considers that a
mental rapport is established between the sensitive and the object's owner,
246 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
and that whatever is then perceived by the sensitive would seem to be
present in, or accessible to, the psychological make-up of that owner at
the time of the experiment. He found that this ability, displayed in the
absence of the person to whom the psychometrised article belonged,
differed with different persons. With objects belonging to some persons
the success was high, while with others it was slight, or altogether negli-
gible. This is not surprising when one recalls the well-known fact that
som.e people are bad sitters while others rarely have failures. It would
seem that a certain kind of harmony between the type of medium and the
type of sitter is essential to success.
A complete solution of the Psychometry problem would probably
provide the key to many others. So far we know but little. Onfe feels
that a determined attack by many groups under some central oversight
might succeed in wresting this secret from Nature. It was by such an
attack that the Atomic Bomb was produced. When will a like sense of
urgency prompt Psychical Research to emulate the triumph of Physics?
Clairvoyance. On p. 7 we find Miss Bazett's account of " seeing " her
brother and his wife walking in, what she sensed to be, London, whereas
they resided in the West of England and she had no knowledge of their
movements. Watching them she noted that they entered a house and
that conversation followed about a proposed operation in that house,
which was a nursing home. Inquiries later proved that the actual happen-
ings on the day were as she had clairvoyantly observed.
What is one to think of such incidents? The overworked word " tele-
pathy " does not help us, especially as the researches of Dr Rhine tend
to include it in Clairvoyance (c/p S.P.R. Proceedings for June 1946,
pp. 1-7).
One asks. Did Miss Bazett go to the place seen, or did the scene come
to her? For herself, she can give no decided answer. About clairvoyant
experiences she remarks that such visions are brief and cannot be repeated
at will ; that she can sometimes see surrounding objects through the
vision, although the vision is so clear that it is difficult to distinguish it
from seeing with the eyes.
Quite possibly the result is achieved by different methods, as the
things seen are near at hand, or far away.
When near at hand the vision may result from a functioning of etherial
sight—(seeing with the etherial body)—which, for all we know, may be
capable of considerable extension and unaffected by intervening walls.
Or, from a partial and temporary sharing of the awareness which is
going on in the mind of the actor or actors in the visualised scene.
Or, from some kind of picture-projection analogous, in the mental
sphere, to a desert mirage of distant sea and ships.
As for the far-away visions, one falls back on the usual conception of
strongly emotional thought by the agent being directed to the percipient
who subconsciously translates the incoming impression into sight or
sym.bol.
It is here that Dr Hettinger's second book. Exploring the Ultra-perceptive
Faculty, may help us. He concludes that, in clairvoyance at a distance,
the source of the sensitive's impressions is the psychological make-up
of the person concerned in the description : that person being, in his
AUG.-SEPT. 1946 Reviews 247
series of experiments, the owner of some article which had been placed
near the sensitive. One may suggest that some chance thought of the
percipient, or a strong emotional bond between two persons, might serve
as connecting link in cases of spontaneous clairvoyance. If so, these
spontaneous cases of distant clairvoyance would come within the orbit
of what we have hitherto termed Telepathy,—the action of thought
between two persons. But what exactly is this Thinking? and how does
it produce results at distance from the thinker.? Although no answer to
these questions is yet forthcoming, it may be that the P.K. (Psycho-
Kinetic) experiments will lead us one step forward. In the A.S.P.R.
Journal for July 1946 there is an article by Mrs L. A. Dale, who claims
that success has followed recent attempts to influence inanimate objects,
namely dice, by thought alone. She says :
" The hypothesis of '
Mind
over Matter '
is the only one adequate to account for the results obtained."
This is the latest report from the band of workers inspired by Dr. Rhine
and his group in Dale University. In the above-mentioned article there is
one specially suggestive speculation, for it suggests that it is the Experi-
menter who plays the dominating part in obtaining P.K. results. " It is
our tentative hypothesis that the experimenter influences the dice, and that
the Subject plays his role in either liberating or inhibiting this ability
of the experimenter." Doubtless this will be tested out experimentally.
It accords with the fact that some persons, who are unable to obtain
results alone, say in producing table movements or automatic writing,
can often succeed when joined by another person.
Mrs Dale notes that, in her series of experiments with dice, there
appeared the " decline effect " so often manifested in E.S.P. research.
Those who obtained a good record of hits made most of them at the start,
and at subsequent re-starts. Hits decreased with the duration of the run.
This " decline effect " is conspicuous in the accumulating P.K. data.
It is significant that a similar decline in successes has been obtained in
those series of trance sittings where Book Tests, Newspaper Tests and
Proxy Cases have been long continued. The progressive decrease in
success is exactly as if someone wearied of the monotonous repetition of
similar effort. A possible cause may be the involuntary slackening of
attention as the first flush of interest fades. Attention is important ; for
the psychic " feel " is very faint with most people, and only by attention
can its indications reach the conscious mind.
If the praiseworthy perseverance in P.K. experiment should be crowned
with such success as will establish the fact beyond all question, we shall
be able to assume that the intensive thinking of an object, or of a person,
may produce an effect : the movement of objects may be guided and
persons " impressed " with ideas, impulses or desires. Thus some light
would be thrown on both the physical and the mental phenomena of
Psychical Research.
It is all delightfully puzzling. We may hope much from the efforts
of P.K. investigators on both sides the Atlantic. If and when the thing
is proved, its implications will be worthy the deepest ponderings of psycho-
logist and philosopher, while we shall be better able to understand the
modus operandi of such experiences as Miss Bazett records.
C. Drayton Thomas
248 Journal of Society for Psychical Research aug.-sept. 1946
FUTURE MEETINGS
In addition to the meeting announced on the front page, the following
have been arranged :
Dr E. J. Dingwall, " Emmanuel Swedenborg ".
9th November 1946, 3.30 p.m.
Dr R. H. Thouless and Dr B. P. Wiesner, " Theoretical
Aspects of Psiphenomena ".
30th November 1946, 3.30 p.m.
DISCUSSION MEETING
Mr A. D. Howell Smith will open a discussion on " Antiquity and
Psychical Research " on the 3rd October 1946.
Memorial to Mr Kenneth Richmond
A fund is being opened in memory of Kenneth Richmond, to fill a
special shelf in the S.P.R. Library, marked with his^name, with new books
from time to time.
If any friends would like to contribute, would they kindly send their
donations to Mrs Richmond, c/'o Miss Horsell, marked M.F. on the
envelope.
'
It has been suggested that contributors might send a quotation, chosen
from any source, on any subject, with their donation. Should these prove
of collective interest, they will be printed with the names of contributors.
THE JOURNAL, VOL. XXXIII.
It has been decided to extend this volume so as to include the present
year. An Index to cover the period to the end of 1946 will be issued, the
recent issue being superseded.
PART 167 OF PROCEEDINGS
Owing to shortage of paper, the Society was compelled to reduce the
number of copies of various Parts of Proceedings published during the
War, including Part 167 which contains Dr Soal and Mrs Goldney's
Experiments in Precognitive Telepathy. There has been such a gratifying
demand for this Part that the Society's stock of it has run very low. If
any Members have spare copies of it in good condition, would they please
send them to the Assistant-Secretary, who will give up to 2s. 6d. for clean
copies.
The Pamphlet. Members will be interested to learn that the entire
stock of the pamphlet descriptive of the Society's work, issued last winter,
has now been sold out, and that a re-print has been ordered. This is' very
largely due to some appreciative comments on the Society's work and
on the pamphlet in a recent issue of The Observer. When they first issued
the pamphlet, the Council had in mind individual enquirers rather than
the general public, but they are none the less gratified at the wider know-
ledge of our work that the pamphlet has helped to spread.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
Oct -Nov., 1946 Vol. XXXIII—No, 628-629
CONTENTS
PAGE
Notification of Meetings ------- 249
New Members - -- -- -- - 249
Notice of Meetings 250
The Possibilities of a Broadcast E.S.P. Experiment, by D. J.
West --------- - 250
Correspondence - - - - - - - -252
A Case of Prevision ------- 254
An Appeal to Members by the Research Officer - - 256
Dr Gardner Murphy on Survival, by the Hon. Editor - 256
Reviews ... - - - - - - - 263
Psychokinesis, an Appeal - - - - - 264
NOTIFICATION OF MEETINGS
In order to give Members as much notice in advance as possible, it is
proposed to issue from time to time sheets giving the dates of Meetings of
the Society and Discussion Meetings, with speakers and titles of papers, for
the following two or three months.
Beginning with 1947, Discussion Meetings will be held regularly at
5.45 p.m. on the first Thursday of the month. It is intended that some of
these meetings should be devoted to talks descriptive of various aspects of
the Society's work, the syllabus including the following : The History of
Psychical Research, Phantasms, Trance Mediums, Cross-correspondences,
E.S.P., Poltergeists and Haunts, The Physical Phenomena of the Seance
Room.
" '
NEW MEMBERS
AUoway, S. H., Thistle Cottage, Burton Overy, nr Leicester.
Batchelor, Mrs M. T,, 90 Grove Park Road, Mottingham, Kent.
Boxall, Miss J. E., 25 Porchester Square, London, W. 2.
Corsellis, J. A. N., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Fern Villas, High Road, Chad-
well Heath, Essex.
Harragan, L., 23 Yew Tree Court, Temple Fortune, London, N.W. 11,
Kelly, Captain R. Maxwell, 10 Promenade, Walney, Barrow-in-Furness,
Lanes.
250 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1946
Lea, Miss E. M., The Manor House, Lindfield, nr Haywards Heath,
Sussex.
Lee-Richardson, J., 132 Maiden Road, New Maiden, Surrey.
Miller, Mrs G. B., Brentry House, Romsey, Hants.
Moore, Mrs W., Flat 59, Eton Rise, London, N.W. 3.
Rawcliffe, D, H., M.A., Cordwen, Pelynt, Looe, Cornwall.
Stiles, J. W., 124 Warwick Road, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
Taylor, L. F., M.A., c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street, London,
S.W. I.
Thornton, N., Hotel Plymouth, 143 West 49th Street, New York, 19,
'
U.S.A.
Wakely, Sir Clifford H., K.B.E., 48 Downshire Hill, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
'
Wilberforce-Bell, Sir Harold, Portington Hall, Howden, Yorkshire.
Student-Associates
Fairbank, J., 9 Brearton Street, Bradford, Yorks.
Farrell, Miss M. E., Birchenholt, Crowthorne, Berks. i
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL
The 417th Meeting of the Council was held at 31 Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. i, on Wednesday, 18 September 1946, at 3 p.m. The
President in the Chair. There were also present : Mrs K. M. Goldney,
Mrs F. Heywood, Lord Charles Hope, Miss I. Jephson, Mr D. Parsons,
Professor H. H. Price, Mr W. H. Salter, Dr S. G. Soal, Admiral the Hon.
A. C. Strutt and Dr R. H. Thouless ; also Mr West, Research Officer, and
Miss E. M. Horsell, Asst-Secretary.
The Minutes of the last Meeting of the Council were read and signed as
correct. Sixteen new Members and two Student-Associates were elected ;
their names and addresses are given above.
PRIVATE MEETING
The 189th Private Meeting of the Society was held in the Library on •
Tuesday, 8 October 1946, at 6 p.m., when the President, Mr G. N. M.
Tyrrell, read a paper on " The Modus Operandi in Paranormal Cognition ",
which will be published in Proceedings.
THE POSSIBILITIES OF A BROADCAST E.S.P. EXPERIMENT
By D. J. West
Statistical experiments in E.S.P., as they are commonly carried out,
require percipients who will record thousands upon thousands of card
OCT.-NOV. 1946 The Possibilities of a Broadcast 251
guesses. A great deal of time is taken up by the process, and it is exces-
sively monotonous work to experimenters and percipients alike. More-
over, there is some suggestion that percipients' scores decline as the
novelty of the experiment wears off.
A mass experiment, employing thousands of percipients at a time, would
have many advantages. A large bulk of material would be made available
for analysis without each percipient having to attend a series of boring
experimental sessions. The mass experiment might be used to answer the
vexed question of what proportion of the general population possess E^S.P.
powers that are demonstrable in statistical experiments.
The obvious means of securing a large number of percipients is the radio.
So far as I know there have been two broadcast experiments in this country.
The first was carried through by Dr Woolley in 1927, and the second, in
which Dr Soal participated, took place in 1945.
Neither experiment was considered satisfactory on account of the diffi-
culty of applying ordinary statistical methods to the results. It is im-
possible to have a long series of guesses in the space of time allowed for a
broadcast, and in a short series of card symbols the problem of preferences
arises. Some symbols are more likely to be guessed than others, quite
independently of any telepathic influence. The 1927 experiment, in
which playing cards were used, showed that aces were great favourites,
whereas eights tended to be avoided. The ace of spades was chosen
14! times more frequently than the eight of spades.
It is possible to allow for these preferences if their extent can be de-
termined empirically in a separate experiment, but it makes the statistics
more complicated, and does not get over all the difficulties. Where cards
or fixed symbols are used, such as the rose and skull of the 1945 experi-
ment, preferences affect not only the individual guesses, but also the actual
sequence. For instance, if numbers were being used, the sequence i, 2, 3,
4, 5, might prove to be a great favourite. It is very difficult indeed to allow
for sequence preferences in evaluating the results.
For this reason, I suggest that cards are unsuitable for a broadcast
experiment. It would be preferable to ask percipients to describe ran-
domly chosen objects of a qualitative nature which would be unlikely to
give rise to sequence preferences. Supposing there were two such objects
A and B. It would be a simple matter to determine whether the occurrence
of A and B as targets affected the frequency of A and B in the percipients'
replies. A 2 x 2 table might be prepared as follows :
Target A Target B
No. of responses
pertaining to A
No. of responses
pertaining to B
As a matter of fact this method can be applied to some items in the 1927
experiment. Utilising the figures of the table on p. 6 of Proceedings
•vol. xxxviii :
252 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1946
Target Target
White Lace Mask and Hat
Responses pertaining
*
Obs. 1483
to wViitP Ipipp Ex. 1
1
40 *
8
Responses pertaining , Obs. 673 1 161
to mask and hat Ex. 1015-2 8i8-8
Considering the deviations in the four cells of the table :
is approx. 400 with i degree of freedom.
This is highly significant. I have not got tables to give an exact value of
p for such a large x^, but p is certainly well below -0001.
In the original report of the 1927 experiment Dr Woolley wrote—
" These figures to some extent favour the supposition that listeners'
impressions were influenced by the objects shewn. . . . On the other hand
the results cannot be said to approach a proof." In my opinion this state-
ment was too conservative, owing to the fact that no statistical assessment
was attempted. I should say that the results gave indications of the opera-
tion of a paranormal faculty. The importance of the result can hardly be
over-estimated. A large-scale experiment of this type, with percipients
scattered all over the country, and with agents under strict supervision,
overcomes many of the objections that can be raised against experiments
more directly dependent upon the accuracy and good faith of individual
experimenters. Unfortunately the judge who scored the responses in this
experiment knew the targets and may have been influenced in his scoring
by what he knew to be the right answer. *
In order to make this type of result fool proof, the assessment would have
to be made by an independent judge who would be given the percipients'
guesses without being told which target objects they were trying to describe.
An experiment such as I have outlined could be conveniently included
at the close of a short talk. As the question of broadcast talks on psychic
subjects is being discussed at this moment, it is as well for the Society to
have its plans prepared in readiness for an experiment should the oppor-
tunity arise.
CORRESPONDENCE
Sir,—Our members will learn with regret that Mr Basil Shackleton, an
Hon. Associate of the Society, is shortly leaving this country for South
Africa.
Mr Shackleton did a unique service to the Society in recent years by his
valued co-operation in the long series of successful experiments in pre-
cognitive telepathy, a report of which was published in Proceedings,
Part 167.
For some time now Mr Shackleton has found that the experiments
involved him in increasingly severe strain, and for this reason he has not
been able to take part regularly in some further experiments we had hoped
to undertake before he left this country. We are happy however to be able
to state that he has very kindly promised to co-operate in some long dis-
OCT.-NOV. 1946. Correspondence 253
tance experiments between England and South Africa, and in due course
we hope to arrange some experiments of this kind.
We extend to Mr and Mrs Shackleton our very best wishes and hope that
we may all meet again in the not too distant future.
Yours etc.,
zdth September 1946 . S. G. SoAL
K. M. GOLDNEY
Sir,—I would like to draw attention to a feature in the experience of Miss
Janet Mack recorded on page 241 of the Journal which is of considerable
interest in the discussions regarding the objectivity of apparitions and
ghosts. Miss Mack writes as follows :
" When I was working alone in the garden, I suddenlyfelt the urge to turn
round as though someone were looking at me ; and on doing so I saw a man
walking up the garden path about 20 yards away " (italics are mine).
This impulse to turn round to see the apparition is not an uncommon
feature of these accounts but this is a very clear case. It has a distinct
bearing on Myers' theory, " that a 'psychical invasion '
does take place ;
that a '
phantasmogenetic centre '
is actually established in the percipient's
surroundings ; that some movement bearing some relation to space as we
know it is actually accomplished ; and some presence is transferred and
may or may not be discerned by the invaded person ..." {Human Person-
ality). Again he says later on " I hold that when the phantom is discerned
by more than one person at once (and on some other but not all other
occasions) it is actually effecting a change in that portion of space where it
is perceived, though not as a rule in the matter which occupies that place. ".
Myers himself does not seem to have seen the bearing of such cases as
Miss Mack's on his theory, but Bozzano in his monograph " Les Phen-
omenes de Hantise " in discussing Myers' theory remarks that he must
note in its favour several things which have escaped Myers " and first of all
calls attention to this not uncommon " more or less irresistable impulse to
turn round and look in the direction of the place in which it (the ghost) is,
but this should not happen in the case of subjective ghosts caused by
telepathy which ought to show themselves to the percipient no matter
where he is looking and not only in one particular direction. . . . Add to
this that the fact of the sudden and motiveless impulse to look round implies
an action of this kind on the part of the agent for which there would be no
reason unless there was at that place " a modification of space " under-
stood in the sense that some real thing is located there, a thing which could
not be seen anywhere else just as well."
Bozzano does not argue from this that all ghosts are objective. Far from
it : he agrees with Myers that most ghosts and apparitions are merely
subjective but he adduces this and one or two other arguments overlooked
by Myers to show that in some cases in some sense or other there is a real
presence of the agent in a particular spot in space.
As this aspect of the matter appears to have been overlooked in recent
discussions of apparitions and ghosts, it seems worth while to draw atten-
tion to it.
Yours faithfully,
: . , B. Abdy Collins
254 Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct.-nov. 1946
A CASE OF PREVISION
In August 1946 the Research Officer received from Mr Kenneth W.
Hodgson, of 71 Score Lane, Liverpool, who had read the S.P.R. Pamphlet,
in which readers are invited to send to the Society records of their
psychic experiences, the following " Statement of Personal Experience of
Prevision".
On a number of occasions during June 1940 during dreams and twice
whilst awake the date August loth was in my " mind's eye ". The
image was visual and appeared as
AUG 10
obviously a calendar form, though I could not associate it with any
calendar in my recollection. The letters and figures appeared to be
composed of light, in relief against a very pale grey, almost neutral
background.
The two waking experiences occurred whilst sitting quietly smoking,
waiting for the siren to go. On both occasions there was a feeling of
impending trouble.
I was at the time in very good health, but rather fatigued, because I
was day school teaching, serving in the L.D.V. and in the A.R.P. as a
warden.
I communicated this experience to my fiancee in a letter dated 25.6.40
. in these words :
•
" Often in my dreams I see in symbols of light the date August loth.
I do not know its significance ..."
After I had written that letter the experience was not repeated.
I assumed that I was being warned that I should be seriously injured
or killed on that date. Later it occurred to me that the warning might
refer to my fiancee.
When the siren sounded on the evening of August loth I felt that I
was going to meet whatever was in store
!
The raid however proved to be very light and nothing occurred where
I was living, and, though, for reasons not relevant, I could not com-
municate immediately with my fiancee, I ascertained that no incidents
had occurred anywhere near her.
Reviewing the matter on the following day I was amused to think of
the importance I had attached to a seemingly groundless hallucination.
A fortnight later, however, I received word that my fiancee was
seriously ill with tetanus and not expected to live. It transpired that she
had cut her leg rather badly on an air raid shelter on August loth.
Mr Hodgson explains that the wound did not receive proper attention at
the time, that the illness which followed was not at first recognised as
tetanus but that a fortnight later the doctor in ordering her removal to
hospital expressed the view that there was no hope of her recovering. After
nine months of great suflFering she made a complete recovery. Mr
Hodgson's statement proceeds :
She told me subsequently that when she saw the deep gash in her
leg, she thought " August loth after all " but the thought did not
recur.
I have had other experiences, possibly of an extra-normal nature but
OCT.-NOV. 1946 A Case of Prevision 255
this is the only occasion when I have communicated the information to
another in anticipation.
The lady concerned later became my wife. I am therefore asking her
to attach her signature to this statement to support my evidence.
zyd August 1946 PCenneth W. Hodgson
•
.
. M.A. (Cantab)
Dora Hodgson
In reply to questions by the Research Officer Mr Hodgson sent for his
inspection the page of his letter of the 25th June from which a passage has
been quoted. In the letter Mr Hodgson speaks of the possibility of his
being called up for active service before the loth August 1940 and suggests
that the interpretation of his experience may be his own death in action.
Questioned as to whether he had told anyone before the loth August that
he thought the date had probably something to do with his fiancee, then
Miss Dora Craven, rather than himself, Mr Hodgson replied :
... I naturally refrained from making the suggestion that Dora Craven
might be affected when I wrote the letter of 25.6.40. But in conversa-
tions when we met between that date and the beginning of August that
possible interpretation was casually discussed, in terms of Mr Dunne's
hypothesis.
I regret that no further corroboration appears possible ; I can re-
collect discussing this dream with only one man and he was, I know,
killed in '43. And as we met several times after 25th June, there was no
occasion for Dora to reply, so that the possibility, though present in her
mind, was not committed to paper.
Mr Hodgson also informed the Research Officer that he dreams infre-
quently, perhaps three or four times a year ; that he has had three
" audile " dreams, recurrent over a long period but apparently meaning-
less : that in another recurrent dream, which also occurred as a waking
experience, " movement appeared to be depressed and hindered by im-
pulses for which I could not account " ; this latter experience " consisted
entirely of such symptoms associated with a particular street, and whicli
were in that street so marked that I found it difficult to force myself to walk
along it, till the street was badly hit and I had a singularly fortunate
escape " ; that the experience relating to the loth August was the only one
he has had that was at the same time " psychic ", recurrent and visual ;
that " there was no association of the date with disaster during dreams.
... In waking, however, the appearance of the date was associated with the
usual symptoms of anticipatory fear ".
Many English people in June 1940 had, with good reason, anxious fore-
bodings as to events in August that might be serious for their country, and
therefore for themselves. In many cases these probably expressed them-
selves in dreams, and sometimes perhaps in visual impressions received
while they were awake. I do not remember that any special fears attached
themselves to the loth of the month, the day specified in Mr Hodgson's
experience.
It is clear from his letter of the 25th June 1940 that he thought of the
mischance foreshadowed for that day as a personal, rather than a public
one, and in the event so it was, but not directly personal to himself. The
possibility of fortuitous fulfilment is of course increased if events affecting
256 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1946
the percipient indirectly are brought into account. Is there anything in
the experience itself pointing to Miss Craven ? Nothing in the content of
the visions, but some significance ought perhaps to be attached to the non-
recurrence of the experience after Mr Hodgson had written to her in-
forming her of it.
AN APPEAL TO MEMBERS
The scarcity of good material for investigation is the one great difficulty
which stands in the way of the Society's post-war research programme.
Successful subjects for telepathic experiments are scarce. Physical
mediums have always been rare, but now it is almost as difficult to obtain
a good mental medium to give sittings for investigation purposes. Reports
of cases are coming in, but not as rapidly as might be wished.
There are a number of ways in which members might help to rectify the
situation. Members could, by performing simple experiments in their own
homes with cards and drawings, test far more people for telepathy than
could a single research officer working at the S.P.R. rooms. It is very
important that the results of all such tests, whether good or bad, should be
noted and reported. If some Successful percipients were discovered, they
could then be employed in larger scale experiments, which would be de-
signed to throw light on the nature of the faculty, and would be carried out
under conditions satisfactory to the critics.
It would also help on the Society's work if members would send in
confidential reports of their experiences with mediums, and advise the
Society as to the best mediums to approach. Some mediums have pro-
bably been discouraged from giving sittings to the Society's representatives
by tendencious reports that they would not receive considerate treatment.
By explaining that the S.P.R.'s investigators are fair-minded and sym-
pathetic, members could do much to remove this mistrust.
Now that plans for the future are being discussed, the Society's officers
would be glad to hear from any members who have ideas as to promising
lines of research.
D. J. W.
DR GARDNER MURPHY ON SURVIVAL
Dr Gardner Murphy's articles in the January, April and October, 1945,
issues of the Journal (vol. XXXIX) of the American S.P.R. deserve the
close attention of all who are interested in the problem of survival.
In the January number Dr Murphy gives " An Outline of Survival
Evidence ", in which he sets out " to present in organised form the classes
of evidence gathered by psychical research, with typical examples of each ".
Naturally in an article of 33 pages Dr Murphy has had to leave part of the
field unsurveyed. Thus he does not discuss physical phenomena. It
would be of great interest if in some later article he would tell us what he
thinks of these, and what bearing, if any, he believes them to have on
survival.
The " mental " phenomena, on which a belief in survival could be based,
OCT.-NOV. 1946 Dr Gardner Murphy on Survival 2S1
are passed clearly and briefly in review. Dr Murphy begins with appari-
tions, and with the simpler types of these, in which a telepathic impulse,
arising out of the emotional crisis of dying, seems to be a sufficient explana-
tion, provided of course that the reality of telepathy be accepted. Next
come the apparitional cases which do not fit so easily into the telepathic
framework : those, for example, where there is a considerable lapse of
time between death and appearance, about ten weeks in one example
which Dr Murphy quotes from Human Personality. It is possible that the
early psychical researchers were inclined to impose too narrow limits to
the period during which a telepathic impression, conveyed at the time of
death, could lie latent in the percipient's subliminal. They did not reckon
as telepathic crisis-cases apparitions seen more than 12 hours after death.
Such a limitation was admirably designed to exclude chance coincidences,
but so far as it was influenced, as it appears to have been, by experimental
results (see Phantasms I, pp. 139, 140, 201,) it provides an example of the
caution needed in making experimental results into yard-sticks for spon-
taneous evidence, where the emotional conditions are quite different, where,
for example, a sub -consciously received message of ill omen may encounter
strong resistance in its passage to consciousness. If memories can lie
dormant, as is common experience, for many years beyond the power of
conscious recall until some favourable conjunction of circumstances arises,
why should the latency of spontaneous telepathic impressions be more
closely circumscribed ?
But if, as in the class of cases to which Dr Murphy next passes, to lapse
of time since the agent's death is added the conveyance of information
relating to post-mortem affairs unknown to the percipient, or, as in the
Chaffin Will case [Proc. XXXVI, 517-524), activity and initiative on the
agent's part, the argument for survival is stronger. This introduces a
point which, as Df Murphy developes his thesis in this and the two suc-
ceeding papers, is found to be central. It may be stated somewhat like
this : the simplest view of telepathy is of a one-way process from one
agent to one percipient. If there is nothing more in telepathy than that,
there are a variety of spontaneous and mediumistic phenomena for which
it would be reasonable to seek some other explanation. But many years
ago Mrs Sidg^vick and other investigators declared that the evidence
before them pointed to a more complex view, requiring some activity on
the percipient's part. Recent research, and particularly recent experi-
ment, has shown that extra-sensory perception is a very complex affair
indeed. Much of the evidence for survival which would pass muster,
if the only alternative were telepathy of the simpler kind, has little
validity in face of the view of extra-sensory perception now generally
accepted.
This applies to instances of mediumistic paragnosis as well as to appari-
tions, and can be more usefully discussed in that connection, since the
number of cases of apparitions conveying information unknown to the
percipient, or showing initiative, is too small to found an argument on,
whereas well-authenticated mediumistic cases of similar type are plentiful.
Of these Dr Murphy cites several, calling special attention to the proxy
sittings with Mrs Leonard, the cross-correspondences and the " Ear of
Dionysius ".
Journal of Society for Psychical Research oct-nov. 1946
Towards the end of this article (pp. 33, 34) Dr Murphy writes :
Telepathy has shown the reality within the organism of capacities
which are not to be expected on any ordinary physical basis, and pre-
cognition has shown the ability of the organism to transcend its usual
relations within the environment. These capacities strongly suggest,
then, that personality is not the assemblage of physical energies, pure
and simple, which the more naive scientific approach would suggest . . .
As far as survival is concerned, such an argument may ultimately prove
to be a boomerang in the sense that the discovery of wider and deeper
powers within the depths of the living self may show the capacity of the
individual to produce, when strongly motivated, the most fantastically
complex types of survival evidence.
It may, on the other hand, as Dr Murphy points out, " well mean that
certain aspects, or capacities of the individual, if not the entire personality,
may extend beyond the physical existence of the organism ."
In his second article, " Difficulties Confronting the Survival Hypo-
thesis "
(pp. 67-94), Murphy considers first the biological difficulty,
stressing the point that feeling, as well as intelligence, has its physical basis
in the brain.
Nothing would be gained by beating the dead horse of nineteenth-
century " materialism ", a naive and one-sided statement as to the
one-way " dependence " of mental upon physical . . . But it is
extremely difficult, from a biological point of view, to conceive what is
meant by referring to personality as independent of the living organism
—
so as to survive beyond death—for the living organism is a psycho-
physical unity. (P. 70).
He next raises what he calls " the Cultural Difficulty ", that " our
personalities are in large measure patterns of response to a given social
environment ... If, as we exist after death, we are interchangeable with
the personalities—the memories, thoughts, interests—of Iroquois Indians
or prehistoric Chinese, or are without any definite memories or interests
at all, this is personal survival only by a sort of play upon words". (P. 72).
Given a choice between these two " ifs ", most Westerners would accept
the conclusion, but is there any reason for thus limiting the possibilities?
The view usually expressed in communications is, I think, that the dis-
carnate personality first makes contact with friends, relations and other
persons who have had more or less the same earthly experiences, and thus
acquires a wider experience fitting it to make contact with wider groups.
Granted the premier pas of existence unconditioned by the body, there
seems nothing irrational in this conception.
From the difficulties of supposing survival to occur, Dr Murphy passes
to the difficulties of finding satisfactory evidence for it, i.e. evidence
which does not fit some other hypothesis as well or better. He emphasises
the histrionic propensity of the dissociated mind, and illustrates some of
the resulting absurdities, such as messages from Myers that make him talk
like an illiterate. If the subliminals of agent and percipient can co-
operate to stage dramas as elaborate and vivid as Mr Tyrrell's theory of
OCT.-NOV. 1946 Dr Gardner MurpJiy on Survival 259
crisis-apparitions requires, could not a lilce interplay between the sub-
limiiials of medium and sitter produce equally life-like impersonations of
dead friends of the sitter, even though these had during their life been un-
acquainted with the medium? This is not an easy question to answer. It
would require detailed discussion of numerous instances. The test case
would not be one where a few of the " communicator's " mannerisms of
speech and gesture are reproduced : that should count for little. It is
another matter where a critical sitter comes away with a feeling that he has
had just such a conversation with the " communicator "as he might have
had during the latter's life, or where in a series of several sittings the
" communicator " never speaks out of character. Such cases have been
reported, but they are not amenable to independent assessment.
When the theory of cross-correspondences was first debated, it was
suggested that there was no need to look outside the S.P.R. group of
automatists to find a mind capable of designing them, since Mrs Verrall,
the first in time of the group, had all the literary knowledge requisite.
Dr Murphy is inclined to favour this view, pointing out (p. 84) that " the
Myers communications, as well as the communications from Dr Verrall,
became much less impressive after the death of Mrs Verrall ".
Dr Murphy puts his case very fairly, and with much that he says I am
in agreement. It is difficult to discuss such a complex mass as the scripts
of the S.P.R. group without going into tedious detail, but perhaps the
following brief outline will help towards an understanding of the problem.
The scripts of the S.P.R. group cover a period of about thirty years, i.e.
1 90 1 to 1930 or later. Mrs Verrall 's death occurred about half-way
through this period, in 19 16. Some of the later automatists, notably Mrs
Wilson, never knew Mrs Verrall personally. Those who were most
familiar with the later scripts would not, I think, have considered them as
inferior to the scripts produced during Mrs Verrall's life in evidence of
planning, or in the impressiveness of the " communications ". So far as my
limited knowledge of the later scripts goes, I should be disposed to concur.
In passing it should be noted that, both before and after Mrs Verrall's
death, there were several communicators besides Myers and her husband,
some of whom were never personally known to her.
During the middle decade of the scripts, there was undoubtedly some
change in their content. The scripts could hardly have grown in quantity
as they did, without a corresponding branching out of the design, which
made the later cross-correspondences very different from the earlier ones ;
much less closely knit, and much more difficult both for a commentator to
expound in print and for a reader to follow. Nor was Mrs Verrall's death
the only event in this decade having a bearing on the development of the
scripts. In particular there was the outbreak in 1914 of the First World
War. Both the widening out of the pattern and the influence of public
events had become manifest in the scripts of the various automatists
written before Mrs Verrall's death, as may be seen from, e.g. Mr Pidding-
ton's paper in Vol. XXXIII of Proceedings.
Such factors had, I would suggest, a greater influence than Mrs Verrall's
death in producing those features that distinguish the later scripts from
the relatively simple affairs on which Miss Johnson based her theory.
Some of the difficulties of attributing to Mrs Verrall the authorship of
260 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1946
the " literary puzzle " of the " Ear of Dionysius " I have discussed in the
Journal of the A.S.P.R. for January 1946. No-one who has read the many
articles on scripts of the S.P.R. group in our Proceedings will claim that
the problem of their inspiration is free from difficulty, but I am quite
certain that neither Mrs Verrall's conscious nor sub-conscious mind can be
held responsible for the entirety of the design embodied in them.
It may seem rash to speak as positively as this when, as Mr Tyrrell has
shown, a percipient's subconscious mind can, in conjunction with the
agent's subconscious, work up facts unknown to the percipients' conscious-
ness into an elaborately dramatic hallucination. But between the planning
involved in this and that required for the cross-correspondences there is an
important difference, arising partly from the much greater complexity of
the latter, the number of persons involved, and the length of time over
which they developed. Still more fundamental is the fact that veridical
hallucinations and cross-correspondences show every sign of aiming at
diametrically opposite results. The apparent purpose of the former is the
enlightenment of the percipient : the apparent aim of the latter to mystify
everyone concerned, an aim in which for many years they were eminently
successful.
In his third article, " Field Theory and Survival " (October 1945), Dr
Murphy points out that in several branches of science workers have found
that fundamental problems cannot be approached so long as big events are
recorded " as summations of little events " :
" the structural whole is not
the sum of the parts, and the attempt to state its problems in terms of
parts confuses the issue "
(p. 195). He illustrates the development of
field theory in physics, biology and normal psychology, and mentions
the approaches to such a theory in psychical research on the part of Myers,
Mrs Sidgwick, Warcollier and others. The time, he suggests, is ripe for
its extended application to the questions of telepathy, mediumship,
psychokinesis, etc.
Dr Murphy has perhaps cast his net rather more widely than our present
knowledge warrants. He speaks, for instance, of " the frequency of collec-
tive veridical impressions ", whereas the rarity of cases which are both
collective and veridical seems to me much more striking. For a like
reason it might at present be desirable to avoid unnecessary complication
of the problem by bringing in phenomena involving " contact with remote
points of time ". Retrocognition of remote past events practically depends
on An Adventure, a book which proves nothing except the muddle that in-
evitably follows when even the best-meaning and most intelligent people
neglect ordinary precautions as to making contemporary records of their
impressions. There are a fair number of cases of spontaneous pre-
cognition (see, for example, Saltmarsh's Foreknowledge) for which neither
normal inference nor chance coincidence seems adequately to account.
For the most part the interval between prediction and fulfilment is a few
hours or days. Precognition of remote events, as in the case from
Proceedings, XI, 577, quoted by Saltmarsh (p. 47), where the detailed
circumstances of a death were dreamt three times before its occurrence,
six years before it on the first occasion, seems to be very rare. I am inclined
to doubt whether the present evidence for spontaneous non-inferential pre-
cognition is strong enough to carry much superstructure of theory.
OCT.-NOV. 1946 Dr Gardner Murphy on Survival
There remain, of course, the striking results of recent experiment, which,
as Dr Murphy points out, form a curious contrast to the general run of
spontaneous paragnosis, which is " very likely to occur in relaxed states
where the ego is ill-defined " in that they " often show us a tense individual
competing strenuously with other individuals, consciousness of self
seeming to be at a high level ". Important as the advances in experimental
E.S.P. have been, even more perhaps will need to be done before they can,
for purposes of theory, be assumed to be expressions of forces identical
with, or having the same scope as, those that operate in spontaneous and
mediumistic paragnosis.
Such a narrowing of the subject matter under review would not, how-
ever, touch Dr Murphy's argument for " an interpersonal psychical field
"
of deep-level psychic interaction, in which, " if, on independent grounds,
there is reason to believe the discarnate exist and are capable of contact
with the living " there would be no theoretical difficulty involved in their
participating jointly with the living (p. 199). After pointing out that " the
interdependence of personalities does not imply the absence of individual-
ity " but that " no personality can fail to exert some interpersonal effects,
nor can it exist solely in and through itself", Dr Murphy observes that the
question whether personality survives bodily death " presupposes a
rigidity, a sharpness, a distinctiveness, an encapsulation, which simply is
not an attribute of the thing we know as personality "
(pp. 201, 202).
While it would seem that even before death the deep-level aspect of the
self is in some degree interpersonal, " it is likely that biological individual-
ity involves some binding or restraining influence at work in the organism
which keeps even the deepest activity from becoming fully interpersonal."
Death therefore " facilitates the process of articulation between selves
"
(pp. 204, 205), in what Dr Murphy has described (p. 202) as " a single
great context ", which incorporates all the psychological processes of the
past, and with which " our present activity is in touch and to which it
makes its own infinitesimal contribution ".
On this view every individual is before bodily death a constituent
member of an interpersonal group, of which after bodily death he still
remains a member, inasmuch as his past activities influence the present
activities of the group : there is nothing, of course, novel so far. But
there is, on this view, the further complication, to which psychical research
has pointed with increasing force, that the deep-level paragnostic powers
of the living members of the group, and their propensity to subliminal
dramatization, might work together to endow a " static surviving entity
"
with a delusive appearance of activity. How is the enquirer to distinguish
this fictitious activity from a state in which the surviving entities would
retain their individual memories and purposes and perhaps " interact con-
tinuously with the deep-level activity of the living "? It may not be super-
fluous to emphasise at this stage that the " static " and " active " concep-
tions are not contradictory or mutually exclusive, so that in any particular
case evidence suggesting a " static " view, either in its simpler or more
sophisticated form, would not rebut or negative other evidence pointing
to a more active form of survival.
Dr Murphy indicates (pp. 206-208) three types of evidence as of the
highest importance :
262 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-Nov. 1946
1. " Evidence regarding the actual scope of the paranormal powers of
the living " through which " we might find in what degree purporting
survival evidence is a function of interpersonal activities attributable to the
living. Highly important in such an enterprise would be the discovery
of cases of collective veridical hallucinations occurring long after death,
hence pointing to the probability of activity on the part of the deceased
rather than to activities assignable to a group of living persons ". The
unsatisfactory state of the existing evidence for collective veridical impres-
sions has already been mentioned.
Attempts to devise experiments capable of distinguishing the sub-
liminal activities of the living from action by the discarnate encounter a
rather curious difficulty. The biologist experimenting with a rabbit can
usually be sure that he, and not the rabbit or some third party, is the
experimenter. The psychical researcher does not enjoy such certainty.
Nothing could apparently have been simpler than Verrall's One Horse
Dazcti experiment, {Proc, Vol. XX), but it developed so oddly as to
leave it still a matter of debate who was experimenting with whom : see
Proc, Vol. XXX, p. 75. Again, to diverge from experiment, for how
much of the " Sevens Case " {Proc, Vol. XXIV) was the ostensible
initiator, Mr Piddington, responsible? This is not written to discourage
experiment in a direction where it is badly needed, but to remind the
researcher of a difficulty peculiar to deep-level psychic experiment.
2. Dr Murphy writes :
Another type of evidence which would bear directly upon the problem
would be a type of mediumistic material in which a communicator
would assume the form under which he was known some time prior to
his decease, rather than the form in which he was known at the time of
his death. . . . The critical question is to find out by one means or
another whether contact is made retrocognitively with the diff"erent
periods of the communicator's life, or only with the personality as it was
at the end of life. If only the latter kind of evidence appears, the fact
must count against the retrocognition theory.
3. The third type of evidence, which seems to Dr Murphy the most
important, is where there is not only apparent purpose taking shape in
one communicator's mind after his death, but where, as in the Ear of
Dionysius case,
the communications make sense in terms of a plan worked out by them
[i.e. Butcher and Verrall] post-tnortem. If the reader will make the
attempt at a systematic interpretation of this case as expressing only the
subconscious paranormal activity of the living, he will find the task of
introducing Henry Butcher's part in the plot excruciatingly difficult.
Dr Murphy's field-theory will not, of course, find acceptance with those
who still reject telepathy, but the time has surely come when such persons
should be asked pointedly whether they have studied the evidence, and, if
so, whether they have judged it by the same standards as they would apply
to other manifestations of the human mind.
Others of his readers may feel disappointed that, of the great mass of
evidence often adduced in discussions on survival, so little is found to
t
OCT.-Nov. 1946 Reviews 263
pass Dr Murphy's sieve. But Dr Murphy's main object, if I understand
him. aright, is to point out promising Hnes for future enquiry : most
reasonable people in coming to a conclusion on a mass of evidence,
whether relating to survival or any other problem, first eliminate all that
seems to them factually unsound, or demonstrably beside the point :
they base their judgment on the whole residue, including much that is
susceptible of more than one interpretation, and make such adjustments
and allowances as they can for greater or lesser degrees of ambiguity.
In applying this process to the particular problem of survival, it is well to
bear in mind Mrs Sidgwick's observation {Proc, Vol. XLI, p. 26), " Con-
clusive proof of survival is notoriously difficult to obtain. But the evidence
may be such as to produce belief, even though it fall short of conclusive
proof.''
And here one notes the impartiality of Dr Murphy's sieve. Much of
the traditional argument on both sides of the survivalist controversy is
discarded. On the one hand much traditional evidence for survival fails
to pass his test as evidence for active survival. On the other hand the
supposed " antecedent improbability " of survival, based on the limitations
of the individual body, and sometimes alleged to be so strong as to negative
any evidence the survivalist could produce, is shown to be beside the
point. The evidence can now be judged on its merits, and that is in itself
a noteworthy advance.
Like any other field, the " psychic field " will need exploration, and it is to
be hoped that Dr Murphy will follow up these three articles by others
equally conducive to an understanding of what to many psychical research-
ers remains their central problem.
W. H. S.
REVIEWS
BucH DER Erinnerung. By Max Dessoir. Pp. VI 306. Stuttgart, 1946.
This book, which has been published by permission of the Military
Government in Germany, is not in any sense an autobiography. It is
rather a gathering together of memories and impressions which Dr Dessoir
has collected during a lifetime of almost eighty years. A philosopher,
psychologist and psychical researcher, Dessoir here brings together his
scattered thoughts, and the result must be of considerable interest to those
who wish to see how a trained mind regards men and affairs in the troubled
times in which we live.
During the war Dessoir seems to have lived quietly, although signs were
not lacking that at any moment he might disappear under the Nazi terror.
It was not until August 1943 that he left Berlin ; and in November of the
same year his house there was destroyed by bombs and fire under the
Allied attacks.
In reading the book the psychical researcher may pass over the author's
account of his early days and his description of the main trends in German
thought from 1890 until the First World War. He points out how the
desire for security, coupled with the longing for more absolute values,
dominated sections of the German population, and how they affected the
society of the period. The search for truth led the inquirer into strange
264 Journal of Society for Psychical Research OCT.-NOV. 1946
paths, and thus Dessoir himself became interested in parapsychology, and
above all in the personalities of those engaged in it. He was quick to
realise the personal ambitions of Schrenck-Notzing, and soon suspected
that the Munich sittings were social events rather than scientific investiga-
tions. The Baron's charm captivated his visitors, and with women his
success was immediate and striking.
After summing up the characteristics of Germany's most famous
psychical researcher, and passing over lightly such figures as Marion,
whom he puts in the same class as Hanussen, he turns to the leading
personalities in England. He was much attracted to Edmund Gurney, the
man with the " very blue-blue eyes ", not only from their mutual interest
in psychical research but also for their love of music. Podmore he found
gay and teasing, a striking contrast to the more serious Myers. In 1934
Dessoir found Mrs Sidgwick almost unchanged, and he recalls meeting
her in her London club. He describes her as incisive and clear-headed,
listening attentively to all that was said and adding her own comments
when she thought it desirable. As to Miss Newton, he soon summed her up
in one sentence. She was, he declares, the embodiment of competence and
reliability.
It is only when we come to Dessoir's judgment of his own contempor-
aries in Germany and Austria that we are somewhat disappointed. Apart
from a note on the bitter struggle between Schrenck-Notzing and his
fellow researchers, there is little regarding the critical school of such
writers as Rosenbusch and Klinckowstroem. Perhaps parapsychology
played too small a part in Dessoir's life for its details to be remembered ;
and it must not be forgotten that he was one of those who failed to be con-
vinced of the reality of much which had been shown to him. He was, it
appears, to remain a sceptic and as such we must leave him.
E. J. Dingwall
Der Begriff als Psychisches Erlebnis. By Dr Gustav Lebzeltern.
(Leykam, Graz-Wien. 1946).
This book is a brief contribution to the subject which the Germans call
Denkpsychologie, or Psychology of Thinking, and is a praiseworthy attempt
to revive and continue the work of the Kiilpe school. It has no direct
concern with paranormal phenomena ; but students of Telepathy may be
interested in the author's discussion of the relation between concepts and
images, though it appears to the reviewer that the part played by words in
" normal " conceptual cognition is somewhat underrated.
H. H. Price
PSYCHOKINESIS (PK).
'
Mr Denys Parsons, who is making a survey of the published work on PK,
appeals to members who have done any experiments in PK, however brief
or informal, to send a short account to him (2c Barter St., W.C. i). He
would be interested to have them, even if the results were negative. If
records taken at the time have been lost, he would be glad to have a brief
description of the conditions, number of dice, coins, etc., method of
throwing, and nature of the results.
JOURNAL OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH
December, 1946 Vol. XXXIII—No. 630
CONTENTS
PAGE
A Malvern Poltergeist, by Sir Ernest Bennett - - -
Report on some Card-guessing Experiments, by D. J. West
Report on the Questionnaire, by D. Parsons - - -
Review. Mr Harry Price's The End of Borley Rectory
Donations
265
267
270
271
272
A MALVERN POLTERGEIST
Towards the end of January 1942, while living in Oxford, I was invited
by the Secretary of the S.P.R. to investigate an alleged poltergeist case at
Malvern. I reached Malvern the same afternoon and interviewed a
number of persons who had witnessed various phenomena during recent
weeks. In view of the number and variety of the incidents and the brevity
of the time at my disposal—two days—I thought it best to concentrate
my attention on two or three of the more striking phenomena alleged to
have taken place. Two of these incidents I described in detail and
forwarded the report with the signatures of the witnesses and carefully
drawn plans, to the secretary of the S.P.R. As this report and nearly all
the papers connected with it were apparently mislaid, I venture to offer
for publication in the Journal a second account of one of these Malvern
experiences which I have been able to put together from the rough notes
of the original report which I have by chance discovered quite recently.
On reaching Malvern I was received with great kindness by Miss
Clancy, the occupier of the house in question. I spent an hour or two
walking about the house and seeing the particular places where the alleged
phenomena had occurred. After tea Miss Clancy was good enough to
call together nearly all the witnesses of the poltergeist happenings, in-
cluding a well-known doctor in West Malvern. First hand evidence, both
individual and collective, was forthcoming for alleged phenomena in
various parts of the house—most of them in full daylight—inexplicable
movements of various objects, cooking utensils, plates, dishes, brooms,
etc. I thought it best, as I have said, to concentrate on the evidence for
two striking incidents which had occurred in the kitchen and the pantry.
All the alleged phenomena had taken place during the presence in the
house of a Mrs Collins, one of the domestic staff, and ceased completely
when she subsequently left Miss Clancy's employment.
I give herewith a summary of what had taken place in the kitchen on a
recent occasion when Miss Clancy had called in a plumber in order to find
266 Journal of Society for P~sychical Research December, 1946
out whether by chance any arrangement of the pipes or of the large kitchen
range could contribute to vibrations in the kitchen which might help to
explain the frequent movement and fall of pots, pans, dishes, etc. The
plumber had entered the kitchen in good light accompanied by Miss
Clancy, Miss Marjorie Robins and Mrs Parry ; Mrs Collins and Miss
Woodhouse, two members of the kitchen staff, were already there. As the
plumber, Mr Lawday, was advancing towards the large kitchen range,
LARGE FIRE PLACE
Poker suspended
from nail
DRESSER
/bElectric
lamp
Mrs Collins
X
Y Lawday
(plumber)
X
; n
o
o
a.
X X X
Valerie
Ja)
now
Mrs
Marjorie
1
(MiS!
j.
M.
Clar
(Miss)
r
(Miss;
Parry
0
a-
0
n
Plumber's mate
X
n XL
DOOR
The witnesses were facing the fireplace on the opposite side of the
table. The plumber was advancing towards the fireplace. Mrs Collins,
the apparent centre and focus of these phenomena, was moving forward
at the end of the table.
which was faced by the other five persons, a poker suspended from a hook
to the right of the range, appeared to detach itself from the hook and
rose in the air, pass in a curving flight some ten or twelve feet long over
the top of the electric lamp suspended above the kitchen table and fell
point downwards on the edge of the table opposite to Mrs Collins ; it
dented the surface of the table and fell to the floor. This phenomenon was
witnessed therefore by six persons who appended their signatures to my
DECEMBER, 1 946 A Malvern Poltergeist 267
original account. The plumber's mate, advancing at that moment through
a door at the back of the kitchen, witnessed the occurrence, and subse-
quently added his signature to the statement.
The enclosed sketch makes the position of the witnesses, etc., clear.
I venture to think that this case is well worthy of record by the Society.
I am well acquainted with accounts of poltergeist happenings in our
Proceedings and Journal and I do not think we have a single case to equal
the one I have described as regards the quantity and quality of the evidence
and the good conditions existing at the time for clear observation. I have
in my time witnessed alleged poltergeist phenomena, usually of an
obviously fraudulent character or of dubious authenticity, but I find it
very difficult to suggest any normal explanation for this happening in the
Malvern kitchen. I may say that the plumber's investigation revealed no
possible solution of the mystery. The witnesses were completely baffled
and could only repeat the remark made by Dr Shakespeare of Malvern
about a similar phenomenon, witnessed by himself in the house, that
" seeing is believing ". The statements of later cases follow.
" On the last week of January 1942, about 2.30 p.m. in good light, we,
the undersigned, were present in the kitchen of Clarence Nursing Home,
Graham Road, Malvern, Worcs. While we were all facing the kitchen
range, the poker, suspended from a nail at the side of the range, detached
itself from the nail, and passed over the suspended electric lamp. It struck
the kitchen table point downwards near to Mrs Collins, and made a clearly
visible dent in the top of the table. It then fell down to the floor.
Signed :
Julie M. Clancy (A.R.R.S., S.R.N., C.M.B., Matron) ".
Identical statements have been obtained from Miss Marjorie Robins
(Sister), Mr Lawday, the plumber, Mrs Valerie Parry (formerly Miss Jay)
and Mr C. J. Ashwin (plumber's assistant). Mrs Collins and Miss Wood-
house signed my original report, but I have been unable to obtain fresh
signatures from them as their present whereabouts cannot be traced.
E. N. Bennett
REPORT ON SOME CARD-GUESSING EXPERIMENTS
WITH A PROMISING PERCIPIENT
D. J. West
Abstract : Guessing experiments with Zener cards in which Mr
F. W. Masham acted as percipient were reported to the Society as having
yielded positive results. A long series of card guesses was carried out at
the S.P.R. rooms with this percipient, but the results were entirely
consistent with the chance hypothesis.
In March 1944 a member of the Society reported the results of a short
series of Zener card trials with Mr F. W. Masham acting as percipient.
The trials were arranged in runs of 30, and two runs were performed on
each of three evenings. The experimenter and percipient were in their
respective houses. With watches synchronised by means of the B.B.C.
time signal the experimenter changed the target, and the percipient
recorded his guesses at |-minute intervals.
268 Journal of Society for Psychicai Research December, 1946
As originally reported, these distance trials with Masham were indicative
of genuinely positive scoring on the card two ahead—that is plus 2 displace-
ment such as was observed with Basil Shackleton. In Oct. 1946 the
original score sheets were given to the Research Officer, who checked the
figures and discovered a number of errors which greatly reduced the
significance of the observations. The corrected result was as follows :
Displacement Scores
Date - 2 - I 0 + I + 2 N
21/6/43 21 8 8 13 20 60
23/6/43 9 17 12 9 17 60
25/6/43 15 12 10 7 II 60
Total 45 37 30 29 48 180
Expt'n 34-8 35-4 36 35-4 34-8
C.R. + 1-93 + 0-30 - I -12 - I -20 + 2-5
Expt'n 176-4
C. R. + I -06
There remains some slight suggestion of an effect in the plus 2 and
minus 2 positions. Unfortunately, the target cards had not been governed
according to a shuffled pack or a prepared random sequence ;
they were
chosen mentally by the experimenter. An analysis was carried out to see
if there was any evidence that the plus 2 and minus 2 scores were due to
similar card preferences, or guessing habits in experimenter or percipient.
It was found that the chance expectations were not materially affected by
card preferences. (See Appendix I) ^.
In 1946 Mr Masham tried some informal guessing experiments working
alone in his own home. At first he thought he was getting some success,
but when he took certain precautions which I suggested the results
became entirely consistent with chance.
In June 1946 when guessing sessions began at the S.P.R. rooms, both
Mr Masham, who acted as a percipient, and the Research Officer, who
was experimenter and chief agent, were optimistically expecting good
results. Seemingly positive results had already been reported, and Mr
Masham thought he was getting results at home. The percipient was in fact
particularly keen and confident, feeling that it was only a matter of finding
the right conditions to enable him to work successfully. If positive
suggestion were productive of success we should have had excellent
results. , . •
jij, ! - •
'
.
1 The statistical analyses contained in the appendices to this report, being all
completely negative in their findings, are not printed in The Journal. They have
been placed in the Society's files, and may be consulted on application.
DECEMBER, 1 946 Report on Card-guessing Experiments 269
The first four sessions were devoted to working under telepathic
conditions with a counter machine h'ke that described by Mr Parsons^.
The result was: •
-
equals 1000. Expt'n equals 200. Obs. equals 206. (For full result
see Appendix II.)
.
In the rest of the series Zener card symbols were employed. As nothing
positive was obtained, it is scarcely necessary to describe the conditions
of each session. The scoring arrangements were always adequate. In
nearly all cases the targets were determined by a random sequence
prepared from 7-figure logs by the Research Officer. Most of the experi-
ments were witnessed. Full details are on record with the original score
sheets in the S.P.R. files.
The following table summarises the results :
TABLE SHOWING SCORE/EXPT'N
Date Agent N - 2 - I 0 + I + 2
30/7/46 D. J. W. 100 20/18-4 26/19-2 37/20 22/19-2 21/18-4
6/8/46 D. J. W. 500 86/92 108/96 103/100 101/96 91/92
7/8/46 D. J. W. 200 32/36-8 33/38-4 33/40 33/38-4 35/36-8
10/8/46 D. J. W. 75° 138/138 143/144 141/150 149/144 134/138
12/8/46 D. J. W. 450 85/82-8
*
91/86-4
*
95/90 90/86-4 82/82-8
13/8/46 D.J. W. 200 45/40 33/38-4 41/36-8
27/8/46 D. J. W. 500 * *
94/100 90/96 89/92
29/8/46 Misc. 700 117/128-8 116/134-4 1 4 1 / 1
40 151/134-4 146/128-8
3/9/46 D. Parsons 300 61/55-2 51/57-6 63/60 56/57-6 57/55-2
7/9/46 R. A. C. 500 85/92 107/96 91/100 90/96 95/92
7/9/46 D. J. W. 1 00 20/18-4 18/19-2 23/20 16/19-2 17/18-4
12/9/46 Misc. 700 126/128-8 145/134-4 156/140 136/134-4 123/128-8
17/9/46 (a) T. M. H. -SO 48/46 45/48 48/50 45/48 49/46
17/9/46 (b) ). M. H. 75 12/13 -8 iS/14-4 15/15 18/14-4 20/13-8
24/9/46 Perry 250 47/46 59/48 55/50 46/48 41/46
32/10/46 Perry 250 57/46 48/48 43/50 51/48 38/46
29/10/46 (a) T. M. H. 100 16/18-4 14/19-2 19/20 33/19-3 16/18-4
29/10/46 (b) ]. M. H. 75 19/13-8 12/14-4 13/15 17/14-4 I2/I3-8
Total 6000 969/975 1031/1018 1205/1200 1 166/1 153 1 107/1 104
* In these trials Masham was told the result of each guess, so retro-displacements
could not be counted.
The scores in this table show throughout a close agreement with chance
expectation. It was thought at first that it might be D. J. W. who was a
poor agent. On the sessions 29/8/46 and 12/9/46 members of the S.P.R.
Working Group acted as agents. There were seven agents, and each did
200 trials. On 24/9/46 and 22/10/46 250 trials were carried out with the
best scoring agent from the Working Group. On 3/9/46 and 7/9/46 two
more agents were tried. On 17/9/46 and 29/10/46 the agent who had
reported the 1943 results tried to reproduce his earlier successes. In the
subdivisions of these sessions marked {b) agent and percipient were on
separate floors, and the guesses were made at ^-minute intervals, in order
to simulate as closely as possible the circumstances of the 1943 experiment.
None of the agents succeeded in producing any positive results.
^ Proc. S.P.R. xlviii, 27. • ' '
'
'
270 Journal of Society for Psychical Research December, 1946
In some sessions the speed of guessing was varied, but with no effect on
the results. It was suggested that D. J. W. might be exerting an inhibiting
influence, but on certain occasions (e.g. session 22/10/46) when he deUber-
ately absented himself, results were still chance.
It is difficult to say without very careful examination that there is no
extra-chance effect in a given set of data. Dr Rhine and his collaborators
have recorded so many effects (decline, salience, non-random success
distribution, etc.) which might not reveal themselves in a table of gross
scores. Mr Masham preserved his confidence that some sort of result
would be discovered until very near the end of the experiment. Appen-
dices III onwards show the results of analyses for some of the effects that
have been attributed to E.S.P. They are all completely negative.
If we are to draw any conclusion from this disappointing experiment
it is that a person who does not possess the aptitude for card guessing
cannot produce results, no matter how confident he and the experimenters
may be, and no matter who acts as agent.
The fact that such a large body of data conforms so well to chance
expectation in all respects, is in some measure an empirical check on the
validity of the statistical analyses employed. That card guessing methods
do produce consistent chance scores, makes the consistent extra-chance
scores observed in Basil Shackleton and others all the more convincing.
Before closing, I must record my great indebtedness to Mr Masham
for his patient co-operation and many helpful suggestions.
REPORT ON THE QUESTIONNAIRE
The 185 replies to the questionnaire sent to members in February 1946
have now been analysed. Our thanks are due to a member, Mrs H.
Sendall, who undertook this work.
Questions i and 2 referred to the times of meetings. Mid-week
evenings not earlier than 6.30 seemed to be the choice of the majority.
Question 3 showed that lectures and discussions were almost equally
popular.
Question 4 asked members to suggest subjects for lectures or discussions.
A large number of suggestions were made ranging from Black Magic,
Yoga, and Symbolism, to Apports, Telekinesis, Survival, and Statistics,
and efforts will be made to arrange talks on many of the subjects suggested.
Question 5 asked members to state which branches of psychical research
interested them most. The voting is interesting : Telepathy (115 votes),
Precognition (106), Clairvoyance (99), Communications from the Dead
(91), Psychological Aspects (90), Experimental E.S.P. (78), Medical
Aspects (73), Apparitions and Visions (72), Hauntings (62), Physical
Phenomena (61), Hypnotism (54), Automatic Writing (50), Poltergeists
(48), Spirit Photography (27).
Answers to Question 6 showed that many members had had personal
experience of one or more of the above branches of psychical research.
DECEMBER, 1 946 Report on the Questionnaire 271
Question 7 asked : Would you like to assist in the formation of a
London Group for
{a) The study of mediumship ?
{b) Experimental E.S. P.?
(c) Any other experimental work?
The names of 80 members who replied have been carefully noted and
they will be informed as soon as it is possible to organise groups. Some
members suggested subjects for investigation.
Question 8 asked for details of specialised training possessed by
members. The information given in the replies will be extremely useful
to the Research Officer.
In Question 9 an offer was made to supply a leaflet recommending a
method of annotating and appraising the material obtained at sittings.
This leaflet is now being prepared by a special committee.
Question 12 asked if members would be willing to participate in postal
E.S. P. experiments. 114 members answered affirmatively. If any
member is willing to organise postal experiments, would he communicate
with the Research Officer, who has made a note of these names?
Question 13 asked for volunteers to read and collate printed material.
The response was very gratifying, and the 72 volunteers have been
carefully noted.
Question 14 asked for the names of local groups or societies who would
like to have a lecture on psychical research. Four names were received
and probably others will come in from time to time. The Council will
make every effort to meet the demand.
Question 15 invited further suggestions and many were received on
many subjects : they are being carefully considered. There is evidently
a wish in many places for the formation of local groups. The increasing
membership and the circulation of the printed list of members should
make it easier for members to get in touch with each other in the districts
where they live. Such groups might be of the greatest help in investigating
phenomena in localities which it would be difficult for the Research Officer
to visit.
D. Parsons
REVIEW
The End of Borley Rectory. By Harry Price. Pp. 358. London :
George G. Harrap & Co., 1946.
Mr Harry Price has produced yet another very lively and readable
book about Borley Rectory. As might be expected the book is illustrated
with a large number of excellent photographs and plans. There is also a
preface in which handsome acknowledgment is made to a large number of
distinguished persons who have in some way or other been connected
with the Borley literature and have, in a few instances, taken a useful part
in investigating the phenomena. Among these latter, honourable mention
must be made of Dr A. J. B. Robertson who with a party of Cambridge
friends made careful observations at various times between the fire in 1939
272 Jotmial of Society for Psychical Research December, 1946
and the demolition of the Rectory in 1944. Dr Robertson, it will be
remembered, read a paper on his observations at a meeting of the Society
in November 1944, and a summary of it was printed in the January-
February issue of the Journal for 1945. Another important document is
the letter printed on pp. 99 and 100 from Mr P. Shaw Jeffrey, M.A. (Oxon)
from Cape Town. He explains that he was a contemporary of Harry Bull
at Oxford and in the Long Vacation used to stay with him at Borley, being
there in 1885 and 1886. The Bull family was extremely numerous,
consisting, according to Mr Jeffrey's recollection, of seventeen, but
according to statements of members of the family, fourteen children.
" There were so many that they went about in cliques and the different
cliques were only dimly aware of each other." Harry and three others
whom he names formed his clique. " I had lots of small adventures at the
Rectory. Stones falling about, my boots found on top of the wardrobe,
etc., etc., and I saw the nun several times and often heard the coach go
clattering by. But the big adventure that would have been worth your
while recording was one time when I missed a big French dictionary
which I had been regularly using for some days. Nobody could find it,
but one night I was awakened by a big bump on the floor, and there was
the dictionary (after I had lit my candle), with its back a good deal knocked
about, sprawling on the floor. My bedroom door was /orfo-^/. " Mr Jeffrey
also describes a very startling incident of a poltergeist nature which he
witnessed in the company of Harry Bull at a neighbouring rectory where
an uncle of Harry Bull's lived.
It is obvious that a large house in the depths of the country, inhabited
by a crowd of young people divided into cliques only dimly aware of the
other cliques' doings, provided exactly the right stage for mysteries and
hoaxes of every description. Mr Jeffrey's letter furnishes evidence, which
was not available when I reviewed The Most Haunted House in England
in 1940, that there was a tradition for poltergeist phenomena as well as
apparitions going back as far as the Rev. Henry Bull's incumbency.
But neither Mr Jeffrey's letter nor Dr Robertson's observations can
diminish our regret that Mr Price took so little advantage of the oppor-
tunities afforded by " the most haunted house in England " to share the
investigation of the house while it was still standing with other researchers
whose: training in that particular line of enquiry might fairly have been
considered sufficient to justify their being invited.
W. H. S.
DONATIONS
The Council acknowledge with the warmest thanks the following
generous gifts :
—
Lord Rayleigh, - 1,000 " '
'
Mrs Wenberg, - £25
,, Mrs Millard, - ^98 14s. id. Anonymous - -
£5
INDEX TO VOL. XXXIII
1943-1946
For the sake of brevity such quahfications as " supposed ",
" alleged ", etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however,
be understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and
does not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entry
is in fact real or genuine.
Alvey, Miss, 156
Apparitions, evidence for, 162 ;
theory of, 252-3
Association Theory, 130-1, 163
Automatism, Cases of : Cummins,
69-70, 126-30 ;
Watsoii, 236-9 ;
West, 54-5
Balfour, Gerald William, 2nd Earl
of, obituary, 99
Baynes, Dr FI. Godwin, obituary, 26
Barlow, P., 203-4
Barrett, Lady, obituary, 166
Bendit, Dr L. J., M.D. Thesis, 27,
47, and Mrs Bendit, 122-4, 171-2
Bennett, Sir Ernest, 265-7
Besterman, Theodore, 113
Books, for Forces, 7 ; for Inter-
Allied Book Centre, 99
Borley Rectory Poltergeist, 107-10,
271-2
Bosanquet, Miss T., co-optation to
Council, 126
Broad, Professor C. D., Case con-
tributed by, 88-90
Broadcast E.S.P. Experiments, 216-9,
250-2
Burman, P., loi , 1 14
Carington, W. Whately, 40, 79-80,
84-5>93-4, 130-1
Cases :
" Two Dreams Apparently
Conveying Paranormal Impres-
sions ", 27-30 ;
" A Haunted
House ", 34-40, 95, 112-3 ;
" An
'
Out-of-the-Body '
Experience ",
58-60 ;
" Apparition ", (death
coincidence) 72-4 ;
" An Ap-
parently Precognitive Incident
in a Dream Sequence ", 88-90 ;
" Some Recent Investigations into
Borley Rectory ",107-10 ;
" Miss
Cummins's Case ", (automatic
script) 126-30 ;
" A Hallucination
Including a Veridical Element
160-1 ; "A Prediction of Illness ",
* 177-9 ; "An '
Out-of-the-Body
'
Experience ", 179 ; Richter Pol-
tergeist Case, 182-3 Poltergeist,
224-30 ;
Telepathic Dream, 230-
2 ; Veridical messages (automatic
writing), 236-9 ;
" A recognised
apparition seen by two per-
cipients ", 239-42 ; Prevision of
disaster, 254-6 : "A Malvern
Poltergeist," 265-7
Cases, standard of evidence in, 95-6,
112-3
Census of Hallucinations, criticism
of the, 162 ;
proposed repetition
of the, 105
" Cleophas ", Scripts of, 69-70
Collins, B. Abdy, 177-8
Combined Index, Proceedings and
Journal, 47, 105, 188
Communications, Cummins, 69-70,
126-30 ;
Leonard, 134-56, 168
Cranston, John A., 176-7
Cunyngham, Mrs Dick, 72-4
Dingwall, Dr E. J., 94-5, 186, 202-3,
248, 263-4
Displacement Effect in guessing ex-
periments, 52-4
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile,
resignation from Council, 98
hidex to Vol. XXXIII
Dreams, Paranormal, Cases of, 27-
30, 88-90
Duddington, Dr A. E., Case of, 179
Dutch S.P.R., 159-60
Eeman, L. E., 101
E)xperiments in : card guessing, 18-
22, 256, 267-70 ; card guessing,
sensitivity of, 91-2, 110-2, 124 ;
the paranormal cognition of draw-
ings, 2, 84-5, 250-2 ; the precog-
nitive cognition of drawings, 2,
42 ;
precognitive telepathy, 3, 42,
55-6, 62-7 ;
psycho-kinesis, 30-2,
42, 264 ; the relief of pain, 2, 8,
I 01, 194-200
Extra-Sensory Perception : appara-
tus for testing, 10 1, 124 ; effects
of in card guefesing results, 21-2,
51-4, 74-6, 132, 163 ;
experi-
mental evidence, 162-3 ; fallacies
in a criticism of the assessment of,
76-9, 92-3 ; nature of, 12-3, 68-9 ;
radio experiments, 216-9, 250-2
Fairbairn, Miss Joyce, 171
" Feda ", 134-56
Fletcher, Dr I., 224-30
Gatty, Mrs Oliver, co-optation to
Council, 126
Gatty, Mrs Richard, 160-1
Gibbes, Miss, 126-30
Goldney, Mrs K. M., 3, 42, 55-6, 65,
67,80-1 ;
co-optation to Council, 7
Goligher Circle, The, 131-2
Hallucination, including a veridical
element, 160-1
Harrison, J. M., 62-5, 114
Haunted House, case of, 34-40, 95,
1 12-3
Hauntings, 212-4 ;
theory of, 222-4
Heisenberg's Principle, 121, 171,
175-6
Hellenic S.P.R., 159
Heywood, Mrs F., 112-3 ; co-
optation to Council, 174, 188, 207
Hodgson, K. W., Case contributed
by, 254-6
Home, D. D., 186
Howell Smith, A. D., 69-70
Identity, evidence of, 176-7 ;
in
Lodge communications, 1 50-
1
Jackson, F., 1 14
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., resignation
from Council, 98, 100
" Kenwood ", Mr, 58-60
Kirk-Duncan, Rev. V. G., Ph.D.
award, 120
Knight, Mrs, 34-40
Knowles, Frederick, 2, 8, loi, 194-
200
Lafitte-Cyon; MmeF., 116-9, 200-1
Lane, Mrs M., Case contributed by,
230-2.
Layard, Dr John, 79-84, 93-6, 113-5
Leonard, Mrs O., communications
through, 134-56, 168, 170-1
Leverhulme Research Fellowship, 40
Lewis, Mrs Hugh, 130-1
Lodge, Sir Oliver, purporting com-
munications from., 134-56, 170-1
Lyttelton, Dame Edith, 184
Masham, F. W., Percipient in E.S.P.
experiment, 267-70
McWharrie, Neil Matheson, obi-
tuary, 58
Medhurst, G., 114
Mediumship, evidence for, 164 ;
reflections on, 166-9, 200-1
Mitchell, Dr T. W., 68-9; obituary, 99
Mulholland, John, 77-9
Multiple-determined guesses, 65
Murphy, Dr Gardner, on survival,
256-63
Myers, L. H., obituary, 58
Nathan, Lawrence, case, 27-30
Nazism and psychical research, 159
Negative deviation, 74-6
Newton, Miss L, resignation from
Council, 100
Nisbet, B., 222-4
Oesterreich, Professor T. K., 166
Oman, Professor Sir Charles, 208-16
Oxford Phantasmological Society,
208-16
Ozanne, Charles E., gift to the
S.P.R.,27
Paranormal Awareness, The Nature
of, 12-3
Parsons, D. A. H., 43, 84-5, loi, 1 14,
188, 264, 270-1 ;
co-optation to
Council, 126, 207
Index to I
Physical theory of life, 242-3
Poltergeists, 179-83 ;
Borley Case,
107-10, 271-2 ; Malvern Case,
265-7 ; Richter Case, 182-3 !
White Case, 224-30
Poltergeists, Psi Phenomena and,
79-84. 93-6, 113-5, 202-3
Precognition, Cases of, 88-90, 177-9
Precognition and the Uncertainty
Principle, 121-2
Price, Professor H. H., 12-3
Psychical Research, recognition of,
27.40.47>i20
Psychic Phenomena, The Reality of,
161-4
Psycho-kinesis, 30-2, 42, 163, 247,
264
Psychological approach to psychical
research, 122-4, 171-2
Quantitative and Qualitative Meth-
ods of Research, 60-2
'.
XXXIII 275
Schrodinger, E., What is Life?
242-3
White, S. E., The Betty Book,
184, 201-2
Reviews. Pamphlets and Periodicals :
British Journal of Medical
Psychology, 86
British Journal of Psychology, 15
Hibbert Journal, 32
Journal of the American S.P.R.,
56,^256-63
Journal of Parapsychology, 16,
30-2
Proceedings of the American
S.P.R., 84-5^
Richmond, Kenneth, 1-2, 15-6,
29-32, 56, 86 ;
appointment as
Secretary, 100 ;
Memorial, 248 ;
Obituary, 174, 193-4
Robertson, A. J. B., 107-10
Russell, William, comments on a
paper by, 52-4
Radclj^e Hall, Miss, obituary, 26
Redmayne, G., 124 ;
appointment to
Council, 118
Reincarnation, 137-8, 150, 170-1
Reviews. Books :
Baird, A. T., One Hundred Cases
for Survival, 40
Bazett, M., Beyond the Five
Senses, 244-7
Bendit, Dr L. J., Paranormal
Cognition, 68-9
Cummins, Geraldine, After
Pentecost, 69-70
Dessoir, M., Buch der Erin-
nerung, 263-4
Gardner, E. L., Fairies, 303-4
Hamilton, T. Glen, M.D.,
Intuition and Survival, 15
Harding, R. E. M., Ph.D., The
Anatomy of Inspiration, 13-5
Hole, Christina, Witchcraft in
England, 185
Kaulback, A. M., What Lies
Beyond? 24
Keith, C. C, The Dawn of a
Nez'j Day, 172
Lebzeltem, Dr G., Der Begriff
als Psychishes Erlebnis, 264
Payne, Phoebe, and Bendit,
L. J., The Psychic Sense, 23-4
Price, Harry, Poltergeist over
England, 179-83 ; The End of
Borley Rectory, zy 1-2
Salience, Terminal, 132
Salter, W. H., 13-5, 52, 170-1,- 172,
256-63, 271-2
Saltmarsh, H. P., obituary, 1
1
Sassoon, Mrs Siegfried, 160
Sceptic, on psychic phenomena,
161-4
Sensitivity of Card-guessing experi-
ments, 91-2, 110-2, 114
Shackleton, Basil (B.S.), 3, 42, 53,
63-5. 74-6, 187, 252-3
Soal, S. G., 3, 42, 52-4, 55.-6, 66,
74-6, 187,216-9; D. Sc. award, 120
Society for Psychical Research :
Accounts, 1942, 4 flf., 1943, 44 ff.,
1944, 102 fl'., 1945, 190 ff.
Appointments, 10, 51, 100, 158,
188,235
Committees, Membership of, 10-
I, 47, 51, "9, 207
Council, co-optations and ap-
pointmenrs, 7, 98, 118, 126,
174, 188, 207 ; deaths and
resignations, 98, 99, 100, 188
Gifts to the S.P.R., 26-7, 98, 272
Journal, changes in, 174-5, 204,
248
Library, 7, 47, 106, i8g
Meetings: Annual General, 11,
51-2, 1 19-20, 208
Council, I, 10, 17-8, 33, 50-1,
87-8, 98, 118, 126, 158, 186,
206, 235, 250
276 Index to Vol. XXXIlI
Discussion, 8, 43, 72, 88, 99,
105, 126, 187, 208, 248, 249
General, 159, 248
Private, 18, 34, 52, 88, 99, 105,
126, 207, 221, 233, 249, 250
Membership, 7, 47, 106, 189
Myers Memorial Lectures, 3, 174
Publications, 7, 48, 106, 189
Publicity Pamphlet, 174, 188, 248
Questionnaire to Members, 220,
270-1
Reports, Annual, for 1942, i ff. ;
for 1943, 42 ff. ; for 1944,
99 ff. ; for 1945, 187 ff.
Research, 1-3, 42, loo-i, 105, 187,
256
Research Olficer, 221, 235, 256
Working Group, 43, loi
Solovovo, Count Perovsky-Petrovo-,
179-183
Speech, characteristic of Sir O.
Lodge, 148-50
Spirit Body, 136-48
Statistics, use of in psychical re-
search, 60-1
Sur\-ival, Evidence for, 256-63
Swinscow, Dr D., Case reported by,
239-2
Tanagras, Dr A., 120, 159
Telepathy hypothesis of medium-
ship, 167-9
Tenhaeff, Dr, 159-60
Thomas, Rev. C. D., 24, 40, 134-56,
244-7
Thouless, Dr R. LI., 15, 82-3, 92,
1 10-2, 175-6, 248; re-elected
President, 10, 51
Tyrrell, G. N. Pvl., 23-4, 34-40, 60-2,
112 ;
appointment to Council, 98 ;
elected President, 119, 188, 207
Uncertainty Principle and Precog-
nition, 121-2, 171, 175-6
Wales, Hubert, obituary, 26
Welsh, C, 200
West, D. J., 18-22, 54-5, 77-9^, 92-3,
114, 161-4, 171-2, 184, 185, 207,
221, 250-2, 267-70 ;
appointment
—as Hon. Asst. Sec, 158 ; as
Research Officer, 235 ; co-
optation to Council, 126
Wiesner, Dr B. P., 83-4, 248
Wilson, Dr A. J. C, 91-2, 110-2,
242-3
Wilson, Percy, 178-9
Wilson, Richard, 12 1-2, 132, 171
Zorab, G., 160 ,
,
