{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__anonymous___history_of_a_female_somnambulist.pdf","mytitle":"History Of A Female Somnambulist","mylang":"de"}
JO F R N K Y 9
' IN T O T N K
MOON. SEV ER A L P L A N E T S AND I'lli.
HISTORY OF A
i y m a l r
S O M N A M B T L I S T
OF \VE I L H KIM ON JIIK I I OK, IN ( H I * I s «. Ij^ M
W Ü E H T E M B E K G , IN T H E Y EA RS 18.^2 AND 18SS
A H O O K ,
In which all persons willfind important 4b#cA turet, c#*.
cerning theirfate hereafter.
Translated. as literally as possible, for thf /
■ M
. * \ r
. ; • > • -
the original, in Gentian, which v... • j.ti J b) *
- ~ - daily eyr-witness, and friend of truth.
T H E HIGHER REVELATION^
Copy-right secured, according to Lau?
PRINTED AT NO. 270 NORTH SECOND S|h I i ,
VOLLMER AND IIA OGI SM V
CIt *..
1837.
#
V
#
I tnank thoe, O ’. Father, L o rd of H ea ven and E a tth ,
mat thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent,
and hast revealed them unto babes : even so, Father fo r
*t seemed in thy sights L u k e 10, 21.
For it is w ritte n : I will destroy the wisdom o f the
v. taef and will bring to nothing the understanding o f the
prudent. 1 Cor. 1, 19.
(Isaiah 29, 14.)
R E F E R E N C E S .
Fag* 2. I L of St. stands for Richard of Stuttgardt.
- 7. Dr. t>. o f K . stands for Dr. Osterlein o fK irc h -
heim.
— 9. D r. H . >f G . stands for l)r . Hartman o f Goep-
pingcn.
— 52. Dr. A, o f K. stands lor D i. Abele oi Kirchheim
I
INDEX.
I
Introduction,
Birth of Juvenile years,
Commencement o f the state of Somnambulism, first
appearance e f a guide,
Fourth visit o f this guide,
First and second Journey, - -
First Journey to the unhappy,
Second Journey to the unhappy,
Third Journey to the unhappy,
First Journey into the Moon,
Second Journey into the Moon,
Third Journey into the Moon,
Fourth Journey into the Moon,
First Journey into Mercury,
Second Journey into Mercury,
Third Journey into Mercury,
Fourth Journey into Mercury,
Visits o f the guides and consecra
Journevs, -
First Journey into Venus,
Second Journey into Venus,
Third Journey into Venus,
Fourth Journey into Venus,
Fifth Journey into Venus,
Sixth Journey into Venus,
Seventh Journey into Venus,
First Journey into Jupiter,
Second Journey into Jupiter,
Occurrences after the Second Jou
Jupiter,
Third Journey into Jupiter, '
Occurrences after this Journey,
Fourth Journey into Jupiter,
Occurrences after this Journey
Fifth journey into Jupiter,
Occurrences after this Journey,
Sixth Journey into Jupiter,
Occurrences after this Journey,
!
tion for higher -
rney into
wwenth Journey into Jupiter, -
Page.
1
5
8
10
* 11
IS
IS
14
17
19
23
25
27
SO
54
41
50
52
54
58
60'
63
69
73
76
78
81
S4
91
92
96
98
101
102
104
105
I V
Occurrence« after this Journey,
Eighth Journey into Jupiter*
Occui»entts at ui this Journey,
First Journey into Ceres, - -
Second Journev into Ceres,
1'hird Journev into Ceres,
Occurrences after this Journev,
Fourth Journey into Ceres, - '■ ■
Fifth Journey into Ceres,
Sixth Journev into Ceres,
Seventh Journey into Ceres, -
Eighth Journey into Ceres, - . *
* -
Occurrences after this Journey,
Ninth Journey into Ceres, - -
T enth Journev into Ceres, - -
1
9 -—*
Eleventh Journev info Ceres, - -
Twelfth Journey into Ceres, -
Occurrences after this Journey, and Consecration
for the Journeys to Saturn and Uranus,
«
JourBf'slnto Saturn and Uranus,
Occurrences during the last Journeys to Uranus,
Consecration for the Journeys to the Sun,
Tirfct Journey into the Sun,
Second Journev into the Sun, -
Third J o u r n e v into the Sun, - -
Continuation of the Journeys into the Sun,
Fourth Journev into the Sun, - - -
Fifth Journey into the Sun,
Si xth and Seventh Journeys into the Sun,
Ei -hth and Ninth Journeys into the Sun,
T e nth, Eleventh, Twelfth and Fourteenth Jour­
neys into the Sun,
Fifteenth, Sixteenth Seventeenth arid Eighteenth
Journey into the Sun,
Consecration for the Journeys into the New -
Jerusalem,
Journeys tnto the New Jerusalem*
m
Conclusion,
io r
108
112
114
118
123
125
127
131
134
139
142
144
145
150
153
156
158
162
165
169
178
182
187
188
188
189
190
190
191
193
196
202
INTRODUCTION.
N ot without interest will the honored reader of this
book remark the wonderful occurrences to a maiden.- -
which, as the following relation of her life will prove—
were caused neither by excitement o f mind, nor the day­
dreams o f an overwraught imagination, but solely the
effect o f a feeble system o f the nerves; by means of
which the girl was transported into a periodical state of
Somnambulism. In such a magnetic situation her spirit
each time rose from the Earth into higher regions, and
was enabled to see things, which remain concealed to the
terrestrial e y e !— In this manner the scenes are brought
before the proper reader, from the hitherto unknown em ­
pire of spirits in those worlds, that glisten on the firma­
ment.
This faculty o f second-sight is founded on no kind o f
illusion, & still less fraud; men of credibility come forward
as unexceptionable witnesses, and if they should not suf ­
fice, there are a number o f such indubitable examples re­
corded in History.
Supported by the opinion of former phisiologists, Dr.
W e b e r of Dillingen, (director of the Royal Lyceum and
Professor of Medicine, and subsequently Dean o f the C a­
thedral at Augsburg) has in more recent times, also said
a word on the subject o f “ S o m n a m b u lis m in the third
chapter of his pamphlet, which appeared atLandshut (in
1816) entitled: “ A n im a l M agn etism , or the M\js~
terics o f Human L ife .”
Important and remarkable notices on those, possessing
the faculty of second-sight, have been adduced by W e
r % *
4 w otl, entitled: Magnetism and the Lari-
__ lh ( ( riiv ers r^ * published ill 1822«
9 the acntiment# expressed by Professor E sch en -
I j . _• ’ he 24lli of November, 1832, and
t 4 * # i Janoarv, 1833 were, is communicated to the ho­
mored reader to hi« following two letters:
O
I.
“ I rejoice very much, that ?ou g iv e me some particu­
lar# rc • e * » ’ 1e * t..* • <d M; :i:eti?m , in which the youn^
%
. h .• _ ’ ■ . *!» aers* A at present. U nd oubt-
edit i* eh:« a c .<• • f \o!u;.tary Somnambulism, combined
with i f f o m l - M , ' f , v. h t!«.es not seldom occur to girls,
tVi* h.,%
-• . . ■
: t < r rg e o/ de\ elopem ent: M e -
thA (r»i» in*u •»liter n y lo n s or planets, c/oes sometimes
h«p;H*n *n *u I 1 ' Particularly was this the case
* * ■
: .mbuli*t R ................... in St : . . . .
■ h© iit-d magnetically by M r. S o licitin g , Coun*
•■
r
” * «>! M . : •*. All these persons, placed in some
decree in*o a »'’ate o f second-seeing, allege that, they have
a Cuidr or . i.r.i g e l, v ho informs them of all things,
+ 1 r l, thrv cannot know themselves.
M * . •, o '- v. n from my own extensive experience
with Somnair.bulii . s as follows:
1. I .#*a\ c t e aflair entirely its own course, as it mar
des • . - :: Keep oil all useless intruders, who ge-
neratlr ir.t- i: •«!>' e but to disturb, and procrastinate the
euro. \ r! itself would take place.
\ \t,k *: -
• ^ nnambulist, each time that she is placed
id a ot x cumf-seeing, whether she cannot indicate
zr. \ mrar.s. t at might be salutary to her? Those pre­
scriptions given by herself, must then be accurately Ibl-
toitrd soil f i l l certainly effect a cure. Other medical ,
■»cans are generally superfluous.
Record every thing accurately that may happen in
each tine f when she is in a state o f Somnambulism, and
be caref ul (hat she may not be interrupted by useless ques-
tion«, except it be that the Somnambulist had permitted
questions to be put to her.
4. ,]l this person should be able to bear ff magnetic
treaimcrt, r’.e will no doubt also be able to name him
3
who is to administer the same to her, and i > *:><t*:*'• • i ••
method, agreeably to which the treatment i§ to be eflr
ed. But he woufd have to be jpreviotl»!/ told» ih il he
must neither spare time nor trouble, in *h■
* 1• hi-
ment t>fher injunctions. I know it from no own
perience, that it requires uncommon rxerimn--
has not time to devote himself there!", had hotter not
mind the whole concern; for, when on* ■
* h. _ m. ‘ ( -,,Ti
be interrupted, without the greatest injury t » ' • ■»1 d.
Cheerfully would [ convince iny-elf ol the rh.va*trr
of the Somnambulism of this person, but m\ . d ‘ hu
for sometime has been very frail. <
1 >
■ ' 1'!; ’ ,t,r*
at this season of the year, to undertake the j ■1
' • •
ir.
“ I have received your two last Ic ier*,
toms, mentioned in your second let'er, are i ' **
many respects. As it respects the ina.iv r / *. ■l
which you complain, you must disregard them, he a ue
the incredulity and silliness of mankind ar ; n<»( ' a •
tered. Only then can such reports be avoid« I. i
be refused to such people, and such a pers »n b • m ig**•
without attracting notice. A t the time, when I m
tised the tsvo Somnambulists here, th it wen* my p .‘ ¡«
none were permitted to be present, except t • • «
and their relations, and hence it happened, tit it b> t
Somnambulists recovered without hindrance, on 1. •
day, they had at first predicted. I f this rule he not ob •
served, interruptions often occur, which procra->i:;ia:.r
the matter and render it very embarrassing.
Magnetism ought to be considered as a n - w 1 . 1
not as an instrument, whereby to explore »'lira il >:•*
things. The symptoms are not miraculous, but" dy «••. -
traordinary, because they do not* happen to a p - • i
when awake. The Phenomena, of which you writ-, j
have generally observed on those &ninnamlni! w , >
were my patients; but in the female one, at \\ emsbeig,
I saw them most strongly exhibited, ¿kc.
The history, so long since universally expected «.
many, is now submitted to an honored public; it is ce* .
—--w —
-----— *«»
introduced a*
lied by \ier-
i - v ;..... :," v; oruer that the words
f'«* •»««*-- «d and rendered indiscernablc.
>
“» • » * —. ,n P“Wi»!iiog this book to have yielded
* '" * ' °r
f du,-
v-. n**1 »o keep the rerelatwas tl.erein,
t l f ! f r f l m t l . » V J _
_
_
_- r A
t_
_
_
_
_ I . . >
-VO A H *S D O V E .
( A F a ra U e.)
*Noah once hi* Dove did fe
e
nd,
*1o teek toe land of faith,
t ok nourn. in d i V a ’it ocean
He ol a Raven tint U«e trial made,
WttAie keen eve-sight,
Ac know tedded was, by all,
But ah! his flight was deep and slow!
**No.v ii the oid, experienced seeker
••Hijjn 'jp ¡n z.r. cannot himself maintain,
*•»/ in rr hut ♦!,<* eye, tiie aim can see,
- I .e f alcon bold to tJ
y mav try,
••lie knows appearance well, and anticipation
*•11 L.-aUtty arc, and deceiving;,
•*liis ¡id ri is quite toe source ot recognition.”
11tjh d:d he raise himself* c
\.d mf-ved around in narrow circle-*,
t empaling. doubting, thinking free;
H i' « , n returned to prove quite clear,
l o hope lor land would be illusion,
H i e Crane now bad his fiijrht begun,
Ar.d much was hoped, that he the land would sec
1he clouds he pierced with strong desire,
But certainty he did not bring;
Alarm now spread, and tears flew,
.1
The feeble now to doubt began;
When a meek*eyed Dove with resolution,
On wing arose to heavenly sphere*.
To save the crew, anti her com
iji .• . . ■
,
From deep di-tres!*. and fal-e opinion.
She sought, discerning through the gb»o’iiy t;; •.
The looked-for 1¿and, bright wi»h .fur ra t ra\«,
Arid that sweet Olive tree— of Peace th t•/
-.m % , - r .
Eternal— reaching high above all minor thing«
A twig of this she plucked,
And brought it back to those,
That metner with loud acclamation«,
When humbly she laid it down on the Aliat’ n ; *:
The Falcon with his crooked bill,
And bloated up with pedantry,
Defies the message as a fable,
The Crane does sigh, the Haven scold;
But Noah’ s glance commands their -dene'-,
And bids the pious Dove draw nigh:
“ Behold the Pure God a, his witness choset,
“ And shows Humility herpath;
“ W ould you the I aiyuI o
J Faith descry,
Obedience vou must learn and Tra-A in Hem to."
*
BIRTH AND JUVENILE YEARS.
Pau lu e Doratiiea Beuealt, was born at Weil
heirn in the year 18JG, on the 2nd of Juri", as on the
holy festival of W hitsun-tide. She was in her childhood
always somewhat weakly, but not to say sickly ; in the
fifth and sixth yearsof her age, she suffered much in re­
spect to her eyes, and for a considerable length of tim«,
received the medical attendance of the Oceimt, Doctor
Schrag, who at presentresides in Schorndorf, and with
I the help of God, was fuljy restored.
I d her days of childhood, she exhibited no particular ta­
lents; her faculties to learn were quite mediocre, reading
and writing which she understood well, hut a-» to sing
ing she never had any talent.— Female companions and
6
HMreements she never was very fond of, nor had sh
an inclination for dissipation; but for all that was reli-
g ous, die imiforinl v showed a particular predilection.
After passing her school years, she remained always
in the house of her parents, nor had she during that time,
(constantly) a female companion.
Every diversion, of which dancing formed a part, she
always loathed. In her thirteenth year, she was once
sent to a marriage feast, which took place at a distance
of an hour's walk, from there. This was done for the
purpose of giving her a little pleasure, but before three
hours had elapsed, she bad already returned. W h e n she
came back to her borne, she said:
“ They also in\ited me to dance, but T refused; I must
say that it quite disgusted me, and I rejoiced from the
bottom of my soul, when I had left the turmoil. How
can people be so mad! I will but tell you, that you must,
neither here, nor elsewhere, send me to another wed­
ding.”
She too has kept her word, for to this hour, she could
not be persuaded to go to another wedding.
v ie devoted herself most faithfully to domestic af-
fa ii sf and shewed in all great dexterity. A t the age of wo­
manhood, she arrived already in her 15th year.
Public worship she attended very diligently, after
which she usually staid at home, and passed her time in
reading ecclesiastical books; what she could not well com­
prehend, she desired to be informed of.
I?efore die fell into a state o f Somnambulism, she com­
plained for >ome time of nervous debility and sleepiness;
but no one would have thought, that Somnambulism
would be the consequence.
Amongst the main traits o f her character were fhe
following. 1. That she always found a peculiar pleasure, l
in comforting the poor and indigent. 2. That she never
slandered her fellow-creatures, and always was a hater and
enemy of lies: S. T o prayer she always attended assi­
duously, doubly' so, near the commencement of her State
o f Somnambulism, but only in retirement; often would she
withdraw and seek out for herself some little spot, where
she thought herself concealed, fall on her knees, and pray
to G o d !
7
It was most pleasing to her, when she could accom­
plish this, altogether unlistcned to by others, a method
which she yet pursues. Her parents she often implon-s 1 »
warn and punish her, if she should commit the r»(-
fence, in word or deed. In regard to om. i vv »
clothing,she hasduring her whole life time, not ciuImi i u*h-
edher parents,and much less afllicted them. although the it
a great friend to cleanliness.
It is true, that since Somnambulism has ceased to aM
'e< t
her, she has become more perfect, in regard to her Lodv,
but her nerves still remain very weak, and she (requentiy
fell asleep before the usual time. Company has still n>
particular attractions for her; to be in the circle ol lo r re­
lations, is the most agreeable to her; amusements, during
which something frivolous or sinful might appear, »he
shuns entirely.
C O M M E N C E M E N T O F T H E S T A T E
OP
SOMNAMBULISM.
F IR S T A P P E A R A N C E OF A GUJJDE.
In the b egin n in gof the month o f January, 1 8 3 2 , this
2 >r\ complained of being frequently attacked w ith spells o f
weakness, and soon after, about evening, actually fell into
a >hort sleep,. T h is at first was considered an illness,
and finally an idea occurred to those around her, to waken
her, which however did not succeed; for they w ere com ­
pelled to wait, until she would awaken ot her own accord.
On the question being put to her: how she fe lt in
tier sleep? she replied: “ that she could say nothing m ore
o f it, than that when asleep, she always found h erself
in profound darkness.5’
Dr. O ---------- ------ i n --------------- , was then consulted on
the subject, and the spells this person labored under were
related to him, whereupon, he answered, that th e y were
symptoms o f Somnambulism, adding at the same time,
that it would be salutary to her in future, i f this state
could be re-pressed, and g iv in g it as his advice, to m a g­
netise her a few times for doing which, he indicated the
method, to which he, however, added, that i f the sleepy
symptoms should increase, it might be taken for granted
that somnambulism had begun.
Magnetising had no e ffe c t; it was therefore im m edi­
ately abandoned and every thing left to a turn o f nature,
no one is the least harboring a belief, that this girl would
0
ever fall into such a state of S - . ttut
her spells rather appealed to incr» r.-e * . <
’ . *'«•.
Doctor H ..,. of G..... the phv-iciaii ct :' f
applied to; whose views in ev-ry n - f ••••:< «¡.« fnl
with those of Dr. 0 ....... and who rrcimiin» : ,i. d m >d li-
tion, to take frequent walks with her in t r <,*
<n
air, when the weather would admit there. . * *
<
•
might loose her inclination to sleep; and \ ii v . 1
not be advisable to use medical means, to pn\< it ; hr
made particular enquiries as to her age, the <b u , *
>
• t
of her sexual constitution (which had ah ead v o ni k I
year before,') her occupations amt what bunks she . a- in
the habit of reading. Whereupon be was tol l : that her
age was 16| years, that her occupations eun-isted n
knitting* sowing, spinning, See ; that the bonk- ; . !
by her, were ecclesiastical, such as llu* Ilible, J
< a
Arndt’s real Christendom, Hartman’s Sermon«, Freih-i
ick Starke’s prayer-book, his morning and evenit : (b \u-
tions, and other instructive prayers, also excell, nt l.\ mru
io our Wivtemberg Hymnbook ; worldly book«, e\r»*pt
Gellert’s Fables, she was not acquainted with any.' ) That
her conduct was without reproach, that she w a s by no
means disposed to dissipation and that it might b«* asser­
ted, that she had until then not fallen from the state of
grace conferred upon her at the baptismal font.
The advice to take her out to walk was strictly bil­
lowed, and a journey on foot-to U. undertaken with Iwr,
even in the middle of March, which going and coming
amounts to two and twenty post-hours, and was comple­
ted in two and three quarter days ; but instead of her
spells decreasing they gradually became more violent until
at length, about the end of the month of March 185 '. in
a sleep of somnambulism, which lasted nearly three
quarters of an hour; she stated that a Guide did shew him»
self to her, whose person she accurately described, and de­
lineated as follows, namely as: a handsome young man, ap­
parently aged twenty fouryears, of a bright-red lace,sharp
eyes, but notwithstanding all their seriousness, very affa­
ble, with hair somewhat curled and his clothes dark blue,
i--------------------------------------------------- • -------
*) What here has been stated, can be proved by the
most creditable testimonials.
Viul v.\nO', »« informed her was not bis real heavenly
but that he *as obliged this lime ami would
beV.K-n - v 5 ■ ow bin f b i a s the was not
vet prepared to sec him in his heavenly one ”
Itrrr . in she stated, that her Guide would visit her
4j
li u in *
. <la> *. in order to make lurlher revelation*
to her, and to prepare her*
J'urllur visiti of this Guide.
A « o .r Soi ii*amln;list had stated, so it came to pa?.«,
three »1.1%
s alter, when at hall' past eight in the evening
she 1
» »1.. -h -p. doling width time her Guide did present
ai » ii.*“ iu/iu already describe»/, and as it were,
tiinnecrated her. At the same time lie gave her this pro­
mise: •
s' c vvoQld attain a much higher faculty of second-
uccing, hut as >
■
» ( sue was not qualified lor itj that also
he would not immediately appear to her again, but that
i'eep woaid overcome her more frequently, in wdiich
i.uwi'ver she would not observe any thing but dark-
lie*«, an»l now and then, a strong light ; by this she
would be weakened* and prepared lor what she should
become.*’ ..
All this actually happened. Not before the month m
August 1
, i Guide appeared to her again, but his visit
was quite short, nor did he reveal more to nor, than
this : ,
“ that about the middle of September he would again
appear to her.”
Tins occurred punctually ; his stay was somewhat lon­
ger, and he gave her to understand :
-that Ik? would not return before the 19. October of
lor; second year, but on that day, at halt past one
o'clock in the afternoon he would appear to her and
thenceforth more frequently — and undertake with her
the first journey.”
But lie did not tell her, which and to what place.
The appearance of the Guide became observable by
tliis, that she always received him with her right liaml,
and so retained him until lie again disappeared.
11
Once for all it ¡9 here remark««! : that ?i .- inun,^
liuf, when awake, never knew the !• »*( ,( v ' if »tie U*,j
»aid in her Magnetic sleep, and each time -'►
“ What is it fhen that I have «pokcn !*’
First Journey.
On the 19. day of October 1852 at a rpn ,. pint ..r,e
o’clock in the afternoon she actually f l! .. . ¡,: 1 »
aa the Clock struck half j ;m
t one, 1s
.<
• *» j r. ■■ ,f
himself. Hut this journey only went - i f » r, tint - . u**
conducted by her Guide info a very daik w|irfr
— as in her bicep the had previously Mid aud al
afterwards :
“ The darkness was so great and den-«, at to ho
tangible.”
When this was past, she came into a li.d.t place,
where her Guide told her :
“ that he would have to take the same w.W
k with Ur
back again and that this was but a preparation lor tU
three foi Iowirig jo 11rney8.9
*
No peculiar object was shown to her at this time.
Second Journey.
T/re 9.3. October, at the same time as before, lier Guid-»
'erformed with her a similar journey and si unified to I
“ that alter these two journeys he would Like fwo
.urneys with her into the empire o i the deed, where fir.t
al he would show her the sit,,allot, ol the unha
iheae ahe desired tohe exonerated, th
r » perlormcd hav,n%already much weakened he, .
ereupon her Guide replied thus :
‘that (rightful as these dark vallc.ys h.vl appeared to
and terrified as she had been at their sbd.t it wnul.l
~
‘ r ‘T ; 1 further, be i n d i s p e l i . i K * ’ Wte
* * ,,,ou,‘i P io u s ly make a journey (hroush the
gtrec rrp ifff of ihe unhappy; at the same time lie in­
formed U r. at i .c li *1 j uriif %would take place on the
8Bdu lH« teconi on Ike £8th anil the thin! Dot before the
5 1at of October, m that «he might t rhat regain her e
•• < ; . I M ill be of ' mg r deration, as be had to
«ho« tier object« of canicquence.
/»rat Journey to the Inhoppy.
ivc Off ,bcr in the afternoon immediately after
•0« o*clock «he fell into a profound sleep.— The iorenoon
d i :.r.* v. i.u ;» i .c _ :» v.i> cjuite ca.-t down, was already
a harbinger «*( a niomcnt«*us >cenc. — iler Guide having
appeared to her, he said :
».Now I will diow you the first degree of the unhappy,
that have left this world*, and added, that these had
vet a hope to be released therefrom, the time of their liber­
ation. being divided into days, months and years.”
Arrived there. -uo said:
“ That this abode wasa dark valley, no end of which
was dt-re: nable, where the departed spirits felt neither
|1« m npr unhappy, and that the plate was neither warm
nor cqld: thut in the midst of*this vatley, there was a pas­
sage of considerabl e breadth, but that on both sides, they
were like spades set up, leaning close against each other;
that the higher upin the valley, the nearer was also the li­
beration, the lower down, the longer would be the period of
their punishment.”
At this declaration, she was asked by her brother, who
carried on with her the conversation; whether the unhappy
did receive no instruction from the spirits that were bless­
ed, how to promote their release? To which she replied:
“ At present 1perceive none.”
Then she discoursed again with her guide, when it was
remarked, that her lips and tongue moved,— which also
ever after happened—but not the least word could be
heard, nor much less understood.— When this was past,
she began tojspeak in the most distinct words, like one fully J
awake:
13
« ‘ Mv guide tells me, (hat frequently . •
descend to preach; also to givr ti», u (> .n.
and, as soon as one or the other bftfl been n>
leased from tins place of pur.is ..... • , -
• - < .
blessed spirits, anil then taken t«» the last .-
i . . r*%
edness, (the Moon,) and this also do * r
, u .■
constant dwelling-place, for the feluin.» r »e i on.
Eternity to Eternity.*’
On this occasion she was asked: whelh. r had m :
met in this place such spirits, with whom the bad bora
acquainted in this world? she said:
4
k
Yes, certainly, but she had been eravrlv and ; *iinr
ly forbidden by her guide, to indicate I'lrm; it «a»
against the will of God. Such as were happy, - r m *»*«
name, but only so far, as she would be penut'.icd m kr ■
Second Journey to the Unhappy.
The 28th October, at half past one o’clm h, in the sf
ternoon, she was led by her guide, to the second rl.j-<* .»I
the unhappy.
This place she again designated as a vall.-v, larger,
darker and colder, as the former; the forms as more hi­
deous, describing the number of those, that dwell here,
as innumerable, and not to be taken in at one view, not
only leaning closely against each other, bat some of them
bentup like spades.— She became so much afflicted with
this situation, that she burst out into an unusual lit of
weeping.
Continuing in this distressed state, she was asked :
whether these unfortunate beings, had not also to expec t
a better state?— After a long silence, she at length re­
plied :
*(I receive no distinct answer, eternities may elapse,
’ere amelioration will ensue.” Upon which she prayed:
“ Lord! teach me to act according to Thy will, for Thou
art my God, Thy good spirit, lead me to go the war, f
should go,”
2
11
Then «die continued thus *‘T lu »e in the first decree
w n much to be pitied, buUteae still m«reh more. Only
-■' r - hu
V
V dreadful it is, when the soul of man after
hw death, is no longer refreshed by sleep, but pains
and ti imentis eternally continuing in equal decree 1
M v ¿uide tells me— °
»• '. wonder greatly »¿those In the first and second
degrees, but how much more will you be surprised, when
in the third degree, you will be led to those that are quite
un '.ippv,*’
\
N hen sue had finished, her Guide left her, and after
a quarter ol an hour, she awoke, complaining of debility«
Although her features, but too plainly betrayed the
sorrow ot her soul; she did not know the least ot
what had happened.
Third Journey to the Unhappy.
October the Slst at half past one o’clock, as she had
predicted, she fell again into a deep sleep. This time
she was led by her Guide through a large passage ot
dense darkness, and whilst going through the same she
often exclaimed :
‘ ‘O dear Guide! do not leave me alone!”
It was very distinctly observed, how firmly she
grasped him, so that the strongest man would not have
been able, to open her right hand. Her parents be­
lieved that before the accomplishment of this journey, she
would sink and her spirit take its departure.
On her arrival at the third degree, she burst into a
flood of tears and an unusual loud fit ot sobbing. Hav­
ing recovered a little, she began oi her own accord to
speak, as follows : .
“ I have given you a description sufficiently sad, ot
the first and second degree, but these sketches are not
m the least to be compared, with the third degree. I ho
valley is much larger and the number of those that are
here’ are infinitely greater; here is nothing but disma
15
sighing, murmuring, lamenting ami snaking t <
the forms are more loathsome ami 1
1n1
<
•
«m*-, a »,i;?
to be looked upon ; they execrate ami <ur -.rd . , ,,<hr -
and wrangle even with God, Jesu*. and tl • II % v
itself. The place appears to bedensel' dark. - t i,rf
c
insufferably cold and at others again inter,sl\ hoi.
M y Guide tells me; this is a real Hell, iimn 11
,i- i!,. <
•
is no release to all eternity, these bear the n.une f
‘‘the Damned,”
Then she conversed again for a length «■
! t me w rh
her Guide, which was observed on her mouth and longue,
and then resumed by speaking these words—
“ The following 1 am permitted to reveal to \
JVameh/ I had asked— Having met amongst the three t lap­
ses of the Unhappy and Damned, not only multitudes, n*v
innumerable millions, which by far I could not take m at a
glance, who then can be saved? T o which u \ Guide
replied— are you then unacquainted with the dear ami
true Gospel of Jesus ? what do you read in it r h n not
written therein ? “ Straight is the Gate and narrow js the
way which leadeth unto life (felicity) and few then* be
that find it” and again— “ For Many be called, hut fu r
chosen ; further — “ The Kingdom o f God must be taken
by force.” — She then continued — my Guide snvs, that
the number of the. Unhappy and Damned is undoubtedly
much greater,- than that of the Happy, but that the num­
ber of these is also by no- means inconsiderable. That it
is the earnest will of God, that all men be led into th
right way, and that A ll should arrive at a knowledge of
Truth, (those that perish, being lost by their own fault
and that all those, that do not truly and earnestly strive
to be saved, according to the rules of the divine Scrip­
tures, are rejected. Tell the inhabitants of the Earth
with emphasis; that here there is no respect of person?,
whatever their state may have been in your world. I
give you the most solemn assurance, that the greatest
miser on your Globe of Sin, does not so closely watch hi«
accounts, where his interest is concerned than God «loes,
•Sin ; for God does not permit the inhabitants ot the
Earth, to prescribe to him his work, if they will accept
Salvation, so truly and more than kindly ottered to them,
16
Particular!v do I enjoin it upon you to tell it loudly to
tho-* t at svitli you dwell on Earth ; if that, which'
wns foretold by Jesus the Redeemer and^after his iesur\
ireturn, bv his Apostles, here in this world, which wil
confnue to all eternity, not a letter will be taken away,
sinful man may believe it or not, for here nothing will
avail unto Salvation, but Regeneration, W hy then do the
sinful inhabitants of the Earth lay not a greater stress
upon the attributes of God, so well established that He
is omniscient, omnipresent, allsceing, just, holy and true,
and abuse his forbearance so unwarrantably. — O! how
much are those to be pitied, who obstinately will neither
accept of, nor believe in a reward of Good, nor punish­
ment for III: how do I pity those, who only then beleive,
that they are punished, when they already have been
punished, &c, &Ci
Alter this, whilst soliciting her Guide to prolong his
stay and Rafter breaking into a hood of tears, she implored
her parents, and brothers and sisters, no other persons
then being present—
“ For God and Jesus Christ's sake, to use all possible
diligence, to be preserved from the abodes, that had
been shown to her. Dear Parents and Brothers and Sis­
ters 1 she exclaimed— if every drop of my blood should
change into a thousand tongues, it would be impossible
for roe, to paint sufficiently the torments of those so
damned to Eternity, all Eternity. Leave these words,
although they are all recorded in the word of God, not
undisclosed to the world and be not silent!”
After promising this, she said— “ now my Guide re­
turns with roe,5
’—
During this her return, it was observed, that she again
clung to her Guide with a grasp of iron. W hen he had left
her, she slept again for about a quarter of an hour and a
half. When she awoke, she said—
ieO how fatigued l ami I feel as if I had travelled
over the whole world, and again do not know the least,
what to say I”
17
The first Journey into the Moon,
On the 2nd of November at half past one o'. . » !. sSr
performed the first journey into the Moon, a . !r
predicted by her on the 26th October, a- ' ‘ day
when she was conducted to the first abode of i u
* l n iap
py. Her Guide having arrived ami the journey com­
menced, she said without being solicited —
“ The Moon is the nearest body to our Karth. in loui
• _ J
minutes l shall perform the journey thither.5
’
Immediately a watch, showing the second-, u.i- laid
upon tlie table, the moment the four minute-, up to tie.*
second, had elapsed, she commenced by speaking the
following words—
ZD
"N ow I have arrived here.”
Soon after she was asked by her brother, how the
Moon did look in comparison, with our Karth, when sin*
replied—
“ She much resembles our Earth, only the Almo-phcre
here is much brighter, the Climate finer and milder, her*
are mountains, valleys, rivers, lakes, trees, forests, beauti­
ful gardens, towns and many buildings, some standing by
themselves and others near each other.”
After this, enquiry was made concerning the inhabi­
tants, to which she replied —
“ The Moon contains the lowest Stage of felicity;
those who after death are not immediately lit fora higher
state of felicity, come here, as well as those, that arc
released from the first degree of the Unhappy. 1 shall
perform three additional Journeys to the Moon, what I
cannot indicate at present, l shall state during the others.
Although the Moon is nearly forty times smaller than the
Karth we inhabit — it is far from being possible, that I
should be able to wander over the whole of it, as I never
dare detain myself longer than thirty minutes. I am
only letl to principal places. Now I am conducted by
my Guide into a considerable and large, very large
building, in which a very large Hall is shown to me,
where 1 meet with none but grown persons, of different
ages, male*» and females seated promiscuously in long
rows near each other. I know here several persons
2*
n
«'¡iiotTi »••€ a ’-o mentioned by ni ne, but who cannot
esiB^rslci her») of »eae» ^
1> r
. * •- Vi, a-ked concerning the oct-paiion **
the»« in lU U B U of lUe Moon, when »he replied—
all a place of education, where taej
have *he:r ¿:..tructor*. worship God, v.ng. pear and lcar**
ino
rd
e
rto become qualified fo
ra higher state of felicjtj-
Thia it their legitimate employe .rot, bot as e a o m m im j
attain a higher fehcitv, they are removed thither. I caB-
Bat leave it unnoticed, that they perfarmdefightlalaMimc
ar r._ • -rnseives, and v.hat l am particularly p
Mr. .. i- the ^reat annony and love, which they oear to-
«arda cadi other ; hatred* eavy, q**m liu*g do not fi«d
place here ; how happy they are, I cannot W l yoju 1
would deem myseif the happiest being, if I dare alw zjt
rrr ¿in ere. Unoar Earth t »e ricked *rid mos: honored
are bv far less happy than the lowest of these inhabitants
oftheMoon.n "
•«O .iow sirarge it is. that if I want to touch one, it
‘etc.* prec.seiy. as .t I did reach at a Viid ."»Ld yet
aii can love God, sing and pray. Sleep overcame* boss
anv more, r. ^ it is here no longer, aad of eating a-d
d *:.V ng. they also stand in no need. It U aso some-
* bat »ingn!ar, b at the deceased, the happy, a* well a*
the unhappv. know each other, and every cue knows di-
rcctl r, wbat and who, each have been imthis world. This
•jou ir.av all take as a lessor.. the deceased recoiiect in
Etcmi*v, inhere they do no longer die, every thir.g more
vividlv and perfectly, all they have done in this world,
where we are, than they did in this life, Nay, every sin,
even those whom they were anconscmos of, i>ecomes mi*
nifest to themhere, and not only those, bat every thought,
good or ill, are plainly and clearly perceived hr every
one.
Foil of zeal, she continued:
-M y Guide inform» me, that now commences cwr re-
tarn-journey, bat ten your feUow-iahabitanU oi th
eearth;
that if daring theirlife time, they attain alively knowledge
of their sins and a state of repentance, thev wilt «ra:a tm-
men&ely, as the progress Li here, bat hr very slow steps.’
Hereupon she was asked: W bea ¿ e w 'o si pext^»
IT)
tr.e fécond j o i m t o the Moon? i o wHih dke it-
plied—
“ TVmefrow evening af'pr l: r*e oVb»<k. I iKitl loll
asleep, at *
<
* ich t ne, nowever. u \ , . :: r. *
? »-.p^ar.
1 «'tall only perceive places of ■> ♦. N Ik U t * .odat
the4th of November, in the ai'crnoon. brtw'rr, r '.*• am !
taro ^cixV, *hall I perform my second jairtx? into IK#
Moon.bat only «lorinç rny la*t journey ’he \f »on,
•hail 1 be permitted thence to look down upon oor
Earth.”
«Now my jpiide hat left me, and thtsionrriev » tccom-
p\i*bed,”
Or.lw ten mi r ufes afte-. •' e r*»ys>. *d f » " eontcinneMatf
bat did not remember tr.e leant, that /.ad o<' arred to ber,
and only said—
Leave me rent, my body it exhausted. but in mj tool I
1
eel a peco *r “ hilar tr.*’
An Lour af*er she left her bed, aud became qnit*
«erene.
Precisely according to her prediction, »he h
- a-hep
the fo!lowing evening, at three oVock, r»c nttered no
aound,awoke in Kalian hour, left l.er tied i a n u r-
ter of an no^rafter, aid a^ain becameactive«
Until dm period, all that had happened to tfiia Sorr -
nakaliit, remained a family-secret, because we p n etll
had not the l»ra%
t concept on of a ats'e of Snmriarr.baiism#
They now coo*u fed each other, and it waa retoKed, to
make other persona, particularly physicians, acquainted
therewith. No sooner was th-»done. titan the matter be­
came so public, that curiosity and a thirst of knowledge
ind uced people to co oe in multitudes, which, to be sure,
oo>ht to .a>e been avoided.
SecondJourney into the Moon.
The 4th Nneemuer, precisely at half-past one o'clock,
she fell into a p"d**-.».d sleep.
Here it is partie.larfy to be remarked, that daring her
IrU joooey to the Mooo, as weii as the present, sod »■
/
20
all her journeys to the Stars, she respectively assumed,
each lime, another attitude or different features, which
'vas more than plainly observed by triend and toe, as well
un every unprejudiced individual, for every feature dis­
played honesty, love and serenity, the color of her cheek
was brilliant, and as red as a rose.
tier guide having made his appearance to her, she be­
came all love and friendliness, A few minutes after, her
brother asked her, whether she had arrived in the Moon?
she answered—
uNo, it wants yet three minutes, before I shall arrive
there, and at the same time gave him a rebuke for bis
premature questioning.
She then remained four minutes quite silent, and then
began to speak voluntarily, as follows—
‘ »I am not only in the Moon, but my guide has con­
ducted me into a City; on our earth, none con compare to
it in beautv, the buildings are both large and handsome,
the street-, however, not very wide, but the pavements
comfortable and good, it appears to me as it i was walk­
ing on velvet. The walks, however, are not covered
with velvet, but only with the finest sand; but of my
footsteps, 1 see no traces.*’
She was asked, whether she could tell the name of this
City, to which she replied—
‘AVhen I entered the Gate, I saw it written above, 1
will now ask my Guide, he will be able to remind me of
it!” ' |
It was clearly observed, that this was done, and soon
after she said—
«T h e name is Gethsamene, my guide perambulates it
with sucb quick steps, that l can hardly keep up with
him.
Inhabitants, she spoke ot none, inadvertently she was
not questioned concerning them, and alter a short while
she continued—
“ Now a very long and large building is shown to me,
into which I am led.’ '— After a short pause, she said:
“ N o w I enter, the entry therein is but the width of a
board, it is enormously long, and quite light; now I en
ter into a large and long hall, here the departed set pro-
21
iniscuously near each other, in long and innume ralm
rows, that love and harmony, which I found with thr
first, have also here their home, and it almost pleases me
better here than with the first,”
“ But 1 must ask my guide, why it is here so quie*. it
appears to me, asifall were to hear, attentive exhibiting
2Teat reverence.” — Soon after she said: “ Mv ^uule
tells me, turnaround and look, whether you do not see
two teachers standing here? A t this present moment
they receive instruction; for this reason, they sit lure with
attention. Eh! she continued, the very exterior, so se­
rious and affable, as well as clothing quite different, must
inspire each learner with greater respect. Howe'er
beautifully as the teachers are dressed, the habiliments ot
my guide are still more brilliant. Instruction is deferred
during our passage; teachers and pupils, have for my
guide, a great regard. It appears to me, that visits of this
kind are very scarce and I, as an inhabitant of the earth,
walkabout here exactly with the same kind of a dress,
as I have on, on my bed; l must tell you, mv soul
abides with me; only my spirit wanders* 1 did never
know before, that besides the soul, there is also a spirit,
that dwells in us* am! only this is capable to undertake
excursions of this kind.’
She was then asked: Iiow the departed, dwelling here;
did look, and how thev were dressed? To which she re-
plied:
<
4
As it respects those, whom I knew on our Earth, I
perceive it quite plainly, that their forms are much
younger, but notwithstanding easily cognisable, their
dresses are white, but they bear otherwise no distinc­
tions^ their heads, too, are not crowned; the clothes of
the teachers are glistening-white, around their loins they
wear a rose-colored scarf * [ am unable to tell you, how
well these garments become them.” So saying, she ex­
claimed: “ Tell Mrs........... .. who is so much concern­
ed about the happiness of her husband, to quiet her appre­
hensions, he is amongst the happy* 1 have found him here,
amongst my other acquaintances; he would not change
the contentment* that he already here enjoys, for all the
world, althongh it consists in but the lowest state of fe-
22
licit y, being only formed here for a much higher; for in
regard to the higher felicities they are approachable
*tep by step. '1 hose, who at their decease are immediate­
ly qualified for the enjoyment of greater felicity, are
amount the Adults and old people, taken altogether,
they are but very few; for those, that in our world of sin,
grow up so lar, follow rigorously the commandments of
Gt»d and Jesus Christ, and, although they are in this
world, their minds are not of this world, they say with
Paul: ‘ ‘Our conversation is in Heaven!” My guide
tells me, their sensations are of such a nature, that they
feel happy, in this world already.— 0 dear Guide!— so
the entreated him— use all your influence, that I, and all
that belong to me,— may also attain such a degree of per-
lection— for oh 1 how much 1 desire so great a blessing
for each of them!
After this discourse, apparently in communion with
herself, she remained silent for some minutes, but every
by-stander perceived it plainly by the motion of her lips
and tongue, that she again was conversing with her
Guide. Soon after she recommenced speaking, thus:
I have made enquiry with my Guide concerning my
two brothers, F ..... F...... born in the year 1S08, and
deceased in the year 1814, and J... . E....r who died as
an infant of fourteen days in the year 1820, I should
fain wish to see them also, and he told me : “ Perhaps
you actually see one of them.” Whereupon 1 answered:
In the empire of the Happy we are all brothers and sis­
ters, 1 well know : who are yon then,, and who were you
on our Earth ?— To which my Guide replied : “ The
mother, who carried you under her bosom and gave you
birth lias also borne me, i am your brother Frederick,
and by divine command was appointed your Guide. I
see my parents, brothers and sisters and all the others
that are present, most perfectly, and know also each ot
them, but their power of vision does by no means extend
so far, as that they should also be able to see me: for
they are flesh, but l am Soul and Spirit. Ted them,
that 1 dwell in the Sun, where 1 am appointed a teacher,
to instruct those children, who, if yet alive, would be
betw een 8 and 9 years old. ”
23
When she had finished this speech, s >
* i n f i »M >a
flood of tears with joy at having a brnthrr ra»*« • *o *o
high a state ot felicity. She then was ,v*krd - •’ in«
dress and form, which she described as follow«« :
“ His face is more brilliant than the S u n , n r ■ ! ..’1
of fire and jet replete with love, his head is adornc«!
with a crown of jewels, his garment is «1 m
->r«* t?.an n
shining whiteness, and, as it were, fattened m n«l the
loins by a red scarf; its redness I am at a Io « - r ■
pare, and l am unable correctly to exprc*** the b. » i't of
this color with words. My Guide she cuMinurd
—is now returning, and conduct* me lu< k t •
our terrestrial Globe ; he told me that d«irin^ on next
(and third) journey he would shew me suin'* river*. ihat
are in the Moon ,* this wilt take place the 6th of i %
Month, at one o’ clock in the afternoon. As Mion as inr
jounrneys to the Moon will be finished, I sIkiII be taken
to a Star.”
Thus the discourse ended ; a few minutes after, s’.e
re-opened her right hand, by which she always held fast
her Guide, as a signal that he had departed : not until
ten minutes more had expired she awoke with pleasant­
ness, and asked the by-standers—
“ How long this time her sleep had lasted, and what
meanwhile she had spoken, as in her state of waking she
was entirely ignorant, what had occurred to her”
Every thing being related to her, she was greatly as­
tonished, and could hardly believe, that she had said any
thing of the kind, because she was no longer conscious of
the least of all that had happened.
Third journey into the Moon.
Each time that she fell aleep, she became previously
quite silent. So it also happened on the 6th November
in the afternoon before one o’clock. The clock had no
sooner struck the said hour, than she was already asleep.
Alter receiving her Guide, she said—
“ In four miuutcs I shall be in the Moon,”
24
Th is proved correct to a second, as after the expira­
tion of that time she announced her arrival there, with
the words—
‘ ‘ Soon shall I be led into a City, called Bethuecilem.”
After a short pause she resumed —
“ This City pleases me still somewhat better, than the
former, although that is also quite handsome ; the streets
in it are again as narrow, as in the former, but the walk­
ing on the pavements as pleasant.
After passing through the same, she continued :
“ l am also this time conducted into a large building,
without the City, which yields in no respect to the other.
Th e Entry therein resembles that of the former in every
respect ; now I enter the Hall, which is somewhat wider
than the former ; here the number of the deceased is
greater, and I also meet with some, that I knew on our
Earth, Their garments are like those, which I have
already described. They have likewise their teachers,
and the purest Love, Harmony and Fiankness reign
amongst them. The respect shown to my Guide is as
great, as 1 stated it to be, during both my first journeys ;
but 1 only excite surprise, for every one knows, that my
soul still remains in my mortal tenement.”
“ N ow 1 come to a place, around which water, a9 clear
as crystal, is flowing in a circular ring, it appears to
stand still, which however is not the case. On the place,
or the Island, enclosed by the water, that flows around
it, stands a large and long building, which is higher than
the or.e into which I have already been conducted ; over
the river leads a beautilul bridge.”
Arrived .at the building, she said :
“ I am also conducted into i t ; but here the Hall i*
not below; as in the former, but i have to ascend a flight
of steps.— I now enter a large Hall, in which again there
are none present, but such, as died on our Earth ; here
too Harmony and Love reign throughout : only, savs mv
Guide, those he showed me before, are a little in advance
of these ; they have also their teachers.**
Soon after she said —
“ Now l am conducted back.*’
During her return-journey she was asked : nhcu her
25 »
t>ur(h journey to the Moon would take place ? T o which
she answered :
“ Next Thursday, the 8th November, at half p;»«f * n •
o’ clock iti tlie afternoon.”
She then accosted her brother, w ho kept up the d »-
course with her, with the following words—
A ...., as soon as my Guide has quit me. make ? n
strokes from the pit of my heart to the crown o f m v In ad
backwards, when I shall awaken sootier and easier.”
Tins was punctually followed, for ten minutes after
she fully regained her consciousness. Although other­
wise lively, she complained of languor, but had not the
least recollection of all she had said.
Fourth jou rn ey into the. M oon .
November 8th 1832 several learned and other person*
were present. She spoke to them, but when the hour of
her sleep approached, she said—
‘ •Now 1 must lay myseif down.”
And having done so, she fell asleep as usual. Her
Guide hanngjoined her, she was asked : where she w asf
to which ‘ he answered—
‘ ‘Still Ik re, but row my journey begins and in four
minutes l shall be in the Moon.”
A t this all those that were present, took out their
watches, and when three minutes had elapsed, -she was
*«\ed, whether she had completed her journey ? she re­
plied—
“ Not yet, but it does not quite want a m inute.”
I hr f ujr minutes having expired to a second, she said
without being asked :
‘ •N w I am here,— after a short pause she continued—
th ‘ > i am led bv mv Guide up to a mountain.— A r ­
riv e ! jf iWe fuot thereof, she said : in three minutes I
, ,ive a«' ended it with my Guide.”
i . firn also the watches were referred to, and the
lime oar«‘d Wiving elapsed to a second, she exclaimed—
•‘ Now 1 have gained the top
3
2G
She was then asked its form, height and magnitude,
when the replied—
“ It i* round, and around it stands trees^on the top there
is at ->
» u beautiful plain with some trees, but which are
ivn as lai'^e, as those around the mountain ; the air upon
it i» * \tr. niely agreeable, 1 should like to be permitted to
ifu .iin here, The (mountain much resembles the
Limp'n - id \\ eilheim, but it lacks its great circumference
ami height. From the top of it I see a great many other
umuntn-.tm, forests, part of which are small,and others
rivulets, 'Towns, Villages, buildings, some of which
stand by themselves and others near each other. The
environs are quite pleasant; the mountain is called
Sinao — Now la m returning.”
Immediately the question was put : what length of
time do you need to reach the Valley?
“ Only two minutes” — she answered ; and this also
agreed to a second.
0 %
“ Now she said, I am again conducted by my Guide
into the Hall, wherein l was the day before yesterday
on the firm land, my Guide tells me that he has there to
show nm several things yet,” Arrived there, she contin­
ued : ‘»here 1observe several teachers, as with tlie former ;
at pit*sent they are singing, and I never on Earth heard
such a melody, nor can any be compared thereto, other
»uusic however I do not hear just now. That Union,
Love and Harmony, which have here their home-stead,
1 am unable sufficiently to give you a description of,— I
am not again conducted through the City, through which
I was led during my third journey ; but I am conduc­
ted to a spot, whence I can look down upon the Earth.”
She was asked how large the Earth appeared to her?
“ Considerably larger than a large nine-pin ball. The
Earth is a dark body and looks blackish from here, and
is, as 1 have once already stated, probably forty time*
as large as the Moon. I would not have known, that
this round Ball, which 1 see, is the Earth, if my Guide
had not informed me thereof, with the w ords : Upon this
black spot you live. ”
A t the desire of those present she was repeatedly
27
asked, what the Temperature was in tl c M -\ -
.»
said—
“ I have already told you during each jm ini'v, i in'- l
find it mild, I well remember that the !,< r m il the
M oon to be a cold body, but she is po**iii\' - •- . :
person that travels through a countrv, must . kn «'
better, than one that only judges at ramlmn, a -
.* < uld
it well differ from my statement, being, t- it i- i : e "l
felicity 1
— My Guide tells me— that we inhabit i* • I 1He
Earth are always ready to give our opinions, » u . ne ot
our acquaintances, ora person we know, die»» : , ,t • -
are generally quite erroneous, for God alum- is tU
*- tho­
rough-searching knower of hearts; here none arc judged
according to their exterior, but most accural»-! v arrmding
to their hearts. Therefore I beseech every one a- mud»
as I can entreat— Judge not! for let every one tak<- « u«
of himself, that he may save his soul and make mi c m-
parrison with others, for every one has enough to do
with himself.
Having finished this speech, she signified :
ikThat now her return was commencing, and that
she would be back in four minutes, and that in the
same manner in which her Guide had led her up r I1
»,
he was also now leading her downwards to the Earth.’’
During her return she was asked : when site
again would undertake a journey? to which she re
plied—
“ Next Saturday precisely at one o’clock.”
Directly after her Guide left her and soon after '-he
said— .
“ A ..... now waken me in the mannner I fold you.”
Not long after she awoke with chearfulness, but a!»v
quite ignorant of what had happened to her.
First Journey into Mercury.
As soon as the clock struck one the 10th November
1832 in the afternoon she again fell asleep. Each time
a few minutes elapsed, before her Guide joined her , and
v* voon, ns according to the symptom* he seemed to have
j pm humI hi ins« 1
1 to her, she was a-.ked— what length
( i ume > c would need, to arrive at the place mentioned ?
»he said—
‘ •Seven minutes.”
v i again proved correct to a second, wherupon she
••1 his too resembles a world ; I am led bv my Guide.
»;,!>• a City, but which is much handsomer, than those Ci-
u* which 1 have seen in the Moon.
When a-ked the name of this City, she said—
*•/ (tisalem, there l am led into a most beautiful Edifice
ami into a great Hall.”
Ai r hating entered it. she became exceedingly over-
j <M'l, and b'.iist out into these words :
»• i again see here, as my Guide tells me. no others
bet those, that had lived on the Earth; but they are all
- I >thed in most beautiful white garments, and mey have
. S
i rod ribbands around their loins ; they are happier, in
.. considerable degree, than those that are in the Moon,
; ii.ou^li they also have their teachers. The Music,
v.hich 1 do lvear, I am unable to praise according to
i’ s euphony ; musicians of the world can in no manner
be compared with those in Heaven, 9
9
Then she was asked, whether shetkne\v anybody there?
which she* answered with » N o . ”
Thus contentedly reposing, several questions were
t ut to her at the instance of others, but which she an­
swered with severe reproofs ; glaring indications of in­
dignation appeared on her features, at being disturbed in
her delight ; at length, she spoke out :
••My Guide tells me, every tiling has its time ; tell
our brother, not to molest you nor me any more with
-'ich questions,— I am now disturbed, and my Guitle too
does no longer appear as friendly as he was at first ;
v. hat I have neglected to-day, I will endeavor to retrieve,
during my three journeys into Mercury. Afterwards I
shall make a journey through Venus.”
The question was then put: whether her Guide would
not also state remedies to her for sick and afflicted per­
sons ?
«Not yet, for this I have still to travel to . her pit»
nets.”
She was then asked ; by what mean*» •*!.<
* coukl we,
her eyes being so firmly closed ? «hen she
lowing answer :
« 1 see by means of the stomach.'*
Hereupon a watch was laid upon h < * r v . . 1 *he
was asked whether she could state the limn ul t ic real
time of the day ? when she said :
“ Not just now, not until I travel through Vino«.«—
During the most complete state of Soim. m, .»m • %
« rv
object cannot be minded and judged. I r> -n t »t l«u(
too sensibly, that there are so very few physic ian«, that
tru ly understand such a case and kn ow how to tre at it.1
’
Now the question was addressed to h e r : H o w it hap­
pened, that she travelled to Mercury sooner than to
Venus, the latter being so much nearer to the K irtb
than the former ? whereupon she said :
«This question is not deserving of an answer for the
present; 1 do not depend on myself but on mv , I.,
perhaps I may hereafter be permitted to answer tint
learned and w o rld ly question.”
A lte r this she was asked, when she would perform
her second journey into M e rc u ry ? when she said—
« T o morrow noon at one o ’c lo c k .”
A l l these latter questions were put to her d uring her
journey hither from Mercury, and answered by her___
Soon after she opened her right hand, as a signal, that
her Guide had quit her, and im m ediately after her bro­
ther wakened her. Returning to a state of wake/ulnei»,
she said immediately :
“ That she did not at this time feel quite so w e ll, an
formerly, but could not account for i t , ”
Learned men ascribed this to the interruptions, that
had occurred ;— she too remained this time longer in her
recumbent attitude, took v e ry little nourishment ami
soon after returned to bed.
*3 '
•9998999$
30
Second Journey into Mercury.
i l i t ’» November she fell asleep precisely at the
’ • s • had predicted. The number of attending per-
learned ami unlearned was very considerable,—
%
V
'I*.»*n she had been asleep six minutes, her Guide ar-
*iv•d with her, and alter a short pause she said —
••Now | commence my second journey to Mercury/’
lle.njr questioned — what length of time this journey
would require ? she said—
“ In Seven minutes 1 shall be on the spot.”
W hen three and a half minutes had elapsed, she said
of 1ter own accord ;
••Now it is hall* accomplished.”
“ Now I am on the spot ; just now I arrive at the Gate
o! the City, into wInch 1am to be ( onducted to day; but l
do not pass immediately through the Gate, the entrance
resemble», a rampart, anil glitters like gold ; but my
Guide says, that it is not made of gold ; but that this
kind of stones resembles it. I cannot sufficiently de­
pict the splendor and beauty of this City, which I now
pass through ; the street is paved with large, white
flakes, the whitest marble is not as white, and not near
bo bright.
She v/as asked the name of this City, when she re­
plied :
<kit is called Jeremiu ; the town is pretty ; but the
streets are by no means wide, and the buildings on both
aides are builtalike. My Guide tells me: 'Those, that dwell
on the south side are a little in advance of those, that live
on the west-side ; that each has to pass through all the
buildings periodically, untd they are removed to a higher
state of felicity. — Sow those blessed beings are also
shewn to me, to whom, ori their departure from the
Earth, habitations are assigned here, and those again in a
separate building* My Guide tells me, that these are
the lecture-rooms, where they often have to meet ; tasks
are also given to them, which they have to learn by them­
selves, but these are not onerous, but a real pleasure le
them.”
KNow I am introduced l”
31
she exclaimed with gaiety, ami alter a sVm pau*c con­
tinued—
“ 1 perceive here several, whom I knew <* r KartH.
ah 1 now “the Music begins; — :»If **r a 1:i *I«* ; hm*
said— now it is accompanied by singing, ihe me mlie» »n«f
voices," which are heard here, cannot po-. !•
■ t. • mtu*
pared with those on Earth ; thev arc cot ire'\ <
! d.-ienr,
1 know of no words, to give von the lea-t n!< t iheieof,
or but one tune of the melodies
The Harmony and mutual Love, v.V -h e - «,* h»*r»*(
I cannot sufficiently express, for here prevail* r.o respect
of person ; here the person, who was the mo«.» r> *p-f »»*»1
and wealthy in th * world, is not more thou .ht ..1. t an ! . ,
who was riot minded at all in the world ; nr» unfit t»
the deeds done iu the body, he is here, iri tins life ad*
judged.”
She burst into tears of joy, but began soon to speak
again in the following words—
O O
“ I am called upon by my Guide, to tell all of ton,
that are here present, the following— l)ur ng inv last juur-
ney, which I made to :— l must call them, wti.it they are)
the Damned, I heard the following expr-ssions amongst
them, which 1 then durst not tell, because I had not yet
travelled to any abode of bliss— here children curse their
parents, and parents their children ; i heard some of them
say— I curse the second, when I was conceived, and the
hour in which I was born ; why did I riot as a monster
come into this world, anil why, like the tenderest suckling
infant was f not by violence deprived of life, as unfit for
the Earth, which ( inhabited and on it committed all
sorts of crime ? Why not a day-laborer or a cripple ? Ah !
exclaimed another one, equally damned, to him— Exist
such thoughts also here I Birth, Descent and Wealth have
not damned us, but the not keeping, dis-obeying ami dis­
believing the commandments of God!”
“ Here no suicides happen any more, to commit them
would be impossible ; for all men, from Adam, have the
breath of God in them, and it is indissoluble. My Guide
tells me, that God himself could dissolve it, as little, as
renders that undone, which has happened; therefore say»
32
iH# r»-v »'• -1 word of God : “ Their worm does not die,
and their fire will n*»t be quenched/’
Afirr a»hurt pause she exclaimed—
M % iidi** me— ^ns of Sodom, Fornication, 'be­
fore it.i« I did not even know what actually was meant ia
the etvenfial sense by Fornication,) tlie cause of molt in­
fanticide*. Adultery will be punished eternally, in the
t'llrd i|f(jr,,r of damnation, *1 m-iti hi hi*» lilC'tim‘ does not
attain a li%ely sense of his offences, and obtains a full
pardon for the -am»* ; the-.e him equiponderate with the
crirnmol Murder and W itchcraft— 1did not know, what
Paul meant by the word# : “ Secret aim; “ My Guide
ted, n..- ■ l-.-.e happen d ¿
r ing fornication and button
Irenuetitlv in n-gular marriage*, whereby the begetting of
childieit I*» wickedly suppressed andfrufttrHied. I do
not understand the essential sense of the meaning, my
(i ¿ide wishes to convey by this, but that, which f have
„Ml hens do not keep'it a secret M y Guide tells me ;
not the tenth part of the trespasses transpires, which
ar*. committed in your world of Sin, or are at least but
v , dilly punished ; the punishments for a sin of this kind
in the world, if man does not become converted with alJhis
heart, meet positively with no abatement in the other
*'fche now became a little quiet and then resumed—
o>jv Guide tells me ; you are surprised at the felicity,
which exists here, how greatly will you he astonished,
when you perform your journeys into the sun.”
fihe now proposed that—
“ II any one wished to enquire after deceased parents,
consorts, children, dec. it should be done through her
brother ; if she remained silent, and gave no answer, it
would he a sign, t h a t h e r G u i d e had also remained silent,
but il she answered, the person M o u l d h e a t the place
mentioned by her; because h e r G u i d e k n e w i t t o be a
** Those who doubted, kept silence; those, that enter­
tained a sure hope, caused questions to be put; she then
would say to the One— .
__t,he— is in the Sunr—
'bneither in Uranut, in f'e-
nusr Ike.9
0
f*he then confirued --
«Mv Guide 1*
•¡14 ih*— During ir r j • ¿r- r\ %fo te* .
I à'i i.I ob-ain a:» add.t *.t-.•»I Gu dr, I »'•*<• * * Í
not be hid** to criil jM
- t (* -j.1•-'.!«» , ■ <
* my <biotin*
( i t Hinan and y o u i na n d Gborg' G
Sii fi then bur*.t O'-itn »..'»> a:i ext. ■r • ¡ j v. a!'rr whir ll
v * * 0
* ne waaaR.ed the employtr 1
-nt '■
»
.■
• i ■
' »r.d
fo
lie answered—
“ They do have lo learn, I court '.ne e ' • %
for learning never ce *
<
■
*
. throughout t <
e i i it Hrrni*
tie'*., {a* toy (joule evpie*. .« ■
» hunM-d, ) the o»«* of ulmh
vvos û». by Ui:s
t 1 do not co.. *■■■'.. 11>
• t•
•i.h i..e— hovr
many tilings happen in your world of u. . , -,
the rjucatio/j it a l ><
i midionv ol u - . r W I v «i .•*^ I *r
>
«
1
act r.'i aixl not offn-rwi-c* t We t-muni temm > if wi»h
adivine wivfoin and (i»♦
; government of Go J. Af.n! ho
continuo-., it c-malítut* > in Ihcotíu-i world ,i prn'r.ic|ed
occupation of the L'nhappy a» well a . lite I; ■ unul
t!»ey can unriddle 1 .a’ , wdied a p-ar* to them inveteri-
<>00 tu your world— that world, in winch ton no •. »re.—
Then are they antonithcd at toe wind«» 1 of Gol, and
flhbamed of their follie# ; — man has no idea, ho.v *Uurl-
fúghted he i4
<‘ My (ioide I#*I/
o irte— '/any, nay an innumerable mul­
titude, who appear very learned iti your wor ld of -in and
dipingo ¡«It tlu'tnfsel v.-H, arrive here, ihe mo-.t of fu n i, , 4
♦ g! ' I ,oU ; they exclaim one to the other__ W o
fool4 have minted the right aim !”
í ' 11< ( no one be -paring of, and put oil hin repentance
to lu
v, de;ti|,!n-d, f n fie, that doe-., 1 * truly deoived! I)r>
you b h ve 11,eu, that (lod, ih< Redeemer ,,f (|,r
. woii l
•und tint lloíy Hjjirit ate ho noon reconciled r Wliat f ti ll
you, / way to every one, infinitely much i« required to-
wonh, - :¡vatio/i ; previous repentance rriunt prepare ut
loi «»«•¡»la, but not death leail u >to repentance , we rou^t
I i»11- i to tin, hete in thiM temporary and (rarmieut
world, il <
• will not perish eternally ; to gain Salvation,
it I f u l i f n o trifle., Man rnuc-t he botri anew, and regenera­
ted in regard lo hi* inner value; but thin required time
« me-.t and trouble, and inexprett*ibfe vigilance. 9
9 *
“ Another remark I utn enjoined.by my Guide to add__
34
It for instance a person has been on the road to repen-
* >
n i id conversion, but has withdrawn his hand from
t .•
* plough and relapses into his former vicious course—it
will bj no means avail him, for in order to be saved, con­
stant vigilance and faithfulness are required, and there
ought to be no intermission. Refer to the word of God,
ami examine, whether it does not say the same!”
This «die exclaimed with enthusiasm, and then said—
“ My Guide has this time made a long stay, but now
my return commences.”
Meanwhile she was asked, when she would undertake
her third Journey into Mercury? To which she re­
plied—
The 13th of this month at 1 o'clock in the afternoon,
for I require at this time a special relaxation.
As soon as her Guide had taken leave, she said—
‘•Brother, waken me now, but make two strokes more
than formerly, for l shall awake later this time than I
have done heretofore.”
Twenty live minutes elapsed, before she awoke.—
When she awoke, it was with great hilarity, but she com­
plained of weakness, and then remained two hours lon­
ger in bed.
Third Journey into Mercury.
On the 13th November the Somnambulist fell into a
lethargy, as usual, at the precise time she had predicted.
The number of those, who desired to see and hear her,
xvas so great, that h a rd ly the third part of them could be
admitted, as the room , in which the Somnam­
bulist had laid h e rse lf d o w n , w ould not hare con­
tained them. Hardly half a minute had elapsed, alter
she had went to bed before all the persons present, than
she already reposed in the profoundest slumber. Five
minutes after she stretched out her right hand and re­
ceived her Guide ; soon after she said :
“ Now I commence my third Journey and in sevea
minutes i shall also perform it again.”
35
Which proved true to a second. Then c .* i '
“ 1 am again conducted into a City, called M n oj <’
mia, here also such blessed spirits, as clwelj«-d on th
e*
Earth, have for the present their home. — It i- a!wn> "
be taken for granted, that the purest Love and II
ney dwell with all the blessed, here nothing can br
tolerated for a moment, than would in the lea-t di-tuib
their felicity.— Whilst I approach the building and 1 • •
where I find the blessed at their meeting, 1 hear such a
remarkably sweet music and melody, that f all ti e M u ­
sicians of Europe, as well as all its delightful Singer-,
could be heard in Concert, their music and singing con hi
not in the least be compared with what 1 hear in t)n'
place. You would turn quite beside yourselves, could
you listen to this music.— Mortal eyes would not be able
to behold the beauty of the Hall, the gracefulness of the
blessed Spirits, especially that of the teachers, who wear
crowns on their heads, by which they are distinguished
from the rest, nor mortal ears to hear the sound of the
music ; if they were led on the Earth into the most mag­
nificent Castles, Palaces and Edifices it would be intoler­
able and quite onerous to them.— If I w-ere not here ac­
cording- to the spirit, and could not see by means of the
Stomach, and if, when I awake, were conscious of what
is shown to me here, I should be quite unfit for Earth,
and a real trouble and burthen to all persons, with whom
I would have to keep up an intercourse,”
The City, through which I pass, l have not described
to you yet ; it much resembles the former, I don’t know
whether I judge correctly or not, but every one appear»
to me handsomer than the preceding, only this I have to
remark, what I have mentioned so olten, that the streets
within the City are not very wide, but the Gates are very
wide and broad.
At the instance of a Theologian the question was ad­
dressed to her, of and from what class ot people the
blessed inhabitants do consist ?— a short pause ensued,
and it was more than plainly observed, that she was con­
sulting her Guide ; whereupon she said—
“ Have I not every time said, that inhabitants from
the Earth or World are here, by whom I meant those of
* ' ' v '1 crts of religion. Arc you then unne-
*
*
••• 1,1 ’* '• •
* i ' at ¡i is v i^ o r tenth Chapter of the Acts,
v v e wi t«
» f e Apottle Peter in a vision—
* • '• 1’ ' \ “ no rv-p.Tt to persons,but in every nation
* p ’ '' 1 '¡> 1 i ''¡it ami wiuketh righteousness is accepted
•fhin». - t| 0 state of things in blessed Eternity. He,
who u m»liips tlat’erers and hypocrites as Saints
>» >’ • k " it i:i tne list of God— whereas he, to
" ‘»'•■i t > t '.’ i-nonv is not {riven, is conducted
>nt«» ( -v — In regard to nothin^ does mankind deceive
the in hi1 than in their jud merits respecting
5 . - I. Mv Guide just now tells me ; that
in Eternity ju nd impartiality prevail fn such a de­
gree. Hi it i k-vne-t 11<
iinaii understanding would l>
e
ana »’ ■ t i < >:np eiiernl it : that no departed soul receives
to the breadth of a hair, either too much or too little, be
it either punishment or reward, but both are balanced
most rxarilv. Nevertheless a «rent distinction is to be
made those, that had the revealed word of God
ami am >
\_*t those, that have not had it ; the latter arc
judged according to the scale, by which they have obey­
ed the voire of conscience and the law, that was written
in tlo ir heart ; that the Internal Wisdom knows how to
equalize every thing so well, that we shall be more than
Surp i/.i-d, no onlv her*, but also in the Moon. [
have met amongst the blessed spirits such as were Jews
and Heathens, and belonged to all nations and reli­
gions.”
II* vi io
r finished this speech, she said voluntarily:
‘ * l iis dav questions may also again be put to me con­
cerning deceased persons, my Guide tells me: that he
will remain longer with me.”
T h u s called upon, a much afflicted mother of this place
lame forth, who desired in form ation relative to her son,
named G ... S......— lie had learnt the mercantile busi­
ness with G... H .. K.... S. in St...... and had went
on a journey o f business by order o f bis employers the
£8th of October 1819 to \V................ in the “ Obercnnt”
Geiss!in«;en. Between H ....... and R ....... be lost his
life ; not until some days bad elapsed his body was found
near O........ in the Neckar, and taken out still quite re-
37
cognizable ; he was twenty >o»;§ ; _ v . u
said concerning this unl'oriu ; v %
f <
%
suspected, that he had thrown !nu*c.t r .’o t i . r#
Neckar ; but as he could nut be cl.u._.-d , v.»e 1#»
misdemeanor by his employ .».
esteemed by them, nothin;' •!.»• %
%
..«* t, M tu p p o n ^
than that he had been violently m nd ; ,, N,*,» »
wayman, in order to gain posse —. • u . ■ *. . ,
he had ridden, laden with so u - 1. i . . i, , .....
cash.
Very little was known tj the Sum „ » , ,• t,( *},.
story here related, this u n i . . K|
, t4 .. . .
occurred so long since as I mi i*m ..
asked, what had happened to him, and \%. •» »•,» hi,
soul was, she replied as follob a :
“ Whoever has considered S ...... an a M
J , ,\p |
JJ#
done him wrong in the highest degree, He m u not larK.
but he was violently massacred. i-hr-i , ,,
from his beast to the ground; and ihen i . *omr
severe cuts, which caused him to /'tint ; f,r
thrown into the Neckar, whence lie could no lonrer
save himself, owing to what before had happ< ,
that committed the murder on him, entnr.\ m »»cd \it
aim, he had believed, that the creature would - , v (H
its rider, but it escaped and the murder i c ju.hl n<>: o pt
take it, because it liastened in full gallop :<
> >•____ r
,
brought to the ligitiinate owners the in'I .,n » .
money.— The murderer is still in this won' I, t>
count o f his bad conscience enjoys no r . r, . «! »
nor night. - — The unfortunate youth hov.rver duel)«
in the City oi Mesopothamia; just now he i» poi:,n ! ,, ; f
to me by iny Guide, he plays on a harp*)and is very happy.
His parents are by all means to compose themselves,' a*
he certainly would not return, if the whole world uni
bestowed upon him-”
O f this story the Somnambulist had hardly known anv
thing, and as it was related by her, so the events ha I
occurred according to all the proofs extant ; all the per
* ) On this instrument he, in his life-time also like I
much to playi
| * * r r t • f i r BfttnukVfd at tiis narration in fo pro-
(» *.»fiber. |artkulatW as the Sumnambulist had
|1* Wi« wn tl e \ooth to whom the misfortune had
w
Mppearit,
h* •»; ^ * ***'»•* cao«ed ei quirv to he n atle con-
'«■** - * ■u-tei.il« deceased se\eral years ago; aftera
liPWr « ) de iKr Mttl—
••lie he« »■' 1 h * e "n e e heen removed from the first
«Irj n t vi the «» > |-v io the Moon.”
1 mnRi« . 'r i> alti r a si^er rau*td enquiry to be made,
fOOCt i oil g 1 hiijil.rr, who tad been killed during the
•kii.lt, n .» t* «1. ».«;u a Hock »1 sheep. no fact l aving
b r r « et*e»icd bv .11 tl e in\estimations that had b*en in-
•luut«-«. hi i « aimii ii.ticu). Alter a little while she
••lie f i l l be etrrrally happy, his Soul is in the Sun,
he came i \« r as a bachelor and was a noble youth— I
h*%e r c u r learned any thing concerning this affair. But
fufthn 1« ibear to n-k me ; the murdered individual
» i n a place o( pei led li kin'v, and her murderer.will yet
!«i f»»c ¡-lace, where he will receive what his deeds
it
T o tin« »he added—
* “ An i M»*e, who come into Eternity from this world,
in which il >ey suflered death by violence or assassination,
bear a v
. •
.ik, they are however for that reason not particu*
Urlf im.if blessed than those, that dwell with them in
the -aim* Region of Felicity.”
W . 1» this was past, enquiry was made concerning an
unman »« el female of tins place*) who had died in the
5btl< M ar ot her life, alter passing through many inward
and . .in iial sufferings, but who had led such an exampla*
ry. pious course of life, that it could be said of her with
full force of truth, that she had never fell off tram
her baptismal state o f grace; it was dcsiird to be
known, where site resided. After a consultation she
said—
* ) 1 his was Dorothea A eufer, a daughter of the right*
€ou> and pious preceptor A ei/for ot this place, who died
ao long since as the year 1806.
39
<;I have not known 1»c*r in t!»*• world, but mv
told m e— that s ie had already been an Kb <• *
this world and had from '*cr |r»nl<,:r*t cn.i.. * ! *ofii®r«
ed herself to be formed and educu'rd I »r i n‘ ,**»«
she has her «1welling in the Sun, arid onj ova a high. %
cf v
hi^h decree of felicity, she v i* at o <<
• f t m in . J h • «
O © _ 7 ,
our earti into the Sun, win*re s * i •
• * tnn
ample amends lor her afditti w «»:• « •
« ' Ml S*
pomp and enjoyments of the kings on • ui 1» . • like
a dark shadow in comparison with the j it * • •
enjoys.”
l'hert she exclaimed with solemnity -
* w
“ Oh! such, such we should all become**
Revealing so many remarkable thirds of t’ »• other
world, and speaking o f stiff more imp».; i, j i » —
she was asked at the instance o f a (.hi vj\ man ; r
she would not also attain to a ton u*mpj;?
» ..» - .if»
When soon after she replied —
iiThis rs not granted to rne , my guide ted» id • ; the
highest gratification which will be p.*i ni-* * I .1 » ; gi.w • 1
to me, is : that l will be allowed to cu*t a -It . .1: h>
N e w Jerusalem, where I shall be permitted t>
* bjt ,
part o f those attendants who wait on (1 >;1 ; m .i n , >■» .»
nambulist had ever been conducted so f a r — M y g i l*
tells ine, that in the blessed eternities their arc ,m . «
of blessed Spirits, vvlio have never yet arrived it t con
templation of God, that this requires the highest
of felicity.”
“ So many persons, who die on the earth, sav y > fre­
quently ; “ iny Redeemer calls me,” this is incorrect;
those who die happy, are taken away by blessed bring«»,
who come from the spot to which they are conducted ;
just so the unhappy and damned. When a human be­
ing is on tlie borders of life, and he perceives beautil ..
and clear forms, it is always a good sign; but it the.
perceive black forms, it is very ominous and lament tbl\
There are at this time several individuals present, who n ;\ e
been impelled to come here, merely from curiosity,and n it
a sense of integrity ; I would be able to indicate them bv
name, but my guide tells me, to refrain from it, that t «
responsibility will tall on the incredulous, and the unb.*
iO
. v 1 u iti e no injury,” Alter finishing
* • * < ( . , ? recommenced, cotdially entreating all
if - i . k cl us t-> become converted with all our
r j i i i . and » n dure pious fruits of repentance ; that she
%.% r.: • s'a'e ilu* i particulars o f the peace and
c.'fi'rrt, which the blessed enjoy.
** KK V* *he rr-'jcnrd. “ my guide tells nte, that he did
d*rect mrtluii z u v f"» 11 or journeys to promulgate many
thin««. w u \ I : v i* not r tul minutely enough, and
»•k* oir v * , •!*.. r ld o t ot f:.!l to mind, that he told me ;
rtiin r^ \' -o • a s’ n in the eves of God ; that Paul
!.'% bv : o m n o »■.lid too much, when he writes in one 01
his r. v 14 : u tl at it is the root of all evil,’ ’that it
U ■ ;... . \ lying, &c. nay, to suicide and
rrr.nifr, chat whore but a deed can be discerned, susceptu
ble in ihe least palliation, a miser is capable to execute it.
I *' .■
: s.ivs mv n'/ide: Drunkenness is a high-road, that
mankind "bv its many bye ways, into all sorts of
tin ar -1 t i< r. because it bereaves them of their sound rea-
an,| nil icth’Ction. Oh ! may every one strive to
for thus the right path is soonest found. M y
runic tells me : that the least sin is great enough, to
man into a state of unhappiness, if he attain not
!ur ; ^ i ir. :o a knowledge and pardon at the same,
u j i Jesus riirist.— Good deeds arid a course o f righ-
!"nu‘ T'«>s mud proceed from the purest love ol God and
Jesus Ghr ist, that which remained undone, merely from
if love, ambition, and a fear of the operation of the
threatened divine and human laws, has in this world al-
ready received its reward. W c mortals, says my guide,
must clo rroorf, because it is good, and avoid and shun
frit, because it is evif, then will it redound to our sa!Na­
tion. 9
9
A fter finishing this her speech, she turned particular­
ly to her brother A ., who kept up the conversation with
her. and admonished him, always to endeavor to lead a
righteous and pious course o f life, because he, on ac­
count o f his own connexion w ith her, would also draw a
►
pecial judgment and accountability upon himself.
“ Now, she continued, my guide gives me yet another
injunction 5 tell my dear parents, that, on account o f the
A\
situation in which I find m yself, they may hy ii<
* mean*
indulge me too much ; but that they may m*»-? a*t*uretl»y
admonish, warn and punish me, it in au-lit I uliou) * * >m
mit the least offence, by word.-» and »!<
■
< <N. Ik ;»■.*'• I-
when awake, do not know what has happened t<
* n <. /•»* 1
an), when returned to my usual s t a i r of w .¡u . ¡ l u i n r - - .
like any other person, and commit the >a;nc am! w "»if«
faults as others, therefore conceal by no m* ijm • thi
/rom me, that I have said :
Immediately after she said— ‘*In one minui»* »i,s
journey commences,” during the same -he wa* a*k»rd —
how the Mercury was formed and constituted : w h*' -
she said quite briefly :
“ L ik e the Earth, but every object is infinitely mor#*
ennobled,* d u r in g m y fourth and lust j o u r n e y t h i t h e r ,
which I shall perform next Thursday, the 15th instant, 1
the afternoon at one o’clock, precisely, i shall be pri
mitted to look down from it upon the earth.”
H er return being accomplished; and her guuJ*
being departed, she said— “ A. now waken im-." — K iv
minutes after this had been done, she re-awoke with r\
tra o rd in a ry affability, and smiling, but afterwards again
experienced g re a t d eb il i ry .
It is yet to be remarked, that every time she awoke,
both her hands were as cold as snow, and that afterw ard*
she frequently fell unconsciously asleep, but never spoke
a word, and generally awoke o f her own accord.
- .IH
I^Qf9».- -
Fourth Journey into Mercury.
The 15th November, at one o’clock in the afternoon,
she tell again into a magnetic sleep as usual, at the time
she had predicted,— She conversed with those, who paid
her a visit and to whom it was known, that she would lull
asleep, the very minute she would Jay herself down; at
the time this happened, she fell likewise asleep directly,
and remained quite still for seven minutes, but as soon a«
4 *
42
He r guide hud approached her, she exhibited the warmest
h*ve and Ir.endliness ; the rejoicing was far greater, than
when two trusty friends unexpectedly meet each other
again, who have not seen each other for a considerable
length of time,— Immediately she was asked, when she
would begin her journey ? to which she answered :
“ Just now, and in seven minutes, as I did before, I
shall have performed it.”
This again proved correct to a second ; when she had
arrived, she said—
*•1 am again conducted into a city which is called Ti-
/¿a.”
Then she was asked, whether it was also built like
those, which she had seen in her former journeys ? when
she said—
-In regard to size it does not yield to the others, it is
also very beautiful, but it appears to me, as if the former
were handsomer; I cannot understand the reason, why
my guide at first showed me the handsomest.”
Savins this, she smiled and continued—
“ M y guide says— this also belongs to the matter, but
adduced nothing else. —This time also I am led to the
Blessed, that have their home, the building is uncom­
monly large.
Enquiry was made, of what materials it was con­
structed, and what it looked like ? T o which she re­
plied—
“ It is built o f stone; but on earth I never saw any
of this kind, they are transparent, and of a clear-white.
In the Hall, the interior corresponds with the exterior,
as it also was the case with those, which heretofore were
shewn to me— 'This hall is of immense length and
proportionable breadth— the blessed sit in three divisions,
as at a table, and each has three teachers, who, as said
before, distinguish themselves by crowns, more bril­
liant garments and scarfs tied around their loins ; and al­
though the blessed, that are here, have also a very hand­
some appearance, yet the others visibly excel them. A
mortal eye would absolutely be incapable, to look upon
the splendor that exists here, and this, my guide tells me,
is far inferior, to what hereafter will yet be shewn to me,
43
for if that, which I actually perceive, was shewn to a ^ r
son of the Earth but for a few minutes, ho would become
quite disqualified for our terrestial world.*’
Then she was again asked concerning the occupation*
of the Blessed : to which she replied in a soinewii.it fu­
rious tone :
“ This question appears to me superfluous, did i nut of -
ten say before, that the employment of the blessed con­
sists in nothing, but singing and praying, the worship of
God, His Son and the Holy Ghost, and in learning, t: ■
never ceases to all eternity. They now sing tfir
hymn: “ Lord God, we praise Thee, &c. The teach­
ers stand at the head and are Leaders. That I might tm*
be permitted to stay here! but this is at present refused
me. How delightful the singing and music are, I am
quite unable to describe, but must refer you to my form­
er disclosures.”
But she herself appeared by her gestures to be quite
transported. After a short pause she continued—
4iI have asked my Guide, how it happens, that, when I
walk through the Cities l perceive no inhabitants, nei­
ther in the streets, nor in the buildings ? T o which he
has given me this answer : As long as the children are
at school, they are not in their dwellings ; the blessed are
at school, in the Halls, where they are instructed, their
lessons and tasks are given to them, partly to be solved
by them, and partly for meditation on the grandeur of
God, which they take with them to their dwellings, for
the spirit, or the soul of man remains, and constantly isac-
tive; tasks are no trouble to them, but a real delight and
the greatest pleasure ; here exists a spirit of emulation,
productive of no hatred, nor envy, else it would not be
a state of felicity.”
She then became quite silent for some minutes and
thereupon resumed—
“ 1 have asked my guide the state of mind of those, for
instance, who as a married couple, are, the one in a state
of felicity, and the other in that of the unhappy; or when
parents are saved, but either the whole or a part of their
children are amongst the damned ; whether the felicity
of the blessed is not thereby clouded ? T o this my
i-i
j i n n*e : In the blessed eternities all
: « u o! k .d e d c^*' *. beesuse the great love of God, as
i ( , i , become too obvious and manifest to
H i y y « o f tKat it is ft state of felicity, as that it should in
t'< <i% .*■ hindered or disturbed thereby. I f parents,
children, ancestor* and other*, which loved eachotherin
%y§ (Cftrstnai world, already find each other all aud
< «try one an»ong»t the blct»> I, heir delight certainly io-
but • c\ are for that reason not more felicitious
tfeose, mat miss it. On the other hand the unhap­
py a-c ;n ¿rea*. d:**re»* concerning those they have left
behind, ftSliupating for them a similar fate ; particularly
parent* cone c m .mg i' cir children, and so throughout the
different gradations, because reproaches made to their pa*
, r j-*, i, i., i i i ■* .* r*, that had a share in it, in
the o*.h^r world, a lgment their pains, wretchedness and
■userv considerably.
Then »he uttered a deep groan and said—
*«1 constantlv learn more, and shall, agreeably to the
eipre»s injunct: .-i- of my guide, never discontinue my
enwrtationa touching a real repentance and reformation
o f mind,**
Hav inn finished thi* speech, she became quite silent
for some minutes and it appeared as if she felt exhaust­
ed. although the period during which, according to her
•tatemenr, her guide would this time stay with her (more
than twentv minutes >had not yet elapsed. On accounted
the remarkableness of the above declarations; the follow­
ing ques’.ions were put to her at the instance of the most
Reverend M r. M . E., pastor of this to w n ; I.) What
fate did Deacon Brehm , who in the year, 1829 had been
executed at ReutJingen for infanticide, meet with in eter­
nity, to which she answered :
“ He is in the moon, there he holds an inferior and
low station as teacher, but he is improving and progres­
sing; this grace lias been conferred on him, because he
arrived in this world at a lively knowledge o f his sins,
and became well converted. H e is one of those, who
from time to time have to make a journey to, and. preach
in the first degree o f the unhappy.”
« ) What fate did ihc poel ( ; t , f% rt<<& t , . t
meet with ?
«6 Jte is a teacher in the j lance t*nu <
c
S) Enq uiry w *i made after 11efirjr Jung
Hng)z
“ H e holds a co crable »tattoo a t l r « / . n iU #
planet Jupiter.“
4) W here tlie great heaihca te-v m \ H 0
• ^
15
“ He is an eminent teac e planet
he will soon be removi I to a g a* <
• of Gi-icsf» ••
Enquiry was then ma le, ;.r.d c* rrr..r»j* e.. |f
rately, alter the fathers ui the c r . I.' . hr,
ion, Arndt, Spener. ¡1 s* L a . I 1 t e frr / to « h i t s
answered, in regard to i ich r*-; c .* < > ;
« T h e s e are ii >1 vcAcr*, they are i ( Grants
c f G o d : there ev.st> a rcmai h.ib> i’ijfh sH rt
teachers and servants o f G d ; i r r,
have to attend the Throne «*! God ; . . !.
does not stand in need oi * l\j c t o d ,.i*i o f ^
most blessed spirit, yet the ll.dtue • .v. I ( , ' r 7 t.f
Deity requires servants to I r i i . j C7,ifr , ;Ait.
commit the same to sucli^is arc — . . w l , ! . < lr
tioo- M y guide too, h t o call for (»nlct», .• not on
God himself, but lie must apply to the s t r u m !-, *h ■ h«
i ^ me and how far lie may i. ad me, for in tH«
empire of felicity reigns the very _ • - -
from it there is no deviation by the breadth of a a... ’
A fter a short pause she said :
“ I have asked my guide, how it is possible, that t? *
orders Gf God can be brought and executed q u ic k ly ?
regarding this he has informed me as follow* : the bles­
sed spirits travel much quicker than lightning,— they go
far very soon ; in the same manner, blessed 'pints at«
also able to pay visits to each other, the i. g • r t > ' : f-
lower, and again the lower to the higher, hut tf» do *'*» a
permission is always requisite, which is refused to none,
but the one as well as the other must again return to th«
place assigned to him-1
’
She became again a little quiet, and another quenti<
>
:\
was put to her, where the Prelate Oetlinger had his re»:-
dence ?
46
i * * * * : he i* at present in the planet
Ur*ft«sp w f ui| u
oaharp.
«lr\Ur 4iiun tic itrd much attention, especially of
hi* writings and other accounts
y y g y ‘ * i,h *»«* conduct in life, because they
rw ’ »'»at with playing on the harp, he chiefly amused
in hi* hour* o f relaxation and that it was the m
ost
> - • « a) instrument to him.
■ — dc* ihifc, »lie was as i concerning several indi*
«t llllf, who*r irsidm ce » • i licated to be in different
k liv r Q li *JM
il- s. After replying thereto., she said :
** I ’1 ! * . . . t r
* S i ;, and in t'»e heavenly Jeru­
salem arc » .« n
| i • blessed, in these consists
||ea» e i : !»•r m inert star there are inhabitants, not *T
*c
of thriii i* empty ; it I - fIrf have t<
> travel to all, it
SMNrid fW|Oirr a long eternity. As to those, of whoin it
fan be fwrv'fen that they led no good life in this world
forbear to me, because I would liavc to omit answer­
ing your qneations,'9
llcrrup *u she ,i_* in became silent, but soon after held
«•ch an exhortation to all that were present, that there
w u not or u » | ;i<
»t burst intoa Hood of tears. First
ahr depicted t!,e -i'uati":i of llie damned and unhappy a«
more than wretched and deplorable, arid then continued:
•‘ T oe Hvnirr* O Eternity, thou thunderbolt ike.
Scc * speaks most awfully of damnation, but this is
but a type «>
1 ts horrors if l would speak of it for
days, I would be unable to depict more than but a
part of their magnitude. The third tlegree of damnation
is too terrible and painful, there is not a second of alle-
viation ever occurs, but the torments re-commence con-
itantiv anew. If, when I was led thither, the vesture of
my guide bad not given me a little light, [ would have
been quite unable to observe them in detail, on account
of the dense darkness which pervades the place, although
1 onlv but entered a little distance, and therefore could
but contemplate anil behold the least part thereof. How
will, she exclaimed with enthusiasm, the atheist, and
denier3 o f a life-hereafter, who yet are living, be aston-
*) A hymn which hardly will be wan ting in any of tho
hymn-books of the Evangelical congregations.
41
ished, (hat they have so shamefu l * r <d m hr t • »«•
ions find deceived tliemselve§ in c■»«*<r * r *.
coul-l but hear one of their conipan. « **. '
thing now from his own expcrienc«*, . * I. * k 1
speak tor a minute : certainly thrv wo ah# /• ( 11 1 * •*
and ashes in order to esc.ipe lr mi t - ; - * " * c -
Those, that say ; 1 believe in a (.V e a l"’ , bu: • •
deemer, are not much better off, than the 1 1 **T
guide says; that there is, as the wun! .>! h • i.
but one God but three persons in the I) <* * ’
which the most blessed spirits are unable t<. »u l«c .
During this discourse she was loll of eni <*• >,fli •'*
such a degree, that it cannot be w iiti«n <!».■, !
emphasis she spoke. Lamentable a«» on
hand she described the situation of the daono d f - *®
on the other ha mi she glorified that o f f j« L «— • * !*d
repeatedly besought every one mo>t e irn •*-* . 1 1 ,ir
converted with all thier heart and sou> ; hoi h ’
rough reformation o f the mind would preMousli >
•' 1ndi»-
pensible.
“ Consider only— she said in conclusion — the '■»'•rrf
eternal'*— where no longer anr end can b
<
* i nnkf l lor.
O ml
I will pray my guide, to interpose partirul.i: 7
behalf with God, that I may in this world be {-u n ­
tied, and qualified ; every suffering, which God > J '•
me to, I will fain bear with all patience, so that i may
gain my soul’ s salvation.’ ’
Then she was asked, what was the .fact in rrg.vd to
fieitgel*s explanation of, and orations on the UercUtion
of St. John ? Whereupon she assumed an air of une.n th
liness, which was truly remarkable, remained quite Mill
for several minutes, but it was well observed, that "he
held a conversation with her guide : alter this she said :
“ IJengel is, as I have stated, a chosen instrument of
God and a servant o f God, and has received his calling
from God, to write this and other books, but it is to b*»
remarked, that he has committed an error of three yean
in his account, instead of saying, that when the year
1 8 3 6 shall have arrived, the time o f trouble would iiavo
an end, he ought to have said, 1839.”
She was then asked, whether his predictions would be
fulfilled ? to this she replied
•• IK* Lis to be sure described the times as very deplo*
: able ami wretched, but they will become worse, than he
bat stated them.”
T m >he resumed of her own accord and said :
‘ * 1 -ball not grow old ; before the time of trouble ter^
r, irate-, 1 shall be gathered home : I could tell many
of those, that are present, still a great deal more, but
they would not be able to bear it, therefore I will be
silent. ’*
A fter this she declared, that she perceived a great
anxiety in her soul, and begged leave from all those that
stood around her, to disburthen her heart, She then
airain delivered such an impressive exhortation, with so
great a zeal and decorum as to excel those by far, which
ha>e been enumerated already ; all that she said, was
referred to by her in the word of God, the holy Bible ;
without exaggeration, nay with justice and truth it may
be said of her, that the, best orator on the pulpit could
never have proved himself her equal ; a cold shuddering
seized every person present, and tears streamed from
every eye. Fain would her speech be communicated to 1
all the readers of this work from word to word, but the
quickest stenographer would have been unable to appre­
hend and write down every thing. In regard to her
former energetic admonitions it must be added, that she
did depict the abodes of the unhappy and the damned, as
still more terrible, and detestable, than she had done be­
fore.” *
“ Imagine also, she said, how the unfortunate are
tormented besides, by the damned and devils, some of
which suffer with them an equal degree of torture, and
others a greater.— T o which this is to be added, namely;
that if the damned, by means of their sins and atrocities
committed in this world, have induced others, that are
yet living, to commit, from consideration to them, simi­
lar sins, the torments of these damned souls will be
augmented thereby. Therefore let every one be most
carefully on his guard not to give the least umbrage, by
words nor deeds ; bear it well in mind, and engrave it
deep on your hearts and souls; that an account must be
rendered to God o f every useless word; if we do not
previously and- in this world already obtain a know-
49
.edge and pardon for our sins, for in the next v o .M , t'
sins o f man arc so vividJy put before his eves, !hat ! <
•
can remember each of them as clearly, as if they had hr. n
committed by him, but an hour before. W e ll may it be
said then, amongst a thousand questions we cannot ans* n
you one i ” You will not agree with me, when 1 tell >cu
that God condemns even from love, and yet it is so; h r
God is nothing but love, and his justice require s if, that an
unrepentant and stubborn sinner, should peiish. il**u
bad off is the sinner, who begins to bolie\e that hr *
punished for the sake o f his sins, when lie is punished
ready.”
“ Believe me truly, that all I have said to you, collec­
tively and individually, is no fiction, for every word
was put into my mouth by my g u id e ; examine and con­
sider well all I say, whether not the whole o f it correa-
ponds with the plain word o f God. Again I must repent:
that I regret nothing more than that when awake, 1
know nothing o f what I disclose when asleep in any of
my spells. M y guide also repeatedly aks me, whether 1
clo not actually comprehend, that it is owing to the noblest
wisdom o f God that i f I remained conscious thereof, 1
should he totally unfit for this w orld .”
Then she became quite silent; al tera short pause, she
was asked concerning the cholera, which had found its
w ay into Europe ; whether no remedy for it could be
suggested ? and whether it would also find its way into
our native country? These questions she answered a*
follows : The fi rst:
“ Against this sickness no physician in the world will
be able to s u r e s t a sure remedy. W h o will and can
resist God ? This sickness has been introduced by the
angel o f God, who strikes with his sickle, it must exist.”
T h e second : “ It will also find its way to u s; but
*nv guide d 0es not inform me when ; W atch and pray,
that you may not fall into temptation, the spirit is willing,
but the flesh is weak before the year 1839 does ensue,
it will co m e . Happy will be those, that then are taken
aw ay, for after the harvest there i9 yet an autumn in
►
fore for the world, before it be quite completed ; those
v. ho then perish, will go into the vessels o f yvratb ; aJ»*
' •
*
* rrc *
. ~r; dr;-' \c Cud. XlV guide
« ». r c i * *ui.ot tulurni me of that. which will then ■
-I it thcQlii br (CTCtlrd to him, that cxpe-
i c u e nil* u* i* e clearest explication, only this
M M tb M l i |W fftM iic«l to communicate to von, that you
Air !• fm f the ~r<
-,*•. *t attention, to what shall occur.—
n • I am commanded »»lencc—
—
* k * b< « .» little (¡met, but soon after she said:
•- Now 1 p n n v return, anil in live minutes from
|ui I »ball Have performed it.”
lb * »p r c '* d cunret to the second, because in it her
n id c Wft her ; immediately after, she said :
• Brother, now w&kcn me.v
A tcro»pacc trn n.inures she awoke, with that
inendlr, and »ndlni? air, usual to her, and this
l i i r p »Tier *o rra* v and momentous disclosures had an
rii * f tkt g u id t c u d c o m tc ra lio n fo r h ig h e r jo u rn e y s
icyt. \
*1he if-th t»f Novcn.her she arose with great anxiety
. ml continued to complain of it lmue and more the wliule
«•otph©c!i : after cloven o'c lock she fell into a sleep, which
I'on but never did her guide appear, she also
:ilwa\* awoke of her own accord, but her anxiety did nut
cea*e.
A t half j : st three in the afternoon her sleep became
:• .!*• profound, when it bad lasted nearly sis minutes/i
- *
* assumed an air o f gaiety: being asked, what th
is
meant ? she said ;
*• i perceive such a brightness, as is u^lial, when hi/
• uide comes to me.
After the expiration of a minute she actually received
I u:\m and she said directly :
•• This time he does not accompany me on my journey-'
Hut soon rdfer she burst into a more than loud and ah
n .-rt inconsolable fit of v eeping on her own account, am
i
thrn said—
<» \ccording to tftjv opinion I id cj
m !
ifi
I?
i^ . i «H i» -
better and more n w h it f
my amide shews me the scroll of m i \ '■ " c
much is recorded in it, u iat I • ^ i •
Alas, she sighed*-—clear brothei nplorr 1
earnestly and from the b o t h ’i if «» «r *■ '• ' yf/*
the Ihtleemer o f the ff'urlJ, that I m i j be
therefrom for ever nnd e\ : I ‘ ' r r
heartfelt prayer, that I may by no m r *• %*M
!
here too long,*’
Then she exclaimed with the g r rV; .
“ T o h o w great an extent must t V rr - strr «»I * r\
% »
crease, of a man who attains an r. «• -f *. \i r, i f * pn*T » 114 *
eighty years, even supposing that he did pa*« * * ’
world as quite an honorable, mom! a ml y ;> i ’ ir m-1-• f riblc
to the charge o f no oftenco, such as wc rail rice. O f ■ *
who wantonlyand wickedly extend ti.rir register,
bear to speak at this time, only the remark I cannot n e ­
glect to repeat, that mankind be, they to! ! » > « " ' ¡ ^ ' dr
and emphatically, will absolutely not b 1 f ve how n^ultr
God judges every sin ; — not only tho* •, u c i hr
words and deeds, are entered upon the r< . ' r <»r *f ndl .
but every bad thought is also char •
* 1 to account« 1 dw
not know how to express mysei/, but it ::;; •
* 1 t 1 • I
the register o f my offences laid open before* - •. v' fl* f ' * f
ed in several coiumnss, in sucii a manner, f • •
thing that has been done,by deed, word, and i.o t..oo
was each separately enumerated.”
She now became silent for a while, and it was pi «i-iy
perceived, that her gloomy countenance by d< - * >
came serene$ when she was completely r •-1 • h bh •
said with extacy :
“ M y guide tells me, that my trespasses arc n^-v f.n ■
given ; that this had to happen to me, that l mi/ »i n< i
dispense with the higher revelations, and deem my*
better than what I really am, but l am to use that wo.f i
has been shown to me, as a memento.— N o w iry
consecrated me Tor the higher and more important jou r­
neys.
f She now' in the profoundestsleep, quite erected l»cr >»hf,
and adjusted herself for the act. When this was pa*l.
t „w de Ult iicr, and she asked her brother to waken
• r. \
N .ri» she awoke she became perfectly serene,
nil u i d :
*• Now my anxiety is entirely gone.”
F irs t jo u rn e y in to Venus.
The 17th November, she made her first journey into
Vr nun. T his journey she predicted so early as the 10th
November, being the day, when she was visited b y the
physician of the O bcrnnit, Dr. A..*».» o f K*.«..«*, and
c*tlicd him to be informed, that, on the 17th of this
month he might enter into communion with her, in the
manner she had previously indicated, but at which time
none aught to be present but himself and her brother
a
4l •
•••
•
w ith these declarations, Dr. A ....... wa3 very well
pleased ; and he actually arrived at the appointed time,
but instead of coming alone, he brought also three other
gentlemen with him.
In the forenoon already she complained of anxiety and
was also dejected ; before she laid down, Dr. A......
had to be reminded, how he could enter into communion
with her.
Having laid herself down at the appointed time, it
was plainly observed, that she did not assume the saow
appearance as form erly. Her guide regularly appeared
to her, and ns soon as he had come, she said :
“ 1 shall require six minutes to accomplish this jour­
ney.” Which proved correct to a second.
\\ hen he had arrived, she said :
(t I am in a beautiful city.”
Doctor A ..... was requested to ask her the name of
this city ? “ What do 1 care for the name of this city
and how it looks he said, and instead of it, he put
quite another question to her, and addressed her in t!>
e
plural, whereupon she said :
53
« Thou must use the word thouy if thou w ilt enter ,,
communion with me.”
Instead o f being led on in her career, she wag .
led off from it. T h e questions, which Dr. A
put to her, were o f such a nature, that no angel could
have answered them, and such as ought to have hr n r.
dressed to the deity only. H er answers how ever co rres­
ponded with his questions.
The question put to her by Dr. A ........was as fenluv.«
“ llo w she would prove, that she was a real Somnambu­
list r” T o which she answered :
“ Th is day eight weeks my spell will terminate, th ere­
fore visit me in four or five weeks, be-cause I shall then
perform journeys to Saturn and Uranus, whence 1 shall
suggest remedies for different sicknesses, which no ph y­
sician has vet thought of, then will I give you the c le a r­
est proofs. *)
Then she was asked, what other journeys she would
perform after this ? Whereupon she said—
“ Again into Venus, because the one ot this day has
been so miserably disturbed. W h en iny journey to
Venus shall be completed, I shall make a journey i.;to
Jupiter.”
Finally she was asked, whether she could not lock
down upon our earth ? W hen she said—
“ Yes, it looks blackish and appears to me not larger
than a large bail, such as children play with. N o w I
commence my return, and will perform it by two minute»
itooner, than my journey hither.”
Having completed it, she said to Dr. A ...... 5
“ A ........ now waken me.”
H e replied : W h a t if I do not waken thee, when wilt
thou waken? T o which she replied—
“ T h e consequence will only be, that I shall lie here,
»n a state o f stupor, after which you will have to waken
me for all ; but I shall shortly become still more weak­
ened.”
“ hut being already greatly debilitated, and as an ab­
solute repugnance was entertained, to heighten her vveak-
• ) but be that did not come was Dr. A ........
1 5*
nei> srili more, he wakened her. When she had awoke,
»He w u far from being as lively as formerly, but treated
I)r. A ..... with the greatest respect.
The whole being past. Dr. A ......sincerely avowed;
*• '.''.at i 1 no knowledge of such a case, nor could h
e
.
*onv r- ¡.»'¡id it ; 1'rofessor E sch e n m a ye r of Tubingen or
D octor K otn e r of Jle in s b e rg had therefore better be con*
Milted/*
The former was applied to, as evidenced by the letters
cu«ni:vinicated in the introduction.
Second Journey into Venus. >
T he 19th of November she made her second journey
into Venu3. Having laid herself down, she became quite
«till for about six minutes; her guide having appeared,
.die said ;
“ In six minutes I shall accomplish this journey
which again proved correct to a second ; she then said of
her ow n accord—
Now I am again in a city, called Z e n iria ,**
She then expressed great indignation, that her first
journey had been so miserably frustrated, in future she
directed the putting of useless questions to her, to be by
no means tolerated, as they would lead to no useful pur­
pose.—
Having composed herself, she was asked, whether
questions might also be addressed to her this day ? Ta
which she replied—
“ Yes, but by no means such as are useless and of no
avail, for thereby I should much offend my guide.”
Then enquiry was made, at the instance of a reverend
clergyman, concerning a Clergyman, named H e lftric k ,
who for more than seventy years had not been heard
from, who had .not returned from a walk, whose fate to
this hour remains unknown, not the least information
concerning him having transpired ; his relations having
conceived the very doubtful opinion, t h v . on >:coar,* d
his remarkably pious course of life, and »
zealous a defender o f leligion, hi ! bt^n rt
moved alive to the abode o f the Blessed r. 1 o tf».^ • •
replied—
« His relations and friends have errrd in their opinioni
he was killed by enemies, who would n" t f<*l«•xate? h.t
zeal, and he was hurried with all his clothing, upsi
under an oak, which has long since been cut down ; it it
had been dug up by the root, his bones would have b e -
come visible. 11 is soul lives now in Uranus, whcic •
is appointed as one of the principal teachers.v
After this she was asked ; how far distant i* Vi r.*«
from the earth ? W hen she said :
“ Five and a halt millions and fifteen million* of i:n!eo
from the sun.”
This declaration made a deep impression upon the lit -* •
ti, who were present, because the best astronomers a?**jiuo
the same distance.
Then enquiry was made concerning the highly *r.-
lightened, learned and pious, principal prearher of the
Court, Dr. S lo rr, who died at Stuttgard, the 17th Janu­
ary 1805 ; whereupon she said—
44 M y guide says, he is a servant o f G od.”
Then the martyr Huss was enquired after, and tho
following answer was given—
“ He too is a servant o f God, and stands at the right
hand of L u th er.— T h e Prophets and Apostles are all
servants of God likewise, for God is surrounded by in­
numerable servants.”
Another literary character caused enquiry to be mads
relative to the emperor Joseph I I , when she said—
4
4 H e is in Uranus.’’
T h e question was then pu t; where Gustavus A d o l­
phus K in g o f Sweden had his residence ?
“ He, she said is in the sun, an elect o f God, and en-
a great felicity.”
Finally enquiry was also made after Pope Clemens,
X I V . known in History, as a pious and upright man $ of
him she said—
is appointed as an eminent teacher in Saturn.”
56
stated;H#w the planet Ve
^ 1 !• which she replied :
s * wo-'J, bat it it fir nobler, ud
• i « W
----------- pon it ire
* i « l tlto mountain«. bat not as manvn
lr* f* tre ber% and the most splendid park«,
• i I t t f f i . K e l t Wednesday I shall again
• ta i« is t f i m i . — I see again a great many
^ ^ ibos* o i all nations and religions ; let no
tK*t do profr*4 \ s | f *hi* re!:j;on. indJ-
a p i f i T i s c f in eternitr. God docs not judge it-
Uny *- *.*»• or •v re' ijv*tjs profession, but agreebly to
*• si^irh rr»| piety and a living faith in the
•* tW world shall exist. Amongst the man?
tsnguei and hr guag**, that are here, reign the
v r aruj Harmonr, and iff know each other,
tells me : It is true, you cannot explain it
origin o f fo great a love and har-
•sch a variety of nations from yoar sinful
K'om-th* viurrf of all himself, my guide doe3
t*W, ftr here there is no longer anv disputing about re-
l ^ n o . where thivone will rrproach the other, your doc-
r a e i f faith ha^ these defect« : and the other, yours has
iv ^ n - *-*>*. here the many syllogisms carried
it a height», are all dropped, for to every one it
VSobviou«. why it i-» so and not otherwise, for here
is an end at once to much of the patch-work in
inv thin^ ni tout former world, but that which
t»n the a ttrib u te * of God, progresses bat slow-
lr, whereas that which belongs to God alone remains in­
dissoluble to all eternity, for God is God, and remains
God. Ordv that which is inserdtable, my guide tells me,
leads no longer to any arguments ; for not only diffidence
M d the most profound reverence restrain every blessed
spirit, be tie ever so h ig h ly gifted, but every one that ii
blessed, is convinced beforehand that this is only possi­
ble to a Deitv ; the happiest of all the blessed,and even
the angels created from the beginning refrain from it
cheerfully, fo r my jruide says, that the most blessed of
aB spirits hare enough to do, with the admiration of the
grandeur* w is d o m , and a lm ig h ty p o w e r o f G o d , that to
all eternity they not cease doing so, because God can
V t
n e T tr stop b n o p c n t u ’ i s i r d iK * ; £<»<» r 1 1
occasion to admire I M * . M f f*»1
, ^ ?r^ ■41*****
grandeur of God, ftcituef the A ~r s * c f
nor theblewed from the creation si < o o »U , <•* wmm
any idea whatever, and much lem the * «***** •*
shortsighted inhabitant» of your '*
.■ ‘ * *d *• *r *
*
*
the beginning equally great to tv.rase i. If»
guide, your jdobe of fin could bo tooc d t* ** *
pin, it could not in the ¡eat^t be e m ptied * «t * the •
verse of God, but to make anj cotrpm« * » o»th
the grandeur of God, was out of the quetf »«•• '> r r “ !*
concerning thi*addreaoca to me word», w0#< •
>c m # *•
sink with humility, nor am l capabW 1» «e ta f t p l M
them.”
Then she exc h im e d , replete wi;h a rc \c:er. ce tiaiblf Ml
her brow and all her featuiea i
“ H o ly ! H o ly ! H o ly is llu Ijo r d d J , r d o d ! — Obi
if but the heart of every human b". _
• .'i- aomewhat im ­
pressed with the greatness of Go 1
. ■ .m» * I **»d iRd
his Son would not be so oiler» ust«i a *ar* •
? »U ****•
kind; this sin, is one of those, which are not ark fio*l*4 0 ^
by man, yet are great trespasses, not or.: oi * , ch will
be left out of the account.
When she had finished this speech, her f a* r» r'*
mainsd serene, but she herself quieted, excr; ’ hat
observed, that she constantly conversed »itn ner guide
without,however, uttering tne ¡east aour.d. Ai'^r a |»ro*
longed pause she was asked ; whether she would |>c« tor»»
itill more journeys into Venus ? whereupon she **»d :
“ Yes, five more besides the one of tins da;*, but I h»**»
to deprecate the very great crowd of people, that ' rav*
admittance, for they make me afraid.”
Finally she was asked; that as here and there do^bt»
were still entertained concerning her situation, it »<m !4
he very desirable, that a physician possessing a know­
ledge thereof, might be called in, and that tuerefore it
w m desirable to be informed, v/ho would be to*«
fittest and best to be consulted. Whereupon w\t r e ­
p lie d :
«T h a t Professor Eschenmayer o f Tubingen, was the
most eminent; that K o trn tr o j W tinxberg^ would aUodo
▼ery well, but that the former was preferable, that she wish-
53
rd mou cordial! v, that her innocence might be saved.”
() N-’u* t!¡it she was very weak, no other question
"a * put to .her : her return being accomplished and her
guide having left her, she said to her brother:
“ Now waken ir.e. ”
-even minutes after this she awoke with the mo3t un­
clouded serenity, but soon afterwards complained of Ian*
£uor.
Third Journey into Venus,
The 21st November she made her third journey into
Venus, with the same punctuality as heretofore. Hav­
ing arrived there, she said— 4
••Now l require yet two minutes, before I shall arrive
at the mountain, which 1have to ascend.
And when arrived there—
“ Now* I require four minutes, to ascend this moun­
t a in ."
Both of which proved correct to a second. Then she
continued—-
<»I3e it known to you, the mountain is called T iU ig ;
now 1shall require yet one minute, before I am conduct­
ed on what appears to be a kind of rock, yet is no rock,
but quite another sort of stones, it is quite brilliant. I
bad to ascend up one hundred and eighty step*,
which were all pretty high, here the progress is by n >
means so rapid, as it was on my journey hither from the
earth ; this is effected in the same manner as it is done
by men, the path and stairs to the mountain and upon the
mountain are very narrow, around the stone, upon which
I am led, there is a splendid railing, for the surface of it
is small, and exceeds not the double breadth of a table!
Thence I overlook a great part of this starry world, ou
which there are many towns, but as far as l can see, few­
er mountains, 1 only perceive one yet, which however it
lower than the one 1have ascended'. But I regret, that I
lack words ami strength, (o tell and d e ^ a ib e to mjK
*
(he beauties, which exist here. I can < n v h ?
< i * a
with the greatest earnest and emphasis lo i. i r ad
monitions. I f but the miserable inhabitant - t.f ’ r.vt .
would believe, that the enjoyment o f f e lu itv 1> so di-light-
fu ff certainly the earth we inhabit would be quit«* diHri-
ent, but as it is, it is full o f wickedru >: I .1 * : : tto
much, if I say, it is a world o f d evils.”
« A l l the stars are, as I have stated several : i:r » n’ rra*
dy nothing else but w orld ,o n ly that I cannot 1
> ihetn
in the least comparison with the world we inhabit,
here every thing; reflects rava of brilliancy a: d I . V .
This star shines even on the earth so brilliant.v.
imagine then, how beautiful it must be, when m i
upon it,”
A p p e a r in g !« rejoice thus with all her s o u l,;’; pei
present were diffident, to question h e r ; yet after a ho t
pause, she resumed then of her own accord :
‘‘ I see here no blessed spirits walk about, and yet m e
mountain more transcendently beautiful; inv guide ( <
•
tends himself at this time entirely with my own d c l i A t .
Below, at the loot oT the mountain, there is a lovely park
laid out, the trees standing all in the finest order, tiny
look like firs, but they' are not. Th ero arc} several
paths in various directions, but they are extrem ely sn ;;: ;
(lowers o f various kinds are also here, exhaling so delight­
ful an odor, that I am unable, to convey to you the least,
idea thereof, I cannot in the least compare them w i f i
any llower on earth, be it ever so odoriferous. Around
the mountain too, there are florets, which arc more dim:
rutive, but o f as delightful and refreshing a scent— and
the green surface, which we call turf is truly beautiful.
Kverv thing, as I have already stated to you, reflects the
most splendid rays in all possible colours, and there is
nothing left me but to admire. In two minutes l shall
»gain leave the mountain.
Th en an honest, well disposed man begged leave, sepa­
rately from all other persons, to direct some questions to
her, w hereupon all those who were present, withdrew ;
mhiih questions she did not only answer to his 9ntiifac-
iion, but so correctly as to excite his astonishment.
60
11sen the con
s i t trade by a
i btch question
prrvin who had
fiAIC received tli
that which ihe
cr been sho
dr knew; who 1
eü lier return, during which enquiry
ma
v. i l then doubt its truth, I have been
more * - 1 * 1 o! it " Sad, but comforted, sh
e
W t the bed of the Somnambulist.
: i.cr return, she said to her bro­
ther—
•-Now waken me.”
W i.e:i * e awoke, she was cheerful and gay, but
• ^m pl.vir.cd o f great weakness, and remained another
full hour in bed, «
F o u rth Jo u rn e y to Venus.
1he iid November, she fell into her usual trance at
the time predicted ; no sooner had her guide appeared,
than the said— ; r "
**ln si* minutes I shall be again in Venus.” .
Having arrived on the spot and in the city,9he was
u* \Uit, she was asked its name, and replied—
••it is called S o d ia ; one city is always handsomer than
the other ; the gates are to be sure spacious and magnifi­
cent, but the streets are narrower. The blessed, that
five on tbe south side, have a preference over those that
inhabit the north or left side, because the former will be
removed somewhat earlier to a place of higher felicity,
for every one that is blessed, passes through several habi­
tations, before he attains a higher felicity.”
After perambulating the city, she said—
-►
I am again conducted into alarge and splendid build-
iug, which stands without the city.— In it I have to as­
cend a flight of twenty steps, the stairs are not verv
0
C l
broad, but exceedingly beautiful, a:id i\ ;.v
magnificent <nd b rg h t that l do not < * o h
I hear delightful si n£n112 ; I come *o tv- <
1. ff*
these^cxcel in beauty, le n t r arid I . - v n • • »r hymn
‘ «JPraise ye the L o rd , the mighty king o f gun *. v* ■ ”
the head o f each row stand the t'a d n u s ; v< •
. •./•ui. L
marks of/listinction from the learner, 1L« .t I .. - n . ; ;*r 1
supernatural and bright. A t the dde o f t ,«•
somewhat elevated nearly fifty are itan dii... > »;* 1
upon harps.”
She was then asked how these harps were : », rr.< d T a d
she gave the following account concerning tluvi —
“ T h e y are not unlike the harps u ed on earth, b ¡1 tin ?
are far more elegant, and handsome, and the w .
resounds from them, is heavenly, T h e splendor, > 1
harmony, which reign here amongst the blessed, I am
able to express with words, nor to convey an id. a the
o f— all l say, is too incom plete.”
T h e question was then asked : H ow it was there .u
regard to coldness and heat ? to which she replied —
“ T h e atmosphere here, is much milder than upon tv-
moon, and pleasantly warm. Although one does iu«t
count here any longer by days, because night exists here
no more, a thousand days appear here to the b le ^ t d not
so long, than with us but one day, if even it should b
passed ever so cheerfully and satisfactorily, because they
can never become weary of felicity, imagine only, that
no sufferings from without, nor from within, di*tu»b the
blessed any longer, for here there exist neither affliction
nor pain; all that, which is called terrestrial and evano-
scent, exists no more 5 that happiness, which is enjoyed
here surpasses by far, that, which we call happiness; that
life, which we mortals lead, is more than distressing, may
we deem ourselves ever so happy.’«
She then was asked, whether she did perceive or meet
with any animals, like those on our globe ? whereupon
ihe said—
««As y e t I have neither perceived nor seen any. ’
She then was asked, whether she would not also come
into Paradise, where the malefactor who suffered wi h
Christ, found a reception P T o which she replied—
' rk* l-*•* * “ * : ippen during one of my last jour-
r " — l »- *»*t »ft mention something else, the hall,
M 1
1 k to e.t- iu-tJaj not near so full as the one
' r m r- ; i ha\e also met with far more blessed
• v ^ wljch 1 have already visited; Bit
¿ •nJ
c let!» me, that tine "higher the degree of felicity, the
1 tha/l i*rei with m v, to attain a felicity, such as ei*
*•* in V u » , infinitely much is required, improvement
r‘ elcrnr* d no*. j>:o^rebs so rapidly, but only from
itf |
) to ltfp,M
hhe now a- .in deli\ered a very serious discourse to
oil, and concluded with the most heartfelt prayer—
•■1 ' 1 ■
*
. _
•\t all use every possihle effort, to be
v u r d ; it i$ impossible for me. to describe a state of fe­
licity» and it 1had vears to -«peak in continuation because
I »hou.M lack words, to depict it as it truly is in-
r-ji lar, guage ha> no words to express. Paul did
-o ' corrcc’ lv, when he spoke of his extacy : “ that he
heard unspeakable words,'* it is more than true, that they
ore unspeakable.*'
After this she was again asked whether the blessed
were a!wa\> in the hall : when she said—
*»No, but 1 have told you once already, that they have
their habitations in the city: when they are in the lec­
ture-rooms. then in the city as if it were depopulated,
v hence it happens, that 1never see any one in i t They
al>o perambulate the environs around the city, in which
there are the handsomest gardens, but the paths in them
are all very n a r w v and yet very pleasant to walk upon;
these are ilowers so beautiful, as the earth neither doe#,
nor can produce, for the soil does not bear them : these
retain their refreshing perfume, nor do they decay, the
(>:• ??ed also never become weary o f them, for my guide
tcdls me, that they constantly discover something new U
I'lem* which inspires them w ith admiration and the great-
e ft veneration for the infinite greatness o f G od .r’
These words she also again connected w ith a very s
e
­
rious admonition, to repent and become converted, w
n
ert*
upon she continued as follows—
** I o-morro w, as I have heretofore already stated. I
¿hall become very weak, whereas next Sunday morninp
J shall be tolerably well. B y twelve o’c’ - *. -• r*.
shall fall into a trance, daring w lieh I *hall *pr\k. **•!
also point oat the small herb, bv which I - • ' tt<
ed to m y former state o f health, but ti • nvj*! • !
applied, when I shall indicate it; 1 a\e !<• point it oat
present, for this reason, that it n ay yet be -« 1!» *c* f, be
fore the ground be frozen too hard and f c l * * p i' « o\ete%
with snow.— W hen I v i-it Saturn a: i 1 s I 1 - ’ *
able to suggest remedies ami cure* l<-r ex 'trrn ! * r o . a*
well as sicknesses o f the body ; but th»-» 1» . f • c un
derstood, that I shall be of service to cv«i> <, L .
certainly to many, if they duly observe - t»lion j »
prescriptions. 1 desire, but too a id ru tlv. th lut agtl *!
period I may be attended by a physician, • i- a In ***
ledge of, and understands a stare o f > 001( ^ 11,t . 1* 1 1 . le -
causc then a great deal would certain'» be • v< i*hed,
but as this will not be the case, a gi - d will aUo be
frustrated.— Eh ! says my guide to me ; be 5v . i f i d
that which you will actually perform.*’
Im mediately after this, she said—
u N o w begins my re turn.''’
W h en it was accomplished, she desired to he re
awoke. W hen she awoke she was repiatc wit 1 iom a 1
cheerfulness, but complained o f being somewhat fati­
gued .
Fifth Journey into Venua.
T h e 25th November, when the clock »truck twelve,
she again fell into a trance, the effect of Somnambulic 1 ,
as had been predicted by her. Having received ber
guide, she said—
« I n six minutes I shall have completed my journey
h ith er.”
W h e n she had arrived on the spot designated, she com
naenced to speak—
N I *m U le i mto a moat beautiful little park, I
• W l n t i i r i tkrff ainutr* for m j passage through the
I A « t i f f ! d lid in veil arranged rows, they are all
•f m m t Wtgfcf and thick nets, ami their (ops incline
• u k oArr, in a most beautiful manner ; in this
*1
2
1 park (‘ m i #r * ¿rrat o any. but narrow paths, and
An****» wMck eiccl in beauty x the Jitfulness of
* • •wffs*. and the pleasantness of (hi* little grove. I
Si# Unt In '•■elra^t C;>ptVe de*cubc.— Men ton, form
» V * ' * of % . r- r s, +.'\ c'i are often admired, but the
‘ *kt i* t n %
*
. r x 'd 'i 't i.f t\<m are all but a miserable
* n, for tbit scenerj always remains equally hand'
*«'T<
• i '• . V ; : o te: pent injures it, no cloudy
, ■ • «■
-. ■: ■-; f inest, and neither frost,
cJdocr moir d« robe the trees of their foliage or
ftfHp t^e fowrr* « f tv« 'r bloom, in eternity all changes of
tbit kind hare cea*cd.”
“ f l o * I i <me to v. hat a; pears to be a gate, it is of
the « ;/* « : a mm::-,i n g !-•, and has pillars, which are
».cite rtjend, and although white, yet their whiteness is
mixed with a r. -v ndr.es-*, and as I often am at a loss io
. .. I ii also now be silent.— B rotler,
•* c I • !. • . ;» has he« n shown to me by my guide, by the
■*e f wf-.ji.h I shall recover, you must incline towards
•nc : it is ra l’
.cd mallow, (here are a great many plants
tif the .H ii.e growing around our house, but these I dare
. r lv make u*e « f, when 1 shall l ave to perform no more
joorr* -
•>, and «1 m only for eight days, win n I shall have
tj t;,k . t ;li in each time three leaves, in the morning,
noon a: -I e\eii;i.;i, in this will consist the whole ot my
-
cure.
A fte r a short pause she continued to speak—
*• New I am introduced into a garden, which appears
to be surrounded bv a wall, at the entrance or gate
nand two pillars, adorned above as with crowns, the
Morr.« are again o f a peculiar kind, they are white, o f a
blue shade, and resemble alabaster, but they are much
hner, i observe no joints, the whole seems to be compos­
ed o f one piece. T o describe to you the beauty o f the
interior of the garden is impossible for me, be satisfied
with this ; whatever is terrestrial, is terrestrial, and
r»5
w h a t i s h e a v e n lv is h e a v e s.!%
W _
„
other n e v e r r i e c i y s . T h e |
era a n d herbs, in thi* *¡>0 1 —
f lunie, r i
0 m4
r i fT
v<
tal could bear ; here are i b o t«r<-s * I ; •
gee the most beautiful and d- it. -> li •
She remained q . :ig a le v, . . 4c » ,
re-com m enced and said :
“ I have asked my guide i o\t t , <
blessed who are here, having rul q.U d i d • d IL*»di<*s l e t
do they speak, sing, aud p. .v np-.n « t s» * r,d » h * » * I
stretch out my hands to touch aue, ii i* a» ;f 1 «<■ «* ' *
seize a shadow ; whether t ' w r: * 1 » %
»
prevails here, and the fruit!» that ai< r . c r «
■ •
W hereu pon m y guide tells me ;
here, not with you r soul, and yet y«.u j ... of d,c tic
lightful scent ; but the ble.-.'* d r. mu 1
» f • »
measure, A s respecis the enj<•\w*» : t < f the ir j » *, tre
matter is thus : they do not cat n.< tu u< reality, but lH<*
derive from them a sense o f tast»*. as J i\r\ n<‘ -a !v ru
jo y e d them. M y guide further te l!“ me : v. v . i j t »or*
dreams (which is the constant wahn »>! • • * ul it
often happens to him, as if he had enjoy* <
1 t r u *’ « *
■
licious viands, fruits and beverage, and \ « i i •
• V
he finds that his body and soul arc emp: > : > ' •
blessed it is different, who although tl.ev <
! • / ' ;
them, yet find themselves satiated. M I
you, adds my guide, the remainder is onl v k- (
himself. T h ere are many walks in this gar«!«-?». ' ’
whole o f them are quite narrow, and yet the U«-"-* 1
walk about on them in great number. \N hi!>t ua der-
ing through the garden with my guide, two crc.ited a n ­
gels pass me who look upon me with the moh c c -a'
Jove and affability. A t a distance I again see m \ <rrated
angels, who are coming to meet me ^ they pa»s me in a
.
similar manner.
“ N o w i am led into the C ity, named Sorizzia, which
is far handsomer than the former, o f this beauty 1 can
give no one an idea. T h e road thither from the garden
is o f a bright red color, but also narrow ; the gate oi
entrance into the same is adorned, with several magoifi-
•ent little, toners, which are inexpressibly beautiful.”
6*
*4 i i
iwm ii
if, %St
»Iftdered
t f r t l i m
il i after I
>u»h the City, nothing was
jt an extraordinary indication
»roughly pacing through the
« ( « • v I am again ta k e n i n t o ft great edifice, where
** B le w j, th a t liy e h e re , hold their HNttingi ; be-
1 tr ' rTf" B A l l i rfrtft "! kt**[ the interior I
Ifttn again to mount a flig h t o f twenty steps : i f the for*
nee * * * * t p le tid «1 and b e a u tifu l, these arc much hand-
• a n re I b e fo re the e n tra n c e in to the hall, two bright-red
are erected, which are more than admirable,”
•Jm tfta I am ent* the hall, my guide shewrs m
e
* •
d ~* '• •
*
, !:n:n America, who arrived here but
* « h i di'-d id the c h o le ra ; this morning at
ergliV o V I « k he attacked by th is sickness, and at
ten o’clock he ha* a lre a d y a corpse. H i s father, a cler-
rjm »n. i« f* l r e a r s old, fhe m o th e r 56, and lie also has
i rce brother* and t i i t f r i . ”
W k o , f was asked w here he fo r m e r ly lived, she
mined :
»* Philadelphia."
*1 1 '* * n r.e o f the fa th e r was also asked, but sko
r t p l i r d :
•* Ba M t u f i c d fo r the present w ith th is. T h e jo y
w hich per» ado* t h ■
* B le s s e d , i f there be one in tro d u c e d
a n o n r , ! them s tra ig h t fro m t h is w o rld , is in e x p re s s ib ly
\ \ " ii world, K i n g s and great L o r d s are often
re vived w it h e x tr a o r d in a r y pomp, m u sic and honors
H ut t v e*-*' ure w o rth le s s gewgaws in com parison w it h thos
d i s p l a y 'd w hen a blessed s p i r i t is ta ken to h is hom
T «
• in ;-ic , v . i g s and jo y , w h ic h pervade heaven, that
, *i tr n i t v. w it h the blessed, can n e ith e r be described 1
c tp re s s e d . F o r th e re is no a d m ix tu re w h ic h w o uld fi
x d ia w b x c k upon th a t w h ic h is a c tu a lly rea l, spiel
and b e a u tifu l, e ve ry t h in g th e re is as clear as the
u n s u llie d and p u r e ; w hereas in o u r w o rld , i f the
Krnce be added to a reception, so m uch o f t h a t \vh
im p u re is m ixed th e re w ith , p a r tic u la r ly on the p a rt
receivers, th a t only one versed in a knowledge
heart can expound it.”
07
When she had finished thia xpeccl , » e
any one being in the least awirc -I |
j ? i.. ;
“ The man *) who lies now- a cur [ <
■ m r, > ; r. 4ti
iust escaped the first degree of the unhappy, b fh il bvft
received in the moon."
After this she again addres^-d an exhortatiati to ail
those that were present, in w < i •
* • ■' * a «r«1 tH#
state of felicity intojuxU [ o:* vwJi : r a hI^» oi rke
Unhappy and Damned, >e was eu- » • • • *
■* <»«• *»«i
enthusiastic, that one was fil 'd I» 1
», <h , |i »1,«
wanted to compel every percoli by fu cc t ■:»<
• M iri, m
anxiously had she the felicity of c\ *iy . .
Then she resumed :
“ What I cannot leave unpromulgatc * i |
blessed spirit is removed from this to a higher degree e i
felicity, he is consecrated by the tt .icÌK-rs j ?r». m , and
thence he is accompanied by the civ ic i .v „• h
. J^nu*
my last journey into Vcnu-. my guide tells me, 1 »bail
be permitted to witness such an ;u t c.[ P,
The created angels brin em the orders, that tbit
or that person be qualified for a higher 1
« he i\
In q u iry was then again made about mm, . - ¿p.
right conduct and p ie ty had been exemplified fiv «feeds,
and she satisfactorily indicated their plat is of muddier.
Then she continued to speak :
“ It has been vouchsafed me to touch the f <\ -,f the
created angels, they wear laced boot-, wi.i« h Mur­
ing white, with loops of rose color ; they are n
<
> . ..v Iu m i ,
but real bodies; their hands, which they h< >p f<dile*l
over their breasts, resemble white wax, but _, «’rj., .
v ,
and their laces reflect quite a clear brillia;.< -, \ , vt
wisely does God act, that, when awake, 1 <Jn nut
know what 1 hear and what is shown tom e.'— I si.ou.J
be quite unfit for this world. The love, harmony and
fidelity, which dwell with the blessed, 1 can i.ot agruu
leave unmentioned ; they are actually singing the II n m
composed by Frederick Starke :
“ In God L always do rejoice, •
In God I find my purest joys,
*) Constable B..... r.
63
11le§»’ d nm I and rich in God,
F e lic ity !— thy name is G od! & c.”
In this hymn there are also some reminiscences touch­
ing life on earth.
Again I must repeatedly remind you, that in a state
r f f> !i i '.v there exists absolutely no respect of persona,
certainly has lie, to whom pounds were given, also to ren­
der an account o f what he has received $ in the same
manner have kings to i ender an account, according to the
degree to which they were elevated ; and when they
bring their magnificence into a City of God, they enjoy a
preference only in regard to the great amount wherewith
they were here entrusted, but on the other hand receive
also a proportionally greater punishment; so that from
the lowest to the highest on Earth, the surest and truest
equilibrium is established. But do not for this reason
understand me, that in Eternity the least respect of per­
son does find room, for God only judges according to the
heart, as I have several times already told you, here
there is no privilege, nor preference grunted, neither to
religion, nation, sex, nor descent. In the empire of eter­
nities reigns alone a true and just E q u a lity ; in this
world it is as impossible to establish it as to find it ; this
is only possible in such regions, where neither self-love,
nor pride, hatred, envy, strife, &c., exist any longer.”
W hen she had finished these speeches^ she said :•
“ N ow begins my return.”
W hen it was accomplished, she desired to be wakened f
eight minutes after, she awoke and again was full of
sweetness, she asked what she had said, because it ap­
peared to her, that her sleep had this time been o f longer
duration than heretofore. W hen the most important of
it had been related to her, she sard r
But is-it then possible that I should remember not
the least o f all that happens to me! W hen I am asleep
i t is the same with, me as with a person who, when awa­
kening from a profound sleep, cannot even tell that ha
bad been dreaming ; but I also could not be wakened*,
like one that enjoys a natural sleep, for every member el
C9
my body might be severed from it, w .th -.1 • bo o im ij
aware of it in the least.*’
Experiments were also made, during a j i . >..% r
and afterwards, by deeply pricking i - - : her ice
with needles, which certainly anv (me v - , i hate pa a*
fully felt, but she remained quite 1
was likewise never the least symptom v r .n
her face nor any other part of her bod . , \
%, , .. »
have led to a supposition that she felt the -
deavored to suppress it.
Sixth journey into Fenut.
As she had predicted during her last journey. *'.>«
again fell into a trance, at precisely twelve o'clock on
the 26th of November, and r e t i r e d ^ rrr:" ' i r - —
time for the performance of the journey, as she had done
before.
“ I am again conducted by my guide into a Cifv, called
Sora; but it again ?s handsomer than the former, the
farther I proceed, the more glory l behold. I hear
music resounding from harps, but as yet from a consider­
able distance. Ih e gates and buildings are again hand­
somer than the former, the street through the City is
again not wide, but is exceedingly beautiful. A h ! so
manifold is the magnificence, that I am at a loss whero
to begin, and find that I have omitted to state so much
of what nevertheless can be so easily comprehended,
namely : that the buildings in all the Cities are like each
other, only with this difference, that they increase in
beauty, as the felicity rises in degree ; it appears as if
one side of the street was but one building, but it is not
so ; the whole of them are also amply provided with the
.uost splendid windows ; bye-streets I have never ob-
t 3rved. Eh ! says my guide; in these towns there are
r o lanes, they only extend in length ; he asks me whe­
ther I have not observed, that the towns always resembl*
70
t , .v,h?r in 1 ngth ami bread'th ; they are all square,
ra. i i* a model of the mai-n City, but only in miniature,
not in height. ”
“ Now I am Ierf again into a splendid edifice, without
the city, the windows in this are again as large and beau­
tiful as they w ere in those in which l was heretofore:
W m - # '
w hereof, to g iv e you but a v e r y small comparison, l must
say : it appears as i f the w in d ow s w ere illuminated by
the rays o f the setting sun, assuming and reflecting a yel­
low, g o ld -lik e lustre ; by this I w ant to g iv e you but X
ry small idea thereof, for L have b y no means fully ex-
pre-ised m yself con cern in g it, because I lack words to do
it. — l have again to ascend tw e n ty flights o f steps ; if
the stairs and railings in the form er buildings w ere hand-
■•»roely and splen did ly execu ted, these again’ excel them
in beauty ; before 1 enter the Hall, I com e to a large por­
tal, for all the con ven tion -room s, which I have y e t seen
and w e re shown to me, are all v e r y high, but this is the
case with them m ore or less, for these too are constructed
a cco rd in g to the degrees o f the felicities ; at the entrance
o f this portal there are tw o magnificent, nay m ore than
beautiful columns, the tops of vvhic/i are adorned w ith
crow ns, which excel in beau ty.— N o w I am in tro d u c e d
in to a H a ll, w here they a ctu ally sin g the h y m n composed
bv H i l l e r , which is to he found in his Casket o f D ivin e
S o n g s , on page 130 o f the 2d v o lu m e ; the t e x t tor which
is taken from the p rop h et Isa ia h 35, 10, w h ich reads
t h u s :
ME ve rla stin g j o y ["shall be^ upon their h e a d s : they
shall obtain j o y and gladness* an d so rro w a n d sighing
shall flee aw ay.”
T h e h y m n i s as f o l l o w s :
O n e d a y i n H e a v e n to l iv e ,
I m p a r t s m ore j o y th a n t h o u s a n d s h e r e ; Qon Earth"
W h y t h e n to E a r t h s h o u ld I c le a v e P
N o — t h a t d i s g u s t s m e — m a k e s m e f e a r —
C o u ld m a n be h e re a t h o u s a n d y e a r s ,
A n d liv e i n j o y f u l v a n i t y — •
T o r m e n t i n g pains w o u ld be h is g a in s —
Compared with Thee ;—'Felicity!”
This verse she pronounced quite slowly, iron» wen \ to
\vord, with this addition :
« M y guide gave it out to me, for it hiihrtt*' un­
known to me, and it has peculiar interest f*»t mr. ^
far, that I may* never become enamoured of the \\
This caused the question to be put; where H iller had
hire place of residence in blessed Eternity r to win* *! o
made answer
'«-He is rathe Sun and an Elect of God, he will *<>'»«
qualify himself to become a servant of G od.”
She was then asked ; whether she knew none «»t tot
teachers present? to which she replied t
W h y do you ask, not having known them ; a cler*?
man is here, named W a rm , my father is well acquaint* *
1
with his son. The teachers are also removed, and do riot
always remain in the same spot, as Felicity consrnntlv
increases in bliss. The brightness by which the blessed
are surrounded it is impossible for me sufficiently to dr*
scribe. In the centre of the Hall, which is large and
very commodious, a very large crown is suspended.
“ Oh ! how will those, that now scoff at my declara­
tions, yet be cast -down and humbled ; if not in this
world, certainly on the other side of the grave ; let them
be saved or not, they will every one of them have to give
me the testimony, that what I have stated was the /act.
God, the omnipotent and omniscient is my witness, that
truly 1 am no Impostor ; I proceed not a point further
than what my guide says, and commands me to say.”
She was then asked the number of the Blessed here
present ? to which she replied ;
« T h e i r number is 2384 ; but the Hall could contain a
considerably larger number. W hat 1 have so often said,
is also here again applicable in the most extensive sense ;
that the Harmony and Equanimity of the Blessed cannot
be sufficiently praised and eulogised ; as little am I ca­
pable to express the euphony of the music and singing.
A fter a short pause she continued ;
I have repeatedly besought my guide ; that if it co­
incided with the wisdom of God, to cause the dissolution
o f my terrestrial frame, I might be permitted to remain
here ; but be tells me, that if that could even happen, I
• o,'.: not \et be qualified for such a state of bliss, but
r '• 1 :n . * ■ first proceed further; that I should use every
e o d e i vor to deserve immediately such a felicity, but that
trm viill require the mo^t 7.eaious care and vigilance ;
b • t that 1 r„aT rest assured, that l shall not have to star
m ■
mu:)» loti^er in our world o f sin.— On W ednesday the
w
¿4th I ‘«hall perform my last journey into Venus, when I
C u l be conducted into a temple, where those that attain
a higher *>tate o f felicitv will be consecrated bv their
teachers and then accompanied by the created angels.
M t v.r.cerot wi>h remains alwavs this : that I mi^ht but
be permitted to stay h e re ’
/ ’
!;uw commenced her return, and during the same
declared, that the Cholera would certainly come within
our Irontiers, but when this would happen, she, on being
asked, did a^ain not state it more explicitly, than what
she had done already ; she only said, that physicians
mi^'nt spare themselves the trouble to suggest a re­
medy against it, as none would discover one, and then
added :
•• The Cholera will destroy a considerable Dumber of
people, but more of those that are old and grown up, than
of children. Mankind, being of opinion that this epide­
mical disease has passed our native countrw, and the
countries adjoining it, will previously become so secure,
as they became during the times of Noah, going on court­
ing and suffering themselves to be wooed, until Noah en­
tered the Ark.”
After this speech she assumed a distressed appearance,
but a few minutes subsequently she said :
4
4M y guide whispers me a word of comfort, by lay­
ing :
4
4Let Him, Him rule and govern,
He is a Lord that’s wise,
His actions with a purpose stern—
(N o odds how great your grief)
AVill bear him out to your surprise
And bring you strong relief—
When he the work shall have fulfilled
His mind has planned and wisdom willed.”
73
Unexpected to every one, she then **
“ Henceforth I shall remain vet » t u n » . - « * m *
. *
situation ; only when that period * r • 1
may make use of the herb that ha* been p m r t ibet to m *
personally. W hen I travel to .• 1 *
whence I shall suggest remedies, 1 - • c ~ -
very weak. A fter Venus, 1 shall vi ,t Ju: v
A ll this she said during her return. Hu- d;- the»#
moments, whilst her guide took 1
ch\ " m u?',
that she paid peculiar attention— at l e i i l »% :'!«*« .
what had been the purport of the rcmaik» cf her p^julc,
when he took leave from her? to which »he rcpiictl :
“ H e quit me with these words
“ The Lord bless thee and guard thee, and lr1 1 i far •
shine upon thee, and be gracious to dice, a: . ▼ :\r
his divine peace, ”
%i
Seventh Jo u rn e y into FtJiVs,
On the 28th Novem ber she peformed her last jnurr.f
to Venus, in the manner she had predicted. Her g a if.
having joined her, she said :
“ Open the house*) for a person come6 to vi*i! :nr,
worthy of being admitted.”
She also mentioned the name o f this person and • t
another, that had arrived a minute before. When our
Somnambulist had arrived on the spot, above alluded t .
she said :
“ Th e city, which I now pass, and which I shall but
be permitted to wander through on my return, is called
nearly like the one before, namely 6T
orr, and from its
outside again appears to me, to excel the other in beauty.
I shall yet require four minutes in order to arrive at the
temple, that has been indicated and which in our lan-
#) From this time onward the house of her parents, had
to be shut up by order of the public authorities.
74
£ <..is the name of the Temple o f consecration. t
i. ai fiom & distance music and singing* that excel in
* w *'c\hi*»9.— N o w I have passed thd outside of the city*
a’ d tin introduced into a garden* the beauties of whose
flower* and trees, 1 am for want of words, again una­
ble sufficient!j to express *
, ah ! every thing is divinely
beautiful 1
— N ow I have arrived at the temple, the exte-
i ior, magnificence, height and beauty of which, 1 am in*
«•apabU* sufficiently to admire, I am conducted into it;
' is quite round and very high, all around it runs a gal­
lery, upon which the singers aud harpers are standing;
tnese perform so delightful a music, that no mortal could
'>ear it. 'The interior surpasses the exterior by far in
beautv, and I am utterly unable to state the least par­
ticulars or to convey to any one the least idea of it. In
the centre of the temple stands the altar, on both sides
ot which two of the blessed spirits of those that died long
since are standing, who, as it were as witnesses, attend it.
'Those persons or blessed beings who are to be promoted
to a higher degree of felicity, 1 do not yet see.— Now the
doors are opened and those that are to be consecrated,
enter with the quickness of lightning with the teachers.
N o w the holy and solemn act begins. Those, that are
consecrated, lay their hands upon their breasts, but the
teachers lay their hands upon their heads, and pronounce
benediction over them, but what is said, 1 do not under­
stand, my guide tells me ; it is spoke in a language,
which as yet is unintelligible by you, and cannot be in­
terpreted to you.— Hut with what dignity, yet profound­
ness of respect and humility towards God, the teach­
ers stand here, and what virtue must be in their words
judging from the seriousness anil reverence, with which
they pronounce the same, I am unable to tell ; in like
manner those, who are consecrated, stand here in the
deepest humility, only with this difference that the fea­
tures o f the latter seem to me to indicate a peculiar glad­
ness ; but I am entirely at a loss lor a proper expressios.
I am quite ignorant, what has happened to me since ths
termination of this a c t ; the witnesses, teachers and those
that were consecrated have at once disappeared, and
music, and song have ceased to resound.— Peculiarly in-
75
dulgedjlam permitted to stay two minute* h
der to behold but a few o f the beauties of the A It : ’ he
least I can say of itis this : the altar is square am! ¡.:«*• ■?
lar^e, each corner is ornamented with a hi. «, n I
column of the thickness of a man, and tin* top of . v t
with crowns, and around it there are again several ^mai­
ler and thinner columns all transparently whit»*.imi -
ning, the material which they are composed of, I do i, t
know ; the plate o f the altar, is covered with a cloth of
the clearest white silk. M y regret has bo hound-, • r
I can state but the fewest particulars, for the be in'»«**
which exist here, are inexpressible, for if l were to <l«p.< t
them plainly and comprehensibly, 1 should p d *t the
world we inhabit not only disgusting, but loath-•
» n»* .»
every one,”
She was then asked, to what piece those that wen* c'»:»*
see rated, had been promoted r T o which she rejli-d :
u T h ey are removed into Jupiter, to which planet I
shall perform my first journey to-morrow. This r<****ri-
bles a school, as soon as one becomes qualified lor. ar.d
capable of a higher degree of felicity, he is promoted 'hit. -
er. T o Jupiter I shall perform in all eight journeys.—
X o w I return to the garden, in which the b i l l ' d
spirits enjoy peculiar delights— every thing with them *
•
so child-like, yet far from being childish. In this par-
den there are many paths, but the whole o f them very
narrow, the blessed spirits walk to and fro, and often
vanish again so suddenly, that I hardly perceive it. — M y
guide ha-> quit me, but this makes no difference; if 1 was
only permitted eternally to remain here,— The sweet
scent, exhaled by the flowers and trees is stronger flnri
heretofore. T h e garments o f the blessed are shining
white, but the teachers wear crowns upon their head-.
I approach the city, and again hear the most delight Iul
music, but I am unable to mention a single tune. Tho
city in exc feelingly beautiful, and the environs Are quite
lev**l and extremely pleasant— alas! that 1 have to leave
then ; now my return commences, in four n.itm■
**
1 ■dial! have performed it,”
W hen she had said this, she communicated nothin
further, and thus this journey ended.
Fitti Journey into Jupiter.
r\r N w .: ber »he made her first journey into
%
He itated that she would perform it in eight rain-
n j >»ed quite correct. On her arrival there,
•We t*i4, tHat another s ,nute would be required, until she
**w#l*l »r n te in • o c\‘ \ ;— when she came to it, she could
»•»* * i»» ^ntlt adn t?.e beauty and height of the gate,
ttd »■ ’ l<«*dr«* i.:»e ?. U e remarked, that the entrance
into the u o i f was pretty wide, but the street through the
• n • cr, * ■ very handsome, nay admirably beau-
%Ul ; ’ S rity « a t called A ’crr, surpassing all those in
; . %i/c ■ . i iroauty which had been shown toherin
»e had previously visited.
It had hitherto exhorted every one present to re-
' v.d f :m. -'io now admonished them with so great
u »«¡emtiit* am! / '. that the best orator could not have
rmulitcil her. > c reminded every one very emphati-
, » iiy . not iu be saving of their knees whilst at prayer to
C*ihI and continued thus :
••Th«* - d'born knees of our wicked race, will yet
!,a\e ’ » bend, ami the tongues of the scoffer confess:
•
• *
. .a: he is the Lord to judge the living and the dead.”
j |,*t man, who appears to the world wholy unblameable,
»ins notwithstanding daily a great deal ; not to mention
*h? gross frivolous and wanton sinners, l i e that attains
a *tate ol felicity, is saved to be sure, through the merit
, j Christ, out o f pure grace and mercy, yet nev-
« rib rb 'S Us felicity is to be considered rather as a re-
N
Svrd fur hi» piety and living faith. For without faith it
1« impossible, to please God, and he, that wants to come
:o find, must, believe, that it be he, and will re­
ward those, that seek h im ; but mankind are sunk so
d n p , that they presume to prescribe to God the
conditions, on which they will accept the felicity, that
is offered to them.— M y guide tells me, that any sin, how­
ever ¿light in the eyes of man, is great enough to forfeit
felicity ; thatr it requires not the perpetration of foul and
very palpable sins, but that constant striving and earnest
endeavors are necessary to gain salvation. But by this,
I Jo not mean to say that we arc to nr, ■ < ' n'*'
own proper calling. Kveiy person ran '»<
- | r
and entertain noble thoughts, whilst he 1» U *
1 • ! >n 1
honestly attending to the concerns of .* m *
Having finished this colloquy, she s»id :
“ 1 am again led into a building *
city, in which there is a great hall, tl.'.- a^ain r.
beauty and splendor; if l had thou-an •!•» f •■
■
■
..
I should be incapable to describe the del ht* 'here­
of, The number ot the blessed, therein j ; m f. *
not very great; they distinguish themschcs lion,
I have met with in Mercury and Venus, by this, tn*t
they wear crowns on their heads, which hov,t ,< , n c 0 '
very large, the crowns worn by the teacher a•«• , c .
just new they receive instruction, for which renw, , I « .
neither music nor singing.— Now I am conducted
garden, at the beauty of which I am quite astoni>iit i d
cannot sutliciently extol the sweet scent, who h pci \ t !* *
it ; there are here again a great many walks, b jt th* *
are all very narrow. Blessed spirits I do not -ce w:»H. -
ing about here, for 1 find myself and guide here qu t*
alone. Besides the many splendid flowers and tree«,
that are here, there are also herbs, which mv guide i< *
me are very salutary to man in several diseases."
•She then said to her brother, with whom she kept up
the discourse :
“ Go into the kitchen-garden before the house, »l e *
you will find a small herb, near which lies a stria 1pier«
of whitepaper, pluck it ; and precisely under the kiU .
en-window there is another, which is serrated, letch th 1
also to me.”
Having brought the same, he laid them on her 6tom.t' :,
and alter a short pause she said :
These are the right ones— and then continued : up in th»*
the garden— describng- the spot distinctly— there s t 1
»
another, bring that also to me.”
This was likewise laid upon her stomach, and aftrr a
short pause she resumed :
<
< This also is the right one, of this gather as much a*
you can, when I travel to Uranus, and Saturn, I shall in­
form you, in which diseases these herbs are to be uged.”
7*
78
Hereupon the became silent, and enquiry was madebr
particular request, concerning a teacher not long since
d iceitetl; to which she made answ er :
•• !!<- i» m C e ra as teacher. But do not at present
mole** m
** w ith any more questions for I feel very weak,
lor the ••»¿hi of the many extraordinary beauties, that have
been shown to m»". and which became almost insupporta­
ble toinv «'«ion, ha* much debilitated me. To morrow
atone o'clock in the afternoon, l shall perform my second
joomer into Jupiter.9
*
With this the journey terminated.
Second Jo u rn e y in to Ju p ite r.
On the 'Oth November at one o’clock in the afternoon
*he f. ;i a^iin into a lethargy. Her Guide having joined
her, she said :
«T h is time I am apprehensive there are two indivuals
iTinr..'* t lose, that are here present, who at this time do
not at all deserve to be here, which will cause a procras­
tination o f mv journey by one minute ; instead of eight, 1
•hall require iiine minutes.* I could mention these un-
worthv persons by name, although they did not appear,
until I had already falten asleep ; but my Guide tells me,
that they will go away in a better state of mind than they
came ; but it is to be regretted, that it will take no root,
and turn out a judgment against them.”
When she had accomplished her journey she said : —
« Now I am conducted into a city, called R a g u tl, which
is handsomer than the former, I come again into a large
edifice without the city, and have to ascend in it again a
flight oi twenty steps, ere i shall enter into the meeting
Hall. Whilst I am led into it, a hymn is sun», after the
melotlr :
This did prove correct to a second
79
“ Oh Jerusalem! thou beauty, how »plendid.y ' ■
*
< *
shineth &c.
The number of the singers here \ • ' - ' r,‘
they sit far apart; their garment«, a* well a* • t 'ne
teachers, of whom I count six, perfectly n » o b f e rwjir,
which I have described during mv last ' *
O J w
She was then asked about some le.v - i . r <
*
she perceived none of them? T o w .i- -
“ No, altho’ they* were considered in «»¿i wirld. -»*
highly gitted men’ t which cert&inlv 1 • • ir!f r;,‘ -
ployment in the sun. consists onlv in f<- tem King of
children, for in the sun there is also a mu u c t
children, t
“ I must tel! you a^in that felicity ha- a • t npu *
fication ; if each of mv drops of blood - . _•
to a thousand tORgues, I should not be abb* to e\prr%* the
tranquility, pleasure and indescribable happiness of tne
blessed; not for the splendor of the whole wo: hi. wo^ld
one of the blessed miss such a minute.”
“ Bring my two brothers, C — G — aged 1H, arid F—
aged 14, who are both beginning their woil i r career,
singly here to me, that I may tell them how they have to
conduct themselves. For my Guide tells me, »bey re
my brothers, as well as vours. I too feal a con­
cern about their eternal welfare, although 1 - iou!d
not be a loser in the least in regard to mv salvation emu
if they should perish, the words, which I put into you r
mouth, you will repeat to them, with this remark : by
all means to impress every word deeply on their minds.”
Then did she alternately direct such energetic admoni­
tions to them, that not only her brothers, but all ihost
that were present burst into fits of weeping; in con-
t The deceased, relative to whom enquiry was made,
were Pastor Renz of the town of IVeillieim, Pastor
Frederick of Kornthal, and Pastor Storch of A ith lin g tn :
all three were very fond ofchildren-
t The particulars concerning this will be told during
herjourney thither.
80
f - ‘ r
-*~ give them the hymn to learn, which ap-
; * * ’» ;n n e NVirtemberg Hymn book, No. 290: “ Rise
'by (,.j 1, t>
u melancholy Soul ! &c., adding, “ Rut
coraprdMMMi it well, it will inspire you, during many af-
f. :i n*, that yet a\sait you with consolation and courage.
After this she urgently and seriously admonished H
er
p ir n t i, to educate their children, in the first place, with
lore, and then, if it should become necessary, with rigour,
c o n t i n u e . . : M y guide tells me, that thenumberof
parents, who did ill-educate their children, gave them
bad ciatnp'r*. at.d even led them astray into the cora-
miaaion of »in, and bad actions, in which they partici­
pated, whereby both parties came to be damned, cannot
be counted : fur children being a gift of God, their blood
will be demanded of their parents, instead of increasing
the number of the blessed, they diminish it Not only will
the mifehief extend to the one party exclusively, but
children, w ,o have received a bad and wretched educa-
tior., generally again bring up bad children. Ah! dear
paren'.'» think of the damnation, parents may load upon
theaitelves ; the charge will not remain confined to
t; em, but will often descend, as my Guide tells me,
to ihe fifth aud sixth generation, and still much far­
ther, during the whole of which the one will cast the
blame on the other. Oh! how sincerely and cor­
dial! v do l desire, that each of the parents may
rightly consider the measures they ought to take
tml pursue, in regard to the education of their chil­
dren, for it is of vital importance. As soon as a spark of
intelligence is displayed by a child, the foundation must
be laid for that which is noble and good ; it even not a!!
the precepts that are given them, should strike root, many
will, and good examples set by the parents, leave a
lasting impression upon their minds,”
After this she appeared somewhat exhausted, for which
reason no further questions were put to her, After a
few minutes she however voluntarily resumed, as follows:
“ Somnambulism is of a three-fold character ; that,
where those subject to it, have Guides, is of greater mo­
ment tiian the rest ; those are aJso conducted, more or
81
less, into the regions of the blessed, but the t % » r
not.”
Then she gave a hint touching an imptndm? «• ; •
event, soon to occur, but did not stale tv j ■ »
only added :
4
4 Watch and pray.”
She then emphatically recurred to the r ip *
punishments, that await the unhappy and t ,<
• <
■ ; • 1 s
repeatedly exhorted to serious repentance ^ ■'
sion. She then with a deep sigh complain* *
1 "1 h r jl
anxiety with this addition :
•4In hve minutes mv return will be accompli*•*»«* •"
Her Guide having left her, she was asked in what man
ner lie had this time taken leave ? T o which she r»-p
that he had said :
“ Dear Sister.' the holy Trinity be with and near you.
4
i Sing, pray and go the way,
6
i God has assigned thee,
4
4Act well your part, go not astray,
4
4But trust with deep humility,
“ In Heaven’s choice reward ;
“ For he that trusts with all his heart
4
4In God, and future bliss,
‘ •Lost and forsaken, never is.”
Thus ended her present trance.
Occurrenccs after the second Journey into Jupiter.
On"the same day, (November the SOth,) she again re­
peatedly fell asleep, from 3 o’clock in the afternoon, as
had been predicted by her, in her former sleep ; but
these frequent returns of slumber she only called infirmi­
ties, and were of a longer or shorter duration, during sev­
eral of them she Baid nothing whatever, and always
awoke of her own accord. Night having commenced,
82
*•' * fell >r.to a »lumber, during the continuation of which
*He *r*>kr ; but in the very beginning mentioned, thather
‘ »u.de was not present, yet that she would be able to
di^cio«ures. relative to several worldly objects and
concern*, but n the brilliant lights she did perceive, also
at inter*als changed to darkness, it was her desire that
Her statement-» in ti.i ^ situation, might not be taken as in­
fallible, inasmuch as >oine of them might be erroneous,
O
Rut about * :J,t o'clock she became so strongly enlight­
ened, that she demanded H vm n stobe laid on her stomach,
which she would read herself. Judging every thing that
pissed around her. so accurately, although wrapped in a
prolound slumber, her wishes were complied with.—
F ir*’. •
. e ll\mn N o. 419. from the Wirtemberg Hvmn
Ixyjk , *• To the life I shall penetrate, for which myself
God did create, & c., was laid on her stomach, and after
thi«•. No 4 'G from the same, “ On God and not my ow n
advice, hi t fortune I will build, &c. She herself did
r.ot Migge*t, that these hymns might be k id upon her, nor
had she ever committed them to memory ; both were
read br her w i?h so great a solemnity and emphasis as to
excite admiration. Then a piece of writing was laid on
her stomach, which was entirely unknown, which she al­
so rea 1 with great gravity and" readiness, without any
light, but altogetherln the dark ; but what was the most
remarkable is this, that she always directed her book to
that part of her stomach, by means of which she did see.
She then arose from her bed, remaining asleep, seated
herself iu a da:k spot, and required, that a watch should
be laid on her stomach, when she would distinctly tell
the relative positions of the hour and minute hands ;
both o f which proved correct to a hair.
Althong-h these occurences were striking, yet it was
still more so, that she knew, what was spoken o f her. in
an adjoining house, during this her situation, she recog­
nised in the same manner every one, who at this time of
the night approached the house, and could mention the
person by name, even before he entered the room. In
conclusion she stated the thoughts of one and all in the
most distinct manner ; then soon after she awoke, but
83
W
as so very weak, that she had to be carried to bed, **d
knew not the least of all she had performs!
On the 1st. December, at two o’clock in t e Ait^moor.
she said* that she now had to retire to bed, a* a
weakness overcame her. After a Ij
tf!^ whi r »hr lcll
asleep, which was taken by every one fur a r
.v • 1
having predicted no journey for thi-day. I I . :
having elapsed, the attempt was made to aw^.krr, I er, bu*
it was impossible to rouse her. Then her hroth»-r w *
called, with whom she stood in communion, .• m •>*<
made answer, the moment she was spoken to, ami • «a*
then ascertained, that her Guide was not present, <lur : -
this trance.
Meanwhile a person entered the room, to whom »he
immediately correctly stated the last occupation »! #
• h.id
attended to, before she left her dwelling, and then c o m ­
mended the Hymn for her comfort :
“ He that to God’s kind rule does trust, fitc.” but
especially the second verse thereof, which runs thu* ;
a Of what avail is our sorrow,
“ Of what avail are our groans,
“ Of what avail that every morrow,
“ Renews our sighs and troubled moans i
wOur fate by them we wont relieve,
MBut make it worse by our grief.” •
Meanwhile some strengthening viands were sent to her
by afemale friend, of which she ate but very little, whi!
asleep, but in a short time said, that what she had eaten
did hinder her to see clearly, because she had swallowed
two cherry-stones in the victuals.
After seven o’clock, although asleep, she arose from
her bed and seated herself upon a chair; with her eyes
wide open, directed upwards, having a staring and death­
like appearance, and her eye-lids without any motion
• This person had a family affliction, which terminated
to her satisfaction, as had been predicted to her by the
Somnambulist.
9
84
*'■ v fte r. She was then asked, how long she would re-
turn in this situation r Whereupon she said :
“ Precisely at ten o’cloek I shall awaken.”
tihe then >isited some of her relations abroad and ac­
quaintances in the neighbourhood, and stated the domestic
employments, the former and the latter were then en-
in. Strict enquiries were made in relation there­
to. >ome individuals could remember that, wbat shehad
stated, had happened, and confirmed the same, others but
partially, a period of time having since intervened.
The moment the clock struck ten, and when she awoke
we~e the same ; when she awoke she said :
“ 1 sra very tired, take me to bed,”
During the night she had a very tranquil repose.
Third Journey into Jupiter.
The 2d December, she performed her thirdjourney into
Jupiter: during her second journey she had mentioned,
that precisely a quarter before one o’clock she would lie
down, which happened so to a minute. Having received
her guide, she declared that this time she would perform
the journey thither in but eight minutes, Approaching
the city, to which time she travelled, she commenced to
ipeak thus:
“ The further, the handsomer ! The name of this city
t G idon ; the gate, that leads \into it, is again beau­
tiful. How much I desire, that but one of thoic
now present, could cast a glance on it and at the city, but
I know that to the eye of a mortal it would be quite in­
sufferable ; I can hardly bear their splendor and brillian­
cy. The pavement is composed of large flakes of stone,
of a bright red colour, well joined into each other 5 in the
other cities it consisted of flakes of stone, partly of a
white, and partly of a yellowish colour. In this city I
again perceive no inhabitants, my Guide tells me that
none dare stay, when instruction 19 given,, nor does any
85
one choose to absent himself, and that for this reason, the
cities are so vacant, but that when the lessons are ended,
every one returns to his dwelling, that every tlnrig has if»
appointed time, although my Guide does ad I : in eter­
nity there is no longer any reckoning by time. Nor have
I as yet noticed in all the cities, through which 1
have passed, any watches or clocks ; nor is there any
need thereof, for here it is quite different, in as much a»
night never lowers on the blessed ; sleep overcomes none,
for every thing like human infirmity has ceased here”
“ Now l have already passed through the city ; now I
am again conducted into a building situated without,
which is called the Meeting-hall, a name, which the for­
mer also bears ; the building itself is more than beautiful ;
I have, from within the interior to ascend five and twenty
steps before I can enter the meeting-hall. Iain intro­
duced into the Hall, which again excels the former in
beauty, it is very high, and every twentieth pace chande­
liers appear to be suspended, but they are none, (because
candles are here needless,) notwithstanding they reflect a
strong fight and brilliancy. Here also, six teachers are
appointed, they wear crowns, that are all equally beauti­
ful; their faces and garments shine with clearness ;
the blessed too, who are receiving instruction, wear
crowns, -with this difference, that they are obviously
smaller than those worn by the teachers. The number
also of those present, is by no means large, they do not at
all set very close to each other.”
She was asked the reason of this ? T o which she re­
plied : “ The greater the state of bliss, the smaller is
the number of the blessed.”
She was then asked : What the employment of the bless­
ed really wa9 ? T o which she answered : “ They actually
now commence singing the hymn, composed by the noble
Starke, which is to be found on page 487 of the older,
and page 459 of the newer edition.”
“ jtf// unite in saying, there
•< Is joy in Heaven above,
“ fV/io palms and crowns, there always wear,
“ And garments bright, wove by eternal love.
86
• Oli! \.mm hippy tre we h e re l
• •Cimioct ii ni » U i j i oear ;
••Of i M i r l v w e ir r Irte,
•
• A id h trc c it ili do m iic rji &.c.
A fte r Oi i i ihe continu cd :
•*T h e ha rpci* n'.ir.d elevated and wear crown», like
• t * i - t I a\»* i.crelofore alrea d y been asked, how
M V l t d a g t there are upon a harp, I count ten o f them;
In* » they ir. e than beautiful ; the singing and music
i .-pa-• ail human co m p reh en sion ."
■* i oil D o « 1 have a»k ed m y G u i d e : how it happen»
th>* n»v *p : ’ • an wander abroad here, whilst my person
w . eaith. or reposes on a bed 1 To
whic < 1 r r e n te d toe ful ow in g answer : because you still
war.de; j j ; ; , a f.u in the terrestrial world it cannot
V o * et > ' ; f
*
. *..e blessed are dressed according to the
dc^re^' ol i i . i n i y they have attained, o f the gradations
where*-»! *
. • is an \iranense number ; thus will you also
tn: <ir« ' sr ., ;i vou - vpe your course o f life accordingly,
a« « ( . l u* your actions* and deeds: A s lle a d y o u higher,
vo I alto appear to him in-a corresponding manner, i f I
had cvh .jn cd m %self to you, as I do now, it would have
been insufferable lo you, because you then would not
\et ¡ a>c been qualified therefor. * I f I had millions of
toftgue», ‘ t would be impossible fo rm e, to describe all the
glorv, that has been shown to me. M y Guide tells me,
that" to an intuitive vision of God I shall not arrive, that
the indulgence to be led into the city o f God,.the New
Jerusalem, and to be permitted to see some o f the ser-
rents of God, amounts to a great d e a l; that he himself
has cot yet seen God, it being a great favor, to be per­
mitted to see only the city, and to get into communion
with the servants of God. But this I am by no means so
to ondeotand, as i f God was not Gove in the highest
tenee ; but that from his sanctuary all commands are
issued, and the lowest and most despised are not unknown
to him 5 that all worldly governments, however absurd,
are tolerated by him and eventually lead to an excellent
* Compare this with page 9
result. That it would one day nuke t
to the learned and unlearned, in c v (o u r v lt f
knowledge of those counsel*. that f .r
r? " I I M y t ^
when only they will obtain a glimi - ( tl <
■ ►
< , r
ment of God. Ah! added m? Guide, I .» r
the matter further to vou, what l a.r » »: » . » *
fur the present. 1 have entreated mv Quid#« U
means to bring me soon home, but ¡e V. . • l .
« „
yet lit, that I am not vet regei •
the Gospel, asking me, whether l do r t . • .
written there thus : “ Kxcept a man be l>
< .v * .r ,**
cannot see the kingdom of God.”
She then turned to her brother, with wham *hc
in communion, with the follow in- ho \ :
“ By all means take that well rhrou k
from me, for you incur a double re»q..i*..
Then she resumed her discourse a> f • . :
“ M y Guide tells me ; God aim* at a <
tion ot every one, but this must be preceded bv r»*»i
pentance, conversion and regeneratin’ . •:• , •, ' j
first underwent this change, it is imposM1
/ . ‘ . *
how great the number of persons that \ , » • M
* '
is lost by his own fault. There is not a , f
especially amongst those, to whom the v, i f i, * ’
revealed, who does not often receive a : u ^ <
... \ *
many ways, and by different means, but he t! at r. r< , *
and will not listen to the same, must take the rr,. 1
bitity. Be assured, that mankind will afi r de.,-',
made most vividly sensible ol this, whereby they vm
come their own accusers. Those that now judge lh^‘
with so much derision and contempt, will learn by
experience, that 1 have spoken the truth. Not |ii(>
will hereafter be my judges, but God is the jurist* of „
cause. God is certainly a God of mercy, but hn ju *iu
stands as it were in equipoise with his compassion.
Only by a serious and firm adherence to a living f ,,rh
in the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, joined I t
a sincere repentance, conversion and subsequent regent i
ation, can salvation be gained. T he Son of God 1» t> «
only and sole mediator and intercessor between God zu.J
man.”
s s
T » * ita « u m l»' * r t ,*r* ir e i.so ir.r j-ar»
**«««4 l> «.u - ? to «Sick *l*e r*pii*4 :
« t r . , bW * * 4 N , IB bbc» . c 'able n -su er, eT?n i«*. a
* t>-t0-.d the i in * ii Vtt New Jerusalem, where
* b e t , G W Km Km «bode ; the greatness of God is qiitf
*** « • « « t»»b?f ) W t«<»mfTcbrt:»ibl e, foe ev err stir has its
***•- acd i i « o : *. If mankind would bet is
1 i ' ; m c c r c e i'e the g m t i e * * o f God, or endeavor
*• ewmp*rWr.d it, they wocM melt with bumil.TT fre* a
* m n of v e ie r t tM t far the grandeur of God ; t ie earth is
'* U ss nought in eompanson with the whole
t r r s* -w ? <» l, yet ootwit! -taiKling ill this is ike love
• f Qm i towards ms o f t k e k s a s a n e e so grta*. .— Many
W » c t rr.r~„ 1 hiv e ©cce si read t said, c i v die
Seated, yet will they not arrive at a vi»:on ot God ; net*
» U b t e a i i i * they > - eternally happy, for thev are, sa-
''Sttd alreadr wiik tile c n r e of beii15 what they are, and
lb « un'**, mK:
. v • v .ched safe to them is infinite, ecz-
• *-• » r rvred ir.d s’ ill In s risinz deEree-'*
w —
“ No* Wl c *
. e great day of judgment JehcTC* tcho
u, ires, and ¿1 It w ar, will show himself to those that
s.*e srt»>r crd to eternal damnation as w et as to the b’ea-
sed ; to be »ate to the 1
» n.er as a strict and jest judse,
far the.r torture ;» .-..rca-td by the reflection, that tney
mag;ht be a» happy as t se t: at are really blessed, for
• » : t torments them to all eternity, and an un­
speakable number cf those will be accused, that have
cortnbotedto this condemnation
Then she vas asked, whether not already the bodies
of >. J. l ave arisen, that did die in the Lora : After s
short pause she replied :
** My £u.de sa; >, that at the time the > o
t\of God yield­
ed hi* ?fe unto death for a sinful world, the bodies ef
•«'fen* saints had ri?en from their graves, but that, from
that p*.r*od no similar case was known to him, but that
he must declare, that God does infinitely much, which i>
net «quail▼revealed to all the blessed, or perhaps ne*er
rrav be made known them, that he has answered manv
^ " m
of my questions, concerning which he himself had to get
information ere he could have given me an answer anJ
requi»itead>ice, and thut this had been done, on account cf
h , own £ood ni'! n-1 plei«ar# — \t ▼
thè ìnhabitants of thè eirth t^at thè
man bodies, in w^atever w ir t v tt
been forced ta snrreruier thèir in ri,
impendir.g S'eat day of j* !*n e-.t. «
V;i5 trumpet, which undoubted v *i,
Son of God appmacS w?:H a V
his greitrt^s an ' ^ra^deur. — M* ,
thattUose whoin this w »rld nere afii
•Jt to!’!%ms t WU
reserrtcTIMI «V W«
ay have t »r'lifvl, ft
is tV►
,•*vW fd 1
U tW
cq ( t f d m il
« a lr n i l , and fV#
CootBfniiritt mtb
aide (fili o f alook
:ted a ilS Ik.*J !« i§ .
Hrmitiei, ^ach a9 b«indness^ ^ v tp b tc k fd ifii •
deformity, &c. wi'.l cease to be so in f * « o r t i ,
fb-it only if saved.' because ese*v - r e >
t. irann
.1 _ •» *
there.
She now became silent, anj at the inv*j r- *
well disposed person, the ¿. • . ‘ l, in’,
er every person has L:s guardila ar,»c. : V ‘ •
while she s.dd :
«* M v ^aide says, God suffers ’ * n r * > * %
t • «
good and bad. so a >o has his a.’ scei’ z r ' r T ^ « l .-
der his own supervision, but I «* \ u rau*t r *t %
> under*
stand, savs m y guide, V at this be; • _; • . • ri.%ic -
tune can happen. Unfortunate accident* or «b a t are
considered as such by mankind do occ- . o mg t «Ic ed
tnr God. thev lead to an excellent m u ’ ’ , I e»en the?
■
w #
should prove actual judgments, whether t r r e*.*■ h*
great or small. Then there are a ; . • * per-
m iitA l by a special dispensati n cf G« !. f:r * ^ c
in m ir.y things to exercise his own v . . lr-m
are such, where men. as it were wanton! r. incur a d i m
ter. because thev will make no use of that rea-* »:i, w m c Ii
was siren to them by God,*1
**Tq order to answer the question, which has pul,
1 must sav, that in the first place chii Iren \
i 11r <
* ¿t r\ cp-
tion have their guardian angels and sen funels, »dolts
and old people have them likewise, those on the c»»-.'.'ary.
who deuv a God. and consequently do not nNo k-'.o* -
iedge an immortality of the soul, cease to ave a q -oal
guardian angel, because they are no longer (Ueratd,
worth v o f one.”
A f t e r a short paise she said r
c* a person in- the hall looks upon me with an ait
8*
90
of • e r n\;ir MT'.b» .ty.— 1 csnnot speak to her, and also do
i v\ * • u
.% 1c ' cf » well ; 1 will ask my guide who she is;
m » r• de *r -
* • \ she is Jiarbara 1inner of Wcilhcim,
■
* bo d ifd . the ^rventecntli year o f her age, of a long
protract«*,] consumption, and was purified in the crucible
m
i miirrj.”
“ N o w I am lc«l out o f the hall and my return begins;
1 (1 t» time been much interrupted by questions and
the gi' of answers. A fter the H ym n which I have
menu >
i •••’ , l was generally but looked at by the teach­
er* ir.d .« v» i.n s ; the former had a great deal o f conver­
sation wit \ my "uide, which has also happened formerly;
bat 1 :• t at l did not understand, what they saitH
r »> a t ire o u in , u e , that spirits o f my description ap­
pear here, but all beheld ine with the same love and plea­
santness, and were delighted with m e.”
**0n »:v\ return I am again conducted through a gar­
den, which again surpasses the former in beauty in every
thing ; as it respects, what are called flowers, trees and
walks, they neaily resemble the former. A small herb
it again shown to me, which also grows in our garden,
but only the leaves o f it can be used as a remedy ; my
guide is bv no means a friend to any thing, that has the
name ol bring terrestrial and it is only by great solicita­
tion. that I can obtain a knowledge thereof.”
>hc stated with great exactness the spot, where it
*rew, but reserved to herself the indication of its u*e.—
\tter this she was asked, whether that be true, which is
predicted by naturalists, that our Germany in particular
if again threatened with inundations? A ft e r a little pause
»he said :
“ Yes, some o f minor extent will soon happen, and i
none quarters a great storm*, next summer, the particular
of which 1 will state on my next journey, during which
»hall be conducted on a mountain.”
Then she said to her brother, who stood in commu
nion with her t
~ Put your ear to my lips, and then continued : T<
morrow at half past twelve o’ clock I shall again f*
asleep, but do not inform more than but a few persons
it ; after the paroxysm; 1 have had to day, 1 shall l
0 !
attcked by twenty more, during which I »had » * M d
then speak, and again recover from the . . :• i r tu
I shall become very weak.”
Immediately alter, this sleep ended.
Occurrences o f Ur this Journey.
As she had predicted, so it happened ; * v ■ . had
she partaken of some very light soup, when I id (>«.
come awake, that one paroxvm after another mi-rcsm*
her, when her eyes most generally remain»- I « , . i
quite motionless ; she neither moved herself ». ►• .
nor forwards, and her eye-lids were quite st I. I rim
situation she not only knew every person that .»j ; a hed
her, but she also told every one, what he wa> (ium.-, and,
likewise stated the thoughts of several jicrsori*» prcfteat
with the greatest exactness.
A ll at once she said :
“ There is a person in this company who is very thirs­
ty, which is occasioned by the victuals she has eaten at
dinner.5
’
Then she arose quite refreshed from her be»!, put on
her shoes herself, without noticing any person, took horn
the cupboard a pitcher with her left hand, and the key of
the cellar with her right, and went with quick st<*p*
towards the cellar, she then opened the lock of the same
with great dexterity, and filled her pitcher with cider,
also secured the spigot of the barrel, locked the cellar
door well, took the key, and on her return laid it in it**
proper place, then wanned the beverage in a vessel ot
warm water, took a pint-glass and filled it more than one
half, with this remark : ‘ »for women we are not in the
habit of pouring out so much into a glass,” anil then pre­
sented it to the thirsty person, with all the grace of duo
politeness: in the same minute she laid herselfdown again
on her bed and soon after awoke. Coming to her con­
sciousness, and being told what she had done in her sleep,
92
• * « » • /reitly »»ton: shed, unable as the wa9, without
ftui to reach her own chamber.
\% . ■ • -s ' le I»-id finished her remarks, she again re-
l»p**d into Lt» ol weakness and sleepnes3. New eiperi«
• f t i l i «e r e then made ; one person took this article into
>
1
1
» hind«, t e other another, as for instance, money,
he/», ribbons, \ r . , and 1f» such a manner, that she could
tiw
't ob*cr*e those, that did so, the same having alwaji
l>**n c n c e ile d without the chamber, wherein she waa
Ifing. when she r ot ord/ most accurately stated, what
each article but also told each time exactly to whom
it belo iz^d. >:,e again caused watches to be laid on her
•lomaca, and stated the respective hours, minutes and
second*. But a> soon as she appeared to get into the
dark, »He said :
• • Truly I do not see quite clearly, and therefore re­
main silent.”
During her sleep she also got up several times from
bed and crated herself on chairs in the room ; but when
»He awoke, she was unable to return to her bed. But
when the four list paroxysms were coming on, »he said
rvery tin e, that she was becoming weaker, after predict-
mg the duration of the same to a second ; having over­
come the last, »lie exclaimed ;
•‘ God be praised! now they are past!”
Then *he took some light nourishment, but was unable
u> leave her bed ; during the night she slept and in the
morning was again so much refreshed, that she could arise,
and dress alone, without the help of any other person,
bat complained of great debility, otherwise of no ailment
Fourth Journey into Jupiter.
On the Sd of December the fourth journey into Jupiter
tame to pass, which »he again accomplished in eight
»»inutes, and then began to speak as follows :
“ B y path at first leads through a forest, the tree»
93
whereof stand quite in order; at the top t.cy *
>
■ r
der, and then close together like an ombre}..!. '*
She was asked, whether there were a v a . » ’ <
* *.
to which she replied :
“ No, in Cert* and C ranm . says my guide, I «■
' 'i
animals, but-none of those, that os h..j : r del .nc\
came over from our earth. M y guide tel.«* n *
* : iat m f l
also, commit great sin against animal*. especially *uch
are created for their benefit, and thsnbv do incur a
great responsibility.”
“ The forest I passed soon ; I am now on mv war >n
a plain towards the mountain, which is not fai oif. — N- •
I have to ascend it, it has a height of 260 stops on 1
. •' »
sides o f which the railings are erected hccauso the moun­
tain is steep, and the path again very narrow,but too
and railings are again most beautiful. The mountain :i
surrounded by the most delightful gardens.”
Then she was asked the name of the mountain ? -
4
4 It is called Jlthanatl, she said “ its figure o«. !, ai.J
a\\ around it stand trees well arranged in aven . rrja n
meeting above, and through each avenue leads t r^r tow-
path ; ail the walks, are covered with a brilliant grom
award, glistening like precious stones, vet they arc not
such, it being easily seen, that they are but paths.”
Then she was asked, whether she did see no blessed
spirits wandering about the mountain ? to which sho
answered :
4
4N o t now, but my guide tells me, that they often as­
cend it, and frequently walk around it, coming as they
do, from various parts of Jupiter. I have reached its
apex, i f I could but always remain here ; its summit
level contains about half an acre. From hence I see ma­
ny cities and forests, but no mountain.”
She was then asked, whether on this Star there were
no oceans ? to which she replied :
4
4N o there are upon it some small lakes, but the waters
thereol stand still ; during one of my journeys thither
I shall pass bye one.— Now I have to leave the mountain,
by order of iny Guide , thence I am led into a garden,
situated below at the foot of the mountain, in which small
herbs are again shown to me, which A ------ will have to
04
fa-^er, on *i»c spoG, I shill point out to him.” Not onlr
the place, hut evi ry fhirjg around tlie herbs, she dci-
<; i >•*'! bo distinctly, that not only those, who heard her,
hut particularly aHo the persona, who went alon'' in
search of the herbs, were greatly astonished. For this
purpose they had to go four times, and each time on their
return had to lay the herb-, thathad been b ou gr, 01 ler
•♦»»iinru. t!int she might judge whether they were or the
n j i f kind. Having then pronunced the whole of then
genuine, she said :
“ Gather of these in season, as many as possible, and
dry th**m, but each separately, but not upon a stove, br
winch they would lose much of their virtue ; of*some the
leaves are only used as a decoction : when 1
vr-»i! the planets Saturn and Uranus, as long since intim­
ated, then will I indicate the use of' each o f them re*
spectively. This night we shall have a storm, which will
be followed by rain and snow.”
N o preson anticipated such a change o f weather, but it
actually occurred. Respecting the inundations and
great storms, which were predicted, she said :
“ But tlmy will not happen yet very soon, not before
the months o f December 1833, and January 1834, will
the stoi ms become very violent, and in many places
cause considerable damage
She then continued to speak of her own accord, a«
follows :
“ In the regions of the blessed there is never any win­
ter nor storm, the climate in one is like that in another,
all equally beautiful and agreeable. The difference to
he sure, between the habitation of the blessed and that
blackish earth, upon which we dwell, i9 so immeasurably
great, that no comparison whatever can be drawn be­
tween them.”
She then was asked, whether from Ju p ite r she could
also look into the Sun ? to which she replied :
Tliis is impossible for me, from this place, because for
the present his splendor would be insufferable to me, but
you know l shall also go thither, the further I pursue m
y
journeys, the more delightful they become.”
Then she was asked, whether there are also any kings
or potentates in the stars, ruling and govern.r * m t
were the whole ? After a short pause she said :
u is tills not a pitiful question r— There is hut one,
who rules and governs the whole and fie is God, for it
is written in the souls of all the blessed, horn ' e
to the highest, and they hear it incessantly from their
teachers, in what consists the will of God.
I will give you a worldly example. I f a prince or * g
had in his domains none but equally well disposed ‘'ob­
jects,' and all had conceive the same aflTection lor bun
and none offended the other ; how pleasant, don’ t y-o
think, would it be to live in such a country r Th u is
but comparatively speaking quite a small t\ pe of the
state enjoyed by the blessed. For amongst them reign»
but one mind and one spirit. Charges and offence* can
.never take place there, else it would be no state ol felici­
ty. The teachers too deem themselves no better than
the learners ; respect to be sure exists for them, but not
such as servile, but a regard, which is filial, which is a
real delight to them arid as it were, impels them to
higher felicities. As it respects that which is the essence
and support of all in this world, God governs it as well at
the Un iverse ; let those, who ascribe every thing to
chance in nature, believe it or not, God is for all that,
not by a hair5
« breadth the smaller. For God is in his at­
tributes, so says my Guide, to all eternity, incomprehen­
sible and unsearchable, to the created angels as well as
to ll*e defunct, and yet in the highest degree blessed
snirits, how should this be possible to the miserable,
short-sighted bags of maggots of this world, who all and
evrry one are but to be pitied, arid not pitied only, but
on account of their boldness, to be lamented ; the ju d g­
ments, which these human beings load upon themselves,
exceed comprehension, how blind and naked will they
one day stand exposedl "
M y return soon begin«, I have requested my Guide
to tell me, why he is this time in so great a haste and does
not remain longer with rne, but he says, that by a prolonged
stay my body would become too much weakened, because
96
I * v i ! , «r ihi» sleep have to encounter ten more violent
ptroxyam
a.
During i ',i> discourse i person approached the house,
residing n a distance of two hours walk from hence,
i.:u\ another person opened the door of the house ; when
QOtikcd she u id :
“ N. open* the house door, for N . comes to me.”
Having suted every tiling so distinctly, some of the in­
dividuals pt esent wanted to learn cures from her, but «he
admonished th.mi» to have patience, until she would visit
Saturn and I'nuuii. She then stated, that she would
be hack in five minutes ; in conclusion she was asked,
it, what manner her Guide had this time taken leave?—
i o which the replied :
He laid niv hands on me, pronounced the benedic­
tion over me, and dismissed me with the verse in the
f’ ftftlmi : “ Mark the perfect man and behold the upright;
for the end of that man is peace.”
Occurrences after this Journey.
After this trance she was seized by ten cataleptic pa-
roivsms of which however but the little which follows,
can here be related. During one of these spells she
we ill twice into the garden, situated behind the house,
in search of the herbs, which 6he bad indicated. In her
second walk she led several persons to a spot, where ma­
ny herbs were growing and diiected them to pluck them.
During her laat attack, she stated several things, that
passed around her, which excited great astonishment, but
tor certain reasons cannot here be narrated.
On the 4th ecember, she had four cataleptic par­
oxysms, two of whieh passed in the forenoon, during which
■he said little or nothing of importance, athalf past twelve,
•he was overcome by the third, and she required to be
taken to bed. Having reposed upon it tor a quarter of
I 37
an hour, she was asked, whether she would i!»o o
which she replied :
“ N o w I am too weak, and tired, leave me v .r :
about an hour, for my sleep will last until 4 u V
Being thus requested every one present withdrew •
*
the sitting room; the room, wherein .vhe rrpintri,
well locked, so that no one could approac h . *!.<
■
speaking in the sitting-room took place only in low w t
< *
pers. After the'expiration of an hour, it was oW m c .I,
that she fetched her breath very deep and groaned, r r<
upon her brother, who stood in communion with I <r, w u«
desired to a*k her, what was the cause ol this ; w t an ­
swered somewhat angrily and hastily, and t«!d of o r it
one, not only what they had said, but also whit »hey had
thought. Every one had to acknowledge, that, what >h«
had said, was perfectly true; when sheconfinufJ thus .
“ The consequence of this will only be, that my sleep
will last four hours longer, and that I shall not awaken,
until the clock shad 9trikn e ig h t; had this not happen« i,
both paroxysms would have been over in four hours.
Then she became still until seven o’ clock ; from tins
time she asked frequently for a watch, which had to f>*
laid on her stomach, that she might be able to see, h o w
long she would yet have to struggle, each time she stated
the minute exactly and positively ; at half past seven
o’clock ¿he said : '
“ Lay the evening prayer for this day upon my
stomach.”
“ She read the same from word to word ; turning the
leaf with the syllable, and always held the book towards
that part of her stomach, through which she obtained
light; after this she read the hymn : “ Commend thy
ways dec.”
From seven to eight o’clock »he told several important
truths, some of which have already been realized, but
which neither can, nor dare here be stated. Awakening
with the striking of the clock, at eight, she exclaimed ;
u God be praised, now it is past!”
Slit then took no further nourishment this day, nor did
9
98
^ ^ ’ ' ' r,er » ; during the night she enjoyed a tolera-
• p. a!*J arose the next day with recruited
. hot complained of slight weakness.
Fifth Journey into Jupiter*
^ ' ! ‘ 1i December the Somnambulist performed
her buhjovim.'v into Jupiter, which she again accomplish-
rd in r ^ ni.Ma’ « Having arrived there, she said:
“ lias country is quite level and beautiful, and on my
return 1 »hall be conducted to a small lake. Around
t*.e city, which l visit to-day, there are beautiful gar­
den», in which trees and the most beautiful flowers are
irvw i: the walks are again narrow, but they shine so
ueaui.iuhy, as if they had been strewed over with filings
ct silver. The name of this city is Juda, the gate,
throu^* which I enter is very spacious, immensely high
an \ lias lour towers, which shine like gold ; the street
in the city, in comparison with the gate is very narrow,
the buildings are all alike handsome and of considerable
height, e\ery thing is perceptibly handsomer, than what
it was in the city 1 last visited ; the gate, through which
I pass in going out is perfectly like that through which !
entered, when I was introduced. I am this day again
conducted into a meeting or lecturing-hall; the building
in which it is located, is very large, the hall is in the up­
per story’ ; in the interior of the building I have to ascend
a stair-case of not more than twenty steps ; the stair case
as well as the railing are again much handsomer thau
the former, as well as the hall, which is very long.—
W hat appear to be eight chandeliers, are therin suspend­
ed but they are none, aud form, as my Guide tells me, an
ornament to fhe hall. The number of those therein now
present, is not great, and I also see here four teachers,
they arc actually singing and perform music, both not
0 0
Very loud, but of delightful euphony, !! >n; * :U •
they chaunt, as well as the melody I c m •« ,r n<‘
state. Th e brightness of the blessed here. > r -
extremely great, if there was an a cq u a in ts *
our world, I should not recognise him if rn . ( > i I ■*-» 1
not inform me. The crown, worn by my (J.iid \
what larger than that of the blessed, who am h • j
gent, but again a little smaller than thorn oi ih • f « .v hi *.
Here she was asked : where then the region («ce ; 1
by the children was ? to which she replied :
“ This Î3 in the sun, there l shall also in >t w
greatest multitude, for the region occupied by t’.^ < "•
dren, constitutes a large part o f the kingdun of (**nd,
nay an incomparably larger one than that in f ■
■ " ’ cs.*
After a silence of a few minutes durafi mi, <
! ,
which she reposed in a reclining posture, as if . 4
had left her, she again resumed :
“ N o w I have to quit the room, and am condi r ‘ 1 ' »
a sheet of water, as l have already intimated. It I d .
like a sea, stands quite still, sparkles with light and clear­
ness, and I cannot compare it with any water m <
• rd •
A bridge leads over tliis sea, over which [ am rond c • ' ,
on each side I count twenty pillars, each o f them .-hi y
four feet thick, no alabaster is so clear and shining ns
these arc ; they represent the most beautiful gaff -, b n
are none, the pavement constructed over them is more
than beautiful. The passage over the bridge ’ s so wide,
that five persons can walk alongside of each other, it in
very Jong, but in the centre somewhat elevated. 'I l.c
lake forms a beautiful circle and is surrounded with a
wall, which shines like a precious stone ; on the outside
of the wall, trees are standing all around like poplars all
o f equal heig!)t, and in the same manner over the bridge,
only not quite so close to each other, as around the lake,
the trunks of the trees and their branches and foliage are
more than beautiful and exude the most delightful scent,
the lake is called Bethsebadci, it appears to me not to I; .
very deep, for I can see, by reason of the clearness of
the water, quite to the bottom*
Then she was asked ; whether »he did see no fishes in
it ? to which she replied
100
“ N b r c ijs c the blessed, who are here, require no
r.cHir»J.ment.*’
J - . - .** \%
as A f J , whether the bodies of the blessed'
**<* ' ar.-j- ■p:.t } to which she made answer :
“ V . t :hi* is afact* that their faces and garments
• • n -n : r ... !ct* according to the degree of their fe-
lic it r .’ *
A fter t! i* sbe was asked, in what language her guide
** *1
••* ti speaking with h er? to which she
rrjdifil :
•• In the German lanjrviaee.,r
’ e -«tion was put : whether tlic unhappy
co'-Sd p
.I'O « rrfwrm journeys to the blessed, and vice.
i cr- \ !'■** b ’esscil to the unhappy ? to which she replied ;
•• N **— adding- after a pause— but well may the damned,
• i *.- • s rr.» Guide, cast glances at the state o f bliss,
* *'■' ■' " *•
*- of but short duration, thereby increasing
i! ir m > iy n: d wretchedness, but not diminishing the
• . : v ’ .c’.i is so to be understood, that the recollection,
• • y might be in the same situation with the blessed,
trasses their to r m e n t ”
Then c w as asked : whether the region o f the un-
1s; ov ar.d the damned Is beneath or above the earth, to
which she answered :
*• Those, that were shown to me, were above the earth*
but in no stars; God has every where dominions and
dw ellin g places which mankind can have no idea of
whatever. N o w L am yet led through a delightful copse
i f wood ; as soon as I shalLhave passed.through it, my
return will begin, which 1 shall again complete in five
m inutes.”
D uring her return she was asked,, whether the planet
Jupiter, which she was then visiting, was also called by
that name in the other world ?* to which she replied :
“ N o , its name is here Actthcm— and thus continued
to cpeak. I have now three more jo u rn e ys to perform
thither, then tw elve into Cer.csy namely e v e ry day one,
* I t is to be re g re tte d , th a t a m o n g st the re s t t h is en-
q i i r y has n o t been p u r s u e d fu r t h e r •.
101
then, after some short relaxations I , ^
three journeys in one day, otherwise w ouhl * .c t * t *
ring which 1 shall remain in this state, not - t *
cicnt.’ ’
She then took leave from her (¡uide, i-b-
after this trance she should have cig t m
< ■ j » o*.
and then said to her brother :
u N ow waken me in the name of G o d ."
Occurrence» after this Journey.
After this journey she had eight a d d itio na l paroxysm*
each of which however was not of lung duration : *hc
made disclosures respecting several worldly subject*,
which proved entirely as she had stated.
On Earth too exists a world of spirits.
Of her discourses only the follow irg can find roam.—
Murderers, whose deeds were not avenged, punidicd ami
brought to light in this world : and again such, as have
narrowed the limits of their neighbours and removed
land-marks, hover about here and there, and particular­
ly over the spots, where they perpetrated their enormi­
ties, but not always over and about them, but only at
certain times ; from this they obtain no alleviation ol
their punishment, but it always tends, on account of their
wanderings, to increase their tortures. Those too wan-
der about, who, from ill-will, envy and avarice have hid­
den worldly treasures, for « where their treasure is,
there is also their heart;” yet are their wanderings not
so painful to them, as to those, mentioned before. This
may ever so much be denied or disputed by men, yet it
is undoubtedly a fact.
“ J3ut in nothing do men deceive themselves more,
than in regard to apparitions, by far not every thing, that
in respect to them, is related, is to be taken for granted.
It is however, a very wise dispensation o f Providence,
that men’s eyes are so often blind-folded, that they do
*9
w 102 '
by f.ir legs, than what passes around them in clear
»la; light, else would many a one go about the whole
t'av with fear a id trem bling”
4 O
Sixth Journey into Jupiter
A t 1a
’fpast 12 o'clock in the afternoon of the 6th of
December, she performed her sixth journey into Jupiter;
la > ;
.n2 re eived her guide, she said, that she would ac­
complish this journey also in eight minutes.
1 wo days before this trance, two learned gentlemen
asked, whether they could be permitted to put questions to
her: in presence of her brother, who stood in communion
with her, but in the absence o f all other persons, those
questions were addressed to her, during her journey
thither, ¿nd o f these, the following, can here find room :
namelv. what may be the reason, that such large and
vtrong bones, called mammoth bones by the learned, are
found, in Europe as well as in Asia, yet no human bone*?
This question she answered after a short pause as bil­
lows :
u M r guide tells me : at the period of the deluge, there
were animals in the world, that are no longer to be found,
and in order to save their lives, tied to the highest moun­
tains, and having met their death even there, their
bodies remained exposed, and were burned under the
rubbish. Human bones and bodies could r.ot well re­
main on the surface of the ground, because they were too
light, these were washed away, and for the most part
hurried in the ocean.9
9
“ T h e desire o f knowledge o f these individuals haring
been satisfied, the rest o f the persons present were re-ad­
mitted, and immediately after she said
“ 1 just now approach a city,.which is again hand­
somer in every point of view, than the former, and it
railed Laban, M v guide shines more brilliant to-day
Than he did yesterday, his voice resounds with dearness-
In three minutes from this, I shall have passed through
the city, and I am again let! into a building without the
1
0
3
city, and in it, into a lecturing hall ; there I 1ive n
to ascend *a flight of twenty 9tepsf before I can enter i
hall. Here again I meet with none but human *jnr !«.
who again have their instructors, but I have to re. r *,
that their number constantly diminishes. I have depict­
ed to you the felicities heretofore shown to me, a-* iw re
than splendid and delightful,— to describe these, I ".ant
strength and words, for their attractions surpass all
imagination. The music and singing are quite divine ;
if a mortal could hear but one sound of them, he wi uld
fa’rnt away ? ah l what do I say, it would be quit«» m^ul -
ferable to him. For a hundred thousand millions «•(
worldly luxuries, would I not exchange an hour of th.«.
T o be sure all the states of felicity abound with ¿dorr,
magnificence, peace and contentment, but with this d if­
ference, that the one is still greater, and more delightlul
than the other* if this were not the case, there would be
no improvement
After a three limes repented ejaculation of tht inter­
jection ; “ Ah 1” she exclaimed with solemnity :
“ W h y do mankind not incessantly strive to be saved !
— my guide tells ine, the felicities in the planet Nathan
(Jupiter) are of a pretty high degree, how much will you
he surprised, when you shall visit the sun, and the N ew
Jerusalem l”
Then she was asked, whether her guide could, of hi«
own accord undertake to lead her to the places, she had
mentioned, or whether he had first to obtain permission
to do so ?
“ M y guide can do nothing whatever of his own accord,
he had to bring permission from God himself, through
his servants, for every journey he has performed with me.
Just now my guide tells me, that no Somnambulist has
vet been permitted, to cast a glimpse at the N ew Jeru­
salem, and that I am the first, to whom this great favor
shall be granted.”
From a peculiar motive, the question was put; where
the first martyr Stephen was? to which she replied ;
“ Me is in the New Jerusalem, awaiting his fellow ser­
vants, although he also, attends die throne of God.”
104
Ihtnmt w
a*» inked, wlictV.fr it would be agreeable,
li Doctor J u + tin u * K r tr n tr o f Jf einsberpr should visither,
to »K k i ihe replied :
*• 1m * would exactly s ii; »’ *. a» he is the man, who
M l i knowledge of, anil in - ands a case like mine.—
Now 1 commence my return, soon alter I shall awaken,
•od 1 sh ill be attacked by sight id inal paroxysms,
during which >wc\er mv y ,t will a^ain be with me,” '
A i soon is her guide had withdrawn* she said to her
brother:
4
4Now waken me,’ ’
When she awoke, sbewisagain all iove and friemlli-
i e * i , and only complained of slight debility.
Occurrences a fte r th is J o u rn e y ,
H alf an h o jr after this truly cataleptic sleep, the first
paroxysm ensued, the duration o f which she had predicted,,
as well as that o f every subsequent one. H e r lather and
brother, who stood in communion with her, w ere ju st at
that time, on a visit at the house o f a -frien d and neigh­
bour : she stated the occupations and conversations, they
there had been engaged in, quite distinctly, and from
word to word, and the correctness o f her statement was al­
so literally confirmed by a witness, who had both seen and
heard all that had passed ; this person could not realize
the possibility o f her performance ; hereupon she said :
i% I come again into a dark place, which fills me with
terror and a n x iety.— A h ! a person approaches me that
belongs to the first class o f the unhappy, whom I knew so
well, whilst he yet was a sojourner amongst us; he is de­
termined to seize my right hand.— A t length I have to
extend it to h im .— O ! how I pity h im !”
She was then asked, who that person was ? whereupon
she said :
“ Such questions refrain from asking m e— and never
indulge a thought in guessing,, whether it be this or that
105
person, for 1 shall never name Inm, r.o ms nt a* ;*# c*
be offered me. This ttfthappj being be thftt 11 I
but reach him my hand, it will br»n^ him rr .ri, hr c*n
speak with me, and desires me *o interc^d** • I it aait
with mv Guide, that he may the sooner hr . •• a* ! from
his unhappy situation. I>ut 1 can rot £.-•« : i e }r\t\
comfort, because the time once fised ? . » * ' -*
ation. I can assure nobody, that t e |r.i>. r <
•( ? ' .»> n*
for those, that died in a stale ol unb!<-"t •>. r
be efficient.”
During; her two subsequent paroxysm*« !^ vrrular sp-
arUions were mentioned by her, wim lb»* ad.i.uonal r •
mark however B
•‘ That the latter, yet entertaining hope, we. - ne
what more consoled, than the others were.*’
The five last paroxysms were of short duratiov,
nothing occurred during the same, which it would be
worth while here to record.
Seventh Jo u rn e y in to Ju p ite r,
Oil the 7th of December, at half an hour pa^t twelve,
she performed her seventh journey to Jupiter ; after re­
ceiving her Guide, she stated, that this too would be
completed in eight minutes. Having arrived there, *!,«•
said :
I now come to a Gate and thence again into a city
named B ethel y this again excels all the others in »pirn-
dor and beauty.”
Then she was asked, by whom (he cities, that had been
shown to her, had been built and laid out? T o which
she replied with great gravity :
“ Is this not an absurd and miserable question ? God
himself is the architect, of the whole of them ; for what­
ever he saith, that comes to pass, and what he commands,
is called into existence. Neither the understanding nor
the powers of man, nor of angels would suffice, to con-
»truct such an edifice ; no terrestrial hanrJiwork/howev-
1 0 6
r r »tifntlficailv executed can ever be compared w.\
one that is of heavenly structure.”
4
* l am now led a^ain into a meeting or"lecturing-'it',
without the city. I be windows shine so brilliantly thr.
I can . *t look, upon them ; l have within again to a?cenl
a swr-c i«e, of thirtv steps, before 1 can enter the Hall.
This hall is again not foil, and could contain m
any
more. The gradations of felicity constantly rise in per­
fection ; of those that are here, l again know none, al­
though they were living persons ; their forms quite resem­
ble those of the human race, but the unearthliness r\
their features renders every one of them incapable of
recognition. If 1 but were permitted, to tarry here a
1” \z w ide, but my Guide is always in too great a ha*4
e;
telling me, that he has also to attend to his calling in th
e
Sun. Just now instruction is given by the teachers, b.t
the words pronounced by them, it is impossible for me to
repeat. This l observe well, that the learners have at­
tained to great proficiency ; every thing here in eternity,
whether great or small, is quite different from what it is
in our world, and I know not how I could make any com-
parison, that would be intelligible :— Now the lessons
are ended and music and singing commence ; both are
again more agreeable and delightful, than the former
were; thehjmnhas the melody—««Shining is the Chris­
tian’s innate life, &c. Oh, if I durst but stay here seve­
ral days, willingly would I relinquish all meat and drink."
Then she a^ain exhorted all her hearers in a most iiu
-
pressive manner, with the greatest earnest and diligence
to cultivate love, harmony and piety, because in the re­
gions of the blessed, no hatred nor other passion, ten-Ji .
to affect a state of felicity can exist.
Some other questions were about to be addressed
her, but she said ;
4
4Molest me now no longer, for it is painful to m
e.
when I observe a disposition to mislead me in the regin
where I actually am ; for if I should attain the most a
d
, vanced age, I should be incapable to describe and to sta
r?
in its whole extent and magnitude, all the glory, whir,
this day has been shown to me, and which ] behold, be­
cause I should always be in want of such words, as would
107
be requisite to elucidate the same. Oh ! how great, •
.
fiaite and benign is God! When I awake, I pr.iv toj,
treat me with special indulgence, fora different tr v n .t
I should not be able to bear. I hare alreadr to leave
the Hall and am led through a pleasant little grove/'
She was then asked, whether in it she did not pert* \r c
anv birds and other animals ? to which she replied :
“ No, in Ceres 1 shall meet with animal«, but none of
those that existed in our world, but such a3 were created
there. Now I have passed through the grove and my re
turn begins. I shall this day again fall into eig it parox­
ysms, which will last five hours, in some of them ►
, ♦' %
from the regions of darkness will appear to me, in hopes
that they shall the sooner be liberated therefrom, but they
will be disappointed,5
’
Occurrences after this Jo u rn e y.
What she had fortold d u rin g her return, came duly to
pass, soon after she awoke. S p irits, nam ely, that par­
tially hover over this world, appeared to her ; speaking
of one of them, she said in one of her paroxysms :
411 shall this night, at about eight o’clock, be able to
see a person from my chamber-window, and in so doing
full asleep— but the sequel I must refrain from mention­
ing on account of the crowd it would raise. Not one of
jou will be able to see him, but the course he will pursue,
I can positively inform you of. The person is a male,
who has hovered about thisgreat while, and at certain fix­
ed periods, shall ye t for a long time have to hover abont, for
he has murdered a child begotten in legitimate wedlock.
First his wife died in child-bed, and when she was buried
the child became a burthen to him, and being destitute
o f all sense of religion, he killed it, pretending that the
child had also died. It is true he was suspected by some
o! having committed this crime, but no legal investigation
108
relative thereto w it ever initituteil, which is the reason,
M ht r tc n td with impunity in this world, which is the
c
h
ic of His hovtring about/9
BeKoldtng the pc «on again from her window, at half
;va»• io K.v.^o ha? just been described, she wanted
tw ca ! *o him, but wa» suddenly deprived of her speech,
sc ¿1 o be thereby disabled, to utter another sound; sh
e
then made * ~:.«, that she wanted to write, when paper,
itk and pen were put before her, when she signified that
•he really i! J not %
**e qui'* clearly, yet notwithstanding
ibs wrote quite legibly the following:
*• My brume. ; » to magnetise a glass of water by m
ean
s
of s**tn struVes, and take three mouthfuls thereof, after
which | wifi dnr k of it, when 1 shall regain my speech.’1
Thu du.y happened so, and immediately after sh
e
•tid I
•* r,f!oremy Guide left me to day, he told me, th
at
these apparitions too are beneficial to me, inasmuch as I
i t tie ) ..uted ar.d rendered more capable thereby of see*
ice more cleariy/9
W ,cn she was near awakening she exclaimed :
•• Gwd be praised! this too is past; but now I am very
weak, take me directlv to bed.’9
W m m m
W hereupon she had to be earned into it.
E i g h t h J o u r n e y in to J u p it e r .
Ou the 8 th of December she performed her eighth a
n
d
tast journey into Jupiter. Immediately after the arrinl
of her Guide »he said : that she requested this day bysc
means to be molested with many questions,It being h
e
r
intention to state every thing of her own accord, w
hti
she would be permitted to mention ; observing at th
e
same time, that after this sleep twenty additional parox-
▼•ms would befall her.
Having arrived in Jupiter at thu time specified sbt
•aids
109
**Now I again arrive at a gate, the | * r» ", l f i l U
efablue shining colour, the city it called i
gate of the city again excels the former in iU
admirable beauty. During my journey into * -r
and Mercury, the cities that had prev m.u* » b-‘cr • *' *
to me appeared to me somewhat infcnor, than *«e a*
visited, but now the reverse is the ca-e. \ ’n
which the pavement is formed, are a» »in k> » **
and of a purple redness ; the whole city is » • » ^ , , f *"
light and has quite a divine aspect.
N o w 1 approach tire meeting-hall of the dr*» d 1' r
o f the blessed comes to meet me, and seirr» n»> left hand
N o w I walk as fast, as if I had wings. I bate b.t t«*
« o r e steps to ascend, in a few minutes I t - i r :cJ
cd the top. W ith the angel, who accoi *p<’ '*"* rru- 1
cannot speak, but he is very friend! v and ad- ? m
N o w I enter the Hall, and the guide, tl at *« c* r.pa ,.*■«
me quits me, he is a teaclier and plac»» bnntc'.f at tl»
head ; now l will however ask my guide who hr i*.— 1»
is the deceased Henry Jung, called S tiilin r, <
f! *r r t,r •
m a n , whom 1 have already mentioned in rny foui! - j
i»ey into M ercury f as a teacher in Jupiter. The i t ■;'/.# »
I perceive enjoy a trifling superiority over the le­
ers, and are much nearer to God, In the centre of fh-
Hall stands a golden column, several ci.andri: • h i *«
also to be suspeiided but in real ity are not such,»e ng
ly as embellishments to the room, but do not ilium., a** th*
tame, for the hall itseffis refulgent with lightai.il c'. ai
ness. The number of those present »» again »ma *
comparison with the siz.e of the hall, and yet »ay* r
Guide, there are blessed spirit» here from ali n a h ©
:.% ' r. i
religious denominations. There are people fooi.»h, a-
te say where will God find room enough for all the
that have lived through all ages; tbeie are very ».'I
questions, for there is room enough and to »pare, howe**
tong the world may exist $ God never disenatinae* l *
* Here the graspad both her Guide and the ota
tightly.
t See Page 43
1#
1 1 0
iptration», nor ceases to form new creations. The lee-
" % I 1 r a. N't i. able to comprehend, owing
• t ;<
• iir ¿-a.je us?«]— the/ are to me, who jet am dwell-
~ Sr» . usiMfNibble. For the present the
> * ■ ■’* • : <!, and music and singing recoin-
tn ■ • r li j ’.'i put in? in a double transport of extacy,
'•*'*<‘ 7 * ; f iyn.r.. whirl» appear.«, iu the Wirtemberg
•]* N >
. «, M which the first strophe runs
t ■.4%*
“ O ( iod we praise thee and confess,
*» That thou the onlj Lord
And everlasting father art,
*41
1
j all the earth adored.
•• To thee a'I angels cry aloud,
*• To thee the powers on high,
*• Hoth Cherubim and Seraphim,
•* Continual! j do cry :
• H r it our God ! holy is our Lord !
J 9
/
••1
1 . u «>u
r God I the Lord God of Hosts!
w
•« M r v j t hrre appears to me to pass too quickly, »nd
m : ' - : .v, ; ij tor a few moments. 1 rejoice too
-w.' ; pci .-re..and, at the approach of Christmas, then will
I «fare the true time of the rear, day and hour, when
Christ was born ; this festival is not celebrated by us on
the proper dav. My Guide tells me; then shall l be
surprised to what glory I shall be conducted ; but until
• ?n v ail 1 grow still weaker than what I am already.—
A*. " e €>'<-’ ,mm of my last journey thither, I shall also
he permitted to look down upon the earth. Now 1 am
lolcn through an admirably beautiful garden, again ac-
. m
| viied by two Guides, the flowers and trees are
•re inexpressibly beautiful, and the sweet scent they
••iyie. :« more than refreshing,* but the walks are again
quite »arrow, 9
9
liu iiiif this walk she again mentioned & small herb,
■
r.g it on her brother, to pluck it, and distinctly in-
•t at i.g the spots, wherein it was growing, at the same
f o e r«niaiking : that grape vines, cut fine, boiled, and
i l l
used as a foot bath, are very *frea_;t!.e* ' ^ *o * * hmfc*
Then she continued :
“ I shall hereaf ter be also conclue t^d i t »
Concerning witchcraft and the I ke, i»r *
. <
■ ■ n 9
no questions, for every such question, arm a 'Her* 0
are useless, I shall leave unanswered.”
J3eing on the point o f quitting the g.udrr . ihr *;»• » ft
asked its name ? to which she r*p 'n-d
“ It is called Sodamna. Now l • perm *<
• I tr *
down upon the Earth, it appears to im* a* if I l«*4 t*l
through a window, the si/.e ot it apj ear» t <me not la r jf .
than that of a small ball, such a* t .1 Iren u»u*f)t
with, and looks blackish ; I should not cw ii mr d 1, if
my Guide did not particular!v thaw n \ o*frf * or, to i*.
nor does it shine with any light, hut t v "\
| n J
piter appears to stand, as it were, i?j (hr t r r
our Eart/i and the Sun, namely at a d.n’ at.t« <f
millions of miles from the Earth and t«*n milli'iat from tb«
«
Sun. M y Guide tells me, that from the v * >
»< 1 * b
will not appear to me larger, than the v i <’ . a « , >
I have already risen very high. Now m . G .. v • '¡ikin#
leave, and on account of the great de!i-'it I » , ». d •
misses me with the eleventh verse of toe h» w.r» No I'O
in the old Wirteinberg Hymn book, comment n-
the words— “ Commend thy wavs to God 6c.
“ Happy thou ! thou child of truth
“ W ith honour thou hast won
“ The crown of victory.1
“ Tby glorious thanks now rise
“ T o Him, who He Himself,
“ Of palms the holy branches,
“ Gives to thee, with his ri^ht hand ;
“ And thou, i f faithful thou remain »h
“ W ilt loud Hosannahs sing,
“ To Him, who has at length
t urned into joy thy misery !
Thus her journeys to Jupiter terminated.
* This actually carne to pass, hut no further account
can be given concerning it.
1 1 2
Occurrences after this Journey.
T' c [ C ' i m i b i which »»he had foretold, occurred soon
- •rr * •wi.k-, *:.d at iirst only lasted from five to six
m ih o if* ; dor.ng these spoke very little, and on-
7 ct v it 4 p'-ne«! around her, but that she stated aN
t o e t t c i 'r ; \>ri^rr w;*.s seized with the ninth parox-
*%m, e that it would continue half an hour, which,
i»v watches laid upon her, proved correct to a second.—
\t r e i r r « c ummencemcnt o f it she said :
- N o w 1 u rH communicate something, which wasdis-
d o ^ d to mr by my G iid e , during my last journey, but
which diserrt on wisely taught me to keep secret a course
which wa* aUo countenanced by m y Guide, because the
cH ieaurM uf people w u l d ha%e become too great, aU
:J%
n"«;h i great multitude will notwithstanding be present.
A n ur.kno*n blessed spirit appears to me, who can speak
with me. I ask him who he is ? He answers : 1 am x
n*ar relation uf yours, and partially of the same lineage r
fr«>tn which you are also in part descended, foryour father
• ad my mother are the offspring o f the same parents, I
t*n G eorge Goe/z, who died in his 19th year. Oh l sur-
raunded as he is by glo ry and brightness, l should
oot have recognised him at all, had he not made h im s e lf
known to rae by name ; he tells me, that in m y next
sleep which w ill riot be a cataleptic paroxysm , 1 shall be
consecrated for m y next jo u rn e y b y Henry Jung Stil-
lin g , for which reason l was also to-day accom panied in­
to the Hall by him, together with my G u id e, and from it,
nfo the garden ; I, said G . G . and your brother Fretle-
fick appear d u rin g this a ct as witnesses, but soon after
it shall have taken place, Stilling w ill be rem oved into
the Sun. A f t e r this trance I shall have h a lf an hour’s
rest a w ak e.
This followed in succession, and when past, the tenth
paroxysm actually befiel her, but this, as well as those,
fhat had preceeded it were in reality cataleptic slumbers.
v >
om after she burst into an extacy of joy , on account of
113
the great grace and mercy, which were gr.v *ed hr
u Ah! she exclaimed, if l had but winj:«. ' l •’ 'o
the embraces of those, that come to meet me
Then she put her bed-clothes in order, .^kr 1
apron, which she tied around hersulf sitting ¡' ‘ ■' m,d
when she had done so she said :
“ Now make room for me, for I mu>t get out «•
the act will now commence.”
Then quite strong she left her bed, took a <•
"
» pr*.
spread it out on the floor, and fell upon her knees. 1
with admirable awe she received S t i l l i n g ns wc 1
1 a» the
other two witnesses, and tendered to each her hind *:• h
great humility. The consecration commencing:. limn
sense of true humility she prostrated herself on ' I «
*
,
but immediately re-erected herself of her o.'n
and raised her hands folded to heaven, then she fra< ,|
her Jett hand to the witnesses, standing to (lie r . ' ami
left, but her right she extended to S tillin g , who stood be­
fore her ; during this act she gave a sign, that the imp ,.
sition of hands on her head was then taking place.—
When this was past she took leave from every one wit)»
demonstrations of the deepest-felt humility ; when they
had parted from her, she rose of her own accord ami
without any other person’s aid, went to bed saving :
“ The energetic words, pronounced over me by X/V-
ling I am totally incapable of expressing. This act was
more than holy, I have thereby taken a most sacrerl ob­
ligation, to remain eternally faithful to the triune (iod ;
you will learn, that I am surely a true Christian : but do
not expect me to be so already, fur that requires a longer
period. S tillin g reached me a golden cup, trom which [
twice drank the water of ctwisecration,* which was ve­
ry strengthening and delicious, and left a deep, deep im­
pression on my sou! ; this and the words penetrated
through mv very bones and marrow.”
She was then asked, why she. had prostrated hersel Í
with her face on the earth ? when she said :
* All the persons present perceived, that she was ac­
tually swallowing.
10*
114
‘ - M j inferiority and the great grace, that had been be-
M »*ed on caused me to prostrate myself at the feet
T Sfi/Z-n*, but he would by no means suffer it, but irarae-
«t at* !y lifted me up with these w ords: “ Such an act
*>f hum, iation is alone due to, and acceptable by God.**
I «' a’l hereafter, when I visit another star, aiwavs be
r* consecrated ; tny consecration, when I shall leave ih*
v;n on the eve of my entering the New' Jerusalem, will
be the more solemn. Stilfag was also somewhat of a
^ >rr,r imbulist. and could always recollect what had hap*
;*?"><! to him, I see a dove flying around me.”
She made a motion with her right hand, as if she wan*
*e ! catch the dove, butit was impossible for her. lm*
mediately after this she awoke and soon after the other
ten paroxysms occurred* each of which were of short do*
rition, and passed without any particular disclosure*,
when they were all past she said r
Now I am very weak, permit me to r e s t a n d th-i
v»e rook no further nourishment that day.
I'lrst Journey into Cent►
On the Qtnof December at half past twelre she per*
formed her first journey to Ceres, and in order \n do o
reqnired for it the formerly mentioned time of ten ~
iv.ite*. to a second ; during her journey thither >hc re'atf *
the following:
‘•To-dar mv guide told witc something, whic wat*
great consolation to me and that l shall be permitted to ft
joy the sabbath, that I shall not hare to endure. ••*» ;
roxvsin?, of which I am very giul. Besides the '*•
will a!=o be granted me, to be allowed to took down xe*»
tfee earth.*’
soon as she had reached CeTes, the said :
*-Mv joumer thither is ;»lv. nvs verv ouuk, z n«? rr*rf
turn still more *^o. but a-* soon as I have rrac.hr* l *
foody, arid wander upon it, then my pro» rt *v u».*
Ii5
slower, else how should I be able to perceive any object
whatever?— N o w I want j e t tw o minutes to arrive at a
gate and in a c ity ; in this region I see no mountains,
the whole country around i3 p erfectlj level, but well do
I discern some towns glistening at a distance, and also
some forests, which are not e f considerable extent. T h e
town which I now euter, is called GiUiath ; every thing
around me is again much more splendid and beautiful
and I a^ain lack words, to depict every thing, as it here
actually is. On the gate, aad at the buildings o f the
city, little towers are erected, which above are oval, and
»Mine with the greatest splendor. Th e city is long, but
the street is again not at all wide ; the pavement o f the
city is of all possible colors, but the stones are so hand­
somely fitted into each other, that it appears to me as if
the whole o f them consisted o f but one piece ; but this is
an illusion, because every one o f these stones reflects the
rj vs of bs color, and the whole mas3 has so fine an effect,
That it cannot be sufficiently seen, and contemplated.
That which the houses are covered with, and would be cal­
led hr us roofs, seem above to be very fiat, yet not quite
so, beiru of a concave form, and shining most splendidly.
I am agiin quite unable, even if gifted with millions o f
Tunjrup'. to describe the essence of the least o f all these
hcautie», therefore take it not amiss, i f I never speak o f
any thing e sc, but heavenly beauties, and do not become
i»red of them. I f a n j one of you could behold with the
quickness of a hash of lightning but one of the objects,
:hst were shown to me, such a person would sink to the
earth as if thunderstruck, therefore let no one take um-
L *a^e ar me. for .he would commit a great offence— (not
mi much a_a»nv.t me than against God.) should he censure
mr *-n that account or perhaps even decry me as a fanatic.
J mu«-: repeatediv acknowledge, and I am altogether in­
capable of evpressing how great the I*ord God is; for it
im »mp<*-ible to ail mankind united, to form the least
»•tea of toe greatness o f G od.’’
•• I Mi ' . T rr the meeting hall ; this too is again pretty
r.ot more than four teachers are present; they
Sre ariHt."r » a V.vmn, of which however I caa
ittiihvr • :Me l e melody nor the text, which is also at-
116
cerapanied by the sound of harps ; having never seen any
other musical instrument. Teachers and learners shine in
no other light, than that of the sun, except with this de­
ference, that the former again distinguish themselves from
the latter by the size and brightness of their crowns.
The gracious looks, the harmony and reciprocal love
which are visible here, l am utterly incapable to express;
1 walk about amongst them, in this my simple dress, and
yet is every one affectionate and affable towards me only;
this I have to regret, that I must so soon take my
departure ; and f should wish to be permitted to remain
but four days and four nights, (according to our method
of computing time,) with the blessed, during which
time 1should certainly neither feel hunger nor thirst, for
with them an hour would appear to me shorter, than with
ua & minute.”
She was then asked, whether she knew none of the
teachers present ? after a little pause she said :
“ Hartman, the special councellor, is one of the tsach-
ers here present the father holds his book of sermons in his
hands, the others had been members of other religious de­
nominations. I now quit the meeting hall, and shall be led
through a forest, in which I shall meet with birds, creat­
ed by God, but which did not come over from our world.
1 require two minutes for my passage through the woods.
Now I see the birds, how they sing and whistle so de­
lightful !— their forms are small, and their plumage \\
yellow* and white; they are not at all frightened, for they
fly around me and my guide, 1 now and then want to
catch one of them, but they always elude me ; 1 should
wish so much that l could be able to bring but one back
with me to the earth, and should certainly cherish it well,
' •
>
but it is impossible. The forest is incomparably beautifu1
,
there being not a tree in it, the trunk of which is crooked,
and all stand inorder, and are of an immense heighth ;
there are many walks in the woods, but they are all
very narrow. On the trees I see no fruit, many resem­
ble poplars, yet do not belong to that species of trees,
for they are much more splendid and beautiful. Flow­
ers too are here of the most superb kinds, and evert
colour ; 1 am sorry, that I cannot name them ; althoj* ,
O
i n
mr gi.lde tells me their names— I am unable to repeat
thCm.— Now I am permitted to look, down upon the
earth, if it had not again been pointed out to me, 1should
once more have overlooked it; it again does not appear
larger to me than a whipping top, such as children play
with, ami it looks blackish. The Earth is a dark body ;
vi(h great sadness I already return hence, 1 should have
liked to remain here for a longer space of time ; in a.x
months I shall be back. I shall perform five more jour-
f:ry«, everyday one, but afterwards two every day, for
three days in succession, but afterwards, when 1 shall
%i-it the other stars, it may be three and four journeys,
that 1 shall daily undertake, and on one day five. M y
'¡Mid* enjoins it upon me, to abstain from all food, that
i« too strengthening and solid, because the more my body
be weakened, the better qualified shall I become,9
*
During her returtn he was asked, whether dancing be
a sin ?— to which she replied :
“ I5y dancing, says my Guide, no one has yet been
iau‘d, but an unaccountable number have thereby been
lost ; no man dances with a man, nor any woman with a
woman. Think only of the sinful temptations, which
are thereby excited, how many have by that means lost
their innocence and health ; remember but, what the
apostle Paul in general terms tells you : “ Be not like
those of the world.” Dancing is, and always will be,
more or less a sin;’*
At soon as her Guide had taken leave from her, she
said to her brother.
“ Now waken me.”
When she had become awake she remained more than
batf on hour in bed, but afterwards partook of but a little
light nourishment and conversed with those around her
until about nine o'clock in the evening, at which time
she voluntarily retired to bed, and during the night enjoy­
ed an uncommonly tranquil repose.
i Jru rr^ j into Ctrt$ 0
<>-. 10* D e e «»W at '»air put twelve »-,« p erf^.
~ •»*» Cert« ; ttaiiaw k c m - .
l _ I W f th
ereo
f, theaaid s
ld
fr a
ne
*appr *prit vv
o
*Jw
w
fd
h
#cc#BB?afir ■«. *»d wWic mter/io* it U
■ " • « t* deirnttsc ; W vasti U* \4K* a c W
left Lard, Inf I 4# rat *-if ? it tt hifa,**
I «m~*i a>* . « ‘w • > laid 'erleft .a*d open W i m ;
• rtv *•«>. the U rn .U Z '**y»A - fr Gflide, i n l a i d ; ’
"* ^hta nnintiird + ad « r**rca* ; now 1 req.kt
yet It# khi'm
, ere i tV
a
'iarrite nC
eret. N
ee1
tWtt pitnet; f tec a sinber ofcities ata dt*»
1A il! It M j be led i&tt w e tnlj j all! th t p *»
d tkb city is i p i t march kitditwcr atd sasniccttf
than 10 m farmer. Keching remain to me, bat the
iMtt protvjr d adora‘j*n arid aator/.<hRent, 1card’
/ kaeir
b
o
wto f•'p
*
s
*
em
jiteli; m
r jr-d
e *,elU rte,tA
a
tt'lete
falt'-tfiea are already *erf cnr^ide av.'f, , that they are
much more apfendid ir/ delt+*jtf'd ia & e %
cr;. ar.d in thft
New J*" i*\ w . / jje c *r. into wf ich I sua conducted*
m called (ja ih . *te ; itf in * e *.veet a”d along the
ildiag a*e aIa ke tr*&*paref>% *',d leastif* , of
*»• eohm, tod a:» ' 2 * »>
. tr.e %o*t v i*bi:,»e;
performance* ke tl.e*e, r»o arti*t or* eatto wot id :je av>
to emulate. e»e:. f :.€ cnold apcnd * cc ixnfxnre ia L i a.'t
fo-r a *' :• tv; >**'* ; n eampan*0fc with tbe?;-, -_c »v . f
aIv i j i remain a border, aad if eirer. v> &icr. ad '
hy those in oar world, the difference m i d alwaj* ft'
m
are»
«;r'*t attaat ofbeatenfro
rr»th
eearth
*
—
A
iv
.-v
'
aa i a « f i»e j/afaed throojef* this r ;^ ft i city and &V ''
war if t' roo^-r
i t.-»e lect’-rio^ half, /«hi.! ;>eled t/i a ftreari
of » e water, whereof i thall *
j
« f^rmitted to ¿ r.u c —
Non I approach u .t *ect jrinj »all. wr.icr» r
. i* %
r *t
wiinojt fae cifr ; in tir.e oterior thereof 1 » »all t e
In nacend thirty atepn, ere i enter it, each step tt ^
toother color, reflecting the ray* of boat color* Oh 1 hv*
1 1 0
ififjrítelj grfat ít G*rél aacendir>£ t e •'* ra I a® bf
ag tnfíed apirit of tbe deadf oí lema c a * V k» •
» e í>
t
r mr Itft haod ; the dit'J ín er 14ti» }* \ r, -• *
beastíifH crovo oo r-rr *iead, af.'l hrr dre«* .* *f » • U<»J'
M
fi* a vhitefieii, * at ít ** r.^t ; JftW
o'j!«* r.otHa*c
W r, kad rr»r goíde M t t#ld nef * b i fk i wat in •§#
«oríd ir.d fe v.Mt fat.ir * f * í a*
n re w o o id 1 eonveree * i ‘ h je r, b u' * • ^ rn » **♦*
amwer, ílt/^ojh i ,e 'ari *.<"» n*r
It íf certaíoír a matter t í ereat memcnt» tíut lk#
ki¿oor í^u,i o*-*er í:or. wa*f er L *11
> IWJ M J
^ dw tended $ U t the M íe ta sIm Üm cate n renard ••
t^e tm
hiapfgr and t>.e damned, Now I **n ia»'<*;wr'«l m*
t# a Haií, m j femafe campal)toa leaara me and acata bar*
aelfio bar place : the Mftied that i bar« meet with, f
ean k a ré ly k/>k opon, on accavot d theír brightoea*. n
iba/ are almoat tranaparefftlj br J ant, and ihat »bicb
t^d cii me partíenJarle, í* t)»ía : ti.at I aee bcre agaio
• x 4
e¿r.r¿er», ¿'X that t/c nnwber nf tbe t
» ia p "-
trpíU / larger, tha& wbat ít wat ín the othrr meeting.
r i '** 5 ’• .\'M r.e x*.\ *d, that ll»e < a^e here a*»r a.
ytrv*j,% >
,ktí rnaíd^nt ; v»'»#,»?*" a„;e oí í. >r. •#*• 'o
ñ íte tn jeera díed, ín aome degree of ínoocence, «
■c i*
l j i r' A y t t u 'j í alto^ether ainletf, M e o‘h*.
w a m iar a^e, and wbo, altbaagh thr? díed pemunt
**d regenera!ed, atíil w*re r>ot ret fjt for Ihe * . t»';t
¿re ;/'r,„r
, .j, for 'alud í tha ¡ i et p^rc» «re n
i'vr.'.«- of ;;.j jo*-'raerá V..* r.t:. Now a^a j J /ear amg ' <
aad M ttúc, whtch ía U díglitíul and (jt»ior,buttbat«M
a'.'J ',*•?.<A y ! ca^r
.ot iU ‘e.
O í the f í.s t .í y,%t> n u l ,ar:r.or J
T
, that rx.it •rfe# 1
í >í r. r
y
>
. r ^ iit t y tlte lraut id^a to ar«/ or.e ; tba
teac;<er* :.5
>
.7
e i/ir.g befere t *e c irnt^f*
*h*r*"A rtners. A», ihe t ^old, Lear tía Ita/nr'*
J f;o V/okf, Novr 1 íaj*t <p>it U«e Hall, and Ib
^ f f b a r «h« ttiiad carreetir tbc same and ofl er c
<« f£i%*afi'.n of li^r Uífiiír, r,o or.e r«ou1d haré rerr.er;, /«r-
rd, f íat t h í » > '1, *n«tiadpjíed torn« /rara »mee, « n
<frad, if abe fiad not tnade m
%
nt on of her, for iha Lid
W v a nce b*«n íorgot#tn.
120
rl< ing «u I vet cast side-looks, but this will not suffice
iiif. Oil! Iit^w happy are the blessed! here nothing oc­
cur», which in the least can mar or interrupt their felici­
ty ; I should, if permitted to remain here, neither desire
i.r>
r ask a higher and greater felicity through all eternity.
1 f.e country i travel through is quite level, and excels
in beauty ; it I could relate to you for eight days with­
out interruption all the glorious sights that has been
•¡.own to me, I should by far, be unable to describe to
you any but the very least part thereof, and yet my
Ouide tells ine all these beauties are in no respect to be
compared with the N ew Jerusalem. The water which
1» given me to taste from the stream, serves to enable m*
to bear all the slander, which may be spoken of me br
bad and ill-disposed persons, with the greatest compo­
sure and tranquility ; I should not have improved in re­
gard to my way of thinking as a Christian, if I should
repay ill for ill. What has the Son o f God, Jesus Christ,
arid Redeemer of the World, not all borne during his min­
istry in this world— nay to this hour! “ He did not threa­
ten, whilst he suffered, but left it ali to Him, who judge»
rightly.” In this I will endeavour to imitate my kind
Saviour, with all my might. Oh! how can i, poor worm,
ever be compared with the Son of God ; if that which it
wicked in me, be not exposed in this world, it surely will
be in the next!”
Hereupon she again addressed an impressive exhorts-
tion to all the audience present, replete with the m
ost
powerful admonitions, and concluded the same with th
ee«
words :
“ That which has been shown to me, has besides Piol
been shown to none, that yet dwell in flesh ; the w
hole
•fit has as yet never entered into the mind of man. Oh!
how inexpressibly delightful is the state of the blessed is
•ternity! Oh! Oh!! how greatly do I pity those, wh#
•n the day of judgment, when all will be decided, shall b
e
placed to the left and doomed to eternal, eternal dam
­
nation ; and how m any, many millions of the human race»
pass their lives so wickedly and securely!
121
She then became quite still, and conversed with nor
Guide, but it was observed by all, that she was m ic .
troubled in her mind ; alter a while she began to speak
“ Then shall I see in brilliant light,
“ IV h a l dark, on earth appear’d to ine,
•‘ Then holy call that— wonderful and bright,
“ fV h a th vrt appeared a mystery ;
‘•
' Then shall m
y* soul God’s wisdom trace,
6i Through all creation, time and space!'
MAlthough in eternity there appears to be an end f<
*
time, thousand days, to speak according to the manner of
man, seem to a blessed spirit not near so long, as to a
person one day here, if even he should have passed th#
same in peace and contentment ; on the other hand one
day appears to an unblessed being much longer than athou-
sand here, if even lie should have to pass the sam
e* with
hunger,and in pain and sorrow, l beseech you. with alt
my soul and all my strength, by all means to be mindful cd
whdt I have said, for these words are true and sure ; h
say not this of my own accord, but that, which my Guide
has put into iny mouth, is what I announce to you.*'
My heart feels quite oppressed and full of anxiety re-
posing as I lay here on a bed ; for man is composed of
spirit, soul and body, and as long as the latter is not sepa­
rated from the former, they stand in communion with each
other, and the one is influenced by the other, for only my
♦spirit wanders here. I see several of the blessed walk
about in the Elysian fields.
After a little pause she continued to speak :
“ I see the stream, from which I shall be given to drink,
and the bridge over it, lyingbefore me, but yet somewhat
at adistance ; over the bridge I shall have to pas3. Now
a created angel approaches me, by whom the water will
be presented.”
Hereupon she opened her right hand, and extended her
left, saying :
* From Gellert’s l-.ym
n : After a trial of a few short
«lavs, &c.
0 W
11
V £t
• M t*u U •'./» approach of (he angel, lias wilh-
i- n *o x *hort »
*
..*
*
ar.«- m the rear, and seized my left
a f . 1, ).? my * t las been taken by the created angel;
* n n r '<
*
• Z i^ r.ru n . Now Ik* hands me the water in
* * ? *. r!>
’ ; »olden cup * Water of this kin<l l never
drink brforr, it penetrates through my marrow and bones,
I as a'! my veins and joints, its taste is sweeter,
than that ol h >r-ey. Tlie an^el al-o pours some drops ot
tv»t »*te? or. n y head,* but before doing so, he said a
tend'd, * *o - ;*, «,| which 1 know hot the concludin'*
•.»' i ’ j d.;> : M iv thv faithful Saviour alwajs
n t d e thee m lie even path,’1 Now this angel departs
f;-»m me ; hi* ¡re was m t v strong, his person too, is
l* 'g " ~o 1 ; »wcrlul, but hi* face full of love and pleasant-
net*. An i. that lias b'*en created may he touched
an ? t -.ken ln»M »*•. hut a glorified spirit cannot, for adopted
bodies are too refined. Now iny return begins.
During the same «die was delighted, and having ac­
complished the same, she said :
“ Brother, now v.akcn me, but when awake tell me
w ; . 1 tu\c spoken, for 1 feel it in my spirit, that 1 have
un 1
erwent a change. It has always been a myxtery to
rue, that« when awake, I cannot recollect the least ol
what .has just occurred to me.
As soon as she awoke, she was quite cheerful, but soon
alter several trances betell her, during some of which she
. wrote letter«, and during others she read in several books,
which excited the greatest astonishment of all, who saw
ami heard the same. When the trances were past, she
went to bed and during the night enjoyed a tolerably tran­
quil rest.
* All person» present saw her »wallow as naturally, a*
if she actually had drank before our eyes. )
Third Journey into C iri».
On (he 1lth of December, at half p.->t ? • • . J'' f r ’
formed her third journey into Cere*. |)umi" tl»'*
she was asked concerning the father of a lv . '
been missed, whose fate,as the event sub'erpm 1
1 1,1•
she stated exactly. Another di'-.tgi cim!j> t■.o «*11 ! ‘ ° ,u *
pardon shewed himself, and being a,Led, how 1
- ■
; f ‘ :-
ed, that such appeared ?— She said :
“ During rny journey upwards, I f ; - r!o*»- • * ’ "*
regions of the unhappy and damned, and 1
1
.«■ m ' |/
the first degree being permitted, to hover ab< t •’ nf
there, having seen me frequently wand-r. and k ng
me, (having partially passed through lir.i; v : 'i--1 -:H
well as l know them, they are of the op - > , ’ *
may obtain through rnc or my Guide sonic ali-m.J • <
f>
t or
an earlier liberation, which however i impo .lib . • ’ *
soon as my Guide gives a wink to retire, thc\ nr - >'
draw ; and besides this they are other vvi.e mc.>; ' *
injuring me in the least.9
9
Then she burst into a transport of jnv and said :
u Another companion is given to me, i do n- ' ’ " rv
what 1 shall do for joy ;— water shall ap :.:i 1
» • p 1'
to me to day. Now 1 have finished my Jounn-v, " I I
shall immediately arrive at a City Gate ; the l itv no
is called Aciwp/lfit, 'i lle angel, who act o:npnr.v- m»’ , ^
in person Jargerf.han rny Gui<l«,his raimen! more s! mi t *
l v splendid, and his crown too, larger and more bri.'l •
’*» t*
He lias come down from the New Jerusalem, M id i an •n-
g el in highly regarded by tho*e, ’that inhabit me si ii« ;
his voice h very strong, resembling thunder, li.s n *n
* 4
tiuhrieU 1he blessed who meet him and are in i <
• hr -
turing-hall, salute hirn with these words: “ Nad to
thee, Angel (iuhricl 1
” 1
1
1
very one out of resped lor Ii.ii: ,
rises, the teachers one alter another embraced him, as
f r i ends embrace each other, that have not seen each utl.ei
for a great while. Such a reception is riot coupl d u, :i
any malic«, envy or grudge; this is all pure and clear a ,
' ## * ; ; h im self it the ¡east
** r " ~ * . " * * kc M in te d and embraced,
e a i re i. %bat the p n rrst love ; the angel
u * w l w m m m « k c an inh abitant o f the earth,
w h o b e a r the name ot Uabrieh
W a n t * o f the g a te , c.t v *„«! * ctari»g-
. I ta n hot m i thm » » c h — that evea'th e blessed, that
••" *•
'• f • •*
-4>
gh (fc
tg
t > ^_;r.
f i l l p w m s l h e re , a c c o rd in g |o their nugm itidr what
• an voo t W i # tp e c l froto o r , a pour w u r a ot the earth 1
T » • ft * g * U a p i * approach m e, w h o a lto were poor des-
^d b rto g t a poo earth , • a o d now r pjojr such felicity,
t« wl i* .O*-0O»p-'rb«'L**l»ie an i un* jrc h a b ie . L et bo oce
•
. • c e a s t « t.jrct escape* t .c attm rioo of God,
" * r **‘ •odPh an i dboot woctSp K h a r d j iMt-
lj * it - ^ T r -k unkn ow n to tin, n.ucn less men,
•M w h o o ( n^if\ i* -.cr t«i ya^e t x o , jicUIeil op
h * un* » ' i i . 0 * 1 o liat a love is this, who caa
e n t an d c* m preheod it rM
Now » c • » ' aUo i i k f i concerning the Seer o f Frc-
worsi ; after a »hurt paase she said :
• M* ( » . c '1 trl • me, that on account of her majir
. e ir: . ? e had been rem oved
f . N f i J a*.: r • . i.i< An^el Goiriei aiid m r
m
‘«a id e lea^ c ? on both - >ie*. althu9 the math ;s so verv
• •
t i r r j » . P < r * a > r , which is now 1
v a rie d to me, tend?
to r»ad**r me m ore tvI tor U*at w hich is higher, ar.d is now
M e a t to me.**
].\c \ •> ; p’
. *. « i y observed her *srz'low in g as
v c\.. . ' bad been torm ented with the greatest
«tf> t : thereupon «he continued to speak.:
•• 'IXe an-r. Gc/ itl a» laid bis ¿and vd ruj head, ami
^ . w * . an ! then b.«J m e fa re w e ii. T h is visit ra?
air dvr e l c - . to d escribe a little m ore circcm stai-
;.a ii*, u L t .¿as b^en » e » a to me, be content w in
« ^ a t t h a »e already slated, for «n r return j5 >t be^ia-
• Tu r
n Sitters o f // tilkeim. w ho again n o «id not nave
h “e o C x > c ;b : ol. bv a n r oae, haJ sae not m entioned them
1 Í 5
ning : true I am now led through a rr<H! b e a * '* ^ ' l * ^
den, but 1 am not permitted to farrv therr»ri. 1
superb flow ers and trees are in it ; I a c t « « 1 * K f r *n
blessed spirits, w in d e r about ‘ ,» * . L- • • ; * fV • *'*
a^ain very narrow and it is incornprrl»er.»ib> to
von on mv return, should not scent « n r of t .«■ p ' f f « ' * r *
•
>
> • #
o f the flowers and trees, w : ic »• < - : %%*"• ["•
3 i r Guide tells me om etiun g. * >
.• • »r f ° # ^ * •
that i this dir shall have tw enfv r »r rnoe^.
that ther will terminate onlv to rn-i.r. v ! m ‘ ' r i '*“
strike s ten.— prav for me. that G o d e v e n t «a •
me through my work trium pirin'iv. \|> *, • 1 •*
ed me br wav o f comfort v..'«» • e ** \r\» n•irwj»h'' f" ,m
the hvmn :
-Commend tnv wars to G <<
1
. A — r ri r>
* (ha*
ei A ris e ! arise! bid r *v. - »>
.
- And grief, and affliction’« *or* tr < n
- For there is one sitting M ghofi 1
, * t no**.
•• N
Sho,belter than vou, can drive a**% pit* «
Thereupon die rerjuired To be waU- <.!. a* I » r
awoke, she was again ¿
.’I affection lt d fnrndW.rie.
that feeling of anxictr. which hid °ppre»*ed f. »hr «at
Enable entirely to suppies*.
Occurrence! after this Journey.
H avin g rartaken but v err little of »o r.f ,/t • f
ranl r half an hour expired, ere the p*roi«»u»» tie
predicted occurred, some o f « r i c h were mo-**. * nwr '*•
violeut. O f what she said and d J ,d u r*ng ' d«'j!.i ♦ (
tr.e fiflow ingcan And room.
W h ils t under tne influence o f one of ‘ hern, »he n * - .
I hear a voice calling to me : *• T ak e c o « r » 2t ’
child, fight vour contesta th ro «g u j o « wi i be a - > *
warded therefor, here, as well as hereafter.rr
1 1 »
1 2 0
ini»lU r (taroxyim *he asked for ink, pen and
;4prr, naung that *he had to write to one of her absent
r -%; - > perlorraed in the presence of many
'% i»•>
, i . i the with her eyes firmly closed.
? a . v. rh the greatest accuracy, Hav-
r.v : hi« , ic: t id , - ie folded the letter and wrote upon
the direction, so that all the persona present were aston-
bed thereat, and could form no idea how she could poss­
ibly perform *uch a feut: every thing, that might have been
iiou i?t . to r, iiavm2 fu st been carefully removed.”
Uur.r.g one of her last paroxysms she said :
“ l actually ace so clearly bv means ot mv stomach, ay
to be able to read.'1 »
8be then required her brother to hand to Mr. P --------
\ ------- .i !.\u.:i, or other book, and to open it at some
i ^ \.r j. tMat she would lav the book upon her
n .1« h a' 1 r’ ..«I in i*. lie look the book, and opened
i; at the hMon-*.— * l’o be a Christian, requires pains,”
:.o'. a word of t being-told her. She took the book,
pi.'*- . r ^|
h
j;. ite; v.omach and read the hymn with the
g ■ • l .n and the most perfect decorum, always
ttriune the book -*>. as not to deprive her stomach o f light.
Having fini'hed, *be said :
•• I’
,.- i. I am truly fatigued, take me to bed. ’
I he other two paroxysms she underwent in bed : as
-u • e clock began to strike twelve cu the church oi
* : ace. a’.l twenty paroxysms, an exact account where
of had been taken, were overcome, and when they wer
At an end she exclaimed ;
k
* (,od be praised, now they arc past’
/ ’
After this she again appeared quite well, but took
further nourishment whatever, and during the night <
j ‘i>ed qv.te a natural, good and sound sleep,”
fWL t
127
l- 'o u r t h J o u r n m y i n t o i t » * *
On the 12th of December at half pa-* Jkm per
formed her fourth journey to t • « >. J) scr jovrt ♦•
thitlier, she received a secret cuimniMi . j «»<»0 «* •
ter said:
Mv guide has not granted the request I preferred ( 9
him.— An uninvited individual a_-1 • % ‘ d u acewut
pany us ; but he was suddenly dismissed by mv gw»«|*.—.
Molest me as little as posable to-day " - H i<ie»tioc»t. |
have1
,to-day to converse with my-j d . f<
» my jourur vtin*
day becomes very important. 1 ->... err' r to dav a cut
and a lecturing haJi. ascend a 1
>
«it • me j tam. a n d on m%
return arrive at a sheet of water. '*
66 Now 1 have reached Ceres— a s!e->* 1 -; it
joins us as a fellow* compani *t.. '.\iu b s r*-i • inw*
me from the purest joy. My c*;ide « n •*. th•
»
.• I»«,
has ascertained irom th<>»e ble*»-cd ^prn:-». 1 ready alluib t
to, that 1 was to make a journey ti»,» ,*-*- in • d iv. i i r n r ,
»
H e r r r r t a n is here, who in his voufh <;,« 1 wjvh con­
sumption : m y g u i d e i> di^rin^uished tnn. J J c r r m a n bv
the brilliancy', and a farire size of his d own for a'cord
• J *
ing to the degreesl the blessed ha\e :./.*■ . • • |>ri;h*-
ness of their appearance is regulated. ICrrtn.in now en­
joys the highest felicity, although in our v
. i»d u r ap
peared to be overlooked, bein" minded bv ao p , n
account of his low birth and poverty, vet s•
* 1# ,nv* ►
blessed an auge) of God 1 He is full ot b*ve arid atiabdi-
tv, and although he speaks with my guide, h
*. d*K-s not
speak to me.”
She was then asked, whether he walked at ncr ri^ht or
left hand ? to which she replied:
“ In the regions of felicity, honors are net iegard*d :
is this so to be understood, that il tenant* of God
shew themselves and other blessed spirits ol lower de­
gree are visited by inhabitants from the New Jerusalem,
a great respect is shown to them, but not so, as in the
least to impair those Vtonors that alone are due to God.__
Now I arrive at the ga»e of the city ; that which I enter
128
/
t0 day 1* ca’.b-il /Tmn : thence I look into the Sun. It
appear* to me TtTJ large; from hence no clouds, nor
are visible any more, the sky too has no longer
1 b - c appearance, but is as clear as crystal, and
the sun si*en>s infinitely larger and more brilliant, than
* •
• ’ e appears to us on earth, and yet we are not well
Lienee t<
> ¡'»ok at him. Herrman rejoices greatly
he i< also permitted to accompany m e; we have not
q i»te passed through the city.— Now I am led into the
c - , i i!.^ inll, which again is more splendid than the for­
mer ones were.” »
Then she was asked whether besides Herrman she
knew no other person r to which she answered ;
No, he too would have remained unknown to me,it
mv ^unle had not mentioned his name and circumstances:
,i t . . : i, the blessed have iiuman forms, they are quite
changed bv the brightness, that envelopes them, and no
longer recognizable, as I have stated already. Between
that which is permanent, and that which is transient, the
difference is immensely great.— In this hall there are
a-.im six teachers, they have books before them, from
which thev give lessons ; the books are in quarto form
and their very covers are shining. I behold a column,
resembling a tree ; angels again are incapable to express
the splendor, which here exists, I can say nothing more
than this : every thing is divine anil heavenly, for every
comparison is too defective ; even my guide cannot
suggest to me any words, whereby to render myself suf­
ficiently intelligible.— Does this not strike you as won­
derful and strange? here I lay on my bed and speak of
heavenly things ; and in the same dress and form, in
which I lay here, I also wonder there ; but only my
spirit is there, my soul remains in its mortal tenement.
— Oh! it I but could remain here!— O f the lessons, w
which 1 listened, I cannot communicate a word ; it a
p
*
pears to me, as if every one was spoken in the German
language, and all those that are here present understand,
and comprehend every word, whatever portion of the
earth they may have come from. M y guide tells me,
that I can say nothing of this, it being most wisely with­
held from me, because my fellow inhabitants of the earth
129
would neither be able to conceive nor comprrhen 1
instructions. Now 1 have to quit the hall, ami n aV»
two minutes I shall be at the foot of the in.-nnt.vn, m
1 snail be permitted to visit. I shall have to a%cei.il
three hundred and fifty steps, ere I shall reach the sum­
mit, and todo so, l require five minute«, the *teps bmr c l
easy ascent and not very high. The mountain be h » the
name of N cgo, its form is admirable; around i‘ stand
the most beautiful flowers and trees, some of which bear
fruits, part of which are of a red, and others of a wl, te
color, l should fain wish to be permitted to taste but x
few of them. The trees and flowers exhale a deli-Iriul
fragrance; around the mountain run many roads, but
they are narrow. With pain I proceed, as I perceive
two persons, who make a deep impression on mj spirit :
they have mocked and derided me, lean however remain
comforted and unmoved thereby, for God is the judge of
iqv course.— Now I am on the summit,— level of tha
mountain, which is very extensive, and upon it stands a
large edifice, of such beauty and size, as I never be­
held any before, it has several gates and entrance*, arid
is inhabited by blessed spirits, the number of which how­
ever is very small. 9
9
Her brother then wanted to address one or more ques
(ions to her, but she replied :
u Do not now molest me with questions, 1 now want
to recreate mysell by viewing the beauty of the moun­
tain and edifice, where nothing remains to me, bat the
most profound adoration and admiration ; 1 hear from
within the sounds of the most delightful music and surg­
ing, but l am not in the ball, where this passes; the interior
thereof is replete with brightness. 1 regret not to be per­
mitted to pass through the whole of it, and although l
nave asked my guide to grant me leave to do so, he telU
me, that he deems me not capable, to hear the whole. I
wish to be permitted eternally to stay here, but for this
I am also pronounced as immature.”
Having uttered a deep sigh, she continued thus :
“ I have already to return the level; I cannot suf­
ficiently describe this mountain ; the soil is greeo, as if
covered with a skort grass, which glistens ; the steps are
130 '
t>( f i iouf colours »rid each do s’line.—I have reached
"fu’
w
i 1s • d 1am led io a river. Now Herrmctn
>a%o n*r auim. "ill* the same love and affability, with
%
■ fi»'! rfu. it *!.. •: .• >
■
■
:.»!'*me word by my guide;
•• \ Vi r • _ c c \ a v ) .ng l may i.ave to wander in this
•• »! *; . my a " 1 ; a * but in regard thereto
: ' - - ’' ’ ■ '•
> /••al; to practice love towards
•* ¿It rn n. ..«* m . .•> ; »-»Mide, i>.>,Yjn pride and haugh-
•* t i-» 1 •
* } - : to c.crish more than any
»♦ thing ♦'.■
>
•*.the H- *; B u ie . especially the keeping of
•* : %* -v 1.a c w o e :;e\ or to forsake the foot-
*4 of *he gre it Redeemer of the world, and to give
• frrc ac >
«* t > il»e inspirations o f the holy spirit ? then
I U , 1 ' • qualified for .vihia state o f felicity, as he en-
.. \ri•11 j
» thr innumerable worlds and worldly trea-
•*Wr*’ S hi* would never exchange. •’ A lli with what
p|r**anr. innocent ami friendly looks, he takes leave from
in, «*id< ami me. — Now i have arrived at the river, it
i/ .. ; h v ; its water is as clear as. crystal, and
cuire*v. haidly perceptible ; no water on earth can be
icmpart d thereto, Th e bridge, that extends over this
r iic r i* m re to.m beautiful, the stones, o f which it is
constructed, glisten like diamonds.— But how can it be
. , , that mankind can be •unmindful of such glory.
1 nrn becoming tired o f mankind, because l always speak
(.{ heavenly things, and they want to hear and learn but
ten C'” ml arguments from me ; to be sure a number of
them w v i hereafter follow, and more would be given, and
have a good effect, but many will not attend to what i
fctaie, or not perseveringly attend to it, and many on ac­
count o f their unbelief, are unworthy of the aid, which
has been recommended.”
••N ow I commence my return, but do not m olests
during the same with any question ; but tell me \
v
\
\
e
ti V
shall be awake, what l have all said this tim e.— Sows
paroxysms will certainly yet befall me this evening, but
what I shall state during the same, take no account of,
nor make it public, it is absolutely not advisable, al­
though I shall say the clearest truths.”
Having finished her journey”, she said to her brother,
that he should waken her, and having returned to a state
cf wakefulness, she was full o f lo re and friendliness.
Fifth Journey into Ceret.
On the 13th of December she performed 1 <-r hi'.H jm.
ney to Ceres at the usual time. On ■ •
a spirit, yet entertaining hopes, ; n -
but she made motions with her
should withdraw, and again co rn «:''-I v • r g o ,,r.
Having arrived at the spot of her <
i •»’ •• n. «• »¿id
44N ow I am up. Just now a rav !a:U ! : ' ie » ,i uj <*
■
Ceres, but here he bears another n . .m. * vw ;
this time through a very large ganh*: , - 1
c it y ; it is surrounded by a wall, and ! - ml g*'«*» ;
and it also contains the most beau; . ■ - - . n
ers.
N ow she was asked, whether she co:iId < aw no f
semblance between the flowers there and t on car?!.,
to which she replied;
“ •Yes, I see for instance pinks, roses, ¿ v r b u t ?hev
differ widely from those on earth, in regard to ’ hen (ca­
rnation, beauty o f the exceedingly delightful odor, win
they spread around them. In the garden a gi**at uv*: *
blessed spirits are actually wandering alma:, who ar<-
partly those who died, and partly created .i._
•
< .
shining with a light not inferior to that of the -<i. I ’, an
the stars, which are the abodes of felicity, er< .v*-d ar.geU
are to be met with, only more in some, and in oilier,
less. The created angels appear to me somewhat more
perfect, in regard to their brightness, and firmer in re ­
gard to their bodies, but they move as briskly, as the
spirits of the glorified dead. N o w J hear the sounds
of music, again excelling that formerly heard by me. I
shall certainly strive with all my might, likewise one
day to attain to such a state of felicity ; the higher I am
led, the more eager shall I become for it.— I have beheld
# But she has never stated it, and it is a matter of re-
"ret, that it has been neglected to ask her concerning
it.
132
from the stars, formerly visited by me, the san also. Dot
did not know, what a body constantly increa«r»io * ze.
and brightness it was ; for the nearer I approach r.ici,
the clearer and more brilliant he appears to me.”
M y guide tells me repeatedly, tnat in the state of bles­
sedness, there exists absolutely no respect of pe sos,: de­
scent, standing and otnce having here no we'¿rt • a:ever.
but every one being judged according to :.ne deyree *
fidelity, and the deeds done bv him in the b <jv. Here
an individual who by ti.e wur. !. tnat is hr am .
had been entirely overlooked, mav sit do- n at ’.e siM
e
of a potentate or prince, w hose ~ . departed fram -
body in faith : for the justice, eqsitv and imparua./.y •
God can neither be conceived nor comprehended. E p ­
person however upri^; t he roar t>e deemed t - be.
remains but human in his resolution : tioioy e.iher ' »
much or too little, whicli however will on - i m u •
eternity not be charged to his account, provide he
always remained faithful, incapable as tie »a-. * arm#
at more than but a trifling know ledge.— N . » I r»a\e t<
quit the garden : it is called, according to our -I---
the garden o f peace and harmony "
She was then asked, wait is meant by t e B ble ex­
pression, of being in AbrahamV lap? to which sae an­
swered :
~ Fnat state of felicity enjoyed by Abraham. Mr ex­
planation just now ^iven. can thus be jus ified. Abra­
ham in his time was a prince : but Lazarus, one of th*
poorest on earth, yet did he come to the same s’ate *
biiss. enjoyed bv Abraham. By th> 1bei eve to ha*»
sufficiently proven, that there is an end to respect d
person in eternity. The road on which 1approach **
city, is very beautiful, and of various colors ; tU -
which 1enter, is called ~ Ra»ei.‘
After a short silence she resumed :
••Tell n r mother it she shojld survive me. V
*
»cans to deplore my departure, for I loos hot too ardt*
It to be removed to a state of b’essedoes^ If IV«
could remember, when awake, what is shown to m e v ia
in a state of Somnambulism : it would be eut.reN s
possible for me to remain lor rer io oor - nf»l world,~
The beauty of the city, and of the fectnria; ha. . *M
*'ited aga n a» excelling tnat of those she had previous,y
described, but without mentioning particulars. Here­
upon s'-.e again addressed the audience by an impress^
dscourse.on : .e de! ghts of feiici*v: amongst the re :t. » ■
also said :
*• Le* no one believe, that civ disclosures are fancies
•r the offspring of an overwrought imagination; the glory
that has been she;n to me. ha» never yet been seen, nor
ever entered the heart of mortal mar,,
n capable to give any description of
ne-s. according to its magnitude, a*
heard bv. y
j l- a^ |f
— \ - litlie as I a
t» e state <
of blessei
vio*. am
o f the d
1 enabled
amaed. in
? or not, is :l c .f/erent t©'roe. Who am I
»on t
v;: , the Sob o f Go* . who Jived and
it were but in rry power, to impress ll.is deeply on the
Mind of e*cry inch v,d uai. it should g've me live greatest
piea-;re. 1 cm <lo no more, than urge it upon every
t-r . • L?c' e - ar- f ! r an J tr> v penitent and converg­
ed. Aui .1 k t everv person v
. aid turn to Je?us C-.:.-*.
lh- S oar of the world in true faith!— a e bout 1 a task
which > f.-a. ray g.vie has particularly enjoined upon
m*. a- Tved -o far. that I shall prav with a!! my heart
far rr v er aid persecutors : everv offence commit­
ted ag. i coni.aiiv f rg e : ^ .ether they believe
a * ttatrm
*
ul
tsogfct in oar w orld, ao d s e t with so much opposition ;
■~ ' - 1 fca>e ' ce lireac said. so poor a vrorru, why
sv>
'T
3 i 1 not be able to bear «very affliction !tJ
? e » a s t en asked, w’ etaer in this hail. she knew no
person.* to wfcich « ne replied:
•• Ou r w eo mv guide points one out to me. tor other-
» i t t I -¿nab*« to recagmise any :e *ar. for ine brig t-
c»-*. *■ ¿' fca^rvandf the blessed, renders .t impassible to
r- ¿:* *e taem: b-t t-»ere are giorified spirits "n
ere of a!
ar.d n _ js d ecollation s-— N o w t h e re ;? or.e
o u t to m e b v a v g u id e , ktu>" a r -o a t h s w ritin gs,
n w ety r**Mn1 . I h a v e u s e d the e x p re ssio n ; th is is
• o ▼ b * a » r ‘ a f t v s I a m no U n g e r to o s*. V :
t j|j t Z
i fa* .r e : t- • • d e g '. i f a l o r h eaven ly
- ^
■-
B
evr.g asae
*
J. whether the
die replied:
-»- . îîrilfIrait •-g
134
4 certainl", some look as if thev were bound, and
• » “ like scrolls, I hope hereafter to be permitted f9
■
•
. k into them, then shall l teil, whether thev are printed
r A r t’ er, for I have to behave myself with discretion.
N a
t t ) quit the ha!!, and my return from home is begir.-
„•. b it do not during the same molest me with anv
tur* cr questions, wishing solely to converse with uy
rff>i(|a *
When 1 e had left her, she was asked with what word«
: utd hen leave? to which she answered:
•‘ I c<*r. only give you the conclusion 5 ke dismissed
x t • wii . the last verse of the hymn, "So. SOS.*'’ Awake
1Cr 10 a1 .
•N ay, watch and fight, and prav!
*• » i 1 sees thy struggle*, and one day
•• W ill richly thee reward.
*• Remain t too faithful, firm in heart?
•• 1 ir k oft’ of death— of judgment think—
4* Ann of t .e crown, that vict’ ry brings! —
Having f ishetl this speech, she desired to be waken
r j , b^t at t! o same time predicted, that after this aieep
>he would have to encounter several more paroxysms.
tV‘ cn the awoke, she was afFectiorja'e and friendly, and
,-ain . eq .esit.ih as she always Lad done Lefcre, to Le ia-
; feed c f v. hat she had said.
Half an hoar after this she had several violent parex-
▼
*»:*.s. During some of them she spoke, but veryMttle,
hrhick however ’.ere can find do room.
N-\JW
S ix th Journey into Cerea,
On the 14th of December she performed her iix*i
journey into Ceres. ' M hen she had a ’ rcady commenced
the same, sTe wa= asked, whether question* might heps*,
to her, whilst on her journey thither? to which she re
plied :
135
K Tes, onW do not ask too many, as hey ' • ■ j rr.t
ton macii, in that which is essentia!.*’
Karir in the morning of this (lav. a verV <
! » - v *
mot'-er from a place in the scighbotkood call»*'! / ¿n; * " »
an the leek arrived here. A daughter, aged n - e e r , m
been brought home to her dead, in the month of May «d
the present vear, from the forest, called /W/'er^r. to
which she had went for the purpose oi col!cc*:og sm f
tlrr wood, This gave rise to a variety of th •
. *.
u.s minds of her distressed parents ) v. hethvi 1
«aig;.ier had Wen killed by & fall, on the very *tce»
mountain. or by a stone thrown by another [i?*rsor,. or '>•
'
astone rolled into h*r path in the forest? Being a
s
k
e
d
about it, she gave the following answer :
**Ofa!l these suppositions, not or,* is correct: - it
died by a blow on the breas-, which threw he; bach v. ards,
by which fall she certainly received seven d wou: - %
the head, but v. hieh were not mortal, nor would the*
nave proved ratal ; the same would have happened to
her, if she had slaved at home, for the thread ot her I 1»
m
was run to an end. ]Sow I will ask my geide, where sue
resides ? lie told me, that she is in the Sun, enjoy ir.g
^rea*. felicity ; her parents are by ah mean3 to take com­
fort. God had ordained that she should dir, and they art
now to d.aw a moral from it regarding their ow n s.
non.”
n nr pi v
'The m )*her whose alficti jns were
v'elged, what before she i n ! i; it avo ve I : t
me bjdy ©f her daughter had lir*t been examined *
jt K»r-
geons. and then by physicians, an4 thsa all • ?.d declare,
(bat the v.ounds received by her on the head, had no» r*r -
<astoned her d^atb, but Uiat sne had been hit by «a blow,
i.ie nature of which they however had not b n nblr *
te l. Quite enlivneed and consoltrd the good worm n »!..■?»
t* irned to her home with the werd* : ijjd a t n;v »--.¡r*
es* pravec had already given me a hint, now I have
ceived fill confirmation.”
«* At t> e part icutar request of another, also very d *
consolate couple, from (jb c rlrn n in g m , in i ,e fH erein t
K irch h e im , whose son whilst an apprentice to the trad«
*i % weaver Kiwi bung himself in the work-shopw quo-
; r v. .ti hul induced this voting man
*
* ‘ * • <’ : atul wi.at had been his far
.c .*
c<
r'*''rdb
e
*G
u
id
e
.&
h
eiiisw
citd:
•• M i p u l e I*1U me. the parent* were not altogether
* *i. » ^ t !r;w*I>d h m to learn the occupation
vd * fur wh'c’ i lie h id no t]imposition whatever.—
T U I iii’ U«.j.h he - a- t;i>t shown no reinissness in his
• ^ t k a l u i n . he hid wanted nil inclination tor this trade,
axftd iKjt .* « . r . •• i' ttl a powerful effect on his mind►
A l t • >•' r \ v priknn wauld enjoy themselves
ia tUe -.pen & r. hr v a• gr era'.iv shut up in his shop, arid
»a - no'jM ii * cNrer l.uu up. Thu» anxiety and meVan-
<k**|/ Urtr" 4h.m. '»I*; :» hr c«/-;!d rot resist, £Uii finally
- e » - t ry *u imbecility of mind, induced hira to
•tua\ * j , »d. ;1. tube sure he ought not to have
-rr. i - ' a n; away the life of another, as well as
o «r o n r . ia fip6idd**n in Ihe fifth commandment, which
M , i ~ l ou > not kill.*9 A t first he did certain­
ly i-uti- *' 'e r r wc’ h hut now he is in the Moon. Per-
ilapi «,o some !- uie hjv, I mav be permitted to say more
•ft tbe »ubject.*
Mor'- »jur*.: a:s were about being- put to her, bat she
wru.-i ? ..-»’.»Ti to the:.!, r< i rring those that desired to
¿%k:hrn;ti a future period, saying:
M r jo o m e r w*JI soon be compfeted. Some spirit
a~mm naught to accompany us, but had to be turned o&
’ T U ffc is ad*n another one present, who did not come from
tbr Li ‘ d r.w ives : but who returns with a mind alter*
*4 tor u»e bi ttcr, N< w I have arrived in C eres; l see
beiuic in: a moon;*:: . which is admirably beautilul, aci
ab o v e me the S a n .* * *
•♦Then she utti ret! a deep sigh, exclaiming :
- O G o d ! h i\v inconceivably great art Thou!—To-
day I *d alt be permitted to ascend this mountain!
> . i n warned every one again against sin, in the
rr it in ’ ie*'jve manner, anrl concluded with the words‘
•* K vrrpi a man be born again, he cannot see the king­
dom of Sod. *
~ Now I am at the foot of the mountain. In the blessed
eirrnihe*« -seeing a mountain close before us causes no
anxiety, ior the bright light that issues therefrom,.is-a »reat
137
help ; this mountain is called J o t! and .1 x-x ■ h- * i
than those, that were heretofore alumn to **» \t hit#: )
ascend the mountain, I am met bv n . t . c<! i* <
change not the’r forms, never become <
•' .c r, l»n i . » * m
retain their youthful appearance ; ' *
• f . e » ::•»»*
is Jacob. Tne crowns, worn by t.e o ' *•' , - - f t*
heavy, although composed of the pure«! r- >
! i anJ * Joit.
ed with jewels-”
** I now approach the summit, win i * * . - : *
the most shining wall ; at its entr.;: t I ' rt f • % fca '
that opens, and having passed t t . . * n - .»u, w'
itself; this gate is admirably fair. The buildivg, it
which 1«arrive and into which I x»n c- : ted n of im
mens* length, breadth and M/t- being six stories htjfb.
each story of proportionable heigiif ; it i* n » b > .
how great an architect God is.' F.n- i : • n .iJ e •
building, would as men usually walk, r« < a • .>
able length of time. The mountain, > a?.«i ImiMirj
abound m magnificence, I am at ;i l<w, *•» • F • :*»!*»• fir *t
to direct my looks ; to a mortal eve u w.> tl 1
bJe to bear the brilliancy of but or** <i t;.* minfrali. mil»»
which the wall at)d the building are - ! n .r n !*§•
that of the whole united. .Mv praver, t - be pcmitfetl to
star, was absolutely refused me. If >* af ;> * • * n>«>
prchensible to me, how it can be more «‘ 1 1 :h^
3un and in the New Jerusalem, than rere.— I **n n$-
comiucted into the building and have to in'-.mt twer.tr
steps, ere t shall enter the lecturing— or rn* ^ ^ ia»l -
The beauty of the Hall, the music and v is in g «Inch
there I hear, excite my aatonUhmotit and 1 have nn
words, to give you a description thereof.”
“ Id o not know the cause of the great joy, v l.ich *'
once arises amongst the blessed present, I must a*k rn*
guide. M v guide tells me : that the new» lus a rivcU
that a very great sinner in our world has become r • r.
verted, who no lunger relapses ; a dream having awaken
e<i him, in which the third degree of the damned was
shown to him, which would not have happened had
not been foreseen, that he thereby would be actor,
awakened and saved. That G.»d ha» many, nay innu­
merable means, to save mankind, but only that it j» to t*
1 2 *
13%
I & 4 T + f T
p i f f t eA w l t f r **
* t H , that they ire so ma'indiall of
here the parable of the lost sheep and
“ 1 * w tu»% Wilding ire inhabited by
» • • • • * . •ben tíre lecture* ire over. 'll»« lecUirin«-
*•***• Vf M mt I %f td 1 although 1 considerable *um-
oervft .f b f*» <
i .. * ; *er.t therein, it could contain a
l f w ^ ■**•» mo*r ; i m I l also cannot nime anv one of
U>ea, tbit ii Here.
f^'*‘ l c iu To i. hiw it i* in regard to the increase
>
i fenc.*. y ; t . t i~ %
' anee i person is removed from
tfc* t?**t iie frrr oí Me unhappy into the moon ; he is not
ip in r d n O .i pc o f »e j -» e, whence tie is again remov­
ed in anoiorr Í »r *jrJt a person has then ajtain to
pi** lm«ni*li » fir m ! ^r.ulafion*, ere he can proceed
J*rtSff, prom >tmn in eternity being not a very
•at* mi*ter. Hat Á a p*r»on is at once removed from
tft* eirth into t *• inu<m or ano’ her star, he is conaidera-
y « better off ; for no one can tielieve, the virtue attach­
ed 1 ■ * j, tspentunce and convenion in our world in
preferen . |Q tr -low gradation in tiie next. Whilst f
shew my _*rr»- «le!.-hi with the blessed, my guide tells
me : Ihjt n i> m«;»« --•*
>Ie for him, to make me compre­
hend. how moch m i - 7 rim/?/, and again tv try individual,
thm! if l i f e • a-e r-.ncerned : that tuck human being,
without ejcf jtti », br gavtil v:hoever he may have been in
one trorl ; .. ^ impossible, that sell-love or ambition
a n e- » i rro, .q as much as none of the blessed would
ever be t..*- io^rr m point of the degree and increase of
their felicity.”
• • 'I h e r o n U which wir.d around the mountain, ¿re
rr at.T, but f <
r whole of them are again very narrow, ¿nd
•hr l-vel of the mountain is very broad ; the eu
*
^riM.fc of the building appear to form a garden, and K*
vrrr plcas--.t. I would have much more to tell too,but
have just ii3 «r to quit the hall, the building and tbc
mountain. To-morrow 1 shall perform two journeys in-
to Cere*, and one in this world to one of my brothers-
In i« g ir d to the latter visit I request my father particu­
larly, to cote down every thing which happens, with ac-
13!)
«racr, and" tii«n mafcf «i.^oirr, * ' 1» ■
anticipation or made no i»b»**rtat on*
She thin became stiT, and >»* ir.g com; • c .
ney, aaid : t .
M-f guide has iii§nv:‘ *€d me w.t t' r 1
1 f ** ’ f
hymn So. 290,— 8 *r up to God off &
reads thus :
“ Be still mv heart, and water not ■
*
• r* •
4
i Lei neither joy nor gpet depr ’ l'’r * ‘ ' 1 " n
4
i Praise he to Him. who conquer'd dtatfc,
MAnd to His holt name renown
w
u Thus mar mv song f ¡rever ri*ef
“ To Him, that rufeth highabo».*,
u In endle»'; real*.- and bound!*»*-. ** *.
“ Who help us wili, and ¿rant Iu*r . V ’ " ’
When she awoke, she was v*tr c' . %
< *n
after had again several violent pa o\\*' *h h • *
di d not speak. A t her re v e s t ^eve /. b “ L . w in
at the time she was entirely ».r
* i ; . * • « laid
upon her, from which s’.e read rjjif** i r . . a» , ■ uh
greatgrace, likewise a wate! . the .and* ' - ' p .
posely been set wrong; but »he c --• * • r .e
hoar and the minute. Toe parox-» * |-a-‘ , »he r
plained of great langeur, did not a, *..n h a-. »• her be ! a*..'
also partook of but very little nourishment.
Seventh Journey into ( ’eret.
On the 15th of December at half past twelve, * • (
formed tier seventh journey into Ceres. A* the Trry
A Here it must be remarked, that the Soninambuhst
had never learned by heart, either this or the hymn quot­
ed during the last journey, nor those that v. ill yet follow,
and yet she did, whilst asleep, also always state the nghi
number of the hymn.
140
* Jliet she complained of the presence of 6ix unworthy
being*.
I have, the continued to deplore this particularly, be­
cause they have an effect on my mind. 1 have however
now advanced so far, that l can pray for them. God
judge» between me and them, nay the very stone* that
encircle vou and me, shall yet hereafter "bear witness,,
that I have spoken the purest truth. Every word that
nyv guida tells me, is faithfully stated by me ; a
/
/ 1have
said, in respect to both the situation of the unhappy and
the damned, as well as that of the blessed, is more than
’ rue; although 1 do not even possessthe ability sufficiently
to describe what either the one or the other are in reality
: > e I jt too deficient in words to cio so.
*• I have now reached Ceres ; but my passage was ve­
ry difficult, and I feel afraid. In two minutes I »nail
be led itllo a City : in the country, through which ] at-
tually travel, are cities, mountains, vallics, forests, gar­
den» and water, ail exceedingly pleasant and beautiful.
A landscape on earth, be it ever so delightful, cannot be
put in the most remote comparison with this; the dilfi'r-
vnee is as great as the distance of Ceres from the Earth,.
1 now approach the city ; the gate is more than admira­
bly beautiful, the town has a name, signifying in our lan­
guage, “ City o f Peace,'* its length is that of an eighth id
a German mile, the street, which passes through it, i*
quite narrow, each row of building» appear» to be
but one block, yet it is not so ; this town again »eerar
to me somewhat handsomer than the former.”
She now again extolled the blessedness of felicity, and
on the other hand painted the torments of the damned
a» most horrible. Then she said :
“ I heare the sounds o f music and singing at a distance.
Now l have passed through the city,’the gate which lead*
out of it, is a» beautiful as the one, through which i vit
introduced; A meeting-hall I shall notenter to-day, but
a garden, where i shall find all the blessed, that are here-
N o w I am conducted into the garden, the gate which lead»
into it, is again more than beautiful ; in this garden art
the most superb trees and a vast variety of flowers. The
delightful »cent which issue* from them, is truly divine;
141
and there are many, but narrow paths here, crowded wuri
boh* angels, ta lk in g about. The cheerfulness am! <!r
light. observable in the forms o f the blessed, the uniform-
itv of their shining ra;ment and crown«, cannot be d •
cribed ; but l remark, that the pearls in these crown*
are not all uniformly alike. 1 have a-ded my guide w
\
is the reason of this ; to which he gave me this answer :
that each virtue, practised by men, has its appro,»« a r.
pearl ; one crown being deficient in this,another in i!.a: ;
vet notwithstanding- they are all equally bles-ed, t .-u
sins having been forgiven them through the d^ath of J e­
sus. The most splendid crown of a king on earth, and
the most magnificent diadem of a princess are dull when
compared with the crowns o f the blessed; every thing
here being of quite a different character. Now my re­
turn begins. The outlet from the garden is adorned with
a gate as fair and beautiful as the inlet ; the beautiful
pec*n sward at the outside of the garden, l again cannot
praise sufficiently*55
She then conversed with her guide^ Before she asked
to be wakened, she said :
“ M y guide has again- dismissed me with a verse,
namely the te?iih, from the hymn No. 596,— 4‘ Oft sigh»
miv heart, how hard it is, a Christian’» life to lead & c,”
It runs thus :
“ Be strong, be manly stiff,
“ And see thyself in mind,
“ Streched on an humjjle bier—
u (Th e certain lot of all mankind 1)
“ With these few years of worldly strife,
li Compare the joys of endless life!
“ 'I'lie jetvels of thy faith,
“ N e w courage shall impart,
“ And powers of a future world
4
<
kRc animate thy heart!:’
W hen she awoke she was somewhat disheartened, and
soon after had a paroxysm. During two attacks which
followed, she suffered more than one hundred palpita­
tions of the heart, which caused every one to believe, that
* * i>e » j!e to oTfnoinc them. She ascribed
fe
c
kftf ik t U lM to the an worthy amongst the visiters^
*1 * *4 brf*t p * «* c o L
r :
l Jo u rn m ; into Certi.
f ’ - .» i ' f bccembM) at h&U past-
*
* « * . - s »e pcrlormed her eighth*
• . - . » *. a». 1 . • rr.i n.cnt her guide appeared,
• W m M t cheeriaJ sod expressed herself on that head
S
1 » | -
Smm r<j %tukci .n'ru ri are piesent. I now come
fttstrr to C ' r* s ; •¿
i .* j'-u rnej I shall again ascend a
m ovr.': r , • iv -
. b re 1 shall arrive at the mountain, t
ka*e to ; : i . • i .i Mr.al] grove. This is more than
jtto ia & i, abounding with beautiful flowers and small
Ui'il i, ' . j , :s d» _ 11u], T he mountain is called
G +Jfalkt:, i:* c»rc umierence is about ten German tnile*r
and t» surrc-r.ded by gardens; the mountain does not
appear tiro** :<n.wl. sm a.>r from above, than from below,
and i ki4e (p iic c m l 120 steps, to leach its summit, t
•ee Angela wa!i«!i:ring about below at the foot o f the
oiou:ita r , 4
4 * do not appear to me to walk, but to db,.
Btluvr the mountain is surrounded by a wall, for which
icaton l row cr.ter through a gate and only here the
•lairs bc^m. I rave ascended the second flight of steps,
aad am joined by an angel ; my guide has went around
me seizin g nir le ft hand, but the angel my right. He i*
acreated an^e.. called AJieha. M y progress now is rjuitf
eaay, and l hardly know what to d0 f o i j o y and delight,
1 ace already the gate, that leads to the sum m itries of
the mountain, closing again o f itself. I have heretofore
seen so much glory, but this excels all the rest.5’
- O n the mountain stands a building, covering nearly
• Pointing to it with her finger.
T
143
its whole surface j & man would near'.? renw * • ,,
hours to go around it, bJt the blvs'fd *p»nt* fce. « pr« m!«1
do so in a few moment«.
T h e clearness and b e a u ty ,«: ith hf c i-< \ * r
pass all imagination. In the >-n.p i - . ' I >■, ,lC-
conducted and accompanied b% t wo * ^¡». ; rtf-n*. r ••
die happy are taken away bv t-.y . . , ¡;- r , f r
are no angels, but such as were i t : e b ^ m n iiiK |
I could shed floods of tears o f i <v, f. ~ • ,
•
- W M ^
glistens again with splendor■a».., b t * ;
also angels fly. t) what glory I !.*■*. n " . c , * .
to turn with all your hearts and s« t ' < I t j [ ,
God and become converted! \\ t ; I - n « « , . t.,j
speak, it amounts to nothing, in cc: ; r
. .‘ u-i« r. n rj*,* , , .
ality here ; all my talk convey b t ,a i.:.r.t r
of. The pavement around the buildu p «
o f various kinds and colors. I am unable : »
eyen these colours whose beauty i* s® i.. . r. - »
the rays o f the sun, as they shine thi-r'-on. ’
“ M y guide has received permission t 1 • * „ -
iV/ic/io, to conduct me into the interior of ti e im Mi?,*.'—
but into the hall I dare only cast a glance ui : r ^ , «**
I would not yet be able to bear its splendor. N. . n •
angels created from etertnity are here, their <row r.» t •
all perfectly alike, and adorned with 1 «• on* s'nr.e»
N o teachers are present, these angels rcju.ii « oti«r
in knowledge, and instruct each oilier, and i .j ,j *
■ ?<*-
gether ; the music and singing, which I ! > a^.nn sui ■
pass all imagination. These angels wander about m
numbers in the abodes o f felicity. N a y the very
wish, to be here or there says my guide, transport them
to the desired spot.— N o w l enter the gate throw: h w; r-,
I was introduced, there the angel Aficha, is go a to gr
me a drink o f w a te r: * the benediction w
a.-> hard n w t
me by the angel Adicha before I drank, and alt*r ;
the water serves to strengthen me, and promote my pro
g r e s s .'N o w the angel Alicha has left me, and rny ietuin
com m ences.”
* I t was believed by every one present, that she vru
actually drinking.
✓
141
1 - ^ ob*trv€
-dt tV.it she conversed with her guide 5
^»fr.en he hid left her, *he said :
- M y guide i • rf»nclusinn has left the following, name-
*. fr**m ■' *
* k
.' nil. N ‘i. 4 ' 6. 4* On God. and aot iny
i • e. wi . I rr.v fortune build &c.” the second
' c r » t « h i v h r e a d « thus :
44 H e * • « from all eternity,
M N
N ’>!( pond for me would bp,
•• A^d ti\*d the time whilst I should live,
•• M v jo \ » and. hope«, and grief.—
k* \\ hr ’ Mb thou trembled then, mv heart?
** N
N i’
>
•1 h uh tike this, can any pain
** A pang to thee impart ?-
S' r • en requested to be wakened, and when awake,
« a t full o f affection amJ fi iendliness.
Occurrences after this Journey.
At the expiration of an hour she relapsed into a slumber,
in which she again was joined by her guide. She then
made a journey with him to Chur, in the Canton Grau-
buendten in Switzerland, where a
. brother of hers resides.
She stated the situation of the town quite correctly,
described the building and the room', in which she had
found her brother, and even described the occupation,
be was just then engaged in, saying : „H e actually m
akes
a pen, true i touch him, but cannot make him senaiblfoi
it, being with him but in spirit, my guide and 1 standbe­
hind him, but he cannot see us ; his appearance
cate* a good state of health. In Chur it actually w
ra
n
t
a quarter o f four on the town clock; now I return, into
minutes I shall again be with you, on account of l\
dense atmosphere o f the earth I cannot travel so fast.
in ascending.’’
The two minutes being past, she said:
145
“ Now my guide returns with the words:
“ Adieu! to-morrow we shall see, and speak, to '.ch
other again.”
This journey she had already predicted the day hsf<»:e
with the addition, that it would be of but short duration
From this sleep she awoke of her own accord, anti • n
appeared refreshed.
The 16th of December at half past eleven o'clock in
the forenoon she performed her ninth journey to Ctre*
During her progress thither, she answered some secret
questions and besides conversed with her guide.
Her form changed visibly, bearing an uncommon t\
pression of love and cheerfullness. Soon alter she b
<
*
gan to speak as follows :
“ T o d a y I am conducted into a garden, surrounded
by a shining wall ; in eternity walls serve as no protec­
tion, but merely as an ornament. Thence I shall arrive
at a city, and on this day two weeks in the sun, when-
I shall visit the realms of the children.— I shall hereafter
have some dreams, in which now and then something will
re-occur to me of what was shown to me in my state ol
somnambulism, in order that at least something may re­
main to me.”
“ Just now I arrive at the garden, laid out in a pleas­
ing circular form ; my guide tells me, a person would
require four and twenty hours, to pass around it. The
blessed call it, according to our language the garden o f
joy. The garden is crowded with blessed spirits, some
of which are created angels, and others glorified human
beings; a created angel actually approaches me, his
name is Jacob. The beauty of the garden I cannot suf­
ficiently depict to you ; the trees stand in such fine
tanges, and the many various sorts of flowers are &
o beau-
K in th Journey into Certi.
110
s'
Mble to convey to you an i<ir«a thereof; the trees ir.<\
flower %Lpaikie with beauty, but tne wall* in the garden
Me ag.nn quite narrow. Tbe-a8Vclionale and friendly
a r, wrh Inch angels meet each other, i ain again una­
ble to describe: here it may with truth be said, their
face* at e ti»e indues of integrity, for here, there exists
no by pot rity. Tiue the created angel* have also hum
an
turn-.«, but bow great is the clearness with which they
shine! N o w I have to leave the’ garden and arrive in
a city, where I mostly meet with created angel«; in
regard to beauty and perfection, they excel those, who
before were human, and are here only according to the
spirit a d the soul. The created angels wear admirably
l>eautilul pearls in their crowns. Now l approach the
c 1?t gate. — How unfathomable ar.d past finding cut
i- G o d ! into the depH s of the deify no angel can pene­
trate, much Ief»c, a poor worm. Toe name of this city is
P hioeL again surpassing all the burner in beauty, am
i I
see a great many angels wander about. The angel Ja n t
comes tu-inonow to my consecration, he can speak v
. f
me. his voice is very strong. I must say, that tiieghj
which is shewn tome, as it were, renders me weak be­
cause I can hardly bear the sam^ : fur this reason, wafer
is al-o handed to me by the angel Jacob, to strengthen
me.* You see me make se'eral motions, yet ii all my
limbs were «operated from my body. I should not even
stir, nor in the b ast feel it, tlie situation of a Somnam
bulist is somewhat singular i ml peculiar, inexpli able
myself, ami my guide, whom I have already asked several
times ab> ut it, gives me no disclosures thereon, but di-
misses me with the words: “ this you need not know a
t
present, when you once are heie in spirit and soul, job
will be aid- to explain it to yourself.” I would hares«
much to fell you cS'tUe beauty of the citv, but i cafi^f
command a word to d o i t ; fo r let me say whatever [ m
»y«
my expressions are always too weak.”
A fte r a short pause she again resumed, as follows;
* Every peefon present believed she was aduli'/
drinking.
147
*» I again receive an injunction from iny guide to Ir.y
vjmething to the hearts of you, inhabitants of the earth :
he tells me : although the won/«, which I put into your
mouths, with several of you evaporated .is quickly as
drops of rain ; yet there are some present, with whom
they produce fruit, and on some occasions remain re t
unimproved. TVlf them the following: that
tewords our fellow -m en is a very great sin whereby an
unaccountable number of men have lost their salvaf.ji# ;
he that enters the other world w ith an unreconciled hear?,
ran never he s .veil, for iti eternity mutual love in fact rer.
•r
ders feiicitv agree-.Y.e ; for Go I and man’ s L i low -crea­
ture stand alongside o f each other : but by this it is not
meant, tiiaf, if one, who is quite impenitent, does net f«»r
give another, who sincerely seeks and de.* res a re­
conciliation. will injure the latter; ’tis radiciont that l»c
is excused by God. A t the same time 1 am to remind
every one, most impressively, not to approach the Lor i's
•upper, with an unreconciled spirit and heart ; for other
wise they will load a heavy judgment on themselves.—
V ) tell lies concerning our fellow men, to rob them i f
their good name and honour. is an abominable sin. 'Ju hr
uncharitable and hard hearted against ou r fe llo w crea­
tures is a great and heavy offence, but he that practises
charity ought not to let his left hand know, what the riyht
<!ocj ; tills is tin* doctrine of the Saviour, otherwise he l;:is
his »•■ward. Particularly do not despise your poorest
f Ihu) men. an t do not deern yourselves better and abate
f t . n ; t/¿e good you do your fellow-men, must be done
ti <
;.ri t!;«* purest lose to God, and your fellow-createre«,
lor (> nj only regard» the heart in all our actions ; men
we mav deceive and impose upon, but to do so to God,
is im.oos-iuh*, T o exhibit haughtiness and supercilious -
rust agnin.-t our fellow-men, try word and deed, i« an
abomination in the eyes of God. 1 have here again at
tin particular instance of rnv guide, been obliged to allude
fo several capittd sins ; if l should enter into a detail, I
h im il never In* done. For my guide says, in how many
viMV9 man commits sin is innumerable ; the very person»,
that do not believe themselves conscious, deceive thetc-
•clves unspeakably, let every one watch his own heart,
148
€
tntnuill they soon become aware what a chao* of sin
i* concealed therein. I am to implore every one, to turn
to the Lord, in truth, and alter their mind according to
the word and will of God, and be born again; That salva­
tion it a matter go inexpressibly important, that if l had
millions of million* of tongues, l should not be able to
espret* whit felicity is, and if mankind would believe it,
they would repent in sackcloth and ashes.’’
It is a great folly, when spouses mourn for their spout-
ei, children for their parents, parents for their children,
provided they but die happy; although at the particular
instance of my guide l have to declare, that an immense
deal it required to gain salvation. In regard to nothing
d i men commit a greater error, than in their judgment*
of persons deceased ; many a one i3 by them raised tothe
u 7, who is amongst the unhappy, if not the dam
ned,
whilst another is considered as damned, but who is in the
empire of the bleated. My guide tells me, that the equi­
ty of God i*. as L have so otten stated, iiscrutable, th
at
no one receives too much, and another too little. He
that is damned, cannot be too deeply lamented. Durin;
my journeys into Ceres, I pass every time close by the
abode* of the unblessed.”
After a short silence she recommenced, saying :
1have asked my guide, how it happens, that so ma­
ny persons dying on earth, every day, 1 meet with none
on my journeys up and dowu ? to which he has replied :
These go by different road?, that 1should only be disturb­
ed, and that he can take no other road with me, than th
e
one appointed, because the greatest order and punctuality
reign in a state of bliss. 'The angel Jciczb now leave»
me, before he took leave, he laid his hand upon my he*
Now however begins my return, during which m
oleit
not with questions, for I want to converse with royfvit
During her return sue said the following :
There appears one again from the abodes ot th
e *t*
happy, whom [ know, l pity him much, but neither
guide, nor I can tender him the least assistance. Mygu k
tells me, that I am to tell freely and without hesitate,
that persons deceased, whoever they may have been w
the world, and if they now should even be servant* *i
149
God, can with God contribute not the least, neithe r t.<
their salvation, nor damnation ; for that which they an .
they have become from pure grace, for the sake ol Jr%u»
Christ That hr, that wantonly and frivolou sly Iran?
greases against the commandments and law* prtscrUnd
by God, does not tarn to the Son o f God, as the sole a * .
true mediator and intercessor with God, and docs not
lend a w illing ear to the inspirations o f the H oly S pin
is lost beyond redemption. M y guide still adds, that God
could not have done more for mankind, than he actually
has done, (this was before not near so well known to mt
and although the love of God for the human race, through
the death of his Son does display itself in the highest d e ­
gree, he still remains a just God in despite of his grate
being despised ; for God will not suffer men to prescribe
laws to him, according to the terms whereof these sinners
will accept o f his grace. ’9
Then site exclai ned in a tone of commiseration :
W h y will men not discern,how wretched, poor, blind
and naked they are! N ow my Guide leaves ine."
Immediately alter this she was asked :— What her
guide, being always in the habit of leaving her some com­
fort, had said this time ?— to which she replied :
“ That i shall retire more and more from the world,
and being entirely ignorant, when awake, of previous
events, he has dismissed me with the 6 th verse from the
hymn N o. 456, “ On God and not my own advice & c.”
which reads this :
“ What are the pleasures of this life,
u A span of time of worldly strife—
“ How soon are they not past
“ And in oblivion cast?
“ Hope in the Lord! His aid is nigh,
* Ve just and good, that do His will,
u May always on His help rely!
This afternoon precisely at two o’ clock I shall perform
mr tenth journey into Cere»« Brother now waken me.”
W h e n she awoke 6he was affectionate and friendly,
which was always a cause of joy to those by whom she
was surrounded.
13*
150
7tnlti Jourr\i}) into Cera.
Or; 'he same day, (the 1Gth o f December) at precisely
' wo o'clock in the afternoon, whe performed her tenth
journey into Cere». During her journey thither an un-
bles»* d spirit again offered to accompany her, but be was
immediately lurried of!'; at the name time she exhibited
hei joy, in anticipation o f the journey to be performed on
Clmalinas and during the remainder discoursed with lno
guide. Arrived in Ceres, she said :
1 am this time neither conducted into a garden, nor in
U) a C ity, tire landscape, wherein! now find myself las
rhe appearance o f a fide champagne country, in which
angels, created from eternity arc wander ng about; they
walk by pairs. T h e contentment, that exists among**
them, 1 cannot extol sufficiently and how delightfully
w arm the atmosphere on Ceres is, I cannot at all expre*-.
unable to compare it with any degree of heat oh earth;
die air is perfumed with the sweetest scent, although I
here do neither perceive trees nor flowers, but an abun­
dance ol roads, which all howcVer^are again cjuifo narrow ;
1 can say jjo more, than (hat every thing is divine and
heavenly.
O f this country she gave no name, nor was she o i k *
tioned concerning i t ; immediately alter she said :
“ Directed by my guide, I have again to give you ad­
monitions : in regard to the love, which wc ought to b^ar
to our fellow men, and refrain by all mean« from d
a
p i * i n % any one, especially on account of his relig“
'
opinions, because lie, who does so, commits a ip'*
sin. Iri the stars, which I visited, f have met with hlr
sed spirits from all nations and religious denominati«"*
As it respects Christian sects, i must acknowledge, <
;i‘
there are more Catholics there, than ol ntiy other l*ci*
which on account of their majority of members, compare
with that of the rest, it is easily to be comprehended,
most be the case ; but the aawie is also the case, in r**«
pect to the reverse. AJI mankind hare the same clans*
151
•
¡li fini kingdom oí (jnd ; with G od tinn i* r. t
It?ast respect o f person, fur the s-ilvafion o f e v e ry li in a?»
being » o le Iy dependa on hin d o in g the will of G«<d M'
guide «ay», th a t h a t r e d u m o n g x t m e n , enry, i l i c n i f n h i t i •
a n d i n f t i d i l y lo w n n lit i n d i o t h e r h a u t r e a c h e d I h m h i g h -
i d j i i l t h . 'I h at. a y re at j u t ! ¡ ' n a n i t. nn/u . n ’i n g O V *f the
w orld\ a n d th a t G o d w ill noon b r i n i ' aho a t a v m > t rrf<
m illio n v/jon i t . * H o m U ily is also pai litu i,n Jy i >he
commended, l'or amongst the blessed it has it* rr ¡I h o m e
Mead, it being import*¡ble that a proud pi*rion » <i. M
enter the kingdom of heaven. Il 1 po> < sod bu‘ m r . ^ y
and words enough, to comme rid to you the loof, harm</>y.
h u m i l i t y , ir it e r r ili/ , rn od u h ly, a n d c o v t t f O i i x n i » * , wlm .
exiht here and can be only expco ienerd, but not detent*
ed! I w ill give you o n ly a «mall example ; if wan - I
cotjph'H and c l i i l d i cn, bear an equally true allWfiou t o -
iva ni* each other, they enjoy in th is win hi already .* /<;»<•-
taste of felicity ; o n l y (hi* feeble type and parahle, a ¡ I
« apatite to adduce, now all of you, that are pi< -< n\ c .1r«
readily conceive, that a man dying in hi* sms, (a n n o i
pnstibly obtain salvation ; a »tat** of ble»»edn**-k is if.
<onsistent with ultftt is impure— there ordy a new crc.i-
turc* n» appro cia ted ; man must be created in the no*---
of God and have been regenerated through nghtem i*
lies* arid holiness. I l o w m any valions in» aie com
»lifted, hjy» my guide, ih innumerable ; h o w e v e r much I
tony call and expostulate, still 1 cannot sufficiently e n ­
courage men to repentance and conversion. H e that
seek* salvation, ought indeed not to be sparing of fes
knees, but prostrate himself before G o d and implore for
given«'*s for his sins, through the merits ot T h e
world may cry me out as a fanatic, and whatever » !-«.*
tin-y mhy choose, and do as th**y like, if. is en tirely in
different to me f (Jud who d w ells on high, is m y witoess,
that I speak tin: truth. N o w / am returning*’
Alici a little pause she said with the greatest /.eal :
l- Hi- that sins is of the devil!”
* Hut the tiro**, when this is to happen, khe has not
Mated.
P *n the rcromm^nced speaking nf (he third degr
tne unblessed or (he damned, and continued a* f0i*
, v i
“ A lt h o u g h I ’ ave described the same to you as horri-
b!e ir.d dreadful, I have by far not depicted the same
you in its whole extent, as it really i*. The forms in
mh»ch the damned appear are loathsome and friehtfci
th^ir tortures more than terrible — enveloped in darkne «
10 dense, that not the least ray of light penetrates throat
i1;— , ; .e coiiit-rit gnawing of teeth, cursing and accusing
w hich prevail, without a moments interval of peace.-l!
for in eternity there is an end to all sleep,'» this uot
more (han lamentable? I he worst to bear borides i* tr,;j.
that they see no termination whatever to their mia^rv.
i Sere arc so many prions who say, that th*T believe
devil anrl thaC fbvre is no devil; these I j>ifr writ!i ail mr
m »
heart, that fhev should one day learn to believe io, 2 -
know them from iheir own experience. I kno* fullee
what *0 a number, mv manv admonitions and exhor'afior *
not alwavs accept.ible, buí I cannot avoid to u(ferf/ ern. t :
for I ha^ e t •obey the injunctions of iny guide. wa:ch I do
mosi c!»eerfu'!v, because I have recome 1 .ore * n con­
vinced of their truth.— If by what Í hate said. I * la*!
bring bnt one soul to repentance and conversion, *i V at
it may be saved, I shall be more than indemnified for all.
But above all I will begin with myself, that 1 may not
be rejected ;— 1 shall certainly, most earr.ev.lv endea­
vour, to gain the palm of my soul’ * salvation.”
Then she more l her right hand, w * V ichshe gra*-.
ed her guide, pointed her Bps as for a ki~s, and said :
u This time m
y guide has kissed me. anil I
kissed him, this is the brat time, but n o w he bid# wt
farewell.”
After a short paufe she said x
“ M y g u id e has in sp ire d roe w ith n e w c o v r s g e 11 "*
g a r d to w h a t 1 h ave y e t to perform an d fo say. and
m u ch as I am ign oran t, w hen a w a k e , o f w at o ccsr"
b e fo re , an d h o w e v e r inn ocen t I am y et p e rs e c u fed by ru
in c re d u lo u s, b y d ism issin g m e w ith the 5th versed f" * *
the h y m n : C o m m e n d thy w a y s to G o d , fc c .w N o . !$•*
in the o ld W irte in b e r g h yom b ook , whack re a d s thua
* Arici although e\Yy d*»ií
Resistance Sere would make,
* 'Hiere is no doubt: Got.1 never,
•* Hi* promises will break—
<
* For ail the order* of this will,
“ l oe loAo/e Creation mu»/ fulfil!.*’
T'icn »lie called opon her brother, to wArn *. « ‘
» ;»en ¡»he awoke was full of ¡ove and p i r i s i r . b . c
tomplained a good deal of fatigue.
Eleventh Journey Into Cert*.
On the ¿7•h of December at half past 1?. o’clock in 'he
afternoon,abe performed her eleventh journey into O r e »,
tut at the very outsit complained of her pmvre--. being
somewhat dificolt on occonnt of two great a concourse of
people; a circumstance which had a bad effect on her
»pints, f/avirjg arrived in Cere/«, she resumed h^r dis­
course thus :
*
<Already i approach the cif/, Into which f ahi’l b
conducted to-clay, *y guide says it* name i-, E tka n u ;
the g>te arid the city aro equally magnificent, arid by fa
•et.»hr ae the former, in brilliance, Here 1 m et with
no other inhabitants, than created angtls, but these move
abent, and wander from place to place, their crowns
are ail tqiajlr beautiful, as well a* their raiment, alto­
gether sp-aritbrig v.,v
.h dearness; their bodies tppear t>
me to be of flesh and bone*, looking much firmer and
r^ore compact than those of the biesaed, who came over
from the ea; .. my guide can »peak w; . t’ ern, but I tan
ro», »Mi n a favour, which is only now and then granted
" e, w *b turns individual». especially such a* enter into a
closer cvwm'iticttbin with me. »Vith what love and
affability •*>«» look upon r..e, I am incapable to eapre*«.
(ji then language 1 vioderstand nothing, but it sounds
mott de ¡chtfv Here is also a meeting hall, but teache s
151
r *T* VT iff ! 1 «lo r .( p erceive; my goHe fella
' c . I a * •* e.r o c ¡p-i'i n c o n s - t v in praisiii* God
' . % « ami •
, fi.ev arc- m frequently em-
• 7 *^ ' ' • x * i< ‘ «»' v departed. Jlut I more than
•lii'e rrt * , r. ii 4« I a -o little enabled lo recouiit
'-■»e 1 fi-Iicitv. i ** higher I r *c, ilie more at-
• r i f t t r they t r f me, 1»; i > i nity there is ho longer any
j • 1 n i. v .*> nor tears— theic every
U i « * •f the k :iivi jt ao «':»<!, for in f.-:rrn it is never
* »? * «, ■, , , . * Hoe iu cJ* hghtfuloess and
;,l r . I •• _ . -p according to t:.e manner* of
m i n : 11* >«•*[:«! i o i : d nigh«» pass quither to onMhat
W b l r u f i l , *.hv. •ih,:* oj»p »m i h to ns (m Jy one dav; for my
j; . ■ \ t .f i' rs !tnj.o--:ble for a blessed spirit
to becam e %.*{:: til t1:«* v ” ht o f the grandeur, holi­
n g »«, purify, »\ <r in /act o f what belongs to tU
• - r :iiz.e t’lC Mine. Allhongls felicity be
constantly ii c;- j «:; g. vet no blessed spirit can arrive at
its termination, bit rnv well at a higher and more pro*
i ron I t-ner.iii m <d (*•>1
. being an essential ingre­
dient «d mh.it renders I'-bcity so agreeable. My guide
charge* me torni i m p , bow a blessed ¡spirit can no lunger
etperirr.ee tlir least * nsafion Iro n without, nor within,
\»:.wr*rbv !..s flic irv c *o be checked; be'telf* me, how
often does not an lrmostly and well disposed pers .n, in
mar »inful world fall into sorrow a/»! impatience by the
fuult of his fellow mao ; in to the rest lie should remain
»ilcn% intendin'.' to leave me soon.’’
¿i e then became a little quiet, but soon after, as ii dis­
tressed at s .:n .'hing, resumed thus; of her own accord:
*• I r*’-i '*t but too deeply that all l say, of the great fidi-
ci'ie» as well as the situation of the damned at d unhappy
friend-, so little entrance into the minds ol my beam*.
Hcheve n;o, that cverv tinrg I say is true, anil realY at
first I wai uii ible to express sufficiently what either th
e
one or the other in reality is.”
After a short pause she continued :
“ M y guide says; tel) your fellow inhabitants of the
•arth without relucfanco, that their immorality in everv
*em*e has risen very high. The members of those who
die happy, stands with those who are on the ro.'J to the
abode* o f the unhappy and the da »m l in * * " » jr •
*ni
disproportion. That Gu«l h.n a!*e.»«!y brosj t ah«ut
several great siftings, but that tin* girutrst \«ui - <:i M
low ;
The time, when thin is to happen, was r.->* .• t *»?
her more distinctly and whe/i a-ked. - .♦* rrplud :
*• Repent ami utch, for i ! i m
- :- ' v
.a !
W h at i S/iy, 1 positively say rwl ol i. v #v. n ;-h <i . :-ut
1 arn directed by m y guide to *.v it. 1 I . .n
heard the mo-U H
< light fa] singing ■ ! j* . I ■
< • • « »«
ab'.e to endure it ; out to give v m m i i i cd in«-!o*
die* 1 a n unable ; thene b»*ing -\ui; * u:i . ■<
for Heaven, in our world toe? could not je e\< <u!«-«'
0
Al v return in just now be-innin^ *'
A fte r a pause o f lour minu'e*» -he -ai l :
“ During my journey iiither, no -pi •( roor ;:<tr«^hj«
shewn I i nssll, but now one o i t u
* :■ again w.u ' - to ar-
company ine, b it he return» immediaUl v, not «it r . to
transgress his limits.”
N o w she b came still and conversed wi’ h h?r ,*■
when he had <juit her she said :
4
4 i>eing so much concerned about my ou r ► •vt <n,
i n y guide iia . praye<l with oie the f)lii v »t - • ol t ic hyinw
N o . 4 19. i ’o Jife 1 shall penctri.?e” which reads »•
follows ;
“ Thine do 1 wish to be, oh Lord!
44 1 hinc gracious (iod, alone,
44 II Thou but sayest the d**ar word :
44 The work roinmeiic’d is done!
“ Accomplish God thy hwlv word
“ For inti» l iiy liund-s oh Lord!
44 M y spirit l commend.”
T hen she mentioned in addition, that this afternoon
precisely at 2 o’clock she should perform her twelvtli and
last journey into Ceres, ami «luring the same would I»''
conduct**«! on a mountain ; then she desired to be waken*
ed, iii order to have time previously to enjoy a short reUx*
ati in. W hen awake, she inatle no complaints, but was
affectionate and friendly to every one.
is »
\rae d a ? (the 17 ih December) at twe o’clock
! ’ VI. »he fell into one o f her usual paroxysms of somnam.
H a t in g r e c e i v e d h er guide, she mentioned,
tfcftf i n ten ti ir.utis s- c w o u l d be in the highest regions,
f i r * e m l w a t c h « « v « re d r a w r , and when the time to a se­
ct»: d h a d e s p i i e d , s h e w i d :
•• > o t 1 i t u u p . — D u r i n g m v jou rn ey hither, two *n-
b ^ i » e T r r ^ i » a v e * n r a k m g l v ga b ird admittance, but they
v . v i'h a b i t t e r m in d , llan that wherewith
i f » c a : ■ l ; • v. • j m h the m o w t a in , it is called
/.4P rirr : i t * c 11 c u tnU u nci* is eight G erm an miles 5 it is
o f a j>| h r r i c a l /«»mi . sim ila r to that of an apple;
« h i o i n - w .i!i a fttrcipg; lu ? t n \ and is not much smaller above
ti.a r; ; :■ i.il ih e sa m e b e lo w i see several created
a n g e ls w a lk about. M a n y roads wind around the moun*
I * ; : . b u t tbv*v m e *.¡1 v e r y narrow, trees are also standing
M bov\ *ct n o t .1 - r e a t m a n ? , but p len ty o f beautiful flow-
, f 4 : their s w e e t scent I c a n n o t g iv e you the least idea
too delightful and not to be compared with that
loners on earth. Kai/ings are fixed on both
i l i U i a • -
-
-
-
-
b o n e » , b u t n o tw it
a rrd m o v e a s q UIC
kljr as th e f o r m s of the glorified h ° 11
earth, who arc here but a c c o rd in 'to t!.r «p.t : it J
soul. A s it resp ective fineness ci li e »km »: r r m
ted angels, of this I cannot speak at ail ; u n m* h Am c
and clearer, than the very finest ami whiten x xl»as4*i.
which is but like a shadow in compai m n. ”
“ On the level of the mountain »iai.ih .* i...
resembling a temple,* the pavement a » x * *
shines with a lustre, peculiar only to p rrcn .:s sto «r» .
o f the splendor in the interior I am absolute < apati>
to give you the least description; • »• « i m i. »n * f »
present, would not be able to conw\ to m . :ir » *
est conception ; and my guide says, that ho t < w o u l d
fee incapable to inspire me with words to irmlr r myself tr.
telligibe. Whilst I listened to flu* iduhi ami the * hjj«r r,
I felt as if my spirit should die within n r from nnotim
When I first set out on my journeys, I snould n r u ' »
not have been able to endure this.”
She then began to speak o f the quite mcum| irhcr,» m-
gvanduer of God, and conclude«! with the «u n i*
I f but one of you, that are present, could have ran *
single glance, with the velocity of lightening, at i1r -I
ry, th a t has this day been shewn to me, hr would a
» f
thunder-struck have dropped down in a swoon. Sow i
have to quit the mountain ; on mv d e sce n t iheirfroni /
am accompanied by an angel, whose name is j/lixr,i ?<•
his garment, written with golden letters across Ins bark,
as is also the case with the rest,— the one, who v.cron■; a
nies me, is named Z u c h a riu a . M y return begin* In th«
course ot an hour I shall be consecrated lor the journey»,
which I shall have to perform to Uranus and .Satui n ; toy
guide and the angel Jacob will then appear ai witnesses
and the angel M ic h a , performi the act o f consecration -
1 shall perform twelve journeys into Uranus, every day
two, and then twelve journeys to Saturn, likewise, t v
daily, whence I shall indicate several medical remedies ;
these would prove of much more consequence, if partly
they were not exposed to so many objections by others,
partly because they will not be used neither in the mti
ner prescribed, nor for a sufficient length of time, and
partly because they will not be used at all, but »c m s i
will derive essentia! benefit therefrom.”
14
158
% »<? * nit 2 U 0 , (L;»t <Ju:if ^ iut j #5rneji t*
n m O l ' - *.i I »1)2(1 be attacked by ftroxytm i of
r* . 1 ’ i “ '*** »fie rc e , during which he ilia I not be with
• !H r * the »:rrr, ! shall to be sure have *mr.e fu-
, w >:chU«ever nil! be of but a v^rjr short
- it iofln* 1r. t my stalenient« n
rj3*ie cior-
1 ? Tnr ****!*♦ *re rn* tu be token an true, unless affer-
#
7,r * ^peatfrj by nte t*o or three times beca«e much
»• r.frrrt may cre^p in, which therefore / mention
- r,f iirfcan’ion. Now r.\x Guide leaven rr<
e uith
■ _—I—
. _—
^ ^ ^
^ ^ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _ _
?*** ’*'<?''« :— <
1be with von—ere ?.r, hoyr e b p se s
*r’“ *>ak lu each olher.” 0
* •' - demanded to be wakened ; she was when
ku‘ ^ A * - , f; if , *
.el her cojntenaoce serious,
0 W 0
f
O c € U rr* n C t$ o f ’ r f th i$ JcrU m S I/*
1 cu rr-r'.v .i for tim J o u r n e y 9 to S a tu r n ar>rl fjrvn*/?.
Yefterchr she hail already stated, that to-day her con­
secration *onf f tafc* pface fJr ¿Tejourney* ofhalum aod
. cn, !. that iihen the would throw herself
ren Her knee», every oce present 'should alw kneel!
! v.d -ay, for her a pious Lord’* prater, to be *l
.«jl *d > see n...p‘•-b the work yet to be pei formed by . '■#
• tr^r j,rrn*e of God, and for the welfare of nuubw
relink rtdvice and aid from her,
K r e an h o u r had e la psed , a f t e r the l a s t j o u r n e y &! t ) i
t h ^ d l f performed to Ceres, she exclaiu ed ;
•5Novr hit r.onv oration co»nlr:erices.,,
nhe then,"profoundly; asleep, arose from her bed, »mu
diate’y pm? traced hcrseif on her knee“, aod *offeli»er*
\ zr g* Ct, rec•iv«d (lie arge’s Jazob an I AJicha.
then first of all reoev/ed her oath of fidelity, and t
cootinued ;
'« T h e arge! MfcfisiV.zs laid his l;2ijd »pen tr.r t
] ' jO
tiiji [ ( c ii in liieia ne iw ii»<f • « '* ?
* •+**
bill kU band upon m e , e x c e p t that I bit a j*r<a»i-'
u-fi'-t itirccsMc V'nsatii)ii< Iroii« Uaotic1
,
: a r i i.e also jj.ive me to d u n k o: » »r >»;.*• * *
* » *.
I he * pectator* actually w.. I«r ^ nd *i " c *K* *
pau*e i h e «aid :
« M:>w tlu-j-e three aii^n« b‘a*e »nr a cue«, i » < t*
rn/ j'liuch's.* to '! ¡nr •
>
o. it' ii»2 •• • * •*•» •• ’ ** '•
in/ it w J t r r alon?, during a j. tr nj* u. *
•
<»ri* '•*< •
to.tour, and **h ».rein l -....* :>
•- j -*•"'■ v ut» • •*
.
internai 5
'
Then without ?
,ie least a* r‘ar.r.e, ' - t r » •«•j.n i
v.r.t fclrep, slie r e d d e d t * b (J : n ! a L » a > fr * ’ ; * u » .
resemi*d th
u
#> ;
“ Thai you could #<-c no ie oi fi»e |h.r»* ori ata .
i a.n not **'rprised, b-rc . »».e r .« .1 > , ' u*»- sou*«' !»s *
•
b>en ins* pportabie to von; bat : r 1 ) *i I xv« 1 ? »aro
t ie least M»and ut the t : *r^< ,c > .. <i-. ;.r . r \
- a v ro 'y vote# by !ir: a » ' d M ir im * d if 4 • » ♦ nere a
fiori, is muoh less c". aprv .i'o-: »!« to me •- l • » ’ !
* V J J awake o f my o-.w, a c c o r d . * ’
W.ien about fi.r ro n v f
jr*> I el^pned • .«» a<"okr ; to r
i ' j . i t aod body 1 ieri ay p - a i r d 1 » boi e I».*: p.r d ra b : •
r
rTr«-* . U. A boilt. i n t i an h o u r aft» ; ward* 0’.e
* ’ »*i ' •
par t r x y u m predicted by I er an»J r * < { * i r e d , 11
. I ; ; «
urii'hdriw, ami uni/ ber brotlier A.... rem" in v. •r .
1 * . ».he then said the followino:
“ My g fiele told in»*, that flic solami¡it»-» <f t' >
• •r ,
ha e • t:<i a g /ta t. drawback, and ha> oh : .
.no ^rrition. that the iy -c h la t \.$ e v >•*:; thr-oi* % «
»# re. 1otarie*'. to throw theiitvdves on tinbr » »<» - 1
o. ilr r to icifi. >!e the «selves Irtfore G od, nr.o *
/,>» i *i p r u y t rr in rny and Ih'* «aro •• I .’< »* G » - ,
as i ,
* ihat ti»ej, tile oh-ased *-w i‘( »
nut cone of t ,eir o.fii accord, 00 1by incan-iof 1 r ►
.
p , ^ <r, >it bad receu ed p^rmiidon Ir ip; to» f!;r*j
r
j
;i to do »0. t hat they can clai 1
1 n»» bo jor», nor a
f4*\ .0
. I »r s'jco an accepinn woold precipil te f. »
■ .
b’ei <rd int » the lowest pit nf dimnafion, i ! b o h y
biacc -»t eci T
i : a^aiOit tlM m
r/1/ A»'^/a i n 'i j* * !y o j ( , (
Va9j cn j’ i e r n nit, I theref-jre notr apprize yo * %(
162
•* \ t t e v'u-tion of the unblessed and the damned ade­
quately to its frightfulness:
During all these prayers her enunciation was so clear*
and sonorous, that no human being would be able to utter
similar tone, or to pronounce a word in such a manner.
Hating finished the last prayer, it wanted but ten mi­
nutes uf ten ; ahe then seated herself, profoundly asleep,
in her lorrier place, but when the clock struck ten, »he
awoke of her own accord.
Thus ended the preparations for her journeys to Saturn
ardU
ra
n
u
s.
When returned to a state of wakefu\nessr she com­
plained <t very great fatigue, but immediately desired to
be informed, what had happened to her, not being con-
» ciojs of the least that had occurred. She was m
uch
surprise (1, when on occount thereof was given to her.
Uuririr this night ihe enjoyed a pretty refreshing repose.
Journeyt into Saturn and Uranu».*
Krom the 18(h to the 2 9 th of Decern her, both days in­
clusively, consequently in twelve days she performed
the journeys to Saturn and Uranus, two each day. The
rumor had previously been spread, that she would then
suggest medical remedies, which caused her to be so fre­
quently applied to, that the house of her parents was fil­
led with strangers, from seven o’clock in the morning,
until five in the evening. The crowd of people, claim­
ing admittance was so great, that frequently persons
from Rj «1istancc bad to stay in this place over nigbf,
if they wanted to avoid departing without having accom
plishod their intended purpose.
A t the commencement of the journeys, it was during
* She visited Saturn before Uranus, which is hereby
noticed, to correct a former statement.
163
the space of ten minutes, that she prescribed remedies,
but this period was daily prolonged, by two n.mate*, on
the last day to thirty five. Every day sht j.n du r I to
a second, the length of time during which she would
continue to give said prescriptions, and each tim e :i
proved correct to a second, which excited the grcdi**t
astonishment in both the learned and unlearned.
There were always several individuals present, w <•
constantly had an eye on their watches, in ordn to ob­
serve whether no trick was played, in regard to the exact
stating and hitting of the minutes, but every one became
convinced, that not the least symptom of deception pre­
vailed.
O f the remedies, indicated by her, none are herein
communicated, although the whole of the recipe» were
put into the hands of a physician for examination, who
had expressed a wish to obtain the same.
O f both stars she stated the following : That tlu >
resemble worlds; containing vallies, mountains, f.»ie*ist
gardens, and a great many cities, as well a" »oliUiv
buildings, water and lakes. That they abounded with
blessed spirits, consisting both of created angels, as such
who had been removed thither IY6m the earth ; the latte,
being provided with their teachers. That these stai*
are not inferior in beauty to Ceres, but others appear to
be somewhat more perfect.
u I am, she said, conducted, in both stars, only into
gardens, and to mountains— passing however close by
cities, but you overwhelm me so much with questions, as to
render it impossible for me to speak of their beauties and
splendor. It is to me a matter of regret, that no physi­
cian is present, possessed of the requisite knowledge to
treat me in as much as then a much greater benefit would
be derived. Professor Eschenmnyer of Tuebingen, and
Doctor Koerner of Weinsberg would be the right men ;
Doctor N ik o f U/m would also be suitable, and abroad
there are still others.”
That which excited the greatest surprise in regard to
medical remedies and tended to convince, is this :— that
all this kind of things she was previously as ignorant of
and uninformed, as anew-born infant; for herbs, and spi-
16-4
r i* a o o « tnri fluid articles were entirely unknown to her.
Sne often mentioned things of which no one believed, that
thev p o s s f*s e d the least medical virtue, or that they could
prove of use, when applied on this or that occasion, and
▼ef, the remedies indicated oy her, often proved speedi­
ly temcablr to persons of respectability as welj as others.
A great many proofs might be adduced, and still more
would be extant, had not many individuals after receiving
trtual relief, had not remained ungrateful and silent. *
The remedies which she suggested, were generally
very simple, vet notwithstanding, if properly and peisc-
veringU administered, ofThe greatest efficacy.
On her return from her last journey to Uranus, (tie
20th December) she said :
“ My guide tells me, that I shall this night fall into &
profound sleep, induced by .Somnambulism, during wlut
he together with my sec nd guide, George Goetz, *!,o
1« also in the Sun, and Pastor Itenz,] deceased, late »A
this town, who is appointed a teacher of children in tr.
Sun, will join me, and the latter will perform tho act of
consecrating me for the joruneys I am to perforin to the
Sun. This however will not take place here, but I sJull
have to perform a journey, which will be to CVanus, bit
in that time I shall suggest no remedies, nor are any qu< *
tions to be put to rne concerning any. Duiing my joui
neys to the Sun and the New Jerusalem, 1 shall, my
guide tells me, now and then be permitted, to state cures,
but not near so many, as 1 heretofore have suggested, \j j i
that only during the journeys to and fro’ he will, if per
mitted, communicate the same to me.”
Immediately after this she desired to be uakrn":
her guide having left tier ; she was serene, when *
awoke, but complained of great fatigue.
•N o t the least compensation was ever asked for suck
prescription, by the relatives of the Somnambulist
t See page 70
1<>5
CMeurtneet during Ih* loot Journey to
Consecration f o r the journeys to the Sun.
Soon alter she awoke from her last journey to Uranus,
she fell into violent paroxysm», (luring which she had to
overcome 1 1 0 successive palpitations of the heart, which
would most likely have induced the belief, that she would
fall a victim to the same, had she not previously predict
ed that she would have to endure that number, and that
»hey would do her no injury, but only render tier weaker.
These palpitations, as they occurred, were counted hy
•everal individuals, and as soon as the 1 1 Oth wai past,
►
he became quiet, hut spoke not a word during that pe
uml. Seven minutes afterwards she awoke, complained
of g»«at weakness and langour, and afterwards partook
•d only some thin soup ; a little of very good old wiue
was offered to her, but she would not accept of a drop,
and afterwards likewise left her bed no more.
ihie moment the clock struck eight, she fell into a
sleep, during which, having received her guide, she ex­
pressed hci sell as follows :
“ Now begins my journey.”
l)unng the same, she again most assiduously exhorted
to repentance and conversion, and amongst other senten­
ces said the following :
“ 1 b lieved to b e pure— yet only since I was confirmed
rich a i egister of sins has accumulated against m e; but
rny gui-!e- '.v m i'c me repeatedly, that if I continue in my
r virre of conversion, all i»y sins will he forgiven me, tor
*
•v«'r ; because if I had not underwent such a chang« of
r<*l convention, I should also not have been deemed
woi-hv of, or qualified for such a journey. No one be­
lieves, how mu«’ . <'y<
m v person sins every day only in
wori!s and thought*, for of works I will not even speak
__* huh lie does not mind at all, yet all of which are re*
corded with accuracy ;— 1 am incapable, to impress it
100
i W Uwk* « «
- * * * -
*
• tfc«. y » b - u t r d m iia fe a ra n d
A i . 9 ** ur u* %
'+ t*«fcaikfd b»veter, «hat hid aU
*^i’ e " i1 l!r ,i b j K* : oa a form er «c c a «e u , that im
W l w tfru r r a ^ t M ¿.K ortinw Ids Jaipur# sod
»attn«»»«, i>/' br -!| n.-> * prute (althf*| therein. 'Jh*b
114 M V a ^ d a r r l flic W U w ;r .f i f r * < ir v a the V
»•Hit
- fr i t fa ) f s ’ Lcr, 0 ! thy lo<t ¿ c - *
• /
’a
•• \*wA\ convert J p ra r,
“ dtii t'-if arc dear to tr.e—
** P *»n t f ‘*e r**a<J an d shew the m r f
•* T o o// the hom an fatu\\y.
•• ^ r w t’ * ra fj*.tck P iy face d itin e —
•* 1‘ ra w them uj< to T i c e with might,
i4 H iy light before tXiem »bine«
•
* U v jib ilicui cot to todies* nightV9
*• I ¿half certa.iily shine «itb aH wight, by rr.esr^ * r *
fln inr ;>otrerf to olitaiig and cart v off*»•i\te je u e f9
9
> r.b.eh
»« *ypica! of the heavenlyr mismoo by Owl ci Christ Jr-
sot. ** T U bar i a» long «Mice began. o i l (I * cr.
t#&# 'afrit* the tickle in hi* bond. eerUulnly doit net e t c
file yi. tut cictn
e* tuturedly, and soon-**
Alter a patar of a few minute«, «be «sit!:
** Now 1 have arrived on the spot. To be here i« n
c a u p t rL-T «.biy delightful; 1 am upon an ; cc'euiv, vp •
r»hich stands the iuo©t magnificent t^iaple. in tliu I *
■
’•
-
t>e co«*fciated for m y j o u r n e y « to the sum fht<z *oc »
already present/’
T h e e e',z remained c’ uite still rorsever<>' saifjutf*,
feature %ere o bse rve d to indicate great ’ u'/ditv, su*
«as close! v regarded and every one believe*', (hat *W
actually drai’JL H e r e u p o n siir o i d ;
** N o w :he consecration f *r toy j o u r o t r s to t e »a,s •
p^st ; fte n z ¡its retired, Irvt m r guides still txtr t u
un
| • 'j m t i « 4 (M i« , « i fe»
"* “ «♦ intnúl,,,.,j * r c)
«MdcdfcHkttlf WfeM.U ...... , •„
tw
j, »n t * u n e, »:,itU Ij
*
. j»ron«#uuK<i o*»f M
»
rdfe/iag
bu im rm tiM 1«04., .1» i„ ...... . , ,,, u . /.
hmi. 0 fit.»a» V; .
i* uathíi» W
ÍJ
1 fcli'ne hkt ii<í -un,” oo •<oua(»r
ut t!... u K .^ d i . »
beantilfel m t , feW). »<!</.„. |.¡, , *
Wj,ae t V ktarf | U
f f S S ® ? * 1 *»? H - ■
; <U 1 . « , « .........
‘" J V } U * )¥
t
% *'* "•= t* dr’ k - f • . t r ,
“ •*f.íid rrf.-**h»n5 w«t*r. 1 Jyt „
'.ttr<Jí:.g lo ti,t kjy.nt Ü
íiij e*MoUa¡]r taur.'it «irmk, I »»•
»P-rK o a lIr iW ^ r„ a t¡« n ta .U lb r,( .,f. ,f ,
a, j *’■') 1
» drank, j>j*t as mv ít-atur»-* *rro t» r . r t r - *
a w n j í n g tg tf^cuj^ct, «i , , n i o i n.,
f i t w j t h I t i e i n o a l i a i t d U * + « i l } < » w n ~
i nis \*,k\¡:*j
^ ^erv (ar fe ria ste * i *♦,
venced by a ptreeti *vW* * tre ^ m ín r,”
‘‘ IVttivrrM
W|ir«c'fcM
;ly at noon 1 »hall perforo
filk t j o u r n t j iu j i t;*í; feyrt, j y t p f r * lo'jrilv ps*t a
d r e s * o:; m e . S cfl& W s a t t u v>o m í oí C»<*J, a»r.d d i s p a r a
r**-* o! t .‘: 'J.vítie do iiot adn.it, fot t ’ * r
reader n»j jo u rn e r v h v onerout whúh io perfmrm^ «¿II
; V íiuw w
*i\ b e í h * ¿>y J)'> \ mj n o t k r n m i!,#- ,r.
i^CUva oi 1U«Í r of O ir w oVil. * Vive nf/{ tUnt
which i 9 faj¡‘j unto f/te d ? '/ ? , nntht’r rjf i >¡* your jjtvrit
before tvÁnt.” (, A in b» half oí m- «,* tul, a‘l
post'bl^ « nd ír rjtjtnfrabie ^ a r» an*t tT.eaui», t«» b* ir ^ r .#
«»*
u# t> ratíofi, wiU <*<it « t W j aftd »11*, r»tv r m i f
%ay, Wt« «arr;ea4 ♦*. bee fHeit» *ave<|, 'j Ittfik on!y»
*»Ld a beavey and j^reat re*p<m «ibiíitr, tfir ll.ougiitl«'«»
«ctpflerf aíió tJíífcpi^nt oí lije oí U<>4 itrcur ; I ^
t«o*
. cotiv*;rt n>eii; but I otijy *auU tbat tney aboold %ul
íe r Une yjf O id auad N e w 1eataioeat (v
ct^nvert Iheio.”
i reo kbe t» i/ atediy to debcrioe as moví iaihe».
fab r «s<i i.;/f • m
O o«*'2|¡»!ev»%ibie tormeiita oí ib* tiarrioed
i tul tíre a! readiTf *n tbe dej:ree, depbraU* ^ tu
on of tH* ucud*í«Mtd# witU Üm íuldaioii :
IflS
ao
', of my ovo accord, but tht words only
‘ *• s I I.ave to utter, lnetsrnity
\ tfct .*»- d n ♦'.ir.*. op t*.oie in all heavens and hells,
l-tir h'i* *
. mt* at well as those who, when mydis-
i »)! katf be- onie pjblic, descry me as a fanatic
to tapaitor. and a>*k diem, whether I spoke the
fcoffc ♦< *v! ; I ire x%nrr«1
1r convinced, that those who
%
t* dtmtmd f t -nb e^cd, will give me the testimony,
fjkaf I Wart z «en '° n mild a description o f their state;
f W t m s'«» tHa*r. o arc blessed, will exclaim, that I
K%»# m «4 bat ’on hr t i *
. tV.ms. \\t the whole submit«
tH u H i » « m judge» rightly!”
fWw prayed a*ain with real devotion, fromths
tillarii of ' 1"i ‘ and with energy, the followinghym
n
frwm casket. ?|L II Page 22.
«1 m ill s ttire fur the life
Of blessedness—
I will strive to enter
I ill I gain the victory.
Am I detained, Fit run a head,
Am I fatigued, I hear the words:
“ Forward run with all thy might,
For theje w e l is in sight.”
A s if called, to the steps
Of the throne of the Lamb,
1 will hasten ;— by procrastination
W t often loose rewards.
He that runs, but runs not well
Comes too late to claim his right
With what is past, 1 am done,
Hay it be forever gone.
Jesus! pray directmy looks,
Only to the aim in view—
Guide my steps and strengthen me.
When by faintness overcome.
Tempts the world, speak to me—
When reviled, comfort me—
May thy grace unawares
Free me from the world** snare»-
169
Thou must draw me, my etidrator,
is by far too weak
For what I languish,
M y soul with anguish.
W e ll does feel j but thine the power,
Through thy blood now live to g n e
Hark the cry, that Heaven pervade#
‘ ‘ I t is God, who all create»’ **
immediately alter she »aid ;
* Now my two Guides leave me, and dism»**« • *»*
with the blessing : “ T h e Lord bless )wu, m.d k*-«j *>» .
the Lord make his face to shine upon 1 0 1 , and «• £»;•
cious unto you ; the Lord lift up his coonienanc-t up.*»*
you, and give you peace.*
'then she called upon her brother, to w .T .n i n .
‘W hen awake, she wanted as U'.ual to know lru:n wn. i t
word all that she had said ; the same hivtnr t>«< r, «
to her, and that according to her predi- tmn shr '
morrow to perform her first journey into ti c *un, shr
became transported with joy anil >aid :
I can hardly wait until the time a n i v c i ; I l*-r ' «•' -
quite refreshed.”
Soon after she fell into a natural sleep aml did t.ut
-awaken once throughout the whole night
First Journey into the Sun.
On the 30th December, at half past 1 1 A. M. *
went to bed, and after going asleep she crossed both I e
hands, blit breathed with great difficulty, when the clo-' #
struck twelve both her guides appeared to her, whom <
received with the greatest serenity and affection. H »
* Tilts blessing she received also from her second gu o%
when he quit her entirely.
15
170
h»d hir.il/ converted with them for aruinate, w} r
:
Mid:
I rer^.rc e»giteen minute* *ere I reach the mo, arrj
r'-vr, : vtr/ mmate m/ jourriej commence*
Soon after the said:
** 'I nere n or e, that it unworth/ in rnr road,a .d f; r
journey progrettet with *ome difficult//’
At me tame time she somewhat extended ber hand*,
firmlr eluted, and said:
•• Now I proceed with a good deal m
ore eas* .9
9
w
ooa after the exclaimed:
“ Now it
»/ nrog'ess it quite eat/.”
I) jring herjournej thither the moved \er lip* cont'pi'
*••/. beeaote the converted with her guides, and «
-
.
r
;
1* r ’ *ad alternatel/ to the right and t# the Hi. JH-
mg accomplished toraewhat more than one half, she •
.* i:
4tlt appears to me at if alf the constellation« 0 »h
e
firmament were in motion. I fiear at a d stance, ir.»?
riont directions, nothing but mime and ¡singing, ti.wtr
earth should learn it”
After a »hort paute the said ;
“ I i»ave asked rnr ¿aide* the signification of tLt, to
which my brother answers: I have nevtral tim
e* already
intimated that, on /our arrival in the «on, /-would * v
fo v«uf according to the method of cornermg tim
e ia
▼our world, the correct hour, dav. month and vear, when
the King of all King*, and the Lord of a Lord*, wa*
born at man for a sinful world. This U one of tve grea»
e»t festivals, which in likewise ce!e:>rated ever/ vear
Heaven according to your method of compofing tim
e
a.though there L here an end to ail computation of
met onlr the created angeN, al*o those wos bv tii*
mediation of ti«<» Alan-God have come over with a *-.*
and living faith in him, are entirely at atom, with *'.»
great an adoration to worship God, and on the o'her hi:
•
5
1
'x w atch es, am ongst which there were three that a.vs
»h e w e d the re c o rd «, w ere laid d o w n , and when toe titoe
n x e d hadjexpired, to the second, she declared that the wat
b the suit.
171
wedo r»r>
t know, »ow we can suíücienliy nimble o
utfore Go !. gn account of hit »o incomer. b e > b ! y a? l
*cr- 1
ably great grace. love and comps*-». .. Me e \ ».•
annunciation; Glory to God in the highest and on ea'i \
peuee, goodwill towardnun rtvjvhtl» in if« real RranAtat.
♦ 4 N o w inv s e c o n d g u i d e G o ? ! y b e g i n » to » p e a k , ¿ r i
vay»: T h e <Jafr¿ried a n d J i e u n b l e s s e d a r e a w a r e *t ? •
* '.V: i'-i .»el- a * w e ; w e t h a t a r e j ! c i » c d , r a n n o t r r j u i c e
rrso c g . b n t ’he damned a n d t h e u n b l e u e d le e i t h e i r * r
m e n u , a n d t b c r are u n f o r t u n a t e fo r t h i a r e a a o n in a I . h e
d e g r e e , v - m .e f o u n d o f joy p c n * ‘ a ^ n to * .«
Atibe thought, arid whilst they accuse thtmtcl%
t*.
en«
fiil *. that they might be equally hippy, they now
f.:y - but v e deeming ourfelrot w.§e, have become !•>
♦> •,
ud tninsed the rig! t road entirely, and by »’ e r Ian *-•*•
are ío extraordinarily increased."— The t mr nf
n íoíc/'ig and enjoyment, last con'inually, f->r in a » ‘ate
<d b':»5 the-e Í» no flight whatever ; but the bohda* t ac*
cording to yuur time, namely “ tnc festival oí the* r.v
t vi4
y of J<k>i, the day of hiv circumcifnion, the ann.vtr-
v.vy of hi* death on which lie deprived death of hi* p o n ­
er, 4
*)2tofhí» resurrection, the day of hi* a&cer.*ten, ar.f
the festival of V» hiUontide, form an axcephon 1
0 li.e
»eavt - ; o% account o f tee *mper-»baiid .nt joy#, s l m n
prevail.
** Now my brother begin» again to »peak, hit voice u>-
day \
%very stroag arid persevering. Tell your In low
•b ‘.v *» nt the earth, teat you bare now been cgnmi*
sioned, to tell them, when u )*ku% Ghrivt the «or. of ine
matt n gh wa* born.” Namely, ISS5 y e a r » ago, cea-
»eipjcutly, three year» earlier, and not on the fthih of
Dec*' : r f yo/are in the habit of reckoning, but on
the '0*h oi December, in the morning between three and
four o'clock, tbii is he very hour, day, month and year
After a abort pauve she exclaimed:
• Now 1 am in the suril”
i ,e y>x amongst those, that - ad ls*d down ti»#.
wH'ohe*, wav extremely great and every one was »orpn-
*e«l how it couM be n e, a* the ►¡gf.teen m n i ‘ e» ,.ad
«• ap*> 4o a point« '*hc if.en immediately ct»r»tin ied to
ajwalt af follow» ;
T W - ■ > « < «n U M w o n l v Urge boil*; i f there m
'
’ r;n' , »'" 1 »n j U hive room enuu»!i. no
' ' 1,‘ - - i'.. »«nee <t«4 popled the world have lived
JW .» w.H *Im be plenty of room for i W . who Mill
• ' ( U llo v , and if the world .houl.l jet stanu fur r
, thou-
•• - : . - rj»tnd, of rtv u*»n<h of vea.fi, so «»v rov
,• I t • M ' t r t U « e , u - i l O A T H I the same ina^rumtn-
• • IM 4 « o r a l m a w p e n a d e d crerr part of th is ind tscriW .-
■ J • * ? ' NuVt .» verv plain to me. why I require
’ ' •■
••• J »•'•".rv* to the «on and the Now Jeru-
“ ,Srp - f ; r 1 h * ' r \ r r y
! ' r!T' ! .
T grasp them,
j k . j i j . c !q bear— '1 nut know, Vow to es-prebs.
• J ,f! : bfliCTf, fliat it It were
; fw
»r my tj jrii ty bo dissolved, it wciiM do so, at
•Ht W|it » f (he clearness, glory and beauties, which are
?3 T r, ir.fl .it :’»c vn;nd t f the music and sinking*
• I 't*r — Air (wo guide* «mile at roy expression,
m t brother le i!» m e ; dear sister if all the"glory, W
hich
í | í ,,* ‘ ’ ‘ *un, should have to be shown to you, your
*r*lf:* « r ’ ** ur.u»r»iicclrd with your body, would not he
* b l» to bear if. A very* small part, especially of the re-
R"-p% of the ch»:ilrer. will and ran be shown to joy, for a
£rra‘ I -**• • the ki'gdom of Gtd is composed of the
* fc-idi ti'hc there is also a great part of older per-
* • •* who r.i earth arrived at an advanced age.
J’ »>*r v
. hr r -rr duly p:ous teachers. wore notwithstand­
ing but appointed teachers of the children here
1» or<’cr r. it to dsturb you, l will only remark, that i
©ie remote journey hither 1 shall have to tell yc
* f *• •*>» v i-.-.rh will have a particular he a ring , (a
1!*\r h r r c t . fn © a lrea dy intimated to you,) empire of t
o i drer, which y o u , as well a i all those, who shall h
r . arc rhrn not to keep a secret, but suffer to strike d
r * * u in y o u r h e a rts . ”
•* N * w do n o t ask me a n y questions.— T h e clima
fhe *un is m ore than r i f r e s h i n g l y and pleasantly w
?
' » c in h a b it a n t s o f the e a rth believe the s u n to be a
ball i f lire, w h ic h he by no m eans is . T h e S u n dm
ivr. and beyond the su n are s t i l l m illio n s , nay a
ntable number of stars, w h ic h are a lw a y s v is ib l
ol them is the c i t y © f G o d , b u t this is also a sui
173
After a short pause she said:
l have asked my brother the n i *u >! l» t *<*
taining the City of God, to w •*
c*
*he o.i* ’<
*
*
i <*l, tmt <
a tone of anger, but great serious *
u
-■
»*. '
you, nor your fellow-inhabitant- of t ic h m t m *. ■
^comB here first in spirit anti s ui."
•‘Now I approach the City, into a I *
be conducted. The cry of jubilee, e anA • -
which l hear near me, humble me, beh»re • - y <
- * «:
surpassingly great “ majesty ot liod." - - <
•» »*!.»»
belief, that I shall dissolve with t r a i »
< : • !
■ *
am totally incapable to convey to v i »
)>
.* -t !•*
walls glisten, as if they were str<*w «
1 o*< r " •'1 r*j ■
»
dust of gold, rite City, into whub l ; . »
« «*1 «1
Ja s a : the ¿rate and the City, as w« 1
. f » »
1 v
architecture is again much more spleml, -I, »- »n ; r v.
L'he bu\\din£& are very lii^h, as well a*
. • ^ ^ T
Heeling rays of bcauiy ; this cifv is *I ^ • * %
’. v •
street through which l am conducted, i< _ • ••» N
i • •
but beyond measures beautiful arid splendid : l »ipftOttt
that l can tell you but so little tlier *d. f '* •' *i
there are a great many angels from the four»tv l.r.M
and such as also came over from o ;ji v i. I *
more than delightful, and quite exqoi?o> inMt -.»».» m ..
and vocal music, but perceive neither tin mo-r-uo. i.o
the singers, but observe well a peculiar C'owtrng, atuttv
ulting amongst the blessed, and see th**>u -v.. r ..i ,
in the city. Now I have passed tlir.Ki- i the tv. ft.,
out-let gate is as beautiful, as the one thio .d- i
entered J ’
••Now I am conducted into an iinmeiiwiv ! re
* 1
broad edifice, situated without the Citv, i i > \ r
fants conceived in the womb of their moihe'*’
*, ¡m
*
, •
they came to-the world still-born, to th «c of the agr *r
one year. 'Chose have also, already their tear
nurses or governesses; a majority of (hem skip ; n
about, the fewest are seated, but upon whatb.w '•’ ) •
tie stools! 'I hey are not larger, than they w
< I co ibu
be. according to their respective ages, if they w. re *t.U
alive, and ad of them have a small crown upon ti ,
beads. Infants of the highest and greatest rank <n <.. ti.
171
’ ' • - f oi not :he Irsst preference over
*' r '•%» *S»t iro here present, for God love»
* * r€|ui»lt IHeir little garments are as
%
^r* *• ilit n n , their b r n u * and shoulders are adorn-
' » w l t ' r M . i r v i .,| rote-coloured ribbons, re-
fm • ■'.* t -***•« more than bows. Children of a
-*** growth ati'l more ml \aneed in age that have com#
%e-ar %ca K ,v.u-ul \'"n. J> i n a n d are more per*
m i; *l u t m »rec n ¡ n > n ‘ . A more delightful and
' Aftptct no one can imagine, than that ottered^
* * * cm bie*»ci] ¿p in ts skipping and jumping about
each other, and rejoicing in such numbers; and
great tic l*»ve and liqin:n!iv, that reigns amongst
children ' J *e>‘ mnnv, that are not larger than lit-
• »difii** < • nnd \ct thev arc so cheerful!
V V
• • ' I t ^qm!c^ <
11 cl :nr attention to children be*
1 « ¡••• •«.'»it here, of all r —.uus denominations, nations,
, u. <nc word, from every region
♦ *r h ilc J<. y\ i .*•v te'l ine further, that here i
-r far. ¡»it the few c^t number of children of this
•*'' ■ ’ • • l ie bt'if " a _! cat imnv more such buitd-
• l i d h i ’ n i:i the Min, where such children reside.”
l - ¡;*. n • .1 |au*(*, and it v.a* observable, that
iJtc vtAm discoursing " ilh her guide, then »he resumed
B w
vl ucr own accord;
“ I It 4>»* uski d idv guide, whether the si7.e ot die chil-
5. . i »s uhat it i'. or whether thev also] grow; to
tvhic ; »lie rcp'.u l: You might in regard to this, have
taken t; a hint from me, having on earth lived but to the
_/ oi > . \ v r a . s a . e l somewhat more than five month?,
' • ;i I waC not so tall, than what I am now. The chil*
• . ; _ * iw in regard to tiicii* mental faculties, as well as
... j i.lv. aud n,live at tiie same stature, which thej
would l ave attained, had they remained on earth. Their
and sou]» are here completely cultivated, bat this
i- jo b.- well kept in mind, that children remain here
hout -in, and improve much quicker, than i f they hail
i iji.ji;.cd on earth. T h e y retain their nurse«, until, ac-
<ortling to the world’s reckoning, the/ have attained (heir
ninth year. ”
4
\ t U r a few minutes, during which, however, it was
not observed, that »he con\ci»<d w*
continued her discourse a» follow
“ M y brother asks nie— ha\c \o * ni
cd on one o f these children t< . the.«
sent) a peculiar mark? 1 had :o a <w a n .«». ; » » r
but 1 will look again around rrm. \ *, . .*» i , *r»»
upon some o f them pur p* 1 r* d . r : • loop, u..«irrn#xu* i u
ribbon, which they wear ¿crcisi t..- .¿.»»**1 *•*«! d««
and a peculiar pearl in their blib; crowt %. _ l u«« •% «h a
I mean, says my guide; these are c'uhltrn, h *l
murdered, for this reason they wear vu< h *. U«»1 Ditiaa
but they are on that account, nut \app»» i * u n ih« tr#
In their formation all children i ' * ' mb;? **«.), o U r miici
y e t they are still not quite like each o t u r : * , h*u *
the most appears v, hit i T , and tie u r w » »iH rk le w»l
brightness. T h e teacher* and i»at> • .<
•, , - M .«
.i &
also here as infant*; the funner lu » c
their pupils, in the first principles of h:
nurses have also their assigned oc,.;ii. »turn
# O
guides do add— think hereby of no i upnrr
the fifth of sin; thinking of the blo*»cil, not
idea o f the kind ought for a moment to be
enter the mind, for every thing, ubich it t
of sin, has ceased here. T h e blessed pa»«» !
of increase to astill rising perfection, a * w r
dren, teachers and nurses. In a state
reigns a system of which no mortal tan
lion. T h e children are also very often
created angels, and frequently by tin*. bl»*-se d, th
long been here; these, as it were, have
anee o f the whole.
“ I had believed, that I should appear in me
to-day then formerly, but there is a» great a differed
between the riament of the blessed and mind, as t i m e * '
between the clearest mid-day and the darkest night.
though this expression o f mind is by no means s ........... nt
|v definite. T o describe the beauties ol the hall, 1 Ut k
w ord s— they excel, as the common saying is, beauty if
«»•If— tiie music and singing are also very delightful, yet
is there still room for improvement in the part of tlu>»r*
that here practise these arts; the music which I heaid
during my passage through the city of h a , was infinitely
of b l n » lhi c r ?
orm a cone:«p‘
viMlrd by tfir
IS
C
id, lhat fl A V C
p h
jpermtrI|
U•
’ 1
n o rc w «j i thy
t a <ltHere nef
m
more perfect, for such I never listened to before. \fv
guide tells me, that the blessed too, are not all gifted
alike, some possessing talents in one, and others in ano­
ther branch; that God makes use of the one for this ser­
vice, and another for one different; although all possess
information in regard to every thing, yet that'the differ­
ence in this respect i3 very great, this being required bv
the wisdom and government of God. Soonishad have
to quit this hall. Fall, I beg of you, those parents, whose
children die early, that they are by no means to mourn
or fret after them; because they are eternally so happy
i f parents and athers, could but cast a glance into tit
empire of the children, they would certainly no longer
coinplain. 13uf, my guides tell me, that God cannot per­
mit this, for this reason, because every one, to wm
un
this favour be granted, would become quite unfit for our
world. And just as painful would it be for the suni-
vors, if a spouse, parents or child, or any other indi\:
dual, with whom they were more particularly or closely
connected in this world, should be shewn tothm uin the
first or second degree o f the damned. These would not
only enjoy no longer any rest, neither day nor night, but
fall a prey to diseases o f the mind,”
N o w mv return begins ; this will be more rapid, than
my journey hither ; in fourteen minutes l shall have pc:
formed the same. T o morrow precisely at half past ter;
o’ clock I shall undertake my second journey into the S.,
when an empire of children will be shewn to me, u. . *
in their second and third years. In the region visited b>
me to-day, I see no mountains, but quite a cluwnpagne
country, resembling a garden, yet being none. The »
face is most beautifully green, intersected by inmirm
ble walks, which however are all very narrow : this pUc
serves the dear infants, who already more than enjyw<:
themselves in the Hall, as a change o f amusement.
She then converseil for nearly four minutes with ur
guides, and then resumed as follows :
“ X have asked my guides, that having met with bie««
ed spirits of all religious denominations* and sec?s, Jew*
Heathen, and g f all nations ot this earth, X should like t.
know, how this happen«, i» agmuch as Jew«, H ratU
m
tkc. do noi believe in the Son of God, ami i •*
* ' •' ‘
die and rise attira for them—and vet no on« <v ■
'
justified in the eyes of God, without such a ft *• :
this the one as sveli as the other gave me the : ° ’ r '
answer: that God judges these two accordi:.!: ! [ c
principles of their faith, and especially agreeably to tir?
decree. in which they have been fiiithfil to their c ui-cr
<rs, and the laws written on the tablet of (he - < •• <;
ca<!>. That the omniscient God know» very v
. ed *
>
»
forehand, tvhat progress each of them should have r:w ‘ •
ami if he had been instructed in the w h o l e ol the r
vealed word of God, according to this, as I have aVeady
been once told, he will be judged. Thatln the moon par
ficular institutes of instruction have been established f t
such individuala, where (lie son of the most High is one! *
known to them accordino: to his divinity and his inev
presjiible merit and love to (he human race. My guide
toils me, that (heir progress is very quick in regard to
this knowledge, and in regard to removals parallel with
tV.se who possessed the revealed word of God. The
dispensations and means, applied by God from the be­
ginning to mankind, and which Re yet applies, are arri
remain a mystery (o many to the end of their lives. The
admiration of the unspeakable greatness of. God, consti*
lutes in eternity, with, mankind something extraordi-
i ary, especially with such, (o whom their own, and the
late of others, was often so enigmatical. In two mi-
nut cs there will be an end to my journey.. My guides
I’v e li ft me; the farewell they look, will temi to mv in-
»(ruction, ivhereby, in regard to my last question, [ can
f on >
pa se myself now and tor ever, for the future. M y
oroti.er repeated to me the 8th verse from the hymn,
N
h*. 1f.O, in the old Wirtemberg Hymn Book, which
run« thus?
- G e t Him, Him rule and govern,
He is a Lord that’s wise,
U s actions with a purpose stern—
N o odds how great your grief;
\V,,i bear him out to your surprise
.Vid bring you strong relief—
178
W b e o the work »hall have fillTilled
<' "• ¡!ai;;;cil and wisdom willed.”
;
• •
• *« .. ccri.n'nfv nil benubdued, if not di-
*. crr'iinU «oniewhnt later.— Now,brother, waken
) . ills time, make fifteen strokes back-
' « ; ' : r «, *;i ldVcrion anti friendliness, she awoke, but
«w d iililr exclaimed:
• • M v j . \ ’
• . t hi s t i m e , b e e n o f co n sid e r a b le (In­
i ' • ” , \
c\
\ m e n )\v. I b e s e e c h v e , a\\ from w o r d to w o r d ,
•• *
• bit S ha\e «pol en.”
Sr 'n :l Journey into the Sun.
O , \.\c .'list December, she performed her second
j urner to toe Sun, at half-past ten o’clock, in the /'ore-
noun. * When she bad fallen asleep, she commenced
Micaking: f . , .
•* l’lus journov will last again eighteen minutes, and I
*»,„11 iiavc to perform it alone, until I sliali have passed
the first degree of the unhappy. A stray spirit iron the
first degree of the unhappy, wanted to accompany me,
hut as s»>on as mv guides appeared, he went back of his
own accord. To-day I am quite contented, lor i pro­
ceed on mv journey with a great deal of ease. No one
can believe, what an influence unbelievers have on m
y
«pvt it. . ,
She then remained silent fora few minutes, and ttic
said: . ,
..\ Iy guides have entertained me by an agrceaD
conversation, which l am not to withhold from you, a
although what I am going to say, will not prove very ?
ceptable to a number o f those present,— although »
disposed yet can’ t I, nor dare I remain silent. I I'
to tell you again : repent and turn to the Lord your (
For i can tell you, that even if a person dies hupp;
is seldom directly removed to ti.< v : . . < * •**»>.
for if once any one reaches the Sun h
i- <i' * * r
ed the highest state of bliss. Let m
i on
«* *j k * u
word, let every one love his fell«* mao ii .*
• and U.t*.
fully ; do not rejoice, if any of your li ¡m-'. » m
ul«t
meet with misfortune, curse none, even it *r < M ..
ever so heavily offended against you . I < r.r r •
charge you, what a difference it mike*, il an; < .< re: \f%
this world with an unreconciled heart ; - . ! «
taiijly never becomes blessed. Lveiv '• ' . •
• • r
crowns of the blessed its own pearl. To u
-'.l . ■
! \ • j
gate lies is a very great sin ; he that l i e p ■ "
a level with Satan. To overreach any «m
e m ■.r'e
equal to theft. To rob him secretly, b' m and
force is a sin, which if it should pass w
iih< • \
in this world, not made amends for and l> ■ < *►
«« .
with a penitent and sincere heart, which c\ci, ,r
. •:fin,
ty will not be forgiven. Let no oncbclie\c, t; .1 ' .
cheat and overreach a person, that is rich and .»hhv |
K
a minor offence, than to commit such an act ag.-i.i.-t
who is poor and indigent; the sin is the same, *0 ?
•
;»\ n.
guides, I cannot sufficiently enforce it, oI what 1 »•-• ,
fidelity is, i na. l l o u r actions, for every one will b im!_.
according to the degree of fidelity exhibited by him
. r
regard to all, that was entrusted to him, in thin world.”
“ Murders, which in this world, remained uii|
>
ums,(i ,|
,
unconfessed and forgiven, by means of sincere rep. n
tance, will meet with no pardon to all eternity. Sui
cides will not bejudges according by the same rule, f
my guides say, that the gradations are very diverse m
this respect, that of idolatry there is an infinite variety,
yet still the same, and that he, who loves and adores any
object more than God, commits a heavy and great tin ;
that this one of the offences, not only acknow ledgad,
committed by so many millions of men, yet without then
being aware, that they are sunk so deep in this sin. M y
guides tell ine, that there is such a vast number of sins,
a* to be unaccountable, and inasmuch as so few m
en ever
arrive at a vivid knowledge of their sins, it is, that in
proportion to the aggregate number but so few attain a
state cf felicity. For this reason 1am sooften called upon.
ISO
* - cs.i n.s n k ; . 1i? repentance ; be therefore not aggriev*
* ’• * '*t
. I am compelled to speak on that subject. My
,*
jro**’ * -V : •• Hosidi's shewing you the great glory of
'■
*
• " * ' ‘ ta*lc has also been enjoined upon me, to tell
; ’ ' • your sinful world their faults, and to call
them : >repentance : Although every word you say by
comm«fiiltnent, is recorded, plainly, and serious­
ly ’
.hr \ ord of God, yet may your v o i c e , S3 extraordi-
ntr r, not be without good effect. ’Tell y o u r sinful world,
*■ ’ ■ the j v : z m * n t s o f God, i m p e n d i n g o v e r it, ore n i g h
af hu lit them believe it or not.ry
M’er a *hort pause, she resumed :
•* Now | am in fhe "Sun,—how delightful is it to be
her el ail the angels here present are as incapable, as l
. 5 ¡I!-
1
.!s iicifntlv to express all its divine glory.
Mr Guides tell me, tliat this sun obtains its light
from ar.other sun, much larger and millions of m
iles
\ irt1r\ distant from that sun, which illuminates tha
K...’ *
, ?.i.J add, that God remains unfathomable and un-
>crj*ab!e to the most blessed of spirits, for there is no
cr.d to his empires. In that sun, from which the sun of
our universe derives his light, I shall n o t come, my guide
fell- me, but that I shall reach that sun, in which is the
N e w Jerusalem, and that then there shall be an end to
:r.v journeys —tioi* should I absolutely be capable to
bear more. Now l am permitted to look down upon the
Earth ; if my guides did notso distinctly point her out to
me, I should not perceive her at all, for she appears to me
like a large point of the bigness of a middle sized pin’s
head ; and yet, say my guides, are crimes committed
thereon, so great, that they rise to the highest heavens.
“ Now I am conducted into a hall, in which children
are from two to three years of age. They were rerrored
hither partly from the first degree and partly also
from the Earth ; and I am informed, that of halls
for this age, there are a great many more in the
Sun. Those children, tvho from their birth, to the
third year come directly in the empire of the children im­
mediately continues to progress. J3ut children may die,
from the fourth to the ninth year of their ages, who are
not always removed amongst the class of children of their
age ; for those rthere are again different institution*.
181
.
l»f
naii II
rca •>
(
wherein they are educate*!, because the* ..
knowledge to such as are younger, nor *<»•; <
together pure, especially those o f 11o i 1« .
old, because there being al read v sc*e. «I. *! ar«*n-r 1
mediately placed in the sun ; the \
* h : • m i b o a r te t
gradually grow up to the same de»tn .*i If*
iran
■ i »
amongst these children is air.-a I - * ■eai
with those, wlio have not yet co-npb '< -i ■ - i I:»-? r r j i .
“ iVfy guides tell me, the M o lh n ' J r *\t 1\\ .
■Son o f God, has the first ami high.."»; super%»*i«t» <•'<**
these children* that she is a ipiee*'. o . » ,.n,c, <\ that
she too receives her behests from the i -m i*- Vd God.
That the mother of God enjoys a gn i .. i, 1 high state of fe
licify, and comes frequently into the \ . .V. i-.drii . 'he
dw elling place oiV/ie '/'rinity, but that v.,•h ’ «• -••.in nmrnt
of God she dare not interfere, u/iirh f :<
> , ; openl y
ami fre e ly : F or that alon? “ the blond i .1 ■ . * n.<»(.
the Son o f God, cJeanscth us from all - ¡ V and tb.it nr»
one that is blessed can teach God an* th.n t ■
•**
any one doe* attempt'd, thT brino, a pi i\i .. - • » 1j cd
by the son o f God, to whom God is known, im i than fo any
one else, because he is identified with God. M v g».i !<•«
yet add : that it all the hosts o f heaven stood c <
>
• _;<• »
ted together, they would be unable, to < i ;i ’ ’»<
*
most remote sense the inscrutable gicatn o f <
> >l . M
YVhen she had said this she uttered a - i/ i h on 'he
bottom of her heart, and soon after conlinueil a-, foil . v *
(i Children in a state o f bliss generally r e c e iv e o'hcr
names, appropriate to the blessed ; they are a 'w <»n ■
sfantly visited by both the create*! angels and the v m u
nt the happy defunct, here presen , Ibr to ill of them
t h e y are a source o f the greatest delight.*’
Besides this I shall perform sixteen more joru ncyft
the Sun, but during the same f shall not have much more
to state, than what I have said already, only that t o
ry and magnificence which I shall behold, will < n h f.u.e
be greater, and as I shall daily perform two and three,
nay one day five journeys thither, iny respective vi iys n.
the same vvill not be of long duration.”
T h is night at nine o’ clock I shall perform my third
jurney to the Sun, during my passage thither 1 shall yet
«
have to give some serious aumo&Uior* reUthe tot:»euse
particuiar heavy sins. ”
“ 1 already on mj return. Ere I to
tn ird journev, l shall Jock m y se lf up in in c Maker, amt
in private address a prayer "to God j ¿ w t ;.* ; i t -
tim e disturb me not.”
*•
' N o w 1 ara back, rnv eyes vtiil ose.. l :. . : , t -
•<]aite dim.”
i r.U actually proved to be the ca-e. "f
she causeil heiseli to be wakcre? , :n t. manner ! « »
ihre mentioned, and her demeanor \
afirm
eliona ter aad her eyes i^d tot d; v
clearness.
ri Journ i..:■
; ' Vt..
On the siiae day, fil e 31st of D eer
ej^ht o’clock in the tve.,iog. she went l .eij
; er cl amber, and belted he sell in, -o that
enter toher. Every thing remained cu*
room, but tiirough the key-hole, she u*
k .e?s, in the attitude of placing— ’
* ; •
toend being heard to escape her b e ­
fore nine, she entered the room, in.«
d c 1. and when t h e d o c k s t r uc k r.»! .
« Nowrov journey begin-, l *' * \ a;
reen minutes to.coir.plete i t : ^ -
passed t^e first degree of the uanapp' • J
guid -
f.ft 7
lld-rS. ' 9 .
She iher: remained sell for a .¿v noi e
1 i
l*T
¿ui?ied as foilJ®e •
N o w 1 a m « o i n e to te.l t o o . v ha* at
mr broihcr, I t e .l vet to » U M
oace aireadv spoken of it. y** n^1 * - “-c
niicit ; namely thin : that m i -n * * r
faotreide* are’ committed, a sin, v ith it a»»#
too frequently in acmaJ wed.yckf aad thee# are caik*
I S 3
s i r Pani secret «it«. Parents. w:.n comir *
"r>, .*!'? in some measure pwiYshpri in t'::» '»orM
v f,r having forcibly preventer! ihe obtvn.
2 that n'lmb'-r of children, which bad been intended fur
t ,cv’ c
> id-en which they have, nsuallv btir ^ dr*.
or ennpie-*, whom t ey live to sec gnwv up in
.e
M M aim dngneej «ml that the respontibili?y,
i%idini T'h t tat incur is excessively heavy. That
♦m. *jn '. r . "V j* bv ro rn^ans less a^gra**•■•'!. t
.’ ••
>
thi*. 'l l« u b rz'cry— **hatt s ?
/
»n consi-N in l did not
ry#n W
n*.
•—arid of n y, so caVied, are with it
as the Same » vel. My guide# tnll me that it is impotsi
>> fer t i. roimpres- me sufficiently with the abom
'i-
nab' *r
if^ t. •
. *=e%
irs— that some s in n e rs of this latter
detciop .*» a^ume firm* of beasts in the other world.-—
I l i i i d 1
*:' *r * !t freely, that those person?, who have in-
tarrriJ rrev* * ’n*. have lost ail grace o f God, fur they
cowmen! tK ,i‘ olve-. v. »en they m e and Jay down,
rveUher to G»* ■
. t »or hi* grace. H e tV
,.at omits to pray—
l ( t s 4 i on— 1 ' * - i?— naked, for then the devil, t’
wwr't tto- - ft An fle»h sr.d blood, the original sin, have
% l ■-c-' 7/c v*<r/? net?eir to neglect your p ra y e r*! *
guaj. **
> tc rne, that all the*e - a*, stand with suicide
stii n o ti r. i.i the el dest connexion.”
* I hsv ,i* . .r.r g'.;do : whether it he pu*sib>, that
i k )v tina -r* c -a >* ,v;ed to which they replied, t ;af
w» ur< i* * >«¿r* »*. as not to ha forgiven to man, provided
»1 - r- .t, V c m e duly converted, and be truly
U * r* • '- d a'K> panialiy confess ihe tame to
!’ • * jeh a sia-e of repentance and conversion
0ft a I ♦ * «as. y acquired, bit require a much longer
Space;» t t Ar jmvI pc* «.evetance in doing good. That if
, P„-. '» a c: v
. uurion of ¡isstrength should leave off
er mo ". *?• d* ab-oletely not he deemed a» if he had V -
►'imp ‘ • noch less could it be expia ted, ti.at i e
« W V e pard ^ d : i?being a matter of but too great regrer,
(,. t i ,u dercription anive at a lively tense of
l Vat they are tho*e, of whom the Reva
* b st'n-.or *
. or iK
't d y /.* * cu a
x
184'
Nation of St. John says: For without are dtg*, u
sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, imi
ters, and whosoever lovethand maketh a ! i e . U i
not one will escape the tirird degree of damnation,
fore he did not truly repent.”
“ I pray you ail with all my might, iet no one put t
repentance, until his death bed, for such meur
danger. Every case of real conversion requires t; ,
is most assuredly the work of a moment, i lut w !¡ ¡„
done by mailin' the season of faith, is «if -nar / r
tance, compared with what he can do, on tl<* » \ ■
. . e
of the grave, should hejeven fare tolerably wcU il.ur. \.i.
amuch as every thing must be effected bv n»ea\* 1.1 vf l .
iugar.d experience, for there the progress !' iut * • -
I dare not leave it unmentiuned, that the moon t «
its divisions, and if even a man is at once irmovtd |
- t
hence directly into the Moon, he will still li.v »
.* io .aw .
«
the gradations therein, if his progress ^ r • . i .
ward, ere lie can be promoted to a higher m „ ío m it fit?
Those in particular, who come Irom th
e* 1:1 >ti • i -
unhappy into the moon, have to pass on it t ■ _ . .1 . *
degrees, the .higher one rises, the lianji'er he t- nuie*.—
The same is likew ise the case in the o in * *
She made a short pause, but soon aírer *
“ N ow 1 am up. T o d a y Í am introduced (• r<
abodes of such children, ns are in the ci-Htli ar d
years of their age ; 1 know of no reasoi t<
> Uv *
I ’hese are the last children, that are yet u i' “ »
of female nurses, but they remain undti U t ‘
stractors, who again have their tenc* M* . ktr»
sav : that although they are also t e a c h e i (’ c» » ’ *
so notwithstanding their instructors, recen 2
from the created Angels, Tnhl anv «me, t -it c*»
hither, be removed from the Sun mío a 1-?gi cr * * 0
bliss, a considerable period of time?1
*}
gradations in the Sun being a ertat nt. v l i t n
a »
facts o f the Sun are able a*id penuited to A t »uiK
having previously received permission, e\tr ..g **%r ft*
the New Jerusalem, but they neither can nor if- • •f
their abode there torexer; inasmuch asthc o.< ( r •
»/ -
ty is not to be transgressed iti the Jeatt. Aj t t r t •
185
•j'V'/Vssjrs of the word of God and in the schools, who
, K
* fvm the Karth into the Sun, ami of whom several
. . 9 comluct'Ml to a state of felicity, on account o f
. > /ea! and lidelity in the service o f the Lord, they
■,n extrat»;<lin iry privileges ;— and the same is also the
.. . \
ij: i i nt-.e rulers, that were particularly well dis-*
,j..-1 anJ pious, whether their dominions were l a r g e or
” v
•>ji i .it a judgment, responsibility, and condcrnna-
*.ja. li> prufe>sors incur, who are lazy, live im m oral,
, t urnselvc« unfaithful in the service o f th e ir
. 1 n
i i-:er, who is Jesus Christ, is, as my g u i d e s
1 i \,>;e*>i!de; for the souls of all those, w h o
f,.i i v t u faults, whether it be by their co n -
,lu \ •l.-j'rine, &c. arc all demanded from them ;— -
uii*; "• ‘ .y 1
1y guides, the charges against them i n
f tf gi u ' "i the unhappy and the dam ned! 'The die-
:m w. ¿.until c. rulers involve great difficulty* 1 am
» ! . • ! 1 ‘ . ' ' tu it ¿re now 1 had such little k n o w -
l.*w :(3t*.is, concerning so many things, a n d
' ■ • i hitherto not even enter my mind. M v
fcraUec * .! ti ncs appeared surprised at m y i g n o -
ra'*c . a v•>
. icr h ind some questions have n o w and
then eii u*J!.;* sui pi he, which were put to him by m e . ”
1 i w.il s «,m c o m m e n c e , T h e d e c r e e o f
9 o
» m . h • ch Iren, is c o m m e n s u r a t e w i t h t h e i r
’ > ' i " l shall this d a y not b e c o n d u c t e d , b u t
»'»* * v ouil ling and into a hall»_
_ Xid^cx**v4<*rrrs'
tiuio ; the c h d d r e n a r e t h e r e i n d i v i d e d i n t o .
: a * * * , i i i in -* many te a c h e rs , a n d l a l s o p e r c e i v e h e r e
v * . i . ’ T h e h a ll e x c e l s in b e a u t y , a n d t h e
• id Iren w it h th eir c r o w n s a n d i n t h e i r
• t u * i -n i m i »p lftid id ; a n d l a m e n t i r e l y a t a l o s s ,
W u l m i p that love a n d h a r m o n y e n o u g h , w h i c h
M d i p t th pin. A r o u n d th e b u i l d i n g t h e r e a r e
i f d * r « * i i » l i .i n p f n s q u a r e s , w h ic h h o w e v e r y i e l d
• : » • in o e a u t v * I a m t h is d a y t a k e n
- r . b i t u tut g a r d e n * th e se a r e ! — t h e m o r e l
_
_ - O •
•« i i n . » »r tnort ftplendul a m i b e a u t i f u l t h e y a r e ! —
■ F r t U : o b * » already c o m m e n c e d . N o t f a r f r o m t h §
lG #
186
* »* * »* * . lu »h»cb I wjf« üe* a large city, bat int» which
1 hw t att been omdtclfd.
1>« **w e ni fhi* ci\j w3i not stated by her, nor bas
•be »fciutrr’eofl» i>em asked it. It was observed that
•ht bad t cMterMttoo with her guides ; after a silence,
j rut a !r ,j for a few »nr jtes, she resumed as fellows :
■*Ihttea»k^i rr.r ju where those children bave
f f < » » n fhe abodes o/ felicity. who were
•• croellv »lain hi nrd-r of the then kir^ Herod. whet:
_ » • - /
wa* bom ?— *o which I received the fo!-
lewir.^ ; 1 *>se i3**e aU been remove . a% Mar-
Ijfm fcc the take of the tote Saviour of \ e world Jetw
Ckrisi. . • f N r ,v J. r ; salera : t ese a^e he 144/XX),
brho the n* w
r *<■' jr b*t .re ■ e throne, before thefour
t e fit ’, aui U l >
r *• - '/ ter . * .ese are those, that have
•ever **,intni them-«'! \es wit:i women, for ther are bach-
* •
il« r iw» *n>er are b n^it from the human race, a« $ firtt-
H »r t >ti p a- ' e l«a: :b. But as mv « d e s acid. these
are by h r ; • a;. 9
,br ei** t. these con pc- r.ï lutcre ac**,
• *r• •* i,j 2 z ' rZf- manv more. auiJ -iere and there w e -
tittift* of a much ar^er r*jn»b?r. but ali cl them acco:
u c . t*> v t ir re*f*et tire kin 1« aad deeds/’
A! era fittie pause she said :
•• Mv. ~u»de* iiâ'e r j *v repeatedly accompanied tlcoc*
Ir ft- the > of. where i pas«ed by the first decree of the
wahappy and the re ; i>o received me. T ere is one s^ain,
.^fcftt wants tu keep me company, but mcch a» it ^r.tves
nr. 1 h-»e to tj<n every ime back ; if 1 then represent
t* e impose b li*y of my bein^ of any man­
ner of a \.:e to T ir » , which they lïàcmskh es also know
-nit too weik they retire.
:v.t v\..* : -u : why she never mesboLeo a ij of
lb ro > b r n a m e r w h e n sh e re p lie d :
4
%
!1 - 1ften cave 1 no: loib yon already, that f dir?
ne>fr do it : my guide hz:s tc#'d n»e several times. that
* wol 1:w
?counteract ins the Jaws of eternitr. to he
ly . rr tr u sted with socli questions. would sadf* siüicc
n*r. N--« lam refaraed, Brother waken n.e in u»e
mooner i :o’d y ou. **
\\ he» & e a*oke the clock struck ten; foil oi
and biiaritjr she said ;
»r te
1S7
** No TarosY^m shall this day attick m-. t .t^ t• *1 \
too*.” „ ,
She then conversed «vit-» the person * • n*. . *r
isO
t cuíte ten additional min ufe«. ud t .-'i l«*tl 'Mo a
Bound naturai sleep. Not bel ite »a f p*fc
' •****■n ° *!•' *
t^e »acceding a t u r a . she awok«, *
■
• ’ ir.1
,'« >
'•*• : aoJ «a t
quite cheerf-b
Continuation of the Journuji into t'fu è in
As it regpectf the remaining fifteen journ*v> ir.»«» th*
?;
-n. that whic can fc
-*
* r-Ve- oi c ;,u ur ilar journey
<*»d be stated in t .e following; st ir»u«f I. .■
• . , t>
r ¡£
-*1
eraliy remarked ere. t »at the farther »he proceed«*«!.
‘ :.fc owre <ieli^'nU i y r »e described the / ar.e*. of felicity.
Verjr often she admired the iufi * te i.’ijiu* ,#
• of <¿0!. of
which she repeatedly spoke as follow»:
“ Looking af-.er-ard-î fioro » e »on. it it ¡n re
^.aid to the beaven of st2r<, the siine, as if. *: j n n g a r » a
we on earfli were contempla tinx i».e hrm«m*nt :
only With tfciî £reat dui-rence, that fro.n the «.r», th
<*
a; » are also v * ue it« toetioieot «la., beca'jve ,r* In*»
otesseò eternities r. ght no tanker e n -.es. Here it 1
»
much Pinter and clearer, than v
» .e,i or» earth we nave
* e purest «lay ai d m
ust undojdec *,.y. on ea-fv *' -re
but twid:^ t. comp.red ns«h ? clearne*,«. that prevail*
on ine sun. 1he atmosphere is lighter and more rariÉed j
a cloud riaver oo-cures .t, aodachan/e in the * r ’ >
*
happens. Its temperature is not d^bil f^.tinr, nor oppre»
give, out the ?ir is full 0/ the rno-t delîçh'ful odo ;r». lo
the sjD there are also mountains, o.t which a c r.ot .fry
Mgfi, yet of the most pîeasinçjerm. Cities, gardens aod
tiower» J - ve n ,r -een any yet whatever, :>u tree«. are
here in ah«ndance, ou many of which 1 have observed
tfie most deiici««* fruit*. Forests and rivers are also
the sun, but animais 1 perceive rune.”
f * My guides U ¡1 me ; that if 1 were to visit the #»l
1 »
«t
í * * * * ^ •'arjr iMn* ia deUil, t >at w* jí,i 0,
lafMw
w
n
#
»
' »
fm
a
n
.!¿louli re
® « y i ,fca
a
glf t r i/ í f*or che parpo*«/’
^ í /f/A Jéurnfy inté liu Sun,
é f •
• « I
t f íkt « D I
«A* A<t* I ü
•tíífr *aM th® fhfíowín*:
M i ú f t > cáty, arhícfr x u t ir.*
/ Cor/. In ihr meelinz feaíl ot the tame,
"•!rf i are fr:*:.» f»Jr ’ i r»v» ycar* of zxr. í
«felfee " i . 'W r j o»/r S<xviv<r, seited ai opon an alu/%
- * i t' * n n , : ; fr„nj*:/it ; i c*?i \jtr\-
t f i**** «pon ter | . c¡«..r:ici* and ^ /T, htr ero*n ¡s
*4 aroiü •itñ tíir* * -• ?»♦« »1 íi.e m *t precien pe*rf?/’
* * M » ir. ! •* t-.l ir.«-, Ihat íi >« roí o v b j (o tUe par?,
mí i u f i s z ton» t i « Son * f O édtke Almizkl'j. thatít í*
lUritmíJ > •
? (> t’-i* » ’i« «;¡j #/■* chi* M
^h atete oí iViiciír,
- * r ¡at ír )’ü i ,e r iñe ofi.;s cnaceptioi». aiwl.most terrier
:mUocr * í • i omn .ced that he ira> «3 couaion ha*
. . o-- .• t f re w ¿ i ac:u^< y íomathw* ¿ir;.:*» n
1,19,19(1 tí*at •
» re.n¿¡ncd n:, Ja-jnfeJ, umi» ibc er: » oí
h«r ;*fc. »o her bainijity, íu le lítr, un í fútil towardí ¡tíz>,
•ad ín the o Herraticc ar.'t Jceej* v.^of h> cornmandmente.
ihat «o hi-h a ptace o« honor ha3 bcen assí^ued lo her.
M f gatdea leli mr. that if (¿od maíte* u*e oí aperson h r
the í*xc.- . n c: ^reit dee's, it ;/»ves hímnottúe £***
«árentele i'« i >ir J l » ;..■
» G
2 ]v¿t;on. ir h?. ¿:ke í;;e \owe3t,
il^es not I»* come trulv ivpenUot a^d n^lects to ‘.rn
«rith alí b is líe a rt afi J >jí tü t >e L»or:l r.is (j')sl ; b i t lh *t
tho^r. '.vho at tíjc same ti:n2 ar? of tr.e 'va/J
o f íio tl, prc|iare t h « m « I v t t a ^ re it joilgmenL’’
*•M v £ ¿i !cí te!i me a !io; tliat the concept.on cí o:^r
Savionr wíü remain ,a secíet n> afl eternitv, bot1
. to thí
cre3 ted andéis, an d t!¡o»e that dízd happy. ih c curse:
t¿ 1 wid greaily multipJ/ thy gorrow : in >»orro»' tho j ehaií
brín^ forth chiídren,” iiad no reference lo t! e ínofber oí
our £avíeur, íur fíea%V\v\<\ say<, “ wa? not «hapen ir.
íniquit/, ruir ín sin d:d ÍU3 mutber concetre A¿rt. ”
13J
OÌ ntr
F ifln Journry irto •*«
thè f»’.'.o»ÌDg *:»tementf «•» b* r •f n: ,
“ l a » tKU da» co»d»ct»d mi > * ” *4"**"' * '. J
t!ie snciovjre ar.«in-I tSe *im », : - ' ", '
angeli, br,: t ff.c = n " ?reereatr*U - *
py ; then- are s », a n > r < J H k
p a lili are h o w e v e r n a r r o w a * a n . •*»
a ^ jn la n c ^ , but «»f flow e; < * * ! f *****
so deliditfal and vimnz, fiat I n » • • l* * rfr °,ffr< **7
thereby, a hall I shall not come * f f *»• 1
a marre >aaf»fu! city, who#« •**»*«•••
During h er p a r a g e through r ie city. r » *>•
were observe f on h»'r, .S
i ree t mve m< •J ° a
miration, ./ ; ->ed through it, ibi •*. 1 ,
p assa ci:! through a garden, winch i» eicerdu»*!»
beawnMUH n tigwa *3 water pai n«*t 'i n i
n j y t a l l o w-**'- « d e G o ^ / z , I s h o u l d b o c c i n e t*Ki w e a k ,
broth!
me of
ir ha^ during my journey* into the stars remiadcd
_____ the c tr n -. 1 would find in the *
i'JM i bat be ha^
told me by i'x; the feist, for every thin* 1,1 rr‘ur * ^
som cr and more magnificent, than what be b a t stated.
On the 2.:» >
; Ji-. :n y -.he performed
Me Sisdi and SeatnlU Journrj/9 i<\to ihe Sun
In pursuance of permission previously given by hrr.
applications were made to her during the tame, each
tine on her passage thither. She again described every
tiling a* rnuc i m«>re ftpiendi I than before, la»?* with p n ’« r
R ta z ; and ;»ae o f the f lee*, whom she knew o . ear ;
and \vas t ikeu to tiie children of six and scven'veaj %
.
Sue again saw t.u mother of the Son of God, apparently
seated upon a throne, and finally imparted euerg<*r.c
admonitions calfing upon ail to exerctsethe strictest v»g
haoce-
U H )
Th% E ig k i and A inih Journtx, 3 mio (he Surti
«• a
J
M f
Chs
K T
•flo ra e
,f| f *hl
VU0 i:
4' o
n t iv . bbe
m rttc 1'» I *
* r ? !
fo f.
on the ¿d o f January.
2 » ed i» i.d chihlren, but too!.!
i «futrn •.” ) ! >the rrijoyn:e;ifc of the its-
.? «Tii! i. »
: le-ci ? fhc.Ti more expii-
\ ''...f the e x z e Jingly great-g l o r y f
t ! u :h *'ie v :tfie>kc<!, v.*ere aitnost in-
Um
irg fi : c i weakened thereby and
‘if «1 1rr (wo guide*, and that she
• , . ; »
1 ‘Ireng then J from above,
•n ic w n t of ;.»e «mper i lar.t "'or/, prevailing there*’
ffefr.t A f iwn[. f . .. !. . journey, glic said s
*• rfl niorrr.v ! must in: ke !i *J journeys i n t o the su n ;
tile £ri*t n: 1 ^v - ..t n.nr, the E ru rd nt twevJe, ihe
• ' . . at live, and’ the fifth si seven
o \ U k . ” -
S r « : i a'' c;!, if the two journo vs o f fo-tiay Slaving
•rr»' "i ■
! p. - »::r:ch, ho;v she would fare o;>fivo jour-
n * i ? to w h ic h *Jie r e p lie d : y
• .... \ • h?.; >c!«*cled me for this, will grant me ti e
r r - 1 ' J v r ' n , : l a m not uneasy on that score, ido
m! :nv performance direct t<U) m a n y questions to
me about remedies.**
S i i . n sh e a w o k e fro m h e r n i n t h j o u r n e y , she vv: s
.itc nreak.
/ \f Tenth* Eleventh, Tw elfths Thirteenth and
Fourteenth Journap into the Sitn,
f*
»<
>
*
►place on flic -4lh cf January.
T h e whole o f them only consisted Jn repeated accounts
of recurring g lo ry and beauties, the last- e v e r ox.ceVi\ng
(he former, she came du rin g the sam e to no inure chit -
dren, but to adult?, and creaic<i angels, and cx.idled
(heir constantly increasing love, har mo ny and content-
nn-ni. A m on gst other things she stated the exi*demcee;»
the iun oi tiu ) small m ountains^ servin g rather as
orna-n uit to the e ji r i r o a s ; havi ng ri£rceive*d no
191
f i t «
o f
2 J * t
motile
(•
t gflflQh
Of U*
enes. Cities gardens and b * A ' * -*
every thing in marvcllnes !: • ‘*-*<*• cJ l
“ Refrain from asking me to h. Ac t» t* *r •-
> 1*‘i *
rj a l b* ^
sons, il would be impossible for i >
• i • d«* «
• *
angels, should every orte sneak " p h * •
*
1 vind * •
sand tongues, they would still b I r .
express oven a part of these 1«m
During one of tliese journt*\ s l - » •’ » r ' 9
were present, one of u¡ un c:.
to Be put toiler; whether tie d 1
and feet lik e g o a ts ? A ld er a s’ w.r i
“ The damned which 1 saw, 1- d . i ■!** b . I it
with herns and fret like ; a «, 1 l.i\> ; >
'-'Cl * a* *
Their forms r re m re than 1..atli^o.i \ !.-■ * •
• M 1
caused this question to be put to m \ \ ' • ■i: f
he, by his own experience, inav ri«•
t ' *
with those of the third degree, for hi* i.. t • ■ ^
most deplorably unfortunate.”
As often as she fell asleep, her form w v * assumed a
clearer and more supernatural ap¡...; ich si
ways became more so, the more her vw hr» ■*• “ a * ■
After every journey she had to be awak- m
*d . 1*r ni» *
rai sjeep after the fourteenth journey was v ry »r i.n 1
,
mg.
On the 5th and 6th of January she parforint- 1
ike Fifteenth, Sixteenth, Seventeenth and l l i y '»/«• n: \
Journeys into the Sun.
During these journeys she came upon a rn intiin,
which was not very high,into several gardens and much.
The following are her statements.
“ My guides have in these journeys again conducted
me somewhat higher, than what agreeably to order, I
should have, been taken. I again see every thing much
more perfectly, then what I did before. 01 angt Is l orn
the fountain head there are many present, and tin. name
of each.stands on his back with more than brilliant char­
acters in o-old, a distidetion not possessed by those who
* *
”
-
* »
I
192
r 4 -..‘ : n. t " f c : i n . being a p a r t i c u l a r o n e , w h i c h t h e y
i i/« i a m * o n ihc*ir c r o w n s . My g u i d e s te ll m e that it is
». r c , ¡.-i u jj ic r c l th e > e a n g e l s to b r i n g t h e h a p p y d e f u n c t
• K» at#»:n direct.'v from earth a higher state of bliss,—
T i m * that arc at ("nee taken lioui the earth into the sun,
• r • New Jn »i*a?cin, are even brought with music
ii. Jfoiigt, but that of these,generally speaking, excepting
children, ;hr r umber consists i n b u t v e r y few; that at
i b e * i - h t of t h e s e the nun r e s o u n d s with hosanahs and re-
joair.gs. i • • id« "fd spirits, which I meet with on
thet* jtiurn« Uut have come hither from the earth, re­
flect j lunnv iav 11 oin their eyes, which is also generally
«hr ( A
**c with the created angels, but in a still higher
degree. /
••i acknowledge licelv, that the glory, music and sing­
ing. wlocn I witness are almost insufferable to m
e an
ti
•‘ it it not previously strengthened for ifov journeys into
t h e h e w Jerusalem, I would be totally unable, tosupport
no n
r.!!.•*. 1hat Jove, harmony and contentment and the
tftrmilv conversations, which prevail between the created
«ngels, ami those that came over from the earth, I can
lit far not extol enough; the latter receive instructions
tfoin the created angels. Here it may be said with the
prestest truth that this is a real brother— and sisterhood.
1*1 no :-oui imagine, that am ongst the blessed any act
«»r m fideb t v, o f self-con ceit, or what would be worse, of
-up^rcilimi-ness cati in the remotest sense find place in
the lca«t : here every thing here is clear and pure. My
guides tell me, that any thing like deceit absolutely can
and dare not obtain with the blessed, from the lowest to
the highest degree, that every one is not onlv satisfied
with his own felicity, but that he also is fully convinced,
that what he is, he is merely from pure “ grace and mer­
cy. for the sake o f Jesus Christ; that e v e r y one deems
him self more than blessed, and that already the presen­
timent o f the certainty of further promotion, increases
their felicities more and more. Blessed spirits are here
o f all religious denomination, tongues and languages,
among which children are not alone to be understood.
A iy guides say, the sun is not em pty, but there would
s t ill be room for innumerable m illion s,
. m
«T h e heavenly bodies beneath t ■
«' sun. •*4
1 »*<*<*•
their light from the sun, \
vh
< in, !
believe, when we contemplate t i mam * «1 u < '
ring a clear night, that the star* i . ...... * .v * **
ecpial Ifeighth, but that tin- is l.u Ir on !>
» the lid .
for they stand far, very lar from ' ■ *r
which stand beyond the sun, bu
t. the very lew c*l §re %i*t
ble from the earth. If mankind wo.i 1 !»■
• u‘
of the creations of God, in tin* I'M*: degree. which *re
above them, should not every «me t i. , l.»w it c*n ;>
«• ; 1*
sib\e,that not every person should !>
• he\e in the /Jim.
Creator of Heaven and Earth 1 1 v
. :.i »’ *k <d ho%*.
who acknowledge no Rede n
* // b
/ i not
wish to hear a reward for good and p n e : t * » e%i!/‘
“ My guides tell me, how much the 1
. rrdv conccrnrtl,
that every human being be saved, ;m t!;c*tn«»rl»r* arc
incapable to express, but they acid, that by tin« '-'.ant of
volition, nay this forced, wanton and even wicked rr
nunciation of these so immensely <
_
rrc\. 1
. <i n * the Wo
ty does not lose the least in regard to Imr dignity,
and glory. These wretches prejudic e Cod t u*. not
in the least, but only themselves, and do so bv tbrir own
tault, the deity all the time remaining free and pure.—*
in the Sun I have heard an infinite number of word»
spoken, which even to repent, I should hr i;i<-ap dde. but
on the other hand I have reason to feed a*ua:n<-d, that I
have known and understood but too \iu\e, of wh.»t 1
might have said.”
During these journeys she also indicated manv impor
tant cures, but it is to be regreted, that they were not
every where used agreeably to her prescriptions, ar.*l
therefore were often underrated.
Consecrationfor the Journeys into the Aew
Jerusalem.
During one of herlast journeys to the sun she once said
that on the 7th of January, but not before eight o'clock
17
/
194
•Ilf wc-UJ
I
: peiurm a j urney, on which she would be con-
• 4 \ u hich she would be permitted
' > rr.*».- • . \U•
* .Vr/
’ Jerusalem. That day she remained
’»©•lly « r t f bed, conversed much with her relations,
n d iin.1 -, %
ho visaed her j but took very little nourish-
t ■ • e whole da », complained of no particular* feeble-
» but remained always in good a humor.
It d.d md .quite wanr six minutes to eight, when unex-
pectr t to °\ery one, she. fell asleep, whilst in sitting
Mrtore. whercMjwn she was immediately taken to bed.
Tl»# mo«ier.i the clock -truck eight, her guides appeared
and immediately alter she said:
•• One of my brother® is not present, bring him direct­
ly, fur l do not wish, ;hat during this solemn act he
d in k l not be present.”
Amongst the tn^ny persons, that were attending, no
a t e %ta* particularly missed ; but she gave the names of
those persons, in v. hose company her brother was at the
time i on his return— whilst already on her journey—she
add rested him as follows :
»• Iirar brother, I entreat you for the sake of Jesus
Christ, nay his sufferings, and death, shun and avoid all
b id company 1 I f even nothing remarkably sinful should
happen, during your intercourse with them, it is for this
reason surprising and injurious, because foul talk takes
place, which tends not to improvement and repentance :
And I have the more to encourage you in that is good, in
piety and every virtue, as you shall soon have to leave
vour paternal house and encounter a sinful world, where
innumerable temptations await you.* I recommend to
i the following verse from the hymn : Jesus thy deep
wounds &c. No. 47, in the old Wirtemberg Hymn
Book :
“ Does the world your heart assail,
W i t h seduction’s wonton wiles—
Do not taste her tempting pleasures,
’Tis the serpent you beguiles.
* This brother was however neither unmannerJjr nor
disobedient, but only loved sociable conversation.
0
To the cross direct your ij'.m
W here your bleeding Saviour s iflVr» —
Then with devotion-» sacred effort.
Will you spurn the world’,» offer«. ”
“ How happy will you then fo i < .e d . ~
your death bed*, if you can say ;
"That I have share in 'I he?
is my comfnt, guard and j v —
Yor thy ‘
¿race will iu ::a t
Kternal joys, without alloy—
Resurrection, ah! this word,
Draws thee to my Saviour Lord.”
“ What 1just now told my br: ; !... - a u
o . net
to every other individual.”
m
The forgoing verses— the la^t strop!»»: o: *• • >
being from the same hymn— ¿lie had ric -'-r cortimi ttd
to memory.— S ’
iTe then exhorted every o:»«- i •
•
»?
: era!
most fervently-to love God and tl • ¡m;' it ; well
as to be truly humble and charitable toall, that a r
poor and indigent. Then she called iij m e\. iv <*
, *
present to addrss a silent prayer to God. in ecus:»!«, ration
ol her consecration, saying:
“ This is the last that will take place ; foi the <r.Kniiij;
journeys l shall be consecrated bv a vervain *,f ( i < ' .
namely John Arndt.—Now l am up upon .. mountain
called Golgotha, on which stands nothing but a Temple.
During this consecration two created angels aUo appear,
besides my two guides, as witnesses; before tnv intro»]
tion into tlic temple, a more than refreshing water !*
.'•
.:»
ded me to drink of, by th
.e created angels.—No* 1 j-o .
worm of the earth, I am conducted into the temple.”
After a silence of seven minutes she said:
“ Now my consecration is past.— Arndt aj,| at
once, and without my taking notice, fa!so with.-.ew.
With what a divine clearness, glory and crow ;» c. h ■
»
head, lie appeared with what a high dignity and being:!
words he blessed me, it is impossible tor nK, to e::j,: ;
could you but have heard a single word, you wonId
) %
* •'a f 'i. Nefwrh »finding tfr*
*"' *v *" < tint affVr'K:; *n<l a fc fyïïtu ^
#»f*•f ° *1^1" t i utn necvrreá U> tn/:
‘ » r •< ;»! ' * f f 0 * 4 | f f/i m J vfróosf, b»r*
w *•*•! I M hnm eif be m ! The to# created
’ : «udì ®
r
> j mrend|/form
eriteda f.wr
a;i »*r* fnr, #rr Ifree ff'tred,”
“ I Hr I*kr<j rr.T î «o guides. whether f * t\ * ,rn i r.
*** 7 • * 'f * #f « r ' h U u »c a ’ '"/tre? to w h t’
n they
f+pi:té : If God •'<rmë *'H worthy fa receive it*ym
1 will
fa** t<
* c* - •'ir.• V.* tw^*»* eleni* ' airaetf (#
,-?
ihit resane tW .e v*rsr Mîaw-n»<n. V*t ce# rme lacker-
; • « ft o r . h ' r , ir », • 30<J ‘»o »;*, G « I WÍ 'î fifc,fs J
t e r i l wjth •îofT.', ■ * r „
Hasir* :tttú o ii liùflt i*f Eve sísales, «fie mnI;
M >y m r f t í» m otspiifbed z u i m r gaidef b re left*
I bracher «'«k m fte/'
\\Lrr> *>
fc
e u ^>e i tr fer# a r r î> ic e d *r?z** üf * -
¡ t r f l r J r e » . t r itr d w ith » " r 'o ^ r e * * . n s t nrlsiit^
grftdvalir dit¿pp*ar#><> tr* »fc » * •
* rtdaimd t a n t a le v*
« ik r / c cr*>. feie *'en com encd far "so Mien ft í Í-
Jificn » r i« -e ? ,it v,ere £r*«r*f#2ce«r»^aíf.e*i *he r
yocfi in ‘ ¡gÍBg hym n*, in è (ben d rw W f^ á ü de
iaitrftfl ctj- m a o * e ¿e ío r ^ e r * i & h^r.
Jatnuwß to t ' - 'tw Jtnmdíyfu
Of t^.ue f f jw fifT^d ♦-relre, '-e ertiti» cf
m it a ne »i.rd co iettile-r, becesse fMTftitrftf: t
were B M tfr of the » m e letmr:
«
To act' ".*>i»»**, a, j t r .er, tî e rer : rrd
n:6«(e»i Uil ta rr rp, vol tir h****' Vc* >*£ii»« *
n j - i l t
t
î^
îc sore r>p;d, bit brr n ‘^
r*t
reretOoftiger |
f-an t»eive nioete»91#(«tleadi re^pectir*
j^urnt r v u peiurfr-^ , in one V>cr. Os her first joereer
ehe seated aireada, î .*t aèe s»oai*I I alwaj* haie la c %orr^-.
ibe “lañe*, by her, a* tatúJy trêwrceméer ;
•fie theo u k î tanner;
197
** T k e r e eittu not or»* c ity or* r, »0 v»V*»cs (*<-4 k it *
doeiling r>
!ac* lue that, o* *•*• — ’ »*1 p i
K f k f more »adì, which voi ooly «lo •#< ?mM té tWw |»
gic.r, out far <jrpà*>* it M» : > I*è *••• *»r. 'kit (Wv
tHerv^elttk, are r:ot •et r ,* *ie<J,'r# f *•-ri in *wtVr fr# ^
fco.d %
K»t\t hV' tr ÌH
i< ’ *. ' ' ' ' ' '* '* W«Mrd
«»in'S pomi*. 1rii* fieli! , H'< • 'The A '«« JtT\i
tulw, t/izt they czn co joarnejt, Im.*# iWt» »» i« M
5*pO*,>; ,.e f . t-.trr» j %
*'«•! ’ .> . > " • • ? <# ,*|, ».
it !> te Uttwieit«". .eca«te f‘*e c." .* ■<* *,> r .
K
>a: eternit/. My ¿at *% teN r *. * » *,** . .
reààentx m * k v 'u u m . rear.r, ma- 7 ..
from l!*it ton, onta» 1» vmGie lo u». 1 a *«in bekof1
from,!r*i» a-, mas* »Uri, a< I av»? ne* ir -n •»
» rari.!
asil iro?;i tue I zzt *'f»i:r it a . . , K \ tr*, .
•* a vi', * *,! :ict< < -, , ?"•*{ t iro ra'tos. 1 »l<a’ l
>iy of tHe tf*tizi t graonVor ' f Go l . “
" ' OH/r ritti»/ v i 0 0 . !d f ' fi c i ©n (H e yr* ilr*»fet i j
*wr. : ¿ \
<
t ,t co ' fc
O
O *
. » * **** j •,#
•P**1tke* lajr IH* and ac">r<ffiiy •© ¡1 ^ oot»r*«.
•tódl cai’
.eatri/.»*, *j*;*0. :» l## ,* r ir p t » i
Itti ir» cooU» **?%
* on ; * *■
» • |f ; rostri
i»„‘
. \\t t\
\
yifaa^ r»t tot ^rt ttnt'if of *«r»k».
»» it i» «ko«o lo me 1« iwf raialeptic *leep. | «U«M k
»»cajwWe (# prVUi;»g 017 cxiftesee in t •
•rena.
ij >'eTf, • • «d m t pi»r»ej Wer »dmirafion #f i c
%v; rovr a^d ’ 1. 4. <*, d
br<ltjr ceto- «pakin^ tnrreof *' d
♦v; » >/r,:4 ì>> Ulsriily uktuévm*
tx Si'.H Ifeeremith,
if a ll i^ r 4 r*c/ »p -
1 «treral pa^ea
>v.o y tee Arre JeruvtUm. » #
. a'r^adr on irr%t
jeén^r C
-.stker %yAe oi it a» fo;.o^a:
"Hafi I M d me cor^ecrar u u / Many
,f ' f % *
ei,e^ *'*' «<> i d \rt ,\t far i r tal»r«r
u\h % v y fm e , Ht- JoSt» r»ac c o tr r r ilr il^r/icfed »t
' ' ■"-•'■'• d * il rr iiìim iiiirt
i cit^, oa accodot*f »U u«l'iena« a*/>, ^>' u*r ’>* o i n
' Z Ì Z L ' u Z Z X * * ’? : ' '• «»-
*m h m wrJntkj sud lite #f it are esosi« Ovate •
ioe «atre A (He ’ Uv?» t » dwollta^ » /f >t rry>*;
198
* a a * 1 %i.tzi. anJunmei *iljr great streets,
* 5 ’ c ’ ’ » but r'.e main streets are of con-
i w tii, Ur.c ¿»tt* riM
-H above the other,namely
i • M-:-iinel§ do not stand at the en
; - , ■ -jore, on the gates, for they are
■W! la protect Ute city, but merely to serve asan or-
• 0 •• -....: ' ^at defileth, neither whatso-
|U
*i * * * U A abomination can in no wise enter.,5
* tnclte journey $but one gate is each time
t> me. w ier.ee. at no great distance, lam conduc­
e d into the l ity. The ^atr-s arc composed of precious
*<*. not jo in
- 1together, but as it were, consisting
s i m m n u t , ”
" ^ • tn ».c'C ibe ! the _it-'* ai follows, namely : the
’ * * *c i » ’ka • ; ■ ‘ -ran.<
4 blue like the sky;
<
“ * - . • v
. it:» a dark-red lustre; the fourth
V r r . ke ire*b ¿rmn : t ie fifth of an apparantlf
1rtJ cwliju . rrerunn^N'd with seemingly small white
•lf‘p** , the s \*ii i mill deeper red ; the seventh a
dec,» Nth >. i .c d.-.r'c green ; the ninth again of
Vi' b r j: cn apparently subsiding into yellow ;
the t^ntu rot w r u;d:> the latter colour, but of a yel-
I«* r *.«.»' ; t of eleventh more yellow than red; the
i «• : . • •! , t:.■
\ 1 it were with dark-red stripes.—
St * lurii.ci >
_
•xprt'»LJ herself concerning it thus :
•* Hut I on- splendidly these gates shine, I am incapa-
b’e to express if the rays, they retlect, did not strike me
at a <liaa.ee, ai.d il my guides had given mean explana-
; u
* v ?
: i<*
is colours of the precious stones,it would
ha'C b
* e.t beyond my power, to say any thing definite
im *Je -»'lbjei t. In a mirror we may behold ourselves,
b »• tii*.* !: -»'.re of the precious stones is so great, that we
caun it >
e>
* uiirM‘1
ves therein ; this would exactly appear
p it looking into the Sun, we expected to see our
own figures, as in a mirror.”
“ The wnils around the city are shining white, the
bs;.dings r>f the purest gold, like unto a clear mirror,
m .J the streets so likewise. The buildings are quite
alike, save the one, which is the habitation of God hirn-
ve.'i, and forms a great exception ; if I cast but a single
glance upon the same, [ feel, as if I should sink down
199
and as if it were impossible to endure a %* * b* R»'
ness for but half a minute. 1 « wn biwudf Cif i W *
with this more than transcendent clearer«*. 1« bet » «t*»i
body, not even to mention the Star». 1 c wi d !!*
the buildings are so shining white, a» t- r «*» '«
brilliancy almost insufferable. l«i-v . s; nr > *
■
-
»
its height, and it must become tvidrv, t *
■
. * » »■
<
» r
united, cannot but surpass all comprehension
6‘ The «rates stand respectively on one *i*Je or •»*£,
three and three together, vet not urv < »
.*e ■*, n .
proportionate distance ».from each «»r ; c• »
withstanding, can the dwelling phi *
•«*i t inof. Mg'. tx
-
seen from each gate. I am not U
-d In • _
• !<
*» n
* tt»
immediate vicinity. 1 see many ol the m* \ant% walk
about, some of whom have been named to me by no
guides.”
“ I also asked about the one liurdro 1f miv ,r them
sand, concerning whom 1alre.td\ o:ul o .< » •
.»
I was in the sun, when mv guides ini oou-d me ol t »c.
being in the building, and actually vn_ \
Ni il*t :
stood contemplating all the grandeur, beauties
ry before me, I entirely lost the sen*e ol hra •
. ; n
o*,
until my attention was directed toil, I heard, > - »
the harps, also a load sound of trumpets ; it . . i o*
impossible, long to bear this sweet and «
1•
•1
1_
• i’ fuI in *
In my four last journeys to the sun 1 have j
to the sounding of harps and trumpet", was . o -
insufferable to me, but is by no means to be compared
with that which now 1hear.”
“ In all the streets of the citv, I sec an unaccountable
number of angels, amongst whom l am told, there an*
many, that came hither from the Earth ; but tor i rnh.
of those who came over straight from the Earh, 1 > ,
assured the number consists of but very few. Among»!
several whose names were mentioned ine by my guide, I
only know John Arndt, by whom l was consecrated for
these journeys. Others, whom 1 formerly indicated n
a
servants of God, and who were also promoted to a high
state of bliss, still required improvement, but enjoy now
as great a share of felicity, as Arndt.”
« Each door in the New Jerusalem has its own puper
900
iv c * ■"ei. {!**:<<>% in Hebrew j their beauties having
l«k rf M * ^ f » rbrapfwcd me afid excited my aston-
• I a r ^ c t c U !0 question* concerning the
«*«=■'’ D I <*nl a* h i n v • .n-u* ►
. a- there are grains of
• eft * • *<■! ♦ •’ ir% oI the world, 1 should by far
fc
r - ,
.oeiprc%* • . *
_rra tin**s and glory of God,
• fc*<S Kite torm then n f<( inv ri so short a space of time.
• l ive irlicitt and ... -v, which exist in the N e w J e -
'Wm in * #gCcl all of i n » i»v l.tr, although the latter are
tli«» •«! xow
l e. •*i, m
<
-«*t glorious and divinely beau*
!»(•'. A rea nil it tbrreare i.u* m- but gardens, divided oft*
i ; r ^ r i b i i *o '» e p!xn • f t: e » ‘ r e e ls Into a garden hour-
M f , I i >ir ‘ v ' I se*e in these gardens,
Ur/'.' ir.«l t ;• krr r.-,-, * r ,;i t
J
*e heavenlv bodlPS,
l V**# %
»*itcd. ‘»I r
!o *
.
%
c
*r* and shrubs I can alsogive no
• : r •»•n'.' -t « r i n l o l •
> cti! thr sweetness o f their odours,
. *c w h»lr Mir being I j U tl.cicid. Our finest seasons of
IftB day, art* in r o.'p.nson \
*
. ith the brightness in which
tiiKi d * r ‘.:«t ’ k«- tic darkness o f night campared with
i\ t |i»ht a* noun u.ii. N • ♦a\ would be able to eh-
darr Uut ( o r i second the light thereof, for he would sud-
d r a l ? d r o p doun into a fit o f unconsciousness. How
14/ i .r >un i*. in which God dwells, and what other
f rti ct it co* t a i n s I am unable to state; what with all
the rw .it glory i /»av ♦
» seen, i have Projected a great raa*
t ',ur. ioo*. I * ’iould have asked.”
During each respective journey to the ?un, as we!! as
i V .\(u J ( •usul'r/
/
, 'he always exhorted in the most
energetic mar»ner to repentance and conversion ; descri-
U o g wiih inspiration the sublunity of felicity, as well as
ihc state of toe unhappy and the damned, in all its
horror*.
Although two reporters were always engaged, in re
rd g w ¡iat she «»aid, whilst in a situation capable to
•peak, \ct was it not everv time practicable, to take
down every word : but it all her exhortations, which al­
w a y s a c c o rd e d with the pure word ofGod— all her state-
menu of those felicities, she had witnessed from the
Moon to iiie A e w J e r v a a le m ; her terrible descriptions
o f the unhappy and th e d a m n e d and their situation ; the
mauy remedies n so many case3 ; should have been ena-
merited, tins book would hi»> rooulud to
When her twelfth and last journey inl** ^ f k
f ' '
golem was accomplished, ►
he br f ? *
? 0 **
form anv roore joorflCTi into higher ;c£i«r». ' k * ' * ’ •
form her, concerning which she Mltrd *
*4Mv friend G ie b wud to *
• M? diftffSt Insod
“ although when vou ire iH.;ke, >'*u i ' 4o r » W
“ the many and important rew a' • *. nt r bo« »
4
4<
<
inclosed to you, — the e v m ! .. n: * **
4
i daineJ it so— vet be evei mnuitol I
“ written down and told vou ; n i,•• »• •
• " . ^ wot « *
** upon your heart, but aUo in jour . ! ; i * : • «
1 *1
» ui »
4
4relapse and nut keep the c<» • im in • . %•/ (.id. \ 4
44 would more than lor d a •
•
. v • n»:’ . v r
“ yourself. 1 beseech too. bv at; v r • ami '«a
*4 ly, not only in eternit*, but ;:!mj v
» • «. : - 1 sc .1
“ iu] world, to remain forever faith! : » : fri ■ ,* ,c /.
4
4 that no one may rob vou of juu< ( • » »
“ all the powers oi your body and inn.d, r a t \* » »
“ one day come into our company. 1h . • it in , j
“ re*nunciation of al! that is sinful and divji'cavtiig * •
“ G°d, and is so called ; but all firs o:.-j it be jit in
1
4the least competition with the rev. m j.’' v, . , *<
4
4earnestness did he not say to me ? ltcincn»i>cr fvcin *» ,
ttie glorious felicities and a constant in prove went. *’
Having uttered a de'p sigh, -he -1 . ;
“ i regret but too deeply, that I cm not cv ,«** *
words so energetically, as they were pronounced
his last words were
“ L r
>rd ble3s thee and keep thee : th* /.ord m ake
“ ns/«t« ¡0 sl,me upon thee, an,I be gr.cn,u,
tnc L o rd l
ift up It;« countenance upon litre «,,<1 c .
“ luce peace, Amen ” | | 0w great i , t « I,
ctn (lie looks wlt'cl, l,e regard» and casi» bnck umn
' n ,C . T T T fir*‘ g^irfe telle
will not yet hid roe farewell, but »hall y . t pay ,ne !
uJtei us,Is,, W.thout, however, perloru.iii any ■
journey» with me «ay,ng only , .. My dear , !
M n u g M y be w,th y o „ ! _ « . o o n shall „ e ,ee e a J .
again.
20?
C 0 N C L U a I 0 N .
r : . de she received several Gther visits,
bn’ jonraey« he d:d not perf rm with her any more.
Daring hit y • *■ : which, however each time became
fliorter. v r f
. r. a a:.<i then stated some remedies. On
the *' . .:y. she c m meneed of her own accord to
u«e the remedies she herself had suggested, which produ­
ced th- happiest effect. true she continued still to fall into
short *’ ;mb r b * : t thev were each time shorter and less
p r tfo v n d ; or.I v in reg-nd to her nervous and bodily system
r.er reco.err v . W i t h paroxysms she was
* el seized seven f t'n ■*. b*;t 'hey were not very violent.
HerfdCtsUy ( f clrar-seeing decreased faster, than it
ha 1 increased, a, had t>een a-so predicted bp her repeated -
lv. W hen this situation o f hers drew to a termination,
gne stated, that she r, fall but twice n.ore into a cata-
> r : : ».>. ; . r.arnt.’ r, in T.ureea .cl six months : which prov­
ed true 'o the day and the 'war. During her last sleep she
hat) prescribed a remedv fjr a person in “ Kaufbeyern.”
uhich. according* to accounts re c eive d . did produce toe
most desirable effects. A t the termination o f the lost
»Jeep, she said :
« M r jrnide toils me. that although he vvi’ i still visit me
frequently, yet he-s!:ail no longer render himself visible
fo me. W hen'he took leave, he kissed me three t.raes.
r. j reminded me of all he had told and shewn rnL wit’»
emphasis a.v! great earnest. II s last words penetrated
riiro*;j^i mv marrow and bor.es. o f this I can only repeat
the f j.lowing : improve steadily in piety and the fear
*• of the Lord, shun sin as you would the p.igu?, f.r no*
** thins: is more c-ontamoes titan sin : men become not s:a-
“ ners at once, but ^in increases in them vest!» the str.des
« of a gianr. Lose no: tiie crown that ..as beea s ev. .
“ \oii •and endeavor with all the fa ca d es o f roar m o K
^ * m % *
‘4o n e d j v to ^et into o a j compaar, for ¿ere v e are Sj
/ O m m 9
u happy, eternally happy.
203
“ Looking back upon me, with the most tender lock, u
a brother, he has left r*e suddenly.”
Thus closes the history of one of the mo^t remarkable
cases of somnambulism, true but briefly related I ; »
publisher for v/eighty reasous, had to lea\e f j’ ¡..any ;
ticulars in part, and others altogether, but can give tl r
most solemn assurance, that every thing h-* been »tated
in this book with truth, without ornament and foreign
additions. Considering this declaration clue to the dr r
reader, he takes from him a most cordial leave, with a
sincere wish, that this book may answer the purpose for
whicV.it is intended, namely: the promotion of a true faith
in the promises of the holy word of Ciod!
Revelations, 21. 7.
