{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__anonymous___secret_societies_of_the_middle_ages.pdf","mytitle":"Secret Societies Of The Middle Ages","mylang":"de"}
THE LIBRARY OF ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE.
_QECRET SOCIETIES
MIDDLE AGES
QLONDON:
CHARLES KNIGHT & Co.. LUDGATE-STREET.
HDCCCXXXVXL
'
»sn.L,5'is°~5
/I/4'famed, zz.
15'¢%¢¢_»;¢z
(M uh /2/11;
3"/w¢<;¢m¢
7 //Wm amy,
LONDON ~
ated by W
O
UNDIR THB SUPBRINTBNDBNCB OF THE SOCIETY P012 TBI
-*
/~/-v~
/13_Qz£.yo:v
or vssrvr. KNOWLROB»
, ..
THE LIBRARY
or
ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE.
SECRET' SOCIETIES
OPTHR
MIDDLE AGES.
` G
COMMITTEE.
Chairman.-The Right Hum. IJORD BROUGHAM, I-`.R.S., Member ofthe National
Inulune of France.
Yin#-Cluinnan.-JOHN WOOD, Elq.
Tve1uur:r.~WILLIAM TO0KE,`E|q._, M.P., F.R.S.
W. Allen, Esq., F.R. and R.A.S. George C. Lewls, Esq., A.M.
Clgt.
F. Beaufort, R.N.,F.R. and R.A.S., Thomas Henry Lister, E .
ydrographer to the Admiralty. James Loch, Esq., M.P.:'l".G.S.
G. Burrows, M.D. Gear Long, Enq.. A.M.
Peter Stafford Carey, Euq., A.M. J. V\EeLubhock, Esq., A.M., F.R.., ILA.,
Wllllam Coulson, Esq. and L_S.S.
R. D. Cni , Elq. Sir Fred. Madden, K.C.H.
J. Frederlri Dlnlell, Eq., F.n.s. H. Malden, ll _, A.M.
J. F. Davin, Esq., F.R.S. A. T.
Malllnflinq., A.M,
H. T. Delehoche,
EaB2nF.R.S.
James Henning, luq.
The Rt. Hon. Lord mm. J. Herman lllerlule, Eaq., A.M., F_A.S.
Samuel Duckwordn, Esq. Sir William Moluwonh, Burt., MP.
B. F. Dupps, E .
The
Rlghe
Hon. Lord Nugent.
The Rlghz Revraxe Bishop ofDurl\|m, D.D. W. H. rd. Esq., M_P.
The Rt. Hon. Vlw. Ehrlngum, M.P. The Right Hon, Sir H_P;rnell, BL, M_P.
Sl! Henry Ellis, F.R.S.,PrIn. Lib. Brlt. Mui. Dr.
R§e¢,Sec. ILS., F.K.A.S.
T. F. Ellis, Erq., A.M.. F.R.A.S. Edv. omill ,
Es?"
A.M.
John Elll -leon, M.D., F.R..S. Rlght Hon. lord . Russell, M.P.
Thomu Valconer, Em Slr M. A. Shee, P.R.A., F.R.5.
1. L. Goxosmld, Enq.
'
,and R.A.S. John Abel Smith, Esq., NLP.
B. Gompf 1.z, Elq. I; 'ui R..A.S. The Right Hon. Earl Spemzer.
0. B. u~\»..¢h,l:» md |..s. .mm ruler, sq., r.n.s.
M. D. HN'
Erik
Dr. A. T. Thompson, F.L.S.
Rmvlam ill, 'sq.. .A.S. Thomas Vardon, Esq.
Thelit. _
n. $lrJ.f .vhhouse,Bart.,M.P. H. Waymouth, Esq.
Dlvld Juline, Esq M. J. Whlshuv, Exq., A.M.. l-`_R..S.
Henry B. Ker, Esq John Wrowedey. Eiq.. A.M., F`.R.A.S.
Thou. Hewitt Key, q., A.M. Thomu Wyse. Enq., M.P.
J. T. lander, Enq., M.l'. J. A. Yates, Elq.
THOMAS COATILS, Esq., Secretary, No. 50, Llm>oln'| Inn Fields.
CONTENTS.
Introduction . .
THE ASSASSINS.
CHAPTER I.
State of the World in the Seventh Century-Western
_
Empire--Eastern Empire-Penia-Arabia~ Moham-
med-His probable Motives--Character of his Religion
-The Koran . . . . .
CHAPTER II.
Origin of the Khalifat-The first Khalifs-Extent of the
Arabian Empire-Schism among the Mohammedans
-Soonees and Sheiths-Sects of the latter-The Keis-
aanee-The Zeiditea-The Ghoollat-The Imamee-
Sects of the Imamee-Their political Character-The
Carmathites-Origin of the Fatimite Khalifs--Secret
Society at Cairo-Doctrines taught in it-Its Decline
CHAPTER III.
Ali of Rei-His son Hassan Sabah-Hassan sent to
study at Nishaboor-Meets there Omar Khiam and
Nizam~al-Moolk-Agreement made by them-Hassan
introduced by Nizam to Sultan Malek Shah-Obliged
to leave the Court-Anecdote of him-His own ac-
count ol' his Conversion-Goes to Egypt-Returns to
Persia.-Makes himself Master of Alamoot. . .
Page
I3
2
43
vi coNrsN'rs.
CHAPTER IV.
Page
Description of Alamoot-Fruitless attempts to recover it
-Extension of the Ismdilite Power-The Ismailites
in Syria-Attempt on the Life of Aboo-Hard Issa-
Treaty made with Sultan Sanjar-Death of Hassan-
His Character . . . . . 56
CHAPTER V.
Organization ofthe Society-Names given to the Ismail-
ites-Origin of the name Assassin-Marco Polo's de-
scription of the Paradise of the Old Man of the
Mountain-Description of it given by Arabian writers
Instances of the obedience of the Fedavee . . 66
`
CHAPTER VI.
Keiih Buzoorg Oomeid-AH'airs of the Society in Persia
-They acquire the Castle of Bamias in Syria-Attempt
to betray Damascus to the Crusaders-Murders com-
mitted during the reign of Kellh Buzoorg . . S4
'
CHAPTER VII.
Keiih Mohammed-Murder of the Khalit'-Castles gained
in S ria-Ismailite Confession of Faith-Moha.mmed's
Son iiassan gives himself out for the promised Imam
-His followers puni~hed-Succession of Hassan-He
abolishes the Law-Pretends to be descended from the
Prophet--Is murdered . . . . 93
CHAPTER VIII.
Mohammed II.-Anecdote of the Imam Falchr-ed-deen
-Noor-ed-deen-Conquest of Egypt-Attempt on the
Life of Saladin . . . . . 102
CHAPTER IX.
Sinnn the Dai-al Kebir of Syria-Offers to become a
Christian--His Ambassador murdered by the Templar:
,_1.1_.
CONTENTS.
-Cardinal de Vih-y's Account of the Assassins-Mun
der'of the Marquis of Montferrat-Defence of King
Richard. . . . . . .
CHAPTER X.
Death of Jellal-ed-deen-Character of Ala-ed-deen, his
successor-The Sheikh Jemal-ed-deen-The Astro-
nomer Nasir-ed-deen-The Vizir Sherei`-al-Moolk-
Death of Ala-ed-deen-Succession of Rukn-cd-deen,
the last Sheikh-al-Jebal . . . .
CHAPTER XI.
The Mongols-I-Ioolagoo sent against the Ismailites-
Rukn-ed-deen submits--Capture of Alamoot-Destruo
tion of the Library-Fate of Rukn-ed-deen-Massacre
ofthe Ismailitea-St. Louis and the Assassins-Mission
for the Conversion of the People of Kuhistan-Com
clurion . . . . . .
...l
THE TEMPLARS.
CHAPTER I.
Intro¢luction¢The Crusades-VVrong Ideas respecting
their Origin-True Causes of them-Pi|grimage'-
Pilgrimage of Frotmond-Of the Count of .-njou-
Striking Difference between the Christianity of the
East and that ot' the West-Causes of their different
Characters--Feudalism-The Extent and Force of this
Principle . . . . . .
CHAPTER II.
First Hospital at Jerusalem-Church of Santa Maria de
Latina-Hospital of St. John--The Hospitallers-
Origin of the Templara-Their original Poverty-
Thsy acquire Consideration-St.Bernard-His Cha-
vii
Page
H4
1-IS
156
l69
viii cournms.
racter of the Template-The Order approved of and
confirmed by the Council of Troyes-Proofs of the
Esteem in which they were held . . .
CHAPTER III.
Return of the Templars to the East-Exoneration and
Refutation of the Charge of a Connection with the
Ismailites-Actions of the Templars-Crusade ot'
Louis VII.-Siege oi Ascalon-Sale of Nessir-ed-deen
-Corruption of the Hospitallers-The Bull, Omne
Datum Optimum-Refusal of the Templars to march
against Egypt-Murder of the Ismailite Envoy .
CHAPTER IV.
Heroism of the Templars and Hospitallers-Battle of
Hittin-Cmsade of Richard of England and Philip of
France-Corruption of the Order-Pope Innocent III.
writes a Letter of Censure- Frederic II.--Great
Slaughler of the Templars-Henry III. of England
and the Templars-Power of the Templars in Moravia
-Slaughter of them by the Hospitallers-FsllufAcre
CHAPTER V.
Classes ofthe Templars-The Knights-Their Qualifica-
tions-Mode of Reception-Dress and Arms of the
Knight-Mode of Burial-The Chaplains-Mode ot'
Reception-Dress-Duties and Privileges-The Serv-
ing-Brethren-Mocle of Reception-Their Duties-
The Aiiiliated-Causes and Advantages of AH'iliation
-The Donates and Oblates . . .
'CHAPTER VI.
Provinces of the Order-Eastern Provinces-Jerusalem-
Houses of this Province-Tripolis-Antioch-Cyprus
-Western Provinces-Portugal-Castile and Leon-
-Aragon-France and Auvergne-Normandy-Aquh
taine -
Provence -
England-Germany -
Upper and
Central Italy-Apulia and Sicily . . .
Page
185
199
210
0
~
241
<:oN'rEN'rs.
CHAPTER VII.
0Hicer~s of the Order-The Master-Mode of Election-
Hiu Rights and Privileges-Restraints on him-The
Seneschal-The Marshal-The Treasurer--The Draper
--The Tureopilsr-Great-Priors -Commanders--Visb
tors-Sub-Marshal-Standard-bearer . . .
CHAPTER VIII.
Chapters-Mode of holding them-Templars' Mode of
Living-Amusements-Conduct in War . .
CHAPTER IX.
Molsy elected Master-Last attempt of the Christians in
Syria-Conduct of the Three Military Orders-Philip
the Fair and Pope Boniface VIII.-Seizure of the
Pope-Election of Clement V.--The Papal See removed
to France-Causes of Philip's enmity to the Templars
-Arrival of Malay in France-His interviews with the
Pope-Charges made against the Templars-Seizure
of the Knights-Proceedings in England-Nature of
the Charges against the Order . . .
CHAPTER X.
Examination of the captive Knights-Diiferent kinds of
Torture-Causes of Confession-VVhat Confessions
were made-Templars brought before the Pope-Their
Declarations-Papal Commission-Molay brought be-
fore it-Ponsard de Gini-Defenders of the Order-
Act of Accusation-Heads of Defence--Witnesses
against the Order-Fifty-four Templars committed to
the Flames at Paris-Remarkable words of Aymeric
de Villars-le~l)uc-Templars bumt in other places-
Further Examinations-The Head worshipped by the
Templars-John de Pollincourt-Peter de la Palu .
CHAPTER XI.
Examinations in England-Germany-Spain-Italy-
Naples and Provenw-Sicily-Cyprus-Meeting of the
ix
Page
253
266
276
293
X CUNTBNTS.
,
Page
Council of Vienne-Suppression of the Order-Fate
of its Members-Death of Molay . . . 317
-
'run
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction-The Original Westphalia-Conquest of
the Saxons by Charlemagne-His Regulations-Dukes
of Saxony--State of Germany-Henry the Lion-
His Outlawry-Consequences ot' it-Origin of German
Towns-Origin of the Fehm-gerichte, or Secret Tri-
bunals-Theories of their Origin-Origin of their
Name-Synonymous Terms . . . 332
CHAPTER II.
The Tribunal-Lord-'Ure Count-The Schiippen-The
Messengers-The Public Court-The Secret Tribunal
-Extent of its Jurisdiction--Places of holding the
Courts-Time of holding them-Proceedings in them
-Process where the Criminal was
caught in the fact
-Inquisitorial Process . . . . 346
CHAPTER III.
Accusstorial Process-Persons liable to it-Mode of
Citation-Mode of Procedure-Right of Appeal . 360
CHAPTER IV.
The General
Chapter-Rights
of the Emperor-Of his
Lieutenant-Of the Stu lherrn, or Tribunal-Lords . 372
CHAPTER V.
Fehm-courts at Celle--At Bnmswick-Tribunal of the
Knowing in the Tyrol-The Castle of Baden-African
Purrahs . _ » . . . 377
,__
com-rams. xi
Page
CHAPTER VI.
The Emperor lewis the Bavarian-Charles lV.-Wen-
ceslaus-Rupertian Reformation-Encroachments of
the Fehm-courts-Case of Nickel Weller and the
Town of Gdrlitz-Of the Ciiy of Dantzig-Of Hans
David and the Teutonic Knights-Other instances of
the presumption of the Free-counts-Citation of the
Emperor Frederic III.-Case ofthe Count of Tecken-
burg
'
. . . . . . 385
CHAPTER VII.
Cause of the degeneracy of the Fehm-courts-Attempts
at reformation-Causes of their high reputation-Case
of the Duke of Wirtemberg-Of Kerstian Kerkerink
-Causes of the Decline of the Fehm-jurisdiction . 398
Y
Googlc ,'
-4
I r
me
1
-
SECRET SOCIETIES
OF
THE MIDDLE AGES.
`
INTRODUCTION.
IF we had the means of investigating historically the
origin of Secret Societies, we should probably find
that they began to be formed almost as soon as any
knowledge had been accumulated by particular indi-
viduals beyond what constituted the common stock.
The same
thing has' happened to knowledge that
has happened to all other human possessions,-its
actual holders have striven to keep it to themselves.
It is true that in this case the possessor of the advan-
tage does not seem to have the same reason for being
averse to share it with others which naturally operates
in regard to many good things of a different kind;
he does not, by imparting it to those around him,
diminish his own store. This is`true, in so far as
regards the possession of knowledge considered in
its character of a real good; the owner of the trea-
sure does not impoverish himself by giving it away,
as he would by giving away his money, but remains
as rich as ever, even after he has made ever so
many
others as rich as himself. But still there is one thing
that he loses, and a
thing upon which the human
mind is apt to set a
very high value; he loses the
distinction which he derived from his knowledge.
This distinction really serves, in many respects, the
2 SECRET SOCIETIES.
same purpose that money itself does. Like money,
it brings observation and worship. Like money, it
is the dearest of all things, power. ~Knowledge,
however held, is indeed essentially power; to ken,
that is, to know, is the same word and the same
thing with to can, that is, to be able. But there is
an additional and a differelit species of power con-
ferred by knowledge when it exists as the distinction
of afew individuals in the midst of general ignorance.
Here it is, power not only to do those things the
methods of doing which it teaches; it is, besides, the
power of governing other men
through your compa-
rative strength and their weakness.
So strong is the motive thus prompting the pos-
sessor of knowledge to the exclusive retention oi' his
acquisitions, that unless it had been met by another
motive appealing in like manner directly to our self-
interest, it appears probable that scarcely any gene-
ral dissemination of knowledge would ever have
taken place. The powerful counteracting motive in
question is derived from the consideration that in
most cases one of the most effective ways which the
possessor of knowledge can take of exciting the ad-
miration of others, is to communicate what he knows.
The light must give itself forth, and illuminate the
world, even'that it may be itself' seen and admired. In
the very darkest times, the scholar or philosopher
may find his ambition sufficiently gratified by the
mere reputation of superior attainments, and the
stupid wonder, or it may be superstitious terror, of
the uninquiring multitude. But as soon as any
thing like a
spirit of intelligence or of curiosity has
sprung up in the general mind, all who aspire to
fame or consideration from their learning, their dis-
coveries, or their intellectual powers, address them-
selves to awaken the admiration of their fellow-men,
not by concealing, but by displaying their know-
INTRODUCTION. 3
ledge-not by sealing up the precious fountain, but
by allowing its waters to dow freely forth, that all
who choose may drink of them. From this time
science ceases almost to have any secrets; and, all
the iniiuences to which it is exposed acting in the
same direction, the tendency of knowledge becomes
wholly diffusive.
But in the preceding state of things the case was
altogether the reverse. Then there was little or no
inducement to the communication of knowledge, and
every motive for those who were in possession of it
to keep it to themselves. There was not intelligence
enough abroad to appreciate, or even to understand,
the truths of philosophy if they had been announced
in their simplicity, and explained according to their
principles; all that was cared for, all that was capable
ofarousing the vulgar attention, was some
display,
made as
surprising and mysterious as
possible, of
their practical application. It would even have been
attended with danger in many cases to attempt to
teach true philosophy openly, or to make open pro-
fession of it; it was too much in opposition to some
of the strongest prejudices which everywhere held
sway. It is not, then, to he wondered at, that its cul-
tivators should have sought to guard and preserve it
by means of secret associations, which, besides ex-
cluding the multitude from a participation in the
thing thus fenced round and hidden, answered also
divers other convenient purposes. They afforded
opportunities of free conference, which could not
otherwise have been obtained. There was much in
the very forms of mystery and concealment thus
adopted calculated to impress the popular imagina-
tion, and to excite its reverence and awe.
Finally,
the veil which they drew around their proceedings
enabled the members of these secret societies to
combine their efforts, and arrange their plans, in
B 2
4 saonar SOCIETIES. _
security and without interruption, whenever they che-
rished any designs of political innovation, or other
projects, the open avowal and prosecution of which
the established authorities would not have tolerated.
The facilities afforded by the system of secret asso-
ciation, and it may even be said the temptations
which it presents, to the pursuit of political objects
forbidden by the laws, are so great as to justify all
governments in prohibiting it, under whatever pre-
tence it may be attempted to be introduced. It is
nothing to the purpose to argue that under bad go-
vernments valuable political reforms have sometimes
been etfected by such_ secret associations which would
not otherwise have been attained. The same mode
of proceeding, in the nature of the thing, is equally
efficacious for the overthrow of a
good government.
Bad men are as
likely to combine in the dark for
their objects as
good men are for theirs. In any
circumstances, a. secret association is an
imperium
in imperio, a
power separate from, and independent
of, that which is recognized as the supreme power
in the state, and therefore something essentially dis-
organizing, and which it is contrary to the first prin-
ciples of all government for any state to tolerate. In
the case of a bad government, indeed, all means are
fairly available for its overthrow which are not
morally objectionable, the simple rule for their ap-
plication being that it shall be directed by considera-
tions of prudence and discretion. In such a case
a secret association of the friends of reform may
sometimes be found to supply the most effective
means for accomplishing the desired end; but that
end, however desirable it may be, is not one which
the constitution of the state itself can rationally con-
template. The constitution cannot be founded upon
the supposition that even necessary alterations of it
are to be brought about through agencies out of
IN TRODUCTION. 5
itself, and forming no
part of its regular mechanism.
Whenever such agencies are
successfully brought
into operation, there is a revolution, and the constitu~
tion is at an end. Even the amendment of the con-
stitution so eflected is its destruction.
Yet most ot' the more remarkable secret associa-
tions which have existed in different ages and coun-
tries have probably either been originally formed to
accomplish some political end, or have come to con-
template such an
object as their chief design. Even
when nothing more than a reformation of the
national religion has been, as far as can be discovered,
the direct aim of the association, it may still be fairly
considered as of a
political character, from the man-
ner in which religion has been mixed up in almost
every country with the civil institutions of the state.
The effect which it was desired to produce upon the
government may in many cases have been very far
from extending to its complete abolition, and the
substitution of another form of polity; an alteration
in some one particular may have been all that was
sought, or the object of the association may even
have been to support some
original principle ot' the
constitution against the influence of circumstances
which threatened its subversion or modification.
Whether directed to the alteration or to the main-
tenance of the existing order 'of "things, the irregular
and dangerous action of secret combinations is, as
we have said, a
species of force which no state can
reasonably be expected to recognize. But it may
nevertheless have happened at particular emergen-
cies, and during times of very imperfect civilization,
that valuable service has been rendered by such com-
binations to some of the most important interests of
society, and that they have to a considerable extent
supplied the detects of the rude and imperfect ar-
rangements of the ordinary government.
5 SECRET SOCIETIES.
The system of secret association is, indeed, the
natural resource of the friends of political reform, in
times when the general mind is not sufiiciently en-
lightened to appreciate or to support their schemes
for the improvement of the existing institutions and
order of things. To proclaim their views openly in
such circumstances would be of no more use than
haranguing to the desert. They might even expose
themselves to destruction by the attempt. But,
united in a secret association, and availing themselves
of all the advantages at once of their superior know-
ledge and intelligence, and of their opportunities of
acting in concert, a very few individuals may work
with an etl`ect altogether out of proportion to their
number. They may force in a
wedge which in time
shall even split and shiver into fragments the strength
of the existing social system, no matter by how many
ages of barbarism it may be consolidated. Or, in
the absence ofa more regular law and police, they
may maintain the empire of justice by stretching
forth the arm of their own
authority in substitution
for that of the state, which lies paralysed and power-
less, and turning to account even the superstitious
and terrors of the popular imagination by making
these, as excited by their dark organization and mys-
terious forms of procedure, the chain whereby to
secure the popular obedience.
On the whole, the system of secret association for
political objects, even when there is no
dispute about
the desirableness of the ends sought to be accom-
plished, may be pronounced to he a corrective of
which good men will avail themselves only in times
of general ignorance, or under governments that sin
against the first principles of all good government,
by endeavouring to put a
stop to the advancement of
society through the prohibition ofthe open expression
of opinion; but, in countries where the liberty of
INTRODUCTION. _1
discussion exists, and where the pnblic mind is
tolerably enlightened, as entirely unsuited to the
circumstances of the case as it is opposed to the rules
and maxims on which every government must take
its stand that would provide for its own preservation.
In these happier circumstances the course for the
friends of social improvement to follow is to come
forward into the thll light of day as the only place
worthy of their mission, and to seek the realization
of their views by directly appealing to the under-
standings of their fellow-citizens.
One evil to which secret societies are
always ex-
posed is the chance of the ohiects and principles of
their membersbeing misrepresented by those inte-
rested in resisting their power and influence. AS
the wakeful eyes of the government, and of those conf
cerned in the maintenance of the actual system, will
be ever upon them, they must strictly confine the
knowledge of their real views and proceedings to the
initiated, and as their meetings must for the same
reason be held in retired places, and frequently by
night, an opportunity, which is rarely neglected, is
afforded to their enemies of spreading the most
calumnious reports of their secret practices, which,
though conscious of innocence, they may not venture
openly to confute. By arts of this kind the sus-
picions` and aversion of the people are excited, and
they are often thus made to persecute their best
friends, and still to bow beneath the yoke of their real
foes. The similarity of the accusations made against
secret associations in all parts of the world is a suf-
ficient proof of their falsehood, and we should always
listen to them with the utmost suspicion, recollecting
the quarter from which they proceed. Of the spot-
less purity of the Christian religion when first prof
mulgated through the Roman world no one can
entertain a. doubt; yet when persecution obliged its
3 SECRET SOCIETIES.
professors to form as it were a secret society, the
same charges of Thyestian banquets, and of the pro-
miscuousintercourse ofthe sexes, were made against
them, which they themselves afterwards brought, and
with probably as little truth, against the various sects
of the Gnostic heresy. Wherever there is secrecy
there will be suspicion, and charges of something
unable to bear the light of day will be made.
'1'he ancient world presents one secret society of' a.
professedly political character-that of the Pythago-
reans. Of religious ones it might be expected to yield
a rich harvest to the inquirer, when we call to mind
all that has been written in ancient and modern times
concerning the celebrated mysteries. But the origi~
nal Grecian mysteries, such as those of Eleusis, appear
to have been nothing more than public services of
the gods, with some peculiar ceremonies performed at
the charge of the state, and presided over by the ma-
gistrates, in which there were no secrets communicated
to the initiated, no revelation of knowledge beyond
that which was generally attainable. The private
mysteries, namely, the Orphic, Isiac, and Mithraic,
which were introduced from the East, were merely
modes employed by cunning and profligate impostors
for taking advantage of the weakness and credulity
of the sinful and the superstitious, by persuading
them that by secret and peculiar rites, and the in-
vocation of strange deities, the apprehended punish-
ment of sin might be averted. The nocturnal as-
semblies l`or the celebration of these mysteries were
but too often scenes of vice and debauchery, and they
were discountenanced by all good governments. It
is to these last, and not to the Eleusinian mysteries,
that the severe strictures of the fathers of the church
apply*.
The history of Pythagoras and his doctrines is
* See Lobeck's excellent work "
Aglaophamus."
INTRODUCTION.
9
extremely obscure. The accounts of this sage which
have come down to us were not written till many
centuries after his death, and but little reliance
is to be placed on their details. Pythagoras was
a Samian by birth; he Hourished in the sixth cen-
tury before Christ, at the time when Egypt exer-
cised so much influence over Greece, and its sages
sought the banks of the' Nile in search of wisdom.
There is, therefore, no
improbability in the tradition
of Pythagoras also having visited that land of mys-
tery, and perhaps other parts of the East, and marked
the tranquil order of things where those who were
esteemed the wise ruled over the ignorant people.
He may therefore have conceived the idea of uniting
this sacerdotal system with the rigid morals and
aristocratic constitution ofthe Dorian states ofGreece.
His native isle, which was then under the tyranny
of Polycrates, not appearing to him suited for the
introduction of his new system of government, he
turned his eyes to the towns of Magna Graecia, or
Southern Italy, which were at that time in a
highly
Hourishing condition, whose inhabitants were eager
in the pursuit of knowledge, and some of which
already possessed written codes of law. Ile fixed
his view on Croton, one of the wealthiest and most
distinguished of those towns.
Aristocracy was the soul of the Dorian political
constitutions, and the towns of Magna Graecia were
all Dorian colonies ; but in consequence of their ex-
tensive commerce the tendency of the people was at
that time towards democracy. To preserve the aris-
tocratic principle was the object of Pythagoras; but
he wished to make the aristocracy not merely one of
birth; he desired that, like the sacerdotal castes of
the East, it should also have the supremacy in know-
ledge. As his system was
contrary to the general
feeling, Pythagoras saw that it was only by gaining
B 5
10 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the veneration of the people that he could carry it
into effect ; and by his personal advantages of beauty
of form, skill in gymnastic exercises, eloquence, and
dignity, he drew to himself the popular favour by
casting the mantle of mystery over his doctrines. He
thus at once inspired the people with awe for them,
and the nobles with zeal to become initiated in his
secrets.
The most perfect success, we are told, attended
the project of the philosopher. A total change of
manners took place in Croton; the constitution be-
came nearly Spartan ; abody of 300 nobles, rendered
by the lessons of the sage as
superior to the people in
knowledge of every kind as
they were in birth, ruled
over it. The nobles of the other states tlocked to Cro-
ton to learn how to govern by wisdom; Pythagorean
missionaries went about everywhere preaching the
new
political creed; they inculcated on the people
religion, humility, and obedience; such of the nobles
as were deemed capable were initiated in the wisdom
of the order, and taught its maxims and princi-
ples ; a golden age, in which power was united with
wisdom and virtue, seemed to have begun upon
earth.
But, like every thing which struggles against the
spirit of the age, such a
political system was 11ot
fated to endure. While Croton was the chiefseat of
Pythagoreanism, luxury had fixed her throne in the
neighbouring city of Sybaris. The towns were rivals:
One or the other must full. It was little more than
thirty years after the arrival of Pythagoras in Croton
that a furious war broke out between them. Led by
Milo and other Pythagoreans, who were as
expert
in military affairs as skilled in philosophy, the Cro-
toniates utterly annihilated the power of their rivals,
and Sybaris sank to rise no more. But with her
sank the power of the Pythagoreans. They judged
INTRODUCTI ON. 1 1
it inexpedient to give a
large share of the booty to
the people; the popular discontent rose; Cylon, a
man who had been refused admittance into the order,
took advantage of it, and urged the people on; the
Pythagoreans were all massacred, and a
democracy
established. All the other towns took example by
Croton, a
general persecution of the order com-
menced, and Pythagoras himself was obliged to seek
safety in Bight, and died far away from the town
which once had received him as a
prophet. The
Pythagoreans never made any further attempts at
attaining political power, but became a mere sect of
mystic philosophers, distinguished by peculiarities of
food and dress.
"
Ancient times present us with no other society of
any importance to which we can properly apply the
term secret.
The different sects of the Gnostics, who are
by
the fathers of the church styled heretics, were to a
certain extent secret societies, as they did not pro-
pound their doctrines openly and puhlicly ; but their
history is so scanty, and so devoid of interest, that
an examination of it would offer little to detain ordi-
nary readers.
The present volume is devoted to the history ot
three celebrated societies which Hourished during the
middle ages, and of which, as far as we know, no
full and satisfactory account is to be found in English
literature. These are the Assassins, or Ismailites,
of the East, whose name has become in all the lan~
guages of Europe synonymous with murderer, who
were a secret society, and of whom we have in gene-
ral such vague and indistinct conceptions; the mili-
tary order of the Knights Templars, who were most
barbarously persecuted under the pretext of their
holding a secret doctrine, and against whom the
charge has been renewed at the present day; and,
12 SECRET SOCIETIES.
iinally, the Secret Tribunals of Westphalia, in Ger-
many, concerning which all our information has
hitherto been derived from the incorrect statements
of dramatists and romancers*.
It is the simplicity of truth, and not the excitement
of romance, that the reader is to expect to find in the
following pages,--pictures of manners and modes of'
thinking diflerent from our own,-knowledge, not
mere entertainment, yet as large an infusion of the
latter as is consistent with truth and instruction.
*'
Since the present work was
prepared, a translation of
Von Hammer's History of the Assassins has been published
by Dr. Oswald Charles Wood.
13
A
THE ASSASSINS*.
CHAPTER I.
State of the World in the 7th Century-Westem Empire-
Eastern Empire-Persia.-Arabia-Mohammed-His pro-
bable Motives-Character of his Religion-The Koran.
Ar the commencement of the 7th century of the
Christian era a new character was about to be im-
pressed on a large portion of the world. During the
two centuries which preceded, the Goths, Vandals,
Huns, and other martial tribes of the Germanic
race, had succeeded in beating down the barriers
opposed to them, and in conquering and dismember-
ing the Western Empire. They brought with them
and retained their love of freedom and spirit of
dauntless valour, but abandoned their ancient and
ferocious superstitious, and embraced the corrupt
system which then degraded the name of Christianity.
This system, hardened, as it were, by ideas retained
and transferred from the original faith of its new
disciples, which ideas were fostered by those passages
of the books of the Hebrew Scriptures which accorded
with their natural sentiments, atterwards,when allied
with feudalism,engendered the spirit which poured the
hosts of Western Europe over the mountains and
plains of Asia for the conquest of the Holy Land.
*
Hammer's Gnchic/:le d¢r'Auaa|inm (History of the
Assassins), and the same writer's Fundgruben des Orient:
(Mines of the East), M. Jourdain's Ertraif de I'0uvraye de
Mirhhand sur Ia Dynaslie :les lsmaelites, and Malcolm's His-
tory of Persia. are the principal authorities for the following
account of the Assassins.
14 SECRET SOCIETIES.
A diferent picture was at this time presented by
the -empire of the East. It still retained the extent
assigned to it by Theodosius; and all the countries
from the Danube, round the east and south coasts of'
the Mediterranean, to the straits of Gades, yielded a
more or less perfect obedience to the successors of
Constantine. But a
despotism more
degrading,
though less ferocious, than those of' Asia paralyzed
the patriotism and the energy of' their subjects ; and
the acuteness, the contentiousness, and the imagina-
tion of the Greeks, combined with mysticism and the
wild fancy of the Asiatics to transform the simplicity
of the religion of Christ into a
revolting system of
intricate metaphysics and gross idolatry, which aided
the influence of their political condition in chilling
the martial ardour of the people. The various pro-
vinces of the empire were held together by the loosest
and feeblest connexion, and it was
apparent that a
vigorous shock would suffice to dissolve the union.
The mountains of Armenia and the course of the
Euphrates separated the Eastern Empire from that
of Persia. '1`his country had been under the domi-
nionof the people named Parthians at the time when
the eagles of the Roman republic first appeared on
the Euphrates, and defeat had more than once at-
tended the Roman armies which attempted to enter
their confines. Like every dominion not founded on
the freedom of the people, that of the Arsacides (the
Parthian royal line) grew feeble with time, and afierw
a continuance of nearly five centuries the Sceptre of
Arsaces passed from the weak hand of the last
monarch of his line to that of Ardeshir Babegan (that
is the son of Babec), a valiantofiicer of theroyal
army, and a
pretended descendant of the ancient
monarchs of Persia. Ardeshir, to accomplish this
revolution, availed himself of the religious prejudices
of the Persian people. The Parthiau monarchs had
THE ASSASSINS. 15
inclined to the manners and the religion ofthe Greeks,
and the Light-religion-the original faith of Persia,
and one of the purest and most spiritual of those to
which a divine origin may not be assigned-had been
held in slight estimation, and its priests unvisited by
royal favour- It was the pride and the policy of
Ardeshir to restore the ancient religion to the dignity
which it had enjoyed under the descendants of' Cyrus,
and Religion, in return, lent her powerful aid to his
plans of restoring the royal dignity to its pristine
vigour, and of infusing into the breast of the people
the love of country and the ardour for extending the
Persian dominion to what it had been of old; and
for 400 years the Sassanides* were the most for-
midable enemies of the Roman empire. But their
dominion had, at the period of which we write, nearly
attained the greatest limit allotted to Oriental dynas-
ties ; and though Noosheerwan the Just had attained
great warlike fame, and governed with a
vigour and
justice that have made his name
proverbial in the
East, and Khoosroo Purveez displayed a magnifi-
cence which is still the theme ot' Persian poetry and
romance, and carried his victorious arms over Syria
and Egypt, and further along the Atrican coast than
even those of Darius I. had been able to advance,
yet defeat from the gallant Emperor Heraclius
clouded his latter days, and the thirteenth year alter
his death, by showing' the Persian armies in flight,
and the palladium of the empire, the jewel-set apron
of the blacksmith Kawah, in the hands of the rovers
ofthe deserts, revealed the secret that her strength
* The name given to the dynasty founded by Ardeshir,
from his pretended ancestor Sassan, a
grandson of Isfundear,
a hero greatly celebrated in the ancient history of Persia.
Isfundeur was the son of Gushtasp, who is supposed to he the
Darius Hystaspes of the Greek historians. Sir John Malcolm
has endeavoured to identity Isfundear with the Xerxes of the
Greeks. A
16 SECRET SOCIETIES.
was departed from Persia. The brilliancy of' the
early part of the reign of Khoosroo Purveez had been
but the Hash belbre death which at times is dis-
played in empires as in individuals. The vigour was
gone which was requisite to stem the torrent of
fanatic valour about to burst forth from the wilds of
Arabia.
It is the boast of Arabia that it has never been
conquered. This immunity from subjugation has,
however, been only partial, and is owing to the
nature ot' the country; for although the barren sands
ot' the Hejaz and Nejed have always baffled the
efforts of hostile armies, yet the more
inviting region
of Yemen, the Happy Arabia of the ancients, has
more than once allured a conqueror, and submitted
to his sway. The inhabitants of this country have
been the same in blood and in manners from the
dawn of history. Brave, but not sanguinary, rob-
bers, but kind and hospitable, of lively and acute
intellect, we find the Arabs, Irom the days of' Abra~
ham to the present times, leading the pastoral and
nomadic life in the desert, agriculturists in Yemen,
traders on the coasts and on the confines of Syria and
Egypt. Their foreign military operations had
hitherto been confined to plundering expeditions
into the last-mentioned countries, unless they were
the Hycsos, or
Shepherd Kings, who, according to
tradition, once made the conquest of Egypt. Arabia
forming a. kind of world in itself, its various tribes
werein ceaseless hostility with each other; but it was
apparent that if its brave and skilful horsemen could
be united under one head, and animated by motives
which would inspire constancy and rouse valour,
they might present a Rirce capable of giving a fatal
shock to the empires of Persia and of Rome.
It is impossible, on
taking a
survey of the history
of the world, not to recognize a great predisposing
THE ASSASSINS. 17
cause, which appoints the time and circumstances of
every event which is to produce any considerable
change in the state of human affairs. 'l`he agency
ot' this overruling providence is nowhere more per-
ceptible than in the present instance. The time was
come for the Arabs to leave their deserts and march
to the conquest of the world, and the man was born
who was to inspire them with the necessary motives.
Mohammed (Illustrious*) was the son of Abd-
Allah (Servant of God), a noble Arab ot' the tribe
of Koreish, which had the guardianship ofthe Kaaba
(Squa-re House ty* Mecca), the Black Stone con-
tained in which (probably an aerolite) had been for
ages an obiect of religious veneration to the tribes of
Arabia. His mother was Amineh, the daughter ol'
a chief' of princely rank. He was
early left an
orphan, with the slender patrimony of five camels
and a. female Ethiopian slave. His uncle, AbQ0
Talib, brought him up. At an early age the
young Mohammed accompanied his uncle to the
lair of Bozra, on the verge of Syria, and in his
18th year he signalized his valour in an engage-
ment between the Koreish and a hostile tribe. At
the age ot' 25 he entered the service of Khadijah, a
wealthy widow, with wlmse merchandise he visited
one ofthe great fairs of Syria. Mohammed, though
poor, was noble, handsome, acute, and brave;
Khadijah, who was fifteen years his senior, was in-
spired with love _; her passion was returned; and the
"
The Oriental proper names being mostly all significant,
we shall translate them when we iirst employ them. As,
however, it is not always that it can be discovered what the
original Arabic characters are of an eastern Word which we
meet in Roman letters, we shall be sometimes obliged to leave
names unexplained, and at other times to hazard conjectural
ieixphsnatious.
In the last case, we shall affix a mark of
ou t.
18 SECRET SOCIETIES.
gift of her hand and wealth gave the nephew of
Aboo Talib afliuence and consideration.
Mohammed's original turn of mind appears to
have been serious, and it is not unlikely that the
great truth of the Unity of the Deity had been early
impressed on his mind by his mother or his Jewish
kindred. The Koreish and the rest of his country-
men were idolaters; Christianity was now corrupted
by the intermixture of many superstitions; the fire-
worship of the Persians was a
worshipping of the
Deity under a material form; the Mosaic religion
had been debased by the dreams and absurd dis-
tinctions of the Rabbis. A simpler form than any
of these seemed wanted for man. God, moreover,
was believed to have at sundry times sent prophets
into the world for its reformation, and might do
so again; the Jews still looked for their promised
Messiah; many Christians held that the Paraclete
was yet to come. Who can take upon him to
assert that Mohammed may not have believed him-
self to be set apart to the service of God, and ap-
pointed by the divine decree to be the preacher ot' a.
purer faith than any which he then saw existing?
Who will say that in his annual seclusions of fifteen
days in the cave ot' Hira he may not have fallen into
ecstatic visions, and that in one of these waking
dreams the angel Gabriel may not have appeared to
his distempered fancy to descend to nominate him to
the ofiice of a
prophet of God, and present to him,
in a visible form, that portion of his future law which
had probably already passed through his mind*?
* The Kubla. Khan of Coleridge (Poetical Works, vol. i.
p. 266) is a fine instance of this power of the mind, withdrawn
from the contemplation of material objects. The reader will
probably recollect the sign given from heaven to Lord Herbert
of Cherbury, on the occasion of his work written against re-
THE ASSASSINS. 19
A 'certain portion of self-delusion is always mingled
with successful imposture; the impostor, as it were,
makes his tirst experiment on himself It is much
more reasonable to conclude that Mohammed had at
first no other object than the dissemination of truth
by persuasion, and that he may have beguiled
himself into a belief of his being the instrument
selected for that purpose, than that the citizen of a
town in the secluded region of Arabia beheld in
ambitious vision from his mountain-cave his victo-
rious banners waving on the banks of the Oxus and
the Ebro, and his name saluted as that of the Pro-
phet of God by a fourth part of the human race.
Still we must not pass by another, and perhaps a truer
supposition, namely, that, in the mind of Mohammed,
as in that of so
many others, the end justified the
means, and that he deemed it lawful to feign a vision
and a commission from God in order to procure from
men a hearing for the truth.
Whatever the ideas and projects of Mohammed
may originally have been, he waited till he had
attained his tbrtieth year (the age at which Moses
showed himself tirst to the Israelites), and then
revealed his divine commission to his wife Khadijah,
his slave Zeid, his cousin Ali, the son of Aboo
Talib, and his friend, the virtuous and wealthy Aboo
Bekr. It is difficult to conceive any motive but
conviction to have operated on the minds of these
vealed religion. The writer has lately heard au instance of a
lady of fortune, to whom, as she reclined one
day on a sofa,
a voice seemed to come from heaven, announcing to her that
she was selected as the instrument for accomplishing a
great
work in the hands of God ; and givixf, as a
sign, that, for a.
certain number of months, she should be unable to leave the
sofa on which she was
lying. Such is the power of imagination,
that the supposed intimation in regard to the sign actually
took effect; she believed herself to have lost the power of
motion, and therefore did in reality lose it.
20 sscusr SOCIETIES.
dilferent persons, who at once acknowledged his
claim to the prophetic oliice; and it speaks not a
little for the purity of the previous life of the new
Prophet, that he could venture to claim the faith
of those who were most intimately acquainted with
him. The voice of wisdom has assured us that
a
prophet has no honour in his own
country and
among his own kindred, and the example of Mo-
hammed testified the truth of the declaration.
During thirteen years the new religion made but
slow and painful progress in the town of Mecca;
but the people of Yathreb, a town afterwards digni-
fied with the appellation of the City of the Prophet
(Madinat-en-Nabi), were more susceptive of faith;
and when, on the death of Aboo Talib, who pro-
tected his nephew, though he rejected his claims, his
celebrated Flight (Hqira) brought him to Yathreb,
the people of that town took arms in his defence
against the Koreish. It was
probably now that new
views opened to the mind of the Prophet. Prince
of Yathreb, he might hope to extend his sway over
the ungrateful Mecca; and those who had scoffed at
his arguments and persuasions might-be taught
lessons of wisdom by the sword. These anticipa-
tions were correct, and in less than ten years after
the battle of Bedr (the first he fought) he saw his
temporal power and his prophetic character acknow-
ledged by the whole of the Arabian peninsula.
It commonly happens that, when a. new form of
religion is proposed for the acceptance of mankind,
it surpasses in purity that which it is intended to
supersede. The Arabs of the days of Mohammed
were idolaters; 300 is said to have been the number
of the images which claimed their adoration in the
Caaha. A gross licentiousness prevailed among
them; their polygamy had no limits assigned to it*.
*
See, in Sir J. Malcolm's History of Persia, the dialogue
THE ASSASSINS. 21
For this the Prophet substituted the worship of One
God, and placed a check on the sensual propensities
of his people. His religion contained descriptions
of the future state of rewards and punishments, by
which he allured to obedience and terrified from
contumacy or opposition. The pains of hell which
he menaced were such as were most offensive to the
body and its organs; the joys of Paradise were
verdant meads, shady trees, murmuring brooks,
gentle airs, precious wines in cups of gold and silver,
stately tents, ,and splendid sofas; the melody of
the songs of angels was to ravish the souls of the
blessed; the black-eyed Hoories were to be the ever-
blooming brides of the faithful servants of God.
Yet, though sensual bliss was to be his ultimate
reward, the votary was
taught that its attainment
demanded seltldenial on earth; and it has been
justly observed that
"
a devout Mussulman exhibits
more of the Stoical than of the Epicurean charac-
ter*." As the Prophet had resolved that the sword
should be unsparingly employed for the ditiixsion of
the truth, the highest degree of the future bliss was
pronounced to be the portion of the martyrs, i. e.,
of those who fell in the holy wars waged for the
dissemination of the faith. "Paradise," says the
Prophet,
"
is beneath the shadow of swords." At the
between the Persian king Yezdijird and the Arab envoy.
"
Whatever," said the latter,
"
thou hast said regarding the
former condition of the Arabs is true. Their food was
green
lizards; they buried their infant daughters alive; nay, some
of them feasted on dead carcasses and drank blood, while
others slew their relations, and thought themselves great and
valiant when, by such an act, they became possessed of more
property. They were clothed with hair garments, knew not
good from evil, and made no distinction between that which
is lawful and that which 'is unlawful. Such was our state.
But God in his mercy has sent us by a
holy prophet B sacred
volume, which teaches us the true faith," Sec.
*
Hallam, Middle Ages, 165.
22 SECRET SOCIETIES.
day of judgment the wounds of the fallen warrior
were to be resplendent as vermilion, and odoriferous
as musk; and the wings of angels were to supply
the loss of limbs. The religion of Mohammed was
entitled Islam (resignation),whence its votaries were
called by the»Arabs Moslems, and in Persian Mussul-
mans. Its articles of belief were five-belief in God,
in his angels, in his Prophet, in the last day, and in
predestination. Its positive duties were also five-
purification, prayer, fasting, alms, and the pilgrimage
to Mecca. Various rites and observances which the
Arabs had hitherto practised were retained by the
Prophet, either out of regard for the prejudices of his
lollowers, or because he did not, or could not, divest
his own mind of respect for usages in which he had
been reared up from infancy.
Such is a slight sketch of the religion which
Mohammed substituted for the idolatry of Arabia.
It contained little that was original; all its details of
the future state were borrowed from Judaism or from
the Magian system of Persia. The book which
contains it, entitled the Koran (reading), was com-
posed in detached pieces, during a
long series of'
years, by the illiterate Prophet, and taken down from
his lips by his scribes. His own account of its origin
was that each Sura, or revelation, was brought to him
from heaven by the angel Gabriel. It is regarded by
the Mohammedan East, and by most European
Orientalists, as the masterpiece of Arabian literature;
and when we make due allowance for the diH`erence of
European and Arabian models and taste, and con-
sider that the rhyme* which in prose is insufferable
to the former, may to the latter sound grateful, we
may allow that the praises lavished on it are not
* The Hebrews, as
appears from the poetic parts of the
Scriptures, had the same
delight in the clang of rhyme as the
Arabs. See particularly Isaiah in the original.
THE ASSASSINS. 23
unmerited. Though tedious and often childish le-
gends, and long and tiresome civil regulations,occupy
the greater part of it, it is pervaded by a line
'
strain
of fervid piety and humble resignation to the will of
God, not unworthy of the inspired seers of Israel;
and the sublime doctrine of the Unity of God runs
like a vein of pure gold through each portion of the
mass, giving lustre and dignity to all. Might we
not venture to say that Christianity itself has derived
advantage from the imposture of Mohammed, and
that the clear and open profession of the Divine
Unity by their Mohammedan enemies kept the
Christians of the dark ages from smothering it be-
neath the mass of superstition and fable by which they
corrupted and deformed so much of the majestic
simplicity of the Gospel? No one, certainly, would
dream of comparing the son of Abd-Allah with the
Son of God, of setting darkness by the side of light;
but still we may confess him to have been an agent
in the hands of the Almighty, and admit that his
assumption of the prophetic oflice was
productive of
good as well as of evil.
The Mohammedan religion is so
intimately con-
nected with history, law, manners, and opinions, in
the part of the East of which we are about to write,
that this brief view of its origin and nature was indis-
pensable. We now proceed to our history.
.i-_iii
24 'sncnm socmrms.
CHAPTER Il.
Origin of the Khalifat-The iirst Khalifs-Extent of the
Arabian Empire-Schism among the Moharnmedans-
Soonees and Sheiihs-Sects ot' the latter-The Keissanee-
The Zeidites-The Ghoollat-The Imamee-Sects of the
Imamee-Their political Character-The Currnathites-
Origin of the Fatimite Khalifs-Secret Society at Cairo-
Doctrines taught in it-Its Decline.
THE civil and ecclesiastical dignities were united _in
the person of Mohammed. As Emir (prince) he ad-
ministered justice and led his followers to battle; as
Imam (director) he on every Friday (the Moham-
medan sabbath) taught the principles and duties of
religion from his pulpit. Though his wives were
numerous, the Prophet had no male issue surviving
at the time when he felt the approaches of death;
but his daughter Fatima was married to his cousin
Ali, his early and faithful disciple, and it was natu-
rally to be expected that the expiring voice of the
Prophet would nominate him as his Khalif (successor)
over the followers of his faith. But Ayesha, the
daughter of Aboo Bekr, Moharnmed's youthtiil and
best beloved wife, was
vehemently hostile to the son
of Aboo Talib, and she may have exerted all the in-
fluence of a
revengeful woman over the mind of the
dying Prophet. Or perhaps Mohammed, like Alex-
ander, perplexed with the extent of dominion to
which he had attained, and aware that only a
vigour
of character similar to his own would avail to retain
and enlarge it, and, it may be, thinking himself an-
'rua Asssssuvs. 25
swerable to God for the choice he should make,
deemed it the safest course to leave the matter to the
free decision of his surviving followers. His ap-
pointing Aboo Bekr, a few days before his death, to
ofiiciate in his pulpit, might seem to indicate an in-
tention of conferring the khalifat on him; and he is
said to have at one time declared that the strength of
character displayed by his distinguished follower,
Omar, evinced his possession of the virtues of a
prophet and a khalif Tradition records no
equally
jgong
declaration respecting the mild and virtuous
1.
At all events the Prophet expired without having
named a successor, and the choice devolving on his
companions dissension was ready to break out, when
Omar, abandoning his own claims, gave his voice for
Aboo Bekr. All opposition was thus silenced, and
the father of Ayesha reigned for two years over the
faithful. Ali at first refused obedience, but he finally
acknowledged the successor of the Prophet. When
dying, Aboo Bekr bequeathed the sceptre to Omar,
as the worthiest, and when, twelve years afterwards,
Omar perished by the dagger of an assassin, six
electors conferred the vacant dignity on Othman, who
had been the secretary of the Prophet. Age having
enfeebled the powers of Othman, the reins of autho-
ri ly were slackened, and a spirit of discord pervaded
all Arabia, illustrative of the Prophet's declaration of
vigour being essential to a khalitl A numerous
body of rebels besieged the aged Othman in Medina,
and he was slain, holding the Koran in his lap, by a
band of murderers, headed by the brother of Ayesha,
who, the firebrand of Islam, it is probable had been
secretly active in exciting the rebellion.
The popular choice now fell upon Ali, but the im-
placable Ayesha stimulated to revolt against his au-
c
26' SECRET SOCIETIES.
thority two powerful Arab chiefs, named Telha and
Zobeir, who raised their standards in the province of
Arabian Irak. Ayesha, mounted on a camel, ap-
peared in the thickest of the battle, in which the rebel
chiefs were defeated and slain. The generous Ali
sent her to dwell at the tomb of the Prophet, where
she passed in tranquillity the remainder of her days.
The khalif himself was less fortunate. Moawiya,
the Governor of Syria, son of Aboo Sofian, the most
violent of the opponents of the Prophet, assumed
the office of the avenger of Othman, whose death he
charged on Ali and his party, and, declaring himself
to be the rightful khalifl roused Syria to arms
against
the Prophet's son-in-law. In the war success was on
the side of Ali, till the superstition of his troops
obliged him to agree to a
treaty; and shortly after-
wards he was murdered by a fanatic in the mosk
of Coofa. His son Hassan was induced by Moawiya
to resign his claims and retire to the city of Medina.;
but his more high-spirited brother, Hussein, took
arms
against the khalif Yezid, the son of Moawiya;
and the narrative of his death is one of the most pa-
thetic and best related incidents of Oriental history*.
The sisters and children ot' Hussein were spared by
the clemency of the victorious Yezid, and from them
descend a numerous race, glorying in the blood of
Ali and the Prophet.
The Arabian empire was now of immense extent.
Egypt, Syria, and Persia had been conquered in the
reign of Omar. Under the first khalifs of the
dynasty of the Ommiades (so called from Ommiyah,
the great-grandfather of Moawiya), the conquest ol'
Africa and Spain was achieved, and the later princes
of this family ruled over the most extensive empire
of the world.
*
See 0ckley's History of the Saracenm
THE ASSASSINS. 27
The great schism of the Mohammedan church
(we must be permitted to employ this term, the only
one our
language affords) commences with the ac-
cession of the house of Ommiyah. The Moham-
medans have, as is generally known, been from that
time to the present day divided into two great sects,
the Soonees and the Sheahs, the orthodox and,the
dissenters, as we might venture to call them, whose
opposite doctrines, like those of the Catholics and the
Protestants of the Christian church, are each the
established faith of great and independent nations.
The Ottoman and the Usbeg Turks hold the Soonee
faith; the Persians are violent Sheahs; and national
and religious animosity concur in making them the
determined and inveterate foes of each other.
The Soonees hold that the first four khalifs were
all legitimate successors of the Prophet; but as their
order was determined by their degree of sanctity,
they assign the lowest rank to Ali. The Sheahs, on
the contrary, maintain that the dignity of the Pro-
phet rightfully descended to the son of his uncle and
the husband of his daughter. They therefore regard
Aboo Bekr, Omar, and Othman, as
usurpers, and
curse and revile their memory, more especially that
of the rigid Omar, whose murderer they venerate as
a saint. It must be steadily kept in mind, in every
discussion respecting the Mohammedan religion,
that Mohammed and his successors succeeded in
establishing what the lofty and capadious mind of
Gregory VII. attempted in vain-the union of the
civil and ecclesiastical powers in the same person.
Unlike the schisms of the eastern and western, of
the Catholic and Protestant churches, which origi-
nated in difference of opinion on points of discipline
or matters of doctrine, that of the Mohammedans
arose
solely from ambition and the struggle for tem-
poral power. The sceptre of the
greates;empire of
c
28 _
sEcRE'r socmrms.
the world was to be the reward of the party who
could gain the greatest number of believers in his
right to grasp the staff and ascend the pulpit of the
Prophet of God. Afterwards. when the learning of
the'Greeks and the Persians became familiar to the
Arabs, theological and metaphysical niceties and
distinctions were introduced, and the two great stems
of religion threw out numerous sectarian branches.
The Soonees are divided into four main sects, all of
which are, however, regarded as orthodox, for they
agree in the main points, though they differ in subor-
dinate ones. The division of the Sheahs is also into
four sects, the point of agreement being the assertion
of the right of Ali and his descendants to the imamat,
or
supreme ecclesiastical dignity; the point of differ-
ence
being the nature of the proof on which _his
rights are founded, and the order of succession
among his descendants. These four sects and their
opinions are as follows:-
I. The first and most innocuous of the sects which
maintained the rights of the family of Ali were the
Keissanee, so named from Keissan, one of his freed-
men. These, who were subdivided into several
branches, held that Ali's rights descended, not to
Hassan or Hussein, but to their brother, Mohammed-
ben-Hanfee. One of these branch-sects maintained
that the imamat remained* in the person of this
Mohammed, who had never died, but had since
appeared, from time to time, on earth, under various
names. Another branch, named the Hashemites,
held that the imamat descended. from Mohammed-
ben-Hanfee to his son Aboo-Hashem, who trans-
mitted it to Mohammed, of the family of Abbas,from
whom it descended to Saffah, the founder of the
Abbasside dynasty of khalilsf. It is quite evident
*
Hence they were named the Standing (Wall/iyah).
1° Abbas, the ancestor of this family, was one ofthe uncles
THE ASSASSINS. 29
that the object of this sect was to give a colour to
the claims of the family of Abbas, who stigmatized
the family of Ommiyah as
usurpers, and insisted
that the khalifat belonged of right to themselves.
Aboo-Moslem, the great general who first gave do-
minion tothe family of Abbas, was a real or pre-
tended maintainer of the tenets of this sect, the only
branch, by the way, of the Sheahs which supported
the house of Abbas.
II. A second branch of the Sheiihs was named
Zeidites. These held that the imamat descended
through Hassan and Hussein to Zein-al-Abedeen, the
son of this last, and thence passed to Zeid (whence
their name), the son of Zein; whereas most other
Sheahs regarded Mohammed Bakir, the brother of
Zeid, as the lawful imam. The Zeidites differed
from the other Sheahs in acknowledging the three
first khalifs to have been legitimate successors of the
Prophet. Edris, who wrested a
part of Africa from
the Abbasside khalifs, and founded the kingdom of
Fez, was a real or
pretended descendant of Zeid.
III. The Ghoollat (Ullras), so named from the
extravagance of their doctrines, which, passing all
bounds of common sense, were held in equal abomi-
nation by the other Sheahs and by the Soonees.
This sect is said to have existed as early as the time
of Ali himself, who is related to have burnt some of
them on account of their impious and extravagant
of the Prophet. They obtained possession of the khalifat
..n. 750, and retained it through an hereditary succession of
princes for 500 years. Al-Mansour, the second khalit' oi' this
dynasty, transferred the royal residence from Damascus, where
the Ommiades had dwelt, to Bagdad, which he founded on
the banks of the Tigris. This city, also named the City of
Peace, the Vale of Peace, the House of Peace, has acquired,
beyond what any other town can claim, a degree of romantic
celebrity by means of the inimitable Thousand and One
Nights. Such is the ennobling power of genius!
c 3
3 0 SECRET SOCIETIES.
opinions. They held, as we are told, that there was
but one imam, and they ascribed the_qualities of
divinity to Ali. Some maintained that there were
two natures (the divine and the human) in him,
others that the last alone was his. Some again said
that this perfect nature of Ali passed by transmigration
through his descendants, and would continue so to
do till the end of all things; others that the trans-
mission stopped with Mohammed Bakir, the son of
Zein-al-Abedeen, who still abode on earth, but 'un-
seen, like Khizer, the Guardian of the Well of Life,
according to the .beautiful eastem legend*. Others,
still more bold, denied the transmission, and asserted
that the divine Ali sat enthroned in the clouds,where
the thunder was the voice and the lightning the
scourge wherewith he terrified and chastised the
wicked. This sect presents the first (though a very
early) instance of the introduction into Islam of that
mysticism which appears to have had its original
*
Khizer, by some supposed, but perhaps erroneously, to
be the prophet Elias, is regarded bythe Mohammedans in
the light of a beneiicent genius. He is the giver of youth to
the animal and the vegetable world. He is clad in garments
of the most brilliant green, and he stands as keeper of the
Well of Life in the Land of Darkness. According to the
romances ofthe East, Iskander, that is, Alexander the Great,
resolved to march into the West, to the Land of Darkness, that
he might drink of the water of immortality. During seven
entire days he and his followers journeyed through dark and
dismal deserts. At length they tixintly discerned in the dis~
tance the reen light which shone from the raiment of Khizer.
As they advanced it became more and more resplendent, like
the brightest and purest emeralds. As the monarch ap-
proached, Khizer dipped a cup in the verdant 'Vater of Lite,
and reached it to him ; but the impatience of Iskander was so
great that he spilt the contents of the cup, and the law of fate
did not permit the guardian of the fount to fill it for him
again. The moral ot' this tale is evident. Its historic foun-
dation is the journey ot' the Macedonian to the temple of
Ammon.
THE ASSASSINS. 31
birth~place in the dreamy groves of India. As a
political party the Ghoollat never seem to have been
formidable.
IV. Such, however, was not the case with the
Imamee, the most dangerous enemies of the house
ot`Abbas._ Agreeing with the Ghoollat in the doc-
trine of an invisible imam, they maintained that
there had been a series of 'visible imams antecedent
to him, who had vanished. One branch of this sect
(thence called the Seveners-Sebiin) closed the series
with Ismail, the grandson of Mohammed Bakir,
the seventh imam, reckoning Ali himself the first.
These were also called Ismailites, from Ismail. The
other branch, called Imamites, continued the series
from Ismail, through his brother Moosa Casim,
down to Askeree, the twelfth imam. These were
hence called the Twelvers (Esnaashree). They
believed that the imam Askeree had vanished in a
cavern at Hilla, on the banks of the Euphrates,
where he would remain invisible till the end of the
world, when he would again appear under the name
of the Guide (Mehdee) to lead mankind into the
truth. The Imamee, wherever they might stop in
the series of the visible imams, saw that, for their
political purposes, it was
necessary to acknowledge a
kind of locum tenentes imams; but, while the Zeid-
ites, who agreed with them in this point, required in
these princes the royal virtues of valour, generosity,
justice, knowledge, the Imamee declared themselves
satisfied if they possessed the saintly ones of the
practice of prayer, lasting, and alms-giving. Hence
artful and ambitious men could set 1p any puppet
who was said to be descended from the last ot' the
visible imams, and aspire to govern the Mohammedan
world in his name.
-
The '1'welvers were very near
obtaining possession
of the khalifat in the time of the first Abbassides;
i
I
l
32 SECRET SOCIETIES.
for the celebrated Haroon Er-Rasheed's son, Al-
Mamoon, the eighth khalif of that house, moved
either by the strength or
preponderance which
the Sheah party had arrived at, or, as the eastern
historians tell us, yielding to the suggestions of his
vizir, who was devoted to that sect, named Ali Riza,
the eighth imam, to be his successor on the throne.
He even laid aside the black habiliments peculiar to
his family, and wore green, the colour ol' Ali and
the Prophet. But the family of Abbas, which now
numbered 30.000 persons, refused their assent to
this renunciation of the rights of their line. They
rose in arms, and proclaimed as khalif Al-Mamoon's
uncle Ibrahim. The obnoxious vizir perished, and
the opportune death of Ali Riza. (by poison, as was
said) relieved the son oi' Haroon-Er-Rasheed from
embarrassment. Ali Riza was interred at Meshed,
in the province of Khorasan ; and his tomb is, to the
present day, a
place of pilgrimage for devout Per-
sians'.
The Ismailites were more successful in their at-
tempts at obtaining temporal power; and, as we
shall presently see, a considerable portion of their
dominions was wrested from the house of Abbas.
Religion has, in all ages, and in all parts of the
world, been made the mask of ambition, for which
its powerful influence over the minds ofthe ignorant
so well qualifies it. But the political influence of
religion among the calmer and more reasoning na-
tions of Europe is slight compared with its power
over the more ardent and susceptible natives of Asia.
Owing to the elfects of this principle the despotism
ofthe East has never been of that still, undisturbed
nature which we might suppose to be its character.
To say nothing of the bloody wars and massacres
which have taken place under the pretext of religion
*
See Frazer-'s Khorassn,
THE NSSASSINS. 33
in the countries from Japan to the Indus, the Mo-
hammedan portion of the East has been, almost
vithout ceasing, the theatre of sanguinary dramas,
where ambition, under the disguise of religion, sought
for empire ; and our own days have seen, in the ease
of the Wahabees, a bold though unsuccessful attempt
of fanaticism to achieve a revolution in a
part of the
Ottoman empire. It was this union of religion with
policy which placed the Suffavee family on the throne
of Persia in the fifteenth century; and it was this
also which, at a much earlier period, established the
dominion of the Fatimite khalils of Egypt. The
progress of this last event is thus traced by oriental
historians* :-
The encouragement given to literature and science
by the enlightened Al-Mamoon had diffused a
degree
of boldness of speculation and inquiry hitherto un-
known in the empire of the Arabs. The subtile
philosophy of the Greeks was now brought into
contact with the sublime but corrupted theology of
the Persians, and the mysticism of India secretly
mingled itself with the mass of knowledge. We are
not, perhaps, to give credit to the assertion of the
Arab historian that it was the secret and settled plan
ot' the Persians to undermine and corrupt the reli-
gion, andythus sap the empire, of those who had
overcome them in the field; but it is not a little
remarkable that, as the transformation of the Mosaic
religion into Judaism may he traced to Persia, and
as the same country sent forth the monstrous opi-
nions which corrupted the simplicity of the Gospel,
so it _is in Persia that we find the origin of most of
the sects which have sprung up in Islam. Without
agreeing with those who would derive all knowledge
from India, it may be held not improbable that the
*
Lari and Macrisi, quoted by Hammer.
34 SECRET SOCIETIES.
intricate metaphysics
have been the source
the various religions
Indian Asia. It is
and mysticism of that country
of much of the corruption of
which have prevailed in Cis-
at least remarkable that the
north-east of Persia, the part nearest to India, has
been the place where many of the impostors who
pretended to intercourse with the Deity made their
appearance. It was here that Mani (Maries), the
head ot' the Manichaeans, displayed his arts, and
it was in Khorasan (Sun-land) that I-Iakem,
who gave himself out for an incarnation of the
Deity, raised the standard of revolt against the
house of Abbas. But, be this as it may, on sur-
veying the early centuries of Islam, we may ob-
serve that all the rebellions which agitated the
empire ofthe khalifs arose from a union of the claims
of the family of Ali with the philosophical doctrines
current in Persia.
We are told that, in the ninth century of the Chris-
tian era, Abdallah, aman of Persian lineage, residing
at Ahwaz, in the south of Persia, conceived the design
of overturning the empire of the khalils by secretly
introducing into Islam a
system of atheism and
impiety. Not to shock deep-rooted prejudices in
favour of the established religion and government,
he resolved to communicate his doctrines gradually,
and he fixed on the mystic number seven as that of
the degrees through which his disciples should pass
to the grand revelation of the vanity of all religions
and the indifference of all actions. The political
cloak ot' his system was the assertion of the claims
of the descendants of Mohammed, the son of Ismail,
to the imamat, and his missionaries (dais) engaged
with activity in the task of making proselytes th rough-
out the empire of the khalifs. Abdallah afterwards
removed to Syria, where he died. His son and
THE ASSASSINS. e
35
grandsons followed up his plans, and in their time a
convert was made who speedily brought the system
into active operation*.
The name of this person wasCarmath, a native of
the district of Koofa, and from him the sect was
called Carmathit/es. He made great alterations in
the original system of Abdallah; and as the sect was
now
grown numerous and powerful, he resolved to
venture on
putting the claims of the descendants of
Ismail to the test of the sword. He maintained
that the indefeasible right to earthly dominion lay
with what he styled the imam Maksoom (spotless),
a sort of ideal of a.
perfect prince, like the wise man
of the Stoics; consequently all the reigning princes
were
usurpers, by reason ot' their vices and imper-
fections; and the warriors of the perfect prince were
to precipitate them all, without distinction, from their
thrones. Carmath also taught his disciples to un-
derstand the precepts and observances of Islam in a.
figurative sense. Prayer signified obedience to the
imam Maissoom, alms~giving was paying the tithe
due to him (that is, augmenting the funds of the
society), fasting was keeping the political secrets
relating to the _imam and his service. It was not
the tenseel, or outward word of the Koran, which
was to be attended to; the taweel, or
exposition,
was alone worthy of note. Like those of Mokanna,
and other opponents of the house of Abbas, the
followers of Carmath distinguished themselves by
wearing white raiment to mark their hostility to the
reigning khalifs, whose garments and standards re-
tained the black hue which they had displayed
against the white banners of the house of Ommiyah.
A bloody war was renewed at various periods during
1
count of Abdallah. It is to be observed that this Abdallah is
unnoticed by Herbelot.
Macrisi is I{ammer's authority for the preceding ac-
35 SECRET SOCIETIES.
un entire century between the followers of Carmath
and the troops ofthe khaliis, with varying success.
In the course of this war the holy city of Mecca was
taken by the sectaries (as it has been oi' late years
by the Wahabees), alter the fall of 30,000 Moslems
in its defence. The celebrated black stone was taken
and conxjeyed in triumph to Hajar,where it remained
for two-and-twenty years, till it was redeemed for
50,000 ducats by the emir of' Irak, and replaced in
its original seat. Finally, like so many ot' their
predecessors, the Carmatlnites were vanquished by
the yet vigorous power of the empire, and their name,
though not their principles, was extinguished.
During this period ot' contest between the house
of Abbas andthe Carmathites, a dai (missionary)
of the latter, named Abdallah, contrived to liberate
from the prison into which he had been thrown by
the khalif Motadhud a real or pretended descendant
of Fatima, named Obeid~Allah*, whom he conveyed
to Africa, and, proclaiming him to be the promised
Mehdi (guide), succeeded in establishing for him a.
dominion on the north coast of that country. The
gratitude of Obeid-Allah was shown by his putting
to death him to whom he was indebted hir his
power; but talent and valour can exist without the
presence of virtue, and Obeid-Allah and his two next
descendants extended their sway to the shores ot'
the Atlantic. Moez~ladin-Allah, his great-grandson,
having achieved the conquest of Egypt and Syria,
wisely abandoned his former more distant domi-
nions along the coast of the Mediterranean, his eye
being fixed on the more valuable Asiatic empire of
the Abbassides. This dynasty of Fatimitc khalifs,
*
The genuineness of the descent ot`vObeid-Allah has been
a
great subject of dispute among the eastern historians and
jurists. Those in the interests ofthe house of Abbas strained
every nerve to make him out an ilnpostor.
THE ASSASSINS. 37
as
they were called, reigned during two centuries at
Cairo, on the Nile, the toes and rivals of those who
Sat in Bagdad, on the banks of the Tigris. Like
every other eastern dynasty, they gradually sank into
impotence and imbecility, and their thronc was
finally occupied by the renowned Koord Saladin.
Obeid-Allah derived his pedigree from Ismail, the
mventh imam. His house, therefore, looked to the
support of the whole sect of the Seveners, or Ismail-
ites, in their projects for extending' their sway over
the Mohammedan world; and it was evidently their
interest to increase the numbers and power of that
sect as much as
possible. We are accordingly justi-
fied in giving credit to the assurances of the eastern
historians, that there was a secret institution at Cairo,
at the head of which was the Fatimite khalif, and oi'
which the object was the dissemination of the doc-
trines of the sect of the Ismailites, though we may
be allowed to hesitate as to the correctness of some
of the details.
_
This society, we are told, comprised both men
and women, who met in separate assemblies, for the
common supposition of the insignificance of the
latter sex in the east is erroneous. It was presided
over by the chief missionary (Dai-al-Doat*), who
was
always a
person of importance in the state,
and not unfrequently supreme judge (Kadh.i-al-
kodhatf). Their assemblies, called Societies of
Wisdom (Mqjalis-al-hicnwt), were held twice a-week,
on
Mondays and Wednesdays. All the members
appeared clad in white. The president, having tirst
waited on the khalif, and read to him the intended
lecture, or, if that could not be done, having gotten
his signature on the back of it, proceeded to the
assembly and delivered a written discourse. At the
*
That is, Missionary Qflllinionarier.
'|' Cad/ti of Cadhis.
D
38 siscnsr soclnrms.
conclusion of it those present kissed his hand and
reverently touched with their forehead the hand-
writing of the khalifl In this state the society con-
tinued till the reign of that extraordinary madman
the khalif I-lakem-bi-emr-illah (Judge bythe com,-
mand of God), who determined to place it on a
splendid footing. He erected for it a stately edifice,
styled 'the House of Wisdom (Dar-al-hicmet),
abundantly furnished with books and mathematical
instruments. Its doors were
opento all, and paper,
pens, and ink were
profusely supplied for the use of
those who chose to trequent it. Professors of law,
mathematics, logic, and medicine were appointed to
give instructions; and at the learned disputations
which were
frequently held in presence of the khalif,
these professors appeared in their state caftans
(Khalali), which, it is said, exactly resembled the
robes worn at they English universities. The
income assigned to this establishment. by the mu-
nificence of the khalif, was 257,000 ducats annually,
arising from the tenths paid to the crown.
The course of instruction in this university pro-
ceeded. according to Macrisi, by the following nine
degrees:--l. The object of the first, which was long
and tedious, was to infuse doubts and difficulties
into the mind of the aspirant, and to lea/d him to
repose a blind confidence in the knowledge and wis-
dom of his teacher. 'I'o this end he was perplexed
with captious questions; the absurdities ofthe literal
sense of the Koran, and its repugnance to reason,
'were studiously pointed out, and dark hints were
'given that beneath this shell lay a kernel sweet to
the taste and nutritive to the soul. But all thrther
information was most rigorously withheld till he had
consented to bind himself by a most solemn oath to
absolute faith and blind obedience to his instructor.
2. When he had taken the oath he was admitted to
THE ASSASSINS~ 89
the second degree, which inculcated the acknowledg-
ment of the imams appointed by God as the sources
of all knowledge. 3. The third degree informed
him what was the number of these blessed and holy
imams ; and this was the mystic seven; for, as God
had made seven heavens, seven earths, seas, planets,
metals, tones, and colours, so seven was the number
of these noblest of God's creatures. 4. In the fourth
degree the pupil learned that God had sent seven
lawgvers into the world, each of whom was come
missioned to alter and improve the system of his
predecessor; that each of these had seven helpers,
who appeared in the interval between him and his
successor; these helpers, as they did not appear as
public teachers, were called the mute (aamit), in
contradistinction to the speaking lawgivers. The
seven
lawgivers were Adam, Noah, Abraham, Moses,
Jesus, Mohammed, and Ismail, the son ofJaaffer; the
seven principal helpers, called Seats (soos), were Seth,
Shem, Ishmael (the son of Abraham), Aaron, Simon,
Ali, and Mohammed, the son of Ismail. It is justly
observed* that, as this last personage was not more
than a. century dead, the teacher had it in his power to
fix on whom he would as the mute prophet ofthe pre-
sent time, and inculcate the belief in, and obedience
to, him of all who had not got beyond this degree. 5.
The tihh degree taught that each of the seven mute
prophets had twelve apostles for the dissemination of
his faith. The suitableness of this number was also
proved by analogy. There are twelve signs of the
zodiac, twelve months, twelve tribes of Israel, twelve
joints in the four lingers of each hand, and so forth.
6. The pupil being led thus far, and having shown
no
symptoms of restiveness, the precepts of the
Koran were once more brought under consideration,
and he was told that all the positive portions of
*
Hammer, p. 54.
.
D 2
.
4g sEcnE'r SOCIETIES.
religion must be subordinate to philosophy. He
was consequently instructed in the systems of Plato
and Aristotle during a long space of time; and (7),
when esteemed fully qualified, he was admitted to
the seventh degree, when instruction was communi-
cated in that mystic Pantheism which is held and
taught by the sect of the Soofees. 8. 'I'he positive
precepts of religion were again considered, the veil
was torn from the eyes of the aspirant, all that had
preceded was now declared to have been merely
scaffolding to raise the`edifice of knowledge, and
was to be flung downs Prophets and teachers,
heaven and hell, all were nothing; future bliss and
misery were idle dreams; all actions were permitted.
9. The ninth degree had only to inculcate that nought
was to be believed, everything might be done*.
, In perusing the accounts of secret societies, their
rules, regulations, degrees, and the quantity or
nature ofthe knowledge communicated in them, a
dilhculty must always present itself. Secrecy being'
of the very essence of everything connected with
them, what means had writers, who were generally
hostile to them, of learning their internal constitution
and -the exact nature of their maxims and tenets?
In the present case our authority for this account of
a society which chiefly tlourished in the tenth and
eleventh centuries is Macrisi, a writer of the fifteenth
century. His authorities were doubtless of more
ancient date, but we know not who they were or
whence they derived their information. Perhaps our
`
*
Mr. De Sacy (Journal des Savanr, an
l8l8) is of opinion
that the Arabic words Taleel and Ibahat will not ben' the
strong sense which Hammer gives them. The former, he
Says, only signifies that Deism
which regards the
Deity as
merely a
speculative being, nnd annrhrlates the moral relations
between hrm and the creature; the latter only denotes eman-
cipation from the positive precepts of laws, such as
fasting,
prayer, &c., but not from moral obligations.
THE ASSASSINS. 4
safest course in this, as in similarcases, would be to
admit the general truth of the statement, but to sufiiar
our minds to remain in a certain degree of suspense
as to the accuracy of the details. We can thus at
once assent to the fact ofthe existence of the college
at Cairo, and of the mystic tenets of Soofeeism being
taught in it, as also to that ofthe rights of the Fa-
timites to the khalifat being inculcated on the minds
of the pupils, and missionaries being thence sent over
the east, without yielding 'implicit credence to the
tale of the nine degrees through which the aspirant
had -to pass, or admitting that the course of instruc-
tion terminated in adoctrine subversive of all religion
and of all morality.
As we have seen, the Dai-al-dost, or chief missionf t
ary, resided at Cairo, to direct the operations ofthe
society, while the subordinate dais pervaded all parts I)
of the dominions of the house ot' Abbas, making]
converts to the claims of Ali. The dais were attended!
by companions (Refcek), who were
persons who hadi
been instructed up to a certain point in the secret'
doctrines, but who were neither to presume to teach *
nor to seek to make converts, that honour being-
reserved to the dais. By the activity ofthe dais the
society spread so widely that in the year 1058 the
emir Bessassiri, who belonged to it, made himself
master ot' Bagdad, and kept possession of it during
an entire year, and had money struck, and prayer
made, in the name of the Egyptian khalitl The emir,
however, fell by the sword of Toghrul the Turk, whose
aid the feeble Abbasside implored, and these two
distinguishing acts of Mohammedan sovereignty were
again performed by the house of Abbas. Soon after-
wards the society at Cairo seems to have declined
along with the power of the Fatimite khalifs. In
1123 the powerful vizir Afdhal, on occasion of some
disturbance caused by them, shut up the Dar-al-
42 SECRET SOCIETIES.
hicmet, or, as it would appear, destroyed it. I-Iis
successor Mamoon permitted the society to hold
their meetings in a building erected in another situ-
ation, and it lingered on till the fall of the khalifht
of Egypt. The policy of Afdhal is perhaps best to
be explained by a reference to the state of the East at
that time. The khalif of Bagdad was become a
mere
pageant devoid of all real power; the former
dominions of the house of Abbas were in the hands
of the Seljookian Turks; the Franks were masters
of a great part of Syria, and threatened Egypt, where
the khalifs were also fallen into incapacity, and the
real power had passed to the vizir. As this last
could aspire to nothing beyond preserving Egypt, a.
society instituted for the purpose of gaining partisans
to the claims of the Fatimites must have been rather
an impediment to him than otherwise. He must
therefore have been inclined to suppress it, especially
as the society of the Assassins, a branch of it, had
now been instituted, which, heedless ofthe claims of
the Fatimites, sought dominion for itself alone. To
the history of that remarkable association we now
proceed.
-i ___
THE Assassms. 43
C riursn III.
Ali of Rei-His son Hassan Sabah-Hassan sent to study at
Nishahoor-Meets there Omar Khiam and Nizam~al-Moolk
-Agreement made by them-Hassan introduced by Nizam
to Sultan Malek Shah-Obliged to leave the Court-Anec-
dote of him-His own account of his Conversion-Goes to
Egypt-Returns to Penia-Makes himself Master of Ala-
moot.
Tuna was a man named Ali, who resided in the
city of Rei, in Persia. He was a strenuous She§.h,
and maintained that his family had originally come
from Kooia, in Arabia; but the people of Kfhorasan
asserted that his family had always dwelt in one of
the villages near Toos, in that province, and that
consequently his pretensions to an Arabian extrac-
tion were lalse. Ali, it would appear, was anxious
to conceal his opinions, and employed the strongest
asseverations to convince the governor of the pro-
vince, a
rigid Soonile, of his orthodoxy, and Finally
retired into a.
monastery to pass the remainder of his
days in meditation. As a further means of clearing
himself from the charge of heresy he sent his only
son Hassan Sabah* to Nishaboor to be instructed by
the celebrated imam Mowafek, who resided at that
place. What lessons he may have given the young
Hassan previously to parting with him, and what
communication he may have afterwards kept up with
him, are points on which history is silent.
The fame of the imam Mowafek was great over
all Persia, and it was currently believed that those
9 Or Hanan-ben-Sabah (san of Sabah), so named from
Sabah liomairi, one oi' his pretended Arabian ancestors.
44 SECRET soomrtns.
who had the good fortune to study the Koran and
the Soonna* under him were secure of their fortune
in after-life. His school was consequently thronged
by youths ambitious of knowledge and future distinc-
tion; and here Hassan met, and formed a strict
intimacy with, Omar Khiam, afterwards so distin-
guished as a
poet and an astronomer, and with
Nizam-al-Moolk (Regulation of the Realm), who
became vizir to the monarchs ofthe house of Seljook.
This last, in a
history which he wrote of himself and
his times, relates the following instance of the early
development of the ambition of Hassan. As these
three, who were the most distinguished pupils of the
imam, were one
day together,
"
It is the general
opinion," said Hassan, "that the pupils of the imam
are certain of being fortunate. This opinion may be
verified in one of us. So come, let us
pledge our-
selves to one another that he who shall be successful
will make the other two sharers in his good fortune."
His two companions readily assented, and the pro-
mise was mutually given and received.
Nizam-al-Moolk entered the path of politics, where
his talents and his noble qualities had free course,
and he rose through the various gradations of otlice,
till at length he attained the highest post in the
realm, the viziriate, under Alp Arslan (Strong Lion),
the second monarch of the house of Seljook. When
thus exalted he forgot not his former friends; and
calling to mind the promise which he had made, he
received with great kindness Omar Khiam, who
waited on him to congratulate him on his elevation;
and he offered at once to employ all his interest to
procure him a post under the government. But
Omar, who was devoted to Epicurean indulgences,
and averse from toil and care, thanking his friend,
*
The Soonna is the body of traditions, answering to the
Mishns of the Jews, held by the orthodox Mulsulmsns.
THE ASSASSINS. 45
declined his proffered services; and all that the vizir
could prevail on him to accept was an annual pension
of 1,200 ducats on the revenues of Nishaboor, whither
he retired to spend his days in ease and tranquillity.
The case was different with Hassan. During the
ten years' reign of Aip Arslan he kept aloof from the
vizir, living in obscurity, and probably maturing his
plans tor the future. But when the young prince
Malek Shah (King King) mounted the throne he
saw that his time was come. He suddenly appeared
at the court of the new monarch, and waited on the
powerful vizir. The story is thus told by the vizir
himself in his work entitled Wasaya (Political Insti-
tutes), whence it is given by Mirkhond.
"
He came to me at Nishaboor in the year that
Malek Shah, having got rid of Kaward, had quieted
the troubles which his rebellion had caused. I re-
ceived him with the greatest honours, and performed,
on
my part, all that could be expected from a man
who is a faithful observer of his oaths, and a slave to
the engagements which he has contracted. Each day
I gave him a new
proof of my friendship, and I
endeavoured to satisfy his desires. He said to me
once,
'
Khoiah (master), you are of the number
of the learned and the virtuous; you know that the
goods of this world are but an enjoyment of little
duration. D0 you then think that you will be per-
mitted to fail in your engagements by letting yourself
be seduced by thevuttractions of greatnes and the
love of the world? and will you be of the number of
those who violate the contract made with God ?'
'Heaven keep me from itl' replied I. 'Though
you heap honours: upon me,' continued he,
'
and
though you pour upon me benefits without number,
you cannot be ignorant that that is not the way to
perform what we once
pledged ourselves to respect#
ing each other.' *You are
right,' said I;
'
and I
D 5
45 SECRET SOCIETIES.
am ready to satisfy you in what I promised. All
that I possess of honour and power. received from
my fathers or acquired hy myself, belongs to you in
common with 'me.' I then introduced him into the
society of the sultan, I assigned him a rank and suit-
able titles, and I related to the prince all that had
formerly passed between him and me. I spoke in
terms of such praise of' the extent of his knowledge,
of his excellent qualities, and his good morals, that
he obtained the rank of' minister and of a confidential
man. But he was, like his father, an impostor, a
hypocrite, one who knew how to impose, and a
wretch. He so well possessed the art of' covering
himself with an exterior of probity and virtue that
in a little time he completely gained the mind of' the
sultan, and inspired him with such confidence that
that prince blindly followed his advice in most of
those affairs of a greater and more important nature
which required good faith and sincerity, and he was
always decided by his opinion. I have said all this
to let it be seen that it was I who had raised him to
this fortune, and yet, by an effwt of his had character,
there came quarrels between the sultan and me, the
unpleasant result of which had like to have been that
the good reputation and favour which I had enjoyed
for so
many years were near going into dust and
being annihilated; for at last his malignity broke
out on a sudden, and the effects of' his jealousy
showed themselves in the most terrible manner in
his actions andin his words."
In fact, Hassan played the part of a treacherous
friend. Everything that occurred in the divan was
carefixlly reported to the sultan, and the worst con-
struction put upon it, and hints of the incapacity and
dishonesty of the vizir were thrown out on the fitting
occasions. The vizir himself has left us an account
of what he considered the worst trick which his old
'
'rss Assassins. 47
schoolfellow attempted to play him. The sultan, it
seems. wishing to see a clear and regular balance-
sheet of the revenues and expenditure of his empire,
directed Nizam-al-Moolk to prepare it. The vizir
required a space of more than a
year for the accom-
plishment of the task. Hassan deemed this a
good
Opportunity for distinguishing himself, and boldly
offered to do what the sultan demanded in forty days,
not more than .one-tenth of the time required by the
vizir. All the clerks in the finance department were
,immediately placed at the disposal of Hassan; and
the vizir himself confesses that at the end of' the forty
days the accounts were
ready to be laid before the
sultan. But, just when we
might expect to see
Hassan in triumph, and enjoying the highest favour
of the monarch, we find him leaving the court in
disgrace and vowing revenge on the sultan and his
minister. This circumstance is left unexplained by
the Ornament of' the Realm, who however acknow-
ledges, with great naiveté, that, if Hassan had not
been obliged to fly, he should have left the court him-
self. But other historians inform us that the vizir,
apprehensive of the consequences, had recourse to
art, and contrived to have some of Hassan's papers
stolen, so that, when the latter presented himself
before the sultan, full of hope and pride, and com-
menced his statement, he found himselfobliged to stop
for want of some of his most important documents.
As he could not account for this confhsion, the sultan
became enraged at the apparent attempt to deceive
him, and Hassan was forthwith obliged to retire from
court with precipitation.
Nizam-al-Moolk determined to keep no measures
with a man who had thus sought his ruin, and he
resolved to destroy him. Hassan fied to Rei, but,
not thinking himself safe there, he went further south,
4 3 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and took refuge with his friend the reis* Aboo-'l-Fazl
(Father ofExcellevrce), at Isfahan. What his plans
may have hitherto been is uncertain; but now they
seem to have assumed a definite form, and he uneeas-
ingly meditated on the means of' avenging himselfon
the sultan and his minister. In consultation one day
with Aboo-'l-Fazl, who appears to have adopted his
speculative tenets, after he had poured out his com-
plaints against the vizir and his master, he concluded
by passionately saying,
"
Oh that I had but two -faith-
ful friends at my devotion! soon should I overthrow
the Turk and the peasant," meaning the sultan and
the vizir. Aboo-'l-Fazl, who was one of the most
clear-headed men of his time, and who still did not
comprehend the long-sighted views of Hassan, begun
to fancy that disappointment had deranged the intel-
lect of his friend, and, believing that reasoning would
in such a 'case be useless, commenced giving him, at
his meals aromatic drinks and dishes prepared with
saffron, in order to relieve his brain. Hassan per-
ceived what his kind host was about, and resolved to
leave him. `_,Aboo-'l-Fazl in vain employed all his
eloquence to induce him to prolong his visit; Hassan
departed, and shortly afterwards set out for Egypt.
Twenty years afterwards, when Hassan had ac-
complished all he had projected, when the sultan and
the vizir were both dead, and the society of the Assas-
sins was
fully organized, the reis Aboo-'l-Fazl, who
was one of his most zealous partisans, visited him at
his hill-fort of`Alamoot. "
Well, reis," said Hassan,
'
Reis, from the Arabic Ras (the head), answers in some
respects to captain, a word oi' similar origin. Thus the master
of a ship is called the Reis. Sir John Malcolm sa , "it is
equivalent to esquire, as it was
originally understoorr It im-
plies in Persia the ossession of landed estates and some ma.-
gisterial iower. 'lzhe reis is in generulthe hereditary head
of a
villake."
it
_THE ASSASSINS.
V
45
"
which of us was the madman? did you or I stand
most in need of the aromatic drinks and the dishes
prepared with saffron which you used to have served
up at Isfahan?= You see that I kept my word as
soon as I had found two trusty friends."
When Hassan left Isfahan, in the year 1078, the
khalif Mostanser, a man of some energy, occupied the
throne ofEgypt, and considerable exertions were made
by the missionaries of the society at Cairo to gain pro-
selytes throughout Asia. Among these proselytes was
Hassan Sabah, and the following account of his con-
version, which has fortunately been preserved in his
own words, is interesting, as
affording a proof that,
like Cromwell, and, as we have supposed, Moham-
med, and all who have attained to temporal power by
means of religion, he commenced in sincerity, and
was deceived himself before he deceived others.
"
From my childhood," says he,
"
even from the age
of seven years, my sole endeavour was to acquire
knowledge and capacity. I had been reared up, like
my fathers, in the doctrine ofthe twelve imams, and
I made acquaintance with an Ismailite companion
(R&ek), named Emir Dhareb, with whom I knit
fast the bonds of friendship. My opinion was that
the tenets of the Ismailites resembled those ofthe
Philosophers, and that the ruler of Egypt was a man
who was initiated in them. As often, therefore, as
Emir said anything in favour of these doctrines I
fell into strife with him, and many controversies on
points of faith ensued between him and me. I
gave not in to anything that Emir said in disparage-
ment of our sect, though it left a
strong impression
on my mind. Meanwhile Emir parted from me,
and I fell into a severe tit of sickness, during which
I reproached myselii saying, that the doctrine of the
Ismailites was
assuredly the true one, and that yet
out of obstinacy I had not gone over to it, and that
50 sncnsr sociarms.
should death (which God avertl) overtake me, I
should die without having attained to the tmth. At
length I recovered of that sickness, and I now met
with another Ismailite, named Aboo Nejm Zaraj. of
whom I _inquired touching the truth of his doctrine.
Aboo Nejm explained it to me in the fullest manner,
so that I saw quite through the depths of it. Finally
I met a dai, named Moomin, to whom the sheikh
Abd-al-Melik (Servant ofthe King, i. e. ofGod) Ben
Attash, the director of the missions of Irak, had given
permission to exercise this oiiice. I besought that he
would accept my homage (in the name ofthe Fati-
mite khalif), but this he at the first refused to do,
because I had been in higher dignities than he; but
when I pressed him thereto beyond all measure, he
yielded his consent. When now the sheikh Abd-
al-Melik came to Rei, and through intercourse leamed
to know me, my behaviour was pleasing unto him,
and he bestowed on me the oflice of a dai. He said
unto me,
'
Thou must go unto Egypt, to be a sharer
in the felicity of serving the imam Mostander.' When
the sheikh Abd-al-Melik went from Rei to Isfahan
I set forth for Eg°ypt"."
There is something highly interesting in this ae-
count of his thoughts and feelings given by Hassan
Sabah, particularly when we recollect that this was
the man who afterwards organized the society of the
Assassins, so long the scourge of the East. We here
find him, according to his own statement, dreading
the idea of dying without having openly made pro-
fession of the truth. yet afterwards, if we are to credit
the Oriental historians, he inculcated the doctrine of
the indifference of all human actions. Unfortunately
this declension from virtue to vice has been too often
exhibited to allow of our
doubting that it may have
happened in the case of Hassan Sabah. A further re-
*
Mirkhond.
THE ASSABSINS. 5]
Bection which presents itself is this: Can anything be
more absurd than those points which have split the
Moslems into sects? and yet, how deeply has con-
science been engaged in them, and with what sin-
cerity have they not been embraced and maintained!
Will not this apply in some measure to the dissensions
among Christians, who divide into parties, not for
the essential doctrines of their religion, but for some
merely accessory parts?
Hassan, on his arrival in Egypt, whither his fame
had preceded him, was received with every demon-
stration of respect. His known talents, and the
knowledge of the high favour and consideration which
he had enjoyed at the court of Malek Shah, made
the khalif esteem him a most important acquisition
to the cause of the Ismailites, and no means were
omitted to soothe and Hatter him. He was met on
the frontiers bythe Dai-al-Doat, the sherif Taher
Casvini, and several other persons of high considera-
tion; the great oflicers of state and court waited on
him as soon as he had entered Cairo, where the
khalif assigned him a suitable abode,¢a.nd loaded
him with honours and tokens of favour. But such
was the state of seclusion which the Fatimite khalifs
had adopted, that during the eighteen months which
Hassan is said to have passed at Cairo he never once
beheld the face of Mostanser, though that monarch
always evinced the utmost solicitude about him, and
never spoke of him but in terms oi' the highest praise.
While Hassan abode in Egypt the question ofthe
succession to the throne (always a matter oi' dispute
in Oriental monarchies) became a
subject ol' dissen-
sion and angry debate at court. The khalif had
declared his eldest son, Nesar, to be his legitimate
successor; but Bedr-al-Jemali, the Emir-al-Juyoosh,
or commander-in-chief of the army, who enjoyed
'almost unlimited power under the Fatimites, asserted
52 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the superior right of Musteili, the khalif's second
son, which right his power afterwards made good.
Hassan Sabah, not very wisely, as it would seem, took
the side of Prince Nesar, and thereby drew on himself
the hostility of Bedr-al-Jemali, who resolved on his
destruction. In vain the reluctant khalif struggled
against the might of the powerful Emir-al-Juyoosh;
he was obliged to surrender Hassan to his vengeance,
and to issue an order for committing him to close
custody in the castle of Damietta.
While Hassan lay in confinement at Damietta one
of the towers of that city fell down without any ap-
parent cause. This being looked upon in the light
of a miracle by the partisans of Hassan and the
khalif§ his enemies, to prevent his deriving any ad-
vantage from it, hurried him on board of a
ship
which was on the point of sailing for Africa. Scarcely
had the vessel put tn sea when a violent tempest came
on. The sea rolled mountains high, the thunder
roared, and the lightning liamed. Terror laid hold
on all who were aboard, save Hassan Sabah, who
looked calm and undisturbed on the commotion of
the elements, while others gazed with agony on the
prospect of instant death-. On being asked the cause
of his tranquillity he made answer, in imitation pro-
bablyzof St. Paul,
"
Our Lord (Seydna) has promised
me that no evil shall befall me." Shortly alierwards
the storm fell and the sea
grew calm. The crew and
passengers now regarded him as a man under the
especial favour of Heaven, and when a
strong west
wind sprung up, 'and drove them to the coast ol'
Syria, they offered no
opposition to his leaving the
vessel and going on shore.
Hassan proceeded to Aleppo, Where he staid
some time, and thence directed his course to Bagdad.
Leaving that city he entered Persia, traversed the
province of Khuzistan, and, visiting the cities of
~
,___-
THE ASSASSINS. 53
Isfahan and Yezd, went on to the eastern province
of Kerman, everywhere making proselytes to his
opinions. He then returned to Isfahan, where he
made a stay of four months. He next spent three
months in Khuzistan. Having fixed his view on
Damaghan and the surrounding country in Irak as
a district well calculated to be the seat of the power
which he meditated establishing, he devoted three
entire years to the task of gaining disciples among
its inhabitants. For this purpose he employed the
most eloquent dais he could find, and directed them
to win over by all means the inhabitants of the
numerous hill-forts which were in that region. While
his dais were thus engaged he himself traversed the
more northerly districts of Joijan and Dilem, and
when he deemed the time fit returned tn the province
of Irak, where Hussein Kaini, one of the most
zealous of his missionaries, had been long since en-
gaged in persuading the people of the strong hill-
fort of Alamoot to swear obedience to the khalif
Mostanser. The arguments of the dai had proved
convincing to the great majority of the inhabitants,
but the govemor, Ali Mehdi, an
upright and worthy
man, whose ancestors had built the fort, remained,
with a-few others, faithful to his duty, and would
acknowledge no
spiritual head but the Abbasside
khalif of Bagdad; no temporal chiet` but the Sel-
jookian Malek Shah. Mehdi, when he first per-
ceived theprogress of Ismailism among his people,
expelled those who had embraced it, but afterwards
permitted them to retum. Sure ot' the aid of astrong
party withiri the fort, Hassan is said to have em~
ployed against the governor the same artitice by which
Dido is related to have deceived the Lybians*. He
*
Sir J. Malcolm says that the person with whom he read
this portion of history in Persia observed to him that the English
were well acquainted with this stralagem, as it was by means
of it that they got Calcutta from the poor Emperor of Delhi.
54 sncru-:T socxmms.
offered him 8,000 ducats for as much ground as he
could compass with an ox-hide. The guileless Mehdi
consented, and Hassan instantly 'cutting the hide into
thongs surrounded with it the fortress of Alamoot.
Mehdi, seeing himself thus tricked, refused to stand
to the agreement. Hassan appealed to justice, and
to the arms of his partisans within the fortress, and
by their aid compelled the governor to depart from
Alamoot. As Mehdi was setting out for Damaghan,
whither he proposed to retire, Hassan placed in his
hand an order on the reis Mozaffer, the govemor of
the castle of Kirdkoo, couched in these terms:
"
Let
the reis Mozaffer pay to Mehdi, the descendant of
Ali, 3,000 ducats, as the price of the fortress of
Alamoot. Peace be upon the Prophet and ~his
family! God, the best of directors, sutiiceth us."
Mehdi could hardly believe that a man of the conse-
quence of the reis Mozaifer, who held an important
government under the Seljookian sultans, would pay
the slightest attention to the order ofa mere adven-
turer like Hassan Sabah; he, however, resolved, out
of curiosity, or rather, as we are told, pressed by his
want of the money, to try how he would act. He
accordingly presented the order, and, to his infinite
surprise, was forthwith paid the 3,000 ducats. The
reis had in fact been long in secret one of the most
zealous disciples of Hassan Sabah.
Historians are careful to inform us that it was on
the night of Wednesday, the sixth of the month
Rejeb, in the 483d year of the Hejra, that Hassan
Sabah made himself master of Alamoot, which was
to become the chief seat of the power ofthe sect of
the Ismailites. This year answers to the year 1090
of the Christian era, and thus the dominion of the
Assassins was founded only nine years before the
Christians ofthe west established their empire in the
Holy Land.
5G SECRET SOCIETIES.
cinmn iv. _
Description of Alamoot-Fruitless Attempts to 1ccoVer_,it-
Extension of the Ismailite Power-The Ismaiiites in Syria
-Attempt on the Life of Aboo-Hard Iam-Treaty made
with Sultan Sanjar-Death of Hassan-His Character.
Ansmoor, a name so famous in the history of the
East, signifies the Vulture's Nest, an appellation de-
rived from its lofty site. It was built in the year
860, on the summit of a hill, which bears a fancied
resemblance to a lion couching with his nose to the
ground, situated, according to Hammer, in 50§° E.
long. and 36° N. lat. It was regarded as the strongest
of 50 fortresses of the same kind, which were scat-
tered over the district Roodbar (River-land), the
mountainous region which forms the border between
Persian Irak and the more northerly provinces of
Dilem and Taberistan, and is watered by the stream
called the King's River (Shahrood). As soon "as
Hassan saw himself master of this important place
he directed his thoughts to the means of increasing
its strength. He repaired the original walls, and
added new ones; he sunk wells, and dug a canal,
which conveyed water from a considerable distance
to the foot of the fortress. As the possession of
Alamoot made him master of the surrounding conn-
try, he leamed to regard the inhabitants as his sub-
jects, and he stimulated them to agriculture, and
made large plantations of fruit-trees around the
eminence on which the fortress stood.
But before Hassan had time to commence, much
less complete these plans of improvement, he saw
THE ASSASSINS. 5 7
himself in danger of losing all the fruits of his toil.
It was not to be expected that _the emir, on whom
the sultan had bestowed the province of Roodbar,
would calmly view its strongest fort in the possession
of the foe of the house of Seljook. Hassan, there-
fore, had not had time to collect stores and provisions
when he found all access to the place cut off by the
troops of the emir. The inhabitants were about to
quit Alamoot, but Hassan exerted the usual influence
of a commanding spirit over their minds. and conti-
dently assured them that that was the place in which
fortune would favour them. 'I'hey yielded faith to
his words and staid; and at length their_persever-
ance wore out the patience of the emir, and Alamoot
thence obtained the title of the Abode of Fortune.
The sultan, who had at first viewed the progress of
his ex-minister wiih contempt, began soon to grow
apprehensive of his ultimate designs, and in 1092 he
issued orders to the emir Arslantash (Lion-stone)
to destroy Hassan and his adherents. Arslanlash
advanced against Alamool. Hassan, though he had
but 70 men with him, and was scantily supplied with
provisions, defended himself courageously till Aboo
Ali, the governor of Casveen, who was in secret one
of his dais, sent 300 men to his aid. These fell
suddenly, 'during the night, on the troops of the
emir; the little garrison made at the same time a
sortie; the sultan's troops took to flight, and Ala-
moot remained in the possession of the Ismailites.
Much about the same time Malek Shah sent troops
against Hussein Kaini, who was
actively engaged in
the cause of Hassan Sabah in Kuhistan. Hussein
threw himself into .Moominabad, a fortress nearly as
strong as that of Alamoot, and the troops of the
sultan assailed him in vain. It was now that
Hassan began to display the system which we shall
presently unveil. The aged vizir, the great and
E
l
i
I
l
53 SECRET SOCIETIES.
goodNizam-al~Moolk, perished by the daggers of his
emissaries, and the sultan himself speedily fbllowed
his minister to'the tomb, not without suspicion of
poison.
Circumstances were now particularly favourable to
the plans of Hassan Sabah. On the death of sultan
Malek Shah a civil war broke out among his sons
for the succession. All the military chiefs and per-
sons of eminence were
engaged on one side or the
other, and none had leisure or inclination to attend
to the progress of the Ismailites. These, therefore,
went on gradually extending their power, and fortress
after fortress fell into their hands. In the course of
ten years they saw themselves masters of the princi-
pal hill-forts of Persian Irak; they held that of
Shahdorr* (King's pearl), and two other fortresses,
close to Isfahan; that of Khalankhan, on the borders
of Fars and Kuhistan; Damaghan, Kirdkqo, and
Firoozkoo, in the district of Komis; and Lamseer
and several others in Kuhistan. It was in vain
that the most distinguished imams and doctors of
the law issued their jétuas against the sect of the
Ismailites, and condemned them to future perdition;
in vain they called on the orthodox to employ the
* This castle was built by sultan Malek Shah. The fol-
lowing was its origin:-As Malek Shah, who was a
great
lover of the chase, was out one day a hunting, one o the
hounds went astray on the nearly inaccessible rock on which
the castle was afterwards erected. The ambassador of the
Byzantine emperor, who was of the party, observed to the
sultan, that in his master`s dominion! so advantageous a
situation would not be left unoccupied, but would long since
have been crowned with a ca tle. The sultan followed the
ambassadofs advice, and erected the castle of the King's
Pearl on this lofty rock. When the castle fell into the hands
of the lsmailites, pious Moslems remarked that it could not
have better luck, since its site had been pointed out by a
dog
(sn unclean beast in their eyes), and its erection advised by
an intidel.
`
THE ASSASSINS. 59
sword ofjustice in freeing the earth from this godless
and abominable race. The sect, strong in its secret
bond of unity and determination of purpose, went
on and prospered; the dagger avenged the fate of
those who perished by the sword, and, as the Oriental-
ized European historian of the society expresses it*,
",hea.ds fell like an abundant harvest beneath the
twofold sickle of the sword of justice and the dagger
of murder." ~
The appearance of the Ismailites, under their new
form of organization, in Syria, happened at the same
time with that of the crusaders in the Holy Land.
The Siljookian Turks had made the conquest of that
country, and the different chiefs who ruled Damascus,
Aleppo, and the other towns and their districts, some
of whom were ofTurkish, others of Syrian extraction,
were in a constant state of enmity with each other.
Such powerful auxiliaries as the followers of Hassan
Sabah were not to be neglected; Risvan, Prince of
Aleppo, so celebrated in the history of the crusades,
was their declared favourer and protector, and an
Ismailite agent always resided with him. The first
who occupied this post was an astrologer, and on his
death the otlice tell to a Persian goldsmith, named
Aboo Taber Essaigh. The enemies of Risvan _felt
the etfects of his alliance with the Ismailites. The
Prince of Emessa, for example, fell by their daggers,
as he was about to relieve the castle of the Koords, to
which Raymond, Count of Toulouse, had laid siege.
Risvan put the strong castle of Sarmin, which lay
about a
day's journey south of Aleppo, into the hands
nf' Aboo-'l-Fettah, the nephew of Hassan Sabah, and
his Dai-el-Kebir (Great Missionary) for the province
nt' Syria. 'I'he governor of this tbrtress was Aboo
Taher Essaigh. A few years afterwards (1107) the
people of Apamea invoked the aid of Aboo Taher
*
Hammer, 97.
gn sEcREr SOCIETIES.
against Khalafi their Egyptian governor. Aboo
Taher took possession of the town in the name of
Risvan. but Tancred, who was at war with that
prince, having come and attacked it, it was forced to
surrender. Aboo Taher stipulated for free egress
for himself; but Taucred, in violation of the treaty,
brought him to Antioch, where he remained till his
ransom was
paid. Aboo»'l-Fettah and the other
Ismailites were given up to the vengeance of the sons
of Khalail Tancred took from them at the same
time another strong fortress, named Kefrlana. This
is to be noted as the first collision between the
Crusaders and the Assassins, as we shall now begin
to call them. The origin of this name shall presently
he explained.
On the return of Aboo Taher to Aleppo avery
remarkable attempt at assassination took place.
There was a
wealthy merchant, named Aboo-Hard
IsSa*, a sworn foe to the Ismailites, and who
had spent large sums of money in his efforts
to: injure them. He was now arrived from the
borders of Toorkistan with a
richly laden caravan
of 500 camels. An Ismailite, named Ahmed,
a native of Rei, had secretly accompanied him
from the time he left Khorasan, with the design of
avenging the death of his father, who had fallen
under the blows of Aboo-Hard`s people. The Is-
mailite, on
arriving at Aleppo, immediately commu-
nicated with Aboo Taher and Risvan. Revenge,
and the hope of gaining the wealth of the hostile
merchant, made them yield assent at once to the
project of assassination. Aboo Taher gave Ahmed
*
That is, Jesus. lt may he here observed that the proper
names ofthe Old Testament are still used in the East. Ibra-
him, Ismael, Yahyn, Joossuf, Moossa, Daood, Suleiman, Iusa,
are Abraham, Ishmael, Jacob, Joseph, Moses, David, Solomon,
and Joshua, or Jesus.
D
THE ASSASSINS. 6|
a suflicient number of assistants; Risvan promised
the aid of his guards; and one day, as the merchant
was in the midst of his slaves, counting his camels,
the murderers fell on him. But the faithful slaves
valiantly defended their master, and the Ismailites
expiated their guilt with their lives. The princes of
Syria heaped reproaches on Risvan for this scandal-
ous violation of the rights of hospitality, and he
vainly endeavoured to justify himself by pretending
ignorance of the fact. Aboo Taher, as the in-
creasing hatred of the people of Aleppo to the sect
made that town an unsafe abode, returned to Persia,
his native country, leaving his son, Aboo-'l-Fettah,
to manage the affairs of the society in his stead.
'l`he acquisition of castles and other places nf
strength was now the open and avowed object of the
society, whose aim was evidently at the empire of
Asia, and no mean was left unemployed for the
effecting of this design. In the year 1108 they
made a bold attempt at making themselves masters
of the strong castle of Khizar, also in Syria, which
belonged to the family of Monkad. 'l`he festival cf
Easter being come, when the Mussulman garrison
was in the habit of going down into the town to
partake in the festivities of the Christians, during
their absence the Ismailites entered the castle, and
barred the gates. When the garrison returned
towards night, they found themselves excluded; -but
the Ismailites, in their reliance on the strength of
the place, being negligent, the women drew up their
husbands by cords at the windows, and the intruders
were
speedily expelled. _
In the year 1113, as Mevdood, Prince of Mosul,
was
walking up and down, on a festival day, in the
mosk of Damascus, with the celebrated Togteghin,
he was fallen on and slain by an Ismailite. The
murderer was cut to pieces on the spot. _
B
6 2 SECRET SOCIETIES.
This year was, however, near proving fatal to the
society in Syria. Risvan, their great protector, died ;
[and the eunuch Looloo, the guardian of his young
son, was their sworn enemy. An order for their
indiscriminate destruction was forthwith issued, and,
in consequence, more than 300 men, women, and
children were massacred, while 200 more were
thrown into prison. Aboo-'l-Fettah was
put to
death with torture; his body was cut to pieces and
bumt at the gate looking towards Irak, and his
head sent through all Syria. They did not, how-
ever, fall totally unavenged; the daggers of the
society were directed against the governors and men
in power, many of whom became their victims.
Thus. in the year 1115, as the Attabeg Togteghin
was
receiving an audience at the court of the khalif
of Bagdad, the governor of Khorasan was fallen
upon by three Ismailites, who probably mistook him
for the Attabeg, and he and they perished. In 1ll9
as Bedii, the governor of Aleppo, was journeying
with his sons to the court of the emir ll-Ghazi,
they were fallen upon by two assassins; Bedii and one
of his sons fell by their blows; his other sons cut the
murderers down; but a third then sprang forth, and
gave the finishing stroke to one of the young men,
who was
already wounded. The murderer was taken,
and brought before Togteghin and ll-Ghazi, who
only ordered him to be put in prison; but he
drowned himself to escape their vengeance, from
which he had, perhaps, nothing to apprehend.
In fact at this time the dread of the followers of
Hassan Sabah had sunk deep into the hearts of all
the princes of the East, for there was no security
against their daggers. Accordingly, when the next
year (1120) Aboo Mohammed, the head of them at
Aleppo, where they had re-established themselves,
sent to the powerful ll-Ghazi to demand of him pos-
lin--
THE ASSASSINS. 63
session of the castle of Sharif, near that town, he
feared to refuse; but the people of Aleppo, at .the
persuasion of one of their fellow-citizens (who speedily
paid for his advice with his blood), rose en masse,
levelled the walls, filled up the ditches, and united
the castle to the town. Even the great Noor-ed-deen
(Lamp of Religion) was some years afterwards
obliged to have recourse to the same artilice to save
the castle of Beitlaha from becoming one of their
strong-holds.
The same system was pursued in`Persia, where
sultan Sanjar, the son of Malek Shah, had united
under his sceptre the greater part of the dominions
of his father and Fakhr-al-Moolk (Fame of the
Realm). The son and successor of Nizam-al-Moolk
and Chakar Beg, the great uncle of the sultan, pe-
rished by the daggers of the emissaries of Hassan
Sabah. Sultan Sanjar was himself on his march,
intending to lay siege to Alamoot, and the other
strong-holds of the Ismailites, when one
morning, on
awaking, he found a
dagger struck in the ground
close to his pillow. The sultan was dismayed, but
he concealed his terror, and a few days afterwards
there came a brief note from Alamoot, containing
these words: "
Were we not well affected towards the
sultan, the dagger had been struck in his bosom,
not in the ground." Sanjar recollected that his bro-
ther Mohammed, who had laid siege to the castles of
Lamseer and Alamoot, had died suddenly just as
they were on the point of surrendering-an event so
opportune for the society, that it was but natural to
ascribe itto their agency-and he deemed it the safest
course to proceed gently with such dangerous oppo-
nents. He accordingly hearkened to proposals of
peace, which was concluded on the following condi-
tions: 1. That the Ismailites should add no new
works to their castles; 2. That they
shougdpurchase
1:
l
i
l
64 SECRET SOCIETIES.
no arms or
military machines; 8. That they should
make no more
proselytes. The sultan, on his part,
released the Ismailites from all tolls and taxes in the
district of Kirdkoh, and assigned them a
part of the
revenue of the territory of Komis by way of annual
pension. To apprehend clearly what the power of
the society was, we must recollect that sultan Sanjar
was the most powerful monarch of the East, that his
mandate was obeyed from Cashgar to Antioch, from
the Caspian to the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb.
Thirtyffour years had now elapsed since the acqui-
sition of Alamoot, and the first establishment of the
power of Hassan Sabah. In all that time he had
never been seen out ofthe castle of Alamoot, and had
been even known but twice to leave his chamber,
and to make his appearance on the terrace. In
silence and in solitude he pondered the means of
extending the power of the society of which he was
fthe head, and he drew up, with his own hand, the
*rules and precepts which were to govern it. He
had outlived most of his old companions and early
disciples, and he was now childless, for he had put
to death his two only sons, the elder for having
been concerned in the murder of his faithful ad-
herent Hussein Kaini; the younger for having vio-
lated the precept of the Koran against drinking
wine. Feeling the approaches of death, he sum-
moned to Alamoot Keah Buzoorg Oomeid (Kedh
of Good Hope), who was residing at Lamseer, which
he had conquered twenty years before, and Aboo Ali,
of Casveen, and committed the direction of the so-
ciety to them, appointing the former to be its proper
spiritual head and director, and placing in the hands
ot' the latter the administration of the civil and ex-
ternal atfairs. He then calmly expired, apparently
unconscious of or indifferent to the fact of having, by
the organization of his pernicious society, rendered
THE ASSASSINS. 65
his name an object of execration, a by-word and a
proverb among the nations.
Dimly as we may discern the character of Hassan
Sabah through the medium of prejudice and hatred
through which the scanty notices of it have reached
us, we cannot refuse him a place among the higher
order of minds. The founder of an empire or of a
powerful society is almost always a great man; but
Hassan seems to have had this advantage over
Loyola and other founders of societies, that he saw
clearly from the commencement what might be
done, and formed all his plans with a view to one
ultimate object. He surely had no ordinary mind
who could ask but two devoted adherents to shake
the throne of the house of Seljook, then at the acmé
of its power.
1:3
53 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER V.
Organization of the Society-Names given to the Ismailites
-Origin of the name Assassin-Marco Po1o's description of
the Paradise of the Old Man of the Mountain-Description
of it given by Arabian writers-Instances of the obedience
of the Fedavee.
Hsvuva traced thus far the history of this celebrated
society, having shown its origin, and how it grew
out of the claims of the descendants of Ali to the
khalifat, mixed with the mystic tenets which seem
to have been ultimately derived from India, we pro-
ceed to describe its organization, and its secret doc-
trines, as they are related by oriental historians.
Hassan Sabah clearly perceived that the plan of
the society at Cairo was defective as a mean of ac-
quiring temporal power. The Dais might exert
themselves, and proselytes might be gained; but till
possession was obtained of some strongholds, and a
mode of striking terror into princes devised, nothing
effectual could be achieved. He first, therefore, as
we have seen, made himself master of Alamoot and
the other strong places, and then added to the Dais
and the Refeek another class, named Fedavee (De-
voted), whose task it was to yield implicit obedience
to the mandate of their chief, and, without inquiry or
hesitation, plunge their daggers into the bosom of
whatever victim was
pointed out to them, even
though their own lives should be the immediate
sacrifice. The ordinary dress of the Fedavee was
(like that of all the sects opposed to the house of
Abbas) white; their caps, girdles, or boots, were
red. Hence they were named the White (Mubei-
'run ASSASSINS. 51
yazah), and the Red (Mulzammeré*) ; but they
could with ease assume any guise, even that of the
Christian monk, to accomplish their murderous de-
signs.
The gradations in the societywere these. At the head
of it stood Hassan himself and his successors, with the
'title of Seydna, or Sidnat (Our Lord), and Sheikh-al-
Jebal (Mountain Chfif), a name derived from that
of the territory which was the chief seat of the power
of the society. This last, owing to the ambiguity of
the word sheikh (which, like seigneur and signore,
signifies either an elder or
ch%'),
has been ridi-
culously translated by the early uropean historians
Old Man of the Mountain. Under him were the
Dai-'l-Kebir (Great Missionaries), of which there
were three, for the three provinces of Jebal, Kuhistan,
and Syriai. Then came the Dais, next the Ref`eek,~
then _the Fedavee, and lastly the Lazik, or as-
pirants.
Hassan was
perfectly aware that without the com-
pressing power of positive religion no society can
well be held together. Whatever, therefore, his pri-
vate opinions may have been, he resolved to impose
on the bulk of his followers the most rigid obedience
to the positive precepts of Islam, and, as we have
seen, actually put his own son to death for a breach of
one of them.
Hassan is said to have rejected two of the degrees
of the Ismailite society at Cairo, and to have reduced
them to seven, the original number in the plan of
Abdallah Maimoon, the first projector of this secret
society. Besides these seven degrees, through which
the aspirants gradually rose to knowledge, Hassan;
'°'
Ahmar, fem. Hamm, is rezl in Arabic; hence the cele-
brated Moorish palace at Granada was called Alhambra. (Al-
Hamra), i. c. the Red.
1' Hence the Spanish Cid. I Hammer, book ii.
68 SECRET SOCIETIES.
in what Hammer terms the breviary of the order,
drew up seven regulations or rules for the conduct of
the teachers in his society. 1. The first of these,
named Ashinai-Risk (Knowledge cy' duty), incul-
cated the requisite knowledge of human nature for
selecting tit persons for admission. To this belonged
the proverbial expressions said to have been current
among the Dais, similar to those used by the ancient
Pythagoreans, such as Sow not on barren ground
(that is, Waste not your labour on incapable persons).
Speak 'not in a house where there is a lamp. (that is.
Be silent in the presence of a
lawyer). 2. The second
rule was called Teénis (Gaining of conjidence), and
taught to win the candidates by flattering their pas-
sions and inclinations. 3. The third, ot' which the
name is not given, taught to involve them in doubts
and difficulties by pointing out the absurdities of
the Koran, and of positive religion. 4. When the
aspirant had gone thus far, the solemn oath of silence
and obedience, and ot` communicating his doubts to
his teacher alone, was to be imposed on the disciple;
and then (5.) he was to be informed that the doc-
trines and opinions of the society were those of the
greatest men in church and state. 6. The Tessees
(Conjimmtion) directed to put the pupil again through
all he had learned, and to confirm him in it. And, (7.)
iinally, the Teévil (Instruction in allegory) gave the
allegorical mode of interpreting the Koran, and draw-
ing whatever sense might suit their purposes from its
pages. Any one who had gone through this course
of instruction, and was thus become perfectly imbued
with the spirit of the society, was
regarded as an ac-
complished Dai, and employed in the important oflice
of making proselytes and extending its iniiuence.
We must again express our opinion that the minute
accounts which are given to us
by some writers, re-
specting the rules and doctrines of secret associations,
THE ASSASSINS. 69
should be received with a considerable degree of
hesitation, owing to the character and the means of
information of those from whom we receive them.
In the present case our
authority is a
very suspicious
one. We are told that when Alamoot was taken by
Hoolekoo Khan, the Mongol prince, he gave his
vizir, the learned Ata-Melek (Kings father) :Jowani,
permission to examine the library, and to select such
books as were worthy of being preserved. The vizir
took outthe Korans and some other books of value in
his eyes; the rest, amongwhich are said to have been
the archives and the secret rules and doctrines of the
society, he committed, after looking cursorily through
them, to the Hames. In an historical work of his
own he gave the result of his discoveries in those
books, and he is the authority from which Mirkhond
and other writers have derived the accounts which
they have transmitted to us. It is quite clear, there-
fore, that the vizir of Hoolakoo was at liberty to'
invent what atrocities he pleased of the sect which was
destroyed by his master, and that his testimony is con-
sequently to be received with suspicion. On the other
hand it receives some confirmation from its agree-
ment with the account of the society at Cairo given
by Macrisi, and is not repugnant to the spirit of
Soofeism.
'
This last doctrine, which is a kind of mystic Pan-
theism, viewing God in all and all in God, may pro-
duce, like fatalism, piety or its opposite. In the eyes
of one who thus views God, all the distinctions be-
tween vice and virtue become fleeting and uncertain,
and crime may gradually lose its atrocity, and be re-
garded as
only a mean for the production of a
good
end.. That the Ismailite Fedavee murdered innocent
persons without oompunction, when ordered so to do
by his superiors, is an undoubted fact, and there is
no absurdity in supposing that he and they may have
,/"
70 SECRET SOCIETIES.
thought that in so doing they were acting right, and
promoting the cause of truth.~ Such sanctitying of
crime is not contined to the East; the maxim that
the end sanctions the means is of too convenient a.
nature not to have prevailed in all parts of the world;
and the assassins of Henry III. and Henry IV. of
France displayed all the sincerity and constancy of
the Ismailite Fedavees. Without, therefore, regard-
ing the heads of the Ismailites, with Hammer,
mere ruthless and impious murderers, who trampled
nndcr foot religion and morals with all their obliga-
tions, we
may assent to the opinion of their leading
doctrine being Soofeism carried to its worst conse-
quences.
`
The followers of Hassan Sabah were called the
Eastern Ismailites, to distinguish them from those of
Africa. They were also named the Batiniyeh (In.-
terfnal or Secret), from the secret meaning which they
drew from the text ofthe Koran, and Moolhad, or Moo-
lahid (Impious) on account of the imputed impiety of
their doctrines,--names common to them with most of
the preceding sects. It is under this last appellation
that they were known to Marco Polo, the Venetian
traveller. The name, however, by which they are
best known in Europe, and which we shall henceforth
chieliy employ, is that of Assassins. This name is
very generally derived from that of the founder of
their society; but M. De Sacy has made it probable
that the oriental term Hashisheen, of which the
Crusaders made Assassins, comes from Hashish,
a species of hemp, from which intoxicating opiates
were made, which the Fedavee were in the habit of
taking previously to engaging in their daring enter-
prises, or
employed as a medium ofprocuring delicious
visions of the paradise promised to them by the
Sheikh-al-Jebal.
It is a curious question how Hassan Sabah con-
,
THE ASSASSINS. 71
trived to infuse into the Fedavee the recklessness of
life, joined with the spirit of implicit obedience to the
commands of their superiors, which theyso invariably
displayed. We are told* that the system adopted for
this purpose was to obtain, by purchase or otherwise,
from their parents, stout and healthy children. These
were reared up in implicit obedience to the will of
the/
Sheikh, and, to fit them for their future office, caref
fully instmcted in various languages. The moslf
agreeable spots were selected for their abode, they
were indulged in the gratification of their senses,
and, in the midst of their enjoyments, some persons
were directed to intiame their imaginations by glow-
ing descriptions ofthe far superior delights laid up
in the celestial paradise for those who should be ad-
mitted to repose in its bowers ; a
happiness only to
be attained by a glorious death metin obedience to
the commands of the Sheikh. When such ideas had
been impressed on their minds, the glorious visions
ever floated before their eyes, the impression was kept
up by the use of the opiate above-mentioned, and the
young enthusiast panled for the hour when death,
obtained in obeying the order of the Sheikh, should
open to him the gates of paradise to admit him to
the enjoyment of bliss never to end. ». _.W-
The celebrated Venetian, Marco Polo, who traversed
the most remote parts of the East in the 13th century,
gave on his return to Europe an account of the regions
which he had visited, which filled the minds of men
with wonder and amazement. As is usual in such
cases this was followed or accompanied by unbelief,
and it is only by the inquiries and discoveries of
modern travellers that the veracity of Marco Polo,
like that of Herodotus, has been established and
placed beyond doubt.
Among other wonderful narratives which we meet
*
Wilken, Geschichte der Kreuzziige, vol. ii.
gg sncmrr socnrrins.
in the travels of Marco Polo is the account which h¢
gives of the people whom he calls Mulehetites (that is,
Moolahid), and their prince the Old Man of the
Mountain. He describes correctly the nature of this so-
ciety, and gives the following romantic narrative of the
mode employed by that prince to infuse the principle of
implicit obedience into the minds of his followers*.
~
"
In a beautiful valley," says he,
"
enclosed between
two lofty mountains, he had formed a luxurious gar-
den, stored with every delicious fruit and every fra-
grant shrub that could be procured. Palaces of
various sizes and forms were erected in ditierent parts
of the grounds, ornamented with works of gold, with
paintings, and with furniture of rich silks. By means
of small conduits contained in these buildings streams
of wine, milk, honey, and some of pure water, were
seen to How in every direction. The inhabitants
of these palaces were elegant and beautiful damsels,
accomplished in the arts of singing, playing upon all
sorts of musical instruments, dancing, and especially
those of dalliance and amorous allurement. Clothed
in rich dresses, they were seen continually sporting
and amusing themselves in the garden and pavilions,
their female guardians being confined within doors,
and never suffered to appear. The object which the
chief had in view in forming a garden of this fasci-
nating kind was this: that Mahomet having promised
to those who should obey his will the enjoyments of
paradise, where every species of sensual gratification
should be found in the society of beautiful nymphs,
he was desirous of its being understood by his fol-
lowers that he also was a
prophet, and a
compeer of
Mahomet, and had the power of admitting to para-
dise such as he should choose to ihvour. In order that
none without his licence should find their way into this
delicious valley, he caused a
strong and inexpugnable
'°'
Marsdeifs Translation.
'ma Assassins. 73
castle to be erected at the opening of it, through which
the entry was
by a. secret passage. At his court,
likewise, this chief entertained a. number of
youths,
from the age of twelve to twenty years, selected
from the inhabitants of the surrounding mountains,
who showed a
disposition for martial exercises, and
appeared to possess the quality of daring courage. To
them he was in the daily practice of discoursing on
the subject of the paradise announced by the Prophet
and of his own, of granting admission, and at certain
times he caused draughts of a
soporific nature to be
administered to ten or a dozen of the youths, and
when half dead with sleep he had them conveyed to
the several apartments of the palaces in the garden.
Upon awakening from this state of lethargy their
senses were struck with all the delightful objects that
have been described, and each perceived himself sur-
rounded by lovely damsels, singing, playing, and at-
tracting his regards by the most fascinating caresses,
serving him also with delicious viands _and exquisite
wines, until, intoxicated with excess of enjoyment,
amidst actual rivers of milk and wine, he believed
himself assuredly in paradise, and felt an
unwilling-
ness to relinquish its delights. When four or five
days had thus been passed, they were thrown once
more into a state of somnolency and carried out of
the garden. Upon their being introduced to his pre-
sence, and questioned by him as to where they had
been, their answer was, 'In paradise, through the
favour of your highness ;' and then, before the whole
court, who listened to them with eager curiosity and
astonishment, they gave a circumstantial account of
the scenes to which they had been witnesses. The
chief thereupon addressing them said, '_We have the
assurance of our Prophet that he who defends his
lord shall inherit paradise, and if you show yourselves
devoted to the obedience of my orders, that happy lot
F
,74 srgcnm'
-
soomrxss."
awaits you.' Animated to enthusiasm by words of
this nature all deemed themselves happy to receive
the commands of their master, and were forward to
die in his service." _
This romantic narrative, more suited to a
place
among the wonders of the "Thousand and One
Nights" than to admission into sober history, has
been very generally rejected by judicious inquirers
such as De Sacy and Wilkin, the able historians
of the Crusades; but it has found credence with
Hammer, to whose work we are indebted for the far
greater part of the present details on the subject of
the Assassins. This industrious` scholar has, as he
thinks, found a
proof of its truth in the circumstance
of similar narratives occurring in the works of some
Arabian writers which treat of the settlements of the
society in Syria, forgetting that a fabulous legend is
,often more
widely difliised than sober truth. All,
therefore, that can be safely inferred from this collec-
tion of authorities is that the same marvellous tale
which the Venetian traveller heard in the north of
Persia was also current in Syria and Egypt. Its truth
must be established by a diiierent species of prooti
In the Siret~al-Hakem (Memoirs of Hakem), a
species of Arabian historic romance, the following ac-
count of the gardens at Massyat, the chief seat of
the Assassins in Syria, was
discovered-by Ham-
mer*:-
"
Om' narrative now returns to Ismail the chief of
the lsmailites. He wok with him his people laden
with gold, silver, pearls, and other effects, taken away
from the inhabitants of the coasts, and which he had
received in the island of Cyprus, and on the part of
the king of Egypt, Dhaher, the son of Hakem-
biémr-Illah. Having bidden farewell to the sultan
of Egypt at Tripolis, they proceeded to Massyat, when
*
Fundgruben des Orients, vol. iii. .
_
THE ASSASSINS. -
75
the inhabitants ofthe castles and fortresses assembled
to enjoy themselves, along with the chief Ismail and
his people. They put on the rich dresses with which
the sultan had supplied them, and adorned the castle
of Massyat with everything that was good and fine.
Ismail made his entry into Massyat with the De-
voted (Fedavee), as no one has ever done at Massyat
before him or after him. He stopped there some
time to take into his service some more
persons
Lvoléom
he might make Devoted both in heart and
y.
"
With this view he had caused to be made a vast
garden, into which he had water conducted. In the
middle of this garden he built a kiosk raised to the
height of four stories. On each of the four sides
were richly-ornamented windows joined by four
arches, in which were painted stars of gold and
silver. He put into it roses, porcelain, glasses, and
drinking-vessels of gold and silver. He had with
him Mamlooks (i. e. slaves), ten males and ten fe-
males, who were come with him from the region of
the Nile, and who had scarcely attained the age of
puberty. He clothed them in silks and in the finest
stuffs, and he gave unto them bracelets of gold and
of silverf The columns were overlaid with musk and
with amber, and in the four arches of the windows
he set four caskets, in which was the purest musk.
The columns were polished, and this place was
the retreat of the slaves. He divided the garden
into foru' parts. In the first of these were
pear-trees,
apple-trees, vines, cherries, mulberries, plums, and
other kinds of fruit-trees. In the second were
oranges, lemons, olives, pomegranates, and other
fruits. In the third were cucumbers, melons, legu-
minous plants, &c. In the fourth were roses, jessa-
mine, tamarinds, narcissi, violets, lilies, anemonies,
&c. &c. '
F 2
76 _
SECRET SOCIETIES.
"
The garden was divided by canals of water, and
the kiosk was surrounded with ponds and reservoirs.
There were
groves in which were seen antelopes,
ostriches, asses, and wild cows. _
Issuing from the
ponds, one met ducks, geese, partridges, quails, hares,
foxes, and other animals. Around the kiosk the
chief Ismail planted walks of' tall trees, terminating
in the different parts of the garden. He built there
a great house, divided into two apartments, the upper
and the lower. From the latter covered walks led
out into the garden, which was all enclosed with
walls, so that no one could see into it, for these walks
and buildings were all void of inhabitants. He made
a
gallery of coolness, which ran from this apartment
to the cellar, which was behind. This apartment
served as a
place of assembly for the men.
Having
placed himself on a sofa there opposite the door, the
chief made his men sit down, and gave them to eat
and to drink during the whole length of the day until
evening. At nightfall he looked around him, and,
selecting those whose firmness pleased him, said to
them,
'
Ho! such-a-one, come and seat thyself near
me.' It is thus that Ismail made those whom he
had chosen sit near him on the sofa and drink. He
then spoke to them of the great and excellent quali-
ties of the imam Ali, of his bravery, his nobleness,
and his generosity, until they fell asleep, overcome
by the power of the berrjelz* which he had given them,
and which never failed to produce its effects in less
than a quarter of an hour, so that they fell down as
if they were inanimate. As soon as the man had
fallen the chief Ismail arose, and, taking him up,
brought him into a
dormitory, and then, shutting the
*
The Arabic name of the hyoscyamus, or henbane.
Hammer conjectures that the word bengc,;or, with the
Coptic article in the plural, ni-benje, is the same with the
nepeuthc ol' the ancients.-Fundgruben des Orieuts, iii. 202.
THE ASSASSINS. 77
door, carried him on his shouldersinto the gallery of
coolness, which was in the garden, and thence into
the kiosk, where he committed him to the care of the
male and female slaves, directing them to comply
with all the desires of the candidate, on whom they
flung vinegar till he awoke. When he was come to
himself the youths and maidens said to him,
'
We are
only wailing for thy death, for this place is destined
for thee. This is one of the pavilions of paradise,
and we are the hoories and the children of paradise.
If thou wert dead thou wouldest be for ever with us,
but thou art only dreaming, and wilt soon awake.'
Meanwhile the chief Ismail had returned to the com-
pany as soon as he had witnessed the awakening of
the candidate, who now
perceived nothing but youths
and maidens of the greatest beauty, and adorned
in the.most magnificent manner.
"
He looked round the place, inhaled the fragrance
of musk and frankincense, and drew near to the
garden, where he saw the beasts and the birds, the
running water, and the trees. He gazed on the
beauty of the kiosk, and the vases of gold and silver,
while the youths and maidens kept him in converse.
In this way he remained confounded, not knowing
whether he was awake or only dreaming. When
two hours of the night had gone by, the chieflsmail re-
turned tothe dormitory, closed to the door, and thence
proceeded to the garden, where his slaves came
around him and rose before him. When the candi-
date perceived him he said unto him, 'O chief Is-
mail, do I dream, or am I awake ?` The chief Ismail
then made answer to him,
'
O such-a-one, beware of
relating this vision to any one who is a stranger to
this place I Know that the Lord Ali has shown thee
the place which is destined for thee in paradise.
Know that at this moment the Lord Ali and I have
been sitting together in the regions of the empyrean.
78' sncnur soc1E'r1E`s.
So do not' hesitate a moment in the service of the
imam who has given thee to know his felicity.' Then
the chief Ismail ordered supper to be served. It was
brought in vessels of gold and of silver, and consisted
of boiled meats and roast meats, with other dishes.
While the candidate ate he was sprinkled with rose-
water; when he called for drink there were brought
to him vessels of gold and silver filled with delicious
liquors, in which also had been mingled some benjeh..
When he had fallen asleep, Ismail carried him through
the gallery back to the dormitory, and, leaving him
there, returned to his company. After a little time
he went back, threw vinegar on his face, and then,
bringing him out, ordered one of the Mamlooks to
shake him. On awaking, and finding himself in
the same
place among the guests, he said, 'There is
no
god but God, and Mohammed is the Prophet of
God !' The chief Ismail then drew near and caressed
him, and he remained, as it were, immersed in in-
toxication, wholly devoted to the service of the chief,
who then said unto him, 'O such-a-one, know that
what thou hast seen was not a dream, but one of the
miracles of the imam Ali. Know that he has written
thy name
among those of his friends. If thou keep
the secret thou art certain of thy felicity, but if thou
speak of it thou wilt incur the resentment of the
imam. If thou die thou art a
martyr; but beware
of relating this to any person whatever. Thou hast
entered by one of the gates to the friendship of the
imam, and art become one of his family; but if thou
betray the secret, thou wilt become one of his ene-
mies, and be driven from his house.' Thus this man
became one of the servants of the chief Ismail, who
in this manner surrounded himself with trusty men,
until his reputation was established. This is what is
related of the chief Ismail and his Devoted."
-
_
To these romantic tales of the paradise of the Old
"THE Assassins.
`
iQ
Man ofthe Mountain we must add a third of a still
more
juggling character, fhmished by the learned
and venerable Sheikh Abd-ur-Rahman (Servant of
the Compassionate, i. e., of God) Ben Ebubekr Al-
Jeriri of Damascus, in the twenty-fourth chapter of
his work' entitled "A Choice Book for discovering
the Secrets of the Art of Imposture*."
After giving some account of Sinan, the chief of
the Syrian Assassins, whom we shall presently have
occasion to mention, the sheikh proceeds to narrate
the artitice which he employed to deceive his fol-
lowers:-
"
There was near the sofa on which he sat a hole
in the ground sufficiently deep for a man to sit down
in it. This he covered with a thin piece of wood,
leaving only so much of it open as would contain the
neck of a man. He placed on this cover of wood a
disk of bronze with a hole in the middle of it, and
put in it two doors. Then taking one of his dis-
ciples, to whom he had given a considerable sum of
money to obtain his consent, he placed the perforated
disk round his neck, and kept itdown by weights, so
that nothing appeared but the neck of the man ; and
he put warm blood upon it, so that it looked as if he
had just cut oil' his head. He then called in his
companions, and showed them the plate, on which
they beheld the head of their comrade. 'Tell thy
co1nrades,' said the master to the head, 'what thou
hast seen, and what has been said unto thee." The
man then answered as he had been previously in-
structed. 'Which wouldest thou pret`er,' said the
master. 'to return to the world and thy friends, or
to dwell in paradise ?' '
What need have I,' replied
the head, 'to return to the world after having seen
my pavilion in paradise, and the hoories, and all
that God has prepared for me? Comrades, salute
*
Fundgruben des Orients, vol. iv.
30 SECRET SOCIETIES.
my family, and take care not to disobey this prophet,
who is the lord of the .prophets in the state of time,
as God has said unto me. Farewell] These words
strengthened the faith of the others; but when they
were gone the master took the man up out of the
hole, and cut off' his head in right earnest. It was
by such means as this that he made himself obeyed
by his people."
The preceding accounts, whatever may be thought
of their truth, serve to testify a
general belief through-
out the East of some extraordinary means
being em-
ployed by the mountain chief to acquire the power
which he was known to possess over the minds of his
Fedavee. And, in fact, there is no great improba-
bility in the supposition of some artifice of that nature
having been occasionally employed by him; for,
when we recollect that an Asiatic imagination is
coarse, especially among the lower orders, and that
in the East men rarely see any females but those of'
their own family, the chief might find no
great diffi-
culty in persuading a youth, whom he had transported
in a state of stupor into an
apartment filled with young
girls, of his having been in the actual paradise pro-
mised to the faithful. _
But, laying aside supposition, we may observe
that the very power over the minds of their followers
ascribed to Hassan Sabah and his successors has been
actually exercised in our own
days by the chief of the
Wahabees. Sir John Malcolm* informs us, from a.
Persian manuscript, that a few years ago one of that
sect, who had stabbed an Arab chief near Bussora,
when taken, not only refused to do anything towards
saving his life, but, on the contrary, seemed anxiously
to court death. He was observed to grasp something
firmly in his hand, which he appeared to prize beyond
life itself. On its being taken from him and exa-
'
History of Persia, vol. i.
_,__
THE ASSA SSINS. 81
mined, it proved to be an order from the Wahabee
chief for an emerald palace and a number of beauti-
ful female slaves in the blissful paradise of the Pro-
phet. This story, however, it must be confessed,
appears to be little consistent with the principles of
the sect ofthe Wahabees, and we may suspect that
it has originated in some
misapprehension.
The following instance of the implicit obedience
of the Fedavee to the orders of Hassan Sabah is
given by a
respectable oriental historian*. An am-
bassador from the Sultan Malek Shah having come
to Alamoot to demand the submission and obedience
of the slieikh, Hassan received him in ahall in which
he had assembled several of his followers. Making
a
sign to
one_youth, he said,
"
Kill thyself!" In-
stantly the young man's dagger was
plunged into his
own bosom, and he lay a.
corpse upon the ground.
To another he said,
"
Fling thyself down from the
wall." In an instant his shattered limbs were
lying
in the castle ditch. Then turning to the terrified
envoy,
"
I have seventy thousand followers who obey
me after this fashion. This be my answer to thy
master."
`
_
Very nearly the same _tale is told of the Assassins
of Syria by a western writer-|-_ As Henry Count of,
Champagne was
journeying, in the year 1194, from
Palestine to Armeniai, his road lay through the con-
fines of the territory of the Ismailites. The chief
sent some
persons to salute him, and to beg that, on
his return, he would stop at, and partake of the hos-
pitality of his castle. The count accepted the invi-
tation. As he returned the Dai-al-Kehir advanced
to meet him, showed him every mark of honour, and
led him to view his castles and fortresses. Having
*
Elmacin, Historia Saracenica, l. iii. p. 286.
i
Marinus Sanutns, l. iii. p. x. c. 8.
This was the Armenia in Cilicia.
r 5
82 SECRET SOCIETIES.
passed through several, they came at length to one
the towers of which rose to an exceeding height;
On each tower stood two Sentinels clad in white,
"
These," said the chief, pointing to them,
"
obey me
far better than the
subjects of you Christians obey
their lords ;" and at a
given signal two of them Hung
themselves down, and were dashed to pieces. "If
you wish," said he to the astonished count,
"
all my
white ones shall do the same." The benevolent
count shrank from the proposal, and candidly avowed
that no Christian prince could presume to look for
such obedience from his subjects. When he was
departing, with many valuable presents, the chief said
to him significantly,
"
By means of these trusty ser-
vants I get rid ofthe enemies of our society."
In oriental, and also in occidental history, the
same anecdote is often told of different persons, a
circumstance which might induce us to doubt of its
truth altogether, or at least of its truth in any parti-
cular case. The present anecdote, for instance, with
a
slight variation in the details, is told of Aboo Taher,
a celebrated leader of the Carmathites. This chief;
after his expedition to Mecca, in which he had slain
30,000 of the inhabitants, filled the hallowed well
Zemzem with the bodies of dead men, and carried
off the sacred black stone in triumph, had the hardi-
hood to approach Bagdad, the residence of the khalif,
with only 500 horsemen. The pontiif of Islam,
enraged at the insult, ordered his general Aboo Saj
to take 30,000 men, and make him a
prisoner. The
latter, having collected his forces, sent a man off to
Aboo Taher to tell him on his part that out of
regard for him, who had been his old friend, he ad-
vised him, as he had so few troops with him, either
to yield himself at once to the khalif or to see about
making his escape. Aboo Taher asked of the
envoy how many men Aboo Saj had with him. The
'
'ram ASSASSINS.
i
53
envoy replied, _"Thirty thousand."
"
He still wants
three like_ minef' said Aboo Taher; and calling to
him three of his men,he ordered one of them to stah
himself; another to throw himself into the Tigris, a
third to fling# himself down from a
precipice. His
commands were at once obeyed. Then turning to
the envoy, "Hewho hassuch troops fears not the
number of his enemies. I give thyself quarter; but
know that I shall soon let thee see thy general Aboo
Saj chained among.rny dogs." In fact, that very
night he attacked and routed the troops of the khalifQ
and Aboo Saj, happening to fall into his hands, soon
appeared chained among the mastiifs of the Car-
mathite chief"'.
The preceding details on the paradise of the
Sheikh-al-Jebal, and his power over the minds of his
followers, will at least help to illustrate the manners
and modes of thinking of the orientals. We now
resume the thread of our narrative, and proceed to
narrate the deeds of the Assassins, as we shall hence-
forth designate them.
'
D'Herbelot, iitre Carmatli.
` _
V
84 srcnar socmrms.
Cmrrait VI.
Keith Buzoorg Oomeid-Affairs of the 'Society in Persia-
They acquire the Castle of Banias, in Syria-Attempt to
betray Damascus to the Crusaders-Murder: committed
during the reign of Keith Buzoorg.
Kam Buzooaa Ooxualn trod faithfully in the foot-
prints of his predecessor. He built the strong fortress
of Maimoondeés, and he made the enemies of the
society feel that it was still animated by the spirit of
Hassan Sabah. Sultan Sanjar, who, on account of
the favourable terms on which he had made peace
with the Assassins, was
regarded by the rigidly ortho-
dox as a secret follower of their doctrine, declared
himself once more their open enemy, and sent an
army to ravage Kirdkoh. These troops were de-
feated by those which Keah sent against them; but
the following year Sanjar put to the sword a
great
number of the members of the sect. The dagger, as
usual, retaliated. Mahmood, the successor of Sanjar,
having first tried in vain the effect of
armsgent
his
grand falconer Berenkesh to Alamoot, to rl ire that
an envoy might be sent to him to treat of peace. The
Khojah (Master) Mohammed Nassihi accompanied
Berenkesh back to court, and kissed the hand of the
sultan, who spoke to him a lew words about the
peace; but as the Khojah was
going out of the -palace,
he and his followers were fallen upon and massacred
by the people.
When the sultan sent an ambassador to Alamoot
to exculpate himself from the guilt of participation in
this violation of the laws of nations, Keith made
THE ASSASSINS. 85
answer, "Go back to the sultan, and tell him, in
my name, Mohammed Nassihi trusted to your per-
fidious assurances, and repaired to your court ; if you
speak tmly, deliver up the murderers to justice ; if not,
expect my vengeance." On the refusal of the sultan
to surrender the murderers, a
corps of Assassins ap-
peared at the gates of Casveen, slew 400 men, and led
away 3,000 sheep, 200 horses, and 200 oxen. Next
year the sultan took, and retained for a short time, the
fortress ofAlamoot; buta body of 2,000 men which he
sent against Lamseer fled, without drawing a sword,
when they heard that the Refeek (Companions) ofthe
society were marching against them. Shortly after-
wards the sultan died, and the Assassins made an~
other incursion into the district of Casveen, where
they can'ied oft' booty and prisoners.
The mountain chief would tolerate no rival near
his throne. Hearing that one Aboo Hashem, a.
descendant of Ali, had arrogated to himself the dig-
nity of imam in the province of Ghilan, which lies
north of Kuhistan, and had issued letters calling on
the people to acknowledge him, Ketih wrote to him
to desist from his pretensions. The self-appointed
imam only replied by reviling -the odious tenets of
the I smailites. The sheikh forthwith sent a
body ot'
his troops against him, took him prisoner, and, after
trying him by a court-martial, committed him to the
flames.
Though, as we have seen, the settlements of the
Assassins were in the mountainous region of Irak, in
the north-west of Persia, their power was of such a
nature that no distance was a
security against it. A
Fedavee could speedily traverse the intervening regions
to'plant his dagger in the bosom of any prince or
minister who had incurred the vengeance of the
'Sheikh-al-Jebal. ~
Accordingly we find the shah
(King) of Khaurism, between which and lrak lies
-vw -~~
f
l
1
gf; sncnm' soonrrins.
the extensive province of Khorasan, coming to
Sultan Massood, the successor of Mahmood, to con-
cert with him a plan lor the destruction of these for-
midable foes to princes. The shah of Khaurism
had been formerly rather disposed to favour the Is-
mailites, but his eyes were now
opened, and he was
become their most inveterate enemy. Sultan Mas-
sood, we know not for what reason, bestowed on him
the lands which Berenkesh, the grand falconer, had
held of the sultan. Berenkesh, mortally offended at
this unworthy treatment, retired, with his family, to
the territory of the Ismailites, and sought the pro-
tection of Keah, whose open enemy he had hitherto
been. Policy, or a
regard to good faith and huma~
nity, made the Assassin prince grant the protection
which was
required; and when the shah of Khaurism
wrote, reminding Keah of his own former friendship,
and the bitter hostility of Berenkesh, and- requesting
him, on that plea, to give up the fugitive, the sheikh
replied,
"
T,he shah of Khaurism speaks true, but we
will never
give up our suppliants." Long and bloody
enmity between the sheikh and the shah was the
consequence of this refusal to violate the rights of
hospitality.
'
"i
The Syrian branch of the society begins at this
time to attract rather more attention than that of
Persia, chiefly on account of its connexion with the
Crusaders, who had succeeded in establishing an
empire extendingfrom the frontiers of Egypt to those
of Armenia. A Persian Ismailite, named Behram
of Astrabad, who is said to have commenced his
career
by the murder of his own father, gained the
confidence of the vizir of the prince' of Damascus,
who gave him the castle of Banias, or Panias (the
ancient Balanea), for the use of the society. This
place, which became the nucleus of the power of
the Assassins in Syria, lies in a fertile, well-watered
'
THE ASSASSINS. 81
plain, about 4,000 paces from the sea. The valley
whence the numerous streams which fructify it issue
is called the Wadi-al-Jinn (Valley of Demons),
"
a
place," observes Hammer, whom no casual
coincidence escapes,
"
from its very name
worthy
of becoming a settlement of the Assassins." From
Banias they extended their power over the neigh-
bouring castles and fortresses, until, twelve years
afterwards, the seat of dominion was transferred
thence to Massyat.
V
Behram fell shortly afterwardsin an
engagement
against the people of the valley of Taim, the brother
of whose chief had perished by the daggers of the
Assassins. His successor was Ismail, a Persian, who
continued the bond of amity with the vizir ot' Da-
mascus, whither he sent, by way of resident, a man
named, rather inappropriately as it would appear,
Aboo-'l-Wefa (Father of Fidelity). This man so
won the favour of the vizir and prince that he was
appointed to the office of Hakem, or supreme judge ;
and having thus acquired power and influence, he
immediately turned his thoughts to the best mode of
employing them for the advantage of the society, _an
object always near the heart of a. true Ismailite. A
place of strength on the sea-coast would, he con-
ceived, be of the utmost importance to them; so he
fixed his eyes upon Tyre, and fell upon the following
expedient to obtain possession of it.
'
The Franks had been now upwards of thirty years
established in the East. Their daring and enthu-
siastic valour was at once the dread and the admira-
tion of their Mussulman foes, and feats almost sur-
passing the fables of the romances of chivalry had
been performed by their gallant warriors. These
were the auxiliaries to whom Aboo-'1-Wefa directed
his attention; for we are to observe that as yet the
fanatic spirit had not united all the Moslems in en-
83 SECRET SOCIETIES.
mity againstthe followers of the Cross, and the
princes of Aleppo, Damascus, and the other districts
of Syria, had been more than once in alliance with
the Christian realms of Jerusalem and Antioch.
Aboo-'l-Wefa sent therefore and concluded a secret
treaty with Baldwin II., king of Jerusalem, in
which he engaged, if the Christian warriors would
secretly march and appear before Damascus on a
Friday, when the emir and his ollicers would be at
the mosk, to give them possession of the gates of the
town. The king was in return to put Tyre into
the hands of the Ismailites.
The Christian army was assembled; all the barons
of the kingdom appeared in arms; the king in per-
son led the host; the newly-formed military order of
the Templars displayed for the Hrst time in the field
their striped banner Beauséant, afterwards so well
known in manya bloody fray. Prince Bernard of
Antioch, Count Pontius of Tripolis, the brave Josce-
lin of Edessa, led their knights and footmen to share
in the capture of the wealthy city of Damascus. The
mountains which environ Lake Tiberius were left
behind, and the host joyfully emerged into the plain
watered by the streams Abana and Pharpar. But
here defeat awaited them. Taj-al-Molook (Diadem
If Kings) Boozi, the emir of Damascus, had in time
discovered the plot of his hakem. He had put him
and the vizir to death, and had ordered a
general
massacre of the Ismailites in the city*. The Chris-
tian army was now at a
place named Marj Safar, and
the footmen had begun to plunder the villages for
food, when a small body of gallant Damascene war-
riors rushed from the town and fell upon them.
The defenceless Christians sank beneath their blows,
incapable of resistance. The rest of the army ad-
vanced to aid or avenge their brethren, when sud-
* The number slain was 6,000. y
____
THE ASSASSINS. 89
denly' the sky became overcast, thick darkness en-
veloped all objects, the thunder roared, the lightning
flashed, the rain poured down in torrents, and, by a
rapid transition, pecul`ar to Eastern climates, the
rain and waters turned into snow and ice, and aug-
mented the horrors ol' the day. The superstitious and
conscience-stricken Crusaders viewed in this awful
phenomenon the immediate agency of heaven, and
deemed it to be sent as a
punishment for their sins;
and, recollecling that on that very spot but four years
before King Baldwin had gained, with a handful of
men. a
victory over an
army of the Damascenes, they
were
plunged into grief and humiliation. The only
advantage which they derived from this expedition
was the acquisition of the castle of Banias, which the
Ismailite governor put into their hands, that under
their protection he might escape the fate of his
brethren.
Banias was
given up tothe Christians in the same
year in which Alamoot was taken by the Seljookiau
sultan, and thus the power ofthe Assassins seemed to
be almost gone. But it had in it a conservative prin-
ciple, and, hydra-like, it grew by its wounds. Ala-
moot was
speedily recovered, and three years after-
wards Banias was once more the seat of a Dai-al-
Kebir. At the same time the dagger raged with
unwonted fury against all of whom the society stood
in apprehension, and the annals of the reign of
Keah Buzoorg Oomeid furnish a list of illustrious
victims. _
"The first of these was the celebrated Aksunkur,
Prince of Mossul, a warrior equally dreaded by the
Christians and by the Assassins. As this prince, on
his return from Maarra Mesrin, where the Moslem
and Christian hosts had parted without venturing to
engage, entered the mosk at Mossul`to perform his
*
It was the month of December.
'
so SECRET socmnrzs.
devotions, he was attacked at the moment when he
was about to take his usual seat by eight assassins,
disguised as dervishes. Three of them fell beneath
the blows of the valiant emir, but ere his people could
come to his aid he had received his death-wound and
expired. The remainder of the murderers became
victims to the vengeance of the people; one youth
only escaped. The Arabian historian, Kemal-ed-
Deen, relates on this occasion a curious trait of the
fanaticism and Spartan spirit which animated the
members of the sect of the Ismailites. When the
mother of the youth above-mentioned heard that the
formidable Aksunkur had been slain, she painted her
face and put on her gayest raiment and ornaments,
rejoicing that her son had been found worthy to die
the glorious death of a martyr in the cause of the
Imam. But when she saw him return alive and un-
scathed, she cut off her hair and blackened her coun-~
tenance, and would not be comforted.
In the following year (1127) fell Moin-ed-deen,
the vizir of Sultan Sanjar. In this case the Assassin
had engaged himself as a
groom in the service of the
vizir. As Moin-ed-deen went one
day into the
stable to look at his horses the Assassin appeared be-
fore him, stripped, and holding one of the horses by
the bridle. As the vizir, unsuspicious of danger,
came near where he was, the false groom made the
horse rear, and, under the pretence of soothing and
pacifying the restive animal, he took out a small
dagger which he had concealed in the horse's mane,
and plunged it into the bosom ofthe vizir.
The slaughter of the Ismailites by the Prince of
Damascus was not forgotten, and two years after-
wards he received two dagger wounds, one of which
proved
mortal. Their vengeance was not appeased
y his blood, and his son and successor, Shemsfale
Molook (Sun of Kings), perished by a conspiracy
i..
-
THE ASSASSINS. in
with the guilt of which the Assassins were charged.
In the catalogue of the victims of this period appear
also the names of the Judges of the East and of the
West, of the Mufti of Casveen, of the Reis of Isfa-
han, and the Reis of Tebreez.
The East has been at all times prolific of crime;
human life is not there held to be of the value at
which it is estimated in Europe: and the dagger and
poison are freely employed to remove
objects of ap-
prehension, to put obstacles out of the way of ambi-
tion, or to satiate the thirst of vengeance. We are
not, therefore, lightly to give credit to every charge
made against the Assassins, and to believe them
guilty of murders from which they had no
advantage
to derive. Thus, when at this time the Fatimite Khalif
Amir bi-ahkami-llah (Commander ofthe observance
of the laws of God) fell by the hands of murderers,
the probability is that he was not a victim to the
vengeance of the Ismailite society, whom he had
never injured, but rather to that of the family of the
powerful vizir Afdal, who had been assassinated some
time before by the khalif's order, as we have every
reason to suppose.
-
With a
greater show of reason may the murder of
Mostarshed, the Khalif of Bagdad, be imputed to the
policy of the mountain chief The Seljookian princes,
the predecessors of Massood, had been satisfied to
exercise all real power in the empire which had once
obeyed the house of Abbas, leaving to that feeble
Shadow of God upon Earth the unsubstantial pri-
vilege of having the coin of the realm struck and
prayers otfered on
Friday in the mosk in his name.
But Massood arrogated even these rights to himself;
and the helpless successor of the Prophet was obliged
to submit to the indignity which he could not pre-
vent. At length some discontented military chiefs
passed with their troops over to the khalifl and per-
92 SECRET SOCIETIES.
suaded him that by one bold effort he might over-
throw the might ot' the Turkish sultan, and recover
all his rights. The khalif listened to their argu-
ments, and, placing himself at the head of an army,
marched against Sultan Massood. But. fortune
proved adverse to him. At the first shock the
greater part of the troops of Bagdad abandoned him,
and he remained a
captive in the hands of the sultan,
who brought him with him a
prisoner to Maragha.
Here a
treaty was concluded between them, and the
khalif bound himself not to go any more outside of
the walls of Bagdad, and annually to pay a sum of
money. This treaty appears to have been displeasing
to the Assassins; and, watching their opportunity,
when Massood was gone to meet the ambassadors of
Sultan Sanjar, a
party of them fell upon and mas-
sacred the khalif and his train. The lifeless body of
the Commander of the Faithful was mangled by
them in- the most scandalous manner.
After a blood~stained reign of fourteen years and
three days Keiih Buzoorg Oomeid died. Depart-
ing from the maxims of Hassan Sabah, who it is
probable wished to imitate the conduct of the Pro-
phet, and leave the supreme dignity elective, he ap-
pointed his own son, Keah Mohammed, to he his
successor, induced either by paternal partiality, or
bpéieving
him to be the person best qualified tor the
0 ce.
CHAPTER VII
Syria. lsmaihte Confession of Faith-Mohammed's Son
Hassan gives himself out for the promised Imam-His
Followers punished Succession of Hassan-He abolishes
the Law-Pretends to be descended from the Prophet-Is
murdered
Tan: policy of the society underwent no alteration on
the accession of Mohammed. The dagger still smote
its enemies, and as each victim fell, the people who
maintained the rights of Ismail, and who were kept
in rifrid obedience to the positive precepts of the
Koran, beheld nothing but the right hand of Heaven
made bare for the punishment of crime and usurpa-
tion.
'__
he new mountain prince had hardly taken
the reins of government into his hands when Rasheed,
the successor of the late khalif, eager to avenge the
murder of his father, assembled an army and marched
against Alamoot. He had reached Isfahan, but there
his march terminated. Four Assassins, who had
entered his service for the purpose, fell upon him in
his tent and stabbed him. When the news was con-
veyed to Alamoot great rejoicings were made, and
for seven days and seven
nights the trumpets and
kettle-drums resounded from the towers of the fort-
ress, proclaiming the triumph of the dagger to the
surrounding country.
'
The Syrian dominion of the Ismailites was at this
time considerably extended. They purchased from
Ibn Amroo, their owner, the castles of Cadmos and
Kahaf, and took by force that of Massyat from the
THE ASSASSINS. 93
Keiih Mohammed-Murder of the Khalif-Castles gained in
D
D I
94 SECRET SOCIETIES.
lords of Sheiser. This castle, which was situated on
the west side of Mount Legam, opposite Antaradus,
became henceforth the chief seat of lsmailite power
in Syria. The society had now a line of coast to the
north of Tripolis, and their possessions extended in-
land to the verge of the Hauran.
The reign of Mohammed presents few events to
illustrate the history of the Assassins. It was
pro-
bably in his time that the following confession of the
Ismailite faith was made to the persons whom Sultan
Sanjar sent to Alamoot to inquire into it*:
"This is our doctrine," said the heads of the so-
ciety.
"
We believe in the unity of God, and acknow-
ledge as the true wisdom and right creed only that
which accords with the word of God and the com-
mands of the Prophet. We hold these as they are
delivered in the holy writ, the Koran, and believe in
all that the Prophet has taught of the creation, and
the last things, of rewards and punishments, of the
last judgment, and the resurrection. To believe this
is necessary, and' no one is authorized to judge of the
commands of God for himself, or to alter a single
letter in them. These are the fundamental doctrines
of our sect, and if the sultan does not approve of
them, let him send hither one of his learned divines,
that we may argue the matter with him."
To this creed no orthodox Mussulman could well
make any objection. The only question was, what
was the Ismailite system of interpretation, and what
other doctrines did they deduce from the sacred text;
and the active employment of the dagger of the Fe-
davee suggested in tolerably plain terms that there
were others, and that something not very compatible
with the peace and order of society lay behind the
veil. Indeed the circumstance of the Ismailite chiefs
*
As Sanjar lived to a
great age he was
contemporary with
_several of the Ismaflite sheikhs.
I
THE ASSASSINS.7 `9`5
professing themselves to be only the ministers and
representatives of the invisible imam was in itself
highly suspicious; for what was to prevent their en-
joining any atrocity which might be for their interest,
in the name of their viewless master? They are
ignorant indeed of human nature who suppose that
a
prompt obedience would not be yielded to all such
commands by the ignorant and bigoted members of
the sect.
The ill leaven of the secret doctrine displayed
itself before very long. Keah Mohammed, who ap-
pears to have been a weak, inefiieient man, was held
,in little esteem by his followers. They began to
attach themselves to his son Hassan, who had the
reputation of being a man of prodigious knowledge,
learned in tradition and the text of the Koran,
versed in exposition, and well acquainted with the
sciences. Hassan, either through vanity or policy,
began secretly to disseminate the notion of his being
himself the imam whose appearance had been pro-
mised by Hassan Ben Sabah. Filled with this idea,
the more instructed members of the society vied with
each other in eagerness to fulfil his commands, and
Keith Mohammed, seeing his power gradually slip-
ping from him, was at length roused to energy.
Assembling the people, he reprobated in strong terms
the prevailing heresy.
"
Hassan," said he, "is my
son, and I am not the imam, but only one of his
missionaries. Whoever maintains the contrary is an
intidel." Then, in true Assassin fashion, he gave
efiect to his words by executing 250 of his son's ad-
herents, and banishing an
equal number from the
fortress. Hassan himself, in order to save his life,
was obligedpublicly to curse those who held the new
opinions, and to write dissertations condemning their
tenets, and defending those of his father. By
these' means he succeeded in removing suspicion
96 SECRET socrsrms.
from the mind of the old chief; but, as he continued
to drink wine in private, and violated several of the
other positive precepts of the law, his adherents be-
came
only the more convinced of his being the imam,
at whose coming all the precepts of the law were to
cease to be of any force.
Hassan was
obliged to be cautious and conceal
his opinions during the lifetime 'of his father; for,
whatever their opinion might be of the capacity and
intellectual power of the head of their sect, the Assas-
sins believed themselves to be bound to obey his
orders, as
proceeding from the visible representative
of the sacred invisible imam; and. high as their vene-
ration for Hassan was, his blood would have flowed
on the ground the instant an order to that effect had
passed the lips of his father. But no sooner was
Keith Mohammed dead, after a
reign of twenty-four
years, and the supreme station was come to Hassan
himself, than he resolved to fling away the mask at
once, and not only to trample on the law himself, but
to authorize and encourage all his people to do the
same.
Accordingly, when the month Ramazan (the Mo-
hammedan Lent) of the 559th year of the Hejra
(A. D. 1163) was come, he ordered all the inhabitants
of Roodbar to assemble on the place of prayer (Mo-
sella), or
esplanade, before the castle of Alamoot.
Facing the direction of the Keblah* he caused a
pulpit to be erected, at whose four corners were dis-
played banners of the different hues familiar to Islam,
namely, a white, a red, a
yellow, a green, colours
adverse to the black ofthe Abbassides.
On the 17th day of the month the people, in
obedience to his commands, appeared in great num-
bers beneath the walls of the fortress. After a little
* That is, the point towards which they turn in prayer,
namely, Mecca. '
'mr-: Assassms. 97
time Hassan came forth and ascended the pulpit. All
voices were hushed; expectation waited on the words
of the Sheikh-al-Jebal. He commenced his discourse
by perplexing the minds of his auditors by enigmatical
and obscure sentences. When he had thus deluded
them for some time, he informed them that an
envoy
of the imam (that is, the phantom of a khalif who
was still sitting on the throne at Cairo) had arrived,
and had brought him a letter addressed to all Ismail-
ites, whereby the fundamental tenets of the sect were
renewed and confirmed. He proceeded to assure
them that, by this letter, the gates of mercy and com-
passion had been opened for all who would follow and
obey him; that they were the true elect; that they
were freed from all obligations of the law, and deli-
vered from the burden of all commands and prohibi-
tions; that he had now conducted them to the day
of the resurrection, that is, of the revelation of the
imam. He then commenced in Arabic the Khoot-
beh, or public prayer, which he said he had received
from the imam; and an
interpreter, who stood at the
foot of the pulpit, translated it for them to the follow-
ing effect :-
"
Hassan, the son of Mohammed, the son of Bu-
zoorg Oomeid, is our khalif (mccessor), dai, and
hoojet (proof). All who follow our doctrine must
hearken to him in affairs of faith and of the world,
and regard his commands as
imperative, his words as
impressive. '1'hey must not transgress his prohibi-
tions, and they must regard his commands as ours.
They should know that our lord has had compassion
upon them, and has conducted them to the most
high God."
When this proclamation was made known Hassan
came down from the pulpit, directed tables to be
spread, and commanded the people to break the fast,
and to give themselves up, as on festival days, to all
G
93 SECRET SOCIETIES.
kinds of enjoyment, with music, and various games
and sports.
"
For this," cried he, "this is the day
of the resurrection ;" that is, according to the Ismail-
ite mode of interpreting the Koran, the day of the
manifestation of the imam.
What the orthodox had before only suspected was
now confirmed. It was now manifest, beyond doubt.,
that the Ismailites were heretics who trampled under
foot all the most plain and positive precepts of Islam;
for, though they might pretend to justify their prac-
tice by their allegorical system of interpretation, it
was
clearly repugnant to common sense, and might
be made the instrument of sanctioning, under the
name of religion, every species of enormity. From
this time the term Moolahid (impious) began to
become the common and familiar appellation of the
Ismailites in the mouths of the orthodox Moslems.
As to the Ismailites themselves, they rejoiced in what
they had done; they exulted like emancipated bonds-
men in the liberty which they had acquired; and
they even commenced a new era from the 17th (or,
.according to some authorities, the 7th) Ramazan of
'the 559th year, namely, the day of the manifestation
,of the imam. To the name .of Hassan they hence-
forth affixed the formula "
On his memory be peace ;"
which formula, it would appear, was
employed by
itself to designate him; for the historian Mirkhond
assures us that he had been informed by a credible
person that over the door of the library in Alamoot
was the following inscription :-
"
With the aid of God, the bonds
Of the law he took away,
The commander of the world,
_
Upon whose name be peace." V,
The madness of Hassan now attained its climax.
He disdained to be regarded, like his predecessors,
as
merely the representative of the imam on earth,
"rn Assassins. 99
but asserted himself to be the true and real imam,
who was now at length made manifest to the world.
He sent letters to all the settlements of the society,
requiring them to acknowledge him in his new capa-
city. He was
prudent enough, however, to show a
regard for the dignity and power of his different
lieutenants in these letters, as
appears by the follow-
ing specimen, being the letter which was sent to
Kuhistan, where the reis Mozatfar commanded:-
"
I Hassan say unto you that I am the representa-
tive of God upon earth, and mine in Kuhistan is the
reis Mozaffar, whom the men of that country are to
obey, and to receive his word as mine."
The reis erected a
pulpit in the castle of Moomina-
bad, the place of his residence, and read the letter
aloud to the people, the greater part of whom listened
to its contents with joy. The tables were covered
before the pulpit, the wine was brought forth, the
drums and kettle-drums resounded, the notes of the
pipe and flute inspired joy, and the day of the abo-
lition of the positive precepts of the law was devoted
to mirth and festivity. Some few, who were sincere
and upright in their obedience to Islam, quitted the
region which they now
regarded as the abode of infi-
delity, and went in search of other abodes; others,
of a less decided character, remained, though shocked
at what they were
obliged every day to behold. The
obedience to the commands of the soi-disant imam
was, however, tolerably general, and, according to
Hammer, who can scarcely, however, be supposed
to regard the system of Hassan as
really more licen-
tious than he has elsewhere described that of Ma.-
homet, "thebanner of the freest infidelity, and
of the most shameless immorality, now waved on
all the castles of Roodbar and Kuhistan, as the
standard of the new illumination; and, instead of
the name of the Egyptian khalif, resounded from
100 SECRET SOCIETIES.
all the pulpits that of Hassan as the true successor of
the Prophet."
The latter point had presented some difliculty to
Hassan; for, in order to satisfy the people on that
head, it was necessary to prove a descent from the
Prophet, and this was an honour to which it was well
known the family from which he was spmng had
never laid claim. He might take upon him to abolish
the positive precepts of the law as he pleased, and
the people, whose inclinations were thereby gratified,
would not perhaps scan very narrowly the authority
by which he acted; but the attempt to deprive the
Fatimite khalif of the honour which he had so
long
enjoyed, and to assume the rank of God's vicegerent
on earth in his room, was likely to give too great a
shock to their prejudices, if not cautiously managed.
It was necessary, therefore, that he should prove
himself to be of the blood of the Fatimites. He
accordingly began to drop some dark hints respecting
the truth of the received opinion' of his being the son
of Keith Mohammed. Our readers will recollect
that, when Hassan Sabah was in Egypt, a
dispute
had taken place respecting the succession to the
throne, in which Hassan had nearly lost his life for
opposing the powerful commander-in-chief (Emir-
al-Jooyoosh), and Nezar, the prince for whom the
khalif Mostanser had designed the succession, had
been deprived of his right by the influence of that
ofiicer. The confidents of Hassan now began to
give out that, in about a year after the death of the
khalif Mostanser, a certain person named Aboo-'l-
Zeide, who had been high in his confidence, had
come to Alamoot, bearing with him a son of Nezar,
whom he committed to the care of Hassan Sabah,
who, grateful to the memory of the khalif and his
son, had received the fugitive with great honour, and
assigned a
village at the foot of Alamoot for the
»
THE ASSASSINSJ 'lOl
residence of the young imam. When the youth
was grown up he married and had a son, whom he
named' On his Memory be Peace. Just at the time
when the imam's wife was confined in the village,
the consort of Keith Mohammed lay in at the castle;
and, in order that the descendant of Fatima might
come to the temporal power which was his right,
a. confidential woman undertook and succeeded in
the task of secretly changing the children, Others
went still further, and did not hesitate to assert that
the young imam had intrigued with the wife of Keah
Mohammed, and that Hassan was the fruit of their
adulterous int/ercourse. Like a true pupil of ambi-
tion, Hassan was
willing to defame the memory of
his mother, and acknowledge himself to be a. bastard,
provided he could succeed in persuading the people
to believe him a descendant of the Prophet.
These pretensions of Hassan to a Fatimite pedigree
gave rise to a further increase of the endless sectsinto
which the votaries of Islam were divided. Those who
acknowledged it got the name of Nezori, and by them
Hassan was called the Lord of the Resurrection
(Kaim-al-Kiamet), and they styled themselves the
Sect of the Resurrection.
The reign of the vain, inconsiderate Hassan was
but short. He had governed the society only four
years when he was assassinated by his brother-in-law,
Namver, a descendant, we are told, of the family of
Buyah, which had govemed the khalifs and their
dominions before the power passed into the hands of
the Turkish house of Seljook.
G3
l02" SECRET SOCIETIES.
Cnnrsa VIII.
Mohammed II.-Auecdote of the Imam Fakhr-ed-deen-
Noor-ed-deen-Conquest of Egypt-Attempt on the Life of
Saladin.
THE death of Hassan was
amply avenged by his son
and successor, Mohammed II. Not only was the
murderer himself put to death; vengeance, in its
orient/al'form, extended itself to all his kindred of
both sexes, and men, women, and children bled be-
neath the sword of the executioner. Mohammed,
who had been careiixlly trained up in the study of
philosophy and literature, was, like his father, puffed
up with vanity and ambition, and, far from receding
from any of his predecessor's pretensions to the
imamat, he carried them to even a still greater length
than he had done. At the same time he maintained
a
high character for knowledge and talent among
his literary contemporaries, who were numerous, for
his reign extended through a.
period of forty-six years,
and the modern Persian literature was |ow fast
approaching its climax. Not to mention other names,
less familiar to our readers, we shall remark, as a.
proof of what we have said, that this was the period
in which Nizamee of Ghenj sang in harmonious
numbers the loves of Khosroo and Shireen, and of
Mujnoon and Leila (these last. the Romeo and Juliet
of the east), the crown and flower of the romantic
poetry ot' Persia. Then too flourished the great
panegyrist Enveree, and a crowd of-historians, jurists,
and diviues.
One of the most celebrated men of this time was
'rua Assassins. 103
the imam Fakhr-ed-deen (Glory ofReligion) Rasi,
who gave public lectures on the law in his native
city of Rei. lt being slanderously reported that he
was devoted in secret to the opinions of the Ismailites,
and was even one of their missionaries, he adopted
the ordinary expedient of abusing and reviling that
sect, and each time he ascended the pulpit to preach
he reprobated and cursed the Impious in no measured
terms. Intelligence of what he was about was not
long in reaching the eyrie of the Sheikh-al-Jebal,
and a Fedavee received his instructions, and forth-
with set out for Rei. He here entered himself as a
student of the law, and sedulously attended the lec-
tures of the learned imam. During seven months
he watched in vain for an opportunity ot' executing
his commission. At length he discovered one
day
that the attendants of the imam had left him to go
to fetch him some food, and that he was alone in his
study. The Fedavee entered, fastened the doors,
seized the imam, cast him on the ground, and di-
rected his dagger at his bosom. "What is thy
design ?" said the astonished imam.
"
To rip up
thy belly and breast." "
And wherefore ?" "
Where-
fore? Because thou hast spoken evil of the Ismail-
ites in the pulpit." The imam implored and en-
treated, vowing that, if his life was spared, he would
never more
say aught to offend the sect of Ismail.
"
I cannot trust thee," cried the Assassin;
"
for
when I am
gone thou wilt return to thy old courses,
and, by some
ingenious shift or other, contrive to
free thyself from the obligation of thy oath." The
imam then, with a most solemn oath, abjured the
idea of explaining away his words, or
seeking abso-
lution for perjury. The Assassin got up from over
him, saying,
"
I had no order to slay thee, or I should
have put thee to death without fail. Mohammed, the
son of Hassan, greets thee, and invites thee to honour
i04 sscnm' soc1E'r1Es.
him by a visit at his castle. Thou shalt there have
unlimited power, and we will all obey thee like trusty
servants. We despise, so saith the sheikh, the dis~
courses of the rabble, which rebound from our ears
like nuts from a ball; but you should not revile us,
since your words impress themselves like the strokes
of the graver in the stone." The imam replied that
it was totally out of his power to go to Alamoot, but
that in future he should be most careful never to suffer
a word to pass his lips to the discredit of the moun-
tain prince. Hereupon the Fedavee drew 300 pieces
of gold from his girdle, and, laying them down, said,
"
See l here is thy annual pension; and, by a decree
of the divan, thou' shalt every year receive an
equal
sum through the reis Mozatier. I also leave thee,
for thy attendants, two garments from Yemen, which
the Sheikh»al-Jebal has sent thee." So saying, the
Fedavee disappeared. The imam took the money
and the clothes, and for some
years his pension was
paid regularly. A change in his language now be-
came perceptible, for, whereas he was used before,
when, on treating of any controverted point, he
had occasion to mention the Ismailites, to express
himself thus, "Whatever the lsmailites, whom God
curse and destroy! may say,"-now that he was
pensioned he contented himself with merely say-
ing, "Notwithstanding what the Ismailites may
say." When one of his scholars asked him the
cause of this change he made answer, "We cannot
curse the Ismailites, they employ such sharp and
convincing arguments." This anecdote is related by
several of the Persian historians, and it serves to
prove, like the case of sultan Sanjar, related above,
that the Ismailites were not so
thoroughly ruthless
and bloodthirsty as not to prefer rendering an enemy
innocuous by gentle means to depriving him of life.
'
Historians record no other event connected with
I
'rua Assassms. `105
the eastern establishment of the Ismailite society
during the long reign ot" Mohammed II. We shall
now, therefore, turn our view to the Syrian branch,
which attracts attention by the illustrious names which
appear in oriental history at that time, and with which
the ruler of Massyat came into hostile or
friendly
relations. The names of Noor-ed-deen (Light of
Religion), Salah~ed-deen (Integrity of Religion),
the Noradin and Saladin of western writers, and the
Lion-hearted king of England, will at once awake the
attention of the reader.
The celebrated Emod-ed-deen (Pillar ofReligio/1)
Zengi, who gave the Christian power in the east its
first shock by the conquest of Edessa, perished by the
hand of a slave shortly after that achievement. His
power and the title Atabeg fell to his son Noor-ed-
deen, who carried on the war against the Christians
with all the activity of his father, and with more of
the gentleness and courtesies which shed a lustre on
zeal and valour. Noor-ed-deen was one of the most
accomplished characters which the East has exhibited.
He was generous and just, and strict in the observance
of all the duties of Islam. No pomp or magnificence
surrounded him. He wore neither silk nor
gold.
With the fifth part of the booty, which was his share
as
prince, he provided for all his expenses. A zealous
Moslem, he was evermore engaged in the combats of
the Holy War,-either the greater, which was held
to be fought against theworld and its temptations by
fasting and prayer, by study, and the daily practice
of the virtues required of him who is placed in au-
thority,-or the lesser, which was
fought with natural
weapons against the foes of Islam. From this union
of piety and valour he acquired the titles of Gasi
(Victor) and Sheheed (Marty/r); for, though he did
not fall in the defence of the faith, he was
regarded
as being entitled to all the future rewards attendant
.A-
l
f
106' SECRET SOCIETIES.
on actual martyrdom. Notwithstanding his being
one of the most deadly foes that the ,Christians ever
encountered, their historians did justice to the illus-
trious Noor-ed-deen, and the learned William, Arch-
bishop of Tyre, says of him, "He was a
prudent,
moderate man, who feared God according tothe faith
of his people, fortunate, and an
augmenter of his
paternal inheritance."
The possession of Mossul and Aleppo made Noor-
ed-deen master of northern Syria; the southern part
of that country was under the Prince of Damascus.
Twice did the atabeg lay siege, without effect, to that
city ; at length the inhabitants, fearing the Crusaders,
invited him to take possession of it, and the feeble
prince was
obliged to retire, accepting Emessa in
exchange for the
"
Queen of Syria." The power of
Noor-ed-deen now extended from the Euphrates to
the Holy Land, and his thoughts were directed
towards his grand object of expelling the Franks from
the East, when an
opportunity presented itself of
bringing Egypt once more under the spiritual domi-
nion of the house of Abbas.
Degeneracy is the inevitable lot of unlimited power.
The Fatimite Commanders of the Faithful were now
become mere
puppets in the hands of their ministers,
and the post of vizir was now, as was so often the
case with the throne, contended for with arms. A
civil war was at this time raging in Egypt between
Shaver and Dhargam, rival candidates for the vizir-
iate. The former came in person to Damascus, and
offered the atabeg Noor-ed-deen a third ofthe reve-
nues of Egypt if he would aid him to overcome his
rival. Without hesitation Noor-ed-deen ordered Asad-
ed-deen (Lion of Religion) Sheerkoh (Mountain
Lion)*, a Koordish chief who commanded for him
at Emessa, to assemble an
army and march for
'
*
The former of these names is Arabic, the latter Persian.
V
THE ASSASSINSV 107
Egypt. Sheerkoh obeyed, and sorely against his
will, and only at the urgent command of Noor-ed-
deen, did his nephew, the then little known, after-
wards so justly famous, Saladin, quit the banquets
and enjoyments of Damascus, and the other towns
of Syria, to accompany his uncle to the toils and the
perils oi' war.
Dhargam was victorious in the first
action, but he being murdered shortly afterwards by
one of his slaves, Shaver obtained possession of the
dignity which he sought. The new vizir then tried
to get rid of his allies, but such was not the intention
of Noor-ed-deen, and Sheerkoh took his post with
his troops in the north-eastern part of the kingdom,
where he occupied the frontier town of Belbeis, on
the most eastern branch of the Nile, under pretext
of receiving the third part of the revenue which had
been promised to Noor-ed-deen. Shaver, anxious to
get rid of such dangerous guests, formed a secret
league with Amalric, King of Jerusalem, and engaged
to give him 60,000 ducats for his aid against them.
Sheerkoh, who had been reinforced, advanced into
Upper Egypt, and Saladin took the command of
Alexandria, which he gallantly defended tbr three
months against the combined forces ot' the Christians
and Egyptians, and, after some
fighting, peace was
made on condition of Noor-ed-deen receiving 50,000
ducats, and double that sum being paid annually to
the King of Jerusalem.
'
Shortly afterwards an
unprincipled attempt was
made on
Egypt by Amalric, at the suggestion of the
Master of the ospitallers, and Shaver, in his distress,
had once more recourse to Noor-ed-deen. The
phantom-khalif joined in the supplication, and sent
what is the great/est mark of need in the east-locks
of the hair of his women, which is as much as to say,
"
Aid! aid! the foe is dragging the women forth by
the hair."' Belbeis had now been conquered, and
108 sacam' SOCIETIES.
Cairo was
besieged by the Christians. Shaver had
burnt the old town, and defended himself and the
khalif in the new town, the proper Cairo. Sheerkoh
appeared once more in Egypt with a larger army
han before*, but, ere he reached the beleaguered
town, Shaver and Amalric had entered into a
compo-
sition, and the former had withdrawn on receiving a
sum of 50,000 ducats. Sheerkoh however advanced,
and pitched his tents before the walls of Cairo. The
kha'liF Adhad and his principal nobles came forth to
receive him, and that unhappy prince_ made his com-
plaints ofthe tyranny and selfishness of Shaver, who
had brought so much misery on him and his kingdom.
He concluded by requesting the head of his vizir at
the hand of the general of Noor-ed-deen. Shaver,
aware of the danger which menaced him, invited
Sheerkoh, his nephew, and the other chiefs of the
army, to a banquet, with the intention of destroying
them, but his plot was discovered, and his head cast
at the feet ofthe khalifl Sheerkoh was forthwith
appointed to the vacant dignity, with the honourable
title of Melik-el-Mansoor (Victorious King), but he
enjoyed it only for a short time, having been carried
off by death in little more than two months after his
elevation. He was succeeded in his rank, and in the
*
He was accompanied by Saladin, who gives the following
account of his own repugnance to the expedition:-" When
Noor-ed-deen ordered me to go to Egypt with my uncle, atler
Sheerkoh had said to me in his presence,
'
Come Yoossuf,
make ready for the journey !' I replied,
'
By God, if thou wert
to ive me the kingdom of Egypt I would not go, for I have
en§ured in Alexandria what 1 shall not forget while I live.'
But Sheerkoh said to Noor-ed-deen, '
It cannot be but that he
should accompany me.' VVhereupon Nour-ed-deen repeated
his command, but I persisted in my refusal. As Noor-ed-deen
also adhered to his determination, I excused myself by plead-
ing the narrowness of my circumstances. Noor-ed-deen than
gave me all that was requisite Ihr my outfit, but I felt as if I
\ as going to death."-Abu(/edu.
THE ASSASSINS. 109
command of the army, by his nephew Saladin, who
now became in etlect master of-Egypt. Noor-ed-
deen, thinking the time was come for establishing
the spiritual sway of the house of Abbas, sent direc-
tions to Saladin to till all the otiires which had been
occupied by the Sheahs with the orthodox, and hear
prayer celebrated in the name of the Khalifof Bag-
dad; but this prudent chief, who knew that the great
majority of' the people of Egypt were tirmly attached
to the belief ot' the Fatimites being the rightful suc-
cessors ol' the Prophet, hesitated to comply. At length
the death ot' the Fatimite khalit' occurred most oppor-
tunely to free him from embarrassment. Adhad-
ladin-Allah, the last ofthe descendants of Moez-ladin-
Allah, the founder of the dynasty, died suddenly-of
disease, according to the oriental historians,-by the
hand of Saladin, according to the rumour which went
among the Christians". All obstacles being now
removed, public prayer was celebrated in the mosks
of Egypt in the name of the Abbasside khalifl and
the power of the westem Ismailites, after a continu-
ance of 200 years, brought completely to an end.
Noor-ed-deen, who saw that the power of his lieu-
tenant was now too great to be controlled, adopted
the prudent plan of soothing him by titles and marks
of confidence. The khnlif of Bagdad sent him a.
dress of honour and a letter of thanks for having
reduced under his spiritual dominion a
province which
had been so long rebellious against his house. _But
the most important consequence of the timely death
of the khalif to Saladin was the acquisition of the
accumulated treasures of the Fatimites, which fell
into his hands, and which he employed as the means
of securing the fidelity of his officers and soldiers.
As a
specimen of oriental exaggeration, we shall give
the list of these treasures as they are enumerated by
°'
William of '1'yre_ xx. 12.
H
110 SECRET SOCIETIES.
eastern writers. There were, we are assured, no less
than '700 pearls, each of which was of a size that
rendered it inestimable, an emerald a
span long,
and as thick as the linger, a
library consisting of
2,600,000 books, and gold, both coined and in the
mass; aloes, amber, and military arms and weapons
past computation. A large portion of this enormous
treasure was distributed by Saladin among his sol~
diers; the remainder was
applied, during ten suc-
cessive years, to defray the expenses of his wars
and buildings. As Saladin's name was Yoossuf
(Joseph), the same with that of the son of Jacob,
the minister of king Pharaoh, it is not an
improbable
supposition that, in Egyptian tradition, the two
Josephs have been confounded, and the works of the
latter been ascribed to the former; for it is the cha-
racter of popular tradition to leap over centuries, and
even thousands of years, and to form out of several
heroes one who is made to perform the actions of
them all.
~/' As long as Noor-ed-deen lived, Saladin continued
to acknowledge his superiority; and when, on his
death, he left his dominions to his son Malek-es-
Saleh, the coins of Egypt bore the name of the
young prince. As Malek-es-Saleh was a. minor,
and entirely under the guidance of the eunuch
Kameshtegin, great discontent prevailed among
the emirs; and Seif-ed-deen (Sword of Religion),
the cousin of the young prince, who was at the
head of an army in Mesopotamia, prepared' to wrest
the dominion from the young Malek-es-Saleh. All
eyes were turned to Saladin, as the only person ca-
pable of preserving the country. He left Egypt with
only 700 horsemen. The governor and people of
Damascus cheerfully opened the gates to him. Hems
and Hama followed the example of Damascus. Sa-
ladin took the government under the modest title of
THE ASSASSINS. lll
lieutenant of the young atabeg, whose rights he
declared himself ready to maintain on all occasions.
I-le advanced to Aleppo, where Malek-es-Saleh was
residing; but the militia of that town, moved by the
tears of the young prince, who was probably influ-
enced by the eunuch Kameshtegin, who feared to
lose his power, marched out and put to Bight the
small force with which Saladin had approached the
town. Having collected a
larger army, Saladin laid
siege regularly to Aleppo, and Kameshtegin, despair-
ing of force, resolved to have recourse to treachery.
He sent accordingly to Sinan, the Sheikh of the
Assassins, who resided at Massyat, representing to
him how dangerous a foe to the Ismailites was the
valiant Koord, who was so ardent in his zeal for the
house of Abbas, and had put an end to the dynasty
of the Fatimites, who had so
long given lustre to the
maintainers of the rights of Ismail by the possession
of extensive temporal power and dignity. He re-
minded him that, if' Saladin succeeded in his ambi-
tious projects in Syria, he would, in all probability,
turn his might against the Assassins, and destroy
their power in that country. These arguments were
enforced by gold, and the sheikli, readily yielding to
them, despatched without delay three Fedavees, who
fell on Saladin in the camp before Aleppo. The
attempt, however, miscarried, and the 'murderers were
seized and put to death. Saladin, incensed at this
attempt on his life, and guessing well the quarter
whence it came, now
pressed on the siege with
greater vigour.
Finding the benefit which might be derived from
the daggers of the Fedaveé, Kameshtegin resolved to
employ them against his personal enemies. The vizir
of the young prince, and two of the principal emirs,
had laid a
plot for his destruction. Coming to the
knowledge of it, he determined to be beforehand with
H 2
.»~7"
/
lA
112 SECRET SOCIETIES.
them, and, watching the moment when Malek-es-
Saleh was about to mount his horse to go to the
chase, he approached him, requesting his signature
to a blank paper, under pretence of its being neces-
sary for some affair of urgent importance. The
young prince signed his name without suspicion, and
Kameshtegin instantly wrote on the paper a letter to
the Sheikh of the Assassins, in which Malek-es-Saleh
was made to request him to send men to put those
three emirs out of the Way. The Ismailite chief
readily complied with the request, as he supposed it
to be, of his young friend and neighbour, and several
Fedavees were despatched to execute his wishes. Two
of these fell on the vizir as he was
going out of the
eastern gate of a mosk near his own house. They
were cut to pieces on the spot. Soon after three fell
on the emir Mujaheed as he was on horseback. One
of them caught hold of the end of his cloak, in order
to make more sure of him, but the emir gave his
horse the spurs, and broke away, leaving his cloak
behind. '1`he people seized the Assassins, two of
whom were recognized as being acquaintances of the
emir's head groom. One of them was crucified,
and along with him the groom as an
accomplice : on
the breast of the latter was
placed this inscription,
"This is the reward of the concealer of the Impious."
The others were dragged to the castle, and beaten on
the soles of their feet to make them confess what had
induced them to attempt the commission of such a
crime. _In .the midst of his tortures one of them cried
out,
"
Thou didst desire of our lord Sinan the murder
of thy slaves, and now thou dost punish us for per-
forming thy wishes." Full of wrath Malek-es-Saleh
wrote a letter to the sheikh Sinan filled with the bit-
terest reproaches. The sheikh made no other reply
than that of sending him back the letter bearing his
own subscription. Historians do not tell us what
V
THE ASSASSINS. 113
the _final result was; and it is also in a
great measure
uncertain at what time this event occurred.
The Assassins did not give over their attempts upon
Saladin, whose power became more formidable to
them after he had deprived the family of Noor-ed-
deen of. their honours and dominions; and he was
again attacked by them in his camp before the
fortress of Ezag. One of them assailed him and
wounded him in the head, but the sultan (he had
now assumed that title) caught him by the arm and
struck him down. A second rushed on-he was cut
down by the guards; a third, a fourth, shared the
same fate. Terrified at their obstinate perseverance,
the sultan shut himself up in his tent during several
days, and ordered all strangers and suspicious persons
to quit the camp.
Next year (1176) the sultan, being at peace with
his other enemies, resolved to take exemplary ven-
geance on those who had so
unprovokedly attempted
his life. Assembling an
army, he entered the moun-
tains, wasted with tire and sword the territory of the
Ismailites, and came and laid siege to Massyat. The
power of the Syrian Isniallites would have been now
extinguished but for the intercession of the Prince of
Hama, the sultan's uncle, who, at the entreaty of
Sinan, prevailed on his nephew to grant a.
peace on_
condition of no
attempt being made at any futtue
time on his life. Sinan gladly assented to these
terms, and he honourably kept his engagement, for
the great Saladin reigned fifteen years after this
time, carried on continual wars, conquered Jeru-
salem and the Holy Land, exposed himself to dan-
ger in the field and in the ca_mp, but no Assassin
was ever
again known to approach him with hostile
intentions.
1 1 4 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER IX.
Sinan the Dai-al-Kebir of Syria-Offers to become a Christian
-His Ambassador murdered by the Templars-Cardinal
de Vitry's Account of the Assassins-Murder of the Mar-
quis of Montferrat-Defence of King Richard.
THE person who had the chief' direction of the affairs
of the society in Syria in the time of Saladin was one
of the most remarkable characters which appear in
the history of the Assassins. His name was Rasheed-
ed-deen (Orthodox in Religion) Sinan. the son of
Suleiman of Basra. Like so
many others of the
impostors who have appeared from time to time in
the east, he had the audacity to give himself out for
an incarnation of the Divinity. No one ever saw
him eat, drink, sleep, or even
spit. His clothing was
of coarse hair-cloth. From the rising to the setting
of the sun he stood upon a
lofty rock, preaching to
the people, who received his words as those of a
superior being. Unfortunately for his credit, his
auditors at length discovered that he had a halt in
his gait, caused by a wound which he received from a
stone in the great earthquake of 1157. This did not
accord with the popular idea of the perfection which
should belong to the corporeal vehicle of Divinity.
The credit of Sinan vanished at once, and those who
had just been adoring the god now threatened to
take the life of the impostor. Sinan lost not his
self-possession; he calmly entreated them to be
patient, descended from his rock, caused food to be
brought, invited them to eat, and by the persuasive
powers of his eloquence induced them to recognise
_ THE ASSASSINS. 115
him as their sole chief, and all unanimously swore
obedience and fidelity to him.
The neglect of chronology by the oriental histo-
rians, or their European translators and followers, is
frequently such that we are left in great uncertainty
as to the exact time of particular events, and are thus
unable to trace them to their real causes and occa-
sions. The mention of the earthquake of 1157 would
however seem to make it probable that it was about
that time that Sinan put forward his claims to divinity;
and as, at that very period, Hassan, the son of Keiih
Mohammed, was giving himself out for the promised
i|nam,we may suppose that it was his example which
stimulated Sinan to his bold attempt at obtaining
independent dominion over the Syrian branch of the
Ismailites.
Sinan was, like Hassan, a man of considerable
learning. His works are held in high estimation by
the remains of the sect of the Ismailites still linger-
ing among the mountains of Syria. These works,
we are told. consist of a chaotic mixture of mutilated
passages of the Gospel and the Koran, of contradic-
tory articles of belief, of hymns, prayers, sermons, and
regulations, which are unintelligible even to those
who receive and venerate them.
The sacred books of the Christians formed, as we
see, a
part of the studies of the Sheikh of Massyat,
and, as it would appear, he thought he might derive
some advantage from his acquaintance with them.
The religio-military society of the Knights of the
Temple, whose history we shall soon have to record,
had possessions in the neighbourhood of those of the
Assassins, and their superior power had enabled them,
at what time is uncertain, to render the latter tribu-
tary. The tribute was the annual sum of 2,000
ducats, and Sinan, to whom probably all religions
were alike, and who had unbounded power over the
I
I 1 6 SECRET SOCIETIES.
minds of his people, conceived the idea of releasing
himself from it by professing the same religion with
his neighbours. 'He accordingly sent, in tne year
1172, one of his most prudent and eloquent ministers
on a secret embassy to Amalric King of Jerusalem,
offering, in the name of himself and his people, to
embrace the C|»ri>tian religion, and receive the rite ot'
baptism, provided the king would engage to make
the Templars renounce the tribute of 2,000 ducats,
and agree to live with them henceforward as
good
neighbours and friends and brethren. Overjoyed at
the prospect of making converts of such importance,
the king readily assented to the desires of the Is-
mailite chief, and he at the same time assured the
Templars that their house should not be a loser, as
he would pay them 2,000 ducats annually out of his
treasury. The brethren of the Temple made no ob-
jection to the arrangement; and after the Ismailite
ambassador had been detained and treated honour-
ably for some days by the king, he set out on his
return, accompanied by a
guide and escort sent by
the king to conduct him as tar as_the borders of the
Ismailite territory. They passed in safety through
the country of Tripolis, and were now in the vicinity
of the first castles of the Ismailites, when suddenly
some Templars rushed forth from an ambush, and
murdered the ambassador. The Templars were
commanded by a
knight named Walter du Mesnil, a
one-eyed, daring, wicked man, but who, on this occa-
sion, it would appear, acted by the orders of his supe-
riors, who probably did not consider the royal promise
good security for the 2,000 ducats; for, when Amalric,
filled with indignation at the buse and perfidious
action, assembled his barons at Sidon to deliberate
on what should be done, and by their advice sent two
of their number to Ado de St. Amand, the Master
of the Temple, to demand satisfaction for the iniqui-
THE ASSASSINS. 117
tous deed, the master contented himself by saying
that he had imposed a penance on brother Du Mesnil,
and had moreover directed him to proceed to Rome
without delay, to know what farther the apostolic
father would order him to do, and that, on this ac-
count he must, in the name of the pope, prohibit any
violence against the aforesaid brother. The king,
however, was not regardless ofjustice and of his own
dignity. Shortly afterwards, when the masterand
several of the Templars were at Sidon, he assembled
his council again, and, with their consent, sent and
dragged Du Mesnil from the house of the Templars,
and threw him into prison, where he would probably
have expiated his crime but for the speedy death of
the king. All hopes of the conversion of the Ismail-
ites were now at an end.
It is on this occasion that the Archbishop of Tyre
Qves an account of what he had been able to learn
respecting the Assassins. As what we have previously
related of them has been exclusively drawn from
eastern sources, it will not be useless to insert in this
place the accounts ot' them given by the Cardinal de
Vitry, who has followed and enlarged the sketch of
the archbishop*.
`
"
In the province of Phaenicia, near the borders of
the Antaradensian town which is now called Tortosa,
dwells a certain people, shut in on all sides by rocks
and mountains, who have ten castles, very strong and
impregnable, by reason of the narrow ways and inac-
cessible rocks, with their suburbs and the valleys,
which are most fruitful in all species of fruits and
corn, and most. delightful for their amenity. The
number of these men, who are called Assassins, is
said to exceed 40,000T. They set a
captain over
*
Gesta Dei per Francos, vol. i. pp. 994, 1062.
~|> William of Tyre makes their number 60,000. He declares
his inability to give the origin of the name Assassins.
'
H 5
lla
'
sacnm socusrrms.
themselves, not by hereditary succession, but by the
prerogative of merit, whom they call the Old Man
(Veterem seu Senem), not so much on account of his
advanced age as for his pre-eminence in prudence and
dignity. The first and principal abbot of this unhappy
religion of theirs, and the place where they had their
origin and whence they came to Syria., is in the very
remote parts of the east, near the city of Bagdad and
the parts of the province of Persia. These people,
who do not divide the hoof, nor make a difference
between what is sacred and what is profane, believe
that all obedience inditferently shownby them towards
their superior is meritorious for eternal life. Hence
they are bound to their master, whom they call the
Old Man, with such a bond of subjection and obe-
dience that there is nothing so difficult or so danger-
ous that they would fear to undertake, or which they
would not perform with a cheerful mind and ardent
will, at the command of their lord. The Old Man,
their lord, causes boys of this people to be brought up
in secret and delightful places, and having had them
diligently trained and instructed in the different kinds
of languages, sends them to various provinces with
daggers, and orders them to slay the great men of
the Christians, as well as of the Saracens, either be-
cause he is at enmity with them for some cause or
other, or at the request of his friends, or even for the
lucre of a large sum of money which has been given
him, promising them, for the execution of this com-
mand, that they shall have far greater delights, and
without end, in paradise, after death, than even those
amidst which they had been reared. If they chance
to die in this act of obedience they are regarded as
martyrs by their companions, and being placed by
that people among their saints, are held in the greatest
reverence.
'
Their parents are enriched with many
gifts by the master, who is called the Old Man, and
'rua Assassins. 119
if they were slaves they are let go free ever after.
Whence these wretched and misguided youths, who
are sent from the convent (conventu) of the aforesaid
brethren to different parts of the world, undertake
their deadly legation with such joy and delight, and
perform it with such diligence and solicitude, trans-
forming themselves in various ways, andsassuming
the manners and dress of other nations, sometimes
concealing themselves under the appearance of mer-
chants, at other times under that of priests and
monks, and in an infinity of other modes, that there
is hardly any person in the whole world so cautious
as to be able to guard against their machinations.
They disdain to plot against an inferior person. The
great men to whom they are hostile either redeem
themselves by a
large sum of money, or, going armed
and attended by a
body of guards. pass their life in
suspicion and in dread of death. They kept the law
of Mahomet and his institutions diligently and straitly
beyond all other Saracens till the times of a certain
master of theirs, who, being endowed with natural
genius, and exercised in the study of different writ-
ings, began with all diligence to read and examine
the law of the Christians and the Gospels of Christ,
admiring the virtue of the miracles, and the sanctity
of the doctrine. From a
comparison with these he
begun to abominate the frivolous and irrational doc-
trine of Mahomet, and at length, when he knew the
truth, he studied to recall his subjects by degrees from
the rites of the cursed law. Wherefore he exhorted
and commanded them that they should drink wine
in moderation and eat the fiesh of swine. .At length,
after many discourses and serious admonitions of
their teacher, they all with one consent agreed to re-
nounce the perlidy of Mahomet, and, by receiving
the grace of baptism, to become Christians."
,
We may, from this account, perceive that
the Cru-
120 sacnnr socnrrms.
saders had a tolerably clear idea of the nature and
constitution of the society of the Assassins. The
Cardinal de Vitry plainly describes them as forming
a religion, that is, an order under an abbot; and
perhaps the resemblance which Hammer traces be-
tween them and the Templars, which we shall notice
when we come to speak of this last society. is not
quite so fanciful as it might at first sight appear. It
is curious, too, to observe that the Christians also be-
lieved that the Sheikh-al-Jebal had some mode of
inspiring the Fedavee with a
contempt of life and an
aspiration after the joys of paradise.
The dagger had not been unsheathed against the
Christian princes since, forty-two years before (1149),
Raymond, the young Count of Tripolis, was mur~
dered as he knelt at his devotions, and the altar was
sprinkled with his blood. A more illustrious vic-
tim was now to bleed; and, as the question of who
was the real author of his death forms a curious his-
torical problem, we shall here discuss it at some
length.
Conrad Marquis of Montferrat, a name celebrated
in the history of the third crusade, had just been
named King of Jerusalem by Richard Lion-heart
King of England. In the latter end of the month of
April 1192 the marquis, being at Tyre, went to dine
with the Bislop of Beauvais. One writer says that,
the marchioness having stayed too long in the
bath, and the marquis being averse to dining alone,
he mounted his horse and rode to dine with the
Bishop; but, findingthat that prelate had already
finished his meal, he was
returning home to his pa-
lace. As he passed through a narrow street, and
was come near the toll-house, two Assassins, having
watched their opportunity, approached him. The
one
presented a
petition, and, while he was
engaged
reading it, both struck him with their daggers, crying,
THE ASSASSINS. 121
"
Thou shalt be neither marquis nor king." One of
them was cut down instantly, the other sought refuge
in a
neighbouring church, and, according to an Ara-
bian historian, when the wounded marquis was
brought into the same church, he rushed on him
anew, and completed his crime. Others relate that
the marquis was carried home to his palace, where he
lived long enough to receive the holy sacrament and
to give his last instructions to his wife. The two
accounts, we may perceive, are by no means
repug-
nant.
These Assassins, who were both youths, had been
for some time-six months it is said-in Tyre, watch-
ing for an
opportunity to perform the commission
which had been given them. They had feigned a
conversion from Islam, or, as some say, had assumed
the habit of monks, in order to win the confidence of
the marquis, and thus procure more
ready access to
him. One of them, we are told, had cven`entered
his service, and the other that of Balian of Ibelin.
The question now comes, at whose instigation was
the murder committed? Here we find several both
oriental and occidental witnesses disposed to lay the
guilt on Richard, King of England, those writers who
were his own subjects indignantly repelling the accu-
sation, and some indifferent witnesses testifying in his
favour. Previous to examining these witnesses we
must state that king Richard was at enmity with
Philip Augustus, King of France; that though he
had given the crown of Jerusalem to the Marquis of
Montferrat, there was little kind feeling between
them, and they had been enemies; and, finally, that
the history of the English monarch exhibits no traits
of such agenerous chivalrous disposition as should
put him beyond suspicion of being concerned in an
assassination.
Of the writers who charge king Richard with the
122 SECRET SOCIETIES. '
murder it is to be observed that the only ones that
are contemporary are the Arabian historians. The
following passage is quoted from the History of
Jerusalem and Hebron, by Hammer, who regards
it as quite decisive of the guilt of the English king :
-"
The marquis went, on the 13th of the month
Rebi-al-Ewal, to visit the Bishop of Tyre. As he
was
going out he was attacked by two Assassins, who
slew him with their daggers. When taken and
stretched on the rack, they confessed that they had
been employed by the King of England. They died
under the torture." Boha-ed-deen, the friend and
biographer of Saladin, writes to the same effect. It
is therefore evident that, at the time, it was reported
that the marquis had been murdered by persons em-
ployed bythe King of England; and Vinisauf and
the other English writers assure us that the French
party and the friends of the murdered marquis en-
deavoured to throw the odium of the deed on king
Richard. As that mode of getting rid of an enemy
was far too familiar in the east, it was natural enough
that the Arabian writers should adopt the report
without much inquiry. This consideration alone
ought very much to invalidate their testimony. Some
German chroniclers also, following the reports which
were industriously spread io the disadvantage of the
English king at the time he was a
prisoner in Austria,
did not hesitate to accuse him of the murder of the
marquis; but, as has been justly observed, these, as
well as the preceding, were either partial or at a.
distance*.
In opposition to these assertions, we have the unani-
mous
testimony of all the English writers, such as
Vinisauf (the companion and historian of king Rich-
ard's crusade), Hoveden, Brompton, William of New~
*
Raumer, Geschichte der Hohenstauffen, ii., p. 490. Wil-
ken, Geschiehte der Kreuzziige, iv., 489.
THE ASSASSINS. 123
bridge. The Syrian bishop, Aboo-'l-Faraj, mentions
the report of the Assassin who was put to the rack
having laid the guilt on king Richard, but adds that
the truth came afterwards to light. Hugo Plagon,
a.
judicious and impartial writer, so far from imputing
the death of the marquis to king Richard, assigns the
cause which moved the Assassin prince to order the
death of the marquis, namely, the same which we
shall presently see stated in the letter ascribed to the
Old Man of the Mountain. Rigord, who wrote the
history of Philip Augustus, does not by any means
impute the murder of the marquis to king Richard,
though he says that while Philip was at Pontoise let-
ters Were
brought to him from beyond sea, warning
him to be on his guard, as Assassins (Arsacidaz) had
been sent, at the suggestion and command of the
King of England, to kill him,
"
for at that time they
had slain the king's kinsman, the marquis." Philip,
in real, but more
probably feigned alarm, immediately
surrounded his person with a
guard of serjeants-ab
mace. The Arabic historian, Ebn-el-Athir, the
friend of Saladin, says that the sultan had agreed
with the Old Man of the Mountain, for a sum of
10,000 pieces of gold, to deliver him of both king
Richard and the marquis, but that Sinan, not think-
ing it to be for his interest to relieve the sultan of the
English king, had taken the money and only put the
marquis out of the way. This narrative is wholly
improbable, for treachery was surely no
part of the
character of Saladin; but it serves to prove the im-
partiality which is so justly ascribed to the Arabic
writers ingeneral. The testimony of Abnlfeda is
as fbllows: "And in it (the year of the Hejra 588, or
A.D. 1l92,) was slain the Marquis, Lord of Soor (or
Tyre) ; may God, whose name be exalted, curse
him! A Batinee, or
Assassin (in one copy Bati-
124 sncnar socnmas.
nees), who had entered Soor in the disguise of a
monk, slew him'."
We thus see that the evidence in favour of the King
of England greatly preponderates, not a
single writer
who was on the spot laying the murder tn his charge;
on the contrary, those who had the best means of
being infonned treated the imputation with contempt,
as a base calumny devised by the French party. But
there is a still more illustrious witness in his behalf, if
the testimony ascribed to him be genuine-the Old
Man of the Mountain himselfl Brompton gives two
letters purporting to have been written by this per-
sonage, the one to the Duke ofAustria, the other to
the princes and people of Europe in general. The
latter is also given by William of Newbridge, with
some variation. Both have been admitted by Rymer
into his Faedera. Gibbon, who seems to haveknown
only the last, pronounces it to be an "absurd and
palpable forgery." Hammer, whose arguments we
shall presently consider, undertakes to demonstrate
that these epistles are forgeries. Raumer, more
prudently, only says that this last is not genuine in
its present form. _
The followingare translations ofthese documents :-
"
The Old Man of the Mountain to Limpold,
Duke of Austria, greeting. Since several kings and
princes beyond sea accuse Richard, King of England,
and lord, of the death of the marquis, I swear by the
God who reigneth for ever, and by the law which we
hold, that he had no
guilt in his death; for the cause
of the death of the marquis was as follows.
"
One of our brethren was
coming in a
ship from
Satelia (Salleleya) to our
parts, and a
tempest
chancing to drive him to Tyre the marquis had him
taken and slain, and seized a
large sum of money
*
Annales Muslemici,tom. iv., pp. 122, 123. Hafniae, 1792.
THE ASSASSlNS¢ 125
which he had with him. But we sent our mes-
sengers to the marquis, requiring him to restore to
us the money of our brother, and to satisfy us respect-
ing the death of our brother, which he laid upon
Reginald. the Lord of Sidon, and we exerted our-
selves through our friends till we knew of a truth that
it was he himself who had had him put to death, and
had seized his money.
"And again we sent to him another of our mes-
sengers, named Eurisus, whom he was minded to
fling into the sea; but our friends made him depart
with speed out of Tyre, and he came to us quickly
and told us these things. From that very hour we
were desirous to slay the marquis; then also we sent
two brethren to Tyre, who slew him openly, and as
it were before all the people of Tyre.
"
This, then, was the cause of the death of the
marquis; and we say to you in truth that the lord
Richard, King of England, had no guilt in this death
of the marquis, and thcse who on accourt of this
have done evil to the lord King of England have done
it unjustly and without cause.
"Know for certain that we kill no mln in this
world for any hire or
money, unless he has tirst done
us evil.
"
And know that we have executed these letters in
our house at our castle of Messiat, in the middle of
September. In the year from Alexander M. D. & V."
"
The Old Man of the Mountain to the princes of
Europe and all the Christian people, greeting.
"We would not that the innocence of any one
should suffer by reason of what we have done, since
we never do evil to any innocent and guiltless per-
son ; but those who have transgressed against us we
do not, with God to aid, long suffer to rejoice in the
injuries done to our simplicity.
125 SECRET SOCIET IES.
"
We therefore signify to the whole of you, testify-
ing by him through whom we hope to be saved, that
that Marquis of Montferrat was slain by no machina-
tion of the King of England, but he justly perished,
by our will and command, by our satellites, for that
act in which he transgressed against us, and which,
when admonished, he had neglected to amend. For
it is our custom first to admonish those who have
acted injuriously in anything to us or our friends to
give us satisfaction, which if they despise, we take
care to take vengeance with severity by our ministers,
who obey us with such devotion that they do not
doubt but that they shall be gloriously rewarded by
God if they die in executing our command.
"
We have also heard that it is bruited about of
that king that he has induced us, as being less up-
right and consistent (minus integros et constantes),
to send some of our people to plot against the King
of France, which, beyond doubt, is a false tiction,
and of the vainest suspicion, when neither he, God is
witness, has hitherto attempted anything against us,
nor would we, in respect to our honour, permit any
undeserved evil to be planned against any man.
Farewell."
We will not undertake to maintain the genuine-
ness of these two epistles, but we may be permitted
to point out the futility of some of the objections
made to them. Hammer pronounces the first of
them to be an undoubted forgery because it com-
mences
with swearing by the law, and ends by being
dated from the era of the Seleucides. Both, he
says, were equally strange to the Ismailites, who
precisely at this time had begun to trample the law
under foot, and had abandoned the Hejra, the only
era known in Mohammedan countries, for a new one
commencing with the reign of Hassan II. He fur-
THE ASSASSINS. 127
ther sees, in the circumstance of a letter from the
Old Man of the Mountain (Slwikh-al-Jebal) being
dated from Massyat, a
proof of the ignorance of the
Crusaders respecting the true head and seat of the
Ismailite power. These objections are regarded by
Wilken as conclusive. They will, however, lose
much of their force if we bear in mind that the letters
are
manifestly translations, and that the chief of
Massyat at that time was Sinan, who some years
before had offered to become a Christian, and who
does not seem at all to have adopted the innovations
of Hassan the Illuminator. Sinan might easily have
been induced by the friends of the King of England,
one of the most steady of whom was
Henry of Cham-
pagne*, who succeeded Conrad of Montferrat in the
kingdom, to write those letters in his justification,
and it is very probable that the translations were
made in Syria, where the Arabic language was of
course better understood than in Europe, and sent
either alone or with the originals. The translator
might have rendered the title which Sinan gave him-
self by Senez de Monte,which would be better under-
stood in the west, and he may also have given the
corresponding year of the era of the Seleucides (the
one in use
among the Syrian Christians) for the year
of the Hejra used by the Ismailite chief, or indeed
Sinan may have employed that era himself. In
this case there would remain little to object to the
genuineness of the letter to the Duke of Austria.
Hammer regards the expression our simplicity (sim-
plicitas nostra) as
being conclusive against the genu-
ineness of the second letter. We must confess that
we can see no force in the objection. Sinan might
wish to represent himself as a
very plain, simple,
innocent sort of person. It might further be doubted
*
An instance of Henry's intimacy with the Assassins has
been given in p. 81.
`
.
128 _
SECRET SOCIETIES.
if a
European forger would venture to represent the
prince of the Assassins-the formidable Old Man
of the Mountain-in such a respectable light as he
appears in these two epistles*.
But there is another account of the death of the
Marquis of Montterrat, which is probably much better
known to the generality of readers than any of the
preceding ones. The far-famed author of "
Waverley"
has, in his romantic tale oi' the
"
Talisman," made
Conrad to be wounded and vanquished in the lists
by the son of the King of Scotland, the champion of
king Richard, and afterwards slain by the dagger,
not of the Assassins, but of his confederate in villany
the Master of the Temple, to prevent his making
confession of their common guilt!
Yielding to none in rational admiration of the
genius of Sir W. Scott, we cannot avoid expressing
a wish that he had ceasedto write when he had
exhausted that rich field of national feelings and
manners with which he was alone familiar, and from
which he drew the exquisite delineations of
"
Wa-
verley" and its Scottish brethren. All his later works,
no doubt, exhibit occasional scenes far beyond the
power of any of his imitators; but when his muse
quits her native soil, she takes leave of nature, truth,'
and simplicity. Even the genius of a. Scott is inade-
quate topainting manners he never witnessed, scenery
he never beheld.
'
The tale of the "
Talisman" is a
flagrant instance.
Topography, chronology, historic truth, oriental man-
ners, and individual character, are all treated with a
most magnanimous neglect, indeed, even, we might
say, with contempt; for, careless, from "security to
please," as the author is known to have been, his
vagaries must sometimes have proceeded from mere
*
Sir J. Mackintosh (History of England, i. 187) seems to
regard the letters as genuine.
THE Assassms. 129
wilfulness and caprice. It would, we-
apprehend,
perplex our oriental travellers and geographers to
point out the site of the fountain named the l)iamond
of the Desert, not far from the Dead Sea. and yet
lying halflway between the camp of the Saracens and
that of the Crusadershwhich last, we are told, lay
between Acre and Ascalon, that is, on the sea-coast
or to show the interminable sandy desert which
stretches between the Dead Sea and the Mediterra-
nean. As to historic truth, we
may boldly say that
there is hardly a
single circumstance of the romance
in strict accordance with history; and as to the truth
of individual character, what are we to say to the
grave, serious. religious Saladin, but the very year
before his death, being in the tiower of his age, ram-
bling alone through the desert, like an errant knight,
singing hymns to the Devil. and coming disguised as a
physician to the Christian camp, to cure the mulady
of the English monarch, whom he never, in reality,
did or would see""? We might enumerate many
additional instances of the violation of every kind of
unity and propriety in this single talef.
Let not any deem it superfiuous thus to point out
the errors of an illustrious writer. The impressions
made by his splendid pages on the youthful mind
Q
*
May it not be said that real historic characters should
not he misrepresented? Sir W. Scott was at full liberty to
make his Varnrys and his Bois Gilberts as accomplished vil-
lains as he pleased; he might do as he pleased with his own;
but what warrant had he from history for painting Conrad of
Montferrat and the then Master ol' the Templars under such
odious colours as he does?
-|» The author invariably writes Montaerral for MOR!/`¢Tfdl.
The former is in Spain, and never was a
marquisate. As it
were to show that it was no error of the press, it is said, "
The
shield uf the
marqnis bore, in reference to his title, a serrated
and rocky mountain." We also find mzpluha and bilumm con-
founded, the lormer being descril:ed'as the solid, the latter as
the liquid substance.
130 SECRET BOCIETIEK
are permanent and ineifaceable, and, if not corrected,
may lead to errors of a
graver kind. The "Talisman"
moreover affects a delusive show of truth and accu-
racy; for, in a note in one
part of it, the author
(ironically, no doubt) affects to correct the historians
on a
point of history. The natural inference, then,
is that he has himself made profound researches, and
adhered to truth; and we accordingly find another
novelist, in what he terms a
history of chivalry, de-
claring the "
Talisman" to be a faithful picture of the
manners of the age. Sir W. Scott, however, has
himself informed us, in the preface to
"
Ivanhoe," of
his secret for describing the manners of the times of
Richard Coeur de Lion. With the chronicles of the
time he joined that of Froissart, so rich in splendid
pictures of chivalric life. Few readers of these ro-
mances
perhaps are aware that this was the same in
kind, though not in degree, as ii, in his tales of the
days of Elizabeth and James I., he had had recourse
to the manner-painting pages of Henry Fielding;
for the distance in point of time between the reign
of Richard I. and that of Richard II., in which last
Froissart wrote, is as great as that between the reigns
of Elizabeth and George Il. ; and, in both, manners
underwent a
proportional change. But we are in
the habit of regarding the middle ages as one
single
period of unvarying manners and institutions, and
we are too apt to fancy that the descriptions of Frois-
sart and his successors are equally applicable to all
parts of it.
THE ASSASEINS.
'
131
CHAPTER X.
Jellal-ed-deen-Restoration of Religion-His Harem makes
the Pilgrimage to Mecca-Marries the Princess of Ghilan
-Geography of the Country between Roodbar and the
Caspian -Persian Romance-Zohak and Feridoon-Kei
Kaoos and Rnnstem-Ferdoosee's Description of Mazande-
ran-History of the Shah Nameh-Proof of the Antiquity
of the '1`ales contained in it.
THE unhallowed rule of Mohammed II. lasted for
the long space of thirty-tive years, during which
time all the practices of Islam were neglected by the
Isrnailites. The mosks were closed, the fast of Ra-
mazan
neglected, the solemn seasons of prayer
despised. But such a state can never last; man
must have religion; it is as essential to him as his
food; and those pseudo-philosophers who have en-
deavoured to deprive him of it have only displayed in
the attempt their ignorance and folly. The purifica-
tion ofthe popular iaith is the appropriate task of the
true philanthropist.
We may often observe the son to exhibit a cha-
racter the diametrically opposite of that of his father,
either led by nature or struck by the ill effects of his
father's conduct. This common appearance was now
exhibited among the Assassins. Mohammed disre-
garded all the observances of the ceremonial law; his
son and successor, Jellal-ed-deen (Glory of Religion)
Hassan, distinguished himself, from his early years, by
a zeal for the ordinances of Islam. The avowal of his
sentiments caused considerable enmity and suspicion
between him and Mohammed; the father feared the
son, and the son the father. On the days of public
132 SECRET SOCIETIES.
audience, at which Jella]-ed~deen was expected to ap-
pear, the old sheikh used the precaution of wearing a
shirt of mail under his clothes, and of increasing the
number of his guards. His death. which occurred when
his son had attained his twenty-fifth year, is ascribed
by several historians, though apparently without any
sufficient reason, to poison administered to him by
his successor.
~
The successionof Jellal~ed-deen was uncontested.
He immediately set about placing all things on the
footing which they had been on
previous to the time
of On his Memory be Peace. The mosks were
repaired and reopened; the call to prayer sounded
as heretofore from the minarets; and the solemn
assemblies for worship and instruction were held
once more on every Friday. lmams, Koran-readers,
preachers, and teachers of all kinds, were invited to
Alamoot, where they were honourably entertained
and richly rewarded. Jellal-ed-deen wrote to his
lieutenants in Kusistan and Syria, informing them
of what he had done, and inviting them to follow his
example. He also wrote to the khalif, to the power-
ful Shah of Khaurism, and to all the princes of
Persia, to assure them ofthe purity of his faith. His
ambassadors were
everywhere received with honour,
and the khalif and all the princes gave to Jellal-ed-
deen, in the letters which they wrote in reply, the
title of prince, which had never been conceded to
any of his predecessors. The imams, and the men
learned in the law, loudly upheld the orthodoxy of
the faith of the mountain-chief, on whom they be-
stowed the name of Nev (New) Musulman. When
the people of Casveen, who had always been at
enmity with the Ismailites, doubted of his orthodoxy,
J ella]-ed-deen condescended to ask of them to send
some
persons of respectability to Alamoot, that he
might have an opportunity of convincing them.
THE ASSASSINS.
l
133
They came, and in their presence he committed to
the Hames a pile of books which he said were the
writings of Hassan Sabah, and contained the secret
rules and ordinances of the society. He cursed the
memory of Hassan and his successors, and the envoys
returned to Casveen, fully convinced of his sincerity.
In the second year ot' his reign Jellal-ed-deen gave
a further proof of the purity of his religious faith by
permitting, or, perhaps, directing, his harem, that is,
his mother, his wife, and a long train of their female
attendants, to undertake the pilgrimage tothe holy
city of Mecca, to worship at the tomb of the Prophet.
The sacred banner was, according to custom, borne
before the caravan of the pilgrims from Alamoot, and
the Tesbeel, or distribution of water to the pilgrims,
usual on such oceasions*, was performed by the harem
of the mountain-prince on such a scale of magnifi-
cence and liberality as far eclipsed that of the great
Shah of Khaurism, whose caravan reached Bagdad
at the same time on its way to Mecca. The khalif
Nassir-ladin-Illah even gave precedence to the banner
of the pilgrims from Alamoot, and this mark of par-
tiality drew on him the wrath of the potent prince of
Khaurism. Twice did the latter afterwards collect an
'
* "
Sebil, in Arabic 'the way,' means generally the
road, and the traveller is hence called~Ibn-es-xebzl, the son of
the road; but it more particularly signifies the way of piety
and good works, which leads to Paradise. Whatever meriio-
rious work the Moslem undertakes, he does Fi sebil Allah, on
the way ot' God, or for the love of God; and the most merito-
rious which he can undertake is the holy war, or the tight for
his faith and his country, on Goff; way. But since pious
women can have no immediate share in the contest, every
thing which they can contriliute to the nursing of the wounded,
and the refreshment of the exhausted, is imputed to them as
equally meritorious as if they had fought themselves. The
distribution of water to the exhausted und wounded warriors
is the highest female merit in the holy war on God's way."-
Hammer I Hialory ofthe Auaniur, Woud's translation, p. 144.
I
134 SECRET SOCIETIES.
army to make war on the successor of the Prophet.
With the first, consisting of nearly 800,000 men, he
marched against Bagdad, and had reached Hamadan
and Holuan, when a violent snow-stonn obliged him
to retire. He had collected his forces a second time,
when the.hordes of Chinghis Khan burst into his
dominions. His son and successor resumed his plans,
and reached Hamadan, when again a snow-storm
came to avert destruction from the City of Peace.
As the power of the Mongol conqueror was now
great and formidable, the prudent prince of Alamoot
sent in secret ambassadors to assure him of his sub-
mission, and to tender his homage.
J ellal-ed-deen took a more active part in the po-
litics ofhis neighbours than his predecessors had done.
He formed an alliance with the Atabeg Mozafl`er-ed-
deen (Causing the Religion to be victorious), the go-
vernor of Azerbeijan, against the governor ofIrak, who
was their common enemy. He even visited the Atabeg
at his residence, where he was received with the
utmost magnificence, and each day the Atabeg sent
1,000 dinars for the expenses of his table. The two
princes sent to the khalif for aid; their request was
granted; and they marched against, defeated, and
slew the governor of Irak, and appointed another in
his place. After an absence of eighteen months
Jellal-ed-deen returned to Alamoot, having in the
mean time, by his prudent conduct, greatly augmented
the fame of his orthodoxy. He now ventured to
aspire to a Connexion with one of the ancient princely
houses of the country, and asked in marriage the
daughter of Ky Kaoos, the prince of Ghilan. The
latter having expressed his readiness to give his con-
sent, provided that of the khalif could be obtained,
envoys were
despatched to Bagdad, who speedily re
turned with the approbation of Nassir-ladin-Illah, and
the princess of Ghilan was sent to Alamoot.
THE ASSASSiNS. 135
The mention of Ghilan and of Ky Kaoos presents
an opportunity, which we are not willing to let pass, of
diversifying our narrative by an excursion into the
regions of Persian geography and romance, which
may cast a gleam of the sunshine of poetry over the
concluding portion of our history of the dark and
secret deeds of the Ismailites.
The mountain range named Demavend, on the
south side of which Roodbar, the territory of the Is-
mailites, lies, is thei northem termination of the pro-
vince of Irak Ajemee, or Persian Irak. Beyond it
stretches to the Caspian Sea a fertile region, partly
hilly, partly plain*. This country is divided into live
districts, which were in those times distinct from and
independent of each other. At the foot of the moun-
tains lay Taberistan and Dilem, the former to the
east, the latter to the west. Dilem is celebrated as
having been the native country of the family of
Buyah, which, rising' from the humblest station, exer-
cised under the khalifs, and with the title of Ameer-
al-Omra (Prince of the Princes), a
power nearly
regal over Persia during a century and a ha.lf1°.
North of Dilem lay Ghilan, and north of Taberistan
Mazenderan, the ancient Hyrcania. In the midst of
*
This part of Persia also acquires interest from the circum-
stance of Russia being believed to be looking forward to ob-
taining it, one
day or other, b conquest or cession.
1* Azed-ud-dowlah, one oi the most celebrated of these
princes, had a
dyke constructed across the river Kur, in the
plain of Murdasht, near the ruins of Persepolis, to confine the
water, and permit of its being distributed over the country.
It was called the Bund-Amee: (P:-ince'r Dyke), and travellers
ignorant of the Persian language have given this name to the
river itself. We must not, therefore, be surprised to find in
"
Lalla Rookh" a
lady singing,
"
There's a bower of roses by Bendsmeer's stream ;"
and asking,
"
Do the roses still bloom by the calm Bendameer?
"
Calm and still, beyond doubt, is the Bendsmeer.
1 2
136 SECRET SOCIETIES.
these four provinces lay Ruyan and Rostemdar, re-
markable for having been governed for a
space of
800 years by one family of princes, while dynasty
after dynasty rose and fell in the neighbouring states.
In these provinces the names of the royal lines recal
to our mind the ancient history, both true and fabu-
lous, of Iran (Persia), as we find it in the poem of
Ferdoosee, the Homer of that country. The family
of Kawpara, which governed Ruyan and Rostemdar,
allected to derive their lineage from the celebrated
blacksmith Gavah, who raised his apron as the
standard of revolt against the Assyrian tyrant Zohak;
and the family of Bavend, which ruled for nearly
seven centuries, with but ,two interruptions, over
Mazenderan and Taberistan, were descended from
the elder brother of Noosheerwan the Just, the most
celebrated monarch of the house of Sassan.
This region is the classic land of Persia. When,
as their romantic history relates, Jemsheed,_the third
monarch of Iran after Cayamars, the first who ruled
over men, had long reigned in happiness and prospe-
rity, his head was lifted up with pride, and God
withdrew from him his favour. His dominions were
invaded by Zohak, the prince of the Tauzees (Assy-
rians or
Arabs); his subjects fell away from him,and,
after lurking for a hundred years in secret places, he
fell into the hands of the victor, who cut him asunder
with a saw. A child was born of the race of Jem-
sheed, named Feridoon, whom, as soon as he came to
the light (in the. village of Wereghi, in Taberistan),
his mother Faranuk gave to a herdsman to rear, and
his nourishment was the milk of a female buffalo,
whose name was
Poormayeh. Zohak meantime had
a dream, in which he beheld two warriors, who led
up to him a third, armed with a club which termi-
nated in the head of a cow. The warrior struck him
on the head with his club, and took him and chained
'run Assassins.
`
137
him in the cavern of a mountairi. He awoke with a
loud cry, and called all the priests, and astrologers,
and wise men, to interpret his dream. They feared
to speak. At last they told him of the birth and
nurture of Feridoon, who was destined to overcome
him. Zohak fell speechless from his throne at the
intelligence. On recovering, he sent persons in all
directions to search for and put to death the fatal
child; but the maternal anxiety of Faranuk was on
the watch, and she removed the young Feridoon to
the celebrated mountain Elburz, where she committed
him to the care of a
pious anchorite. Zohak, after
a
long search, discovered the place where Feridoon
had been first placed by his mother, and in his rage
he killed the beautiful and innocent cow Poormayeh.
Zohak is represented as a most execrable tyrant.
Acting under the counsel of the Devil, he had mur-
dered his own father to get his throne. His infernal
adviser aherwards assumed the form of ayoung man,
and became his cook. He prepared for him all
manner of curious and high-seasoned dishes; for
hitherto the food of mankind had been rude and
plain. As a reward, he only asked permission to
kiss the shoulders of the king. Zohak readily granted
this apparently moderate request; but from the spots
where the Devil impressed his lips grew forth two
black snakes. In vain every art was
employed to
remove them, in vain they were cut away, they grew
again like plants. The physicians were in perplexity.
At length the Devil himself came in the shape of a
physician, and said that the only mode of keeping
them quiet was to feed them with human brains.
His object., we are told, was
gradually in this way to
destroy the Whole race of man.
The design of the Devil seemed likely to be ac-
complished. Each day two human beings were slain,
and the serpents fed with their brains. At length
1 3
138 SECRET SOCIETIES.
two of the tyrant's cooks discovered that the brain of
a man mixed with that of a ram satisfied the mon-
sters, and, of the two men who were given to be
killed each day, they always secretly let go one, and
those who were thus delivered became the progenitors
of the Koords who dwell in the mountains west of
Persia. Among those unfortunate persons who were
condemned to be food for the serpents was the son
of a blacksmith named Gai/ah. W
The afflicted father
went boldly before the tyrant, and remonstrated with
him on the injustice of his conduct. Zohak heard
him with patience and released his son. He also
made him bearer of a letter addressed to all the pro-
vinces of the empire, vaunting his goodness, and
calling on all to support him against the youthful
pretender to his throne. But Gavah, instead of exe-
cuting the mandate, tore the tyraut's letter, and,
raising his leathem apron on a lance by way of
standard, called on all the inhabitants of Iran to
arise and take arms in support of Feridoon,_the right-
ihl heir to the throne -of Jemsheed.
Meantime Feridoon, who had attained the age of
twice eight years, came down from Elburz, and,
going to his mother, besought her' to tell him from
whom he derived his birth. Faranuk related to him
his whole history, when the young hero, in great
emotion, vowed to attack the tyrant, and avenge on
him the death of his father ; but his mother sought,
by representing the great power of Zohak, to divert
him from his purpose, and exhorted him to abandon
all such thoughts, and to enjoy in quiet the good
things of this life. But a numerous army, led by
Gavah in search of the true heir to the throne, now
came in sight. Feridoon, joyfully advancing to meet
them, adorned with gold and precious stones the
leathern banner, placed upon it the orb of the moon,
and, naming it Direfsh-e-Gavanee (GEUG/5,8 Apron),
'
THE ASSA SSINS. 139
selected it for the banner of the empire of Iran.
Each succeeding prince, we are told, at his acces-
sion, added jewelsto it, and Direfsh-e-Gavanee blazed
in the front of battle like a sun. Feridoon, then
calling for smiths, drew for them in the sand the
form of a club, with a. cow's head at the end of it,
S
,,
"T f'
A
,/ff"
e
M
5
' '
1 / ;_
A
'
1 ._
-
-~_ /C '--
WV 'i ~= .lf `
gg
»
_d
,/
ef
""
lhk, 'ff
l
/'
(J ,J
"" "
4 ll*
,~° _, x
*
f r-
"f"
f' \;]`f,;)," f. §;§, / 4 "g
1
:l;§'fK;k'Q>.w;%é_ `- /
slr;
~
.
=»§ -
,J
`
WN J ~'§ i M. 5
w@
'y'~`7b"' -' *Z 'Zvi #A
2
K
' '
'l ' -»' ---
-:
'
`
'Y
'
""""'" ' "`
22-LL? '
ny
i
,N
_ _
g_ _
-
_
_
1°
i
1
f f;= ;_
`
/
x '~_ b .'
ff!
f. ~_i I
! i .xx
1? 4 3
i/
, --»
1 '7 ,a§52;,. `
)` il* 'lf ¢ -
'"'
If Y
-err
v nf
I
If "'"""V~>
XM
' is
ufé Z
"'*'
l
i
:= 7='- Am
*Q ¢>_"`
sf ii,
Pwmlhe Shah Nemeh, illuminated Persian MS.
140 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and when they had made it he named it Gawpeigor
(Cow-face), in honour of his nurse. Taking leave
of his mother, he marches against the tyrant; an
angel comes from heaven to aid the rightful cause;
Zohak is deserted by his troops; he talls into the
hands of Feridoon, who, by the direction of the
angel, imprisons him in a cavern of the mountain
Demavend. Feridoon, on
ascending the throne of
his lbrefathers, governed with such mildness, firm-
ness, and justice, that his name is to the present day
in Persia signiticative of the ideal of a
perfect mo~
narch*.
Mazenderan is not less celebrated in Persian ro-
mance than the region at the foot of Demavend. It
was the scene of the dangers of the light-minded Kej
Kaoos (supposed to be the Cyaxares of the Greeks),
and of the marvellous adventures called the Seven
Fables or
Stages of the Hero Roostem, the Hercules
of Persia, who came to his aid. When Kej Kaoos
mounted the throne of Iran, he exulted in his wealth
and in his power. A deev (Demon), desirous of
luring him to his destruction, assumed the guise of a
wandering minstrel, and, coming to his court, sought
to be permitted to sing before the padisha (Emperor).
His request was acceded to,--his theme was the praises
of Mazenderan, and he sang to this e(iect:--
"
Mazenderan deserves that the shah should think
on it; the rose blooms evermore in its gardens, its
hills are arrayed with tulips and jessamines, mild is
the_ air, the earth is bright of hue, neither cold nor
heat oppresses the lovely land, spring abides there
*
Four lines, quoted by Sir J. Malcolm from the Gulistaa
of Saadi, may be thus literally rendered in the measure of the
original:-
The blest Feridoon an
angel was not ;
Of musk or of amber he formed was not;
By justice and mercy good ends gained he ;
Be just and merciful, thou 'lt a Feridoon be.
THE ASSASSINS. 141
evermore, the nightingale sings without ceasing in
the gardens, and the deer bound joyously through
the woods. The earth is never
weary of pouring
forth fruits, the air is evermore filled with fragrance,
like unto rose-water are the streams, the tulip glows
unceasingly on the meads, pure are the rivers, and
their banks are
smiling: ever
mayest thou behold
the falcon at the chase. All its districts are adorned
with abundance of food, beyond measure are the
treasures which are there piled up, the flowers bend
in worship before the throne, and around it stand
the men of renown
richly girded with gold. Who
dwelleth not there knoweth no pleasure, as
joy and
luxuriant pastime are to him unknown."
Kej Kaoos was
beguiled by the tempter, and,
eager to get possession of so rich a land, he led a
large army into it. The Shah of Mazenderan was
aided by a
potent demon or enchanter named the
Deev Seffeed (White Deev), who, by his magic arts,
cast a
profound darkness over the Iranian monarch
and his host, in which they would have all been
destroyed but for the timely arrival of Roostem, who,
after surmounting all the impediments that magic
could throw in his way, slew the Deev Seffeed, and
delivered his sovereign.
Kej Kaoos,we are afterwards told by the poet,
formed the insane project of ascending to heaven,
which he attempted in the following manner. A
stage was constructed on which a throne was set for
the monarch; four javelins were placed at the cor-
ners, with pieces of goat's fiesh on them, and four
hungry eagles were tied at the bottom, who, by their
efforts to reach the meat, raised the stage aloft into
the' air; but when the strength of the birds was ex--
hausted the whole fell with the royal aéronaut in the
desert, where he was found by Roostem and the
other chiefs.
142 szcnm SOCIETIES. f
i"' f
/`,;`/,
I
' ,_
i';.'°~',,` mg -Q
1
N2Win* q`
\
"'£¥'fp,(i{"1N Y )
f'
`
*a *tm q\ mm
5'
'K
ta wlqyaw N
f
'W
\
§%
_g 7
,
Q mg
K *
V
" < _
_
"
4 ,_
_,
x
,' & V
.
'
'G
'
'THIN \"i| °'! 'l'lhiLv| .~»=
kt' '
R n
,` 'Q :L
-
I-`L~ 'W in »,
. i' ,fl _ V
.
, L-: f, _' 6 _
`
. _ ,
»;'=~'£3.f '
W* H ,»i »~
f, °~
`
S w
~...:
__,
'J I1 .. -1
',_ \
-7* °'»"'*w
or
ww >' i
< _
»,f-..7.__. _
.__ _ V
`
fl
:_ sw
,
»_§»g,
_(V _~ ;z~
§~_.~§;<i,§
5;--i'.~».'l ig-
%"¢:,`T£g f.,
`
, ' 'af J
it l in þÿ,f%i§i1#¬1llll§f#»»
Qi n -f;
/
'
V;
-
1. K is
)
';§
f ~
'N
"'
'QL '_ S*-
'.'\?%s `J §f§"
~
;
r l: ` f|_,U`
_-c fy.
"'"1 ~.; ;-' _;f,/4" _
~f;
`
i
i§ ' 2,54 , #3 + 1-"',_f' "§
I
'
-'§L< '
1..,.4/»f??:17fQ'5'.f/="1; ._§=.-.=
ng /
`L~.
-.»
/
/
"§
.
) '
WZQQ 25
..l® ~
/W"
"
~< fr, K H; /
From the Same.
The history of the Shah-nameh (King-book), in
which these legends are contained, is one of the most
curious in literature. The fanaticism of the Arabs,
who conquered Persia, raged with indiscriminate fury
against the literature, as well as the religion, of that
country; and when, in the time of Al-Mansour and
-
klowglc
(
THE AssAsslNs. 143
his successors Haroon-er-Rasheed and Al-Mamoon,
the Arabs themselves began to' devote their attention
to literature and science, it was the science of Greece
and ,the poetry of their native language that they
cultivated. The Persian literature meantime lan-
guished in obscurity, 'and the traditional, heroic, and
legendary tales of the nation were
fading fast from
memory, when a
governor of a
province, zealous, as
it would appear, for the honour of' the Persian nation,
made a collection of them, and formed from them a
continuous narrative in prose. The book thus formed
was called the Bostan-nameh (Garden-book). It was
in great repute in the northern part of Persia, where,
at a distance from the court of the khalifs, the Per-
sian manners, language, and nationality were better
preserved; and when the Turkish family of the Sa-
menee founded an empire in that part of Persia,
sultan Mansoor I., of that race, gave orders to a
poet
named Dakeekee to turn the Bastan-nameh into
Persian verse. The poet undertook the task, but he
had not made more than a. thousand verses when he
perished by assassination. There being no one sup-
posed capable ofcontinuing his work, it was
suspended
till twenty years afterwards, when the celebrated
Mahmood of Ghizni, the conqueror of India. meeting
with the Bastan-nameh, gave portions of it to three
of the most renowned poets of the time to versify.
The palm of excellence was adjudged to Anseri, who
versitied the tale of Sohrab slain by his own father
Roostem, one of the most pathetic and affecting
narratives in any language. The sultan made him
Prince of the Poets, and directed him to versify the
entire work ; but, difiident of his powers, Anseri
shrank from the task, and having some time after-
wards met a
poet of Toos in Khorasan, named
Isaac, the son of SheriH1Shah, surnamed Ferdoosee
144 SECRET SOCIETIES.
(Paradisal'), either from his t`ather's employment as
a
gardener, or from the beauty of his verses, he
introduced him to the sultan, who gladly committed
the task to him. Ferdoosee laboured with enthusiasm
in the celebration of the ancient glories of his coun-
try; and in the space of thirty or, as some assert, of
only eight years, he brought the poem to within two
thousand lines of its termination, which lines were
added by another poet after his death.
The Shah-nameh is, beyond comparison, the finest
poem of the Mohammedan east. It consists of
60,000 rhymed couplets, and embraces the history of
Persia, from the beginning of the world to the period
of its conquest by the Arabs. The Verses move on
with spirit and rapidity, resembling more the flow of
om' lyrical, than that of our common heroic, lines1-.
Ferdoosee wrote his poem in the early part of the
eleventh century from a book which had been in
existence a.
long time before, for he always calls it an
old book] No proof therefore is needed that he did
not invent the tales which compose the Shah-nameh,
and they have every appearance of having been the
ancient traditionary legends of the Persian nation.
But we are able to show that these legends were
popular in Persia nearly six centuries before his time;
and it was chiefly with a view to establishing this
*
Paradise, we are to recollect, in a word of Persian origin,
adopted by the Greeks, from whom we have received it. A
Paradise was a place planted with trees, a park, garden, or
plea|ure~ground, as we may term it.
'I' Hammer has, in his "Belles Lettres of Persia" (Schiine
Rerlekiuut Peninns), and in the "Mines de l`Orient," trans-
lated a considerable 'portion of the Shah-nameh in the measure
ot' the original. MM. Campion and Atkinson have rendered
a
part of it into English heroic verse. Giirres has epitomised it,
as far as to the death of Roostem, in German prose, under the
title of "
Das Heldenbuch von Iran." An epitome of the poem
in English prose, by Mr. Atkinson, has also lately appeared.
THE ASSASSINS- 145
curious point that we related the tale of Zohak and
Feridoon.
Moses of Choren, the Armenian historian, who
wrote about the year 440, thus addresses the person
to whom his work is dedicated. "
How should the
vain and empty fables about Byrasp Astyages gain
any portion of thy favour, or why shouldest thou
impose on us the fatigue of elucidating the absurd,
tasteless, senseless legends of the Persians about
him? to wit, of 'his first injurious benefit of the
demoniac powers which were
subject to him, and
how he could not deceive him who was deception and
falsehood itself. Then, of the kiss on the shoulders,
whence the dragons came, and how thenceforward the
growth of vice destroyed mankind by the pampering
of the belly, un`til at last a certain Rhodones bound
him with chains of brass, and brought him to the
mountain which is called Demavend; how Byraspes
then dragged to a hill Rhodones, when he fell asleep
on the way, but this `last, awaking out of his sleep,
brought him to a cavern of the mountain, where he
chained him fast, and set an
image opposite to him.
so that, terrified by it, and held by the chains, he
might never more
escape to destroy the world."
Here we have evidently the whole story of Zohak
and Feridoon current in Persia in the fifth century;
and any one who has reiiected on the nature of tra-
dition must be well aware that it must have existed
there for centuries before. The very names are
nearly the same. Taking the first syllable from
Feridoon, it becomes nearly Rodon, and Biyraspi
Aidahaki (the words of the Armenian text) signify
the dragon Byrasp: Zohak is evidently nearly the
same with the last word. This fable could hardly
have been invented in the time of the Sassanian
dynasty, who 'had not then been more than two cen-
turies on the throne, much less during the period of
¢
148 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the dominion of the Parthian Arsacides, who were
adverse to everything Persian. We are therefore
carried back to the times of the Kejanians, the Achae-
menides of the Greeks; and it is by no means im-
possible that the tale of Zohak' and Feridoon was
known even to the host which Xerxes led to the sub-
jugation of Greece.
It is well known to those versed in oriental history
that, when the founder ofthe house of Sassan mounted
the throne of Persia in the year 226, he determined
to bring back everything, as far as was possible, to
its state in the time of the Kejanians, from whom he
affected to be descended, and that his successors trod
in his footsteps. But, as Persia had been for five
centuries and a half under the dominion of the
Greeks and Parthians, there was
probably no authen-
tic record of the ancient state of things remaining.
Recourse was therefore had to the _traditional tales
of the country; and, as the legend of Zohak and
Feridoon was, as we have seen, one of the most
remarkable of these tales, it was at once adopted as
a genuine portion of the national, history, and a
banner formed to represent the Apron of Gavah,
which was, as the poet describes it, adorned with
additional jewels by each monarch of the house of
Sassan at his accession. This hypothesis will very
simply explain the circumstance of this banner being
unnoticed by the Greek writers, while it is an un-
doubted fact that it was
captured by the Arabs at the
battle of Kadiseah, which broke the power of Persia,
--a circumstance which has perplexed Sir John
Malcolm.
We will finally observe that the historian just
alluded to, as well as some others, thinks that the
darkness cast by the magic art of the White Deev
over
Ky Kaoos and his army in Mazanderan coin-
cides with the eclipse of the sun predicted by Thales,
THE ASSASSINS. 142'
and which, according to Herodotus, parted the armies
of the Medians and the Lydians when engaged in
conflict. Little stress is however, we
apprehend, to
be laid on such coincidences. Tradition does not
usually retain the memory of facts of this nature,
though fiction is apt enough to invent them. The
only circumstances which we have observed in the
early part of the Shah-nameh agreeing with Grecian
history, are some relating to the youthful days of Kei
Khoosroo, which are very like what Herodotus relates
of Cyrus. '
We now retum to the history ofthe Assassins. '
K2
148 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER X.
Death ot`Jella1-ed-deen-Character of Ala-ed-deen, his suc-
cessor-The_Sheikh Jemal-ed-deco-The Astronomer Na-
sir»ed-deen-The Vizir Sheref-al-Moolk-Death of Ala-ed-
deenfSuccession of Rukn-ed~deen, the last Sheikh-al-Jebal.
THE reign of Jellal-ed-deen, which, unfortunately
for the society, lasted but twelve years, was unstained
by blood ; and we see no reason to doubt the judg-
ment of the oriental historians, who consider his faith
in Islam asbeing sincere and pure. It was probably
his virtue that caused his death, for his life, it was
suspected, was terminated by poison administered by
his own kindred. His son Ala-ed-deen* (Eminence
of Religion), who succeeded him, was but nine years
old ; but as, according to the maxims of the Ismailites,
the visible representative of the imam was, to a cer-
tain extent, exempted from the ordinary imperfections
of humanity, and his commands were to be regarded
as those of him whose authority he bore, the young
Ala-ed-deen was obeyed as
implicitly as
any_ of his
predecessors. At his mandate the blood was shed
of all among his relatives who were suspected of
having participated in the murder of his father.
Ala-ed-deen proved to be a weak, inefficient ruler.
His delight was in the breeding and tending of sheep,
and he spent his days in the cotes among the herds-
men, while the affairs of the society were allowed to
run into disorder. All the restraints imposed by his
father were removed, and every one was left to do
* This is the name which, in the form ofAlad<lin, is so
familiar to UI from the story of the Wonderful Lamp.
THE ASSASSINS. 149
what was
right in his own eyes. The weakness of
this prince's intellect is ascribed to his having, in the
fifth year of his reign, had himself most copiously
bled without the knowledge of his physician, the
consequence of which was an extreme degree of
debility and a
deep melancholy, which never after-
wards left him. From that time no one could venture
to offer him advice respecting either his health or the
state of the affairs of the society, without being re~
warded for it by the rack or by instant death. Every-
thing was therefore kept concealed from him, and
he had neither friend nor adviser.
Yet Ala-ed-deen was not Without some estimable
qualities. He had a
respect and esteem for learning
and learned men. For the sheikh Jemal-ed-deen
Ghili, who dwelt at Casveen, he testilied on all occa-
sions the utmost reverence, and sent him annually
500 dinars to defray the expenses of his household.
When the people of Casveen reproached the learned
sheikh with living on the bounty of the Impious, he
made answer, f' The imams pronounce it lawful to
execute the Ismailites, and to confiscate their goods;
how much more lawful is it for a man to make use
of their property and their money when they give
them voluntarily !" Ala-ed-deen, who probably
heard of the reproaches directed against his friend,
sent to assure the people of Casveen that itwas solely
on account of the sheikh that he spared them, or else
he would put the earth of Casveen into bags, hang
the bags about the necks of the inhabitants, and
bring them to Alamoot. The following instance of
his respect for the sheikh is also related. A mes-
senger coming with a letter to him from the sheikh
was so imprudent as to deliver it to him when he was
drunk. Ala-ed-deen ordered him to have a hundred
blows of the bastinade, at the same time crying out
to him,
"
O foolish and thoughtless man, to give me
150 SECRET SOCIETIES.
a letter from the sheikh at the time when I was
drunk ! Thou shouldest have waited till I was come
out of the bath, and was come to my senses."
The celebrated astronomer Nasir-ed-deen (Victory
of Religion) had also gained the consideration of
Ala-ed-deen, who was anxious to enjoy the pleasure
of his society. But the philosopher, who resided at
Bokhara, testified little inclination to accept of the
favour intended him. Ala-ed-deen therefore sent
orders to the Dai-al-Kebir of Kuhistan tooonvey the
uncourteous sage to Alamoot. As Nasir-ed-deen
was one day recreating himself in the gardens about
Bokhara, he found himself suddenly surrounded by
some men, who, showing him a horse, directed him
to mount, telling him he had nothing to fear if he
conducted himself quietly. It was in vain that he
argued and remonstrated; he was far on the road to
Kuhistan, which was 600 miles distant, before his
friends knew he was gone. The governor made
every apology for what he had been obliged to do.
The philosopher was sent on to Alamoot to be the
companion of Ala-ed-deen, and it was while he was
there that he wrote his great work called the Morals
of Nasir (Alchlaak-Nasiree).*
It was during the administration of Ala-ed-deen
that the following event, so
strongly illustrative of
the modes of procedure of the Assassins, took place.
The sultan Jellal-ed-deen,the la.st ruler of Khaurism,
so well known for his heroic resistance to Chingis
*
Malcolm's History of Persia., vol. i. In the clever work
called "Traits and Stories of the Irish Pea.sa.nt.ry," which is
the best picture ever given of the language, manners, and
modes of thinking of that class, there is an
amusing account
(and an
undoubtedly true one) of the "Abduction of Mat
Kavanagh,"
one of that curious order of men called in that
country edge-schoolmasters, which, as indicative of a
passion
for knowledge, maybe placed in comparison with this anecdote
of Ala.-ed-deen.
'rim Ass/lssms. 15;
Khan, had appointed the emir Arkhan governor of
Nishaboor, which bordered closely on the Ismailite
territory of Kuhistan. Arkham being obliged to
attend the sultan, the deputy whom he left in his
stead made several destructive incursions into Ku-
histan, and laid waste the Ismailite districts of Teem
and Kain. The Ismailites sent to demand satisfac-
tion, but the only reply made to their complaints and
menaces by the deputy-governor was one of those
symbolical proceedings so common in the east. He
came to receive the Ismailite envoy with his girdle
stuck full of daggers, which he flung on the ground
before him, to signify either his disregard for t.he
daggers of the society, or to intimate that he could
play at that game as well as they. The Isrnziilites
were not, however, persons to be provoked with
impunity, and shortly afterwards three Fedavees were
despatched to Kunja, where Arkhan was residing at
the court of the sultan. They watched till the emi:
came Without the walls of the town, and then fell
upon and murdered him. They then hastened to the
house of Shereflal-Moolk (Nobleness of the Realm),
the vizir, and penetrated into his divan. Fortunately
he was at that time engaged with the sultan, and
they missed him; but they wounded severely one
of his servants, and then, sallying forth, paraded the
streets, proclaiming aloud that they were Assassins.
They did not however escape the penalty of their
temerity, for the people assembled and stoned them
to death.
An envoy of the Ismailites, named Bedr-ed-deen
(Full Moon rj' Religion) Ahmed, was meantime on
his way to the court of the sultan. He stopped short
on
hearing what had occurred, and sent to the vizir
to know whether he should go on or return. Sheref-
al-Moolk, who feared to irritate the Assassins, directed
him to continue his journey, and, when he was
15 2 SECRET SOCIETIES.
arrived, showed him every mark of honour. The
object of Bedr-ed-deen's mission was to obtain satis-
faction for the ravages committed on the Ismailite
territory and the cession ofthe fortress of Damaghan.
The vizir promised the former demand without a
moment's hesitation, and he made as little difficulty
with regard to the second. An instrument was
drawn out assigning to the Ismailites the fortress
which they craved, on condition of their remitting
annually to the royal treasury the sum of 30,000
pieces of gold.
When this affair was arranged the sultan set out
for Azerbeijan, and the Ismailite ambassador re-
mained the guest of the vizir. One day, after a
splendid banquet, when the wine, which they had
been drinking in violation of the law, had mounted
into their heads, the ambassador told the vizir, by
way of confidence, that there were several lsmailites
among the pages, grooms, guards, and other persons
who were
immediately about the sultan. The vizir,
dismayed, and at the same time curious to know who
these dangerous attendants were, besought the am-
bassador to point them out to him, giving him his
napkin as a
pledge that nothing evil should happen
to them. Instantly, at a sign from the envoy, tive of
the persons who were attendants of the chamber
stepped forth, avowing themselves to be concealed
Assassins. "
On such a day, and at such an hour,"
said one of them, an Indian, to the vizir,
"
I might
have slain thee without being seen or punished; and,
if I did not do so, it was only because I had no orders
from my superiors." The vizir, timid by nature, and
rendered still more so
by the effects of the wine,
stripped himself to his shirt, and, sitting down before
the tive Assassins, conjured them by their lives to
spare him, protesting that he was as devotedly the
slave of the sheikh Ala-ed-deen as of the sultan
Jel1a1-ed- deen.
THE ASSASSINS. 153
As soon as the sultan heard of the meanness and
cowardice of his vizir, he sent a
messenger to him
with the keenest reproaches, and an order to burn
alive the five Ismailites without an instant's delay.
The vizir, though Ioth, was obliged to comply, and,
in violation of his promise, the five chamberlains were
cast on the flaming pyre, where they died exulting at
being found worthy to suffer in the service of the
great Sheikh-al~Jebal. The master of the pages was
also put to death for having admitted Ismailites
among them. The sultan then set out for _Irak,
leaving the vizir in Azerbeijan. While he was there
an envoy arrived from Alamoot, who, on being ad-
mitted to an audience, thus spake,
"
Thou hast given
five Ismailites to the Eames; to redeem thy head,
pay 10,000 pieces of gold for each of these unfortu-
nate men." The vizir heaped honours on the envoy,
and directed his secretary to draw out a deed in the
usual fbrms, by which he bound himself to pay the
Ismaililes the annual sum of 10,000 pieces of gold,
besides paying for them the 30,000 which went to
the treasury of the sultan. Sheref-al-Moolk vas
then assured that he had nothing to apprehend.
The preceding very characteristic anecdote rests on
good authority, thr it is related by Aboo-'l-Fetah
Nissavee, the vizir's secretary, in his lite of sultan
Jellal-ed-deen. 4
The astronomer Nasir-ed-deen was not the only
involuntary captive of Alamoot. Ala-ed-deen sent
once to Farsistan to the atabeg Mozaifer-ed-deen, to
request that he would send him an able physician.
Requests from Alamoot were not lightly to be dis-
regarded, and the atabeg despatched the imam Beha-
ed-deen, one of the most renowned physicians ofthe
lime, to the mountains of Jebal. The skill of the
imam proved of great benefit to the prince, but when
the physician applied for leave to return to his family
'
x 5
154 SECRET SOCIETIES.
he found that he was destined to pass the remainder
of his days in Alamoot, unless he should outlive his
patient.
The imam's release, however, was more speedy
than he expected. Ala-ed-deen, who had several
children, had nominated the eldest ofthem, Rukn-ed-
deen (Support of Religion),while he was yet a child,
to be his successor. As Rukn-ed~deen grew up the
people began to hold him in equal respect with his
father, and to consider his commands as equally
binding on them. Ala-ed4leen took otience, and
declared that he would give the succession to another
of his children; but, as this directly oontravened one
of the Ismailite maxims, namely, that the first nomi-
nation was
always the true one, it was little heeded.
Rukn-ed-deen, in apprehension for his life, which
his father threatened, retired to a strong castle to wait
there the time when he should be called to the suc-
cession. Meantime the tyranny and caprice of Ala-
ed-deen had given many of the principal persons
about him cause to be apprehensive for their lives,
and they resolved to anticipate him. There was a
man at Alamoot named Hassan, a. native of Mazen-
deran, who, though no Ismailite, was of a vile and
proiiigate charact/er. He was the object of the doat-
ing attachment of Ala-ed-deen, and consequently
had free and constant access to him. Him they fixed
upon as their agent, and they tbund no difficulty in
gaining him. Ala-ed-deen, whose fondness for breed-
ing and tending sheep had never diminished, had
built for himself a wooden house close by his sheep-
cotes, whither he was wont to retire, and where he
indulged himself in all the excesses in which he
delighted. Hassan of Mazenderan seized the mo-
ment when Ala-ed-deen was
lying _drunk in this
house, and shot him through the neck with an arrow.
Rukn-ed-deen, who is said to have been engaged in
-
THE ASSASSINS. 155
the conspiracy, assuming the part of the avenger of
blood, the murderer and all his family were put to
death, and their bodies committed to the flames; but
this act of seeming justice did not free Rukn-ed-deen
from suspicion, and the bitter reproaches of his mother
were poured forth on him as a
parricide.
The termination ot' the power of the Ismailites
was nowat hand. Rukn-ed-deen had hardly ascended
the throne of his murdered father when he learned
that an enemy was
approaching against whom all
attempts at resistance would be vain.
iii-i.1
15 6 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Ci-nwrzn XI.
The Mongols-Hoolagoo sent against the Ismailites-Rulm~
ed~deen submits-Capture of Alamoot-Destruction of the
Library-Fate of Rulm-ed-deen-Massacre of the lsmailites
-St. Louis and the Assassins-Mission for the Conversion
of the People of Kuhistan-Conclusion.
HAL? a.
century had now
elapsed since the voice of
the Mongol seer on the banks of the Sélinga had
announced to the tribes of that race that he had seen
in a vision the Great God sitting on his throne and
giving sentence that Temujeen, one of their chiefs,
should be Chingis Khan (Great Khan), and the
obedient tribes had, under the leading of Tcmujeen,
commenced that career of conquest which extended
from the eastern extremity of Asia to the confines of
Egypt and of Germany. At this time thé chief
power over the Mongols was in the hands of Mangoo,
the grandson of Chingis, a
prince advantageously
made known to Europe by the long abode of the
celebrated Venetian Marco Polo at his court. 'l`he
Mongols had not yet invaded Persia, though they
had, under Chingis himself; overthrown and stripped
of his dominions the powerful sultan of Khaurism.
It was however evident that that country could not
long escape the fate of so
many extensive and power-
ful states, and that a
pretext would soon be found
for pouring; over it the hordes of the Mongols.
We are told, though it seems
scarcely credible,
that ambassadors came from the Khalif of Bagdad
to Nevian, the Mongol general who commanded on
the northern frontier of Persia, requiring safe conduct
_THE ASSASSINS. 157
to the court of Mangoo. The object of their mission
was to implore the great khan to send his invincible
troops te destroy those pests of society the bands ot'
the Ismailites. The prayer of the envoys of the suc-
cessor of the Prophet was supported by the Judge of
Casveen, who happened to be at that time at the
court of Mangoo, where he appeared in a coat of
mail, to secure himself, as he professed, from the
duggers of the Assassins. The khan gave orders to
assemble an
army; his brother Hoolagoo was ap-
pointed to command it, and, as he was setting forth,
Mangoo thus addressed him :-
"
With heavy cavalry and a mighty host I send
thee from Tooran to Iran, the land of mighty princes.
It behoves thee now strictly to observe, both in great
and in small things, the laws and regulations of Chin-
ghis Khan, and to take possession of the countries
from the Oxus to the Nile. Draw closer unto thee
by favour and rewards the obedient and the submis-
sive; tread the refractory and_the rebellious, with
their wives and children, into the dust of contempt
and misery. When thou hast done with the Assassins
begin the conquest of Irak. I f the Khalif of Bagdad
comes forward ready to serve thee, thou shalt do him
no
injury; if he refuses, let him share the fate of the
rest."
The army of Hoolagoo was reinforced by a thou-
sand families of Chinese firemen to manage the
battering machines and fling the flaming naphtha,
known in Europe under the name of Greek tire.
He set forward in the month Rumazan of the 651st
year of the Hejra (A.x>. 1253). His march was so
slow that he did not cross the Oxus till two years
afterwards. On the farther bank of this river he
took the diversion of lion-hunting, but the cold came
on so intense that the greater part of his horses
perished, and he was obliged to wait ibr the ensuing'
158 szcam SOCIETIES.
spring before he could advance. All the princes of
the menaced countries sent embassies to the Mongol
camp announcing their submission and obedience.
The head-quarters of Hoolagoo were now in Khoras~
san, whence he sent envoys to Rukn-ed-deen, the
Ismailite chief, requiring his submission. By the
advice of the astronomer Nasir-ed-deen, who was
his counsellor and minister, Rukn~ed-deen sent to
Baissoor Noobeen, one of Hoola.goo's generals, who
had advanced to Hamadan, declaring his obedience
and his wish to live in peace with every one. The
Mongol general recommended that, as Hoolagoo
himself was
approaching, Rukn-ed-deen should wait
on him in person. After some delay, the latter agreed
to send his brother Shahinshah, who accompanied
the son of Baissoorto the quarters of the Mongol
prince. Meantime Baissoor, by the orders of Hoola-
goo, entered the Ismailite territory and drew near to
Alamoot. The troops-of the Assassins occupied a
steep hill near that place. The Mongols attacked
them, but were repelled each time they attempted
the ascent. Being forced to give over the attack,
they contented themselves with burning the houses
and ravaging the country round. -
When Shahinshah reached the camp of Hoolagoo
and notified the submission of his brother, orders to
the following effect were transmitted to the mountain-
chief :-" Since Rukn-ed-deen has sent his brother
unto us, we forgive him the offences of his father
and his followers. He shall himself, as, during his
short reign, he has been guilty of no crime, demolish
his castles and come tous." Orders were sent at
the same time to Baissoor to give over
ravaging the
district of Roodbar. Rnkn-ed-deen began casting
down some of the battlements of Alamoot, and at
the same time sent to beg the delay of a
year before
appearing in the presence of Hoolagoo. But the
THE ASSASSINS. 159
orders of the Mongol were imperative; he was re-
quired to appear at once, and to commit the defence
of his territory to the Mongol officer who was the
bearer of Hoolagoo's commands. Rukn-ed-deen
hesitated. He sent. again to make excuses and ask
more time; and, as a
proof of his obedience, he
directed the governors of Kuhistan and Kirdkoh to
repair to the Mongol camp. The banners of Hoola-
goo were now
floating at the foot of Demavend, close
to the Ismailite territory, and once more orders came
to Maimoondees,where Rukn-ed-deen and his family
had taken reiixge :-" The Ruler of the World is
now arrived at Demavend, and it is no
longer time
to delay. If Rukn-ed-deen wishes to wait a few days
he may in the mean time send his son." The
affrighted chief declared his readiness to send his
son; but, at the persuasion of his women and advisers,
instead of his own, he sent the son of a slave, who
was of the same age, requesting that his brother
might be restored to him. Hoolagoo was soon in-
formed of the imposition, but disdained to notice it
otherwise than by sending back the child, saying he
was too young, and requiring that his elder brother,
if he had one, should be sent in place of Shahin-
shah. He at the same time dismissed Shahin-
shah with these words :-" Tell thy brother to demo-
lish Maimoondees and come to me; if he does not
come, the etemal God knows the consequences."
The Mongol troops now covered all the hills and
valleys, and Hoolagoo in person appeared before
Maimoondees. The Assassins fought bravely, but
Rukn-ed-deen had not spirit to hold out. He sent
his other brother. his son, his vizir Nasir-ed-deen,
and the principal persons of the society, bearing rich
presents to the Mongol prince. Nasir-ed-deen was
directed to magnify the strength of the lsmailile
iortresses in order to gain good terms for his master;
160 SECRET SOCIETIES.
`
but, instead of so doing, he told Hoolagoo not to
regard them, assuring him that the conjunction of
the stars announced the downfal of the Ismailites,
and that the sun of their power was hastening to its
setting. It was agreed that the castle should be
surrendered on condition of free egress. Rukn-ed-
deen, his ministers, and his friends, entered the Mon-
gol camp on the first day of the month Zoo-l-Kaadeh.
His wealth was divided among the Mongol troops.
I-Ioolagoo took compassion on himself, and spoke
kindly to him, and treated him as his guest. Nasir-
ed-deen became the vizir of the conqueror, who after-
wards built for him the observatory of Meragha..
Mongol oflicers were now dispatched to all the
castles of the Ismailites 'in Kuhistan, Roodbar, and
even in Syria, with orders from Rukn-ed-deen to the
governors to surrender or demolish them. The
number of these strong castles was upwards of one
hundred, of which there were forty demolished in
Roodbar alone. Three of the strongest castles in
this province, namely, Alamoot, Lumseer, and Kird-
koh, hesitated to submit, their governors replying to
the summons that they would wait till Hoolagoo
should appear in person before them. In a few days
the Mongol prince and his captive were at the foot
of Alamoot. Rukn-ed-deen was led under the walls,
and he ordered the governor to surrender. His
command was
disregarded, and Hoolagoo, not to
waste time, removed his camp to Lamseer, leaving a
corps to blockade Alamoot. The people of Lamseer
came forth immediately with their homage, and a
few days afterwards envoys arrived from Alamoot
entreating Rukn-ed-deen to intercede for the inha-
bitants with the brother of Mangoo. The conqueror
was moderate; he allowed them free egress, and
gave them three days to collect and remove their
families and property. On the third day the Mongol
'ras Assassins. 161
troops received permission to enter and plunder the
fortress. They rushed, eager for prey, into the
hitherto invincible, now deserted, Vulture's Nest, and
ritied it of all that remained in it. As they hurried
through its subterrane recesses in search of treasure
they frequently, to their amazement, found themselves
immersed in honey, or swimming in wine; for there
were
large receptacles of wine, honey, and com, hewn
into the solid rock,the nature of
'
which was such that,
though, as we are told, they had been filled in the
time of Hassan Sabah, the corn was
perfectly sound,
and the wine had not soured. This extraordinary
circumstance was regarded by the I smailites as a
miracle wrought by that founder of their society.
When Alamoot fell into the hands of the Mongols
Ata-Melek (King's¢fath,er) Jowainee, a celebrated
vizir and historian, craved permission of Hoolagoo to
inspect the celebrated library of that place, which had
been founded by Hassan Sabah and increased by his
successors, and to select from it such works as
might
be worthy of a
place in that of the khan. The per-
mission was readily granted, and he commenced his
survey of the books. But Ata-Melek was too ortho-
dox a. Mussulman, or too lazy an examiner, to make
the best use of his opportunity; for all he did was to
take the short method of selecting the Koran and a
few other books which he deemed of value out of the
collection. and to commit the remainder, with all the
philosophical instruments, to the Hames, as
being
impious and heretical. All the archives _ofthe society
were thus destroyed, and our only source of informa-
tion respecting its doctrines, regulations, and history,
is derived from what Ata-Melek has related in his
own history as the result of his search among the
archives and books of the library of Alamoot, previous
to his making an auto da _/é of them.
The fate of the last of a dynasty, however worthless
|62 SECRET SGJIETIES.
and insignificant his chamcter may be, is always
interesting from the circumstance alone ot his being
the last, and thus, as it were, embodying in himself
the history of his predecessors. We shall therefore
pause to relate the remainder of the story of the feeble
Rukn-ed-deen,
When Hoolagoo, after the conclusion of his cam-
paign against Roodbar, retired to Hamadan, where
he had left his children, he took with him Rukn-ed-
deen, whom he continued to treat with kindness.
Here the Assassin prince became enamoured of a
Mongol maiden of the very lowest class. He asked
permission of Hoolagoo to espouse her, and, by the
directions of that prince, the wedding was celebrated
with great solemnity. He next craved to be sent to
the court of Mangoo Khan. Hoolagoo, though sur-
prised at this request, acceded to it also, and gave
him a
corps of Mongols as an escort. He at the
same time directed him to order on his way the gar-
rison of Kirdkoh, who still held out, to surrender,
and demolish the fortress. Rukn-ed-deen, as he
passed by Kirdkoh, did as directed, but sent at the
same time a. private message to the governor to hold
out as
long as possible. Arrived at Kara-Kooroom,
the residence ofthe khan, he was not admitted to an
audience, but the following message was delivered to
him :-" Thus saith Mangoo: Since thou affectest
to be obedient to us, wherefore has not the castle of
Kirdkoh been delivered up? Go back, and demolish
all the castles which remain; then mayest thou be
partaker of the honour of viewing our imperial coun-
tenance." Rukn-ed~deen was obliged to return, and,
soon after he had crossed the Oxus, his escort, making
him dismount under pretext of an entertainment, ran
him through with their swords.
Mangoo Khan was determined to exterminate the
whole race of the Ismailites, and orders to that effect
THE ASSASSINS» 163
had already reached I-Ioolagoo, who was only waiting
to execute them till Kirdkoh should have surrendered.
As the garrison of that place continued obstinate, he
no
longer ventured to delay. Orders for indiscrimi-
nate massacre were issued, and 12,000 Ismailites
soon fell as victims. The process was short; wher-
ever a member of the society was met he was,without
any trial, ordered to kneel down, and his head in-
stantly rolled on the ground. Hoolagoo sent onc of
his vizirs to Casveen, where the family of Rukn-ed-
deeu were residing, and the whole of them were
put
to death, except two (females it is said), who were
reserved to glut the vengeance of the princess Bool-
ghan Khaloon, whose father Jagatai had perished by
the daggers of the Assassins.
The siege of Kirdkoh was committed by Hoolagoo
(who was now on his march to Bagdad to put an
end to the empire of the khalits) to the princes of
Mazenderan and Ruyan. The castle held out for
three years, and the siege was rendered remarkable
by the following curious occurrence :-It was in the
beginning of the spring when a
poet named Koorbee
of Ruyan came to the camp. He began to sing, in
the dialect of Taberistan, a celebrated popular song
of the spring, beginning with these lines:-
When the sun from the fish to the ram doth return,
Spring's banner waves high on the breeze of the morn.*
' "
And Day, with his banner of radiance unjiarled,
Shines in through the mountainous portal that opes
Sublime from that valley of bliss to the world," f
says Mr. Moore in his "
Lalla Rookli," undoubtedly without
any knowledge ofthe eastern song. His original was perhaps
Campbsll's
ct
Andes, giant of the western star,
His meteor standard to the winds unfurled,
Looks from his throne of clouds o'er half the |aorld;"
which was again, in all probability, suggested, like Gray's
164 sacaar socrarms.
The song awoke in the minds of princes and soldiers
the recollection of the vemal delights they had left
behind them; an invincible longing after them seized
the whole army; and, without reflecting on the con-
sequences, they broke up the siege, and set forth to
enjoy the season of flowers in the fragrant gardens of
Mazenderan. Hoolagoo was
greatly incensed when
he heard of their conduct, and sent a
body of troops
against them, but forgave them on their making due
apologies and submissions.
The Ismailite power in Persia was now completely
at an end; the khalifat, whose destruction had been
its great object, was also involved in its ruin, and the
power of the Mongols established over the whole of
Iran. The Mongol troops failed in their attempts
on the lsmailite castles in Syria; but, at the end of
fourteen years, what they could not effect was achieved
by the great Beibars, the Circassian Mamlook sultan
of Egypt, who reduced all the strongholds of the As-
sassins in the Syrian mountains, and extinguished
their power in that region.
The last intercourse of the Assassins with the
westem Christians which we read of was that with
St. Louis. William of Nangis relates-but the tale
is evidently apocryphal-that in the year 1250 two of
the Arsacidas were sent to France to murder that
prince, who was then only twenty-two years of age.
The Seneav de Monte however repented, and sent
others to warn the French monarch. These arriving
in time, the former were discovered, on which the
"
Loose his beard, and hoary hair ,
Stream'd like a meteor to the troubled air,
'
by Milton's -
"
Imperial ensign, which, full high advanced,
Shone like a meteor streaming to the wind."
It is thus that the particles of poetry, like those oi' matter,
are in etemal circulation, and forming new combinations.
--f
THE ASSASSINS. 1 65
kingxloadal them all with presents, and dismissed
them with rich gifts for their master.
Rejecting this idle legend, we may safely credit
the account of Joinville, that in 1250, when St. Louis
was residing at Acre, after his captivity in Egypt, he
was waited on by an embassy from the Old Man
of the Mountain, the object of which was to procure,
through his means, a remission of the tribute which
he paid to the Templars and the Hospitallers. As if'
to obviate the answer which might naturallybe made,
the ambassador said that his master considered that
it would be quite useless to sacrifice the lives of his
people by murdering the masters of these orders, as
men as
good as they would be immediately appointed
to succeed them, It being then morning, the king
desired them to return in the evening. When they
appeared again, he had with him the masters of the
Temple and the Hospital, who, on the propositions
being repeated, declared them to be most extravaf
gant, and assured the ambassadors that, were it not
for the sacredness of their character, and their regard
for the word of the king, they would fling them into
the sea. They were directed to go back, and to bring
within fifteen days a satisfactory letter to the king.
They departed, and, returning at the appointed time,
said to the king that their chief, gs the highest mark
of friendship, had sent him his own shirt and his
gold ring. They also brought him draught and
chess~boards, adorned with amber, an elephant and
a
giraffe (orajle) of crystal. The king, not to be
outdone in generosity, sent an embassy to Massyat
with presents of scarlet robes, gold cups, and silver
vases, for the Ismailite chief.
Speculative tenets will continue and be propagated
long after the sect or society which holds them may
have lost all temporal influence and consideration.
Accordingly, seventy years after the destruction of
[66 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Alamoot, in the reign of Aboo-Zeid, the eighth suc-
cessor of Hoolagoo, it was found that nearly all the
people of Kuhistan were devoted to the Ismailite
opinions. The monarch, who was an orthodox Soon-
nee, advised with the govemor of the province, and
it was resolved to send a mission,composed of learned
and zealous divines, for the conversion of the heretics.
At the head of the mission was placed the pious and
orthodox sheikh Emad-ed-deen of Bokhara; the
other members of it were the sheikh's two sons and
four other learned ulemas (Doctors of law), in all
seven
persons. Full of enthusiasm and zeal for the
good cause which they had in hand, the missionaries
set forth. They arrived at Kain, the chief place of
the province, and found with grief and indignation
none of the ordinary testimonies of Moslem devotion.
The mosks were in mins, no morning or
evening call
to prayer was to be heard, no school or hospital was
to be seen. Emad-ed-deen resolved to commence
his mission by the solemn call to prayer. Adopting
the precaution of arraying themselves in armour, he
and his companions ascended the terrace of the
castle, and all at once from its different sides shouted
forth,
"
Say God is great! There is no
god but God,
and Mohammed is his prophet. Up to prayer; to
good works !" The inhabitants, to whom these
sounds were unusual and offensive, ran
together, de-
termined to bestow the crown of martyrdom on the
missionaries; but these good men, whose zeal was of
a
prudent complexion, did not, though armed, abide
the encounter. They took refuge in an aqueduct,
where they concealed themselves till the people had
dispersed, when they came forth once more, ascended
the terrace, and gave the call to prayer. The people
collected again, and again the missionaries sought
their retreat. By perseverance, however, and the
powerful support of the governor of the province, they
_ THE ASSASSINS. 167
gradually accustomed the ears of the people to the
forms of orthodoxy. Many years afterwards sultan
Shahrokh, the son of Timoor, resolved to send a
commission to ascertain the state of religion in Ko-
histan. At the head of it he placed Jelalee of Kain,
the grandson of Emad-ed-deen, a man of leaming
and talent and a
distinguished writer. Jelalee deemed
himself especially selected by heaven for this purpose,
as his grandsire had headed the former mission, and
the Prophet had appeared to himself in a dream, and
given to him a broom to sweep the land, which he
interpreted to be a commission tn sweep away the
impurity of infidelity out of the country. He there-
fore entered on his office with joy, and, after a
pere-
grination of eleven months, reported favourably of
the faith of the people of Kohistan, with the exception
of some dervishes and others, who were addicted to
Soojéeisfm.
At the present day, nearly six centuries after the
destniction of the Ismailite power, the sect. is still in
existence both in Persia and in Syria. But, like that
of the Anabaptists, it has lost its terrors, and the
Ismailite doctrine is now merely one of the specu-
lative heresies of Islam. '
The Syrian Ismailites dwell
in eighteen villages around Massyat, and pay an
annual sum of 16,500 piastres to the governor of
Hama, who nominates their sheikh or emir. They
are divided into two sects or parties, the Sooweidanee,
so named from one of their former sheikhs, and the
Khisrewee, so called on account of their great re-
verence for Khiser, the guardian ofthe Well of Life.
They are all externally rigid observers of the precepts
of Islam, but they are said to believe in the divinity
of Ali, in the uncreated light as the origin of all
things, and in the sheikh Rasheed-eddeen Sinan as
the last representative of God upon earth.
The Persian Ismailites dwell chiefly in Roodbar,
168 SECRET SOCIETIES.
but they are to be met all over the east, and even
appear as traders on the banks of the Ganges. Their
imam, whose pedigree they trace up to Ismail, the
son of Jaalfer-es-Sadik, resides, under the protection
of the Shah of Persia, at 'the village of Khekh, in the
district of Koom. As, according to their doctrine,
he is an incarnate ray of the Divinity, they hold him
in the utmost veneration, and make pilgrimages from
the most distant places to obtain his blessing.
We have thus traced the origin, the growth, and
the decline of this formidable society, only to be
paralleled by that of the Jesuits in extent of power
and unity of plan and purpose. Unlike this last.
however, its object was
purely evil, and its career
was one of blood: it has therefore left no deeds to
which its apologists might appeal in its defence. Its
history, notwithstanding, will always form a curious
and instructive chapter in that ofthe human race.
._i__..__.,___
'
169
THE TEMPLA RS.
,li
CHAPTER I.
Introduction-The Crusades-Wrong Ideas respecting their
Origin-True Causes of them-Pilgrimage-Pilgrimage of
Frotmond-Of the Count oi' Anjou-Striking Difference
between the Christianity of the East and that of the West
-Causes of their different Characters-Feudalism-The
Extent and Force of this Principle.
AMONG the many extraordinary phenomena which
the middle ages present, none-is more deserving of
attention, or more characteristic of the times and the
state of society and opinion, than the institution of
the religio-military orders of the Hospitallers, the
Templars, and the Teutonic Knights. Of these
orders, all of which owed their origin to the Crusades,
and commenced in the 12th century, the last, after
the final loss of the Holy Land, transferring the
scene of their activity to the north of Germany, and
directing their arms
against the heathens who still
occupied the south coast of the Baltic, became the
founders, in a
great measme, of the Prussian power;
while the first, planting their standard on the Isle of
Rhodes, long gallantly withstood the forces of the
Ottoman Turks, and, when at length obliged to resign
that island, took their station on the rock of Malta,
where they bravely repelled the troops ofthe greatest
of the'Ottoman Sultans, and maintained at least a
nominal independence till the close ot' the 18th cen-
L
170 SECRET SOCIETIES.
tury. A less glorious fate attended the Knights of
the Temple. They became the victims of the un-
principled rapacity of a merciless prince; their pro-
perty was seized and confiscated; their noblest mem-
bers perished in the flames; their memory was
traduced and maligned ; the foulest crimes were laid
to their charge ; and a secret doctrine, subversive of
social tranquillity and national independence, was
asserted to have animated their councils. Though
many able defenders of these injured knights have
arisen, the charges against them have been reiterated
even in the present day ; and a
distinguished Orientalist
(Von Hammer) has recently even attempted to bring
forward additionaland novel proofs of their secret guilt*
To add one more to the number of their defenders,to
trace the origin, develope the internal constitution of
their society, narrate their actions, examine the his-
tory of their condemnation and suppression, and
show how absurd and frivolous were the charges
against them, are the objects of the present writer,
who, though he is persuaded, and hopes to prove,
that they held no secret doctrine, yet places them
among the secret societies of the middle ages, because
it is by many confidently maintained that they were
such.
As the society of the Templars was indebted for
its origin to the Crusades, we will, before entering
on our narrative, endeavour to correct some erroneous
notions respecting the causes and nature of these
celebrated expeditions.
The opinion of the Crusades having been an ema-
*
The principal works on the subject of the Templaré are
Raynouard Mouumens historiques relatifs 5. la. Condamnation
des Templiers; Dupuy Histoire de la Condamnation des Tem-
pliers; Mrinter Statutenbuch des Ordens der Tempelherren;
and Wilike Geschichte des Tempelherrenordens. There is
scarcely anything on the subject in English. .
THECTEMPLARS. 171
nation of the spirit ofchivalry is one of the most
erroneous that can be conceived, yet it is one most
widely spread. Romancers, and those who write
history as if it were romance, exert all their power to
keep up the illusion, and the very sound of the word
Crusade conjures up in most minds the ideas of
waving plumes, gaudy surcoats, emblazoned shields,
with lady's love, knightly honour, and courteous feats
of arms. A vast deal of this perversion of truth is
no doubt to be ascribed to the illustrious writer of the
splendid epic whose subject is the lirst Crusade. Tasso,
who, living at the time when the last taint gleam of
expiring chivalry was fitfully glowing through the
moral and political gloom which was overspreading
the former abodes of freedom and industry in Italy,
may be excused if, young and unversed in the philo-
sophy of history, he mistook the character of Euro-
pean society six centuries before his time, or deemed
himself at liberty to minister to the taste of a court
which loved the fancied image of former times, and
stimulate it to a.
generous emulation by representing
the heroes of the first Crusade as animated with the
spirit and the virtues of the ideal chivalry. But the
same excuse is not to be made for those who, writing
at the present day, confound chivalry and the Cru-
sades, give an
epitome of the history of the latter
under the title of that of the former, and venture to
assert that the valiant Tancred was the beau ideal of
chivalry, and that the
"
Talisman" contains a faithful
picture of the spirit and character of the Crusades*
*
On the sub'ect of chivalr see Ste. Palaye Mémoires sur
la. Chevalerie, gir W. Scott's hssay on the same subject, and
Mills's and James's histories of chivalry. We do not recollect
that any of these writers has fairly proved that the chivalry
which they describe ever existed as an institution, and we must
demur to the principle which
they all assume of romances
like Perceforest being good authority for the manners of the
age in which they were composed-
I72 SECRET SOCIETIES.
We venture to assert that the Crusades did 'not
originate in chivalry, and that the first Crusade, the
most important of them, and that which gave the
tone and character to all the succeeding ones, does
not present a
single vestige of what is usually under-
stood by the term chivalry, not a trace of what the
imagination rather than the knowledge of Burke
described as
embodying "the generous loyalty to
rank and sex, the proud submission, the dignified
obedience, and that subordination of the heart which
kept alive, even in servitude itself; the spirit of an
exalted freedom-that sensibility of principle, that
chastity of honour, which felt a stain like a wound,
which inspired courage whilst it mitigated ferocity,
which ennobled whatever it touched, and under which
vice itself lost half its evil bylosing all its grossness."
Little surely does he know of the llth century and
its spirit who can suppose any part of the foregoing
description to apply to those who marched in arms to
Asia to free the sepulchre of Christ; slightly must
he have perused the Gesta Tancredi of Radulphus
Cadomens, who can conceive that gallant warrior, as
he undoubtedly was, to have been the mirror of
chivalry.
Chivalry and the Crusades commenced in the
same century, and drew their origin from the same
source. One was not the cause of the other, but
both were eH`ects of the same cause, and that cause
vas feudalism. This inculcated "
the proud sub-
mission, the dignified obedience," &c., &c., which
were
gradually idealised into chivalry; it impressed
on the mind of the vassal those principles of re-
gard to the rights and property of his lord which
seemed to justify and sanction the Holy War. Pre-
viously, however, to explaining the manner in
which this motive acted, we must stop to notice
another concurring cause of the Crusades, with-
THE TEMPLARS. 173
out which it would perhaps never have begun to
operate.
Man has at all periods been led by a
strong im-
pulse of his nature to visit those spots which have
been distinguished as the scenes ot' great and cele-
brated actions, or the abode of distinguished person-
ages. The operation of this natural feeling is still
stronger when it is combined with religion, and there
arises a conviction that the object of his worship is
gratified by this act of attention, and his favour thereby
secured to the votary. Hence we ljind pilgrimage,
or the practice of taking distant journeys to celebrated
temples, and other places of devotion, to have pre-
vailed in all ages of the world. In the most remote
periods of the mythic history of Greece, where historic
truth is not to be sought, and only manners and
modes of thinking are to be discerned, we constantly
meet the theoria, or
pilgrimage to Delphi, mentioned
in the history of the heroes, whence we may with
certainty collect that it formed at all times a portion
of the manners ofthe Greeks. India, at the present
day, witnesses annually the pilgrimage of myriads to
the temple of Juggernaut, and Jerusalem has been
for thousands of years the resort of pious Israelites.
The country which had witnessed the life and death
of their Lord naturally acquired importance in the
eyes of the early Christians, many of whom, more-
over, were Jews by birth, and had always viewed
Jerusalem with feelings of veneration. All, too, con-
founded-as has unfortunately been too much the
case in later times-the old and the new law, and
saw not that the former was but
"
beggarly elements"
in comparison with the latter, and deemed that the
political and economical precepts designed for a
single
nation, inhabiting one small region, were obligatory
on the church of Christ, which was intended to com-
prise the whole human race. Many of the practices
L 3
174 siccnlzr SOCIETIES,
'
of Judaism were therefore observed by the Christians,
and to this principle we are perhaps in a
great mea-
sure to ascribe the rapid progress of the practice, and
the belief in the eflicacy, of pilgrimage to the Holy
City.
The abuses of pilgrimage were early discerned,
and some of the more pious Fathers of the Church
preached and wrote against the practice. But piety
and eloquence were vain, and could little avail to stem
the torrent when men believed that the waters of
Jordan had eflicacy to wash every sin, though unat-
tended by sincere repentance. The Church, :ua she
advanced in corruption, improved in worldly Wisdom,
and, taking pilgrimage under her protection, made it
a
part of her penal discipline.
~
The sinner was now
ordered a journey to the Holy Land as a means of
freeing his soul from the guilt of his perhaps manifold
enormities. Each year saw the number of the pil-
grims augment, while the growing veneration for
relics, of which those which came from the Holy
Land were esteemed the most eliicacious, stimulated
pilgrimage by adding the incentive of profit, as' a
small stock of money laid out in the purchase of the
generally counterfeit relics always on sale at Jerusa-
lem would produce perhaps a. thousand per cent. on
the return of the pilgrim to his native country. A
pilgrim was also held in respect and veneration
wherever he came, as an especial favourite of the
Divinity, having been admitted by him to the high
privilege of visiting the sacred places, a
portion of
whose sanctity it would be supposed might still
adhere to him.
The 11th century was the great season of pilgrim-
age. A strange misconception of the meaning of a
portion, of Scripture had led men to fancy that the
year 1000 was to be that of the advent of Christ, to
judge the world. As the valley of Jehoshaphat was
THE
TEMPLARS.
'
|75
believed to be the spot on which this awfixl event
would take place, the same feeling which leads people
at the present day to lay a flattering unction to their
souls by supposing that death-bed repentance will
prove equivalent in the sight of God to a life passed
in obedience to his will and in the exercise of virtue,
impelled numbers to journey to the Holy Land, in
the belief that this officiousness, as it were, of hitherto
negligent servants would be well taken by their Lord,
and procure them an
indulgent hearing before his
judgment-seat. Pilgrimage, therefore, increased
greatly; the failure of their expectations, the ap-
pointed time having passed away without the Son of
Man coming in the clouds of Heaven, gave it no
check, but, on the contrary, rather an additional
impulse; and during this century the caravans of pil-
grims attained to such magnitude and strength as to
be deserving of the appellation of The armies of the
Lord-precursive of_the first and greatest Crusade.
In truth the belief in the merit and even the obli-
gation of a
pilgrimage to Jerusalem, in the sight of
God, was now~as firmly impressed on the mind of
every Christian, be his rank what it might, as that of
the necessity and advantage of one to the Kaaba of
Mecca is in the apprehension of the followers of Mo-
hammed; and in the degraded state of the human
intellect at that period a pilgrimage was deemed
adequate to the removal of all sin. As a
proof of
this we shall narrate the pilgrimages of two distin-
guished personages of those times. The first occurred
in the 9th, the second in the llth century.
In the reign' of Lothaire, son of Louis the Debon-
naire, a nobleman of Brittany, named Frotmond, who
had murdered hisuncle and hisyoungestbrother, began
to feel remorse for his crimes. Arrayed in the habit
of a
penitent, he presented himselfbeibre the monarch
and anassembly of his prelates, and made confession
|76 SECRET SOCIETIES.
of his guilty deeds. The king and bishops had him
straitly bound in chains of iron, and then commanded
him, in expiation of his guilt, to set forth for the East,
and visit all the holy places, clad in hair-cloth, and
his forehead marked with ashes. Accompanied by
his servants and the partners of his crime, the Breton
lord directed his course to Palestine, which he reached
in safety. Having, in obedience to the mandates of
his sovereign and of the church, visited all the holy
places, he crossed the Arabian desert, which had been
the scene of the wanderings of Israel, and entered
Egypt. He thence traversed a
part of Africa, and
went as far as
Carthage, whence he sailed for Rome.
-Here the Pope, on being consulted, advised him to
make a second pilgrimage, in order to complete his
penance, and obtain the perfect remission of his sins.
Frotmond accordingly set forth once more, and
having performed the requisiteduties at the Holy
City, proceeded to the shore of the Red Sea, and
there took up his abode for three years on Mount
Sinai, after which time he made a
journey to Armenia,
and visited the mountain on which the ark of Noah
had rested. His crimes being now, according to the
ideas of those times, expiated, he returned to his
native country, where he was received as a saint, and
taking up his abode in the convent of Redon, passed
there the remainder of his days, and died deeply re-
gretted by his brethren.*
Fulk de Nerra, Count of Anjou, had spilt much
innocent blood ; he had had his first wife burnt alive,
and forced his second wife to seek refuge from his
barbarity in the Holy Land. The public odium pur-
sued hirn, and conscience asserting her rights pre#
sented to his disturbed imagination the forms of those
who had perished by him issuing from their tombs,
and reproaching him with his crimes. Anxious to
*
Michaud, Histoire des Croisades, I., p. 59.
TEE TEMPLARS¢ 177
escape from his invisible tormentors, the count put
on him the habit of a
pilgrim, and set forth for
Palestine. The tempests which he encountered in
the Syrian seas seemed to his guilty soul the instru-
ments of divine vengeance, and augmented the fer-
vour of his repentance. Having reached Jerusalem
in safety, he set heartily about the work of penance.
He traversed the streets of the Holy City with a
cord about his neck, and beaten with rods by his ser-
vants, while he repeated these words, Lord, have
mercy on a
faithless and perjured Christian, on zz
sinner wandering far from his home. During his
abode in Jerusalem he gave abundant alms, relieving
the wants of the pilgrims, and leaving numerous
monuments of his piety and munificence.
Deep as was the penitence of the Count of Anjou,
it did not stand in the way of the exercise of a little
pioiis fraud. By an
ingenious device he deceived
the impious malignity of the profane Saracens, who
would have made him detile the holy sepulchre; and
the chroniclers tell us that as he lay prostrate before
the sacred tomb he contrived to detach from it a.
precious stone, which he carried back with him to
the West. On his return to his duchy he built, at the
castle of Loches, a church after the model of that of
the Resurrection at Jemsalem, and here he every day
implored with tears the divine forgiveness. His
mind, however, could not yet rest; he was still
haunted by the same horrid images; and he once
more visited the Holy Land, and edified the faithful by
the austerity of his penance. Returning home by
the way of Italy, he delivered the supreme pontiff
from a formidable enemy who was
ravaging his terri-
tory, and the gratefhl pope conferred on him in return
the full absolution of all his sins. Fulk brought with
him to Anjou a
great quantity of relics, with which he
adorned the churches of Loches and Angers; and his
178 SECRET SOCIETIES.
chief occupation thenceforward was the building of
towns and monasteries, whence he acquired the name
of The Great Builder.
'
His people, who blessed
heaven hir his conversion; honoured and loved him;
the guilt of his sins had been removed by the means
which were then deemed of sovereign eflicacy; yet
still the monitor placed by God in the human breast,
and which in a noble mind no power can reduce to
perfect silence, did not rest; and the Holy Land be-
held, for the third time, the Count of Anjou watering
the sepulchre of Christ with his tears, and groaning
a.fresh over his transgressions. He quitted Jerusalem
for the last time, recommending his soul to the prayers
of the pious brethren whose office it was to receive
the pilgrims, and turned his face homewards. But
Anjou he was never more to behold; death surprised
him at Metz. His body was transferred to Loches,
and buried in his church of the Holy Sepulchre.
These instances may suffice to show what the
opinion of the efficacy and merit of pilgrimage to the
Holy Land was at the time of which we write. We
here find convincing proof thatin the minds of princes
and prelates, the highest and most enlightened order
of society, it was confidently believed to avail to
remove the guilt of crimes of the deepest die. And
let not any one
say that the clergy took advantage of
the ignorance of the people, and made it the instru-
ment of extending their own
power and influence;
for such an assertion would evince ignorance both of
human nature in general and of the temper and con-
duct of the Romish hierarchy at that, and we might
almost say at all periods of its existence. However
profligate the lives of many of the clergy may have
been, they never called in question the truth of the
dogmas of their religion. Even the great and daring
Gregory VII., in the midst of what appear to us his
arrogant and almost impious assumptions, never fora.
THE TEMPLAR3. |79
moment doubted ofthe course which he was
pursuing
being the right one, and agreeable to heaven. The
clergy, as well as the laity, were firmly persuaded ot'
the efficacy of pilgrimage, and in both the persuasion
was naturally stronger in proportion to the ignorance
of the believer. We accordingly End that vast num-
bers of all ranks, and both sexes, clergy as well as
laity, annually repaired to the tomb of Christ.
It remains to be explained what the principle was
which gave origin to the idea. of the right and justice
of recovering the Holy Land, which was now in the
hands of the fanatic Turks, instead of those of the
tolerant Saraoens. This cause was, as we have above
asserted, the feudal spirit, that is, the spirit of the
age, and not that emanation of it termed chivalry.
Religion, whatever its original nature and charac-
ter, will always take a
tinge from the manners and
temper of those who adopt it. Nothing can be more
illustrative of the truth of this observation than the
history of the Christian religion. Any one who
opens the Gospel, and reads it without preconception
or prejudice, cannot fail at once to recognise the
rational and fervent piety, the active benevolence,
the pure morality, the noble freedom from the tram-
mels of the world, joined with the zealous discharge
of all the social duties, which every page of it incul-
cates. Yet we find this religion in the East degene-
rating into abject grovelling superstition and meta-
physical quibbling, pursued with all the rancour of
the odium theologicumqwhile in the West it assumed
a tiery fanatic character, and deemed the sword an
instrument of conversion superior to reason and argu-
ment. This difference, apparently so
strange, arose
from the difference of the social state and political
institutions of the people of the East and of the West
at the time when they embraced Christianity.
The free spirit had long since tied from Greece
lB0 SECRET SOCIETIES.
when the first Christian missionaries preached the
faith among its people. But the temper of the Greek
was still lively, and his reasoning powers acute.
Moreover, he had still the same leaning towards a
sensible and material religion which has at all times
distinguished him, and the increasing despotism of
the empire depressed and enfeebled more and more
every day the martial spirit which he had _displayed
in the days of his freedom. No field remained for
his mental activity but that of philosophy and religion.
The former, which had long been his delight, he
had contrived to subtilize into an almost unintelli-
gible mysticism ; and in this form it speedily spread
its infection through his new faith, which was besides
further metamorphosed arid changed in character by
an infusion from the dualistic system of Persia.
Meantime the ascetic spirit which had come from
the East joined with the timidity engendered by the
pressure of despotism to make him~mistake the spirit
of the Gospel, and convert Christianity into acrouch~
ing cowardly superstition. When the emperor Nice-
phorus Phocas sought to infuse a martial and fanatic
spirit into his subjects, and to rouse them to vigorous
exertion against the Saracens, his bishops replied to
his exhortations by citing a canon of St. Basil, which
directed that he who had slain an enemy in battle
should abstain during three years from participation
in the holy sacraments. The priest ot` a little town
in Cilicia was
engaged one day in saying mass when
a band of Saracens burst in, and began to plunder
the town. Without waiting to take off his sacerdotal
vestments, he seized the hammer, which in the
churches of the East frequently serves the purpose of
abell, and, flying among the infidels, plied his weapon
to such effect that he forced them to a
precipitate
flight, and saved the town. What was the reward
of the gallant priest? He was censured by his dio-
'NIE TEMPLARS. 18|
cesan, iuterdicted the exercise of his ghostly func-
tions, and so ill-treated in other respects, that he
Hung off his robes and joined the Saracens, whose
more martial and energetic creed accorded better
with his manly sentiments. Whenthe pilgrims of
the first Cmsade began to arrive in such terrilic num-
bers at Constantinople, the Greek emperor and his
subjects _could hardly persuade themselves of the
possibility of religion being the actuating cause of
such a
portentous movement-so little did religion
and deeds of arms accord in their minds!
But with the nations of the West the case was
ditferent. In these the ruling portion. that which
gave tone to the whole, were of the Gothic and Ger-
manic races, whose hardy bands had dashed to pieces
the worn-out fabric of the Western empire. Wor~
shippers in their native forests of Thor and Odin,
and the other deities of Valhalla, who admitted none
but the valiant dead to share in the celestial pork and
mead which each day crowned the board in their lucid
abode, their manners, their sentiments, their whole
being was martial, and they infused this spirit into
the religion which they adopted from their Roman
subjects. In making this change in its tone they
derived aid from the Jewish portion of the sacred
volume, which has been in all ages abused, by men
ignorant of its character and original use, to purposes
of fanaticism and persecution; and the religion of
Christian Europe, from the fifth century downwards,
became of a martial and- conquering character. By
the sword Charlemagne converted the pagan Saxons;
his successors employed the sword against the heathen
Vends; and by fire and sword Olof Triggva-son spread
Christianity throughout the North. In former times
this mode of conversion had been in a great degree
foreign to the Western church; and persuasion had
ll
182 SECRET SOCIETIES.
been chieiiy employed in the dissemination of the
faith among the heathen nations.
The religion of the West we thus see was martial;
but this spirit alone would not have sufliced to produce
the Crusade which was to interest and appear as a duty
to all orders of men. Here the feudal principle came
into operation, and gave the requisite impulse.
In the 11th century the feudal system was com-
pletely developed in France and Germany, and the
modes of thinking, speaking, and acting derived from
it pervaded all the relations of life. From the top
to the bottom of society the mutual obligations of
lords and vassals were
recognised and acted upon,
and each vassal deemed it a most sacred duty to de-
fend by arms the honour and property of his superior
lo?d: There was also a kind of supreme temporal
chief of the Christian world acknowledged in the per-
son of the Emperor of Germany, who was viewed as
the successor of Charlemagne, and the representative
of the Roman emperors. The feudal ideas extended
even to the hierarchy, which now put forth such ex-
orbitant claims to supremacy over the temporal power.
The head of the church was an acknowledged vice-
gerent of Him who was
styled in scripture Lord of
all the kingdoms of the earth. Jesus Christ was,
therefore, the apex of the pyramid of feudal society ;
he was the great suzerain and lord paramount of all
princes and peoples, and all were equally under olr
ligation to defend his rights and honour. Such were
evidently the sentiments of the age.
It is hardly necessary to remind the reader that
the religion of the period wl1ich we treat of was of a
gross and material character, and that the passions
and infirmities of human nature were freely bestowed
on the glorified Son of God. He was deemed to
take a peculiar interest in the spot. of land where he
THE TEMPLARS; |83
'had sojourned when on earth, and more especiallyin
the tomb in which his body had been deposited, and
with grief and indignation to see them in the hands
of those who contemptuously derided his divinity, and
treated with insult and cruelty those of his faithful
vassals who underwent the toils and dangers of a.
distant journey to offer their homage at his tomb.
Nothing could, therefore, be more
grateful to his
feelings than to behold the sacred soil of Palestine
free from heathen pollution, and occupied and de-
fended by his faithful vassals, and- no true son of the
church could hesitate a moment to believe that it was
his bounden duty to arm himself in the cause of his
lord, and help to reinstate him in his heritage. Here,
then, without having recourse to the romantic prin-
ciple of chivalry, we have an
adequate solution of the
phenomenon of the first Crusade. Here we have a
motive calculated to operate on the minds of all
orders, equally effectual with men of piety, virtue, and
wealth, like Godfrey of Bouillon and Stephen of
Chartres, who looked for no
temporal advantages, as
with the meanest and most superstitious of the vassals
and serfs who might be supposed to have only sought
a
refuge from misery and oppression by assuming
the cross. We would not by any means be supposed
to deny that many other causes and motives were in
operation at the same time; but this we deem the
grand one. This was the motive which gave dignity
to and hallowed all others, and which alfected the
mind of every Crusader, be his rank or station in so-
ciety what it mightl
`
Pilgrimage then was esteemed a
duty, and a
power-
ful mean of removing guilt and appeasing the wrath
of the Almighty; the spirit of the age was martial,
and-its religion, tinged by the ancient system of the
North of Europe, was of the same character; the
feudal principle was in its vigour, and
extgnded
even
»
M
»
181 sncnm' socnrrms.
to the relations of man with the deity; the rude 'and
barbarous Turks had usurped the heritage, the very
crown-lands, as we
may say, of Jesus Christ, and in-
sulted his servants, whose duty it plainly was to
punish them, and free the tomb of their lord ;-the
natural result of such a state of circumstances and
opinion was the first Crusade.
ll?
'IKE TRMPLAR5.
`
185
CHAPTER II.
i
First Hospital at Jerusalem-Church of Santa Marin. da
Latina-Hospital of St. John-The Hospitallers-Origin of
the Templars-Their original Poverty-They acquire Con.
sideration-St. Bernard-His Character of the Templars
-The Order approved of and confirmed by the Council of
Troyes-Proofs ofthe Esteem in which they were held.
IN consequence of the resort of pilgrims and traders
from the West to Jerusalem it had been found neces-
sary to build there, with the consent of the Saracens,
hospitia, or places of entertainment for them during
their abode in the holy city. For they could not,
consistently with the religious animosity which pre-
vailed between them and the Moslems, seek the hos-
pitality of these last, and the Christians of the Greek
church who dvelt in the Holy City, besides that they
had no very friendly feeling towards their Catholic
brethren, were loth to admit them into their houses,
on account of the imprudent language and indecorous
acts in which they were too frequently in the habit of
indulging, and which were so
likely to compromise
their hosts with their Saracen lords. Accordingly
the monk Bernard, who visited Jerusalem in the year
870, found there, in the valley of Jehoshaphat, near
the church of the Holy Virgin, a
hospital consisting
of twelve mansions, for westem pilgrims, which was
in the possession of some gardens, vineyards, and
com-fields. lt had also a good collection of books,
the gift of Charlemagne. There was a market held
in front of it, which was much resorted to, and every
Iss -
sncmrr socnnns.
dealer paid two pieces of gold to the overseer for per-
mission to have a stand there.
In the 11th century, when the ardour of pilgrimage
was inflamed anew, there was a
hospital within the
walls of Jerusalem for the use of the Latin pilgrims,
which had been erected by Italian traders, chiefly of
Amalfi. Near this hospital, and within a stone's
cast of the church of the Holy Sepulchre, they erected,
with the permission of the Egyptian khalif, a church
dedicated to the Holy Virgin, which was usually called
Sta. Maria de Latina. In this hospital abode an
abbot and a
good number of monks, who were of the
Latin church, and followed the rule of St. Benedict.
They devoted themselves to the reception and enter-
tainment of pilgrims, and gave alms to those who
were poor, or had been rifled by robbers, to enable
them to pay the tax required by the Moslems for
permission to visit the holy places. When the num-
ber of the pilgrims became so great that the hospital
was incapable of receiving them all, the monks raised
another hospitium. close by their church, with achapel
dedicated to a canonized patriarch of Alexandria,
named St. John Eleiémon, or the Compassionate.
This new hospital had no income of its -own; the
monks and the pilgrims whom they received derived
their support from the bounty of the abbot of the
convent of the Holy Virgin, or from the alms of
pious Christians.
At the time when the army of the crusaders ap-
peared before the walls of Jerusalem the Hospital of
St. John was
presided over by Gerard, a native of
Provence, a man of great uprightness and of exem-
plary piety. His benevolence was of a
truly Christian
character, and far transcended that of his age in
general; for during the period of the siege he re-
lieved all who applied to him for succour, and not
merely did the schismatic Greek share _his bounty,
'
.' THE TEHPLARS. 181
even the unbelieving Moslem was not repelled when
he implored his aid. When the city was taken,
numbers of the wounded pilgrims were received, and
their wounds tended in the hospital of St. John, and
the pious Duke Godfrey, on visiting them some days
afterwards, heard nothing but the praises of the good
Gerard and his monks.
»
Emboldened by the universal favourwhich they
enjoyed, Gerard and his companions expressed their
wish to separate themselves from the monastery of
Sta. Maria de Latina, and pursue their works of
charity alone and independently. Their desiré met
no
opposition: they drew up a rule for themselves,
to which they made a vow of obedience in presence
of the patriarch, and assumed as their dress a black
mantle with a white cross on the breast. The humi-
lity of these Hospitallers was extreme; They styled
the poor and the sick their lords and themselves their
servants; to them they were liberal and compas-
sionate, to themselves rigid and austere. The finest
flour went to compose the food which they gave to
the sick and poor; what remained after they were
satisfied, mingled with clay, was the repast of the
monks.
As long as the brotherhood were poor they con-
tinued in obedience to the abbot of Sta. Maria de
Latina, and also paid tithes to the patriarch. But a
tide of wealth soon began to tiow in upon them.
Duke Godfrey, enamoured of their virtue, bestowed
on them his lordship of Montboire, in Brabant, with
all its appurtenances ; and his brother and successor,
Baldwin, gave them a share of all the booty taken
from the infidels. These examples were followed by
other Christian princes; so that within the space ot'
a
very few years the Hospital of St. John was in
possession of numerous manors both in the East and
in Europe, which were
placed under the manage-=
188 szcanr' socmrms.
ment of members of their society. The Hospitallers
now coveted a total remission of all the burdens to
which they were subject, and they found no
difficulty
in obtaining all that they desired. Pope Paschal II.,
in the year 1113, confirmed their rule, gave them
permission, on the death of Gerard, to elect their
own head, without the interference of any temporal
or
spiritual power whatever, freed them from the ob-
ligation of paying tithes to the patriarch, and con~
firmed all the donations made or to be made to them.
The brotherhood of the Hospital was now greatly
advanced in consideration, and reckoned among its
members many gallant knights, who laid aside their
arms, and devoted themselves tothe humble office of
ministering to the sick and needy.
The worthy Gerard died in the same year with
King Baldwin I. (1118), and Raymond Dupuy, a
knight of Dauphiné, who had become a brother of
the order, was unanimously elected tosucceed him in
his office. Raymond, who was a man of great vigour
and capacity, drew up a series of 'rules for the direc-
tion of the society, adapted to its present state of con-
sequence and extent. From these rules it appears
that the order of St. John admitted both the clergy
and the laity among its members, and that both were
alike bound to yield the most implicit obedience to
the commands of their superior. Whether Raymond
had any ulterior views is uncertain, but in, the regula-
tions which he made we cannot discern any traces of
She spirit which afterwards animated the order of St.
ohn.
Just, however, as
Raymond had completed his
regulations there sprang up a new society, with dif-
ferent maxims, whose example that of St. John found
itself afterwards obliged to adopt and follow. The
Holy Land was at that time in at very disturbed and
unquiet state; the Egyptian power pressed it on the
THE TEMPLARS. 189
south, the Turkish on the north and east; the Arab
tribes indulged in their usual predatory habits, and
infested it with hostile incursions; the Mussulman in-
habitants were still numerous; the Syrian Christians
were ill alfected towards the Latins, from whom they
frequently experienced the grossest ill-treatment;
the Latins were few and scattered. Hence the pil-
grim was exposed to numerous dangers; peril beset
him on his way from the port at which he landed to
the Holy City, and nev perils awaited him when he
visited the banks of the Jordan, or went to pluck his
branch of consecrated palm in the gardens ot' Jericho.
Many a
pilgrim had lost his life on these occasions.
Viewing these evils, nine valiant and pious knights
resolved to form themselves into an association which
should unite the characters of the monk and the
knight, by devoting themselves to a life of chastity
and piety at the tomb of the Saviour, and by employ-
ing their swords in the protection of the pilgrims on
their visits to the holy places. They selected as their
patroness the sweet Mother of God (La doce Mére
de Dieu), and their resolution, according so
perfectly
with the spirit of the Crusades, which combined piety
and valour, gained at once the warmrapprobation of
the king and the patriarch. In the presence of the
latter they took the three ordinary vows of chastity,
poverty, and obedience, and a fourth of fighting in-
cessantly in the cause of pilgrims and the Holy Land
against the heathen. They bound themselves to live
according to the rule of the canons of St. Augustine,
and elected as their first master Hugh de Payens.
The king, Baldwin II., assigned them a
portion of
his palace for their abode, and he and his barons
contributed to their support. As the palace stood
close by the church and convent of the '1`emple, the
abbot and canons gave them a street leading from it
to the palace, for keeping their magazines and equip-
u 5
l9Q SECRET SOCIETIES.
rnents in, and' hence they styled themselves the
Soldiery of the Temple (Militia Telnpli), and Tem-
plars. They attracted such immediate consideration,
owing in great part, no doubt, to the novelty of their
plan, that the very year after their establishment
(1120), Fulk, Count of Anjou, who was come on
pilgrimage to Jerusalem, joined their society as a
married brother, and on his return home annually
remitted them thirty pounds of silver in furtherance
of their pious objects, and the example of the Count
of Anjou was followed by several other princes and
nobles ofthe West.
The English historian, Brompton, who wrote in
the 12th century, asserts that the founders of the
order of the Temple had originally been members of
that of St. John. We know not what degree of
credit this may be entitled to*, but it is certain that
there had been as
yet nothing of a.
military character
in this last, and that its assumption of such a cha-
racter was an imitation of the society of the Temple;
for, urged by the praise which they saw lavished on
the Templars for their meritorious conduct, the Hos-
pitallers resolved to add the task of protecting to that
of tending and relieving pilgrims, and such of their
members as were knights resumed their arms, joyful
to employ them once more in the cause of God. The
amplitude of their revenues enabled them to take a
number ofknights and footmen into their pay-a prac-
tice in which they had probably been preceded by the
Templars, who thus employed the money which was
remitted to them from Europe. But during the life-
time of Raymond Dupuy the 'order of the Hospital
did not become completely a. military one; he always
"'
The other writers of that century agree in the account
given above. `Brompton's authority has been preferred by
some modern writers, who probably wished to pay their court
to the order ot' Malta. y
'
_ THE TEMPLARS. 1912
bore the simple title of director (procurator) of the
Hospital, and it was not till some time afterwards that
the head of the society was, like that of the Templars,
styled master, and led its troops to battle. At all
times the tendence of the poor and the sick formed a
part ofthe duties of the brethren of the Hospital, and
this was always a marked distinction between them
and the rival order of the Temple, whose only task
was that of fighting against the infidels.
During the first nine years which elapsed after the
institution of their order the knights of the Temple
lived in poverty, religiously devoting all the money
which was sent to them from Europe to the advantage
of the Holy Land, and the service of pilgrims. They
had no peculiar habit, their raiment was such as the
_
,E-5° 'SV@ .
"r *Ni
"
Bi n')""'¥~
A we
W
0
'W
," ,
Q
e=i 3
'"l<°f ®/ °
_o _ / /ur,
192 SECRET SOCIETIES.
charity of the faithfhl bestowed upon them; and.
though knights, and engaged in constant warfare
against the infidels, their poverty and .moderation
were such that Hugh des Payens and his companion,
Godfrey, of St. Omer, had but one war-horse between
them-a circumstance which they afterwards, in their
brilliant period, commemorated by their seal, which
represented two knights mounted on the one horse,
a device chosenwith a view to inculcating humility
on the brethren, now beginning to wax haughty and
insolent.
A chief cause of the extraordinary success of the
first Crusaders had been the want of union among
their enemies. The Saracens and Turks mutually
hated each other, and would not combine for a com-
mon
object. and the 'I'urks were, moreover, at enmity
among themselves, and one prince frequently allied
himself with the Christians against another. But
they were now beginning to perceive the necessity of
union, and were becoming every day more formidable
to their Christian neighbours. King Baldwin Il.,
who had been a
prisoner in their hands, made every
effort when he had obtained his freedom to strengthen
his kingdom, and, among other means for this pur-
pose, he resolved to gain for the Templars, whose
valour, humility, and single-mindedness were the
theme of general applause, additional consideration,
by obtaining from the Holy Father the confirmation
of their order. With this view he despatched, in the
year 1 127, two of their members, named Andreas and
Gundemar,to Rome,with this 'equest to the Pope,to
whom they were also to make a
strong representa-
tion ofthe perilous state of the Holy Land. The
king, moreover, furnished them with a letter of re-
commendation to St. Bernard, Abbot of Clairvaux,
whose influence was then all-powerful in the Christian
world, and who was nephew of the envoy Andreas.
THE TEMPLARS. 193
Shortly afterwards Hugh de Payens himself arrived
in Europe with five others of the brethren.
V
Nothing could be more advantageous to the new
order than the favour and countenance of the illus-
trious Abbot of Clairvaux, who had been for some
time past an admirer of its objects and deeds. Three
years before this time he had written a letter to the
Count of Champagne, who had entered the order of
the Templars, praising the act as one of eminent
merit in the sight of God. He now, on occasion of
the visit of the Master *, wrote, at his request, an
eloquent work, exhorting the brethren of the new
order to persevere in their toilsome but highly laud-
able task of fighting against the tyranny of the
heathens, and commending their piety to the atten-
tion of all the faithful, setting in strong opposition to
the luxury of the knights of his time the modesty and
simplicity of these holy warriors. He extolled the
unlimited obedience of the _Templars to their Master,
both at home and in the field. "
They go and come,"
says he, "at a sign from their Master; they wear the
clothing which he gives them, and ask neither food
nor clothing from any one else; they live cheerfully
and temperately together, without wives and chil-
dren, and,°that nothing may be wanting for evan-
gelical perfection, without property, in one house,
endeavouring to preserve the unity of the spirit in
the bond of peace, soethat one heart and one soul
would appear to dwell in them all. They never sit
idle, or
go about gaping after news. When they are
resting from ,warfare against the infidels, a
thing
which rarely occurs, not to eat the bread of idleness,
they employ themselves in repairing their clothes and
arms, or do something which the command of the
Master or the common need enjoins. There is with
*
Wilken [_ 28, gives 1135 as the year in which this piece
was written.
194 BEUBIT SOCIETIES.
them no respect of persons; the best, not the noblest,
are the most highly regarded; they endeavour to an-
ticipate one another in respect and to lighten each
other's burdens. No unseemly word or light mock-
ing, no murmur or immoderate laughter, is let to pass
unreproved, if any one should allow himself to in-
dulge in such. They avoid games of chess and
tables; they are adverse to the chase, and equally so
to hawking, in which others so much delight. They
hate all jugglers and mountebanks, all wanton songs
and plays, as vanities and follies of this world. They
cut their hair in obedience to these words ofthe apostle,
'it is not seemly in a man to have long hair ;' no
one ever sees them dressed out; they are seldom ever
washed; they are mostly to be seen with disordered
hair, and covered with dust, brown from their corslets
and the heat of the sun. When they go forth to war
they arm themselves within with faith, without with
iron, but never adorn themselves with gold, wishing
to excite fear in the enemy, and not the desire of
booty. They delight in horses which are
strong and
swift, not in such as are handsomely marked and
richly caparisoned, wishing to inspire terror rather
than admiration. They go .not impetuously and head-
long into battle, but with care and foresight, peacefully,
as the true children of Israel. But as soon as the tight
has begun, then they rush without delay on the foes,
esteeming them but as sheep; and know no fear, even
though they should be few, relying on the aid of the
Lord of Sabaoth. Hence one of them has often put
a thousand, and two of them ten thousand, to flight.
Thus they are, in union strange, at the same time
gentler than lambs and grimmer than lions, so that
one may doubt whether to call them monks or
knights.
But both names suit them, for theirs is the mildness
Of the monk and the valour of the knight. What
remains to be said but that this is the Lorgfs doing,
THB TEMPLABS. 195
and it is 'wonderfhl in our eyes? Such are they
whom God has chosen out of the bravest in Israel,
that, watchful and true, they may guard the holy sepul-
chre, armed with swords, and well skilled in war."
Though in these expressions of St. Bernard there
may be perceived some marks of rhetorical exaggera-
tion, they prove incontestibly the high character and
sincere virtue of the founders of the society of the
Templars, and that it was
organized and regulated
with none but worthy objects in view. They also
offer, if such were required, an additional proof that
the crusade was no emanation of chivalry; for those
to whom St. Bernard throughout sets the Templars
in opposition were the chivalry of the age.
This epistle of the Abbot of Clairvaux had been
circulated,
~
and every other just and honest mean
employed to conciliate the public favour for the Tem-
plars, when, on the 31st January, 1128, the Master,
Hugh de Payens, appeared before the council of
Troyes, consisting of the Archbishops of Rheims and
Sens, ten bishops, and a number of abbots, among
whom was St. Bernard himself, and presided over by
the Cardinal of Albano, the papal legate. '1`he Master
having given an account of the principles and ex-
ploits ofthe Templars, the assembled fathers approved
of the new order, and gave them sn, new rule, contain-
ing their own
previous regulations, with several
additions drawn from that of the Benedictines, and
chiefly relating to spiritual matters. The validity of
this rule was made to depend on the approbation of
it by the Holy Father and by the Patriarch of Jeru-
salem, neither of whom hesitated to confirm it. By
the direction of the Pope Honorius,,the synod ap-
pointed a white mantle to be the distinguishing dress
of the brethren of the Temple, that of those of the
Hospital being black. This mantle was
plain, with-
out any cross, and such it remained till the ponl.iti<
196 SECRET SOCIETIES.
cate of Pope Eugenius III., who, in 1146, appointed
the Templars to wear a red cross on the breast, as a
symbol of the martyrdom to which they stood con-
stantly exposed: the cross worn on their black man-
tles, by the knights of St. John, was, as we have seen*,
white. The order now assumed, or were assigned, a
peculiar banner, formed of cloth, striped black and
white, called in old French, Bauseantf, which word
became the battle-cry of the knights of the Temple,
and often struck terror into the hearts of the infidels.
It bore on it the ruddy cross of the order, and the
pious and humble inscription, Non nobia, Dqmine,
non nobis, sed nomini tuo, da glofriam, (Not to us,
O Lord, not to us, but to thy name give the glory !)
Several knights now assumed the habit of the
order, and in a progress which Hugh de Payens,
accompanied by some of the brethren, made through
France and England, he acquired for it universal
favour. He did not neglect the charge, committed to
him by the king of Jerusalem, of invoking aid for
the Holy Land, now so hard bested, and his ex-
hortations were not without effect. Fulk, Count of
*
See p. 187. Sir W. Scott describes his Templar in Ivanhoe,
as
wearing a. white mantle with a black cross of eight points.
The original cross ot' the Hospitallers, we
may observe, had
not eight points. That ofthe order ot' Malta was of this funn.
1- Bauseanl, or Bausant, was, in old French, a
piehald horse,
or a horse marked white and black. Ducange, Roquefoit. The
word is still preserved with its original meaning in the Scotch
dialect, in the form Bawsent:
"
His honest, sonsie, baws'nt face
Aye gat him friends in ilka place,"
says Bums, describing the "ploughman's collie," in his tale
of the "
Twa Dogs ;" and in the Glossary, Dr. Currie explains
Bawa'nt as
meaning
"
having a white stripe down the face."
As, however, some notion of handsomeness or attractiveness of
appearance seems to be involved in the epithet, Iiauseanl, or
Beauséant, may possibly be merely an older form of the present
French word, Bienséant.
-
1
THE TEMPLARS. 197
Anjou, now rejoined his Master and brethren; but as
he had gotten an invitation to repair to Jerusalem,
and espouse the only daughter of the King, he set out
before them to the East. f
Hugh de Payens would admit no knight into the
order who did not terminate all his feuds and enmi-
ties, and amend his life. Thus, when a knight, named
Hugh d'Amboise, who had oppressed the people of
Llarmoutier, and had refused obedience to the judi-
cial sentence of the Count of Anjou, was desirous to
enter the order, he refused to admit him to take the
vows till he had given perfect satisfaction tothose
whom he had injured.
Honour and respect awaited the Templars wher-
ever they appeared, and persons of all ranks were
eager to do what might be grateful to them. When
the Templar who came with the seal of Godfrey of
St. Omer, as his credential to the governor of that
place, to demand his goods which Godfrey had given
the order, he met with a most favourable reception,
not only from the governor, but from the bishop; and
on their applying, as was necessary in this case, to
the Count of Flanders and Alsatia, that prince was so
far from throwing any impediments in the way, that,
in a
very short space of time, the buildings which had
belonged to Godfrey were converted into a church
and a temple-house. Many Flemish gentlemen fol-
lowed the example of Godfrey, and bestowed a
part
of their property on the Templars. King Henry I.
of England, who met and conversed with Hugh de
Payens in Normandy, was so pleased with his account
of the new order, that he presented him with many
rich gifts, and gave him strong recommendations to
the principal of the English barons. The Emperor
Lothaire bestowed in 1130 on the order a
large part
of his patrimony of Supplinburg. The old Count
Raymond Berenger, of Barcelona and Provence,
weary of the world and of the toils of government,
198 SEG!!! IOGIBTIIS.
became a
Templar, and took up his abode inthe
temple-house at Barcelona; and, as he could not go
personally to combat the infidels in the Holy Land,
he continually sent rich gifts to the brethren at Jem-
salem, and he complied rigorously wlth all the other
duties of the order. In 1133 Alfonso, king of
Arragon and Navarre, a valiant and warlike monarch,
who had been victor in nine and twenty battles against
the Moors, finding himself old and without children,
made a will, by which he appointed the knights of
the Temple and of the Hospital, together with the
canons of the Holy Sepulchre, to be his joint-heirs,
deeming, perhaps, that the most gallant defenders of
the Holy Land would best prosecute his favourite
object of breaking the power of the infidels. The
aged monarch fell the following year in the battle of
Fraga, against the Moors; and, negligent of his
disposition of the realm, the nobles of Arragon and
Navarre met and chose sovereigns out of his family.
The orders were not strong enough to assert their
rights; and this instance, therefore, only serves to
show the high degree of consideration to which they
had so early attained.
Ii *sw
x
-'¢s"F§;'
'
i
v'
Q ,,. . 53
1/ .A V
W
I » _
k /f
I
S
K
v
vi
'
"> §
þÿf ¬:s;`:=e
,
S¢aloftheTemplu-af -
_
_ THE TBKPLARB. 199
_ A
Cnavrsn III.
Return of the Templars to the East-Exoneration and Refu-
tntion of the Charge of a Connection with the lsmailites-
Actions of the Templars-Crusade of Louis VII.-Siege of
Ascalon--Sale of Nassir-ed-deen-Corruption ot' the Hos-
pitallers-The bull, Omne Dalum Oplimum-Refusal of the
Templars to march against Egypt-Murder of the Isrnailite
Envoy.
'
'
IN the year 1129 Hugh de Payens, accompanied
by 300 knights of the noblest families in Europe,
who had become members of the order, and followed
by a
large train of pilgrims, returned to the Holy
Land. Shortly after his arrival, the unlucky expe-
dition to Damascus above nan'ated*, was undertaken,
and the Templars formed a
portion of the troops
which marched, as they fancied, to take possession of
that city. As has been observed, this is the first
occasion on which we find the Christians in alli-
ance and connection with the Ismailites; and as
Hammer, the historian of the last, makes the grave
charge against Hugh de Payens, of having modelled
his new society on the plan of that deadly associa-
tion, and of having been the chief planner and insti-
gator of the treacherous attempt on Damascus, we
will suspend the course of our narration, to discuss
the probability of that opinion, though in so doing
we must anticipate a little respecting the organisation
of the Order of the Temple.
_Hammer argues an
identity between the two
_ #s¢¢p.ss.
200
'
SECRET SOCIETIES.
orders, as he styles them, of the Ismailites and the
Templars, from the similarity of their dress, their in-
ternal organisation, and their secret doctrine; and
as the two societies existed in the same country, and
that of the Ismailites was first instituted, he infers
that this was the original, and that of the Templars
the copy.
First, with respect to the outward habiliment, the
dress of the order. Nothing, as
appears to us, can-
be weaker than to lay any stress on so casual a cir-
cumstance as similarity of forms or colours, more
especially when a true and distinct cause for the
assumption of them on either side can be assigned.
The colour of the khalifs of the house of Ommiyah
was white; hence the house of Abbas, in their contest
with them, adopted black, as their distinguishing hue;
and hence, when the Abbasides were in possession
of the supreme power, all those who, under pretence
of supporting the rights of the family of Ali, or on
any
other pretext, raised the standard of revolt against
them, naturally selected white, as the sign of their
opposition. Hassan Sabah, therefore, only retained the
use of the colour which he found already established.
When he ibrmed the institution of the Fedavee, or
the Devoted to Death, what more suitable mark of
distinction could he assign them than a red girdle or
cap, which indicated their readiness to spill their own
blood or that of others? With respect to the Tem-
plars, the society of' the Hospitallers was already
existing when Hugh de Payeus and his companions
resolved to form themselves into a new association.
The mantle worn
by the members of the Hospital
was black: what colour then was so natural for them
to adopt as its opposite, white? and when, nearly
thirty years after their institution, the pope appointed
them or gave them permission to wear a cross on
their mantle, like the rival order, no colour could
"qv"
THE TEMPLARS. 201
present itself so well suited tothose who daily and
hourly exposed themselves to martyrdom, as that of
blood, in which there was so much of what was
symbolical.
With respect to internal organisation, it will, we
apprehend, be always found that this is, for the most
part, the growth of time and the product of circum-
stances, and is always nearly the same where these
last are similar. The dominion of the Assassins ex-
tended over
large tracks of country; hence arose the
necessity of appointing lieutenants. In like manner,
when the Templars got large possessions in the West
and the East, they could not avoid, after the example
ofthe Hospitallers, appointing persons to manage
the affairs of the society in diiferent countries.
Hence, then, as the Ismailites had their Sheikh-al-
Jebal, with his Dais-al-Kebir of Kuhistan and Syria,
so the Templars had their Master and their Priors of
different provinces. The resemblance is so far exact,
but, as we see, easily accounted for. That which
Hammer goes on to draw between the component
parts of each society is altogether fanciful. To the
Refeek, Fedavee and Lazik of the I smailites, he sets
as
counterparts the knights, esquires, and serving-
brethren of the Templars. It is needless to point
out the arbitrariness of this comparison. The chap-
lains of the Templars, we
may see, are omitted, and
it was, perhaps, they who bore the greatest resem-
blance to the Refeeks, while neither knights nor.
esquires had the smallest similarity to the Fedavee.
As to a secret doctrine, we shall hereafter `discuss
the question whether the Templars had one or
not. Here we shall only observe, that the proof
of it, and of the ultimate object of the Templars
being the same with that of the Ismailites, namely,
the acquisition of independent power, adduced by
Hammer, is by no means satisthctory. He says
202 SECRET SOCIETIES.
that it was the object of both societies to make
themselves masters of the surrounding country, by
the possession of fortresses and castles, and thus be-
come formidable rivals to princes; and he sees, in the
preceptories or houses of the Templars, the copies of
the hill-forts of the Ismailites. That such was the
design of this last society is quite apparent from the
preceding part of our work; but what resemblance is
there between such formidable places of defence as
Alamoot and Lamseer, and the simple structures in
which a few knights and their attendants dwelt in the
different parts of Europe, and which were hardly, if
at all, stronger than the ordinary baronial residences?
and what resistance could the Temple of London
or that of Paris oi'l`er to the royal strength, if put
forth ? Hammer has here again fallen into his usual
error of arguing too hastily from accidental resem.
blances. The preceptories 'of the Templars were, as
we shall show, the necessary consequence of the
acquisition of property by the order, and had nothing
hostile to society in their nature.
When we reflect on the character of the first cru-
saders, and particularly on that of the first Templars,
and call to mind their piety, ignorance, and simplicity,
nothing can appear more absurd than _to ascribe to
them secret philosophical doctrines of impiety, im-
bibed from those whose language they did not even
understand, and whose religion and manners they
held in abhorrence, and to suppose that the tirst poor
knights of the Temple could have had visions of the
future power of their order, and have looked forward
to its dominion over the Christian world. "
But this
is a common mistake with ingenious men, who are for
ever ascribing to the founders of empires, religions,
and societies, that attribute of divinity which sees from
the beginning the ultimate end, and forms all its plans
and projects with a view to it. It is thus that some
-
THE TEMPLARS. 203
would fain persuade us that Mahommed, in his soli-
tary cave at Mecca, saw
clearly and distinctly the
future triumphs of Islam, and its banners floating at
the Pyrenees and the Oxus; that Cromwell, when
an obscure individual, already in fancy grasped the
sceptre of England; and that Loyola beheld the
members of his order governing the consciences of
kings, and ruling an
empire in Paraguay. All such
results are in fact the slow and gradual growth of
time; one step leads to another, till the individual or
the society looks back with amazement to the feeble
commencement."
The Templars and the Ismailites are mentioned
together by history in only one more relation, that is,
on occasion of the tribute paid to the former by the
Syrian branch of the latter, and the murder of the
Ismailite ambassador above related*. As this act
was very probably committed by order of the Master
of the Temple, who, it might be, doubted the ability
or the future inclination of the king to pay the 3000
byzants a
year, it testiiies but little tbr any very
friendly feeling between the Templars and the Ismail-
ites. Yet Hammer opines that the 3000 byzants
were paid, not as the tribute of the weaker to the
stronger, but by way of pension for the secret services
which the Templars were in the habit of rendering
their cause; such, for example, as refusing on one
occasion to join in the expedition against the khalif
of Egypt, the great head of the society of the
Assassins.
To narrate the various exploits of the knights of
the Temple, would be to write the history of the Cru-
sades; for, from the time that the order acquired
strength and consistency, no action with the Infidels
ever was fought in which the chivalry of the Temple
~
#
Page 116.
204 SECRET SOCIBTIIS.
did not bear a
distinguished part. Their war-cry was
ever heard in the thickest of the fray, and rarely was
Bauseant seen to waver or give back in the conflict.
The knights of St. John fought with emulative va-
lour; the example of the rival orders stimulated all
parts of the Christian army; and to this influence
may be, in great measure, ascribed many of the most
wonderful triumphs of the Cross during the twelfth
century.
In the year 1147, when Pope Eugenius III. came
to Paris to arrange the proposed crusade with Louis
VII., both the pope and the king honoured with their
presence a
general chapter of the order of the Tem-
ple, which was holden at that place. It was probably
on this occasion that the supreme pontiff conferred
on the order the important privilege `of having mass
said once a year in places lying under interdict. The
newly-elected Master of the 'I`emple, Eberhard de
Bar, and 130 knights, accompanied the king on his
march for the Holy Land; and their valour and their
skill greatly contributed towards the preservation of
the crusading army in their unfortunate march through
Lesser Asia. The siege of Damascus, which was
undertaken after the arrival of the French and Ger-
man kings inthe Holy Land, miscarried, as is well
known, through treachery. The traitors were doubt-
less the Pullani, as the Latins of Syria were called,
who were at this time capable of every thing that is
bad. Some writers most unjustly charge the Tem-
plars with this guilt; but those who are the best
informed on the subject make no accusation against
them. The charge, however, while it shows the
power and consideration of the Templars at that
time, may be considered to prove also that they had
degenerated somewhat from their original virtue;
for otherwise it could never have been made.
The Christian army laid siege in 1153 to the town
THE TEMPLARS. 205
of Ascalon, which the Saracens still held, and would
have taken it, but for the cupidity of the Templars.
A large heap of wood had been piled by the besiegers
against a
part of the wall, and set fire to. The wind
blew strong towards the town during an entire night,
carrying the smoke and heat into the town, so that
the garrison was forced to retire from that quarter.
The Christians fed the flames with pitch, oil, and
other inflammable substances, and the wall next the
pile, cracked by the heat, fell down, leaving a consid-
erable breach. The army was preparing to enter at
this opening when Bernard de Tremelai, the Master
of the Temple, taking his station at it with his knights,
refused all ingress. It was the law of war in those days,
among the crusaders, that whatever house or spoil
any one took when a town was stormed, became his
property. The Templars, therefore, were eager to
have the iirst choice; and having kept off all others,
Tremelai, with forty of his knights, boldly entered a
strongly-garrisoned town. But they paid the penalty
of their rashness and cupidity; for the garrison snr-
rounded and slew them all, and then closed up the
breach.
One of the most disgraceful acts which stain the
annals of the Templars occurred in the year 1155,
when Bertrand de Blancford, whom William of Tyre
calls a
"
pious and God-fearing man," was Master
of the order. In a contest for the supreme power
in Egypt, which the viziers, bearing the proud
title of Sultan, exercised under the phantom-khalifs,
Sultan Abbas, who had put to death the khalif his
master, found himself obliged to ily from before the
vengeance of the incensed people. With his harem,
and his own and a
great part of the royal treasures,
he took his way through the Desert. A body of
Christians, chieiiy Templars, lay in wait for the
ihgitives near Ascalon; the resistance offered by the
N
206 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Moslems was
slight and ineffectual ; Abbas himself
was either slain or lied, and' his son Nassir-ed-deen
and the treasures became the prize of the victors.
The far larger part of the booty of co1u'se fell to the
Templars; but this did not satisfy their avarice; and
though Nassir-ed-deen had professed his desire to
become a Christian, and had begun, by way of pre-
paration for that change, to learn the Latin lan-
guage, they sold him to his father's enemies for
60,000 pieces of gold, and stood by to see him
bound hand and foot, and placed in a sort of cage or
iron-latticed sedan, on a camel, to be conducted to
Egypt, where a death by protracted torture awaited
him.
The Hospitallers were at this time become as cor-
rupt as the Templars; and in this same year, when
the patriarch demanded from them the tithes which
they were bound to pay him, they treated the demand
with scorn; raised, to show their superior wealth,
stately and lofty buildings, before the humble church
of the Holy Sepulchre; and whenever the patriarch
entered it to exhort the people, or pronounce the abso-
lution of sins, they rang, by order of their Master, the
bells of the Hospital so loud, that, with the utmost
efforts, he could not succeed in making himself
heard. One day, when the congregation was assem-
bled in the church, the Hospitallers rushed into it in
arms, and shot arrows
among' them as if they were
robbers or infidels. These arrows were collected and
hung up on Mount Calvary, where Christ had been
cmcit-ied, to the scandal of these recreant knights.
On applying to the Pope Adrian IV. for redress, the
Syrian clergy found him and his cardinals so prepos-
sessed in favour oftheir enemies,-bribed by them, as
was said,-that they had no chance of relieti The
insolenée of the Hospitallers became in consequence
greater than ever. _
_ TBI TBHRLAR8. 201
In fact, as an extremely judicious writer' observes,
raliantly as the knights of the spiritual orders fought
against the heathens, and great as was their un-
doubted merit in the defence of the helpless pilgrims,
it cannot be denied that these knights were, if not the
original promoters, at least active participators in all
the misehiefs which prevailed in the Holy Land, and
that they were often led to a shameful dereliction of
their duties, by avarice and thirst after booty.
The year 1162 is conspicuous in the annals of the
Templars, as the date of the bull Omne Datum Op-
timum, the Magna Charta of the order, and the
great key-stone of their power. On the death of
Adrian IV. two rival popes were elected,-Alexander
III. by the Sicilian,-Victor III. by the Imperial
party. The Templars at first acknowledged the latter;
but at a synod, held at Nazareth, in 1161, they took
the side of his rival. Alexander, who came off victor,
was not ungrateful ; and on the 7th January, of the folf
lowing year, the aforesaid bull was issued. By this
document, which would almost appear to be the dicta-
tion of the order, the Ternplars were released from all
spiritual obedience except tothe Holy See; they were
allowed to have peculiar burial-grounds at their houses,
and to have chaplains of their own; they were freed
from the obligation to pay tithes, and could, with the
consent of the bishop, receive them. It was also pro-
hibited to any one who had once entered the order,
to leave it, unless it were to enter into a stricter one.
These great privileges necessarily awakened the envy
and enmity of the clergy against the Templars and
the Hospitallers, which last were equally favoured by
the pontiffs; but these artful prelates, who were now
aiming at universal power, knew well the advantage
which they might derive from attaching firmly to them
A
'
Wilken Gslchichte der Krenzziige, Vol. iii. pt. ii. p. 39.
208 SECRIT SOCIETIES.
i
these associations, which united the valour of the
knight to the obedience of the monk, whose members
were of the noblest families in Europe, and whose
possessions were extensive and spread over all parts
of the Christian world.
In 1167 occurred one of the few instances of oow~
ardice, or rather, we might say, treachery, which the
annals of the Templars present. Almeric, king of
Jerusalem, had committed to the Templars the charge
of guarding one of those strong fortified caverns
which were on the other side of the Jordan. Here
they were besieged by the Turks, and, though the
king was hastening to their relief, they capitulated.
Almeric, incensed at their conduct, though he was a
great friend of the order, and particularly of the
Master, Philip of Naploos, instantly had twelve of the
cowardly or treacherous knights hanged, and he expe-
rienced no opposition whatever on the part of the
order. Philip, we may observe, was the first Master
of the Temple who was a bom Syrian; but he appears
to have been a man of fair and honourable character.
He was lord of the fortresses of Krak and Montreal
in the Stony Arabia, which he had obtained with his
wife. It was not till after her death that he became
a.
Templar. Alter holding the dignity of Master for
three years he resigned it. The cause of his resigna-
tion is unknown; but he was highly honoured and
respected during the remainder of his life, and was
employed on various important occasions.
It was
during the mastership of Philip of Naploos,
that King Almeric, at the instigation of the Master of
the Hospital, and in_ violation of a solemn treaty,
undertook an
unprosperous expedition into Egypt.
The Templars loudly protested against this act of
perfidy, and refused to take, any share in the war,
either, as William, the honest Archbishop of Tyre,
observes, "
because it was against their conscience, or
THE TBMPLARS. 209
because the Master of the rival order was the author
and projector of it." The prelate seems to regard
the more honourable as the true cause. Perhaps we
should express ourselves correctly if we said that in
this, as in many other cases, duty and prejudice hap-
pily combined, and the path which was the most
agreeable was also the most honourable.
In the mastership of Ado of St. Amando, the suc-
cessor of Philip of Naploos, occurred the treacherous
murder of the Ismailite envoy above narrated *-an
act which brought the Templars into great disrepute
with pious Christians, as it was quite manifest that
they preferred money to winning souls to Christ.
*
Page ll6.
N3
210 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Canran IV.
Heroism of the Templars and Hospitallers-Battle of Hittiu
-Crusade of Richard of England and Philip of France-»
Corruption of the Order-Pope Innocent III. writes a Let-
ter of Censure-Frederic ll.-Great Slaughter of the Tem-
plars-Henry Ill. of England and the Templars-Power of
the Templars in Moravia-Slaughter of them by the Hos-
pitallers-Fall of Acre.
Tun' fall of the Christian power in the East was
now fast approaching, and it was not a little hastened
by the enmity of the rival orders. The truth of the
old sentence, that the Deity deprives of sense those
whom he will destroy, was manifested on this as on
so many other similar occasions; and while the great
and able Saladin was consolidating his power and
preparing for the accomplishment of the object which,
as a true Moslem, lay nearest his heart, the recovery
of the Holy City, discord, enmity, and animosity,
prevailed among those who should have been actuated
by one soul and by one spirit.
Yet the two orders of religious chivalry had not
derogated from their original valour, and the last
days of Jerusalem were illumined by some noble
feats cf prowess. on the lst of May, 1187, when
Malek-el-Afdal, the son of Saladin, was
returning
from an
expedition into the Holy Land, which he had
undertaken with the consent of the Count of Tripolis,
regent of' the kingdom, the Masters of the Temple
and of the Hospital, having collected about 140
knights and 500 footmen, met the Moslems, who were
THE TEMPLARS. 211
7,000 in number, at the celebrated brook Kishon.
They immediately charged them with the utmost im-
petuosity; the Turks, according to custom, turned
and fied ; the Christian knights pursued, leaving their
infantry unprotected. Suddenly a
large body of the
Turks emerged from a. valley, and fell on
andslaugh-
tered the footmcn. Their cries brought back the
knights to their aid, but. impeded by the narrowness
of the ground, they could neither laytheir lances in
rest nor run their horses against the enemy, and all
fell beneath the weapons of the Turks, with the ex-
ception of the Master of the Temple and three of
his knights, who were saved by the Heetness of their
horses. The Master of the Hospital was
among the
slain. In this unfortunate iight, James De Mailly,
the marshal of the Templars, and a
Hospitaller,
named Henry, especially distinguished themselves.
After all their brave companions had been slain
around them, they still maintained the conflict; the
Turks, filled with admiration of their valour, repeat-
edly otfered them quarter, but in vain ; and they fell
at last, overwhelmed with darts Hung from a distance,
no one venturing to approach them. The historian,
Vinisauf, tells us that De Mailly was mounted on a.
white horse, which, joined with his relucent arms and
white mantle, made him appear to the infidels to be
St. George, and they exulted greatly in having slain
the tutelar saint of the Christians. He adds, what
is not an unlikely circumstance, that the Turks covered
his body with dust, which they afterwards powdered
on their heads, thinking thereby to acquire some por-
tion of his valour.
At the fatal battle of Hittin, where 30,000 Chris-
tians lost their lives, where the king and all his
princes became captives, and where the Latin power
in the East was broken lor _ever, the Master of the
Temple, Gerard of Ridefort, and several of his
212 ssoarrr socnrrms.
knights and those of the Hospital, were among the
captives. Saladin, who bore a
particular hatred to
the spiritual knights, would spare them on no condi-
tion but that of their renouncing their faith. To a
man they gallantly refused; and, with the exception
of the Master, the heads of all were struck olll Many
who belonged not to the orders, smit with desire for
the glory of martyrdom, cast the mantles of Templars
around them, and went cheerfully to death as such.
One Templar, named Nicolaus, evinced such joy and
impatience for this glorious Fate, that, according to
the ideas of those times, heaven was believed to tes-
tify its approbation by a visible sign, and during
three nights a celestial light illumined the unburied
corpse of the Christian martyr.
It was indeed rare tor a
Templar to renounce his
faith: prejudice, or honour. we may style it, or a
better principle, always kept him steady in it, what-
ever the irregularities of his life might be. We
recollect but one instance of a brother of the Tem-
ple abjuring his faith, and hc was unhappily an
English knight, named Robert of St. Albans. From
some
unassigned cause, he flung away the dress of
his order, broke his vows, went over to Salaldin, and
became a Musselman. The sultan gave him one
of his female relatives in marriage, and the recreant
knight appeared before Jerusalemn at the head of an
army of the infidels. He had promised to Saladin
to reduce the Holy City; but her hour was not yet
come; and after wasting all the country from Mont-
royal to Jericho with fire and sword, he was forced
to retreat before the chivalry of Jerusalem, who came
forth with the holy cross, and gave him a
signal de-
feat. This event occurred in the year 1184 _; and the
apostacy of this Templar caused extreme dismay
among the Christians, and excited great ill-will
against the order in general. _
THE TEMPLARS. 213
It had hitherto been the maxim of the order, not
to redeem any of their members out of captivity with
any higher ransom than a
girdle, or aknife, or some
other insignificant matter, acting in this on the same
principle with the old Romans, who never redeemed
prisoners. The Master, Ado de St. Amando, had
died in captivity; but to redeem Gerard de Ride-
fort, no less a ransom was given than the city of
Ascalon.-Gerard died of a wound received in bat-
tle the following year.
During the memorable crusade of Philip of France
and Richard of England to the Holy Land, which
their rivalry and animosity rendered utterly ineffec-
tual, we find the Hospitallers on the side of the
king of England, and of course the Templars the
warm
partizans of the king of France. Yet, when
Richard was on his return to Europe, he sent for the
Master of the Temple, and said to him, that he knew
by many he was not loved, and that he ran great risk
of his life on his way to his kingdom; he therefore
besought him that he would permit him to assume the
dress of the order, and send two of the brethren
with him. The Master readily granted the request
of so potent a monarch, and the king went on board
in the habit of a Templar. It was
probably on ac-
count of the known enmity of the order to him, that
King Richard adopted this expedient, thinking that
no one would ever suspect him of being with the
"1'emplars. His brother John, we
may heie observe,
was, on the contrary, a
great favourer of the order,
to whom he gave Lundy Island, at the mouth of the
Bristol Channel. Throughout his reign, this odious
prince attached himself to the Templars as the faithful
servants of his lord the pope, reckoning on their aid
against his gallant barons, who would not leave the
liberties of the nation at the feet of a faithless tyrant.
It was now very much the custom for monarchs to
1
2l4 SECRET SOCIETIES.
deposit their treasures in the Temple houses; and in
the year 1213 we find King John demanding 20,000
marks which he had committed to the Templars to
keep. We meet with no instance of breach of trust
on the part of the knights.
The Templars shared in the common dishonesty
of the church with respect to false miracles, and' they
felt no scruple at augmenting their wealth by decep~
tions calculated to impose on the ignorance and zeal
of the laity. I n the year 1204 it was
given out that
an image of the Virgin, in a convent not far from
Damascus, had become clothed with flesh, and that
there issued from its breasts a kind ofjuice or liquor
of wondrous efficacy in removing the sins of pious
pilgrims. As the place was distant, andthe road be-
set with danger, the knights of the Temple took upon
themselves the task of fetching the mirific fiuid to the
part of the coast still held by the Latins, and accom-
modating pilgrims with it, and the coffers of the order
were largely replenished by this pious traffic.
Though, like all other proprietors in the Holy Land,
the order of the Temple had been losers in conse-
quence of the conquest of it by Saladin, their pos-
sessions in the West were so extensive that they
hardly felt the loss. At this very time we find the
number of their possessions of various kinds in
Europe, stated at 7050, principally situated in France
and in England. Their arrogance and luxury natu-
rally kept pace with their wealth ;- and, though writers
of the twelfth century, and even the Troubadours-
the satirists of the age-always speak of the knights of
the Temple with honour, there was a secret dislike of
them gaining ground, especially with the clergy, in
consequence of the great privileges granted to them
by the bull Omne Datum. Optimum, and the insolent
manner in which these privileges were exercised.
Accordingly we find, in the year 1208, the great
THE TEMPLARS.
'
215
Innocent III. the most ambitious of popes, and one
who was a
steady friend to the order, under the neces-
sity of passing the first public censure of them, and
endeavouring to set, by authority, a limit to their
excesses. In his epistle to the Master on this occa-
sion, the holy father says that they abused the privi-
lege of having mass celebrated in places which were
under interdict, by causing their churches to be thrown
open, and mass to be said every day, with loud ringing
of bells, bearing the 'cross of Christ on their breast,
but not caring to follow his doctrines, who forbids to
give offence to any of the little ones who believe on
him. He goes on to state that, following the doc-
trines of demons, they affixed the cross of their order
on the breast of (i. e. ajiliated) every kind of scoun-
drel, asserting that whoever, by paying two or three
pence a year, became one of their fraternity, could
not, even though interdicted, be deprived of Christian
burial; and that hence, known adulterers, usurers,_
and others who were lying under sentence of inter-
dict, were
honourably interred in their cemeteries;
"
and thus they themselves, being captive to the devil,
cease not to make captive the souls of the faithful,
seeking to make alive those whom they know to be
dead." The pontiif laments, that instead of, like
religious men, using the world for the sake of God,
they employed their religious character as a means of
indulging in the pleasures of the world. Though, on
account of these and such abuses, they deserved to
be deprived of the privileges which had been con-
ferred on them, the holy father will not proceed to
extremity, relying on the exertions of the Master to
effect a reformation.
In this epistle we have all the charges, which, as
will hereafter appear, could be at any time brought
with justice against the order, whose corruption pro-
216 SECRET SOCIETIES.
ceeded in the ordinary course of human nature, and
no otherwise,-privileges and exemptions producing
insolence and assumption, and wealth generating
luxury and relaxation of morals. It was the lavish
generosity of popes, princes, and nobles, that caused
the ruin of the Templars.
The Templars bore a distinguished part in the ex-
pedition to Egypt and siege oi' Damietta, in 1219, as
the chief commander on that occasion was the papal
legate, whose conduct, under show of obedience,
they cliietly directed. But when, in 1228, the Em-
peror Frederic II., then under the sentence of the
church, undertook the crusade which he had vowed,
he found nothing but opposition and treachery from
these staunch adherents of the pope. Considering
the spirit of the age, their opposition is, perhaps, not
so much to be blamed; but no
principle will excuse
the act of their writing to inform the Egyptian sultan
of the plans of the emperor. The generous Moslem,
instead of taking advantage of this treachery, sent
the letter to Frederic, to the confusion of its authors.
Frederic checked his indignation at the time, but on
his return to Europe he took his satisfaction on those
who were most guilty, and he seized the property of
the order in Sicily and his Italian dominions. Though
he was excommunicated again for so
doing, Frederic
persisted in his enmity both to them and the Hos-
pitallers; and though, perhaps, the least given to su-
perstition and illiberality of any man of his age, he
did not disdain to
'
make friendly intercomse with
the Moslems a serious charge against them. "
The
haughty religion of the Templars," writes he,
"
reared
on the pleasures of the native barons of the land,
waxes wanton ..... We know, on good authority, that
sultans and their trains are received with pompous
alacrity within the gates of the Temple, and that the
THE TEMPLARS. 217
Templars suffer them to celebrate secular plays, and
to perform their superstitious rites with invocation of
Mahommet."
The hostility between the Templars and the Hos-
pitallers still continued, though the Christian power
was now
nearly restricted to the walls of Acre. The
Templars were in alliance with the prince of Damas-
cus: the Hospitallers were the friends of the sultan
of Egypt. The Templars extended their enmity
against the emperor to the Teutonic knights, whom
they deprived of their possessions in Syria.
'
The
appearance of a new
enemy, however, brought con-
cord for a time among them. The Turks ot` Khan-
rizm, on the east of the Caspian, were now in flight
before the hordes of the Mongols, and 20,000 of their
horsemen burst into the Holy Land. They took
and plundered Jerusalem, which was unfortified and
open, and then united themselves with _the troops of
Egypt. The Christiansapplied to the prince of Da-
mascus for aid, who forthwith sent the required troops,
and their combined forces went in quest of the foes.
In the battle the Templars and the militia. occupied
the centre; the Hospitallers were
posted on the left
wing, the light horse on the right. The battle lasted
two days, and ended in the total defeat of the Chris-
tians, a result which is ascribed, though probably with
injustice, to the treachery of the Damascenes. The
Master of the Temple and the whole chapter, with
the knights, in all 300, were slain; only four knights
and fourteen esquires escaped.
The improvident and needy Henry III. of England,
in general such a dutiful son of the holy father,
who, for a share of the spoil, usually aided him in the
pious work of robbing his subjects, summoned cou~
rage in 1252 to speak of seizing some of the pro-
perty of the church and the military orders.
"
You
prelates and religious," said he,
"
especially you
O
218 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Templars and Hospitallers, have so many liberties
and charters, that your enormous
possessions make
you rave with pride and haughtiness. What was
imprudently given, must be therefore prudently re~
voked; and what was inconsiderately bestowed must
be considerately recalled.... I will break this and
other charters which my predecessors and myself have
rashly granted." But the prior of the Templars im-
mediately replied,
"
What sayest thou, 0 king ? _Far
be it that thy mouth should utter so
disagreeable and
silly a word. So long as thou dost exercise justice
thou wilt reign; but if thou infringe it, thou wilt
cease to be a
king!" These bold words appear to have
checked the feeble king, who next year besought the
two orders to become his security for a large sum of
money which he owed. They refused his request,
and Henry thenceforth did them all the injury in his
power.
There occurred an event in Moravia in 1252, which
may serve to show the power of the order in Europe.
A nobleman, named Vratislall who had been obliged
to Hy from that country, became aTemplar in France.
He made over all his property, among which was
the castle of Eichhom in Moravia, to the order.
But his elder brother, Burian, took possession of his
property, as having fallen to himself as head of
the family. King Winzel, on
being applied to, de-
cided in favour of the order. Burian, however, still
kept possession. The next year the Templars col-
lected some thousands of men, and marched, under
the command of their Great Prior, to take the castle.
Burian, assembling 6000 men, 900 of whom he
placed in the castle, advanced to give them battle.
The engagement was bloody; 1700 men, among
them the Great Prior of the Templars, lay slain, when
night terminated the coniiict. A truce was made for
three days, at the end of which Burian and his men
THE TEMPLARS. 2l9
were driven into the castle, which they defended
_bravely, till king Attocar sent to threaten them with
his wrath if they did not give it up. Burian surren-
dered it, and Vratislaf, returning to Moravia, became
Prior of Eichhom, in which thirty Templars took up
their abode.
Though the Templars were so extremely numerous
in Europe, they were little disposed to go out to the
Eastto encounter toil and danger, in the performance
of their duties. They preferred living in ease and
luxury on their rich possessions in the West; and the
members of the chapter alone, with afew knights, and
other persons attached to the order, abode in Syria.
It would even seem that the heads of the society were
meditating a final retreat from the East, where they
probably saw that nothing of permanent advantage
was to be achieved. The Hospitallers, on the other
hand, whatever may have been the cause, appear to
have been more zealous in their callin , and to have
had a greater number of their members in Syria;
and it is, probably, to this cause, that we are to assign
the total defeat which they were enabled to give their
rivals in 1259: for the animosity between the orders
had come to such a height, that, in this year, they
came to open war. A bloody battle was
fought, in
which the Templars were defeated, when, such was
the bitterness of their enmity, that the victors made
no
prisoners, but cut to pieces every Templar who fell
into their hands, and scarce a
Templar remained to
carry the intelligence to Europe.
From this period till the capture of Acre and final
destmction of the Latin power in the East in 1291,
after a continuance of nearly two centuries, the an-
nals of the Templars are bare of events. The rivalry
between them and the other orders still continued;
and in the opinion of some historians, it was their
jealousy that hastened the fall of that last
gemnant
of
o
é2i) SECRET SOCIETIES.
the Christian dominion in the East. Not more than
ten knights of the Temple escaped in the storm'of
the town, and these, with the remnants of the other
orders, and the garrison, sought a retreat in Cyprus.
We have now traced the history of the order from
its institution to within a few years of the period of
its -suppression. Of this most important event we
shall delay the consideration for some time, and
shall occupy the intervening space with an account of
the internal organisation of the society, its officers,
its wealth, and various possessions. This will, we
trust, prove no slight contribution to our knowledge
of one of the most curious portions of the history of
the world-that of the middle ages--and gratify the
reader by the display of manners and institutions
which have long since passed away*.
*
The
orglanisation
and the rules of the Hospitallers vera
limilu to t ose of the Templars; but as that order existed
down to modern times, the rules, &c., given by Vertot, contain
a.
great number of modern additions.
'rms rsmrmms. 221
A
Cuarrsn V.
Classes of the Templars-The Knights-Their Qualidcations
-Mode of Reception--Dress and Arms of the Knight-
Mode of Burial-The Chaplains-Mode of Reception-
Dress-Duties and Privileges-The Serving-Brethren-
-
Mode of Reception-Their Duties-The Aiiiliated-Causes
and Advantages of Amliation-The Donate: and Oblates.
Tm: founders of the order of the Templars were,
as we have seen, knights; and they were the first
who conceived the novel idea, and happy one, as we
may call it in accordance with the sentiments of
those times, of uniting in the_same person the two
characters held in highest estimation-the knight
and the monk. The latter added sanctity to the for-
mer, the former gave dignity and consideration to
the latter, in the eyes of amartial generation. Hence,
the Templar naturally regarded himself as the first
of men; and the proudest nobles of the Christian
world esteemed it an honour to belong to the order.
The knights were, therefore, the strength, the flower,
the ornament of the society.
The order of the Templars, when it was
fully de-
veloped, consisted not of degrees, but of distinct and
separate classes. These were the knights, the chap-
lains, and the serving-brethren; to which may be
added the affiliated, the donates, and the oblates, or
persons attached to the order without taking the
vows.
I. Tun Kumrrrs.-Whoever presented himself to
be received as a knight of the order must solemnly
222 SECRET SOCIETIES.
aver that he was
sprung from a knightly family, and
that his father was or might have been a knight. He
was further to prove, that he was born in lawful wed-
lock, for, like the church in general, the Templars
excluded bastards from their society. In this rule
there was prudence, though, possibly, it was
merely
established in accordance with the ideas of the time;
for, had a
king of France or an emperor of Germany
been able to get his natiual child into the order, and
should he then have been chosen Master of it, as he
probably would, it might have lost its independence,
and become the mere tool of the monarch. The can-
didate was, moreover, to declare that he was free from
all previous obligations; that he was neither married
nor betrothed; had not made any vows, or received
any consecration in another order; and that he was
not involved in debt. He had finally to declare him-
self to be of a sound and healthy constitution, and free
from disease. When the order was grown great and
powerful, and candidates for admission were numerous
and of the highest families, it became the custom to
require the payment of a
large fee on admission.
It was necessary that the candidate for admission
among the knights of the Temple should already be a
a
knight; for as kuighthood was a secular honour, the
order would have regarded it as derogating from its
dignity if any of its members were to receive it. '1`he
Hospitallers and Teutonic knights thought differently,
and with them the aspirant was knighted on his admis-
sion. If the candidate Templar, therefore, had not
been lmighted, he was obliged to receive knighthood,
in the usual manner, from a secular knight, or a
bishop, Previous to taking his vows.
A noviciate forms an essential and reasonable part
of the course of admission into the spiritual orders in
general; for it is but right that a
person should be~
come, in some measure, acquainted with the rules and
THE TEMPLARS. 223
duties of a society _before he enters it. But, though
the original rule of the Templars enjoined a noviciate,
it was
totally neglected in practice; a matter which
was afterwards made one of the charges against the
order. Perhaps there was in their case little necessity
for this preparatory process; theTemplars were so much
in the world, and those who joined them had been in
general so frequently among them, and were conse-
quently so well acquainted with their mode of life, that
they hardly required any such preliminary discipline to
familiarize them with their duties. .The neglect of
the practice at the same time gave the Templars an
advantage over the rival orders who enjoined it; for
a
young nobleman would, in all likelihood, feel most
disposed to join the society into which he_ could be
admitted at once; and perhaps no small part of the
corruption of the Templars, in which they undoubt-
edly surpassed their rivals, may be ascribed to the
facility which was thus afforded to unworthy persons
entering among them.
With respect to the age at which persons were ad-
mitted, it is plain, from the previously required recep-
tion of knighthood, that it must have been that of
adolescence or manhood. All that is said by the
statutes is, 'that no child could be received; and that
the parents or relatives of a child destined to be a
member of the order, should keep and breed him till
he could manjizlly and with armed hand extirpatc
the enemies of Christ out of the land. This formed
a marked distinction between the Templars and the
mere
religious orders, who, even at the present day,
we believe, admit children, taking the charge of their
rearing and education; whereas, children could only
be destined to the order of the Temple, and could not
be presented for. admission, till able to bear arms, that
is, usually in the twenty-first yearof their age.
224 SECREI SOCIETIES.
The reception of a knight took place in one of the
chapels of the order, in presence of the assembled
chapter. It was secret, not even the relatives of the
candidate being allowed to be present. The ceremony
commenced by the Master* or
prior, who presided,
saying,
"
Beloved brethren, ye see that the majority
are
agreed to receive this man as a brother. If
there be any among you who knows any thing of
him, on account of which he cannot lawfhlly become
a. brother, let him say it; for it is better that this
should be signified beforehand than alter he is
brought before us."
The aspirant, if no objection was made, was then
led into a chamber near the chapter-room; and two
or three reputable knights of the oldest in the house
were sent to lay before him what it was needful for
him to know. They commenced 'by saying,
"
Bro-
ther, are you desirous of being associated to the
order ?" If he replied in the affirmative, they stated
to him the whole rigour of the order. Should he
reply that he was
willing to endure everything
for God's sake, and to be all his life long the ser-
vant and slave ofthe order, they asked him if he
had a wife or was betrothed? if he had made pro-
fession or vows in any other order? if he owed to any
man in the world more than he could pay? if he was
of sound body, and had no secret infirmity, and if he
was the servant of any one 'I Should his answers be in
the negative, the brethren went back to the chapter and
informed the Master or his representative of the result
of the examination. The latter then asked once
more,
if any one knew any thing to the contrary. If all
were silent, he said
"
Are you willing that he should
be brought in in God's name?" The knights then
*
When we use the word "
Masta," we would always he un-
derstood to mean the Master or his representative.
'run 'rx mrmns, 225
said,
"
Let him be brought in in God's name."
Those who had been already with him then went out
again, and asked him if he persisted in his resolution.
If he said that he did, they instructed him in what
he was to do when suing for admission. They then
led him back to the chapter, where, casting himself
on his knees, with folded hands, before the receptor,
he said,
"
Sir, I am come, before God, and before
you and the brethren, and pray and beseech you, for
the sake of God and our dear Lady, to admit me into
your society, and the good deeds of the order, as one
who will be, all his life long, the servant and slave of
the order." The receptor then replied,
"
Beloved
brother, you are desirous of a great matter, for you
see nothing but the outward shell of our order. It
it is only the outward shell when you see that we have
fine horses and rich caparisons, that we eat and drink
well. and are
splendidly clothed. From this you con-
clude that you will be well off with us. But you
know not the rigorous maxims which are in our inte-
rior. For it is a hard matter for you, who are your
own master, to become the servant of another. You
will hardly be able to perform, in future, what you
wish yourselil For when you may wish to be on this
side of the sea, you will be sent to the other side;
when you will wish to be in Acre, you will be sent to
the district of Antioch, to Tripolis, or to Armenia; or
you will be sent to Apulia, to Sicily, or to Lombardy,
or to Burgundy, France, England, or
any other
country where We have houses and possessions. When
you will wish to sleep you will be ordered to watch;
when you will wish to watch, then you will be ordered
to go to bed; when you will wish to eat, then you
will be ordered to do something else. And as both
we and you might suffer great inconvenience from
what you have, mayhap, concealed from
us;
look here
o
22' SECRET SOCIETIES.
on the holy Evaugelists and the word of God, and
answer the truth to the questions which we shall put
to you ; for if you lie you will be perjured, and may
be expelled the order, from which God keep you!"
He was now asked over again, by the receptor,
the same questions as before; and, moreover, if he
had made any simoniacal contract with a
Templar or
any other for admission. If his answers
proved satis-
factory, the receptor proceeded.
"
Beloved brother,
take good care that you have spoken the truth to us;
for should you have spoken false in any one
point,
you might be put out of the order, from which God
keep you! Now, beloved brother, attend strictly to
what we shall say unto you. Do you promise to God,
and our dear Lady Mary, to be, all your life long,
obedient to the Master of the Temple, and to the
prior who shall be set over you ?"
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God !"
"
Do you promise to God, and our dear Lady
Mary, to live chaste of your body all your life long?"
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God l"
"
Do you promise to God, and our dear Lady
Mary, to observe, all your life long, the laudable
manners and customs of our order, both those which
are
already in use, and those which theJMaster and
knights may add ?"
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God !"
"
Do you promise to God, and our dear Lady
Mary, that you will, with the strength and powers
which God has bestowed on you, help, as long as
you
live, to conquer the Holy Land of Jerusalem; and
that you will, with all your strength, aid to keep and
guard that which the Christians possess?"
`
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God !"
"
Do you promise to God, and our dear Lady
Mary, never to hold this order for stronger or weaker,
THE TEMPLARS. 227
for better' or worse, than with permission of the Mas-
ter, or of the chapter which has the authority *?" ,
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God !"
"
Do you finally promise to God, and our dear
Lady Mary, never to be present when a Christian is
unjustly and unlawfully despoiled of his heritage, and
that you will never, by counsel or
by act, take part
therein ?"
"
Yea, Sir, with the help of God!"
"
In the name, then, of God, and our dear Lady
Mary, and in the name of St. Peter of Rome, and
of our, father the pope, and in the name of all the
brethren of the Temple, we receive to all the good
works of the order which have been performed from
the beginning, and shall be performed to the end,
you, your father, your mother, and all of your family
whom you will let have share therein. In like man-
ner do you receive us to all the good works which you
have performed and shall perform. We assure you
of bread and water, and the poor clothing of the
order, and labour and toil enow."
The Master then took the distinguishing habit of
the order, namely, the white mantle with the red
cross, and putting it about the neck of the candidate,
clasped it firmly. The chaplain then repeated the
l32d psalm, Ecce quam bonum, and the prayer of
the Holy Ghost, Deus qui cordajidelium, and each
brother repeated a Pater noster. The Master and
the chaplain then kissed him on the mouth; and he
sat down before the Master, who delivered to him a
discourse, of which the following is the substance.
He was not to strike or wound any Christian ; not
to swear; not to receive any service or attendance
from a woman without the permission of his supe-
riors; not on any account to kiss a woman, even if
'
That is, never to quit the order.
228 SECRET SOCIETIES.
she was his mother or his sister; to hold no child at
the baptismal font, or be a god-father; to abuse no
nan or call him foul names; butto be always courteous
and polite. He was to sleep in a linen shirt, drawers,
and hose, and girded with a small girdle. He was
to attend divine service punctually, and at table he
was to commence and conclude with prayer; during
the meal he was to preserve silence. When the Mas-
ter died, he was, be he where he might, to repeat 200
Pater nosters for the repose of his soul.
Each knight was
supplied with clothes, arms, and
equipments, out of the funds of the order. His dress
was a
long white tunic, nearly resembling that ot'
priests in shape, with a red cross on the back and
front of it; his .girdle was under this, over his linen
shirt. Over all he wore his white mantle with its red
cross of four arms (the under one being the longest,
so that it resembled that on which the Saviour suffered)
on the left breast. His head was covered by a
cap or
a hood attached to his mantle. His arms were shield,
sword, lance, and mace; and, owing to the heat of
the. East, and the necessity of* activity in combats
with the Turks and Saracens, his arms and equip-
ments in general were lighter than those used by the
secular knights. He was allowed three horses and
an
esquire, who was either a serving-brother of the
order or some layman who was hired tor the purpose.
At times this office was performed by youths of noble
birth, whom their parents and relatives gladly placed
in the service of distinguished knights of the Tem-
ple, that they might have an
opportunity of acquiring
the knightly virtues; and these often became after-
wards members of the order.
When a
knight had become, from age or wounds,
incapable of service, he took up his abode in one of
the temple-houses, where he lived in ease, and was
treated with the utmost respect and consideration.
» .
THE TEMPLABS» 229
/`f~»/Yi
A
,
_
KK V
_ _
1
V
Y
\
,
'//'k{
'
'
`
l
( <
'
K 1 /
,/
//
W
`
5-
-
u¢_ /S C7 /"
7,~_
i_» ;_ _R 1 ,0""
__ "-/f-i3<i'§»
`
Q Q
4
"J-Q
£§5 5i?§ aw ~
r
#liww
Q 4;
2 ii# `
,» 3 " :*9
`
137'
>//1 `
;\
1,-.=»
'
~\ Q
'
,fi ,
;f_
.
,cf f _,; ». _./»
,Q-_ li;
`
'
7
V
=
~:_ ; ""~
Q;-`
'
`
` `
.a;..,,,-_ I
=
'
`i§ff= 1 »;
<; .V ' 'H
/'
*Wh
,
'
,
`
Mba
`_"_
,.
_
'
,
`
X
I
")_ '£' kim" WSI:
_`V-
`
5
Q
`
E ,
`
"°1 ;§
`_» a qv' 'f »
$, i ~
1' Ju Q
il _
_l
'
_
0 ~~
>
=
l Q; ,
N, N
~
`
:1 _ Q Vat
'
} i 'E
3 EJ
""=
A
1 11,
W _
", , "I
i ~
§ § §- Mlugrw
a X
§
3
X
3- '
`
~ Ii
N \ 'V
»
Y
'
Il, /456 ;` N
< 1- ~
' /'A 1 M /
W . __
; , »>=,£'¢| A. mm Q _ _
__
=__"¢ »
,/W"'
f
7
*Ns 7
"- '
Costume of Knight Templar.
-
klowglc
(
230 SECRET SOCIETIES.
These emeriti knights are frequently mentioned un-
der the name of Prodomes (Good men) ; they were
present at all deliberations of importance; and their
experience and knowledge of the rules of the order
were highly prized and attended to.
When the Templar died, he was placed in a coliin
in his habit, and with his legs crossed, and thus buried.
Masses were said tor his soul; his arms and clothes
were
partly given back to the marshal or
draper of
the order-partly distributed among the poor.
II. THE þÿCl{APLAINS.*Th ¬
order of the Templars,
being purely military in its commencement, consisted
then solely of laymen. That ofthe Hospital, on the
contrary, on account of its oiiice of attending the
sick, had, necessarily, priests in it from its orign,
This advantage of the latter society excited the
jealousy of the Templars, and they were urgent with
the popes to be allowed a similar privilege. But the
poutiiis were loth to give offence to the oriental
prelates, already displeased at the exemption from
their control granted in this case to the Hospitallers;
and it was not till the year 1162, that is, four years
after the founding of the order, when their great
tavourer, Alexander III., occupied the papal throne,
that the Templars attained their object.
The bull, Omne Datum Optimum, issued on this
occasion, gave permission to the Templars to receive
into their houses spiritual persons, in all countries,
who were not bound by previous vows. If they were
clergy of the vicinity, they were to ask them of the
bishop; and if he refused his consent., they were em-
powered, by the bull, to receive them without it. The
clergy of the Temple were to perform a noviciate of
a
year--a practice which, as in the case of the knights,
was
dispensed with in the days ofthe power and
corruption of the order. The reception of the clergy
was the same as that of the knights, with the omission
'
THE' TEMPLHRS. 231
3, .=
"'
f':ff£-ff* 'EL
` » _,J _,J
é 'Ur
(iéwifdfj anllk
`*5?!u§i:a>§?é¥' '
lr is
f _ _
/J up?
is ..,,~~ » / //ay »f»'§
km...---Q-'_ I
=Q:,, ,f _ _ ,_» -
ww 4zl¢,__
,»?~» .
/, / »
þÿ»-»&¬$§§§.§\\'* ,
þÿf\$¬§li¢¬i§agé§§§ V
E
E
3
ev ,=~
'
"fs" ». 1
n|».¢mw_ .gi
.===;1=. . .1 .
*
»"JI1.§@::5 " "1 ___
'
.5
El
_.__
mm,
_
,_ 15
i
i
s 4
". -~ -`
'----ff _
,
_-UZ _..A> n
,_.`v1£, _
V
,
3
.
&@ `
»j§5§§X'I§,T_'g1=-,gusvii\§§1w
,
,
~k¢. » -, -,. F
` -~
-»
5,
'
,195 /V., _,J_...
,HT-
L
-I
.=-'»f,';' nuaiviaii?';r.;i;.»:.=.~'é"'
.W if 1 'f l
;;z'_;1©~
10
`
kI.iir" ,
_"aww
4. ,&
_~
'¢'
>
w*
`é5£;iiL§<-'
.Gooqlc
K
232 snoaxrr soon¢'rn¢s.¥
¥_
9
"@f"'Tf"
<lC» M
`°*
"'=l&
&
ff' "`¥***~
9
QW' |,,.¢"
fag? l
'F
> *Q*
2253;
< "'
ué
_.kg IAF( i
mm m
'
_f __
___
"__
'
"" =?;;;;=- _ ,
-: ; P ff Fifi/
_e;é;;- rf
'
'
Q9
ag "
,
_
__
J
"
' ~>_,,,
V
`
é
1
,
;aI,"....::i1 .Q ,tm ,za=aE'
,.,,
__;.§L}_, ` _
_
__
_ QQ /5. 1
þÿ====;=xm ¬P'
'
-T-'L ;?_=-:x_
="-=:,» 713.
.. ,_
~
_
I./Q, 'Z ..f'
'2,,_
3,
_
4; a-Y
ir;
_ .
gy
I ~
_ Q.
g pf .l
faq Q3 ..._
¥`/. _/
~
.=_. ¢.,§' xy
T,
, _,
N __
__
~
Y~-
_
_
_V 2
_U __ '<'%"-
;
_ _
'_'-' ,
f.§f;=1`_ 5`?5'i; ,
lf
_
'
,
.`,,¢ 1* _
__
M
,
;f-~1:;'1/f
Vf-'~ E* ~
r *T _W ¢,;--='==»~=- I
/liz Y
E," 4
)
Q ,.>~ ~ ,
.
U Zf ..,
'a.,,,
"
_
_
'
_gf -aa'.=-::is>__*?":&' _`
'
Y
r w ,
-`
_
,_
"
QI;
. ,_ _.~- ¢,. ,,.,f ff.-
.
fa"
þÿ F7;:20?E;_;é°;£:- ¬§??§? ¬1*ii
f
13' -
g""
-I; .:¢?`__,~"
~
f/ '
m.-y,,
`
.1 'r -.2.f" / `
I 'J '
'QQ' ,
W'
_/L T
'
`:esa.:;:.;.',,."
`
x ,/ ,
~:_ f `
'_
K-ai '& '<
-
<J.a;;;\A§'
~
-\__ ~
,
,Loolc
L
l 1 ('
'mn TEMPL/ms. 233
of such questions as did not apply to them. They
were only required to take the three vows of poverty,
chastity, and obedience. The ritual of their reception
was in Latin, and was almost precisely the same with
that of the Benedictines. Like that of the knights,
their reception was secret. 'When the psalms had
been sung the Master put on the recipient the dress
of the order and the girdle, and, if he was a priest,
the cap called baret.
The habit' of the chaplains ot' the order was a.
white close-fitting tunic, with a. red cross on the left
breast. Though, according to the statutes, they
were to have the best clothes in the order, they were
not permitted to assume the white mantle as
long as
they were mere priests. But should one of them,
as was not unfrequently the case, arrive at the epis-
copal dignity, he was, if desirous of it, cheerfully
granted that privilege. It was a. further distinction
between the knights and the chaplains, that the for-
mer wore their beards, while the latter were close-
shaven. The chaplains were also to wear gloves, out
of respect to the body of the Lord.
All who had received the _first tonsure were eligible
to the otiice of chaplain to the order. When those
who were only subedeacons and deacons were to
be raised to the rank of priests, the Master or his
deputy sent them with letters dimissory to a
bishop of
the vicinity, who was bound to confer the required
order.
The clergy were, like all other members of the
order, bound to obey the Master and the chapter. The
Master and the chief otlicers of the order had always
chaplains in their train to celebrate mass and other reli-
gious ofiices, as also to act as secretaries, the knights
being in general as illiterate as their secular brethren.
It was by this last office that the chaplains acquired
their chief intluencein the society; mind and superior
234 SECRET SOCIETIES.
knowledge vindicating, as they always do, their na-
tural rights. For though it was specially provided
that the clergy should take no share in the govern-
ment, of the society without being invited thereto by
their superiors, the opinion of the secretary was
naturally taken in general, and if he was a man of
sense and talent, it was most commonly followed*.
The duties of the clergy of the order were nearly
the same as those of monks in general. They per-
fhrmed all religious ollices, and otliciated at all the
ceremonies of the order, such as the admission of
members, the installation of a Master, &c. Their
privileges were very unimportant; they had merely
the best clothes, sat next the Master in the chapter
and in the rcfectory, and were first served at table;
when they committed any offence, they were also more
lightly punished than others. They could, however,
it' it so
pleased the heads of the order, arrive at high
rank in it; and we find that they were not unfre-
quently among the preceptors. The attomey-general
ofthe order at Rome, who was always a person of
considerable importance, was most probably a
priestof
the order; at least we know that Peter de Bononia,
the last of them, was such.
It is worthy of notice, that even in the most f|ourish~
ing period of the order it never had a sufficient num-
ber of chaplains, and was always obliged to have
recourse to the ministry ot' secular priests. The causes
of this were
probably the circumstance of the order
having attained its full form and consistency long
before the clergy formed a
part of it, and they conse-
quently had not an
opportunity of arranging it so as
*
This induence ot' the clergy excited the spleen of the
knights. Gerard de Caux, in his examination hereafter to he
noticed, said, "
The aged men of the order were unanimous
in maintaining that the order had gained nothing in fraternal
goudnau by the admission of learned members."
THE TEMPLARS. 235
to' give themselves their due share of power and
importance. It must have been galling to the pride
of those who were used to rule, obeying only their
spiritual superiors, to find themselves subject to the
command of mere laymen, as they esteemed the
knights of the order. Further, though they shared iu
the good things of the order and enjoyed the advan-
tage of the consideration in which it stood, yet they
had no
dignities to look forward to; whereas an en-
trance into a Benedictine order held out to the
ambitious a
prospect of rich prioriés, abbacies, and
bishoprics, and, at the least, a voice in the chapter.
It may well be supposed that the pride of the knights
of the Temple refused to admit into their society
such persons as those who afterwards joined the men-
dicant orders-peasants and others who preferred a life
of ease and idleness to the labours of the plough and
the workshop. The number consequently of those
who presented themselves for admission was small.
But the knights felt no disadvantage thereby; enow
of secular priests were to be had, who were willing to
have the master of the Temple as their ordinary, and
to share in the good things of the order, and as nei-
ther party was bound to the other, they could easily
part if they disagreed.
III. Tux-: Senviuo-nnarnnsu. The order, con-
sisting at first of only knights and nien of noble birth,
had no serving-brethren in it. The knights probably
ibund esquires for a limited time among those who
fought under their banner and received their pay. The
Hospitallers seem to have set the example of introduc-
ing into the order the class oi` serving-brethren, which
is not to be found with the Templars till some time after
the council of Troyes. The advantage of this alteration
was very apparent. Hitherto only knights and nobles
were interested in the fate of the society to which
their relatives belonged; the regards of burghers and
236 SECRET SOCIETIES.
traders would now be obtained by the formation of
this class, to admission into which their sons and bro-
thers were eligible. They felt themselves honoured
by their relatives coming into contact with knights,
and were therefore liberal in the admission-fee and in
other contributions to the quétes of the order.
We should be wrong in supposing the serving-bre-
thren to have been all persons of mean birth. The high
consideration in which the order stood induced many
men of wealth, talent, and valour, but who were not
of noble birth, to join it. We thus find among the
serving-brethren William of Arteblay, almoner to
the king of France; Radulf de Gisi, collector of
the taxes in Champagne; John de Folkay, an emi-
nent lawyer. Bartholomew Bartholet gave property
to the amount of 1,000 livres Tournois to be admitted;
William of Liege gave 200 livres Tournois a, year.
The serving-brother, indeed, could never arrive at
the dignity "bf knight (for which he was disqualified
by birth), and consequently never exercise any of the
higher offices of the order, but in other respects he
enjoyed the same advantages and privileges as the
knights and priests.
The reception of the serving-brethren was the same
as that of the two higher classes, the necessary differ-
ence being made in the questions which were asked.
As the order would receive no slave into their body, the
candidate was required to aver that he was a free-bom
man: he was moreover obliged to declare that he
was not a
knight. This last condition may cause
surprise, but it was
probably justified by experience,
as it is not unlikely that evil may have been felt or
apprehended from men of noble birth, out of humility,
or by way of atoning for the sins of their youth, or
from some other of the causes which might operate
on the minds of superstitious men, or even from po-
verty, it] as is likely, the admission-fee was lower for
THE TEMPLARS. 237
a
serving-brother than for a knight, concealing their
birth, and entering the order as serving-brethren.
As the more disagreeable duties of the order pro-
bably fell to their share, the general duties and obli-
gations were laid betbre them in stronger and more
explicit terms than were
thought _necessary in the
case of knights and priests.
I n the times of the poverty of the order. the
clothing of the serving-brethren was the cast-oil' gar-
ments of the knights. But this custom did not long'
continue, and as some abuses arose from all the
members of the order being clad in white, the serving-
brethren were
appointed to wear black or brown
kirtles, with the red cross upon them, to indicate that
they belonged to the order. In battle, their arms
were
nearly the same as those of the knights, but of
a
lighter kind, as
they had frequently to jump down
from their horses, and fight on foot. A serving-
brother was allowed but one horse by the order, but
the Master was empowered to lend him another if he
thought it expedient, which horse was to be after-
wards retumed.
The serving-brethren were originally all of one
kind; they fought in the field; they performed the
menial oflices in the houses of the order; but, in
after~times, we find them divided into two classes-
the brethren-in-arms (Fréres servons des armes), and
the handicraft-brethren (Fréres servons des mestiers).
These last, who were the least esteemed of the two,
dwelt in the houses and on the lands of the order,
exercising their various trades, or looking aher the
property of the society. We read in the statutes of
the smiths and bakers of the order, and we hear of
preceptors (as was the phrase) of the mares, cows,
swine, &c. of the order. These handicraft-brethren
practised the usual religious duties ofthe order, and
were even allowed to be present at chapters. The
238 SECRET SOCIETIES. _
farrier, who was also armourer, enjoyed a much
higher degree of consideration than the other handi-
craft-brethren, for this profession was highly prized
by the martial generation of the middle a.ges*.
The other class were more highly regarded. The
knights associated with them on afooting of equality.
They ate in the same refectory with the knights and
priests, although at separate tables, and with always
one dish less than the higher classes. They were.
however, strictly subordinate to the knights; the
master and all the great oflicers of the order had each
several serving-brethren to attend him, and each
knight had some of the serving-brethren among his
esquires. The statutes provided carefixlly against
their being tyrannized over or otherwise ill-treated by
the knights.
The statutes make a distinction between the
serving-brethren who were armed with iron and
those who were not. The former were the proper
light-horse of the order; they were chiefly intended
to support the knights in the action, and were usually
placed in the second rank. The place of the un-
armed was with the baggage; and as
they were
exposed to little danger, they wore
only linen corslets.
The others were enjoined to iight, without iiinching,
as
long as a Christian banner Hew on the field: it
was matter of praise to these last if they managed to
come safe out of the fight. When the troops of the
Temple were on their march, the esquires rode before
the knights with their baggage. When the knights
were
going to action, one esquire rode before each
with his lance, another behind with his war-horse.
There were various oihces in the society, hereafter
to be noticed, which were
appropriated to the serving-
brethren, or to which they were
eligible.
_
*
Sir W. Scott is perfectly correct in making the lmith I0
important a character in his St. Va.lentiue's Eve.
THE TEMPLARS. '239
The knights, the chaplains, and the serving-
brethren, were the proper members of the order, and
it is to them alone that the name
Templars applies.
But both the Templars and the Hospitallers devised a
mode of attaching secular persons to their interest,
and of deriving advantages from their connexion
with them, in which they were afterwards imitated
by the mendicant orders of the Franciscans and Do-
minicans ; the Jesuits also, who were
always so keen
at discerning what might be for the advantage of
their society, adopted it; and it is, we believe, still
practised in Catholic countries. This system is styled
ajiliation. _
The afiiliated were persons of various ranks in
society, and of both sexes, who, without giving up their
secular mode of life, or wearing any peculiar habit,
joined the order, with a view to the advantages, both
spiritual and temporal, which they expected to derive
from it. These advantages will appear to have been
very considerable when we recollect that all who
joined the order were admitted to a share in the
merits of its good works, which were what those
times esteemed of the highest order. Nothing could
have more contributed to the extent of affiliation than
the exemption which the Templars enjoyed from the
effects of interdict. At a time when it was in the
power of every bishop to lay entire towns under
this formidable sentence it must have been highly
consolatory to pious or
superstitious minds tn belong
to a
society who disregarded this spiritual thunder,
and who could afford them an
opportunity of atleast
occasionally hearing mass and receiving the sacra-
ments, and secured them, if they should die while the
interdict. continued, the advantage of Christian burial.
In those days also, when club-law prevailed so uni-
versally, and a man's safety depended not so much
on his innocence or the justice of his cause as on the
240 SECRET SOCIETIES.
strength of his party, it was a matter of no small
consequence to belong to so
powerful a
body as the
Templars, and it must have been highly gratifying
to both the secular and spiritual pride of a. lawyer or
a
burgher to be a member of the same body withthe
high-born soldier-monks of the Temple.
These important advantages were not conceded by
the Templars without equivalent considerations. This
ambitious and covetous order required that he who
sought the honour of affiliation with them should,
besides taking the three vows, pledge himself to lead
a
reputable life, to further. the interests of the order
to the best of his power, and leave it the entire of his
property at his death. If he was married, and died
before his wife, he might leave her a competent pro-
vision for life; but from the day of his admission
into the order he was to abstain from her bed, though
he might continue to reside in the same house with
her; for were he to have children, he might provide
for them to the disadvantage of the order, or on his
death they might give trouble to it by claiming his
property. For a similar reason the affiliated were
forbidden to be sponsors, lest they might covertly or
openly give some of their property to their god-
children. They were not even permitted to give
offerings to the clergy. If they dared to violate these
injunctions, a severe punish ment-in general, confine-
ment for lif`¢»awaited them.
All orders of men were ambitious of a union with
this honourable and powerful society. We find among
the affiliated both sovereign princes and dignified
prelates: even the great Pope Innocent III., in one
of his bulls, declares himself to stand in this relation
to the order; Many of the knights who dwelt with
the Templars, and fought under their banner, were
also affiliated, and the history of the order more than
once makes mention of the sisters-that is, women
»
'ran TEMPLARS. 241
who were affiliated to it, for there were no nuns of
the Temple similar to those of the order of Malta in
later times.
In less intimate connexion with the order than the
afliliated stood those who were styled Donate.: and
Oblates. These were persons who, as their titles
denote, were given.or presented to the order. They
were either children whom their parents or relations
destined to the service of the order when they should
have attained a suflicient age, or they were alll-gTOWIl
persons who pledged themselves to serve the order
'as
long as they lived without reward, purely out of
reverence to it, and with a view to enjoying its pro-
tection, and sharing in its good works. Persons of
all ranks, princes and priests, as well as others, were
to be found among the oblates of the Temple.
P
242 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Cunren VI.
Provincel of the Order-Eastern Provinces-Jerusalem-7
Houses of this Province-Tripolis-Antioch-Cypnu-
Western Provinces-Portugal-Castile and Leon-Aragon
-France and Auvergne --
Normandy -
Aquitaine -
Pro-
vence-Englmd-Germany-Upper and Central Italy-
Apulia and Sicily.
We have thus seen what a number of persons of all
ranks were more or less intimately connected with
the order of the Temple, and how powerful its intiu~
ence must have been throughout the Christian world.
To enable the reader to form some conception of its
wealth and power, we shall, previous to explaining
its system ot' internal regulation, give a view of its
possessions in various countries.
The extensive possessions of the order of the
Temple, in Asia and in Europe, were divided into
provinces, each containing numerous preceptories or
temple-houses, and each under its appointed governor.
These provinces may be classified under the heads
of Eastern and Western.
The eastern provinces of the order were,-
I. Jznussnam.-This province was always re-
garded as the ruling one; the chief seat and capital
of the order. The Master and chapter resided here as
long as the Holy City was in the hands of the Chris-
tians. This being the province which was first esta-
blished, its regulations and organization served as a
model for all others. Its provincial Master, or, as he
was
styled, the Preceptor ofthe Land and Kingdom
THE TEMPLARS. 243
of Jenlsalem, took precedence of all others of the
same rank.
The bailiwicks, or commanderies, in this province,
were,-
1. The Temple of Jerusalem, the cradle of the
order, and the original residence of the Master and
the chapter.
2. Chateau Pélerin, or the Pilgrim's Castle, re-
nowned in the history of the crusades. This castle
was built by the Templars in 1217, in order that it
might be their chief seat after the loss of Jerusalem.
lt was situated on the east side of Mount Carmel,
which runs out into the sea between Caipha and
Caesarea. '1`he Templars had long had a tower at
a pass of this mountain, called Destruction, or the
Tower of the Pass, for the defence ol' pilgrims against
the robbers who lurked in the gorges of the moun-
tains. They were aided in building the castle, which
was also designed to be a defence to Acre, by Walter
D'Avesnes and by the German knights and pilgrims
who were at that time. in the Holy Land, and hence,
perhaps, they called it Chateau Pélerin. The Car-
dinal de Vitry, who was at that time bishop of Acre,
thus describes it. It was built on the promontory,
three sides of which were washed by the sea. As
they were
sinking the foundation, they came tn two
walls of ancient masonry, and to some springs of re-
markably pure water; they also found a
quantity of
ancient coins with unknown inscriptions, given, as
the bishop piously deems, by God to his beloved
sons and warriors, to alleviate the toil and expense
which they were at. The place had probably been
fortified in former times by the Jews or the Ro-
mans. The builders raised two huge towers of
large masses of rock on the landward side, each
100 feet high, and 74 broad; these were united
by a lofty wall, broad enough at its summit for
244 SECRET SOCIETIES.
an armed knight to stand at his easeupon it.. It
had a parapet and battlements, with steps leading
up to them. In the space within this wall were a
chapel, a palace, and several houses, with fish-ponds,
salt-works, woods, Ineads, gardens, and vineyards.
Lying at a distance of six miles from Mount Tabor,
it commanded the interjacent plain and the sea.-coast to
Acre. There the Master and the chapter took up their
final abode, after having dwelt from 1l18 to 1187 at.
Jerusalem, from ll87 to 1191 at Antioch, and from
this last year till 1217 at Acre.
"
The chief use,"
saysYD'Vitry,
"
of this edifice is, that the whole chap-
ter of the Templars, withdrawn from the sinful city of
Acre, which is full of all impurity, will reside under
the protection of this castle till the walls of Jerusalem
are rebuilt." -
A prophecy never tobe fulfilled ! On
the fall of Acre, in 1291, Chateau Pélerin was aban-
doned by the knights, and its walls were levelled by
the infidels. _
8. The ca.st.le of Safat, at the foot of Mount Tabor.
This strong castle was taken by Saladin. It was
demolished in 1220, by Coradin, but afterwards re-
built by the Templars, who then held it till 1266,
when they lost it finally.
'
4. The temple at Acre, a remarkably strong
building, the last place taken in the capture of that
town.
'
5. The hill-fort, Dok, between Bethel and Jericho.
6. Faba, the ancient Aphek, not far from Tyre,
in the territory of the ancient tribe of Ashur.
7. Some small castles near Acre, mentioned in the
history of the war with Saladin, such as La Cave,
Marle, Citerne-rouge, Castel-blanc, La Sommelleric
du Temple.
8. The house at Gaza.
9. The castle of Jacob's-ford, at the Jordan, built
in 1178 by King Baldwin IV., to check the incur-
THE TEMPLARS. 245
sions of the roving Arabs. When Salaxlin took this
castle, he treated the Templars whom he found in it
with great cruelty.
10. The house at Jaffa.
1 1. The castle of Assur, near this town.
12. Gerinum parvum.
13. The castle of Beaufort, near Sidon, purchased
by the order, in 1260, from Julian, the lord of that
town.
We may observe that most of these abodes of
the Templars were strong castles and fortresses. lt
was only by means of such that possession could be
retained of a
country like Palestine, subject to the
constant inroads of the Turks and Saracens. The
Templars possessed, besides these strongholds, large
farms and tracts of land, of which, though their names
are unknown, frequent mention is made in the history
of the order.
II. Tntrous.-The principal houses of the order
in this province were at Tripolis itself; Tortosa, the
ancient Antaradus; Castel-blanc, in the same neigh-
bourhood; Laodicea, Tyre, Sidon, and Berytus.
III. Awrrocn.-Ofthis province but little is known.
There was a house at Aleppo; and the jurisdiction of
the prior probably extended into Armenia*, where
the order had estates to the value of 20,000 byzants.
IV. Crrnus.-Aslong asthe Templars maintained
their fooling on the continent, Cyprus, it would ap-
pear, formed no distinct province,but belonged either
to that of Tripolis or of Antioch. At the time when
Richard, King of England, made the conquest of this
island, he sold the sovereignty of it ibr 25,000 marks
of silver to the Templars, who had already extensive
possessions in it. The following year, with the con-
sent of the order, who were, of course, reimbursed, he
*
The Armenia ofthe crusade: was e part of Cilicia.
3
246 SIG!!-T SOCIETIES.
transferred the dominion to Guy de Lusiguan, King
of Jerusalem. On the capture of Acre the chief seat
of the order was fixed at Limesal, also called Limissa
and Nemosia, in this island, which town, having an
excellent harbour, they strongly fortified. They had
also a house at Nicosia, and one at the ancient
Paphos, named Gastira, and, at the same place, the
impregnable castle of Colossa.
Some idea of the value of the possessions of the
Templars in Cyprus may be formed from the circum-
stance, that when, in 1316, after the suppression of
the order, the Pope directed the Bishop of Limissa
to transfer their property there to the Hospitallers,
there were found, in the house in that town, 26,000
byzants of coined money, and silver plate to the value
of 1,500 marks. As the last Master, when setting
out for France ten years before, had can'ied with him
the treasure of the order, this property must have
been accumulated during that time out of the surplus
revenue ofthe possessions of the order in the island.
The Western provinces of the order were-
I. Ponrruou..-So early as the year 1130 (a strong
proof of the rapid increase of the order) Galdin Paez,
the first provincial master of the Temple in Portugal,
built the castles of Tomar, Monsento, and Idauna.
The Templars had also settlements at Castromarin,
Almural, and Langrovia. Tomar was the residence
of the great.-prior.
Il. CASTILE Ann Leon.-In this province the pos-
sessions of the order were so extensive as to form
twenty-four bailiwicks in Castile alone. It is needless
to enumerate their names *.
III. Ammon.-ln this province, which abounded
in castles, several belonged to the Templars; and the
bailiwick of Majorca, where they were also settled,
taghey
will be found in Campomanes, p. 80, and Miiuter,
p. .
-
V
'run TEMPLARS.
'
247
was under the jurisdiction of the great-prior qf
Aragon.
`
It is to be observed that most of the castles pos-
sessed by the order in Spain and Portugal were on
the borders of the Moorish territory. Some of these
had been given to the Templars asthe inveterate foes
of the infidels ; others had been conquered by them
from the Moors.
France, where the possessions of the order were
so considerable, was divided into ibur provinces,
namely-~
IV. Fiuncs mn Auvnneus, including Flanders
and the Netherlands.
V. 'Nonmtnnm
VI. Aqurrunn, or Porrou. _
VII. Pnovnucz.
The residences of the great-priors of these fmt:
provinces were, for France, the capacious and stately
Temple at Paris, which was, as we are informed by
Matthew Paris, large and roomy enough to contain
an
army; for Normandy. as is supposed, La tbilk
Dieu en. la Montague; for Poitou, the Temple at
Poitiers; for Provence, that at Montpellier.
VIII. Esummn.-'l'he province of England in-
cluded Scotland and Ireland. Though each of these
two last kingdoms had its own great-prior, they Were
subordinate to the great-prior of England, who re-
sided at the Temple of London.
The principal bailiwicks of England were-1. Lon-
don; 2. Kent; 3. Warwick; 4. Waesdone; 5. Lin-
coln; 6. Lindsey; 7. Bolingbroke ; 8. Widlne;
9. Agerstone; 10. York. In these were seventeen
preceptories; and the number of churches, houses,
farms, mills, &c., possessed by the order was very
considerable ".
'
"
The possessions of theTemplan ln Kngland will be found
in the works of Dugdale and Tannen
THE TEMPLARS. 251
The chief seat of the order in Scotland appears to
have been Blancradox. Its possessions were not
extensive in that poor and turbulent country; and in
Ireland the Templars seem to have been few, and
confined to the Pale. We hear of but three of their
houses in that country-namely, Glaukhorp, in the
diocese of Dublin; Wilbride, in that of Ferns; and
Siewerk, in that of Kildare. -
IX. GERMANY.-It is difficult to ascertain how the
order was regulated in Germany,where its posses-
sions were
very extensive. We hear of three great~
priors: those of Upper Germany, of Brandenburg,
and of Bohemia and Moravia; one of whom, but it
cannot be determined which, had probably authority
over the others. Though the Templars got lands in
Germany as
early as the year 1130, their acquisi-
tions were not large in that country till the thirteenth
century. Poland was included in the province of
Germany. Great-prior in Alemania and Slavia was a
usual title of the great-prior of Germany. Though
the possessions of the Templars in Hungary were
very considerable, there are no
grounds for supposing
that it formed a separate province: it was probably
subject to the great-prior of Germany.
X. UPPER AND CEN'rnA1. ITALY.-There was no
town of any importance in this part of the Italian
peninsula in which the Templars had not a house.
The principal was that on the Aventine Hill at Rome,
in which the great-prior resided. Its church still
remains, and is called Il Priorato, or the Priory.
XI. APULIA AND Src1LY.-The possessions of the
Templars in Sicily were
very considerable. They had
houses and lands at Syracuse, Palermo, /Trapani,
Butera, Lentini, &»c. ; all of which were dependent on
the principal house, which was in Messina. The
great-prior resided either at Messina or at Benevento
in Apulia. Possibly the seat was removed to this last
B52 SECRET SOCIETIES.
place, after the Emperor Frederic II. had seized so
much ofthe property ofthe order in Sicily.
In Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, the order had
no possessions whatever. Though the people of these
countries took some share in the crusades, and were,
therefore, not deficient in religious zeal, their poor
and little-known lands offered no
strong inducements
to the avarice or ambition of the knights of the
Temple, and they never sought a. settlement in
them.
We thus see that, with the exception of the northem
kingdoms, there was no part of Europe in which the
order of the Temple was not established. Everywhere
they had churches, chapels, tithes, farms, villages,
mills, rights of pasturage, of fishing, of venery, and
of wood. They had also, in many places, the right of
holding annual fairs, which were
managed, and the
tolls received, either by some of the brethren of the
nearest houses or
by their donates and servants. The
number of their preceptories is, by the most moderate
computation, rated at 9,000; and the annual income
of the order at about six millions sterling-an enor-
mous sum for those times! Masters of such a
revenue, descended from the noblest houses of Chris-
tendom, uniting in their persons the most esteemed
secular and religious characters, regarded as the
chosen champions of Christ, and the Bower of Chris-
tian knights, it was not possible for the Templars, in
such lax times as the twelfth and thirteenth centuries,
to escape falling into the vices of extravagant luxury
and overweening pride. Nor are we to wonder at
their becoming objects ofjealousy and aversion to both
the clergy and the laity, and exciting the fears and
the cupidity of an avaricious and faithless prince.
THE TEMPLARS. 253
Cnsrran VII.
Oliicers of the 0rder_The Master-Mode of Election-His
Rights and Privileges-Restraints on him--The Seneschal
--The Marshal-The Treasurer-The Draper-The Tur-
copilar-Great-Priors -
Commanders-Visitors --Sub-Man
shsl-Standard-bearer.
AN order consisting of so many members, and whose
wealth and possessions were of such extent, must
necessarily have had numerous officers and various
ranks and dignities. The elucidation of this branch
of their constitution is now to engage our attention.
At the head of the order stood the Master, or, as
he was sometimes called, the Great-Master* of the
Temple. This personage was always a
knight, and
had generally held one of the higher dignities of the
order. Though, like the Doge of Venice, his power
was greatly controlled by the chapter, he enjoyed very
great consideration, and was always regarded as the
representative of the order. In the councils, the
Masters of the Temple and the Hospital took prece-
denceof all ambassadors, and sat next. the prelates.
All monarchs conceded princely rank and place to the
Master of the Temple.
A situation which offered so much state and consi-
*
Magister, Maiaire, is the almost invariable expression in
the historians, the statutes of the order, and most documents.
Magnus Magister Was, however, early employed. Terricus,
the Master of the order, thus styles himself when writing to
Henry II. of England. The term Grand-Master is apt to
convey erroneous ideas of pomp and magnificence to the minds
of many readers. _
Q
254 SECRET SOCIETIES.
deration must, of necessity, have been an object of
ambition; but the scanty records remaining of the
society do not enable us to point out any specific cases
of intrigue employed for the attainment of it. That
of the last Master, hereafter to be mentioned, is some-
what problematic.
The eiection of a Master of the Temple was as
follows:-
When the Master was dead, an event which always
occurred in the East,as he was bound to reside there,
if it took place in the kingdom of Jerusalem, and the
marshal of the order was on the spot, he took upon
him the exercise of the vacant dignity till, with the
aid of the chapter and of all the bailiifis on this side
of the sea (i.c.'in the East), he had appointed a
great-
prior to represent the Master. But this election did
not take place till after the funeral. Should the death
of the Master have occurred in the province of Tri-
polis, or that of Antioch, the prior of the province
took the direction of the order till the great-prior was
appointed. _
s
Owing to the constant state of war which pre-
vailed in the East, and to other causes, a considerable
space of time occasionally intervened between the
death of one Master and the appointment of his
successor. During the interregnum the society was
directed by the great-prior who bore the seal of the
Master.
When the day appointed for the election was ar-
rived, the great officers of the order and all the bailitii;
who were invited to be present assembled in the place
selected for holding the election-generally the cha-
pel of the order. The great-prior, taking several of
the knights aside, consulted with them; and they
then made two or three or more of the knights
who were most highly-esteemed retire. The great-
prior took the voices of those present on the merits
»
. THE TEMPLARS. 255
of the absent knights; and he who had most in his
favour was declared the electing-prior. The knights
were then called in, and the choice of the assembly
notified to them. A knight, possessing the same
virtues of piety, love of peace, and impartiality with
himselt, was then assigned for an assistant to the
electing-prior: and the whole assemblage withdrew,
leaving the two alone in the chapel, where they passed
the entire night in prayer.
Early next morning, after performing their usual
devotions and hearing the mass of the Holy Ghost,
the chapter re-assembled. The great-prior then ex-
horted the two electing brethren to perform their
duty truly and honestly. These, then retiring, chose
two other brethren; these ~ibur chose two more, and
so on, till the number amounted to twelve, in honour
of the apostles. The twelve then chose a brother-
chaplain to represent the person of Jesus Christ, and
maintain peace and concord. It was necessary that
these thirteen should be of different provinces-eight
of them knights, four serving-brethren, and one
priest. The thirteen electors then returned to the
chapter, and the electing-prior besought all present
to pray for them, as a
great task had been laid on
them. All then fell on their knees and prayed; and
the great-prior solemnly reminded the electors of
their duty, and' conjured them to perform it truly and
uprightly. Having again implored the prayers of
the assembly, the electing-prior and his companions
retired to the place appointed for their deliberations.
If the electors, or the majority of them, declared for
any knight on this or the other side of the sea, he
was appointed; if they were divided into parties, the
electing-prior came with one of the knights, and, in-
forming the assembly of the circumstance, asked
their prayers. All fell on their knees, and the two
Q 2
256 SECRET SOCIETIES.
electors returned to their companions; if they now
agreed, the person whom they chose was declared
Master.
'
Should the object of their choice be, as was not
uuirequently the case, actually present in the chapter,
the thirteen came in; and the electing-prior spea-k-
ing in their name, said,
"
Beloved sirs, give praise
and thanks to our Lord Jesus Christ, and to our
dear Lady, and to all the saints, that we are agreed,
and have, according to your command, chosen, in
the name of God, a Master of the Temple. Are ye
content with what we have done i"' All then re-
plied,
"
In the name of God!" "
Do ye promise to
yield him obedience as
long as he lives "P" "
Yea,
with the help of God!" The electing-prior then
turned to the great-prior, and said,
"
Prior, if God
and we have chosen thee for the Master, wilt thou
promise to obey the chapter as
long as thou live, and
to maintain the good morals and good usages of the
order ?" and he answered,
"
Yea, with the aid of
God!" The same question was then put to some of
the most distinguished knights; and if the person
elected was
present, the electing-prior went up to»
him, and said, "'
In the name of the Father, the
Son, and the Holy Ghost, we have chosen you bro-
ther, N. N., for Master, and do choose you!" He
then said,
"
Beloved sirs and brethren, give thanks
unto God: behold our Master." The chaplains then
chanted aloud the Te Deum laudamux, the brethren
arose, and, with the utmost reverence and joy, taking
the new Master in their arms, carried him into the
chapel, and placed him before the altar, where he
continued kneeling while the brethren prayed, the'
chaplains repeating Kyrie Eleison, Pater noster, and
other devotional forms.
The election of the Master of the Temple required
THE TEMPLARS. 257
no
papal confirmation: the choice of the chapter
was conclusive. Two knights were assigned to him
as his companions. ~
The allowances and train of the Master were suit-
able to the rank which he was to support in the
world, and to the dignity of the order which he repre-
sented. He was allowed four horses, and an esquire
of noble birth. He had a.
chaplain and two secre-
taries; one for managing his Latin correspondence,
whom he might, after a. time, admit to become a
knight of the order; the other, who was called his
Saracenic secretary, and who was probably an eastern
Christian,'for carrying on his Arabic correspondence
-with the Iniidels. He had, -moreover, a. farrier,
a cook. and a Turcopole *, two' footmen, and a
Turcoman T, to serve as
guide. On a march, the
Turcoman rode on a horse behind an
esquire: during
the time of war he was led by a. cord, to prevent his
escape. On any ordinary journey, the Master might
take two beasts of burden with him; but in war-time,
ar in case of his going beyond the Jordan, or the
~Dog's Pass I, he might extend the number to four,
which the statutes thriftily direct to be put into the
stable when he arrives at the house where he is going
to stop, and to be employed in the service of the
house. The Master was finally commander-in~chief
»
'
The Tnrcopoles were the offspring of a Turkish father,
by a Christian mother; or also those who had been reared
among the Turks, and had learned their mode of lighting.
The Christians employed them as light cavalry; and the Tem-
plars had always s number of them in their pay.
f The Turcomans were, as their name denotes, hom Turlu.
The Christians used them as guides on their expeditions.
I Le pax de chien. Miinter (p. 66) declares his ignorance
bf where it lay. It was
evidently the dangerous pass at the
Nahr-el-Kelb, (Dog'| River), near the sea, on the way 10
Antioch.
258 sncmrr socurrms.
of the order in thefield; and tlien, like the Spartan
kings, he could act in some degree' unfettered by the
chapter. When he died, he was buried with great
solemnity and pomp, by the light of torches and wax
tapers-an honour bestowed by the order on no other
of its members. All the knights were
required to
attend the ftmeral; and the prelates were invited to
give their presence at it. Each brother who was
present was to repeat 200 Pater 'nosters within seven
days, for the repose of the soul of the deceased; and
100 poor persons were fed at home in the evening,
with the same design.
On the other hand, the Master was bound to obey
the chapter; and he could do nothing without con-
sulting some of the brethren. He could not nominate
to any of the higher dignities of the order; but he
might, with the advice and consent of someof the
most reputable knights, appoint to the inferior priories
and preceptories. He could not sell, or in any other
way dispose of] any ofthe lands of the order, without
the consent of the chapter; neither could he make
peace or truce without their approbation. Their cou-
sent was also required to enable him to make any
alteration in the laws of the society, to receive any
person into it, or to send a brother beyond sea. He
could take no money out of the treasury without the
consent of the prior of Jerusalem, who was the
treasurer of the society. In fact, the Master of the
Temple was so curbed and restrained in every way,
and his office made so much an honorary one, that
his dignity may best be compared with that_ of a
Spartan king or a Venetian doge. It is rather curious
that the Master ofthe Temple should be thus limited
in authority, when the abbot of the Benedictiues,
whose rules the Templars in a
great measure
adopted,
enjoyed monarchical power. _
4
'ran rsmrmns. 259
Next in rank to the Master stood the seneschal, who,
as his name denotes*, was the Master's representa-
tive and lieutenant. t
He had a
right to be present
at all chapters of the order ; and to be acquainted
with all transactions of consequence. He was allowed
the same number of horses as the Master; but, in-
stead of a mule, he was to have a
palfrey: he had
two esquires, and was assigned a knight as his com-
panion; a. deacon acted as his chaplain and Latin
secretary ; `he had also a Saracenic secretary and a
Turcopole, with two footmen. Like the Master, he
bore the seal of the order.
'The marshal was the general of the order; he
had charge of the banner, and led the brethren
to battle. All the arms, equipments, and stables of
the order were under his superintendence. It was
he who nominated the sub-marshal and the standard-
bearer. Like all the other great officers, he was
appointed by the Master and the chapter. As we
have seen, when the Master died in the kingdom of
Jerusalem, the marshal occupied his place till a
great-
prior was chosen. '1'he marshal was allowed four
horses, two esquires, a serving-brother, and a Tur-
copole.
The oflice of treasurer of the order was
always
united with the dignity of preceptor of the kingdom
of Jerusalem. This officer had the charge of all
the receipts and expenditure of the order, of which
he was bound to give an account, when required, to
the Master and the chapter. The wardrobe of the
order was also under him; and the draper was as-
signed as his companion, without whose knowledge
he could not dispose of any of the clothes. As the
ships, though few in number, which the Templars
possessed, were under him, he may be regarded as,
'
Seneschal is one
gui
alleriul vicem gerit. Charpentier
Supplern. ad Dufresuo loss. iii. p. 759. .
l
260 SEC BBT SOCIETIES.
also, in some sort, the admiral of the order; and on
this account the preceptor of Acre was subordinate
to him. The treasurer had the same allowance of
horses, &c. as the seneschal.
The draper had charge of the clothing of the
order: he was to see that each brother was decently
and properly dressed. His allowance was four horses,
two esquires, and a pack-servant..
The Turcopilar was the commander of the light
horse. All the armed serving-brethren and the Tur-
copoles were under hiscommand. He was himself
subordinate to the marshal. When he was
going
into action, some of the knights were sent with him.
These were under his orders; but if their number
amounted to ten, and they had with them a banner
and a
knight-preceptor, the Turcopilar became sub-
ordinate to this oiiicer; which proves that the otiice
of Turcopilar was not one of the higher dignitaries
of the order. The Turcopilar was allowed four
horses.
Besides these offices of the order in the East,
there were the g'reat~priors, great-preeeptors, or pro-
vincial-masters (for the, terms are synonimous) of
the three provinces of Jerusalem, Tripolis, and An-
tioch; and the preceptors, who were subordinate to
them. ~
The great-prior of the kingdom of Jerusalem was
also treasurer. His office has been already noticed.
The great-priors of Tripolis and Antioch had the
superintendence over the brethren and the possessions
of the order in these provinces. They had the same
allowances of attendants and horses as the seneschal.
The prior of Antioch, when on a journey to Arme-
nia, which bordered on his province, and in which
the order had possessions, was allowed to take
with him a chaplain and a
portable chapel, asthe
Armenians were monophysite heretics, with whom
THE TEHPLARS. 25|
the orthodox brethren of the Temple could not join
inworship.
The prior of the town of Jerusalem had peculiar
duties to perform. It was his oflice, with ten knights
who stood under his command, to escort the pilgrims
on their way to and from the Jordan-one of the
principal objects of the institution of the order. On
this occasion he had with him the banner of the order
and a round tent, into which he might take any per-
sons whom he should find sick when he encamped;
he was also to take with him provisions, and beasts
of burden on which to place such of the pilgrims as
might be fatigued on the return.
When the true cross was brought forth on any ex-
pedition, it was the duty of the prior of Jerusalem
to keep by it, with his ten knights, night and day,
and to guard it; he was to encamp close to it; and
two brethren were to watch it every night.
All the secular knights who associated themselves
to the order in Jerusalem were under his orders, and
ibught beneath his banner. All the brethren of the
order who were in Jerusalem were, in the absence of
the marshal, under his command. One half of the
booty captured beyond the Jordan fell to him, the
other half to the prior of the kingdom.
As we have seen above, the West was, like the
East, divided into provinces of the order. Each of
these provinces was presided over by a lieutenant of
the master, named the provincial-master, great-prior,
or great-preceptor, with his chapter and oiiicers cor-
responding to those of the kingdom of Jerusalem.
He was
appointed, as it would appear, by the Master
and chapter; and when entering on his otlice, he
bound himself by oath to defend the Catholic reli-
gion, not only with his lips, but with arms and all
his strength; to follow the rules drawn up by St. Ber-
nard; to obey the Master; to come over the sea to his
Q 5
262 sscanr `socxn'rn~:s.
aid whenever'it was necessary ; to defend him against
all unbelieving kings and princes; not to fly before
these unbelieving foes; not to alienate the goods of
the order; to be loyal to the prince of the country;
to be chaste; and to aid all spiritual persons, espe-
cially the Cistercians, by words and by deeds.
Under the provincial-masters stood the priors,
bailiffs, or masters, who governed large districts of
the provinces, and had under their inspection several
of the houses of the order and their preceptors.
They dwelt in large temple-houses, with a
good
number of knights; they had the power of holding
chapters, and of receiving members into the order.
The preceptors were subordinate to the priors;
they presided over one or more houses. They were
generally knights, but they were sometimes priests.
They were of tvo kinds-house-preceptors and
knight-preceptors; the former, as their name denotes,
merely presided over the houses, and mightbe priests
or
serving-brethren; the latter, who were
probably
only to be found in the East or in Spain, led each
ten knights in the battle.
Another ofiice to he found among the Templars
was that of' visitors. These were knights, who, as
the representatives of the Master, visited the different
provinces of the order, especially in the West, to re-
form abuses, make .new regulations, and terminate
such disputes and law-suits as were
usually reserved
for the decision of the Master and the chapter. All
the provincial oflicers, even the great-priors, were sub-
ject to the visitors, as the representatives of the Mas-
ter. The powers of the visitors ceased as soon as
the business ended for which they were sent, or when
they were recalled.
'
f
Besides the foregoing offices, which were almost
exclusively confined to the knights, there were some
inferior ones
appropriated to the serving-brethren.
264 saoaar soon:-ms.
These olliees were five in number-namely, those of
sub-marshal, standard-bearer, farrier, cook, and pre~
ceptor of the coast of Acre. Each of these was
allowed two horses. ~
The sub-marshal had the charge of all the inferior
sort of accoutrements (k petit harnois) of the order,
in which the horse-furniture seems to have been in~
eluded. All the handicraftsmen of the order were
under him, and were obliged lo account _to him for
their work. He supplied them with the neediiil tools
and materials; could send them where he pleased
on the service of the house; and on holidays give
them permission to go from one house to another to
amuse themselves. The sub-marshal and the stan-
dard-bearer were each the representative of the other
in his absence. -
The standard-bearer had the command over all
the esquires of the house; that is, those who were en-
gaged for a limited time in the service of the order,
whom he was bound to make uainted with the
rules to which they were subject, gd the punishments
to which they were liable in case of disobedience;
he was also to pay them their wages. Whenever
the esquires took the horses out to graze, he was
bound to precede them with a. standard of the order.
He always presided at the table of the serving-
brethren and esquires. When the order was
marching
to battle, it was his task to ride before the standard,
which was borne after him by an esquire, or carried
on a wain*; he was to lead whithersoever the mar-
shal directed him. When the battle commenced,
those esquires who led the horses of the knights
were to combat behind their masters; the others
were _to -'take the mules on which their masters rode,
and remain with the standard-bearer, who was to
*
The Carnatic of the Italien republics.
`
fra: rnurnns.
`
265
have a banner rolled about his lance, which, when
he saw the marshal engaged in action, he was to
unfurl, and draw up the esquires in as handsome
order as
possible behind the combatants, in order to
support them.
The serving~brethren were eligible to the oflice of
house-preceptor ; but there was this distinction made
between them and knights who held that office. that,
the serving-brethren being allowed but one horse,
their esquire was a
serving-brother. As Acre was
the sea-port at which all the shipments of the order
to and irom Europe took place, the preeeptory there
was necessarily an oilice which entailed a
good deal
of toil and business on the person who held that
situation, and required a
knowledge of commerce
and of the affairs of the world. It was therefore
not considered suitable to a knight, and was always
given to a
serving-brother. The serving*-brethren
were also set over the various farms and estates ofthe
order. These were named the brother-stewards,-in
Latin, grangiarii and preceptor-ea gra/ng~iarum,-
and were probably selected from the craftsmen of
the order. They were allowed two horses and an
esquire.
266 sscnsr socllrns.
Ci-:Arran VIII.
Chapters--Mode of holding them-Templar# Mode of Living
-Amusements-Conduct in War.
Sucueas, we have described them were the members,
the possessions, and the various offices of the power-
thl society of the.Temple. In order to complete our
view, it only remains to trace its internal govemment
and most important regulations. We shall therefore
commence with on account of the chapters, from
which all the acts and rules of the society emanated.
It is frequently declared in the statutes, that the
Master was in the place of God; and that all his
commands were to be obeyed as those of God. But
these expressions, which were borrowed from the
rule of the Benedictines, are, as we have already
seen, not to be understood too literally ;
`
for the
constitution of the order of the Templars was aris-
tocratic, and not monarchic; and the Master was
anything but absolute. In every matter he was to be
guided by the opinion of the majority of the chapter.
The general chapter, or high legislative assembly
of the order, consisted of all the great officers, of the
great-priors of the provinces, and the most distin-
guished of the knights who could attend. Every
brother, even the lowest of the serving-brethren, was
at liberty to be present as a.
spectator; but only the
proper members ot' the chapter had the privilege of
speaking. The place ot' holding the chapter was un-
determined, and was left to the choice of the Master.
All laws and regulations were made or confirmed in
THE
`
TEMPLARS. 2.67
the general chapter: there brethren were received-
the great otlicers appointed-visitors chosen to be
sent to the different provinces. It is remarkable,
that a
papal legate never seems to have been present
at a
chapter of the Templars ; though the legates fre-
quently assisted at those of the other orders. This
is, most probably, to be ascribed to the secrecy in
which the Teniplars were pleased to envelope their
councils andproceedings; and as they rarely held
general chapters, a suitable pretext could not well be
wanting for freeing themselves from the presence of
the legate when they desired it. Those who impute
to the Templars the holding of 3, secret doctrine
naturally regard this as the cause of their not admit-
ting to their chapters those who were not initiated
in it.
A general chapter was not often assembled-»a cir~
cumstance easily to be accounted for. Though the
order was
wealthy, -it might not be well able to bear,
without inconvenience, the expense of deputies from
all the provincesjourneying to the kingdom of Jeru-
salem, where the chapters were in general held; and
further, it was obviously the interest ofthe Master
and the great officers to avoid assembling a
body
which would at once assume the powers which they
were in the habit of exercising.
In the intervals between the meetings of general
chapters, the powers qf the order were exercised by
the chapter of the Temple at Jerusalem. This was
composed of the Master, the dignitaries of the order,
such 'of the provincial masters as happened to be
present, the twoassistants of the Master, and such
knights as he chose to invite to it. This last provi~
sion was the great source of the Master's power;
and, when he was a man of talent and address, he
could, by managing to get his ti-iends and those
whom he could depend on into the different otlices,
258 BEOIIT 80CIB'l'Ill»
and by summoning to the chapter such knights as
were attached or looked up to him, contrive to carry
any matters that he desired. The laws, however, by
way of check upon him,'made it imperative that the
high ofhcers of the order should have seats in the
chapter; and a.s these were not appointed by the
Master, and were
independent of him, it was sup-
posed that they would not be his creatures. This
chapter could decide on all matters relating to the
order, some
important affairs, such as war and
peace, excepted; make laws and regulations, which
were
binding on the whole society; and send visitors
to the different provinces. All public documents,
such as papal bulls, were addressed to it and the
Master; all decisions in matters of importance came
from it; and all the brethren who were received in
the West were sent to it to be distributed where
they might be wanting. The declaration made by a
French knight on his examination, that the recep-
tions in the chapter of Jerusalem were l'8l'¢, as the
members could be seldom broughtfto agree respect-
ing a candidate, gives a hint that it was not in general
a scene of the greatest harmony and unity. It is,
indeed, but natural to suppose, that, asit was the chief
seat of the power of the order, it was also the great
theatre of intrigue and cabal.
-
Each province of the order had its general chap-
ter, and also a smaller one, ,presided over by the
great-prior, and composed of the principal officers
and such knights of character and estimation as the-
prior chose to call to it. In like manner
every pre-
ceptory and every large house of the order had its
chapter, at which all the brethren were required to
attend. The commander was
president, and each
question was decided by the majority of voices. The
chief transactions in it consisted in the reception of
new brethren, and the making up of quarrels and
_
TRI TIMPLARS. 269
disputes, which must have frequently fallen out
among men like the Templars, who were almost all
soldiers. It was holden early on a. Sunday morning;
and the strictest secrecy, as to what took place, was
enjoined on all present, for secrecy was the soul of
the order.
The ordinary chapters were held in the following
.manner. Each brother, as he entered, made the sign
of the cross, and, unless he was bald, took od' his cap.
The president then rose and said,
"
Stand up, beloved
brethren, and pray to God to- send his holy grace
among us
to-day." Each member repeated a pater
noster, and, if there was a chaplain present, he said
a
prayer. Search was then made* to see that there
was no one present but those who belonged to the
order. The president then delivered a discourse,
exhortingthe bretluen to amendment of life. During'
this discourse no one was on any account to leave
.the room. When it was ended, any one who had
transgressions to acknowledge went up to the presi-
dent and made confession. He then retired out of
sight, and hearing, and the sentiments of the assembly
were taken, which were afterwards signified to him.
The brethren were also to remind each other of
.their transgressions, and exhort to confession and
penitence. If any one accused a brother falsely, he
was severely punished for it: while the inquiry was
going on the accused was obliged to retire from the
chapter. The discipline was usually administered in
presence of the assembled chapter, with a scourge,
or with a girdle. Those who were sick were not
punished till they were recovered.
When these matters were over, the president ex-
plained a portion of. the statutes, and exhorted all
present to live suitably thereto. He then said,
f' Beloved brethren, we may now close our chapter,
for, praise be to God, all is well; andmay God and
270 SECRET SOCIITIRS.
our dear Ladygrant that it may so continue, and
goodness be every day increased. Beloved brethren,
ye must know how it is with pardon in our
chapter,
and who has not part therein; know, then, that those
have no
part either in the pardon of our chapter,
nr in the other good works of the chapter; who
live as they should not; who depart from the righte-
ousness of the order; who do not acknowledge their
offences and do penance in the mode prescribed by
the order; who treat the alms of the order as their
own
property, or in any other way contrary to law,
and squander them in an unrighteous, scandalous,
and foolish manner. But those who honestly ac-
knowledge their faults, and conceal nothing out of
shame or fear of the punishment of the order, and
are
right sorry for their transgressions, have a.
large
share in the tbrgiveness of our chapter, and in the
good works which take -place in our order. And to
such, in virtue of my authority, I dispense forgive-
ness inthe name of God and of our dear Lady, in the
names of the apostles Peter and Paul, of our father
the pope, and of you all who have given me
authority;
and pray to God that, according to his mercy, he
will, for the merits of his mother, and of himself,
and all the saints, forgive you your sins, as.he for-
gave the famous Mary Magdalene." He then im-
plored the, forgiveness of those to whom he might
have given any otlence or done any injury; and prayed
for peace, for the church, forthe holy kingdom of
Jerusalem, for the order and all its houses and
people, for the brethren and sisters of the order, and
for its living and dead benefactors; finally, for all
the dead who waited for the mercy of God, especially
those who lay buried in the Temple burial-grounds,
andzfor the souls of the fathers. and mothers of the
Teinplafrs. The chaplain, if present, repeated a con-
fession of sin, inwhich all tbllowed him, and then
'rua rxmrmns. ~
271
pronounced an absolution. 'If there was no chaplain
present, each brother repeated 'a pater and an ave,
and so the chapter ended.
The statutes of the order are full ofthe "most
minute directions respecting the equipment, clothing,
and mode of living of the various members of the
order. They were obliged to attend divine service
punctually each day at all the different hours at
which it was celebrated, and regularly to observe all
the fasts of the church; they were also to have at
their houses both public and private devotions. Their
meals were also strictly regulated. They assembled
by sound of bell: if there was a priest in the house
he saidgrace for them, if not, each brother repeated
a~pale1°'before he began to eat. During the meal a.
clergyman read out something edifying for them,
and when it was over no one was to speak till grace
was said." There was no difference made in the
quality of the food; all, both high and low, fared
alike, and they ate two~oif one plate. They had
flesh-meat but three times a. week, unless when festi-
val days occurred. On days when they had no iiesh-
mcat they had but two dishes. When the order were
in the field a
server regulated the supply and distri-
bution of provisions. Before giving out the provisions
he was to direct the serving-brethren to notify it to
the superiors of the order, that they might come and
select the best for themselves; he distributed the
remainder without any other distinction than that oi'
giving the best to the sick. The plate given to every
two of the brethren was so large that what remained
when they were done was suflicient to satisfy two of
the poor. Two brethren were allowed as much food
as three Turcopoles, and two of these as much as
three ofthe servants. The brethren were not allowed
to seek for any food elsewhere than from the server,
vegetables, game, and venison excepted. But as
by
272 BIOBB1' SOCIETIES.
the rules of the order the chase was prohibited
to them, they could not procure these themselves.
Amusements could not be rigorously prohibited to
men who were semi-secular, and had to mingle so
much in the world as the Templars. They were
therefore allowed to tilt, but only with headless
lances; whether only among themselves, or also at
public tournaments, is uncertain*. They were per-
mitted to run races with their horses, but for no
higher wager than a headless cross-bow bolt, or
some other tritie. Chess and draughts were
prohi-
bited games; nor were they allowed tn play at
any other game whatever for a stake. Hawking
was absolutely forbidden to the Templar, probably
on account of the high price of hawks. and of
this being the favourite amusement ofthe secular
knights. The reason assigned by the statutes is:-
"
Because it is not seemly in the members of an
order to play sinfully, but willingly to hearken to the
commands of God, to pray often, and daily in their
prayers before God to bewail their sins with weeping
and tears." A Templar might not even
accompany
one who was
going out a-hawking. Moreover, as
shouting and bawling were unseemly in a. member
of an order, he might not go a~hunting in a wood
with bow and crossbow, nor accompany any one thus
engaged, except to protect him against the heathen.
In fine, every species of chase was forbidden to the
Templar, except that of the lion '
who goes about
seeking whom he may devour, whose hand is against
every one, and every one's hand against him' T."
The battle was the Templar's scene of glory, and
'
Sir W. Scott would probably find some
diiliculty in justi-
fying his makinghis Templar accept the combat ai entrance at
the "
gentle and free assage of Ashby de la Zoucbe."
1' It is not clear whether this is to be understood literally
or
metaphorically.
THE TBMPLARS. 273
consequently every thing relating to the conduct of
the order in war was strictly regulated. On the
march the Templars, as the guardians of the holy
cross, formed the vanguard of the Christian army;
in the array they were in the right wing. The
Hospitallers usually formed the rear-guard, and in
the field were
posted on the left. The Templars
mounted and set forward at the voice of their mar-
shal, the standard-bearer preceding them with the
standard of the order. They moved in a walk or a
small trot. The march usually took place by night,
on account of the heat of eastern climes, and every
precaution was
adopted to prevent confusion or in-
convenience. When the standard halted for em-
campment, the marshal selected a
place for his own
tent and the chapel, which was to contain the true
cross; the tents of the server, and of the great-prior
of the province, had also their places marked out.
It was then cried out,
"
Brethren, pitch your tents
in the name of God !" on which each Templar forth-
with raised his tent in his rank. All the tents were
around the chapel, outside of its cords. The herald
pitched by the standard. No brother was allowed,
on any account, to go out of hearing of the war-ery,
or to visit the quarters of any others than the Hos-
pitallers, in case these last should be encamped.
beside them. The place for encamping was se-
lected by the prior ofthe province in which the war
was, who was therefore in some sort quartermaster-
general; the marshal assigned the different quarters,
and over
each he set a
knight-preceptor to govern
and regulate it.
'
When the battle commenced, the marshal usually
took the standard out of the hands of the sub-
marshal and unfurled it in the name of God. He
then nominated from five to ten of the brethren to
274
`
SECRET
'
SOCIETIES.
surround and guard it; one of these. he made a
knight-preceptor, who was to keep close by him with
a banner finrled on a
spear, that, in case of that which
the marshal carried being torn, or
having fallen, or
met with any other mishap, he might display it. If
the marshal was wounded or surrounded, this knight
was to raise the banner in his stead. No one was to
lower a banner, or thmst with it, on
any account,
for fear of causing confusion. The brethren were to
fight on all sides. and in every way in which they
could annoy the foe, but still to keep near
enough to
be able to defend the banner of the order, if needful.
But if a
Templar saw aChristian in imminent darger,
he was at liberty to follow the dictates of his con-
science, and hasten to his reliefl He was to retum
to his place as
speedily as possible; but if the Turks
had gotten between him and the banner, he was to
join the nearest Christian squadron, giving the pre-
ference to the Hospitallers, if they were at hand.
Should the Christians meet with defeat, the Templar,
under penalty of expulsion from the order, was not to
quit the field so
long as the banner of the order dew;
and, should there be no red-cross flag to be seen, he
was to join that of the Hospitallers, or
any other.
Should every Christian banner have disappeared, he
was to retreat as well as he could.
Such were the military principles of .the order of
the Temple-principles which,
'
instead ol' rage,
Deliberate valour breathed, firm and unruoved
With dread of death to Bight or foul retreat ;
and never, unquestionably, was more
unflinching
valour displayed than by the Templars. Where all
were brave and daring as the fabled heroes of ro-
mance, the Templar was still regarded as
prominent,
and the Cardinal of Vitrycould thus speak of them in
THE TEMPLARS. 275
the early part of the thirteenth century, when they
may be regarded as somewhat declined from their
original elevation:-
"
They seek to expel the enemies of' the cross of
Christ from the lands of the Christians, by fighting
manfhlly, and by moving to battle at the signal and
command of' him who is at the head of their forces,
not impetuously or disofrderedly, but prudently and
with all caution-the first in advance, the lat in
retreat; nor is it permitted to them to turn their
backs in flight, or to retreat without orders. They
are become so formidable to the adversaries of' the
faith of Christ, that one chases a thousand, and two
ten thousand; not asking, when there is a call to
arms, how many they are, but where they are: lions
in war, gentle lambs at home; rugged warriorson
an
expedition, like monks and eremites in the
church." The language of the worthy cardinal is
no doubt declamatory and rhetorical, and some de-
duction must consequently be made from it; but
still enough will remain to prove that the chivalry of
the Temple must still have retained no small portion
of the virtues for which they had been originally re-
nowned. _
~»--11.1
276 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Cnurran IX.
Malay elected Master-Last attempt of the Christians in
Syria-Conduct ot' the Three Military Orders-Philip the
Fair and Pope Boniface VIII.-Seizure of the Pope-
Election of Clement V.-The Papal See removed to I-'nneo
-Cause! of Philip'a enmity to the Templars-Arrival of
Molay in France-His interviews with the Pope--Charges
made against the TemplarslSeiaure of the Knights--Pro1
eeedinga in England-Nature of the Charges against the
Order.
W1-: have, in what precedes, traced the order of the
Templars from its institution to the period when the
Latin dominion was overthrown for ever on the coast
of Syria, and have described, at some
length, its in-
ternal organisation, and exhibited its power and extent
of possessions. It remains for us to tell how this
mighty order was suddenly annihilated, to examine
the charges made against it*, and, as we have pro-
mised, to establish the falsehood and futility of them-
a task far from ungrateful, though not unattended
with pain; for it is ofadvantage to strengthen our love
of justice and hatred of tyranny and oppression, by
vindicating the memory even of those who perished
their victims centuries agone. It is also of use to
furnish one instance more to the world of the opera-
tion of the principle which will be found so
generally
*
The proceedings against- the Templars have been pub-
lished from the original documents by Mowdenhaler, in Ger-
many; but the work has been bought up by the freemasons,
who fancy themselves descended from the Templars. so that
we have been unable to procure a copy of it. Wilike has,
however, extracted largely from it.
_THE TEMPLARS. 277
to prevail, that, let falsehood and sophistry exert
their utmost to conceal the truth, means will always
remain of refuting them, and of displaying vice, how-
ever
high seated, in its true colours.
In the year 1297, when the order had established
its head-quarters in the isle of Cyprus, James de
Molay, a native of Besancon, in the Franche Comte,
was elected Master. The character of Molay ap-
pears to have been at all times noble and estimable;
but if we are to credit the statement of a
knight
named Hugh de Tlavaux, he attained his dignity by
an artifice not unlike that said to have been em-
ployed by Sixtus V. for arriving at the papacy. The
chapter, according to De Travaux, could not agree,
one part being for Molay, the other, and the stronger,
for Hugh de Peyraud. Molay, seeing that he had
little chance of success, assured some of the principal
knights that he did not covet the office, and would
himself vote for his competitor. Believing him, they
joyfully made him great-prior. His tone now altered.
"
The mantle is done, now put the hood on it. You
have made me great-prior, and whether you will or
not I will be great-master also." The astounded
knights instantly chose him.
If this account be true, the mode of election at
this time must have differed very considerably from
that which we have described above out of the statutes
of the order. This election, moreover, took place in
France, where, in 1297, Molay, we are told, held the
fourth son of the king at the baptismal font.
One feeble attempt, the last military exploit of the
Templars, wasmade by the Christians to acquire
once more a footing on the continent of Asia during
the mastership of Molay. In 1300, the Mongol
chief Gazan came to the aid of the king of Armenia,
against the '1`urks. As it was the policy of the
Tartars, who had not as yet embraced Islam, to stir
up enemies tothe Mohammedans, Gazan, after over-
n
278 sacasr socmriss.
running the country as far as Damascus, sent an
embassy to the Pope, Boniface VIII., inviting the
Christians, particularly the three military orders, to
come and take possession of the Holy Land. The
Templars, Hospitallers, and Henry, king of Cyprus,
forthwith manned seven galleys and tive smaller
vessels. Almeric de Lusignan, Lord of Tyre, and
the Masters of the two orders, landed at Tortosa,
and endeavoured to maintain that islet against the
Egyptian sultan, but were forced to yield to num-
bers. The Templars fought gallantly to no
purpose,
and a few of them, who defended a tower into which
they had thrown themselves, surrendered, and were
carried prisoners to Egypt.
The Hospitallers, in the year 1306, renewed their
attacks on the isle of Rhodes, where they finally
succeeded in expelling the Turks, and planting the
standard of their order. The Teutonic knights trans-
ferred the sphere of their warfare to Russia, and the
adjacent country, whose inhabitants were still hea-
thens. The Templars meantime remained inactive
in Cyprus, and seem even to have been meditating a
retreat to Europe.
France was at this time governed by Philip the
Fair, son of St. Louis. Philip, who had come to the
throne at the early age of seventeen years, had been
educated by Giles de Colonna, afterwards archbishop
of Bour es, a man
distinguished for his learning and
for the boldness of his opinions. One of his favourite
maxims was, "that Jesus Christ had not given any
temporal dominion to his church, and that the king
of France has his authority from God alone." Such
principles having been early instilled into his mind,
the young monarch was not likely to be a
very
dutitixl son of the Church, and the character of Boni-
face VIII., who, without possessing the talents or the
virtues of a
Gregory or an Innocent, attempted to
stretch the papal pretensions to their greatest extent,
Tl-IE TBUPLARS. 279
soon roused him to resistance. In the plenitude
of his fancied authority, the pope issued a bull, for-
bidding the clergy to give any subsidies to lay-powers
without permission from Rome. Philip, in return,
issued an order prohibiting the exportation of gold,
silver, or merchandize from France, thereby cutting
off a
great source of papal revenue. In the course of
the dispute, Boniface maintained that princes were
subject to him in temporals also. Philip's reply was,
-"
Philip, by the grace of God, king of the French, to
Boniface, acting as
supreme pontiil, little or no health.
Let your extreme folly know, that in temporals we
are not subject to any one." Shortly afterwards he
publicly burned a bull of the pope, and proclaimed
the deed by sound of trumpet in Paris. Boniface,
raving with indignation, summoned the French clergy
to Rome, to deliberate on the means
ofpreserving
the liberties of the Church. Philip convoked a na-
tional assembly to Paris, in which, for the first time,
there appeared deputies of the third estate, who rea-
dily expressed their resolution to stand by their
monarch in defence of his rights, and the clergy wil-
lingly denied the temporal jurisdiction of the pgntlfll
Several prelates and abbots having obeyed the sum-
mons of the pope, the king seized on their tem-
poralities. The pope menaced with deprivation all
those who had not attended, and, in his famous bull
of Unam, sarwtam, asserted that every human being
was subject to the Roman ponlifli Another bull
declared that every person, be his rank what it might,
was bound to appear personally when summoned to
Rome. Philip forbade the publication of these bulls;
and the states general being again convoked ap-
pealed to~a council against the pope. Commissaries
were sent through France to procure the adhesion of
the clergy to this act, which was given in some cases
voluntarily, in others obtained by means of a little
wholesome rigour. The king, his wife, and his son,
280 SICBET BDGIETIBS.
pledged themselves to stand by those who adhered to
the resistance made by France to papal usurpation.
Boniface next excommunicated the king, who inter-
cepted the bull, and prevented its publication. The
pope tlnally olfered the crown of France to the em-
peror Albert of Austria. Matters were now come to
an extremity, and Philip ventured on one of the
boldest acts that have ever been attempted in the
Christian world.
`
Philip had atforded an asylum at his court to some
members of the Colonna family, the personal enemies
of the pope. His chancellor and fast adherent was
William de Nogaret, who had been his agent in the
affair of appealing to a
general council, by presenting
to the states general a charge of simony, magic, and
the usual real or imaginary crimes of the day against
the pontilil This man, and some of the Italian exiles,
attended by a
body of 300 horse, set out for Italy,
and took up his abode at a castle between Florence
and Sienna, under pretext of its being a convenient
situation for carrying on negociations with Rome.
The pope was meantime residing at Anagni, his na-
tive town. Nogaret having, by a liberal distribution
of money, acquired a sufficient number of partisans,
appeared before the gate of Anagni early on the
morning of the 7th Sept/ember, 1303. The gate
was
opened by a traitor, and the French and their
partisans ran
through the streets, crying Live the king
of France, die Boniface. They entered the palace
without opposition; the French ran here and there
in search of plunder, and Sciarra Colonna and his
Italians alone came in presence of the pope. Boni-
face, who was now eighty-six years of age, was clad in
his pontifical vestments, and on his knees before the
altar, in expectation of death. At the sight of him
the conspirators, whose intention had been to slay
him, stopped short, filled with involuntary awe, and
did not dare to lay a hand upon him. During three
1
_ THE TEMPLAIS. 281
days they kept him a
prisoner; on the fourth the
people of the 'town rose and expelled them, and re-
leased the pontifif Boniface returned to Rome; but
rage at the humiliation which he had undergone de-
ranged his intellect, and in one of his paroxysms he
dashed his head against the wall of his chamber, and
died in consequence of the injury which he received*.
Benedict XI., the successor of Boniface, absolved
Philip, and his ministers and subjects, from the sen-
tence of excommunication. As he felt his power, he
was
proceeding to more vigorous measures to avenge
the insulted dignity of the holy see, when he died of
poison, administered, as a
contemporary historian
asserts, by the agents of Philip. During ten months
the conclave were unable to agree on his successor
among the Italian cardinals. lt was then proposed
by the partisans of the king of France, that one
party in the conclave should name three ultramontane
prelates, from among whom the other party should
select one. The choice fell on Bertrand de Gotte,
archbishop of Bordeaux, who had many serious causes
of enmity to Philip and his brother Charles of Valois.
Philip's friend, the cardinal of Prato, instantly sent
off a courier with the news, advising the king to acqui-
esce in the election as soon as he had secured him to
his interest. Philip set out for Gascony, and had a.
private interview with the pontitf elect, in an
abbey
in the midst of a forest near St. Jean d'Angély.
Having swom mutual secresy, the king told the pre-
late that it was in his power to make him pope on
condition of his granting him six favours. He showed
him his proofs, and the ambitious Gascon, falling at
his feet, promised everything. The six favours de-
manded by Philip were a perfect reconciliation with
the Church; admission to the communion for him-
*
Sismondi Républiques Ituliennes, iv. p. 143.
R 3
28? SIUBIT IOUI BTIIS.
self and friends; the tithes of the clergy of France
for five years, to defray the expenses of his war in
Flanders; the persecution and destruction of the me-
mory of Pope Boniface; the conferring the dignity
of cardinal on James and Peter Colonna. "
The sixth
favour," said he, "is great and secret, and I reserve
the asking of it for a suitable time and place." The
prelate swore on the host, and gave his brother and
two of his nephews as hostages. The king then sent
orders to the cardinal of Prato, to elect the archbishop
of Bordeaux, who took the name of Clement V.
Whether urged by the vanity of shiningin the eyes
of his countrymen, or by dread of the tyranny exer-
cised by the cardinals over his predecessors, or, what
seems more probable, in compliance with the wishes
of Philip, or in consequence of impediments thrown
by that monarch in the way of his departure, Cle-
ment, to the dismay of all Christendom, instead of
repairing to Rome, summoned the cardinals to
Lyons for his coronation. '1'hey reluctantly obeyed,
and he was crowned in that city on the 17th Decem-
ber, 1805, the king, his brother, and his principal
nobles, assisting at the ceremony. Clement forthwith
created twelve new cardinals, all creatures of Philip,
whose most devoted slave the pope showed himselfto
be on all occasions. His promises to him were most
punctually fulfilled, with the exception of that re-
specting the memory of Boniface, which the cardinal
of Prato proved to Philip it would be highly impolitic
and dangerous to perform; but Clement cheerfully
authorised him to seize, on the festival of St. Made-
laine, all the Jews in his kingdom, to banish them,
and confiscate their property in the name of religion.
What the sixth and secret grace which Philip re~
quired was is unknown. Many conjectures have
been made to little purpose. It is not at all impro-
bable that the king had at the time no detinite object
THE TRKPLAIS. 283
in view, and that, like the fabled grant of Neptune to
Theseus, it was to be claimed whenever an occasion
of suiiicient _importance should present itseltl
Such as we have described them were
Philip and
the sovereign pontitf; the one able, daring, rapacious,
ambitious, and unprincipled; the other mean, sub-
missive, and little scrupulous. As it was the object
of Philip to depress the papal power, and make it
subservient to his ambition, he must naturally have
desired to deprive it of support. The Templars,
therefore, who had been on all occasions the staunch
partizans of the papacy, must on this account alone
have been objects of his aversion; they had, more-
over, loudly exclaimed against his repeated adultera-
tion of the coin, by which they sustained so much in-
jury; and they were very urgent in their demands for
repayment of the money which they had lent him on
the occasion of the marriage of his daughter Isabella
with- the son ot' the king of England. Their wealth
was
great; their possessions in France were most ex-
tensive; they were connected with the noblest fami-
lies in the realm; they were -consequently, now that
they seemed to have given up all idea of making any
farther eB`orts in the East, likely to prove a serious
obstacle in the way of the establishment of the abso-
lute power of the crown. They were finally very
generally disliked on account of their excessive pride
and arrogance, and it was to be expected that in an
attack on their power and privileges the popular
favour would be with the king. These motives will,
we
apprehend, sufficiently account for Philip's anxiety
to give a check to the order, beyond which, as it
would appear, his plans did not at first extend. We
cannot venture to say when this project first entered
the mind of king Philip; whether he had the Hos-
pitallers also in view, and whether he impelled the'
pope to invite the Masters of the two orders to
France. e
284 SECRET SOCIETIES.
As the rivalry and ill-feeling between the two
orders had long been regarded as one of the prin-
cipal causes of the little success of the Christians in
'the East, the idea of uniting them had been con-
ceived, and Gregory X. and St. Louis had striven,
but in vain, at the council at Lyons, to eliiect it.
Pope Boniface VIII. had also been anxious to bring
this project to bear, and Clement now resolved to
attempt it. On the 6th June, 1306, only six months
after his coronation, he wrote to the Masters of the
two orders to the following effect;-The kin§ of
Armenia and Cyprus were calling on him for aid;
he therefore wished toconfer with them, who knew
the country well, and were so much interested in it,
as to what were best to be done, and desired that they
would come to him as
secretly as
possible, and with
a
very small train, as
they would find plenty of their
knights on this side of the sea; he directed them to
provide for the defence of Limisso during their
absence.
The Master of the Hospital, William de Villaret,
was, when the letter arrived, engaged in the attack
on Rhodes, and, therefore, could not obey the sum~
mons. But De Molay, the Master of the Temple,
having confided Limisso and the direction of the
order to the marshal, embarked with sixty of his most
distinguished knights, taking with him the treasure
of the order, consisting of 150,000 florins of gold,
and so much silver, that the whole formed the lading
of twelve horses. When they arrived in France, he
proceeded to Paris, where the king received him with
the greatest marks of favour and distinction, and he
deposited the treasure in the Temple'of that city.
Shortly afterwards he set out for Poitiers, where he
had an interview with Clement, who consulted him
on the affairs of the East. On the subject of a new
cnisade, Molay gave it as his opinion that nothing
but a. simultaneous elfort of all the Christian powers
, 1
THE TIMPLARS. 285
would be of any avail. He objected to the union of
the orders on the following grounds, which were,
on the whole, sulliciently frivolous. He said, lst.
That what is new is not always the best; that the
orders, as
they were, had done good service in Pales-
tine, and, in short, used the good old argument of
anti-reformists, It works well. 2dly. That as the
orders were
spiritual as well as temporal, and many
a one had entered them for the weal of his soul, it
might not be a matter of indifference to such to leave
the one which he had selected and enter another.
Bdly. There might be discord, as each order would
want its own wealth and influence, and seek to gain
the mastery for its own rules and discipline. 4thly. The
Templars were generous of their goods, while the
Hospitallers were only anxious to accumulate-a dif-
ference which might produce dissension. 5thly. As
the Templars received more gifts and support from
the laity than the Hospitallers, they would be the
losers, or at least be envied by their associates.
6thly. There would probably be some
disputing be-
tween the superiors about the appointment to the dig-
nities in the new order. He however candidly
acknowledged, that the new order would be stronger
than the old one, and so more zealous to combat the
infidels, and that many commanderies might be sup-
pressed, and some saving effected thereby. Having
thus delivered his sentiments, Molay took leave of
the pope, and returned to Paris. Vague rumours of
serious charges made, or to be made, against the
order now
beginning to prevail, Molay, accompanied
by Rimbaud de Caron, preceptor of Outre-mer,
Jeifrey de Goneville, preceptor of Aquitaine, and
Hugh de Perando, preceptor of France, repaired once
more ,to Poitiers, about April, 1307, to justify him-
self and the order in the eyes of the pope. Clement,
we are told, informed them of the serious charges of
286 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the commission of various crimes which had been
made against them; but they gave him such explana-
tions as appeared to content him, and returned to
Paris, satisfied that they had removed all doubts from
his mind.
The following was the way in which the charges
were made against the Templars.
There was
lying in prison, at Paris or Toulouse,
for some crime, a man named Squin de Flexian,a
native of Beziers, who had been formerly a
Templar,
and prior of Mantfaucon, but had been put out ofthe
order for heresy and other offences. His companion
in captivity was a Florentine, named Noffo Dei-" a
man (says Villani) ihll of all iniquity." These two
began to plan how they might best extricate them-
selves from their present hopeless state; and, as
it would appear, aware of the king's dislike to the
Templars, and hating them for having punished him
for his crimes, Squin de Flexian resolved to accuse
them of the most monstrous offences, and thus ob-
tain his liberation. Accordingly, calling for the
governor of the prison, he told him that he had
a discovery to make to the king, which would be
more for his advantage than the acquisition of a. new
-kingdom, but that he would only reveal it to the king
.in person. Squin was immediately conveyed to Paris,
and brought before the king, to whom he declared
the crimes of the order; and some of the Templars
were seized and examined by order of Philip.
f
Another account says that Squin Flexian and
Notlb Dei, who were both degraded Templars, had
been actively engaged in an insurrection ofthe people
some time before, from which the king was
obliged
to take shelter in the Temple. They had been taken,
and were lying in prison without any hope of their
lives, when they hit on the plan of accusing their for-
mer associates. '.l`hey were both set at liberty; but
THE TEMPLAR8. 287
Squin was afterwards hanged, and Noffo Dei beheaded,
as was said with little probability, by the Templars.
It is also said, that, about the same time, Cardinal
Cantilupo, the pope's chamberlain, who had been in
connexion with the Templars from his eleventh year,
made some discoveries respecting it to his master.
The charges made by Squin Flexian against the
order were as follows :-
1. Each Templar, on his admission, was swom
never to quit the order; and to further its interests,
by right or by wrong.
2. The heads ofthe order are in secret alliance
with the Saracens; and have more Mahommedan
infidelity than Christian faith; in proof of which,
they make every novice spit and trample on the cross
of Christ, and blaspheme his faith in various ways.
3. The heads of the order are heretical, cruel, and
sacrilegious men. Whenever any novice, on disco-
vering the iniquity of the order, attempts to quit it,
they put him to death, and bury him privately by
night. They teach the women who are pregnant by
them how to procure abortion, and secretly murder
the new-born babes.
4. The Templars are infected with all the errors
of the Fraticelli; they despise the pope and the
authority of the Church; they contemn the sacra-
ments, especially those of penance and confession.
They feign compliance with the rites of the Church
merely to escape detection.
5. The superiors are addicted to the most infamous
excesses of debauchery; to which, if any one ex-
presses his repugnance, he is punished by perpetual
captivity. -
'
6. The temple~houses are the receptacles of every
crime and abomination that can be committed.
7. The order labours to put the Holy Land into
the hands of the Saracens; and favours them more
than the Christians.
288 SECRET SOCIETIES.
8. The installation of the Master takes place in
secret, and few of the younger brethren are present
at it; whence there is a strong suspicion that he de-
nies the Christian faith or
promises, or does some-
thing contrary to right.
9. Many statutes of the order are unlawful, pro-
fane, and contrary to the Christian religion; the
members are, therefore, forbidden, under pain of
perpetual confinement, to reveal them to any one.
10. No vice or crime committed tbr the honour or
benefit of the order is held to be a sin.
Such were the charges brought against the order
by the degraded prior of Montfaucon-charges in
general absurd, or founded on
gross exaggeration of
some of the rules of the society. Others, still more
incredible, were subsequently brought forward in the
course of the examinations of witnesses.
Philip and his ministers, having now what they
regarded as a
plausible case against the Templars,
prepared their measures in secret; and on the 12th
September, 1307, sealed letters were sent to all the
governors and royal otiicers throughout France,
with orders to arm themselves on the 12th of the
following month; and in the night to open the let-
ters and act according to the instmctions con-
tained therein. The appointed day arrived; and,
on the morning of Friday, the 13th October, nearly
all the Templars throughout France saw themselves
captives in the hands of their enemies. So well
had Philip taken his measures, that his meditated
victims were without suspicion; and, on the very
eve of his arrest, Molay was chosen by the trea-
cherous monarch to be one of the four pall-bearers
at the funeral of the Princess Catherine, wife of the
Count of Valois.
The directions sent by the king to his oflicers had
been to seize the persons and the goods of the Tem-
plars ; to interrogate, torture, and obtain confessions
'
Till TIIPLARS. 289
from them; to promise pardon to those who cou-
fessed; and to menace those who denied.
On the day of the arrest of the Master and his
knights, the king took possession of the Temple at
Paris; and the Master and the preceptors of Aqui-
taine, France, and beyond sea, were sent prisoners to
Corbeil. The following day the doctors of the Uni-
versity of Paris and several canons assembled with
the royal ministers in the church ot' Notre Dame, and
William de Nogaret, the chancellor, stated to them
that the knights had been proceeded against on
account of their heresies. On the 15th the Univer-
sity met. in the Temple; and some of the heads ot'
the order, particularly the Master, were examined,
and are said to have made some confessions of the
guilt of the order for the last forty years.
The king now
published an act of accusation, con-
ceived in no moderate or gentle terms. He calls the
accused in it devouring wolves, a
periidious and idola-
trous society, whose deeds, whose very words alone,
are enough to pollute the earth and infect. the air,
&c. &c. The inhabitants of Paris were then assem-
bled in the royal gardens; and the king's agents spoke,
and some monks preached to them against the accused.
Philip, in his hostility to the order, would be con-
tent with nothing short of its utter ruin. Almost
immediately after his coup d'état of the 13th Octo-
ber, he despatched a
priest, named Bernard Peletus,
to his son-in-law, Edward II., king of England,
inviting him to follow his example. Edward wrote,
on the 30th of the same month, to say that the
charges made against the Templars by Philip and
his agent appeared to him, his barons, and his pre-
lates, to be incredible; and that he would, therefore,
summon the senechal ot' Agen, whence this rumour
had proceeded, to inform him thereupon, before pro-
ceeding any farther. _
'
s
Q90 sncnar- socmfrirs.
~
Clement had been at first offended at the hasty
and arbitrary proceedings of the king of France
against the Templars; but Philip easily managed to
appease him; and on the 22d November the pope
wrote to the king of England, assuring him that
the Master of the Temple had spontaneously eon-
fessed that the brethren, on their admission, denied
Christ; and that several of the brethren in different
parts of France had acknowledged the idolatry and
other crimes laidto the charge of the order; and that
a knight of the highest and most honourable charac-
ter, whom he had himself examined, had confessed
the denial of Jesus Christ to be a part of the cere-
mony of admission. He therefore calls on the king
lao arrest all the Templars within his realms, and to
place their lands and goods in safe custody, till their
guilt or innocence should be ascertained.
Edward, in a letter, dated November 26, inquired
'particularly of the senechal of Agen, in Guienne,
respecting the charges against the Templars. On
the 4th December he wrote to the kings of Portugal,
Castile, Aragon, and Sicily, telling them of what he
had heard, and adding that he had given no credit
.to it; and of them not to hearken to these
rumours. On the 10th, evidently before he had re-
ceived the bull, he wrote to the pope, stating his
disbelief of what he had heard, and praying of his
holines to institute an
inquiry. Bnt when the papal
bull, so
strongly asserting the guilt of the order,
arrived, the good-hearted king did not venture to
refuse compliance with it; and he issued a writ on
the 15th December, appointing the morn of Wed-
nesday after Epiphany, in the following month, for
seizing the Templars and their property, but direct-
ing them to be treated with all gentleness. Similar
orders were forwarded to Scotland, Wales, and Ire-
land, on the 20th; and on the 26th_he wmte to
1
,
TBI TIMPLARB. 291
assure the pope that his mandates would be speedily
obeyed. The arrests took place accordingly; and
the Templars and their property were thus seized in
the two countries in which they were mostpowerfirl*.
The reluctance of the king of England and his
parliament to proceed to any harsh measures against
the Templars affords some
presumption in their fa-
vour, and would incline us to believe that, had Philip
been actuated by a similar love of justice, the order
would not have been so cruelly treated in France.
But Philip had resolved on the destruction of the
society, and his privy councillors and favourites were
not men who would seek to check him in his career of
blood and spoliation. These men were William
Imbert, his confessor, a Dominican monk, one of an
order inured in Languedoc to blood, and deeply
versed in all inquisitorial arts and practices; William
Nogaret, his chancellor, the violator of the sanctity of
the head of the church; William Plasian, who had
shared in that daring deed, and afterwards sworn, in
an assembly of the peers and prelates of France,
that Boniface was
an atheist and a sorcerer, and had
a familiar demon. The whole order of the Domini-
cans also went heart and hand in the pious work
of detecting and punishing the heretics. We must
constantly bear in mind that the charges made against
the Templars, if they may not all be classed under
the term heresy. were all such as the Church was in
the habit of making against those Whom`she perse-
cuted as
public heretics. And in this, Philip and his
advisers acted wisely in their generation; for treason,
or any other political charge, would have sounded dull
and ineiiicieut in the ears of the people, in compa-
rison with the formidable word heresy.
* The arrests were made in En land in the same secret
#nd sudden manner as in France. §ymer iii. 34, 43. -
-
s 2
2 SIUBET SOCIITII S.
0
þÿ1» ¬'-`
u;~
I
`-;
m
% "V fsé
%/
L
"/ ~"'
/p ,
§&
(?~M"=.
fi? f,
mf , | '),
'
`
'nn
i
I "_,
_§'§' § 45
`
'?¢'
%
g
'
.;
~
-_wi
`
'
T/
{
~'_ 1; `\,`- ,e ':5~`
:,lIy1;` 1
y; //`
v
W g.; _`
`
Q V V Q'§Ef*1l
1% wi ffl"
,
`
' "
~'y
M
`V""4 /R
/
R
M;< `,
`/,J 15
,xyw "_
»-
'I Q
"N ` r`
§7
Q
'i kiln
V
7
N
.K
y`y V
1 `§"¥:
<9
M
l
Tf
if
§
_,/
5
W
f
A! ;`
»" U V
W'
,l hilip le Bel.
Tl{E TEMPLARS. 293
, Cx-nwrzn X.
Examination of the captive Knights-Different kinds of Tor-
ture-Causes of Confession-What Confessions were made
-Templars brought before the Pope-Their Declarations-
Papal Commission-Molsy brought before it-Ponsard de
Gisi-Defenders of the Order-Act of Accusation-Heads
of Defence-W'itnesses against the Order-Fifty-four Tem-
plars committed to the Homes at Paris-Remarkable words of
Aymeric de Villars-le-Duc-Templars burnt inother Places
-Further Examinations-The Head worshipped by the
Templurs-John do Pollincourt-Peter de la Palu.
THB charge of conducting the inquiry against the
society was committed by Philip, without asking or
waiting for the Pope's approbation, tp Imbert, who
lost no time in, proceeding to action. He wrote to
all the inquisitors of his order, directing them to
proceed against the Templars, as he had already
done himself; and, incase of ascertaining the truth of
the charges, to communicate it to the Minorite Friars,
or some other order, that the people might take no
offence at the procedure ; and to send the declarations
as soon as
possible to the king and himself. They
were to use no cruelty towards the prisoners ; but, if
necessary, they might employ the torture. On the
19th October, six days. after their seizure, Imbert
commenced his examinations at the Temple of Paris.
One hundred and forty prisoners were examined;
when, by promises and by the aid ot' the torture, con-
fessions in abundance were
procured. Thirty-six of
the knights expired tunder the gentle method em-
294 SEGIIT SOOIRTIBS.
ployed to extract the truth from them. The zealous
Imbert then proceeded to Bayeux, Metz, Toul, and
Verdun; in all which places examinations were held
and confessions extorted in the same way. It was,
however, carefully stated in each deposition, that the
witness had spoken without any-constraint.
As our readers fortunately cannot be supposed
familiarly acquainted with the mild and gentle modes
employed by the brethren of St. Dominic, for elicit-
ing the truth, we will present a
slight sketch of some
of them, that they may he able to form some idea of
the value of rack-extorted testimony.
-
Sometimes the patient was
stripped naked, his
hands were tied behind his back, heavy weights were
fastened to his feet, and the cord which confined his
hands passed over a
pulley. At a.
given signal he
was hoisted into the air, where he hung suspended
by his arms, which were thus drawn out of their
natural position: then suddenly the cord would be
let run, but checked before the patient reached the
ground, and thus a tremendous shock given to his
frame. Another mode of torture was to fasten the
feet of the patient on an instrument, which prevented
his drawing them back ; they were then rubbed with
some unctious substance, and set before a
Banning
tire; a board was occasionally placed between his
feet and the fire, and withdrawn again, in order to
increase his pain by intervals of cessation. The
heel of the patient was at times enclosed in an iron
heel, which could be tightened at pleasure, and thus
caused excruciating pain. What was regarded as a
very gentle mode, and only indulged to those who
had not strength to undergo the preceding tortures,
was to place round sticks between their fingers, and
'compress them till the bones of the fingers were
cracked. The teeth of the Templars were occasion-
ally drawn, their feet_ roasted, weghts suspended
-
THE V
TEHPLARSL -
295
from all parts of their bodies; and thus they gave
their testimony without constraint!
What is understood as
testimony or confession, by
inquisitors, is an affirmative answer to such questions
as they ask. They usually assume the guilt of the
accused; and no witnesses for the defence are heard.
It is useless to prove the absurdity and unreasonable»
ness of the charges 5 tbr that would be impugning the
sense and judgment of those who gave ear to them;
and promises are always held out that, if full and
free confession is made, the criminal will he gently
dealt with. The accused is, moreover, always conf
fined in a solitary cell; he has none to console and
cheer him; he feels abandoned by the whole world;
conscious innocence is of no avail ; his only hope
is in the mercy of his judge. The Templars, we
must recollect, were seized towards the commencev
ment of winter; and at that season a
dungeon of the
middle ages must have been cheerless beyond de-
scription. They were barely allowed the necessaries
of life; they were stripped of the habit of the order,
and denied the cousolations of religion, for they were
treated as heretics; and they were shown a real or
pretended letter of their Master, in which he conf
fessed the crimes of the order, and exhorted them to
do the same. Enthusiasts in religion or politics are
supported by the consciousness of rectitnde, and bear
up against privations or torture in firm reliance on
the favour of the Divinity, or the praise and esteem
of a
grateful and admiring posterity. But the great
majority of the Templars were far from being such
characters; they were illiterate knights, who had long
lived in luxury and indulged in arrogance; they knew
themselves to be objects of dislike to many, and felt
that their power was
gone. Need we then be surf
prised that, beguiled by the hopes held out, numbers
of them readily acknowledged all the charges made
298 SECRET SOCIETIES.
against their order? and must we not so much the
more admire the constancy of those who, unseduced
by flattering hopes, and undismayed by menaces and
torture, yielded up their breath rather than confess a
falsehood ?
At Paris the knights who confessed acknowledged
the denial of Christ (this was the point which the
inquisitors were most anxious to establish), but in an
uncertain, contradictory manner. as what was said
on one examination .was retracted on another, or was
enlarged or diminished. It was also confessed that
an idol was adoredin their chapters. At Nimes, in
November, 1307, forty-tive knights confessed the
guilt of the order. They afterwards retracted ; but in
1311 the torture made them revert to their original
declaration. At Troyes two knights confessed every-
thing that was
required of them. At Pont de l'Arche
seven confessed. These and six others were again
examined at Caen; they terminated their declarations
by imploring the mercy of the Church. and entreating
with tears to be spared the torture. Those examined
at Carcassonne all deposed to the worship of the
image; but some of them afterwards retracted that
admission, and died maintaining the innocence of
the order. Six Templars at Bigorre
*
and seven at
Cahors confessed; but several of them afterwards
retracted.
Philip and his creatures were at this stage of
their career, when the pope began to testify some
little dissatisfaction at the irregularity of the pro-
ceedings. The king instantly wrote to upbraid him
* In the church of the romantic hamlet of Gavarnic, a
few
leagues
from Baréges, on the road to Spain, in the heart
of the autes Pyrénéea, are shown twelve skulls,which are
said to have been those of Témplars who were beheaded in
that place. The tradition is, in all probability, incorrect ;
but the Templars had possessions in Bigorre.
THE TEMPLARS.
'
'
297
with his lukewarmness in the cause of religion. He
stated that the bishops, who were his (the king's)
helpers in the government ot' the Church, were the
fittest persons to carry on the business, on account of
their local knowledge; and added that neither he
nor they could comply with the desires of the pope:
"
he acted," he said,
"
as the servant of God, and
must render to God his account." Clement could
not venture to impede the pious labours of such a
zealous servant of the Lord; he cancelled the bull
which he had prepared on the subject, only requiring
that each bishop's inquisitors should be confirmed by
a
provincial council, and that the examination of
the heads of the order should be reserved for himselfl
Philip then condescended to offer to put the captives
into the hands of the papal judges, and to devote
the goods of the order to the profit of the Holy
Land. The clergy declined taking charge of the
knights, and the king and pope managed the pro-
perty of the order in common.
In the beginning of the year 1308, we are told ',
the Master of the '1`emplars, the preceptor of Cyprus,
the visiter of France, and the great- riors of Aqui-
taine and Normandy, were brought Eefore the pope
at Chinon, where they voluntarily, and without the
application of any torture, confessed the truth of the
enonnifies laid to the charge of the order. They
abjured their errors, and the cardinals implored the
king in their favour.
M. Raynouard 1-, we know not on what authority,
positively denies that the Muster and his companions
were ever brought before the pope. He says that, in
the month of August following, they were on their way
to Poitiers, in order to be examined by the pontiif
*
This is mentioned in a. private letter from Clement to
Philig
of the 30th December,~l308.
1- onumeus Hintoriques, Src. p. 46.
s 5
298 szonar socnmss.
in person ; but that, under pretext of some of them'
being sick, they were detained at Chinon, instead of
being brought on to Poitiers, where the pope re-
mained, and were finally conducted back to Paris
without having seen him. He does not give the date
of this occurrence, but it it would seem to have been
in the following autumn.
The proceedings against the Templars were so
manifestly contrary to the interest of the pope, that
Philip deemed it necessary to keep a strict eye over
him. Having, in May, 1308, convoked an
assembly of
the states at Tours, and obtained from them a declara-
tion of his right to punish notorious heretics without
asking the consent of the pope, and in which he was
called upon to act with rigour against the Templars,
he proceeded with it himself to Poitiers, and pre-
sented it to Clement. During the negociations which
took place at that time, the pope attempted to make
his escape to Bordeaux, but his baggage and his
treasures were stopped by the king's orders at the
gate of the town, and Clement remained in effect a
prisoner.
While the supreme pontiff was thus in his power,
Philip, who still remained at Poitiers, by way of re-
moving all his scruples, had, on the 29th and 30th
June, and lst July, seventy-two of the Templars,
who had confessed, brought before Clement and
examined. As was to be expected, ,the greater part
repeated their former declarations of the impiety,
idolatry, and licentiousness
'
of the order. From
these depositions it appears clearly that the tortnuve
had been employed to extract the former confessions.
Pierre de Broel said that he had been stripped and
put to the torture, but that he had said neither more
nor less on that account. He added that those who
tortured him were all drunk.
Guillaume de Haymes had not been tortured, but
.TBI TIMPLARS.
'
299
he had been kept a month in solitary confinement ou
bread and water before he made any confession. ;
Gerard de St. Martial, who confessed to having
denied Christ, and spitten beside the cross, said that
he had been cruelly tortured, being at first ashamed'
to acknowledge these facts, although they were true.
Deodat Jafet had been tortured, but it was the in-
spiration of God and the blessed Virgin Mary, and not
the rack, which had made him confess. He acknow-
ledged every crime imputed to the order. Speaking
of the idol, he said,
"
I was alone in a chamber with
the person who received me: he drew out of a box a
head, or idol, which appeared to me to have three.
faces, and said, Thou alzouldst adore it as thy Savi-
our amd that of the order of the Temple. We then-
bent our two knees, and I cried, Bkssed be he who
will save my soul, and I worshipped it." Yet Jafet
afterwards retracted this deposition, and stood forth
as one of the defenders of the order.
Iter de Rochefort, though he said he had con-~
fessed, had been tortured repeatedly, with a view
to extracting more from him. He declared that,
having been received in the unlawful way, he had
confessed himself to the patriarch of Jerusalem,
who had wept bitterly at hearing of such wicked-
ness. As Rayuouard very justly observes, the
patriarch, who could hardly be a friend to the Tem-
plars, was not very likely to content himself with
shedding a. few useless tears had the knowledge of
such a
heresy come to his ears.
Pierre de Conders had confessed at the sight of
the rack.
Raymond de Sléphani had been severely tortured
at Carcassonne. Being asked why he did not then
tell the truth, he replied,
"
Because I did not recol-
lect it;' but I prayed the senechal to allow me to
300 SECRET SOCIETIES.
confer with my companions, and when I had delihe~
rated with them I recollected."
Who can give credit to depositions like these,
most of which were subsequently revoked? Yet it
was by these that the pope declared himself to be
perfectly satisfied of the guilt of the order, and justi-
fied the rigorous measures which he authorized
against it. Philip, we are to observe, was all this
time at Poitiers: the prisoners were examined before
the cardinals, and only those who had not retracted
their former rack-extorted confessions were produced
in the large concourse of nobles, clergy, and people
assembled on this occasion'.
Clement and Philip now
arranged the convocation
of an mcumenic council at Vienne, to pronounce the
abolition of the order. The pope also appointed a
commission to take at Paris a juridical information
against it; and, on the lst August, he authorised the
bishops and his delegates to proceed in their inquiries.
On the 1 2th August,bythe bull Faciensmimericordiam,
after asserting the guilt of the order, he called upon
all princes and prelates throughout the Christian
world to assist him in making inquiry into this alfair.
The commission appointed by the pope was com-
posed of the archbishop of Narbonne, the bishops of
Bayenx, Mende, and Limoges; Matthew of Naples,
archdeacon of Rouen, notary of the Holy See; John
of Mantua, archdeacon ofTrent; John of Montlaur,
archdeacon of Maguelone; and William Agelin, pro-
vost of Aix, which last was
prevented by busin
from giving attendance. They entered on their
functions on the 7th August, 1309, and ordered that
the brethren of the Temple should he cited before
them on the first day of business after the festival of
*
Raynouard, p. 253. _
'IRI TIMPLABS; 301'
St. Martin, in November. The citations were to be
published in presence of the people and clergy in the
cathedrals, churches, and schools, in the principal
houses of the order, and in the prisons in which the
knights were confined. No one
appearing, new
citations were issued; and at length the Bishop of
Paris was called on by the commission to go himself
to the prison where the Master and the heads of the
order were confined, and notify it to them. Having
done so, he caused the same notification to be made
throughout his diocese. The following circumstance,
which occurred at this time, would seem to indicate
that impediments were thrown in the way of those
who were disposed to defend the order by the royal
ministers. The commissioners were informed that
the governor of the Chatelet had arrested and im-
prisoned some
persons who were presumed to have
come to defend the order. The governor being sum-
moned before them, declared that, by order of the
ministers, he had arrested seven persons who were
denounced as
being Templars in a lay habit, who had
come to Paris with money in order to procure advo-
cates and defenders for the accused. He acknow-
ledged that he had put them to the torture, but said
that he did not believe them to be Templars.
On Wednesday, Nov. 26, the commission sat, and
Molay, the Master of the Temple, was brought before
it. He was asked if he would defend the order, or
speak for himself. He replied by expressing his
surprise that the Church should proceed with such
precipitation in this case, when the sentence relative
to the Emperor Frederic had been suspended for
thirty-two years. Though he had neither knowledge
nor talent sutiicient to defend the order, he should
consider himself vile in his own
eyes, and in those of
others, if he hesitated to do so; but being the
302 SEOIIT SOGEIIIS.
prisoner of the king and. the P°P¢» and' without
money, he asked for aid and counsel.
The commissioners desired him to reflect on his
oder, and to consider the confessions respecting him-
self and the order which he had made. They agreed,
however, to give him time; and, that he might not
be ignorant of what was alleged against him, had the
documents containing their powers read to him in
the vulgar language.
During the reading of the letters which recited his
confession made to the cardinals at Chinon, he
crossed himself repeatedly, and gave other signs of
indignation and surprise, and said, that, were it not
for the respect due to the envoys of the pope, he
should express himself differently. They said they
were not come there to receive challenges. He re-
plied that he spoke not of cartels, he only wished
they acted in this case as the Saraoens and Tartars
did, who cut of the head and cut the body in two of
those who were found to be guilty.
Two circumstances are worthy of note in this
examination; one, that William Plasian was
present
at it, and, as the commissioners expressly declared,
without being invited by them ; the other, that the
confessions, which were imputed to Molay, and
which he evidently intimated to be false, were inserted
in the bull Faciena misericordiam, which bears the
date of the 12th August, although the festival of the
Assumption, that is the 16th of August, is given
as the day on which they were made *. It was
there declared that the heads of the order had
confessed and been absolved; yet here we find the
*
Raynouard,61. This circumstance was first remarked by
Fleury, Hin. Eccles., lib. xci. Yet it seems hardly credible
thatgripope and his secretaries could have made so
gross s
mist _
. _
_
_THU 'l'llPl|$l3¢ 303'
llfgasiter treated as a heretic who was still unrecon-l
ci e _
The following day (Nov. 27), Ponsard de Gisi,
prior of Payens, appeared before the commission.
On being-asked if he would defend the order, he
replied,
"
Yes ; the imputations cast on us of deny-
ing Christ, of spitting on the cross, of authorising
infamous crimes, and all such accusations, are false.
If I, myself, or other knights, have made confessions
before the bishop of Paris, or elsewhere, we have
betrayed the truth-we have yielded to fear, to
danger, to violence. We were tortured by Flexien
de Beziers, prior of Montfaucon, and the monk Wil~
liam Robert, our enemies. Several of the prisoners
had agreed among themselves to make these con-
fessions, in order to escape death, and because
thirty-six knights had died at Paris, and a great
number in other places, under the torture. As for
me, I am ready to defend the order in my own name,
and in the names of those who will make common
cause with me, if I am assigned out of the goods of
the order as much as will defray the needful expense.
I require to be granted the counsel of Raynaud of
Orleans and of Peter of Bologna, priests of the
order." He was asked if he had been tortured.
He replied that he had, three months before he
made his confession.
Next day the Master was brought up again. He
demanded to be brought before the pope, appealed
to the valour and charity of the Templars, and their
zeal in adorning churches, in proof of their piety, and
made an orthodox confession of his own faith. No-
garet, who was present, then observed, that it was
related in the chronicles of St. Denis that the Mas-
ter ofthe order had done homage to Saladin; and
that the sultan had ascribed their ill fortune to their
secret vices and impiety. Molay declared that he_
304 sncnnr socnmns.
had never heard of such calumnies; and gave an
instance of the prudence and good faith of a former
Master, when himself and some other young men
wanted him to break a truce. Molay concluded by
praying the chancellor and the commissioners to
procure him the favour of hearing mass, and being
attended by his chaplains.
Orders having been given that all the Templars
who were desirous to undertake the defence of the
order should be conveyed to Paris, they were
brought
thither strongly guarded. The commission then re-
newed'its sittings. As the prisoners were succes-
sively brought before it, they, with few exceptions,
declared their readiness to defend their order-till
death, cried some ; till the end, cried others ; be-
cause I wish to save
my soul, added one. Bertrand
de St. Paul declared that he never did, and never
would, confess the guilt of the order, because it was
not true; and that he believed that God would work
a miracle if the body of Christ was administered to
those who confessed and those who denied. Seven
of those who had been examined before the pope,
and had confessed, now declared that they had lied,
and revoked what they then said. John de Val~
gellé maintained that he had made no confession on
that occasion.
"
I was tortured so much, and held
so
long before a
burning fire," said Bernard de Vado,
"
that the flesh of my heels was burnt, and these two
bones (which he showed) came off"
In the course of these examinations, a
Templar,
named Laurent de Beaune, showed a letter with the
seals of Philip de Voet and John Jainville, the per-
sons set bythe pope and king over the prisoners,
addressed to the Templars confined at Sens, inviting
them to confess what was required, and declaring
that the pope had given orders that those who did not
persevere in their confessions should be committed to
_ THB TBMPLABS. 305
the flames. Philip de Voet, on
being interrogated,
said that he did not believe that he had sent. that
letter; his sealhad often lain in the hands of' his
secretary; he had always advised the prisoners to
speak the truth. Jsinville was not examined, neither
was John Carpini, the bearer of the letter. De
Beaune was one of the first afterwards committed to
the flames; the supposition is natural, that the letter
was a
stratagem of the king and his ministers.
The Master having been again brought before the
commissioners, and having renewed his demand of
being sent to the pope, they promised to write to the
pope on the subject, but there is no proof of their
having done so.
On the 28th March all the Templars who had
expressed their willingness to defend the order were
assembled in the garden of the bishop's palace.
Their number was 546. The Master was not among
them. The articles of accusation were then read
over to them in Latin; the commissioners ordered
that they should be read again to them in the vulgar
tongue, but the knights all cried out that it was
enough, they did not desire that such abominations,
which were false and not. to be named, should be
repeated in the vulgar language. Again, they com-
plained of the deprivation of their religious habits
and the sacraments of the church, and desired that
the Master and the heads of the order should be
called thither also. But this reasonable request was
not complied with. In vain the Master demanded
to be brought before the pope; in vain the knights
required to be permitted to enjoy the presence of
their chieil Neither the one nor the other suited
the interest or the designs of the king.
The number ofthe Templars in Paris soon amounted
to near 900. The commissioners were desirous that
805 SIDRBT IOCIETIIS.
they should appoint agents to manage their defence;
but this they declined to do, some alleging that
they could not do so without the consent of their
chief; others insisting on defending the order in
person. At length, after a great deal of argument
and deliberation, seventy~8ve Templara were chosen
to draw up the defence of the order; and the priests
of the order, Raynaud de Pruino and Peter of Bo-
logna, and the knights, William de Chambonnet
and Bertrand de Sartiges, were appointed to be
present at the deposition of the witnesses.
The act of accusation against the Templars, drawn
up in the name of the pope, ran thus. At the time
of their reception they were made to deny God,
Christ, the Virgin, &c. ; in particular to declare that
Christ was not the true God, but a false prophet,
who had been crucified for his own crimes, and not
for the redemption of the world. They spat and
trampled on the cross, especially on Good Friday.
They worshipped a cat which sometimes appeared in
their chapters. Their priests, when celebrating mass,
did not pronounce the words of consecration. They
believed that their Master could absolve them from
their sins. They were told at their reception that
they might abandon themselves to all kinds of licenv
tiousness. They had idols in all their provinces,
some with three faces, some with one. They
worshipped these idols in their chapters, believed that
they could save them, regarded them as the givers of
wealth to the order, and of fertility to the earth;
they touched them with cords which they aflerwarch
tied round their own bodies. Those who at the time
of their -reception would not comply with these prac-
tices were
put to death or
imprisoned. All this, it
was stated, took place according to the statutes of
the order ; it was a general and ancient custom, and
-'THE TEMPLAR8. 307-
there was no other mode of reception. The act of
accusation stated farther that the Templars stopped
at no means ofenriching the order *. V
The Templars, in their reply, asserted that all
these imputations were false, and that if any of them
had confessed them, they had done so under tenor
and violence, thirty-six having expired by torture at
Paris and several others elsewhere. The forms of
law had been violated with respect to them; to obtain
from them false- depositions letters of the king had
been shown them declaring that the order had been
condemned irrevocably, and offering life, liberty,
and pensions, to those who would depose falsely.
"
All these facts, said they, are so
public and so
notorious that there are no means or
pretexts for
disavowing them." The heads of accusation were
nothing but falsehoods and absurdities, and the bull
contained nothing but horrible, detestable, and
iniquitous falsehoods. Their order was
pure. and if
their statutes were consulted they would be found to
be the same for all Templars and for all countries.
Their belief was that ofthe Church; parents brought
their children, brothers each other, uncles their
nephews, into the order, because it was pure and holy.
When in captivity to the infidels, the Templars died
sooner than renounce their religion. They declared
their readiness to defend their innocence in every
way, and against every person except the pope and
the king, demanded to be brought personally before
the general council, required that those who had
qultted the order and deposed against it should be
_
*
All these crimes had been acknowledged by various mem-
bers of the order. Yet what can be more improbable than the
worship of the cat for instance? This charge, by the way,
had already been made against the sect of the Cathari, who
were said to have derived their name a calm :-rather their
name gave origin to the invention. .
308 SECRET SOCIETll!8¢
kept in close custody till their truth or falsehood
should be ascertained, and that no layman should be
present to intimidate the accused when under exami~
nation. The knights, they maintained, had been
struck with such terror, that the false confessions
made by some were less matter of surprise than the
courage of those who maintained the truth wasof
admiration. Inquire, said they, of those who were
present at the last moments ofthe knights who died
in prison; let their confessions be revealed, and it will
be seen if the accusations are true. Is it not strange,
asked they in conclusion, that more credit should be
given to the lies of those who yielded to tortures or
to promises than to the asseverations of those who,
in defence of the truth, have died with the palm of
martyrdom-of the sound majority of those knights
who have suffered and still suffer so much for con-
science' sake ?
On the llth April, 1310, the hearing of the wit-
nesses
against the order commenced. Only twenty-
one were
produced, two of whomdid not belong to
the order, the others being principally those who
had persisted in their declarations before the pope.
As might be expected; all the crimes laid to the
charge of the order in the papal bull were again
deposed to by these men; but the commission had
only got as far as the examination of the thirteenth
witness when the impatience of the king manifested
itself in a barharous and illegal act, which had appa-
rently long been meditated. -
The Archbishop of Sens, whose suifragan the
Bishop of Paris was, had died about Easter, 1309,
and the pope had reserved the nomination to himself.
Philip wrote to him requiring of him to nominate
Philip de Marigny, Bishop of Cambray, brother to
Enquerrand, his prime minister, alleging that his
youth was no just impediment, and that his acts
THE TBMPLARS. 309
would prove how much he was beyond his age. The
pope, though very reluctant, was obliged to consent,
and in April, 1310, Marigny was installed. No time
'was now lost in proceeding to operation. On Sun-
day, May 10, the four defenders of the order learned
that the provincial council of Sens was convoked at
Paris in order to proceed against the knights indi~
vidually. They took alarm, and applied to the com-
mission, which, though it did not sit_ on
Sundays,
assembled, and Peter of Bologna informed them of
what he had heard. He begged that they would
suffer him to read an
appeal which he had drawn up.
This they declined doing, but said that, if he had any
defence ofthe order to give in, they would receive it.
He forthwith laid down a written paper, stating the
danger which the prisoners were in dread of, appeal-
ing to the holy see, and entreating the commission
to stop the proceedings of the archbishop and his
sulfragans. The defenders of the order then retired,
and the further consideration of the affair was
put oil'
till after vespers, when they re-appeared and gave in
an address to the Archbishop of Sens, containing an
appeal to the pope. The commissioners, however,
declined interfering for the present.
It is to be noticed that the defenders of the order
prayed on this occasion of the commission to nomi~
nate one or more of its notaries to draw up their act
of defence, because they could find no notary who
would act for them, owing probably to fear of the royal
displeasure, or to the want of funds by the accused.
On Monday and Tuesday two more of the wit-
nesses were heard. One of them named Humbert
de Puy declared that, having refused to acknowledge
the crimes laid to the charge of the order, he had
been tortured three times and kept for thirty-six
weeks on bread and water in the bottom of an in-
fected tower, by order of John de Jainville.
3l0 SECRET SOGIETIIS.
While thtisengaged, the commissioners learned
to their dismay that the council was about to commit
to the flames fifty-four of the knights who had step-
ped forth as the defenders of the order. They
instantly sent one of their notaries and one of the
keepers of the prison of the Templars to entreat the
archbishop to act with caution, as there were
strong
reasons for doubting the truth of the charges; and
representing that the witnesses were so terrified at
what they had heard of the intentions of the council,
that they were incapable of giving their evidence;
that moreover the Templars had delivered in an
appeal to the pope.
The archbishop, who was paying the price of his
elevation to a hard creditor, was not to be stopped
by these considerations. He was making short work
of the business. On the Monday he had a. number
of those who had undertaken the defence of the order
brought before the council, and he interrogated them
once more himselfl Those of them who, having con-
fessed, had afterwards retracted, and now persisted
in their retractation, were declared to be relapsed
heretics, and were delivered over to the secular arm
and condemned to the flames ; those who, had not
confessed, and would not, were sentenced to imprison-
ment as unreconciled Templars; those who persisted
in their confession of the enormities laid to the charge
of the order were set at liberty, and called reconciled
Templars.
`
The next morning the fifty-four Templars who
had been declared relapsed were taken from their
prison, placed in carts, and conducted to the place
of execution, where they beheld the piles prepared,
and the executioners standing with flaming torches
in their hands. An envoy from the court was
pre-
sent, who proclaimed liberty and the royal favour for
thcse who would even then _retract theirdcclarations
,
Till _'l'BiPL¢B5. 3l
and confess the guilt ofthe order. The friends and
relatives ofthe unhappy victims crowded round them,
with tears and prayers, imploring of them to make
the required acknowledgment and save their lives.
In vain. These gallant knights, who, yielding to the
anguish of torture, and worn down by solitude and
privations, had confessed to the truth of the most
absurd charges, now that they beheld the certain
limit of their sufferings, disdained to purchase by
falsehood s. prolongation of life to be spent in infamy
and contempt( With one voice they re-asserted their
own innocence and that oftheir order. They called
on God, the Virgin, and all the saints to aid and sup-
port them, raised the hymn of death, and expired
amidst the tears and commiseration of the by-standers.
Felons convicted on the clearest evidence will, as
is well known,die asserting their innocence; but this
is when they have no hope of escape remaining.
Here life and liberty were offered, and the victims
werefimplored by those whom they most loved to
accept of them. May we not then assert that the
-men who resisted all solicitations were sincere and
spoke the truth, and were supported by their con~
tidence of being received-as martyrs by that God
whom they devoutly adored according to the doctrines
of their church?
On Wednesday, Aymeric de Villars-le-Duc, aged
-about fifty years, was brought before the commis-
sioners. He was quite pallid, and seemed terrified
beyond measure. On the articles to which he was
to depose being explained to him, he asseverated in
the strongest manner his resolution to speak the
truth; then striking his breast with his clenched
hands, he bent his knees, and stretching his hands
towards the altar, spake these memorable words :-
"
I persist in maintaining that the errors imputed
to the Template are
absolutely false, though I hav¢
312 SECRET SO0IB'l'IlS¢
confessed some of them myself overcome by the tor-
tures which G. de Marcillae and Hugh de Celle, the
king's knights, ordered to be inflicted on me. I
have seen the fifty-four knights led in carts to be
committed to the flames because they would not
make the confessions which were required of them.
I have heard that they were burnt; and I doubt if I
could, like them, have had the noble constancy to
brave the terrors of the pile. I believe that, if I were
threatened with it, I should depose on oath before the
commission, and before any other persons who should
interrogate me, that these same errors imputed tothe
order are true. I would kill God himself it was
required Qf
`
He then earnestly implored the commissioners and
the notaries who were present not to reveal to the
king's officers, and to the keepers of the Templm,
the words which had escaped him, lest they should
deliver him also to the ilames.
Ought not these simple honest words, the very
accents of truth, to prevail with us against all the
confessions procured by torture, or by promises or
threats, and satisfy us as to their value ?
The commissioners, whose conduct throughout
the whole affair was regulated by humanity and
justice, declared that the evening before one of the
witnesses had come to them and implored of them
to keep his deposition secret, on account of the danger
which he ran if it should be known ; and, judging that
in their present state of terror it would not be just
to hear the witnesses, they deliberated on proroguing
their session to a future period.
We thus see that even the papal commission could
not protect against the king such of the witnesses as
were honest and bold enough to maintain the inno-
cence of the order. Strict justice was therefore out
of the question, Philip would have the order guilty
THE TEMPLARS. 313
of the most incredible crimes, and death awaited the
Witness who did not depose as he wished. Mean-
time his agents were busily engaged in tampering
with the prisoners; and by threats and promises they
prevailed' on
fortyffour of them to give up their
design of defending the order.
On the 21st May the commissioners met, in the
absence of the Archbishop of Narbonne and the
Archdeacon of Trent, and, declaring their labours
suspended for the present, adjourned to the 3d
November.
In the interval the conduct of the council of Sens
had been imitated in other provinces. The Arch-
bishop of Rheims held a council at Senlis, by whose
sentence nine Templars were committed to the iiames.
Another council was held at Pont-de-1'Arche by the
Archbishop of Rouen, and several knights were
burnt. The Bishop of Carcassonne presided at 'a
council which delivered many victims to the secular
arm. On the 18th August the Archbishop of Sens
held a second council, and burned four knights.
Thibault, Duke of Lorraine, the close friend of
King Philip, put many Templars to death, and
seized the property of the order.
On the 3d November three of the papal commis-
sioners met at Paris :
they asked if any one wished to
defend the order of the Templars. No one appearing
they adjourned to the 27th December. On resuming
their sittings they called onfWilliam de Chambonnet
and Bertrand de Sartiges to give their presence at
the hearing of the witnesses. These knights required
the presence of Raynaud de Pruino and Peter of
Bologna, but were informed that these priests had
solemnly and voluntarily renounced the defence of
the order, and revoked their retractations; that the
latter had escaped from his prison and fled, and that
the former could not be admitted to defend the order,
'r
314 SECRET SOCIITIIS.
as he had been degraded at the council of Sens.
The knights reiterated their refusal and retired.
The commissioners then proceeded in their labours
without them, and continued the examination of
witnesses till the 26th May, 1811.
The whole number of persons examined before the
commision amounted to 231, for the far greater part
serving-brethren. Of these about two-thirds ae~
knowledged the truth of the principal charges against
the order. The denial of Christ and spitting on the
cross were very generally confessed, but many said
they had spitten beside it, not on it, and also that they
had denied God with their lips, not with their hearts.
With respect to the head which the Templars were
said to worship, as itwas of some importance to prove
this offence, in order to make out the charge of
heresy, it was testified to by a few. Some said it
was like that of a man with a
long white beard,
others that it was like that of a woman, and that it
was said to be the head of one of the 11,000 virgins.
One witness gave the following account of it, which
he said he had had from a secular knight at Limisso,
in Cyprus.
A certain nobleman was
passionately in love with
a maiden. Being unable, however, to overcame her
repugnance to him, he took her body, when she was
dead, out of her grave, and cut off her head, and
while thus engaged he heard a voice crying'-Keep
it safe, whatever looks on it will be destroyed. He
did as desired, and made the first trial of it on the
Grissons, an Arab tribe, which dwelt in Cyprus and
the neighbouring country, and whenever he un-
covered the head and turned it towards any of their
towns, its walls instantly fell down. He next em-
barked with the head for Constantinople, being re-
solved to destroy that city also. On the way his
nurse, outof curiosity, opened the buxwhich eontained
JTHB TIMPLARS.
`
315,
the head; Instantlythere came on a terrific storm,
the ship went to pieces, and nearly all who were on
board perished. The very fish vanished from that
part of the sea.
Another of the witnesses had heard the same story.
The common tradition of the East, he said, was, that
in old times, before the two spiritual orders of knight-
hood were founded, a head used to rise in a certain
Whirlpool named Setalia, the appearance of which
was very dangerous for the ships which happened to
be near it. We are to suppose, though it does not
appear that the witnesses said so, that the Templars
had contrived to get possession ofthis formidable head.
We are to observe that the witnesses who thus de-
posed had been picked and culled in all parts of
France, by the king's officers, out of those who had
confessed before the different prelates and provincial
councils, and who were, by threats and promises, en~
gaged to persist in what they had said. The terror
they were under was visible in their countenances,
their words, and their actions. Many of them began
by saying that they would not vary from what they
had deposed before such a
bishop or such a council ;
yet even among these some were bold enough to
revoke their confessions, declaring that they had been
drawn from them by torture, and asserted the inno-
cence of the order. Others retracted their confessions
when brought before the commissioners, but shortly
afterwards, having probably in the interval been well
menaced or tortured by the king's officers, returned
and retracted their retractation.
The case of John de Pollencourt, the thirty-seventh
witness, is a remarkable instance. He began in the
usual way, by declaring that he would persist in his
confession made before the Bishop of Amiens,
touching the denial ofChrist, &c. The commissioners,
observing his paleness and agitation, told him to tell
316 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the truth and save his soul, and not to persist in his
confession if it had not been sincere, assuring him
that neither they nor their notaries would reveal any
thing that he said. After a
pause he replied :-
"
I declare then, on
peril of my soul, and on the
oath which I have taken, that, at the time of my re-
ception, I neither denied God nor spat upon the cross,
nor committed any of the indecencies of which we
are accused, and was not required so to do. It is
true that I have made confessions before the inqui-
sitors; but it was
through the fear of death, and be-
cause Giles de Rotangi had, with tears, said to me,
and many others who were with me in prison at
Montreuil, that we should pay for it with our lives,
if we did not assist by our confessions to destroy the
order. I yielded, and afterwardslwished to confess
myself to the Bishop of Amiens; he referred me to a
Minorite friar; I accused myself of this falsehood, and
obtained absolution, on condition that I would make
no more false depositions in this affair. I tell you
the truth; I persist in attesting it before you; come
what may of it, I prefer my soul to my body."
Nothing can bear more plainly the character of
truth than this declaration; yet three days afterwards
the witness came back, revoked it all, spoke of the
cat which used to appear in the chapters, and said
that, if the order had not been abolished, he would
have quitted it. Had he not been well menaced and
tortured in the interim ?
The examination of Peter de la Palu, a bachelor
in theology of the order of the preachers, the 20lst
witness, brought from him these remarkable words:
"
I have been present at the examination ofseveral
Templars, some of whom confessed many of the
things contained in the said articles, and some others
totally denied them; 'and for many reasons it ap-
peared to me that greater credit was to be given to
those who denied than tothose who confessed."
,
TRI TBUPLABS.
'
317
,
CHAPTER XI.
Examinations in England-Germany-Spain-Italy-Naples
and Provence-Sicily-Cyprus-Meeting ofthe Council of
Vienna-Suppression of the order-Fate of its Members-
Death of Molay.
THE time fixed for the meeting of the council at
Vienne was now at hand, in which the fate of the
order was to be decided. Before we
proceed to
narrate its acts we will briefly state the result of the
examinations of the Templars in other countries.
The pope sent, as his judges, to England, Dieu-
donné, abbot of Lagny, and Sicard de Vaux, canon
of Narbonne; and the examinations commenced at
York, London, Lincoln, and other places, on the
25th November, 1309. The inquiry continued till
the council held in London in 1811 ; the number of
Templars examined was two hundred and twenty-
eight; that of the witnesses against the order was
seventy-two, almost all Carmelites, Minorites, Do-
minicans, and Augustinians, the natural foes of the
order. The Templars were treated with great mild-
ness; and in England, Ireland, and Scotland, they
were unanimous and constant in their assertion of
the innocence of the order. The evidence against
the order was almost all hearsay: its nature will be
shown by the following specimens.
John de Goderal, a Minorite, had heard that
Robert de Raxat, a Templar, had once gone about
a meadow crying
"
Wo, wo is me! that ever I
was born. I have been forced to deny God, and
give myself up to the devil."
'r 3
318 BEUBI1' SOCIETIES.
A Templar had said to William de Berney, in the
presence of several respectable people, at the funeral
of the parish-priest of Duxworth, near Cambridge,
that a man has no more a soul, after death, than a
do .
gohn De Eure, a secular knight, said that he
once invited the prior William de Fenne to dine with
him. After dinner the prior took from his bosom a
book, and gave it to the knight's lady to read. She
found on a
paper which was fastened into the book
the following words,
"
Christ was not tl|e Son of God,
nor born ol' a
virgin, but conceived by Mary, the wife
of Joseph, in the same way us all other men. Christ
was not a true but a false prophet, and was cnxciiied
for his own crimes and not for the redemption of
mankind, Src." The lady showed this paper to her
husband, who spoke to the prior, who only laughed
at it ; but, being brought before a court ofjustice, he
confessed the truth, excusing himself onthe grounds
of his being illiterate and ignorant of what the book
contained.
Robert of Oteringham, a Minorite, said, "One
evening my prior did not appear at table, as relics
were come from Palestine which he wished to show
the brethren. About midnight I heard a confused
noise in the chapel ; I got up, and, looking through
the keyhole, saw that it was
lighted. In the morn-
ing I asked a brother who was the saint in whose
honourthey had celebrated the festival during the
night ? I-le turned pale with terror, thinking' I had
seen something, and said
"
Ask me not; and if you
value your life say nothing of it before the su-
periors."
Another witness said that the son of a
Templar
had peeped through the slits of the door into the
chapter-room, and seen a. new member put to deatlr
for hesitating to deny Christ. Long afterwards,
THE TEMPLARS. 319
being asked by his father to become a. Templar, he
refused, telling what he had seen: his father instantly
slew him.
John of Gertia, a Minorite, was told by a. woman
named Agnes Lovecote, who said she had it from
Exvalethus. prior in Loudon, that when in one of the
chapters a_brother had refused to spit on the cross,
they suspended him in a well and covered it up.
This witness also deposed to some other enormities
which he said he had heard of from the same woman,
herself speaking from hearsay.
In June, 1310, the pope wrote to King Edward,
blaming his lenity and calling on him to employ the
torture in order to elicit the truth. The council of
London, after a
long discussion, ordered it to be ern-
ployed, but so as not to mutilate the limbs or cause
an incurable wound or violent effusion of blood.
The knights persisted in asserting their innocence.
In 'Germany the different prelates examined the
Templars in their respective dioceses. Nothing was
elicited. At Mentz the order was pronounced inno-
cent. The Wildgraf Frederic, preceptor 'on the
Rhine, offered to undergo the ordeal of glowing
iron. He had known the Master intimately in the
East, and believed him to be as
good a Christian as
any man.
The Templars in the Spanish peninsula were ex-
amined, and witnesses heard for and against them in
Castile, Leon, Aragon, and Portugal, and nothing
was proved against them. The council of Tarra-
gona in Aragon, after applying the torture, pro-
nounced the order free from the stain of heresy. At
the council of Medina del Campo in Leon, one wit-
ness said that he had heard that, when some Mino-
rites visited the preceptor at Villalpando, they found
him reading a little book, which he instantly locked
up in three boxes, saying, "This book 'might fall
320 SECRET BOCIFTISS.
into hands where it may be very dangerous to the
order."
The influence of the pope may be supposed to
have been stronger in Italy than in the countries
above mentioned, and accordingly we find that de-
clarations similar to those made in France were
given there. Yet it was at Florence that the adora-
tion of the idols, the cat, &,c., was most fiilly acknow-
ledged. In the patrimony of St. Peter some con-
fessions to the same effect were made; but at
Bologna, Cesena, and Ancona, nothing transpired.
Nine Templars maintained the innocence of the
order before the council of Ravenna. It was debated
whether the torture should be employed. Two Do-
minican inquisitors were for it, the remainder of the
council declared against it. It was decreed that the
innocent should be absolved, the guilty punished
according to law. Those who had revoked the con-
fessions made under torture, or through fear of it,
were to be regarded as 'innocent-a very different
rule from that acted on by King Philip.
Charles II. of Anjou. the relation of King Philip,
and the enemy of the Templars, who were on the
aide of Frederick, king of Sicily, had the Templars
seized and examined in Provence and Naples. Those
examined in Provence were
allserving-brethren, and
some of them testified to the impiety and idolatry of
the order. Two Templars were examined at Brin-
disi, in the kingdom of Naples, in June, 1310; one
had denied the cross in_Cyprns, he said, six years
after he had entered the order; the other had tram-
pled on the cross at the time of his reception. He,
as well as others, had bowed down and worshipped a
grey cat inthe chapters.
In Sicily six Templars, the only ones who were
arrested, deposed lagainst the order. One of them
said he had been received in the unlawful way in
'rim rsurmns. 321
Catalonia, where, as we have just seen, the inno-
cence of the order was
fully recognized. His evi-
dence was full of absurdity. He said the cat had
not appeared for a
long time in the chapters but
that the ancient statutes of Damietta said that it
used to appear and be worshipped.
In Cyprus 110 witnesses were examined; 75
belonged to the order and maintained its inno-
cence; the testimony of the remainder was also in
favour of it.
We thus find that, in every place beyond 'the
sphere of the influence of the king of France and
his creature the pope, the innocence of the order was
maintained and acknowledged; and undoubtedly the
same would have been the case in France if the
proceedings against it had been regulated by justice
and the love of truth.
The time appointed for the meeting of the general
council was now arrived. On the lst October, 1311,
the pope came to Vienne, which is a short distance
from the city of Lyons, and found there 114
bishops, besides several other prelates, already as-
sembled. On the 13th, the anniversary of the arrest
of the Templars four years before, the council com-
menced its sittings in the cathedral. The pope, in
his opening speech, stated the grounds of its having
been convoked, namely, the process against the Tem-
plars, the support of the Holy Land, the reibrmation
of the Church. The bishops of Soissons, Mende,
Leon, and Aquila, who had been appointed to draw
up a. report of the result of the different examina-
tions respecting the order, read it before the assem-
bled fathers, who then once more invited any Tem-
plars who wished tn defend the order to appear.
Though the order was now broken up and
persecuted, and numbers of its ablest members dead
or languishiug in dungeons with their superiors, yet
822 SECRET l00{B1'll5.
nine knights had the courage to oome forward in de~
fence of their order, and present themselves before the
council as the representatives of from 1500 to 2000
Templars, who were still dwelling,or rather lurking in
Lyons and its vicinity. The pope was not present
when they appeared, but his letter of the llth No-
vember shows how he acted when he heard that de-
fenders of the order had presented themselves. Cle-
ment had these brave knights arrested and thrown
into prison, and, in real or affected terror at the num-
ber of Templars at large, he took additional precau-
tions for the security of his person, and counselled
the king to do the same.
To the honour of the assembled fathers, they re-
fused to sanction this iiagrant act of injustice. The
prelstes 'of Spain, Germany, Denmark, England,
Ireland, and Scotland, without exception; the Ita-
lians, all but one; the French, with the exception of
the archbishops of Rheims, Sens, and Rouen, de-
clared, but in vain, for admitting the Templars and
hearing their defence. Instead of complying with
this demand of justice and humanity, Clement sud-
denly put an end to the session. The winter passed
away in arguments and negociations.
Philip, whose practice it was always to look after
his affairs himself, deeming his presence necessary at
Vienne, set out for that place, where he arrived early
in February, accompanied by his three sons, his
brother, and several nobles and men-at-arms. The
effect of his presence was soon
perceptible ; the pope
assembled the cardinals and several other prelates
in a secret consistory, and abolished the order, by his
Sole authority, on the 22d March, 1313.
The second session ofthe council was opened on
the 3d April, with great solemnity; the king of
France, his sons, and his brother, gave their pre-
sence at it, and the royal guards appeared for honour,
THE TIIMPLARS. 323
for protection, or for intimidation. The pope read
his bull of abolition. All present listened in silence.
No one ventured to raise his voice in the cause of
justice. The wealthy and powerful order of the
knights of the Temple was
suppressed. On the 2d
May the bull was
published, and the order as such
ceased to exist.
The order being suppressed, persecution became
needless, and it consequently ceased in a
great mea-
sure. The king and the pope converted to their
own use the moveable property of the order in France.
Its other possessions were, sorely against the will ot'
the king, assigned to the order ofthe Hospitallers, who
were, however, obliged to pay such large fines to the
king and pope as completely impoverishel them.
This extended to all countries, except the Spanish
peninsula and Majorca. The property of the Tem-
plars in Aragon was
given to the order of Our Lady
of Montesa, which was founded in 3l7. Its tlesti-
nation was to combat the Moors; its habit was
similar to that of the Templars; and it might, the re-
fore, be almost called the same order. Diniz, the
able and enlightened king of Portugal, did not sup-
press the order, whose innocence his prelates had
recognised. To yield a show of obedience to the
papal will, he made it change its name, and the
great-prior of the Templars in Portugal became the
master of the Order of Christ, which has continued
to the present times.
With respect to the remaining Templars, who
were in prison, it was ordered in council that those
who shouldbefound guiltless should beset at liberty,
and maintained out of the property of the order; that
the guilty, if they confessed and lamented their
offences, should be treated with mildness; if they
did not, dealt with according to the ecclesiastical
law, and kept in custody ia- the tbrmer temple-houses
824 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and in the convents. Those who had escaped were,
if they did not appear within a year before the
council or their diocesan, to be excommunicated.
Most of the knights were immediately set at
liberty; but the property of the order was all gone,
and no means of support remained for them:
they were, therefore, reduced to the greatest distress,
and many of them obliged to submit to the most
inenial employment in order to gain a livelihood.
A great number were received into the order of St.
J ohn, on the same footing as
they had stood on in their
own order-a strong proof that the guilt of the
order of the Templars was not, by any means, re-
garded as proved. Gradually, as the members died
ofli or merged into other orders, the name of the
Templars fell into oblivion, or was only recollected
with pity for their unmerited fate.
While the noble order over which he had presided
was thus suppressed, its members scattered, its pro-
perty bestowed on others, the Master, James de
Molay, with his three companions, the peat-prior
of Normandy, Hugh de Peyraud, visiter of France,
and Guy, brother to the Dauphin of Auvergne. still
lunguished in prison. Molay had there but one
attendant, his cook; the allowance made to him was
barely suflicient to procure him common necessaries,
and life had now lost all its value in his eyes. The
pope at length determined to inform the captives of
the fate destined for them.
A papal commission, composed of the bishop of
Alba and two other cardinals, proceeded to Paris, not
to hear the prisoners, but, taking their guilt fbr proved,
to pronounce their sentence. To give all publicity
to this act, probably in accordance with the desire of
the king, a
stage was erected in front of the church
of Notre Dame, on which the three commissioners,
with the archbishop of Sens and several other pre-
THE TBMPLARS. 325
lates, took their places, on the 18th March, 1314.
An immense concourse of people stood around.
The four noble prisoners were conducted from their
dungeons, and led up on the stage. The cardinal
of Alba read out their former confessions, and pro-
nounced the sentence of perpetual imprisonment.
I-Ie was then proceeding to expose the guilt of the
order, when the Master interrupted him, and thus
spoke, taking all the spectators to witness 1-
"
It is just that, in so terrible a
day, and in the last
moments ot' my life, I should discover all the iniquity
of falsehood, and make the truth to triumph. I de-
clare, then, in the face of heaven and earth, and
acknowledge, though to my eternal shame, that I
have committed the greatest of crimes; but it has
been the acknowledging of those which have been
so foully charged on the order. I attest, and tmth
obliges me to attest, that it is innocent. I made the
contrary declaration only to suspend the excessive
pains of torture, and to mollify those who made me
endure them. I know the punishments which have
been inflicted on all the knights who had the courage
to revoke a similar confession ; but the dreadful
épectacle which is presented to me is not able to
make me confirm one lie by another. The life
offered me on such infamous terms I abandon with-
out regret."
Molay was followed by Guy in his assertion of
the innocence oil the order; the other two remained
silent. The commissioners were confounded, and
stopped. The intelligence was
conveyed to the
king, who, instantly calling his council together,
without any spiritual person being present, con-
demned the two knights to the flames.
A pile was erected on that point of the islet in the
Seine where afterwards was erected the statue of
Henry IV., and the following day Molay and his
U
31| SECRBT SOCIETI BS.
companion were brought forth and placed upon it.
They still persisted in their assertion of the inno-
cence of the order. The flames were first applied to
_their feet, then to their more vital parts. The fetid
smell of their burning flesh infected the surrounding
air, and added to their torments; yet still they per-
severed in their declarations. At length death ter-
minated their misery. The spectators shed tears at
the view of their constancy, and during the night
their ashes were gathered up to be preserved as
relics.
,f y
my
%
/ \ <
/Q _
._ §;\
_.,§;»' -1" sn
~"°z<f@ f°
'l I)
'
4
// "hw
c
-_px V "H
`
2ssrr
p
`
i
V
) 1321?-'-"~` '
5.4" 5
" `
» se ,ef
és* rv 2'__, ti irgiiib; ~§:"'
_ ~|:'
IW
r .Mn if l;ll;;l t
Portrait oflut Grand Halter.
'
It is mentioned as a tradition, by some historians,
that Molay, ere he expired, summoned Clement to
appear within forty days before the Supreme Judge,
THE TBMPLARS. 327
and Philip to the same tribunal within the space of a
year. The pontiff actually did die of a cholic on
the night of the 19th of the following month, and,
the church in which his body was laid taking fire,
the corpse was half consumed. The king, before
the year had elapsed, died of a fall from his horse.
Most probably it was these events which gave rise
to the tradition, which testifies the general belief of
the innocence of the Templars. It was also re-
marked that all the active persecutors ot`the order
perished by premature or violent deaths.
It remains to discuss the two following points :-
Did the religio-military order of the Knights Templars
hold a secret doctrine subversive of religion and
morality? Has the order been continued down to
our own days ?
We have seen what the evidence against the
Templars was, and it is very plain that such evidence
would not be admitted in any modern court of jus-
tice. It was either hearsay, or
given by persons utterly
unworthy of credit, or
wrung from the accused by
agony and torture. The articles themselves are
absurd and contradictory. Are we to believe that
the same men had- adopted the pure deism of the
Mahommedans, and were guilty of a species of
idolatry* almost too gross for the lowest super-
stition? But when did this corruption commence
among the Templars? Were those whom St. Ber-
nard praised as models of Christian zeal and piety,
and whom the whole Christian world admired and
revered, engaged in a secret conspiracy against
religion and government? Yes, boldly replies
Hammer, the two humble and pious knights who
founded the order were the pupils and secret allies of
*
Almost every charge brought against the Templars had
been previously made against the Albigenses, with how much
truth every one is aware.
U 2
328 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the Mahommedan Ismaelites. This was
going too
far for Wilike, and he thinks that the guilt of in-
troducing the secret doctrine lies on the chaplains;
for he could discern that the doctrines of gnos-
ticism, which the Templars are
supposed to have
held, were beyond the comprehension of illiterate
knights, who, though they could fight and pray, were
but ill qualified to enter into the mazes of mystic
metaphysics. According. therefore, to one
party,
the whole order was corrupt from top to bottom;
according tn another, the secrets were confined to a
few, and, contrary to all analogy, the heads of the
order were frequently in ignorance of them. Neither
offer any thing like evidence in support of their
assumption.
The real guilt of the Templars was their wealth
and their pride*: the last alienated the people from
them, the former excited the cupidity of the king of
France. Far be it from us to maintain that the
morals of the Templars were purer than those ofthe
other religious orders. With such ample means as
they possessed of indulging all their appetites and
passions, it would be contrary to all experience to
suppose that they always restrained them, and we
will even concede that some of their members were
obnoxious to charges of deism, impiety, breaches of
their religious vows, and gross licentiousness. We
only deny that such were the rules of the order.
Had they not been so devoted as they were tothe
Holy See they would perhaps have come down to us
* Our readers will call to mind the well-known anecdote of
King Richard I. When admonished by the zealous Fulk, of
Neuilly, to get rid ot' his three favourite daughters, pride,
avsrice, and voluptuouuness,-"You counsel well," said the
king, "and I hereby dispose of the first to the Templars, of
me second to the Benedictines, and of the third to my pre-
il EL'
THE TEMPLARS. 329
as unsullied as the knights of St. John*; but they
sided with Pope Boniface against Philip the Fair,
and a subservient pontilfsacriticed to his own avarice
and personal ambition the most devoted adherents
of the court of Rome 1-.
We make little doubt that any one who coolly and
candidly considers the preceding account of tlre
manner in which the order was
suppressed will
readily concede that the guilt of its members was
anything but proved. It behoves their modern
impugners to furnish some stronger proofs than
any they have as
yet brought forward. The chief
adversary of the Templars at the present day is a
writer whose veracity and love of justice are beyond
suspicion, and who has earned for himself enduring
fame by his labours in the field of oriental literature,
but in whose mind, as his most partial friends must
allow, learning and imagination are apt to over-
balance judgment and philosophy I. He has been
replied to by Raynouard, Miinter, and other able
advocates of the knights. A
We now come to the question of the continuance
of the order to the present day. That it has in some
sort been transmitted to our times is a matter of no
* Similar charges are said to have been brought
aglainst
the
Hospitallers in the year 1238, hut without effect. ere was
no Philip the Fair at that time in France.
'I' Clement, in a bull dated but four days after that of the
suppression, acknowledged that the whole of the evidence
against the order amounted only to suspicion!
I We mean the illustrious Jos. von Hammer, whose essay
on the subject is to he found in the sixth volume of the Mines
de l'Orient, where it will be seen that he regards Sir W. Scott,
in his Ivanhoe, as a competent witness against the Templars,
on account of his correct and faithful pictures of the manners
and opinions of the middle ages. We apprehend that people
are beginning now to entertain somewhat different ideas on
the subject of our
great romancer's fidelity, of which the pre-
sent pages present some instances.
330 SECRET SOCIB1'IES»
doubt; for, as we have just seen, the king of Portugal
formed the Order of Christ out of the Templars in
his dominions. But Olll' readers are no doubt aware
that the freemasons assert a connexion with the
Templars, and that there is a society calling them-
selves Templars, whose chief seat is at Paris, and
whose branches extend into England and other
countries. The account which they give of them~
selves is as follows :-
James de Molay, in the year 1314, in anticipation
of his speedy martyrdom, appointed Johannes Mar-
cus Lormenius to be his successor in his dignity.
This appointment was made by a regular well-
authenticated charter,'bearing the signatures of the
various chiefs of the order, and it is still preserved
at Paris, together with the statutes, archives, ban-
ners, Szc., of the soldiery of the Temple. There has
been an unbroken succession of grand-masters down
to the present times, among whom are to be found
some ofthe most illustrious names in France. Ber~
trand du Guesclin was grand-master for a number
of years; the dignity was sustained by several of the
Montmorencies; and during the last century the
heads of the society were princes of the different
branches of the house of Bourbon. Bernard Ray-
mond Fabré Palaprat is its head at present, at least
was so a few years ago *.
This is no doubt a,
very plausible circumstantial
account; but, on
applying the Ithuriel spear of criti-
cism to it, various ugly shapes resembling falsehood
start up. Thus Molay, we are told, appointed his
successor in 1314. He was put to death on the
*
See Manuel des Templiers. AI this book is only sold 'to
members ofthe society, we have been unable to obtain a
copy
of if- OUR' 8¢C0|Dt hal been derived from Milla's History of
Qhivalry. That this writer should have believed it implicitly
is, we
apprehend, no proof of its truth.
'
THE TEMPLARS. 331
18th March of that year, and the order had been
abolished nearly a
year before. Why then did he delay
so long, and why was he become so apprehensive of
martyrdom at that time, especially when, as is well
known, there was then no intention of putting him to
death ? Again, where were the chiefs of the society
at that time? How many of them were
living? and
how could they manage to assemble in the dungeon
of Molay and execute a formal instrument! More-
over, was it not repugnant to the rules and customs of
the Templars for a Master to appoint his successor?
These are a few of the objections which we think
may be justly made; and, on the whole, we feel
strongly disposed to reject the whole story.
As to the freemasons, we incline to think that it was
the accidental circumstance of' the name of the Tem-
plars which has led the,m to claim a descent from that
order ; and it is possible that, ifthe same fate had fallen
on the knights of St. John, the claim had never been
setup. We are very far from denying that at the time
of the suppression of the order of the Temple there
was a secret doctrine in existence, and that the over-
throw of the papal power, with its idolatry, super-
stition, and impiety, was the object aimed at by those
who held it, and that freemasonry may possibly be
that doctrine under another name*. But we are
perfectly condnced that no proof of any weight has
been given of the Templars' participation in that
doctrine, and that all probability is on the other side.
We regard them, in line, whatever their sins may
have been, as martyrs-martyrs to the cupidity,
blood-thirstiness, and ambition of the king of France.
i
must not be concealed that this writer strongly asserts that
the Tcmplars were a branch of thisrsociety.
This has, we think, been fully proved by Sr. Rossetti. It
332 SECRET SOCIE TIES.
THE
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA*.
CHAPTER I.
Introduction-The Original Westphalia-Conquest of the
Saxon: by Charlemagne-His Regulations-Dukes of
Saxony-State of Germany-Henry the Lion-His Out-
lawry-Consequences of it-Origin of German Towns-
Origin of the Fehm-gerichte, or Secret Tribunals-Theories
of their Origin-Origin of their Name-Synonymous Terms.
WE are now arrived at an association remarkable in
itselfl but which has been, by the magic arts of
romancers, especially- of the great archimage of the
north. enveloped in darkness, mystery, and awe, far
beyond the degree in which such a poetical investi-
ture can be bestowed upon it by the calm inquirer
after truth. The gloom of midnight will rise to the
mind oi' many a reader at the name of the Secret
* Dr. Berclc has, in his elaborate work on this subject
(Geachéchte der Weatphiilabchen Femgericlzte, Bremen, 1815),
collected, we believe, nearly all the infbrmation that is now
attainable. This work has been our
principal guide; for,
though we have read some others, we cannot say that we have
derived any important infomation from them. As the sub-
ject is in its historical form
entirely new in English literatme,
we have, at the hazard of appearmg occasionally dry, traced
with some minuteness the construction and mode of procedure
of these celebrated courts.
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 333
Tribunals of Westphalia: a dimly lighted cavern
beneath the walls of some castle, or
peradventure
Swiss hostelrie, wherein sit black-robed judges in
solemn silence, will be present to his imagination,
and he is prepared with breathless anxiety to peruse
the details of deeds without a name *.
We fear that we cannot promise the full gratifi-
cation of these high-wrought expectations. Extra~
ordinary as the Secret 'hibunals really were, we can
only view them as an instance of that compensating
principle which may be discerned in the moral as
well as in the natural empire of the Deity; for,
during the most turbulent and lawless period of the
history of Germany, almost the sole check on crime,
in a
large portion of that country, was the salutary
terror of these Fehm-Gerichte, or Secret Tribunals.
And those readers who have taken their notions of
them only from works of fiction will learn with sur-
prise that no courts of justice at the time exceeded,
or
perhaps we might say equalled, them in the equity
of their proceedings.
Unfortunately their history is involved in much ob-
scurity, and we cannot, as in the case of the two
preceding societies, clearly trace this association from
its first formation to the time when it became evanes-
cent and faded from the view. While it flourished,
the dread and the fear of it weighed too heavily on
the minds of men to allow them to venture to pry
into its mysteries. Certain and instantaneous death
was the portion of the stranger who was seen at any
place where a tribunal was sitting, or who dared so
*
The romantic accounts of the Secret Tribunals will be
found in Sir W. Scott's translation of Go6the's Giitz von Ber-
lichingen, and in his House of Aspen and Anne of Geierstein.
From various passages in Sir W. Scott's biographical and
other essays, it is plain that he believed such to be the true
character oi' the Secret Tribunals.
U 5
334
'
SIORIT SOGIITIBS.
much as to look into the books which contained the
laws and ordinances ofthe society. Death was also
the portion of any member of the society who
revealed its secrets; and so strongly did this terror, or
a
principle of honour, operate, that, as }Enea.s Sylvius
(afterwards Pope Pius [I.), the secretary of the Empe»
roi; Frederick III., assures us, though the number of
the members usually exceeded 100,000, no motive
had ever induced a single one to be faithless to his
trust. Still, however, sutlicient materials are to be
found for satisfying all reasonable curiosity on the
subject.
To ascertain the exact and legal sphere of the
operation of this formidable jurisdiction, and to point
out its most' probable origin, are necessary prelimi-
naries to an account of its constitution and its pm-
ceedings. We shall therefore commence with the
consideration of these points.
Westphalia, then, was the birth-place of this insti-
tution, and over
Westphalia alone did it exercise
authority. But the Westphalia of the middle ages
did not exactly correspond with that of the later
times. Inageneral sense it comprehended the coun-
try between the Rhine and the Weser; its southern
boundary was the mountains of Hesse; its northern,
the district of Friesland, which at that time extended
from Holland to Sleswig. In the records and law-
books ofthe middle ages, this land bears the mystic
appellation ofthe red earth, a name derived, as one
writer thinks, from the gules, or red, which was the
colour of the field in the ducal shield of Saxony;
another regards it as
synonymous with the bloody
earth.; and a third hints that it may owe its origin to
the red colour of the soil in some districts of West-
phalia. _
This land formed a,
large portion of the country of
the Saxons, who, after a
gallant resistance of thirty
SECRET TRIBUNALB Ol' WESTPHALIA. 335
years, were forced to submit to the sway of Charle»
magne, and to embrace the religion of their con-
queror. The Saxons had hitherto lived in a state of
rude independence, and their dukes and princes
possessed little or no civil power, being merely the
presidents in their assemblies and their leaders in
war. Charlemagne thought it advisable to abolish
this dignity altogether, and he extended to the
country of the Saxons the French system of counts
and counties. Each count was merely a royal officer
who exercised in the district over which he was
placed the civil and military authority. The missi
dominici or regii were despatched from the court to
hold their visitations in Saxony, as well as in the
other dominions of Charles, and at these persons of
all classes might appear and prefer their complaints
to the representative of the king, if they thought
themselves aggrieved by the count or any of the
inferior officers.
In the reign of Louis the German, the excellent
institutions of Charlemagne had begun to fall into
desuetude; anarchy and violence had greatly in-
creased. The incursious of the Northmen had
become most formidable, and the Vends *
also gave
great disturbance to Germany. The Saxon land
being the part most immediately exposed to invasion,
the emperor resolved to revive the ancient dignity of
dukes, and to place the district under one head, who
might direct the energies ofthe whole people against
the invaders. The duke was a
royal lieutenant,
like the counts. only differing from them in the
extent of the district over which he exercised autho-
rity. The first duke of Saxony was Count Ludolf,
the founder of Gandersheim; on his death the dig-
nity was conferred on his son Bruno, who, being
"
The Vends (Wenden) were a
portion of the Slavonian race
who dwelt along the south coast of the Baltic.
336 SECRET SOCIETIES.
slain in the bloody battle of Ebsdorf fought against
the Northmen, was succeeded by his younger
brother Otto. the father of Henry the Fowler.
On the failure of the German branch ofthe Carlo-
vingians, the different nations which composed the
Germanic body appointed Conrad the Franconian to
be their supreme head; for a new enemy, the Mag-
yars, or Hungarians, now harassed the empire, and
energy was demanded from its chief. Of this Con-
rad himself was so convinced, that, when dying, after
a short reign, he recommended to the choice of the
electors, not his own brother, but Henry the Fowler,
Duke of Saxony, who had, in his conflicts with the
Vends and the Northmen, given the strongest proofs
of his talents and valour. Henry was chosen, and
the measures adopted by him during his reign, and
the defeat of the Hungarians, justified the act of his
elevation. _
On the death of Henry, his son Otto, afterwards
justly styled the Great, was unanimously chosen to
succeed him in the imperial dignity. Otto conferred
the Duchy of Saxony on Herman Billung. From
their constant warfare with the Vends and the
Northmen, the Saxons were now esteemed the most
valiant nation in Germany, and they were
naturally
the most favoured by the emperors of the house of
Saxony. This line ending with Henry II. in 1024,
the sceptre passed to that of Franconia, under which
and the succeeding line of Suabia, owing to the
contests with the popes about investitures and to
various other causes, the imperial power greatly
declined in Germany; anarchy and feuds prevailed
to an
alarming extent ; the castles of the nobles
became dens of robbers; and law and justice were
nowhere to be found.
The most, remarkable event of this disastrous
period, and one closely connected with our subject,
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 337
is the outlawry of Henry the Lion, Duke of Saxony
and Bavaria. Magnus, the last of the Billungs of
Saxony, died, leaving only two daughters, of whom
the eldest was married to Henry the Black, Duke of
Bavaria, who consequently had, according to the
maxims of that age, a
right to the Duchy of Saxony;
but the Emperor Henry V. refused to admit his
claim, and conferred it on Lothaire of Supplinburg.
As, however, Henry the Black's son, Henry the
Proud, was married to the only daughter of Lothaire,
and this prince succeeded Henry V. in the empire,
Henry found no ditliculty in obtaining the Duchy of
Saxony from his father-in-law, who also endeavoured
to have him chosen his successor in the imperial
dignity. But the other princes were jealous of him,
and on the death of Lothaire they hastily elected
Conrad of Suabia, who, under the pretext that no
duke should possess two duchies, called on Henry to
resign either Saxony or Bavaria. On his refusal,
Conrad, in conjunction with the princes of the empire,
pronounced them both forfeited, and conferred
Bavaria on the Margraf of Austria, and Saxony on
Albert the Bear, the son of the second daughter of
Duke Magnus of Saxony.
Saxony was, however, afterwards restored by
Conrad to Henry the Lion, son of Henry the Proud,
and Conrad's successor, Frederick Barharossa, gave
him again Bavaria. Henry had himself carried his
arms from the Elbe to the Baltic, and conquered a
considerable territory from _
the Vends, which he
regarded as his own peculiar principality. He was
now master of the greater part of Germany, and it
was quite evident that he must either obtain the
imperial dignity or fall. His pride and his severity
made him many enemies; but as he had no child but
a daughter, who was married to a cousin of the
emperor, his power was regarded without much
838 SECRET SOCIETIES.
apprehension. It was, however, the ambition of
Henry to be the father of a race of heroes, and, after
the fashion of those times, he divorced his wife and
espoused Matilda, daughter of Henry II. of England,
by whom he had four sons. Owing to this and
other circumstances all friendly feeling ceased be-
tween Henry and the emperor, whom; however, he
accompanied on the expedition to Italy, which ter-
minated in the battle of Legnano. But he suddenly
drew off his forces and quitted the imperial army on
the way, and Frederick, imputing the ill success
which he met with in a
great measure to the conduct
of the Duke of Saxony, was, on his return to Ger-
many, in a mood to lend a
ready ear to any charges
against him. These did not fail soon to pour in: the
Saxon clergy, over whom he had arrogated a right
of investiture, appeared as his principal accusers.
Their charges, which were partly true, partly false,
were listened to by Frederick and the princes of the
empire, and the downfall of Henry was resolved
upon. He was thrice summoned, but in vain, to
appear and answer the charges made against him.
He was summoned a fourth time, but to as little
purpose; the sentence of outlawry was then formally
pronounced at Wiirtzbnrg. He denied the legality
of the sentence, and attempted to oppose its execu-
tion ; several counts stood by him in his resistance;
but he was forced to submit and sue for grace at
Erfixrt. The emperor pardoned him and permitted
him to retain his allodjal property on condition of
his leaving Germany for three years. He was
deprived of all his imperial fiefs, which were imme-
diately bestowed upon others.
In the division of the spoil of Henry the Lion
Saxony was cut up into pieces ; a. large portion of it
went to the Archbishop of Cologne; and Bernhard of
Anhalt, son of Albert the Bear, obtained a consider-
SECRET TRIBUNALS 0| WBSTPHALIA. 389
able part of the remainder; the supremacy over Hol-
stein, Mecklenburg, and Pomerania, ceased; and Lii-
beck became a free imperial city. All the archbishops,
bishops, counts, and barons, seized as much as
they
could, and became immediate vassals of the empire.
Neither Bernhard nor the Archbishop of Cologne
was able completely to establish his power over the
portion assigned him, and lawless violence everywhere
prevailed.
"
There was no
king in Israel, and every
one did that which was right in his own
eyes," is the
language of the Chronicler '.
We here again meet an instance of the compensa-
tory principle which prevails in the arrangements
of Providence. It was the period of turbulence
and anarchy succeeding the outlawry of Henry the
Lion which gave an impulse to the building or en-
larging of towns in the north of Germany. The
free Germans, as described by Tacitus, scomed to be
pent up within walls and ditches; and their descend-
ants in Saxony would seem to have inherited their
sentiments, for there were no towns in that country
till the time of Henry the Fowler. As a
security
against the Northmen, the Slaves, and the Magyars,
this monarch caused pieces of land to be enclosed by
earthen walls and ditches, within which was collected
a third part of the produce of the surrounding
country, and in which he made every ninth man of
the population fix his residence. The courts of justice
were held in these places to give them consequence;
and, their strength augmenting with their population,
they became towns capable of resisting the attacks
of the enemy, and of giving shelter and defence to
the people of the open country. Other towns, such
as Miinster, Osnabriick (Osnaburgh), Paderborn, and
Minden, grew up gradually, from the desire of the
*
Arnold of Liiheek, Chronica Slavorum, l. iii. c. l., apud
Leibuitz Scriptures Herum Brunsvicarum, t. ii. p. 653.
340 IICRET SOCIITIIS.
people to dwell close to abbeys, churches, and epis-
copal residences, whence they might obtain succour
in time of temporal or spiritual need, and derive
protection from the reverence shown to the church.
A third class of towns owed their origin to the stormy
period of which we now write; for the people of the
open country. the victims of oppression and tyranny,
fied to where they might. in return for their obe-
dience, meet with some degree of protection, and
erected their houses at the foot of the castle of some
powerful nobleman. These towns gradually increased
in power, with the favour of the emperors, who, like
other monarchs, viewing in them allies against the
excessive power of the church and the nobility, gladly
bestowed on them extensive privileges; and from
these originated the celebrated Hanseatic League, to
which almost every town of any importance in West-
phalia belonged, either mediately or
immediately.
But the growth of cities, and the prosperity and
the better system of social regulation which they
presented, were not the only beneficial effects which
resulted fi-om the overthrow of the power of Henry
the Lion. There is every reason to conclude that it
was at this period that the Fehm-gerichte, or Secret
Tribunals, were instituted in Westphalia; at least,
the earliest document in which there is any clear and
express mention of them is dated in the year 1267.
This is an instrument by which Engelbert, Cormt of
the Mark, frees one Gervin of Kinkenrode from the
feudal obligations for his _inheritance of Broke, which
was in the county of Mark; and it is declared to have
been executed at a place named Berle, the court
being presided over by Bernhard of Henedorp, and
the Fehmenotes being present. By the Fehmenotes
were at all timesunderstood the initiated in the secrets
of the Westphalian tribunals; so that we have here
a clear and decisive proof of the existence of these
SECRET TBIBUNAL8 OF WBSTPHAIJA. 341
tribunals at that time. In another document. dated
1280, the Fehmenotes again appear as witnesses, and
after this time the mention of them becomes frequent.
We thus find that, in little more than half a cen-
tury after the outlawry of Henry the Lion, the Fehm-
gerichte were in operation in Westphalia; and there
is not the slightest allusion to them before that date,
or any proof, at all convincing. to be produced in
favour of their having been an earlier institution.
Are we not, therefore,justified in adopting the opinion
of those who place their origin in the first half of
the thirteenth century, and ascribe it to the anarchy
and confusion consequent on the removal of' the
power which had hitherto kept within bounds the
excesses of' the nobles and the people? And is it a
conjecture altogether devoid of probability that some
courageous and upright men may have formed a se-
cret determination to apply a violent remedy to the
intolerable evils which afilicted the country. and to
have adopted those expedients for preserving the pub-
lic peace, out of which gradually grew the Secret
Tribunals? or that some powerful prince of the
country, acting from purely selfish motives, devised
the plan of the society, and appointed his judges to
make the first essay of it*? _
Still it must be confessed that the origin of the
Fehm-gerichte is involved in the same
degree of ob-
scurity which hangs over that of' the Hanseatic
league and so many other institutions of the middle
ages ; and little hopes can be entertained of this ob-
scurity ever being totally dispelled. Conjecture will,
therefhre, ever have free scope of the subject; and
the opinion which we have just expressed ourselves
as inclined to adopt is only one of nine which have
been already advanced on it. Four of these carry
_
*
Berelc, pp. 259, 260.
342 SECRET SOCIETIES.
back the origin of the Fehm-gerichte to the time of
Charlemagne, making them to have been either di-
rectly instituted by that great prince, or to have gra-
dually grown out of some of his other institutions
for the better governing of his states. A fifth places
their origin in the latter half of the eleventh century,
and regards them as an invention of the Westpha-
lian clergy for forwarding the views of the popes in
their attempt to arrive at dominion over all temporal
princes. A sixth ascribes the institution to St. En-
gelbert, Archbishop of Cologne, to whom the Empe-
ror Frederic II. committed the administration of
affairs in Germany during his own absence in Sicily,
and who was
distinguished for his zeal in the perse-
cution of heretics. He modelled it, the advocates of
this opinion say, on that ofthe Inquisition, which had
lately been established. The seventh and eighth
theories are undeserving of notice. On the others
we shall make a few remarks.
The first writers who mention the Fehm-gerichte
are Henry of Hervorden, a Dominican, who wrote
against them in the reign of the Emperor Charles IV.,
about the middle of the fhurteenth century; and
_/Eneas Sylvius, the secretary of Frederic III., a cen-
tury later. These writers are among those who refer
the origin of the Fehm-gerichte to Charlemagne, and
such was
evidently the current opinion of the time-
an
opinion stndiously disseminated by the members
of the society, who sought to give it consequence in
the eyes of the emperor and people, by associating it
with the memory of the illustrious monarch of the
West. There is, however, neither external testimony
nor internal probability to support that opinion.
Eginhart, the secretary and biographer of Charle-
magne. and all the other contemporary Writers, are
silent on the subject; the valuable fragments of the
ancient Saxon laws collected in the ,twelfth century
SECRET TRTBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 343
nnake not the slightest allusion to these courts; and,
in fine, their spirit and mode of procedure are utterly
at variance with the Carlovingian institutions. As to
the hypothesis which makes Arch bishop Engelbert the
author of the Fehm-gerichte, it is entirely unsup-
ported by external evidence, and has nothing in its
favour but the coincidence. in point of time, of Engel-
bert's administration with the tirst account which we
have of this jurisdiction,_and the similarity which it
bore in the secrecy of its proceedings to that of the
Holy Inquisition-a resemblance easy to be accounted
for, without any necessity for having recourse to the
supposition of the one
being borrowed from the other.
We can therefore only say with certainty that, in
the middle of the thirteenth century, the Fehm-gerichte
were
existing and in operation in the country which
We have described as the Westphalia of the middle
ages. To this we may add that this jurisdiction
extended over the whole of that country, and was
originally confined to it, all the courts in other parts
of Germany, which bore a resemblance to the West-
phalian Fehm-gerichte, being of a different character
and nature *.
It remains, before proceeding to a
description of
these tribunals, to give some account of the origin of
their name. And here again we find ourselves in-
volved in as much difiiculty and uncertainty as when
inquiring into the origin of the society itself.
Almost every word in the German and cognate lan-
guages,which bears the slightest resemblance to the
word Fehm 1-, has been given by some writer or other as
* See Berck, L i. c. 5, 6, 7.
~
1' Spelt also Fem, Fdm, Vem, Winn. In German f and u
are pronounced alike, as also-are ii and e. The words from
which Fahm has been derived are Falme, a standard; Femen,
to skin ; Fehde, feud ; Venti (i. e. vm mihi), wo is me; I/e or
I/hem, which Dreyer says signifies, in the northern languages,
344 SECRET SOCIETIES.
its true etymon. It is unnecessary, in the present
sketch of the history of the Fehm-gerichte, to dis»
cuss the merits of each of the claimants: we shall
content ourselves with remarking that, among those
which appear to have most probability in their favour,
is the Latin Fama, which was first proposed by Leib-
nitz. At the time when we have most reason for sup-
posing these tribunals to have been instituted the
Germans were familiar with the language of the civil
and canonical laws; the Fehm-gerichte departed from
the original maxim of German law, which was-no
accuser, no judge, and, in imitation of those foreign
laws", proceeded on common fame, and without any
formal accusation against persons suspected of crime
or of evil courses. Moreover, various tribunals, not
in Westphalia, which proceeded in the same manner,
on common
report, were also called Fehm-gerichte,
which may therefore be interpreted Fame-tribunals,
or such as did not, according to the old German rule,
require a formal accusation, but proceeded to the in-
vestigation of the truth of any charge which common
fame or general report made against any person-a
dangerous mode of proceeding, no doubt, and one
liable to the greatest abuse, but which the lawless
state of Germany at that period, and the consequent
impunity which great criminals would else have
enjoyed, from the fear of them, which would have
kept back accusers and witnesses, perhaps abun-
dantly justified. It is proper to observe, however,
that_fem appears to be an old German word, signify-
holy; Wife (old Germnn),`prndence; Vette, punishment; the
Hmmiha of the Salic law; Swedish Fam, Islandic Firma,
five, such being erroneously supposed to be the number of
judges in a Fehm, or court. Finally, Miizer dednces it from
Fahm, which he says is employed in Austria and some other
_
countries for Rahm, cream. .
*
Common fame was a sutiicient ground of arraignment in
England, also, in the Anglo-Saxon period.
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 345
ing condemnation; and it is far from being unlikely,_
after all, that the Fehm-gerichte may mean merely the
tribunals of condemnation-in other words, courts
for the punishment of crime, or what we should call
criminal courts.
The Fehm-gerichte was not the only name which
these tribunals bore; they were also called Fehm-
ding, the word ding* being, in the middle ages,
equivalent to gericht, or tribunal. They were also
called the Westphalian tribunals, as they could only
be holden in the Red Land, or
Westphalia, and only
Westphalians were amenable to their jurisdiction.
They were further styled free-seats (Frei-sliihle,
stil/zl also being the same as
gericht), free-tribu-
nals, &c., as only freemen were
subject to them. A
Frei-gericht, however, was not a. convertible term
with a
Westphalian Fehm-gericht; the former was
the genus, the latter the species. They are in the-
records also named Secret Tribunals, (Heimliche
Gerichte), and Silent Tribunals (Stillgerichte), from
the secrecy of their proceedings; Forbidden Tribu-
nals (Ve'rboleneGe1"ichtc), the reason of which name
is not very clear; Carolinian Tribunals, as having
been, as was believed, instituted by Charles the
Great; also the Free Banu, which last word was
equivalent to jurisdiction. A Fehm-gericht was
also termed a Heimlichc Achf, and a Heimliche
beschlossene Acht (secret and secret-closed tribunal);
acht also being the same as gericht, or tribunal.
*
In the northern languages, Ting ; hence the Slarc Ting (in
ourjournals usually written Storl/ring), i. e. Great Ting, or Par-
liament of Norway. _
»
346 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER II.
The Tribunal-Lord-The Connt._The Schtippen-The lies-
sengers-The Public Court-The Secret Tribunal-Extent
of its Jurisdiction-Places of holding the Courts--Time of
holding them--Proceedings in them--Process where the
criminal was caught in the fact-Inquisitorial Process.
Havmo traced the origin of the Fehm-gwerichte and
theirvsrious appellations,as far as the existing docu-
ments and other evidences admit, we are now to
describe the constitution and procedure of these
celebrated tribunals, and to ascertain who were the
persons that composed them; whence their authority
was derived; and over what classes of persons their
jurisdiction extended.
Even in the periods of greatest anarchy in Germany,
the emperor was regarded as the fountain of all
judicial power and authority, more
particularly where
it extended to the right of inflicting capital punish-
ment. The Fehmfgerichte, theretore, regarded the
emperor as their head, from whom they derived all
the power which they possessed, and acknowledged
his right to control and modify their constitution
and decisions. These rights of the emperors we
shall, in the sequel, describe at length.
Between the emperor and the Westphalian tri-
bunal-lords (Stuhlherren), as they were styled, that is,
lay and ecclesiastical territorial lords, there was no
intermediate authority until the fourteenth century,
when the Archbishop of Cologne was made the im-
I
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 347
perial lieutenant in Westphalia. Each tribuual~lord
had his peculiar district, within which he had the power
of erecting tribunals, and beyond which his autho-
rity did not extend. He either presided in person in
his court, or he appointed a count (Freigraf) to sup-
ply his place. The rights of a stuhlherr* had some
resemblance to those of the owner of an advowson
in this country. He had merely the power of nomi-
nating either himself or another person as count; the
right to inflict capital punishment was to be conferred
by the emperor or his deputy. To this end, when a
tribunal~lord presented a count for investiture, he
was obliged to certify on oath that the person so
presented was
truly and honestly, both by father and
mother, born on
Westphalian soil; that he stood in
no ill repute ; that he knew of no open crime he had
committed; and that he believed him to be perfectly
well qualified to preside over the county.
The count, on being appointed, was to swear that
he would judge truly and justly, according to the law
and the regulations of the emperor Charles and the
closed tribunal ; that he would be obedient to the em-
peror or
king, and his lieutenant; and that he would
repair, at least once in each year, to the general
chapter which was to be held on the Westphalian
land, and give an
account of his conduct, &c.
The income of the free-count arose from fees and
a share in lines; he had also a fixed allowance in
money or in kind from the stuhlherr. Each free-
schiippe who was admitted made him a
present, to
repair, as the laws express it, his counlly hat. If
the person admitted was a
knight, this fee was a
mark of gold; if not, a mark of silver. Every one
of the initiated who cleared himself by oath from
*
Shahlherr is tribunal-lord, or, literally, lord ny' the ual (of
judgment); nuhl (Anglice, stool) being a seat, or chair.
348 SECRET SOCIETIES.
any charge paid the count a cross-penny. He had a
share of all the fines imposed in his court, and a fee
on citations, &c.
'
There was in general but one count to each
tribunal; but instances occur of there being as
many as seven or eight. The count presided in the
court, and the citations of the accused proceeded
from him.
Next to the count were the assessors or
(Sr.-h5ppen)*. These formed the main body and
strength of the society. They were nominated by
the count with the approbation of the tribunal-lord.
Two persons, who were already in the society, were
obliged to vouch on oath for the fitness of the can-
didate to be admitted. It was
necessary that he
should be a German by birth; born in wedlock of
free parents; of the Christian religion; neither ex-
communicate nor outlawed; not involved in any
Fehm-gericht process; a member of no spiritual
order, &c.
These schéppen were divided into two classes, the
knightly, and the simple, respectable assessors ; for,
as the maxim that every man should be judged by
his peers prevailed universally during the middle
ages. it was
necessary to conform to it also in the
Fehm-tribunals.
Previous to their admission to a knowledge of the
secrets of the society, the schiippen were named
Ignorant; when they had been initiated they were
called Knowing (Wissende) or Fehmenotes. It was
only these last who were admitted to the secret-
'
This word, which cannot be adequately translated, is the
low-Latin Scabini, the French Echevinc. We shall take the
liberty of using it throughout. The schiippen were called
frei-(free) schiippen, as the count was called frei-gra_/Q the
courtfre:-sluhl, on account of the jurisdiction of the tribunal!
being confined to freeman.
SECRET TBIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 349
tribunal. The initiation of a schiippe was attended
wvith a good deal of ceremony. He appeared bare~
headed before the assembled tribunal, and was
there questioned respecting his qualifications. Then,
kneeling down, with the thumb and forefinger of his
right hand on a naked svord and a halter, he pro-
nounced the following oath after the count :-
'
"
I promise, on the holy marriage, that I will,
from henceforth, aid, keep, and conceal the holy
Fehms, from wife and child, from father and mother,
from sister and brother, from fire and wind, from
all that the sun shines on and the rain covers, from
all that is between sky and ground, especially from
the man who knows the law, and will bring before
this free tribunal, under which I sit, all that belongs
to the secret jurisdiction of the emperor, whether I
know it to be true rnysel£ or have heard it from
trustworthy people, whatever requires correction or
punishment, whatever is Fehm-free (i. e. a crime
committed in the county), that it may be judged, or,
with the consent of the accuser, be put off in grace ;
and will not cease so to do, for love or for fear, lbr
gold or for silver, or for precious stones; and will
strengthen this tribunal and jurisdiction with all my
five senses and power; and that I do not take on me
this ofiice for any other cause than for the sake of
right and justice; moreover, that I will ever further
and honour this free tribunal more than any other free
tribunals; and what I thus promise will I stedfastly
and firmly keep, so help me God and his Holy
Gospel."
He was further obliged to swear that he would
ever, to the best of his ability, enlarge the holy em~
pire; and that he would undertake nothing with un-
righteous hand against the land and people of the
sluhlherr.
The count then inquired of the oliicers of the
X
350 '
saoizar SOCIETIES.
court (the Frohtnboten) if the candidate had gone
through all the formalities requisite to reception, and
when that otlicer had answered in the aflirmative, the
count revealed to the aspirant the secrets of the tri-
bunal, and communicated to him the secret sign by
which the initiated knew one another. What this
sign was is utterly unknown: some say that when
they met at table they used to turn the point of
their knife to themselves, and the haft away from
them. Others take the letters S S GG, which were
found in an old MS. at Herford, to have been the
sign, and interpret them Stock Stein, Gras Grein.
These are, however, the most arbitrary conjectures,
without a shadow of proof. The count then was
bound to enter the name of the new member in his
register, and henceforth he was one of the powerful
body of the initiated.
Princes and nobles were anxious to have their
chancellors and ministers, corporate towns to have
their magistrates, among the initiated. Many princes
sought to be themselves members of this formidable
association, and we are assured that in the fourteenth
and fifteenth centuries (which are the only ones of
which we have any particular accounts) the number
of the initiated exceeded 100,000.
The duty 'of the initiated was to go through the
country to serve citations and to trace out and de-
nounce evil-doers; or, if they caught them in the
fact, to execute instant justice upon them. They
were also the count's assessors when the tribunal
sat. For that purpose seven at least were
required
to be present, all belonging to the county in which
the court was held; those belonging to other
counties might attend, but they could not act as
assessors; they only formed a
part of the bystanders
of the court. Of these there were
frequently some
hundreds present. _
4
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 351
All the initiated of every degree might go on foot
and on horseback through the country, for daring was
the man who would presume to injure them, as
certain death was his inevitable lot. A dreadful
punishment also awaited any one of them who should
forget his vow and reveal the secrets of the society;
he was to be seized, a. cloth bound over his eyes, his
hands tied behind his back, a halter put about his
neck; he was to be thrown upon his belly, his tongue
pulled out behind by the nape of his neck, and he
was then to be hung seven feet higher than any other
felon. It is doubtful, however, if there ever was a
necessity for infiicting this punishment, for /Eneas
Sylvius, who wrote at the time when the society had
degenerated, assures us that no member had ever
been induced, by any motives whatever, to betray its
secrets; and he describes the initiated as
grave men
and lovers of right and justice. Similar language
is employed concerning them by other writers of the
time.
Besides the count and the assessors, there were
required, for the due holding a Fehm-court, the officers
named Frohnboten*, or
seijeants, or
messengers, and
a clerk to enter the decisions in what was called the
blood-book (Liber sanguinis). These were, ofcourse,
initiated, or
they could not be present. It was re-
quired that the messengers should be freemen be-
longing to the county, and have all the qualifications
of the simple schiippen. Their duty was to attend
on the court when sitting, and to take care that the
ignorant, against whom there was
any charge, were
duly citedf.
* Frohnbote is interpreted a
Holy Messenger, or a Servant of
God.
'I' When a. person was admitted into the society he paid. be-
sides the fee to 'the count already mentioned, to each schiippe
352 SECRET SOCIETIES.
The count was to hold two kinds of courts, the one
public, named the Open or Public Court (O_#`enbare
Ding), to which every freeman had access ; the other
private, called the Secret Tribunal (Heimliche Acht),
at which no one who was not initiated could venture
to appear.
'
The former court was held at stated periods, and
at least three times in each year. It was announced
fourteen days previously by the messengers (Frohn-
bolen), and every householder in the county, whether
initiated or not, free or servile, was bound under a
penalty of four heavy shillings, to appear at it and de-
clare on oath what crimes he knew to have been
committed in the county.
When the count held the Secret Court, the clergy,
who had received the tonsure and ordination, women
and children, Jews and Heathens *, and, as it would
appear, the higher nobility, were exempted from its
jurisdiction. The clergy were exempted, probably,
from prudential motives, as it was not deemed safe
to irritate the members of so
powerful a
body, by
encroaching on their privileges; they might, how-
ever, voluntarily subject themselves to the Fehm-
gerichte if they were desirous of partaking of the
advantages of initiation. Women and children were
exempt on account of their sex and age, and the
period of infancy was extended, in the citations, to
fourteen, eighteen, and sometimes twenty years of
age. Jews, Heathens, and such like, were
exempted
on account of their unworthiness. The higher no-
bility were
exempted (if such was really the case) in
compliance with the maxim of German law that
who was assisting there, and to each frohnbote, four livres
Tournois.
,
* The natives of Prussia were still heathens at that time.
SECRET TRIBUNALS QF WBSTPHALIA. 353
each person should be judged by his peers, as it
was scarcely possible that in any county there could
be found a count and seven assessors of equal rank
with accused persons of that class.
In their original constitution the Fehm-gerichte,
agreeahly to the derivation of the name from Fern,
condemnation, were purely criminal courts, and had
no jurisdiction in civil matters. They took cogni~
zance of all offences against the Christian faith, the
holy gospel, the holy ten commandments, the public
peace, and private honour-a. category, however,
which might easily be made to include almost every
transgression and crime that could be committed.
We accordingly find in the laws of the Fehm-
gerichbe, sacrilege, robbery, rape, murder, apostacy,
treason, perjury, coining, &c., &c., enumerated; and
the courts, by an astute interpretation of the law,
eventually managed to make matters which had not
even the most remote appearance of criminality Fehm-
bar, or within their jurisdiction.
But all exceptions were disregarded in cases of con-
tumacy,orofa
person being taken in the actual commis-
sion of an offence. When a
person, after being duly
cited, even in a civil case, dirl not appear to answer
the charge against him, he was outlawed, and his
oiience becamefehmbar; every judge was then autho-
rized to seize the accused, whether he belonged to his
county or not; the whole force of the initiated was
now directed against him, and escape was hardly pos-
sible. Here it was that the superior power of the
Fehm-gerichte exhibited itself. Other courts could
outlaw as well as they, but no other had the same
means of putting its sentences into execution. The
only remedy which remained for the accused was
to offer to appear and defend his cause, or to sue
to the emperor for protection. In cases where u
person was
caught_/iagranti delicto, the Westphalian
x 3
354 SECRET SOCIETIES.
tribunals were competent to proceed _
to instant
punishment.
Those who derive their knowledge of the Fehm-
gerichte from plays and romances are apt to imagine
that they were always held in subterranean chambers,
or in the deepest recesses of impenetrable forests,
while night, by pouring her deepest gloom over them,
added to their awfulness and solemnity. Here, as
elsewhere, we must, however reluctantly, lend our aid
to dispel the illusions of fiction. They were not
held either in woods or in vaults, and rarely even
under a roofl There is only one recorded instance
of a
Fehm-gericht being held under ground, viz.,
at Heinberg, under the house of John Menkin. At
Paderborn indeed it was held in the town-house;
there was also one held in the castle of Wultien. But
thesituation most frequently selected for holding a
court was some place under the blue canopy of
heaven, for the free German still retained the predi-
lection of his ancestors for open space and expansion.
Thus at Nordkirchen and Sudkirchen (north and
south church) the court was held in the churchyard;
at Dortmund, in the market-place close by the
town~house. But the favourite place for holding
these courts was the neighbourhood of trees, as in the
olden time: and we read of the tribunal at Arens~
berg in the orchard; of another under the hawthom;
of a third under the pear-tree; of a fourth under the
linden, and so on. We also find the courts denomi-
nated simply from the trees by which they were held,
such as the tribunal at the elder, that at the broad
oak, &c.
The idea of their being held at night is also utterly
devoid of proof, no mention of any such practice beimg
found in any ofthe remaining documents. It is much
more analogous to Germanic usage to infer that,
as the Public Court, and the German courts in ge-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 355
neral, were held in the morning, soon after the break
of day, such was also the rule with the Secret Court.
When an affair was
brought before a Fehm-court,
the first point to be determined was whether it was
a matter of Fehm-jurisdiction. Should such prove
to be the case, the accused was summoned to appear
and answer the charge before the Public Court. All
sorts of persons, Jews and Heathens included, might
be summoned before this court, at which the unin-
itiated schiippen also gave attendance, and which
was as
public as any court in Germany. If the ac-
cused did not appear, or appeared and could not
clear himself; the affair was transferred to the Secret
Court.
'
Civil matters also, which on account of a
denial of satisfaction were brought before the Fehm-
court, were, in like manner, in cases of extreme con-
tumacy, transferred thither.
The Fehm-tribunals had three different modes of
procedure, namely, that in case of the criminal being;
taken in the fact, the inquisitorial, and the purely
accusatorial.
Two things were requisite in the first case ; the
criminal must be taken in the fact, and there must
be three schiippen, at least, present to punish him.
With respect to the first particular, the legal lau-
guage of Saxony gave great extent to the term taken
in Z/zefact. It applied not merely to him who was
seized in the instant of his committing the crime, but
to him who was caught as he was
running away. In
cases of murder, those who were found with weapons
in their hands were considered as taken in the fact; as
also, in case of theft, was a person who had the key
of any place in which stolen articles were found, un-
less he could prove that they camethere without his
consent or knowledge. The Fehm-law enumerated
three tokens or
proofs of guilt in these cases; the
Habende Hand (Having Hand), or
having the proof
356, SECRET SOCIETDZS.
in his hand; the Blickende Schein (looking appear-
qnce), such as the woundin the body of one who was
slain; and the Gichtige Mund (faltering mouth), or
confession of the criminal. Still, under all these cir-
cumstances, it was necessary that he should be taken
immediately ; for if he succeeded in making his
escape, and was
caught again, as he was not this time
taken in the fact, he must be proceeded against before
the tribunal with all the requisite formalities.
The second condition was, that there should be at
least three initiated persons together, to entitle them
to seize, try, and execute a
person taken in the fact.
These then were at the same time judges, accusers,
witnesses, and executioners. We shall in the sequel
describe their mode of procedure. It is a matter of
uncertainty whether the rule of trial by peers was
observed on these occasions : what is called the
Arensberg Reformation of the Fehm-law positively
asserts, that, in case of a. person being taken _/Za-
granti delicto, birth formed no
exemption, and the
noble was to be tried like the commoner. The cases,
however, in which three of the initiated happened to
come on a criminal in the commission of the fact
must have been of extremely rare occurrence.
When a crime had been committed, and the cri-
minal had not been taken in the fact, 'there remained
two ways of proceeding against him, namely, the
'inquisitorial and the accusatorial processes. It de-
pended on circumstances which of these should be
adopted. In the case, however, of his being initiated,
it was
imperative that he should be proceeded against
accusatorially.
'
Supposing the former course to have been chosen,
-which was
usually done when the criminal had
been taken in the fact, but had contrived to escape,
or when he was a man whom common fame charged
openly and distinctly with u crime,-he was not cited
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 357
to appear before the court or vouchsafed a hearing.
He was usually denounced by one of the initiated;
the court then examined into the evidence of his
guilt, and if it was found suflicient he was outlawed,
or, as it was called, _forfehmed *, and his name was
inscribed in the blood-book. A sentence was imme-
diately drawn out, in which all princes, lords, nobles,
towns, every person, in short, especially the initiated,
were called upon to lend their aid to justice. This
sentence. of course, could originally have extended
only to Westphalia; but the Fehm-courts gradually
enlarged their claims; their pretensions were favoured
by the emperors, who regarded them as a
support to
their authority; and it was soon required that their
sentence should be obeyed all over the empire, as
emanating from the imperial power.
Unhappy now was he who was foijehmed ; the
whole body of the initiated, that is 100,000 persons,
were in pursuit of him. If those who met him were
sufficient in number, they seized him at once; if they
felt themselves too weak, they called on their brethren
to aid, and every one of the society was bound, when
thus called on by three or four of the initiated, who
averred to him on oath that the man was
forjféhmed,
to help to take him. As soon as they had seized the
criminal they proceeded without a moment's delay to
execution; they hung him on a tree by the road-side
and not on a
gallows, intimating thereby that they
were entitled to exercise their otiice in the king's
name anywhere they pleased, and without any re-
gard to territorial jurisdiction. The halter which
they employed was, agreeably to the usage of the
middle ages, a
withy; and they are said to have had
so much practice, and to have arrived at such expert-
*
In German Pirrfehml. We have ventured to coin the word
in the text. The Englishfbr answers to the German ver; ver-
genen is forget; verloren is forlorn.
358 SECRET SOCIETIES.
nessin thisbusiness, that the word Fehmen at last began
to signify simply to hang, as execution has come to do
in English. It is more
probable,however, that this,or
something very near it, was the original signification of
the word from which the tribunals took their name.
Should the malefactor resist, his captors were authorised
to knock him down and kill him. Inthiscase they bound
the dead body to a tree, and stuck their knives beside it,
to intimate that he had not been slain by robbers, but
had been executed in the name of the emperor.
Were the person who was frrfehmed uninitiated, he
had no means whatever of knowing his danger till
the halter was actually about his neck; for the severe
penalty which awaited any one who divulged the
secrets of the Fehm-courts was such as
utterly to
preclude the chance of a
friendly hint or
warning to
be on his guard. Should he, however, by any
casualty, such, for instance, as making his escape
from those who attempted to seize him, become
aware of how he stood, he might, if he thought he
could clear himself, seek the protection and aid of
the Stuhlherr, or of the emperor.
If any one knowingly associated with or enter-
tained a
person who was fmfehmed, he became in-
volved in his danger. It was necessary, however, to
prove that he had done so knowingly-a point which
was to be determined by the emperor, or by the judge
of the district in which the accused resided. This
rule originally had extended only to Westphalia, but
the Fehm-judges afterwards assumed a. _right of
punishing in any part of the empire the person who
entertained one who was forfehmed.
Nothing can
appear more harsh and unjust than
this mode of procedure to those who would apply the
ideas and maxims of the present to former times.
But violent evils~require violent remedies; and the
disorganized state of Europe in general, and of Ger-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 359
many in particular, during the middle ages, was such
as almost to exceed our
conception. Might it not ther*
be argued that we ought to regard as a benefit, rather
than as an evil, any institution which set some bounds
to injustice and violence, by infusing into the bosom of
the evil-doer a salutary fear of the consequences?
When a man committed a crime he knew that there
was a tribunal to judge it fiom which his power, how-
ever
great it might be, would not avail to protect him;
he knew not who were the initiated, or at what mo-
ment he might fall into their hands ; his very brother
might be the person who had denounced him ; his in-
timate associates might be those who would seize and
eitecute him. So strongly was the necessity of such
a power felt in general, that several cities, such as
Nuremberg, Cologne, Strasburg, and others, applied
for and obtained permission from the emperors, to
proceed to pass sentence of death on evil-doers even
unheard, when the evidence of common fame against
them was satisfactory to the majority of the town-
council. Several counts also obtained similar privi-
leges, so that there were, as we may see, Fehm-
courts in other places besides Westphalia, but they
were far inferior to those in power, not having a
numerous body of schiippen at their devotion.
It is finally to be observed that it was only when
the crimes were of great magnitude, and the voice of
fame loud and constant, that the inquisitorial process
could be properly adopted. In cases of a minor
nature the accused had a right to be heard in his
own behalti Here then the inquisitorial process
had its limit: if report was not suiliciently strong
and overpowering, and the matter was still dubious,
the offender was to be proceeded against accusa-
torially. If he was one of the initiated, such was his
undoubted right and privilege in all cases.
360 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER III.
p
Accusatorial process-Persons liable to it-Mode of citation-
Mude of procedure-Right of appeal.
As we have stated above, the first inquiry when a
matter was
brought before a Fehm-court was, did it
come within its jurisdiction, and, on its being found
to do so, the accused was summoned before the Public
Court, and when he did not appear, or could not
clear himself, the cause was transferred to the Secret
Court. We shall now consider the whole procedum
specially.
The summons was at the expense of the accuser;
it was to be written on good new parchment, with-
out any erasures, and sealed with at least seven seals,
to wit, those of the count and of six assessors. The
seals of the different courts were different. The
summnnses varied according to whether the accused
was a free-count, a
free-schfvppe, or one of the igno-
rant and uninitiated, a community, a
noth-schiippe, or
a mere
vagabond. In all cases they were to be
served by schoppen. They were to have on them
the name of the count, of the accuser, and ofthe ac-
cused, the charge, and the place where the court was
to be holden. The stuhlherr was also to be pre-
viously informed of it.
For a
good and legal service it was requisite that
two schiippen should either serve the accused per'
sonally or leave the summons openly or clandesliuely
at his residence, or at the place where he had taken
refuge. If he did not appear to answer the charge
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 361
within six weeks and three days, he was
again sum-
moned by four persons. Six weeks was the least
erm set for appearing to this summons, and it was
requisite that a piece of imperial coin should be given
with it. Should he still neglect appearing, he was
summoned for the third and last time by six schiip-
pen and a count, and the term set was six weeks and
three days as before.
lf the accused was not merely initiated but also a
count, he was treated with corresponding respect.
The first summons was served by seven
sehiippen,
the second by fourteen and four counts, and the third
by twenty-one and six counts.
The uninitiated, whether bond or free, did not share
in the preceding advantages. The summons was
served on themselves, or at their residence, by a mes-
senger, and only once. '1`here is some doubt as to
the period set for their appearance, but it seems to
have been in general the ordinary one of six weeks
and three days.
The summons of a town or
community was
usually addressed to all the male inhabitants. In
general some ot' them were specially named in it ; the
Arensberg Reformation directed that the names of
at least thirty persons should be inserted. The term
was six weeks and three days, and those who served
the summons were required to be true and upright
schéppen.
The noth-schiippe, that is, the person who had
surreptitiously become possessed of the secrets of the
society, was summoned but once. The usual time
was allowed him for appearing to the charge.
Should the accused be a mere vagabond, one who
had no fixed residence, the course
adopted was to
send, six weeks and three days before the day the
court was to sit, and post up four summonses at a.
cross-road which faced the four cardinal points, plac-
Y
362 SICRET SOCIETIES.
ing a piece of imperial money with each. This was
esteemed good and valid service, and if the accused
did not appear the court proceeded to act upon it.
Notwithstanding the privileges which the members
of the society enjoyed, and the precautions which
were employed to ensure their safety, and moreover
the deadly vengeance likely to be taken on
any one
who should aggrieve them,we are not to suppose the
service of a summons to -appear before a Fehm-court
to have been absolutely free from danger. The
tyrannic and seltlwilled noble, when in his own
strong
castle, and surrounded by his dependents, might not
scrnple to inflict summary chastisement on the auda-
cious men who presumed to summon him to answer
for his crimes before a tribunal; the magistrates of
atown also might indignantly spurn at the citation
to appear before a Fehm-court, and treat its mes,
sengers as offenders. To provide against these cases
it was determined that it should be considered good
service when the summons was affixed by night to
the gate of a town or castle, to the door of the house
of the accused, or to the nearest alms-house. The
schiippen employed were then to desire the watch-
man, or some person who was going by, to inform
the accused of the summons being there, and they
were to take away with them a chip cut from the gate
or door, as a
proof of the service for the court.
If the accused was resolved to obey the summons,
he had only to repair on the appointed day to the
place where the court was to he held, the summons
being his protection-. Those who would persuade us
that the Fehm-courts were held by night in secret
places say that the mode appointed for the accused
to meet the court was for him to repair three-quarters
of' an hour before midnight to the next cross-roads,
where a schiippe was always waiting for him, who
bound his eyes and led him to where the court was
SECRET TRlBUNALS OF WIESTPHALIA. 363
sitting. This, however, is all mere fiction; fhr the
place where the court was to be held was
expressly
mentioned in every summons.
The Fehm-courts (like the German courts in
general) were holden on a
Tuesday*". If on this
day the accused, or his attorney, appeared at the ap-
pointed place, and no court was holden, the summons
abated or lost its force; the same was the case when
admission wasrefused to him and his suite, a. cir-
cumstance which sometimes occurred. But should
he not appear to the first summons, he was fined the
first time thirty shillings, the second time sixty, the
third time he was
for/chmed. The court had how-
ever the power ot' granting a further respite of six
weeks and three days previous to passing this last
severe sentence. 'l`his term of grace was called the
King's Dag, or the Emperor Charles's Day of Grace.
'I'he plea ,of necessary and unavoidable absence
was, however, admitted in all cases, and the Fehm-
law distinctly recognised four legal impediments to
appearance. namely, imprisonment, sickness, the ser-
vice of` God (that is, pilgrimage), and the public ser-
vice. The law also justly added the following cases :-
inability to cross a river for want of a
bridge or a
boat, or on account of a storm ; the loss of his horse
when the accused was riding' to the court, so that he
could not arrive in time ; absence from the country on
knightly, mercantile, or other honest occasions ; and
lastly, the service of his lord or master. In short,
any just excuse was admitted. As long as the
impediment continued in operation all proceedings
against t.he accused were void. If the impediment
arose from his being in prison, or in the public ser-
vice, or that of his master, he was to notify the same
by letter sealed with his seal, or else by his own oath
* In German, Diensfag, probably Dinslag, i. e.
Courl-day.
°
. Y 2
364 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and those of two or three other persons. The other
impediments above enumerated were to be sworn to
by himself alone.
If the accused neglected answering the two first
summonses, but appeared to the third, he was re-
quired to pay the two fines for non-appearance; but
if he declared himself too poor to pay them, he was
obliged to place his two fore-fingers on the naked
sword which lay before the court, and swear, by the
death which God endured onthe cross, that such was
the case. It was then remitted to him, and the court
proceeded to his trial.
Wlien a Fehm-court sat the count presided; be-
fore him lay on the table a naked sword and a withy-
halter; the tbrmer, says the law, signifying the cross
on which Christ suffered and the rigour ofthe court,
the latter denoting the punishment of evil-doels,
whereby the wrath of God is appeased. On his right
and left stood the clerks of the court, the assessors,
and the audience. All were bare-headed, to
signify.
says the law, that they would proceed openly and
fairly, punish men only for the crimes which they
had committed, and cover no
right with unright.
They were also to have their hands uncovered to
signify that they would do nothing covertly and
underhand. They were to have short cloaks on their
shoulders, significatory of the warm love which they
should have for justice ; _/br as the cloak covers all
the other clothes and the body, so should their
love cover
justice. They were to wear neither
weapons nor harness, that no one might feel any fear
of them, and to indicate that they were under the
peace of the emperor, king, or
empire. Finally,
they were to be free from wrath and sober, that
drunkenness might not lead them to pass unrighteous
judgment, for drunkenness causes much wic/redness.
11' one who was not initiated was detected in the
SECRET TRIDUNALS OF WESTPI-I'ALlA. 365
assembly, his process was a brief one. He was seized
without any ceremony, his hands and feet were tied
together, and he was
hung on the next tree. Should
a
noth-schiippe be caught in the assembly, a halter
of oaken twigs was put about his neck, and he was
thrown for nine days into a. dark dungeon, at the
end of which time he was
brought to trial, and, if
he failed in clearing himselfl he was
proceeded with
according to law, that is, was hanged.
The business of the day commenced, as in
German courts in general, by the count asking of the
messengers if it was the day and time for holding a.
court under the royal authority. An affirmative
answer
being given, the count then asked how many
assessors should there be on the tribunal, and
how the seat should be filled. When these questions
were answered, he proclaimed the holding of the
court.
Each party was permitted to bring with him as
many as thirty friends to act as witnesses and com-
purgators. Lest, however, they might attempt to im-
pede the course of justice, they were required to ap-
pear unarmed. Each party had, moreover, the right
of being represented by his attorney. The person
so
employed must be initiated; he must also be the
peer of the party, and if he had been engaged on
either side he could not, during any stage of the
action, be employed on the other, even with the per-
mission of the party which had just engaged him.
When he presented himself before the court, his cre-
dentials were
carefully examined, and if found strictly
conformable to what the law had enjoined, they were
declared valid. It was
necessary that they should
have been written on good, new, and sound parch-
ment, without blot or erasure, and be sealed by the
seals of at least two frei-schiippen.
The attorney of a
prince of the empire appeared
366 SECRET SOCIETIES, _
with a
green cross in his right hand, and a golden
penny of the empire in his left. He was also to have
a
glove on his right hand. lf there were two attor-
neys, they were both to bear crosses and pence. The
attorney of a
simple prince bore a silver penny. The
old law, which loves to give a reason for every thing,
says,
"
By the cross they intimate that the prince
whom they represent will, in case he should be found
guilty, amend his conduct according to the direction
ofthe iaith which Jesus Christ preached, and be
constant and true to the holy Christian faith, and
obedient to the holy empire and justice."
All the preliminaries being arranged, the trial
commenced by the charge against him being made
known to the accused, who was called upon for his
defence. If he did not wish to defend himself in
person, he was
permitted to employ an advocate
whom he might have brought with him. If it was a
civil suit, he might, however, stay the proceedings at
once
by giving good security tor his satisfying the
claims ot' the plaintiff, in which case he was allowed
the usual grace of six weeks and three days. He
might also except to the competence of the court, or
to the legality of the summons, or to anything else
which would, if detective, annul the proceedings.
If the accused did not appear, the regular course
was for the prosecutor to overswear him; that is,
himself to swear by the saints to the truth of what
he had stated, and six true and genuine t`rei-sch5p-
pen to swear that they believed him to have spoken
the truth.
The older Fehm-law made a
great distinction
between the initiated and the ignorant, and one very
much to the advantage of the former. The accused,
if initiated, was allowed to clear himself from the
charge by laying his two fore-fingers on the naked
sword, and swearing by the saints "that he was
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 367
innocent of the things and the deed which the court
had mentioned to him, and which the accuser
charged
him with, so help him God and all the saints."
He then threw a
cross-penny (Kreutzer ?) to the
court, and went his way, no one being permitted to
let or hinder him. But if he was one of the unin-
itiated, _he was not permitted to clear himself in this
`manner, and the truth of the fact was determined by
the evidence given.
It is plain, however, that such a regulation as this
could properly only belong to the time when none but
persons of irreproachable character were initiated.
As the institution degenerated, this distinction was
.gradually lost sight of; and facts were determined by
evidence without any regard to the rank of the ac-
cused.
The accuser could prevent the accused from clear-
ing himself thus easily, by offering himself and six
compurgators to swear to the truth of his charge.
If the accused wanted to outweigh this evidence, he
was
obliged to come forward with thirteen or twenty
compurgators and swear to his innocence. If he
could bring the last number he was
acquitted, for
the law did not allow it to be exceeded; but if he
had but thirteen, the accuser might then overpower
him by bringing forward twenty to vouch for his
veracity.
If the accuser had convicted the accused, he forth-
with prayed the count to grant him a just sentence.
The count never took on himself the office oftinding
the verdict; he always directed one of the assessors
to perform it. If the assessor thought the matter too
difficult for his judgment, he averred on oath that
such was the case, and the court then gave the duty
to another, who might free himself' from the respon-
sibility in the same manner. Should none of the
358 SECRET SOCIETIES.
assessors he able to come to a decision, the matter
was put off' till the next court-day.
But if the assessor undertook the finding of the
verdict, it lay with himself whether he should do so
alone, or retire to take the opinion ofthe other asses-
sors and the by-standers. To give the verdict due
force it must be found sitting, otherwise it might be
objected to. Whether or not the assessor was bound
to decide according to the majority of voices is un~
certain. When the verdict had been found the as-
sessor
appeared wit.h his colleagues before the tribunal,
and delivered it to the count, who then passed sen-
tence. What the penalties were for different offences
was a secret known only to the initiated; but, if they
were of a
capital nature, the halter, as was intimated
by the one which lay before the count, was the in-
strument of punishment.
Should the accused not have appeared, and been
in consequence outlawed, he was
jbrfehmed by the
following awtnl curse: it was declared that "he
should be excluded from the public peace, from
all liberties and rights, and the highest un-peace,
un-grace, and halter be appointed for him; that
he should be cut off' from all communication with
any Christian people, and be cursed so that he
might wither in his body, and neither become any
more verdant, nor increase in any manner; that his
wile should be held to be a widow, and his children
orphans; that he should be without honour and
without right, and given up to any one; that his
neck should be left to the ravens, his body to all
beasts, to the birds of the air and the fishes in the
water; but his soul should be commended to God,"
&c. &c.
If he continued a
year and a
day under the sen-
tence of outlawry, all his goods then fell to the
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 369
emperor or
king. A prince, town, or
community,
that incurred the sentence of outlawry, lost thereby
at once all liberties, privileges, and graces.
Should the sentence passed be a
capital one, the
count flung the halter over his head out of the in-
closure of the tribunal, the schiippen spat on it, and
the name of the condemned was entered in the blood~
book. If the criminal was
present he was
instantly
seized, and, according to the custom of the middle
ages, when, us in the East, no disgrace was attached
to the office of executioner, the task of executing him
was committed to the youngest schiippe present,
who forthwith hung him from the nearest tree. The
quality of the criminal was duly attended to; for if
he was initiated he was hung seven feet higher than
any other, as being esteemed a
greater criminal. If
the accused was not present, all the schiippen were,
as wc have already described, set in pursuit of him,
and wherever they caught him they hanged him
without any further ceremony.
The sentence was kept a profound secret from the
uninitiated. A copy of it, drawn up in the usual
form, and sealed with seven seals, was
given to the
accuser. I
We thus see that the proceedings in the Fehm-
courts were
strictly consonant to justice, and even
leaned to the side of mercy. But this was not all :
the right of appeal was also secured to the accused
incase the schéppen who consulted about the verdict
did not agree, or that the witnesses did not corre-
spond in their evidence; or, finally, if the verdict
found was considered unjust or unsuitable ;`whichlast
case aflbrded a most ample field of appeal, for it
must have been very rarely that a sentence did not
appear unjust or over-severe to the party who was
condemned. It was, however, necessary that the
appeal should be made on
publication
gf
the sen-
Y
370 SECRET SOCIETIES.
tence, or at least before the court broke up. The
parties were allowed to retire for a few minutes, to
consult with their friends who had accompanied them.
If they did not then say that they would appeal, the
sentence was declared absolute, and they were for-
bidden, under heavy penalties, to oppose it in any
other court. If they did resolve to appeal, both
parties were obliged to give security de lite prose-
quenda. Should either party, being poor or a
stranger, be unable to give security, his oath was
held to be sufficient, that, as the law humanely and
justly expresses it,
"
the stranger or the poor man
muy be able to seek his right in the Holy Roman
Empire as well as the native or the rich man."
'l'he appeal lay to the general chapter of the Secret
closed Tribunal of the Imperial Chamber, which usu-
ally, if not constantly, sat at Dortmund; or it lay to
the emperor, or king, as the supreme head of these
tribunals. In case of the monarch being initiated,
he could examine into the cause himself; otherwise
he was obliged to commit the inquiry to such of his
councillors as were initiated, or to initiated commis-
sioners, and that only on
Westphalian soil. Of this
species ol' appeal there are numerous instances.
Finally, the appeal might be made to the imperial
lieutenant, who then inquired into the matter him-
self, with the aid of some initiated schiippen, or
brought it before the general chapter of which he
was
president. '1`here was no
appeal tothe emperor
from his sentence, or from that of the chapter.
There were, besides the right of appeal, other
means of averting the execution of the sentence of
a Fehm-court. Such was what was called replacing
theformteir siizte,
of which, however, it was
only
t e initiate w o could avail himself. Sentence
having been passed on a
person who had not ap-
peared, he might voluntarily and personally repair to
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 371
where the secret tribunal was
sitting, and sue for
this favour. He was to appear before the court
which had passed the sentence, accompanied by two
frei-schiippen, with a halter about his neck, with
white gloves on him, and his hands folded, with an
imperial coin and a green cross in them. He and
his companions were then to tall down on their knees,
and pray for him to be placed in the condition which
he was in before the proceedings commenced against
him. There was also what was called the complaint
ofnullity, incase the prescribed form of the pro-
ceedings had been violated. Some other means shall
presently be noticed.
372 SECRET SOCIETIES.
Cunrza IV.
The General Chapter-Rights of the Emperor-Of his I.ieu~
tenant-Of the Stuhlherrn, or Tribunal-Lords.
To complete the sketch of the Fehm-tribunals and
their proceedings, we must state the' rights and
powers of the general chapter and of the emperor,
his lieutenant, and the tribunal-lords.
The general chapter was a
general assembly of
the Westphalian tribunal-lords, counts, and schiippen,
summoned once a-year by the emperor or his lieu-
tenant. Every count was bound by oath to appear
at it. It could only be holden in Westphalia, and
almost exclusively at Dortmund or Arensberg. No
one could appear at it who was not initiated, not
even the emperor himselil The president was the
emperor. it' present and initiated,~otherwise the lieu-
tenant or his substitute.
The business of the general chapter was to in-
quire into the conduct and proceedings of the dilfe-
rent Fehm-courts. The counts were therefore to
give an account of all their proceedings during the
past year ; to furnish a list of the names of the schép-
pen who had been admitted, as well as of the suits
which had been commenced, with the names of the
accusers, the accused, the jbrjéhmcd, &c. Such
counts as had neglected their duty were deposed by
the general chapter.
The general chapter was, as we have above ob-
served, a court of appeal from all the Fehm-tribunals.
In matters of great importance the decrees of the
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 373
lower courts were, to give them greater weight, con-
firmed by the general chapter. It was
finally at the
general chapter that all regulations, laws, and re-
formations, concerning the Fehm-law and courts,
were made.
The emperor, even when the imperial authority
was at the lowest, was regarded in Germany as the
fountain of judicial authority. The right of passing
capital sentence in particular was considered to
emanate either mediately or
immediately from him.
The Fehm-courts were conspicuous for their readi-
ness to acknowledge him as the source of their
authority, and all their decrees were
pronounced in
his name.
As superior lord and judge of all the counts and
tribunals, the emperor had a right of inspection and
reformation over them. I-Ie could summon and pre-
sidein a
general chapter; he might enter any court;
and the presiding count was
obliged to give way and
allow him to preside in his stead. He had the power
to make new schoppen, provided he did so on West-
phalian soil. Every schiippe was moreover bound
to give a true answer to the emperor when he asked
whether such a one was
_fnfehnuzd or not, and in
what court. He could also depose disobedient counts,
but only in Westphalia.
The emperor could even withdraw a cause out of
the hands of the tribunals. The right of appeal to
him has been already noticed; but, besides this, he
hada power of forbidding the count to proceed in
the cause when the accused offered himself to him
for honour and right; and it was at his own risk
then that the count proceeded any further in the
business. The emperor could also grant a safe-con-
duct to any person who might apply for it under ap-
prehension of having been forjehnwd, which safe-
cpnduct the schiippen dared not violate. Even when
374 _
SECRET S0CIE'l'lE5¢ -
a person had been _fb1fehmed, the emperor could
save him by issuing his command to stay execution
of the sentence for a hundred years, six weeks, and a
day.
It is plain, that, to be able to exercise these rights,
the emperor must be himself initiated, for otherwise
he could not, for instance, appear where a court was
sitting, make alterations in laws with which, if igno-
rant, he must necessarily be unacquainted, or extend
mercy when he could not know who was
_forfehmed
or not. In the laws establishing the rights of
the emperor it was therefore always inserted, pro-
vided he be initiated, and the acts of uninitiated
emperors were
by the Fehm-courts frequently de-
clared invalid. The emperor had, therefore, his
choice of setting a substitute over the Fehm-courts,
or of being himself initiated. The latter course was
naturally preferred, and each emperor, at his corona-
tion at Aix-la-Chapelle, was initiated by the heredi-
tary Count of Dortmund. Though Aix-la-Chapelle
was not in Westphalia, the law sanctioned this de-
parture from the general rule that frei-schiippen
should only be made in that country.
The emperor's lieutenant, who was almost always
_the Archbishop of Cologne, had the right of con-
iirming such counts as were presented to him by the
Tribunal-lords, and of investing them with the
powers of life and death. He could also summon
general chapters, and preside and exercise the other
imperial rights in them. He might decide, with the
aid of some
schéppen, in cases of appeal to him,
without bringing the affair before the general chap-
ter; and he had the power of making schiippen at
any tribunal in Westphalia, which proves that, like
the emperor, he had tree access to them all. Hence
it is clear that he also must have been initiated.
'1'he dignity and pre-eminence of the Archbishop
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 375
of Cologne, when this office had been conferred on
him, caused a
good deal of envy and jealousy among
the lords of' Westphalia, who had been hitherto his
equals, and who considered themselves equally en-
titled to it with him. They never let slip an occasion
of showing' their feelings, and they always had their
counts invested by the emperor, and not by the arch-
bishop; nay, there are not wanting instances of their
having such counts as he had invested confirmed
and re-invested by the emperor.
There now remain only the Tribunal-Lords (Stuhl-
herrn) to be considered.
The Tribunal~lord was the lord of the district in
which there was a Fehm-tribunal. He might him-
self, if initiated, become the count of it, having pre-
viously obtained the power of life and death from the
emperor, or his lieutenant 3 or, if' he did not choose to
do so, he might, as we have already seen, present a
count to be invested, for whose conduct he was held
responsible ; and, if the count appointed by him
misconducted himself, the Stuhl-herr was liable to a
forfeiture of' his rights. He was, in consequence,
permitted to exercise a
right of inspection over the
Fehm-courts in his territory; no schiippé could be
made, no cause
brought into the court, not even
a summons issued, without his approbation. There
even lay a kind of' appeal to him from the sen-
tence of the count; and he could also, like the
emperor, withdraw certain persons and causes from
his jurisdiction. But as his power did not extend
beyond his own
tertitory, the count might refer those
causes in which he wished, but was
prohibited, to
proceed, to the courts in other territories ; he might
also, if he apprehended opposition from the Tribunal-
lord, require him (if initiated) to bepresent at the
proceedings.
The Tribunal-lord, if uninitiated, could, like the
376 SECRET SOCIETIES.
emperor in the same case, exercise these powers only
by initiated deputies.
The great advantage which resulted from the right
of having Fehm-tribunals induced the high lords,
both spiritual and temporal, to be very anxious to
become possessed of this species of territorial pro-
perty. and in consequence nearly all the lords in
Westphalia had Fehm-tribunals. Even towns, such
as Dortmund, Soést, Miinster, and Osnabriick, had
these tribunals, either within their walls, or in their
districts, or their neighbourhood, for it would not
have been good policy in them to suffer this sort of
Status in Slam, to be independent of their authority.
_
SECRET TRIBUNAL8 OF WRSTPHALIA. 377
Cniuvrxm V.
Fehm-courts at Celle-At Brunswick-'1°ibunal of the Know
ing in the Tyrol-The Castle of Baden-African Purrahs.
WE have now gone through the constitution and
modes of procedure of the Fehm-tribunals of West-
phalia, as far as the imperfect notices of them which
have reached the present age permit. It remains to
trace their history down to the last vestiges of them
which appear. A matter of some curiosity should,
however, be previously touched on, namely, how far
they were peculiar to Westphalia., and what institu-
tions resembling them may be elsewhere found.
Fehm-tribunals were,in fact, as we have already
observed, not peculiar to Westphalia. ln a MS. life
of Duke Julius of Celle, by Francis Algermann*, of
the year 1608, we read the following description of
a Fehm-court, which the author remembered to have
seen holden at Celle in his youth :-
"When the Fehm-law+ was to be put in opera-
tion, all the inhabitants of the district who were above
twelve years of age were
obliged to appear, without
fhil, on a healh or some large open place, and sit
down on the ground. Some tables were then set
in the middle of the assembly, at which the prince,
his councillors, and baililis, took their seats. The
Secret Judges then reported the delinquents and the
olfences; and they went round with a white wand
"
Berck, p. 231, from Spitllefs History of Hanover.
~l» Vimrichl, i. e. Fehm-law, the German word, of which the
author presently gives a childish etymology.
378 , SICRET SOCIETIES.
and smote the offenders on the legs. Whoever then
had a bad conscience, and knew himself to be guilty
of a capital offence, was permitted to stand up and
to quit the country within a
day and a
night. He
might even wait till he got the second blow. But if
he was struck the third time, the executioner was at
hand, a
pastor gave him the sacrament, and away
with him to the nearest tree.
"
But if a
person was struck but once or twice,
that was a paternal warning to him to amend his life
thenceforward. Hence it was called Jus Venim, be-
cause there was
grace in it, which has been corrupted
and made Vim-richt."
There were similar courts, we are told, at places
named Wolpe and Roteuwald. Here the custom
was for the Secret Judges, when they knew of any
one having committed an offence which fell within
the Fehm-jurisdiction, to give him a private friendly
warning. To this end they set, during the night, a
mark on his door, and at drinking-parties they
managed to have the can sent past him. If these
warnings took no effect the court was held.
According to an ancient law-book, the Fehm-
court. at Brlmswick was thus regulated and holden.
Certain of the most prudent and respectable citizens,
named Fehmenoles, had the secret duty of watching
the conduct of their fellow-citizens and giving in-
formation of it to the council. Had so many offences
been committed that it seemed time to hold a Fehm-
court, a day was
appointed for that purpose. Some
members of the council from the different districts
of the town met at midnight in St. Martin's church-
yard, and then called all the council together. All
the gates and entrances of the town were closed;
all corners and bridges, and the boats both above and
below the town, were
guarded. The Fehm-clerk was
then directed to begin his office, and the Fehuie-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 379
-notes were desired to give their informations to him
to be put into legal form if the time should prove
suiiicient.
At daybreak it was notified to the citizens that
the council had resolved that the Fehm-court should
be holden on this day, and they were directed to
repair to the market-place as soon as the tocsin
sounded.
'
When the bell had toiled three times all who had
assembled accompanied the council, through the gate
of St. Peter, out of the town to what was called the
Fehm-ditch. Here they separated; the council took
their station on the space between the ditch and the
town~gate, the citizens stood at the other side of the
ditch. The Fehmenotes now mingled themselves
among the townsmen, inquired after such offences as
were not yet come to their knowledge, and communi-
cated whatever information they obtained, and also
their former discoveries (if they had not had time to
do so in the night) to the clerk, to be put by him
into proper form and laid before the council.
The clerk having delivered his protocol to the
council, they examined it and ascertained which of
the offences contained in it were tobe brought before
a Fehm-court, and which not; for matters under the
value of four shillings did not belong to it. The
council then handed the protocol back to the clerk,
who went with it to the Fehm-court, which now took
its seat in presence of a
deputation of the council.
Those on whom theft had been committed were
first brought forward and asked if they knew the
thief. If they replied in the negative, they were
obliged to swear
by the saints to the truth of their
answer; if they named an individual, and that it was
the first charge against him, he was permitted to
clear himself by oath; but if there was a second
charge against him, his own oath was not sutiicient,
380 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and he was obliged to bring six compurgators to
swear
along with him. Should there be a third
charge, his only course was to clear himself by the
ordeal. He was forthwith to wash his hand in water,
and to take in it a
piece of glowing-hot iron, which
the beadles and executioners had always in readi-
ness on the left of the tribunal, and to carry it a
distance of nine feet. The Fehm-count, according
to ancient custom, chose whom he would to find the
verdict. The council could dissolve the court when-
ever they pleased. Such causes as had not come on,
or were put off on account of' sickness, or any other
just impediment, were, on such occasions, noted and
reserved for another session.
It is evident, however, that this municipal court,
of which the chief' object was the punishment of
theft, the grand offence of the middle ages, though
called a Fehm-court, was widely different from those
of' the same name in Westphalia.
'I`he Tribunal of the Knowing (Gericht der Wis-
senden), in Tyrol, has also been erroneously supposed
to be the same with the Westphalian courts. The
mode of procedure in this was for the accuser to lay
his finger on the head of the accused, and swear that
he knew him to be an infamous person, while six
reputable people, laying their fingers on the arm of
the accuser, swore that they knew him to have sworn
truly and honestly. This was considered sufiicient
evidence against any person, and the court proceeded
tojudgment on it.
The ideal Fehm-court beneath the castle of' Baden
must not be passed over without notice, as it seems
to be the model after which our popular novelist de~
scribed his Fehm-tribunal in Switzerland ! A female
writer in Germany* informs us that beneath the
'
Fricderika Brun. Episoden aus Reisen durch du Siiil-
liche Deutschland, &c.
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 381
castle of Baden the vaults extend to a considerable
distance in labyrinthine windings, and were in
former times appropriated to the secret mysteries ot'
a Fehm-tribunal. Those who were brought before
this awfiil tribunal were not conducted into the castle-
vaults in the usual way; they were lowered into the
gloomy abyss by a cord in a basket, and restored to
the light, if so fortunate as to be acquitted, in the same
manner; so that they never could, however inclined,
discover where they had been. The ordinary entrance
led through a
long dark passage, which was closed
by a door of a
single stone as
large as a tombstone.
This door revolved on invisible hinges, and fitted so
exactly. that when it was shut the person who was
inside could not distinguish it from the adjoining
stones, or tell where it was that he had entered. It
could only be opened on the outside by a secret
spring. Proceeding along this passage you reached
the torture~room, where you saw hooks in the wall,
thumb-screws, and every species of instruments of
torture. A door on the left opened into a recess,
the place of the Maiden's Kiss. When any person
who had been condemned was led hither, a stone
gave way under his feet, and he fell into the arms ot'
the Maiden, who, like the wife of Nabis, crushed
him to death in her arms, which were thick set with
spikes. Proceeding on farther, after passing through
several doors, you came to the vault of the Tribunal.
This was a
long spacious quadrangle hung round
with black. At the upper end was a niche in which
were an altar and crucifix. ln this place the chief
judge sat; his assessors had their seats ou wooden
benches along the walls.
We need not to observe how totally different from
the proceedings ol' a
genuine Fehm-tribunal is all
this. That there are vaults under the castle of Baden
is certain, and the description above given is possibly
382' SECRET SOCIETIES. .
`
correct. But the Fehm-court which was held in
them is the mere
coinage of the lady's brain, and
utterly unlike any thing real, unless it be the Holy
Otlice, whose secret proceedings never could vie in
justice or
humanity with those of the Westphalian
Fehm-courts. It is, moreover, not confirmed by any
document, or even by the tradition of the place, and
would be undeserving of notice were it not for the
reason
assigned above.
The similarity between the Fehm-courts and the
Inquisition has been often observed. In the secrecy
of their proceedings, and the great number of agents
which they had at their devotion, they resemble each
other ; but the Holy Office had nothing to correspond
to the public and repeated citations of the Fehm-
courts, the fair trial given to the accused, the leaning
towards mercy of the judges, and the right of appeal
which was secured.
The most remarkable resemblance to the Fehm-
tribunals is (or was) to be found among the negroes
on the west coast of Africa, as they are described by
a French traveller*. These are the Purrahs of the
Foollahs, who dwell between Sierra Leone river and
Cape Monte.
There are tive tribes of this people, who form a
confederation, at the head of which is a union of war-
riors, which is called a Purrah. Each tribe has its
own
separate Purrah, and each Purrah has its chiefs
and its tribunal, which is, in a more restricted sense,
also called a Purrah. The general Purrah of the
confederation is formed from the Purrahs of the live
tribes.
To be a member of the inferior Purrahs, a man
must be thirty years of age; no one under fifty can
have a seat in the general Purrah. The candidate
*
Golberry, Voyage en
Afrique, t. i. p. 114, and seq.
SECRET 'IQRIBUNALS' OF VYESTPHALIA. 383`
for admission into an inferior Purrah has to undergo
a most severe course of probation, in which all the
elements are
employed to try him. Before he is per-
mitted to enter on this course, such of his relatives
as are already members are obliged to pledge them-
selves for his fitness, and to swear to take his life if
ever he should betray the secrets of the society. Hav-
ing passed through the ordeal, he is admitted into
the society and sworn to secrecy and obedience. If
he is unmindfiil of his oath, he becomes the child of
death. When he least expects it a warrior in dis-
guise makes his appearance and says, "The great
Purrah sends thee death." Every one present de-
parts; no one ventures to make any opposition, and
the victim falls.
The subordinate Purrahs punish all crimes com-
mitted within their district, and take care that their
sentences are duly executed. They also settle dis-
putes and quarrels between the leading families.
Itis only on extraordinary occasions that the great
Purrah meets. It then decides on the punishment
of traitors and those who had resisted its decrees.
Frequently too it has to interfere to put an end to
wars between the tribes. When it has met on this
account it gives information to the belligerents,
directing them to abstain from hostilities, and menac-
ing death if a
drop more of blood should be spilt. It
then inquires into the causes of' the war, and con-
demns the tribe which is found to have been the
aggressor to a four days' plundering. The warriors
to whom the execution of this sentence is committed
must, however, be selected from a neutral district.
They arm and disguise themselves, put horrible-
looking vizards on their faces, and with pitch-torches
in their hands set out by night from the place of
assembly. Making no delay, they reach the devoted
district before the break ot' day, and in parties of
384 SECRET SOCIETIES.
from forty to sixty men, they fall unexpectedly on the
devoted tribe, and, with fearful cries, making known
the sentence of the great Purrah, proceed to put it
into execution. The booty is then divided : one half
is given to the injured tribe, the other falls to the
great Purrah, who bestow one half of their share on
the Warriors who executed their sentence.
Even a. single family, if its power should appear to
be increasing so fast as to put the society in fear for
its independence, is condemned to a plundering by
the Purrah. It was thus, though under more
specious
pretexts, that the Athenian democracy sought to re-
duce the power of their great citizens by condemning
them to build ships, give theatrical exhibitions, and
otherwise spend their fortunes.
Nothing can exceed the dread which the Purrah
inspires. The people speak of it with terror and awe,
and look upon the members of it as enchanters who
are in compact with the devil. '1'he Purrah itself is
solicitous to diffuse this notion as much as
possible,
esteeming it a good mean for increasing its power
and iniluence. The number of its members is esti-
mated at upwards of 6000, who recognise each other
by certain words and signs. Its laws and secrets are,
notwithstanding the great number of the members,
most religiously concealed from the knowledge of the
uninitiated.
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 385
Camrnn VI.
The Emperor Lewis the Bavarian-Charles IV.-VVences?aus
-Rupertian Reformation-Encroachments of the Fehm-
courts-Case of Nickel Weller and the town of Giirlitz-
Of the City of Dantzig-Of Hans David and the Teutonic
Knights-Other instances of the presumption of the Free-
counts_Citation of the Emperor Frederic I II.-Case of the
Count of Teckenburg.
Tan history of the Fehm-gerichte, previous to the
fifteenth century, offers but few events to detain at-
attention. The Emperor Lewis the Bavarian ap-
pears to have exerted his authority on several occa-
sions in granting privileges in Westphalia according,
as it is expressly stated, to the Fehm-law. His suc-
cessor, the luxurious Charles IV., acted with the same
caprice respecting the Fehm-tribunals as he did in
every thing else, 'granting privileges and revoking
them just as it seemed to accord with his interest at
the moment. This monarch attempted also to ex-
tend the Fehm-system beyond Westphalia, deeming
it perhaps a
good mean for bringing all Germany
under the authority of his patrimonial kingdom ot'
Bohemia. He therefore gave permission to the
Bishop of Hildesheim to erect two Free-tribunals
out of Westphalia. On the representations of the
Archbishop of Cologne and the lords of Westphalia,
however, he afterwards abolished them.
Wenceslaus, the son of Charles, acted vith his usual
folly in the case of the Fehm-tribunals; he is said,
as he could keep nothing secret, to have blabbed their
z
386 SECRET SOCIETIES.
`
private sign, and he took on him to make frei-sch6p-
pen, contrary to the law, out of Westphalia. These
schiippen of the emperor's making did not, however,
meet with much respect from the genuine ones, as
the answer given to the Emperor Rupert by the
Westphalian tribunals evinces. On his asking how
they acted with regard to such schiippen, their reply
was,
"
We ask them at what court they were made
schtippen. Should it appear that they were made
schiippen at courts which had no right so to do, we
hang them, in case of their being met in Westphalia,
on the instant,without any mercy." Wenceslaus, little
as he cared about Germany in general, occasionally
employed the Fehm-courts for the furtherance of his
plans, and, in the year 1389, he had Count Henry of
Wernengerode tried and hanged for treason by
Westphalian schiippen. The reign of Wenceslaus is
particularly distinguished by its being the period in
which the Archbishop of Cologne arrived at the im-
portant office of lieutenant of the emperor over all
the Westphalian tribunals.
'1`he reign of Rupert was, with respect to the
Westphalian Fehm-courts, chieiiy remarkable by the
reformation of them named from him. This reforma-
tion, which is the earliest publicly-accredited source
from which a
knowledge of the Fehm-law can be
derived, was made in the year 1404. It is a collec-
tion ot` decisions by which the rights and privileges
of a
king of the Romans are ascertained with respect
to these tribunals.
The Rupertian reformation, and the establishment
of the office of lieutenant in the person of' the Arch-
bishop of Cologne, which was completed by either
Rupert or his successor Sigismund, form together an
epoch in the history of the Fehm-gerichte. Hitherto
Westphalia alone was the scene of their operations,
and their authority was of evident advantage to the
SECRE1' TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 387
empire. Their power had now attained its zenith;
confidence in their strength led them to abuse it; and,
during the century which elapsed between the Ruper-
tian reformation and the establishment of the Per-
.petual Public Peace and the Imperial Chamber by the
Emperor Maximilian, we shall have to contemplate
chiefly their abuses and assumptions.
The right of citation was what was chiefly abused
by the Free-courts. Now that they were so
formally
acknowledged to act under the imperial authority,
they began to regard Westphalia as too narrow a
'theatre for the display of their activity and their
power. As imperial commissioners, they maintained
that their jurisdiction extended to every place which
acknowledged that of the emperor's, and there was
hardly a. corner of Germany free from the visits of
their messengers; nay, even beyond the limits of the
empire men trembled at their citations.
It was
chietiy the towns which were harassed by
these citations, which were
frequently issued at the
instance of persons whom they had punished or ex-
pelled for their misdeeds. Their power and conse-
quence did not protect even the greatest: we find,
during the fifteenth century, some of the principal
cities of the empire summoned before the tribunals
of Westphalian counts. Thus in the records of those
times we read of citations served on Bremen, Libeck,
Augsburg, Nuremberg, Erfurt, Gorlitz, and Dantzig.
Even Prussia and Livonia, then belonging to the
order of the Teutonic knights, were annoyed by their
interference.
One of the most remarkable cases which this
period presents is that of the uneasiness caused to
the town of Gérlitz by means of one of its inhabi-
tants named Nickel Weller. This man, who was a
Westphalian schiippe, was accused of having dis-
interred an unchristened child, and of having made
388 EEGRET SOCIETIES.
a candle of the bone of its arm, which he had filled
with the wax of an
Easter-taper and with incense,
and of having employed it in a barn in presence of
his mother, his wife, and an old peasant, for magical
purposes. As he could not deny the fact, he was,
according to the law of those times, liable to be
hanged; but the high-bailiff of Stein, and some other
persons of consequence, interfering in his favour, the
magistrates contented themselves with expelling him
the town and confiscating his goods. As it after-
wards proved, they would have acted more wisely
had they condemned him to perpetual imprisonment.
Weller immediately repaired to Bresslau, and be-
sought the council, the Bishop of Waradein, and the
imperial chancellor, to advocate his cause. They ac-
ceded to his desire; but the magistrates of Giirlitz
perfectly justified their conduct. Weller, still indis-
posed to rest, applied to the pope, Innocent VIII.,
asserting that he could not to any purpose bring an
accusation against the council of Gorlitz within the
town of the diocese of Meissen, and that he had no
chance of justice there. The pope forthwith named
John de' Medici and Dr. Nicholas Tauchen of
Bresslau spiritual commissioners in this affair, and
these desired the high-baili&` of Stein to do his best
that Weller should recover his rights within the space
of a month, on his taking his oath to the truth of his
statements, otherwise they should be obliged them-
selves to take measures ibr that purpose.
From some unassigned cause, however, nothing
came of this, and Weller once more addressed himself
to the pope, with whom the Bishop of Ostia became
his advocate. He was re-admitted into the bosom of
the Church; but the decree of' the magistracy of
Giirlitz still rema.ined in force, and thc new commis-
sioners appointed by the pope even confirmed it.
Finding that he had nothing to expect from papal
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 389
interference, Weller had at last recourse to the Fehm-
tribunals, and on the 3d May, 1490, John of Hul-
schede, count of the tribunal at Brackel, cited the
burgomasters, council, and all the lay inhabitants of
Giirlitz above the age of eighteen years, before his
tribunal. This summons was served in rather a re-
markable manner, for it was found fastened to a
twig
on a
hedge, on a farm belonging to a man named
Wenzel Emmerich, a little distance from the town.
As by the Golden Bull of the Emperor Charles IV.,
and moreover
by a
special privilege granted by Sigis-
mund, Gérlitz was
exempted from all foreign juris-
diction, the magistracy informed Vladislaus, King
of Bohemia, of this citation, and implored his media-
tion. The Bohemian monarch accordingly addressed
himself to the tribunal at Brackel, but George
1-lackenberg, who was at that time the free-count of
that court, Hnlschede being dead, did not even deign
to give him an answer.
Meanwhile the appointed period had elapsed with-
out the people of Gérlitz having appeared to the
summons, and Weller, charging them with disobedi-
ence and contempt of court, prayed that they might
be condemned in all the costs and penalties thereby
incurred, and that he might be himself permitted to
proceed with his complaint. To this end he estimated
the losses and injuries which he had sustained at 500
Rhenish tlorins, and made a declaration to that eflect
on oath, with two joint-swearers. He was accord-
ingly authorised by the court to indemnify himself
in any manner he could at the expense of the people
of (iiirlitz. It was farther added that, if any one
should impede Weller in the prosecution of his rights,
that person should ipso facto fall under the heavy
displeasure of the empire and the pains and penal-
ties of the tribunal at Brackel, and be moreover
obligedto pay all the costs of the accuser. _
'
z 3
390 SECRET SOCIETIES.
On the 16th August of the same year, the count
set a new
peremptory term for the people of Gér-
litz, assuring them that, in case of disobedience,
"he should he obliged, though greatly against his
inclination, to pass the heaviest and most rigorous
sentence on their persons, their lives, and their ho-
nour." The citation was this time found on the
floor of the convent church. The council in con-
sternation applied to the Archbishop of Cologne and
to the free-count himself, to be relieved from this
condition, but in vain; the count did not condescend
to take any notice of their application, and when
they did not appear at the set t.ime, declared the town
of Giirlitz outlawed for contumacy.
It appears that Weller had, for some cause or other,
brought an accusation against the city of Bresslau
also ; tbr in the published decree of outlawry against
G6rlitz it was included. By this act it was pro-
hibited to every person, under penalty of similar out-
lawry, to harbour any inhabitant of either of these
towns ; to eat or drink, or hold any intercourse with
them, till they had reconciled themselves to the Fehm~
tribunals, and given satisfaction to the complainant.
Weller himself stuck up a
copy of this decree on a
market-day at Leipzig; but it was instantly torn
down by some of the people of Gorlitz who hap-
pened to be there.
The two towns of Giirlitz and Bresslau held a
consultation at Liegnitz, to devise what measures it
were best to adopt in order to relieve themselves from
this system of persecution. They resolved that they
would jointly and separately defend themselves and
their proceedings by a
public declaration, which
should be posted up in Giirlitz, Bresslau, Leipzig,
and other places. They also resolved to lay their
griefs before the Diet at
Prague, and pray for its inter-
cession with the Archbishop of Cologne and the Land-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WRSTPHALIA. 391
graf of Hessen. They accordingly did so, and the
Diet assented to their desire ; but their good ofiices
were of no avail, and the answer of the landgraf
clearly showed, either that he had no
authority over
his count, or that he was secretly pleased with what
he had done.
The indefatigable Weller now endeavoured to seize
some of the people of Bresslau and Giirlitz, in Hein
and other placesin Meissen. But they frustrated his
plans by obtaining a promise of protection and safe-
conduct from the Duke George. Weller, however,
did not desist, and when Duke Albert came from the
Netherlands to Meissen, he sought and obtained his
protection. But here again he was foiled; for, when
the high-bailiff and oouncil of Giirlitz had informed
that prince of the real state of the case, he withdrew
his countenance from him. Wearied out by this
ceaseless teasing, the towns applied, through the king
of Bohemia, to the Emperor Frederic III. for a
mandate to all the subiects of the empire, and an
inhibition to the tribunal at Brackel and all the tree-
counts and schiippen. These, when obtained, they
took care to have secretly served on the council of
Dortmund and the free-count of Brackel. By these
means they appear to have put an end to their annoy-
ances for the remainder of Weller's life. But, in the
year 1502, his son and his son-in-law revived his
claims on Giirlitz. Count Ernest ot' Hohenstein
interceded for them; but the council adhered firmly
to their previous resolution, and declared that it was
only to their own or to higher tribunals that they
must look for reliefi The matter then lay over for
ten years, when it was again stirred by one Guy of
Taubenheim, and was eventually settled by an ami-
cable arrangement.
As we have said, the Fehm-tribunals extended
their claims of jurisdiction even to the Baltic. We
392
V
SECRET SECIETIES.
Rnd that a citizen of the town of Dantzig, named
Hans Holloger, who was a free schoppe, was cited
to appear before thc tribunal of Elleringhausen,
under the hawthorn, "because he had spoken what
he ought not to have spoken about the Secret 'l`ri-
bunnl." This might seem just enough, as he belonged
to the society ; but the town-council were commanded,
under a
penalty of tifty pounds of fine gold, to cast
the accused into prison till he had given security for
standing his trial.
Even the powerful 'order of the Teutonic Knights,
who were the masters of Prussia and Livonia, did
not escape being annoyed by the Fehm-tribunals.
How little their power availed against that formidable
jurisdiction is evinced by the answer made by the
Grand Master to the towns which sued to him for
protection.
"
Beloved liegemen! you have besought
us to protect you therefrom; we would cheerfully do
it knew we but ways und means thereto." And
when he wrote to Mangolt, 'the count of the tribunal
at Freyeuhagen, warning him against summoning be-
fore him the subjects of the order, the latter haughtily
replied,
"
You 'have your rights from the empire.
and I have power to judge over all who hold of the
empire."
The following very curious case occurred in the
first half of the fifteenth century :-
A shopkeeper at Liebstadt died very much in-
debted to the two officers of the Teutonic order,
whose business it was to keep the small towns in
Prussia supplied with mercantile goods, and they
accordingly seized on the effects which he had left
behind him. These, however, were not sufficient to
satisfy even the demands of one of them, much less
of both, and they had made up their minds to rest
content with the loss, when, to their surprise, Hans
David, the son of the deceased, came forward with
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTI'HAL[A¢ 393
an account against the order of such amount, that,
as it was observed, if all the houses in the town were
sold, and all the townsmen taxed to the utmost, the
produce would not discharge the one-half' of it. Ile
however produced a document purporting to he a
bond of the order. '.['his instrument bore all the
marks of falsification; it was full of erasures and in-
sertions; among the witnesses to it. some were set
down as
priors who were only simple brethren of the
order; there were the names of others who had
never seen it; it was asserted to have been attested
and verified by the tribunal at Passnar, but in the
records of that court there were not the slightest
traces of it; the seal of the Grand Master, which
was
appended to
every document of any importance,
was
wanting. Of course payment was resisted, but
Hans David was told to pursue his claim, if he
pleased, betbre the emperor and the pope, whom the
order recognised as their superiors.
As Hans David was under the protection of the
king of Poland, he had recourse to that prince; but
he declined interfering any farther than to apply for
a safe-conduct fbr him that he might apply for a nev
inquiry. The Grand Master, on
application being
made to him, swore on his honour that he owed to
the complainant nothing, and that the bond was a
forgery; he moreover promised to answer the charge
in any fit place that the complainant might select;
nay, even in Prussia, and he granted him a safe-
conduct as before.
lt is not known what course Hans David now
adopted; but nine years afterwards (1441) we Fmd
him addressing himself to the Free-tribunal at
Freyenhagen, whose count, the notorious Mangolt,
forthwith issued his citations,
"
because, as he ex-
pressed himself, the order judges with the sword
and gentle murder and burning." The Grand Mas-
894 SECRET SOCIETIES.
ter, indignant at this piece of arrogance, immedi~
ately brought the matter before the assembly of the
free-counts at Coblentz, who declared the proceed-
ings null, and Mangolt liable to punishment, as the
knights were spiritual persons. He moreover ap-
plied tothe emperor, who, to gratify him, issued a
mandate, addressed to all princes of the empire, de-
claring the act of Mangolt to be a
piece of iniquity,
and null and void.
Hans David was now cast into prison at Cologne.
and, notwithstanding a
prohibition of the Free-tribn-
nal, was detained there for two years. Existing docu-
ments attest (though the fact is inexplicable) that the
emperor directed the Archbishop of Cologne and the
Margraf of Baden to examine anew into the affair,
and to send the acts into the imperial chancery, and,
finally, to set the complainant free on his oath, or on
his giving bail to appear at Nuremberg. As this pro-
ceeding can only be ascribed to the influence of the
Secret Tribunals, bent on annoying the order, it
serves to show what their power and consequence
must have been at that time.
Two years afterwards it was
clearly proved at
Vienna that the bond had been forged, at the desire
of Hans David, by a scholar of Elhingen, named
Rothofé. As the case
against the former was now
so
plain, it might be supposed that he would be
punished at once. Instead of' that, the emperor re-
ferred the parties to the pope, as Hans David had
struck a
prior of' the order, and this last was not
content with the satisfaction accorded by the emperor.
The cause of the order was
triumphant in Rome
also, yet still Hans David found means to keep off
the execution of the sentence already passed on him
at Vienna. It was not till after the death of the then
Grand Master that final judgment was
formally de-
livered by Cardinal Jossi, and Hans David, his com-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 395
rade Paul Frankleuen, and the Count Mangolt, were
condemned to perpetual silence, and to payment of the
sum of6,000 Rhenish Horins to the order, and, in case
of disobedience, they were declared to be outlawed.
All this, however, did not yet avail, and two years
afterwards Jossi was obliged to apply to the emperor
for the aid of the temporal arm for the execution of
the sentence. The chaplain of the order at Vienna
also found that Hans David had still the art to de-
ceive many and gain them over to his cause, and he
accordingly took care to have the whole account of
his conduct posted up on the church-doors.
Still the unwearied Hans David did not rest. He
now went to the Free-tribunal at Waldeck, and had
the art to deceive the count by his false representa-
tions. He assured him that the order had offered
him no less than 15,000 Horins and an
annuity, if
he would let his action drop , that they would have
been extremely well content if he had escaped out
of prison at Cologne, but that he preferred justice
and truth to liberty. The order however succeeded
here again in detecting and exposing his arts, and
the count honestly confessed that he had been de-
ceived by him. He cast him off forthwith, and Hans
David, ceasing to annoy the order, devoted himself
to astrology and conjuring for the rest of his days*.
He had, however, caused othe rder abundance of
*
The following is one of his predictions, delivered by him,
under the name of Master Von Dolete, in the year 1457: "In
the ensuing month. September, the sun will appear like a
black dragon; cruel winds will blow, the sea. will roar, and
men will he knocked to pieces by the wind. The sun will then
be turned to blood; that betokeneth war in the East and West.
A mighty emperor will die; the earth will quake, and few
men will remain alive. Wherefore secure
your houses and
chambers; lay up provisions for thirty days in caverns," &c.,
&c. The arts of knaves and the language of impostors are
the same in all ages and countries.
396 SECRET SOCIE'!'iES.
uneasiness and expense. Existing documents prove
that this affair cost them no less than upwards of
1580 ducats, and 7000 Horins, which must be in a
great measure ascribed to the secret machinations of
the Free-tribunals, anxious to depress the Teutonic
Knights, who stood in their way.
In 1410 the Wild and Rheiu Graf was summoned
before the tribunal at Nordernau, and, in 1454, the
Duke of Saxony before that at Limburg. The
Elector-Palatine found it difficult, in 1448, to defend
himself against a sentence passed on him by one of
the Fehm-courts. Duke Henry of Bavaria found
it necessary, on the following occasion, actually to
become a frei-schiippe in order to save himself: One
Gaspar, of Torringen, had accused him before the
tribunal of_Waldeck of "having taken from him his
hereditary office of Chief Huntsman; of having
seized and beaten his huntsmen and servants, taken
his hounds, battered down his castle of Torringen,
and taken from his wife her property and jewels, in
despite of God, honour, and ancient right." The
free-count forthwith cited the duke, who applied to
the emperor Sigismnnd, and procured an inhibition
to the count. The duke found it necessary, notwith-
standing, to appear before the court; but he adopted
the expedient of getting himself made afi°ei-schbppe,
and then, probably in consequence of his rank and
influence, procured a sentence to be passed in accor-
dance with his wishes. Gaspar, who was probably
an injured man, appealed to the emperor, who re-
ferred the matter to the Archbishop of Cologne, and
we are not informed how it ended.
But the audacity of the free-counts went so far
as even to cite the head of the empire himself befhrc
their tribunals. The imperial chancery having, fbr
just and good cause, declared several free-counts and
their '1`ribunal-lord, Walrabe of Wuldeck, to be out-
..-cl
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 397
lawed, three free-counts had the hardihood,in 1470,
to cite the emperor Frederic III., with his chancel-
lor, the Bishop of Passau, and the assessors of the
chancery-court, to appear before the free-tribunal be-
tween the gates of Wiinnenberg in the diocese of
Paderbom, "there to defend his person and highest
honour under penalty of being held to be a disobe-
dient emperor ;
"
and on his not appearing, they had
the impudence to cite him again, declaring that., if he
did not appear, justice should take its course. Feeble,
however, as was the character of the emperor, he did
not give way to such assumptions.
Even robbery and spoliation could find a, defence
with the Fehm-courts. Towards the end of the
thirteenth century a count of Teekenburg plundered
and ravaged the diocese of Miinster. The bishop
assembled his own
people and called on his allies to
aid him, and they took two castles belonging to the
count and pushed him to extremity. To extricate
himself he accused the bishop, and all those who
were with him, before his Fehm-court, and though
there were
among them the Bishop of Paderborn,
three counts, and several knights, the free-count had
the boldness to cite them all to appear and defend
their honour. The affair was
eventually amicably
arranged and the citation recalled.
These instances may sufiice to show how far the
Fehm-tribunals had departed from the original
object of their institution, and how corrupt and ini-
quitous they were become.
__l..._._i___
2A
398 SECRET SOCIETIES.
CHAPTER VII.
Cause of the degeneracy of the Fehm-courts-Attempts at
reformation-Causes of their high reputation-Case of the
Duke of Wiirtemberg-Of Kerstian Kerkerink-Cause: of
the decline of the Fehm-jurisdiction.
THE chief cause of the degeneracy of the Fehm-
courts was the admission of improper persons into
the society. Originally, as we have seen, no man
was admitted to become a schiippe without pro»
ducing satisfactory evidence as to the correctne§ of
his character ; but now, in the case of either count or
schiippe, a suflicient sum of money availed to super-
sede inquiry, and the consequence was that men of
the most disgraceful characters frequently presided
at the tribunals and wielded the formidable powers of
the society. A writer in the reign of Sigismund
says, "that those who had gotten authority to hang
men were hardly deserving enough to keep pigs;
that they were themselves well worthy of the pllows
if one cast a glance over their course of life; that
they left not unobserved the mote in their brother's
eye, but overlooked the beam in their own, Src." And
it required no small courage in the writer thus to
express himself; for, according to his own testimony,
people then hardly ventured even to speak of the
Secret Tribunals, so great was the awe in which they
were held.»
The consequence was that justice was not to be
had at any tribunal which was
presided over by cor-
rupt judgcs, as
they selected assessors, and even by-
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 399
standers, of the same character with themselves, and
whatever verdict they pleased was found. The tri~
bunal-lord generally winked at their proceedings,
while the right of appeal to the emperor was treated
with little respect; forthese monarchs had generally
aH`airs of more immediate importance to themselves
to occupy their attention, The right of exemption
was also trampled on; sovereign princes were, as we
have seen, cited before the tribunals; so also were
the Jews. Purely civil matters were now maintained
to belong to the Fehm-jurisdiction, and parties in
such cases were cited before the tribunals, and _/br-
_fehmed in case of disobedience. In short, the Fehm-
jurisdiction was now become a positive evil instead
of being, as heretofore, a benefit to the country.
Various attempts were doubtless made to reform
the Fehm-law and tribimals, such as the Arensberg
reformation,the Osnaburgh regulation, and others,but
to little purpose. The system, in fact, was at variance
with the spirit which was now beginning to prevail,
and could not be brought to accord with it.
Before we proceed to the decline of the society, we
will pause a moment to consider the causes of the
great reputation and influence which it obtained and
exercised during the period in which it flourished.
The first and chief cause was the advantage which
it was found to be of for the maintenance of social
order and tranquillity. In the -very worst and most
turbulent times a. portion of mankind will always be
found desirous of peace and justice, even indepen-
dently of any private interest; another portion, teel-
ing themselves the victims of oppression, will gladly
catch at any hope of protection; even the mighty and
the oppressive themselves will at times view with
satisfaction any institution which may avail to shield
them against power superior to their own, or which
they conceive may be made the instrument of ex-
2 A 2
400 SECRET SOCIETIES,
tending and strengthening their consequence. The
Fehm-jurisdiction was calculated to suit all these
orders of persons. The fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries were the most anarchic periods of Ger~
many; the imperial power was feeble to control;
and the characters ot` most of the emperors were
such as to render still more unavailing the little au-
thority which, as heads ofthe empire, they possessed.
Sensible of their weakness, these monarchs generally
favoured the Fehm-tribunals, which so freely, and
even ostentatiously, recognised the imperial supe-
riority, as
long as it did not seek to control them or
impede them in their proceedings. The knowledge
which, if initiated, they could derive of the crimes
and misdemeanors committed in the empire, and
the power of directing the arms of the society against
evil-doers, were also of no small importance, and they
gradually became of opinion that their own existence
was involved in that of the Fehm-courts. The nobles
of Westphalia, in like manner, found their advantage
in belonging to the society, and the office of tribunal-
lord was, as we have seen, one of influence and
emolument.
But it was the more helpless and oppressed classes
of society, more especially the unhappy serfs, that
most rejoiced in the existence of the Fehm-tribunals;
for there only could they hope to meet with sure re-
dress when aggrieved, and frequently was a cause,
when other courts had been appealed to in vain,
brought before the Secret 'l`ribunal, which judged
without respect of persons. The accuser had farther
not to fear the vengeance of the evil-doer, or his
friends and dependents; for his name was
kepta
profound secret if the proofs which he could fumish
were sufficient to justify the inquisitorial process
already described, and thus the robber-noble, or the
feudal tyrant, often met his merited punishment at
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 40|
a time when he perhaps least dreaded it, and when
he held his victim, whose cries to justice had brought
it on him, in the greatest contempt; for, like the
Nemesis, or the "gloom-roaming" Erinnys of an-
tiquity, the retributive justice of the Fehm-tribunals
moved to vengeance with stealthy pace, and caught
its victim in the midst of his security.
A second cause was the opinion of these courts
having been instituted by Charles the Great, a
monarch whose memory was held in such high esti-
mation and such just veneration during the middle
ages. Emperors thought themselves bound to treat
with respect the institution of him from whom they
derived their authority; and the clergy themselves,
exempt from its jurisdiction, were
disposed to view
with favour an institution established by the monarch
to whom the Church was so deeply indebted, and of
whose objects the punishment of heretics was one of
the most prominent.
A third, and not the least important cause, was
the excellent organization of the society. which en-
abled it to give such effect to its decrees, and to
which nothing in those times presented any parallel.
The veil of secrecy which enveloped all its proceed-
ings, and the number of agents ready to execute its
mandates, inspired awe; the strict inquiry which
was known to be made into the character of a man
before he was admitted into it gained it respect. Its
sentences were, though the proofs were unknown,
believed to have emanated from justice; and bad men
trembled, and good men rejoiced, as
they beheld the
body of a criminal suspended from a tree, and the
schiippc's knife stuck beside it to intimate by whom
he had been judged and condemned.
The reign of the Emperor Maximilian was a
period of great reform in Germany, and his esta-
blishment ofthe Perpetual Public Peace, and oi'
402 SECRET SOCIETIES.
the Imperial Chamber, joined with other measures,
tended considerably to alter and improve the con-
dition of the empire. The Fehm-tribunals should,
as a matter of prudence, have endeavoured to ac-
commodate themselves to the new order of things;
but this is a
part of wisdom of which societies and
corporate bodies are rarely found capable ; and, instead
of relaxing in their pretensions, they even sought to
extend them farther than before. Under their usual
pretext-the denial of justice-they extended their
citations to persons and places over which they had
no jurisdiction, and thereby provoked the enmity and
excited the active hostility of cities and powerful ter-
ritorial lords.
The most remarkable cases which this period pre-
sents of the perversion of the rights and powers of
the Fehm-tribunals are the two following :-
Duke Ulrich of Wiirtemberg lived unhappily with
his duchess Sabina. There was at his court ayoung
nobleman named Hans Hutten, a member of an
honourable and powerful family, to whose wife the
duke was more particular in his attentions than could
be agreeable to a. husband. The duchess, on her side,
testified a
particular esteem for Hans Hutten, and
the intimacy between them was such as the duke
could not forgive. Hutten was either so vain or so
inconsiderate as to wear publicly on his finger a
valuable ring which had been given to him by the
duchess. This filled up the measure of the jealousy
and rage of the duke, and one day, at ahuntiug-party
in the wood of Bebling, he contrived to draw Hutten
away from the rest of the train, and, taking him at
unawares, ran him through with his sword; he then
took oft' his girdle, and with it suspended him from
one of the oak-trees in the wood. When the murder
was discovered he did not deny it, but asserted that
he was a free schoppe, and had performed the deed
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 403
in obedience to a mandate of' the Secret Tribunal, to
which he was bound to yield obedience. This tale,
however, did not satisfy the family of Hutten, and
they were as little content with the proposal made by
the murderer of giving them satisfaction before a
Westphalian tribunal. They loudly appealed to the
emperor for justice. and the masculine eloquence of
Ulrich von Hutten interested the public so
strongly
in their favour, that the emperor found himself
obliged to issue a sentence of outlawry against the
Duke of Wurtemberg. Atlength, through the medi-
ation of Cardinal Lang, an accommodation both
with the Hutten family and the duchess was effected;
but the enmity of the former was not appeased, and
they some time afterwards lent their aid to effect the
deposition of the duke and the confiscation of' his
property.
It would seem that the Fehm-tribunals would have
justified the assassination committed by the duke, at
least that all confidence in their justice was now
gone;
and, at this period, even those writers who are most
lavish in their praises of the schiippen of the olden
time can find no language sufficiently strong to de-
scribe the iniquity of those of their own days. It
was now become a common saying that the course
of a Fehm~court was tirst to hang the accused and
then to examine into the charges against him. By a
solemn recess of the Diet at Triers, in 1512, it was
declared "that by the Westphalian tribunals many
an honest man had lost his honour, body, life, and
property ;" and the Archbishop of Cologne, who
must have known them well, shortly afterwards as-
serted, among other charges, in a
capitulation which
he issued, that "by very many they were shunned
and regarded as seminaries of villains."
'1`he second case to which we alluded affords a still
stronger proof of their degeneracy.
404 ,
SECRET SOCIETIES.
A man named Kerstian Kerkerink, who lived near
the town of Munster, was accused, and probably with
truth, of having committed repeated acts of adultery.
The Free-tribunal of Miinster determined to take
coguizance of the affair, and they sent and had him
taken out of his bed in the dead of the night. In
order to prevent his making any noise and resistance,
the persons who were employed assured him that he
was to be brought before the tribunal of a
respectable
councillor of the city of Munster, and prevailed on
him to put on his best clothes. They took him to
a. place named Beckman's-bush, where they kept
him concealed while one of them conveyed intelli-
gence of their success to the town~council.
At break of day the tribunal-lords, free-count, and
schiippen, taking with them a monk and a common
hangman, proceeded to Beckman's-bush, and had the
prisoner summoned before them. When he appeared
he prayed to be allowed to have an advocate ; but this
request was refused, and the court proceeded forth-
with to pass sentence of death. The unfortunate
man now irnplored for the delay of but one single
day to settle his aiiairs and make his peace with God;
but this request also was
strongly refused, and it was
signiiied to him that he must die forthwith, and that
if he wished he might make his confession, to which
end a confessor had been brought to the place. When
the unhappy wretch sued once more for favour, it was
replied to him that he should find favour and be be-
headed, not hung. The monk was then called for-
ward, to hear his confession; when that was over the
executioner (who had previously been sworn never
to reveal what he saw) advanced and struck oif the
head of the delinquent.
Meantime, information of what was going on had
reached the town, and old and young came forthto
witness the last act of the tragedy, or
perhaps to
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 405
interfere in favour of Kerkerink. But this had been
foreseen and provided against; officers were set to
watch all the approaches from the town till all was
over, and when the people arrived they found nothing
but the lifeless body of Kerkerink, which was placed
in a coffin and buried in a
neighbouring churchyard.
The bishop and chapter of Miinster expressed
great indignation at thisirregular proceeding and en-
croachment on their rights, and it served to augment
the general aversion to the Fehm-courts.
Our readers will at once
perceive how much the
proceedings in this case, which occurred in the year
1580, differed from those of former times. Then
the accused was
formally summoned, and he was
allowed to have an advocate; here he was seized
without knowing for what, and was hardly granted
even the formality of a trial. Then the people who
came, even
accidentally, into the vicinity of a Fehm-
court, would cross themselves and hasten away from
the place, happy to escape with their lives: now they
rush without apprehension to the spot where it was
sitting, and the members of it ily at their approach.
Finally, in severity as well as justice, the advantage
was on the side of the old courts. The criminal suf-
fered by the halter; we hear of no father confessor
being present to console his last moments, and his
body, instead of being deposited in consecrated earth,
was left to be torn by the wild beasts and ravenous
birds. The times were
evidently altered!
The Fehm-tribunals were never formally abolished;
but the excellent civil institutions of the Emperors
Maximilian and Charles V., the consequent decrease
of the turbulent and anarchic spirit, the introduction
of the Roman law, the spread of the Protestant re-
ligion, and many other events of those times, con-
spired to give men an aversion for what now ap-
peared to be a barbarous jurisdiction and only suited
406 SE CRET SOCIETIES.
to such times as it was hoped and believed never*
could return. Some of the courts were abolished ;
exemptions and privileges against them were multi-
plied; they were prohibited all summary proceed-
ings; their power gradually sank into insignificance ;
and, though up to the present century a shadow of
them remained in some parts of Westphalia, they
have long been only a. subject of antiquarian cu-
riosity as one of the most striking phenomena of' the
middle ages. They were only suited to a
particular
state of society: while that existed they were a
benelit to the world; when it was gone they remained
at variance with the state which succeeded, became
pernicious, were hated and despised, lost all their
I
Q
»_)
»
//Q? &
L
/©
J
6° gp
/ ( V "l @ n
//M l` 5 Fig; 3
i
BM
Q"@`l" Mg" el l
as
~
,
iw 69
l
; (2
Q"
_
Vi%J_f',~@ 'lv
V
`
/Q §
A'
Qfld jpwc
ff il' ;s" °
/I
" ` " , I ff H
ey f
//
R
Seal of the Secret Tribunals.
SECRET TRIBUNALS OF WESTPHALIA. 407
inHuence and reputation, shared the fate of every
thing human, whose character is instability and decay,
and have left only their memorial behind them.
It is an important advance in civilization, and a
great social gain, to have got rid, for all public pur-
poses, of Secret Societies-both of their existence and
of their use ; for, that, like most of the other obsolete
forms into which the arrangements of society have at
one time or other resolved themselves, some of these
mysterious and exclusive institutions, whether for pre-
serving knowledge or dispensing justice, served, each
in its day, purposes ofthe highest utility, which appa-
rently could not have been accomplished by any
other existing or available contrivance, has been
sufliciently shown by the expositions that have been
Qven, in the preceding pages, of the mechanism and
working of certain of the most remarkable of their
number. But it has been made at least equally evi-
dent that the evils attendant upon their operation,
and inherent in their nature, were also very great,
and that, considered even as the suitable remedies
for a most disordered condition of human affairs,
they were at best only not quite so bad as the dis-
ease. They were institutions for preserving know-
ledge, not by promoting, but by preventing that
diffusion of it which, after all, both gives to it its chief
value, and, in a natural state of things, most eflec-
tually ensures its purification, as well as its increase;
and for executing justice, by trampling under foot
the rights alike oi' the wrong-doer and of his victim.
Mankind may be said to have stepped out of night
into day, in having thrown off the burden and
bondage of this form of the social system, and having
attained to the power of pursuing knowledge' in the
spirit of knowledge, and justice in the spirit ofjustice.
We have now
escaped trom that state of confusion
408 SECRET SOCIETIES.
and conflict in which one man's gain' was
necessarily
another max|'s loss, and are
fairly on our way towards
that opposite state in which, in everything. as far as
the constitution of this world will permit, the gain of
one shall be the gain of all. This latter, to whatever
degree it may be actually attainable, is the proper
hope and goal of all human civilization. V
THE END.
Lomlon: Plinlrd by Y. Cuawu and Sam, Stumfunl Street
