{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__anonymous___report_of_dr_franklin_and_other_commissioners.pdf","mytitle":"Report Of Dr Franklin And Other Commissioners","mylang":"de"}
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
REPORT OF DR. FRANKLIN
AND OTHER COMMISSIONERS,
CHARGED BY THE KING OF FRANCE WITH THE EXAMINATION OF THE
ANIMAL MAGNETISM AS PRACTISED AT PARIS.
Translated from tlic French.
AN HISTORICAL OUTLINE OF THE 'SCIENCE,
AN ABSTRACT OF THE
REPORT ON MAGNETIC EXPERIMENTS,
Made by a Committee of the Royal Academy of Medicine, in 1831
AND
i&emarfcs ou <£ol. Stone's HamjrtiUt.
PHILADELPHIA:
PUBLISHED BY H. PERKINS, CHESNUT STREET.
1837.
Med. Mist.
w
Exterkt), according to the net of eongress, in tbe year 1837, by IT. Pekkws, in Um
clerk's office nftlm District Cdurl for the Eastern district of Pen nsylvania-
I WALDIB ''''
ADVERTISEMENT.
In addition to the contents of the present pamphlet as
set forth in the title, the reader will find the first eight pages
occupied by the first report of the committee of the Royal
Society of Medicine in 1784.
Next follows the Report of the Royal Commissioners,
Dr. Franklin at their head, and the pamphlet is concluded
by a succinct history of the so called " science," and an
abstract of the report made in 1831, when lucidity or
clairvoyance had been added to the list of the wonders
of Animal Magnetism. The whole is designed as a
MANUAL on the subject, which should be carefully pe-
rused by those in danger of being led away by the doctrines
now broached. ,
Philadelphia, Oct. 20, 1837.
\
REPORT
COMMITTEE OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE,
Appointed to examine a work, entitled " Enquiries and Doubts
respecting the Animal Magnetism," by M. Thouret. Regent Phy-
sician of the Faculty of Paris, and Member of the Society. To
which are subjoined, by the translator, notes, chiefly extracted
from M. Thouret's performance.
The underwritten were charged by the Royal Society of Medi-
cine, with the examination of a work of M. Thouret, member of
the society, entitled, "Enquiries and Doubts respecting the Animal
Magnetism."
In the attentive perusal of this work, it is obvious to remark, that
it has two very distinct objects ;
one of them, which is in a manner
historical, is to explain the coincidences of the animal magnetism,
as it was known to the ancients, with that which is admitted by the
moderns : the other contains critical reflections and doubts in re-
gard to the evidences upon which the doctrine is founded, the
uncertainty of which M. Thouret undertakes to display. We will
endeavour to lay before the society an idea of his performance.
The animal magnetism held a principal rank among the systems
which were embraced in that period of literary history, when sup-
positions were admitted to hold the place of facts ;
and this hypo-
thesis vanished, together with many others, when experimental
philosophy began to dissipate the impostures of the imagination,
and to afford an accurate measure of the value of arts and sciences.
The object of this system was a fluid extremely subtle, upon
which were bestowed the magnificent titles of soul of the world,
spirit of the universe, and universal magnetic fluid ; and which
was pretended to be diffused through the whole space occupied by
the material creation, to animate the system of nature, to penetrate
all substances, and to be the vehicle to animated bodies in general,
and their several regions in particular, of certain forces of attrac-
tion and repulsion, by means of which they explained the pheno-
mena of nature.
Nor were they contented to admit, or rather to imagine, the fluid
1
we have described ; they flattered themselves that they were able,
in certain methods, to render themselves masters of this fluid, and
to direct its operations. Even this did not terminate their chimeri-
cal pretensions: they affirmed that this fluid, in which they admitted
a species of flux and reflux, exerted an important degree of action
upon the nerves, and had a grand analogy with the vital principle ;
that its effects, under the guidance of skill and illumination, extended
to very great distances, without the intervention of any foreign
substances ; that it was possible to impregnate with it, either cer-
tain powders, in the manner of Sir Kenelm Digby, who asserted
that he had done this, or fluids, or different parts of the bodies of
animals; that this agent was like light reflected by mirrors, and
that sound and music augmented its intensity.
The partisans of the animal magnetism, who wrote in the seven-
teenth century, did not yet confine their hopes within these limits :
the art of directing the fluid, which they had brought down from
heaven, and which, according to them, acted in so distinguished a
manner upon the human body, might be expected to have a con-
siderable share in the medical science, or rather to supersede that
science, as it had hitherto existed ;
they did not fail to assert, that
in causing it to circulate in a proper manner, the restoration of
diseased organs was infallible, as well as the preservation of the
health of those who were yet unattacked with any disease.1
Such was the origin of an external and universal medicine, of a
species entirely new, and which boasted of having the advantage
of curing diseases, without obliging any drugs to be swallowed by
the diseased. Soon after poles were discovered in the human body,
that is, points towards which it appeared that the action of this
imaginary fluid ought to be directed, cures and evacuations were
operated without the assistance of pharmacy, sensations of various
kinds were excited in the patients ;
and, notwithstanding the distin-
guished effects ascribed to this agent, it was asserted, that persons
the most feeble and delicate might submit to its process without
danger. The process had yet another use, that of discovering the
i " It must be confessed, however, that the manner of directing the pretended mag-
netism, is different in these systems. The ancients, as well as M. Mesmer, regarded
this fluid as universally diffused, as pervading the bodies of animals, and as capable of
being rendered the vehicle of the most salutary influences. But, in order to call it into
action, they did not like M. Mesmer, desire to touch, or so much as to approach the
patient. Their method consisted in a different order of proceeding. To give a suit
able direction to the universal spirit, they were obliged to employ real parts, either
extracted or evacuated, of the individual upon whom they proposed to direct the raa(r
netism. The different humours of the human body, whether natural, as the blood, the
urine, the excrements, or contrary to nature, as the pus bred in wounds ; in fine' lnc
solid parts of the frame, as the flesh, the nails, the hair, in a state of separation frorn the
body, afforded, according to the ancient doctrine, the suitable and necessary means f
employing the magnetism. These different parts, so long as they remained i n „ s( .
)te
of integrity, were supposed to be united in the link of a common vital principle
with
the individual who had furnished them. The union was operated by the
intervention
of the universal spirit, and in acting upon them, the physician was said to act al so
the nerson to whom they had belonged ; an action, which, as it was ^dependent „f
contact and was not superseded by distance, was regarded as magnetic. -«fc^» of
seat of the distemper ; a thing frequently so difficult to be ascertained,
but which was pointed out by the fluid by a sort of instinctive in-
telligence, and with absolute demonstration. It perfected the con-
coction of the humours; nervous distempers, in particular, rarely
resisted its influence; it was favourable to transpiration. In fine,
and this last remark is of particular importance, it had a powerful
action upon the moral principles of our frame. A propensity, that
could scarcely be resisted, was the basis of the attachment and gra-
titude, which were vowed by the patients to those who had em-
ployed upon them this method of cure. Several, and in this num-
ber was Maxwel, even gave us to understand, that it was possible,
in certain circumstances of human life, to make an improper use of
this vehicle of influence.1
This picture of the animal magnetism, as it was invented and
applauded by the ancients, is faithfully extracted from the perform-
ance of M. Thouret. The principal authors, to which he has
recourse in the progress of his enquiry, are Paracelsus, Van Hel-
mont, Goclenius, Burgravius, Libavius, Wirdig, Maxwel, Santa-
nelli, Tentzel, Kircher, and Borel.2
The entire passages are
1 " Far be it from me," says Maxwel, " to lead you to improper actions. If, from the
perusal of my works, you become acquainted with the means of such actions, you will
do me the justice not to divulge them. I have seen" adds he, "the most incredible
effects, and the greatest advantages from a right use of this method. I have also seen
infinite evils occasioned by the abuse of it. Indeed, it is scarcely prudent to treat of
these subjects, on account of the dangers that may result from it. If we were to express
ourselves in a manner universally intelligible, fathers could never be sure of their daugh-
ters, nor husbands of their wives; women would be deprived of their self-government
in spite of the most judicious and obstinate resistance."
—
Maxwel, de Medicina Mag-
netica, apud Thouret-
2 Paracelsus Arecolus Philippus Theophrastus Bombastus de Hohenheim is to be
regarded as the inventor of the rnagnetical system. He was born at a village near
Zurich, in Switzerland, in 1433, and died in 1541. His profession was that of a physi-
sician, and he obtained great reputation by the use of mercury and opium, medicines
that were unknown, or not employed, by the physicians of those times. But beside this,
he was a proficient in alchymy, astrology, and magic. He was acquainted with the
philosopher's stone, and the universal medicine. And he invented an elixir, in the use
of which a man could not fail to live to the age of a thousand years.
Van Helmont was the immediate successor of Paracelsus in the pursuit of the rnag-
netical science, and wrote an express treatise De Magnetica Vulnerum Curatione.
All the other persons enumerated lived in the seventeenth century.
" To Maxwel, we are particularly indebted for the most complete and copious treatise
upon the subject, in which he has endeavoured to support its declining credit by calling
in the assistance of that theory of the universal spirit, which he derived from the earliest
philosophers of antiquity, and in which we are presented with the exact counterpart of
the system of M. Mesmer.
" Another inhabitant of this island, the learned and illustrious Sir Kenelm Digby, is
well known for his invention of the sympathetic powder ; which it was only necessary
to apply to the linen which had imbibed the blood or pus of a wound, or to the arm or
sword of him who inflicted it, provided they were still stained with the blood of the
wounded person. It was necessary, however, that the wound should be kept perfectly
clean, and protected from the air.
"There was a sympathetic sweating powder, invented so lately as the year 1745.
The means of applying it was, by mixing it with the urine of the person diseased, and
keeping it boiling over a fire as long as you wished the perspiration to continue. Dur-
ing the operation, the patient was to keep his bed, to be covered up warm, and to drink
wveral large basins of tea. This medicine was never known to fail of its effect."
—
Thouret.
extracted, and M. Thouret has displayed in this performance, as
he had already done in so many others, an erudition the most
various, the most precise, and the most extensive.
It is easy to see how analogous is the system we have described
to that of M. Mesmer. To demonstrate this analogy, M. Thouret
has considered separately each of the propositions published arid
avowed by the latter. They amount to twenty-seven, and the
result of this examination is, that they are all positively announced
in some of the authors whose names have been recited.
Every part of Mesmer's system, even down to the experiments ot
the ring and the sword, have been found by M. Thouret in the
works of these writers.1
It is therefore certain, that the assertions
of M. Mesmer, which are represented by him as principles of his
own, do not belong to him; and that this theory, in the room of
being an attractive novelty, is an ancient system, abandoned by the
learned near a century ago.
In ascending indeed to the original systems which were formed
upon the subject, we are unable to discover any thing but supposi-
tions destitute of proof, and for that reason devoted to oblivion.
The parts of this hypothesis were not connected together by any
other tie than that of the imagination. The steps that were pro-
posed in order to its establishment, were the very same that had
been employed in favour of the art of cure, now by enchantments
and now by exorcisms. It has been always by sensations that they
have pretended to prove the existence of these different agents; and
if this kind of proof were sufficient, there is not one of them which
would not have been demonstrated. Sound philosophy has there-
fore refused credit, as well to this species of proof as to the mag-
netism, such as it was proposed by Maxwel, Goclenius, and San-
tanelli, and such as we have described it in the opening of this
report.
Has the animal magnetism of M. Mesmer any better claim to our
confidence ? M. Thouret, without replying to this question in a
positive manner, has permitted to himself, in the second part of his
work, certain reflections respecting it, which he has proposed simply
as doubts, and which relate entirely to what M. Mesmer has pub-
lished, or authentically advanced. It may be objected to him, says
M. Thouret.
1. That the touch frequently employed in his method for a con-
siderable time, and on regions extremely sensible, such as those of
the stomach, is of itself capable of producing effects, by communi-
cating a vivid impulse to the nerves of the plexuses which are there
1
The experiments of the ring and sword, are to be found in Kircher's Magnes, sive
de arte magnetica. They are both wtll known. " That of the sword consists in the
balancing it upon the point of one of the fingers, the consequence of which will be a
very rapid rolary motion, provided the person be properly magnetised. That of the
ring is performed by a person initiated in the animal magnetism, holding it suspended,
by a thread in the inside of a wine glass, when it will invariably strike the hour ot the
day."— Thouret.
situated, and which have an intimate connection with the whole
nervous system; that authentic records present us with a great
number of facts of this kind, and that, in consequence, the sensa-
tions, which originate in the application of the touch, do not prove
the existence of a separate fluid or agent.
2. That the heat produced by the hand, and the motion commu-
nicated to the air, may occasion very strong impressions upon a
person extremely sensible, and whose fibres are in a state of con-
vulsion, without these impressions being calculated to prove a new
agent.
3. That in subduing the imagination by solemn preparations,
by extraordinary proceedings, by the confidence and enthusiasm
inspired by magnificent promises, it is possible to exalt the tone of
sensible and nervous fibres, and afterwards to direct, by the appli-
cation of the hands, their impulse towards certain organs, and to
excite in them evacuations or excretions, without there resulting
any addition to the sciences, either of philosophy or medicine.
4. That the partisans of the animal magnetism do not produce
what they call crises, that is, a state of convulsions, but in subjects
extremely irritable, extremely nervous, and above all, in women,
whose sensibility has been already excited by the means we have
described.
5. That among these disposing causes, particular stress is to be
laid upon the presence of a person already in a state of convulsion,
or ready to fall into that state ;
that just as an organ attacked with
spasmodic affections easily propagates these affections to the other
organs, in like manner are they transmitted from one man to an-
other ;
that we have therefore no reason to be surprised, if in the
halls, where the pretended magnetical operations are performed,
spasms, and even convulsions, are diffused with extreme alacrity ;
and that history furnishes a great number of facts, of convulsions
propagated through whole villages or towns, in a manner still more
astonishing than that of which the animal magnetism presents us
with an example.
6. That history has also transmitted to us a great number of
cures operated by fear, by joy, or the commotion of any violent
passion ; which proves, beyond controversy, the power of nervous
influences over diseases.
7. That in different ages, two famous empirics, Valentine Great-
rakes of the kingdom of Ireland, and Gassner of Ratisbon, pro-
duced upon different persons effects which appeared surprising,
and have had their admirers ;
that they employed only the instru-
mentality of the touch, either upon the nape of the neck, or the
limb affected ;
and that it has been universally acknowledged that
they acted only upon the imagination.1
1 "Valentine Greatrakcs, Esq., was a native of Afane in the kingdom of Ireland. We
are told, that one day he was conscious to a wonderful internal revolution, and at the
same time heard a voice like that of a genius, which cried incessantly for a long time :
1
I endow you with the faculty of curing diseases.' Importuned by this salutation, from
6
8. That, in many instances the partisans of the magnetism seem
to bestow a greater attention to excite surprise in the spectators
which he could in no way distract his attention, lie determined to make an experiment
of the truth of the intelligence. The voice had first announced to him the gift of cur-
ing the king's evil. He made an experiment upon tiiis distemper, and succeeded. He
afterwards touched persons attacked with an epidemical fever that raged in his neigh-
bourhood ; the voice had announced to him the gift of curing this disease. In fine, he
was enabled to cure every species of disease; and he succeeded in all cases, except
where, as he observed, the malady was too deeply rooted, or the patient laboured under
a particular indisposition to this method of cure. The exterior of this man was ex-
tremely simple. His cures were accompanied with no degree of pomp and ceremony,
unless we should call such, his ascribing his success to God, publicly expressing his
gratitude, and inviting the patient to join with him in the act of thanksgiving. But he
made a very extensive use of the operation of touch. The distemper fled before him,
and he was able, we arc told, to dislodge it from its seat, and remove it to parts the
least useful, If its progress appeared to be suspended in any part, he redoubled his
frictions upon that part to remove the obstacle. In this operation, nature, excited by
the stroking, seemed frequently to operate crises, and it produced stools, vomitings, and
perspirations."
—
Thouret.
"Greatrakes cured not only internal diseases, but also external ones, such as wounds
and ulcers. The second Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, was one of his patients. His
attestations were signed by Boyle, Wilkins, Whichcot, Cudworth, and Patrick. He
was born in 1628, received the gift of healing, 1662, and removed to London, 1666.
—
Des Maizcaux, Vie de St. Eoremond.
" The cures of Gassner are of a much later date, and are not above ten or twelve
years old. This German, having in his youth been afflicted with an ill state of health,
which resisted the efforts of all the physicians, suspected that his? distemper might have
a supernatural cause, and derive from the influence of the devil. His conjecture was
verified by his success in expelling the devil, having abjured him in the name of Jesus
Christ. From that moment he enjoyed the most perfect health for sixteen years. En-
couraged by this event, he laid aside the study of medicine, to which his distemper had
prompted him, and procured all the authors who had treated of exorcism. He began
with healing his parishioners in an obscure town upon the borders of Switzerland and
the Tyrol, and his reputation increased so much, that, in the last two years of his re-
sidence there, he had between four and five hundred patients who applied to him. He
then made a progress through several of the Swiss cantons, and settled at Ratisbon in
1774. He distinguished diseases into two classes, the natural and the demoniac, the
last of which were much the most numerous. Over the former he pretended to no
power. His cures were performed with much pomp and solemnity; and it was
observed, that he constantly rubbed his hands upon his girdle and his handkerchief pre-
viously to his touching the patient. He performed his cures in the name of Christ
and by the faith of the diseased in his holy name; if their faith failed, the cure did not
take place. He gave the sick, when he dismissed them, balm and oil, which he con-
sidered as spiritual medicaments, together with certain waters and powders, and a little
ring, inscribed with the name of Jesus, to prevent a relapse."
—
Thouret.
Thouret considers the system of Gassner as having had an influence on that of M.
Mesmer. Astrology and possessions were extremely current in Germany ; and as
Gassner had taken possession of, and ruined the latter pretension, Mesmer had recourse
to the former. It should however be remembered, that Mesmer had written and pub-
lished his thesis upon astrology before the pretensions of Gassner were heard of.
These instances are produced by Thouret, as distinguished proofs of the efficacy both
of the touch and the imagination. In proof of the contagion of convulsive affections
he cites the convulsions of St. Medard, and the possessions of Loudun. " The former
of these took place in 1732, and made their appearance as soon as any of the religious
were approached to the tomb of their patron saint. They were exposed in the m t
triumphant manner, and covered with ridicule by Hecquet, in his Natural Historv°oi
Convulsions. The pretended possessions of Loudun (1740) originated in an infamous
scheme of avarice and revenge against the unfortunate Urbain Grandier Rector of
Loudun, who became the victim of the machinations of his enemies. The' physicians
of Montpellier, charged with the examination of the affair, discovered the whole secret
of the possessions to consist in factitious and pretended convulsions." Thouret.
than salutary effects in their patients ; the spasms and convulsions
which they produce being the source of undoubted evil, were it
only by the habitude of that state which they are calculated to in-
duce, while the advantages of this method are not equally demon-
strated.
9. That certain local diseases not being of the number of those
upon which the animal magnetism acts, and certain persons, by the
confession of M. Mesmer, not being susceptible of its action, it may
be suspected that the partisans of this system have contrived for
themselves this resource, in order to account for their failure of
success in certain cases.
10. That to pretend to the discovery of a means which shall
extend to every kind of disease, that is, to an universal medicine,
is an illusion which cannot be excused in an enlightened age.
11. That the known effects of sensibility are sufficient to explain,
without any new agent, the phenomena which M. Mesmer pro-
duces by a method which he has not yet imparted to the public.
12. That M. Mesmer, in supposing a particular agent, has adopt-
ed a route contrary to the interests of his discovery, in following the
example of those who have exerted their efforts to give credit to a
system, worthy upon every account of the oblivion into which it
has fallen.
The society may judge of the performance from this extract : it
is proper here to call to mind, that the Royal Society, acquainted
with the zeal of M. Thouret, and his indefatigable enquiries into
every thing that concerned the magnetism, charged him in their
session of the twelfth of March, 1784, with the collection from the
authors, as well ancient as modern, of all that had been written
respecting the animal magnetism. This collection, which is suffi-
ciently complete to satisfy every reasonable desire, and of which
M. Thouret communicated the plan to the society, composes the
first part of his work, and is to be considered as his report to the
society upon that subject. We are of opinion, that the society is
extremely indebted to him in that respect. The second part con-
tains judicious reflections and sagacious doubts. We think both
of them worthy of being printed with the approbation and privilege
of the society.
The society, charged by the king with the examination of all
new inventions, and secret methods of healing diseases, has not
beheld without inquietude the species of vogue acquired by the
animal magnetism ; whose procedures, whatever be their merit,
have been and are administered to the diseased, and paid for by the
public, without having previously, in obedience to the express pro-
visions of the laws of the kingdom, undergone the examination of
the physical profession ; an abuse, against which the society, as in
duty bound, has exclaimed ever since its introduction. They have
a rio-ht to take much pride to themselves that one of their members
is publishing so learned enquiries upon a subject which has not
been hitherto treated but in anonymous compositions, which are,
for the greater part, destined more for the amusement than the
instruction of their readers. The work of M. Thourct, full of depth
and sagacity, will enlighten those who are impartial in their enqui-
ries, and will greatly tend to the solution of a question upon which
the public interest requires that sentence should be pronounced as
soon as possible.
Louvre, July the 9th, 1784.
(Signed) Geoffroy,
Desperrieres,
Jeanroi,
Defourcroy,
Chambon,
Vicq, D'Azyr.
REPORT OF THE COMMISSIONERS,
&c. &c.
The. king named, on the twelfth of March, 1784, four physicians
of the faculty of Paris, Messieurs Borie, Sallin, d'Arcet, Guillotin,
to enter into the examination, and to lay before him an account of
the animal magnetism practised by M. Deslon : and upon the peti-
tion of these physicians his majesty joined with them, for the pur-
pose of this inquisition, five members of the Royal Academy of
Sciences, Messieurs Franklin, le Roy, Bailly, de Borie, Lavoisier.
M. Borie having died in the commencement of the business, his
majesty appointed M. Majault, doctor of the faculty, to replace
him.
M. Mesmer has described the agent he professes to have discover-
ed, and to which he has given the appellation of auimal magnetism,
in 'the following manner!" "It is a fluid universally diffused ; the
vehicle of a mutual influence between the celestial bodies, the
earth, and the bodies of animated beings ;
it is so continued as to
admit of no vacuum ;
its subtlety does not admit of illustration ;
it is capable of receiving, propagating, and communicating all the
impressions that are incident to motion ;
it is susceptible of flux
and reflux. The animal body is subject to the effects of this agent
;
and these effects are immediately produced by the agent insinu-
ating itself into the substance of the nerves. We particularly dis-
cover in the human body qualities analogous to those of the load-
stone ;
we distinguish it in poles different and opposite. The ac-
tion and the virtue of the animal magnetism are capable of being-
communicated from one body to another, animated or inanimate ;
they exert themselves to considerable distances, and without the
least assistance from any intermediate bodies : this action is -increas-
ed and reflected by mirrors ; it is communicated, propagated, and
augmented by sound ;
and the virtue itself is capable of being ac-
cumulated, concentrated, and transferred. Though the fluid be
universal, all animal bodies are not equally susceptible of it; there
even are some, though very few, of so opposite a nature, as by their
2
10
mere presence to supersede its effects upon any other contiguous
bodies.
" The animal magnetism is capable of curing immediately dis-
eases of the nerves, and mediately other distempers ; it improves
the action of medicines ; it forwards and directs the salutary crises
so as to subject them totally to the government of the judgment \
by means of it the physician becomes acquainted with the state 01
health of each individual, and decides with certainty upon the
causes, the nature and the progress of the most complicated dis-
tempers ; it prevents their increase, and effects their extirpation,
without at any time exposing the patient, whatever be his age, sex,
or constitution, to alarming incidents, or unpleasing consequences."1
"In the influence of the magnetism, nature holds out to us a
sovereign instrument for securing the health and lengthening the
existence of mankind."2
Such is the agent, with the examination of which the commis-
sioners have been charged, and whose properties are avowed by
M. Deslon, who admits all the principles of M. Mesmer. This
theory forms the basis of a memoir, which was read at the house of
M. Deslon, on the ninth day of May, in the presence of M. the lieu-
tenant general of the police, and the commissioners. It is asserted
in this memoir, that there is but one nature, one distemper, and one
remedy ; and this remedy is the animal magnetism. This physician,
at the same time that he acquainted the commissioners with the
doctrine and process of the magnetism, instructed them in its prac-
tice by discovering to them the poles, and showing them the man-
ner of touching the diseased, and directing in regard to thern the
magnetic fluid.
M. Deslon undertook to the commissioners, in the first place, to
evince the existence of the animal magnetism ; secondly, to com-
municate to them his knowledge respecting this discovery; and
thirdly, to prove the utility of this discovery and of the animal
magnetism in the cure of diseases.
After having thus made themselves acquainted with the theory
and practice of the animal magnetism, it was necessary to observe
its effects. For this purpose the commissioners adjourned them-
selves, and each of them repeatedly witnessed the public method
of M. Deslon. They saw in the centre of a large apartment a cir-
cular box, made of oak, and about a foot or a foot and a half deep
which is called the bucket ; the lid of this box is pierced with a
number of holes, in which are inserted branches of iron, elbowed
and movable. The patients are arranged in ranks about this
bucket, and each has his branch of iron, which by means of the
elbow may be applied immediately to the part affected; a cord
passed round their bodies connects them one with the other :
some-
times a second means of communication is introduced, by the i«-
1
Memoir by M. Mesmer, upon the Discovery of the Animal Magnetism, 1779
pages 74 and following.
* Ibid. Advertisement, page vi.
11
serl ion of the thumb of each patient between the forefinger and
thumb of the patient next him ; the thumb thus inserted is pressed
by the person holding it ; the impression received by the left hand
of the patient communicates through his right, and thus passes
through the whole circle.
A piano forte is placed in one corner of the apartment, and dif-
ferent airs are played with various degrees of rapidity ; vocal music
is sometimes added to the instrumental.
The persons who superintend the process have each of them an
iron rod in his hand, from ten to twelve inches in length.
M. Deslon made to the commissioners the following declarations.
1st. That this rod is a conductor of the magnetism, has the power
of concentring it at its point, and of rendering its emanations more
considerable. 2dly. That sound, conformably to the theory of M.
Mesmer, is also a couductor of the magnetism, and that to com-
municate the fluid to the piano forte nothing more is necessary
than to approach to it the iron rod ; that the person who plays upon
the instrument furnishes also a portion of the fluid, and that the
magnetism is transmitted by the sounds of the surrounding patients.
3dly. That the cord which is passed round the bodies of the patients
is destined, as well as the union of their fingers, to augment the
effects by communication. 4thly. That the interior part of the
bucket is so constructed as to concentrate the magnetism, and is a
grand reservoir, from which the fluid is diffused through the
branches of iron that are inserted in its lid.
The commissioners in the progress of their examination discover-
ed, by means of an electrometer and a needle of iron not touched
with the loadstone, that the bucket contained no substance either
electric or magnetical ; and from the detail that M. Deslon has
made to them respecting the interior construction of the bucket,
they cannot infer any physical agent, capable of contributing to
the imputed effects of the magnetism.
The patients then, arranged in considerable number and in suc-
cessive ranks round the bucket, derive the magnetic virtue at once
from all these conveyances: from the branches of iron, which
transmit to them that of the bucket ; from the cord which is passed
round their bodies, and the union of their fingers, which communi-
cate to them that of their neighbours ;
and from the sound of the
piano forte, or of a musical voice, which diffuses it through the air.
The patients are beside magnetised directly, by means of a finger
or a bar of iron, guided before the face, above or behind the head,
and over the surface of the parts affected, the distinction of the
poles still observed ; they are also acted upon by a look, and by
having their attention excited. But especially they are magnetised
by the application of the hands, and by the pressure of the fingers
upon the hypochonders and the regions of the lower belly ; an
application frequently continued for a long time, sometimes for
several hours.
in this situation the patients offer a spectacle extremely varied
12
in proportion to their different habits of body. Some of them are
calm, tranquil, and unconscious of any sensation ;
others cough,
spit, are affected with a slight degree of pain, a partial or an universal
burning, and perspirations; a third class are agitated and torment-
ed with convulsions. These convulsions are rendered extraordinary
by their frequency, their violence and their duration. As soon as
one person is convulsed, others presently are affected by that symp-
tom. The commissioners saw accesses of this kind, which lasted
upwards of three hours; they were accompanied with expectora-
tions of a thick and viscous water, brought away by the violence
of the efforts. Sometimes these expectorations were accompanied
with small quantities of blood; and there is among others a lad, a
patient, who has frequently brought up blood in considerable
abundance. These convulsions are characterised by precipitate and
involuntary motions of all the limbs or of the whole body, by a
contraction of the throat, by sudden affections of the hypochonders
and the epigastrium, by a distraction and wildness in the eyes, by
shrieks, tears, hiccupings, and immoderate laughter. They are
either preceded or followed by a state of languor and reverie, by a
species of dejection, and even drowsiness. The least unforeseen
noise occasions starting ; and it has been observed, that the chang-
ing of the key and the time, in the airs played upon the piano forte,
had an effect upon the patients; so that a quicker motion agitates
thern more, and renews the vivacity of their convulsions.
There is an apartment lined with quilting, which was originally
destined for the patients in whom the magnetism produced convul-
sions, and is denominated the apartment of crises; but M. Deslon
has not judged proper to make any use of it; and all the patients,
whatever be the accidents of their situation, are placed together in
the apartment of public proceeding.
Nothing can be more astonishing than the sight of these con-
vulsions ;
he that has not had it can have no idea of it : and in
beholding it, a man is not less struck with the profound repose of
one class of patients than with the violence which agitates another ;
he observes with admiration the various accidents that are repeated,
and the sympathies that are developed. He sees some patients seek
each other with eagerness ; and in approaching smile, converse
with all the demonstrations of attachment, and soothe their mutual
crises. They are entirely under the government of the person who
distributes the magnetic virtue : in vain they may appear to be in
a state of the extremest drowsiness, his voice, a look, a si<m from
him, rouses them. It is impossible not to recognise in these regular
effects an extraordinary influence, acting upon the patients, making
itself master of them, and of which he who superintends the pro-
cess, appears to be the depository.
These convulsive affections are improperly styled crises in the
theory of the animal magnetism : according to this doctrine indeed
they are regarded as a salutary crisis, of the same kind as those
which nature produces, or which a skilful physician has the an tQ
13
excite to facilitate the cure of diseases. The commissioners will
adopt this expression in the following report ; and, wherever they
employ the word crisis, they will always understand the convulsive,
drowsy, or lethargic affections, produced by the means of the animal
magnetism.
The commissioners observed, that in the number of patients in
the state of crisis, there were always many women and few men :
that it was one or two hours before these crises took place ; and
that, when one had taken place, all the others commenced succes-
sively, and without any considerable interval. But after having
made these general remarks, the commissioners were speedily of
opinion, that the public process could not be made the scene of their
experiments. The multiplicity of the effects is one obstacle; too
many things are seen at once for any one of them to be seen well.
Beside, the patients of rank, who repair hither upon account of
their health, might be displeased with the enquiries of the commis-
sioners; the very act of watching them might appear a nuisance;
and the recollection of this might be burdensome, and impede the
commissioners in their turn. They therefore resolved, that as their
frequent attendance at the public process was unnecessary, it would
be sufficient for a few of them to go from time to time, to confirm
the former general observations, to make new ones in case an op-
portunity should occur for that purpose, and to report them to the
commission assembled.
After having observed these effects at the public process, it
behoved them, in the next place, to endeavour to discover their
causes, and enquire into the proofs of the existence and utility of
the magnetism. The question of its existence is first in order ;
that
of its utility it were idle to examine, till the other shall have been
fully resolved. The animal magnetism may indeed exist without
being useful, but it cannot be useful if it do not exist.
Of consequence the first object of attention with the commis-
sioners, and the direct tendency of their first experiments, ought
to be the ascertaining this existence. Again, this was itself an
object of considerable comprehension, and had need of being sim-
plified. The animal magnetism embraces the whole compass of
nature ; it is the vehicle, we are told, of the influence exerted upon
us by the celestial bodies ;
the commissioners were of opinion, that
they ought, in the first place, to leave this more extensive influence
out of the question, and to consider only that part of the fluid
which is diffused over the earth, without troubling themselves with
whence it comes; in a word, to evince the action it exercises upon
us, around us. and within the sphere of our inspection, before they
undertook to examine its relation to the universe.
The most certain method of determining the existence of the
animal magnetic fluid, would have been, to have rendered its pre-
sence capable of being perceived by the senses; but much time
was not necessary to convince the commissioners that this fluid is
too subtle to be subjected to their observation. It is not, like the
14
electrical fluid, luminous and visible; its action is not, like the
attraction of the loadstone, the object of our sight; it has neither
taste nor smell; its process is silent, and it surrounds you or
penetrates your frame, without your being informed of its presence
by the sense of touch. If therefore it exist in us and around us,
it is after a manner perfectly insensible. There are persons among
those who profess the magnetism, who pretend that it may some-
times be seen passing from the extremity of the fingers, which
serve it for conductors, or who believe that they feel its passage
when you o-uide your finger before their face, or along their hand.
In the first of these cases," the emanation perceived is merely that of
transpiration, which becomes completely visible when viewed
through a solar microscope ;
in the second, the impression of cold or
freshness which is felt, an impression by so much the more perceptible
the warmer one is, results from the motion of the air which follows
the finger, and the degree of whose temperature is always below that
of animal heat. When, on the other hand, the finger is approached
to the surface of the face, which is colder than the finger, and it is
held at rest, the consequence is a sensation of heat, which is no
other than the communication of the animal heat.
It is also pretended that this fluid has a smell, and that it is per-
ceived when either the finger or an iron conductor is brought into
contiguity with the nostrils ; it is even said, that the sensation is
different, according as the finger or the rod of iron is directed
parallel with or opposite to the poles. M. Deslon essayed the
experiment upon several of the commissioners ;
the commissioners
themselves have repeated it upon different subjects ; not one has
experienced this difference of sensation : and if, by giving a close
attention, any scent has been perceived, it has been that of the iron,
when the rod has been presented rubbed and heated ; or that of the
emanation of the transpiration, when the finger has been presented
a scent frequently combined with that of the iron with which the
finger itself has been impressed. These effects have been erroneous-
ly attributed to the magnetism, but they may be traced in realitv to
natural and definite causes.
Indeed M. Deslon has never insisted upon these transient impres-
sions; he did not think they were to be offered in evidence on the
contrary he expressly assured the commissioners, that he could not
demonstrate to them the existence of the magnetism, otherwise than
by the action of this fluid, producing certain chancres in animated
bodies. This existence is so much the more difficult to be demon-
strated by effects, which shall be incontrovertible, and whose causes
shall be unequivocal; by authentic facts, in cases where moral
circumstances cannot exert their influence : in a word, by proofs
calculated to convince and compel the understanding, the only ones
which can yield any solid satisfaction to persons really proficient \ n
the study of nature.
The action of the magnetism upon animated bodies may De
observed in two different ways; either as it consists in that acti0u
15
continued for a long time, and in its salutary effects in the treat-
ment of diseases, or in its momentary effects upon the animal
economy and the perceptible changes there produced. M. Deslon
insisted that the former of these methods should be employed prin-
cipally, and nearly exclusively ; the commissioners have been of a
different opinion, and their reasons are as follow.
The majority of diseases have their seat in the interior part of
our frame. The collective experience of a great number of centu-
ries has made us acquainted with the symptoms which indicate and
discriminate them ;
the same experience has taught the method in
which they are to be treated. What is the object of the efforts of
the physician in this method? It is not to oppose and to subdue
nature, it is to assist her in her operations. Nature, says the father
of the medical science, cures the diseased ; but sometimes she en-
counters obstacles, which constrain her in her course, and uselessly
consume her strength. The physician is the minister of nature ;
an attentive observer, he studies the method in which she proceeds.
If that method be firm, strong, regular, and well directed, the phy-
sician looks on in silence, and bewares of disturbing it by remedies
which would at least be useless ;
if the method be embarrassed, he
facilitates it ; if it be too slow or too rapid, he accelerates or retards
it. Sometimes, to accomplish his object, he confines himself to the
regulation of the diet : sometimes he employs medicines. The
action of a medicine, introduced into the human body, is a new
force, combined with the principal force by which our hie is main-
tained : if the remedy follow the same route, which this force has
already opened for the expulsion of diseases, it is useful, it is salu-
tary •
if it tend to open different routes, and to turn aside this inte-
rior action, it is pernicious. In the mean time it must, be confessed
that this salutary or pernicious influence, real as it is, may fre-
quently escape common observation. The natural history of man
presents us in this respect with very singular phenomena. It may
be there seen that regimens the most opposite have not prevented
the attainment of an advanced old age. We may there see men,
attacked according to all appearance with the same disease, reco-
vering in the pursuit of opposite regimens, and in the use of reme-
dies totally different from each other ;
nature is in these instances
sufficiently powerful to maintain the vital principle in spite of the
improper regimen, and to triumph at once over the distemper and
the remedy If it have this power of resisting the action of medi-
cine bv a still stronger reason it must fiave the power of operating
without medicine. The experience of the efficacy of remedies is
always therefore attended with some uncertainty; in the case of
the magnetism the uncertainty has this addition, the uncertainty of
its existence. How then can we decide upon the action of an
aaent whose existence is contested, from the treatment of diseases,
when the effect of medicines is doubtful, whose existence is not at
all problematical?
The cure which is principally cited in favour of the magnetism
L6
is that of M. le Baron de ;
all classes are acquainted with its
history. We shall not here enter into a discussion of the facts ;
we
shall not enquire whether the remedies precedingly employed might
have contributed to this cure. On the one hand the very critical
situation of the patient is admitted, and on the other the inefficacy
of all the ordinary means of medical science ; the magnetism has
been employed and M. le Baron has completely recovered.
But might not a natural crisis have singly operated this recovery ?
A woman of low rank and extremely poor, who lived at the Gros-
Caillou, was attacked in 1779 with a malignant fever in all its
symptoms ; she resolutely refused every assistance, she only de-
sired that a vessel which she had near her should be kept con-
stantly replenished with water ; she remained quiet upon the straw
which served her for a bed, drinking water continually and doing
nothing more. The disease developed itself, passed successively
through its different stages, and terminated in a complete cure.1
Mademoiselle G , who lived at the lesser royal mews, had two
indurations formed in her right breast, which gave her great pain
;
a surgeon recommended to her the use of the eau du peintre as an
excellent dissolvent; at the same time informing her, that if this
remedy did not succeed in a month, it would be necessary to extir-
pate them by incision. The young lady, terrified at this sentence,
consulted M. Sallin, who gave it as his opinion that the indurations-
were susceptible of resolution ; M. Bouvart, who was also consulted,
confirmed the opinion of M. Sallin. Before entering upon any
course of remedy, they prescribed dissipation ;
fifteen days after she
was seized at the opera with a violent cough, and so profuse an
expectoration, that she was obliged to be carried home ; she spit,
in the space of four hours, about three pints of a viscid lymph; one
hour after this. M. Sallin examined the breast ; he discovered no
trace of induration. M. Bouvart, called in the next day, proved on
his part the happy effect of this natural crisis. If Mademoiselle
G had taken eau du peintre, the honour of her cure would
have been attributed to this medicine.
The uninterrupted observation of ages proves, and the professors
of physic acknowledge, that nature alone, and without our interfer-
ence, cures a great number of persons. If the magnetism were
absolutely inactive, the patients, who undergo this method of cure
might be considered as abandoned to nature. It would be absurd
to choose a method of deciding upon the existence of this agent
which, by attributing to it all the cures performed by nature, would
tend to prove that it had an action useful and curative, when in
reality it might have no action at all.
Upon this head the commissioners are of the opinion of M. Mes-
mer. He rejected the cure of diseases when this method of provino-
o
i The observation of this fact was laid in detail before the faculty of medici,le .
,
Paris, in an assembly de prima mensis, by M. Bourdois de la Mothc, Physician of $*
Charity of Saint-Sulpice, who visited the sick person regularly every day.
17
the magnetism was proposed to him by a member of the Academy
of Sciences: "It is a mistake," replied he, "to imagine that this
kind of proof is unanswerable ; it cannot be demonstrated that either
the physician or the medicine causes the recovery of the patient."'
The treatment of diseases can therefore furnish nothing but a
result, always uncertain, often deceitful ;
nor can this uncertainty
be dissipated, and all the causes of illusion compensated, but by an
infinity of cures, perhaps by the experience of successive centuries.
The object and importance of the commission demand means of a
speedier description. It was the duty of the commissioners to con-
fine themselves to arguments purely physical, that is, to the mo-
mentaneous effects of the fluid upon the animal frame, excluding
from these effects all the illusions which might mix with them,
and assuring themselves that they could proceed from no other
cause than the animal magnetism.
They proposed to make experiments upon single subjects, who
might be willing to submit to the various experiments which they
should invent ; and who, some of them by their simplicity, and
others by their intelligence, should be capable of giving an exact
and faithful aecount of their sensations. These experiments we
shall not confine ourselves to relate in the order of time, but shall
follow the order of the facts they were intended to elucidate.
The commissioners in the first place resolved to make their first
experiments upon themselves, and personally to experience the
action of the magnetism. They were extremely cnrious to become
acquainted by their own sensations with the effects ascribed to
this agent. They therefore submitted themselves to these effects,
and in such a disposition, that they would not have been sorry to
have undergone some accidents and a partial derangement of health,
which being evidently produced by the operation of the magnetism,
should have enabled them to decide this important question upon
the spot, and with their own testimony. But in submitting them-
selves to the magnetism in this manner, the commissioners have
employed one necessary precaution. There is not an individual,
in a state of the fullest health, who, if he paid a close attention to
the point, would not be sensible to an infinity of interior motions
and variations, either of a pain infinitely slight, or of heat, in differ-
ent parts of his body; these variations which exist at all times are
independent of the magnetism. To turn and fix in this manner
one's attention upon oneself, is not perhaps itself entirely without
its effects. There is so intimate a connection, whatever be the
vehicle of that connection, between the volitions of the soul and
the motions of the body, that it is not easy to prescribe limits to the
influence of attention, which appears to be nothing more than a
train of volitions, directed, constantly and without interruption, to
the same object. When we recollect that the arm is moved by the
will as it pleases, how can we be certain that the attention being
fixed upon some interior part of our frame may not excite some
slight emotion in it, direct the heat towards it, and so modify its
actual situation as to produce in it new sensations ? The first
3 >v >
18
thing, therefore, to which the commissioners were bound to a,
J.
eI
j
d»
was not to observe too minutely what passed within them, li tne
magnetism were a real and operative cause, there was no need tna
it should be made an object of thought, in order to its action ana
manifesting itself: it ought, so to express ourselves, to compel ancl
arrest the attention, and to render itself perceptible to a mind that
should even be distracted from it by design.
But in determining to make experiments upon themselves, the
commissioners unanimously resolved to make those experiments
private, without admitting any stranger, except M. Deslon, by
whom the operation was to be performed, or such persons as they
should choose ; in like manner they engaged not to submit to the
magnetism at the public process, in order that they might discuss
freely their observations, and be in all events the sole, or at least
the first, judges of the symptoms observed.
In pursuance of these determinations, a particular apartment and
a separate bucket were destined for their use in the house of M.
Deslon, and the commissioners repaired thither once in the course
of every week. The operation was continued in each experiment
for two hours and a half, the branch of iron being in contact with
the left hypochonder, surrounded with a cord of communication,
and forming from time to time the chain of fingers and thumbs.
They were magnetised either by M. Deslon, or in his absence, by
one of his pupils, some of them for a longer time and more fre-
quently than others, and those with whom this was the case were
the commissioners who appeared from constitution and habit the
most susceptible. The operation was performed sometimes with
the finger and the rod of iron, presented and guided along the dif-
ferent parts of the body, sometimes by the application of the hands
and the pressure of the fingers, either upon the hypochonders or
upon the pit of the stomach.
Not one of the commissioners felt any sensation, or at least none
which ought to be ascribed to the action of the magnetism. Some
of the commissioners are of a robust constitution; others have more
delicate habits, and are subject to interruptions of their health one
of these last was sensible of a slight pain at the pit of the stomach
in consequence of a considerable pressure that was employed upon
that part. This pain continued all that, and the next day, and was
accompanied with a sensation of fatigue and dejection. Another
felt, in the afternoon of one of the days in which the experiments
were performed, a slight irritation of the nerves, to which he is
very subject. A third, endowed with a still greater sensibility, and
especially with an extreme restlessness of the nerves, was subject
to a higher degree of pain and a more perceptible irritation ; but
these lesser accidents are the result of perpetual and ordinary varia-
tions in the state of their health, and are of consequence foreign to
the operation they had undergone, or proceed only from the
pres_
sure employed upon the region of the stomach. The commis-
sioners do not speak of these slight details, but from a scrupulous
fidelity ; they relate them, because they have imposed it as a law
upon themselves constantly and in every particular to say the truth.
19
The commissioners could not avoid being struck with the differ-
ence of the private experiment made upon themselves from the
public process. All was calm and silence in the one, all restless-
ness and agitation in the other ;
there, multiplied symptoms, violent
crises, the ordinary state both of body and mind interrupted and
overthrown, and nature wrought up to the highest pitch ; here, the
body free from pain, and the mind from anxiety, nature preserving
her ordinary course and her equilibrium, in a word the absolute
privation of every kind of effect : the stupendous influence, which
creates such an astonishment in the public process, appears no
longer ;
the magnetism stripped of its energy seems perfectly supine
and inactive.
The commissioners, having at first submitted to the experiment
only once a week, were desirous to ascertain whether a continuity
of experiment would produce any effect ; they submitted to it three
days successively, but their insensibility was the same, and the
magnetism appeared with respect to them perfectly impotent. This
experiment, made at once upon eight different subjects, several of
whom were subject to habitual derangements of health, authorises
the conclusion that the magnetism has little or no action in a state
of health, or even in a state of lesser infirmity. We then resolved
to make experiments upon persons really diseased, and we chose
them out of the lower class.
Seven of these were assembled at Passy, at the house of Dr.
Franklin ;
the operation was performed upon them by M. Deslon
in the presence of all the commissioners.
The widow Saint-Amand, asthmatic, having the belly, legs, and
thighs swelled; and dame Anseaume, who had a swelling upon
her thigh, felt no sensation ; the little Claude Renard, a child of
six years of age, scrofulous, almost consumptive, having the knees
swelled, the legs bent inward, and the articulation nearly deprived
of motion, a very interesting child, and possessing a greater degree
of understanding than is usual at his age, was likewise conscious
to no sensation ; any more than Genevieve Leroux, nine years of
age, subject to convulsions, and to a disorder greatly resembling
that which is called St. Vitus's Dance. Francois Grenet experi-
enced some effects ; he had a distemper in his eyes, particularly in
the right, in which he had scarcely any sight, and in which there
was a considerable tumour. When the operation was directed to-
wards the left eye, by approaching and moving backward and for-
ward the thumb very near and for a considerable time, he was
sensible of a pain in the ball of the eye, and the eye watered.
When the operation was directed to the right eye, which was the
most disordered, he felt no sensation in it ; he felt the same pain in
the left eye, and nothing in any other part of the body.
Dame Charpentier, who had been thrown down against a log of
wood by a cow two years before, had experienced the most unfor-
tunate consequences from this accident ; she lost her sight, reco-
vered it afterwards in part, but remained in a state of habitual
infirmities; she declared that she had two ruptures, and the belly
of 30 great sensibility, that she could not bear the pressure of the
20
strings of her petticoats ; this sensibility belongs to the case of^ner-
vous irritation ; the slightest pressure upon the region of the belly
is capable of determining this irritation, and producing, througn
the correspondence of the" nerves, effects in every part of the body.
The operation was performed upon this woman as upon the rest,
by the application and the pressure of the fingers ;
the pressure was
extremely painful to her: afterwards, in directing the finger to-
wards the rupture, she complained of a pain in her head ;
the
finger being placed before her face, she said she could not draw her
breath. Upon the repeated motion of the finger upwards and
downwards, she had sudden starts of the head and shoulders, like
those which are commonly occasioned by surprise mixed with
terror, for instance, that of a person who has some drops of cold
water suddenly thrown in his face. She appeared to have the
same startings when her eyes were closed. The fingers being held
under her nose, while her eyes were shut, she complained of a
sensation of faintness so long as they were continued there. The
seventh subject, Joseph Ennuye, experienced sensations of a similar
nature, but much less considerable.
Of these seven patients, four felt no sensation at all ; three expe-
rienced some effects from the operation. These effects deserved to
engage the attention of the commissioners, and demanded an accu-
rate examination.
The commissioners, to obtain further light, and to define their ideas
upon this part of the subject, resolved to make the experiment upon
patients, placed in other circumstances, and selected from the polite
world ;
such as could not be suspected of sinister views, and whose
understanding made them capable of enquiring into and giving a
faithful account of their sensations. Mesdames de B and de
V ,
Messieurs M and R were admitted to the private
bucket together with the commissioners ; they were entreated to
remark their sensations, without fixing upon them too regular an
attention. M. M and Madame de V were the only per-
sons who experienced any sensation. M. M had an indolent
tumour over the whole articulation of the knee, and a constant
pain in the patella. He declared, during the operation, that he felt
nothing in any part of his body, except in the moment that the
finger was guided before the diseased knee ; he then thought that
he felt a slight degree of heat in the place in which he has^habitu-
ally the sensation of pain. Madame de V , attacked with a
nervous disorder, was several times upon the point of falling asleep
during the operation. The experiment having continued for an
hour and nineteen minutes without interruption, and for the greater
part by the application of the hands, she was sensible to nothing
but a sensation of irritation and dejection. These two subjects
underwent the experiment only once. M. R ,
whose distemper
was the remainder of an obstruction in the liver, the consequence
of a very violent disorder of that kind ill cured, underwent the
operation three times and felt nothing-. Madame de B , se-
verely attacked with obstructions, underwent the experiment con-
stantly at the same time with the commkijiuntiu^ nuA felt nothing
;
2i
it is necessary to observe, that she submitted to the magnetism with
an extreme tranquility, which originated in the highest degree of
incredulity.
Dr. Franklin, though the weakness of his health hindered him
from coming to Paris, and assisting at the experiments which were
there made, was magnetised by M. Deslon at his own house at Passy.
The assembly was numerous; every person who was present un-
derwent the operation. Some sick persons, who had come with
M. Deslon, were subject to the effects of the magnetism in the same
manner as at the public process ;
but Madame de B ,
Dr. Frank-
lin, his two relations, his secretary, and an American officer, felt no
sensation, though one of Dr. Franklin's relations was convalescent,
and the American officer had at that time a regular fever.
The experiments we have related, furnish a number of facts,
calculated to illustrate, and fit to be compared with each other, and
from which the commissioners were at liberty to deduce certain in-
ferences. Of fourteen sick persons, five only appeared to feel any
effect from the operation, nine felt no effect at all. The commis-
sioner, who had the head-ach, and coldness in the feet, derived no
benefit from the magnetism, nor did his feet recover their natural
heat. This agent has not therefore the property which has been
attributed to it of communicating heat to the feet. The magnetism
has also been said to have the property of discovering the species,
and particularly the seat of diseases, by the pain, which the action
of this fluid infallibly occasions in that part. Such an advantage
would be of great consequence ; the fluid which was the instru-
ment of it would be a valuable means in the hands of the physician,
often deceived by equivocal symptoms : but Francois Grenet felt
no sensation, no pain, but in the eye least affected. If the redness
and tumour of the other eye had not furnished external symptoms,
in judging from the effect of the magnetism, we should have been
led to conclude that it was undistempered. M. R- and Madame
de B , both attacked with obstructions, and Madame de B
with great severity, as they were conscious to no sensation, would
have received no intelligence, either respecting the species, or the
seat of their disease. And yet obstructions are among the disorders
which are said to be particularly subject to the action of the mag-
netism ; since, according to the new theory, the free and rapid cir-
culation of this fluid through the nerves, is a means of opening
the channels and destroying the obstacles, that is, the obstructions,
which it encounters in its passage. It is at the same time said that
the magnetism is the touchstone" of health : if therefore M. R
and Madame de B had not experienced the derangements and
the sufferings inseparable from obstructions, they would have had
a right to believe that they enjoyed the best health in the world.
The same thing may be said of the American officer: the magnet-
ism therefore, announced as the discoverer of diseases, completely
failed of its effect.
The heat that M. M felt in the patella, is an effect too slight
and fugitive to authorise any conclusions. It may be suspected
that it pmuoodid from the cause already descanted on, a too great
r
22
attention to observe what passes within us: the same attention
would discover similar sensations at any other time, when the mag-
netism was not employed. The drowsiness experienced by Madame
de V must undoubtedly be ascribed to the regularity and
fatigue of preserving the same situation ;
if she was sensible to any
vaporous emotion, it must be remembered that it is a known pro-
perty of nervous affections to have much dependency upon the
attention that is paid them ;
to renew them it is only necessary to
hear them spoken of, or to think of them. It is easy to juds;e what
ought to be expected from a woman, whose nerves are extremely
irritable, and who, being magnetised for an hour and nineteen
minutes, had during that time no other subject of reflection than
that of the disorders which are habitual to her. She might have
had a nervous crisis more considerable than that we have described,
without our having a right to be surprised at it.
There remains then only the effects produced upon dame Char-
pentier, Francois Grenet and Joseph Ennuye, which can be sup-
posed to derive from the operation of the magnetism. In compar-
ing these three particular facts to the rest, the commissioners were
astonished that three subjects of the lower class should be the only
ones who felt any thing from the operation, while those of a more
elevated rank, of more enlightened understandings, and better
qualified to describe their sensations, have felt nothing. Without
doubt Francois Grenet experienced a pain and a watering in the
eye when the thumb was approached very near to it; dame Cbar-
pentier complained, that in touching her stomach the pressure cor-
responded to her rupture ; and the pressure might have been in
part the cause of what she felt; but the commissioners suspected
that these sensations were augmented by moral causes.
Let us represent to ourselves the situation of a person of the
lower class, and of consequence ignorant, attacked with a distemper
and desirous of a cure, introduced with some degree of ceremony
to a large company, partly composed of physicians, where an
operation is performed upon him totally new, and from which he
persuades himself beforehand that he is about to experience pro-
digious effects. Let us add to this that he is paid for his compli-
ance, that he thinks he shall contribute more to our satisfaction bv
professmg to experience sensations of some kind; and we shall
have definite causes to which to attribute these effects ; we shall
at least have just reason to doubt whether their true cause be the
magnetism.
Beside this it may be enquired, why the magnetism produced
these effects upon persons who knew what was done to them, and
might imagine they had an interest in saying what they said, while
it took no sort of hold upon the little Claude Renard, upon an or-
ganisation endowed with all the delicacy of infancy, so irritable
so susceptible? The sound understanding and ingenuous temper
of this child evince the veracity of his relation. Why too has this
agent produced no effect upon Genevieve Leroux, who was in a
perpetual state of convulsion ? Her nerves were certainly sufficient-
ly irritable, how comes it that the magnaimn did «K^di»pl«y 4*
23
power, either in augmenting or diminishing her convulsions? Her
indifference and impassibility induced the belief, that the reason of
her having felt nothing, was the idiotism which did not permit her
to judge that she ought to have felt any thing.
From these facts the commissioners are at liberty to observe, that
the magnetism has seemed to have no existence for those subjects,
who have submitted to it with any degree of incredulity ;
that the
commissioners, even those who have their nerves most irritable,
having expressly turned their attention to other objects, and having
armed
5
themselves with that philosophic doubt which ought always
to accompany enquiry, have felt none of those sensations which
were experienced by the three patients of the lower class ;
and they
have a right to suspect that these sensations, supposing their reality,
were the fruits of anticipated persuasion, and might be operated by
the mere force of imagination. Of this suspicion another class of
experiments has been the result. Their subsequent researches
were directed towards a new object ; it was necessary to destroy or
confirm the suspicion they had formed, to determine to what degree
the power of the imagination can influence our sensations, and to
demonstrate whether it can be the cause, in whole or in part, of the
effects attributed to the magnetism.
At this time the commissioners heard of the experiments which
were made at the house of M. the dean of the faculty by M. Jumehn,
doctor of physic ;
they were desirous of seeing these experiments,
and they met M. Jumelin in a body at the house of M. Majault, one
of the commissioners. M. Jumelin declared to them that he was
a disciple neither of M. Mesmer, nor of M. Deslon ;
he had learned
nothing respecting the animal magnetism from them, but had formed
his principles and digested his process from what he had heard
upon the subject in conversation. His principles consist in regard-
in^ the animal magnetic fluid, as a fluid which circulates in the
human body, and which flows from it, but which is essentially the
same with the principle of animal heat; like all other fluids he
conceived that it tended to an equilibrium, and that it therefore
passes from the body in which the greatest quantity of it resides,
into that which has the least. His method does not differ from that
of Messieurs Mesmer and Deslon less than his principles; like them
he performs the operation with the finger and the rod of iron as
conductors, and by the application of the hands, but without any
distinction of poles. .
'
Eio-ht men and two women submitted to the operation in the nrst
experiment, and felt nothing; at length a woman, who waits in the
hall of M. Alphonse le Roy, doctor of physic, having been mag-
netised in the forehead, but without touching her, said that she felt
the sensation of heat. M. Jumelin guiding his hand, and present-
ing the five extremities of his fingers over the whole ol her lace,
she said that she felt as it were a flame, that passed from place to
place •
magnetised in the stomach she said that she felt heat ;
mag-
netised upon the back she made the same declaration : she also said
that she felt hot in every part of her body, and that her head ached.
The commissioners, observing that, of eleven persons that under-
24
went the experiment, one only had been sensible to the magnetism
of M. Jumelin, were of opinion that this person had experienced
certain sensations, only because she had probably an imagination
more easily excited than the rest: the opportunity was favourable
for clearing up the point. The sensibility of this woman being
perfectly established, the business was only to protect her from the
illusions of the imagination, or at least to leave her imagination
without any thing to direct its operations. The commissioners
proposed to blindfold her, in order to observe what her sensations
would be, when she could no longer know any thing respecting the
conduct of the experiment. She was accordingly blindfolded and
magnetised; the phenomena no longer answered to the places to-
wards which the magnetism was directed. Magnetised successively
upon the stomach and in the back, she felt only a heat in her head,
a pain in both eyes and in the left ear.
The bandage was removed from her eyes, and M. Jumelin having
applied his hands upon the hypochonders, she said that, she felt
heat; after a few minutes she said that she was ready to faint, and
she fainted in effect. When she was tolerably recovered, the ex-
periment was resumed, she was blindfolded, M. Jumelin was re-
moved, silence recommended, and the woman was induced to believe
that the operation was performing. The effects were the same,
though no operation, either near or distant, was performed ;
she felt
the same heat, the same pain in her eyes and in her ears ; besides
which she felt a heat in her back and loins.
After a quarter of an hour, a sign was made to M. Jumelin to
magnetise her in the stomach, she felt no sensation ;
in the back, it
was the same thing. The sensations diminished instead of aug-
menting. The pains in her head continued, the heat in her back
and loins ceased.
We see in this instance certain effects produced, and these similar
to those which were experienced by the three subjects, respecting
whom the experiment has already been detailed. But the former
and the latter were obtained in different methods ; it follows that
this difference is of no consequence. The process of Messieurs
Mesmer and Deslon, and an opposite process, have produced the
same phenomena. The distinction of poles is therefore chimerical.
It may be observed that while the woman was permitted to see
the operation, she placed her sensations precisely in the part towards
which it was directed ; that on the other hand, when she did not
see the operation, she placed them at hazard, and in parts very dis-
tant from those which were the object of the magnetism. It was
natural to conclude that these sensations, real o? pretended, were
determined by the imagination. Of this we were convinced when
we saw that, being entirely at rest, the preceding sensations having
ceased, and the bandage being fixed over her eyes, this woman ex-
perienced all the same effects, though no operation was performed;
but the demonstration was complete, when after a remission of a
quarter of an hour, her imagination being undoubtedly cooled and
worn down, the effects, in the room of augmenting, diminished at
the moment in which the operation was n rtnr.iiy rpnr\i-cH^
^^
4 \
25
If she was seized with a faintness, women are liable to this acci-
dent from their garments being tight or otherwise burdensome.
The application of the hands upon the hypochonders was capable
of producing the same effect upon a woman extremely susceptible;
but there is no need of having recourse to this cause to explain the
appearance. The weather was extremely hot, the woman had un-
questionably felt some emotion in the beginning of the experiment,
she had made an effort upon herself to submit to a new and un-
known operation, and it is by no means extraordinary that an
effort, continued for a longer time than the constitution will bear,
should occasion a propensity to faint.
This swoon had therefore a natural known cause, but the sensa-
tions, which she experienced when no operation was performed
upon her, could be only the result of imagination. In similar ex-
periments, which M. Jumelin made in the same place the next day,
the commissioners being present, upon a man who was blind-
folded, and upon a woman who was not blindfolded, the result
was precisely the same; it was evident their answers were deter-
mined by the questions that were put to them, that is, the question
pointed out where the sensation was expected to be ; in the room
of directing the magnetism upon them, all that was done was the
exalting and directing their imagination. A child of five years of
age being afterwards magnetised, felt nothing but the heat which
he had just before contracted at play.
These experiments appeared sufficiently important to the com-
missioners, for them to desire a repetition of them, in order to ob-
tain further light into the subject, and M. Jumelin had the com-
plaisance to comply with their request. It would be to no purpose
to object, that the method of M. Jumelin was a bad one ; for at the
present moment it was not proposed to bring the magnetism, but
the imagination to the proof.
The commissioners agreed to blindfold subjects who had already
undergone the magnetical operation, for the most part not to mag-
netise them at all, but to put to them interrogations, so framed as
to point out to them their answers. This mode of proceeding was
not calculated to deceive them, it only misled their imagination.
In reality, when no operation was performed upon them, their sole
answer ought to have been, that they felt no sensation; and when
the operation was performed, the impression they felt, not the
manner in which they were interrogated, ought to have dictated
their replies.
The commissioners adjourned themselves to the house of M.
Jumelin ; they began with an experiment upon his servant. They
fixed a bandage over his eyes, prepared for the purpose, and which
they employed in all the succeeding experiments. The bandage
was made of two calottes of elastic gum, whose concavity was
filled with edredon; the whole inclosed and sewn up in two pieces
of stuff of a circular form. These pieces of stuff' were then fastened
to each other, and to two strings which were tied in a knot at the
4
26
back part of the head. Placed over the eyes, they left in their in-
terval room for the nose, and the entire liberty of respiration,
without the person blindfolded being permitted to receive even the
smallest particle of light, either through, or above, or below the
bandage. These precautions having been contrived, with an equal
view to the convenience of the subject, and the certainty of the
result, the servant of M. Jumelin was persuaded that the operation
was performing upon him. Upon this he felt an almost universal
sensation of heat, and certain emotions in the region of the belly,
together with an extreme heaviness; by degrees he grew drowsy
and appeared upon the point of falling asleep. This experiment
proves what we have already said, that the symptom of drowsi-
ness is the effect of situation and weariness, not of the magnetism.
The same person being afterwards magnetised with his eyes
uncovered, and a rod of iron being presented to his forehead, he
experienced sensations of pricking: the bandage being then re-
placed and the circumstance repeated, he was conscious to no
sensation. The rod of iron was then removed, and the patient
being interrogated if he felt nothing in his forehead, he declared
that he felt something move backward and forward from one side
of it to the other.
M. B , a man of learning, and particularly acquainted with
the science of medicine, was then blindfolded, and presented us
with the same spectacle, feeling certain sensations when he was
not acted upon, and often feeling nothing when the operation was
performed. These sensations went to such a length, that, previ-
ously to the being magnetised in any manner, but believing that
the operation had been performing for ten minutes, he felt a heat
in his loins which he compared to that of a stove. It is evident
that M. B -had a very strong sensation, since, in order to con-
vey an idea of it, he thought it necessary to have recourse to such
a comparison; this sensation however he owed solely to imagina-
tion, which was the only agent concerned in the affair.
The commissioners, particularly those of the faculty of medicine,
made an infinite number of experiments upon different subjects'
whom they cither magnetised themselves, or persuaded that they
underwent the operation. They performed the operation indiffer-
ently, either opposite to, or in the direction of the poles or at right
angles with them, and in each case obtained the same effects- ex
penencing in all these experiments no other difference, than' that
of an imagination more or less susceptible.* They were therefore
n
' "• Si
f
"
U'
docto' of Scully of Pari,, well known for his invention of the
operation of the symphysis of the ossa pubis, made a number of experiments, tending
St
P
1 . , ,
W*™ ™ merely an imaginary power. The following i s thf
detail which he made in a letter dated July the 30th, 1784, and addressed JoL of
the commissioners. ' c or
"Having given the persons who inhabited a large house in the Marais, to under
stand hat I was a pupil ot M Mesmer, I produced various effects upon the wo/nan
of the house. The magisterial tone and the serious air I affected, together with ceT
tain gestures, made ajery great impress! lpon her, which she at first was desirous
to conceal from me; but having guided my hand uuon the, region nf tb. bP„,« T r"?
27
convinced that the imagination alone is capable of producing va-
rious sensations, and causing the patient to experience both pain
and heat, and even a very considerable degree of heat, in all parts
of the body, and they concluded that it of course entered for a
considerable share into the effects attributed to the animal magnet-
ism. It must at the same time be admitted, that the process of
the magnetism produces in the animated body changes more dis-
tinguished, and derangements more considerable, than those we
have just reported. None of those subjects, whom we have hi-
therto described as the imaginary objects of the magnetical opera-
tion, were so far impressed as to produce convulsions ; it was
therefore a new subject for the experiments of the commissioners,
to inquire, whether by the mere energies of the imagination it
were possible to produce crises, similar to those which we have
stated in the public process.
Many experiments were thought of for the decision of this ques-
tion. When a tree has been touched according to the principles
and method of the magnetism, every person who stops under it,
oucrht to experience in a greater or less degree the effects of this
agent; there have even been some in this situation who have
swooned, or experienced convulsions. We communicated our
that it palpitated. The state of oppression in which she appeared likewise indicated
a contraction of the chest. Other symptoms were connected with these; her face be-
came convulsed, her eyes wandered, she at length fell into a swoon, then threw up
her dinner, had several stools, and was reduced to a state of weakness and sinking,
perfectly incredible. I repeated the same trick upon several persons, and succeeded
more or less, according to their different degrees of sensibility and credulity.
"A celebrated artist, master of design to the children of one of our princes, com-
plained for several days of an extreme head-ach; he acquainted me with it upon the
Pont-royal; having persuaded him that I was initiated in the mysteries of M. Mesmer,
I expelled his head-ach almost instantaneously by the means of a few gestures, to his
great astonishment.
" I produced the same effects upon the apprentice of a hatter in the same distemper.
The lad felt nothing in consequence of my first gestures; I then laid my hand upon
his false ribs, bidding him at the same time look in my face. He immediately felt a
contraction of the chest, palpitations of the heart, yawnings, and an extreme dejection.
He doubted no longer of the power I possessed over him. I then guided my finger
over the part affected, and asked him what he felt. He replied that his pain dislodged
itself, and descended. I assured him that I would guide it towards his arm, and make
it come out at his thumb, at the same time squeezing it with considerable force. He
took me at my word, and was perfectly well for two hours. At that period he stopped
me in the street to tell me that his pain was returned. This effect seems to be the
same with that produced by certain dentists upon the mental faculties of those who
go to them to have a tooth drawn.
"Further, lastly, being in the parlour of a convent, rue du Colombier, fauxbourg
Saint Germ'ains, a young lady said to me: I understand, sir, that you are a pupil of
M Mesmer. I am so, replied I ; and I can perform the magnetical operation upon
you notwithstanding the intervention of the grate. At the same time I presented
mv finger; she was terrified, trembled extremely, and besought me for God's sake to
proceed no further. Her emotion was such, that, if I had persevered in my experi-
ment she would infallibly have fallen into convulsions."
M '
Sigault relates that he had himself felt the power of imagination. One day, the
operator havino- undertaken to perform upon him the magnetical operation to convince
him of its reality, at the moment he had determined to touch him, he felt a contrac-
tion of the chest and a palpitation of the heart. But having immediately composed
himself, the gestures and the process of the magnetism were employed in vain, and
made no impression upon him.
w ^
28
ideas upon this subject to M. Deslon, who replied, that the experi-
ment ought to succeed, provided the subject were extremely sus-
ceptible ; and it was agreed that it should be made at Passy in the
presence of Dr. Franklin. The necessity that the subject should
be susceptible, led the commissioners to conceive, that to render
the experiment decisive and unanswerable, it was necessary that
it should be made upon a person of M. Deslon's choice, and of
whose susceptibility to the operations of the magnetism he was
already convinced. M. Deslon therefore brought with him a boy
of about twelve years of age ; an apricot tree was fixed upon in
the orchard of Dr. Franklin's garden, considerably distant from
any other tree, and calculated for the preservation of the mag-
netical power which might be impressed upon it. M. Deslon was
led thither alone to perform the operation, the boy in the mean
time remaining in the house, and another person along with him.
We could have wished that M. Deslon had not been present at the
subsequent part of the experiment, but he declared that he could
not answer for its success, if he did not direct his cane and his
countenance towards the tree, in order to augment the action of
the magnetism. It was therefore resolved, that M. Deslon should
be placed at the greatest possible distance, and that some of the
commissioners should stand between him and the boy, in order to
ascertain the impracticability of any signals being made by M.
Deslon, or any intelligence being maintained between them. These
precautions in an experiment the essence of which must be authen-
ticity, are indispensable, without giving the person with respect
to whom they are employed a right to think himself offended.
The boy was then brought into the orchard his eyes covered
with the bandage, presented successively to four trees upon which
the operation had not been performed, and caused to embrace each
of them for the space of two minutes, the mode of communication
which had been prescribed by M. Deslon himself.
M. Deslon, present, and at a considerable distance, directed his
cane towards the tree which had been the object of his operations.
At the first tree the boy being interrogated at the end of a mi-
nute, declared that he perspired in large drops ; he coughed, spit,
and complained of a slight pain in his head ; the distance of the
tree which had been magnetised was about twenty-seven feet.
At the second tree he felt the sensations of stupefaction and pain
in his head ; the distance was thirty-six feet.
At the third tree the stupefaction and head-ach increased con-
siderably ; he said that he believed he was approaching to the tree
which had been magnetised ; the distance was then about thirty-
eight feet.
In fine at the fourth tree which had not been rendered the object
of the operation, and at the distance of about twenty-four feet
from the tree which had, the boy fell into a crisis ; he fainted
away, his limbs stiffened, and he was carried to a neighbouring
grass-plot, where M. Deslon hastened to his assistance and reco-
vered him.
29
The result of this experiment is entirely contrary to the theory
of the animal magnetism. M. Deslon accounted for it by observ-
ing, that all the trees by their very nature, participated of the
magnetism, and that their magnetism was beside reinforced by his
presence. But in that case a person sensible to the power of the
magnetism, could not hazard a walk in a garden without the risk
of convulsions ; an assertion confuted by the experience of every
day. The presence of M. Deslon had no greater influence here,
than in the coach, in which the boy came along with him, was
placed opposite to him, and felt nothing. If he had experienced
no sensation even under the tree which was magnetised, it might
have been said that at least upon that day he had not been suffi-
ciently susceptible : but the boy fell into a crisis under a tree which
was not magnetised ; the crisis was therefore the effect of no phy-
sical or exterior cause, but is to be ascribed solely to the influence
of imagination. The experiment is therefore entirely conclusive
:
the boy knew that he was about to be led to a tree upon which the
magnetical operation had been performed, his imagination was
struck, it was exalted by the successive steps of the experiment,
and at the fourth tree it was raised to the height necessary to pro-
duce the crisis.
Other experiments were made calculated to support this, and
the result was the same. One day when the commissioners were
all together at Passy at the house of Dr. Franklin, and M. Deslon
with them, they previously intreated the latter to bring some of
his patients with him, selecting those of the lower class, who were
most susceptible to the magnetism. M. Deslon brought two wo-
men; and while he was employed in performing the operation
upon Dr. Franklin and several persons in another apartment, the
two women were separated, and placed in different rooms.
One of them, Dame P , had films over her eyes ; but as she
could always see a little, the bandage already described was em-
ployed. She was persuaded that M. Deslon had been brought into
the room to perform the magnetical operation ; silence was recom-
mended; three commissioners were present, one to interrogate,
another to make minutes of the transaction, and the third to per-
sonate M. Deslon. The conversation was pretended to be address-
ed to M. Deslon ; he was desired to begin the operation ; the three
commissioners in the mean time remained perfectly quiet and
solely occupied in observing her symptoms. At the end of three
minutes the patient began to feel a nervous shuddering ; she had
then successively a pain in the back of her head, in her arms, a
creeping in her hands, that was her expression, she grew stiff,
struck her hands violently together, rose from her seat, stamped
with her feet : the crisis had all the regular symptoms. Two other
commissioners, who were in the adjoining room with the door
shut, heard the stamping of the feet and the clapping of the hands,
and without seeing any thing were witnesses to this noisy experi-
ment.
The two commissioners we have mentioned were with the other
30
patient, Mademoiselle B , who was subject to nervous distem-
pers. No bandage was employed upon her, but her eyes were at
liberty ; she was seated with her face towards a door which was
shut, and persuaded that M. Deslon was on the other side, em-
ployed in performing upon her the magnetical operation. This
had scarcely taken place a minute, before she began to feel the
symptom of' shuddering; in another minute she had a chattering
of the teeth and an universal heat; in fine in the third minute she
fell into a regular crisis. Her respiration was quick, she stretched
out both her arms behind her back, twisting them extremely, and
bending her body forward : her whole body trembled ;
the chatter-
ing of her teeth became so loud that it might be heard in the open
air ; she bit her hand, and that with so much force, that the marks
of the teeth remained perfectly visible.
It is proper to observe that neither of these subjects were touch-
ed in any manner ; their pulse was not even felt, that it might not
be possible to say that the magnetic fluid was communicated ; the
crises however were complete. The commissioners who had been
desirous to know the effect of the influence of the imagination, and
to appreciate the share it might have in the magnetical crises, had
now obtained all that they desired. It is impossible to see this in-
fluence displayed in a clearer or more incontrovertible manner
than in these two experiments. If the subjects have declared that
their crises were stronger in the public treatment, it must be as-
cribed to the power of communication possessed by the numerous
emotions, and that in general every individual symptom has been
increased by the contemplation of similar symptoms.
We had occasion to try a second experiment upon Dame
P , and to experience how much she was under the dominion
of her imagination. The experiment of the magnetic basin was
proposed : this experiment consists in discovering among a number
of basins one that has been magnetised. They are successively
presented to a patient susceptible to the magnetism ; he ought to
fall into a crisis, or at least to experience sensible effects, when
the magnetic basin is presented to him, he ought to be perfectly
indifferent to all the rest. All that was necessary, according to the
recommendation of M. Deslon, was to present them to him in the
direction of the poles, in order that he who presents the basin
may not himself magnetise the patient, and that there may be no
other effect than that of the magnetism of the basin itself.
Dame P was sent for to the arsenal, to the house of M.
Lavoisier, where M. Deslon was ; she began with falling into a
crisis in the ante-chamber, before she had seen either the commis-
sioners or M. Deslon, and merely from the knowledge she had that
she was about to see him ; a distinguished effect of the influence
of imagination.
When she had been tolerably recovered, she was led into the
room destined for the experiment. Several china basins were
presented to her which had not been magnetised ; at the second
31
basin she began to feel the usual symptoms, and at the fourth fell
into a complete crisis. It may be objected that her actual state
was a state of crisis, that it had begun in the ante-chamber, and
was renewed by its own single energy ; but a circumstance which
is decisive, is that having asked for something to drink, the basin
which had been magnetised by M. Deslon himself was presented
to her ; she drank with perfect calmness and said that she felt
herself much better. The basin and the magnetism had therefore
failed of their effect, since the crisis was tranquilised in the room
of being augmented.
Some time after, while M. Majault examined the films she had
over her eyes, the magnetic basin was presented to the back of
her head, and continued there for twelve minutes ; she was uncon-
scious of the operation and felt no effect from it ; she had even at
no time been more tranquil, because her imagination was diverted,
and fixed upon the examination that was making into the disorder
of her eyes.
The commissioners were informed that while this woman had
been left alone in the ante-chamber, different persons unacquainted
with the animal magnetism had approached her, and the convul-
sive emotions had recommenced. She was desired to observe that
the magnetical operation was not performed upon her ; but her
imagination was struck to such a degree that she replied : If you
did nothing to me, I should not be in the condition in which I am.
She knew that she had been sent for in order to be made the sub-
ject of the experiments ; and the approach of any person towards
her, or the slightest noise attracted her attention, excited the idea
of the magnetism and renewed her convulsions.
The imagination, in order to its acting with considerable
strength, has often need that you should touch several cords at a
time. It has a correspondence with each of the senses ; and its
reaction may be expected to be in proportion, both to the number
of senses applied to, and of sensations received: the commission-
ers were led to this observation by the following experiment. M.
Jumelin had spoken to them of a young lady, twenty years of
age, whom he had deprived of the faculty of speech by the influ-
ence of the magnetism ; the commissioners repeated the experiment
at his house, the young lady consented to submit to it, and to suffer
herself to be blindfolded.
The first object of the experiment was to endeavour to obtain
the same effect without performing the operation ; but, though in
this situation she felt or believed she felt the effects of the magnet-
ism, we were not able to strike her imagination, with the force
that was necessary for the success of the experiment. The opera-
tion was then really performed, the bandage not being removed
;
and the success was the same. The bandage was then taken
away ; her imagination was now attacked at once through the
different channels of sight and hearing, and the effects were more
considerable ; but though she complained of a heaviness in her
head, an obstruction in the superior part of the nostrils, and a
32
number of the symptoms which she had felt under the operation
of M. Jumelin, she did not lose the faculty of speech. She ob-
served herself, that the hand by which she was magnetised in the
forehead, ought to descend to the level of the nose, recollecting
that that was its situation at the time in which she had felt the
loss of her voice. What she demanded was accordingly perform-
ed, and in three quarters of a minute she was dumb ; nothing was
now to be heard from her but low and inarticulate sounds, though
the exertion of the muscles of the throat for the formation of
sound, and that of the tongue and the lips in order to articulation,
were visible. This state lasted only a minute : it is obvious to
observe that, finding herself precisely in the same circumstances,
the seduction of the understanding and the effect of that seduction
upon the organs of speech were the same. But it was not enough
that she should be expressly informed that she was magnetised, it
was also necessary that the sense of seeing should yield her a tes-
timony, stronger, and capable of greater effects ; it was necessary
that a gesture with which she was already acquainted should re-
excite her former ideas. It should seem that this experiment is
admirably calculated to display the manner in which the imagina-
tion acts, the degrees by which it is exalted, and the different
exterior succours it requires in order to its displaying itself in its
greatest energy.
The power, which the sense of sight exercises over the imagi-
nation, explains the effects attributed by the doctrine of the mag-
netism to the eyes. The eyes possess in an eminent degree the
power of magnetising ; signs and gestures, as the commissioners
were informed, have commonly no effect, except upon a subject
who has been previously mastered by the employment of the eyes.
The reason of this is very simple; it is the eyes that convey the most
energetic expressions of passion, it is in them that is developed all
that the human character has of the commanding or the attractive.
It is natural therefore that the eyes should be the source of a very
high degree of power ; but this power consists merely in the apti-
tude they possess of moving the imagination, and that in a degree
more or less strong in proportion to the activity of the imagina-
tion. It is for this reason, that the whole process of the magnet-
ism commences from the eyes of the operator ; and their influence
is so powerful and leaves traces so strong and lively, that a wo-
man, newly arrived at the house of M. Deslon, having encountered
a look of one of his pupils, who had performed the operation upon
her, just as she was recovering from a crisis, had her eyes set in
her head for three quarters of an hour. For a long time she was
haunted with the remembrance of this look ; she always saw before
her this very eye fixed to regard her ; and she bore it uninterrupt-
edly in her imagination, sleeping as well as waking, for three days.
We see from this instance what an imagination is capable of
doing, that can preserve one impression for so long a time, that
is, can renew, of itself, and by its single power, the same sensa-
tion regularly and without interruption, for three days.
33
The experiments, which we have already reported, are uniform
in their nature, and contribute alike to the same decision ; they
authorise us to conclude that the imagination is the true cause of
the effects attributed to the magnetism. But the partisans of this
new agent will perhaps reply, that the identity of effects does not
always prove an identity of causes. They will grant that the
imagination is capable of exciting these impressions without the
magnetism ; but they will maintain that the magnetism is also
capable of exciting them without the imagination. The commis-
sioners might easily destroy this assertion by applying the princi-
ples of all reasoning, and the laws of natural philosophy: of which
the first, is to admit no new causes without an absolute necessity.
When the effects observed are capable of having been produced
by a known cause, and a cause whose existence other phenomena
have already established, sound philosophy teaches that the effects
ought to be ascribed to that cause ; and when on the other hand
we are acquainted with the discovery of a cause hitherto unknown,
sound philosophy requires that its existence be made out by effects
which do not belong to a known cause, and which cannot be ex-
plained but by the new cause. It therefore properly belongs to the
partisans of the magnetism, to bring forward other proofs, and to
discover effects which shall be entirely stripped of the illusions of
the imagination. But as facts are more demonstrative than rea-
sonings, and as their evidence is more universally striking, the
commissioners have been desirous of establishing by experiment,
what the magnetism could do in cases where the imagination had
no concern.
For this experiment they made choice of two rooms, contiguous
to each other, and united by a door of communication. The
door was taken away, and a frame of wood substituted in its
place, with transverse bars, and covered with a double texture of
paper. In one of these rooms was a commissioner, who undertook
to make minutes of the transaction, and a lady, who was given
out to be just arrived from the country, and to have a suit of
linen, which she wanted to have made up. Mademoiselle B ,
a sempstress by profession, who had been already employed in the
experiments at Passy, and whose sensibility to the magnetism was
well known, was sent for. Every thing was arranged against her
arrival in such a manner, that there was but one seat upon which
she could place herself, and that seat stood within the frame of the
door of communication.
The commissioners were in the other apartment, and one of
them, a physician, who had upon former occasions performed the
magnetical operation with success, had undertaken to magnetise
Mademoiselle B through the paper partition. It is a principle
in the theory of the magnetism that this agent passes through
doors, walls, &c. A partition of paper could therefore be no ob-
stacle; beside M. Deslon had positively declared that the magnet-
ism passes through paper.
5
34
Mademoiselle B was accordingly magnetised during half
an hour, at the distance of a foot and an half, and in a direction
opposite to that of the poles, in conformity to the rules taught by
M. Deslon, and which the commissioners had seen practised at his
house. During the operation she conversed with much gaiety,
and, in answer to an inquiry concerning her health, she readily
replied, that she was perfectly well: at Passy she had fallen into*
a crisis in the course of three minutes; in the present instance she
underwent the operation of the magnetism without any effect for
thirty minutes. The only reason of this difference must be that
here* she was ignorant of the operation, and that at Passy she
thought it had been performed. The inevitable conclusion is, that
the imagination singly produces all the effects attributed to the
magnetism, and that, where the imagination ceases to be called
forth, it has no longer the smallest efficacy.
Only one objection can be suggested to this experiment ; it is
that Mademoiselle B might not be prepared to receive the
magnetic fluid, and might be less susceptible to its operation than
usual. The commissioners foresaw this objection, and for that
reason made the following experiment. As soon as they had
ceased to magnetise the patient through the paper partition, the'
same commissioner passed into the other apartment ; he found no
difficulty in engaging Mademoiselle B - to submit to the mag-
netical operation. It was accordingly repeated in precisely the
same manner as in the former instance, at the distance of a foot
and an half, and by the intervention of gestures only, together
with the employment of the right finger and the rod of iron. If
he had applied the hands, and touched the hypochonders, it might
have been objected that any difference of effect was to be ascrib-
ed to the application having been more immediate in the latter' in-
stance. But the only difference between the two experiments was,
that in the former Mademoiselle B was magnetised in a direc-
tion opposite to that of the poles, and conformable to the rules of
the magnetical theory; and in the second she was magnetised in
the direction of the poles, or in the transverse line. On this ac-
count according to the principles of the magnetism no effect ought
to have been produced.
In three minutes however she felt a sensation of dejection and
suffocation ; to these succeeded an interrupted hiccup, a chattering
of the teeth, a contraction of the throat, and an extreme pain in
her head; she was restless in her chair; she complained of a pain
in the loins ; now and then she struck her foot with extreme quick-
ness on the floor ; afterwards she stretched her arms behind her,
twisting them extremely as at Passy; in a word the convulsive
crisis was complete and accompanied with all the regular symp-
toms. All these accidents appeared in consequence of a process
of twelve minutes, though the same process employed for thirty
minutes a little before had been ineffectual. The only ground of
difference that remains, is the play that was afforded in the latter
35
instance to the imagination ; to this therefore the difference of the
effects is to be ascribed.
If the crisis originated in the influence of the imagination, it was
the imagination also that put a stop to it. The commissioner who
magnetised her, observed that it was time to have done ; at the
same time presenting to her his two forefingers in the form of a
cross ; and it is proper to observe that in so doing he magnetised
her in the direction of the poles, in the same manner as he had
done through the whole experiment ; no actual alteration had
therefore been made, and the process being continued, the impres-
sions ought also to have continued. But the declared intention of
the operator was sufficient to dissipate the crisis ; her heat and the
pain in her head were immediately alleviated. The disorder of
ner frame was in this manner followed from place to place, an-
nouncing at the same time that it was going to disappear. In this
manner in obedience to the voice to which the imagination was
subjected, the contraction of the throat ceased, then the accidents
of the breast, lastly those of the stomach and the arms. The
whole required only three minutes ; after which Mademoiselle
B declared that she no longer felt any sensation, but was per-
fectly restored to her habitual state.
These last experiments, as well as several of those that were
made at the house of M. Jumelin, have the double advantage of
demonstrating at once the efficacy of the imagination, and the im-
potence of the magnetism, in regard of the symptoms which were
operated.
If the symptoms are more considerable and the crises more vio-
lent at the public process, it is because various causes are combin-
ed with the imagination, to operate, to multiply and to enlarge its
effects. They begin with subduing the minds of the patients by
the employment of the eyes ; this is followed by the touch, the
application of the hands; it is proper to develop in this place the
physical effects of this method of procedure.
The symptoms are more or less considerable : the less are hic-
cupings, qualms of the stomach, and purgings ; the greater are
the convulsions to which they have given the denomination of
crises. The parts upon which the touch is employed, are the hy-
pochonders, the pit of the stomach, and sometimes the ovaria,
when the patient is a woman. The hands and the fingers are
pressed with a greater or less stress upon these different regions.
The colon, one of the larger intestines, runs through both the
regions of the hypochonders, and the region of the epigastrium
which separates them. It is placed immediately under the integu-
ments. It is therefore upon this intestine that the pressure falls, an
intestine full of sensibility and irritability. A repeated voluntary
effort, without assistance from any other cause, excites the mus-
cular action of this intestine, and sometimes procures evacuations.
Nature, as it were by instinct, indicates this manoeuvre to persons
hypochondriacally affected. The process of the magnetism is
36
nothing more than this very maiuruvre; and the evacuations it is
calculated to produce are further facilitated in the magnetical pro-
cess, by the frequent and almost habitual use of a real laxative, the
cream of tartar in their drink.
But while the motion which is produced excites principally the
irritability of the colon, this intestine offers other phenomena. It
swells in a greater or less degree, and sometimes distends itself to
a considerable volume. At such times it communicates to the
diaphragm such an irritation, that this organ becomes more or less
convulsed. It is this convulsion to which they have given the
appellation of crisis in the animal magnetism. One of the com-
missioners had occasion to see a woman, subject to a kind of
spasmodic vomitings, with which she was seized several times in
the course of every day. Her efforts produced nothing but a tur-
bid and viscous water, similar to that which is brought up by the
patients in the crisis of the magnetical operation. The convulsion
had its seat in the diaphragm, and the region of the colon was so
sensible, that the slightest touch upon that part, a strong commo-
tion of the air, the surprise caused by a sudden noise, sufficed to
excite the convulsion. This woman had therefore regular crises
without the assistance of the magnetism, by the single irritability
of the colon and diaphragm ; and the women who were magnetis-
ed obtained their crises from the same cause and through the same
irritability.
The application of the hands upon the stomach has physical
effects not less remarkable. The application is made directly upon
that organ. Sometimes a strong continuous compression is operat-
ed, sometimes a number of slight and successive compressions,
sometimes a discomposure of the stomach by a rotatory motion of
the rod of iron in contact with the part, or by the successive and
rapid passage of the thumbs over it one after the other. These
methods convey almost immediately to the stomach an irritation,
more or less strong and durable, in proportion as the subject is
more or less susceptible. The part is also previously disposed for
the reception of this irritation by being first compressed. This
compression prepares it to act upon the diaphragm and to commu-
nicate to it the impressions it receives. It is irritated, the dia-
phragm is also irritated, and from thence result, in the same man-
ner as by the action of the colon, the nervous accidents which
had been already stated. In women who are peculiarly suscepti-
ble, the mere compression of the two hypochonders, without their
being acted upon in any other manner, occasions a contraction of
the stomach and fits of swooning. This happened in the case of
the woman magnetised by M. Jumelin, and it often happens from
no other cause than an improper degree of tightness in their dress.
These cases are not followed by the crisis, because the stomach is
compressed without being irritated, and the diaphragm remains
in its natural state. The same methods employed upon the ovaria
in the female sex, beside their particular effects, produce with
37
great force the above accidents. The empire and extensive influ-
ence of the uterus over the animal economy is well known.
The intimate connection of the colon, the stomach and the
uterus with the diaphragm is one of the causes of the effects as-
cribed to the magnetism. The regions of the lower belly, which
are the subject of these operations, answer to the different plexuses
which constitute a regular nervous centre in this part, by means
of which, leaving every particular system out of the question,
there most certainly exists a sympathy, communication or corre-
spondence between all the parts of the body; such an action and
reaction, that the sensations excited in this centre affect the other
parts of the body, and reciprocally a sensation experienced in any
part affects and calls into play the nervous centre, which often
transmits the impression back again to all the parts of the body.
The truth thus stated not only explains the effects of the mag-
netic touch, but also the physical effects of the imagination. It
has been constantly remarked, that the affections of the soul make
their first corporeal impression upon the nervous centre, which
commonly leads their subject to describe himself as having a
weight upon his stomach, or a sensation of suffocation. The
diaphragm enters into this business, from whence originate the
sighs, the tears, and the expressions of mirth. The viscera of the
lower belly then experience a reaction ; and it is by this automa-
ton process that we are enabled to account for the physical dis-
orders produced by the imagination. Surprise occasions the colic,
terror causes a diarrhoea, melancholy is the origin of hysterical
distempers. The history of medicine presents to us an infinity of
examples of the power of imagination and the mental affections.
The terror occasioned by a fire, a violent degree of desire, a
strong and undoubting hope, a fit of choler, have restored the use
of his limbs to one who has been crippled with the gout or to a
paralytic person ; a strong and unlooked for degree of joy has
dissipated a quartan ague of two months' standing ;
close attention
is a remedy for the hiccup ; and persons, who by some accident
have been deprived of the faculty of speech, have recovered it in
consequence of some of the vehement emotions of the soul. Ihis
last assertion is supported by the testimony of history, and the
commissioners have themselves witnessed a suspension of this
faculty, occasioned singly by the imagination. The action and
reaction of the physical upon the moral system, and of the moral
upon the physical, have been acknowledged ever since the pheno-
mena of the medical science have been remarked, that is, ever
since the origin of the science.
Tears, laughter, coughs, hiccups, and in general all the effects
which are observed in what have been styled crises in the animal
magnetism, do therefore originate either in the interruption of the
functions of the diaphragm by a physical vehicle, such as the
touch and the pressure, or from the power with which the imagi-
nation is endowed of acting upon this organ and interrupting its
^funetouBBi
38
If it be objected that the touch is not always necessary to these
effects, it may be replied, that the imagination may be sufficiently
fertile in resources to produce them all by its sole instrumentality;
especially the imagination exerted in a public process, called into
play at once by the methods in which it is itself addressed, and by
the effects observed in those who surround it. It has been already
seen what were its effects in the experiments made by the com-
missioners upon isolated subjects ; it may easily be conceived in
what degree those effects must be multiplied in the case of a num-
ber of patients collected together in a public process. These pa-
tients are assembled in a narrow space, if the space be compared
with the number of patients ; the air of the apartment is heated,
although care be employed to renew it ; and it is always more or
less impregnated with mephitic gas, which has the property of
acting immediately upon the head and the nervous system. When
the introduction of music is added, it affords another means of
acting upon and exciting the nerves.
In the public process several women are magnetised at the same
time, and they experience at first no effects but such as are similar
to those obtained by the commissioners in various experiments.
It is even acknowledged that for the most part the crises do not
commence in less than the space of two hours. By little and little
the impressions are communicated from one to another, and rein-
forced, in the same manner as the impressions which are made by
theatrical representation, where the impressions are greater in
proportion to the number of the spectators, and the liberty they
enjoy of expressing their sensations. The applause, by which the
emotions of individuals are announced, occasions a general emo-
tion, which every one partakes in the degree in which he is sus-
ceptible. The same observation has been made in armies upon a
day of battle, where the enthusiasm of courage, as well as the
impressions of terror, are propagated with such amazing rapidity.
The drum, the sound of the military musical instruments, the noise
of the cannon, the musquetry, the shouts of the army, and the
general disorder, impress the organs, have a uniform effect upon
the understanding, and exalt the imagination in the same degree.
In this equilibrium of inebriation, the external manifestation of a
single sensation immediately becomes universal ; it hurries the
soldiery to the charge, or it determines them to fly. The same
cause is deeply concerned in rebellions ; the multitude are governed
by the imagination ; the individuals in a numerous assembly are
more subjected to their senses, and less capable of submitting to
the dictates of reason ; and where fanaticism is the presiding qua-
lity, its fruit is the tremblers of the Cevennes. It has been usual
to forbid numerous assemblies in seditious towns, as a means of
stopping a contagion so easily communicated. Every where ex-
ample acts upon the moral part of our frame, mechanical imitation
upon the physical part : the minds of individuals are calmed by
dispersing them ; the same method puts a stop to their spasmodic
affections, always contagious in their- naturae we iiave had__a
39
recent example of this in the young ladies of Saint Roch, who
were in this manner cured of the convulsions with which they
were affected when together.*
The magnetism then, or rather the operations of the imagina-
tion, are equally discoverable at the theatre, in the camp, and in
all numerous assemblies, as at the bucket, acting indeed by different
means, but producing similar effects. The bucket is surrounded
with a crowd of patients ; the sensations are continually commu-
nicated and recommunicated ; it ought to be expected that the
nerves should be at length worn out with this exercise, they are
accordingly irritated, and the woman of most sensibility in the
company gives the signal. Immediately the cords, every where
stretched to the same degree and in perfect unison, respond to each
other; the crises are multiplied; they mutually reinforce each
other, and are rendered violent. In the mean time the men, who
are witnesses of these emotions, partake of them in proportion to
their nervous sensibility ; and those with whom this sensibility is
greatest and most easily excited become themselves the subjects of
a crisis.
This propensity to irritation, partly natural and partly acquired,
becomes in each sex habitual. The sensations having been felt
once or oftener, nothing is now necessary, but to recall the me-
mory of them, and to exalt the imagination to the same degree,
in order to operate the same effects. This will never be difficult
when the subject is placed in the same circumstances. The public
process is no longer necessary, you have only to touch the hypo-
chonders and to conduct the finger and the rod of iron before the
countenance ; the signs are well known. Even these are not ne-
cessary, it is sufficient that the patients be blindfolded, made to
believe that these signs are repeated upon them, and that they are
magnetised ; the ideas are re-excited, the sensations are reproduced,
the imagination, employing its accustomed instruments and resum-
ing its former routes, gives birth to the same phenomena. These
cases happen exactly to the patients of M. Deslon, who fall into a
crisis without the bucket, and without being excited with the spec-
tacle of the public process.
* On the day of the ceremony of the first communion, celebrated in the parish
church of Saint Roch a few years ago (1780), after the evening service they made
according to custom the procession tnrough the streets. Scarcely were the children
returned to the church, and had resumed their seats, before a young girl fell ill and
had convulsions. This affection propagated itself with so much rapidity, that in the
space of half an hour fifty or sixty girls from twelve to nineteen years of age were
seized with the same convulsions ; that is, with a contraction of the throat, an infla-
tion of the stomach, suffocation, hiccups and spasms more or less considerable. These
accidents reappeared in some instances in the course of the week ;
but the following
Sunday, being assembled with the dames of Sainte Anne, whose business it is to
teach the young ladies, twelve of them were seized with the same convulsions, and
more would have followed, if they had not had the precaution to send away each
child upon the spot to her relations. The whole were obliged to be divided into seve-
ral schools. By thus separating the children, and not keeping them together but in
small numbers, three weeks sufficed to dissipate entirely this epidemical convulsive
affection. See for other instances of the same kind the Natural History of Convul-
sions by M. Hccipiet.
40
Compression, imagination, imitation, are therefore the true causes
of the effects attributed to this new agent, known by the appella-
tion of animal magnetism, this fluid, which is said to circulate
through the human body, and to be communicated from individual
to individual. Such is the result of the experiments of the commis-
sioners, and the observations they made upon the means employed
and the effects produced. This agent, this fluid, has no existence.
Chimerical, however, as it is, the idea is by no means novel. Some
authors, particularly physicians of the last age, have expressly
treated of it in various performances. The curious and interesting
inquiries of M. Thouret have convinced the public, that the theory,
the operations and the effects of the animal magnetism, proposed
in the last age, were nearly the same with those revived in the
present. The magnetism then is no more than an old falsehood.
The theory indeed is now presented, as was necessary in a more
enlightened age, with a greater degree of pomp ; but it is not less
erroneous. Human nature is formed to seize, to quit and to re-
sume the mistake which is flattering to its wishes. There are er-
rors which will be eternally dear to the sublunary state. How
often has the pretended science of astrology vanished and reap-
peared ! The magnetism is calculated to lead us back to it. Its
professors have been desirous of connecting it with the celestial
influences, that it might have the stronger seduction, and attract
mankind by the two hopes that are nearest their heart, that of
looking into futurity, and that of prolonging their existence.
There is room to believe that the imagination is the principal of
the three causes which we have assigned to the magnetism. It
appears, by the experiments we have related, that it suflices alone
to produce the crises. The pressure and the touch seem to serve
it as preparatives ; it is by the touch that the nerves begin to be
excited, imitation communicates and extends the impressions. But
the imagination is that active and terrible power, by which are
operated the astonishing effects that have excited so much atten-
tion to the public process. The effects strike all the world, the
cause is enveloped in the shades of obscurity. When we consider
that these effects seduced, in former ages, men, venerable for their
merit, their illumination, and even their genius, Paracelsus, Van
Helmont and Kircher, we cease to be astonished, that persons of
the present day, learned and well informed, that even a great
number of physicians, have been the dupes of this system. Had
the commissioners been admitted only to the public process, where
there is neither time nor opportunity of making decisive experi-
ments, they might themselves have been led into error. It was
necessary to have liberty to insulate the effects, in order to distin-
guish the causes ; it was necessary to see, as they have done, the
imagination act, if we may be allowed the expression, partially,
and produce its effects, one by one, and in detail, to have an idea
to what the accumulation of those effects might amount; to con-
ceive the extent of its power, and to account for all its prodigies.
41
Such an examination demanded a sacrifice of time, and a number
of systematical researches, which we have not always the leisure
to undertake for our private instruction or private curiosity, nor
even the power properly to pursue without being, like the commis-
sioners, charged with the mandates of the sovereign, and honoured
with the confidence of the public.
M. Deslon is not much averse to the admission of these princi-
ples. He declared in our session, held at the house of Dr. Frank-
lin, the 19th of June, that he thought he might lay it down as a
fact, that the imagination had the greatest share in the effects of
the animal magnetism ; he said that this new agent might be no
other than the imagination itself, whose power is as extensive as it
is little known : he affirmed that he always acknowledged the con-
cern of this faculty in the treatment of his patients, and he affirmed
with equal confidence, that many persons have been either entirety
cured or infinitely amended, in the state of their health, under his di-
rection. He remarked to the commissioners, that the imagination
thus directed to the relief of suffering humanity, would be a most
valuable means in the hands of the medical profession ;* and per-
suaded of the reality of the power of the imagination, he invited
the commissioners to embrace the opportunity which his practice
afforded, to study its procedure and its effects. If, therefore, M.
Deslon be still attached to his first idea, that these effects are to
be ascribed to the agency of a fluid, which is communicated from
individual to individual by the touch or under the guidance of a
conductor, he cannot, however, avoid conceding to the commis-
sioners, that only one cause is requisite to one effect, and that since
the imagination is a sufficient cause, the supposition of the mag-
netic fluid is useless. It cannot be denied that we are surrounded
with a fluid which peculiarly belongs to us ; the insensible perspi-
ration forms around us an atmosphere of insensible vapours : but
this fluid has no agency but such as is common to other atmo-
spheres ; cannot be communicated by the touch but in infinitely
small quantities ; is not capable of being directed either by con-
ductors, or by the eyes, or by the will ; is neither propagated by
sound, nor reflected by mirrors ; and is in no case susceptible of
the effects ascribed to it.
It remains for us to inquire, whether the crisis or convulsions,
excited by the methods of the pretended magnetism in the assem-
blies round the bucket, be capable of any utility, or be calculated
to cure or relieve the patients. The imagination of sick persons
has unquestionably a very frequent and considerable share in the
cure of their diseases. With the effect of it we are unacquainted
* M. Deslon had already said in 1780, " Granting- for a moment that M. Mesmer
possesses no other secret than that of employing the imagination in the extensive pro-
duction of the most salutary effects, will it not still be true, that his invention is an
extremely valuable one ? For in reality, if the physic of the imagination be more
salutary than the other kinds of medicine, what good reason can be alleged, why the
physic of the imagination should not be brought into general use ?"
—
Observations on
the Animal Magnetism, pp. 46, 47.
6
42
otherwise than by general experience ; but, though it has not been
traced in positive experiments, it should seem not to admit of a
reasonable doubt. It is a known adage, that in physic as well as
Religion, men are saved by faith; this faith is the produce oi the
imagination : in these cases the imagination acts by gentle means ;
it is by diffusing tranquillity over the senses, by restoring the har-
mony of the functions, by recalling into play every principle of the
frame under the genial influence of hope. Hope is an essential
constituent of human life ; the man that yields us one contributes
to restore to us the other. But when the imagination produces con-
vulsions, the means it employs are violent ; and such means are
almost always destructive. There are indeed a few rare cases in
which they may be useful ; there are desperate diseases, in which
it is necessary to overturn every thing for the introduction of an
order totally new. These critical shocks are to be employed in the
medical art in the same manner as poisons. It is requisite that ne-
cessity should demand, and economy employ them. The need of
them is momentary ; the shock ought to be single. Very far from
repeating it, the intelligent physician exerts himself to invent the
means of repairing the indispensable evil which has thus been pro-
duced ; but in the public process of the magnetism the crises are
repeated every day, they are long and violent. Now since the state
introduced by these crises is pernicious, the habit cannot be other
than fatal. How indeed can it be conceived, that a woman, at-
tacked for instance with a pulmonary distemper, can undergo with
impunity a crisis, some of whose symptoms are a convulsive cough
and compulsory expectorations ; or can safely fatigue, perhaps
shatter, the lungs by violent and repeated efforts, when so great
pains are necessary to convey to the wounded frame the sanative
and the balsamic 1 How can we imagine that a man, be his disor-
der what it will, can need in order to his recovery the intervention
of crises, in which the sight appears to be lost, the members stiffen,
he strikes his breast with precipitate and involuntary motions
;
crises in a word, that are terminated by an abundant spitting of
viscous humours and even blood ? The blood thus discharged is
neither vitiated nor corrupted, it flows from vessels from which it
is torn by the violence of effort and contrary to the intention of
nature ; these effects are therefore to be regarded as a real not a
salutary evil, an evil additional to the distemper be it what it will.
Nor is this the only danger with which they are attended. Man
is incessantly enslaved by custom ; nature is modified by habit only
in a progressive manner, yet she is often so completely modified,
as to suffer an entire metamorphosis, and to be scarcely capable of
being known for the same. Who will assure us that this state of
crises, at first voluntarily induced, shall not become habitual ? And
should the habit thus contracted frequently reproduce the same
symptoms, in spite of the will, and almost without the assistance
of the imagination, how dreadful the fate of an individual, sub-
jected to so violent effects, tormented, as well morally as physically,
with their unfortunate impression, whose days should be divided
43
between apprehension and agony, and whose life should be an un-
interrupted state of suffering ! Nervous distempers of this descrip-
tion, even when natural, are the opprobrium of the medical science
;
how little ought it to be the object of art to produce them ! The
art, which thus interferes with all the functions of the animal eco-
nomy, urges nature out of her proper course, and multiplies the
victims of irregularity, is to be regarded as pernicious. Its effects
are the more to be apprehended, since it not only aggravates the
disorder of the nerves by renewing their symptoms, and causing
them to degenerate into habit ; but if a distemper of this kind be
contagious, as it may be suspected to be, the method of provoking
nervous convulsions and of exciting them in public assemblies is a
means to diffuse them in great towns, and even to afflict with them
generations to come, since the diseases and the habits of parents
are transmitted to their posterity.
The commissioners, having convinced themselves that the ani-
mal magnetic fluid is capable of being perceived by none of our
senses, and had no action either upon themselves or upon the sub-
jects of their several experiments ; being assured, that the touches
and compressions employed in its application rarely occasioned
favourable changes in the animal economy, and that the impres-
sions thus made are always hurtful to the imagination; in fine
having demonstrated by decisive experiments, that the imagination
without the magnetism produces convulsions, and that the mag-
netism without the imagination produces nothing ; they have con-
cluded with an unanimous voice respecting the existence and the
utility of the magnetism, that the existence of the fluid is abso-
lutely destitute of proof, that the fluid having no existence can
consequently have no use, that the violent symptoms observed in
the public process are to be ascribed to the compression, to the
imagination called into action, and to that propensity to mechani-
cal imitation, which leads us in spite of ourselves to the repetition
of what strikes our senses. And at the same time they think
themselves obliged to add as an important observation, that the
compressions and the repeated action of the imagination employed
in producing the crises may be hurtful, that the sight of these
crises is not less dangerous on account of that imitation which na-
ture seems to have imposed upon us as a law, and that of conse-
quence every public process, in which the means of the animal
magnetism shall be employed, cannot fail in the end of producing
the most pernicious effects.
If it be objected to the commissioners that this decision concludes
respecting the magnetism in general, instead of relating singly to
the magnetism practised by M. Deslon, the commissioners reply
that the intention of the king was to have their opinion upon the
animal magnetism, and that in consequence they have not exceed-
ed the bounds of their commission. Again they reply that M.
Deslon has appeared to them acquainted with what are called the
principles of the magnetism, and that he certainly possesses the
means of producing the effects and exciting the crises which are
ascribed to it.
44
The principles of M. Deslon are the very same with those in-
cluded in the twenty-seven propositions disseminated from the press
by M. Mesmer in 1779. If M. Mcsmer now announces a more
extensive theory, it was not necessary for the commissioners to be
acquainted with the theory to decide upon the existence and utility
of the magnetism, it was sufficient to estimate the effects. It is
by the effects that the existence of a cause is established, it is by
the effects also that its utility must be demonstrated. The pheno-
mena are learned from observation long before we can arrive at
the theory which connects and explains them. The theory of the
loadstone does not yet exist, and its phenomena are ascertained by
the experience of successive ages. The theory of M. Mesmer is
in this case indifferent and superfluous ; the methods employed, the
effects produced, this is what it was necessary to examine. Now
it is easy to prove that the essential practice of the magnetism is
known to M. Deslon.
M. Deslon was for many years the pupil of M. Mesmer. Con-
stantly during that time he saw the process of the animal magnet-
ism, and the means employed in exciting and directing it. M.
Deslon himself administered the magnetism in the presence of M.
Mesmer ; separated from him he operated the same effects. Being
afterwards reconciled they united their patients ; the one and the
other without distinction undertook the rrrnagement of them, and
of consequence the methods were the same. The method which
is followed at this day by M. Deslon can be no other than the me-
thod of M. Mesmer.
The effects are not less correspondent. There are crises equally
frequent, and accompanied by similar symptoms, at the house of
M. Deslon and at the house of M. Mesmer ; the effects do not
therefore belong to the method of an individual, but to the practice
of the magnetism in general. The experiments of the commis-
sioners demonstrate that the effects obtained by M. Deslon are due
to compression, to imagination and to imitation. These are there-
fore the causes of the magnetism in general. The observations of
the commissioners have convinced them that these convulsive
crises and these violent means cannot be useful in medicine any
otherwise than as poisons, and they have judged independent of
all theory that wherever it shall be the object to excite convulsions
they may become habitual and pernicious, they may be epidemic-
ally diffused, and even extend to future generations.
The commissioners were of consequence obliged to conclude
that not only the measures in a particular mode of proceeding, but
the measures of the magnetism in general, might in the end pro-
duce the most pernicious effects.
Paris, the 11th day of August, 1784.
(Signed) B. Franklin, Sallin, De Bory,
Majault, Bailly, Guillotin,
Le Roy, D'Arcet, Lavoisier.
HISTORY AND PROGRESS
OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
Vain have been the efforts of science effectually to exorcise the
so called " science" of Animal Magnetism ; it rises again imme-
diately in a new form. Public credulity is an ample fund for all
those who wish to levy contributions upon it. Whoever has con-
templated the progress of real knowledge, during a long course of
years, will have seen bubble after bubble arise, glitter for a mo-
ment, and then disappear, to be succeeded by another as gorgeous
and illusory.
Animal magnetism is no new thing; it has had its votaries for
more than half a century ; its fire has successively gone out and
been relighted ; but has it yet taken its place as a science ? is it
tangible 1 The reader has seen in the foregoing pages that Doctor
Franklin and his associates appointed by the King of France, ex-
tinguished its influence for a time. Its professors at that period,
never dreamed of clairvoyance or second sight ; this new disco-
very was necessary to give it currency in a more enlightened age.
Let the same degree of care be employed now in detecting the
present imposture that was then brought to the subject, and we
shall see to what shifts its professors will be brought.
Man is naturally a credulous animal, with an appetite for the
marvellous too strongly implanted in his nature to be wholly era-
dicated. Education, it is true, may weaken this propensity, but
can never entirely destroy it. Astrology and witchcraft have been
consigned to that oblivion they so richly merited ; old women may
now keep black cats and ride broomsticks, without appeals being
made to the judicial tribunals ; but there remains a class who give
implicit credence to other absurdities, which do equal violence to
the laws of nature ; though each of us laughs at his neighbour's
credulity, we each still treasure up a pet superstition of our own,
if it be no greater than a hesitancy in beginning a journey, or un-
dertaking a new business on a Friday.
Our business is with the history of animal magnetism, a topic
that has suddenly reached an importance in America, which Re-
mands from the press some notice. A belief in its virtues may be
46
traced back to a very early period. The ancients admitted the
existence of a fluid or agent, which pervaded the whole universe
and was the cause of life and motion. The soul of man was a
portion of this universal spirit, which, on his death, became freed,
and entered into other combinations. According to Sir William
Jones, the Brahmins believe, that not only the souls of men, but
also all that exists in the world, are an immediate emanation from
Brahma. The philosophers of the dark ages had a theory some-
what in conformity with this, and, in pursuing their investigations,
the wonderful properties of the magnet soon attracted the attention
of the learned, and all the characters of the universal fluid were
thought to be concentrated in it ; it appeared to be a concentration
of all the wonders of nature ; the principle of its action was un-
known, and therefore must have emanated from the stars ; and as
it always turned to the north, the polar star was the great origin
of its powers. Magnetism, and the all-pervading fluid or soul,
were now thought to be identical, and every action of nature was
supposed to be the immediate result of its influence.
The science remained in a very unsettled state, until the time of
the celebrated Mesmer, from whom it received a powerful impulse,
and was reduced to some order. Frederick Anthony Mesmer, a
native of Switzerland, was born in May, 1734. He studied medi-
cine in Vienna, and settled in that capital as a practising physi-
cian, having placed himself in a situation of independence by an
advantageous marriage. His mind had a strong bias for the
marvellous ; the mystical writers, particularly those who treated
of astrology, were his delight. He published a Treatise " On the
Influence of the Planets upon the Human Body," which drew
upon him the universal ridicule of his professional brethren, by
whom he was thenceforth regarded as a confirmed visionary.
Electricity he thought was the subtle element, or essence, pervad-
ing all nature, but after a variety of fruitless efforts, he at length,
in 1773, resorted to the magnet, to which his attention had been
called by Father Hehl, or Hell, a Jesuit and professor of astro-
nomy at Vienna. He employed in his experiments the magnetic
plates invented by Father Hehl with extraordinary success, if we
are to credit his account. He communicated the event to Hehl,
who not believing in Mesmer's theory, or rather having greater
reliance on his own, published the cures as originating in the form
of his plates. Hence violent quarrels arose between them, and
mutual appeals to the public, which ended in a victory on the part
of Hehl.
Mesmer's ideas on animal magnetism, differ in many respects
from those now entertained by its supporters, being far less ex-
tended and chimerical. He was at first of opinion, that the mag-
net possessed a specific power in diffusing and communicating the
universal fluid ; and therefore it was the chief agent in his mode
of operating. He insisted that he had the power of transmitting
and fixing this principle at will. " I have observed," says he,
" that the magne ticmatter is analogous to the electric fluid, and
47
that it is transmitted in the same manner, by intermediate bodies.
Iron is not the only substance containing it. I have rendered
paper, bread, wool, silk, leather, stone, glass, water, wood, dogs,
and men, all magnetic ; in a word, all I touched became endowed
with this fluid, and produced the same effects on patients, as the
magnet itself."*
Mesmer, soon after, submitted his discoveries to the Royal
Academy at Berlin, the only learned society that would receive
his paper. But they rejected them as " destitute of foundation,
and unworthy the slightest attention." Undiscouraged, he perse-
vered in his experiments, but now declared that the curative agent
was different from the mineral magnetism, and bestowed on it the
name of animal magnetism. Being still discredited, he was obliged
to leave Germany, and repaired to Paris in 1778.
Public attention had been strongly attracted to the subject, and
crowds of the sick and the curious flocked to consult him. His
success was so great that he was obliged to take pupils to assist
him. The most celebrated of these was Deslon, who soon
equalled his preceptor, and who was the individual employed by
Dr. Franklin to display the miracles they professed to perform.
The blow which was struck by the report of the royal commis-
sioners, seemed likely to be final, and from their convincing argu-
ments it is but now beginning to recover. The report was consi-
dered as entirely satisfactory, and a belief in animal magnetism
was abandoned by all men of science and observation, though the
delusion existed on the minds of the multitude for a long time.
But a new phenomenon presented itself which excited great
enthusiasm in its favour, and placed the art on a new basis ; this
was the discovery that somnambulism was capable of being excited
by it.
Somnambulism, it is well known, is a kind of morbid sleep,
that occurs naturally in some persons, during an attack of which,
an individual may walk about, or perform his usual routine of
occupations, and even converse with those around him, yet, on
beino- awakened, retains no remembrance of what had passed.
This condition is produced by the magnetiser at will, and the
patient is wholly under his influence, being obliged to answer ques-
tions on almost every topic, although in the natural condition of
his faculties, he may be totally unacquainted with the subjects.
This discovery was made by the Marquis de Puysegur ; having
accidentally spoken to a person whom he had reduced to a state
of somnambulism, to his extreme astonishment he was answered,
and informed of the proper mode of treatment to be adopted in
the case, and moreover, that all patients should be thus interro-
gated as to their diseases. This opened a new source of astonish-
ment, and the hospitals were crowded by the curious and credulous
to hear the poor patients prescribe for themselves ! The details
u hich are given in the French works on the subject are numerous,
-
Lettre de Mesmer, k M. Vozer.
48
and they form a curious study for the philosopher. The patients
subjected to fits, predicted, in their state of somnambulism, the exact
day and hour when they should have a return of the paroxysm, and
as might very naturally be expected, the fits came on at the time.
In this state they also were said to possess the same power of in-
ternal inspection with regard to other persons who were placed in
magnetic connection (en rapport) with them. This condition was
called the fifth degree, and all subsequent magnetic states are
comprehended under the denomination of lucidity, or lucid vision,
(Fr. Clairvoyance ; Germ. Hellsehen.)
In the sixth degree, the lucid vision extends to all objects, near
and at a distance, in space and time, and is hence called the de-
gree of universal lucidity. No patient, it is declared, can reach
the higher degrees of magnetism, without, like good masons,
having previously passed through the lower. Individuals, it is
true, are sometimes placed in the higher degrees at the very first
magnetic treatment, but they are supposed to have previously
passed through the intermediate stages in so rapid a manner, as
rendered it impossible to distinguish the transitions. " In conclusion,"
says one of the accredited writers on the subject,* " in the higher
degrees of animal magnetism, we may find a complete practical
refutation of all the material theories of the human mind, an im-
pressive proof of the independence of the soul, and the strongest
grounds for presuming its immortality ; since it has been demon-
strated that in its manifestations, it is not confined to any one par-
ticular portion of the corporeal organism, and that it is capable of
exercising its functions without the use of any of those material
organs, by means of which it usually maintains a correspondence
with the external world."
The modes of producing somnambulism, are given at great
length in " L'Instruction Pratique sur le Magnetisme Animale, par
Deleuze,"f as well as in his " Histoire Pratique." Mr. Colquhoun's
mode differs but little from that of M. Deleuze, and as it is of later
date, 1833, we offer it for the benefit of those who wish to try the
experiment themselves.
5 Every individual does not possess the capability of operating
magnetically upon others ; and even he who does possess the power,
in some degree, will not always operate beneficially. Certain pro-
perties, partly physical, and partly psychical, are requisite in the
practical magnetiser ; and the fortunate combination of these pro-
perties may, in most cases, be considered as a gift of nature.
There is a similar inequality in the susceptibility of patients,
—
some being not at all, others very slightly, and others, again, very
easily and powerfully affected by the magnetic treatment. In
general, strong and healthy persons exhibit little susceptibility;
while weak and diseased persons are strongly affected in various
ways.J
* J. C. Colquhoun, Esq. f Paris, 1825.
X " To these circumstances, perhaps, we may ascribe the confirmed scepticism of
Certain persons, who have made trivial attempts to bring the magnetic doctrines to
49
" With regard to physical constitution, experience seems to have
demonstrated that the magnetiser ought to possess a preponderance
of energy over his patient. A few instances, indeed, have been
observed, in which weak persons have magnetised with effect.
But such exceptions are said to be extremely rare ; and Wienholt
attempts to account for them upon the principle, that, in such sub-
jects, the vital energy has a greater tendency to the surface, and,
therefore, a more diffusive efficacy.
" The magnetiser ought to possess, not merely a strong consti-
tution, but also a sound state of bodily health. A magnetiser
affected with sickness will not only operate imperfectly, but, be-
sides, runs the risk of communicating his diseased feelings to the
patient, and of thus increasing those sufferings which it is his
purpose to alleviate. The age of the magnetiser, too, is a matter
of considerable importance. The proper age is that in which the
corporeal and mental constitution have attained their utmost deve-
lopment; and the doctrinal writers have, therefore, fixed it within
the period between the twenty-fifth and fiftieth years. To these
physical qualifications must be added the psychical, consisting of
a sound and energetic mind, a lively faith, and a determined, des-
potic volition.
" It has been observed, that different persons are variously sus-
ceptible of the magnetic influence. This will be best explained
when we come to speak of the effects produced by the treatment.
" The magnetic treatment is either simple or compound. In the
former case, the magnetiser operates solely by himself; in the
latter, he makes use of certain external media. The simple mag-
netic treatment is usually administered with the hand, and is thence
called manipulation. But the magnetiser can also operate without
employing the hand—by breathing, or by fixing the eyes or the
thoughts steadily and intensely upon the patient. When the mag-
netic connection has been previously established, a single fixed
look of the magnetiser, accompanied with energetic volition, has
frequently been found sufficient to throw the patient into the state
of magnetic sleep, or somnambulism.
" The magnetic treatment by manipulation comprehends several
modes of touching and stroking with the hand, which could not
be described here particularly without leading us into prolixity.
The usual method is to stroke repeatedly, with the palms of the
hands and the fingers, in one direction downwards, from the head
to the feet ; and, in returning, to throw the hands round in a semi-
circle, turning the palms outwards, in order not to disturb the
effects of the direct stroke. To magnetise in the contrary direc-
tion—that is, from the feet upwards towards the head—not only
counteracts the effects of the former method, but frequently ope-
the test of experiment. They do not reflect that the magnetic action depends upon
certain conditions, and that, if these conditions are not fulfilled, it is in vain to expect
any satisfactory result."
50
rates of itself, prejudicially, especially in the case of irritable
subjects. If we attempt to operate with the back of the hand, no
effect whatever will probably be produced upon the patient.
" If, in the course of this process, the hands or fingers of the
operator are made actually to touch the body of the patient, it is
called manipulation ivith contact ; if, on the contrary, the opera-
tion is conducted at some distance, it is called manipulation in
distans. The manipulation with contact is of two kinds : it is
accompanied either with considerable pressure, or with light touch-
ing—manipulation with strong or with light contact. The mani-
pulation with strong contact is certainly the most ancient and the
most universally prevalent mode of operating ; and traces of it
are to be found in almost all ages and countries. In manipulating
with light contact, the hand, indeed, is conducted very lightly
along the body of the patient ; but the magnetiser must perform
this operation with the utmost energy, and always have the desire
of applying strong pressure to the body of the patient.
" The manipulation in distans is applied at a distance of gene-
rally from two to six inches from the patient's body ; in the case
of very susceptible persons, it is performed at a still greater dis-
tance. The effects of this mode of manipulating are less intense
than those produced by actual contact, and, besides, it. requires a
greater energy of volition on the part of the magnetiser. It is,
however, frequently employed in magnetising very irritable pa-
tients, who cannot endure any stronger method."
Here we may remark, that all the authors on animal magnetism
agree in opinion, that the action of this fluid is better communi-
cated by the thumbs, than in any other manner. Other highly
important requisites, according to Deleuze, must not be omitted ;
they are, " an active feeling of good will, a firm belief in the
power of magnetism ;t
and entire confidence in its employer."
When it is wished to unmagnetise the patient, " you must draw off
the fluid by the extremity of the hands and feet, in making the
passes beyond these parts, and shaking your fingers after each
pass. Afterwards, you are to make some passes across the face
and breast, keeping the hands about three or four inches from
them ; these are made, by presenting the hands joined, and sepa-
rating them quickly from each other, as if to carry off the super-
abundant fluid with which the patient may be charged."
Somnambulism has become the great aim of the magnetisers
;
and it is said to be obtained so frequently, that a fifth part of all
those who submit to be magnetised, are thrown into different de-
grees of it. The production of this state, and the clairvoyance,
or second sight of individuals, may be considered as the great
characteristic distinction, between the magnetism of the present
day as it has been practised for fifteen or twenty years, and that
of Mesmer.
The theories now professed, may be reduced to three general
heads.—That of Mesmer, and his disciples, that of the Spiritual-
ists ; and that of Puysegur. That of Mesmer we have described.
51
The Spiritualists believe that all the phenomena are produced by
the soul, and that physical action is almost useless ; this doctrine,
which is by far the most mystical, has many believers in Germany
and Prussia. They implore the benediction of God, if the cure of
the disease is conformable to the designs of Providence, to aid their
exertions. They say " there is some analogy between magnetism
and the imposition of hands, which was accorded by the Saviour
to the members of his Church." Such are the wild and impious
doctrines of this sect of magnetisers.
A similar class took very many minds captive in the United
States ; the most celebrated case was that of Miss Rachael Baker,
at New York, whose visions astounded all conversational circles,
soon after Redheffer's perpetual motion was exploded. She not
only answered questions whilst in that condition, but also composed
prayers and hymns ; all of which she was incapable of doing when
awake. Dr. Mitchell, one of her disciples, or at least believers,
favoured the world with a detailed account of her case, accom-
panied with some choice specimens of her compositions.
The school of Puysegur attribute all the effects produced by
magnetism, to a subtle and peculiar vital fluid, which is accumu-
lated in the brain, to which the nerves serve as conductors. This
fluid which presides over all actions of the body, is wholly under
the power of the will, and can be transfused into any other body.
They do not admit the theory of poles, or of planetary influence,
but consider the will to be the great source of power, and at the
same time this will must be directed by physical means, in order
to act on patients. He introduced a great change in the method
of operating, refusing the haquet and public exhibitions of Mesmer
and Deslon, and conducting the treatment in private ; this good
effect has resulted, that instead of being thrown into convulsions,
and other violent symptoms, the patients now are reduced to a
state of somnambulism.
Under these new operators, the excitement was renewed in
Paris and elsewhere; the subject of animal magnetism was again
brought before the Academy of Medicine, in 1827, where an
animated discussion took place, whether a committee should be
appointed to examine the merits and consequences of the doctrine.
This was at first negatived, but on a subsequent trial, a committee
of eleven members was appointed, consisting of some of the most
celebrated physicians of Paris. Of these, M. M. Double and Ma-
gendie refused to act, and were not willing to sign the report, as
they had not assisted in making the experiments. The others were
Bourdois de la Motte, Fouquier, Gueneau de Mussy, Guersent,
Huston, Itard, J. J. Leroux, Marc, and Thillaye. They occupied
five years in making up their minds on the subject, and went
through a variety of laborious investigations. Of this report it
shall now be our duty to present an impartial abstract. It has
been referred to by the believers in animal magnetism, as irrefra-
gible testimony of the merits of the practice, and demands there-
fore the candid attention of the reader.
52
ABSTRACT OF THE REPORT ON THE MAGNETIC
EXPERIMENTS,
Made by a Committee of the Royal Academy of Medicine: read June, 1831.*
This committee was appointed at the solicitation of the mag-
netic physician, M. Foissac, and they commenced by examining
the somnambulist he first brought forward ; she failed to exhibit
any peculiar phenomena of somnambulism. They soon discovered
that a certain combination of conditions is required in order to the
production of the effect proposed to be exhibited. The committee
sought only to be " inquisitive, mistrustful, and exact observers ;"
every facility was given them, and the process of magnetising was
the same we have already described. The penman of the com-
mittee several times submitted to the operation without effect,
though the ennui of his position, and the silence observed might
have produced sleep at any other time ; this was when he was in
full health ; on another occasion when tormented with very violent
and very obstinate pains, he allowed himself to be repeatedly mag-
netised, and he never obtained by this means the slightest mitiga-
tion, although his sufferings were so great as to make him vehe-
mently desire to have them alleviated. M. Bourdois, his colleague,
experienced " absolutely no effect." M. Itard on the contrary,
thought a slight pain disappeared, though it was very variable ;
his pulse rose 14 degrees, and he closed his eyes during the opera-
tion.
M. Magnien, a physician, had injured his left knee, and had an
aneurism of the heart ; his pulse decreased at the end of five sit-
tings, and at the sixth the number was the same at the commence-
ment as at the termination. He always experienced a coolness in
all those parts of his body to which the fingers of the magnetiser
were directed. A colleague, M. Roux, who complained of a
chronic affection of the stomach, was magnetised six times ; he
experienced, at first, a sensible diminution in the number of pul-
sations, afterwards a slight degree of heat in the stomach, a great
degree of coolness in the face ; the sensation of a vaporisation of
ether, even when no manipulations were practised before him, and
finally, a decided disposition to sleep.
Anne Bourdin, aged 23, was magnetised at the Hotel Dieu ;
she complained of head-ach, and of a nervous pain in the left eye
;
the inspirations increased from 16 to 39, from 14 to 20, and the
* In making this abstract, the writer has used the very words of the report, only
abbreviating it when that was possible without injuring the sense.
53
pulsations from 69 to 79, &c. The head grew heavy, she fell
asleep for some minutes ; no change was effected in the nervous
pain in the eye, but the head-ach was alleviated. Theresa Tierlin
was very similarly affected.
Several individuals were observed to fall asleep who were not
subjected to the magnetic influence from the monotony of the ges-
tures employed, the religious silence observed, and the ennui occa-
sioned by remaining long in the same position.
Mademoiselle Lemaitre, aged 25, was afflicted with an affection
of the sight {amaurosis). She was magnetised, became drowsy
at the end of the third sitting, on the fourth she exhibited convul-
sive motions, and her pulse was accelerated. At each successive
sitting she appeared more and more susceptible ; at the eleventh,
the magnetiser seated himself behind her without making any ges-
ture, and without any intention of magnetising her, and she expe-
rienced a more decided tendency to sleep than upon any of the
preceding days, accompanied however, with less of agitation and
convulsive motions. Her sight did not improve.
Louisa Ganot, a servant, was under treatment for leucorrhcea,
and was magnetised ; she was subject to nervous attacks, and con-
vulsive motions were exhibited. She experienced the effect of the
magnetiser when he was seated behind her and a chair interposed
its back between them. On another occasion all the preparations
were made for the operation, except that the magnetiser was ab-
sent, and she exhibited the same symptoms ! An epileptic man
experienced the same effects when he was actually magnetised,
and when he only believed himself to be so ; the imagination was
the cause.
A child of 28 months, subject to epilepsy, rubbed its eyes under
the influence of the magnetiser, yawned, appeared agitated,
scratched its head and its ears, seemed to contend against the ap-
proach of sleep, rose and became sprightly; on a second applica-
tion no symptom of drowsiness appeared. A deaf and dumb
epileptic patient exhibited no appreciable phenomena except heavy
eyelids, a general numbness, a desire to sleep, and sometimes
vertigo. He had no fits afterwards for eight months.
M. Itard again submitted to the operation, and felt a heaviness
without sleep° a setting on edge (agacement) in the nerves of the
face, convulsive motions in the nostrils, face and jaws, &c.
Mademoiselle Louisa Delaplaine, aged 16, had a catamemal
suppression ; she fell asleep at the first sitting in eight minutes
;
was spoken to, but made no answer; a white iron screen was
thrown down near her ; she continued in a state of complete in-
sensibility; a glass bottle was forcibly broken—she awoke with a
start At a second sitting, she answered by affirmative and nega-
tive motions of the head; at the third she intimated that in two
days she would speak and point out the nature and seat of her
complaint ; when pinched so as to produce a livid mark, she gave
no siVn of sensibility. A bottle full of ammoniac opened under
54
her nose produced only a motion of the hand to her nostril. She
never spoke on subsequent trial, nor fulfilled her promised revela-
tions. Baptiste Chamet, a carman, was put to sleep, but failed in
his prognostications.
Madame Martineau, aged nineteen, afflicted with chronic inflam-
mation of the bowels, was magnetised fifteen days consecutively,
and, in her sleep, said she did not see the persons present, but heard
them, when no person was speaking ; said she must be purged
with manna : they gave her bread, and it purged her. She an-
nounced that she would give a detailed account of her complaint
on a certain day ; when it arrived she told nothing. A Mademoi-
selle Couturier did even worse than this, failing in every thing
;
others failed, on repeated trials, in the most blundering manner.
One was operated on the right hand, and the convulsions took place
on the left, and so on.
The committee next report on a case, which they did not see,
of a lady having a cancer taken from her while in a state of som-
nabulism, without knowing it.
Attempts were now made to appreciate the faculty of lucidity,
or clairvoyance. M. Petit was the first subject ; with his eyelids
held down, he failed to recognize the date of a coin, saying 1813
for 1812 ; he was twice mistaken as to the time indicated by the
hands of a watch. With a sheet of paper or pasteboard before
his eyes, he played picquet well, and recognised the cards with fa-
cility. {Query, by the touch?)
We next have an experiment which had the appearance of the
true lucidity. M. Petit was set asleep in about one minute ; his
eyes being bandaged, he could not see, and the bandage was
removed ; the persons present watched his eyes, and thought
they were constantly closed ; a catalogue was presented to him,
and he read, after some efforts which seemed to fatigue him,
" Lavater ; il est bien difficile de connaitre les hommes." He re-
cognised a passport, &c. He was shown an open letter ; he de-
clared he could not read it, as he did not understand English. It
was in fact an English letter. He could not read any of the con-
tents of a closed letter, but followed the directions of the lines
with his fingers ; the address on the outside he read. He won a
game at picquet with facility. The ball of the eyes moved under
the eyelid. (We here recognise every probability of sight being
obtained by natural means.)
Paul Villagrand had suffered a stroke of apoplexy, which was
followed by paralysis, and he could not support himself on the left
foot ; the left arm he could not lift to his head. His right eye saw
dimly and he was very hard of hearing. After bleedings, purg-
ings and blisterings, he was magnetised, and fell asleep. From
this period his deafness and head-achs disappeared. After a dozen
sittings he prescribed certain pills, &c. for his cure ; that in three
days he would be enabled to walk without crutches, and so he was.
He then announced that he should be completely cured by the 1st
of January, and in a state of somnambulism he hopped about on
55
the left foot and exhibited great strength, which was gone when
he awoke. He was magnetised on the 25th of December, and
kept in that state till January 1, only awakened occasionally and
made to believe he had been asleep only a few hours. While asleep
he went to the hospital, recognised his old neighbours in the beds,
the pupils, &c. and read a very little with his eyes closed. On
the first of January he declared he was now perfectly cured, and
that he should die of apoplexy. On the 12th of January he recog-
nised cards when his eyes were closed, and read " Histoire de
France" on a title page, but could not make out the two interme-
diate lines, and so on through a variety of experimenting ; he at-
tempted in vain to distinguish cards applied to his stomach. (On
the whole this was certainly a case with which much pains were
taken, but it must be deemed unsatisfactory.)
Pierre Cazot, a hatter, predicted accurately when his epileptic
fits would come on, was set asleep by a look from the magnetiser,
and could then bear pins to be thrust into him without flinching
;
he was awakened by the mere influence of volition ; he predicted
when he should be quite cured, but before the time arrived he was
killed in attempting to stop a horse. (The whole of this case
admits of the clearest explanation from collusion, and no import-
ance can be attached to it, though in the report it is relied on as
clear evidence.)
Mademoiselle Celine described the disease of one of the com-
mittee, but it was not right in every particular. To another pa-
tient she was introduced unexpectedly; she passed her hand, over
the stomach and stated that worms, &c. must be cured by using
the milk of a goat which had previously been rubbed with mercu-
rial ointment half an hour before milking ; this was the very pre-
scription of her physician ! The patient died a year afterwards,
the body was not opened to verify the truth of the assertion re-
specting the disease, worms, &c.
A family in a case of great delicacy, supposed to be a syphilitic
taint, wished to have the advice of a somnambulist. Madame
Celine placed herself in connection with the patient, and affirmed
that the stomach had been attacked by a substance like poison, &c.
She prescribed a mode of treatment, which was followed for some
time, and a perceptible amelioration of the symptoms was the result.
But the impatience of the patient at her slow recovery caused the
employment of the physicians again, and she died under them; and
they pronounced, on opening the body, that there was no indication
of a syphilitic taint.
[This is the sum and substance of the report, and any unpreju-
diced person who will read it with attention must come to the con-
clusion that the committee were duped; that collusion would
account for nearly all that they saw; in many cases which the
magnetisers depended on, and promised much from, no effect was
produced, or it was ludicrously contrary to what they wished.
Notwithstanding this, the committee seem to be half convinced, and
56
we give their ;
' conclusions" without further comment. The exa-
minations as to clairvoyance were not conducted with the same
caution of covering the eyes, as was practised by the commissioners
of the king, and the conclusions on this subject are very unsatis-
factory indeed. The same may be said of the examination of 1S36.J
CONCLUSIONS OF THE COMMITTEE.
In general, magnetism does not act upon persons in a sound state
of health, neither does it act upon all sick persons. Sometimes
during the process of magnetising there are manifested insignifi-
cant and evanescent effects, which cannot be attributed to mag-
netism alone, but to hope or fear, prejudice and novelty, ennui,
silence, and imagination. A certain number of the effects observed
appeared to depend upon magnetism alone, and were never pro-
duced without its application. These, they thought, are well esta-
blished physiological and therapeutic phenomena.
The real effects produced are very various and uncertain. It
agitates some, and soothes others ; most commonly it occasions a
momentary acceleration of the respiration and of the circulation ;
fugitive, fibrillary, convulsive motions, resembling electric shocks ;
a numbness, in greater or less degree; heaviness; somnolency; and,
in a small number of cases, that which the magnetisers call som-
nambulism. The existence of an uniform character to enable the
committee to recognise, in every case, the reality of the state of
somnambulism, has not been established. The committee, how-
ever, believe they may conclude with certainty that this state exists,
when it gives rise to the development of new faculties, which have
been designated by the names of clairvoyance, intuition, internal
prevision ;
or when it produces great changes in the physical eco-
nomy—such as insensibility, a sudden and considerable increase of
strength ; and when these effects cannot be referred to any other
cause.
As among the effects attributed to somnambulism there are some
which may be feigned, somnambulism itself may be feigned, and
furnish to quackery the means of deception. It is only by means
of the most attentive scrutiny, the most rigid precautions, and
numerous and varied experiments, that we can escape illusion.
Sleep, produced with more or less promptitude, is a real but not a
constant effect of magnetism. They hold it as demonstrated that
it has been produced in circumstances, in which the persons mag-
netised could not see, or were ignorant of the means employed to
occasion it.
The look of the magnetiser, his volition alone, possesses the power
of magnetising, even with doors intervening. Magnetism is as in-
tense, and as speedily felt, at a distance of six feet, as of six inches,
and the phenomena developed are the same, but the action at a dis-
tance does not appear capable of being excited with success, except-
ing upon individuals who have been already magnetised; their
memory appeared to be more faithful and more extensive; they re-
57
membered every thing that passed at the time, and every time they
were placed in a state of somnambulism. Upon awaking, they said
they had totally forgotten all that took place during the somnam-
bulism.
The muscular powers are sometimes benumbed and paralysed ;
at other times, their motions are constrained, and they walk or
totter about like drunken men, sometimes avoiding, and sometimes
not avoiding, obstacles in their way. Some display more agility
than when awake. Two distinguished, with their eyes closed, the
objects placed before them, mentioned the value of cards without
touching them, read words traced with the hand, as also some lines
of books opened at random. This phenomenon took place, they
think, when the eyelids were kept exactly closed with the fingers.
In two, the faculty was found of foreseeing the acts of the organism,
more or less remote, more or less complicated ; this appeared to
apply only to acts or injuries of their organism.
They found only a single somnambulist who pointed out the
symptoms of the diseases of three persons : they had made experi-
ments upon a considerable number. They examined too small a
number to establish, with any exactness, the connection between
magnetism and therapeutics. Some felt no benefit, others a more
or less decided relief.
Considered as a cause of certain physiological phenomena, or as
a therapeutic remedy, magnetism ought to be allowed a place
within the circle of medical sciences, and, consequently, physicians
only should practise it
!
The committee conclude by stating, that they have not been able
to verify other faculties which the magnetisers had announced as
existing in somnambulists. But they think they have communi-
cated in their report facts of sufficient importance to encourage the
investigations into the subject of animal magnetism, as a very
curious branch of psychology and natural history.
Thus ends this report, which has been alternately approved and
ridiculed as the reader has or has not a bias in favour of the "science."
With it closes our history of animal magnetism, which now pretends
to greater and more wonderful revelations than had ever been be-
fore attributed to it, or even thought of. That it is destined to a
short lived popularity we cannot doubt ; an acute examination into
its effects is yet to be instituted in this country ; the report of the
royal commissioners will point out the mode of the enquiry.
Colonel Stone's pamphlet stands alone in this country : much of
it is at war with all the known laws of nature ; we have yet had no
other observer who was willing to report in print all that he wit-
nessed. Other visiters, if we are correctly informed, make state-
ments directly at variance ;
in more than one instance, when the
somnambulist went on an excursion during sleep, she was entirely
7
ft
at fault as to what she saw in particular houses, while in othcu,
where we are at liberty to suppose there was room for collusion, 1
the absence of direct proof to the contrary, the revelations nay
appeared most extraordinary ; let us not be carried away till W
most minute scrutiny is instituted, and until a uniformity in resoi
is perfectly established. , . . ,
, rnc tn
In conclusion, we warn females from submitting themselves to
-the action of magnetism ; so gross have been the indecencies com-
mitted, that the arm of the law has more than once interposed to
put a stop to its proceedings.
THE END.
*
The Law of Psychic Phenomena*
A Working Hypothesis for the Systematic Study of Hyp-
notism, Spiritism, Mental Therapeutics, etc.
By THOMSON J. HUDSON, LL. D.
Tenth Edition. i2mo, 4.0Q pages. $1.30.
" There cannot be too many books, so honest, so faithful to a
point of view, so elevated and just in tone, so strong and able and
comprehensive in reasoning, as this one is. It is the most far-sighted
and complete work yet issued on the subject."
—
Public Opinion,
Washington.
" The book is an exceedingly interesting one and deserves the
examination and study of all thoughtful investigators in the field of
psychical research."
—
Detroit Free Press.
" The author is reasonable and logical in his endeavor to bring
psychology within the domain of the exact sciences. His book is
sound in principle and painstaking to the last degree. The investi-
gation flashes a clear light upon the general subject of psychology."
Public Ledger, Philadelphia.
"Throughout Mr. Hudson is discreet, candid, and reverent.
His pages impress the fact that there is a wide realm of truth bear-
ing upon his subject in which but the most incipient discoveries have
been made as yet, and into which earnest thinkers may well en-
deavor to penetrate further."
—
Congregationalist, Boston.
" It would be very pleasant and profitable, if space permitted, to
quote largely from Mr. Hudson's interesting book, for it is full of
curious things, but we must be satisfied with this general reference
and with saying that the volume is fresh, novel, somewhat exciting,
mentally stimulating, and ought to be widely read, as it probably
will be."
—
New York Herald,
" The work is a thoughtful one and should be read by all those
students of mental phenomena who desire to find a satisfactory
scientific basis for what they have heretofore accepted as facts of
consciousness."
—
Evening Bulletin, Philadelphia.
" The author has shown himself to be a diligent student of a
theme which is destined to be uppermost in public attention for a
long time to come, and his observations are worthy of careful study."
Beacon, Boston.
For sale by booksellers generally, or will be sent, postpaid, on receipt
of the price, $1.50, by the publishers,
A. C. McCLURG & CO.,
CHICAGO. (over.)
A Scientific Demonstration
of the Future Life*
By THOMSON JAY HUDSON, LL. D.
i2mo, 326 pages. $/jo.
"The success that Mr. Hudson's 'The Law of Psychic Phe-
nomena,' published some time ago, met with induced him to pr
pare and publish the present volume, 'for the purpose of carry-
ing to their legitimate conclusions some of the principles laid down,
in his former one. Mr. Hudson, in pursuing his inquiry, has en-
deavored to follow the strictest rules of scientific induction, taking
nothing for granted that is not axiomatic, and holding that there is
nothing worthy of belief that is not sustained by a solid basis of well-
authenticated facts."—New York Times.
" It contains a new advance on the subject and one marked by
careful thinking and well equipped scholarship. You can't have the
book in your hands without feeling intellectually stimulated, and
though you may take issue with the author, you will certainly feel
indebted to him for handling the matter with a skilful hand."—New
York Herald.
"Mr. Hudson approaches his subject entirely from the psycho-
logical side, and he seems to have a thorough command of all the
latest information bearing upon the question. . . . His book is
important, perhaps not so much as a scientific treatise or a philoso-
phical argument, as it is for the indication it gives of the tendency
among thinking people to seek for a reconciliation between the facts
of mental science and the fundamental principles of Christianity.
—
The Beacon, Boston.
" The devout religious reader will and the thoughtful religious
reader may find complete satisfaction in 'A Scientific Demonstra-
tion of the Future Life." The deep earnestness of the book rather
than its extraordinary eloquence gives distinction, if it fails to bring
conviction. It certainly bears reading."—Philadelphia Press.
"The entire subject is treated in a firmly scientific manner;
nothing of theory or vague arguing is admitted. There is every
evidence of an honest, painstaking effort on the part of the writer
and there is no doubt that the book will be as widely read and dis-
cussed as was its predecessor."
—
Chicago News.
" The book is a masterly effort of convincing argument and may
be read with profit by scientist and scholar."— The Evening Wiscon-
sin, Milwaukee.
For sale by booksellers generally, or will be sent, postpaid, on receipt
of the price, $1.50, by the publishers,
A. C McCLURG & CO.,
CHICAGO. (over.)
