{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__combe___constitution_of_man.pdf","mytitle":"Constitution Of Man","mylang":"de"}
TBB
CONSTITUTION OF MAN.
COIUJD&BJ:D Jlf
RELATION TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
BY
GEORGE JIOMB E.
'Vain ill the ridicule with which one ror- eome pereone will divert them-
eelvee, upon finding ieuer palua considered u lnetancee of divine pnnlehment.
There is no p011ibility of answering or evadlniJ the general ~ here Intended,
With'lUI denying all final C&D181.'-BuTL&a's AIULOOY.
EIOBTB .t.MEIUO.I.N li:DITION, M.t.TEIIULLY RllVI8E1) AND~
BOSTON:
HARSH, CAPEN, & LYON.
NEW-YORK :
DANIEL APPLETON k CO.
1837.
oio "'ed by Google
TH F N - \V v _~ ";:_
FUBLlC U FRAi\'!\
286034 I
ASTOR LP'0X AND..
TllPEt/ f , ·.. ~;.T !' •·:._.
""('(\l.
Entered, accordiDg to Act or Congreu, In the :rear 1836, by
MARSH, CAPEN & LYON
in the Clerk'• Olllce orthe D!atrlct Conn of the District oC Mllllll&chusetta.
~ IITDl!lo'rTPzD BT T. G. WELLe • CO.
.;, BOSTON. .
ADVERTISEMENT
TO THE THIRD EDITION.
THE Auth9r is gr~iftfd to find that the present Work
has been received ~ith increasing favor, tri proportion as
it has been studied. The first edition was published in
1828 ;-it consisted of' only one thousand five hundred
copies, and nearly seven years elapsed before another
edition was demanded in this country. In March 1835,
however, a second edition, of three thousand copies, was
published, which has been bought up in four months.
Three editions have been printed in the United States of
America, while a translation in French has appeared in
Paris, and another in Swedish at Stockholm. The present
edition is carefully revised and corrected, and consider-
ably enlarged.
23 CJU&I.O'l'TII I!Qv.uz, ED1nvaea,
71h Aupat, 1835.
oio "'ed by Goog[e
. PREFACE
T 0 T H E A H E R I C A N E D I T I 0 N.
IN presenting the present edition of ' The Constitution
ofMan' to the American public, I beg. leave to return my
warmest acknowledgmenta for the favor with which they
have received both this and my other works. There is so
much vigorous thinking, practical sense, and bold enter-
prise in the general public of the United States, that their
approbatioa of the views wb.ich I have from time to time
ojfered for their ~onsideration, has increased not a little.
my own reliance on the truth and utility of my opin~ons;
and in preparing the present edition for the press, I have
been animated throughout by the desire to render it worthy
ofthe approbation of my transatlantic friends. I have not
found it necessary to alter any essential principle adopted
in the first edition~ On the contrary, seven years of ad-
ditional observation, discussio.n, and rellection, have tend-
ed only to accumulate new evidence in favor ofthe propo-
sitions maintained. I have, however, corrected as far as
possible the style of the work, inserted new proofs and
illustrations, and added three chapters entirely new-those
on 'Punishment as infiicted under the Natural Laws,' on
'the·Influence.of the Natural Laws on Individual Happi-
ness;• and on 'the Relation between Science and Scrip-
ture.' I believe the people of the United States to have
advanced farther towards the practical application of the
principles developed in the following work, than any other
nation; and if it shall in any degree serve to animate and
direct them in their future progress towards happiness and
virtue, the highest object of my ambition will be gained.
13 0JU.IILOTTB SQu.uz, ElliiiBUa&R,
Slit Xvch, 1816.
oio "'ed by Google
.
• ....
..
.•
. HENDERSON BE~UEST.
ON t'Tth May 1829, the late W. R. Hz•onsolf, Esq.
younger ofWarriston and Eildon Hall, executed a deed of~t­
tlement, by which he conveyed to certain tnlstees such funds
as he should die possessed of; and,- in the event of his dying
Without l~aving childrefl, he appointed them to pay certain
legacies ·ahd annuities to individnal tiien~ and gave the fol-
lowing instructions i-egarding the application of the residue of
his funds. ·
1 And, lastly, the whole residue of my means and estate
shatl, after answering the purposes above written, be applied
by my said trustees in whatever manner they may judge best
for the adtancement and diffusion of the science of Phrenol-
ogy, and the practical flpplication thereofin particular; giving
hereby and committing to my said trustees, the most full and
unlimited power to manage and dispose ofthe said resid11e, in
whatever manner shall appear to them best suited to promote
the ends in view: Declaring, that if I had less confidence in
my trustees, l would make it imperative on them to print and
publish one or more editions ofan 'Essay on the Constitution
of Man considered in relation to External Objects, by George
Combe,'-in a cheap form, so as to be easily purchased by the
more intelligent individuals ofthe poorer classes, and Mechan-
ics' Institutions, &c.; but that I consider it better only to re-
quest their particular attention to this suggestion, and to leave
them quite at liberty to act as circumstances may seem to them
to render expedient; seeing that the state of the country, and
things impossible to foresee, may makt- what would be of un-
questionable advantage now, not advisable at some future
period of time. But if my decease shall happen before any
material change affecting this subject, I request them to act
agreeably to my suggestioQ. And I think it proper here to
declare, that I dispose of the residue of my property in the
above manner, not from my being carried away by a transient
fit ofenthusiasm, but from a deliberate, calm, and deep-rooted
oio "'ed by Google
BENDERS()!( BB(tUEST.
comction, that nothing whatever hitherto known ean operate
so powerfully to the improvement and happiness of mankind,
as the knowledge and practical adoption of the principles dis-
closed by Phrenology, and particularly of those which are
-leveloped in the Essay on the Constitutioo of Man, above
mentioned.'
Mr. Henderson having died on ~9th May 188~, his Truatees,
after realizing his funds, assigned a sum for publishing an edi-
tion of the present work, consisting of two thousand copies,
at the price of~. 6d. per copy. This was considerably below
the cost of production. The publication took place in March-
1885, and before the end of May the whole edition was bought
up,-ehietly by t4e class of persons for whom Mr. Henderson
had intended h, the greatest sales having taken place in Glas-
gow, Dundee, Dunfermline, and other manufacturing toWJUI
in Scotland,and in Manchester and sim.Uar towns in England.
A separate and fine~; impression of one thousand copies, taken
from the same types as the Henderson Edition, was bought up
at ~he price of 4.s. between May and August, and the demand
for the work continues unabated.
Mr. Henderson's Trustees, with every wish to continue to
aid the circulation of the work by reducing the price, have
not, at present, the means of doing so to a large extent. It is
only the surplus of hi,s funds, after paying certain legacies and
annuities, that is applicable to the advancement of Phrenol-
ogy; and as all the annuitants named in the settlement are
alive, and likely to live for many years, only a small annual
surplus remains ; two years' produce of which was devoted to
the edition published in March 1885. The Author, however,
encouraged by the favorable reception of the book, has en-
deavored to produce a new edition, considerably enlarged, at
a moderate price. The quantity of matter, if printed in an
octavo volume ofordinary size and type, would be sold, accord-
ing to the common rate of publishing. for lOs. ; and if in duo-
decimo, at 7s. 6d. By employing a condensed yet clear stereo-
type, a part of the expense of which has been contributed by
the trustees, it has been found possible to offer the present
edition at 4.s., a price which~ it is hoped, will continue it withiJl
the reach of the industrious claSijes.
71h August, 1835.
oio "'ed by Google
•
PREFACE.
THIS work would not have been presented to the Public,
had I not believed that it contains views ofthe constitution,
condition, and prospects of Man, which deserve attention;
but these, I trust, are not unshered fortb with any thing
approaching to a presumptuous spirit. I Jay no claim to
originality of conception. My first notions of the natural
laws were derived from a manuscript work of Dr. Spurz-
heim, with the perusal of which I was honored in 1824, and
which was afterwards published under the title of' A Sketch
of the Natural Laws ofMan, by G. Spurzheim, M.D.' A
comparison of the text of it with that ofthe following pages,
will show to what extent I am indebted to my late excellent
and lamented master and friend for my ideas on the subject.
~II my inquiries and meditations since have impressed me
more and more with a conviction of their importance. The
materials employed lie open to all. Taken separately, I
would hardly say that a new truth has been presented in
the following work. The parts have nearly all been ad-
mitted and employed again and again, by writers on morals,
from the time ofSocrates down to the present day. In this
respect, there is nothing new under the sun. ·The only
novelty in this work respects the relations which acknow-
ledged truths bold to each other. Physical laws of nature,
affecting our physical condition, as well as regulating the
whole material system of the universe, are universally ac-
knowledged to exist, and constitute the elements of natural
philosophy and chemical science: Physiologists, medical
practitioners, and all who take medical aid, admit the ex-
istence of organic laws: And the sciences ofgovel'DDlent,
oio "'ed by Google
viii PRU'.lC&.
legislation, education, indeed our whole train of conduct
through life, proceed upon the admill8ion of laws in mort~l..
Accordingly, the laws ofnature have formed an interesting
subject of inquiry to philosophers of all ages; but, 80 far as
1am aware, no author has hitherto attempted to point out,
in a systematic form, the relations between those laws and
the constitution ofMan; which must, nevertheleas, be done,
before our knowledge of them can be beneficially applied
Dr. Spurzheim in his 'Philosophical Principles ofPhreool-
ogy.' adverted to the independent operation of the several
natural laws, and pointed out some of the consequences of
this doctrine, but without entering into detailed elucida-
tions. The great object of the following Treatise is to
exhibit several of the most important natural laws, and
their relations and consequences, with a view to the im-
provement of education and the regulation of individual
and national conduct.
But although my purpose is practical, a theory of Mind
forms an essential element in the execution of the plan.
Without it, no comparison can be instituted between the
natural constitution of man and external objects. Phrenol-
ogy appears to me to be the clearest, most complete, and
best supported system of Human Nature, which has hither-
to been taught; and I have assumed it as the basis ofthis
work. ·But the practical value ofthe views to be unfolded
does not depend entirely on Phrenology. The latter, as a
·theory of Mind, is itself valuable, only in so far as it is a
jmt exposition of what previously existed in human nature.
We are physical, organic, and moral beings, acting under
the sanction of general laws, whether the connection of dif·
ferent mental qualities with particular portions ofthe brain,
as taught by Phrenology, be admitted or denied. Individ-
uals, under the imp~lse of passion, or by the direction of
intellect, will hope, fear, wonder, perceive, and act, whether
the degree in which they habitually do so be ascertainable
·by the means which it points out or not. In 80 far, there-
fore, as this work treats of the known qualities of Man,
oio "'ed by Google
it ma.y be iuetructive even to those wbo contemn Phrenology
as unfouaded; while it can prove useful to none, if the
doctrioes which ~ uniOlds shall be·foUild not to be in aC-
cordance with the principles of hUDioiiD n~~oture, by whatever
system ,these may be .expounded.
Some i,o.d,i,viduals object to all me.uW philosophy as use-
lQes, and .argue; tmu, asl\fathematics, Chemistry, md Bot-
any, have become gr.eat sciences, without the least refer-
CI,lce to the faculties by means ofwhich they are culti'lated,
so Morals, Religion, Legislation and Political ECQilomy
have existed, have been improved, and may continue to
advance, with equal success, without any help from the phi-
losophy ofmind. Such objectors, however, should consider
that lines, circles, and triangles,-.earths, alkalis, and acids,
-and also corollas, stamens, pistils, and stigmas, are objects
whkh exist independently of the mind, and may be investi-
gated by the application ofthe mel,ltal powers, in ignorance
of the constitution of the faculties themselves,-just as we
may practise archery without studying the anatomy of the
hand; whereas the objects f}f moral and political philos-
ophy are.the qualities and actions of the ~ind itself: These
objects have no existence ·independently of mind; and they
can no more be systematically or scientifically understood
with9ut the knowledge of mental philosophy, than optics ·
·can be culti"llated as a science in ignorance of the struc-
ture and modes of action ofthe eye.
I have endeavored to avoid religious controversy. 'The
object of Moral Philosophy;' says Mr. Stewart, 'is to as-
certain the general rules of a wise and virtuous conduct in
life, in so far as these rules Dl'llY be discovered by the unas-
sisted light of nature; th&t is, by an examination of the
principles ofthe human constitution, and ofthe circumstan-
ces in which ~an is placed.' • By following this method
of inquiry, Dr. Hutcheson, Dr.. Adam Smith, Dr. Reid,
Mr. Stewart, and Dr. Thomas Brown, h~ve, in succession,
• Ootline1 of Moral Philoeophy, p. 1
A
oio "'ed by Google
•
X. I'JtEP.A.CE.
produced highly interesting aftd instructive works ·on Moral
Science; and the present Treatise is a humble attempt to
pursue the same plan, with the aid of the new lights affortfed
by Phrenology. I confine my observations exclusively to
Man as he exists in the present world, and beg that, in
perusing the subsequent pages, this explanation may be
constantly kept in view. In consequence of forgetting it,
my language has occasionally been misapprehended, and
my objects misrepresented. When I speak of man's high-
est interest, for example, I uniformly refer to man as he
exists in this world; but as the same God presides over
both the temporal and the eternal interests of the human
race, it seems to me demonstrably certain, that what is
conducive to the one, will in no instance impede the other,
but will in general be favorable to it also. This work,
however, does not directly embrace the interests ofeternity.
These belong to the department of theology, and demand a
different line of investigation: I confine myself exclusively
to philosophy.
Since the first Edition of"this work appeared, on 9th June
1828, additional attention has been paid to the study ofthe
laws of Nature, and their importance bas been more gen-
erally recognised. In ' A Discourse on the Studies of the
University, by Adam Sedgwick, M. A., &c.' of which a
third edition was published at Cambridge in 1834, the au-
thor remarks, that 'we are justified in saying, that, in the
moral ·as in the physical world, God seems to govern by
general laws.' ' I am not now,' says he, 'contending for the
doctrine ofmoral necessity; but I do affirm,that the moral
government of God is by general laws, and that it is our
bounden duty to study these laws, and, as far as we can, to
turn them to account.' ' If there be a superintending
Providence, and if his will be manifested by general laws
operating both on the physical and moral world, then must
a violation of these laws be a violation of his will, and be
pregnant with inevitable misery.' 'Nothing can, in the
end, be expedient for man, except itbe subordinate to thote
J'll&l'.lC&.
laws the Author ofNature baa thought fit to impreu on his
moral and physical creation.' ' In the end, high principle
and sound policy wil. be found in the strictest harmony With
each other.'
These are precisely the views which it is the object of
the present work to enforce; and it is gratifying to me to
see them so ably and eloquently recommended to the at-
tention of the students of the UDiversity of Cambridge.
2S. CILUILO'I"l'S 8QV4JIJ1 BJIIO'IIUS,
'fill Aucuc, 1886.
oio "'ed by Google
oio "'ed by Google
CONTENTS.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
GENERA.L VIEW OF THE CONSTITUTION OF HUMAN NATURE,
A.ND ITS RJ:LA.TIONS TO . EXTERNA.L OBJECTS, 1-26
Man compared with the lower animals, pAge !-Opposite pbuee of his
character, 2-The world seems constituted on the principle of slow and
progressive improvement, 4-Light thrown by geology on the phyeical
history of the globe before the creation of man, II-Death and reproduc-
tion existed long before his cteation, 6-The world arranged so as to af.
ford him every inducement to cultivate and exercise his understanding, 7
-Power of man to control and turn to account tbe capabilities of the
physical world, 7-Barbarism and civilization compared,9-Progressive
improvement of man apparent from history, 10-Reasons for anticipating
a vast future increase of the happiness and intelligence ofour race, 12-
Mental philosophy hitherto very imperfect, 18--do the phyeical and moral
worlds contain within themselves the elements of amelioration, or ia hu-
man improvement to be expected from spiritual in6uences1 13--The
capabilities of physical and human nature have hilherto been ignorantly
undervalued, IIi-Errors of theologians on this subject, 15-Ligbt
thrown upon the question by Phrenology, 17-Constitutioo of the homan
mind, and its adaptation to the externnl world, blinked in the Bridge-
water Treatises, 21-Naturallaws, physical, organic, and moral, 21-
The independent operation of these very important in relation to the moral
government of the world, 21-Tbe present work not hostile to religion,
23--Philosophy and revelation cannot be at variance, 24-Phyeiological
preliminaries of moral and religiOWJ conduct must exiot before preach-
ing can produce its full effects, 2tS.
CHAPTER I.
ON NA.TURA.L LA.WS, 27-41
Jrlan'o f'aeultiel capable ofascertaining whatexists,and the purpose ofwhat
aieu, bot liOt the will of the Deity in creation, page 2'7-All the depart·
mellt8 of DlltUre act IICCOI'ding to definite COIIItitatioooi and bed laww,
impaled bJ tbe Deity, liS-The term ,_ cJafiaed ad illnltrUed, --
A•
oio ,,.dby Google
CONT&NTS.
llao'a pleuure and paiD clepeod, in thl. world, upon ~ of and
obedience to theee conatilutiona and Iawe; ao opinion 111pportedby Bi.bop
Butler, 80-Tbe Natural Laws divicled into Physical, Orpnic, and
Moral, and obedience or dillobedieooe to each ~ to have &tine&
eft"ecta; while the whole are univenal, invariable, unbeoding, and in har-
IDOIIY with the entire OOIIItltdlton o( mu, 81, lr.c.-Death in certain
cin:wnstancee appears deeirable, 36-Full and universal obedience not
III1JlllO'I"d to lead to perfta happiDeSB on fBI'th, or to inten.-e with the pr011o
pecll of futurity, 37-Beoevolence not the exclusive, or immediate, hut
the ultimate principle on which the world ie arranged; evil in no cue the
ultimate, but only in certain instaocee the immediate, principle, and that
for wise and benevolent ende, 89-The will of the Deity in designing evil
inscrutable, but the mental constitution of man shown by Phrenology to
bear relation to it, 41.
CHAPTER II.
ON THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN, AND ITS RELATIOXS TO
EXTER!'IAL OBJECTS, 42-87
The constitution of man, on the principle of a subjection of the whole to
intellect and the higher sentimen~, shown by Bishop Butler to be con-
formable 10 the constitution of the external worlcl, p. 42-(1.) 'Man con-
sidered as a physical being, and the evils resulting from breach of the
physical laws shown to be only exceptions from the benefi~ habitually
iowing from those laws, 43, &c.-(2.) Man considered as an organized
being, and the rules for the enjoyment of bodily health explained, 46,
&c.-(3.) Man consiJercd as an animal, moral, and intellectual being,
and his mental constitution detailed, 51, &c.-(4.) The mental facultie•
cempared with each other, 57, &c.-Their uses and abuses, 58-The
propensities designed for good, when acting harmoniously with, and
guided by, the higherseotimeotsaud intellect; otherwise lead to e\·il, 59
-True happiness of individuals and societies found ultimately to consist
in 1\ habitual exercise of the higher sentiments and intellect, with the
propensities acting subordinately, 60-(5.) The faculties of man compar-
ed with externnl objects, and tbe means of their gratification specified,
79-87.
CHAPTER III.
ON THE SOURCES OF HUMAN HAPPINESS, AND THE CON-
DITIONS RE~UISITE FOR MAINTAINING IT, 88-101
AU enjoyment al'ises from activity of the different parll of the human con-
etitution, p. 88-Creation so arranged as to invite and encourage exerci•
of the bodil1 and mental powers, 88-The aequieitioD of lmowledp
oio "'ed by Google
CONTENTS.
agreeable, 89-Would intuitive knowledge be moreadvantageo111 to IDilll,
than the mere capacity which he actually baa to acqnire knowledge by
his own exertions1 91-Reuollll for answering this question in the nega•
tive, 91-To reap enjoyment in the greatest quantity, and maintain it
most permanently, the facultie• mu.t be gratified in harmony with each
other, 99-Reasons for believing that the laws ofexternal creation will,
in the progress of discovery, be found acc;ordant with the dictates of the
moral sentiments, 100.
CHAPTER IV.
APPLICATION OF THE NATURAL LAWS TO THit PRACTICAL
ARRANGEMENTS OF LIFE, 102-113
Suggestion of a sebeme of living and occupation for the human race, p. lOS
-Every day ought to he 80 apportioned as to permit of (1) bodily exer-
cise; (2) useful employment of the intellectual powers; (3) the culliva-
tion and gratification of the moral and religious sentiments; (4) the
taking of food and sleep, 102-Gratilication of the animal faculties includ-
ed in these, 105-Why bas man made 80 little progress towards happineu1
106-A reply to this question veo'Y difficult, 106-Dr. Chalmers qooted 1111
the subject, 107-Haa man advanced in happines5 in proportion to the
increase of his knowledge1 109-His progreu retarded by ignorance of
his constitution and its adaptation to external objects, 110-The experi-
ence of past a~tes affords no sufficient reason for limiting our estimate of
man's capability ofcivilization, 111-Recenldate of some of the most im-
portant scientific discoveries, and imperfect condition of most braocha
ofhuman knowledge, 111-113.
CHAPTER V.
TO WHA'r EXTENT ARE THE IIUSERIES OF MANKIND RE-
FERABLE TO INFRINGEMENT OF THE LAWS OF NA-
TURE? 114-279
SECTIO!f I.
Calamitiu ariaiJ&g from l'![ringement <if tlu Phyncal Law, 115-119
These laws of great utility to animals who act in accordance with them,
and productive of injury only when disregarded, 116-Example of law
of gravitation, 116-Man and the lower animals constitutionally placed
in certain relations to that law, 115-Calamitiee suffered from it by
man, to what referahle1 116-The objection considered, That the great
body of mankind are not sufficiently moral and intellectual to act in COD•
oio "'ed by Google
ni COJJTUTS,
formity with the DatWal Jaw., 117-Tbe- iponn1 aod - - ..-
uw, the more they .ull'er, 119.
S.&CTIOJJ II•
.EftU tllllt befall MmtlriMfrrnro lrifri"K"'""' <iftiN Ortllftie .Lttw, 120-222
Neceasity for 10 enlightening the intellect u to enable it to curb and direct
the blind feelings which naturally and .,..,..taneously arite in the mind,
120-0rganit.ed being defined, 121-To enjoy a con~titution u perfect
u poeeible, it must spring from a 80UIId and complete germ; 'be npplied
with food, light, and air; and duly exercite it. functions, 121-Tbe-
luunan frame 10 eGII.Itituted u to admit of the pouibilily oi health 8lld
visor during a long life, l~Remar~ble health of the New Zealand-
en, 122-Tbe nfferings of women in childbed apparently not inevitable,
123-Tbe organic Jaws hitherto neglected and little known, 124-Mite-
riel reeuJtiog from this C&Uie to IIJDIVJDOALI, 1!4-Deeeriptioo of the
brain, 127-Nec:e.ity for it. regnlar cxerei.te, 181, 8tc.-To provide lOr
this, we mUll. (1) educate and train the mental acuities in youth, and
(2) place individuals in cii'ClJJIIItanees babituaUy demanding the dis-
charge of WJeful and important duties, 133-Auwer to the queetioo,
What is the 111e oiedueation1 133-Tbe whole body improved by Clter•
cile of the brain, 184-Mitery of idlene•, lM-Ioetanees of e•ila pro-
duced by neglect of the natural laws: The great plague in London, 137;
mer and ague in manby district., 139; explosioll8 in coal-mines, 189
-AIIIwel' to the objection, That men are unable to remember the nat-
aral law1, and to apply the knowledge of them in practice, 140-Ad-
vantage ofteaching eeientilie prilw:ipl•, 141-Farther examples of d-.e
and premature death coDsequeot on neglect of the organic Iawe, 148-154
-Eminent eueeell8 of Captain Murray in preserving the health of biB
crew,145--Erroneoue views of divine diepenoatiou,in the woruofre-
ligioue writers, 162-Ebeoezer Enkioe and Hanoab More quoted, 152,
163-SocuL miseriee from neglect of the organic laws, lM-(1) Do-
mutic miseries, 165--Marriage of persons with discordaat minds a
fertile source of unbappineSB, 1M-Phrenology afl"ords the JDeaJIS of
avoiding this error, 165--Ditferent forme of bead, and the concomitant
dispositions, exemplified by the casee of Hare, Williams, Sheridan, Me-
laoclhon, Pope Alexander VI., and VitelliU8,166-161-Crabbe and Dr.
Johnson quoted, 168-Hereditary transmission of bodily and meatal
qualitiea from parents to children, 166-Transmissioo of di- well
known, 166-TI'IIWimiesioo of character remarked by many writen;
Horace, Drs. John and Jamee Gregory, Voltaire, Dr. King, Dr. Mason
Good, IWier, &c. quoted on this subject, 166-16&--Hereditary deeeent
efforlllt of brain obvioue in nations, 17G-Tbe offepriog ofan American
or Asiatic and a European superior to the offiopring of two Americans or
Aaiatics, 170-Tbe extent to which children retemble their parents 0011•
oio "'ed by Google
COXTitN'l'l,
llideted, 1ft-R- for conclodiag that the a.tal cllareecer o( eacli
411ai14 ie determiDed by the qualitiea of the atock, oombiaed with the &oo
lllties predominant in the parents at the co-meat of ite e:r.i.eteDe&,
1'72-Tnuwniaion of IBctitioua or temporary conditiooe o( the body,
1'78-Trallllmiseilm ofacquired babite, 174,-Appearance o( pecnliaritiet
in cbildreo, in con.q,_ of impreseione made on the mind o( the
mother, 17&-De-nt of temporary mental and bodily q•lities, 1'71J-
Tbe.e rrubjecte etill in many reapecte obtocnre, 184-Geoeral neglect o(
the organic laws in the formation of marriages, 186-Dr. Caldwell quo-
ted, 18&-Marriap prohibited in Wurtemberg before certain ages, 188
-Advantages arising from the Jaw of hereditary deecent, and bed efl'ecte
which would' follow ite abolition, 188, &c.-Why do children of the
eame marriage difl'er from each other1196-Caees illuetrative of the evile
resulting from neglect of the law of hereditary traneminion, 195-Mar·
riage between blood-relations forbidden by the natural law, 1~(2)
Hurtful consequence• of neglect of the organic laws in the qrdintJTy rtla·
tiou of .ocidy, 199-Misconduct of eervante, clerlu, partners, and
agents, 199-Utility of Phrenology in enabling os to avoid this IIOIU'Ce of
misery, 200-DJ:ATB, 203-A natoral and useful institution, 206--
Views of theologians respecting it, 201>-Death considered u it afl'ecte
' the lower animals and mankind, 20&-Nature does not seem to intend
the death of human beings, except in old age, 214,-Untimely death the
result of infringement of the organic laws, 215-Means provided by na•
ture to relieve men from the fear of death, 217-Death not re'<olting to
the moral sentimente, 219-Frequency of premature death decreas-
ing, 221.
SzcTiolf In.
Caose of the diversity of moral and religious codes and opinions in difl'er-
ent nations and among philosophers, 222-Advantages secured by culti·
Yating and acting under the dictates of the moral aentimcnte and intel-
lect; and evils induced by the opposite conduct, 224,-(1) Sufl'ering!l of
individuals from neglect of the moral and intellectual Jaws, 284-(2)
Calamities arising to individuals and communities from infringement of
the social Jaw, 235-Malthus's principle of population, 239-Tbe inbab-
itante of Britain too exclusively occupied in manufilcturing and mercan-
tile pursuits, 239-Misery produced by overstocking the mvkete, 242-
Tiroes of 'commercial prosperity' are seasons of the greateet infringe-
ments of the Jaws of nature, 245-lnjustice and inexpediency of the
combination laws, 246--Necessity of abridging tbe periods for labor of
the operative population, and cultivating their moral and rational filcul-
ties, 248-Tbis rendered possible by the U9e of machinery in maoufao-
tures, 2110-0ugbt government to interfere with industry1 255-Mi~~eries
endured by the middle and upper ranks in cobtequence of d~ure from
oio "'ed by Google
xvili COKTJ&Jft'l
tbe moral law in tbe . . - cuat.oma of eociety, JN-(1) Eft"ect of tile
moral law on national proeperity, 268-The bigMet pi'OOiperity of -
nation perfectly compatible with that of every other, 268-N-tty
that oatioos, in order to .ecure it, lbould act towarda eKb otber oo the
principle of the eupremacy of the moral -timeots, 259-E•il produced
by dieregard of that principle, 259-Diustratiooe: the olave trade, 261;
the American war, 263; the French revolutiooory war, 268; and the
project of Themiatocles to burn the Spartan llhipo, 266--Tbe national
debt of Britain the reeult of unprincipled wan, 267-0tber evils from
the IIIUJle source, 268-9--Parliamentary reform, 2'70-Bad effects anti-
cipated from the existence of Negro slavery in tbe United Statee, 272-
The Spaniards punished under the natural laws for their crueltiea in
America, 275-Tbe civilization of savages more easy by pacific thiUl by
forcible mcaoures, 276-Moral science far outetripped by physical, 278
-Necessity for cultivating the former, 278.
CHAPTER VI.
ON PUNISHllfENT, 280-310
SECTIOII I.
On Puni8hment .u inflicted undtr tht Natural LaW8,
Lawa may be instituted either for the selfish gratification of the legislator,
or for the benefit of the governed, 2SO--GeS8ler's order to the Swiss, an
iru;tance of the former; the natural laws of God, of the latter, 281-Tbe
object of punishment for disobedience to the diviqe law is to arrest tbe
offender, and save him from greater miseries, 282-Beneficial effects of
this arrangement, 282-Laws of combustion; advantages attending them,
and mode in which man is enabk-d to enjoy these and escape from the
danger to which he i• subjected by fire, 282-Utility of pain, 287-
God's pUDishments in this world have .for tl1eir object to bring the sntrer-
ers back to obedience for their own welfare, and to terminate their mis-
ery by death when the error is irrepamblc, 288-Punishments mutually
inflicted by the lower animals, 288-Punishmcnts mutually intlicted by
men, 290--Cri•l)inal laws hitherto framed on the principle of animal
resentment, 291-lnefficacy of these from overlooking the causes of
crime, and leaving them to operate with unabated energy after the inflic-
tion, 292-l\loral in preference to animal retribution, suggested as a
mode of treatment, 292-Every crime proceeds from an abuae of soiD8
faculty or other, 294-Tbe question, Whence originates the tendency to
abuse1 answered by the aid of Phrenology, 295-Crime extinguishable
only by removing its causes, 296-Tbe effects of animal and moral pun-
ishment compared, 297-Remarks on the natural distinction between
oio "'ed by Google
CONTENTS.
right aDd wrong, 802-The objeetioaacou.idend, That, acconliurto the
pro.-ed moralsymm of treating ofl'eoden, punilhment would be abro-
gated and crime ellCOilrllged, 304; IUld Tbat the author'a view• on th.ia
aubject are Utopian, aDd, in the p-t atate ofIIOCiety, impractic:able,
805.
S.IICTIOI( II.
806-810
Tbe mental improvement of man not the primary object for which suffering
is sent, 306-Errors of some religious sects wherted to, 807-Biabop
Butler teaches, more rationally, that a large proportion of our sufferings
is the result of our own misconduct, 303-The objection, that punieh-
lllents are often disproportionately severe, considered, 303-Recapitula-
tion of the advantages flowing f.-om obedience, and miefortunes from
disobedience, to the moral laws, 009.
CHAPTER VII.
01'1' THE COl\IBINED OPERATION OF THE NATURj.L
LAWS, • 311-330
Combined operation of the natural laws illustrated by reference to the de-
fects of the arrangements for jury trial in Scotland, 311,-the great fires
in Edinburgh in 1824, 313,-shipwrecks from ignorance or irrational
conduct iu the commander, 317,-Captain Lyo'l'sunsuccessful attempt to
reach Repulse Bay, 322,-foundering of decayed and ill-equipped ves-
sels at '""'• 329,-and the mercantile distress which overspread Britain
in 1825-6, 329--Storms may often be foreseen and provided against, 319.
CHAPTER VIII.
INFLUENCE OF THE NATURAL LAWS ON THE HAPPINESS
OF INDIVIDUALS, :331~
The objection considered, that although, wben viewed abetractly, the nat-
ural laws appear beneficent and juat, yet they are undeniably the cause of
extensive, severe, and unavoidable suffering to individuals, 881-Tbeir
justice and benevoleoce, in reference to indi•iduals, illustrated by imagi-
nary cases of the IUIIpeDIIion of 'VVious phy.ieal, organic,aDd IOCiallaM,
881~. .
oio "'ed by Google
.
"
D CONTUTI.
CHAPTER IX.
ON TB& B&L.lTJON B&TW&&N ICI&NC& AND ICRIP-
TURE, 543-377
Science, beiDg an espoeition of the Creator'• worka, caJIJIOt be at ftJ'iaDce
with a correctly interpreted revelation of his will, 848-Arehhiahop •
Whately and Profeuor Sedgwick quoted on the impropriety of testing
ICisce by Scripture, 8U-Io all ap, new ~octrioes have been branded
u impious, 848--Chrietianity iteelf no exception, 348-Phrenology may
be expected to lead to the abandonment of prevailing interpretation& of
aome par!JI of Scripture, 351-Bearing of Phrenology upon the realiza·
tiou of practical Christianity, 352-New direction to the pursuits of the
religious iustructors of mankind anticipated, 354-Hi.ttory demonstratee
that Christianity, while unaided by arts and science, was corrupted itself,
and bad little influence in improving the htunan race, 354-The ineffi-
cacy of Scripture alone to produce moral and rational conduct, illu-
trated by a narrative of the persecution• for witcberllft in the fifteenth,
sixteenth, and eeventeenth centurieo, 356-Nece~~Sity for using all our
lights in searching for the meaning of Scripture, 361-lllustrative quota-
tions from Bishop Taylor, on the obscurity of Scripture, the corruptions
which the text hu undergone, and the difficulty of trauslatiug it accu-
rately, 861-ADother illustration cited from the Rev. Dr. Fraser, 364-
Collllideration of the objection, That, according to the doctrine of the
natural laws, pn{yer must be irrational and useless, 373--Tbie objection
grounded on the falee assumption that the object of prayer is to inftuence
the Deity, 8'7S-Decision of the General A...,mbly of the Church of Scot-
land, that prayer has no effect but upon the mind of the supplicant, 374
-Thio taught by Drs. Leechman and Blair, 375--0pinion of Lord
-Kames on prayer, and on public worship, 375-The natural effects of
great size and activity in the moral organs mistaken by some persons for
the direct influence of the Holy Spirit in causing pure and religious emo•
tiona to spring up in the mind, 876. •
CONCLUSION,
What ia the praetieal woe of Phrenology, even anpposiug it to be truet 878
-Ito utility pointed out in reference to politics, 380, legialation, 380,
education, 881, morals and religion, 883, and the profeosions, pursuits,
hours ofexertion, and IIJ1IUII8JIIellts of individnals, 884-Tbe precepts of
Chriatiaoity impractieable ·in the preaent atate of aociety, 885-lmprove-
lllellt anticipated from the diJI'usion of the true philoeophy of mind. 881
-The change, how.enr, win be gradual, 800-What ought e~..,
4111bmcet at.J...-GIId wbat religiou iuunctioB1 ~
oio "'ed by Google
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS.
GENERAL VIEW OF THE CONSTITUTION OF HUMAN NATURB,.
AND ITS RELATIONS TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
IN surveying the external world, we discover that every
creature and every physical object has received a definite
constitution, and been placed in certain relations to other
·objects. The natural evidence of a Deity and his attri-
butes is drawn from contemplating these arrangements.
Intelligence, wisdom, benevolence, and power, charac-
terize the works of creation; and the human mind ascends
by a chain of correct and rigid induction to a great First
Cause, in whom these qualities must reside. But bitherto
this great truth has rather excited a barren though sublime
admiration, than led to beneficial practical r~sults.
Man obviously stands pre-eminent among sublunary
objects, and is distinguished, by remarkable endowments,
above all other terrestrial beings. Nevertheless no crea-
ture presents such anomalous appearances as man. View-
ed in one aspect he almost resembles a demon; in another
he still bears the impress of the image of God. Seen in
his crimes, his wars, and his devastations, he might b&
mistaken for an incarnation of an evil spirit; contemplated
in his schemes of charity, his discoveries in science, and
his vast combinations for the benefit of his race, he seems
a bright intelligence from Heaven. The lower animals
exhibit a .more simple a~d regulated constitution. The
lion is bold and ferocious, but he is regularly so, and, be-
sides, is placed in circumstances suited to his nature, in
which at once scope is given, and limits are set, to the
gratification of his instincts. The sheep, on the other
hand, is mild, feeble, and inoffensive; but ita external
1
t VIEW O:f TB& OOKITJTUTJOK OJ' BtJliUN K.A.TtJ&&,
condition also is suited to ita constitution and it apparently
Jives and flourishes in 88 great enjoyment 88 the lion.
The same remark applies to all the inferior creatures; and
the idea which I wish particularly to convey is, that their
bodily organs, faculties, instincts, and external circl,llll-
stances, form parts of a system in which adaptation an~
harmony are discoverable; and that the enjoyment of the
animals depends on the adaptation of their constitution to
their external condition. If we saw the lion one day tear-
ing in pieces every animal that crossed his path, and the
ue.xt oppressed with remorse for the death of his victims,
or compassionately healing those whom he had mangled,
we should exclaim, What an inconsistent creature! and
conclude that he could not by possibility be ha1)py, owing
to this opposition among the principles of his nature. In
short, we should be strikingly convinced that two condi-
tions are essential to enjoyment: first, that the different
instincts of an animal must be in harmony with each other;
and, secondly, that its whole constitution must be in ac-
cordance with its external condition.
When, keeping these principles in view, we direct our
attention to Man, very formidable anomalies present them-
selves. The most opposite instincts or impulses exist in
his mind: actuated by Combativeness, Destructiveness,
AcquisitiveneSB, and Self-Esteem, the moral sentiments
being in abeyance, he is almost a fiend; on the contrary,
when inspired by Benevolence, Veneration, Hope, Con-
scientiousness, Ideality, and Intellect, the benignity, se-
renity, and splendor of a highly-elevated nature beam from
his countenance, and radiate froin his eye. He is then
lovely, noble, and gigantically great. But how shall these
conflicting tendencies be reconciled, and how can external
circumstances be devised that shall 11ccord with such hete-
rogeneous elements? Here again a conviction of tbe
power and goodness of the -
Deity comes to our assistance.
·Man is obviously an essential and most important part of
the preaent system of creation; and, without doubting of
··:
..
AND JTS RJ:L.A.TtOI'fS '1'0 ZX'ri:Rl'f.A.L C$JJ:C'I'&. S'
his future destinies, we ought not, 10 long as OW' kno•-
Jedge of his nature is incomplete, to consider his coDiiitioa
here as inexplicable. The nature of man has hitherto, to
ell philosophical purposes, been unknown, and both the
designs of the Creator and the 1ituation of man have been
judged of ignorantly and rashly. The skeptic hu advano-
ed arguments against religion, and crafty deceivers have,
in all ages, founded systems of superstition, on the diaor-
der and inconsistency which are too readily admitted to be
inseparable attributes of human existenFe on earth. But l
venture to hope that man will yet be found in harmony
with himself and with the condition in which ho is placed.
I am aware that some individuals, whose piety is entitled
to respect, conceive, that as the great revolutiona of human
society, 88 well 88 all events in the lives •f individuals,
take place under the guidance of the Deity, it is presump-
tuous, if not impious, to endeavor to scan their causes and
effects. But as the Creator baa bestowed faculties on
man, it is presumable that He governs him in accordance
with them, and their constitution implies that he should
investigate creation. The young swallow, when it mi- •
grates on the approach of the first winter of its life, ia
impelled by an instinct impluted by the Deity, ud it CBD
neither know the causes that prompt it to fty, nor the end
to be attained by its flight. Hut its mental constitution is
wisely adapted to this condition; for it has no powers
stimulating it to reflect on itself and external objects, and
to inquire whence came its desires, or to what object they
tend. Man, however, has been framed differently. The
Creator bas bestowed on him faculties to observe pheno-
mena, and to trace cause and effect; and he has comfituted
the e:tternal world to afford scope to these pOtJJeirs. We are
entitled, therefore, to say, that it is the Creator himself
who has commanded us to observe and inquire into the
eauees that prompt u1 to act, and the results that will
naturally follow, and to modify our conduct aecordius to
the discoveries which we shall make.
DigtizedbyGoog e
4 VIEW 01' TBE CO!JIJTITUTION OJ' HUKAN !U.TUBI:,
To enable us to form a just estimate of our duty and
interest as the rational occupants of this world, we may
inquire briefly into the constitution of external nature, and
of ourselves.
The constitution of this world does not look like a sys-
tem ·of optimism. It appears to be arranged in all its
departments on the principle of slow and progreBBive im-
provement. Physical nature itself has undergone many
revolutions, and apparently has constantly advanced. Ge-
ology seems to show a distinct preparation of it for suc-
ceBBive orders of living beings, rising higher and higher in .
the scale of intelligence and organization, until .IJI8llo
appeared.
The globe, in the first state in which the imagination
can venture to consider it, says Sir H. Davy,• appears to
have been a fluid mass, with an immense atmosphere
revolving in space around the sun. By its cooling, apor-
tion of its atmosphere was probably condensed into water,
which occupied a part of its surface. In this state no
forms of life, such as now belong to our system, could
have inhabited it. The crystalline rocks, or, as they are
called by geologists, the primary rocks, which cantain·uo·
vestiges of a former order of things, were the result of the
first consolidation on its surface. Upon the farther cooling,
the water, which, more or less, had covered it, contracted;
depositions took place; shell-fish and coral insects were
created, and began their labors. · Islands appeared in the
midst of the ocean, raised from the deep by the productive
energies of millions of zoophytes. These islands became
covered with vegetables fitted to bear a high temperature,
'"The deocription in the text is extracted chiefly from 'The Last DaY" of
a Philosopher,' by Sir Hwnphrey Davy, 1881, p. 134, on account of its pop·
ular style; . but similar representations may be found in several recent works
on Geology,-particularly •A Geological Manual, by H. T. De La Beehe;•
the Penny Magazine of 1833, in a very instructive popular form; and Sedg-
wick's Discourse on the Studies of the University of Cambridge,third edition.
Mr. Lyell, however, in his Principles of Geology, vol. i. ch. ix. controvert.~~
the doctrine ofa progressive development of plants and aolmals•
...
·.:
.llfD ITS ULATIOlU TO KX'l'ZMAL OJI.JIIC'I'S. 5
8\lch 88 palms, and various species of plant11, siorilar to
those which now exiat in the hottest parts of the .-c>rld.
The eubmarine rooks of these new formations of land he-
~ame covered with aquatic vegetables, on which variodB
species of shell-fish, and common fishes, found their noutl-
illhment. As the temperature ·of the globe became lower,
species ofthe oviparous reptiles appear to have been creat-
ed to innabit it; and the turtle, crocodile, and Tarioua
gigantic animals of the Saurian (lizard) kind seem to have
baunt~d the bays and waters of the primitive lands. But
in this state ofthings, there appears to have been no order
of events similar to the present. Immense volcanic explo-
sions seem to have taken place, accompanied by elevations
and depressions of the surface of the globe, producing
mountains, and causing new and extensive depositions
from the primitive ocean. The remains of living beings,
plants, fishes, birds, and oviparous reptiles, are found in
the strata of roeks which are the monuments and evidence
of these changes. When these revolutions became less
frequent, and the globe became still more cooled, and
inequalities of temperature were established by means of
the mountain-chains, more perfect animals became its
inhabitants, such as the mammoth, megalonix, megathe-
rium, and gigantic hyena, many of which have become
extinct. Five successive races of plants, and four sueces-
siTe races of animals, appear to have been created and
swept away by the physical revolutions of tbe globe,
before the system of things became so permanent 88 to fit
the world for man. In none of these formations, whether
called-secondary, tertiary, or diluvial, have the fossil
remains of man, or any of his works, been discovered. At
last, man was created, and since that period there has
been little alteration in the physical circumstances of the
globe. I
' In all these various formations,' says Dr. Bucldaftd,
•the coprolites ' (or the dung of the sauriBil ret'ltifes in a
foyil state, exhibiting scales of fishes and other trace. of
t•
oio "'ed by Goog'le
6 1"JaW OJ' TBJ: CONIITITUTIOI'f OJ' HUMAN NARURE,
the prey which they had deToured) ' form records of war-
fare waged by 1uccessive generations of inhabitants of our
planet on one another; and the general law of nature,
which bids all to eat and be eaten in their turn, is showp.
to have been co-exteneive with animal existence upon ou;
globe, the camit~ora in each period of the world's history
fulfilling their de11tined office to check excess in the pro-
gress of life, and maintain the balance of creation.'
This brief 11ummary of the physical changes of the
Globe,_is not irrelevant to our present object. The more
that we discover of creation, the more conspicuously does
uniformity of design appear to pervade its every depart-
ment. We perceive here the physical world gradually
impr011ed and preparedj01· m4".
Let us now contemplate Man himself, and his adaptation
to the external creation. The world, we have seen, was
inhabited by living beings, and death and reproduction
prevailed, before Man appeared. The order of creation
seems not to have been changed at his introduction-he
appears to have been adapted to it. He received from his
Creator an organized structure, and animal instincts. The
brain is unquestionably the workmanship ofGod, and there
exist in it organs of faeultics impelling man to kill that he
may eat, to oppose aggression, and to shun danger-
instincts which clearly imply a constitution of external
nature corresponding to that which w~ see existing around
him. Man, then, apparently took his station among, yet
at the bead of, the beings that inhabited the earth at his
creation. He is to a certain extent an animal in his struc-
ture, powers, feelings, and desires, and is adap-.1 to a
world in which death reigns, and generation ~succeeds
generation. This fact, although so trite and obvious as to
appear scarcely worthy of being noticed, is of importance
in treating of Man; because the human being, in so far
as he resembles the inferior creatures, is capable of enjoy-
ing a life like theirs: he has pleasure in eating, drinking,
sleeping, and exercising his limbs; and o~e Qfth~ greatest
oio "'ed by Google
.A.ND ITS JlEL.lTIONS TO BXTJ:JlNAL OBJECTS. 1
obstacles to improvement is, that many of the race are
contented with these enjoyments, and consider it painful
to be compelled to seek higher sources of gratification.
But to the animal nature of man have been added, by a
bountiful Creator, moral sentiments and reflecting faculties,
which not only place him above all other creatures on
earth, but constitute him a different being from any of them,
a rational and accountable creature. These faculties are
his best and highest gifts, and the sources of his purest aDd
intenaest pleasures. They lead him directly to the great
objects of his existence, -obedience to God, and love
towards his fellow men. But this peculiarity attends them,
that while his animal faculties act powerfully of themselves,
his rational faculties require to be cultivated, exercised,
and instructed, before they will yield their full harvest of
enjoyment.
The Creator has so arranged the external world as to
hold forth every possible inducement to man to cultivate
his higher powers, nay almost to constrain him to do so.
The philosophic mind, in surveying the world as prepared
for the reception of the human race, perceives in external
nature, a vast assemblage of stupendous powers, too great
for the feeble hand of man entirely to control, but kindly
subjected, within certain limits, to the influence of his will.
Mao is introduced on earth, apparently helpless and un-
provided for as a homeless stranger; but the soil on which
he treads is endowed with a thousand capabilities of pro-
duction, which require only to be excited by his intelligence,
to yield him the most ample returns. The impetuous tor-
rent l'tlls its waters to the main; but as.it dashes over the
mountain-cliff, the human hand is capable of withdrawing
it from its course, and rendering ita powers subservient to
his will. Ocean extends over half the globe her liquid
plain, in which no path appears, and the rude winds oft
lift her waters to the sky; but there the skill of man may
launch the strong-knit bark, spread forth the canvass to the
gale, and make the trackless deep a highway thrcugh the
oio "'ed by Google
8 VJE.W' oP 'tllll COKITITUTIOK 0-, BUJU.lf KA.Tu&ll,
world. In such a state ofthiugs, koowledge is truly power;
ud it is higbly important to human beings to become. ac-
quainted with the coDBtitution and relations of every ob-
ject around them, that they may discover its capabilities of
ministering to their own advantage. Farther, where these
physical energies are too great to be controlled, man hu
received intelligence by which he may obse"e their course,
and accommodate his conduct to their influence. This
capacity of adaptation is a valuable substitute for the
power of regulating them by his will. He cannot arrest
the sun in its course, so u to avert the wintry storms, and
cauae perpetual spring to bloom around him; but, by the
proper exercise of his intelligence and corporeal energies,
he is able to foresee the approach of bleak skies and rude
win!W, and to place himself in safety from their injurious
effects. These powers of controlling nature, and of ac-
commodating his conduct to ·its course, are the direct
results of his rational faculties; and in proportion to their
cultivation is his sway extended. Man, while ignorant, is
in a helpless condition. But let him put forth his proper
human capacities, and he then finds himself invested with
the power to rear, to build, to fabricate, and to store up
provisions; and by availing himself ofthese resources, and
accommodating his conduct to the course of nature'slaws,
he is able to smile in safety beside the cheerful hearth,
when the elements maintain their fiercest war abroad.
Again: We are surrounded by countless beings, infe-
rior and equal to ourselves, whose qualities yield us the
greatest happiness, or bring upon us the bitterest evil,
according as we. affect them agreeably or disagftleably
by our conduct. To draw forth all their excellences, and
cause them to diffuse joy around us-to avoid touching
the harsher springs of their constitution, and bringing
painful discord to our elll'l!l-it is indispensably necessary
that we know the nature of our fellows, and act with a
habitual regard to the relations established by the Creator
between oursel..-es and them.
oio "'ed by Google •
AND ITS RELATIONS TO "'XTBRNAL OBJECTS. 9
Man, ignorant and uncivilized, is a ferocious,. sensual,
and superstitious savage. The world affords si>me enjoy-
ments to his animal feelings, but it confounds his moral
and intellectual faculties. External nature exhibits to hia'
mind a mighty chaos of events, and a dread display of
power. The chain ofcausation appears too intricate to be-
unravelled, and the power too stupendous to be controlled.
Order and beauty, indeed, occasionally gleam forth to his
eye from detached portions of creation, and seem to pro:..
~ise happiness and joy; but more frequently, clouds and
darkness brood over the scene, and disappoint his fondest
expectations. Evil seems so mixed up with good, that he
regards it as either its direct product, or its inseparable
accompaniment. Nature is never contemplated with a
clear conception of its adaptation to the purpose of·•prQ-
moting the true enjoyment of the human race, or with n
well founded confidence in the wisdom and benevolence of
its Author. Man, when civilized and illuminated by know-
ledge, on the other hand, discovers in the objects and oc-
currences around him, a scheme beautifully arranged for
the gratification of his whole powers, animal, moral, and
intellectual; he recognises in himself the intelligent and
accountable subject ofan all-bountiful Creator, and in joy
and gladness desires to study the Creator's works, to
ascertain his laws, and to yield to them a steady and a
willing obedience. Without undervaluing the pleasures
of his animal nature, he tastes the higher, more ref.ncd,
and more enduring delights of his moral and intellectual
capacities, and he then calls aloud for education as indis-
pensable to the full enjoyment ofhis ratiqnal powers.
If this representation of the condition of the human be-
ing on earth be correct, we perceive clearly the unspeak-
able advantage of !lpplying our minds to gain knowledge
ofour own constitution and that of external nature, and of
regulating our conduct according to rules drawn from the
information acquired. Our constitution and our position
equally imply, that the grand object of our existence is,
OgitizedbyGoog e
-
10 VIJI:W OJ' TB& COI'ITITVTIOK OJ' BUII.t.K K4TU&&,
DOt that we abould remain cooteoted with the pleuuree of
mere animal life, but that we should take the dignified awl
Car more delightful station of moral and rational occupaota
ofthis lower world.
Ifthe physical history ofthe globe clearly indicates pro-
gresaion in an advancing series of changes, the civil history
of man equally proclaims the march, although often vacil-
lating and ·slow, of moral and intellectual improvement.
To avoid too extensive an inquiry, unsuitable to an intro-
ductory discourse, let us confine our attention to the as-
pects presented by society in our native country.
At the time of the Roman invasion, the inhabitant& of
Britain lived as savages, and appeared in painted skina.
After the Norman conquest, one part of the nation .was
placed in the condition of serfs, and condemned to labor
like beasts ofburden, while another devoted themselves to
war. They fought battles during the day, and in the night
probably dreamed of bloodshed and broils. Next came
the age of chivalry. These generations severally believed
their own condition to be the permanent and inevitable
lot of man Now, however, have come the present ar-
rangements of society, in which minions of men are shut
up in cotton and other manufactories for ten or twelve
hours a-day ; others labor under ground in mines; others
plough the fields; while thousands of higher rank pass •
their whole lives in idleness and dissipation. The elemen-
tary principles, both of mind and body, were the same in
our painted ancestors, in their chivalrous descendants, and ·
in us, their shopkeeping, manufacturing, and money-
gathering children. Yet how different the external cir-
cumstances of tho individuals ofthese several generations!
If, in the savage state, the internal faculties of man were
in harmony among themselves, and if his external condi-
tion was in accordance with them, he must then have
enjoyed all the happinesa hat his nature admitted of, awl
must have erred when he changed;-ifthe institutions awl
customs of the age of chinlry were calculated to gratify
oio "'ed by Google
.l1'fD ITS &SL.lTIOKI f'O Uft&K.U, OB.Ja<:TI, J1
his whole nature harmoniously, he must have been unhap-
pY as a savage, and must be miserable now;-if his pre.
eDt condition be the perfection of his nature, he must hBYe
been far from enjoyment, both as a savage aod as a feudal
warrior;-and if none of these conditions have been in
accordance with his constitution, be must still have hia
happiness to seek. Every age, accordingly, has testified
that it was not in possession of contentment; and the ques-
tion presents itself, If human nature has received a definite
constitution, and if one arrangement of external circum-
stances be more suited to yield it gratification than another,
what are that constitution and that arrangement? No one
among the philosophers has succeeded in informing us.-
lfwe in Britain have not reached the limits of attainable
perfection, what are we next to attempt? Are we and our
posterity to spin and weave, build ships, and speculate in
commerce, as the highest occupations to which human
nature can aspire, and persevere in these labors till the
end of time? If not, who shall guide the helm in our future
voyage on the ocean of existence? and by what chart
of philosophy shall our steersman be directed? The British
are here cited as a type of mankind at large; for in every
age and every clime, similar races have been run, and with
similar conclusions. Only one answer can be returned to
these inquiries. Man is evidently a progressive being;
and the Creator, having designed a higher path for him
than for the lower creatures, has given him intellect to dis-
cover his own nature and that of external objects, and left
him, by the exercise of that intellect, to find out for him-
self the method of placing his faculties in harmony among
themselves, and in accordance with the external world.
Time and experience are necessary to accomplish these
ends, and history exhibits the human race only in a state
of progress towards the full development of their powers,
and the attainment of rational enjoyment.
As long as man remained ignorant of his own nature, he
could not, of design, form his institutions in accordance
oio "'ed by Google
--
'
)
~ ··-.:·
1
·;._
lfl Vl&W 01' TB& CONITITVTION 01' HUMAN NA.T11Rit1
with it. Until his own faculties became the subjects ofhis
observation, and their relations the objects of his redection,
they operated as mere instincts. He adopted savage
habits, because his animal propensities were not at first
directed by the moral sentiments, or enlightened by re1lec-
tion. He next assumed the condition of the barbarian,
because his higher powers had made some advance, but
had not yet attained supremacy; and he now manufactures,
because his constructive faculties and intellect have given
him power over physical nature, while his avnrice and
ambition are predominant, and are gratified by such avo-
cations. Not one of these changes, however, has been
adopted from design, or from perception of its suitablenesa
to the nature of man. He has been ill at ease in them all;
but it does not follow that he shall continue for ever equally
ignorant of his nature, and equally incapable of framing
institutions to-harmonize with it. The simple facts, that
the Creator has bestowed on man reason, capable of dis-
covering his own nature, and its relations to external ob-
jects; that He has left him to apply it in framing suitable
institutions to ensure his- happiness; that, nevertheless,
man has hitherto been ignorant of his nature and of its
relations; and that, in consequence, his modes of life have
never been adopted from enlightened tlietos of hu whole ca-
pacities and qualities, but sprung up from the instinctive
ascendency of one blind propensity or another,-warrant
us in saying, that a new era will begin, when man shall be
enabled to study his constitution and its relations with
success; and that the future may exhibit him assuming his
station as a rational creature, pursuing his own happiness
with intelligence and design, and at length attaining to
higher gratification of his whole faculties than any which
he has hitherto enjoyed.
The inquiry next naturally occurs, What has been the
cause of the human race remaining for so many ages un-
acquainted with their own nature and its relations? The
uswer is, that, before the discovery of the functions oftho
oio "'ed by Google
AND ItS a&L.l'l'JONI TO &XTKRIIfAL OJI.JECTS. . JS
brain, they did not know bow to study these subjects in a
manner calculated to attain to true principles and practical
results. The philosophy of man was cultivated as a spec~
ulative and not as an inductive science; and even when
' attempts were made at induction, the manner in which
they were conducted was at variance with the fundamental
requisites of a sound philosophy.* In consequence, even
the most enlightened nations have never possessed any
true philosophy of mind, but have been bewildered amidst
innumerable contradictory theories.
This deplorable condition of the philosophy of human
nature is strikingly and eloquently described by Mons. de
Bonald, in a sentence translated by Mr. Dugald Stewart,
in his Preliminary Dissertation to the Encyclopwdia Bri-
tannica: 'Diversity of doctrine,' says he, 'has increased
from age to age, with the number of masters, and with the
progress of knowledge; and Europe, which at present
possesses libraries filled with philosophical works, and
which reckons up almost as many philosophers as writers;
poor in the midst of so much wealth, and uncertain, with
the aid of all its guides, which road it should follow;
Europe, the centre and focus of all the lights of the world,
_bas yet its philosophy-only in expectation.'
In ou'r own country two views of the constitution of the
world and of human nature have long been prevalent, dif-
fering widely from each other, and which, if legitimately
followed out, would lead to distinct practical results. The
one is, that the world, including both the physical and
moral departments, contains within its~lf the elements of
improvement, which time will evolve and bring to matu-
rity; it having been constituted by the Creator on the
principle of a progressive system, like the acorn in refer-
ence to the oak. This hypothesis ascribes to the power
and wisdom of the Divine Being the whole phenomena
which nature, animate ' apd inanimate, exhibits; because,
in conferring on each part the specific qualities and con-
to: See System of Phrenology, Third Edition, p. 40.
2
oio "'ed by Google
14 Tl&W OF THE COJfiTITU...lON 01' BUXAM N.lTUilJ:,
ltitution which belong to it, a~d in placing it in the cir-
cumstances in which it is found, He is usumed to have
deaigned, from the first, the whole results which these
qualities, constitution, and circumstances, are calculated
in time to produce. There is no countenance given to
atheism by this theory. On the contrary, it affords the
richest and most comprehensive field imaginable, for trac--
ing the evidence of Divine power, wisdom, and goodness
in creation.
The other hypothesis is, that the world was perfect at
first, but fell into derangement, continues in disorder, and
does not contain within itself the elements of its own rec-
tification.
Ifthe former view be sound, the first object of man, as
an intelligent being in quest of happiness, must be to study
the elements of external nature and their capabilities; the
elementary qualities of his own nature, and their applica-
tions; and the relationship between these. His second
object will be to discover and carry into effect the condi-
tions,-physical, moral, and intellectual,-which, in virtue
ofthis constitution, require to be realized before the fullest
enjoyment of which he is capable can be attained.
According to the second view of creation, no good can
be expected from the evolution of nature's elements, these
being all essentially disordered; and human improvement
, and enjoyment must be derived chiefly from spiritual influ-
ences. If the one hypothesis be sound, man must fulfil
the natural conditiom requisite to the existence of religion,
morality, and happiness, before he can reap full benefit
from religious truth: according to the other, he must
beiieve aright in religion, and be the subject of spiritual
influences independent of natural causes, before he can
become capable of any virtue or enjoyment; in short, ac-
cording to it, science, philosophy, and all arrangements of
the physical, moral, and intellectual elements of nature,
are subordinate in their effects on human happiness on
earth, to religious faith.
oio "'ed by Google
AND ITS RELATIONS TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS, . 16
It appears to me extremely difficult to reconcile these
conflicting views.
The theologians who condemned the natural world, lived
in an age when there was no sound philosophy. and almoet
no knowledge of physical science; they were unavoidably
ignorant of the elementary qualities of human nature, and
ofthe influence of organization on the mental powers--the
great link which connects the moral and physical worlds.
They were unacquainted with the relations subsisting be-
.tween the mind and external nature; and could not by pos-
sibility divine, to what extent individuals and society were
capable of being improved by natural means. In the his-
tory of man, they had read chiefly of misery and crime,
and had in their own age beheld much of both. They
were, therefore, naturally led to form a low estimate of
human nature, and to expect little good from the develop-
ment of its inherent capabilities. These views appear to
me to have influenced the interpretations of Scripture which
they adoJ"Iled: and these, having once been entwined with
religious sentiments, have descended from generation to
generation:-in consequence, persons of sincere piety
have, for several centuries, been induced to look down on
this world as a wilderness abounding with briars, weeds,
and noxious things,-and to direct their chief attention,
not to the study of its elements and their relations, in the
hope of reducing them to order, but to enduring the dis-
order with patience and resignation, and to securing, by
faith and penitence, salvation in a future life. It has never
been with them a practical principle, that human nature
itself may be vastly improved in its moral and intellectual
capacities, by those means which Physiology and Phreno-
logy have recently opened up to us; or that human nature
and the external world are adjusted on the principle of
favoring the development of the higher powers of our
minds; or that the study of the constitution of nature is
indispensable to human improvement; or that this world
and ita professions and pursuits might be rendered favora•
oio "'ed by Google
16 TI&W OJ' TBit CONITITUTJOK OJ' BUKAK K.A.TUU,
ble to •irtue by searching out the natural qualitiea of it.l
elements, their relationship, and the moral plan on which
God bas constituted and governs it. Some philosophers
and divines having failed to discover a consistent order or
plan in the moral world, have rashly concluded that none
such exists, or that it is inscrutable. It appears never to
have occurred to them that it is impossible to comprehend
a whole system without becoming acquainted with its ·
parts:-though ignorant of the physiology of man, of men-
tal philosophy, of the philosophy of external nature, and of
their relations, these authors have not perceived that this
extensive ignorance of the details rendered it impossible
for them to comprehend the plan of the whole. Hence
they have involved themselves in contradictions; for while
it bas been a leading principle with them, that enjoyment
in a future state is to be the consequence of the believer
attaining to a holy and pious frame of mind in this life,
they have represented the constitution of the world to be
so unfavorable to piety and virtue, that men in general,
who continue attached to it, cannot attain to this right
frame of spirit, or act habitually in consistency with it.
They have not had philosophy sufficient to enable them to
perceive that man must live in society to be either virtu-
ous, useful, or happy; that the social atmosphere is to the
mind what air is to the lungs; and that while an individual
cannot exist to virtuous ends out of society, he cannot exist
in a right frame of mind in it, if the moral atmosphere with
which he is surrounded be deeply contaminated with vice
and error. Individual merchants, for example, cannot act
habitually on Christian principles, if the maxims of their
trade be _not Christian; and if the world be so unfavorably
constituted that it does not admit of the rules of trade
becoming Christian, then active life and practical religion
are naturally opposed to each other. Divines have labo-
riously recommended spiritual exercises as means of im-
provement in this life and of salvation in the next; but
have rarely dealt with the philosophy of this world, Ot'
oio "'ed by Google
AND ITS RELATIONS TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS, 1'7
attempted its rectification, so as to render these exercises
truly efficacious. Their minds have been infected with
the first great error, that this world is irre~ediably d~fe~- 1
t~~e in!_t~ -C~I!~t!!_u_~~n! and that human ~~,e must be con- ; ··
centrated chiefly on the l_!,!lXt. This may be attributed to;;.:';_
1" ',.. •••
the premature formation o( a system of theology in the " ·· '
dawn of civilization, before the qualities of the physical '," .. ' ' .
world,- and the elements of the moral world, and their ··•·· ··:
relationship, were known; and to erroneous interpretations
ofScripture, in consequence, partly, of that ignorance.
Now, ifthe discovery ofthe philosophy of mind, founded
on the physiology of the brain, is to operate at all in favor
of human improvement, one of the most striking effects
which it will produce, will be the lifting up of the veil
which has so long concealed the natural world, and its
capabilities and importance, from the eyes of divines. To
all practical ends connected with theology, the philosophy
of nature might as well not ·exist: With few exceptions, the
sermons preached a century ago are equal, if not superior,
in sense.and suitableness to human nature, to those deliv-
ered yesterday; and yet, in the interval, the human mind
has made vast advances in knowledge of the works of cre-
ation. Divines have frequently applied scientific discov-
eries in proving the existence and developing the character
of the Deity; but they have failed in applying either the
discoveries themselves, or the knowledge of the Divine
character obtained by means of them, to the construction
of any system of mental philosophy, capable of combining
harmoniously with religion, and promoting the improve-
ment of the human race.
This, however, Phrenology will enable them one day to
·do In surveying the world itself, the phrenologist per-
ceives that the Creator has bestowed definite qualities on
the human mind, and on external objects, and established
certain relations between them; that the mental faculties
have been incessantly operating according to their inherent
tendencies, generally aiming at good; always desiring it,
2•
oio "'ed by Google
18 VIBW OJ' THB CONITJTUTIOl'f 01' BUlii.A.N NATUBJ:1 ,
but often miuiog it through pure ignorance and blindneas,
yet capable of attaining it when enlightened and properly
directed. The baneful effects of ignorance are every
where apparent. Three-fourths of the mental faculties
have direct reference to this world, and in their functions
appear to have no intelligible relation to another-such
are Amativeness, PhiloprogenitiveneBB, Combativeness,
Destructiveness, CoostructiveneBB, AcquisitiveneBB, Secre-
tiveneBB, and others; while the remaining fourth are calcu-
ated to have reference at once to this life and to a higher
state ofexistence-such are Benevolence, Ideality, Won-
der, Veneration, Hope, ConscienliousneBB, and Intellect.
While the philosophy of mind continued a purely abstract
theory, moralists and divines enjoyed an unlimited privi-
lege, ofwhich they largely availed themselves, of ascribing
or denying to human nature whatever qualities best suited
their several systems; but now the case is different. Or-
gans cannot be added to .or displ,!lced from the brain by the
fancy or the logic of contending disputants or sects; and
philosophers and divines must hereafter study human nature
as it exists, and accommodate their views to its actual
qualities and relations. To guide and successfully apply
the former class of faculties to the promotion of human
happiness, it appears indispensable that the faculties them-
selves,-the physical conditions on which their strength
and weakness, inertness and vivacity, depend,-the rela-
tions established between them and the external world,
which is the grand theatre of their action,-and, finally,
the relation between them and the superior faculties, which
are destined to direct them, should be known; and yet,
scarcely any thing ia known in a philosophical and prac-
tical sense, on these points, by the people at large. If I
am correct in saying that these faculties, by their consti-
tution, have reference to this world alone, then useful
knowledge for their guidance will be afforded by the phi-
losophy of this world; and the wisdom which is to reduce
them to order, will receive important ~d f{om studying t~e
AND ITS RELATIONS TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS. 19
constitution which it has pleased the Creator to bestow on
them, and the relations which he has seen proper to insti-
tute between them and the other departments ofhis works.
His wisdom and goodness will be found to pervade them.
He has bestowed on us intellect to discover his will, and
sentiments disposing us to obey it, in whatever record ita
existence is inscribed; yet little of this knowledge is
taught to the people by divines.
Knowledge of the constitution, relations, and capabilities
of sublunary things and beings, is indispensable also to the
proper exercise and direction of the superior powers of the
mind. In all ages, practical men have been engaged for
three-fourths oftheir time in pursuits calculated to gratify
the faculties which have reference to this world alone;
but, unfortunately, the .remaining fourth of their time has
not been devoted to pursuits bearing reference to their
higher faculties. Through want of intellectual education,
they have been incapabl~f deriving pleasure from observ-
ing nature, and have not been furnished with ideas to
enable them to think. Owing to the barbarism which
pervaded society in ·general, there has been no moral
atmosphere in which their superior sentiments could play.
Ambition, that powerful stimulant in social life, has not
been directed to moral objects, but generally the reverse.
The hourR, therefore, which ought to have been dedicated
to the improvement of the higher portion of their faculties,
were either devoted to the pursuit of gain, sensual plea-
sure, or ambition, or spent in mere trifling amusements
and relaxation. There was no decided onward purpose of
moral and intellectual advancement abroad in the seqular
occupations of society; and the divines who formed public
opinion, so far from discovering that this disorder waR not
inherent in the constitution of nature,-and that Christian-
ity, in teaching the doctrine ofthe supremacy ofthe moral
faculties, necessarily implied the practicability of a state
of society founded on that principle,-fell into the opposite
error, and represented the world as deranged in all ita
oio "'ed by Google
20 VI&\V OF THE CONSTITUTION 0, HUMAN NATURE,
parts, and incapable of rectification by the development of
its own elements; and thereby added strength and perma-
nence to the evils originating in ignorance and unguided
pusion.
I am far from casting blame on the excellent individuals
who fell into these mistakes: such errors were inevitable
at the time in which they lived, and with the lights which
they possessed; but I point them out as imperfections
which ought to be removed.
The late Earl of Bridgewater died in February 1829,
and left the sum of£ 8,000, which, by his will, he directed
the President of the Royal Society of London to apply in
paying any person or persons to be selected by him, ' to
write, print, and publish one thousand copies of a work
" On the Power, Wisdom, and Go<;~dness of God, as mani-
fested in the Creation;" illustrating such work by all
reasonable arguments, as, for instanGe, the variety and
formation of God's creatures in~e animal, vegetable, and
mineral kingdoms; the effect of digestion, and thereby of
conversion; the construction of the hand of man, and an
infinite variety of other arguments; as also by discoveriu,
ancient and modern, in arts, tciences, and the whole extent of
literature.' The President of the Royal Society called in
the aid of the Archbishop of Canterbury and of the Bishop
of London, and with their advice nominated eight gentle-
men to write eight treatises on different branches of this
great subject.
One of the objects of the Earl of Bridgewater appears
to have been to ascertain what the character of external
nat\U"e and the capacities of the human mind really are,
nnd what is the adaptation of the latter to the external
world; questions of vast importance in themselves, and
which can be solved only by direct, bold, and unbiassed
appeals to Nature herself. This subject was committed to
Dr. Chalmers.
The first inquiry that ought n3lural1y to\avA been pllr-
aued in the executioo of this object was, ' What is the
'
AND ITS RELATIONS TO EXTERNAL OBJECTS. 21
constitution of the human mind?' because, before we can
successfully trace the adaptation of two objects to each
other, we must be acquainted with each itself. But Dr.
Chalmers and all the other authors of the Bridgewater
Treatises have neglected this branch of inquiry. They
disdained to acknowledge Phrenology as the philosophy of
mind, yet have not brought forward any other system.
Indeed they have not attempted to assign to human nature
any definite or intelligible constitution. In consequence,
they appear to me to have thrown extremely little new
light on the moral government ofthe world.
In the following work, the first edition of which was
published in 1828, before the Eiul of Bridgewater's death,
I have endeavored to avoid this inconsistency. Having
been convinced, after minute and long continued obser-
vation, that Phrenology is the true philosophy of mind, I
have assumed it as the basis of my reasoning. In this
inqmry, it is indispensa~ necessary to found on some
system of mental philosophy, in order to obtain one of the
elements of the comparison; but the reader, if he chooses,
may regard the phrenological views as hypothetical in the
meantime, and judge of them by the result. Or he may
attempt to substitute in their place any better system with
which he is acquainted, and try how far it will successfully
conduct him.
In the next place, in instituting the comparison in ques-
tion, I have' brought into view, and endeavored to sub-
stantiate and apply, a doctril!e, which, so far as I have yet
been able to discover, is the key to the true theory of the
divine government of the world, but which has not hitherto\
been duly appreciated,-nameJy, THE INDEPENDENT EX-
ISTENCE AND OPERATION OF THE NATURAL I.AWS OF CREA-
TION. The natural laws may he divided into three great ~ ·
and intellect~al classes,-Physical, Organic, and Moral; ',
and the peculiarity of the new doctrine is, its inculcating >
that these operate independently of each other; that each
requires obedience to itself; that each, in its own specific
22 VIEW 01' THill CONITITUTlON 01' BVKU lU.TVJlJI,
<way, rewards obedience and puniahea disobedience; and
that human beings are happy m proportion to the extent to
which they place themselves in accordance with aU of
these divine institutions. For example, the most pious and
benevolent missionaries sailing to civilize and cbristianize
the heathen, may, if they embark in an unsound 11hip, he
drowned by disobeying a physical law, without their de-
struction being averted by their morality. On the other
hand, if the greatest monsters of iniquity were embarked
in a stanch and strong ship, and managed it well, they
might, and, on the general principles ofthe government of
the world, they would, escape drowning in circumstances
exactly similar to those which would send the missionaries
to the bottom. There appears something inscrutable in
these results, if only the 1rwral qualitie1 of the men be
contemplated; but ifthe principle be adopted that ships
float in virtue of a purely physical law,-and that the
physical and moral laws operate wdependently, each in its
own sphere,-the consequences appear in a totally differ-
ent light.
In like manner, the organic laws operate independently;
and hence, one individual who has inherited a fine bodily
constitution from his parents, and observes the rules of
temperance and exercise, will enjoy robust health, although
he may cheat, lie, blaspheme, and destroy his fellow men;
while another, if be have inherited a feeble constitution,
and disregard the laws of diet and exercise, will suffer pain
and sickness, although he rtaY be a paragon of every
Christian virtue. These results are frequently observed
to occur in the world; and on such occasions the darkness
and inscrutable perplexity of the ways of Providence are
generally moralized upon, or a future life is called in as
the scene in which these crooked paths are to be rendered
straight. But ·if my views be correct, the Divine wisdom
and goodness are abundantly conspicuous in these events;
for by this distinct operation of the organic and moral laws,
order is preserved in creation, and, as will afterwards be
oio "'ed by Google
, A!fD ITS RltLA'I'fO!fl TO DTER!fAL OBnOTI. iS
ebown, the ,means of discipline and improvement are at:.
forded to all the human faculties.
The moral a11cl tnlelledtAIIl laws also have an indepen-
dent operatio.n. The man who cultivatt'!s his intellect, and
_habit11ally obeys the precepts of Christianity, will enjoy
within himself a fountain of moral aftcl in~llectual happineu,
which is the appropriate :.ftlward of that obedience. By
these means he will be rendered more capable nf studying,
comprehending, and obeying, the physical and organic
laws, of placing himself in harmony with the whole order
of creation, and of attaining the highest degree of perfec-
tion and reaping the highest degree of happiness, of which
human nature in this world is susceptible. In short,
whenever we apply the principle of the independent opera-
tion of the naturul laws, the apparent confusion of the
moral government of the world disappears. _
These views will be better understood and appreciated
after perusing the subsequent chapters, the object of
which is to unfold and apply them; the aim of these intro-
ductory remarks being merely to prepare the reader for
travelling over the more abstruse portions of the work with
a clearer perception of their scope and tendency. The
work itself bas now been before the public for six years,
and I have seen no criticism w~ich has shaken my convic-
tion of the substantial truth of the principles maintained in
it. Of its value as a contribution to the philosophy of
human nature, the public are the only legitimate judges
Some well-meaning individuals have imagined that this
work is hostile to religion; because it is confined to princi-
ples which can be discovered by observation and reflection,
and to human conduct in this life without direct reference
to a future state; but such ideas are entirely unfounded.
Human nature and the external world have both proceed-
ed from the Creator, and it is impossible, in interpreting
their constitution aright, to arrive at any conclusions at
variance with correct interpretations of Scripture · It is
argued, indeed, by some theologians, that the human facul-
oio "'ed by Google
fM vr•w OF THE CONSTITUTION or BUKAI'f NATURE,
ties are no longer in the condition in which they were
created, and that hence no sound philosophy can be dedu-
ced from studying their manifestations. (Christian Ethics,
by Ralph Wardlaw, D. D., p. 40.) I respectfully reply,
that man did not make the cerebral organs which be now
possesses, nor bestow on them their functions. Both
organs and functions are as asauredly the direct gifts of the
Creator, as is the eye, the ear, or the stomach. The sci-
ence of optics is never questioned by any person who un-
derstands it, on the ground that the eye (on the structure,
properties, and relations of which it depends), is not now
in the condition in which it was created. Yet to do this
would be as reasonable as to deny the truth and authority
of a philosophy of mind derived from correct observations
on the constitution and relations ofthe mental faculties and
organs. It is presumable that the same Divine power,
wisdom, and goodness, which instituted the eye, and adapt-
ed its structure to light, presided also over the institution
and adaptations of the internal organs of the mind. If a
theologian were to maintain that these organs, or several
ofthem, were bestowed on man in consequence of sin, or
from any other cause, philosophers would remain silent to
such a proposition; because they do not inquire into tb~
motives which induced the Creator to confer on man the
organs and faculties which he possesses. They limit their
investigations to objects that exist, and their relations and
uses. But on the ground that organs and faculties have
been given by the Creator, they are entitled to maintain,
that a philosophy of morals correctly deduced from their
constitution must accord with all correct interpretations of
Scripture, otherwise religion can have no 11ubstantial foun-
dation. If two sound interpretations of the divine will, as
recorded in Creation and in Scripture, can hy possibility
contradict each other, we can have no confidence in the
moral Governor of the world. As, then, all real philoso-
phy and all true religion must harmonize, there will be a
manifest advantage in cultivating each by ttself, till its full
dimensions, limits, and applications shall be brought clear-
.f.llf1) JTI ll&LATIONI TO &UEJUUL OBJ&CTS. 28
ly to light. We may then advantageously compare them,
ud use the one as a meant~ of elucidating or correetiog '-'
our views ofthe other.
To the best of my knowledge, there is not one practical
result of the natural laws expounded in the subsequent
pages, which does not harmonize precisely with the moral
precepts of the New Telllament. Indeed, this work has
been characterized by some individuals as the philosophy
of Christian morality, because they regard it as exhibiting
the natural foundations of the admirable precepts which in
the New Testament are taught only dogmatically. It is
objected, however, that, by omitting the sanction of future
reward and punishment, this treatise leaves oul the highest,
best, and most efficacious class of motives to virtuous con-
duct. This objection is founded on a misapprehension of
the object of the book. It is my purpose to show, that the
rewards and punishments of human actions are infinitely
more complete, certain, and efficacious, in this life, than is
generally believed; but by no means to interfere with the
sanctions to virtue afforded by the prospect of future re-
tribution. It appears to me that every action which is
morally wrong in reference to a future life, is equally
wrong and inexpedient with relation to this world;-and that
it is of essential advantage to virtue to prove this to be the
case. Having observed a great tendency in many reli-
gious men to overlook the importance of understanding the
moral administration of this world, and to turn their atten- ·
tion too exclusively to the next, I have endeavoretl to
present the administration of the present world in a clear
light, calculated to arrest attention, and to draw towa'Ris
it that degree of consideration to which it is justly entitle4.
This proceeding will be recognised as the more necessary, '·
if one principle largely insisted on in the following pages
shall be admitted to be sound, viz. that rel!gion operates
on the human min~. in subordination~ and not in contradic-
tion, to its natur~l constiiution. If this view be well foun-
ded, it will be indasp~able that all the natural_ COft&iftcm .·
3
oio "'ed by Google
!6 VIBW OJ' TBB CONSTITUTION OP HUMAN N.t.TUB.&,
required by the human constitution as preliminaries to
moral and religious conduct be complied with, .before any
· purely religious teaching can produce its full effects. If,
for example, an ill-constituted brain be unfavorable to the
appreciation and practice of religious truth, it is not an
unimportant inquiry, whether any, and what, influence can
be exercised by human means in improving the size and
; proportions of the mental organs. If certain physical cir-
1 cumstances and occupations,-such as insufficient food
and clothing, unwholesome workshops and dwelling-places,
diet, and severe and long protracted labor,-have a natu-
ral tendency to blunt all the higher feelings and faculties
of the mind, in consequence oftheir influence on the ner-
vous system in general, and .the brain in particular,-and
if religious emotions cannot be experienced with full effect
by individuals so situate,-the ascertainment, with a view
to removal, of the nature, causes, and effects, of these .
impediments to holiness, is not a matter of indifference.
This view has not been systematically adopted and pur-
sued by the religious instructors of mankind in any age, or
any country, and, in my humble opinion, for this sole rea-
son, that the state of moral and physical science did not
enable them either to appreciate its importance, or to
carry it into effect. By presenting Nature in all her sim-
plicity and strength, a new impulse and direction may
perhaps be given to their understandings; and they may
be induced to consider whether their universally confessed
failure to render men as virtuous and happy as they
desired, may not to some extent have ar1scn from their
non-fulfilment of the natural conditions instituted by the
Creator as preliminaries to success. They have com-
pl~ined of war waged, openly or secretly, by philosophy
against religion; but they have not duly considered whether
religion itself warrants them in treating philosophy and all
its dictates with neglect in their instruction of the people.
True philosophy is a revelation of the Divine Will mani-
fested in creation; it harmonizes with all truth, and can-
not with impunity be neglected.
( 27 )
CHAPTER I.
ON NATURAL LAWS.
IN natural science, three subjects of inquiry may be dis-
tinguished: 1st, What exists? 2dly, What is the purpose
or design of what exists? and, Sdly, Why was what exists
designed for such uses as it evidently subserves?
It is matter of fact, for instance, that arctic regions and
the torrid zone exist,-that a certain kind of moss is abun-
dant in Lapland in winter,-that the rein-deer feeds on it,
and enjoys health and vigor in situations where most other
animals would die; that camels exist in Africa,-that they
have broad hoofs, and stomachs fitted to retain water for
a considerable time, -and that they flourish amid arid
tracts of sand, where the rein-deer would hardly live for a
day. All this falls under the inquiry, What exists?
In contemplating these facts, the understanding is natu-
rally led to infer that one object of the Lapland moss is to
feed the rein-deer, and that one purpose of the deer is to
assist man; and that broad feet have been given to the
camel to allow it to walk on sand, and a retentive stomach
to fit it for arid places in which water is found only at wide
intervals. These conclusions result from inquiries into
the uses or purposes of what exists; and such inquiries
constitute a legitimate exercise of the human intellect.
But Sdly, we may ask, Why were the physical clements
of nature created such as they arc? Why were summer,
, autumn, spring, and winter introduced? Why were animals
formed of organized matter? Why were trackless wastes
of snow and burning sand called into existence ? These are
inquiries why what exists was made such as it is, or into
the will ofthe Deity in creation.
Now, man's perceptive faculties are adequate to the first
oio "'ed by Google
OH N4Tt7R4L L4WII.
inquiry, and his reflective faculties to the second; but it
may well be doubted whether he has powers suited to the
third. My investigations are confined to the first and
second, and I do not discuss the third.
It cannot be too much insisted on, that the Creator has
bestowed definite constitutions on physical nature and on
man and animals, and that they are regulated by fixed laws.
A law, in the common acceptation, denotes a rule of action;
it implies a subject which acts, and that the actions or phe-
nomena which that subject exhibits take place in an estab-
lished and regular manner; and this is the sense in which
I shall use it, when treating of physical substances and
beings. Water, for instance, when at the level ofthe sea,
and combined with that portion of heat indicated by 32° of
Fahrenheit's thermometer, freezes or becomes solid; when
combined with the portion denoted by212° of that instrument,.
it rises into vapor or steam. Here water and beat are the
substances, and the freezing and rising in vapor are the
appearances or phenomena presented by them; and when
we say that these take place according to a Law of Nature,
we mean only that these modes of action appear, to our
intellects, to be established in the very constitution of the
water and beat, and in their natural relationship 'to each
other; and that the processes of freezing and rising in
vapor are constant appearances, when they are combined
in these proportions, other conditions being the same.
The ideas chiefly to be kept in view are, 1st, That all
substances and beings have received a definite natural con-
stitution; 2dly, T!J.at every mode of action, which is s!Ud
to take place according to a natural law, is inherent in the
constitution of the substance or being; and, 3dly, That the
mode of action described is universal and invariable, wher~
ever and whenever the substances or beings are found in
the same condition. For example, water, at the level of the
sea, freezes and boils at the same temperature, in China, in
France, in Peru, and in England; and there is no excep-
UO!l to the r«tguluity with which it exhibits these appear-
oio "'ed by Google
ON NATURAL LAWS
ances, when all its other conditions are the same. This last
qualification, however, must constantly be attended to in
all depanments ofscience. If water be carried to the top
of a mountain 20,000 feet high, it will boil at a lower tem-
perature than 212°; but this depends on its relationship- to
the air, and takes place also according to fixed and invari-
able principles. The air exerts a great pressure on water.
At the level ofthe sea the pressure is every where nearly the
same, and in that situation the freezing and boiling points
correspond all over the world; but on the top ofa high moun-
tain the pressure is much less, and the vapor, not being
held down by so great a power of resistance, rises at a low-
er temperature than 21~. But this change of appearances
does not indicate a change in the constitution of the water
and the heat, but only a variation in the circumstances in
which they are placed; and hence it is not correct to say,
that water boiling on the tops of high mountains, at a lower
temperature than 212°, is an exception to the 'eneral law
of nature. There are no exceptions to the laws of nature;
for the Creator is too wise and too powf?rful to make im-
perfect or inconsistent arrangements. The error is in the
human mind inferring the law to be, that water boils at 21~
in every altitude; when the real law is only that it boils at
that temperature, at the letJel of the sea, in all countries,-
and that it boils at a lower temperature the higher it is car-
ried, because then the pressure of the atmosphere is less.
Intelligent beings.are capable ofobserving nature and of
modifying their actions. By means of their faculties, the
laws impressed by the Creator on physical substances be-
come known to them; and, when perceived, constitute laws
to them, by which to regulate their conduct. For example,
it is a physical law, that boiling water destroys the muscu-
lar and nervous systems ofman. This is the result purely
of the constitution ofthe body, and the relation between it
and heat; and man cannot alter or suspend the law. But
whenever the relation, and the consequences of disregard-
ing it, are perceived, the mind is prompted to avoid infring... ,
s•
oio "'ed by Google
ON lU.'i'UAAL U.Ws.
ment, in order to shun the torture attached by the Creator
to the decomposition ofthe human body by heat.
Similar views have long been taught by philosophers and
divines. Bishop BuTLER, in particular, says:-' An Au-
thor of Nature being supposed, it is not so much a deduc-
tion of reason as a matter of experience, thai we are thus
under his government: under his government in the same
sense as we are under the government of civil magistrates.
Because the annexing pleasure to some actions, and pain
to others, in our power to do or forbear, and giving notice
ofthis appointment beforehand to those whom it concerns,
u the proper formal notion of got~~. Whether the
pleasure or pain which thus follows upon our behavior; be
owing to the Author of Nature's acting upon us every
moment which we feel it, or to his having at once contrived
and executed his own part in the plan of the world, makes
no alteration as to the matter before us. For, if civil ma-
gistrates could make the sanctions oftheir Jaws take place,
wi~out interposing at all after they bud passed them, with-
out a trial and the formalities ofan execution; ifthey were
able to make their laws execute themselves, or every of-
fender to execute them upon himself, we should be just in
the same sense under their government then as we are
now; but in a much higher degree and more perfect man
ner. Vain is the ridicule with which one foresees some
persons will divert themselves, upon finding lesser pains
considered as instances of divine punishment. There is no
possibility of answering or. evading the general thing here
intended, without denying all final causes. For, final
causes being admitted, the pleasures and pains now men-
tioned must be admitted too, as instances of them. And
if they are, if God annexes delight to some actions and
uneasiness to others, with an apparent design to induce us
to act so and so, then he not only dispenses happiness and
- misery, but aleo rewards and punishes actions. If, for
example, the pain which we feel upon domg what tends to
the destruction of our bodies, suppose upon too near ap-
oio "'ed by Google
ON lU.TUJU.L LAWS. 31
proaehes to fire, or upon wounding ourselves, be appointed
by the Author of Nature to prevent our doing' what thus
tends to our destruction; this is altogether as much an
instance of his punishing our actions, and consequently of
our being under his government, as declaring, by a voice
from heaven, that if we acted so he would inflict such pain
upon us, and inflicting it whether it be g~eater or less.' •
If, then, the reader keep in view that GoD is the Crea-
tor; -that Nature, in tho general sense, means the world
which He has made,-and, in a more limited sense, the
particular constitution which he has.bestowed on any spe-
cial object, ofwhicp we may be treating;-and that a Law
of Nature means the established mode in which the actions
and phenomena of any creature or object exhibit them-
selves, and the obligation thereby imposed on intelligent
beinga to attend to it,-he will be in no danger of misun-
derstanding my meaning,
Every natural object has received a definite constitution,
in virtue of which it acts in a particular way. There must,
therefore, be as many natural laws, as there are distinct
modes of action ofsubstances and beings, viewed by them-
selves. But substances and beings stand in certain rela-
tions to each other, and modify each other's action, in an
established and definite manner, according to that rela-
tionship; altitude, for instance, modifies the effect of heat
upon water. There must, therefore, be also as many laws
ofnature, as there are relations between different substan-
ces and beings.
It is impossible, in the present state of knowledge, to
elucidate all these laws: numberless years may elapse be-
fore they shall be discoveted; but we may investigate some
ofthe most familiar and striking ofthem. Those that most
readily present themselves bear reference to the great
classes into which the objects around us may be divided,
namely, Physical, Organic, and Intelligent. I shall there-
• BvTLJ:a'• Works, Yo!. i. p. 44. The remarks ofother authon on the
Lawl of Nature will be fOaDcl in the Appeadis, No. I.
oio "'ed by Google
ON !U.TUJl.lL LAWS.
fore confine myselfto the physical laws, the organic laws,
and the laws which characterize intelligent beings.
lat, The Physical Laws embrace all the phenomena of
mere matter: a heavy body, for instance, when unsupport-
ed, falls lo the ground with a certain accelerating force, in
proportion to the distance which it falls, and its own densi-
ty; and this motion is said to take plaee according to the,
law of gravitation. An acid applied to a vegetable blue
color, converts it into red, and this is said to take place
according to a chemical law.
2dly, Organized substances and beings stand higher in
the scale of creation; and have properties peculiar to them-
selves. They act, and are acted upon, in conformity with
their constitution, and are therefore said to be subject to a
peculiar set of Jaws, termed the Organic. The distin-
guishing characteristic of this class of objects -is, 1hat the
individuals of them derive their existence from other or-
ganized beings, are nourished by food, and go through a
regular process of growth and decay. Vegetables and
animals are the two great subdivisions of it. The organic
laws are different from the merely physical: a stone, for
example, does not spring from a parent stone; it does not
take food; it does not increase in vigor for a time, and
then decay and suffer dissolution; all which processes
characterize vegetables and animals.
The organic laws are superior to the merely physical.
A living man, or animal, may be placed in an oven, along
with the carcass of a dead animal, and remain exposed to
a heat which will completely bake the dead flesh, and yet
come out alive, and not seriously injured. The dead flesh
is mere physical matter, and its decomposition by the heat
instantly commences; but the living animal is able, by its
organic qualities, to counteract and resist, to a certain ex-
tent, that influence. The Organic Laws, therefore, mean
the established modes according to which all pheno~ena
connected with the production, health, growth, decay, and
death, ofvegetables and animals, take place. In the case
oio "'ed by Google
ON NATURAL LAWS.
of each uimal or vegetable of the same kind, their action
is always the same, in the same circumstances. Animals
are the chief objects of my present observations.
Sdly, IntelJigent 'beings stand yet higher in the scale than
merely organized matter; and embrace all animals that
have distinct consciousness, from the lowest of the inferior
creatures up to man. The two great divisions of this ctast1
are Intelligmt and Animal-and Intelligent and Moral crea-
tures. The dog, horse, and elephant, for instance, belong
to the former class, because they poBBess some degree of
intelligence, and certain animal propensities, but no moral
feelings; man belongs to the second, because he poBBesses
all the three. These various faculties have received a de-
finite constitution, and stand in determinate relationship to
external objects: for example, a healthy palate cannot feel
wormwood sweet, nor sugar bitter; a healthy eye cannot
see a rod partly plunged in water straight-because the
water so modifies the rays of light, as to give to the stick
the appearance of being crooked; a healthy sentiment of
Benevolence cannot feel gratified with murder, nor a
healthy Conscientiousness with fraud. As, therefore, the
mental faculties have received a precise constitution, have
been placed in fixed and definite relations to external
objects, and act regularly; -we speak of their acting
according to rules or laws, and call these the Moral and
Intellectual Laws.
Several important principles strike us very early in at-
tending to the natural laws, viz. 1st, Their independence
of each other; 2dly, That obedience to each of them is
attended with its own reward, and disobedience with its
own punishment; Sdly, That they are universal, unbend-
ing, and invariable in their operation; 4thly, That they are
in harmony with t&e constitution of man.
1. The indepmdtnce of the natural laws may be illus-
trated thus:-A ship floats because a part of it being im-
mersed displaces a weight of water equal to its whole weight,
leaving the remaining portion above the fluid. A ship,
'
oio "'ed by Google
ON NATUAAL LAWS,
therefore, will float on the surface of the water as long as
these physical conditions are obse"ed; no matter although
the men in it should infringe other natural laws-as, tOr
example, although they should rob, murder, blaspheme,
and commit every species of debauchery: and it will sink
whenever the physical conditions are subverted, however
strictly the crew and passengers may obey the moral laws.
In like manner, a man who swallows poison, which destroys
the stomach or intestines, will die, just because an organic
law has been infringed, and because it acts independently
of others; although he should have taken the drug by
mistake, or have been the most pious and charitable indi-
vidual on earth. Or, thirdly, a man may cheat, lie, steal,
tyrannise, and, in short, break a great variety of the moral
laws, and nevertheless be fat and rubicund, if he sedulously
observe the organic laws of temperance and exercise;
while, on the other hand, an individual who neglects these,
may pine in disease, and be racked with torturing pains,
although at the very moment he may be devoting his mind
to the highest duti.es ofhumanity.
2. ·Obedience to tach lato is attended tcith its own rftDard,
and disobedience tcilh its oton punishment. Thus the mari-
ners who preserve their ship in accordance with the phy-
sical laws, reap the reward of sailing in safety; and those
who permit a departure from them, are punished by the
ship sinking. People who obey the moral law, enjoy the
intense internal delights that spring from active moral
faculties; they render themselves, moreover, objects of
affection and esteem to moral and intelligent beings, who,
in consequence, confer on them many other gratifications.
Those who disobey that law, nre tormented by insatiable
desires, which, from the nature of things, cannot be grati-
fied; they are punished by the perpetual craving of what-
ever portion of moral sentiment they possess, for higher
enjoyments, which are never attained; and they are objects
of dislike and malevolence to other beings of similar dis-
positions with themselves, who infiict on them the evils
oio "'ed by Google
ON IU.TUJUL U .WS
dictated by their own provoked propensities. Those who
obey the organic laws, reap the reward of health and
vigor of body, and buoyancy of mind; while those who
break them are punished by sickness, feebleness, languor,
and pain.
3. The natural laws are universal, invanable, and un-
bending. When the physical laws are infringed in ((hina
or Kamtschatka, there is no instance of a ship floating
there more than in England; and, when they are observed,
there is no instance of a vessel sinking in any one of these
countries more than another. There is no example of
men in any country, enjoying the mild and generous
internal joys, and the outward esteem and love, that attend
obedience to the moral law, while they give themselves
up to the dominion of brutal propensities. There is no
example, in any latitude or longitude, or in any age, of
men who entered life with a constitution in harmony with
the organic laws, and who continued to obey these laws
throughout, being, in consequence of this obedience, visit-
ed with pain and disease; and there are no instances of
men who ~vere born with constitutions marred by the
organic laws, and who lived in habitual disobedience to
them, enjoying that sound health and vigor of body that
are the rewards of obedience.
4. The natural laws are in harmony 1oith the whole con-
stitution of man, the moral and intellectual powers holding
the supremacy. If ships in general had sunk when they
were stanch, strong, and skilfully managed, this would
have outraged the perceptions of reason; but as they float,
the physical law is, in this instance, in harmony with the
moral and intellectual law. If men who rioted in drunken-
ness and debauchery had thereby established health and
increased their happiness, this, again, would have been at
variance with our intellectual and moral perceptions; but
the opposite and actual result is in harmony with them.
It will be _
subsequently shown, that our moral sentiments
desire universal happiness. If the physical and organic
ON lUTU&AL LAWI.
laws are constituted in harn10ny with them, it ought to
follow that the natural laws, when obeyed, will conduce to
the happiness of the moral and intelligent beings who are
called on to observe them; and that the evil consequences,
or punishments, resulting from infringement of them, will
be calculated to enforce stricter obedience, for the advan-
tage of those creatures themselves. According to th.is
view, when a ship sinks, in consequence of a plank start-
ing, the punishment is intended to impress upon the spec-
tators the absolute necessity of having every plank secure
and strong before going to sea, this being a condition
indispensable to their safety. When sickness 'and pain
follow a debauch, the object of the suffering is to urge a
more scrupulous obedience to the organic laws, that the
individual may escape premature death, which is the inevi-
table consequence of too great and continued disobedience
to these laws,-and enjoy health, which is the reward of
the opposite conduct. When discontent, irritation, hatred,
and other mental annoyances, arise out of infringement of
the mora~ }aw, this punishment is calculated to induce the
offender to return to obedience, that he may enjoy the
rewards attached to it.
When the transgression of any natural law is excessive,
and so great that return to obedience is impossible, one
purpose of death, which then ensues, may be to deliver the
individual from a .continuation of the punishment which
could then do him no good. Thus, when, from infringe-
ment of a physical law, a ship sinks at sea, and leaves men
immersed in water, without the possibility of reaching
land, their continued existence in that state would _be one
of cruel and protracted suffering; and it is advantageous to
them to have their lives extinguished at once by drowning,
th~eby withdrawing them from farther agony. In like
manner, if a man in the vigor of life so far infringe· any
organic law as to destroy the function of a vital organ-the
heart, for instance, or the lungs, or the brain-it is better
for him to have his life cut short, and his pain put an end
oio "'ed by Google
ON NATURAL LAWS
to, than to have it protracted under all the tortures of an
organic existence, without lungs, without a heart, or with-
out a brain, if such a state were possible, which, fvr this
wise reason, it is not.
I do not intend to predicate any ttiing concerning the
absolute perfectibility of man by obedience to the laws of
nature. The system of sublunary creation, so far as we
perceive it, does not appear to be one of optimism; yet
benevolent design, in its constitution, is undeniable. Paley
says, 'Nothing remains but the supposition, that God,
when he created the human species, wished them happi-
ness, and made for them the provisions which he has made,
with that view and for that purpose. The same argument
may be proposed in different terms: Contrivance proves
design; and the predominant tendency of the contrivance
indicates the disposition of the designer. The \vorld
abounds with contrivances; and all the contrivances which
we are acquainted with, are directed to beneficial pur-
poses.'-(Paley's Mor. Phil., Edinb. 1816, p. 51.) Many
ofthe contrivances of the Creator, for effecting beneficiai
purposes, have been discovered by philosophers; but, so
far as I am aware, no one has adverted to the foregoing
principles according to which these contrivances operate,
so that nothing like a systematic view of the moral govern-
ment of the world has hitherto been presented to mankind.
Neither do I intend to teach that the natural laws, dis-
cernible by unassisted reason, are sufficient for the salfJa-
tion of man without revelation. Human interests regard
this world and the next. To enjoy this world, I humbly
maintain that man must discover and obey the natural
laws. Revelation does not communicate complete infor-
mation concerning the best mode of pursuing even our le-
gitimate temporal interests; and numerous practical duties
resulting from our constitution are discoverable, whi(~h are
not treated of in detail in the inspired volume-the mode
of preserving health, for example; of pursuing with success
a temporal calling; of discovering the qualities of men
4
oio "'ed by Google
ON NATURAL LAWS.
with whom ~e mean to associate our interests; and so on
This is the case, probably because faculties have been
given to man to discover arts, sciences, and the natural
laws, and to adapt his conduct to them; and because the
physical, moral, a~d intellectual nature o( man, is itself
left open to investigation by these faculties. My object, I
repeat, is to investigllte the natural constitution of the
human body and mind, their relations to external objects
and beings in this world, and the courses of action that, iri
consequence, appear to be beneficial or hurtful in this life
Man's spiritual interests belong to the sphere of revela-
tion; and I distinctly repeat, that I do not teach that obe-
dience to the natural laws is sufficient for salvation in a
future state. Revelation prescribes certain requisites fur
salvation, which may be divided into two classes-first,
faith or belief; and, secondly, the performance of certain
practical duties, not as entitling to salvation, but as the
native result of that faith, and the necessary evidence of
its sincerity. The natural laws form no guide as to faith;
but, so far as I can perceive, their dictates and those of
revelation coincide in all matters relating to practical
duties in temporal affairs.
It may be asked, whether mere l.-no1vledge of the natural
laws is sufficient to insure observance of them? Certainly
not. Mere knowledge of music docs not enable one to
play on an instrument, nor of anatomy to perform skilfully
a surgical operation. Practical training, and the aid of
every motive that can interest the feelings, are necessary
to lead individuals to obey the natural laws. Religion, in
particular, may furnish motives highly conducive to this
obedience. But it must never be forgotten, that although
mere knowledge is not all-sufficient, it is a primary and
indispensable requisite to regular observance; and that it
is as impossible effectually and systematically to obey the
natural laws without knowing them, as it is to perform any
other complicated and important duty in ignorance of its
principles and practical details. \ Some persons are of
oio "'ed by Google
..
S9
Qpi~J) Ul"' Cb.ristianity alone suiij.oea, DOt ODly fRr IDIMl'e ··
sel"~tion---.wbicb, I.do Qot di.spute-but for his guid!DCe in
ali. pr~ctical vi.rtues, without knowledge of, or obedieaoe -;,
tq, tbe laws o( nature; b1,1t from tl)is notion I respect&lly
dis~tv It app~s to DJe, that one reason why vi.Qe and
m~y do not di~,i.~Wtll ip. proportion to preaching, is, that
tJ~.El nat~o~ral laws &.l'e too much pvedooked, a,od very rarely
qon~red as ba.viog any relation to human cond,uct. The • ~
theological doctrine of the corruption . and disorder of.
human aature, joined to the want of knowledge of real
science, have pJobably b~en the causes why the profuued
servants of God have made so little use of his lawa, as
revealed in creation, in instructing the people to li.ve
according to his will. Before religion can yield its full
practical fruits in this world, it must be wedded to a p9i-
losopby founded on those laws; it mu,st borrow ijgh~ and_
strength from them, and in return communicate its power-
ful sanction in enforcing obedience to tlieir dictates•
Connected with this su_
bject, it is proper to state, that I
do not maintain that the world is arranged on.the principle
of benevolence exclusively: my idea is, that it is consti-
tuted in harmony with the whole faculties of maa; the
moral sentiments and intellect holding the supremacy.
What is meant by creation being constituted in harmony
with the whole faculties of man, may be illustrated thus.
-Suppose that we should see two men holding a third in a
chair, and a fourth drawing a tooth frQJD his head:-While
we contemplated this hare act, and knew nothi~ of the
iatention with which it was done, and of the consequence&
that would follow, we would set it down as purely cruel,
and say, that, although it might ac~or4 with the pro.pensity
which prompts men to inflict pain and destroy, it ~ould not
llarmonize with Benevolence. But, when we ar~ told-that
the individual in the chair waa a patient and the operator " .
deatist, and that the object of all the parties was to delive~
the firlli from violent torture, we would the~ perceive that
an operation attende(l witb. paiQ. hacJ bee~ used as a means
oio "'ed by Googte
40 , ON N.t.TUJl.lL L.t.WS.
Ill accomplish a benevolent purpose,--or, in other words,
that the operator had acted under the supremacy of moral
sentiment and intellect, -and we would approve of his
conduct. If the world had been created on the principle
sf Benevolence exclusively, the toothache could not have
existed; but, as pain does exist, a mental faculty, called
by the phrenologists Destructiveness, has been given to
place man in harmony with its existence, when used for a
benevolent end.
To apply this illustration to the works of Providence, I
hu!llbly suggest it as probable, that, if we knew thoroughly
the design and whole consequences of such institutions of
the Creator as are attended with pain, including death
itself, we should find that infliction is used as a means,
subservient to Benevolence and Justice, to arrive at an
end in harmony with the moral sentiments and intellect; in
short, that no institution of the Creator has pure evil, or
destruction alone, ·for its object. 'In maturity of sense
and understanding,' says Lord Kames, 'benevolence ap-
pears more and more; and beautiful final. causes are
discovered in many of Nature's productions, that formerly
were thought useless, or perhaps hurtful: and the time
may come-we have soHd ground to hope that it will come
-when doubts and difficulties about the government .of
Providence will all of them be cleared up, and every event
be found conducive to the general good.'*
The opposite of this doctrine, viz. that there are institu-
tions of the Creator which have suffering for their exclu-
sive object, is clearly untenable; for this would be ascrib-
ing malevolence to the Deity. As, however, the existence
of pain is undeniable, it· is equally impossible to believe
that the world is arranged on the principle ofBenevolence
exclusively. The view now presented makes no attempt
to explain why pain or evil exists, because I consider this
inquiry to surpass the limits of the human understanding.
It offers an explanation, however, of the use which p~
• Sketches, B. 8, Sk. 8, cb. 2.
oio "'ed by Google
ON NA.I'QA.J:. LAWS, - 41
serves---that of enf~r~lng ob~dienc.e to the natural laws~
and it shows that the human mind is constituted in harmo-
ny with this order of creation. Phrenology aione, of all
systems of mental philosophy, admits faculties clearly
related to difficulty, pain, and death, and thus eohancea
our perceptions of divine wisdom and goodneu.
4•
( 4i)
CHAPTER II.
ON THE CONSTITUTION OF MAN, AND ITS RELATIONS TO
EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
LET us next consider the Constitution of Man, and the
natural laws to which he is subjected, and endeavor to dis-
cover how far the external world is arranged with wisdom
and benevolence in regard to him. Bishop BuTLER, in the
Preface to his Sermons, says, ' It is from considering the
relations which the several appetites and passions in the
inward frame have to each other, and, above all, the
&UPREM.ACY of reflection or conscience, that we get the
idea of the system or constitution of human nature. And
from the idea itself it will as fully appear, that this our na-
ture, i. e. constitution, is adapted to virtue, as from the
idea of a watch it appears that its nature, i. e. constitution
or system, is adapted to measure time.'
'Mankind has various instincts and principles of action,
as brute creatures have; some leading most directly and
immediately to the good of the community, and some most
directly to private good. __
' Man has several which brutes have not; particularly
reflection or conscience, an approbation of some principles
or actions, and disapprobation of others.
- ' Brutes obey their instincts or principles of action, ac-
cording to certain rules; suppose the constitution of their
body, and the objects around them.
' The generality of mankind also obey their instincts
and principles, aU of them; those propensions we call good,
as well as the bad, according to the same rules, namely,
the constitution of their body, and the exte~al circum-
stances which they are in.
' Brutes, in acting according to the rules before men•
oio "'ed by Google
MA.N CONSIDERED U A. PBYSICA.L BEING. 43
tioned, their bodily constitution and circumstances, act
suitably to their whok nature.
' Mankind also, in acting thus, would act IJUitably to
their whole nature, if no more were to be said of man's
nature than what has been now said; ifthat, as it is a true,
were also ,a complete, adequate account of our nature.
' But that is not a complete account of man's nature. ,
Somewhat further must be brought in to give us an ade- \
quate notion of it; namely, that one of tlwae principle• of ·
action, comcience, or refoction, compared with the rest, as
they all stand together in the nature ofman, plainly btart
upon it mark• of authority o"tr all thl rttt, and claims llat
absolute direction of thlm all, to allow or forbid their grati-
fication ;-a disapprobation on reflection being in itself a
principle manifestly superior to a mere propension. And
the conclusion is, that to allow no more to this superior
principle or part of our nature, than to other parts; to let
it govern and guide only occasionally, in common with the
rest, as its turn happens to come from the temper and cir-
cumstances one happens to be in; thi. i. not to act con-
formably to the comtitution of man; neither can any human
creature be said to act conformably to his constitution of
nature, unless he allows to that superior principle the abso-
lute authority which is due to it.'-Butler'• WoJ•b, vol. ii.
Preface. The present treatise is in a great measure found-
ed on the principles here suggested.
SECTION I.
IUN CONSIDERED AS A PHYSICAL BEING.
THE human body consistsofbones, muscles, nerves, and
bloodvessels, besides organs of nutrition, of reproduction,
of respiration, of feeling, and of thought. These parts
are all composed of physical elements, and, to a certain
extent, are aubjected to the'physicallawa of creation. By
Jlte l~w of ~ravitatjon, the body falls tQ the ground when
44 MAN CONSIDERED AI A. !'HYSICAL BJU.NG.
unsupported, and is liable to be injured like any frangible
substance: by a chemical law, excessive cold freezes, and
excessive heat dissipates, its fluids; and life, in either case,
is extinguished.
To discover the real effect ofthe physical laws of nature
on human happiness, we would require to understand, 1st,
The physical laws themselves, as reyealed by mathematics,
natural philosophy, natural history, chemistry, and their
subordinate branches; 2dly, The anatomical and physiolo-
gical constitution of the human body; and, Sdly, The
adaptation of the former to the latter. These expositions
are necessary to ascertain the extent to which it is possible
for man to place himself in accordance with the physical
laws, so as to reap advantage from them; and also to
determine how far the sufferings which he endures fall to
be ascribed to the inevitable operation of these laws, and
how far to his ignorance and infringement of them. In the
subsequent pages, this subject will be treated somewhat in
detail: at present I confine myself to a single instance as
an illustration ofthe mode in which the investigation ought
to be conducted.*
By the law of gravitation, heavy bodies always tend
towards the centre of the earth. Some of the advantages
of this law are, that objects, when properly supported,
remain at rest; that walls, when built sufficiently thick and
perpendicular, stand firm and erect; that water· descends
from high places, and precipitates itself down the channels
ofrivers, turns mill-wheels in its course, and sets in motion
the most stupendous and useful machinery; and that ships
move steadily through the water with part of their hulls
immersed and part rising moderately above it, and their
masts and sails towering in the air to catch the inconstant
breeze.
• The render will find mnny valuable illustrations of tl1ete Ia~ in • Tbe
Principles of Physiology applied to the Pre~ea"Vation of Health, and to tbe
Improvement ofPhysical and Mental Education,' by Andrew Combe, M. D.
Third edition. Maclachlan & Ste\Vart, Edinburgh; and Simpltin,l\lanbaD
& Co., London.
MJ..I'f CONSIDERED A.!l A. l'HYSJCA.L BEING. 4fi
To place man in harmony with this law, the Creator bas
bestowed on him bones, muscles, and nerves, constructed
on the most perfect principles, which enable him to pre-
serve his equilibrium, and to adapt his movements to
gravitation; .also intellectual faculties, calculated to per-
ceive the existence of the law, its modes of operation, the
relation between it and himself, the beneficial consequences
ofobserving this relation, and the painful results ofdisre-
garding it.
When a person falls over a precipice, and is maimed or
killed,-when a ship springs a leak and sinks,--or when a
reservoir of water breaks down its banks and ravages a
valley,-the evils, no doubt, proceeo from the operation of
this law; but we ought to inquire whether they could or
could not have been prevented, by a due exercise of the
physical and mental powers bestowed by the Cr~ator on
man, to enable him to avoid the injurious effects of
gravitation.
By pursuing this course, we shall arrive at sound con-
clusions concerning the adaptation of the human mind and
body to the physical laws of creation. The subject is too
extensive to be here prosecuted in all its details, and I am
incompetent, besides, to do it justice; but enough has been
said to elucidate the principle contended for. And the
more minutely any one inquires, the more firm will be his
conviction, that, in these relations, aamirable provision has
been made by the Creator for human happiness, and that
the evils which arise from neglect of them, are attributable,
to a great extent, to man's not adequately applying his
powers to the promotion of his own enjoyment.
oio "'ed by Google
JU.N CONIIJ)&QD .U .ur O&QU~&.D B&Jl(Q.
SECTION II.
liUN CONSIDERED .6.8 AN ORGANIZED BEING.
MAN is an organized being, and subject to· the or1amc
laws. An organized being, as was formerly noticed, is one
wlUch derives its existence from a previously existi.r;ag
organized beiog, which subsists on food, which grows,
attains maturity, decays, and dies. The first law, then,
that must be obeyed, to render an organized being per(ect
i.a its kind, is, that the germ, from which it springs, shall
be complete in all its parts, and sound in its whole consti-
tution. If we sow an acorn in which aome vital part has
been destroyed altogether, the seedling plant, and the full
grown oak, if it ever attain to maturity, will be deficient in
the lineaments which are wanting in the embryo root; if
we sow an acorn entire in its parts, but only half ripened,
or damaged in its whole texture by damp or other causes,
the seedling oak will be feeble, and will probably die early.
A similar law holds in regard to man. A second organic
law is, that the organized being, the moment it i~ ushered
into life, and so long as it continues to live, must be sup-
plied with food, light, air, and every other physical element
requisite for its support, in due quantity, and of the kind
best suited to its particular constitution. Obedience to this
law is rewarded with a vigorous and healthy development
of its powers, and, in animals, with a pleasing conscious-
ness of existence, and aptitude for the performance of their
natural functio~s; disobedience is punished with feebleness,
stinted growth, general imperfection, or early death. A
single fact will illustrate this observation. At the meeting
of the British Association, held in Edinburgh in 1834, there
was read an Abstract, by Dr. Joseph Clarke, of a Registry
kept in the Lying-in Hospital of Great Britain Street,
Dublin, from the year 1758 to the end of 1899, from which
it appeared, that, in 1781, when the hospital was imper-
fectly ventilated, every sixth child died within nine days
oio "'ed by Google
MA.N CO"IIDERED A.S A.N ORGANIZED BEING. 4'7
after birth of convulsive disease, and that, after means of
thorough· ventilation had been adopted, the mortality of
infants, within the same time, in five succeeding years,
was reduced to nearly one in twenty.• A third organic
law, applicable to man, is, that he shall duly exercise his
organs, this condition being an indispensable prerequisite
of health. The reward of obedience to this law, is enjoy-
ment in the very act of exercising the functions, pleasing
consciousness of existence, and the acquisition of number-
less gratifications nnd advantages, of which labor, or the
exercise of ~ur powers, is the procuring m~ans: disobe-
dience is punished with derangement and sluggishness of
the functions, with general uneasiness or positive pain, and
with the denial of gratification to numerous faculties.
Directing our attention to the constitution of the human
body, we perceive that the power of reproduction is be-
stowed on man, and also intellect to enable him to discover
. and obey the conditions necessary for the transmission of a
healthy organic frame to his descendants; that digestive
organs are given to him for his nutrition, and that innu-
merable vegetable and animal productions are placed
around him, in wise relationship to these organs.
Without attempting to expound minutely the organic
structure of man, or to trace in detail its adaptation to his
external condition, I shall offer some observations in sup·
port of the proposition, that the due exercise of the osse-
ous, muscular, and nervous systems, under the guidance
of intellect and moral sentiment, and in accordance with
the physical laws, contribute to human enjoyment; and
that neglect of this exercise, or an abuse of it, by carrying
it to excess, or by conducting it in opposition to the moral,
intellectual, or physical laws, is punished with pain.
The earth is endowed with the capability of producing
an ample supply of food, provided we expend muscular and
nervous energy in its cultivation; while, in most climates,
• Edin. New Phil. Jour., Oct. lSk, p. 418.
48 MAN CONSIDBRBD AI AN ORGANIZED BBINO.
it retuses to produce, if we withhold this labor and allow
it to lie waste: Further, the Creator has presented us with
timber, metal, wool, and countless materials, which, by
means of muscular power, may be converted into dwelling-
places, clothing, and all the luxuries of life. The fertility
of the earth, and the demands of the body for food and
clothing, are so benevolently adapted to each other, that,
with rational restraint on population, a few hQurs' labor
each day from every individual capable of working, would
suffice to furnish all with every commodity that could really
add to enjoyment. . ' It has been computed,' says Dr.
Franklin, ' by some political arithmetician, that, if every
man and woman would work for four hours each day on
something useful, drat labor.would be sufficient to procure
all the necessaries and comforts of life; want and ·misery
would be banished out of the world; and the rest of the
twenty-four hours might be leisure and pleasure.'-(Essay
on Luxury, Idleness, and lndmtry.)
In the tropical regions of the globe, where a high at-
mospheric temperature diminishes the quantum of muscu-
lar energy, the fertility and productiveness of the soil are
increased in a like proportion, so that less labor suffices.
Less labor, also, is required to provide habitations and
raiment. In the colder latitudes, muscular energy is
greatly increased, and there much higher demands are
made upon it: the earth is more sterile, and the piercing
frosts render necessary a thicker covering for the body.
Farther, the food atforded by the soil in each climate
appears to be adapted to the maintenance of the organic
constitution of the people in health, and to the supply of
the muscular energy necessary tor the particular wants of
the situation. In the Arctic Regions, no farinaceous food
ripens; but on the question being put to Dr. Richardson,
how he, accustomed to the bread and vegetables of the
temperate regions, was able to endure the pure animal
diet, which formed his only support on his expedition to
the shores of the Polar Sea along with Captain Franklin.
oio "'ed by Google
MAN CO!fSIDBRBD AS AN ORGANIZED .BEING. 49
he replied, that the effect of the extreme dry cold to which
he and hie companions were constantly exposed-living, u
they did, in the open air-was to produce a desire for the
most stimulating food they could obtain; that bread in
such a climate was not only not desired, but comparatively
impotent, as an article of diet; that pure animal food, and
the fatter the better, was the only sustenance that main·
tained the tone of the corporeal system; but that when it
was abundant (and the quantity required was much greater
than in milder latitudes), a delightful vigor and buoyancy
of mind and body were enjoyed, that rendered life highly
agreeable. Now, in beautiful harmony with these wants
of the human frame, these regions abound, during summer,
in countless herds of deer, in rabbits, partridges, ducks,
and, in short, every sort of game, and also in fish; and the
flesh of these, dried, constitutes delicious food in winter,
when the earth is wrapped in one wide mantle of snow.
Among the Greenlanders and other Esquimaux· tribes,
nothing is so much relished as the fat of the whale, the
seal, or the walruR: a tallow candle and a draught of train-
oil are regarded as dainties; while a piece of bread is spit
out with strong indications of disgust.
.In Scotland, the climate is moist and moderately cold;
the greater part of the surface is mountainous, and well
adapted for rearing sheep and cattle; while a certain por-
tion consists of fertile plains, fitted for raising farinaceous
food. If the same law holds in this country, the diet of
the people should consist of animal and farinaceous food,
the former predominating. And on such food, accordingly,
the Scotsman thrives best. As we proceed to warmer
latitudes, to France for instance, we find the soil and
temperature less congenial to sheep and cattle, but more
favorable to com and wine; and the Frenchman flourishes
in health on less of animal food, than would be requisite to
prese"e the Scottish Highlander, in the recesses of his
mountains, in a strong and alert condition. From one of
a aeries of inteJ:esting letters on the agriculture of France
5
oio "'ed by Google
00 MAN COHSID&JI.&D .U AN OROAHIZ&D B&JHG,
by M. Lullin de Chateauvieux, publiabed in the Biblioth~­
que Universelle, it appears that the consumption of beef
in that country relative to the population, is only {)De-sixth
of what it is in England. (Journal of Agriculture, No. iii.
p. 390.) The plains of Hindustan are too hot for the ex-
teDBive rearing of the sheep and the ox, ~ut produce rice
and vegetable spices in prodigious abundance; and the
aative is healthy,'vigorous, and active, when supplied with
rice and curry, and becomes sick when obliged to live
chiefly on animal diet. He is supplied with less muscular
energy by this species of food; but his soil and climate
require far less laborious exertion to maintain him in com-
fort, than those of Britain, Germany, or Russia.
So far, then, the external world appears to be wisely and
benevolently adapted to the organic system of mao; that
is, to his nutrition, and to the development and exercise of
his corporeal organs. The natural law appears to be, that
every one who desires to enjoy the pleasures of health,
must expend in labor the energy which the Creator has
infused into his limbs. A wide choice is left to mao, as to
the mode in which he shall exercise his nervous and mus-
cular systems: The laborer, for example, digs the ground,
and the squire engages in the chase; both pursuits exer-
cise the body. The penalty for neglecting this law is
imperfect digestion and disturbed sleep, debility, bodily
and mental lassitude, and, if carried to a certain length,
confirmed bad health and early death. The penalty for
over-exerting these systems is exhaustion, mental inca-
pacity, the desire of strong artificial stimulants (such as
ardent spirits,) general insensibility, grossness of feeling
and perception, .with disease and shortened life.
Society has not recognised this law; and, in conse-
quence, the higher orders despise·labot and suffer the finot
penalty, while the lower orders are oppressed with toil and
undergo the second. The penalties serve to provide
motives for obedience to the law; and whenever it is
recognised, and the consequences are discovered to be
oio "'ed by Google
l!IO.NTAL FACULTIES OJ' MAN. 51
inevitable, men will no longer shun labor as painful and
ignominious, but resort to it as a source of pleasure and
advantage.•
SECTION III.
IUN OON81DBilBD AS .AN ANIMAL, MOJU.L, AND INTBU.BCTU.U.
BEING.
I HAVE adverted to the bodily constitution ofman, which
is essentially animal; but I observe, in the third place,
that man, viewed in regard to his mental constitution, is an
animal, moral, and intellectual being. To discover the
adaptation of the mental parts of his nature to his external
circumstances, we must first know what are his various
animal, moral, and intellectual powers themselves. Phre-
nology gives us a view of them, drawn from observation;
and as I have verified .the inductions of that science, so as
to satisfy myself that it is the most complete and correct
exposition ofthe nature of man which has yet been given,
I adopt its classification of faculties as the basis ofthe sub-
sequent observations. One great advantage presented by
Phrenology, is the light which it throws on the ftGiurol
constitution of the mind. Philosophers and divines have
long disputed about the number and functions of the hu-
man faculties; and while each assumed his own conscious-
ness as the standard of nature, and occupied himself chiefly
with observations on its phenomena, as his means of study,
there could be no end to their discussions. But the organs
of the mind can be seen and felt, and their size estimated,
--and the mental manifestations also that accompany them
can be observed, in an unlimited number of instances,--eo
that, assuming the existence of organs, it is clear that a
far higher degree of certainty in regard to the natural en-
dowments of the mind may be attained by these means,
than by any other previously applied. It ia disputed alllo
• See Appeodis, No. 11,
oio "'ed by Google
.IIIJ:.lfTA.L FA.CULTIJ:.S OF MA.N.
whether IMD be now in poeseaaioo of the same qualities u
tbc.e with wbicb he wu created: but the fact oftheorg&ll8
having been bestowed by the Creator is not open to con-
tradiction, if they exist at all; and if we discover their
fUnctions and their uses, and distinguish these from their
abuses, we shall obviously obtain clearer views of what
God has instituted, and ofthe extent to which man himself
ia chargeable with error and perversion, than could be
arrived at by the means hitherto employed. Such con-
duaious, if correctly drawn, will possess an irresistible
authority-that of the record of creation itself. If, there-
fore, any reader be disposed to question the existence of
such qualities in man as I am about to describe, he must,
to do 10 consistently, be prepared to deny, on reasonable
grounds, that mental organs exist,--or, if he allows their
existence, he must establish that the observations of phre-
nologiata in regard to them are incorrect,-or their infer-
eDCes regarding their functions erroneously deduced. Ac-
oording to Phrenology, then, the human faculties are the
following. The organs are double, each faculty having
two, lying in corresponding situations of the hemispheres
ofthe brain. Their .aituations are indicated by the engrav-
iDga.
Order I. FEELINGS.
Genua I. PROPENSITIES- Common to Man 'with the l...o1Der
AnimalB.
THE Lon: or LIFE.
APPETITE FOB. Foov.-Uses: Nutrition.-Abuses: Gluttony and drunk·
enneaa. The Organ is marked with a cross on bust.
1. AIU.'I'JV:&WBII-ProduCH eexuallove.
" PIIILOPIIOGUITIVII:IIKSI. - U1es: AfFection for young and ten!ler
beinp.-Abtuu: Pampering and epoiling children.
3. Co!ICII:IITIUTIVEIUSS.-U.u: It givee the desire or permanence in
place, and rendere permanent, emotion• and ideu in the mind.-
Abtuu : Avereion to move abi'OIId ; morbid d-lling oa iMeraal
emotion. and ideas, to the neglect ofe:a1emal im~.
•· .\DB:&IIY&nll.-U1u _
: Att.chment; ftiondlhip and IIOCiety reiiUlt
II&NTAL FACULTI&II OF JIAJf,
fioom it.-.fiuu: Cbi.nahip for improper objeota, attachment to
worthle. indiridual•. It ill pnerallyltrong in women.
5. CoMBATIVENEss.- Uses: Courage to meet danger and overcome
difficulties, tendency to oppose and attack whatever requires op·
position, and to resist unjust encroachments.-Abuses: Love of
contention, and tendency to provoke and assault. This feeling
obviously adapts man to a world in which danger and dlfficul~y
abound.
6. DEsTRUCTIVENEss.-Uses: Desire to destroy noxious objects, and
to kill for food. It is very discernible in carnivorous animals.-
Abuses: Cruelty, murder, desire to torment, tendency to passion,
rage, and harshness and severity in speech and writing. This
feeling places man in harmony with death and destruction, which
are woven into the system of sublunary creation.
l SxcRETIVENEss.-Uses: Tendency to restrain within t.he mind the
various emotions and ideas that involuntarily present themselves,
until the judgment has approved of giving tbem utterance; it is
simply the propensity to conceal, andis an ingredient in prudence.
Abuses: Cunning, deceit, duplicity, and lying.
8. Ac~tVISITIVENESs.-Uses : Desire to possess, and tendency to ac:•.
5•
og,t,zedbyGoogle
JlBNT.U. t'J.CULTI&I 01' .NJ.H.
o11111ulate lldiolea of utility, to provide ~ wanL~6tuu.
Inordiaale dellire of property, ~el6ahne., avarice, tbPf\.
9. CoJ'ITROCTIVJ:lfESs.-Uses: Desire to build and construct works of
art.-A6tues : Construction of engines to injure or destroy, and
fabrication ofobjects to deceive mankind.
GenU8 II. SENTIMENTS.
I. &ntimenU wmmon to Man toitla the Lower Anifnllls.
10. Sur-EsTEEM.- Usu: Self-respect, self·interest, love of inde-
pendence, personal dignity.-Abtuu: Pride, disdain, overween-
ing conceit, excessive aeliishneaa, love ofdominion.
11. Lon OF APPROBATIO!f.- Uses : Desire of the esteem of others,
Jove of praise, desire of fame or glory.-.flbtuu: Vanity, ambi·
tioo, thint for praise independently or·praiaeworthine88.
12. CAOTIOOsnss.-U8es : It gives origin to the sentiment offear, the
dellire to shun danger, and circumspection; and it ie an ingredient
in prudence.-Abtuu: ExceBBive timidity, poltroonery, unfound-
ed appreheneione, despondency, melancholy.
13. B&!fEVOU!fCE.-U8e.t: Desire of the happiness ofothen, universal
charity, mildneBB of disposition, and a lively sympathy with the
enjoyment of all animated beings.-AbtUu: Profusion, injurious
indulgence of the appetites and fancies of othen, prodigality,
facility oftemper.
II. Sentiments Proper to Man.
14. VENEilATIO!f.-Usu : Tendency to vent>rate or respect whatever is
great and good; gives origin to religious adoration. - Abuses :
Senseless respect for unworthy objects consecrated by time or
situation, love of antiquated customs, abject euberviency to per-
eons in authority, superstitious awe.
15. FIRMIfEBB.- Uses: Determination, perseverance, steadiness of pur-
pose.-Abuses: Stubbornness, infatuation, tenacity in evil.
16. CONSCIEIITIOOSNESS.-Usea: It gives origin to the sentiment of
justice, or respect for the rights of others, openness to conviction,
the love of truth. -Abuses: Scrupulous adherence to noxious
principles when ignorantly embraced, excessive refinement in
the views of duty and obligation, excess in remorse or self-con-
demnation.
17. Hor~:.-Uses. Tendency to expect future good; it cherishes faith.
-AbtUes: Credulity with respect to the attainment of what ie
desired, absurd expectations of felicity not founded on reason.
18. Wo!fDER.-Uses: The desire of novelty; admiration ofthe new,
the unexpected, the grand, the wonderful, and extraordinary.-
'
- oio "'ed by Google
MENTAL FACULTIES OF MAN.
Abuses : Love of the marvellous, and occult; senselel8 astoniab-
mtnt ; belief in fulse miracles, in prodigies, magic, gboata, and
other supernatural absurdities.-Note. Veneration, Hope, and
Wonder, combined, give the tendency to religion; their abu~~es
produce superstition. ·
19 lnEALITT.-Usea: Love of the beautiful and sp~did, deeire of
excellence, poetic feeling.- Abuses: Extravagance and abeurd
enthusiasm, preference of the showy and glaring to the eolid and
Dtleful, a tendency to dwell in the regions offancy and to neglect
the duties oflife.
20. WIT-Gives the feeling of the ludicrous, and diapo11e11 to mirth.
21. IMITATION-Copies the manners, gesture•, and actions of others,
and appearances in nature generally.
Order II. INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus I. EXTERNAL SENSES.
F T
}
Uses: To bring man into communication with
J:II:LING or OUCH. • • •
T external object&, and to enable h1m to enjOy
ABTII:. AL.. E . . d I . the
S them.- rnues : xceBBrre m u gence m
KII:LL, le ' ' ti th to the
H p asurea ansmg rom e aensea, ex-
J:ARING. tent of impairing bodily health, and debili·
SIGHT. • de.._· tU.~tbe -'-.a
tating or ..,nora._ .........
oio "'ed by Google
X&I'T.lL 1'.6.011LTI&I 01' X.l!f.
Genua II. KNOWING FACULTIES WHICH PERCEIVE THE
EXISTENCE AND QUALITIES OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS
22. bDIVlDUALITY-Taketl COjplizance ofezilltence and IJimple fact.
QS. Fo--B,endera man oblenant ofform.
fU. Srza-Givee the idea of•pace,and enablee 111 to appreciate dimen
lion and distance.
25. W:&IOHT-Communicatee the perception of momentum, weight,
and relilt&nce ; and &idl equilibrium.
26. CoLORIIfo-Givea perception ofcolora and their barmoniee.
Gen111 III. KNOWING FACULTIES WHICH PERCEIVE THI!.
RELATIONS OF EXTERNAL OBJECTS.
!l'/. LocALITY-Gives the idea of relative position.
28. NuMBER-Gives the talent for calculation.
29. 0RD.ER-Communicates the love of physical arraneement.
30. En:lfTVALITr-Takes cognizance of occurrences or events.
31. TIIIE-Gives rise to the perception of duration.
32. Tvn-The sense of Melody and Harmony arises from it.
33. LA!IOVAG&-Gives facility in acquiring a knowledge of arbitrary
signa to express thoughts, readiness in the use of them, and the
p<>wer ofinventi.ng and recollecting them.
Genus IV. REFLECTING FACULTIES, WHICH COMPARE,
. JUDGE, AND DISCRIMINATE.
34. CoiiPARISON-Givea the power of discovering analogies, reaem-
blancea, and dilferences.
35. CA118ALITY-Tr&cel the crependenC81 of phenomena, and the rela-
tion ofcause and elfect.
Observation proves that each of these faculties is con-
nected with a particular portion of the brain, and that the
power of manifesting each bears a relation to the size and
activity of its organ. The organs differ in relative size in
different individuals, and hence their differences of talents
and dispositions. This fact is of the greatest importance
in the philosophy of man; and the circumstance of its
having been unknown until Dr. Gall's discovery of the
oio "'ed by Google
MORAL Sl:l'fTIM&NTS AND INTELLECT. q7
functions of the brain, is sufficient to explain the past
barreness of mental science, and to render probable the
assertion, that a great flood of light on this subject is now
pouring forth on the world. These facuhies are not o.ll
equal in excellence and authority; some are common to
- man with the lower animals, and others are peculiar to
man. Before comparing the human mind, therefore, with
its external condition, it becomes an object of primary
importance to discover the relative rank and authority of
these different powers. If the Animal Faculties are natu-
rally or necessarily supreme-in other words, if man is by
nature only an animal of superior intelligence-then ex-
ternal creation, ifit be wisely constituted, may be expected
to bear direct reference, in its arrangements,to this supre-
macy; and to be calculated to rt\nder him most happy
whim acting in conformity with his animal feelings. If the
Moral and Intellectual Faculties hold the ascendency,
then the constitution of external nature may he expected
to be in harmony with them-in other words, to confer the
highest degree of enjoyment on man, when he acts under
the guidance of his moral and intellectual powers. I am
not here teaching Phrenology, or de,•eloping its principles
and evidences, but merely explaining it so far as indis-
pensable for the purposes of this work. I refer to the
Treatises on Phrenology for details.
SECTION IV.
THE FACULTIES OF MAN COMPARED WITH EACH OTHER; OR THE
SUPREMACY OF THE MORAL SENTIMENTS AND INTELLECT.
AccOJtDING to the phrenological theory of human nature,
the faculties are divided into Propensities common to man
with the lower animals, Sentiments common to man with
the lower animals, Sentiments proper to man, and Intel-
lect. Every faculty stands in a definite relation to certain
external objects: when it is internally active it desirea
oio "'ed by Google
IUPR&HAC1' OJ' TB&
these objects; when they are presented to it they excite it
to activity, and delight it with agreeable sensations. Hu-
man happineu and mtsery are resolvable into the gratifica-
tion, and denial of gratification, of one or more of our
mental faculties, or of the feelings connected with our
bodily frame. The faculties, in themselves, are mere
instincts; the moral sentiments and intellect being higher
instincts than the animal propensities. Every faculty is
good in itself, but all are liable to abuse. Their operations
are right only when they act in harmony with each other,
enlightened intellect and moral sentiment holding the
supremacy.
The faculties may be considered as acting in a variety
of ways. First, The lower propensities may be viewed as
acting by themselves, each seeking its own gratification,
but without transgressing the limits prescribed by enlight-
ened intellect and the moral sentiments: this gratification
is legitimate and proper, and the fountain of much enjoy-
ment to human beings. Secondly, The propensities may
be considered as acting in opposition to the dictates of the
moral sentiments and intellect: a merchant, for instance,
by misrepresentation of the real qualities of his commodi-
ties, may obtain a higher price for them than if he spoke
the truth; or, by depreciating unjustly the goods of a rival,
he may attract that rival's customers to himself: By such
conduct he would apparently benefit himself, but he would
infringe the dictates of the moral sentiments and intellect;
in other words, he would do an injury to the interests of
his ri'Val proportionate to the undue benefit which he at-
tempted to secure to himself: All such manifestations of
the propensities are abuses, and, when pursued systemati-
cally to their results, are seen to injure not only the indi-
vidual against whom they are directed, but him also who
practises them. Thirdly, The moral sentiments may be
regarded as acting by themselves, each seeking its own
gratification: thus Benevolence may prompt an individual
to do acts of kindneu, and Veneration to perform exercise•
oio "'ed by Google
• liiOllAL S8UfTliiENTS .lND ii(TELLECT. 59
·ofdevotion. When the gratification sought by any one or
more of the sentiments does not infringe the duties pre-
scribed by all the other sentiments and enlightened intel-
lect, the actions are proper. But any one moral sentiment,
acting by itself, may run into excess-Benevolence, for
instance, may instigate to generosity at the expense of
juatice; Veneration may prompt a person to run after
sermons abroad, when be should be discharging his do-
mestic duties, or instructing his children at home,-which
actions also are abuses.
Thus there is, 1st, A wide sphere of action provided for
the propensities, in which each may seek its gratification
in its own way, without exceeding the limits of morality;
and this is a good and proper action: 2dly, There is ample
scope for the exercise of each ofthe moral and intellectual
faculties, without infringing the dictates of any ofthe other
faculties belonging to the same classes; and this action
also is good. But, on the other hand, the propensities, and
also the moral and intellectual faculties, may act singly or
in groups, in opposition to the dictates of the whole moral
sentiments and intellectual powers enlightened by know-
ledge and acting in combination; and all such actions are
wrong. Hence right conduct is that which i8 approt1ed
of by the whole tnoml a~ inte1lectual faculticB, fully enlight-
emd, and acting in har1nonioU& combination. This I call the
supremacy ofthe moral sentiments and intellect.
In maintaining this supremacy, therefore, I do not con-
sider any of the moral sentiments and intellectual faculties
singly, or even the whole ofthem collectively, as sufficient
to direct conduct by their mere instinctive suggestions.
To fit them to discharge this important duty, they must
act in harmonious combination, and be illuminated by
knowledge of science and of morn! and religious duty.
The sources of knowledge are observation and reflection,
--experience,-and instruction by books, teachers, and all
other means by which the Creator has provided for the im-
provement of the human mind. Whenever their dictates,
60 IUPUJU.C1' 01' TBa
thus combined and enlightened, oppoae the aolicitatiODB of
the propensities, the latter must yield,--othenriae, by tbe
cODBtitution of nature, evil will inevitably ensue. This ia
what I mean by nature being constituted in harmony with
the supremacy of the moral sentiments and intellect.
Phrenology shows that different individuals posaesa the
faculties in very different degrees: I do not mean, there-
fore, to say, that in each individual, whatever the propor-
tion of his organs may be, the dictates of his moral and
intellectual powers are rules of conduct not to be disputed.
On the contrary, in most individuals one or several of the
moral or intellectual organs are so deficient in size, in
proportion to the organs of the propensities, that their
individual perceptions of duty will be far short of the
highest standard. The dictates of the moral and intellec-
tual powers, therefore, which constitute rules of conduct,
are the collective dicta of the highest minds illuminated by
the greatest knowledge.
Let us now consider the faculties themselves. First, I
shall view the propensities as acting alone, uninfluenced
by the moral and intellectual powers. There is ample
scope for their proper activity in this way; but the great
distinction between the animal faculties and the powers
proper to man is, that the former do not prompt us to seek
the welfare of mankind at large: their object is chiefly the
preservation of the individual himself, his family or his
tribe; while the latter have the general happiness of the
human race, and our duties to God, as their ends.
THE LovE oF LIFE, and THE APPETITE FOR FooD,
have clearly reference to the preservation of the individual
alone.
Even the domestic affections, amiable and respectable
as they undoubtedly are when combined with the moral
feelings, have self as their chief object. The first three
propensities,.. AMATIVENESS, PHILOPROGENITIVENESS, and
ADHESIVENEss, or the group of the domestic affections
desire a conjugal partner, offspring, and friends: the
oio "'ed by Google
MORJ.L UNTIMENTS J.ND INTELLECT. 61
obtaining of these affords them delight-the removal of
them occasions pain. But they do not take an interest
in the welfare of their objects oil their own account. He
who loves from Amativeness alone is sensual, faithless,
and negligent of the happiness of its object. He who
combines with love springing &om this propensity, Be-
nevolence, Veneration, Justice, and Intellect, will disin-
terestedly promote the real happiness of the object of his
affection.
The whole faculties, as I have already repeatedly ob-
served, must be gratified harmoniously, or at least the
gratification of one or more of them must not offend any
of the others. For example, suppose the group of the
domestic affections to be highly interested in an individual,
and strongly to desire to form an alliance with him, but
that the person so loved is improvident and immoral, and
altogether an object of whom the higher faculties, if left
dispassionately to survey his qualities, could not approve;
then, if an alliance be formed with him, under the ungov-
ernable impulses of the lower -feelings, bitter days of
repentance will necessarily follow, when these begin to
languish, and his qualities give the latter faculties offence.
If, on the other hand, the domestic affections are guided
to an object pleasing to the better powers, these them-
selves will be gratified; they will double the delights af-
forded by the inferior faculties, and render the enjoyment
per!Danent.
The love of children, springing from Philoprogenitive-
ness, is the same in kind as that of the miser for his gold;
an interest in the object, for the sake of the gratification it
affords to his own mind, without desiring, or being able to
distinguish, what is good for the object on its own account.
This truth is recognised by Sir Walter Scott. He says,
'Elspat's ardent, though selfish affection for her son, in-
capable of being qualified by a regard for the true interests
of the unfortunate object of her attachment, resembled the
instinctive fondness of the animal race for their offspring;
6
oio "'ed by Google
SUPREMACY or TB&
and, diving little farther into futurity than one of the infe-
rior creatures, she only felt that to be separated from
Hamish was to die.' •
In man, this faculty generally acts along with Benevo-
lence, and a disinterested desire of the happiness of the
child mingles with, and elevates, the mere instinct of Phi-
loprogenitiveness; but the sources of these two affections
are different, their degrees vary in different persons, and
their ends also are dissimilar. This is exemplified every
day by the conduct of mothers, who, although actuated by
an intense instinctive love of their offspring, nevertheless
spoil them by vicious indulgence, and render them com-
pletely miserable. If Philoprogenitiveness were capable,
by itself, of desiring and perceiving the real welfare of
children, the treatment of them would, in all cases, be
rational and beneficial, in proportion to the degree in
which this faculty was active; but this is not consistent
with experience. Again, Christian mothers, who sincerely
believe that, at death, their children pass into everlasting
happiness, which is far better for them than sojourning on
earth, nevertheless show the highest indications of bereave-
ment and sorrow on their loss;-thus affording evidence
that their love was an instinct which gives pain when dis-
appointed, and not a disinterested affection' concerned
exclusively for the happiness of the being itself which
constituted its object.
The same observation applies to the affection proceeding
from ADH·ESIVENEss. \Vhen this faculty acts alone, it
desires, for its own satisfaction, a friend to love; but, from
its own impulses, it is not interested in the welfare of its
object. . It feels attached to him as a sheep does to its
fellows of the flock; but, if Benevolence do not act along
with it, it does nothing for the happiness of that friend.
~oth Adhesiveness and Philoprogenitiveness tend to excite
Benevolence towards their object~: when this sentiment,
however, is naturally very weak, the propensities cannot
• Chronicles of the C..nongate, vol. i. p. 2Sl
oio "'ed by Google
MORAL SENTIMENTS AND INTELLECT. 6S
render it vividly active. The horse feels melancnoay when
his companion is removed; but the feeling appears to be
simply one of uneasiness at the absence of an object which
gratified his Adhesiveness. His companion may have been
led to a richer·pasture, or introduced to more agreeable
society; yet this does not assuage the distress suffered by
him at his removal: his tranquillity, in short, is restored
only by time cau!iing the activity of Adhesiveness to sub-
side, or by the substitution of another object on which it
may exert itself. In human nature, the effect ofthe facul-
ty, when acting singly, is the same; and this accounts for
the fact of the almost total indifference of many persons
who were really attached by Adhesiveness to each other,
when one falls into misfortune, and becomes a disagreeable
object to the pride or vanity of the other. Suppose two
persons, elevated in rank, and possessed of affiuence, to
have each Adhesiveness, Self-Esteem, and Love ofAppro-
bation large, with Benevolence and Conscientiousness
moderate, it is obvious that, while both are m prosperity
they may really like each other's society, and feel a recip-
rocal attachment, because there will be mutual sympathy
in their Adhesiveness, and the Self-Esteem and Love of
Approbation of each will be gratified by the rank and cir-
cumstances of the other: but imagine one of them to fall
into misfortune, and to cease to be an object gratifying to
Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation.; suppose that be
becomes a poor friend instead of a rich and influential one;
the harmony between their selfish faculties will be broken,
and then Adhesiveness in the one who remains rich will
transfer its affection to another individual who may gratify
it, and also supply agreeable sensations to Self-Esteem
and Love of Approbation-to a genteel friend, in short,
who will look well in the eye ofthe world.
Much of this conduct occurs in society, and the whining
complaint is very ancient, that the storms of adversity dis-
perse friends, just as the wintry blast strips from the forest
the leaves that gaily adorned it in the sunshine ofsummer;
64 IUPR&JUCY Or Til&
and many moral eeoteneee havft been pointed, and epigrams
finely turned, on the selfishness and corruption of poor
human nature. But such friendship& were attachments
founded on the lower feelings, which, by their coiUititutioo,
do not regard the welfare ofothers; and the desertion com-
plained of is the fair and legitimate result of the principles
on which both parties acted during the gay hours of pros-
perity. If we look at a cast of the hea4 of Sheridan, we
ahall perceive large AdhesiveneBB, Self-Esteem, and Love
of Approbation, with deficient Causality, and moderate
Conscientiousness. He had large Individuality; Compari-
son, Secretiveness, anc.l Imitation, which gave him talents
for observation anc.l display. When these earned him a
brilliant reputauon, he was surrounded by friends, and be
him"elf probably felt attachment in return. "But he was
deficient in morality, and this prevented him from loving
his friends with a true, disinterested, and honest regard;
he abused their kindness; and as he sank mto poverty and
wretchedness, and ceased to be an hunor to them or to
excite their Love of Approbation, all who were constituted
like himself deserted him. But the whole connection was
founded on selfish principles: Sheridan honored them, and
they flattered Sheridan; and the abandonment was the
natural consequence of the cessation of gratification to
thei; selfish feelings. I shall, by and by, point out the
sources of a loftier and purer friendship, and its effects.
It was only those individuals who acted from Adhesiveqess
combined with the higher feelings, that remained attached
to him through all his misfortunes. ·
CoMBATIVENESS and DESTRUCTIVENESS also, when act-
ing in combination with the other propensities, do not in
their own nature seek the happineBB of others. If aggres~
sion is committed against us, Combativeness shows the
front of opposition and repels the attack; Destructiveness
io6icts pain or injury, to make the aggressor desist, or as
veogeaoce for the offence. Both feelings are obviously
very different from Benevolence I do_ n~t say tbat, m
-
MORAL SENTIMENTS .lND INTELLECT. 66
themselves, they are despicable or sinful; on the contrary,
they are necessary, and, when legitimately employed,
highly useful; but still their first and instinctive object is
the preservation of self. ·
SEcRETIVENESs suppresses feelings that are improper to
be manifested, and that might injure us with other indiri-
duals, and restrains the faculties generally. It also desires
to find out secrets that may enable its possessor to guard
self against hostile plots or designs. In itself it does not
desire, in any respect, the benefit of others.
The next organ is Ac~utsiTIVENEss. It blindly desires
to possess, is pleased with accumulating, and suffers great
uneasiness in being deprived of possessions; but i•s object
is not the happiness of others. Like all the other. faculties,
it is highly useful, for even Benevolence cannot give away
until Acquisitiveness has acquired. There are friendships,
particularly among mercantile men, founded on Adhesive-
ness and Acquisitiveness, just as in fashionable life they
are founded on Adhesiveness and Love of Approbation.
T-vo individuals fall into a course of dealing, by which each
reaps profit from transactions with the other: this leads to
intimacy; Adhesiveness mingles its intluence, and a feel-
ing of attachment is at last produced. The moment, how-
ever, that the Acquisitiveness of the one suffers the least
inroad fi·om that of the other, and their interests clash,
they are apt, if no higher principle unite them, to become
bitter enemies. It is probable that, while these fashionable
and commercial friendships last, the parties may profess
great reciprocal esteem and regard, and that, when a rup-
ture takes place, the one who is depressed or disobliged,
may recall these expressions, and charge the other with
hypocrisy; but they really were not insincere. From
Adhesiveness and gratified Love ofApprobation or Acquis-
itiveness, each probably felt something which he colored ·
over, and· perhaps believed to be disinterested friendship;
but if each would honestly probe his own conscience, he
would be obliged to· acknowledge that the whole basis of
6*
oio "'ed by Google
IUPRBMJ.CY OJ' TIIB
the connection was selfiah--aod hence, that the result is
just what ought to be expected by every man who places
his reliance for happiness chiefly on the lower feelings.
S&LF-EsTBBM is, in its very essence and name, selfish:
it is the love of ourselves, and the esteem of ourselves par
ezcelltnce.
Lov& OF APPROBA.TlON, although many think otherwise,
does not in itself desire the happiness of others. . Its object
is applause to ourselves, to be esteemed ourselves; and if
it prompt us to do services, or toO say agreeable things to
others, this is not from pure love of them, but for the sake
of obtaining the self-gratification afforded by their good
opinion.
Suppose, for example, that we are acquainted with a
person who has committed an error in some official duty,-
who has done or said something that the public disapprove
of, and which we see to be really wrong,-Benevolence
and Conscientiousness would prompt us tQ lay before our
friend the very head and front of his offending, and conjure
him to forsake his error, and make public amends:-Love
of Approbation, on the ·other hand, would simply desire to
gain his applause, by making ourselves agreeable to him,
without looking farther. If unenlightened, it would either
render us averse to speak to him at all on the subject, lest
he should be offended; or prompt us to extenuate his fault,
to gloss it over, and to represent it either as a simple mis-
take or as extremely trivittl. If we analyze the motive
which prompts to this course, we shall find that it is not
love ofour friend or consideration for his welfare-but tear
lest, by our presenting to him disagreeable truths, he should
feel offended with us, and deprive us of the gratifiC?ation
afforded by his good opinion.
Another illustration may be given. A manufacturer in
a country town, having acquired a considerable fortune by
trade, .a~plied part of it in building a princely mansion,
which he furnished in the richest and most expensive style
of fashion. He asked his customers, near and distant, to
oio "'ed by Google
•
MORAL IENTIMJ:NTS .ll'fD ll'fTELL&CT. 6'7
Vilit him, and introduced them into an apartment that
dazzled them with splendor. This excited their curiosity
and wonder, which was precisely the effect he desired; he
then led them over his whole suite of rooms, and displayed
before them his grandeur and taste. In doing so, he
affected to act as if be were conferring a high pleasure·on
them, and believed that be was filling their minds with an
intense admiration of his greatness; but the real effect was
very different. The motive of his conduct was not love of
them, or regard for their happiness or welfare: it was not
Benevolence to others that prompted him to build the pal-
ace; it was not Veneration; it was not Conscientiousness.
The fabric sprang from Self-Esteem and Love of Approba-
tion, combined, no doubt, with considerable Intellect and
Ideality. In leading his humble brethren in trade through
the princely halls, over the costly carpets and amidst the
gilded mirrors and rich array that every where met their
eyes, he exulted in the consciousness of his own import-
ance, and asked for their admiration, not as an expression
of respect for any real benefit conferred upon them, but as
the much relished food of his own selfish vanity.
Let us attend, in the next place, to the effect which this
display would produce on those to whom it was addressed.
To gain their esteem or affection, it would have been
necessary to manifest towards them Benevolence, respect,
and justice; for, to cause another indivjdual to love us, we
must make him the object of our moral sentiments, which
have his good and .happiness for their end. Here, however,
these were not the inspiring motive~t, and the want of them
would be instinctively felt. The customers who possessed
the least shrewdness would ascribe the whole exhibition to
the vanity of the owner, and they would either pity, or
envy anci hate him: if their own moral sentiments predom-
inated, they would pity him; if their Self-Esteem and Love
of Approbation were paramount, they would envy his
magnificence, yet be offended at his assumed superiority,
and would hate him. It would be only the siUieet and the
•
68 SUPREMACY OJ' THE
vameat who would be at all gratified; and thetr satisfaction
would arise from the feeling, that they could now return to
their own circle, and boast bow great a friend they had,
and in how grand a style they had been entertained-tills
display being a direct gratification of their own Self-Esteem
and Love of Approbation, by identifying themselves with
him. Even this pleasure would exist only where the
admirer was so humble in rank as to entertain no idea of
rivalsbip, and so limited in intellect and morality as not to
perceive tho worthlessness of tho qualities by which he was
captivated.
In like manner, when persons, even of more sense than
th~ manufacturer here alluded to, give entertainments to
their friends, they sometimes fail in their object from the
same cause. Their leading motive is a wish to show off
themselves, much more than to confer real happiness upon
their acql)aintanccs; and, by the unbending law of human
nature, this must fail in exciting good-will nod pleasure in
the minds of those to whom it is addressed; because it dis-
agreeably affects their Self-Esteem and Love of Approba-
tion. In short, to be really successful in gratifying our
friends, we must keep our own selfish faculties in due sub-
ordination, and pour out copious streams of real kindness
from the higher sentiments, animated and elevated by intel-
lect; and all who have experienced the heartfelt joy and
satisfaction attending an entertainment conducted on this
principle, will never quarrel with tho homeliness of the fare,
or feel uneasy about the absence of fashion in the service.
CAUTIOUSNESS is the next faculty, and is a sentiment
instituted to prompt us to shun danger. Acting apart from
the moral sentiments, it would seck first to protect self
from evil; and this is its essential object.
This terminates the list of the Feelings common to man
with the lower animals,* and which, as we have seen,
• BeneYolence is stated in the works on Phrenology 11.1 common to maD
with the lower animals; but in these creatures it appears to produce l'8tber
oio "'ed by Google
MOJlA.L I&N'i-IMI.NTI A.ND INTELLECT. 69
when acting instinctively, either singly or in combmation
with each other, apart from the moral powers, do not seek
the welfare of others as their aim, but have self-preserva-
tion and self-gratificntion as their leading objects. They
are given for the protection and advantage of our individ-
ual nature, and, when manifested in their proper spheres,
are highly useful, and also respectable, vieY.ed with refer-
ence to .that end; but they are sources of innumerable
evils when allowed to usurp the ascendency over the moral
faculties, and to become the leading springs of our social
conduct.
I proceed to notice the Moral Sentiments, which are
proper to man, and to point out their objects and relations.
BENEVOLENCE has direct reference to ·other beings. It
desires purely and disinterestedly the happiness of its ob-
jects: it loves for the t1ake of the person beloved; if he be
well, and the sunbeams of prosperity shine warmly around
him, it exults and delights in his felicity. It desires a dif-
fusion ofjoy, and renders the ft,et swift and the arm strong
In the cause of charity and love. B.r the beneficence of
the Creator, it is, when gratified, the source of great en-
joyment to its possessor; insomuch that some authors have -
asserted, that men arc benevolent for the sake ofthis plea-
sure. But this is not correct. The impulse is instinctive,
and acts before the intellect has anticipated the result.
VENERATION also has reference to others. It looks up
with a pure and elev11ted emotion to the being to whom it
is directed, whether God or our fellow men, and delights
in the contemplation oftheir venerable and admirable qual-
ities. It renders selflowly, humble, and submissive. God
Is Its highest object.
Hon spreads its gay wing in the boundless regions of
•
puaive meekness and good nature, than a~l desire for each other'• bnppi·
- · In the human race, this last is ii!J proper function i and, vicwe<l ill
tbi~ Iicht, I treat of it u exclusi•elv - hi!Dllln faeultv
oio "'ed by Google
'10 SUPREMACY OF THE
futurity. It desires good, and expects it to come: 'it in-
cites us indeed to aim at a good which we can live without;'
but its influence is soft, soothing, and happy. When com
bined with the propensities, it expects good to self; when
with the moral sentiments, it anticipates universal happi-
ness.
IDEHITY delights in perfection from the pure pleasure
of contem1>lating it. So far as it is concerned, the picture,
the statue, the landscape, or the mansion, on which it
abides with the intensest rapture, is as pleasing, although
the property of another, as if all its own. It is a spring
that is touched by the beautiful wherever it exists; and
hence its means of enjoyment are as unbounded as the
uniYerse.
WONDER seeks the new and the striking, and is delight-
ed with change; but there is no desire of appropriation to
self in its longings.
CoNSCIENTIOUSNEss stands in the midway between self
and other individuals. It implies the existence of both sel-
fish and social tendencies in man, for one of its functions
is to regulate their contending solieitations. It is a regu-
lator of our animal feelings, and points out the limit which
they must not pass. It desires to do to another as we
- would have anot!J.cr to do to us, and is the guardian of the
welfare of our fellow men, while it sanctions and supports
c.ur personal feelings within the bounds of due moderation.
It is a noble feeling; and the mere consciousness of its
being bestowed upon us, ought to bring home to our minds
an intense conviction that the Author of the universe is at
once wise qnd just.
The sentiments now enumerated may be erroneously
directed, or may act in excess, and, in either case, may
give rise to abuses, such as profusion, superstition, or ex-
travagant refinement. But the grand distinction between
them and the propensities is tn.: The propensities, acting
even legitimately- singly, or in combination with each
other, but not in combination with the moral sentiments,-
oio "'ed by Google
MOIU.t. S.N'l'L\l&NTS J.ND INTELLECT. 71
nave individual interests for their direct objects, and do
not actively desire the happiness of other beings for the
sake of these beings themselves: the actions of the lower
animals afford illustrations in point. The moral powers,
.on the other hand, acting in harmonious combination with
each other, and directed by enlightened intellect, desire
the welfare of other beings as their direct object: the pur-
est and the best of men afford in their conduct examples
of the truth of this remark.*
Intellect is universal in its applications. It may become
the handmaid of any of the faculties; it may devise a plan
to murder or to bless, to steal or to bestow, to rear up or
to destroy; but, as its proper use is to observe the differ-
ent objects of creation, to mark their relations, and to
direct the propensities and sentiments to their proper and
legitimate enjoyments, it has a boundless sphere of activity
and, when properly exercised and applied, is a source of
high and inexhaustible delight.
The world is so constituted, that all necessary and really
advantageous gratifications of the propensities, are com-
patible with the dictates of the moral sentiments and intel-
lectual powers when acting in harmonious combination;
and that all gratifications of the propensities which are dis-
arproved of by the higher powers, arc, in their ultimate
consequences, hurtful to the individual himself. In like
manner, all manifestations of the higher sentiments, when
acting in harmonious combination and directed by enlight-
ened intellect, although they tend directly to the welfare
of others, indirectly contribute, in a high degree, to the
enjoyment of the virtuous agent.
Keeping in view the great difference now pointed out
between the animal and properly human faculties, the
• The classification of the moral sentiments in tlte phrenological system
1s not perfect: It inclu lcs \Vit, Imi' ion, Firmness, and \Vonder, which are
not necessarily or essenti:.lly moral. By ' the moral sentiments,' when nsed
as a general expression, I mean Beucvolencc, Veneration, and Con.;cientious·
ness, aided by Jlopc and Jde:tl>ty.
oio "'ed by Google
IUPR£1\U.O\' OP TH&
reader will perceive that three consequences follow from
the constitution of these powers.
First, All the faculties, when in excess, are insatiable,
and, from the constitution ofthe world, never can be satis-
fied. They indeed may be soon satisfied on any particular
occasion. Food will soon till the stomach; success in a
speculation will render Acquisitiveness quiescent for the
moment; a triumph will satisfy for the time Self-Esteem
and Love ofApprobation; a long concert will fatigue Tune;
and a tedious discourse will afflict Causality. But after
repose they will all renew their solicitation~. They must all
therefore be regulated, particularly the propensities and
lower sentiments. These having self as their primary ob-
ject, and being blind to consequences, do not set limits to
their own indulgence; and, when allowed , to exceed the
boundaries prescribed by the superior sentiments and in-
tellect, lead directly to misery to the individual, and injury
to society.
. As this circumstance attending the propensities is of
great practical importance, I shall make a few observations
in elucidation of it. The births and lives of children de-
pend upon circumstances over which unenlightened men
have but a limited control; and hence an individual,
whose supreme happiness springs from the gratification of
Philoprogenitivcness, may, by the predominance of that
propensity and the inactivity of the higher powers, be led
to neglect or infringe the natural laws on which the lives
and welfare of children depend, to treat them irrationally,
and thus to defeat his own desires. He will be in constant
danger of anguish and disappointment, from the death of
his children, or from their undutiful conduct. Besides,
Philoprogenitiveness, acting in each parent along with
Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation, would desire that
h.u children should possess the.highest rank and· greatest
wealth, and be distinguished for the most splendid tal.ents.
Now the highest, the greatest, and the most splendid of
any qualities, necessarily imply th~ existence of inferior
oio "'ed by Coogle
MORAL Rln'JIII&N'l'S AND INTELLECT. 73
degree8, and are attainable only by few. The animal fac-
ulties, therefore, must be restrained in their desires, and
directed to their objects by the moral sentiments, and by
intellect, otherwise they will inevitably lead to disappoint-
ment. In like manner, Acquisitiveness desires wealth;
but as _
nature affords annually only a limited quantity of
grain, cattle, fruit, flax, and other articles, from which
food, clothing, and wealth, are manufactured; and as this
quantity, divided equally among all the members of a state,
would afford but a rooderate portion to each; it is self-
evident, that, if all desire to acquire and possess a large
-amount, ninety-nine out of every hundred must be disap-
pointed. This disappointment, from the very constitution
ofnature, is inevitable to the greater number; and when
individuals form schemes of aggrandisement, originating
from desires communicated by the animal faculties alone,
they would do well to keep this law of nature in view.
\Vh_
en we look around us, we see how few become rich;
how few succeed in accomplishing all their lofty anticipa-
tions-for the advancement of their children; and how few
attain the summit of ambition, compared with the multi-
tudes who fail. The animal faculties exist in all men, and
when they act without regulation, they prompt one man to
defeat the gratification of another. All this arises, not
from error and imperfection in the i'nstitutions ofthe Crea-
tor, but from blindness in men to their own nature, to the
nature of external objects, and to the relations established
between them; in short, from blindness to the principles
of the divine administration ofthe world.
Secondly, The animal propensities being inferior in their
nature to the human faculties, their gratifications, when
not approved of by the latter, leave a painful feeling of
discontent and dissatisfaction in the mind, occasioned by
the secret disavowal oftheir excessive action by the higher
feelings. Suppose, for example, a young person to set out
in life with ardent wishes to acquire wealth, and to attain
honor and distinction. Imagine him to rise early and sit
7
'74 IUPaEM4CY OW THE
up late; to put forth all the energies of a powerful mind in
buying, selling, and becoming rich; and to be successful:
it is obvious, that Benevolence, Veneration, and Conscien-
tiousness, had a small share in prompting him to this course
of action; and that, in pursuing it, they have not received
direct and intended gratification. They may have anxiously
and constantly watched the animal faculties, longing for
the hour when they would say Enough; their whole oc-
cupation, in the meantime, having been to restrain them
from such gross excesses as would have defeated their
own ends.
Suppose, then, this individual to have reached the evening
oflife, and to look back on the pleasures and pains of his
past existence: he must feel that there has been vanity and
vexation of spirit,-or the want of a satisfying portion; be-
cause the highest of his faculties have not been the motives
ofhis conduct, and have received no direct and adequate
gratification. If an individual has, through life, aimed at
acquiring reputation, he will find that the real affection and
esteem ofmankind which he has gained, will be great or
small in proportion to the degree in which he bas manifest-
ed, in his habitual conduct, the higher or the lower facul-
ties. If men have seeq him selfish in his pursuit of wealth,
selfish in his domestic affections, selfish in his ambition;
although he may have pursued his objects without positive
encroachment on the rights of others, they will still look
coldly on him-they will feel no glow of affection toward11
him, no elevated respect, and no sincere admiration. If
be possess penetration, he will see and feel that this is the
case; but the fault is his own: love, esteem, and sincere
respect, arise, by the Creator's laws, from contemplating,
not plodding selfish faculties, but Benevolence, Venera-
tion, and Justice, as the motives and ends of our conduct;
and the individual supposed hM reaped the natural and le-
gitimate produce ofthe soil which be cultivated, and the
seed which he sowed.
Thirdly, The higher feelings, when acting in harmonious .
oio "'ed by Google
liiOR.lL SUTIMIINTI .llfD llfT&LLECT. 'JIS
combination, and directed by enlightened intellect, have a
boundtess scope for gratification: their least indulgence is
delightful, and their highest activity is bliss; they cause
no repentance, leave no void, but render life a scene at
once of peaceful tranquillity and sustained felicity: and,
what is of much importance, conduct proceeding from their
dictates carries in its train the highest gratification to tbe
animal propensities themselves, of which the latter are
susceptible. At the same time, it must be remembered,
that the sentiments err, and lead also to evil, when not
regulated by enlightened intellect; that intellect in.its tum
must give due weight to the existence and desires of both
the propensities and the sentiments, as elements in the
human constitution, before it can arrive at sound conclu-
sions regarding conduct; and that rational actions and
true happiness flow from the gratification of all the facul-
ties in harmony with each other,-the moral sentiments
and intellect bearing the directing sway.
This proposition may be shortly illustrated. Imagine
an individual to commence life, with the thorough convic-
tion that the higher sentiments are the superior powers,
and that they ought to be the sources of his actions-the '
first effect would be to cause him to look habitually out-
ward on other men and on his Creator, instead of looking
inward on himself as the object of his highest and chief re-
gard. Benevolence would infuse into his mind the feeling
that there are other human beings as dear to the Creator
and as much entitled to enjoyment as himself; and that his
duty is to seek no gratification to himself '~hich is calcu-
lated to prove injurious to them, but, on the contrary, to
act so as to confer on them, by his daily exertions, all the
services in his power: Veneration would give a strong
feeling of reliance on the power and wisdom of God, that
such conduct would conduce to the highest gratification of
all his faculties; it would add also an habitual respect for
his fellow men, as beings deserving his regard, and to
whose reasonable wishes he was bound to yield a willing
oio "'ed by Google
Tt IUJ'B.SIUOY or TBII
uad aiocere obedience: Laatly, Coucientiousneas would
prompt him habitually to restrain his animal desires, eo u
to prevent the slightest abuse of them which would prove
iajurious to his fellow men.
Let us trace, then, the effect which these principles
would produce in ordinary life. Suppose a friendship
formed by such an individual: one of his fundamental
principles being Benevolence, which inspires with a pure
and disinterested regard for other men, be would desire bis
friend's welfare for his friend's sake. Next, Veneration,
acting along wjth intellect, would reinforce this love, by
the conviction that it was entirely conformable to the law
of God, and would be acceptable in his sight. It would
also add a habitual deference towards the friend himself,
which would render the manner pleasing to him, and the
deportment yielding and accommodating in aB things pro-
per to be forborne or done. Thirdly, Conscientiousness,
ever on the watch, would proclaim the duty of making no
unjust demands on the good nature of a friend, but of lim-
iting the whole intercourse with him to an interchange of
kindness, good offices, and reciprocal affection. Intellect,
acting along with these principles, would point out, as an
indispensable requisite to such an attachment, that the
friend himself should be so far under the influence of the
moral sentiments as to be able, in some degree, to satisfy
them; for, if he were immoral, selfish, vainly ambitious,
or, in short, under the habitual influence of the propen-
sities, the sentiments could not love and respect him: they
might pity him as unfortunate, but love him they could
not, because this is impossible by the very laws of their
constitution.
Let us now attend to the degree in which such a friend-
ship would gratify the lower propensities. In the first
place, how would Adhesiveness exult and rejoice in such
an attachment! It would be filled with delight, because, if
the intellect were conviqced that the friend habitually ac-
knowledged the supremacy of the higher sentiments, Ad-
oio "'ed by Google
l
I
I
I
I
I
l
liiOIU.L l&lft'IMB!n'l AJfD IKTIILLIICT. Tr
heeiYeneae might pour forth all ita ardor, and cling to ita
object with the ciO&eBt bonds of affection. The friend
would not encroach on us for evil, because hie Benevo-
lence and Justice would oppose this; he would not lay
aside restraint, and break through the bonds of affection
by undue familiarity, because Veneration would forbid
this; he would not injure us in our name, person, or repu-
tation, because Conscientiousness, Veneration, and Bene-
volence, all combined, would prevent such conduct. Here,
then, AdhesiveneBS, freed from the fear of evil, of deceit,-
and of dishonor, (because such a friend could 1\ot possibly
fall into dishonor,) would be at liberty to take its deepest
draught of affectionate attachment; it would receive a
gratification which it is impossible it could attain while
acting in combination with the purely selfish facultie1.
What delight, too, would such a friendship alford to Self-
Esteem and Love of Approbation! There would be a
legitimate approval of ourselves, arising from a survey of
pure motives and just and benevolent actions. Love of
Approbation, also, WO!lld be gratified in the highest de-
gree; for every act of affection, every expression of
esteem, from such a friend, would be so purified by
Benevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness, that it
would form the legitimate food on which Love of Appro-
bation might feast and be satisfied: it would fear no
hollowness beneath, no tattling in absence, no secret
smoothing over for the sake of mere effect, no envyings,
no jealousies. In a word, friendship founded on the higher
sentiments as the ruling motives, would delight the mind
with gladness and sunshine, and gratify all the faculties,
animal, moral, and intellectual, in harmony with each
other.
By this illustration, the reader will understand more
clearly what I mean by the harmony of the faculties. The
fashionable and commercial friendships ·of which I spoke
gratified the propensities of Adhesiveness, Love ofAppro-
bation, Self-Esteem, and Acquisitiveness, but left out, u
7*'
oio "'ed by Google
78
ftmdamental principles, all the higher aeatimeote:--tber•
wu, therefore, in these iostances, a want of harmouioue
sratification to the whole faculties, which want gav• rise
to a feeling of uncertainty, and of the absene9 of full satiiJ..
faction; it permitted only a mixed and imperfect enjoy-
.ent while the friendship lasted, and led to a feeling of
painful disappointment, or of vanity and vexation, when a
rupture occurred. The error, in such cases, consists in
founding attachment on the lower faculties, seeing that
they, by themselves, are not calculated to form a stable
buis of affection; instead of building it on them and the
higher sentiments, which, acting together, afford a founda-
tion for real, lasting, and satisfactory friendship. In com-
plaining of the hollowness of attachments springing from
the ·lower faculties exclusively, we are like men who should
try to build a pyramid on its smaller end, and then speak
ofthe unkindness of Providence, and lament the hardness
of their fate, when it fell. A similar analysis of all other
pleasures founded on the animal propensities chiefly, would
exhibit similar results. Happiness, therefore, must be
viewed by men as connected with the exercise of the three
great classes of faculties; the moral sentiments and iqtel-
lect-exercising the directing and controlling sway, before
it can be permanently attained.
Many men, on arriving at the close of life, complain of
all its pursuits and enjoyments having proved vanity and
yexation of spirit; but, to my mind, this is just an intima-
tion that the plan of their lives has been selfish, that they
have missed the righfmethod of doing good, and that they
have sought for pleasure, not in the. legitimate use, but in
foolish abuses of their faculties. I cannot conceive that
the hour of death should cause the mind to feel all acts of
kindness done to others,-all exercises of devotion per-
formed in a right spirit,-all deeds of justice executed,-
.all rays of knowledge disseminated-during life, as vain,
unprofitable, and unconsoling, even at the moment of our
leaving for ever this sublunary scene. On the contrary,
oio "'ed by Google
MOJU.L 8&NTil!DK'ft .lXD INT.LL.CT. 'It
such actions appear to me to be thoee which the . -
would then rejoice to p888 in review, as haYiDg aft'orde4
real enjoyment, and .left behind us the greateat permaneat
benefits to our fellow men.
SECTION V.
THE FACULTIES 011' MAN COMPAllED WITH EXTERNAL OBJECT&
HAviNG considered man as a physical being, and briefly
adverted to the adaptation of his constitution to the physi-
cal laws of creation; having viewed him as an organized
being, and traced the relations of his organic structure to
his external circumstances; having taken a rapid survey of
hisfaculties as an animal, moral, and intellectual being,-
with their uses and the forms of their abuses; and having
contrasted these faculties with each other, and discovered
the supremacy of the Moral Sentiments and Intellect; I
proceed to compare his faculties with erternal objects, in
order to discover what provision has been made for their
gratification.
AMATIVENESS is a feeling obviously necessary for the
continuance of the species; and one which, properly regu-
lated, is not offensive to reason:-opposite sexes exist to
provide for its gratification.•
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS is given,-and offspring exist.
CoNcENTRATIVENEss is conferred,-and the other facul-
ties. are its objects.
ADHESIVENEss is given,-and country and friends exi11t
CoMBATIVENEss is bestowed,-and physical and moral
obstacles exist, to meet and subdue which, courage is
necessary.
DEsTRUCTIVENEss is given,-and man is constituted
with a carnivorous stomach, and animals to be killed and
• The nature aDd sphere of activity of the phreoological facultiel ia a.-
plaiDed !!' length in the ' System of Phrenology,' to which l beg leawe to
refer. Here I can only indicate general ideas.
oio "'ed by Google
80 ~ACUL'I'IIII OW JIU.1f
eaten exist. Besides, tbe whole combinations of creation
are in a state of decay and renovation. In the animal
kingdom almost every species of creature is the prey of
some other; and the faculty of Destructiveness places the
human mind in harmony with this order of creation. De-
struction makes way for renovation; the act of renovation
furnishes occasion for the activity of our other powers;
and activity is pleasure. That destruction is a natural in-
stitution is unquestionable. Not only has nature taught the
spider to construct a web for the purpose of ensnaring flies
that it may devour them, and constituted beasts of prey
with carnivorous teeth; but she has formed even plants,
such as the Drosera, to catch and kill flies, and use them
for food. Destructiveness is also the source of resentment
and indignation-a most important defensive as well as
vindicatory purpose. It is a check upon undue encroach-
ment, and tends to constrain mankind to pay regard to the
rights and feelings of each other. When properly regulat-
ed, it is an able assistant to justice.
CoNS'_!'RUCTIVENEss is given,-and materials for con-
l'ltructing artificial habitations, raiment, ships, and various
other fabrics that add to the enjoyment of life, are the
objectil which give it scope.
AcQUISITIVENEss is bestowed,-and property exists, ca-
pable of being collected, preserved, and applied to use.
SECRETIVENESS is given,-and the manifestations of our
faculties require to be restrained, until fit occasions and
legitimate objects present themselves for their gratifica-
tion; which restraint is rendered not only possible but
agreeable, by the propensity in question. While we
suppress our emotions, ideas, designs, or opinions, and
confine them within the limits of our own consciousness,
we exercise and gratify this faculty in the very act of
doing so
S&LP-EsT&I\M is given,-and we have an individual
existence and individual interests, as its objects.
Lon OF APPROBATION is bestowed,-and we are sur-
oio "'ed by Google
CO.MP.lJl&D WITH UTa&N.lL OBJECTS. 81
rounded by out fenow men, wboee good opinion is the
ebject ofits desire.
C.&.UTJOUINJtss is admirably adapted to the nature of the
external world. The human body is combustible, is liable
to be destroytld by violence, to suffer injury from extreme
wet and winds, &e. ; and it is necessary for us to be
habitually watchful to avoid these sources of calamity.
Accordingly, Cautiousness is bestowed on us as an ever-
watchful sentinel, constantly whispering ' Take care.'
There is ample scope for the legitimate and pleasurable
exercise of all our faculties, without running into these
evils, provided we know enough, and.are watchful enough;
and therefore Cautiousness is not overwhelmed with in-
evitable terrors. It serves merely as a warder to excite
us to beware of sudden and unexpected danger; it keeps
the other faculties at their post, by furnishing a stimulus to
them to observe and to trace consequences, that safety
may be insured; and, when these other faculties do their
duty in.proper form, the impulses of Cautiousness, instead
of being painful, are the reverse: they communicate a
feeling of safety, which is exceedingly agreeable. Hence
this faculty app~ars equally benevolent in its design, as
the others which we have contemplated. It is clear that
the gill of an organ of Cautiousness implied that man was
to be placed in a field of danger. It is adapted to a world
like the present, but would be at variance with a scene
into which no evil could intrude.
Here, then, we perceive a beautiful provision made for
supporting the activity of the lower propensities, and
affording them legitimate gratification. These powers are
conferred on us clearly to support our animal nature, and
to place us in harmony with the external objects of crea-
tion. Fsr from being injurious or base in themselves, they
possess the dignity of utility, and are sources of high en-
joyment, when legitimately indulged. The phrenolo&ist,
therefore, would never seek to extirpate them, or to weak-
en them too much. He desires only to see their excesses
og,,,ze~b,Google
P A.CULTI.I OP M.A.l'f
controlled, and their exercise directed iu. aceordance with
the great institutions and designs ofthe Creator. Theolo-
gians who enforce the corruption of human nature, would
do well to consider whether man as originally coDBtituted
possessed the organs of these propensities or not. If he
did possess them, it will be incumbent on them to show the
objects of them in a world where there was no aorrow, sin,
death, or danger. If these organs were bestowed only
after the fall, the question will remain to be solved,
whether man with new organs added to his brain, and new
propensities to his mind, continued the same being, as
when these did not form parts of his constitution. Or,
finnlly, they may consider whether the existence of these
organs, and of an external world adapted to them, does
not prove that man, as he now exists, is actually the same
being as when he was created, and that his corruption
consists in his tendency to abuse his faculties, and not in
any inherent viciousness attributable to his nature itself.
The next class of faculties is that embracing the Moral
Sentiments proper to man. These are the following:
BENEVOLENCE is given,-and sentient and intelligent
beings are created, whose happiness we are able to in-
crease, thereby affording it scope and delight. It is an
error to imagine, that creatures in misery are the only
objects of benevolence, and that it has no function but to
experience pity. It is a wide-spreading fountain of gene-
rous feeling, desiring for its gratification not only the re-
moval of pain, but the maintenance and augmentation of
positive enjoyment; and the happier it can render its ob-
jects, the more complete are its satisfaction and delight. .
Its exercise, lilte that of all the other faculties, is a source
of great pleasure to the individual himself; and nothing
can be conceived more admirably adapted for affording it
exeycise, than the system of creation exhibited on earth. "
From the nature of the human faculties, each individual,
without injuring himself, has it in his power to confer
COMr&BBD WITB UTEBlUL OBJECTS, 8S
prodigious benefits, or, in other words, to pour forth the
most copious streams of benevolence on others, by legiti-
mately gratifying their various feelings and intellectual
faculties.
VENEJUTJON.-The highest object of this faculty is the
Divine Being; and I assume here the exiatenee of God u
capable of demonstration. The very euay in which I am
·now engaged, is an attempt at an exposition ofsome ofbia
attributes, as manifested in this world. If we find wisdom
and benevolence in his works unchangeableneu and no
shadow of turning in his laws, perfect harmony in each
department of creation; and if we shall discover that the
e\•ils which afilict us are much less the direct objects of
his arrangements than the consequences of ignorant neglect
of institutions intended for our enjoyment,--then we shall
acknowledge in the Divine Being an object whom we may
love with all our soul, and reverence with the deepest
emotions of veneration, and on whom Hope and Consci-
entiousness may repose with a perfect and unhesitating
reliance. The exercise ofthis sentiment U, in itself a great
positive enjoyment, when the object is in harmony with our
other faculties. Farther, its activity disposes us to yield
obedience to the 'Creator's laws, the object ofwhich is our
own happiness; and hence its exercise, in the highest
degree, is provided for. Revelation unfolds the character
and intentions ofGoi> where reason cannot penetrate.
HoPE is given,-and our understanding, by discovering
the laws of nature, is enabled to penetrate into the future.
This sentiment, then, is gratified by the absolute reliance
which Causality convinces us we may place on the stability
and wisdom of the divine arrangements : its legitimate
exercise, in reference to this life, is to give us a vivifying
faith that good is attainable if we use the proper means,
and that while we suffer evil we are undergoing a chastise-
ment for having neglected the institutions of the Creator,
the object of which punishment is to urge us back into the
right path. It is a very powerful alleviator of our aftlic-
oio "'ed by Google
84 ~.t.OOI.TJU OJ' JUlf
tiona. ReYelation presents to Hope the certainty of a liilt
to come, and directs all our faculties in points of Faith.
IDlll.t.LITY ia beatowed,--aod not only is es.temal nature
invested with the moat es.quisite loveliness, but a capacity
for moral ·and intellectual refinement is given to us, by
which we may rise in the scale of es.cellence, and, at every
step ofour progress, reap direct enjoyment from this senti-
ment. Ita coDStant desire is for ' something more exquisite
atill.' In ita own immediate impulses it is delightful, and
external nature and our own faculties respond to its call.
WONDER prompts us to admiration, and desires some-
thing new. When we contemplate man endowed with
intellect to discover a Deity and to comprehend his works,
we cannot doubt that Wonder is provided with objects for
its intensest exercise; and when we view him placed in a
world where old things are constantly passing away, and a
system of renovation is incessantly proceflding, we see at
once how vast a provision is made for the gratification of
his desire of novelty, and how admirably it is calculated to
impel his other faculties to action.
CoNSCIENTIOtJSNESS exists,-and it has a wide field of
exercise in regulating the rights and interests of the indi-
vidual in relation to other men and to society. The exist-
ence of selfish propensities and disinterested emotions,
demands a power to arbitrate between them, and to regu-
late both, and such is the sentiment of Conscientiousness.
To afford it full satisfaction, it is necessary to prove that
all the divine institutions are founded in justice. This is a
point which many regard as involved in much obscurity;
I shall endeavor in this Essay to lift the veil in part, for to
me justice appears to ftow through every divine institution.
One difficulty, in regard to Conscientiousness, long
appeared inexplicable; it was, how to reconcile with benev-
_olence the iDBtitution by which this faculty visits us with
remorse, aJUr offences are actually committed, instead of
arresting our hands by an irresistible veto .before sinning,
so u to saTe u1 from the perpetration altogether. The
oio "'ed by Google
COJII'.&.UD WJft t:S:'rft!U.L 08JI\CT8. d
,.-Ifml 111 aol¥ed by the princi~, That happiness consietW
in the activity of our faculties, and that the arrangement
of punishment after the offence, is far more condnciYe to
t.ctivity than the opposite. Fo-r example: if we desired to
enjoy the highest gratification in exploring a new eouhtry,
replete with the most exquisite beauties of scenery and tire
most captivating natural productions; and if we found in
our path precipices that gratified Ideality in tbe highest
degree, but which endangered life when, neglecting the
law of gravitation, we advanced so nP.ar as to fall over
them; whether would it be more bountiful in Providence
to send an invisible attendant with us, who, whenever we
were about to approach the brink, should interpose a bar-
rier, and fairly cut short our advance, without requiring u•
to bestow one thought upon the subject and without our
knowing when to expect it and when not;-or to leave all
open, but to confer on us, as he has done, eyes fitted to
see the precipice, faculties to comprehend the law ofgrari-
tation, and Cautiousness to make us fear the in&ingement
of it,-and then to leave us to enjoy the scene in perfect
safety if we used these powers, but to fall over and suffer
pain or death if we neglected to exercise them? It is ob-
vious that the latter arrangement would give far more scope
to our various powers; and if active faculties are the
sources of pleasure, as will be shown in the next chapter,
then it would contribute more to our enjoyment than the
other. Now, Conscientiousness punishing after the fact is
analogous, in the moral world, to this arrangement in the
physical. If Intellect, Benevolence, Veneration, and Con-
scientiousness, do their parts, they will give intimations of
disapprobation before the commission of offences, just as
Cautiousness will give intimations ofdanger at the eight of
the cliff; but if these are disregarded, and we fall over the
moral precipice, remorse will follow as a punishment, julfl
as pain is the chastisement for tumbling over the physical
brink. The object of both institutions is to permit and
encourage the most vigorous and unrestrained exercise-of
8
oio "'Od by Google
86 I'ACOLl'J&I ~ , JU.l( . • .
pur faculties, in accordance with the pbyJiicAI, .~. and
intellectual laws of nature, IU)d to punish us ~y when we
transgress these limits.
FIRMNEss is bcstowed,-and the other Cacul~ies of the
mind are its objects. It supports and maintaips their ac-
tivity, and gives determination to our purpos11s..
IMITATION is bestowed,-and every. where .m~ is sur-
rounded by beings and objects whose actions and appear-
ances it may benefit him to copy.
The next Clasil ofFaculties is the lnteUeotual.
The provisions in external nature for the gratifieatioa of
the Semel of Hearing, Seeing, Smelling, Taste, and Feel-
ing, are so obvious, that it is unnecessary to enlarge upon ·
them.
INDIVIDUALITY and EvENTUALITY, or the powers of ob-
serving things that exist, and occurrences, are given,-
and ' all the truths which Natliral Philosophy teaches, de-
pend upon matter offact, and that is learned by ob11ervation
and experiment, and never could be discovered by reason- ·
ing at all.' Here, then, is ample scope for the exercise of
these power11.
FoaM, SIZE, WEIGHT, LocALITY, ORDER, and NuMBER,
are bestowed,-and the sciences of Geometry, Arithmetic,
Algebra, Geography, Navigation, Botany, Mineralogy,
Zoology, Anatomy, and various others, are the fields of
their exercise. The first three sciences are almost the
entire products of these faculties; the others result chiefly
from them, when applied on external objects.
CoLORING, TuiE, and TUNE are given,-and these,
aided by Constructiveness, Form, Size, Ideality, and other
faculties, find scope in Painting, Sculpture, Poetry, Music,
and the other fine arts.
LANGUAGE is given,-and our faculties inspire us wtth
lively emotions and ideas, which we desire to communicate
by its means to other individual.s.
oio "'ed by Google
COMPARED WITH l!lXT&RNAL OBJECTS. 8'2'
CoMPARISON and CAUSALITY exist, and these faculties,
aided by Individuality, Form, Size, Weight, and others
already enumerated, find ample gratification in Natural
Philosophy, and in Moral, Political, and Intellectual Sci-
ence. The general objects and affairs of life,-togetber
with oar own feelings, conduct, and relations, are also the
objects of the knowing and reflecting faculties, and afford
them vast opportunities for exercise.
CHAPTER Ill.
ON·THB SOUReD!J QJl HtiMA.l't HAPPINESS, AND THE OOJI.
DITIOM RBQUISITE P0R JIAI.N,.All'fiNG IT.
HAVING now given a rapid sketch of the constitution of
man, and its relations to external objects, we are prepared
to inquire into the sources of his happiness, and the condi-
tions requisite for maintaining it.
The first and most obvious circumstance which·attracts
1\tt.ention is, that all enjoyment must necessarily arise from
cu:Mity of the various systems of which the human consti-
tution is composed. The bones, muscles, nerves, and di-
gestive and. respiratory organs, furnish pleasing sensations,
directly or indirectly, when exercised in conformity with
their nature; and the external senses and internal racul-
ties, when excited, supply the whole remaining perceptions
and emotions, which, when combined, constitute life and
rational existence. If these were habitually buried in
sleep, or constitutionally inactive, life, to all purpos.,. of
enjoyment, might as well be extinct: Existence would be
reduced to mere vegetation, without consciousness.
If, then, wisdom and benevolence have been employed
in constituting man, we may expect the arrangements of
creation, in regard to him, to be calculated, at a leading
.object, to ezcile his various powers, corporeal and mental,
to actiflity. This, accordingly, appears to me to be the
case; and the fact may be illustrated by a few examples.
A certain portion of nervous and muscular energy is in-
fused by nature into the human body every twenty-four
hours, which it is delightful to expend. To provide for its
expenditure, the stomach has been constituted so as to
require regular supplies of food, which can be obtained
oo11 bT nervoua and muscular eltt:lnion; the body haa bet:ln
oio "'ed by Google
ON 'l'BE SOUllC&I 01' JUJKAN IU.J'PJKBI_
S, 89
created destitute of co..-ering, yet standing in need of pro-
tection from the elements of heaven; and nature has been
so constituted, that raiment can be easily provided .by
inoderate exercise of the mental and corporeal powers. It
is delightful to repair exhausted nervous and muscular
energy by wholesome aliment; and the digestive organa
have been so constituted as to afford us frequent opportuni-
ties of enjoying the pleasures of eating. In these arrang~
ments, the design of supporting the various systems of the
body in activity, for the enjoyment of the individual, ia
abundantly obvious. A late writer justly remarks, that ' a
person of feeble texture and illdolent habits has the boDe
smooth, thin, and light; but nature, eolicitous for our
safety, and in: a manner which we could not anticipate,
combines with the powerful muscular frame a dense and
perfect texture of bone, where every spine and tubercle is
completely developed.' 'As the structure of the parte is
originally perfected by the action of the vessels, the func-
tion or operation of the part is made the stimulus to those
vessels. The cuticle on the hand wears away like a glove;
but the pressure stimulates the living surface to force suc-
cessive layers of skin under that which is wearing, or, as
anatomillts call it, desquamating; by which they mean,
that the cuticle does not change at once, but comes off' in
squamre or scales.'
Directing our attention to the Mind, we discover that
Individuality, and the other Perceptive Faculties, desire,
as thtir means of enjoyment, to become acquainted with
external objects; while the Reflecting Faculties Ion~ to
know the dependencies and relations of all objects and
beings. 'There is something,' says an elo.quent writer,
' positively agreeable to all men, to all at least whose
nature is not most grovelling and base, in gaining know-
ledge for its own sake. When you see any thing for the
first time, you at once derive some gratification from the
sight being new; your attention is awakened, and you
desire to know more about it. Ifit is a piece ~f workman-
8*
oio "'ed by Google
to CW ~........,......1' -~ a4P~~U.
..,, aa,• U.I'IMMJ». a -~- qf ~J ki.m, Y.QU witlfb. to
ktlew bo\1& it; W. nwle; lttolf. it.WC)Z:U.i: a~t!l. l1f~at. USA it. -...~
lt'it: W. • -..inW. JOlt de,sife ~ lw~w w~re it eQJM" (row.;
bow a. lwee; what artl itJ QWpq&itiOPtl, aM.. gen~.UJ, ~
IIMWMI .,ul bllbitlt. 'l'hia c;l~~ is ~t, too, w-~ at qJl
_..t.~en.g that.. tb#t QlachiAe or the. ani.llW ~a~ ~w ~
oi tbe.leest.Wilt. tQ yourself practic.Uly,; fp~;, iA all p~~
Qility·, JOU may· never l!tte them $gain. But ·ycm fetll a
ou.rioeity. tQ lep,r• all aboQt them, bectJt~~e they' ar& ne.u.am/.
..,.,., ~ yOtf. Vou ~cordtngly make- iil.q~Mrif!ti y~
feel A grolifictJtion. ia gettio~ auwers ~ your ~~~
tMA ia i• recmwg U(onnation, and io k:Qo.wiag lllOre,_...-
iD beiag MUior iaformed than. you we~ b~~e. If )!~IJ
Mer·lroappeo again to eee the same illltr'-ment.~ an¥nal,
you find it agreeable to recoUeC:t haviag seea it before,
111¥1 to think. tltat. you know something abo~ it. If you
aee anpf.&er inst~ot ~ animal, in some respects like,
blltl c;liiieri,J,g ia oth~ particwars, you find it ple&!loiag to
DOmptll'e tlwm together, apd to a.ote in what they agree, and
in wba~ fthey dilfer. Now, all this kind of gratification is
. of a pure.and disinter&Sted nature, l!ond has no reference to
any of the· common purposes· of life; yet it is a pleasure-
an eojoyment. You are nothing the richer for it; you do
not gratify your palate, or any other bodily appetite; and
yet it is so pleasing that you would give something out of
your pocket to obtain it, and would forego some bodily
enjoyment for its sake. The pleasure derived from sci-
ence is exactly of the like nature, or, rather, it is the very
same.'* This is a correct and forcible exposition of the
pleasures attending the active exercise of our intellectual
faculties. In the Introduction to this work, pages 7·and
8, I have given several illtistrations ofthe·manner in which
~e external world is adapted to the mental ·faculties of
fman, and of the extent to which it is calculated to maintain
;them in activity, and I need not repeat them bel'e•
.Supposing the human faculties to have received their
• Objects, A.murtag"fl, and Pleaaures of Science, p. 1,
oio "'ed by Google
.l!Q Til& OONDU'IOJU I'OR; ~'f.t.J;NlfG J:r. ~~
ptoee.eat CODatitution, two atrabge--~. fo.r their &ralmo
eation may be 6mcied~ 1st, Intu.iug into. the iuteUec~al
powers at birth, i.UWe lmouledga of every object whU:h.
tMf are fitted ever to comprehend; and direeting, eyery
propensity and sentiment by an infallible instinct to ita
beet mode aad degree of gratification: Or, ~dJy, Con-
stitqtiog the . intellect\lal faculties only as capaciliu for
gaining knoW'ledge by exercise and application, and sur-
~ rouncling them with objects beo.riog such relations towards
them, that, when theae objects and relations are observed
and attended to, bigh gratification shall be ob~ained, and,
when'they are unobserved and neglected, the result shall
lte uneasiness and pain; giving at the same time to each
propensity and sentiment a wide field of action, compre-
hending both use and abuse, and leaving the intellect to
direct each to its proper objects, and to regulate its degrees
of indulgence. And the question occurs, Which of these
modes would be more conducive to enjoyment? The
general opinion will be in favor of the first; but the second
appears to me to be preferable. If the first meal we had
eaten had for ever prevented the recurrence of hunger, it
is obvious that all the pleasurea of satisfying a healthy
appetite would then have been at an end; so that this
apparent bounty would have greatly abridged our enjoy-
ment. In like manner, if (our faculties being constituted
as at present) unerring desire had been impressed on the
propensities and sentiments, and intuitive knowledge bad
been communicated to the understanding, so that, when an
hour old, we should have been, morally, as wiile and vir-
tuous, and, intellectually, as thoroughly instructed as we
could ever become, -au provision for the sustained activity
of our faculties would have been done away with. When
W'ealth is acquired, the miser's pleasure in it is diminished.
He grasps after more with increasing avidity. He is sup-
posed irrational in doing so; but he obeys the instinct of
his nature. What , he possesses no longer satisfies Ac-
quiSitiveness. The miaer's pleasure arises from the actiw
oio "'ed by Google
9i ON THE SOURCES 01' BUM.A.K B.&l'Pil'JESI,
tttJfe of this faculty, and only the pursuit awl obtaining of
ftetD frttlltWtS can mawmn that tttJte. The same law is
exemplified in the case of Love of Approbation. The
enjoyment which it affords depends on ita actit~e ttaU; and
hence the necessity for new incense, and for mounting higl&er
in the sci.le of ambition, is constantly felt by its victims.
Napoleon, in exile, said, 'Let us live upon the past;' but
he found this impossible: his predominant desires origi-
nated in Love of Approbation and Self-Esteem, and the
past did not stimulate them, or maintain them in constant
activity. In like manner, no musician, artiSt, poet, or
philosopher, would reckon himself happy, however exten-
sive his attainments, if informed, 'Now you must stop and
live upon the past;' and the reason is still tbe same: the
pursuit of new acquirements, and the discovery of new
fields of investigation, excite and maintain the faculties io
activity; and a~tivity is enjoyment. '
If these views be correct, the consequences of imbuing
the mind, as at present constituted, with intuitive know•
ledge, and instinctive direction as to conduct, would not
have been unquestionably beneficial. The limits of our
experience and acquirements would have been speedily
reached; our fi.rst step would have been our last; every
object would have become old and familiar; Hope would
have had no object of expectation, Cautiousness no object
of fear, Wonder no gratification in novelty; and monotony,
in~ipiclity, and mental satiety, would apparently have been
the lot of man.
According to the view now advanced, creation, in its
present form, is· more wisely and benevolently adapted to
our constitution than if instinctive direction and intuitive
instruction had been given to the mind at birth. By the
actual arrangement, numerous noble faculties are bestow-
ed, and their objects are presented: these objects are
endowed with qualities fitted to benefit and delight us,
when properly used, and to injure and punish us when
misunderstood i>r misapplied; but we are left to find out
oio "'ed by Google
ANP TUB CO!fDITIONS FOR lllArNTAil'J~G IT. $'J
their:qualities by the e'K'Meise of our'own powei'B. Pro.vi-
&Mo is tbwa: made for ceaseless activity of the meatal facul-·
ties, aad this constitutes delight. Wheat is produced by.
the. earth, and adapted to the a.tttrition of tile body; but it
may be rendered more grateful to taste, more salubrious to
the stomach~ and more stimulating ro the nervous and.
muscular systems, by being stripped of its external skin. .
ground into flour, and baked. Now, when the Creatot
endowed wheat· with its properties, and the human body
with ita qualities and functions, be pre-arranged all theae
relations. In withholding congenital and intuitive know-
ledge ofthem, but in bestowing faculties fitted to fuKI them
out; in readering the exercise.ofthese faculties agreeable;
and in leaving man, in this condition, to act fOf himeelf,-
he appears to me to have conferred on him the highest
boon. Tbe earth produces also hemlock and foxglove;·
and, by the organie law, those substances, if taken ill
certain moderate quantities, remove diseases; if ineJWC~Nt,
they occasion death: but. man-'s ebserving foculties, when
actiag under the guidance Gf Catltioue~ss aad ReflectioQ,
are fitted to make this discovery; and he ia left to make it
in this way, or sulfur the consequences of neglect.
Water, 1
when elevated in temperature, beCOQlee ~a; .
steam expands with prodigious power; and this p<tWOJ!,
confined by metal and directed by intellect, is capable Gf
being converted into the steam-eagioe, the moet efficient
y~t most humble servant of man. All this was clearly pre-
arranged by the Doity, and man's faculties were adapted
te it at creation; but he was left to observe>and discover
the qualities and rt'llations of water for himeelf.· Tlli• "oty,
hewever, must· be ~knowledged to have been benevolently
imposed, tbe moment we ,erceive that tbe Creator hu
made the very exercise of the faculties agreeable, ..
tmm~d ·the qualities and relatiODS of 188.tter so bt!nefi-
4Siall1·tihot; ·wberi luai>wn, they cur:r a do.We rewud &Q
~ ~r..;-.....tbe:plea8UI'e ofmealal ex81cilse, ..-4 pGIIi-.
tiM ldftlllt~~ge ·.teiivedl fioOin tile objects thotoeel,..
oio "'ed by Google
94 ON THE IOt11lCBS OF B11KAN BAPPIKBSS,
The Knowing Faculties, as we have seen, obse"e mere-
ly the qualities of bodies, and their simpler relations. The
Reflecting Faculties observe relations also, but of a higher
order. The former, for example, discover that the soil is
clay or gravel; that it is tough or friable; that it is dry or
wet; that exces of water impedes vegetation; that in one
sea n tho crop is large, and in the next deficient. The
reflecting faculties take cognizance of the causes of these
ph nornena; and acting along with the knowing powers,
they di cover thl.l means by which wet soil may be render-
ed dry, clay pulverized, light soil invigorated, and all of
th m made more productive; and also the relationship of
particular soils to particular kinds of grain. Nations that
exert th<'ir knowing faculties in observing the qualities of
the soil , and their reflecting faculties in discovering its
capabilities, and its relations to water, lime, manures, and
the various species of grain,-and who put forth their
muscular and nervous energies in accordance with the
dictates of these powers,-receive n rich reward in a
climate improved in salubrity, and an abundant supply of
food, besides much positive enjoyment attending the exer-
cise of tho powers themselves. Those communities., on
the other hand, who neglect to use their mental faculties,
and muscular and nervous energies, are punished by ague,
fever, rheumatism, and a variety of painful affections aris-
ing from damp air; they are stinted in food, and in wet
seasons are brought to the very brink of starvation by
serious failures of their crops. This punishment is a
benevolent admonition from the Creator, that they are
neglecting a great duty, and omitting to enjoy a great
pleasure; and it will cease as soon as, by obeying the
Divine laws, they have fairly redeemed the blessings lost
by their negligence.
The winds and waves appear, at first sight, to present
insurmountable obstacles to man's leaving the island or
continent on which he happens to be born, and to his
holding intercourse with distant climes: But, by observing
~.
~I·
oi
AND THB CORJJn<IONS P&R MAII'lTAJNJ!Ii'O lT. 96
th& relations "Ot water·to tinlber; he·is enabled to conatnaot
a ship; by observing the inftuence of the wind on a body
placed in a ftuid medium, he discovers the use of sails;
and, lately, he has found out the expansive quality of
steam, and traced its relations until he has produced a
machine that enables him almost to set the roaring tempest
at defiance, and to sail straight to the stormy north, al-
though its loudest and its fiercest blasts oppose. All these
capabilities were conferred on nature and on man, long
before they were practically applied; but now that we
have advanced so far in our career of discovery and
improvement, we perceive the scheme of creation to be ad-
mirably adapted to support the mental faculties in habitual
activity, and to reward us for the exercise of them.
In surveying external nature with this principle in view,
we perceive in many qualities of physical objects clear
indications of benevolent design, which otherwise would
be regarded as defects. The Creator obviously intended
that man should discover and use coal-gas in illuminating
dwelling-houses; and yet it emits an abominable odor.
The bad smell, viewed abstractedly from its consequences,
would appear to be an unfortunate quality of gas; but
when we recollect that it is invisible, extremely subtle
and liable to escape, and also, when mixed in a certain
proportion with atmospheric air, to explode,-and that the
nauseous and penetrating smell is like a voice attached to
it, proclaiming its escape, and warning us, in louder and
louder tones, to attend to our safety by confining it,-it
presents the aspect of wise and benevolent design. Gas
stood in this relation to the olfactory nerves from the crea-
tion downwards, although it was long unknown to men.
We cannot doubt that the discovery and application of it
by them was contemplated by the Creator from the first.
A few years ago, on hearing Paganini play on the violin,
the subject of wonder with me was the exquisite fineness
of his notes. The sounds fell on the ear as if their cause
had been purely ethereal. No indication of their material
8f OK 'l'B& IOURC&I OF HUMAN IIAPP..&II,
oailiJl could be traced. An angel mi&llt be imag~ te
.end forth such strains to mortal ears. The extraordiaary
development of Paganini's organa of Tune and Time, with
the extreme sensibility of his Dervous system strongly
indicated in his countenance and figure, seem to have
been the causes of his attaining this high degree ·of power.
In reflecting on his performance, the idea forcibly struck
me, that until a being constituted like Paganini appeared,
we bad no means of discovering what e.r.quisite sounds the
material substances composing a violin and bow were
capable of emitting, and that a similar reflection may
probably be applicable to the entire sublunary creation.
This world may be full of divine qualities and delicious
harmonies, if we had only superior men to bring them into
view! And if the case be so, how truly admirable is that
constitution of nature, which furnishes us with every possi-
ble inducement not only to study itself, but to improve our
own qualities; and which presents us with richer trea-
sures, the farther we advance in the discharge Qf our most
pleasing and profitable duties!
It is objected to this argument, that it inv.olves an in-
consistency. Ignorance of the natural laws, it is said, is
represented as necessary to happiness, in order that the
faculties may obtain exercise in discovering and obeying
1hem;-nevertheless happiness is held tp be impossible till
these laws shall have been discovered and obeyed: here
then, it is said, ignorance is represt~nted as at once euen--
htll to, and incompatible with, enjoyment. But thi; is not
an accurate representation of the doctrine. I do not say
that, in any individual man, ignorance of the natural laws
is euential to enjoyment; I merely maintain, that with his
present constitution it was more beneficial for him to be
left to learn these lau from his parents or his own expe-
rience, than at birth to have received intuitive knowledge
ofall tho objects of creation. A similar objection might be
stated to the constitution of the bee. Honey is necessary
to its enjoyment; yet it has been le~ to gather honey for
'oioti,edbyGoogle
AlfD TBZ·CCIINBITIO!fS •oa MAINTAINING IT. 9T
dself. The fallacy lies ·iB losing aight of the natural con-
stitution both of the bee and of man. The bee hu bem
furnished with instinctive tendencies to roam about the
fields and flowery meadows, and to exert its energie& ia
labor; and it is obviously beneficial to it to be providetl
with opportunities of doing so. And so it is with mao.
Gathering knowledge is to the human mind what gathering
honey is to the bee. Communicating intuitive knowledge
of the natural lawa to man, tehik hil pruent comtilufion
continuu, would be the exact parallel of naturally gorging
. the bee with honey during the whole summer, when ita
energies are at their height. When the bee has completed
its store, winter benumbs its powers, which resume their
vigor only when its stock is exhausted, and when spring
returns to afford them exercise. No torpor resembling
that of winter seals up the faculties of the human race;
but their ceaseless activity is amply provided for by other
arrangements: First, Every individual of the race is born
in utter ignorance, and starts from zero in the scale of
knowledge, so that he has the laws to learn for himaelf
either from his predecessors or from experience; Secondly,
The Jaws of nature, compared with the mental capacity of
any individual, are of boundless extent, so that every one
may learn something new to the end of the longest life;
Thirdly, By the actual constitution of man, he must make
use of his acquirements habitually, otherwise he will lose
them.
These circumstances remove the apparent inconsistency.
If man had possessed intuitive knowledge of all nature, he
could have had no scope for exercising his faculties in ac-
quiring knowledge, in presert>ing it, or in communicating it.
The infant would have been as wise as the most revered
sage, and forgetfulness would have been necessarily ex-
clude~.
Some who object to theae views, imagine that after the
human race has acquired knowledge of all the natural laws,
ifaueh a result be pouible, they will be in the same contft-
9
oio "'ed by Google
98 ON THE IOUilC&II 01' HUllUM ~APPINEII,
~iota at if1My Md btm created tfttl& intuiMt lmotoledge. But
this does not follow. Although the race should acquire the
knowledge supposed, it is not an inevitable consequence
that each. indit~idual will necessarily enjoy it all; which,
however, would follow from intuition. The entire soil of
Britain belongs to the .landed proprietors as a class; but
each does not possess it all, and hence every one has
opportunities of adding to his territories-with this disad-
vantage, however, in comparison with knowledge, that the
acquisitions of one necessarily diminish the possessions of
another. Farther, although the race should have learned
all the natural laws, their children would not intuitively
inherit their ideas, and thus the activity of every one, as
he appeared on the stage, would be provided for; whereas,
by intuition, every child would be as wise as his grand-
father,-and parental protection, filial piety, and all the
dolights that spring from difference in knowledge between
youth and age, would be excluded. Lastly, By the actual
11tate of man, the using of acquirements is essential to the
preservation' as well as the enjoyment of tJ!em. By intui-
tion, all knowledge would be habitually present to the
mind without effort or consideration. On the whole, there-
fore, it appears that (man's nature being what it is) the
arrangement by which he is endowed with powers to
acquire knowledge, but left to find it for himself, is both
wise and benevolent.
It has been asked, ' But is there no pleasure in science
except that of discovery? Is there none is using the know-
ledge we have attained? Is there no pleasure in playing at
chess after we know the moves?' In answer, I observe,
that ifwe knew beforehand all the moves that our antago-
nist intended to make and all our own, which must be the
case if we knew every thing by intuition, we could have no
pleasure. The pleasure really consists in discovering the
· mtentions of our antagonist, and in calculating the effects
of our own play; a certain degree of ignorance of both of
which is indispensable to gratification. In like manner, it
'
AND THE CONDITIONS FOR MAINTAINING IT. 99
is agreeable first to discover the natural laws, and then to
study the mo11e1 that we ought to make, in consequence of
knowing them. So much, then, for the tourcet of humu
happiness.
In the second place, To reap enjoyment in the greatut
quontity and to maintain it motl permamntly, the faculties
must be gratified haf'flll)niously: In other words, if, among
the various powers, the tupremacy belongs to the more
sentiments, then the aim of our habitual conduct must be
the attainment of objects suited to gratify them. For ex-,
ample, in pursuing wealth or fame as the leading object of
existence, full gratification is not afforded to Benevolence,
Veneration, and Conscientiousness, and consequently com-
plete satisfaction cannot be enjoyed; whereas, by seeking
knowledge, lind dedicating life to the welfare of mankind,
and obedience to God, in our several vocations, these fac-
ulties will be gratified, and wealth, fame, health, and other
advantages, will flow in their train, so that the whole mind
will rejoice, and its delight will remain permanent.
· Thirdly, To place human happiness on a secure basis,
the laws of external creation must themselves accord with
the dictates of the moral sentiments, and intellect must be
fitted to discover the nature and relations of both, and to
direct the conduct in harmony with them.
Much has been written concerning the extent of human
ignorance: but we should discriminate between absolute
incapacity to know, and mere want of information, arising
from not having used this capacity to its full extent. In
regard to the first-our capacity to know-it appears
probable that, in this world, we shall never know the
essence, beginning, or end of things; because these are
points which we have no faculties calculated to discover:
Bu~ the same Creator who made the external world consti-
tuted our faculties; and ifwe have sufficient data for infer-
ring it to be his intention that we shall enjoy existence
here while preparing for the ulterior ends of our beiog,-
aod if it be true that we can be hapl!y here, only by be-
?.86034
- o;ou,edbyGoogle
100 ON THE 80tlJ\Cli:8 OF HUMAN HAPPJ.I!f&SS,
ceming thoroughly conversant with those natural lawa
which are pre-arranged to contribute, when observed, to
our 1mjoyment, and which, when violated, visit us with
suffering,-then we may safely conclude that our mental
capacities are wisely adapted to the attainment of these
objects, whenever we shall do our own duty in bringing
them to their highest condition of perfection, and in apply-
ing them in the best manner.
Sir Isaac Newton observed that all bodies which refrac-
ted the rays of light, were combustible, except one, the
diamood, which he found to have this quality, butwhich he
was not able, by any powers he possessed, to consume by
burning. He did not conclude, however, from this, that
the diamond was ao exception to the uniformity of nature.
He inferred that, .u the same Creator had made the dia-
mond and the refracting bodies which he was able to burn,
aDd proceeded hy uniform laws, the diamond also would,
in all pcobahility, be found to be combustible, and that the
reason ofits resisting his power was ignorance on his part
ofthe proper way to produce its conflagration. A century
afterwards, chemists made the diamond blaze with as much
Yivacity as Sir Isaac Newton had done a wax-candle. Let
us proceed, then, on an analogous principle. If the inten-
tion of our Creator be, that we should enjoy existence
while in this world, then He knew what was necessary to
enable us to do so; and He will not be found to have
failed in conferring on us powers fitted to accomplish his
design, provided we do our duty in developing and apply-
ing them. The great motive to exertion is the conviction,
that increased knowledge will furnish us with increased
means of happiness and well-doing, and with new proofs
ofbeneyolence and wisdom in the Great Architect of the
Universe.
In pleading thus earnestly for the wise and bene'volent
constitution ofthe human mind, and the admirable adapta-
tion of external nature to its qualities, I may be causing
uneuiness to some readers who have been educated in the
oq''"edbyGoogle
A.ND THE COKDJTIONS I'Oll XAJNT.lll'UNG IT. 101
belief that human nature ia inherently corrupt, and that
phyaical creati9n is essentially disordered; but, in doing
so, I yield to the imperative dictate• of what appear• to me
to be truth. If the views now expounded ahall be shown to
be fallacious, I shall be most anxious to abandon them;
but if they shall prove to be correct interpretations of na-
ture, they will of neceuity stand forth in all the might and
majesty of divine appointments, and it will be criminal
either to conceal or oppose them. If they be true, they
will carry vast consequences in their train. I am not rear-
ing a system from ambitious motives, neither is it my object
to attack the opinions ofother men. It is simply to lift up
the veil of ignorance, and, in all humility, to exhibit the
Creator's works in their real colors, in so far as I imagine
myself to have been permitted to perceive them.
9•
oio "'ed by Google
( 10'2 )
CHAPTER IV.
APPLICATION OF THE NATURAL LAWS TO THE PRAC.
TICAL ARRANGEMENTS OF LIFE.
b a system of living and occupation were to be framed
for human beings, founded on the exposition of their
nature which I have now given, it would be something
like this.
First, So many hours a day should be dedicated by every .
individual in health, to the exercise of his nervous and
muscular systems, in labor calculated to give scope to their
functions. The reward of obeying this requisite of his
nature would be health, and a joyous animal existence; the
punishment of neglect is disease, low spirits, and premature
death.
Secondly, So many hours a day should be spent in the
sedulous employment of the knowing and reflecting facul-
ties; in studying the qualities of external objects, and their
relations; also the nature of animated beings, and their
relations; with the view not of accumulating mere abstract
and barren knowledge, but of enjoying the positive pleasure
of mental activity, and of turning every discovery to ac·
count, as a means of increasing happiness ·or alleviating
misery. The leading object should always be, to find out
the relationship of every object to our own nature, organic,
animal, moral, and intellectual, and to keep that relation-
ship habitually in mind, so as to rehder our acquirements
directly gratifying to our various faculties. The reward of
this conduct would be an incalculable increase of pleasure,
in the very act of acquiring a knowledge of the real prop-
erties of external objects, together with a great accession
·of power in reaping ulterior advantages and avoiding dis·
agreeable affections.
oio "'ed by Google
THE PRACTICAL ARRANGBMKNTS OP LIFE. 100
Thirdly, So many hours a day ought to be devoted to
the cultivation and gratification of our moral and religious
sentiments; that is to say, in exercising these in harmony
with intellect, and especially in acquiring the habit of
admiring, loving, and yielding obedience to the Creator
and his institutions. This last object is of vast importance.
Intellect is barren of practical fruit, however rich it may
be in knowledge, until it is fired and prompted to act by
moral sentiment. In my view, knowledge by itself is
comparatively worthless and impotent, compared with
what it becomes when vivified by lofty emotions. It is not
enough that Intellect is informed; the moral faculties must
co-operate, in yielding obedience to the precepts which the
intellect recognises to be true. As creation is one great
system, of which God is the author and preserver, we may
fairly presume that there must be harmony among all its
parts, and between it and its Creator. The human mind
is a portion of creation, and its constitution must be in-
cluded in this harmonious scheme. The grand object of
the motal and intellectual faculties of man, therefore, ought
to be, the study of God and of his works. Before phi-
losophy can rise to its highest dignity, and shed on the
human race its richest benefits, it must become religious;
that is to say, its principles and their consequences must be
viewed as proceeding directly from the Divine Being, and
as a revelation of his will to the faculties of mao, for the
guidance of his conduct. Philosophy, while separated
from the moral feelings, is felt by the people at large to be .
cold and barren. It may be calculated to interest individ-
uals possessing high intellectual endowments; but as, in
general, the moral and religious sentiments greatly pre-
dominate in energy over the intellectual powers, it fails to
interest the mass of mankind. On the other hand, before
natural religion can appear in all its might and glory, it
must become philosophical. Its foundations must be laid
in the system of creation; its authority must be deduced
from the principles of that system; and its applieationa
oio "'ed by Google
104 APPLICATION OJ' THE NATURAL LAWS TO
must be enforced by a demonstration ofthe power of Provi-
dence operating in enforcing the execution of its dictates.
While reason and religion are at variance, both are ob-
structed in producing their full beneficial effects. God
has placed harmony between them, and it is only human
imperfection and ignorance that introduce discord. One
way of cultivating the sentiments would be for men to meet
and act together, on the fixed principles which I am now
endeavoring to unfold, and to exercise, in mutual instruc-
tion, and in united adoration of the great and glorious
Creator, the several faculties of Benevolence, Veneration,
Hope, Ideality, Wonder, and Conscientiousness. The
reward of acting in this manner would be a communication
ofdirect and intense pleasure to each other; for I refer to
every individual who has ever had the good fortune to pass
a day or an hour with a really benevolent, pious, honest,
and intellectual man, whose soul swelled with adoration of
his Creator, whose intellect was replenished with know-
ledge of his works, and whose whole mind was instinct
with sympathy for human happiness,-whether such a day
did not afford him the most pure, elevated, and lasting
gratification he ever enjoyed. Such an exercise, besides,
would invigorate the whole moral and intellf!ctual powers,
and fit them to discover and obey the Divine institutions.
Phrenology is highly conducive to this enjoyment of our
moral and intellectual nature. No faculty is bad, but, on
the contrary, each has a legitimate sphere of action, and,
when properly gratified, is, a fountain of pleasure; in short,
man possesses no feeling, of the right exercise of which an
enlightened and ingenuous mind need be ashamed. A
party of thoroughly practical phrenologists, therefore, meet
in the perfect knowledge of each other's qualities; they
respect these as the gifts of the Creator; and their great
object is to derive the utmost pleasure from their legitimate
use, and to avoid every approximation to abuse of them.
The distinctions of country and education are broken down
by unity of principle; the chilling restraint& of Cautious-
oio "'ed by Google
THE PRACTICAL ARRANGEMENTS OF LIFE. 106
ness, Self-Esteem, Secretiveness, and Love ofApprobation,
which stand as barriers of eternal ice between human be-
ings in the ordinary intercourse of society, are gently
removed; the directing sway i~ committed to Benevolence,
Veneration, Conscientiousness, and Intellect; and then
the higher principles of the mind operate with a delightful
vivacity unknown to persons unacquainted with the quali-
ties of human nature.
Intellect also ought to be regularly exercised in arts,
science, philosophy, and observation.
I have said nothing of dedicating hours to the direct
gratification of.the animal powers; not that they should
not be exercised, but that full scope for their activity is
included in the employments already mentioned. In mus-
cular exercises, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Con-
structiveness, Acquisitiveness, Self-Esteem, and Love of
Approbation, may all be gratified. In contending with
and surmounting physical and moral difficulties, Com-
bativeness and Destructiveness obtain vent; in working
at a mechanical employment, requiring the exertion of
strength, these two faculties, and also Constructiven-ess
and Acquisitiveness, will be exercised; in emulation who
shall accomplish most good, Self-Esteem and Love of
Approbatio.n will obtain scope. In the exercise of the
mo.ral faculties, several of these, and others of the animal
propensities, are employed; Amativeness, Philoprogeni-
tiveness, and Adhesiveness, for example, ·acting under the
guidance of Benevolence, Veneration, Conscientiousness,
Ideality, and Intellect, receive · direct enjoyment in the
domestic circle. From proper direction also, and from the
superior delicacy and refinement imparted to them by the
higher powers, they do not infringe the moral law, and
leave no sting or repentance in the mind.
Finally, a certain portion of time would require to be
dedicated to the taking of food and sleep.
All systems hitherto practised have been deficient" in
providing for one or more ofthese branches of enjoyment _
106 APPLICATION OJ' TBB NATURAL LAWS TO
In the community at Orbiston, formed on Mr. Owen'•
principles, music, dancing, and theatrical entertainments
were provided; but the people soon tired of these. They
bad not corresponding moral and intellectual instruction.
The novelty excited them, but there was nothing substan-
tial behind. In common society, very little of either ra-
tional instruction or amusement is provided. The neglect
of innocent amusement is a great error. ·
If there be truth in these views, they will throw some
light on two important questions that have embarrassed
philosophers, in regard to the progress of human improve-
ment. The first is, Why should man have existed so long,
and made so small an advance in the road to happiness?
It is obvious, that the very scheme of creation which I have
described, implies that man is a progressive being; and
progression necesyarily supposes lower and higher condi-
tions of attainment and enjoyment. While men are igno-
rant, there is great individual suffering. This distresses
sensitive minds, nnd seems inexplicable: they cannot con-
ceive how improvement should so slowly advance. I con-
fess myself incapable of affording any philosophical expla-
nation why man should have been so constituted; neither
can I give a reason why the whole earth was not made
temperate and productive, in place of being partially
covered with regions of barren sand and eternal snow.
The Creator alone can explain these difficulties. When
the inhabitants of Britain wore the skins of animals, and
lived in huts, we may presume that, in rigorous winters,
many of them suffered severe privations, and that some
would perish from cold. If there had been among the
sufferers a gifted philosopher, who observed the talents
that were inherent in the people, although then Intent, and
who, in consequence, foresaw the splendid palaces and
warm fabrics with which their descendants would one day
adorn this island, he might well have been led to deplore
the slow progress of improvement, and been grieved at the
prevalence of so much intermediate misery Yet, the
oio "'ed by Google
TS& PR.lCTIC.lL .lRR.lNGEMENTS 01' LIP&. 101'
explanation that man is a progressive being, is all that phi-
losophy can offer; and if this satisfy us as to the past, it
must be equally satisfactory in regard to the present and
the future. The difficulty is eloquently adverted to by
Dr. Chalmers in his Bridgewater Treatise. 'We might
not know the reason,' says he, 'why, in the moral world,
so many ages of darkness and depravity should have been
permitted to pass by, any more than we know the reason
why, in the natural world, the trees of a forest, instead
of starting all at once into the full efllorescence and stateli-
ness oftheir manhood, have to make their slow and labori-
ous advancement to maturity, cradled in storms, and alter-
nately drooping or expanding with the vicissitudes of the
seasons. But though unable to scan all the cycles either
of the moral or natural economy, yet we may recognise
such influences at work, as, when multiplied and developed
to the uttermost, are abundantly capable of regenerating
the world. One of the likeliest of these influences is the
power of education, to the perfecting of which so many
minds are earnestly directed at this moment, and for the
general acceptance of which in society we have a guaran-
tee in the strongest affections and fondest wishes of the
fathers and mothers of families.' (Vol. i. p. 186.)
Although, therefore, we cannot explain why man was
constituted a progressive being, and why such a being ad-
vances slowly, the principles of this essay show that there
is at least an admirable adaptation of his faculti<'s to his
condition. If I am right in the fundamental proposition,
that harmonious activity of the faculties is synonymous
.vith enjoyment of exi5tence;-it follows that it would have
been less wise and less benevolent towards man, consti-
tuted as he is, to have communicated to him intuitively
perfect knowledge, thereby leaving his mental powers with
diminished motives to activity, than to bestow on him fac-
ulties endowed with high susceptibility of action, and to
surround him with scenes, objects, circumstances, and re-
lations, calculated to maintain them in ceaseless excite-
oio "'ed by Google
108 APPLICATION OP THE NATURAL LAWI TO
ment; although this latter arrangement necessarily sub-
jects him to suffering while ignorant, and renders his first
aacent in the scale of improvement difficult and slow. It
is interesting to observe, that, according to this view,
although the first pair of the human race had been creat-
ed with powerful and well balanced faculties, but of the
same nature as at present; if they were not also intui-
tively inspired with knowledge of the whole creation, and
its relations, their first movements as indiciduo.l& would
have been retrograde; that is, as indiwduo.l&, they would,
through pure want of information, have infringed many
natural laws, and suffered evil; while, as parts of the race,
they would have been decidedly ad"ancing: for every pang
they suffered would have J~d them to a new step in know-
ledge, and prompted them to advance towards a much
higher condition than that which they at first occupied.
According to the hypothesis now presented, not only is
mao really benefited by the arrangement which leaves him
to discover the natural laws for himself, although, during
the period of his ignorance, he suffers much evil from
want of acquaintance with them; but the progress which
he has already made towards knowledge and happiness
must, from the very extent of his experience, be actually
greater than can at present be conceived. Its extent will
become more obvious, and his experience itself more valu-
able, after he has obtained a view of the real theory of his
constitution. He will find that past miseries have at least
exhausted countless errors, and he will know how to avoid
thousands of paths that lead to pain: in short, he will then
discover that errors in conduct, like errors in philosophy,
give additional importance and practicability to truth, by
the demonstration which they afford of the evils attending
departures from its dictates. The grand sources ofhuman
suffering at present are bodily disease and mental anxiety,
and, in the next chapter, these will be traced to infringe-
ment, through ignorance or otherwise, of physical, organic,
moral, or intellectual laws, which, when expounded 11ppt>ar
oio "'ed by Google
TBB PRACTICAL .t.BRANGBIIIIBNTS OP LJPJil. 109
in themselves calculated to promote the bappineu of the
race. It may be suppoAed that, according to this view,
as knowledge accumulates, enjoyment will decreue; but,
as formerly observed, ample provision is made against this
event, by Withholding intuition from each generation as it
appears on the stage. Each successive age must acquire
kJtowledge for itself; and, provided ideas are new and
suited to the faculties, the pleasure of acquiring them from
instructers is second only to that of discovering them our-
selves. It is probable, moreover, that many ages will
elapse before all the facts and relations of nature shall have
been explored, and the possibility of discovery exhausted:
If the universe be infinite, knowledge can never be com-
plete.
The second question is, Has man really advanced in
happiness, in proportion to his increase in knowledge? We
are apt to entertain erroneous notions of the pl\lasures en-
joyed in past ages. Fabulists have represented them as
peaceful, innocent, and gay; but if we look narrowly into
the conditions of the savage and barbarian of the present
day, and recollect that these are the states of all individuals
before the acquisition of scientific knowledge, we shall not
much or long regret the pretended diminution of enjoy-
ment by civilization.* Phrenology renders the superiority
of the latter condition certain, by showing it to be a law
of nature, that, until the intellect is extensively informed,
and the moral sentiments assiduously exercised, the animal
propensities bear the predominant.sway; and that wherever
these are supreme, misery is an inevitable concomitant.
Indeed, the answer to the objection that happiness has not
increased with knowledge, appears to me to be found in
the fact, that until Phrenology was discovered, the nature
of man was not scientifically known, and that, in conse-
quence, very few of his institutions, civil or domestic, were
correctiy founded on the principle of the supremacy of the
• See on this subject a Tery elaborate and philosophical volume in t~
Library ofEntertaining Knowledge, entitled TM NetJJ Ztolatuler•, P• 860.
10
oio "'ed by Google
110 APPLICATION OP TIR lUTCIUL LAW'I TO
WIOraiMDtimenta, or in accordance with tbe other lawe of
his COD8tit11tion. Owing to the same cause, also, much of
biB knowledge bas necenarily remained partial, aad iaap-
plieable to uae; but after this science shall hue been
appreciated and applied, clouds of darkness, accumulated
through long ages that are past, may be expected to roll
away, as if touched by the rays of the meridian son,-and
with them, many of the miseries that attend total ignorance
or imperfect information to disappear.•
h ought also to be kept constantly in remembrance, that
man is asocial being, and that the precept • love thy neigh-
be~r u thyself' is imprinted in his constitution. That is to
say, so much of the happiness of each individual depends
on the habits, practices, and opinions of the society in
which he lives, that he cannot reap the full benefits of his
own advancement, until similar principles have been em-
braced and realized in practice by his fellow men. This
renders it his interest, as it is his duty, to communicate his
knowledge to them, and to carry them forward in the
career of improvement. At this moment, there are thou-
sands of persons who feel their enjoyments, physical, moral,
and intellectual, impaired and abridged by the mass of
ignorance and prejudice which every where surrounds
them. They are men living before their age, and whom
the world neither understands nor appreciates. Let them
not, however, repine or despair; but Jet them dedicate
their best efforts to communicating the truths which have
opened up to themselves the prospect of happinesR, and
they will not be disappointed. The law of our constitution
which has established the supremacy of the moral senti-
• Readers who are strangers to Phrenology and the evidence on which it
rests, may regard the ob.ervations in the text as extravagant and enthusiastic;
but I respectfully remind them, that, while they judge in comparative igno-
rance, it has been my endeavor to eubject it to the severest ecrutiny. Having
found its proofs irre6:agahle, and being convinced of ito importance; I 110licit
thell" indulgence in speaking of it as it appears to my own mind. As many
penons continue ignorant of the progress which Phrenology has made, I haYe
added, in tile Appendix No. III., a note on this subject• .
THJ: PRACTICAL ARRANGJ!:MJ:NTS 01' LIP&. 111
ments, renders it impossible for individuals to attain the
full enjoyment oftheir rational nature, until they bave ren-
dered their fellow men virtuous and happy; and in the
truth and power of this principle, the ignorant and the
wretched have a better guarantee for being raised ia their
condition by the efforts of their more fortunate brethrea,
than in the establishment of poor-laws or other legislative
enactments. If all ~anks of the people were taught the
philosophy which I am now advocating, and if, in so far as
it is true, it were enforced by their religious instructers as
the will of the Creator communicated to man through his
natural institutions, the progress of general improvement
would be greatly accelerated.
If the notions now advocated shall ever prevail, it will
be seen that the experience of past ages utfords no suffi-
cient reason for limiting our estimate of man's capabilities
of civilizalion. In the introductory chapter, I mentioned
the slow and gradual preparation ofthe globe for man; and
that he appears to be destined to advance only by stages to
the highest condition of his moral anrl intellectual nature.
At present he is obvioul!ly only in the beginning of his
career. Although a knowledge of external nature, and of
himself, is indispensable to his advancement to his true
station as a rational being, yet. four hundred years have
not elapsed since the arts of printing and engraving were
invented, without which, knowledge could not be dissemi~
nated through the mass of mankind; and, up to the present
hour, the art of reading is by no means general over the
world-so that, even now, the meana of calling maa's
rational nature into activity, although discovered, are but
very imperfectly applied. It is only five or six centuries
since the mariner's compass was known in Europe, with-
out which even philosophers could DOt ascertain the moat
common filets regarding the ·size, funn, aad produotians ef
the earth. · It is but three hundred and forty..tbree y..,.
since one-half of the habitable globe, Aaerioa, ~ecauae
known to the other half; and conside~le portiou ol it are·
oio "'ed by Google
lli APPLJCATIO~ OJ' TB£ ~ATU8.4.L LAWI TO
still unknown even to the best informed inquirers. It is
little more than two hundred years since the circulation of
the blood was discovered; previously to which it was im-
possible even for physicians to form any conect idea of
the uses of many of man's corporeal organs, and of their
relations to external nature. Haller, who flourished in the
early part and middle of the last century, may be regarded
as the founder of human physiology as a science of obser-
vation. It is only between forty and fifty years since the
true functions of the brain and nervous system were dis-
covered; before which we possessed no adequate means of
becoming acquainted with our mental constitution and its
adaptation to external circumstances and beings. It is no
more than sixty-one years since the study of Chemistry, or
of the constituent elements of the globe, was put into a
philosophical condition by Dr. Priestley's discovery of oxy-
gen; and hydrogen was discovered so lately as 1766, or
sixty-nine years ago. Before thot time, people in general
were comparatively ignorant of the qualities and relations
ofthe most important material agents with which they were
surrounded. At present this knowledge is still in its in-
fancy, as will appear from an enumeration of the dates of
several other important discoveries. Electricity was dis-
covered in 1728, galvanism in 1794, gas-light about 1798;
and steam-boats, steam-l®ms, and the safety-lamp, in our
own day.
It is only of late years that the study of Geology bas
been seriously begun; without which we could not know
the past changes in the physical structure of the globe, a
matter of much importance as an element in judging of our
present position in the world's progress. This science also
is still in its infancy. An inconceivable extent of territory
remains to be explored, from the examination of which, tbe
most interesting and instructive conclusions will probably
present themselves. In astronomy, too, the discoveries of
the two Herscbels promise to throw additional light on the
early history ofthe globe.
oio "'ed by Google
THB PRACTICAL ARRANGEMENTS OF LIFE. 113
The mechanical sciences are at this moment in full play,
putting forth vigorous shoots, and giving the strongest in-
dications ofyouth, and none of decay.
The sciences of morals and of government are still in
many respects in a crude condition.
In consequence, therefore, of his profound ignorance,
man, in all ages, has been directed in his P"fBUita.by the
mere impulse of his strongest propensities, formerly to war
and conquest, and now to accumulating wealth; without
having framed his habits and institutions in conformity with
correct and enlightened views of his own nature, and its
real interests and wants. Up to the present day, the m888
of the people in every nation have remained essentially
ignorant, the tools of interested leaders, or the creatures
of their own blind impulses, unfavorably situated for the
development of their rational nature; and they, constituting
the great majority, necessarily influence the condition of
the rest. But at last, the arts and sciences seem to be
tending towards abridging human labor, so as to force
leisure on the mass of the people; while the elements of
useful knowledge are so rapidly increasing, the capacity of
the operatives for instruction is so generally recognised,
and the means of communicating it are so powerful and
abundant, that a new era may fairly be considered as
having commenced.
From the want of a practical philosophy of human na-
ture, multitudes of amiatlle and talented individuals are
at present anxious only for preservation of the attainments
which society possesses, and dread retrogression in the
future. If the views now expounded be correct, this race
of' moralists and politicians will in time become extinct,
because progression being the law of our nature, the
proper education of the people will render the desire for
improvement universal.
10*
oio "'ed by Google
( 114)
CHAPTER V.
TO WHAT EXTENT ARE THE ~IISERIES OF MANKIND
REFERABLE TO INFRINGEMENT OF THE LAWS OJ.-'
NATURE 1
IN the present chapter, I propose to inquire into some of
the evils that have afllicted the human race; and whether
they have proceeded from neglect of laws, benevolent and
wise in themselves, and calculated, when observed, to pro-
mote the happiness of man; or from a constitution of nature
so defective that he cannot supply its imperfections, or so
vicious that he can neither rectify nor improve its qualities.
The following extract from the journal of John Locke,
contains a forcible statement of the principle which I intend
to illustrate: ' Tl1<~ugh justice be also a perfection which
we must necessarily ascribe to the Supreme Being, yet
we cannot suppose the exercise of it should extend farther
than his goodness has need of it for the preservation of his
creatures 'in the order and beauty of the state that he has
placed each of them in; for since our actions cannot reach
unto him, or bring him any profit or damage, the punish-
ments he inflicts on any ofhis creatures, i. e. the misery or
destruction he brings upon them, can be n~thing else but
to preserve the greater or more considerable part, and so
being only for preservation, his justice is nothing but a
branch ofhis goodness, which is fain by severity to restrain
the irregular and destructive parts from doing harm.'-
Lord King'• Life ofLocke, p. 122.
oio "'ed by Google
INI'IUNGJIMEl'fT OJ' TH& PHYSICAL LAWS. 115
SECTION I.
CALAMITIES ARISING FROM lNFillNOBIIENT OP TUB PHYBIO.t.L
LAWS.
Tu£ .proper way of viewing the Creator's institutiona, is
to look, first, to their uses, and to the adviUltages that
flow from using them aright; and, secondly, to their
abuses, and the evils that proceed from this source.
In 9hapter II., some of the benefits conferred on man
by the law of gravitation are enumerated; and I may here
advert to some of the evils originating from that law, when
human conduct is in opposition to it. For example, men
are liable to fall from horses, carriages, atairs, precipices.
roofs, chimneys, ladders, and masts, IUld also to slip in
the street--by which accidents life is often auddenly cut
short, or rendered miserable from lameneu and pain; and
the question arises, Is human nature provided with any
means of protection against these evils, at all equal to
their frequency and extent?
The lower animala are equally subject to this law; and
the Creator has bestowed on them external senses, ne"es,
muscles, bones, an instinctive sense of equilibrium, the
sense of danger, or cautiousness, and other faculties, to
~ac~ them in accordance with it. These appear to afford
:q.afficieo.. protection to animals placed in all ordinary cir-
cumstat;l.!es; for we very rarely discover IUlY of them, in
their natural condition, killed or mutilated by accidents
referrible to gravitation. Where their mode of life ex-
poses them to extraordinary danger from this law, they are
provided with additional securities. The monkey, which
climbs trees, enjoys great muscular energy in its legs,
claws, and tail, far surpassing, in proportion to its gravi-
tating tendency, or its bulk and weight, what is bestowed
on the legs and arms of man; so that, by means of them,
it springs from branch to branch, in almost complete
security against the law in question. The goat, which
oio "'ed by Google
116 OAL.L'WITIBI ARISING FROM
browses on the brinks of precipices, has received a hoof
and legd that give precision and stability to its steps.
Birds, which are destined to ·sleep on branches of trees,
are provided with a muscle passing over the joint• of each
leg and stretching down to the foot, and which, being
preued by their weight, produces a proportionate coo-
traction of their claws, so as to make them cling the
faster, the greater their liability to fall. The fiy, which
walks and sleeps on perpendicular walls and the ceiling•
of rooms, has a hollow in its foot, from which it exp!!ls the
air, and the pressure of the atm'>sphere on the outside of
the foot holds it fast to the object on which the inside i.e
placed. The walrus, or sea-horse, which is destined to
climb up the sides of ice-hills, is provtded with a sin1ilar
apparatus. The camel, whose native region is the sandr
desert of the torrid zone, has broad spreading hoofs to
support it on the loose soil. Fishes are furnished with
air-bladders, by dilating and contracting which they can
accommodate themselves with perfect precision to the Jaw
ofgravitation.
In these instances, the lower animals, onder the sole
guidance of their instincts, appear to be placed admirably
in harmony with gravitation, and guaranteed against its
infringement. Is man, then, less an object of love with the
Creator? Is he nlonP. left exposed to the evils that spring
inevitably from its neglect? His means of protection are
different, but when understood and applied, they will pro-
bably he found not less complete. Man, as well as the
lower animals, has received bones, muscles, nerves, an in-
stinct of equilibrium,* and the faculty of Cautiousness; but
not in equal perfection, in proportion to his figure, size,
and weight, with those bestowed on them:-The differ-
ence, however, is far more than compensated by other
faculties, particularly those of Constructiveness and Re-
flection, in which he greatly surpasses them. Keeping in
view that the external world, in regard to man, is arranged
• Vide E.ly on Weight, Phren. Joum. Yol. ii. p. 412.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRINOEMENT OF THE PBYSJCJ.L LA.Q. 11'7
on the principle of the supremacy of the moral sentiments
and intellect, we shall probably find that the calamities
suftered by him from the Jaw of gravitation, are referrible
to predominance of the animal propensities, or to neglect
of proper exercise· of his intellectual powers. For exam-
ple, when coaches break down, ships sink, or men fall
from ladders, how generally may the cause be traced to
decay in the vehicle, the vessel, or the ladder, which a
predominating Acqui~itiveness alone prevented from being
repaired; or when men fall from houses and scaffolds, or
slip on the street, how frequently should we find their
muscular, nervous, and mental energies impaired by pre-
ceding debaucheries-in other words, by predominance of
the animal faculties, which for the time diminished their
natural means of accommodating themselves to the law
from which they suffer. The slater, in using a ladder,
assists himself by the reflective powers; but, in walking
along the ridge of a house, or standing on a chim'"ley, he
takes no aid from these faculties; he trusts t\1 the mere
instinctivfl power of equilibrium, in which t.e is inferior to
the lower animals,-and, in so doing, clearly violates the
law of his nature that requires him to use reflection where
instinct is deficient. Causality and Constructiveness could
invent and provide means, by which, if he slipped from
a roof or chimney, his fall might be arrested. A small
chain, for instance, attached by one end to a girdle round
his body, and having the other end fastened by a hook and
eye to the roof, might leave him at liberty to move, and
might break his fall in case he slipped. How frestuently,
too, do these accidents happen aften disturbance of the
mental faculties and corporeal functions hy intoxication!
The objection will probably occur, that in the gross con·
dition in which the mental powers exist, the great ·body of
mankind are incapable of exerting habitually that degree
of moral and intellectual energy, which is indispensable to
observance of the natural Jaws; and that, therefore, they
are, in point of fact, less fortunate than the lower animals.
118 CAL.ullTISI AJU&Jl(G I'AOK
I adaait that, at preeent, this repreaentation is to a eoosid-
el'able ext• jult; but nowhere do I perceive the human
miad iDMI'ucted, and its powers exercised, in a degree at
all approaching to their limits. Let any person recollect
how much Areater capacity for enjoyment and accurity
from danger he has experienced, at a particular time, when
hie whole mind was filled with, and excited by, some
raigbty interest, not only alli.ed to, but founded in, morality
and intellect; than in that languid condition which accom-
panies the absence of elevated and ennobling emotions;
and he may form some idea of what man will become
capable of, when his powers shall have been cultivated to
the extent of their capacity. At the present moment, no
class of society is systematically instructed in the consti-
tution of the mind and body, in the relations of these to
external objects, in the nature of these objects, in the
natural supremacy of the moral sentiments, in the prin-
ciple that activity of the faculties is the true source of
pleasure, and that the higher the powers the more intense
the delight; and, if such views be to the mind what light
is to the eyes, air to the lungs, and food to the stomach,
there is no wonder that a mass of inert tMnlality, if I may
use such a word, should every where exist around us, and
that numberless evils should spring from its continuance
in this condition. If active moral and intellectual faculties
are the natural fountains of enjoyment, and the external
world is created with reference to this state; it is as
obvious that misery must result from animal supremacy
and intellectual torpidity, as that flame, which is constitu-
ted to burn only when supplied with oxygen, must inevita-
bly become extinct when exposed to carbonic acid gas.
Finally, if the arrangement by which man is left to dis-
cover and obey the laws of his own nature, and of the
physical world, be more conducive to activity than intuitive
knowledge, the calamities now contemplated appear to
be instituted to force him to his duty; and his duty, when
understood, will constitute his delight.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRJN~M-ENT ON !'Hll PBTIIOAL LAWS. 119
While, therefore, we lament the fate -of individual vic-
tims to the law of gratitation, we cannot condemn that
law itself. If it were suspended, to save men from the
efFects of negligence, not only would the proud creations
of human skill totter to their base, and the human body
rise from the eartb and hang midway in the air; but our
highest enjoyments would be terminated, and our facul-
ties become positively useless, by being deprived of their
field of exertion. Causality, for instance, teaches ·that the
same cause will always, c~ris paribut, produce similar
effects; and, if the physical laws were suspended or
varied, so as to accommodate themselves to mao's negli-
gence or folly, it is obvious that this faculty would be
without an object, and that no definite course of action
could be entered upon with confidence in the result. If,
then, this view of the constitution of nature were kept
steadily in mind, the occurrence of one accident of this
kind would stimulate reflection to discover means of avoid-
ing others.
Similar illustrations and commentaries might be given,
in regard to the other physical laws to which man is sub-
ject; but the object of the present essay being merely to
evolve principles, I confine myself to gravitation, as the
most obvious and best understood.
I do not mean to say, that, by the mere exercise of in-
tellect, man may absolutely guarantee himself against all
accidents; but only that tbe more ignorant and careless he
is, the more will he sutfer,-and the more intelligent and
vigilant, the less; and that I can perceive no limits to this
rule. The law of most civilized countries recognises this
principle, and subjects owners of ships, coaches, and other
vehicles, in .reparation of damnge arising from gross in-
fringements of the physical laws. It is unquestionable
that the enforcement of this liability has given increased
security to travellers in no trifling degree.
'
1~ C..t.L.t.JIITIU .t.IUIINO I'JIOJI
SE(\TION II.
ON TIIB BVILB THAT BEFALL NANIUND FllOIIINFiliNGBJIBNT
OF TilE ORGANIC LAWS.
IT ia a very common error, to imagine that the feeling.
ofthe mind are communicated to it through the medium of
the inlelkct; and, in particular, that if no indelicate objects
reach the eyes, or expressions penetrate the ears, perfect
purity will necessarily reign within the soul: and, carrying
this mistake into practice, they are prone to object to all
discussion of the subjects treated of under the ' Organic
Laws,' in works designed for general use. But their prin-
ciple of reasoning is fallacious, and the result has been
highly detrimental to society. The feelings have existence
and activity distinct from the inlelkct; they spur it on to
obtain their own gratification; and it may become either
their guide or their slave, according as it is, or is not,
enlightened concerning their constitution and objects, and
the laws of nature to which they are subjected. The most
profound philosophers have inculcated this doctrine, and
by phrenological observation it is demonstratively estab-
lished. The organs of the feelings are distinct from those
of the intellectual faculties; they are larger; and, as each
faculty, calleris parib!U, acts with a vigor proportionate to
the size of its organs, the feelings are obviously the more
active or impelling powers. The cerebellum, or organ of
Amativeness, is the largest of the whole mental organs;
and, being endowed with natural activity, it fills the mind
spontaneously with emotions and suggestions, the outward
manifestation of which may be directed, controlled, and
resisted, by intellect and moral sentiment; but which can-
no~ be prevented from arising, or eradicated after they
ex1st. The whole question, therefore, resolves itself into
this. .Whether it it~ more beneficial to enlighten the under-
s~andmg, so as to dispose and enable it to control and
darect that feeling,--or (under the influence of an error in
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRINGBMBKT OF TliB OIUUJfJC L.lWI. 1!1
philosophy, and false delicacy founded on it) t.o permit it
to riot in all the fiercene• of a blind animal instinct, wilb-
, drawn from the eye of reason, but not thereby deprind of
its vehemence and importunity? The form~ course ap-
pears to me to be the only one consistent with reason and
morality; and I shall adopt it in reliance on the good sense
of my readers, that they·will at once discriminate between
practical instruction concerning this feeling addressed to
the intellect, and lascivious representations addressed to
tile mere propensity itself- with the latter of which the
enemies of all improvement may attempt to confound my
observations. Every function of the mind and body ia
instituted by the Creator: each bas a legitimate sphere of
activity: but all may be abused; and it is impo•ible regu-
larly to avoid abuse of them, except by being instructed in
their nature, objects, and relations. This instruction ought
to be addressed exclusively to the intellect; and, when it
is so, it is science orthe most beneficial description. The
propriety, nay necessity, of acting on this principle, be-
comes more and more apparent, when it is considered that
such discussions suggest only intellectual ideas to individ-
uals in whom the feeling in question is naturally weak, and
that such minds perceive no indelicacy in knowledge which
is calculated to be useful; while, on the other hand, per-
sons in whom the feeling is naturally strong, are precisely
those who stand in need of direction, and to whom, of all
others, instruction is the most necessary.
An organized being is one which derives its existence
from a previously existing organized being-which subsists
on food, grows, attains maturity, decays, and dies. What-
ever the ultimate object of the Creator, in constituting
organized beings, may be, it will scarc~ly be denied, that
pait of his design is, that they should enjoy their existence
here; and, if so, the object of every part of their structure
ought to be 'found conducing to this end. To render an
organized being perfect in its kind, the first law that must
be observed is, that the germ from which it springs shall
11
oio "'ed by Google
lit CALAIIITIIIIS AlliSil(O l'llOJI
be complete in all its parts, and aoun.
d in its whole consti-
tution; the second is, that the moment it is ushered into
life, and as long as it continues to live, it shall be supplied
with food, light, air, and every other aliment necessary for
ita support; and the third law is, that it shall duly exercise
its functions. When all these laws are obeyed, the being
should enjoy pleasure from its organized frame, if its Crea-
tor is benevolent; and its constitution should be so adapted
to its circumstances, as to admit of obedience to them, if
its Creator is wise and powerful. Is there, then, no such
phenomenon on earth, as a human being existing in full
possesl!ion of organic vigor, from birth till advanced age,
when the organized system is fairly worn out? Number-
less examples of this kind have occurred, and they show to
demonstration, that the corporeal frame of man is so con'-
stituted as to admit the possibility of his enjoying health
and vigor during the whole period of a long life. It is
mentioned in the Life of Captain Cook, that 'one circum-
stance peculiarly worthy of notice is the perfect and unin-
terrupted health of the inhabitants of New Zealand. In
all the visits made to -their towns, where old and young,
men and women, crowded about our voyagers, they never
observed a single person who appeared to have any bodily
complaint; nor among the numbers that were seen naked,
was once perceived the slightest eruption upon the skin, 01
the least mark which indicated that such an eruption had
formerly existed. Another proof of the health of these
people is the facility with which the wounds they at any
time receive are healed. In the man who had been shot
with the musket ball through the fleshy part of his arm, the
wound seemed to be so well digested, and in so fair a way
of being perfectly healed, that if Mr. Cook had not known
that .no application had been made to it, he declared that
be should certainly have inquired, with a very interested
_
curiosity, after the vulnerary herbs and surgical art of the
country. An additional evidence of human nature's being
tlntainted with disease ill Ne'! Zealand, is the great num-
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGEMENT OF THE Ol_tGANIO LAWS J~3
her of old men with whom it abounds. Many of them, by
the ·loss of their hair and teeth, appeared to be very
ancient, and yet none of them were decrepit. Although
they were not equal to the young in muscular strength,
they did not come in the least behiud them with regard to
cheerfulness and vivacity. Water, as far as our naviga-
tors could discover, is the universal and only liquor of the
New Zealanders. It is greatly to be wished that their
happiness in this respect may never be destroyed by such
a connection with the European nations, as shall introduce
that fondness for spirituous liquors which hath been so
fatal to the Indians of North America.'-Kippis's Life of
Captain Cook. Dublin, 1788, p. 100.
In almost every country, individuals are to be found,
who have escaped from sickness during the whole course
of a protracted life. .
Now, as a natural law never admits of an exception,
this excellent health could not occur in any individuals
unless it were fairly within the capabilities of the race.
The sufferings of women in childbed have been cited
as evidence that the Creator has not intended the human
being, under any circumstances, to execute all its func-
tions enti:-ely free from pain. But, besides the obvious
answer, that the objection applies only to one sex, and is
therefore not to be too readily presumed to have its origin
in nature, there is good reason to deny the assertion, and
to ascribe the suffering in question to departures from the
natural laws, in either the structure or the habits of the
individuals who experience it.*
The advantage of studying the finest models of the hu-
man figure, as exhibited in painting and sculpture, is to
raise our ideas of the excellence of form and proportion to
which our nature is capable of attaining; for, other condi-
tions being equal, the most perfect forms and proportions
are always the best adapted for health and activity
Let us hold, then, that the organized system of man, in
'! See Appendix, No. IV
oio "'ed by Google
C.U•.A.KITIES .A.JUSINO J'BOH
itaelf, admits of the po,.ibilily of health, vigor, and organic
enjoyment, during the full period of life; and proceed to
inquire into Ule causes why these advantages are not
universal.
One organic Jaw, I have stated, is, that the germ ofthe
infant being must be complete in all ita parts, and perfectly
sound in its condition, as an indispensable requisite to vig-
orous development and full enjoyment of existence. If an
agriculturist sow corn that is weak, wasted, and damaged,
the plants that spring from it will be feeble, and liable to
speedy decay. The same law holds in the animal king-
dom; and I .would ask, has it hitherto been observed by
man? Notoriously it has not. Indeed, its existence has
been eithet: altogether unknown, or in a very high degree
disregarded by humo.n beings. The fe~ble, th!l sickly,
the exhausted with age, and the incompletely developed
through extreme youth, marry, and, without the least com-
punction regarding the organization which they shall trans-
mit to their offspring, send into the world miserable beings,
the very rudiments of whose existence are tainted with dis-
ease. If we trace such conduct to its source, we shall find
it to originate either in animal propensity, or in ignorance,
or more frequently in both. The inspiring motives are
generally mere sensuiU appetite, avarice, or ambition, ope-
rating in the absence of all just conceptions ofthe impend-
ing evils. The punishment of this offence is debility and
pain transmitted to the children, and reflected back in
anxiety and sorrow on the parents. Still the great point
to be kept in view is, that these miseries are not legitimate
consequences of ob1erotsnce of the organic laws, but the
direct chastisement of their itifringement. These laws are
unbending, and admit of no exception; they must be ful-
filled, or the penalties of disobedience will follow. On this
subject profound ignorance reigns in society. From such
observations as I have been able to make, I am convinced
tllat the union of certain temperaments and combinations
' of mental organs in the parents, is bighlr conducive to
oio "'ed by Google
INJ'IUNGEMENT OJ' TS& OllGA.NIC LA.WI. lU
health, talent, and morality in the offspring, and \lice M"ta;
and that these conditions may be discovered and taught
with far greater certainty, facility, and advantage, than is
generally imagined: It will be time enough to conclude
that men are naturally incapable of obedience to the organic
laws, when, after their intellectual faculties and moral sen-
timents have been trained to observance of the Creator's
institutions, as at once their duty, their interest, and a
grand source of their enjoyment, they shall be found io
continued rebellion.
A second organic law regards nutriment, which must be
supplied of a suitable kind, and in due quantity. This
law requires also free air, light, cleanliness, and attention
to every physical arrangement by which the functions of
the bodY' may be strengthened or impaired. Have man-
kind, then, acted in accordance with, or neglected, thia
institution? I need scarcely answer the question. To be
able·to conform to institutions, we must first know them.
Before we can know the ~rganic constitution of our body,
we must study it, and the study of the human constitu-
tion is anatomy and physiology. Before we can become
a4:quainted with it!! relations to external objects, we mwit
learn the existence and qualities of th~se objects (unfolded
by chemistry, natural history, and natural philosophy,) and
compare them with the constitution of the human body.
When we have fulfilled these conditions, we shall be better
able to discover the laws which the Creator has instituted
in regard to our organic system.•
It will be said, however, that such studies are impracti-
cable to the great bulk of mankind, and, besides, do not
appear much to benefit those who pursue them. They are
impracticable only while mankind prefer founding their
public and private institutions on the basis of the propen-
sities, instead ofon that of the moral sentiments. I have
• In •Physiology applied to Health and Education,' by Dr. A. Combe, to
which I refer, the oiganic lawa are a:pounded in detail, and many 8tlikias
eumples are giYen of the infriogemimt ofthele lawa, and ofiu injuri.,. --
~-·
oio "'ed by Google
116 C.U..ui11'J&I .l&lll!fG J'JlOM
meatiooed, that exercUie of the ne"ous aud maeeular
ayatems is required of all the race by the Creator's fiat;
that if all who are capable would obey this law, a moderate
amount of exertion, agreeable and salubrious in itself,
would suffice to supply our wants, and to surround us with
every beneficial luxury; and that a large portion of uoom-
~loyed time would remain. The Creator bas bestowed on
us Knowing Faculties, fitted to explore the facts of these
ecienees, Reflecting Faculties to trace their relations, and
Moral Sentiments calculated to feel interest in such inves-
tigations, and to lead us to reverence and obey the laws
which they unfold; and, finally, He has made this occu-
pation, when entered upon with the view of tracing his
power and wi~:~dom in the subjects of our studies, and of
discovering and obeying his institutions, the most delight-
ful and invigorating of all vocations. Instead, then, of
such a course of education being impracticable, every
arrangement of the Creator appears to be prepared in
direct anticipation of its actual accomplishment.
The second objection, that those who study these sciences
are not more healthy and happy, as organized beings, than
those who neglect _
them, admits of an easy answer. Th.ey
may have inherited feeble frames from their parents. Be-
sides, only parts of these sciences have been taught to a
few individuals, whose main design in studying them has
been to apply them as means of acquiring wealth and
fame; but they have nowhere been taught as connected
parts of a great system of natural arrangements, fraught
with the highest influences on human enjoyment; and in
almost no instance have the intellect and moral sentiments
been systematically directed to the natural laws, as the
grand fountains of happiness and misery to the race,
and trained to observe and obey them as the institutions
of the Creator. In cases where physiology, natural
history, and natural philosophy have bee~ properly stud-
ied, the objection alluded to is at variance with experi-
ence and fact.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRING&H&NT OF TH& ORGANIC LAWS. 1~
A, third organic law is, that all our functions shall be
duly exercised; and is this law observed by mankind?
Many persons are able, from experience, to attest the se-
verity of the punishment that follows neglect to exercise
the muscular system, in the lassitude, indigestion, irritabil-
ity, debility, and general uneasiness that attend a sedentary
and inactive life: But the penalties that attach to neglect
ofexercising the brain are much less known, and therefore
I .shall notice them more at length. The following is the
description of the brain given by Dr. A. Combe, in his
work on Physiology applied to Health and Education,
already alluded to.
' The brain is that large organized mass which, along
with its enveloping membranes, completely fills the cavity
of the skull. It is the seat of thought, of feeling, and of
consciousness, and the centre towards which all impres-
sions made on the nerves distributed through the body are
conveyed, and from which the commands of the will are
transmitted to put the various parts in motion.
' The structure of the brain is so complicated, that lesa
is known of its true nature than of that of almost any other
organ. It would therefore be entirely out of place to at-
tempt to describe it here, farther than by stating generally
its principal divisions. On sawing off the top ofthe skull,
and removing the firm tough membrane called dt.wa mater
(hard mother,) which adheres closely to its concave surface,
the cerebrum or brain proper presents itself, marked on
the surface with a great variety of undulating windings or
con"olutions, and extending from the fore to the back part
of the head, somewhat in the form of an ellipse. The an-
nexed cut Fig. 1. represents the convolutions as seen on .
the upper surface of the brain. In the middle line, from
A to B, a deep cleft or fissure is perceived, separating the
brain, in its whole length, iota two halves, or hemispheru,
as they are called. Into this cleft dips a tight stiff mem-
brane, resembling a scythe in shape, and hence called the
falz (scythe), or sometimes, from its being a mere fold of
118 C.lL.lMITIEI .llllSING . FllOM
Fir. 1.-Urna Suauc& oF TB& Ba.ulf.
the dura mater, the falciform (scythe-like) process of the
dura tnater. From its dipping down between the two
halves of the brain, the chie( purpose of this membrane
seems to be to relieve the one side from the pressure of the
other, \vhen we are asleep, for example, or have the head
reclining to either side. The membrane does not descend
to the bottom of the brain, except in a small part, at the
front and back, G G in Fig. 2. It descends about two-
thirds oftho depth of the whole brain. At the point where
it terminates, a mass of fibres, named the corpus callosu1n,
passes between and connects the two hemispheres. The
convolutions represented in Fig. I. helong chiefly to the
coronal region, and manifest the moral sentiments.•
The cut Fig. 2. represents the convolutions lying at the
base ofthe brain.
' Each half or hemisphere of the brain is, in its turn,
divided,-but in a less marked way, as the divisions are
observable only on its inferior surface,-into three por-
tions, called, from their situations, the anterior, middk,
.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRINOIIIMJ:NT 01' THJ: OllOANIC LAWI. 119
and posterior lobes, each occupying nearly a third of the
whole length of the brain. The anterior lobe, being the
portion lying before the dotted line E E, occupies the
forehead; the middle is all the portion lying between the
two transverse lines E E and F F, above and a little in
front of the ears; and the posterior lobe is that portion
lying behind the transverse line F F, and corresponding
to the back part of the head.
'Beneath the posterior lobe, a strong fold of the dura
mater, called the tentorium, is extended horizontally to
support and separate it from the cerebellum A A, or little
brain, lying below it. The cerebellum forms the last great
division ofthe contents ofthe skull. Its surface is marked
by convolutions, differing, however, in size and appearance
from those observed in the brain.
' Adhering to the ~urface of the convolutions, and con-
sequently dipping down into, and lining the sulci or fur-
l'OWs between them, anothe_r membrane, of a finer texture,
oio "'ed by Google
130 C.lL.t.JliTIES .uliSING I'ROM
and greater vascularity, called pia mater, is found. The
bloodveBBels going to the brain branch_out so extensively
on the pia mater, that, when a little inflamed, it seems to
constitute a perfect vascular net-work. This minute sub-
division is of use in preventing the blood from being im-
pelled with too great force against the delicate tissue of the
brain. ·
'A third covering, called the arachnoid membrane, from
its fineness resembling that of a spider's web, is interposed
between the other two, and is frequently the seat of
disease.
'On examining the convolutions in differe·nt brains,
they are found to vary a good deal in size, depth, and
general appearance. In the various regions of the same
brain they are also different, but preserve the same general
aspect. Thus they are always small and numerous in the
anterior lobe, larger and deeper in the middle, and still
larger in the posterior lobe. The thick cord or root C,
springing from the base of the brain, is named the medulla
oblongata, or oblong portion ofthe spinal marrow, which is
continued downwards, and fills the cavity of the spine or
back-bone. At one time the brain has been regarded as
proceeding from, and at another. as giving rise to, the spinal
marrow; but, in reality, the two are merely connected,
and neither grows from the other. The false ,analogy
of a stem growing from a root has led to this abuse of
language. .
' The small roun~ filaments or cords seen to proceed
from the sides ofthe medulla oblongata, and fr.om near the
base of the brai!l, are various net-ves of sensation and mo-
tion, some of them going to the organs of sense, and others
to the skin and muscles of the face, head, and other more
distant parts. The long flat-looking nerve a a, lying on
the surface of the anterior lobe, is the olfactory, or nerve
of smell, going to the nose. The round thick nerve 4 4,
near the roots oftbe former, is the optic, or nerve ofvision,
ftOing to the eye. That marked b is the motor nerve.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRJIIIOEMENT 01' TUB ORGANIC LA:WS. JSJ
which supplies the muscles ofthe eyeball. A little farther
back, the fifth pair c, is seen to issue apparently from the
arch D, called Pom Parolii, or bridge of Varolius. It is
a large compound nerve, and divides into three branches,
which are ramified on almost all the parts connected with
the head and face, and the upper and under jaw. It is a
nerve of both sensation and motion, and one branch of it
ramified on the tongue is the nerve of taste. Other
branches supply and give sensibility to the teeth, glands,
and skin. The seventh or auditory nerve e, is distributed
on the internal ear, and serves for hearing. The eighth,
or pneumogastric nerve d, sends 6laments to the windpipe,
lungs, heart, and stomach, and is one of great importance
in the production of the voice and respiration. It also
influences the action of the heart, and the process of
digestion.
'Such are the principal nerves more immediately con-
nected with the brain, but which it is impossible to dc!'cribe
more minutely here. Those which supply the trunk of the
body and .the extremities, issue chiefly from .the spinal
marrow; but they also must, for the present, be passed
over in silence, that we may return to the consideration of
the brain.
'The brain receives an unusually large supply of blood,
in comparison with the rest ofthe body; but the nature of
its circulation, although a very interesting subject of study,
being only indirectly connected with our present purpose,
cannot now be discussed.'
The brain is the fountain of nervous energy to the whole
body, and many individuals are habitual invalids, without
actually laboring under any ordinary recognised disease,
solely from defective or irregular exercise of the nervous
system. In such cases, not only the mind, in its feelings
and intellectual capacities, suffers debility, but all the
ftmctions of the body participate in its langour, because all
of them receive a diminished and vitiated supply of the
nervous stimulus, a due share of which is essential to their
oio "'ed by Google
lSi C4LA.Xlp&a 41\lllNO J'&ollll
healthy action. The best mode of increasing the strength
and energy of any organ and function, is to exercise them
regularly and judiciously, according to the Jaws of their
constitution.• The brain is the organ ofthe mind; differ-
ent parts of it manifest distinct faculties; and the power of
manifestation in regard to each is proportionate, cti!teria
paribtu, to the size and activity of the organ. The brain
partakes of the general qualities of the organized system,
· and is strengthened by the same mea~s as the other organs.
When the muscles are called into vivacious activity, an
increased influx of blood and nervous stimulus.takes place
in them, and their vessels and fibres become at once larger,
firmer, and more susceptible of action. Thought and feel-
ing are to the brain what bodily exercise is to thQ)nus~¥
they put it into activity, and cause increased action in its
bloodvessels, and an augmented elaboration of nervous
energy. In a case reported by Dr. Pierquin, observed by
him in one ofthe hospitals of Montpelier in 1821, he saw,
in a female patient part of whose skull had been removed,
the bram motionless and lying within the cra~ium when
she was in a dreamless sleep; in motion and protrudir..g
without the skull when she was agitated by dreams; more
protruded in dreams reported by herself to be vivid; and
still more so when perfectly awake, and especially if en-
gaged in active thought or sprightly conversation. Similar
cases are reported by Sir Astley Cooper and Professor
Blumenbach.t
Those parts of the brain which manifest the feelings,
constitute by far the largest portion of it, and they are best
exercised by discharging the active duties of life and of
religion, the parts which manifest the intellect are smaller,
and are exercised by the application of the understanding
in practical business, and in the arts, sciences, or literature.
• See Dr. A. Combe's Physiology, &c., 3d edit., pp. 147, 192,277.
t See American Annals of Phrenology, No. I. p. 37. Sir A. Cooper>a
Lec&urea on Snrgery, b)t Tyrrel, v<>l. i. p. 279. Elliot:Jon'a Bltllllellbacb,
-4&h edition, p. 283. Phren. Joum. vol. ix. p. 228.
oio "'ed by Google
INFRJJ'IIGEM:ItJ'IIT OP THE ORGANIC LAWS. 139
The first step, therefore, towaTds establishing the regular
exercise of the brain, is to educate and train the mental
faculties in youth; and the second i~ to place the individual
habitually in circumstances demanding the discharge of
useful and important duties.
I have often heard the question asked, What is the use
of education? The answer might be illustrated by ex-
plaining to the inquirer the nature and objects of the vari-
ous organs ofthe body, such as the limbs, lungs, and eyes,
and then asking him, if he could perceive any advantage
to a being so constituted, in obtaining access to earth, air,
and light ? He would at ~nee declare, that they were
obviously of the very highest utility to him, as affording ·
the only conceivable means by whiclr these organs could
obtain scope for ·action, which action we suppose him to
know to be pleasure. To those, then, who know the con-
stitution of the brain as the organ of the moral and intel-
lectual powers of man, I need only ~ay, that the objects
presented by education to the mind, bear to it the same
relation that the physical elements of nature do to the
nerves and muscles; they afford the faculties scope for
action, and yield them delight. The meaning commonly
attached to the word education in such cases, is Greek and
Latin; but I employ it to signify~knowledge of nature and
science in alJ its departments. Again, the signification
generally attached to the word me in such questions, is,
how much fTWfle!J, influence, or consideration, will education
bring?-these being the only objects of strong desire with
which uncultivated minds are acquainted; and it is not
perceived in what way education can greatly gratify such
propensities. But the moment the mind is opened to the
perception of its own constitution and to the natural laws,
the great advantage of moral and intellectual cultivation,
as a means of exercising and invigorating the brain and
mental faculties, and also of directing the conduct in obe-
dience to these laws, beeomes apparent.
12
1M C&L&MITI~I A.RIIING I'&oil
But there is an additional benefit arising from healthy
activity of brain, which is little known. Different modi-
fications of the nervous energy elaborated by the .brain,
appear to take place, according to the mode in which the
faculties and organs are affected. For example, when
misfortune and disgrace impend over us, the organs of
Cautiousness, Self-Esteem, and Love of Approbation are
painfully excited, and appear to transmit an impaired, or
positively noxious, nervous influence to the heart, stomach,
intestines, and thence to the rest of the body; digestion is
deranged, the pulse becomes feeble and irregular, and the
whole corporeal system wastes. When, on the other hand,
the cerebral organs are agreeably affected, a benign and
vivifying nervous influence pervades the frame, and all the
functions of the body are performed with increased pleasure
and success. Now, it is a law, that the quantum of nervous
energy increases with the number of cerebral organs roused
to activity, and with the degree of that activity itself. In
the retreat of the French from Moscow, for example, when
no enemy was near, the soldiers became depressed in
courage and enfeebled in body, and nearly sank to the
earth through exhaustion and cold; but no sooner did the
fire of the Russian guns sound in their ears, or the gleam
of their bayonets flash in their eyes, than new life seemed
to pervade them. They wielded powerfully the arms,
which, a few moments before, they could scarcely carry or
drag on the ground. Scarcely, however, was the em~my
repulsed, when their feebleness returned. The theory of
this is, that the approach of the combat called into activity
a variety of additional faculties; these sent new energy
through every nerve; and, while their vivacity was main-
tained by the external stimulus, they rendered the soldiers
strong beyond their merely physical condition. Many
persons have probably experienced the operation of the
same principle. If, when sitting feeble and listless by the
fire, we have heard of an accident having occurred to soJr~e
beloved friend who required our instantaneous aid, or if
INFRINGEMENT OF THE ORGANIC LAWS. 155
an unexpected visiter has arrived, in whom our afFections
were bound up,-in an instant our lassitude was gone, and
we moved with an alertness and animation that .seemed
surprising to ourselves. The cause was the same; these
events roused Adhesiveness, Benevolence, Love of Appro-
bation, Intellect, and a variety of faculties which were
previously dormant, and their influence invigorated the
limbs. Dr. Sparrman, in his Voyage to the Cape, men-
tions a striking illustration of the principle. ' There was
now again,' says he, ' a great scarcity of meat in the wag-
- gon; for which reason my. HottentotB began to grumble,
and reminded me that we ought not to waste so much of
our time in looking after insects and plants, but give a
better look out after the game. At the same time, they
pointed to a neighboring dale overrun with wood, at the
upper edge of which, at the distance of about a mile and a
quarter from the spot where we then were, they had seen
several bufFaloes. Accordingly, we went thither; but,
though our fatigue was lessened by our Hottentots carrying
our guns for us up a hill, yet we were quite out of breath,
and overcome by the sun, before we got up to it. Yet,
what even now appears to me a matter of wonder is, that
as soon as toe got a glimpse of the game, all this lango1· left
us in an instant. In fact, we each of us strove to fire
before the other, so that we seemed entirely to have lost
sight of all prudence and caution.'
It is part of the same law, that the more agreeable the
mental stimulus, the more benign is the nervous influence
transmitted to the body.
An individual who has received from nature a large and
tolerably active brain, but who, from possessing wealth
sufficient to remove the necessity for labor, is engaged
in no profession, and who has not enjoyed the advantages
of a scientific or extensive education, and takes no interest
in moral and intellectual pursuits for their own sake, is
in general a victim to infringement of the natural laws.
Persons of this description·, ignorant of these laws, will,
oio "'ed by Google
136 C.t.L.lMITIE!I .lRIIING PILOlll
in all probability, neglect nervous and muscular exercise.
and suffer the miseries arising from impeded circulation
and impaired digestion. In entire want of every object on
which the energy of their minds might be expended, the
due stimulating influence of their brains on their bodies
will be withheld, and the effects of muscular inactivity .
will be thereby aggravated: all the functions will, .in
consequence, become enfeebled; lassitude, uneasiness,
anxiety, and a thous11nd evils, will arise; and life, in short,
will become a mere endurance of punishment for infringe-
ment of institutions calculated in themselves to promote
happiness and alford delight when known and obeyed.
This fate frequently overtakes uneducated females, whose
early days have been occupied with business or the cares
of a family, but whose occupations have ceased before old
age has diminished corporeal vigor: It overtakes men
also, who, uneducated, retire from active business in the
prime of life. In some instances, these evils accumulate
to such a degree that the brain at length gives way,
llQd insanity is the consequence.
It is worthy of remark, that the more elevated the ob-
jects of our study, the higher in the scale are the mental
organs which are exercised; and that the higher the
organs, the more pure and intense is the pleasure: hence,
a vivacious and regularly supported excitement of the
moral sentiments and intellect, is, by the organic law,
highly favorable to health and corporeal vigor. In the
fact of a living animal being able to retain life in an oven
that will bake dead flesh, we see an illpstration of the
organic law rising above the purely physical; and, in the
circumstance of the moral and intellectual organs trans-
mitting the most favon~ble nervous influence to the whole
bodily system, we have an example of the moral and
intellectual law rising higher than the merely organic.
No person, after having his intellect imbued with a
perception of, and belief in, the natural laws, as now
explained, can possibly desin> continued idleness as a
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGEMENT OF THE ORGANIC LAWS._ 131
source of. pleasure; nor caB he possibly regard muscular
exertion and mental activity, when not carried to excess,
as any thing else than enjoym~uts, kindly vouchsafed to
him by the benevolence of the Creator. The notion that
moderate labor and mental exertion are evils, can origi-
nate only from ignorance, or from viewing the effects of
over-exhaustion as the result of the n11tural law, and not
as the punishment for infringing it.
If, then, we sedulously inquire, in each particular in-
stance, into the come of the sickness, pain, and premature
death, or the derangement of the corporeal frame in youth
and middle life, which we see so common around us; and
endeavor to discover whether it originated in obedience
to the physical and organic laws, or sprang from infringe-
ment of them, we shall be able to form some estimate as to
how far bodily suffering is justly attributable to imperfec-
tions of nature, and how far. to our own ignorance and
neglect of divine institutions.
The foregoing principles, being of much practical im-
portance, may, with propriety, be elucidated by a few
actual cases. Two or three centuries ago, various cities
in Europe were depopulated by the plague, and, in par-
ticular, London was visited by an awful mortality from
this cause, in the reign of Charles the Second. Most
people of that age attributed the scourge to the inscrutable
decrees of Providen('.e, and some to the magnitude of the
nation's moral iniquities. According to the views now
presented, it must have arisen from infringement of the
organic laws, and have been intended to enforce stricter
obedience to them in future. There was nothing inscru-
table_ in its causes or objects. These, when clearly
analyzed, appear to have had no direct reference to the
moral condition of the people; I say direct reference to the
moral condition of the people-because it would be easy
to show that the physical, the organic, and all the other
natural laws, are connected indirectly, and constituted in
harmony, with the moral law; and that infringement ofthe
12*
-
138
lt•&ter pften leads to dilobedieaee ofother laws, and brings
a clooble' punishment on the offeuder. The facta recorded
in hiatory exactly correspond with the theory now pro-
poantled. The following is a picture of the condition of
t1ae cities of Western Europe in the 15th century:-' The
ftoors of the houses being commonly of clay, and strewed
with rushee or straw, it is loathsome to think of the filth
collected in the hovels of the common people, and some-
timea in the lodgings even of the superior ranks, from
epilled milk, beer, greue, fragments of bread, fiesh, bones,
api«le, ellCI'ement• of eats, dogs, &.c. To this Erasmus,
ia a letter ~. c. 1815, ascribes the plague, the sweating
eieknea•, &c., in London, which, in this respect, resembled
Paris and other town• of any magnitude in those times.'-
BaRieta'• Hiltory of FraRCe, vol. v. p. 416. The streets
of London were excessively narrow, the habits of the
people dirty, their food inferior, and no adequate provision
was made for introducing a plentiful supply of water, or
removing the filth unavoidably produced by a dense popu-
lation. The great fire in that city, which happened soon
after tbe peatilence, afforded an opportunity of remedying,
in some degree, the narrowness of the streets; and habits
of increuing cleanliness abated the filth: these changes
brought the people to a closer obedience to the organic
laws, and no plague has since returned. Again, till very
lately, thou~~&nds of children died yearly of the small-pox;
but, in our day, vaccine inoculation saves ninety-nine out
of a hundred, who, under the old system, would have died.
Tile theory of its operation has recently been elucidated
lty Dr. Sonderland of Bremen, who has ascertained that
cow-pox is merely a modification of small-pox; so that in
preventing small-pox, it acts in accordance with the well
known law that certain diseases occur only once.
A gentleman, who died about twenty years ago at an
advanced period of life, told me, that, six miles west from
Edinburgh, the country was so unhealthy in his youth,
tltat every spring the farmers and their servants were
INFRINGEMEN'l' OF THE 01\G.lNIC t..t.WS. 13f
seized with fever and ague, and needed regularly to aDder•
go bleeding, and a course of medicine, to prevent attacks
or remove their effects. At that time, these risitatiooe
were believed to be sent by Providence, and to be inherent
tn the constitution of things. After, however, said my
informant, an improved system of agriculture and draining
was established, and the vast pools of stagnant water,
formerly left between the ridges of the fields, were remov-
ed, dunghills carried to a distance from the doors, and the
houses themselves made more spacious and commodious,
-every symptom of ague and marsh-fever disappeared from
the district, and it became highly salubrious. In other
words, as soon as the gross infringement of the organic
laws was abated by a more active exertion ofthe muscular
and intellectual powers of man, the punishment ceased.
Another friend informed me, that, about fifty years ago,
he commenced farming in a high and uncultivnted district
of East-Lothian; that the crops at first suffered severely
from cold fogs; that the whole region, however, has been
since reclaimed and drained; that the climate bas greatly
improved, and, in particular, that the destructive mists
have disappeared. The same results have followed in
Canada and the United States of America, from similar
operations.
In like manner, many calamities occurred in coal-pits,
in consequence of infringement of a physical law by in-
troducing lighted candles and lamps into places filled with
hydrogen gas, which had emanated from seams of coal,
and which exploded, and scorched and suffocated the men
and anim~ls within its reach; until Sir Humphrey Davy
discovered that the Creator bud established such a relation
between flame, wire-guaze, and hydrogen gas, that, by
·surrounding the flame with guaze, its power of exploding
hydrogen was suspended By the simple application of a
covering of wire-guaze over and around the flame, it is
prevented ti·om igniting gas beyond it; and colliers are
now able to carry, with safety, lighted lamps into placea
oio "'ed by Google
140 CA.L.A.liUTIIi\8 A.RISING I'JlOM ·
highly impregnated with inflammable air. I have been
informed, that the accidents from explosion, which still
occasionally occur in coal-mines, arise from neglecting
to keep the lamps in perfect condition.
It is needleBB to multiply examples in support of the
proposition, that the organized system of man, in itself,
admits of a healthy existence from infancy to old age,
provided its germ has been healthy, and its subsequent
condition uniformly in harmony with the physical and·
organic laws. But it has been objected, that, although
the human faculties may perhaps be adequate to discover
these laws, and to record them in books, they are totally
incapabie of retaining them in the memory, and of formally
applying them in every act of lifo. If, it is said, we could
not move a step without calculating the effects of the law
of gravitation and adjusting the body to its inftnence, and
could never eat a meal without squaring our appetite by
the organic laws, life would be oppressed by the pedantry
of knowledge, and rendered miserable by the observance
of trivial detail!!. The answer to this objection is, that our
fatuities are adapted by the Creator to the external world,
and act in~tinctively when their objects are properly placed
before them. In walking during the day on a foot-path in
the country, we adjust our steps to the inequalities of the
surface, without being overburdened by mental calculation.
Indeed, we perform this adjustment with so little trouble,
that we are not aware of having made any particular men-
tal or muscular effort. But, on returning by the same
path at night, when we cannot see, we stumble, and dis-
cover, for the first time, how important a duty our facul-
ties had been performing during day, without our having
adverted to their labor. Now, the simple medium of
light is sufficient to bring clearly before our eyes the ine-
qualities of the ground; but to make the mind equally
familiar with the nature of the countleBB objects which
abound in external nature, and their relations, an intellect-
ual light is necessary, which can be struck out only by
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGBllllENT OF THE ORG.&.NIC LAWS. 141
exerciaing and applying the knowing and reflecting faeul-
ties;-when that light is obtained, and the qualities and
r-elationships in question are clearly perceived, our facul-
ties, so long as the light lasts, fllill act i111tincti,ely in ad~pt­
iog our conduct to the nature of the objects, just as they
do in accommodating our movements to the unequal sur- .
face ofthe earth. After the poisonous qualities of hemlock
are known, it-is no more necessary for us to go through a
course of reasoning on physical, botanical, and chemical
subjects, in order to be able to abstain from eating it, than
it is to go through a course of mathematical investigation,
before liiling the one foot higher than the other, in ascend-
ing a stair. At present, physical a."ld political science,
morals, and religion, are not taught a.i parts of one con-
nected system; nor are the relations between them ar.d the
constitution of man pointed out to the world. Consequent-
ly, theoretical and practical knowledge are often widely
separated. This ought not to be the case; ·for many ad-
vantages would flow from scientific education. Some of
these would be the following:-
ln the first place, the physical and organic laws, when
truly discovered, appear to the mind as institutions of the
Creator; wise and salutary in themselves, unbending in
their operation, and universal in their application. They
interest our intellectual faculties, and strongly impress
our sentiments. The necessity of obeying them comes
home to us with all the authority of a mandate from God.
While we confine ourselves to mere recommendations to
beware of damp, to observe tei;Dperance, or to take exer-
cise, without explaining the principle, the injunction cnrrieB
only the weight due to the authority of the indi'~Mual who
gives it, and is addressed to only two or three faculties,-
Veneration and Cautiousness, for instance, or Self-love,
in him who receives it. But if we be made acquainted
with the elements of the physical world, and with those of
our organized system, -with the uses of the different
pvts of the human body, and the conditions necessary
oio "'ed by Google
16 C4LAMITII:S ARISING FROM:
to their healthy action,-with the causes of their derange-
ment, and the pains collilequent thereon ; and ifthe obliga-
tion to attend to these conditions b~ enforced on our moral
sentiments and intellect, as a duty which is imposed on us
by the Creator, and which we cannot neglect without suf-
fering punishment; then the motives to observe the physi-
cal and organic laws, as well as 1M power of doing so, will
be prodigiously increased. Before we can dance well, not
only must we know lhe motions, but our muscles must be
trained to ezewte the1n; and, in like manner, to enable us
to act on precepts, not only must we comprehend their
meaning, but our intellects and sentiments must be dis-
ciplined into actual performance: Now, the very act of
acquiring connected scientific information concerning the
natural world, its qualities, and their relations, is to the
intellect and sentiments what dancing is to the muscles: it
inmgomtes them; and, as obedience to the natural laws
must spring from them, exercise renders it more easy and
delightfuI.
Secondly, It is only by being taught the principle on
which consequences depend, that we become capable of
perceiving tht" invariableness of the results of the physical
an!l organic laws, acquire confidence in, and respect for,
the laws themselves, and fairly endeavor .to accommodate
our conduct to their operation. Dr. Johnson defines
' principle ' to be ' fundamental truth; original· postulate;
first position from which others are deduced; ' and in these
senses I use the word. The human faculties are instinc-
tively active, and desire gratification; but Intellect must
have fixed data, on which to reason, otherwise it is itself a
mere impulse. The man in whom Constructiveness and
Weight are powerful will naturally betake himself to con-
structing machinery; but, if he be ignorant of the princi-
ples of mechanical science, he will not direct his efforts to
such important ends, nor attain them with so much suc-
cess, as if his intellect had been stored with this kind of
knowledge. Scientific principles are deduced from the
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRINOBMBNT OF THE OROANIO LAWS, 143
14~• of nature. A man may make music by the instinc-
tive impulses of Tune and Time; but there are immutable
laws of harmony, of which if h" be ignorant, he will not
perform so correctly and in such good taste, as he would
do if he knew them. In every art and science, there are
principles referrible solely to the constitution of nature, but
these admit of countless applications. A musician may
produce gay, grave, solemn, or ludicrous tunes, all good of
their kind, by following the laws of harmony; but he will
never produce one good piece by violating them. While
' the inhabitants west of Edinburgh allowed the stagnant
pools to deface their fields, some seasons would be more
healthy than others; and, while the cause of the disease
.was unsuspected, this would confirm them in the notion
that he~th and sickness were dispensed by an overruling
Providence, on inscrutable principles, which they could
not comprehend: but the moment the cause was known, it
would be found that the most healthy seasons were those
which were cold and dry, and the most sickly those which
were warrn and moist; and they would then discover, that
the superior salubrity of one year, and unwholesomeness of
another, were clearly referrible to one principle; and after
perceiving this truth, they would both be more strongly
prompted to apply the remedy, and be rendered morally
and intellectually more capable of doing so. If some in-
telligent friend had merely told them to drain their fields,
and remove their dunghills,- they would probably not have
complied with his recommendation; but whenever their
intellects were led to the perception that the evil would
continue until they acted in this manner, the improvement
would become easy.
The truth of these views may be still farther illustrated
by examples. A young gentleman of Glasgow, whom I
_
knew, went out, as a merchant, to North America. Busi-
ness required him to sail from New York to St. Domingo.
The weather was hot, and he, being very sick, found the
confinement below deck, in bed, as he said, intolerable;,
oio "'ed by Google
144 ON THE EVILS TH4T BBF4LL liUNKJlfD
that is, this confinement was, for the moment, more painful
than the course which he adopted, of laying himselfdown
at full length on the deck, in the open air. He was warned
by his fellow passengers, and the officers of the ship, that
be would inevitably induce fever by his proceeding; but
be was utterly ignorant of the physical and organic laws :
his intellect had been trained to regard only wealth and
present pleasure as objects of real importance; it could
perceive no necessary connection between exposure to the
mild grateful sea-breeze of a warm climate, and fever; and
be obstinately refused to quit his position. The conse-
quence was, that he was soon taken ill, and died the day
after arriving at St. Domingo. Knowledge of chemistry
and physiology would have enabled him, in an instant, to
understand that the sea air, in warm climates, holds a pro-
digious quantity of water in solution, and that damp and
beat, operating together on the human organs, tend to de-
range their healthy action, and ultimately to destroy them
entirely: and if his sentiments had been deeply imbued
with a feeling of the indispensable duty of yielding obe-
dience to the institutions of the Creator, be would have
actually enjoyed not only a greater deaire, but a greater
power, of supporting the temporary inconvenience of the
heated cabin, ana might, by possibility, have escaped death.
A medical gentleman, w~ll known in the literary world,
bas,favored me with the following particulars, suggested
by a perusal of the second edition of the present work:-
'On four several occasions I have nearly lost my life from
infringing the organic laws. When a lad of fifteen, I
brought on, by excessive study, a brain fever which nearly
killed me; nt the age of nineteen I had an attack of pe-
ritonitis (inflammation of the lining membrane of the
abdomen), occasioned by violent efforts in wrestling and
leaping; while in France nine years ago, I was laid up
with pneumonia (inflammation ofthe lungs), brought on by
dissecting in the great galleries of La Pitie, with my coat
and hat off in the month ofDecember, the windows next to
oio "'ed by Google
PROM JIDRI.NO&IIIllltn' 01' TH& ORGANIC LAWS. 145
me being constantly open; and in 1829 I had a dreadful
fever, occasioned by ~alking home from a party at which
I had been dancing, in an exceedingly cold morning, with-
out a cloak or greatcoat. I was for four months on my
hack, and did not recover perfectly fbr more than eighteen
months. All these evils were entirely of my own creating,
and arose from a foolish violation of laws which every sen-
sible man ought to observe and regulate himself by. In- ,
deed, I have always thought-and your book confirms me
more fully in the sentiment-that, by proper attention,
crime and disease, and misery of every sort, could, in a
much greater measure than is generally believed, be ban-
ished from the earth, and that the true method of doing so
is to instruct people in the laws which govern their own
frame.'
Captam Murray, R. N., mentioned to Dr. A. Combe,
that, in hi:s opinion, most of the bad effects of the climate
of the West Indies might be avoided by care and attention
to clothing; and that so satisfied was he on this point, that
he had petitioned to be sent there in preference to the
North American station, and had no reasa,1 to regret the
change. The measures which he adopted, and their effects,
are detailed in the following interesting and instructive
- letter:-
'MY DEAR Sm, AssnT, .1/pril 22, 1827.
'I should have written .to you before this, had I not
been anxious to refer to some memorandums, which I could
not do before my return home from Coul. I attribute the
great good health enjoyed by the crew of his Majesty's
ship Valorous, when on the West India station, during
the period I had the honor of commanding her, to the fol-
lowing causes: 1st, To the keeping the ship perfectly dry
and clean; 2d, To habituating the men to the wearing of
flannel next the skin; 3d, To the precaution I adopted, of'
giving each man a proportion of his allowance of cocoa be-
fore he left the ship in the morning, either for the purpose
IS
oio "'ed by Google
146 OK Tllll SVJLI TB.A.T BU'.A.LL IUJQUII'D
ofwatering, or any other d~ty be might be eeot upoD; and,
4th, To the cheerfulneu of the crew.
•The Valorous sailed from Plymouth on the ~4th D.
cember 1823, having just returned from the coast of La-
brador and Newfoundland, where she had been stationed
two years, the crew, including officers, amounting to 150
men. I had ordered the purser to draw two pairs of ftan-
nel drawers and two shirts extra for each man, as soon as
I knew that our destination was the West Indies; and, on
our sailing, I issued two of each to every man and boy in
the ship, making the officers of each division responsible
for the men of their respective divisions wearing these Han-
nels during the day and night; and, at the regular morn-
ing nine o'clock musters, I inspected the crew personally;
for you can hardly conceive the difficulty 1 have had in
forcing some of the men to use ftannel at first; although I
never yet knew one who did not, from choice, adhere to it,
when once fairly adopted. The only precaution after this
was to tee that, in bad weather, the watch, when relieved,
did not turn in in their wet clothes, which the young hands
were apt to do, if not looked after; and their ftannels were
shifted every Sunday.
•Whenever fresh beef and vegetables could be procured
at the contract price, they were always issued in preference
to salt provisions. Lime juice was issued whenever the
men had been fourteen days on ship's provisions; and the
crew took all their meals on the. main deck, except in very
bad weather.
•The quarter and main decks were scrubbed with trand
and water, and wet holy-stones, every morning at day-
light. The lower deck, cock-pit, and store-rooms were
scrubbed every day after breakfast, with dry holy-stones
and hot sand, until quite white, the sand being carefully
swept up, and thrown overboard. The pump-well was
also swabbed out dry, and then scrubbed with holy-stones
and hot sand; and here, as well as in every part of the
llbip which was liable to damp, Brodie-stoves were eon-
oio "'ed by Google
I'ROM Jl'tFRil'IOEMBNT OP T1li: ORGANIC LA.W!I. 14'7
stantly used, until every appearance of humidity vanished.
The lower-deck and cock-pit were washed once every
week in dry weather; but Brodie-stoves were constantly
kept burning in them, until they were quite dry again.
' The hammocks were piped up and in the nettings, &om
7 A. M. until dusk, when the men of each watch took down
their hammocks alternately; by which means, only one-
half of the hammocks being down at a time, the 'tween
decks were not so crowded, and the watch relieved was
sure ofturning into a dry bed on going below. The bed
ding was aired every week once at least. The men were
not permitted to go on shore in the heat of the sun, or
where there was a probability of their getting •pirituool
liquors; but all han~s were indulged with a run on shore,
when out of reach of such temptation.
' I was employed on the coast of Caraccas, the West
India Islands, and Gulf of Mexico; and, in course of
service, I visited Trinidad, Margarita, Cocha, Cumana,
NuevaBarcelona, Laguira, Porto Cabello, and Maracaibo,
on the coast ofCaraccas; all the West India Islands from
Tobago to Cuba, both inclusive; as also Cara~oa and
Aruba, and several of these places repeatedly; also Vera
Cruz and T~mpico, in the GulfofMexico, which you will
admit must have given a trial to. the constitutions of my
men, aller two years among the icebergs ofLabrador, with-
out an intervening summer between that icy coast and the
coast of Caraccas: yet I arrived in England on June 24th,
without having buried a single man or officer belonging to
the ship, or indeed having a single man on the sick list; from
which I am satisfied that a dry ship will always be a heal-
thy one in any climate. When in command ofthe Recruit,
of 18 guns, in ihe year 1809, I was sent to Vera Cruz,
where I found the ---46, the---42, the ---J8,
and ---gun-brig; we were joined by the --36,
and the--- 18. During the period we remained at
anchor (from 8 to 10 weeks,) the three frigates lost from
00 to 50 men each, the brigs 16 to 18, the-most of
I '
148 ON THE EVILS THAT BEFALL MA.NJUND
her crew, with two different commanders; yet the Recruit,
although moored in the middle of the squadron, and coil-
slant intercourse held with the other ships, did not lose a
man, and had none sick. Now, as some ofthese ships had
been as long in the West Indies as the Recruit, we cannot
attribute her singularly healthy state to IUJioning, nor can
I to superior cleanliness, because even the breeches of the
carronades, and all the pins, were polished bright in both
--- and---, which was not the case with the Re-
cruit. Perhaps her healthy state may be attributed to
cheerfulness in the men; to my never allowing them to go
on shore in the morning on an empty stomach; to the use
of dry sand and holy-stone for the ship; to never working
them in the sun; perhaps to accident. Were I asked my
opinion, I would say that I firmly belie~e that cheerfulness
contributes more to keep a ship's company healthy, than
any precaution that can be adopted; and that, with this
attainment, combined with the precautions I have mention-
ed, I should sail for the West Indies with as little anxiety
as I would for any other station. l\1y Valorous fellows
were as cheerful a set as I ever saw collected together.'
Suppose that two gentlemen were to ascend one of the -
Scottish mountains, in a hot summer day, and to arrive at
the top, bathed in perspiro.tion, and exhausted with fatigu6:
that one of them knew intimately the physical and organic
laws, and that, all hot and wearied as he was, he should
button up h;is coat closer about his body, wrap a handker·
chief about his neck, and continue walking, at a quick
pace, round the summit, in the full blaze of the sun; but
that the other, ignorant of these laws, should eagerly run
to the base of a projecting cliff, stretch himself at full length
on the turf under its refreshing shade, open his vest to the
grateful breeze, and give himself up entirely to the present
luxuries of coolness and repose: the former, by warding
offthe rapid chill of the cold mountain air, would descend
with health unimpaired; while the latter would carry with
him, to a certainty, the seeds of rheumatism, consumption,
FROM llfJ'JUKGSJU.NT OJ' TH& O&G.UfiC LA.WI. 149
or fitver, from permitting penpiration to be inatantaneoualy
checked, and the surface of the body to be cooled with
an injurious rapidity. The death of the young Duke de
Leucbtenberg, husband of Donna Maria, Queen of Por-
tugal, affords a striking example of the operation of theee
principles. On Monday, the 23d of March 1835, be, in
perfect health, went out to shoot. On returning to the
palace, be imprudently threw off his coat and waistcoat,
while yet in a state of profuse perspiration. This brought
on a cold; alight at first, but which soon began to assume
n serious char_
acter. On Friday the 27th, inflammation
appeared; and, on Saturday the 28th, at· twenty minutes
past two P. M., be expired.
The following cue, also illustrative of the points under
consideration, is one which I have had too good an oppor
tunity of obse"ing in all its stages.
An individual in whom it was my duty as well as plea-
sure to be greatly- interested, resolved on carrying l\fr.
Owen's views into practical effect, and set on foot an es-
tablishment on his principles, at Orbiston, in Lanarkshire
The labor and anxiety which be underwent at the com-
mencement of the undertaking, gradually impaired an ex-
cellent constitution; and, without perceiving the change,
he, by way of setting an example of industry, took to dig-
ging with the spade, and actually wrought for fourteen days
at this occupation, although previously unaccustomed to
labor. This produced hmmoptysis or spitting of blood.
Being now unable for such severe exertion, he gave up his
whole time to directing and instructing the people,--about
250 in number,-and for two or three weeks apoke the
tvhole day, the effusion of blood from his lungs continuing.
Nature sank rapidly under this irrational treatment, and at
last he came to Edinburgh for medical advice. When the
structure and uses of his lungs were explained to him, and
when it was pointed out that his treatment of them bad
been equally injudicious as if he had thrown lime or duat
into b• eyes after inflammation, be waa struck with tho
13•
oio "'ed by Google
150 ON TH& £VILS THAT BEJ'.t.LL 111.\Niti:N'D
extent and consequences of his ignorance, and exclaimed,
'How greatly should I have been benefited, if one month
of the five years which I was forced to spend in a vain at-
tempt to acquire a mastery over the Latin tongue, bad been
dedicated to conveying to me information concerning the
structure of my body, and the eauses which preserve and
impair its functions!' He had departed too widely from
the organic laws to admit of an easy return: he was seized
with inflammation of the lungs, and with great difficulty
got through that attack; but it impaired his constitution so
grievously, that he died after a lingering illneBS of eleven
months. He acknowledged, however, even in his .severest
pain, that he suffered under a just law. The lungs, be
perceived, were of prime importance to life, and a motive
to their proper treP.~ment was provided in this tremendous
punishment, inflicted for neglecting the conditions requisite
to their health. Had he given them rest, and returned to
obedienr.e to the organic Jaw, at the first intimation of
departure from it, the way to health was open and ready
to receive him; but, in utter ignorance, he persevered for
weeks in direct opposition to that law, till the fearful result
ens~ed.
This last case affords a striking illustration of a principle
already more than once insisted on, the independence of the
different laws of the Creator, and of the neceBBity of ooey-
ing all of them, as the only condition of safety and enjoy-
ment. The individual here alluded to, was deeply engaged
in a most benevolent and disinterested experiment for pro-
moting the welfare of his fellow creatures; and superficial
observers would say that this was just an example of the
inscrutable decrees of Providence, which visited him with
sickness, and ultimately with death, in the very midst of
his most virtuous exertions. But the institutions of the
Creator are wiser than the imaginations of such men.
The first condition on which existence on earth and all its
advantages depend, is obedience to the physical and or-
ganic laws The benevolent Owenite neglected these, in
oio "'ed by Google
FROM INFRINGI!'.IIEl'fT 01' TBB OJlG.UflC LAWS, 151
his z.
eal to obey the moral law; and since, if it were pos-
sible to dispense with the one by obeying the other, the
whole scheme of man's existence would speedily be in-
volved in inexplicable disorder, he was made to suffer the
_
punishment of his neglect.
T.be following case was furnished to me by an actual
observer. A gentlemen far advanced in years fell into a
state of bodily weakness, which rendered necessary the
constant presence of an attendant. A daughter, in whom
the organs of Adhesiveness, Benevolence, and Venerl\tion
were largely developed, devoted herself to this service with
the most ceaseless assiduity. She was his companion for
month after month, and year after year-happy in cheering
the last days of her respected parent, and knowing no
pleasure equal to that of solacing and comforting him. For
months in succession she went not abroad from the house;
her duty became dearer to her the longer she discharged
it, till at length her father became the sole object on earth
of her feehngs and her thoughts. The superficial observer
would say that this conduct was admirable, and that she
must have received a rich reward from Heaven for such
becoming and virtuous devotion. But Providence rules
on other principles, and never yields. Her enjoyment of
mental happiness and vigor depended on the condition of
her brain, and her brain was subject to the organic laws.
These laws demand, as an indispensable condition of
health, exercise in the open air, and variety of employ-
ment, calculated to maintain all the faculties in activity
She neglected the first in her constant attendance in her
father's chamber; and she overlooked the second in estab-
lishing him as the exclusive object of her consideration.
The result was, that she fell into bad health, accompanied
by weakness of brain, extreme irritability and susceptibility
of mind, excessive anxiety, hysteria, and even symptoms
of insanity. Some judicious friends at last interfered, and,
by forcing her to leave for a time, although much against
her inclination, the object of her solicitude, rescued her
oio "'ed by Google
162 O!'r TBil llVJLI TB.lT DJU'.U.L lll.llfltllfD
from death, or confirmed mental derangement. If this
cue had been allowed to proceed uninterruptedly to its
natural termination, many pious persons would have mar-
velled at the mysterious dispensations of Providence in
aftlicting so dutiful a daughter; whereas, when the prin-
ciple of the divine governmeut is understood, the result
appears neither wonderful nor perplexing.
In the works of religious authors may be found many
erroneous views of divine dispensations, traceable to igno-
rance of the natural laws. The Reverend Ebenezer Ers-
kine, speaking of the state of his wife's mind, says, 'For
a month or two the arrows of the Almighty were within
her, the poison whereof did drink up her spirits; and the
terrors of God did set themselves in array against her.'
He called in the assistance of some neighboring clergy-
men to join in prayers on her behalf, and she was induced
to pray with- them; but 'she still continued to charge her-
self with the unpardonable sin, and to conclude that she
was a cast-away.' Such feelings occurring in a woman of
blameless life, clearly indicated diseased action in the or-
gans of Cautiousness. 'Before she fell into these depth!11,'
he continues, ' she told me that the Lord gave her such a
discovery of the glory of Christ as darkened the whole
creation, and made all things appear as dung and dross in
comparison of him.' These expressions indicate morbid
excitement of the organs of Wonder and Veneration. She
subsequently recovered her mental serenity; and her hus-
band treats of \he whole phenomena as purely mental and
. religious. He, however, afterwards incidentally mentions
that she was subject to bad health, and that 'melancholy
was a great ingredient in her disease.' We now know
that melancholy is a diseased affection of the organs of
Cautiousness
At the time when Mr. Erskine lived and wrote, the phy-
siology of the brain was unknown; the occurrences which
he describes had a real existence; and he had been taught
to attribute them to the agency of the Divine Spirit, or
)
,•
FROM JNFRJ!fG&MJ:NT OF TBB ORGAKIC LAWS, 16:')
the devil, according to their different charactei'IJ. He is,
therefore, not deserving of censure for the errors into
whit'b be unavoidably fell; but now when the facta which
he describes, and analogous occurrences in our own day,
can bt! traced to diseased action ofthe organs of the mind,
we are authorized to view the providence of God in a dif-
ferent light. While it would be subversive of all religion
to throw any doubt whatever on the reality and importance
of religious feelings, sound in their character and directed
to proper objects, it is nearly equally injurious to the
sacred cause, to mistake the..excitement and depression of
disease for the influence of the Holy Spirit, or the agency
ofthe enemy ofman~ind.
It is farther mentioned in ·the Life of1\'Ir. Erskine, that
his wife bore several children to him while in precarious
health, and that the situation '• of the manse, or parsonage
house, was unwh~lesome.' We are told, also, that in the
year 1713, three of his children died; that one 'died in
1720; and that, in 1723, a fifth was on the brink of death,
but recovered.* He treats of all these events as ' severe
trials,' ·and ' sore afflictions,' without having the least
glimpse of their true causes and objects, or their relation
to the natural laws.
Another illustration will not be out of,place. Hannah
More, in a letter to the Rev. John Newton, dated Cowslip
Green, 23d July 1788, says, 'When I am in the great
world, I consider myself as in an enemy's country, and as
beset with snares, and this puts me upon my guard.'
' Fears and snare!! seem necessary to excite my circum-
spection; for it is certain that my mind has more languor,
and my faith less energy here, where I have no temptations
from without, and where I live in the full and constant
perusal of the most beautiful objects of inanimate nature,
the lovely wonders of the munificence and bounty of God.
Yet, in the midst of his blessings, I should be stiU more
• Life and Diary of the Rev. Ebenezer Erskine. Edinburgh, 1831, PP
166, 801, 286, 290, 820
o;o "'ed by Google
164 OK TBB BVILS TBA.T BU'A.LL KA.f(J[JJfD
tempted to forget him, were it not for frequent nen-ou•
headaches and low fevers, which I find to be wonderfully
wholesome for my moral health.' •
This passage contains several propositions that merit at-
tention. Firat, according to the natural laws, ' the most
beautiful objects of inll!limate nature,' and ' the lovely
wonders of the munificence and bounty of God,' are cal-
culated to invigorate the moral, religious, and intellectual
faculties, in all well constituted and rightly instructed
minds; yet Hannah More's mind 'had more languor, and
her faith less energy,' amidst such objects, than ' when be-
set with snares:' Secondly, according both to the natural
Jaws and Scripture, ' evil communications corrupt good
manners;' but ' when in the great world,' and ' in an
enemy's country,' her faith was improved: And, thirdly,
' nervous headaches and low fevers ' are the consequen.ce!l
of departures from the organic Jaws, and are intended to
reclaim •the sufferer to obedience that the pain may cease;
yet she ' found them wonderfully wholesome for her moral
health,' and they prevented her from 'forgetting God!'
Only disease, or errors in education, could have pro-
duced such perverted experience in a woman so talented,
so pious, and so excellent, as Hannah More. Can we
wonder that the profane should sneer, and that practical
religion should slowly advance, when piety exhibits itself
in such lamentable contradiction to the divine institutions?
And still more so, when, from proceeding on a false theory,
it contradicts itself? Hannah More, in her Journal in 1794,
says, ' Confined this week with four days' headache-an
unprofitable time-thoughts wandering-little communion
with God I 1ee by et~ery fresh trial, that the time ofBiclmeu
i8 seldom the seatonfor religiow imprDflemcnt. This great
work should be done in health, or it will seldom be done
well.' Vol. ii. p. 418. This passage is full of sound sense;
but it contradicts her previous assertion, that ' nervoua
headaches and low fevers were wonderfully wholesome for
her moral health.'
• Memoin ofH. More, Vol. ii. p. 110,111
oio "'ed by Google
FROM Jlfi'RJKG&M&l'JT OJ' !'JIB ORG.ll'JJC L.lWI. 155
Theee examples, to which many more might be added, -
may serve as illustrations of the proposition, That witnout
a philosophy of human nature, even religious authors,
when treating of sublunary events,' cannot always preserve
consistency either with reason or with themselves; and
that hence religion can never become thoroughly practical,
or put forth its full energies for human improvement, until
it is wedded to philosophy. In proportion as men shall be-
come acquainted with the natural laws, and apply them as
tests to theological writings relative to this \Yorld, they will
become convinced of the truth of this observation.
Having traced bodily suffering, in the case of individuals,
to neglect of, or opposition to, the organic laws, by their
progenitors or by themselves, I next advert to another set
of calamities, which may be called sociAL MISERIES, and
which obviously spring from the same causes. And first,
in regard to evils of a domestic nature:-
One fertile source of unhappiness arises from persons
uniting in marriage, whose tempers, talents, and disposi-
tions do not harmonize. If it be true that natural t'alents
and dispositions are connected by the Creator with partic-
ular configurations of brain, then it is obviously one of his
institutions, that, in forming a compact for life, these con-
figurations should be attended to. The following facts I
regard to be fully established by competent evidence. The
portion of the brain before the line A B, Fig. 1, manifests
the intellect, that above B C manifests the moral sentiments,
and all the rest the animal sentiments and propensities;
and each part acts, creleris paribus, with a degree of energy
corresponding to its size. The following figures exhibit
these regions of the head existing in different proportions
in different individuals; and the lives of the persons repre-
sented bear testimony to their possessing the corresponding
dispositions. ·
The first is a view of the head of William Hare, the u-
sociate ofBurke, who, acting in concert with him, strangled
156 Ol'f THE &VILS TH.lT BI!.I'A.LL liUI'fll:ll'fD
sixteen individuals in Edinburgh for the purpose of eelling
their bodies for diueetion.
Fig. 1. Hus.
In this head the organs of the animal propensities de-
cidedly prep~nderate over those of the moral sentiments
and intellect.
Apother example of the same kind is afforded by the
head of Williams, who was executed along with the no-
Fig. 2. WILLIAMS.
oio "'•d by Google
I'BOK Jl'I'I'RJNGEliiKNT 01' TH8 ORGANIC LA.WI. 157
· torious Bishop, in London, for the same crime as that of
Hare.•
In the bead of the celebrated Richard Brinsely Sheridan
(of which a cast was taken after. death,) we find an example
of the three regions of the brain in question, existing
nearly in a state of equilibrium. The natural tendencies
ofsuch an individual are equally strong towards vice and
virtue; and his actual conduct is generally determined by
the influence of external circumstances.
Fig. 3. SHERIDA!f.
The Life of Sheridan shows, that while he possessed high
mental qualities, he was also the slave of degrading and
discreditable vices.
The head of Philip Melancthon, the illustrious reformer
and associate of Luther, furnishes an example of the de-
cided predominance of the moral and intellectual regions
over that of the animal propensities. The drawing is
copied from a portrait by Albert Durer.
The following descri{ltion of Melancthon's head and
character is given in Dr. Spurzheim's work on Phrenology
in Connection with Physiognomy. 'It is the brain of an
extraordinary man. The organs of the moral and religious
feelings predominate greatly, and will disapprove of all
• See Phrenological Journal, vol. vii. p. 446.
14
JIB OJr TB& &VILI 'l'JU.T •u.&.LL l'CAB'J[UlD
violeQCe, irreverence, and injuatice. The 60rebead be-
tokens a vast and comprehensive understanding; ana tbe
,.,eta6lt a mind the noblest, the moat amiable, and the
moe& iatellectual that can be coaceiYed.' ' Never was any
maD more civil and obliging, and more free &om jealousy,
Mimulation, and envy, than Melaootboo: be waa humble,
Fig. 4. .llu.AKOTHO••
modest, disinterested in the extreme; in a word, he pos-
sessed wonder:ful talents, and most noble dispositions. His
greatest enemies have been forced to acknowledge that the
annals of antiquity exhibit very few worthies who may be
compared with him, whether extent of knowledge in things
human and divine, or quickness ~f comprehension and fer-
tility of genius, be regarded. The cause of true Chris-
tianity derived more signal advantages, and more effectual
support, from Melancthon, than it received from any ofthe
other doctors of the age. His mildness and charity, per-
haps, carried him too far al times, and led him occasionally
oio "'ed by Google
FROM 1Nt>1UifGitHPMT OJ' TBit ORGANIC LAWS. 159
to make concessions that might he styled imprudent. H~
was tbe sincere Wot'sllipper oftruth, but he was diffident ei
himself, and sometinaes timorous witbout any softicient
reason. On the other hand, hia fortitude in defending tM
rigat was great. His opinion& were so universally respect-
ed, that &earcp,fy any one among the Lutheran doeton
ventured to oppose them. He waa inferior to Luther in
courage and intrepidity, but his equal in piety, and much
hill superior in learning, judgment, meekneu, and human-
ity. He latterly grew tired of his life, and was particularly
. disgusted with the rage for religious controversiea, whioh
prevailed. universally.' •
With the head of Meiancthoo may be eontruted that of
Pope Alexander VI.
Fig. 5. Pon ALnAWD&a VI.
' This cerebral organizatioo,' says Dr. Spuraheim, 'ill
deepioable in tlse e:yee of a phrenologist. The a.illlal or--
• Pbreoology in Connection with the St~y or!'hy.iognomy, P· 163.
oio "'ed by Google
160 ON THE EVILS THAT BEFALL MAl'fKIND
gans compose by far its greatest portion. Such a brain is
no more adequate to the manifestation of Christian virtues,
than the brain of an idiot from birth to the exhibition of
the intellect of a Leibnitz or a Bacon. The cervical and
whole basilar region of the bead are particularly developed;
the organs of the perceptive faculties are pretty large; but
the sincipital (or coronal) region is exceedingly low, par-
ticularly at the organs of Benevolence, Veneration, and
Conscientiousness. Such a head is unfit for any employ-
ment of a superior kind, and never gives birth to senti-
ments of humanity. The sphere of its activity does not
extend beyond those enjoyments which minister to the
enimal portion of human nature.
'Alexander VI. was, in truth, a scandal to the papal
chair: from the earliest age he was disorderly and artful,
and his life to the last was infamous. He is said to have
bought the tiara by bribing a certain number of cardinals,
or rather by making large promises, which he never fulfill-
ed. It is well known that, when he became Pope, he had
a family of five children, four boys and one daughter. He
made a regular practice of selling bishopri((s and other
cccelesiastical benefices, to enrich himself and his family.
'rhough profane and various religious writers do not all
agree in their judgment concerning the disorderly conduct
of this man, many atrocities committed by him are well-
ascertained facts. History will always accuse him of the
crimes of poisoning, simony, and false-swearing, of reckless
debauchery, nay of incest with his own daughter. In po-
litical matters, he formed alliances with all the princes of
his time, but his ambition and perfidy never failed to find
him a pretext for breaking his word, and disturbing the
peace.' 'As a singular example ofAlexander's arrogance,
his bull may be mentioned, by which he took upon him to
divide the new world. between the kings of Spain and Por-
tugal, granting to the former all the territory on the west
of an imaginary line passing from north to south, at one
hundred leagues distance from the Cape de Verd Islands.
Alexander possessed eloquence .and ad!Jress, bu,t a total
DirJitized by Coogle
FlitGM I'N"UKGI:II&N'l' 0# TR& &llGA.KIC LA WI. -181
lack of noble ~elitimente rendered him altogedaer un6t for
his sacred etation. Poisoned wine, whieh had been pn»-
pared for certain eardiDat. whose ricbea temptd the cupid-
ity of his holiness, was gi'fen him by miatake, ud ...ted
biB profligate career. Some writers have quelltioned die
truth of this account of AleDDder's death, but there ie
DOthiag in· the relation inconsistent with the aelmowtadged
character of thia pontiff. Lownees of feeliap ad lowne.
of brain are seen togetheT.' •
As an additional illustration of this concluding remark, I
sabjoio a repre~entation of the bead of Vitellius, one of
the most cruel and depraved oftbe Roman emperors.
Fig. 6. VJT£LLlUS.
This head is very broad in proportion to its height; in-
dicating a very great development of the base ofthe braiD,
with deficiency of the organs ofthe moralsentimeata.
• Op. cit. p. '71.
182 OW TB& &TILB TIIAT Ur4LL K.UfJ[IlfD
The demarcatiooa in Fi«. 1. are not arbitrary. Tbe
apace before A B corresponds to the aaterior lobe of the
brain; and the space aboYe B C includes all tile coovolo-
tioaa that lie on the upper surface of the brain, and rise
higher than the orgaoa of Cautiousness, corresponding to
nearly the middle of the parietal bones, and of Causality,
situated in the upper part of the forehead. It is generaUy
not difficult to distinguish these regions; and a comparison
of their relative proportions with the talents and disposi-
tiODB of individuals, will convince any intelligent, booeat,
and accurate observer, of the truth of the foregoing .tate-
menta. I have examined the. heads or skulls, and .~
of the heads or skulls, of several hundred criminals of
various countries, and found them all to belong to the
classes represented by the figures of the heads of Hare or
of Sheridan; and I never saw one oftbem with a brain iike
that of Melancthon. Neither have I ever seen a man dis-
tinguished by moral and intellectual qualities like those of
Melancthon, presenting a brain like that of Hare. The
figures represent nature,- not a casual appearance, but
forms which are found constantly in combination with the
qualities here named; and I ask why Nature, when she
speaks to a geologist or chemist, should be listened to
with profound attention, and her revelations treasured for
human improvement,-but scouted and despised when she
speaks to and is interpreted by phrenologists? It is God
who speaks from nature in alL its departments: and the
brain is as assuredly his workmanship as the Milky-way,
with all its myriads of suns. If the doctrine before ex-
pounded be true, that every faculty is good in itself, that
the folly and crime.which disgrace human society spring
from abuses of the faculties, and that the tendency to
abuse them originates in the disproportion of certain parts
of the brain to each other, and in ignorance of the proper
mode of manifesting them, how completely do these con-
siderations go to the root of theology and morals! ·:At
present the intluenee of organization in determining the
FROM tMJ'lltNGIIK&NT OJ' THI: OJW.AJUC L.A.WI. l6S
natural dispositions is altogether neglected or denied by
the common school of divines, moralists, and philosophers;
yet it is of an importance exceeding all other terrestrial
influences and considerations.
If, under the influence of youthful pasaion and inexpe-
rience, an individual endowed with the splendid cerebral
development of Melancthon, should unite himself for life
to a female possessing a head like that of Hare, Williams,
or Vitellius, the effects could not fail to be moat disastrous,
with respect both to his own happiness and to the qualities
of his offspring. In the first place, after the animal feelings
were gratified, and their ardor had subsided, the two
minds could not by any possibility sympathize. Many
marriages are unhappy in consequence of an instinctive
discord between the modes of feeling and thinking of the
husband and wife, the cause ofwhich they themselves can-
not explain. The mental differences will be found to arise
from different configurations and qu~ities of brain. Thus,
if the husband be ·deficient in the organ of Conscien-
tiousness, and the wife possess it in a high degree, she
will be secretly disgusted with the dishonesty and inherent
falseheod of his character, which she w~l have many oppor
tunities of observing, even when they are unknown to the
world; while, on the other hand, few conditions are more
lamentable than that of an intellectual and well educated
man, irretrievably doomed to the society of an ignorant,
jeal(>us, narrow-minded wife. The following picture, in
Crabbe's Tales of the Hall, is evidently drawn from nature:
Five years had passe,!, and what was Henry thcn1
The most repining of repenting men;
\Vith a fund, tea~ing, an:dons wife, nfraid
Of all attention to another paid:
Yet powerlcs• •he her husband to amuse,
Lives but t' entreat, implore, resent, accuse:
JcaloW! and tender, conscious of defects,
She merits little, and yet mnch expect•;
She looks for love that now she cannot see,
And sighs for joy that never more c:nn be. ·
oio "'ed by Google
164 ON TIU &VILI THAT BUA.Lf. JU!f.ltiBD
0D IH• retiremeats her eompla.iuts iutnde,
And fond r~proof en<leanJ bia aolitode:
While he her weakness (once her kindness)-.
And hie affection• in her langour freeze.
Regret, unchecked by hope, devOIIJ'<I his mina;
He feels onhappy, and be grows uokind.
• Fool! to be taken by a I'OIY cheek,
And eyes that cease to spa~klc or to •peak;
Fool! fur tbi• child my freedom to re•igo,
When one the glory of ber sex wu mine;
While ti'OIIl this burdee to ~saul I bide,
To think what Fate baa dealt, and what denied.
\VImt fiend possessed me when I tamely gave
My force<
! assent to be an idiot'• slave~
Her beauty YBnished..what fo>t me rcmain11
Th' eteniUI clicking uf cite galliolg ebaiUJ,'
' \Vhat,' says Dr. Johnson, ' can be expected hut dis-
appointment and repentance from a choice made in the
immaturity of youth, in the ardor of desire, without judg-
ment, witho~t foresight, without inquiry after conformity
of opinions, similarity of manners, rectitude of judgment,
or purity of scqtimcnt? Such is the common process of
marriage. A youth and maiden meeting by chance, or
brought together by artifice, exchange glances, reciP.rocate
civilities, g11 home: and dream of one another. Having
little to divert attention, or diversify thought, they find
themselves uneasy when they are apart, and therefore con-
clude that they shall be happy together. They marry,
and discover what nothing but voluntary blindness before
had concealed; they wear out life in altercations, and
charge nature with cruelty.'-(Rasselas, ch. 29.)
Until Phrenology was discovered, no natural index to
mental qualities, that could be safely relied on, was pos-
sessed; and each individual, in directing his conduct, was
left to the guidance of his own sagacity. But the natural
law never bended one iota to accommodate itself to that
state of ignorance. Men suffered from unsuitable allian-
ces; and they will continue to do so, until they shall avail
themselves of the means of judging afforded by Phre-
Digitized by GoogIe ~
PllOM IIUiliNG&MBifT OP T&a OllGAJfiC LA.WS, 185
nology, and act in accordance with its dictates. In the
play of the Gamester, Mrs. Beverly is represented as a
most excellent wife, acting habitually under the guidance
of the moral sentiments and intellect, but married to a
being who, while he adores her, reduces her to beggary
and misery. His sister utters an exclamation to this
effect:-Why did just Heaven unite such an angel to so
heartless a thing! The parallel of this case occurs too
often in real life; only it is not 'just Heaven ' that makes
such matches,-but ignorant and thoughtless human beings,
who imagine themselves absolved from all obligation to
study and obey the laws of Heaven, as announced in the
general arrangement ofthe universe.
The justice and benevolence of rendering the individu-
als themselves unhappy, who neglect this great institution
of the Creator, will become more striking when, in the
next place, we consider the effects, by the organic la11:1, of
1uch conduct on the children of thtBe ill-assorltd uniontl.
Physiologists, in general, are agreed, that a vigorous
and healthy constitution of body in the parents, communi-
cates existence in the most perfect state to the offspring,
and 11ice versa. The transmission of various diseases
from parents to children is a matter of universal notorie-
ty: thus consumption, gout, scrofula, hydrocephalus, rheu-
matism, and insanity, are well known as maladies which
descend from generation to generation. Strictly speaking,
it is not disease which is transmitted, but organs of such
imperfect structure that they arc unable to perform their
functions properly, and so weak as to be easily put into a
morbid condition by causes which sound organs are able
to resist. Blindness is often, though not uniformly, a
hereditary defect. There is a family in North America,
some individuals of which have been affected with blind-
.nesil for the last hundred years.• A medical friend writes: •
-'I ·have known more than one instance of blindness
descending in families; and have also known instances
.. N- York Medical Repoeitory, vo). iii. No.1.
oio "'ed by Google
168
wlaere the pventa were bliod without the children labor·
iag Wlder this in.ftiction.'
Form, size, and quality of the brain, like those of other
parts of the body, are traoauriuible from parents to chiJ.
dren; aod hence diapositiooa and talents are transmissible
alao, u has been long remarked, not only by medical
author1, but by attentive observers in general:-
Fortea ereontur btibal e1 boois;
Ea in juvenci>J, eit in eqm. patnun
Virtal: nee imbellem feroeee
Progeoerant aquie eolwnbem.
Hoa. I. iT. od. (
The following remarks, by Professor John Gregory, are
extracted from his Comparative View of the State and
Faculties.of Man with those of the Animal World. •By a
proper attention we can preserve and improve the bree"d of
horses, dogs, cattle, and indeed all other animals. Yet it
is amazing this observation was never transferred to the
human sppcies, where it would be equally applicable. It
is certain that, notwithstanding our promiscuous marriages,
many families are distinguished by peculiar circumstan-
ce• in their character. This family character, like a
family face, will often be lost in one generation, and
appear again in the succeeding. Without doubt, educa·
tion, habit, and emulation, may contribute greatly in many
cases tQ keep it up; but it will be generally found, that,
independent of these, Nature has stamped an original im·
pression on certain minds, which education may greatly
alter or efface, but seldom so entirely as to prevent its
traces being seen by an accurate observer. How a cer-
tain character or constitution of mind can be transmitted
from a parent to a child, is a question of more dif-
ficulty than importance. It is indeed equally difficult
to account for the external resemblanee of features, or
for bodily diseases being transmitted from a pareDt to a
child. But we never dream of a difficulty in explaining
any appewance of nature which is exhibited to us every
oio "'ed by Google
BBRBDIT.,\RY T&~lfSMJIIJO:N OJ' (lUA.LITIBS. J6'f
day. A proper attention to this subject would enable us to
improve not only the constitutions but the characters of
our posterity. Yet we every day see very sensible people,
who are anxiousiy attentive to preserve or improve the
breed of their horses, tainting the blood of their children,
aDd entailiag on them not only the most loathsome diseue1
of the body, bvt madness, folly, and the moat unworthy
c:Uiposition•, and this too when they cannot pley being
stimulated by necessity, or impelled by passion.' •
Dr. James Gregory also, in treating of the temperaments
in his Conapootua Medici~ Theoretical, says, ' Hujusmodi
varietates non corporis modo, veriua et animi quoque, ple-
rumque congenitre, nonnunquam hrereditarim, observantur.
Hoc modo P!lrentes srepe in prole reviviscunt; certe pa-
rentibus liberi similes sunt, non vultum modo et corporis
formam, sed animi indolem, et virtutes, et vitia. lmperiosa
gens Claudia diu Romre floruit, impigra, ferox, superba,
eadem illachrymabilem Tiberium, tristissimum tyrannum,
produxit; tandem in immanem Caligulam, et Claudium, et
Agrippinam, ipsumque demum Neronem, post sexcentoa
annos, desitura.'t-Cap. i. sect. 16.
A celebrated French writer, who has written much sound
as well as false philosophy, observes, that ' physical organ-
ization, of which moral is the offspring, transmits the same
character from father to son through a succession of ages.
The Apii were always haughty and inflexible, the Catoe
always severe. The whole line of the Guises were bold,
rash, factious; compounded of the most insolent pride and
the most seductive politeness. From Francis de Guise to
him who alone and in silence went and put himself at the
head of the people of Naples, they were all, in figure, in
courage, and i.o turn of mind, above ordinary men. I have
seen whole-length portraits of Francis de Guise, of the
• Comparative View, &c. 3d edit. Lond. 1766, pp. IS, 19.
t Parents frequently live again in their offspring. It is quite certain that
children resemble their parents, not only in countenance and the form of their
body, but also in their mental w.poaitiona, in their Yirtuea and ll'iceo, &c.
oio "'ed by Google
168 OBO.llflC LAWI.
Balafr~, and of his son: they are all six f~et high, with the
same features, the same courage and boldneBB in the fore-
bead, the eye, and the attitude. This continuity, this
series of beings alike, is still more observable in animals;
and if as much care were taken to perpetuate fine races of
men, as some nations still take to prevent the mixing ofthe
breeds of their horses and hounds, the genealogy would
be writ\fn in the countenance and displayed in the man-
ners.'•
Dr. King, in speaking of the fatality which attended the
House of Stuart, says, 'If I were to ascribe their calamities
to another cause (than an evil fate,) or endeavor to ac-
count for them by any natural means, I should think they
were chiefly owing to a certain obstinacy of temper, which
appears to have been hereditary and inhere;., in all the
Stuarts, except Charles II.'
It is well known that the caste of the Brahmins is the
.highest in point of intelligence as well as rank of all the
castes in Hindostan; and it is mentioned by the missiona-
ries as an ascertained fact, that their children are naturally
more acute, intelligent, and docile, than the children of the
inferior castes, age and other circumstances being equal.
Dr. John Mason Good observes, that 'stupidity, like
wit, is propagable; and hence we frequently sec it run
from one generation to another, and not unfrequently it
forms a distinctive mark in the mental character of dis-
tricts or nations-in many ca§es, indeed, where they bor-
der closely on each other.' t
The character of the mother seems to have the chief
influence in determining the qualities of the children,
particularly where she has much force of character, and
is superior in mental energy to her husband. There is
perhaps no instance of a man of distinguished vigor and
activity of mind whose mother did not display a considera-
ble amount of the same qualities; and the fact of eminent
• Voltaire's Philooopbical Dictionary, Art. C.1.TO.
t Stndy of Medicinr., 2d edit. vol. iv. p. 19'7.
oio "'ed by Google
BBR&DITARY TB.llfDIIISloa OF ClUALITIBS. 189
men having 10 frequeatly children far inferior to them-
selves, is, in most cues, explicable by the eircumetaocf,
that men of talent often marry women whose minds are
comparatively weak. When the mother's brain is nry
defective, the minds of the children are inevitably feeble.
' We know,' says Haller, 'a very remarkable instance o(
two noble females, who got husbands on account of their ,
wealth, although they were nearly idiots, and from whom
this mental defect has extended for a century into several
families, so that some Gf all their descendants still continue
idiots in the fourth and even in the fifth generation.'• Ia
many families, the qualities of both father and mother are
seen blended in the children. 'In my O\vn ease,' says a
medical friend, ' I can tgace a very marked combination of
the qualities of both parents. My father is a large-chested,
strong, heal~hy man, with a large but not active brain;-
my mother was a spare, thin woman, with a)ligh nervous
temperament, a rather delicate frame, and a mind of un-
common activity. Her brain I should suppose to have
been of moderate size. I often think that to the father I
am indebted for a strong frame and the enjoyment of excel-
lent health, and to the mother for activity of mind and an
excessive fondness for exertion. These things, and a hun-
dred more, have been brought to my mind by the perusal
ofthe Constitution of Man.' Finally, it often hap'pens that
the mental peculiarities of the father are transmitted to
some ofthe children, and those of the mother to others.
Phrenology revenis the principle on which dispositions
and talents are thus hereditary. Mental qualities are de-
termined by the size, form, and constitution of the brain;
The brain is a portion of our organized system, and, as
socb, is subject to the organic Jaws, by one of which, as
already observed, its form, size, and qualities are transn:.it;.
ted by hereditary descent. This law, however faint or
obeeure it may appear in individual eases, becomes abiO-
Jutely undeniable in nations. When we place the collec-
• Elem. Phyaiol. lib. :ubr.. ~t~Ct. 2, § 8.
15
oio "'ed by Google
1'70 ORGANIC LAWS
tion of Hindoo, Carib, Eaquimau:a:, Peruvian, and Swiss
akulls, possessed by the Phrenological Society, in juxta-
position, we perceive a national form and combination of
organs in each, actually obtruding itself upon our notice,
and corresponding with the mental characters of the re-
spective tribes; the cerebral development of one tribe is
aeen to differ as widely from that of another, as the Euro-
pean mind does from that of the Carib. Here, then, each
Hindoo, Esquimaux, Peruvian, and Carib, obviously ia-
berits from his parents ·a certain general type of head;
and so does each European. And if the general forms and
proportions are thus so palpably transmitted, can we doubt
that the individual varieties follow the same rule, modified
slightly by causes peculiar to the p.arents of the individual?
The differences of national character are equally conspic-
uous as those of national braina, and it is su~prising how
permanently both endure. It is observed by an author
cited in the Edinburgh Remew, that 'the Vincentine district
is, as every one knows, and has been for ages, an integral
part of the Venetian dominions, professing the same reli-
gion, and governed by the same laws, as the other conti-
nental provinces of Venice: yet the English character is
not more different from the French, than that of the Vin-
oentine from the Paduan; while the contrast between the
Vincentine and his other neighbor, the Veronese, is hardly
less remarkable.'-No. Jxxxiv. p. 459. See Appendix,
No. v.
A striking and undeniable ·proof of the effect on the
character and dispositions of children, produced by the
form of brain transmitted to them by hereditary descent;
is to be found in the progeny of marriages between Euro-
peans, whose urains possess a favorable development of
the moral and intellectual organs, and Hindoos and native
Americans, whose brains are inferior. All authors agree,
and report the circumstance as singularly striking, that the
children of such unions are decidedly superior in mental
qualities to the native, while they are still inferior to the
oio "'ed by Google
HEREDITARY TRANSMISSION OP QUALITIES 1'71
European parent. Captain Franklin says, that the half-
breed American Indians ' are upon the whole a good-look-
ing people, and, where the experiments have been made,
have shown much expertness in learning, and willingneu
to be taught; thAy have, however, been sadly neglected.'
-Firat Journey, p. 86. He adds, 'It has been remarked,
I do not know with what truth, that half-breeds show more
personal courage than tho pure breeds.' Captain Basil
Hall, and other writers on South America, mention, that
the offspring of _
aboriginal and Spanish parents constitute
the most active, vigorous, and p0werful portion. of the in-
habitants of these countries; and that many of them rose
to high commands during the revolutionary war. So much
is this the case in Hindustan, that several writers have
already pointed to the mixed race there, as obviously
destined to 9ecome the future sovereigns of India. These
indh·iduals inherit from the m~tive parent a certain adapta-
tion to the climate,·and from the European parent a higher
development of brain; the two combined constituting their
superiority.
Another example of the same law occurs in Persia. It
is said, that in that country the custom has existed for
ages among the nobles, of purchasing .beautiful female Cir-
cassian and Georgian captives, and forming alliances with
them as wives. It is ascertained that the Circassian and
Georgian form of brain stands comparatively high in the
development of the moral and intellectual organs.* And
it is mentioned by some travellers, that the race of nobles
in Persia is the most gifted in natural qualities, bodily and
mental, of any class in that country; a fact diametrically
opposite to that which takes place in Spain, and other
European countries, where the nobles intermarry constantly
with each other, and set the organic laws altogether at de-
• In Mr. W. Allan's picture of the Circ388ian Captives, the form of the
bead is said to be a copy from nature, taken by thnt nrtist when he visited the
country. It is engraved by Mr. James Stewart with great beauty and 6delity,
and may be consulted as an example of the superiority of Circaaaian develop-
meol of the brain.
oio "'ed by Google
1ft OaGARIC L.t.WS,
fiance. It ie a geoeral rule, to which I shall afterwarda
more fuUy advert, that close affinity of parents produces a
deteriorating influence on the children. The degeneracy
IIDCl e¥en idiocy of some of the noble and royal families of
· Spain IUld Portugal, from marry-ing nieces and other near
relations, is well known; and defective brains, in all these
caM, inay be observed.
If, then, form, size, and co01titution of brain, are trans-
mitted from parents to children, and if these determine
natural mental talents and dispositions, which in their turn
uercise the greatest influence over the happiness of indi-
viduals through the whole of life, it becomes extremely
amportant to discover according to what laws this trans-
mission takes place. At the first aspect of the question,
three principles present themselves to our consideration
Either, in the first place, the constitution, size, and con-
figuration of brain, which thE! parents themselves inherited
at birth, are transmitted absolutely, so that the children,
sex following sex, are exact copies, without variation or
modification, of the one parent or the other; or, secondly,
the natural and inherent qualities of the father and mother
combine, and are transmitted in a modified form to the
offspring; or, thirdly, the qualities ofthe children are de-
termined jointly by the constitution of the stock, and by the
faculties which predominate in power and activity in the
parents at the particular time when the organic existence
ofeach child commences. -
Experience shows that the fir•t cannot be the law: for,
as often mentioned, a real law of nature admits of no ex-
ceptions; and it is well established, that the minds of chil-
dren are not ezact copies, without variation or modification,
ofthose of the parents, sex following sex. Neither canthe
ucond be the law; because it is equally certain that the
minds of children, although sometimes, are nol always, in
talents and dispositionS exact blended reproductions ofthe
ather IUld mother. If this law prevailed, no child would
be a copy of the f~ther1 none a copy of the mothe~ or Qf
oio "'ed by Google
HEREDlTARY TRANSMISSION OF QUALITIES. 1'78
any collateral relation; but each would be invariably a
compound of the two parents, and all the children would
be exactly alike, sex alone excepted. Experience shows
that this is not the Jaw. What, then, does experience say
to the third idea, that the mental character of each child
is determined by the particular qualities of the stock, com-
bined with those which predominate in the parents when
its -existence commenced?
I have already adverted to the influence of the stock,
and shall now illustrate that of the condition of the Pllrents,
when existence is communicated. For this purpose we
may consider, 1st, The transmission of factiliotu or tempo-
rary conditions of the body; 2dly, The transmission of ac-
quired habits; 3dly, The appearance ofpeculiarities in chil-
dren, in consequence ofimpressions made on the mind of tl&e
, mother; and, 4thly, The transmission of temporary mental
and bodily qualities.
I. With respect to the first of these topics, Dr. Prichard,
in his Researches into the Physical History of Mankind,
states the result of his investigations to be, first, That the
organization of the offspring is always modelled according
to the type of the original structure of the parent; and,
secondly, ' That ~hanges produced by external causes in •
the appearance or constitution of the individual are tempo-
rary; and, in general, acquired characters are transient;
they terminate with the individual, and have no influence
on the progeny.'-Vol. ii. p. 536. He supports the first
ofthese propositions by a variety of facts occurring ' in the
porcupine family,' ' in the hereditary nature ofcomplexion,'
and ' in the growth of supernumerary fingers or toes, and
corresponding deficiencies.' ' Maupertuis has mentioned
this phenomenon; he assures us, that there were two
families in Germany, who ha~e been distinguished for sev-
eral generations by six fingers on each hand, and the same
number oftoes on each foot,' &.c. Dr. Prichard admits, at
the same time, that the second proposition is of more ditli-
cult proof, and that ' an opinion contrary to it has been
1~
oio "'ed by Google
1'74 O&GdiO LAWS.
maibtalned by aome writen, and a variety ofsingular facta
lil&nt, been related ill support of it.' But many of these
Nlatiou, u he j!lstly obse"ee, are obviously fables. The
following facts, however, certainly militate against it.
A man's first child wu of sound mind; afterwards he
Mel a fidl &om his horse, by which his head was much iD-
jured. His nest two children proved to be both idiots.
After this be was trepanned, and bad other children, and
they tu~ned out- to be of sound mind. This case was com-
municated to me by a medical practitioner of Douglas, in
the Isle ofMao.
' In Europe,' sttys a late writer, 'the constant practice
of milking cows bas enlarged the udder greatly beyond its
natural size, and so changed the secretions, that the sup-
ply does not cease when the calf is removed. In Colombia,
where circumstances are entirely different, nature shows a
strong tendency to assume its original type; a cow gives
milk there only while the calf is with her.' •
2. There are some curious facts which seem to prove
that acquired habit• are hereditary, at least in the inferior
animals. A strong illustration is quoted in the Edinburgh
Review, No. lxxxiv, p. 457,
' Every one conversant with beasts,' says the writer,
' knows, that not only their natural, but many of their ac-
quired qualities, are transmitted by the parents to their
offspring. Perhaps the most curious example of the latter
fact may be found in the pointer.
'This animal is endowed with the natural instinct of
winding game, and stealing upon his prey, which he sur-
prises, having first made a short pause, in order to launch
himself upon it with more security of success. This sort
of semicolon in his proceedings, man converts into afull
•top, and teaches him to be as much pleased at seeing the
bird or beast drop by the shooter's gun, as at taking it
himself. The stanchest dog of this kind, and the origi-
• Encyclop, Rrit., 7th edit. vol. ii. p. 653, Article Ammc:a.
oio "'ed by Google
UEJI..I.DITA.JI.Y 'I'&AifSXIIIIUOlf OP ClUA.LITIES. 176
aal pointer, is of Spanish origin, and our own is derived
from this race, crossed with that of the foxhound, or other
b.-eed of dog, for the sake of improving his speed. This
mixed and factitious race, of course, naturally partakes
less of the true pointer character; that is to aay, is le•
disposed to stop, or at least lie makes a shorter stop at
game. The factilioua pointer is, howeeer, ditcipliwtd, in thit
country, into 1tarw:hmaa; and; what it mo.t tingular, thit
tfUOlity is, in a great degree, inherited by hit puppy, who
may be seen earnestly standing at swallows or pigeons in a
farm-yard. For intuition, though it leads the offRpring to
exercise his parent's faculties, does not instruct him how
to direct them. The preference of his master afterwards
guides him in his selection, and teaches him what game is
better worth pursuit. .On the other hand, the pointer of
pure Spanish race, unless be happen to be well broke him-
self, which in the south of Europe seldom happens, pro-
duces a race which are all but unteachable, according to
our notions of a pointer's business. They will make a stop
at their game, as natural instinct prompts them, but seem
incapable of being drilled into the habits of the animRI
• which education has formed in this country, and has ren-
dered, as I have said, in some degree capable of transmit-
ting his acquirements to his descendants.'
' Acquired habits are hereditary in other animals besides
dogs. English sheep, probably from the greater richness
of our pastures, feed very much together; while Scotch
sheep are obliged to extend and scatter themselves over
their hills, for the better discovery of food. Yet the Eng-
lish sheep; on being transferred to Scotland, keep theit• old
habit offeeding in a mass, though so little adapted to their
new country: so do their descendants ; and the English
sheep is not thoroughly naturalized into the necessities of
his place till the third generation. The same thing may be
observed as to the nature of his food that is observed in
his mode of seeking it. When turnips were introduced
from England into Scotland, it wu Dflly the third getamllion
oio "'ed by Google
1'76
which heartily adopted this diet, the first having been
starved into an acquiescence in it.'
The author of the article America, in the Encyclopmdia
Britannica (7th edit. vol. ii. p. 653.) says, ' It is worthy of
notice, that the amble, the pace to which the domestic
horse in Spanish America is exclusively trained, becomes
in the course of some generations hereditary, and is as-
sumed by the young ones without teaching.'
3. Impressions on the mind ofthe mother, especially those
received through the senses, often produce a palpable
effect on the offspring. On this subject Dr. Prichard
observes, 'The opinion which formerly prevailed, and
which has been entertained by some modern writers, among
whom is Dr. Darwin, that at the period when organi-
zation commences in the ovum, thl,lt is, at or soon after,
' the time of conception, the structure of the .fretus is capa-
ble of undergo:ng modification from impressions on the
mind or senses of the parent, does not appear altogether
so improbable. It is contradicted, at least, by no fact in
physiology. It is an opinion of very ancient prevalence,
and may be traced to so remote a period, that its rise
cannot be attributed to the speculations of philosophers,
and it is difficult to account for the origin of such a per-
suasion, unless we ascribe it to facts which happened to be
observed.'-P. 556.
The following case fell under my own observation:-
W .-n. shoemaker in Portsburgh, called and showed me
his son, aged 18, who is in a state of idiocy. He is sim-
ple and harmless, but never could do any thing for himself.
His father said that his wife was in sound mind; that he
has other three children all sound; and that the only
account he could ever give of the condition of this son
was, that he kept a public house, and some months before
the birth of this boy an idiot lad came round with a brewer's
drayman and helped him to lift the casks off tbe cart; that
that idiot made a strong impression on hii:! wife; that she
complained that she could not get his appearance removed
oio "'ed by Google
BERBDITA.RY TR.A.!fSIIUSIJON OF QUA.LITIBI. 1'71
from her mind, and that she kept eut or the way when he
came to the house afterwards; and that his son was weak
in body from birth, and silly in mind, and had the slouched
and slovenly appearance of the idiot.
'It is peculiarly lamentable to obserYe,' says Dr. Mason
Good, in . reference to deafness and dumbness, ' That
when the defect has once made an entrance into a family,
whether from the influence it produces on the nervous
system of the mother, or from any other less obvious
cause, it is peculiarly apt to become common to those chil-
dren which are born afterwards; insomuch that we often
meet with a third,. or a half, and in a few instancee-, where
the first-born has been thus affected, with every individual
of the progeny, suffering from the same distressing evil.
" The late investigation in Ireland discovered families in
which there were two, three, four, or more, thus circum-
stanced. In one family there were five children all deaf
and dumb, in another seven, in another ten; and in that of
a poor militia officer on half-pay, there were nine born
deaf and dumb in succession."-( Qutlrt. Jour. of Foreign
Med., vol. i. p. 311). Yet it is consoling to reflect, that
the instances are very rare indeed, in which the same
defect has been propagated to a succeeding generation,
when the deaf-dumb have married, and even when both
the husband and wife have been thus affiicted.' •
The following additional facts are mentioned in the
Athenreum:-' Many persons who _have never known any,
or perhaps not more than one, deaf and dumb individual in
the immediate circle in which they lived, would be aston-
ished to read the lists of applications circulated by the
committee for the asylum _in the Kent Road, so ably con- -
ducted by Mr. Watson, which usualfy contain nearly a
hundred names. The most remarkable fact, however,
which these lists present, is the number of deaf and dumb
children frequently found in the same families, evidently
in consequence of the conti.oued -operation of some un•
• Good's Study of Medicioe, 2d edit. i, 1106.
oio "'ed by Google
118 ORGANIC LAWS.
known cause connected with the parents. Three, four,
and five, deaf and dumb children are not uncommonly met
with in one family, and in some instances there have been
as many as seven. In the family of Martin, a laborer, out
often children seven were deaf and dumb; in the family of
Kelly, a porter, seven out of eight were deaf and dumb;
and in the family of Aldum, a weaver, six out of twelve
were deaf and dumb. The result of a Table of twenty
families, given in the " Historical Sketch of the Asylum,"
published by Powell, Dowgate-hill, is ninety deaf and
dumb out of one hundred and fifty-nine children.' •
A medical friend says, ' Several of the children of a
elergyman, in the west of Scotland, have' been born blind.
I know a family of six individuals- four girls and two
boys. All the girls were born blind, while the boys see
.perfectly. Both parents had good eyesight, so far as I
can learn. These are curious facts, and not easily ex-
plained.' Portal states, that 'Morgagni has seen three sis-
ters dumb ''d'origine." Other authors also cite examples,
and I have seen like cases myself.' In a note, he adds,
'I have seen three children out of four of the same family
blind from birth by amaurosis, or gutta serena.'-Portal,
.Memoires sur Plusiet.Jra Maladies, tom. iii. p. 193. Paris,
1808.
Dr. Prichard, in his 'Researches,' already quoted, ob-
serves, ' Children resemble, in feature and constitution,
both parents, but, I think, more generally the father. In
the breeding of horses and oxen, great importance is at-
tached, by experienced propagators, to the male. In
sheep, it is commonly observed that black rams beget
black lambs. In the human species also the complexion
chiefly follows that ofthe father; and I believe it to be a
general fact, that the offspring of a black father and white
mother is much darker than the progeny of a white father
and a dark mother.'-Vol. ii. p. 551.f These facts appear
• Athenamm, 28th May 1825, p. 498.
t See Appendix, No. VI,
HEREDITA-RY TR&NS:W:ISSION OF QU&LITI£8. 1'79
to me to be referrible to both causes. The stock must
have had some inlluence, but the mother, in all these
cases, is not imprf"ssed by her own color, because she
does not look on herself; while the fatlur'• complexion
must strikingly attract her attention, and may, in this way•
give the darker tinge to the offspring.*
4. The idea of the transmission of temporary mental and
bodily qualities, is supported by numerous facts tending to
show that the· state of the parents, particularly of the
mother, at the tim-
e when the existence of the child com-
mences, has a strong influence on its talents, dispositions,
and health.
• The father of Napoleon Bonaparte, says Sir Walter
Scott, ' is stated to have possessed a very handsome per-
son, a talent for eloquence, and a vivacity of intellect,
which he transmitted to his son.' ' It was in the middle
of civil discord, fights, and skirmishes, that Charles Bona-
parte married Lretitia Ramolini, one of the most beautiful
young woman of the island, and possessed of a great deal
of firmness of character. She partook of the dangers of
her husband during the years of civil war, and is said to
have accompanied him on horseback on some military
expeditions, or perhaps hasty flights, shortly before her
being delivered of the future Emperor.'-Life of Napoleon
Bonaparte, vol. iii. p. 6.
The murder of David Rizzio was perpetrated by armed
nobles, with many circumstances ofviolence and terror, in
the presence of Mary, Queen of Scotland, shortly before
the birth of her son, afterwards James the First of_England.
The constitutional liability of this monarch to emotions
of fear, is recorded as a characteristic of his mind; and it
has been mentioned that he even started involuntarily at
the sight of a drawn sword. Queen Mary was not deficient
in courage, and the Stuarts, both before and after James
the First, were distinguished for this quality ; so that his
dispositions were an exception to the family character.
• Black hens, however, lay dark-colored eggs.
oio "'ed by Google
180 oao.unc L.t.Ws.
Napoleon and James form striking contrasts; and it may be
remarked that the mind of Napoleon's mother appears to
have risen to the danger to which she was exposed, aad
braved it; while the circumstances in which Queen Mary
was placed, were such as inspired her with fear.
Esquirol, a celebrated French medical writer, in advert-
iug to the causes of madness, mentions that many children,
whose existence dated from periods when the horrors of the
French Revolution were at their height, turned out subse-
quently to be weak, nervous, and irritable in mind, ex-
tremely susceptible of impressions, and liable to be thrown,
by the least extraordinary excitement, into absolute insanity.
A lady of considerable talent wrote as follows to a phre-
nological friend:-' From the age of two I foresaw that my
eldest son's restlessness would ruin him; and it has been
even so. Yet be was kind, brave, and affectionate. I
read the Iliad for six months before he saw the light, and
have often wondered if that could ha\'e any influence on
him. He was actually an Achilles.'*
The following particulars have been communicated to
me by the medical friend already alluded to. 'I know au
old gentleman,' says he, 'who has been twice married.
The children of his first marriage nrc strong, active, healthy
people, and their children are the same. The produce of
his second marriage are very inferior, especially in an in-
tellectuaL point of view; and the younger the children are,
the more is this obvious. The girls are superior to the
boys, both physically and intellectually: indeed, their mo-
ther told me that she had great difficulty in rearing her
sons, but none with her daughters. The gentleman him-
~lf, at the time of his second marriage, was upwards of
su:ty, and his wife about twenty-five. This shows very
clearly that the boys have taken chiefly of the father, and
the daughters of the mother.'
Se;This lady's head u large; in particular, the organs of Combati•e-.
A.~m, and Firmness, are very large; those of D~cti- ud
· oe. are large; and the temperament is _,. actift,
oio "'ed by Google
BltRBDIT.lRY TBA..."iB.tiUISIOlf OP ~UALITI&I, 181
In a case which fell under my own observation, the
father of a family became sick, had a partial recovery, but
relapsed, declined in health, and in two months died.
Seven months after his death, a son was born, of the fuH
age, and the origin of whose existence was referrible to the
period of the partial recovery. At that time, and during
the subsequent two months, the faculties of the mother were
highly excited, in ministering to her husband, to whom she
was greatly attached; and, after his death, the same ex-
citement continued, as she was then loaded with the charge
of a numerous family, but not depressed; for her circum-
stances were comfortable. The son is now a young man;
and, while his constitution is the most delicate, the devel-
opment and activity of the mental organs are decidedly
greater in him than in any other member of the family.
A lady possessing a large brain and active temperament,
was employed professionally as a teacher of music. Her
husband also had a fine temperament, and a well constitu-
ted brain, but his talents for music were only moderate.
They had several children, all of whom were produced
while the mother was in the full practice of her profession,
and the whole now indicate superior musical abilities.
They have learned to play on several instruments as if by
instinct, and highly excel. In this case the original en-
dowments of the mother, and her actual exercise of them,
conspired to transmit them to her children.
A friend told me that in his youth he lived in a country
in which the gentlemen were much addicted to hard drink-
ing; and that he, too frequently, took a part in their revels.
Several of 1.1s sons, born at that time, although subse-
quently educat.:ld in a very different moral atmosphere,
turned o-.~t strongly. addicted to inebriety; whereas the
chtldren born after he had removed to a large town and
formed more correct habits, were not the victims of this
propenstty. Another individual, of superior talents, des-
cribed to me the wild and mischievous revelry in which he
indulged at the time of his marriage, and congratulated
16
ltl OIIGAKIC UWI.
W...lfoo his subsequent domeatieation and moral improTe-
ment. His eldest aon, born in his riotous days, notwith-
standing a strictly moral education, turned out a peraooili-
cation ofthe father's actual condition at that time; and bU.
younger children were more moral in proportion as they
were removed from the period of vicious frolics. The
mother, in this case, pouessed a favorable development of
brain.
The Margravine of Anspach observes, that 'when a
female is likely to become a mother, she ought to be
doubly careful of her temper; and, in particular, to indulge
no ideas that are not cheerful, and no sentiments that are
not kind. Such is the connection between the mind and
body, that the features of the face are moulded commonly
into an expression of the internal disposition; and is it not
natural to think that an infaqt, before it is born, may be
affected by the temper of its mother?'-MeMOir1, vol. ii.
chap. viii.•
When two parties marry very young, the eldest of their
children generally inherits a less favorable development of
the moral and intellectual organs, than those produced in
more mature age. The animal organs in the human race
are, io general, mo!lt vigorous in early life; and this energy
appears to cause them to be then most readily transmitted
to offspring. Indeed, it is difficult to account for the wide
varieties in the form of the brain in children of the same
family, except on the principle, that the organs which pre-
dominate in vigor and activity in the parents, at. the time
when existence is communicated, determine the tendency
of corresponding organs to develope themselves largely in
the children. The facts illustrative of the truth of this
priQciple, which have been communicated to me and ob-
served by myself, are so numerous, that I now regard it as
extremely probable.
If this be really the law of nature-as there is so great
reason for believing it is--then parents, in whom Combo-
• See AppeDdis, No. VII.
oio "'ed by Google
HEREDITARY Tll.lNSMISSIOI'f OP QUALITIES. ISS
tiveness and Destructiveness are habitually active, will
transmit these organs, in a state of high development and
excitement, to their children; while parents in whom the
moral and intellectual organs exist in supreme vigor, will
transmit these in greatest perfection.
This vi~ is in harmony with the fact, that children
generally, although not universally, resemble their parents
in their mental qualities; because, the largest organs being
naturally the most active, the general and habitual state of
the parents will be determined by those which predominate
in size in their own brains; and, on the principle that pre-
dominance in activity and energy causes the transmission
of similar qualities to the offspring, the children will in this
way very generally resemble the parents. But they will
not always do so; because even very inferior characters, in
whom the moral and intellectual organs are deficient, may
be occasionally exposed to external influences which, for
the time, may excite these organs to unwonted vivacity;
and, according to the rule now e"plained, a child dating its
existence from that period may inherit a brain superior to
that of the parent. On the other hand, a person with an
excellent moral development, may, by some particular oc-
currence, have his animal propensities ~oused to unwonted
vigor, and his moral sentiments thrown for a time into the
shade; and any offspring connected with this condition,
would prove inferior to himself in the development of the
moral organs, and greatly surpass him in the size of those
ofthe propensities.
I repeat, that I do not present these views as ascertained
phrenological science, but as inferences strongly supported
by facts, and consistent with known phenomena. If we
suppose them to be true, they will greatly strengthen the
motives for preserving the lwbitual supremacy ofthe moral
sentiments and intellect; since, by our doing so, improved
moral and intellectual capacities may be conferred on off-
spring. If it be true that this lower world is arranged in
harmony with the supremacy of the higher faculties, what
oio "'ed by Google
184 ORGANIC LAWS.
a noble prospect would this law open up, of the pouibility
of man ultimately becoming capable of placing himself
more fully in accordance with the Divine institutions than
he has hitherto been able to do, and, in consequence, of
reaping numberless enjoyments that appear destined for
him by his Creator, and avoiding thousands of ~eries that
now render life too often only a series of calamities! The
views here expounded also harmonize with the principle
maintained in a former part of this work. That, as activity
in the faculties is the fountain of enjoyment, the whole con-
stitution of nature is designedly framed to support them in
ceaseless action. What scope for observation, reflection,
exercise of the moral sentiments, and tile regulation of ani-
mal impulse, does not this picture of nature present!
I cordially agree, however, with Dr. Prichard, that this
subject is still involved in great obscurity. 'We know
not,' says he, ' by what means any of the facts we remark
are effected; and the utmost we can hope to attain is, by
tracing the connection of circumstances, to learn from what
combinations of them we may expect to witness particular
results.'-Vol. li. p. 542. But much of this darkness may
be traced to ignorance of the functions of the brain. If
we consider that, in relation to mind, the brain has always
been the most important organ of our system; that the
mental condition of their parents must almost necessarily
have exercised a powerful influence over the development
of the cerebral organs in their children; that the relative
size ofthe organs determines the predominance of particu.-
lar talents and dispositi<ms; but that, nevertheless, all past
observations have been conducted without the knowledge
of these facts; it will not appear marvellous, that hitherto
much confusion and contradiction have existed in the cases
recorded, and in the inferences drawn from them on this
subject. At the present moment, almost all that phreno-
logists can pretend to accomplish is, to point out the mighty
void; to offer an exposition of its causes, and to. state such
conclusions as their own very limited observations have
oio "'ed by Google
HEREDITARY TRANSMISSION OF ClUALITIKS. 186
hitherto enabled them to deduce. Far from pretending to
be in possession of certain and complete knowledge on this
topic, I am inclined to think, that, although every conjec-
ture now hazarded were founded in nature, centuries of
observation might probably be necessary to render the
principles fully practical. At present we have almost no
information concerning the effects, on the children, ofdif-
ferent temperaments, different combinations in the cere-
bral organs, and differences of age, in the parents.
It is astonishing, however, to what extent mere pecu-
niary interests excite men to investigate and observe the
Natural Laws, while moral and rational considerations
appear to exert so small an influence in leading them to do
110. Before a common insurance company will undertake
the risk of paying £. 100, on the death of an individual,
they require the following questions to be answered by
credible and intelligent witnesses:-
' I. How long have you known Mr. A. B.?
' 2; Has he had the gout?
'3. Has he had a spitting of blood, asthma, consump-
tion, or other pulmonary complaint?
' 4._Do you consider him at all predisposed to any of
these complaints?
'5. Has he been afflicted with fits, or mental derange-
ment?
' 6. Do you think his constitution perfectly good, in the
common acceptation of the term?
'7. Are his habits in every respect strictly regular and
temperate?
'8. Is he at present in good health?
'9. Is there any thing in his form, habits of living, or
business, which you are of opinion may shorten his life?
' 10. What complaints are his family most subject to?
' 11. Are you aware of any reason why an insurance
might not with safety be efiected on his life? '
A man and woman about to marry, have, in the gene-
rality of cases, the health and happiness of five or more
16•
oio "'ed by Google
,.. Oa<J.UUO UWC.
human beings depending on their attention to considera..
tiona essentially the same u the foregoing, and yet bow
much less scrupulous are they than the mere speculators in
money! 'Before the parties,' says Dr. Caldwell, 'form a
compact fraught with consequences so infinitely weighty,
let the constitution and education of both be matured.
They will then not only transmit to their offspring a better
organization, but be themselves, from the knowledge and
experience they have attained, better prepared to improve
it by cultivation. For I shall entleavor to make it lqlpear
that cultivation can improve it. When a skilful agricul-
turist wishes to amend his breed of cattle, he does not em-
ploy, for that purpose, immature animals. On the contrary,
he carefully prevents their intercourse. Experience more-
over teaches him not to expect fruit of the best quality
from immature fruit-trees or vines. The product of such
crudeness is always defer:tive. In like manner, marriages
between boarding-school girls and striplings in or just out
of college, ought to be prohibited. In such cases, prohibi-
tion is a duty, no less to the parties themselves, than to
their offspring and society. Marriages of the kind are
rarely productive of any thing desirable. Mischief and
unhappiness of some sort are their natural fruit. Patriot-
ism therefore, philanthropy, and every feeling of kindness
to human nature, call for their prevention. Objections
resting on ground not altogether dissimilar may be justly
urged against young women marrying men far advanced in
years. Old men should in no case contract marriages
likely to prO\'e fruitful. Age has impaired their constitu-
tional qualities, which descending to their offspring, the
practice tends to deteriorate our race. It is rare for the
descendants of men far advanced in years to be distin-
guished for high qualities of either body or mind.
'As respects persons seriously deformed, or in any way
constitutionally enfeebled-the rickety and club-footed, for
instance, and those with distorted spines, or who are pre-
disposed to insanity, scrofula, pulmonary consumption,
liEREDIT~RY" TJt1NSMIISIO!f OP ClUA.LITIEI. 181
gout, or epilepsy-all persons of this description ahoulcl
conscientiously abstain from matrimony. In a special
manner, where both the male and female labor under a
hereditary taint, they should make it a part of their duty to
God and their posterity never to be thus united. Marriage
in su(:h individuals cannot be defended on moral ground,
much less on that of public usefulneu. It is selfish to an
extent but little short of crime. Its abandonment or pre-
vention would tend, in a high degree, to the improvement
ofmankind.'* *
I am indebted for the following particulars to the medi-
cal gentleman already repeatedly quoted, who was induced
to communicate them by a perusal ofthe seoond edition of
the present treatise:-' If your work has no other effect
than that of turning attention to the laws which regulate
marriage and propagation, it will have done a vast service,
for on no point are such grievous errors committed. I
often see in my own practice the most lamentable conse-
quences resulting from neglect of these laws. There are
certain families which I attend, where the constitutions of
both parents are bad, and where, when any thing happens
to the children, it is almost impossible to cure them. An
inflamed gland, a common cold, hangs about them for
months, and almost defies removal. In other families,
where the parents are strong and healthy, the children are
easily cured of almost any complaint. I know a gentleman
aged about 50, the only survivor of a family of six sons and
three daughters, all of whom, with the exception of himself,
died young of pulmonary consumption. He is a little man
with a narrow chest, and married a lady of a delicate con-
stitution and bad lungs. She is a tall spare woman, with
a chest still more deficient than his own. They have had
a large family, all of whom die off regularly as they reach
manhood and womanhood, in consequence of affections of
• Thoughts on the True Mode o{ Improving the Condition o{ Mau. By
Charles Caldwell, .M. D. / Lexington, Kentucky, 18Sa, p. 20. The greater
part of thi8 eloquent BDd powerful Eaay ia reprinted in the Phreoologica
JOIIlllal, Vol. viii. No. 40.
oio "'ed by Google
188 6RG4Jif1C L4WI.
the lungs. In the year 1853, two sons and a- daughter
died within a period often months. Two still survive, but
they are both delicate, and there can be no doubt that when
they arrive at maturity they will follow the rest. This is
a most striking instance of punishment under the organic
laws.'
It is pleasing to observe, that, in Wurtemberg, tbere are
two excellent laws calculated to improve the moral and
physical condition of the people, which other states would
do well to adopt. First, ' It is illegal for any young man
t~ marry before he is twenty-five, or any young woman
before she is eighteen; and a young man, at whatever age
he wishes to marry, must show to the police and the priest
of the commune where he resides, that he is able, and has
the prospect, to provide for a wife and family.' The sec-
ond law compels parents to send their children to school,
from the age of six to fourteen.•
There is no moral difficulty in admitting and admiring
the wisdom and benevolence of the institution by which
good qualitie3 are transmitted from parents to children: but
it is frequently held as unjust to the latter, that they should
inherit parental de.fit:Unciea, and so be made to suffer for
sins which they did not commit. In treating of this diffi-
culty, I must again refer to the supremacy of the moral
sentinients, as the theory of the constitution of the world.
The animal propensities are all selfish, and regard only the
immediate and apparent interest of the individual; while
the higher sentiments delight in that which communicates
the greatest quantity of enjoyment to the greatest number.
Now, Jet us, in the .firat place, suppose the law of heredi-
tary descent to be abrog~ted altogether,-that is to say,
.he natural qualities of each individual of the race to, be
conferred at birth, without the slightest reference to what
his parents had been or done ;-this form of constitution
would obviously have cut off every possibility of improve-
ment in the ract, by any means within the control of man.
• See Appendix, No. VIII.
o;9,\i,ed by GoogIe
HEREDITARY TRANRMISSIOI( OF QUALITIES. 189
Every phrenologist knows, that the brains of the New
Hollanders, Caribs, and other savage tribes, are distin-
guished by great deficiencies in the moral and intellectual
organs.* If, however, it
be true that a considerable CABIB.
development of the intel-
lectual and moral organs
is indispensable to the
comprehension of sci'ence
and the practice of virtue,
it would, on the present
supposition, be impossible
to raise the New Holland-
ers, as a people, one step
higher in capacity for intelligence and virtue than they
now are. We might cultivate each generation up to the
limits of its powers, but there the improvement, and a low
one it would be, would stop; for, the next generation be-
ing produced with brains equally deficient in the moral and
intellectual regions, no principle of increasing amelioration
could exist. The same remarks are applicable to every
tribe of mankind. If we assume modern Europeans as a
standard,-then, if the law of hereditary descent were ab-
rogated, every deficiency which at this moment is attribu-
table to imperfect or disproportionate del'elopment ofbrain,
would be irremediable by human means, and continue as
long as the race existed. Each generation might be cul-
tivated till the summit-level of its capacities were attained,
but higher than this no succeeding generation could rise.
When we contrast with such -a prospect the very opposite
effects flowing from the law of hereditary transmission of
qualities in an increasing ratio, the whole advantages are
at once perceived to be on the side of the latter arrange-
ment. According to this rule, the children of the indi-
viduals who have obeyed the organic, the moral, and the
• This r..ct is demolllltrated by specimens in moot Phrenological Col•
.ecti0111.
190 OIUU.NIC LAWS
iateJlectual Jaws, will not only start from the highest level
of their parents in acquired knowledge, but will inherit an
enlarged development of the moral and intellectual organs,
and thereby enjoy an increasing capability of discovering
and obeying t~e institutions ofthe Creator.
It appears to me that the native American savages, and
native New Hollanders, cannot, with their present brains,
adopt Christianity or civilization. Mr. Timothy Flint, a
Presbyterian clergyman, who passed ten years, commenc-
ing in 1815, in wanderings and preaching in the Valley of
the Mississippi, says of the Indians among whom be lived,
that, 'they have not the same acute and tender sensibilities
with the other races of men. They seem callous to every
passion but rage.'.... <Their impassibie fortitude and
endurance of suffering, which have been so much vaunted,
are, after all, in my mind, the result of a greater degree of
physical insensibility.' 'No ordinary stimulus excites them
to action. None of the common excitements, endearments,
or motives, operate upon them at all. They seem to hold
most of the things that move us in proud disdain. The
horrors of their warfare,-the infernal rage of their battles,
-the demoniac fury of gratified revenge,-the alternations
of hope and despair in their gambling, to which they are
addicted far beyond the whites,-the brutal exhilaration
of drunkenness,-these are their excitements.'-He con-
cludes, ' It strikes me that Christianity is the religion of
civilized man; that the savages must first be civilized; and
that, as there is little hope that the present generation of
Indians can be civilized, there is but little more that they
will be christianized.'
The reader will find, in the phrenological collections,
specimens of the skulls of these savages; and, on compar-
ing them with those of Europeans, he will observe that, in
the American Indians, the organs of reflecting intellect,
and of all the moral feelings, are greatly infertor in size to
the same organs in the Europeans. The moral and in-
tellectual organs are decidedly larger in the Sandwich
oio "'ed by Google
DEREDITARY T&.llfi:MIISJON OF QUALITIES, 191
Islanders than in these Indians, and they have received
European civilization with greater cordil\lity and succen.
If, by conforming to the organic laws, the moral and
intellectual organs of the American savages could be con-
siderably enlarged, they would desire civilization, and would
adopt it when offered. Ifthis view be well founded, every
method used for their cultivation, which is not calculated
at the same time to improve their cerebral organization,
will be limited in its effects by the narrow capacities
attending their. present development. In youth, all the
organs of the body are more susceptible of modification
than in advanced age; and hence the effects of education
on the young may arise from the greater susceptibility of
the brain to changes at that period than in later life. This
improvement will, no doubt, have its limits; but it may
probably extend to that point at which man will be capable
of placing himself in harmony_
with the natural laws. The
effort necessary to maintain himself there, will still provide
for the activity of his faculties.
2dly, We may suppose the law of hereditary descent to
be limited to the transmission of good, and abrogated as to
the transmission of bad qualities; and it may be thought
that such an arrangement would be more benevolent and
just. There are objections to this view, however, which
do not occur without reflection to the mind. We Ree as
matter of fact, that a vicious and debased parent is actually
defective in the moral and intellectual organs. Now, if
his children should take up exactly the same development
as himself, this would be the transmission of imperfections,
which is the very thing objected to; while, if they were to
take up a development fixed by nature, and not at all
referrible to that of the parent, this would render the whole
race stationary in thei~ first condition, without the possi-
bility of improvement in their capacities-which also, we
have seen, would be an evil greatly to be deprecated.
But,
SdJy, The bad d9velopment might be supposed to trane-
oio "'ed by Google
19t ORGANIC L.Ufl.
mit, by hereditary descent, a good development. Tbis,
however, would set at nought the supremacy ofjustice and
benevolence; it would render the consequences of con-
tempt for and violation of the divine laws, and of obedience
to them, in this particular, precisely alike. The debauchee,
the cheat, the murderer, and the robber, would, according
to this view, be able to look upon the prospects of his
posterity, with the same confidence in their welfare and
happiness, as the pious intelligent Christian, who bad
sought to know God and to obey his institutions during his
whole life. Certainly no individual in whom the higher
sentiments prevail, will for a moment regard this imagined
change as any improvement on the Creator's arrange-
ments. '\Vhat a host of motives to moral and religious
conduct would at once be withdrawn, were such a specta-
cle of divine government exhibited to the world!
4thly, It may be supposed that human happiness would
have been more completely secured, by endowing all
individuals at birth with that degree of development of the
moral and intellectual organs which would have best fitted
them for discovering and obeying the Creator's laws, and
by preventing all aberrations from this standard; just as
the lower animals appear to have received instincts and
capacities adjusted with the most perfect wisdom to their
conditions. Two remarks occur on this supposition. First,
We are not competent at present to judge correctly how
far the development actually bestowed on the human race
is, .or is not, wisely adapted to their circumstances; for
possibly there may be, in the great system of human so-
ciety, departments exactly suited to all existing forms of
brain not imperfect through disease, but which our know-
ledge is insufficient to discover. The want of a natural
index to the mental dispositions and capacities of individ-
.uals, and of a true theory of the constitution of society,
may have hitherto precluded philosophers from arriving at
sound conclusions on this question. It appears to me
probable;, that while there may be great room for improve- -
oio "'ed by Google
lr&RJU)IT.lRY TR.lNSMijjSION OP QU.lLITI&S. 19S
ment- ·io the talents and dispositions of vast numbers of
inclividuals, the imperfections of the race in general may
not be sc. great·as we, in our present state of ignorance of
the aptitudes of particular persons for particular situatioM,
are prone to infer. But, secondly, On the principle that
· activity ofthe faculties is the fountain of enjoyment·, it may
be questioned whether additional motives to the exercise
of the moral and intellectual powers, and consequently
greater happiness, are not conferred by leaving men (with-
in certain limits) to regulate the talents and tendencies of
their d~scendants, than by endowing each individual with
the best qualities, independently of the conduct of his
parents.
On the whole, therefore, there seems reason for con-
cluding, that the actual institution, by which both good and
bad qualities • are transmitted, is fraught with higher
advantages to the race, than the abrogation of the law of
transmission altogether, or than the supposed change of it,
by which bad men would transmit good qualities to their
children. The actual law, when viewed by the moral
sentiments and intellect, appears, both in its principles and
in its consequences, beneficial and expedient. When an
individual sufferer, therefore, complains of its operation,
he regards it through the animal faculties alone; his self:.
love is annoyed, and he carrie~ his thoughts no farther.
He never stretches his mind forward to the consequences
which would ensue to mankind at large, if the law which
grieves him were reversed. The animal faculties regard
nothing beyond their own immediate and apparent interest,
and they do not even discern it correctly; for no arrange-
• In using :.he popular expressions 'good qualities ' and 'bad qualities,'
I <lo r.ot mean to insinuate, that any of the tendencies b<>stowetl on man are
eaaentially bad in themselves. Destructiveness and Acquisitiveness, for ex-
• ample, are in tbemaelves essential to human welfare in this world, and, when
properly directed, produce effects unquestionably good;. but they become the
sources of evil when they are ill directed, which may happen either from
moral deficiency, from intellectual ignorance, or from their organs being too
large in proportion to those of the superior sentiments and intellect.
17
oio "'ed by Google
194 TL6Jil5llll1110lf Or HJUl..DITARY Q'IULJ'l'J..I.
ment that i8 beneficial for the race would be found injurious
to individuals, if ita operations in regard to them were dis-
tinctly traced. The abrogation of the rule, therefore,
under which they complain, would, we may be certain,
bring ten thousand times greater. evils, even upon them-
selves, than its continu~J,nce.
On the other hand, an individual sufferer under heredi-
tary pain, in whom the moral and intellectual faculties
predominate, and who should see the principle and con-
sequences of the institution of hereditary descent as now
explained, would not murmur at them as unjust: he would
bow with submission to an institution which he perceived
to be fi·aught with blessings to the race when it was known
and observed; and the very practice of this reverential
acquiescence would be so delightful, that it would dimin-
ish, in a great degree, the severity of his misfortune.
Besides, he would see the door of mercy standing widely
open, and 'inviting his return; he would perceive that
every step which he made in his own person towards exact
obedience to the Creator's laws, would remove by so much
the organic penalty transmitted on account of his parent's
transgressions, and that his posterity would reap the full
benefits of his more dutiful observance.
It mny be objected to the law of hereditary transmission
of organic qualities, that the children of a blind and lame
father have sound eyes and limbs. But, in the first place,
these defects arc generally the result df accident or dis-
ease, occurring either during pregnancy or posterior to
birth, and are seldom or never the operation of nature;
and, consequently, the original physical principles remain-
ing entire in the constitution, the bodily imperfections are
not transmitted to the progeny. Secondly, Where the
defects are congenital or constitutional, it frequently hap-
pens that they are transmitted through successive genera-
tions. This is sometimes exemplified in blindness, and
even \n the possession of supernumerary fingers or toes.
The reason why such peculiarities are not transmitted to
N£GLBCT OP THE OJtG.UUC LAWS IN M.\RRUGB. 195
all the progeny, appears to be simply that, in general,
only one parent is defective. If the fatber, for instance,
be blind or deaf, the mother is generally free from that
imperfection, and her influence naturally extends to, and
modifies the result in, the progeny.
If the mental qualities transmitted to offspring be, as
above explained, dependent on the organs most highly
excited in the parents, this will account for the varieties,
along with the general resemblance, that occur in chil-
dren of the same marriage. It will account also for the
circumstance of genius being sometimes transmitted and
sometimes not. Unless both parents possessed the cerebral
development and temperament of genius, the law would
not certainly transmit these qualities to the children; and
even although both did possess these endowments, they
would be transmitted only on condition of the parents
obeying the organic laws-one of which forbids that ex-
cessive exertion of the mental and corporeal functions
which exhausts and debilitates the system; an error almost
universally committed by perso:1s endowed with high ori-
ginal talent, under the present condition of ignorance of
the natural laws, and erroneous fashions and institutions
of society. The supposed law would be disproved by
cases of weak, imbecile, and vicious children, being born
to parents whose own constitution and habits had been in
the highest accordance with the organic, moral, and in-
tellectual laws; but no such cases have hitherto come
under my observation.
As rules are best taught by examples, I shall now men-
tion some facts that have fallen under my own notice, or
been communicated to me from authentic sources, illustra-
tive ofthe practical consequences of infringing the law of
hereditary descent.
A man, aged about 50, possessed a brain in whic~ the
animal, moral, and knowing intellectual organs, were all
large, but the reflecting small. He was pious, but desti-
tute of education; he married an unhealthy young woman,
oio "'ed by Google
/
196 KaGLIICT OJ' TB& O&OANIC LAWS llf JUB&I40&.
de&cient in moral development, but of considerable force
ofcharacter; and several children were born. The father
and mother were far from being happy; and when the
children aUaioed to eighteen or twenty y~ars of age, they
were adepts in every species of immorality and proftigaey:
they picked their father's pocket, stole his goods, and got
them sold back to him, by accomplices, for money, which
was spent in betting, cock-fighting, drinking, and low
debauchery. The father was heavily grieved; but knowing
only two resourcfts, he beat the children severely as long
as he was able, and prayed for them: his own words were,
that ' if, after that, it pleased the Lord to make vessels of
wrath ofthem, tbe Lord's will must-just be done.' I men-
tion this last observation, not in jest, but in great serious-
ness. It was impossible not to pity the unhappy father:
yet, who that sees the institutions of the Creator to be in
themselves wise, but in this instance to have been directly
violated, will not acknowledge that the bitter pangs of the
poor old man were the consequences of his own ignorance;
and that it was an erroneous view of the divine administra-
tion which led him to overlook his own mistakes, and to
attribute to the Almighty the purpose of making vessels of
wrath of his children, as the only explanation which he
could give of their wicked dispositions? Who that sees
the cause of his misery can fail to lament that his piety was
not enlightened by philosophy, and directed to obed4ence,
in the first instance, to the organic laws of the Creator, as
one of the prescribed conditions without observance of
which he had no title to expect a blessing upon his
offspring? ·
In another instance, a man, in whom the animal organs,
particularly those of Combativeness and Destructivenesa,
were very large, but who had a pretty fair moral and
iQtellectual development, married, against her inclination,
a young woman, fashionably and showily educated. but
with a very decided deficiency of Conscientiousness.
They 890U bec"me unhappy, IUld even ~ows were said
oio "'ed by Google
NEGLECT OF THB 01\GANIC LAWS IN liUI\RIAGB. 197
to have passed between·them, although they belonged to
the middle rank of life. The mother employed the chil-
dren to deceive and plunder the father, and latterly spent
the pilfered sums._in purchasing ardent spirits. The sons
inherited the deficient morality of the mother, and the ill
temper ofthe father. The family fireside became a theatre
of war, and, before the sons attained majority, the father
was glad to get them removed from his house, as the only
means by which he could feel even his life in safety from
their violence ; for they had by that time retaliated th,e
blows with which he had visited them in their younger
years, and he stated that he actually considered his life to
be in danger from his own offspring.
In another family, the mother .possesses an excellent
development of the moral and intellectual organs, while in
the father the animal organs predominate in great excess.
She has been the unhappy victim of ceaseless misfortune,
originating from the misconduct of her husband. Some of
the children·have inherited the father's brain, and some
the mother's; and of the sons whose heads resembled that
of the father, sever11l have died through mere debauchery
'and profligacy under thirty years of age; whereas those
who resemble the mother are alive, and little contaminated
even amidst all the disadvantages of evil example.
On the other hand, I am not acquainted with a single
instance in which the moral and intellectual organs pre-
dominated in both father and mother, and where external
circumstances permitted their general activity, in which
the whole children did not partake of a moral and intellec-
tual character, differing slightly in degrees of excellence
one from another, but all presenting the decided predomi-
nance of the human over the animal faculties.
There are well-known examples of the children of re-
ligious and moral fathers exhibiting dispositions of a very
inferior description; but in all the instances of this son
that I have been able to observe, there has qeen in one
parent a large development of the animal organs1 which
. t7•
oio "'ed by Google
118 lf&GL&C'I' OJ' 'I'IU oao.uuc LAW's tN MAaarA.oa.
;ru contrOlled, but not much 1801'e, by UHI moral and intel-
lectual powers; while, in the other parent, the moral or-
cane did not appear to be iu large proportion. The unfor-
tunate child iuherited the large animal dnelopment of the
one, with the defective moral development of the other;
aDd, in thill way, was inferior to both. The way to satillfy
one'• self on this point, ill to examiue the heads of the
parent•. In all such cases, a large base of the brain,
which ill the region of the animal propeneities, will very
probably be found' in one or other ofthem.
Another organic law of the animal kingdom deserves at-
tention, viz. that by which marriages between blood rela-
tions tend decidedly to the deterioration of the physical
and mental qualities of the offspring. In Spain, kiugs
marry t~eir nieces, and in thill country first and second
couins marry without scruple; although every philoso-
phical physiologist will declare that this is in direct op-
position to the institutions of
nature. The 42d Number or
the Phrenological Journal con-
tains an account of an idiot in
Manchester, whose parents are
cousins, and one of whose sis-
ters is likewise idiotic. His
head is extremely small; par-
. ticularly in the upper part of
the forehead. A representa-
tion of it is annexed.
This Jaw holds also in the vegetable kingdom. ' A pro-
vision of a very simple kind, is, in some cases, made to
prevent the male and female blossoms of the same plant
from breeding together, this bAing found to hurt the breed
of vegetables, just as breeding in and in does the breed of
animals. It is contrived that the dust shall be shed by the
male blossom befot·e the female is ready to be affected by
it, so that the impregnation must be performed by the dust
.ofsome other plant, and in this way the breed be croaeed.'
CHOICE OP SERVANTS, &.c. 199
Objects, ~c. of Science, p. 33. On a similar principle, it i8
found highly advantageous in agriculture not to sow grain
of the same stock in constant succession on the same soil.
In individual instances, if the S'oil and plants are both
possessed ofgreat vigor and the highest qualities, the same
ltind of grain may be reaped in succession twice or thrice,
with less perceptible deterioration than where these ele-
ments of reproduction are feeble and imperfect; and the
same fact occurs in the animal kingdom. If the first indi-
viduals connected in near relationship, who unite in mar-
riage, are uncommonly robust, and possess very favorably
developed brains, their offspring may not be /JO much dete-
, riorated below the common standard of the country as to
attract -particular attention, and the law of nature is, in this
instance, 11upposed not to bold; but it does hold, for to a
law of nature there never is an ~xception. The offspring
are uniformly inferior to what they toould have been, if the
parents had united with strangers in blood of equal tligor
and cerebral dttlelopment. Whenever there is any remark-
able deficiency in pr.rents who are related in blood, these
appear in the most marked and aggravated forms in the
offspring. This fact ia so well known, and so easily ascer-
tained, that I forbear to enlarge upon it.-So much for
miseries arising from neglect of the organic laws in forming
the domestic compact.
I proceed to advert to those evils which arise from over-
looking the operation of the same laws in the ordinary
relations of society.
How many little annoyances arise from the misconduct
ofservants and dependants in yarious departments of life;
how many losses, and sometimes ruin, arise from dishon-
esty and knavery in confidential clerks, partners, and
agents! A mercantile house of great reputation, in Lon-
don, was ruined and became bankrupt, by a Clerk having
embezzled a prodigious extent of funds, and absconded to
America; another company in Edinburgh sustained a great
oio "'ed by Google
ORGANIC LAWS.
loss by a similar piece ofdishonesty; a company in Paisley
was ruined by one of the partners having collected the
funds, and eloped with them to the United States; and
several bankers, and other persons, suffered severely in
Edinburgh, by the conduct of an individual some time con-
nected with the public press. It is said that depredations
are constantly committed in the post-offices of the United
Kingdom, in spite of every effort made to select persons of
the best character, and of the strictest vigilance exercised
over their conduct. If it be true that the talents and dis-
positions of individuals are indicated and influenced by the
development of their brains, and that their actual conduct
is the result of this development and of their external cir-
cumstances, including in the latter every moral and intel-
lectual influence coming from without, it is obvious that
one and all of the evils here enumerated might, to a great
extent, be obviated by the application of Phenology.
These misfortunes can be traced to the error of having
placed human beings, decidedly deficient in moral or intel-
lectual qualities, in situations which demanded these in a
higher degree than they possessed them; and any certain
means by which the presence or
Mrs. H. absence of these qualities could
1~ he
(
(( 1.. ~ predicated, before their ap-
1I \.\.r ~ \ pointment, would go far to prc-
',1 I(l 'J !~) 1~ vent the occurrence of the evils.
filt I\' \\ rf~i The two following figures, for
((~~\ \)1)' ~~~~(( example, represent several of
\\'l\,lt~~lli/~PJI(,J~~1 ~~:c~:~~n:o:::~ti~~o:;;:si::
1\ \~) f(@;)}J states of development, and _the
dispositions of the individuals
J.t.. l'irmne" small; 16. Con- exactly corresponded with them.
' ,· · ..:ientloasnea large; 12.
.. Ce.utio111- full. 1\irs. H. was a lady remarka-
::;t1; . ble for Conscientiousness, but
~1 of purpose. It was necessary for her to have a
.... whole advice she constantly asked and followed, in
oio "'ed by Google
CHOICE 01' I&RV.llfTI, &.c. iOl
order to preserve herself from yielding to every intern.!
impulse or outward solicitation.
David Haggart was a dexter- D. Huo.a.u.
ous and enterprising thief and
pickpocket, who was executed at
last for murdering the jailor of ~
Dumfries, with a view to escape
from justice.
If individuals having brains re-
sembling that of Haggart, who
was remarkable for dishonesty,
should be placed in situations of
trust, in which there should be
presented to them temptations
to deception and embezzlement
which could be resisted only by
16. FinnneM large; 16. Coo-
strong sentiments ofjustice, their scientiousness deficient; 12
misconduct, sooner or later, Cautiousness rather large.
would be almost certain, owing to the great size of their
animal· organs, and the deficiency of their organs of Con-
scientiousness. I have seen so many instances of dishonest
practices in concomitance with similar combinations, that I
cannot doubt of their connection. Where external circum-
stances remove from persons thus constituted all tempta-
tion to pilfering, their deficient perceptions of justice will
still be discernible in the laxness of their notions of moral-
ity, in their treatment of inferiors, and in their general
conduct.
Again, if a person were wanted for any situation in which
great decision of character, steadiness, and perseverance
were necessary, and we selected a candidate whose brain,
at the organ of Firmness, resembled that of Mrs. H., we
should assuredly be disappointed. This lady, as already
mentioned,. was remarkable for vacillation of purpose; and
I have never seen a single instance of decision of charac-
ter combined with such a defect of brain as is here repre-
sented. These cases are introduced mere!}' as example•
oio "'ed by Google
oao.uuc LAWS.
aod illuatratiooa. The reader_who wishes to pursue the
subject farther, is referred to the common treatises on
Phrenology and the Phrenological Journal for additional
information.
If any man were to go to sea in a boat of pasteboard,
which the very fluidity of the element would dissolve, no
one would be surprised at his being drowned; and, in like
manner, if the Creatqr has constituted the brain so as to
exert a great influence over the mental dispositions, and if,
nevertheless, men are pleased to treat this fact with neglect
and contempt, and to place individuals, naturally deficient
in the moral organs, in situations where great morality is
required, they have no cause to be surprised if they suffer
the penalties of their own misconduct, in being plundered
and defrauded.
Although I can state, from experience, that it is possible,
by the aid of Phrenology, to ~~e~t indi~duals whose moral
qualities may be relied on, yet the·extremely limited extent
of our practical knowledge in regard to the intellectual
talents that fit persons for particular duties, must be con-
fessed. To be able to judge accurately what combination
of natural talents and dispositions in an individual will best
fit him for any given employment, we must ha\·e seen a
variety of combinations tried in particular departments,
and observed their effects. It is impossible, at least for
me, to anticipate with certainty, in new cases, what these
effects will be; but I have ever found nature constant; and
after once discovering, by experience, an assortment of
qualities suited to a particular duty, I have found no sub-
sequent exception to the rule. Cases in which the pre-
dominance of particular regions of the brain, such as the
moral and intellectual, is very decided, present fewest dif-
ficulties; although, even in them, the very deficiency of
animal organs may sometimes incapacitate an individual
for important stations. Where the three classes of or-
gana, the animal, moral, and intellectual, are nearly in
ceiJUilibrio, the most opposite results may ensue b1 external
oio "'ed by Google
DlU.t'lr.
circumstances exciting the one or the other to decided
predominance in activity, and little reliance ought to
be placed on individuals thus constituted, except when
temptations are removed, and strong motives to virtue
presented.
Having now adverted to calamities from external vio-
lence, - to bad he~<lth, -to unhappiness in the domestic
circle, arising from ill-advised unions and viciously dis-
posed children, - and to the evils suffered from placing
individuals, as servants, clerks, partners, or public instruc-
ters, in situations for which they are not suited by their
natural qualities,- and traced all of them to infringements
or neglect of the physical or organic laws, I proceed to
advert to the last, and what is reckoned the greatest, of all
calamities, DEATH, which itself is obviously a part of the
organic law.
In the introduction, page 4, to which I refer, I have
stated briefly the changes which occurred in the globe
bef~re man was introduced to inhabit it. The researches
of geologists have shown that the world we inhabit w-as at
first in a fluid condition; that crystalline rocks were depos-
ited before animal or vegetable life began; that then came
the lowest orders of zoophytes and of vegetables; next
fishes and reptiles,-and trees in vast forests, giving origin
to our present beds of coal; then quadrupeds and birds,
and shells and plants, resembling those of the present era,
but all ofwhich, as species, have utterly perished from the
earth: that next came alluvial rocks, containing hones of
mammoths and other gigantic animals; and that last of all
came man. Dr. Buck!lmd has shown that certain long,
rounded, stony bodies, like oblong pebbles or kidney pota-
toes, scattered on the shore at Lyme Regis, and frequent-
ly lying beside the hones of the saurian or lizard-like
reptiles there discovered, are the dung of these animals
in a fossil state. Many specimens of them contain scales,
teeth, and bones of fishes, that seem to have passed undi-
oio "'ed by Google
OR.04JIJC I.AWS.
aeeted throuah the body of the"aoimal; juat u the enamel
ofthe teeth and fragments o( bone are found undigested ia
the dung ofthe ravenous hyena. Similar.fossils (scientifi..
caUy named coprolites) are found on the shore ofthe Firth
or Forth, about a mile westward from Newhaven. These
facts show that death, or destruction of vegetable and
animal life, was an institution of nature before man became
an inhabitant of the globe.
Physiologists in general regard the organic frame of
man also as containing within itselfthe seeds of dissolution.
' The last character,' says a popular author, ' by which
the living body is distinguished, is that of terminating its
existence by the process of death. The vital energies by
which the circle of a.ctions and reactions necessary to life
is sustained, at length decline, and finally become exhaust-
ed. Inorganic bodies preserve their existence unalterably
and for ever, unless some mechanical force, or some chem-
ical agent, separate their particles or alter their composi-
tion. But, in every living body, its vital motions inevitably
cease, sooner or later, from the operation of causes that
are internal and iuberent. Thus, to terminate its exist-
ence by death, is as distinctive of a living being as to
derive its origin from a pre-existing germ.' •
It is beyond the compass· of philosophy to explain tohy
the world was constituted in the manner here represented.
I therefore make no inquiry why death was instituted, and
refer, of course, only to the dissolution of organized bodies,
and not at all to the state of the soul or mind after its sep-
aration from the body. This belongs to Revelation.
Let.us first view the dissolution of the body abstractedly
from personal -considerations, as a mere natural arrange-
ment. Death, then, appears to be a result ofthe constitu-
tion of all organized beings; for the very definition of the
genus is, that the individuals grow, attain maturity, decay,
and die. The human imagination cannot conceive how
the former part of this series of movements could eiiat
• ADimnl Physiology, p. '7; Library o( Usef'ul KDowledp.
oio "'ed by Google
DIU'til.
without the latter, u long u space is necessary to corpo-
real existence. If all the vegetable and animal produetiooe
of nature, from creation downwards, had grown, attained
maturity, and there remained, the world would not haYe
been capable of containing the thousandth part of them;
eo that, on this earth, decaying and dying appear indis-
pensably necessary to admit of reproduction and growth.
Viewed abstractedly, then, organized beings live as long
as health and vigor continue; but they are subjected to a
process of decay, which impairs gradually all their func-
tions, and at last terminates in their dissolution. Now, in
the vegetable world, the effect of this law is, to surround
us with young trees, in place of everlasting stately full
grown forests, standing forth in awful majesty, without
variation in leaf or bough;-with the vernal bloom of
spring, changing gracefully into the vigor of summer and
the maturity of autumn ;-with the rose, first simply and
delicately budding, then luxuriant and lovely in its perfect
evolution. In short, when we advert to the law of death,
as instituted in the vegetable kingdom, and as related to
our own faculties of Ideality and Wonder, which desire
and delight in the very changes which death introduces,
we without hesitation exclaim, that all is wisely and won-
derfully made. Turning again to the animal kingdom, we -
discover that the same fundamental principle prevails.
Death removes the old and decayed, and the organic law
introduces in their place the young, the gay, and the
vigorous, to tread the stage with renewed agility and
delight.
This transfer of existence may readily be granted to be
beneficial to the young; but, at first sight, it appears the
opposite of benevolent to the old. To have lived at all, is
felt as giving a right to continue to live; and the question
arises, How can the institution of death, as the result of
the organic law, be reconciled with benevolence and jull-
tice?
I am aware that, theologically, death ia re1ardecl u tbe
18
oio "'ed by Google
oao.unc LAWS.
punishment of sin, and that the attempt to reccmeile our
.mds to it by reason is objected to as at once futile and
dangerous. But I beg leave to observe, that philosophers
have established by irrefragable evidence, that before man
was created, death prevailed among the lower animals, not
only by natural decay and the operation of physical forces,
but by the express institution of carnivorous creatures des-
titled to prey on living beings; that man himself is carni-
vorous, and obviously framed by the Creator for ~ scene
of death; that his organic constitution, in its inherent
qualities, implies death as its final termination; and that if
these facts be admitted to be undeniable on the one hand,
and we are prohibited, on the other, from attempting to
discover, from the records of creation itseJt: the wise
adaptation of the human feelings and intellect to this state
of things, neither the cause of revelation nor that of reason
cpn be thereby benefited. The foregoing facts cannot be
disputed or concealed; and the only effect of excluding
the investigation on which I propose to enter, would be to
close the path of reason, and to leave the constitution of
the external world and of the human mind apparently in a
state of contradiction to each other. Let us rather trust
to the inherent consistency of all truths, and rely on all
sound conclusions of reason being in accordance with
every correct interpretation of Scripture.
In treating of the supremacy of the moral sentiments, I
pointed out, that the grand distinction between those sen-
timents and the propensities consists in this -that the for-
mer are in their nature disinterested, generous, and fond
of the general good, while the latter aim only at the wel-
fare or gratification of the individual. It is obvious that
death, as an institution of the Creator, must affect these
two classes of faculties in the most different manner. A
being endowed only with propensities and intellect, and
enabled, by the latter, to discover death and its consequen-
ces, would probably regard it as an appalling visitation.
~ would see in it only the utter extinction of enjoyment
oio "'ed by Google
DBATit.
to itself; for, although it perceived existence transferred
to other beings, who would enjoy life after ita removal
from the scene, this would afford .it no consolation, in
consequence of ita wanting all the faculties which derive
pleasure from disinterestedly contemplating the enjoyments
ofother creatures. The lower animals, then, whose whole
being is composed of the inferior propensities and several
k1WU!ing faculties, would probably see death, if they could
at all anticipate it, in this light. It would appear to thE'm
as the extinguisher of every pleasure which they had ever
felt; and apparently the bare prospect of it would render
_their lives so wretched, that nothing could alleviate the
depressing gloom with which the habitual consciousness
of it would inspire them. But, by depriving them of
rejlecti'De faculties, the Creator has kindly and effectually
withdrawn from them this evil. He has thereby rendered
them completely blind to its existence. There is not the
least reason to believe, that any one of the lower animals,
while in health and vigor, has the slightest conception that
· it is a mortal creature, any more than a tree has that it
will rlie. In consequence, it lives in as full enjoyment of
the present, as if it were assured of every agreeable sensa-
tion being eternal. Death always takes the individual by
surprise, whether it comes in the form of violence s,uppres-
sing life in youth, or .of slow decay by age; and really
operates as a transference of existence from one being to
another, without consciousness of the loss in the one which
dies. Let us, however, trace the operation of death, in
regard to the lower animals, a little more in detail.
Philosophy, as already remarked, cannot explain why
death was instituted at first; but, according to the views
maintained in this work, we should expect to find it con-
nected with, and regulated by, benevolence and justice-
that is to say, that it should not be inflicted for the sole
purpose of extinguishing the life. of individuals, to their
damage, without any other result; but that the general
system under which it takes place should be, on the whole~
oio "'ed by Google
- O&OAlfiC LAWI.
favorable to the enjoyment not only of the race, but of
each individual animal while life is given. And this
accordingly is the fact. Violent death, and the devour-
ing of one animal by another, are not purely benevolent;
because pure benevolence would never inflict pain: ·but
they are instances of destruction leading to beneficial
. results; that is, wherever death is introduced under the
institutions of nature, it is accompanied with enjoyment
or beneficial consequences to the very animals which are
to become the subjects of it. While the world is calcu
lated to support only a limited number of living creatures,
the lower animals have received from nature powers of
reproduction far beyond what are necessary to supply the
waste of natural decay, and they do not possess intellect
sufficient to restrain their numbers within the limits of their
means of subsistence. Herbivorous animal~, in particular,
are exceedingly prolific, and yet the supply of vegetable
food is limited. Hence, after multiplication for a few
years, extensive starvation, the most painful and lingering
of all deaths, and the most detrimental to the race, would
mevitably ensue: but carnivorous animals have been insti-
tuted who kill and eat them; and, by this means, not o~ly
do carnivorous animals reap the pleasures of life, but the
numbers of the herbivorous are restrained within such
limits that the individuals among ~hem enjoy existence
while they live.* The destroyers, ag·ain, are limited in
their turn: the moment they become too numerous, and
carry their devastations too far, their food fails them, and
they die of starvation, or, in their conflicts for the supplies
• St. Pierre states this argument forcibly.-' By their production without
r--..int,' say• he, 'creature. would be multiplied beyond all limits, till even
the globe itself could not contain them. The P""servation of every individual
produced, would lead to ultimate destruc:ion of the species. Some will :ua-
.wer, that the animals might live alway•, if they observed a proportion IWta•
ble to the territory which they inhabited. But, according to this suppcldition,
tbeJ mWit at last cease to multiply; and then adieu to the lovea and aum-..
the baiiding of neats, and all the harmooiea which reip in dleir nablre.•-
Jhde ti. l4 NflltiTt, Paril, 1791, p. 17.
oio "'ed by Google
DltATB.
that remain, destroy one another. Nature seems aYene
from inflicting death extensively by starvation, probably
because it impairs the constitution long before it extin-
guishes life, and bas the tendency to produce degeneracy
in the race. It may be remarked also, speculatively, that
herbivorous animals must have existed in considerable
numbers before the carnivorous began to exercise their
functions; for many of the former must die, that one of
the latter may live. If a single sheep and a single tiger
had been placed together at first, the tiger would have
eaten up the sheep at a few meals, and afterwards died
itself of starvation.
There is reason to believe, that, in the state of nature,
death is attended with very little suffering to the lower
- creatures. In natural decay, the organs are worn out by
mere age, and the animal sin!ts into gradual insensibility,
unconscious that dissolution awaits it. Farther, the wolf,
the tiger, the lion, and other beasts of prey instituted by
the Creator as instruments of violent death, are provided,
in addition to Destructiveness, with large organs of Cau-
tiousness and Secretiveness, which prompt them to steal
upon their victims with the unexpected suddenness of a
mandate of annihilation; and they are also impelled to
inflict death in the most instantaneous and least painful
method. The tiger and lion spring from their covers with
the rapidity of the thunderbolt, and one blow of their
tremen!lous paws, inflicted at the junction of the head with
the neck, produces instantaneous death. The eagle is
taught to strike its sharp beak into the spine of the birds
which it devours, and their agony endureli scarcely for an
instant. It has been objected that the cat plays with the
unhappy mouse, and prolongs its tortures: but the cat that
does so, is the pampered and well-fed inhabitant of a
kitchen; the cat of nature is too eager to devour, to in-
dulge in such luxurious gratifications of Destructivene811
and Secretiveneu. It kills in a moment, and eats. Here,
then is actually a regularly organized process for with~
18,.
110 oao.unc LAWS.
drawiDg individuals among the lower animals from exist-
ence, almost by a fial of destruction, and thereby providing
for the comfortable subsistence of the creatures themselves
while they live, and making way for a succession of new
occupants. 'Nature,' says St. Pierre, 'does nothing in
vain: she intends few animals to die of old uge; and I be-
lieve that she has permitted to none except man to run the
entire course of life, because in his case alone can old age
be useful to the race. What would be the advantage of
old animals, incapable of reflection, to a posterity born
with instincts holding the plac<: of experience; and how,
on the other hand, would decrepit parents find support
among offspring which instinctively leave them whenever
they are able to swim, to fly, or to run? Old age woul«l
prove to such creatures a burden; of which beasts of prey
mercifully deliver them.'
Man, in his mode of putting the lower creatures to death,
11 not so tender as beasts of prey: but he might be so.
Suppose the sheep to be guillotined, and not maltreated
before its execution, the creature would never know that
it had ceased to live. And, by the law which I have al-
ready explained, man does not with impunity add one
unnecessary pang to the death of the inferior animals. In
the butcher who inflicts torments on calves, sheep, and cat-
tle, while driving them to the slaugtrter,-and who kills
them in the way supposed to be most conducive to the
gratification of his Acquisitiveness, such as bleeding them
to death, by successive stages, prolonged for days to whiten
their flesh,-the animal faculties of Destructiveness, Ac-
quisitiveness, and Self-Esteem, predominate so decidedly
in activity over the moral powers, that he is necessarily
excluded from all the enjoyments attendant on the supre-
macy ofthe human faculties: He, besides, goes into soci-
ety under the influence of the same base combination, and
suffers at every hand animal retaliation; so that he doea not
eecape with impunity for his outrages againlt the moral
aw.
oio "'ed by Google
DIU.TR, !11
Here, then, we call perceive nothing malevolent in the
institution of death, in so far as regards the lower animals.
A pang certainly does attend it; but while Destructiveness
must be recognised in the pain, Benevolence is equally
perceptible in its effects.
To repair injuries sustained by objects governed exclu-
sively by physical laws, no remedial process is instituted
by nature. If a mirror falls, and is smashed, it remains
ever after in fragments; if a ship sinks, it lies still at the
bottom of the ocean, chained down by the law of gravita-
tion. Under the organic law, on the other hand, a distinct
remedial process is established. If a tree is blown over,
every root that remains in the ground will double its exer-
tions to preserve life; if a branch is lopped off, new
branches will shoot out in its place; if a leg in an animal
is broken, the bone will reunite; if a muscle is severed, it
will grow together; if an artery is obliterated, the neigh-
boring arteries will enlarge their dimensions, and perform
its duty. The Creator, however, not to encourage animals
to abuse this benevolent institution, has established pain as
an attendant on infringement of the organic law, and made
them suffer for the violation of it, even while he restores
them. It is under this law that death has received its
pangs. Instant death is not attended with pain of any per-
ceptible duration; and it is only when a lingering death
occurs in youth and middle age, that the suffering is severe.
Dissolution, however, does not occur at these periods a& a
direct and intentional result of the organic laws, but as the
consequence of infringement ofthem. Under the fair and
legitimate operation of these laws, the individual whose
constitution was at first sound, and whose_life has been in
accordance with their dictates, will live till old age fairly
wears out his organized frame, and then the pang of expi-
ration is little perceptible.•
• The following table is copied from an interellting nrticle by Mr. William
Fraa-, on the Hiawy aud Coldtitution of Benefit or Friendly Societie.,
publimed in the Edinbargb New Pbll0110phical Journal for Ocloloer 18lll7,ad
oao.uuc LAWS.
This view ofour cooatitution is objected to by some per-
sona, because disease appears to them to invade our bodies,
and after a time to end in death or disappear, without any
organic cause being discoverable. On this st&ject I would
observe, that there is a vast difference between the uncer-
tain and the unascertained. It is now universally admitted
that all the movements of matter are regulated by laws,
and that the motions are never uncertain, although their
laws may in some instances be unascertained. The revo-
lutions of the planets, for example, are fully underRtood,
while those of some of the comets are as yet unknown; hut
no philosopher imagines that the latter are uncertain. The
minutest drop of water that descends the mighty Fall of
Niagara, is ·regulated in all its movements by definite laws
- whether it rise in mist, and float in the atmosphere to
distant regions, there to pescend as rain; or be absorbed
by a neighboring shrub, and reappear as an atom in a blos-
som adorning the Canadian shore; or 1be drunk up by a
living creature, and sent into the wonderful circuit of its
blood; or become a portion of an oak, which at a future
time shall career over the ocean as a ship. Nothing can be
less ascertained, or probably less ascertainable by mortal
11tudy, than the motions of such an atom; but every phi-
is deduced frorn Returns by Friendly Societies iu Scotland for various years,
fi·O!n 1750 to 1821. It sho\,·s how much sickness increases with age, and
how little there is of it in youth, even in the present disordered state of
human conduct. We may expect the quantity to decrease, at all ages, in
l>
roportlon to the increaae of obedience to the organic laws. It is chiefly in
advanced life, when the con;;titution has lost a pa~·tion of it• \'igor, that the
accumulated eft'~cts of disobedience Lecome appa_rcnt.
Average Annual Sickness tif Each lndi~idwll.
Age.
w~eb and
We~ks. D:1ya. IIour~.
Proportion o( Sick
Oecin1111.,. Mem•,.,..
Under 20 0.8797 0 2 16 1 in 136.96
20-SO 0.5916 0 4 8 1 ... 87.89
8(4() 0.6865 0 4 19 1 ... 75.74
40-50 1.0278 1 0 4 1 ... 50.61
50-6() 1.8806 1 6 3 1 ... 27.65
80-7(, 6.6887 5 4 10 1 ... 9.23
Above 70 16.6417 16 3 111 1 ... a l-'
oio "'ed by Google
' J)J&.lTB. tiS
loeopher will, without a moment's hesitation, concede that
not one of them is uncertain.• The first element in a
philosophic,understanding is the capacity of extending the
same conviction to the events evolved in exery department
of nature. A man who sees disease occurring in youth or
middle age, and whose mind is not capable of perceiving
that it is the result of imperfect or excessive action in some
vital organ, and that imperfect or excessive action is just
another name for deviation from the proper healthy state
of that organ, is not capable of reasoning on the subject.
It may be true that in many instances our knowledge is so
imperfect, that we are incapable of unfolding the chain of
connection• between the disease and its organic cause; but
he is no philosopher who doubts the t·eality of the connec-
tion.
One reason of the obscurity that prevails on this subject,
in the minds of persons not medically educated, is igno-
rance of the structure and functions of the body; and
another is, that diseases appear under two very distinct
forms-structural and functional-only the first of which is
understood by common observers to constitute a proper
organic malady. If an arrow is shot into the eye, there is
derangement of the structure; and the most determined
opponent of the natural laws will at once admit the con-
nection between the blindness which ensues, and the lesion
of the organ. But if a watchmaker or an optical-instru-
ment-maker, by long continued and excessive exertion of
the eye, has become blind, the disease is called functional;
the function, from its organ being overwrought, has given
way, but frequently no alteration of structure can be per-
ceived. No philosophic physiologist, however, doubts that
there is a change in the structure, corresponding to the
functional derangement, although human observation can-
not detect it. He never says that it is nonsense to assert
that the patient has become blind in consequence of in-
• I owe thia forcible illuatratioD to Dr, Cbalmera, baviDg beard it iD OM
otlaill~
oio "'ed by Google
i14 ORG.Ufl() LAWS.
fringement of the organic laws. It is one of these laws
that the eyes shall be exercised moderately, and it is a
breach of that Jaw to strain them to excess. The same
principle applies to an immense number of diseases occur-
ring under the organic laws. Imperfections in the tone,
structure, or proportion of certain organs, may exist at
birth, so hidden by their situation, or so slight1 as not to
be readily perceptible, but not the less on that account real
and important; or deviations may be made gradually and
imperceptibly from the proper and healthy exercise of the
functions; and from one or other cause disease may in-
vade the constitution. Religious persons term the disease
a dispensation of God's providence; the careless name it
an unaccountable event; but the enlightened physician
im·ariably views it as the result of imperfect or excessh·e
action nf some organ or another, and he never doubts that
it has been caused by deviations from the Jaws which the
Creator has prescribed for the regulation of the animal
economy. The objection that the doctrine of the organic
laws which I have been inculcating is unsound, because
diseases come and go without uneducated persons being
able to trace t~e causes, has not a shadow of philosophy to
support it. I may err in my exposition of these laws; but
I hope that I do not err in stating that neither disease nor
death, in early and middle life, can take place under the
ordinary administration of Providence, except when the
laws have been infringed.
The -pains of premature death, then, are the punishments
<?f infringement of the organic law; and the object of that
chastisement probably is to impress upon us the necessity
of obeying them .that we may Jive, and to prevent our
abusing the remedial process inherent to a great extent in
our constitution.
Let us now view death as an institution appointed to
man. If it be true, that the organic constitution of man,
when sound in its elements, and preserved in a()cordance
with the organic laws, is fairly calculated to endure in
oio "'ed by Google
DEA.TH. tlb
ne.kh from infancy to old age; and that death, when it
occurs during the early or middle periods of life, is the
consequence of departure from the physical and organic
laws; it follows, that, even in premature death, a benevo-
lent principle is discernible. Although the remedial pro-
cess restores animals from moderate injuries, yet the very
nature of the organic law must place a limit to it. If life
had been preserved, and health restorf'>d, after the brain
had been blown to atoms by a bomb-shell, as effectually as
a broken lf'>g and a cut finger are healed, this would havo
been an actual abrogation of the organic law; and all the
curbs which that law imposes on the lower propensities,
and all the incitements which it affords to the higher sen-
timents and intellect would have been lost. The limit,
then, is this,-that any disobedience from the effects of
which restoration is permitted, shall be moderate in ex-
tent, and shall not involve, to a great degree, any organ
essential to life, such as the brain, lungs, stomach, or
intestines. The very maintenance of the law, with all its
advantages, requires that restoration from grievous de-
rangement of these organs should not be permitted. When
we reflect on the hereditary transmission of qualities to
children, we clearly perceive benevolence to the race, in
the institution which cuts short the life of an individual in
whose person disease of essential organs has become so
great as to have exceeded the limits of the remedial pro-
cess; for the extension of the punishment of his errors
over an innumerable posterity is thereby prevented. In
premature death, then, we see two objects accomplished:
first, the individual s~fferer is withdrawn from agonies
which could serve no beneficial end to himself-he has
transgressed the limits of recovery, and continued life
\Vould he protracted misery; and, secondly, the race is
guaranteed against the future transmission of his disease
by hereditary descent.
The disciple of Mr. Owen formerly alluded to, ~ho had
grievously transgressed the organic law and suffered a
oio "'ed by Google
!18
punishment ofequal intensity, obeerved, when in the midat '
of his agony,-' Philosophers have urged the institution
of death as an argument against divine goodness; but not
one of them could experience, for five minutes, the pain
which I now end;~re, without looking upon it as a mOlt
merciful arrangement. I have departed from the natural
Jaws, and suffered the punishment; but I see in death
only the Creator's benevolent hand, stretched out to ter-
minate my agonies when they cease to serve any bene-
ficial end.' On this principle, the death of a feeble and
sickly child is an act of mercy to it. It withdraws a being,
in whose person the organic laws have been violated, from
useless suffering; cutting short, thereby, also the trans-
missions of its imperfections to posterity. If, then, the
organic institutions which inflict pain and disease, as
punishments for transgressing them, are founded in be-
nevolence apd wisdom; and if death, in the early and
middle periods of life, is an arrangement for withdrawing
the transgressor from farther suffering, after return to
obedience is impossible, and protecting the race from thE:
consequences of his errors, it also is in itself wise aDd
benevolent.
This, then, leaves only death in old age as a natural and
unavoidable institution of the Creator. It will not be
denied, that, if old persons, when their powers of enjoy-
ment are fairly exhausted, and their cup of pleasure is full,
could be removed from this world, as we have suppose4
the lower animals-to be, in an instant, and without pain or
consciousness, to make way for a fresh and vigorous off-
spring, about to run the career which the old have termi-
-nated, there would be no lack of benevolence and justice
in the arrangement. At present, while we live in ignorance
and habitual neglect of the organic laws, death probably
comes upon us with more pain and agony, even in advanc-
ed life, than would be its legitimate accompaniment if we
placed.·ourselves in accordance with these; so that we are
not now in a condition to ascertain the Mtural quantity of
oio "'ed by Google
DIIA.TB. fU'l
pain necesaarily attendant on death. Judging from anaJo..
gy, we may conclude, that the close of a long life, founded
at first, and afterwards spent, in accordance with the
Creator's laws, would not be accompanied with greet
organic suffering, but that an insensible decay would steal
upon the frame.
Be this, however, as it may, I observe, in the next
place, that as the Creator has bestowed on man animal
faculties that fear death, and reason that carries home to
him the conviction that he must die, it is an interesting
inquiry, whether He has provided any raatural means of
relief from the consequences of this combination ofterror.
' And what thinkest thou,' said Socrates to Aristodemus,
' of this continual love of life, this dread of dissolution,
which takes possession of us from the moment that we are
conscious of existence? ' ' I think of it,' answered he,
' as the means employed by the same great and wise artist,
deliberately determined to preserve what he has maae.•
Lord Byron strongly expresses the same opinion, and ia
struck with the energetic efforts which he instinctively
made in a moment of danger, to preserve his life, although
in his hours of calm reflection he felt so unhappy that he
wished to die. There are reasons for believing not only
that the love of life is a special instinct, but that it ia
connected with a particular organ, which is supposed to be
situated at the base of the brain; and that, creteris pari-
bm, the feeling varieS' in intensity in different individuals,
according to the size. of the organ. I have ascertained,
from numerous confidential communications, as well as by
observation, that even when external circumstances are
equally prosperous and happy, there are great differences
in the desire of life in different minds. Some persons have
assured me, that death, viewed even as the extinction of
being, and without rt-ference to a future state, did not
appear to them in the least appalling, or calculated, when
contemplated as their certain fate, to impair the enjoy-
ment of life; and these were not profligat«J men, whose
19
oio "'ed by Google
!18 ORG.A.KIC LAWI.
vieM might make them desire annihilation as prefwable to
fil&ure punishment, but persoDB of pure lives and pious dia-
potitiona. This experience is so different from the feelings
entertained by ordinary persons, that I have been led to
ueribe it to a very small development of the organ of the
Love of Life in these individuals. A medical gentleman
who was attached to the native army in India, informed
me, that in many ofthe Hindoos tbe love of lile was by no
means strong. On the contrary, it was frequently found
qeceBBary to interpose force to compel them to make even
aoderate exertions, quite within the compass of their
str-ength, to avoid death. That part of the base of the
brain which lies between the ear and the anterior lobe, is
generally narrow, measuring across the head, in such
iltdividuals. If there be an organ for the love of life, the
viucity of the instinct will diminish in proportion as the
Ol'gan uecays; so Utat age, which induces the certain
approach of death, will, in a corresponding degree, strip
·him of his terrors. The apparent exceptions to this rule
will be found in cases in which this organ predominates in
lize and activity, and preserves an ascendency over the
other organs even in decay.
These ideas, however, are thrown out only as specula-
tipns, suggested by the facts before described. Whatever
may be thought of them, it is certain that the Creator has
best~wcd moral sentiments 9n man, and arranged the whole
of his existence on the principles of their supremacy; and
these, when duly cultivated and enlightened, are calculated
to withdraw from him the terrors of death, in the same
manner as unconsciousness of its existence saves from
them the lower animals.
1st, It is obvious that Amativeness and Philoprogeni-
tiveness are provided with direct objects of gratification, as
one concomitant of the institution of death. If the same
individuals had lived here for ever, there would have been
no field for the enjoyment that flows from the domestic
l~JlioB. and the rearing of offspring. The very existence of
DB.lTB, ill
these propensities shows, that the production and reariltt
ofyoung form part of the design of creation; and the n~
cessive production of young appears necessarily to imply
removal of the old.
2d, Had things been otherwise arranged, all the othw
faculties would have been limited in their gratificatiou.
Conceive, for a moment, how much exercise is afforded to
our intellectual and moral powers, in acquiring knowledge,
communicating it to the young, and providing for their en-
joyments- also, what a delightful exercise of the higher
sentiments is implied in the intercourse between the aged
and the young; all which pleasures would have been un-
known had there been no young in existence, which there
could not have been without a succession ofgenerations.
3d, Constituted as man is, the succession of individoala
withdraws beings whose physical and mental constitutions
have run their course and become impaired in sensibility,
and substitutes in their place fresh and vigorous minds and
bodies, far better adapted for the enjoyment of creation.
4th, If I am right in the position that the organic laws
transmit to offspring, in an increasing ratio, the qualities .
most active in the parents, the law of succession provides
for a far higher degree of improvement in the race than
could have been reached, supposing the permanency of a
single generation possessing the present human constitu-
tion.
Let us inquire, then, how the moral sentiments are af-
fected by death in old age, as a natural institution.
Benevolence, glowing with a disinterested desire for the
diffusion and increase of enjoyment, utters no complaint
against death in old age, as a transference of existence
from a being impaired in its capacity for usefulneSB and
pleasure, to one fresh and vigorous in all its powers, and
fitted to carry forward, to a higher point of improvement,
every beneficial measure previously begun. CooscieD-
tiousness, ifthoroughly enlightened, perceives DO infringe-
ment of justice in the calling oo a guest, satiat~··with
oio "'ed by Google
O&GAJfiC L.lWS.
eojoymt~nt, to retire from the banquet, so as to permit a
lt~er with a keener and more youthful appetite to plll'-
take; and Veneration, when instructed by intellect that this
ia the institution of the Creator, and made acquainted with
ita objects, bows in humble acquiescence to the law. Now,
iftbese powers have acquired, in any indlvid_
ual, that com-
plete supremacy which they are clearly intended to hold,
he will be placed by them as much above the terror of
death as a natural institution, as the lower animals are by
being ignorant of its existence. And unless the case were
eo, man would, by the very knowledge of death, be ren-
dered, during his whole life, more miserable than they.
In these observations, I have said nothing of the pros-
pect of a future existence as a palliative of the evils of dis-
eolution, because I was bound to regard death, in the first
iaatance, as the result of the organic law, and to treat of it
as such. But no one who considers that the prosper.t of a
happy life to come, is directly addressed to Veneration,
Hope, Wonder, Bcnevol~nce, and Intellect, cim fail to
perceive that this consolation also is clearly founded on
the principle, that the moral sentiments are intended by
the Creator to protect man li·om t~e terrors of death.
The true view of death, therefore, as a natural institu-
tion, is, that it is an essential part of the very system of
organization; that birth, growth, and arrival at maturity,
as completely imply decay and death in old age, as morn-
ing and noon imply evening and night, as spring and
summer imply harvest, or as the saurce of a river implies
its termination. Besides, organized beings are constituted
by the Creator to be the food of other organized beings, so
that some must die that others may lh•e. Man, for instance,
cannot live on stones, or earth, or water, which are not
organized, but must feed on vegetable and animal sub-
stances; so that death is as much, and as essentially, an
inherent attribute of organization as life itself. If vegeta-
bles, animals, and men, had been destined for a duration
like tbat of mountains, we may oresume, from analogy,
oio "'ed by Google
DIU.TH. Ill
that God,-inatead of creating a primitive pair of eaolll,
aad endowing these with extensive powers ofreproducti011,
so as to usher into existence young beings destined to
grow up to maturity by insensible degreea,-would have
furnished the world with its definite complement of living
beings, perfect at first in all their parts and functions, and
·that these would have remained, like hills, without dimi-
nution and without increase.
To prevent, however, all chance of being misapprehend-
ed, I repeat, that I do not at all allude to the state of the
soul or mind after death, but merely to the dissolution of
organized bodies; that, according to the soundest view
which I am able to obtain of the natural law, pain and
death during youth and middle age, in the human apeciea,
are consequences of departure from the Creator's lawa,-
while death in old age, by insensible decay, is an essential
and apparently indispensable part of the system oforganic
existence; that this arrangement admits of the succession
of individuals, substituting the young and vigoroua for the
feeble and decayed; that it is directly the means by which
organized beings live, and indirectly the means by which
Amativeness, Philoprogenitiveness, and a variety of our
other faculties obtain gratification; that it admits of the
race ascending in the scale of improvement, both in their
organic and in their mental qualities; and finally, that the
moral sentiments, when supreme in activity, and enlight-
ened by intellect, which perceives its design and conse-
quences, are calculated to place man in harmony with it;
while religion addresses its consolation to the same facul-
ties, and completes what reason leaves undone.
If the views now unfolded be correct, death in old &«e
w.ill never be abolished as long as man continues ,an or-
pnized being; but pain and the frequency of premature
death will decrease, in the exact ratio of his obedience to
t'Jie physical and organic laws. It is interesting to obse"e,
tat there is already some evidence of this process haYing
ctually begun. 4bout seventy ye~s ago, tables ,of the
·~
oio "'ed by Google
a.enge duration of life in England were compiled for the
ue of the Life Insurance Companies; and from them it
appears that the average duration of life was then 28 years
-that is, 1000 personA being born, and the years of their
respective lives being added together, and divided by 1000,
the result was 28 to each. By recent tables, it appears
that the average is now 32 years to each; that is to say,
in CODAequence of superior morality, cleanliness, know-
ledge, and general obedience to the Creator's laws, fewer
individuals now perish in infancy, youth, and middle age,
than thus perished seventy years ago. Some persons have
said, that the difference arises from errors in compiling the
old tables, and that the superior habits of the people art'
not the cause. It is probable that there may be a portion
of truth in both views. There may be some errors in the
old tables, but it is quite natural that increasing knowledge
and stricter obedience to the organic laws should diminish
the number of premature deaths. If this idea be correct,
the average duration of life should go on increasing; and
eur succeBSors, two centuries hence, may probably attain
to an average of 40 years, and then ascribe to errors in
our tables the present low average of:32.•
SECTION III.
OALAJnTIEi!l ARISING FROM INFRINGEMENT OF THE MORAL LAW.
WE come now to consider the Moral Law, which is
proclaimed by the higher sentiments and intellect, •cting
harmoniously, and holding the animal faculties in JUb-
jection. In surveying the moral and religious codes of
different nations, and the moral and religious opinions of
dilferent philosophers, every reflecting mind must ht.Ve
been struck with their diversity. Phrenology, by demon-
strating t'he differences of combination of the facultit,
· enables us to account for these varieties of sentime t.
\
• See Appendix, No. IX. I
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGBMBMT OF TBB .MORAL LAW. 2,23
The code of morality framed by a legislator in whom the
animal propensities were strong nod the moral sentiments
weak, would be very different from one instituted by an-
other lawgiver, in whom this combination was reversed.
In J.ike manner, a system of religion, f«?unded by an indi-
vidual in whom Destructiveness, Wonder, and Cautious-
ness were very large, and Veneration, Benevolence, and
Conscientiousness deficient, would present views of the
Supreme Being widely dissimilar to those which would be
promulgated by a person in whom the last three faculties
and intellect decidedly predominated. Phrenology shows,
that the particular code of morality and religion which u
most completely in harmony with the tchole fac"lties nf the in-
dividual, will necessarily appear to him to be the best tohilt
Ire refers only to the dictateB of his indi"ielual mind aB the
standard of right and wrong. But if we are able to show,
that the tohole scheme of e:rternal creation is arranged in har-
mony toith certain principles, in pt·efere711:e to others, so that
enjoyment flows upon the individual from without when his
conduct is in conformity with them, and that evil overtakes
him when he departs from them, we shall then obviously
prove that the former is the morality and religion establish-
ed by the Creator, and that individual men, who support
different codes, must necessarily be deluded by imperfec-
tions in their own minds. That constitution of mind, also,
may be pronounced to be the best, which harmonizes most
completely with the morality and religion established by
the Creator's arrangements. In this view, momlily be-
comes a science, and departures from its dictates may be
demonstrated as practical follies, injurious to the real in-
terest and happiness of the individual, just as errors in logic
are capable of refutation to the satisfaction of the under-
standing.
Dugald Stewart has most justly remarked, that 'the
importance of agriculture and of religious toleration to the
prosperity of states, the criminal impolicy of thwarting the
kind arrangements of Providence by restraints upon com-
oio "'ed by Google
c.u•.t.JUTiaa .t.allllfG J'aOII
merce, and the duty of legislators to aludy 1/u Ia• of II.
aorlll world u llu groulllHDork and alandard of1/uw o..,
appear, to miDda unsophisticated by inveterate prejudices,
u approaching nearly to the clasa of axioms;-yet, bow
much ingenious and refined discussion bas been employed,
even iD our own times, to combat the prejudices which
every where continue to atruggle against them; and bow
remote does the period yet seem, when there is any proba-
bility that these prejudices will be completely abandoned!'•
The great cause of the long continuance of these preju-
dices, is the want of an intelligible and practical philosophy
of morals. Before ordinary minds can perceive that the
world is really governed by diviDe laws, it is obvious that
they must become·acquainted with, first, the nature of man,
physical, animal, moral, and intellectual; secondly, the re-
lations of the different parts of that nature to each other;
and, thirdly, the relationship of the whole to God and ex-
ternal objects. The present treatise is an attempt (a very
feeble and imperfect one indeed) to arrive, by the aid of
Phrenology, at a demonstration of morality as a science.
The iDterests dealt with in the investigation are so eleva-
ting, and the effort itself is so delightful, that the attempt
carries its own reward, however unsuccessful in its results.
I am not without hope, that if phrenology as the science of
mind, and the doctrine of the natural laws, were taught to
the people as part oftheir ordinary education, the removal
of these prejudices would be considerably accelerated.
Assuming, then, that, among the faculties of the mind,
the higher sentiments and intellect hold the natural supre-
macy, I shall endeavor to show, that obedience to the dic-
tates of these powers is rewarded with pleasing emotions in
the mental faculties themselves, and with the most bene-
ficial external consequences; whereas disobedience is fol-
lowed by deprivation of these emotions, by painful feelings
within the mind, and by great external evil.
First, Obedience is accompanied by pleasing emotioM
• Prelim. Di-n. co Sapp. F..ocyc. Brit. P• JJ7.
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRINGBMENT OP THE MO&:a.L L&W. 2!5
in the faculties. It is scarcely necessary to dwell on the
circumstancE;, that every propensity, sentiment, and intel-
lectual faculty, when gratified in harmony with all the rest,
is a fountain of pleasure. How many exquisite thrills of
joy arise from Philoprogenitiveness, Adhesiveness, Acqui-
sitiveness, Constructiveness, Love of Apwobation, and
Self-Esteem, when gratilied in accordance with the moral
sentiments ! Who that has ever poured forth the aspira-
tions of Hope, Ideality, Wonder, and Veneration, directed
to an object in whom Intellect and Conscientiousness also
rejoiced, hus not experienced the deep delight of such an
exercise? And who i" a stranger to the grateful pleasures
attending an active Benevolence? Turning to the intel-
lect, what pleasures are afforded by the scenery of nature,
by painting, poetry, and music, to those who posse!ls the
combimttion of faculties suited to these objects! And how
rich a feast does philosophy yield to tho11e who possess
· large reflecm•e organs, combined with Concentrat.iveness
and Conscientiousness! The reader i11 reque11tcd, there-
fore, to keep stetMlit!Y in view, that these exqui11ite rewards
are attached by the Creator to the active exercise of our
faculties in aceordance with the moral law; and thut one
punishment, clear, obvious, and undeniable, intlieted on
those who neglect or infringe that law, is dep1-ivation of
these pleasures. This is a consideration very little attend-
ed to; b•·e<tt !le mankin I. in general, live in such habitual
neglect of the moral law, that they have but to a very par-
tial extent experienced its rewards, and do not know the
enjoyment they are deprived of hy its infringement. Before
its full mt'asure can be jndged of, the mind must be in-
structed in its own constitution, in that of external objects,
and in the relationship established between it and them,
and between it and the Creator. Until n tolerably distinct
perception ofthese truths be obtained, the faculties cannot
enjoy repo11e, nor act in full vigor and harmony: while, for
example, our forefathers regarded the marsh fevers to which
they were subjected in consequence of deficient draining of
oio "'ed by Google
C4UJIITI&I 41UIIl'f0 J'BOX
their fields,-and the outrages on person and property,
attendant on the wars waged by the English against the
Scots, or by one feudal lord against another, even on their
own soil,-not 811 punishments for particular infringements
ofthe organic and moral laws, to be removed by obedience
to these laws, but 811 inscrutable dispensations of God's
providence, which it behooved them meekly to endure, but
not to avert,-the full enjoyment which the moral and in-
tellectual faculties were fairly calculated by the Creator to
afford, could not be experienced. Benevolence would pine
in dissatisfaction; Veneration would flag in its devotions;
and Conscientiousness would suggest endless surmises of
disorder and injustice in a scheme of creation under which
such eyiJs occurred and were left without a remedy:-in
short, the full tide of moral, religious, and intellectual en-
joyment could not possibly flow, until views more in accord-
ance with the constitution and desires of the moral faculties
were obtained. The same evil still afflicts mankind to a
prodigious extent. How is it possiWe"for the Hind~~
Mussulman, Chinese, and savage Alll'fbicao, while th.:.
continue to worship deities whose qualities outrage Be-
nevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness, and while
they remain in profound ignorance of almost all the Cre-
ator's natural institutions, in consequence of infringing
which they suffer punishment without ceasing -how is jt
possible for such men to form even a conception of tbe
gratifications which the moral and intellectual nature of
man is calculated to enjoy, when exercised in harmony
with the Creator's real character and institutions? This
operation of the moral law is not the less real because many
do not recognise it. Sight is not a less excellent gift to
those who see, because some men born blind have no con-
ception of the extent of pleasure and advantage from which
the want of it cuts them off.
The qualities manifested by the Creator may be inferred
from the works of creation; but it is obvious, that, to arrive
at the aoundest views, we would need to know hie iostitu-
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRING&Il&NT OF THE IIOJUL LA.W. ti'7
tions thoroughly. To a grossly ignorant people, who suffer
hourly from transgression of his laws, the Deity will appear
infinitely more mysterious and severe than to an enlighten-
ed nation, who trace the principles of his government in
many departments of his works, and who, by observing his
laws, avoid the penalties of infringement. The character
of the Divine Being, under the natural system, will go on
rising in human apprehension, in exact proportion as his
works shall be understood. The low and miserable con-
ceptions of God formed by the vulgar among the Greeks
and Romans, were the reflections of their own ignorance of
natural, moral, and political science. The discovery and
improvement of phrenology must necessarily have a great
effect on natural religion. Before phrenology was known,
the moral and intellectual constitution of man was unascer-
tained: in consequence, the relations of external nature
towards it could not be competently judged of; and, while
these were involved in obscurity, many of the ways of Prov-
idence must have appeared mysterious and severe, which
in themselves were quite the reverse. Again, as bodily
suffering and mental perplexity would bear a proportion to
this ignorance, the character of God would appear to the
natural eye in that condition, much more unfavorable than
it will seem after these clouds of darkness shall have passed
away.
Some persons, in their great concernment about a future
life, are prone to overlook the practical direction of the
mind in the present. When we consider the nature and
objects of_ the mental faculties, we perceive that a great
number of them have the most obvious and undeniable
reference to this life: for example, Amativeness, Philopro-
genitiveness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Acquisitive-
ness, Secretiveness, Cautiousness, Self-Esteem, and Love
ofApprobation, with Size, Form, Coloring, Weight, Tune,
Wit, and probably other faculties, stand in such evident
relationship to this particular world, with its moral and
physical arrangements, that if they were not capable of.
oio "'ed by Google
CALUUTIKS •ARISING J'ROM
legitimate application here, it would be difficult to assign a
reason for their being bestowed on us. We possess also
Benevolence, Veneration, Hope, Ideality, Wonder, Con-
scientiousness, and Reflecting Intellect, all of which ap-
pear to be particularly adapted to a higher sphere. But
the important consideration is, that here oa earth these two
sets of faculties are combined; and, on the same principle
that led Sir Isaac Newton to infer the combustibility of the
diamond, I am disposed to expect that the external world,
when its constitution and relations shall be sufficiently
understood, will be found to be in harmony with all our
faculties,-and that of course the character of the Deity,
as unfolded by the works of creation, will more and more
gratify our moral and intellectual powers, in proportion as
knowledge shall advance. The structure of the eye is
admirably adapted to tile laws of light, that of the ear to
the laws of sound, _and that of the muscles to the laws of
gravitation; and it would be strange if our mental consti-
tution were not as wisely adapted to the general order of
the external world.
The principle is universal, and admits of no exception,
that want of power and activity in every faculty, is attend-
ed with deprivation of the pleasures attendant on its viva-
cious exercise. He who is so deficient in Tune that he
cannot distinguish melody, is cut off from a vast source of
gratification enjoyed by those who possess that organ in
a state of vigor and highly cultivated; and the same
principle holds in the case of every other organ and
faculty. Criminals and profligates of every description,
therefore, from the very constitution of their nature, are
excluded li·om great enjoyments attendant on virtue; and
this is the first natural punishment to which they are inevi-
tably liable. Persons also, who are ignorant of the con-
stitution of their own minds, and the relations among
external objects, not only suffer many direct evils on this
account, but, through the consequent .inactivity of their
faculties, are, besides, deprived of many exalted enjoy-
oio "'ed by Google
l!tPRIKGaMKRT OJ' Til& MORA.L LA.W. 229
mente. The works of creation, and the character of the
Deity, are the legitimate objects of our highest powers;
and hence he who is blin~ to their qualities, loses nearly
the whole benefit of his moral and intellectual existence.
If there is any one to whom these gratifications are un-
known, or appear trivial, either he must, to a very con-
siderable degree, be still under the dominion of the animal
propensities, or his views of the Creator's character and
institutions are not in harmony with the natural dictates of
the moral sentiments and intellect. The custom of teach-
ing children to regard with the highest admiration the
literature and history ofthe Greeks and Romans, stained
with outrages on all the superior faculties of man, and of
diverting their minds away from the study of the Creator
and his works, has had a most pernicious effect on the
views entertaint>d of this world by many excellent and in-
tellectual individuals. This is truly preferring the achieve-
ments of barbarous men to the glorious designs of God;
and we need not be surprised that no satisfaction to the
moral sentiments is experienced while such a course of
education is pursued.
But, in the Hcond place, as the world is arranged on
the principle of the supremacy of the moral sentiments and
intellect, observance of the moral law is attended with
external advantages, and infringement of it with positive
evil consequences; and from this constitution arises the
second natural punishment of misconduct.
Let us trace the advnntages of obedience.-In the
domestic circle, if we preserve habitually Benevolence,
Conscientiousness,·Veneration, and IntelleCt supreme, it is
quite undeniable, that we shall rouse the moral and intel•
lectual faculties of children, servants, and a!!sistants, to love
us, and to yield us willing service, obedience, aud aid.
Our commands will then be reasonable, mild, Jlnd easily
ex~cuted, and the commerce will be that of love. With
regard to our equals in sOciety, what would we not give
for a friend in whom we were perfectly convinced of the
~
oio "'ed by Google
CJ.L.&.IIIITI&I ARISII(Q 1'ROJI
Mipremaey of the moral sentiments; what love, confideaee,
and delight, would we not repose ·in him! To a merchant,
physician, lawyer, magistrate, or ali individual in M1f
public employment, how invaluable would be the habitual
aupremacy of these sentiments! The Creator has given
different talents to different individuals, and limited our
powers, so that we execute any work best by confining
our attention to one department of labor-an arrangement
which amounts to a direct institution of separate trades and
professions. Under the natural laws, then, the manufac·
turer may pursue his calling with the entire approbation of
all the moral sentiments, for he is dedicating his talents to
supply the wants of his fellow men; and how much more
1JUccessful will he not be, if his every proceeding is ac-
companied by the desire to act benevolently and honestly
towards those who are to consume and pay for the products
of his labor! He cannot gratify his Acquisitiveness half
so successfully by any other method. The same remark
applies to the merchant, the lawyer, and the physician.
The lawyer and phy~Jician whose whole spirits breathe a
disinterested desire to consult, as a paramount object, the
B1terests of their clients and patients, not only obtain
the direct reward of gratifying their own moral faculties,
which is no slight enjoyment, but also reap a positive
gratification to their Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation,
in high respect and well-founded reputation,-and to their
Acquisitiveness, in increasing emolument, not grudgingly
paid but willingly offered, from persons who feel the worth
of the services bestowed.
There are three conditions required by the moral and
intellectual law, which must all be observed to insure its
rewards. 1st, The department of industry selected must
be really useful to human beings: Benevolence demands
this; 2d, The quantum _
of labor bestowed must bear a
just proportion to the natural demand fbr the commodity
produced: Intellect rf!quires this; and, 3d, In our social
ooonectiooa, we must imperatively attend to the organic
oio "'ed by Google
INFRII'OJI.Ji\NT OF TB& MOB4L L4W. 23·1
law, that· dit&rent-individuals posaesa diflwent develop-
ments of brain, aad·in eonsequence different naharal taleow
and dispositions,-and we must rely on each, only to tAe
extent warranted by his natural endowment.
If, then, an individual have received, at birth, • sound
- organic constitution and favorably developed brain, and if
he live in accordance with the physical, the organic, the
moral, and the intellectual laws, it appears to me that, ia
the constitution of tbe world, he has received an assurance
from the Creator, of provision for his animal wants, nod
high enjoyment in the legitimate exercise of his various
mental powers.
I have already observed, that before we can obey the
Creator's institutions we must know them; that the science
which teaches the physical laws is natural philosophy; and
that the organic laws belong to the department of anatomy
and physiology: and I now add, that it is the busineas of
the Political Economist to unfold the kinds of industry that
are really necessary to the welfare of mankind, and the
degrees of labor that will meet with a just reward. The
leading object of political economy, as a science, is to in-
crease enjoyment, by directing the application of industry.
To attain this end, however, it is obviously necessary that
the nature of man, the constitution of the physical world,
and the relations between these, should be known. Hith-
erto, the knowledge of the former of these elementary
parts has been very deficient, and, in consequence, the
whole superstructure bas been weak and unproductive, in
comparison with what it may become when founded on a
more perfect basis. Political Economists have never
taught that the world . is arranged on the principle of
supremacy of the moral sentiments and intellect,-that
consequently, to render man happy, his leading pursuits
must be such as will e:.ce7'cise and gratify these powers,-and
that his life will necessarily be miserable, if devoted en-
tirely to the production of wealth. They have proceeded
on the notion, that the accumulation of wealth is the aum-
,atnn boWJm.: but all history testifies, that national happi-
oio "'ed by Google
C.U..UU'l'l&l AaJIIRG 1'110.
oeu does not ianriably increue in proportion to national
riches; and until they shall perceive and teach that in-
telligence and morality are the foundation of all lasting
prosperity, they will never interest the great body of man-
kind, nor give a valuable direction to their efforts.
If the views contained in the present treatise be sound,
it will become a leading object with future masters in that
science, to demonstrate the necessity that civilized man
should limit his bodily, and increase his moral and intel-
lectual occupations, as the only means of saving himself
from ceasele11s punishment under the natural laws.
The idea of men in general being taught natural philo-
sophy, anatomy, physiology, political economy, and the
other sciences that expound the natural laws, has been
sneered at as utterly absurd and ridiculou!!.* But I would
ask, In what occupations are human beings so urgently
engaged, that they ha"e no lei.•ure to bestow on the study
of the Creator's laws? A course of lectures on natural
philosophy would occupy sixty or seventy hours in the
delivery; a course on anatomy and physiology the same;
and a pretty full course on phrenology can be delivered in
forty hours! These, twice or thrice repeated, would serve
to initiate the student, so that he could afterwards advance
in the same paths, by the aid ofobservation and hooks. Is
life, then, so brief, and are our hours so urgently occupied
by higher and more important duties, that we cannot afford
these pittances of time to learn the laws that regulate our
existence? No! The only difficulty is in obtaining the
desire fi>r knowledge; for when that is attained, time will
not be wanting. No idea can be more preposterous, than
that of human beings having no time to study and obey the
•It is pleasing to ob!lerve, that great progress baa been made in appreciat-
ing the importance of the kind ofeducation here recommended, •ince d1e lint
edition of this work was published. In Edinburgh, an usociation of the
indUIItriotHI cl""""s hu been formed for obtaining iMtructiou in Wleful aod
entertaining knowledge, and it bas met with tl1e greatest encou111gement.
Under ito superintendence, lectm-es ba,•e been delivered on all tl~e sciences
enumel'ated in the text, to audiences consi•ting ofboth sexes, and with eminent
- · A nc.tice of its eonetitution will be found in tbe Appeadix, No. X.
JNFJlllfGE!IftNT OF 'I'll&· IIIOJU.L LA.W. iSI!J
natural laws. . These laws puniSh so severely when neg-
lected, that they cause the offender to lose far more time
in undergoing his chastisement, than would be requisite to
obey them. A gentleman extensively engaged in busineas,
whose nervous and digestive systems have been impaired
by neglect of the organic laws, was desired to walk in the
open air at least one hour a-day; to repose from all ex-
ertion, bodily and mental, for one full hour after breakfast,
and another full hour after dinner, because the brain can-
not expend its energy to good purpose in thinking a~d in
aiding digestion at the same time; and to practise modera-
tion in diet: this last injunction he regularly observed, but
he laughed at the very idea of his having three hours a-day
to spare for attention to his h•,alth. The reply was, that
the organic laws admit of no e3ception, and that he must
either obey them or take the consequences; but that the
time lost in enduring the punishment would be double or
treble that requisite for obedience: and, accordingly, the
fact was so. Instead of fulfilling an appointment, it is
quite usual for him to send a note, perhaps at two in the
afternoon, in these terms:-' I was so distressed with head-
ache last night, that I never closed my eyes; and to-day I
am still incapable of being out of bed.' On other occa-
sions, he is out of bed, but apologizes for incapacity to
attend to business, on account of an intolerable pain in the
region ofthe stomach. In short, if the hours lost in these
painful sufferings were added together, and distributed
over the days when he is able for duty, he would find them
far outnumber those which would suffice for obedience to
the organic laws--and with this difference in the results:
by neglect he loses both his hours and his enjoyment;
whereas, by obedience, he would be rewarded by aptitude
for business, and a pleasing consciousness of existence.
We shall understand the operation of the moral and
iateUectoal laws more completely, by attending to the evils
which arise from neglect ofthem.
20*
oio "'ed by Google
C4L.UII'I'I&I ARIIUfG P.oM
I. Let us conaider botVJDtr.a.Ls. At present, the almost
univenal persuasion of civilized men is, that happiness
consists in the pouession of wealth, power, and external
splendor; objects related to the animal faculties and in-
teilect much more than to the moral sentiments. In con-
sequence, each individual sets out in the pursuit of these
as the chief business of his Iif~; and, in the ardor of the
chase, he recognises no limitations on the means which he
may employ, except those imposed by the municipal law.
He·does not perceive or acknowledge the existence of
natural laws, determining not only the sources of his hap-
piness, but the steps by which it may be attained. From
this moral and intellectual blindness, merchants and manu-
facturers, in numberless instances, hasten to be rich be-
yond the course of nature: that is to say, they engage in
enterprises far exceeding the extent of their capital and
capacity; they place their property in the hand;; of debtors, '
whose natural talents and morality are so low, that they
ought never to have been entrusted with a shilling; they
11end their goods to sea without insuring them, or leave
them uninsured in their warehout~es; they ask pecuniary
accommodation from other merchants, to enable them to
carry on undue speculations, and hecom.e security for them
in return, and both fall into misfortunes; or they live in
S)llendor and extravagance, far beyond the limit of the
natural return of their capital and talents, and speedily
reach ruin as their goal. In every one of these instances,
the calamity is obviously the consequence of infringement
of the moral and intellectual law. The lawyer, medical
practitioner, or probationer in the church, who is disap-
pointed of his reward, will, in' most cases, be found to have
placed himself in n profession for which his natural talents
and dispositions did not fit him, or to have pursued his
vocation under the guidance chiefly of the lower propensi-
ties; preferring selfishness to honorable regard for the
interests of his employers. Want of success in these pro-
fessions, appears to me to be owing, in a· high degree, to
oio "'ed by Google
INI'RJNG&'MJUfT 01' TBII MORAL LAW, iSS
three causes. First, the brain may be too small, or con-
stitutionally lymphatic, so that the mind does not act with
sufficient energy to make an impression. Secondly, some
particular organs indispensably requisite to success, may
be very small-as Language, or Causality, in a lawyer;
deficiency of the first rendering him incapable of ready
utterance, and that of the second, destitute of that intuitive
sagacity, which sees at a glance the bearing of the facts
and principles founded on by his adversary, so as to esti-
mate the just inferences that follow, and to point them out.
A lawyer, who is weak in this power, appears to his client
like a pilot who does not know the shoals and the rocks.
His deficiency is perceived whenever difficulty presents
itself, and be is pronounced unfit to take charge of great
interests; he is then passed by, and suffers the penalties of
having made an erroneous choice of a profession. The
third cau~e is predominance of the animal and selfish facul-
ties. The client and the patient discriminate instinctively
between the cold, pitiless, but pretending manner of Ac-
quisitiveness and Love of Approbation, and the unpre-
tending genuine warmth of Benevolence, Veneration, and
Conscientiousness; and they discover very speerlily that
the intellect inspired by the latter sees more clearly, and
advances more successfully, their interests, than when
animated only by the former. The victim of selfishness
·either never rises, or quickly sinks, wondering why his
merits are neglected.
In all tbese in!ltances, the failure of the merchant, and
the bad success of the lawyer and physician, are the con-
sequences of infringement of the natural laws, either by
himselfor by those with whom he is connected; so that the
evil they suffer is the punishment for having failed in a
great duty, not only to society, but to themselves.
II. Some of the CALA.IIIITIEs ARI:JING FROM tNFRINOII-
.IIBNT OF TilE SoctAL LAW may next be considered.
The greatest difficulties present themselves in tracing
oio "'ed by Google
CA.LAIIITI&S A.IUSil'G J'JtOlll
the operation ofthe moral and intellectual la":s, in the wide
field of social life. An individual may be made to com-
prebend how, if he commits an error, be should suffer a
particular punishment; but when calamity overtakes whole
clasAes of the community, each person absolves himself
from all share of the blame, and regards himselfsimply as
the victim of a general but inscrutable visitation. -Let us
then examina briefly the Social Law.
In regarding the human faculties, we perceive that num-
berless gratifications spring ·from the social state. The
muscles of a single individual could not rear the habita-
tions, build the ships, forge the anchors, construct the
machinery, or, in short, produce the countless enjoyments
that every where surround us, and which are attained in
consequence of men being constituted so as instinctively to
combine their powers and skill, to obtain a common end.
Here, then, are very great advantages resulting directly
from the social law; but, in the next place, social inter-
course is the means of affording direct gratification to a
variety of our mental faculties. If we lived in solitude,
the propensities, sentiments, and reflecting faculties, would
be deprived -some of them absolutely, and others of them
nearly- of all opportunities of gratification. The social
law, then, is the source of the highest delights of our na-
ture, and its institution indicates the greatest wisdom Rnd
benevolence towards us in the Creator.
Still, however, this law does not suspend or subvert the
laws instituted for the regulation of the conduct,.of man as
an individual. If a man go to sea in a ship, the natural
laws require that his intellectual faculties shall have been
previously instructed in navigation, and in the features of
the coasts and seas to be visited; that he shall know and
avoid the shoals, currents, and eddies; that he shall trim
his canvass in proportion to the gale; and that his animal
faculties shall be kept so much under subjection to hilt
moral sentiments, that he shall not abandon himself te
dnmkenlless, sloth, or any animal indulgence, when he
oio "'ed by Google
INPB.I!IG&IlD'J' OP TB& MOIUL LA.W. 2S'J
ought to be watchful at his duty. If he obey the natural
laws, he will be safe; and if he disobey them he may he
drowned.• It is obvious that it must be a small vessel, and
bound only on a short voyage, that could be managed by
one man; for he must eat and sleep, and he could not per-
form -these functions and manage his sails at the same time.
It is the interest, therefore, of individuals who wish to go
to sea, to avail themselves of the social law; that is, to
combine their powers under one leader. By doing so,
they may sail in a larger ship, have more ample stores of
provisions, obtain intervalj for rest, and enjoy each other'JII
society. [f at the same time they yield obedience to the
intellectual laws, by placing in the situation of captain an
individual fully qualified for the duty, they will enjoy the
reward in sailing safely and in comfort; if they disregard
these laws, and place in charge of the ship nn individual
whose intellectual faculties are weak, whose animal pro-
pensities are strong, whose moral sentiments arc in abey-
ance, and who, in consequence, habitually neglects the
natural laws, they may suffer the penalty in being wrecked.
I know it will be objected that the crew and passengers
do not appoint the captain; but in every case, except im-
pressment iu the British navy, they may go into, or stay
out of, a particular ship, according as they discover the
captain to possess the natural qualities or not. This, at
nresent, I am aware, ninety-nine individuals out of an
hundred never inquire into; but so do ninety-nine out of
an hundred neglect many other natural laws, and suffer
the penalty, because their moral and intellectual faculties
have never yet been instructed in the existence imd effects
of these, or trained to observe and obey them. But they
have the power from nature of obeying them, if properly
taught and trained; and, besides, I offer this merely as an
illustration of the mode of operation of the social law.
• I wave at prl'l!ent the question ofstorms, which he could not foresee, •
tlleee fall under the bead of ignoi'IUICe of natural laws which may be IUbeo-
~y d.i!ocovered.
oio "'ed by Google
C.U..ull2'1&1 .lBISl!fG niOJI
Aootber example may be given. By employiag 881'-
vuts, the labors of life are rendered le1111 burdensome to
the muter: but be must employ individuals who know tJie
moral law, and who poueu the deaire to act 11nder it;
otherwise, as a punishment for neglecting tbis req11isite,
be may be robbed, cheated, or murdered. Phrenology
presents the means of observing this law, in a degree quite
unattainable without it, by the facility wbieh it affords in
cli8eovering the natural talents and dispositions of indi-
viduals.
By entering into copartnershY,, merchants and other
peraons in business may extend their employment, and gain
advantages beyond those they could reap if laboring as
individual>~ . But, by the natural law, each must take care
that his partner knows, and is inclined to obey, the moral
and intellectual laws, as the only condition on which the
Creator will permit him lecttrtly to reap the ad11aniage1 of
the social compact. If a partner in China be deficient in
intellect and moral sentiment, another in London may be
utterly ruined. It is said that this is an example of the
innocent suffering fur, or at least along with, the guilty;
but it is not so. It is an example of a person seeking to
obtain the advantages of the social law without conceiving
himself bound to obey the conditions required by it; the
first.of which is, that those individuals of whose services he
avails himself shall be capable and willing to observe the
moral and intellectual laws.
Let us now advert to the calamities which overtake whole
classes of men, or coMMUNITIEs, under the sociallaw,-
aace their origin, and see how far they are attributable to
infringement of the Creator's laws.
If I am right in representing the whole faculties of man
as intended by the Creator to be gratified, and the moral
sentiments and intellect as the higher and directing powers,
with which all natural institutions are in harmony; it fol-
lows, that if large communities of men, in their systematie
conduct, habitually seek the gratification of the inferior
oio "'ed by Google
lNFRINOIIliiEIIT OJ' Till: MORAL LAW. iS9
propensities, and allow either no part, or too small and in-
adequate a part, of their time to be devoted to the regular
employment of the higher powers, they will act in direct
opposition to the laws of nature, and will, of course, suffer
the punishment in sorrow and disappointment. Now, to
confine ourselves to our own country,-it is certain that,
until within these few years, the Jaboring population of
Britain were not taught that it was any part of their duty,
as rational creatures, to restrain their propensities, so as
not to multiply their numbers beyond the demand for their
labor and the supply of food for their offspring; and up
to the present hour this most obvious and important doc-
trine is not admitted by one in a thousand, and not acted
upon as a practical principle by one in ten thousand of
those whose happiness or misery depends on observance of
it. The doctrine of Malthus, that ' population cannot go
on perpetually increasing, without pressing on the limits of
the means of subsistence, and that a check of some kind or
other must, sooner or later, be opposed to i.t,' just amounts
to this,-that the means of subsistence are not susceptible
of such rapid and unlimited increase as the number of the
people, and that, in consequence, the amative propensity
must be restrained by reason, otherwise population will be
checked by misery. This principle is in accordance ·with
the views of human nature maintained in the present trea-
tise, and applies to all the faculties. Thus Philoprogeni-
tiveness, when indulged in opposition to reason, leads to
spoiling children, which is followed directly by misery both
to them and to their parents. Acquisitiveness, when un-
controlled by reason and morality, leads to avarice ortheftJ
and these again carry suffering in their train.
But so little are such views attended to, that the lives o(
the inhabitants of Britain generally are devoted to the ac-
quisition of wealth, of power and distinction, or of animal
pleasure: in other words, the great object of the laboring
.classes, is to live IIJld gratify the inferior propensities; of
the mercantile a."ld manufacturing population, to gratify
oio "'ed by Google
CAUJUTI&I A&IIUfO I'&Oit
Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem; of the more iotelligeot
class of gentlemen, to gratify Self-Esteem and Love of
Approbation, by attaining political, hterary or philosophi-
cal eminence, and of another portion, to gratify Love of
Approbation by supremacy in fashion- and these gratifi-
cations are sought by means not in accordance with the
dictates of the higher, Ycntirnents, but by the joint aid of
the intellect and animal powers. If the supremacy of the
moral sentiments and intellect be the natural law, then, as
often observed, every circumstance connected with human
life must be in harmony with it: that is to say, first, After
rational restraint on population, and proper use made of
machinery, such modernte labor as wilJ leave ample time
for the systematic exercise ofthe higher powers will suffice
to provide for human wants; and, secondly, If this exercise
be neglected, and the time whieh ought to be dedicated to
it be employed in labor to gratify the propensities, direct
evil will ensue- and this accordingly appears to me to
be really the result.
By means of machinery, and the aids derived from
science, the ground can be cultivated, and every _
imagina-
ble necessary and luxury produced in ample abundance, at
a moderate expenditure of labor by any population not in
itself superabundant. If men were to stop whenever they
had reached this point, and to dedicate the residue of each
day to moral and intellectual pursuits, the consequence
would be the existence of ready and steady, because not
overstocked, markets. Labor, pursued till it provided
abundance, but not superfluity, would meet with a certain
and just reward, and would also yield a vast increase of
happiness; for no joy equals that which springs from the
moral sentiments and intellect excited by the contempla-
. tion; pursuit, and observance, ofthe Creator's laws. Far-
ther, morality would be improved; for men, being happy,
would become less vicious: and, lastly, there would be im-
provement in the organic, moral, and intellectual capabili-
ties ofthe race; for the active moral aJdl intellectual org&D8
INFRINGII:NENT OF THE MORAL LAW. 241
of the parents would tend to increase the volume of these
in their offspring-so that each generation would start not
only with greater stores of acquired knowledge than those
which its predecessors possessed, but with higher natural
capabilities of turning them to account.
Before merchants and manufacturers can be expected to
act in this manner, a great change must be effected in
their sentiments and perceptions; but so was a striking
revolution effected in the ideas and practices of the ten-
antry west of Edinburgh, when they removed the stagnant
pools between each ridge of land, and banished ague from
their district. If any reader will compare the state of
Scotland during the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth '
centuries, correctly and spiritedly represented in Sir Wal-
ter Scott's Tales ofa Grandfather, with its present condi-
tion in regard to knowledge, morality, religion, and the
comparative ascendency of the rational over the animal
part of our nature, he will perceive so great an improve-
ment in later times, that the commencement of the millen-
nium itself, five or six hundred years hence, would scarcely
be a greater advance beyond the present, than the present
is beyond the past. Ifthe laws of the Creator be really
what are here represented, it is obvious that, were they
taught as elementary truths to every class of the commu-
nity, and were the sentiment of Veneration called in to
enforce obedience to them, a set of new motives and
principles would be brought into play, calculated to · ac-
celerate the change; especially if it were seen-what, in
the next place, I proceed to show-that the consequences
of neglecting these laws are the most serious visitation!:! of
suffering that can well be imagined. If the views advo-
cated in this work be correct, the system on which tne
manufactures of Britain are at present conducted, is as
great an aberration from the laws of mtture as any recorded
in the history of the world. It implies not only that the
vast body of the peoele shall for ever remain in a condition
little superior to that of mere working animals, in order
~1
oio "'ed by Google
CALAXITIJ:t .lJUSING J'BOX
that, by means of cheap labor, our traders may undersell
the merchants of all other nations; but also that our
· manufactures and commerce shall enjoy an indefinite
extension-this being easential to their prosperity as they
are now conducted, although in the nature of things im-
possible. On the 13th of May 1830, Mr. Slaney, M. P.,
called the attention Qf the House of Commons to ' the
increase which had taken place in the number of those
employed in manufacturing and mechanical occupations,
as compared with the agricultural class.' He stated, that
'in England, the former, as compared with the latter,
were 6 to 5 in 1801; they were as 8 to 5 in 1821; and,
taking the increase of population to have proceeded in the
same ratio, they were now as 2 to I. In Scotland the
increase had been still more extraordinary. In that coun-
try they were as 5 to 6 in 1801; as 9 to 6 in 1821; and
now they were as 2 to l. The increase in the general
population during the last twenty years had been 30 per
cent.; in the manufacturing population it had been 40 per
cent.; in Manchester, Coventry, Liverpool, and Birming-
ham, the increase had been 50 per cent.; in Leeds it had
been 54 per cent.; in Glasgow, it had been 100 per cent.'
Here we perceive that a vast population has been called
into existence and trained to manufacturing industry. I
do not doubt that the skill and labor of this portion of the
people have greatly contributed to the wealth of the nation;
but I fear that the happiness of the laborious individuals
who have conferred this boon, has not kept pace with the
riches which they have created. The causes of this cir-
cumstance appear to be the following:-
Several millions of human beings have been trained to
manumctures, and are unfit for any other occupation. .In
consequence of the rapid increase of their numbers, and of
vast improvements in machinery, the supply of labor has
for many years outstripped the demand for it, and wagee
have fallen ruinously low. By a coincidence which at first
~~~gnt appears unfortunate, much of the machinery of mod-
oio "'ed by Google
lNFRINGEMENT OJI' THE MORAL LAW. fl4.'J
ern invention may be managed by children. The parent,
who, by his own labor for twelve hours a-day, is able to
earn only seven shillings a-week, adds to his income one
shilling and sixpence or two shillings a-week, for each
child whom he can send to the manufactory; and by the
united wages of the family a moderate subsistence may·
oe eked out. Both parents and children, however, are
reduced to a hopeless condition of toil; for their periods of
labor are so long, and their remuneration is so small, that
starvation stares each of them in the face when they either
relax from exertion or cease to live in combination. Men-
tal culture and moral and intellectual enjoyment are ex-
cluded, and their place is supplied by penury and labor.
Dr. Chalmers 'reports, that in our great towns, whole
masses of this class of the people are living in profound
ignorance and practical heathenism. The system tends
constantly to increase the evils of which it is the source.
Young persons, when they arrive at manhood, find them-
selves scarcely able to subsist by their individual exertions;
\vhereas, if they can add the scanty income of three or four
children to their own, their condition is in some degree
improved. House-rent, and the expenses of furniture and
fuel, are not increased by the wants, in proportion to the
contributions, of the young. Adults are thus tempted--
nay, almost driven by necessity-to contract early mar-
riages, to rear a numerous offspring, devoted to tile same
employments with themselves, and in this way to add to
the supply oflabor, already in excess. The children grow
up, and in their turn follow the same course; and thus,
however widely the manufactures of Britain may have
extended, a still farther and indeed an indefinite extension
of them seems to be demanded; for the system produces a
constantly increasing, yet ignorant, starving, and miserable
population, more than adequate to supply all the labor that
c.an be profitably expended. The con$equence is, that
markets are overstocked with produce; prices first fall
ruinously low; the operatives are then thrown idle, and
oio "'ed by Google
C.U..UUTI&I .ARISIKO J'BOX
left in destitution, till the surplus produce of their formerly
excessive labor, and perhaps something more, are con-
sumed: after this, prices rise too high in consequence of
the supply tailing rather below the demand; the laborers
then resume their toil, on their former system of excessive
exertion; they again overstock the market, and are again
thrown idle and suffer dreadful misery.
In 1825--6-7, this operation of the natural laws was strik-
ingly exhibited; large bodies of starving and unemployed
laborers were supported on charity. How many hours
did they not stand idle, and how much of excessive toil
would not these hours have relieved, if distributed over the
periods when they were overworked! The results of that
excessive exertion were seen in the .for~ of untenanted
houses and of shapeless piles of goods decaying in ware-
houses-in short, in every form in which misapplied indus-
try could go to ruin. These observations are strikingly
illustrated by the following official report.
' State o/ the Untntp/<>ytd Opw~ ruidftl ilt Ediaburgla, tMo IU't 8vpplUd
tllit4 IDIITk by a eo.....;u., ctnlllliltlltd for dJat l'f'7PDI'• tuXot"ding to a lill
nwk up on Wtdnuday the 14th March 1827.
1 The number of unemployed operatives who have been
remitted by the Committee for work, up to the 14th of
March, are . 1481
' And the number of cases they have rejected, after
having been particularly investigated, for being bad
characters, giving in false statements, or being only
a short time out C?f work, &.c. &.c. are 446
Making together, 1927
1 Besides these, several hundreds have been rejected by
the Committee, as, from the applicants' oton statements,
they were not considered as cases entitled to receive relief,
and were not, therefore, remitted for investigation.
1 The wages allowed is 5s. per week, with a peck of
meal to those who have famillea. Some yeuths are only
allowed 3$. of wl!.Ses,
oio "'ed by Google
INFRING&H&I'T OF TB& MORAL LAW. 245
•The particular occupations of those sent to work are
as follows:-242 masons, 643 laborers, 66 joiners, 19 plu-
terers, 76 sawyers, 19 slaters, 45 smiths, 40 painters, 56
tailors, 55 shoemakers, 20 gardeners-, 229 various trades.
Totall481.'
Edinburgh is not a manufacturing city; and if so much
misery existed in it in proportion to its population, what
must have been the condition of Glasgow, Manchester, and
other manufacturing towns?
Here, then, the Creator's laws show themselves para-
mount, even when men set themselves systematically to
infringe them. He intended the human race, under the
moral law, not t9 pursue Acquisitiveness excessively, but
to labor only a certain and a moderate portion of their
lives; and although they do their utmost to defeat this in-
tention, they cannot succeed: they are constrained to
remain idle, while their surplus produce is consuming, as
many days and hours as would have served for the due
exercise of their moral and intellectual faculties, and the
preservation of their health, if they had dedicated them
regularly to these ends from day to day, as time passed
over their heads. But their punishment proceeds: the ex
tre~e exhaustion of nervous and muscular energy, with the
absence of all moral and intellectual excitement, create the
· irresistible craving for the stimulus of ardent spirits which
-distinguishes the laboring population of the present age;
this calls into predominant activity the organs of the animal
propensities ; these descend to the children by the law
already explained; increased crime, and a deteriorating
population, are the results; and the moral and inteiJectual
incapacity for arresting the evils becomes greater with the
lapse of every generation.
According to the principles of the present treatise, what
are called by -commercial men ' times of prosperity,• are
seasons of the greatest infringement of the natural laws,
~and precursors of great calamities. Times DTe not reck-
oned prosperous, unle.JS all the industrious population ia
21•
oio "'ed by Google
employed during tie wlaok day, (hours ofeatiog and sleep-
ing only excepted), in the production ofw•llh.. This is a
dedication oftheir whole lives to the service ofthe propen-
aitie~~, and must necenarily terminate in punishment, ifthe
world is constituted on the principle of supremacy of the
bigher powers.
· This truth has already been illustrated more than once
in the hiatory of commerce. The following is a recent
example.
By the combination laws, workmen were punishable for
uniting to obtain a rile of wages, when an extraor4linary
demand occurred for their labor. These laws, being obvi-
ously unjust, were at length repealed. In the summer and
autumn of 1825, however, commercial men conceived
themselves to have reached the highest point of prosperity,
and the demand for labor was unlimited. The operatives
availed themselves ofthe .opportunity to better their condi
tion; formed extensive combinations; and, because their
demands were not complied with, struck work, and con-
tinued idle for months in succession. The master-manu-
facturers clamored against the new law, and complained
that the country would be ruined, ifcombinations were not
again declared illegal, and suppressed by force. Accord-
ing to the principles expounded in this work, the just law
must from the first have been the mo1t beneficialfor aU pat·-
tiea affected by it; and the result amply confirmed this idea.
Subsequent events proved that the extraordinary demand
for laborers in 1825 was entirely factitious, fostered by an
overwhelming issue of bank paper, much of which ulti-
mately turned out to be worthless; in short, that, during
the combinations, the master-manufacturers were engaged
in an extensive system of speculative over-production, and
that the combinations of the workmen presented a natural
check to this erroneous proceeding. The ruin that over-
took the masters in 1326 arose from their having accumu-
lated, under the influence of unbridled Acquisitiveness,
nst stores of commodities which were not required by
INFRINGEMUT OJ' TBJr. MO.RA.L LAW. 241
society; and to have compelled the laborers, by force, to
manufacture more at their bidding, would obviously have
been to aggravate the evil. It is a well known fact, ac-
cordingly, that those masters whose operatives most reso-
lutely refused to work, and who, on this account, clamored
most loudly against the law, were the greatest gainers in
the end. Their stocks of goods were sold off at high prices
during the speculative period : and when the revulsion
came, instead of being ruined by the fall of property, they
were prepared, with their capitals at command, to avail
theDlllelves of the depreciation, to make new and highly
profitable investments. Here again, therefore, we per-
ceive the law ofjustice vindicating itself, and benefiting by
its operation even those individuals who blindly denounced
it as injurious to their interests. A practical faith in the
·doctrine that the world is arranged by the Creator in har-
mony with the moral sentiments and intellect, would be of
unspeakable advantage to both rulers and subjects; for
they would then be able to pursue with greater confidence
the course dictated by moral rectitude, convinced that the
result would prove beneficial, even although, when they
took the first step, they could not distinctly perceive by
what means. Dugald Stewart remarks that Fenelon, in
his ..1d11entures of Telemackus, makes Mentor anticipate
some of the profoundest and most valuable doctrines of
modern political economy, respecting the principles and
advantages of free trade, merely by causing him to utter
the simple dictates of benevolence and justice in regard ~o
commerce. In Ji'enelon's day, such ideas were regarded
as fitted only for adorning sentimental novels or romances;
but they have since been discovered to be not only philo-
sophical truths, but most beneficial practical maxims. '!'his
is the case apparently, because the world is really arranged
on the principle of the supremacy of the moral and intel-
lectual faculties, so that, when men act agree.ably to their
dictates, the consequences, although they cannot all be an-
ticipated, Daturally tend towards good.
oio "'ed by Google
C.t.L.t.MITIBS AIUSINO FROM
In the whole system of the education and treatment of
the laboring population, the laws of the Creator, such as
I have now endeavored to expound them, are neglected
or infringed. Life with them is spent to so great an extent
in labor, that their moral and intellectual powers are stinted
of exercise and gratification; and mental enjoyments are
chiefly those afforded by the animal propensities:-in other
words, their existence is too little rational; they are rather
organized machines than moral and intellectual beings.
The chief duty performed by their higher faculties is not
to afford predominant sources of enjoyment, but to com-
municate so much intelligence and honesty, as to enable
them to execute their labors with fidelity and skill. I
speak, of course, of the great body of the laboring popu-
lation: there are many individual exceptions, who possess
higher attainments; and I mean no disrespect to any por-
tion of this most useful and deserving class of society: on
the contrary, I represent their condition in what appears
to me to-be a true light, only with a view to excite them to
amend it.
Does human nature, then, admit of such a modification
of the employments and habits of this class, as to raise
them to the condition of beings whose chief pleasures shall
be derived from their rational natures ?-that is, creatures
whose bodily powers and animal propensities shall be sub-
servient to their moral and intellectual faculties, and who
shall derive their leading enjoyment from the latter. To
attain this end, it would not be necessary that they should
ctaBe to labor; on the contrary, the necessity of labor to
the enjoyment of life is imprinted in strong characters on
the structure of man. The osseous, muscular, and nervous
systems of the body, all require exercise as a condition of
health; while the digestive and sanguiferous appar_atus
rapidly fall-into disorder, if due exertion is neglected.
Exercise of the body is labor; and labor directed to a
useful purpose is more beneficial to the corporeal organs,
and also more pleasing to the mind, than when undertaken
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRIJI'G&IIU'l 01' TRB IIOJl.lL LAW. ~
fOr no end but the preservation of health.• Commerce ia
rendet'ed advantageous by the Creator, because different
climates yield different productions. Agriculture, manu-
factures, and commerce, therefore, are adapted to man's
nature, and I am not their enemy. But they are not the
end. of human existence, even on earth. Labor is bene-
ficial to the whole human economy, and it is a mere
delusion to regard it as in itself an evil; but the great
principle is, that it must be moderate in both severity and
duration, in ordl(r that men may enjoy and not be oppress-
ed by it. 1 say enjoy it; because moderate exertion ia
pJeasure,-and it is only labor carried to ezceas, which has
given rise to the common opinion that retiremtnt from
active industry is the goal of happiness. It may be ob-
jected that a healthy and vigorous man is not oppresserl
by ten or twelve hours' labor a-day; and I grant that, if
he be well fed, his physical strength may not be so much
exhausted by this exertion as to cause him pain. But
thi:1 is regarding him merely as a working animal. My
proposition is, that after ten or twelve hours of muscular
exertion a-day, continued for six days iii the week, the
laborer is not in a fit condition for that active exercise of
his moral and intellectual faculties which alone constitutes
him a rational being. The exercise of these powers de-
pends on the condition of the brain and nervous system;
:0.11d these are exhausted and deadened by too much mus-
cular exertion. The fox-hunter and ploughman fall asleep
when they sit within doors and attempt to read or think.
The truth of this proposition is demonstrable on physiolo-
g!cal principles, and is supported by general experience;
nevertheless, the teachers of mankind have too often neg-
lected it. The first change, therefore, must be to limit
the hours of labor, and to dedicate a portion of time daily
to the exercise ofthe mental faculties.
So far from this limitation being unattainable, it appears
to me that the progress of arts, sciences, and society, i1
• 8• Dr. CoJUbe'a Principles ofPhysioloBY, 8d edition, PP• 1J5-1Q,
~9''"edb,Google
CAt..UilTl&l .lllli!KG rao:M
rapidly forcing its adoption. Ordinary observers appear to
conceive man's chief end, in Britain at least, to be to
manufacture hard-ware, broad cloth, and cotton goods, for
the use of the whole world, and to store up wealth. · They
forget that the same impulse which inspires the British
with eo much ardor in manufacturing, will sooner or later
inspire other nations also; and that, if all Europe shall
follow our example, and employ efficient machinery and a
large proportion of their population in our branches of in-
dustry, which they are fast doing, the four quarters of the
globe will at length be deluged with manufactured goods,
only part of which will be required. When this state of
things shall arriv-e,-and in proportion as knowledge and
civilization_ are diffused it will approach,-men will be
compelled by dire necessity to abridge their toil, because
excessive labor will not be remunerated. The admirable
inventions which are the boast and glory of civilized men,
are believed by many persons to be at this moment adding
to the misery and degradation of the people. Power-
looms, steam-carriages, and steam-ships, it is asserted,
have all hitherto operated directly in increasing the hours
of exertion, and abridging the reward ofthe laborer! Can
we believe that God has bestowed on us the gift of an al-
most creative power, solely to increase the wretchedness
of the many, and minister to the luxury of the few? Im-
possible! The ultimate effect of mechanical inventions on ·
human society appears to be not yet divined. I hail them
as the grand instruments of civilization, by giving leisure
to the great mass of the people to cultivate and enjoy their
moral, intellectual, and religious powers.
One requisite to enable man to follow pursuits connected
with his higher endowments, is provision for the wants of
his animal nature, viz. food, raiment, and comfortable
lodging. It is clear that muscular power, intellect, and
mechanical ability, have been conferred on him, with the
design that he should build houses, plough fields, and fa-
bricate commodities. But assuredly we have no warrant
INFJliNG:&HENT OJ' TBE MOJlA.L LAW, 251
from reason or revelation for believing that any portion of
the people are bound to dedicate their whole lives and
energies, aided by all mechanical discoveries, to these
ends, as their proper business, to the neglect of the study
of the works and will of the Creator. Has man been
permitted to discover the steam-engine, and apply it in
propelling ships on the ocean and carriages on railways, in
spinning, weaving, and forging iron,-and has he been
gifted with intellect to discover the astoniahing powers,pf
physical agents, such as are revealed by chemistry and
mechanics,-only that he may be enabled to build more
houses, weave more cloth, and forge more iron, without
any direct regard to his moral and intellectual improve-
ment? If an individual, unaided by animal or mechanical
power, had wished to travel from Manchester to Liverpool,
a distance of thirty miles, he would have been under the
necessity of devoting ten or twelve hours of his time, and
considerable muscular energy, to the task. When roads
and carriages were constructed, and horses trained, he
could, by their assistance, have accomplished the same
iourney in four hours, with little fatigue; and now, when
railways and steam-engines have been successfully com-
pleted, he may travel that distance, without any bodily
fatigue whatever, in an hour and a half: and I ask, For
what purpose has Providence bestowed the nine or ten
hours, which are thus set free as spare time to the indi-
vidual? I humbly answer-that he may be enabled to
cultivate his moral, intellectual, and religious nature.
Again, before steam-engines were applied to spinning and
weaving, a human being would have needed to labor,
perhaps for a month, in order to produce linen, woollen,
and cotton cloth, necessary to cover his own person for a
year; or, in case of a division of labor, a twelfth part of
the population would have required to be constantly en-
gaged in this employment: by the application of steam,
the same ends may be gained in a day. I repeat the in-
quiry-For what purpo11e has Providence butowed the
oio "'ed by Google
C.A.LAJIITI&I A.JllllNG l'llOM
twenty-nine daya out of the month, set free by the inven-
tion of the steam-engine and machinery ? These propor-
tions are not stated as statietieally correct, but as mere
illustrations of my proposition, that every discovery in
natural science, and invention in mechanics, has a direct
tendency to increase the leisure of man, and to enable him
to provide for his physical wants with leBB laborious ex-
' ertion.
•The question recurs,-Whether is it the object of Pro-
vidence, in thus favoring the human race, to enable. only
a portion of them to enjoy the highest luxuries, while the
mass shall continue laboring animals; or is it his intention
to enable all to cultivate and enjoy their rational nature?
In proportion as mechanical inventions shall be gene-
rally diffused over the world, they will increase the powers
of production to such an extent, as to supply, by moderate
labor, every want of man; and then the great body of the
people will find themselves in possession of reasonable lei-
sure, in spite of every exertion to avoid it. Great misery
will probably be suffered in persevering in the present
course of action, before their eyes shall be opened to this
result. The first effect of these stupendous mechanical
inventions threatens to be to accumulate great wealth in
the hands of a few, without proportionally abridging the
toil, or greatly adding to the comforts, of the many. This
process of elevating a part of the community to afiluence
and power, and degrading the rest, threatens to proceed
till the disparity of condition shall become intolerable to
both, the laborer being utterly oppressed, and the higher
classes harassed by insecurity. Then, probably, the ideas
may occur, that the real benefit of physical discovery is to
give leisure to the mass of the people, and that leisure for
mental improvement is the first condition of true civiliza-
tion, knowledge 'being the second. The science of human
nature will enable men at length to profit by exemption
from excessive toil; and it may be hoped that, in course
of time, the notion that man is really a rational creature,
oio "'ed by Google
INFRlNO&Mitl'fT OP THE MORAL LAW. ~
may meet with general countenance, and that sincere
attempts may be made to render a]l ranks prosperous and
happy, by institutions founded on the basis of the superior
faculties. ,
The same means will lead to the reaJization of practical
Christianity. An individual whose active existence is en-
grossed by mere bodily labor, or by the pursuits of gain
or ambition, lives under the predominance of faculties that
do not produce the perfect Christian character. The true
practicaJ Christian possesses a vigorous and enlightened
intellect, and moral affections glowing with gratitude to
God and love to man; but how can the people at large be
enabled to realize this condition of mind, if stimulus ~r
the intellect and the nobler sentiments be excluded by the
daily routine ofthcir occupations?
In some districts of England, the operatives lately
demanded an abridgment of labor without abatement of
wages. This project was unjust, and proved unsuccessful.
They ought to have given up first one hour's labor, and
the price of it, and waited till the increase of capital.and
of demand brought up wages to their former rate, which,
if they had restrained population, would certainly have
happened, They ought to have then abated a second
hour, submitting again to a reduction, and again waited
for a reaction; and so on, till they had limited their labor
to eight or mne hours a-day. The change must be grad-
ual, and the end must be obtained by moral means, else it
will never be accomplished at all.
The objection has been stated, that, even in the most
improved condition of the great body of the people.. there
will still .be a considerable proportion of them so deficient
in taJent, so incapable of improvement, and so ignorant,
that their labor will be worth little; that, as they must
obtain subsistence, no alternative will be left to them but
to make up by protracted periods of exertion what they
want in skill; and that their long-continued labor, furnish-
ed at a cheap rate, will affect all the classes above them,
22
oio "'ed by Google
CJ.L.UOTI&I J.BISUfG J'BOJII
aod indeed prevent the views now take,.n from ever being
1enerally realized. This objection resolves itself into the
proposition, That the people have been destined by the
Creator to be laboring animals, and that, from their inhe-
rent mental defects, they are incapable generally of being
rai.ed to any more honorable station; which is just the
1reat point at issue between the old and the new philoso-
phy. If mankind at large (for the industrious classes
constitute so very great a majority of the race, that I may
be allowed to speak of them as the whole) had been in-
tended for mere hewers of wood and drawers of water, I
do not believe that the moral and intellectual faculties
wbich they unquestionably possess would have been be-
etowed on them; and as they do enjoy the rudiments of all
the feelings and capacities which adorn the highest of the
race, and as these faculties themselves are improvable, I
do not subscribe to the doctrine of the permanent incapa-
city of the race. I consider the operatives, in successive
generations, quite capable of learning to act as rational
beings; and that whenever the great majority of them shall
have acquired a sense of the true dignity of their nature,
and a relish for the enjoyments afforded by their higher
capacities, they will become capable of so regulating the
supply of labor in reference to the demand, as to obtain
the means of subsistence in return for moderate exertion.
In fine, I hope that few of the imbeciles alluded to in the
objection will exist, and that these few will be directed and
provided for by the multitude of generous and enlightened
minds which will exist around them.
At the same time, there is great force in the objection,
considered in reference to the present and several succeed-
ing generations. In throwing out these views, I embrace
centuries of time. I see the slow progress of the human
race in the past, and do not anticipate miracles in the
future. If a sound principle is developed-one having its
roots in nature-there is a certainty that it will wax strong
and bear fruit in due season; but that season, from the
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGEMENT OF THE MORAL LAW. 255
character of the ple.nt, is a distant one. All who aim at
benefiting mankind ought to keep this truth constantly in
view. Almost every scheme is judged of by its effects on
the living generation; whereas no great fountain of happi-
ness ever flowed clear at first or yielded its full sweets to
the generation which discovered it.
It is now an established principle in political economy,
that Government ought not to interfere with industry.
This maxim was highly necessary when governors were
grossly ignorant of all the natural laws which regulate pro-
duction and the private conduct of men; because their
enactments, in general, were then absurd-they often did
much harm, and rarely good. 'Men,' says Lord Kames,
in reference to the English poor law, ' will always be mend-
ing: What a confused jumble do they make, when they
attempt to mend the laws of Nature! Leave Nature to her
own operations; she understands them the best.' • But if
the science of human nature were once fully and clearly
developed, it is probable that this rule might, with great
advantage, be relaxed, and that the legislature might con-
siderably accelerate improvements, by adding the con-
straining authority of human laws to enactments already
proclaimed by the Creator. Natural laws do exist, and the
Creator punishes if they are not obeyed. _The evils oflife
are these punishments. Now, if the great body of intelli-
gent men in any state saw clearly that a course of action
pursued by the ill-informed oftheir fellow subjects was the
source of continual suffering, not only to the evil-doers
themselves, but to the whole community, it appears to me
allowable that they should stop its continuance by legisla.
tive enactment. Ifthe majority of the middle classes resi-
dent in towns were to petition Parliament, at present, to
order shops in general to be shut at eight o'clock, or eveli
at an earlier hour, so as to allow time for the cultivation of
the rational faculties of the men and women engaged in
them, it would be no stretch of power to give effect to the
• Sketches, D. ii. Sk. 10.
CJ.LAJUTIES AJU51NG FROM
petition : that is to say, no evil would eosue, although the
ignorant and avaricious were prevented by law from con-
tinuing ignorant, and forcing all their competitors in trade
to resemble them io their defects. Ifthe Creator have so
constituted the world that men may execute all necessary
business, and still have time to spare for the cultivation of
their rational faculties, any enactment of the legislature
calculated to facilitate arrangement for accomplishing both
ends would be beneficial and successful, because it was in
accordance with nature ; although the prejudiced and igno-
rant of the present generation would complain, and proba-
bly resist it. This principle of interference would go much
farther; its only limits seem to me to be the boundaries of
the real knowledge of nature: as long as the legislature
enacts io confonnity with nature, the result will be success-
ful. At present, ignorance is too extensive and prevalent
to authorize Parliament to venture far. From indications
which already appear, however, I thiok it probable that
the laboring classes will ere long recognise Phrenolo-
gy, and the natural laws, as deeply interesting to them-
selves; and whenever their minds shall be opened to
rational views of their own constitution as men, and their
condition as members of society, I venture to predict that
they will devote themselves to improvement, with a zeal
and earnestness that in a few generations will change the
aspect of their class.
The consequences of the present system of departing
from the moral law, on the middle orders of the commu-
nity, are in accordance with its effects on the lower.
Uncertain gains,- continual fluctuations in fortune,- the
absence of all reliance, in their pursuits, on moral and in-
tellectual principles;- a gambling spirit, -an insatiable
appetite for wealth,-1!-lternate extravagant joys of exces-
sive prosperity and bitter miseries of disappointed ambition,
-render the lives of manufacturers and merchants, to too
great an extent, scenes of mere vanity and vexation of
spirit. As the ckiefoccupationB ofthe British nation, manu·
INFRINGEM&NT OP Till. MORA.J, LA.W. !o'f
factures and commerce are disowned by redGn; for, u
now conducted, they imply the permanent degradation of
the great mass of the people. They already constitute
England's weakness; and, unless they shall be regulated
by sounder views than those which at present prevail, they
will involve their population in unspeakable misery. The
oscillations of fortune, which almost the whole of the mid-
dle ranks of Britain experience, in consequence of the
alternate depression and elevation ofcommerce and manu-
factures, are attended with extensive and severe individual
suftering. Deep though often silent agonies pierce the
heart, when ruin is seen stealing, by slow but certain steps,
on a young and helpless family; the mental struggle often
undermines the parent's health, and conducts him prema-
turely to the grave. No death can be imagined more pain-
ful than that which arises from a broken spirit, robbed of
its treasures, disappointed in its ambition, and ·conscious
of failure in the whole scheme of life. The best affections
of the soul are lacerated and agonized at the prospect of
leaving their dearest objects to struggle, without provision,
in a cold and selfish world. Thousands ofthe middle ranks
in Britain unfortunately experience these miseries in every
passing year. Nothing·is more essential to human happi-
ness than fixed principles of action, on which we can rely
for our present safety and future welfare; and the Creator's
laws, when seen and followed, afford this support and de-
light to our faculties in the highest degree. It is one, not
the least, of the punishments that overtake the middle
classes for neglect of these laws, that they do not, as a
permanent condition of mind, feel secure and internally at
peace with themselves. In days of prosperity, they con-
tinue to fear adversity. They live in a constant struggle
with fortune; and when the excitement of business has
subsided, vacuity and craving are felt within. These pro-
ceed from the moral and intellectual faculties calling aloud
for exercise; but, through ignorance of human ·aature,
either pure idleness, gossiping conversation, fashionable
224
oio "'ed by Google
CAL.lMITI&I ARISING FllO.M
amueem~nt., or intoxicating liquors, are resorted to, and
with these a vain attempt is made to fill up the void of life.
I know that this class ardently desires a change that would
remove the miseries here described, and will zealously co-
operate in diffusing knowledge, by means of which alone it
can be introduced.
The punishment which overtakes the higher classes is
equally obvious. If they do not engage in some active
pursuit, so as to give scope to their energies, they suffer
the evils of ennui, morbid irritability, and excessive relax-
ation of the functions of mind and body; which carry in
their train more suffering than even that which is entailed
on the operatives by excessive labor. If they pursue am-
bition in the senate or the field, in literature or philosophy,
their real success is in exact proportion to the approach
which they make to observance of the supremacy of the
moral sentiments and intellect. Sully, Franklin, and
Washington may be contrasted with Sheridan and Bona-
parte, as illustrations. Sheridan and Napoleon did not,
systematically, pursue objects sanctioned by the higher
sentiments and intellect, as the end of their exertions; .and
no person who is a judge of human emotions can read the
history of their lives, and conside·r what must have passed
within their minds, without coming to the conclusion, that
even in their most brilliant moments of external prosperity
the canker was gnawing within, and that there was no
moral relish of the present, or reliance on the future, but a
mingled tumult of inferior propensities and intellect, carry-
ing with it an habitual feeling of unsatisfied desires.
Let us now consider the effect of the moral law on NA·
TIONAL prosperity.
If the Creator has constituted the world in harmony with
the dictates of the moral sentiments, the highest prosperity
of each particular nation should be thoroughly compatible
with that of every other: that is to say, England, by sedu..
"'lously cultivating her own soil, pursuing her own courses
oio "'ed by Google
JNFRJNGJ:.MENT OF THE MORAL LAW. 259
of industry, founding her internal institutions and her ex-
ternal relations on the principles of Benevolence, Venera-
tion, and Justice, which imply abstinence from wars of
aggression, from conquest, and from all selfish designs of
commercial monopoly,-would be in the highest condition
of prosperity and enjoyment that nature admits of; and
every step that she deviated from these principles, would
carry an inevitable punishment along with it. The same
statement may be made relative to France and every other
nation. According to this principle, also, the Creator
should have conferred on each nation such peculiar advan-
tages of soil, climate, situation, or genius, as would enable
it to carry on amicable intercourse with its fellow states,
in a beneficial exchange of the products ·peculiar to each;
so that the higher one nation rose in morality, intelligence,
and riches, -so much the more estimable and valuable it
ought to become as a neighbor to all the surrounding
states. This is so obviously the real constitution ofnature;
that proof of it would be superfluous.
England, however, as a nation, has set this law at abso-
lute defiance. She has led the way in taking the propen-
sities as her guides, in founding her laws and institutions
on them, and in following them out in her practical con-
duct. England placed restrictions on trade, and carried
them to the greatest height; she conquered colonies, and
ruled them in the full spirit of selfishness; she encouraged
lotteries, fostered the slave-trade, and carried paper money
and the most avaricious spirit of manufacturing and specu-
lating in commerce to their highest pitch; she defended
corruption in Parliament, and distributed churches and
seats on the bench of justice, on principles purely selfish;
all in direct opposition to the supremacy of the moral law.
If the world had been created in harmony with the predo-
minance of the animal faculties, England would have been
a most felicitous nation; but as the reverse is the case, it
was natural that a severe national retribution should follow
these d~partures from the Divine institutions,-and griev-
260 CALAMITIES ARISING FROM
ous accordingly has been, and, I fear, will be, the punish-
ment. •
The principle which regulates national chastisement is,
that the precise combination of faculties which leads to the
transgression, carries in its train the punishment. Nations
are under the moral and intellectual law, as well as indi-
viduals. A carter who half starves his horse, and unmerci-
fully beats it, to supply, by the stimulus of pain, the vigor
that nature intended to flow from abundance of food, may
be supposed to practice this barbarity with impunity in this
world, if he evade the eye of the police; but this is not
the case. The hand of Providence reaches him by a
direct punishment: he fails in his object; for blows cannot
supply the vigor which, by the constitution of the horse,
will flow only from sufficiency of wholesome food. In
his conduct, he manifests excessive Acquisitiveness and
Destructiveness, with deficient Benevolence, Veneration,
Justice, and Intellect; and he cannot reverse this charac-
ter, by merely averting his eyes and his hand from the
horse. He carries these dispositions into the bosom of his
family and into the company of his associates, and a variety
of evil consequences ensue. The deliglits that spring from
active,moral sentiments and intellectual powers, are nec~s­
sarily unknown to him; and the difference between these
pleasures, and the sensations attendant on his moral and
intellectual condition, are as great as between the external
splendor of a king and the naked poverty of a beggar. It
is true that he has never felt the enjoyment, and does not
know the extent of his loss;- but still the difference exists;
we see it, and know that, as a direct consequence of this
state of mind, he is exCluded from a ./ery great and exalte~
pleasure. Farther, his active animal faculties rouse the
Combativeness, Destructiveness, Self-Esteem, Secretive-
ness, and CautioUtmess, of his wife, children, and asso-
ciates, against him, and they inflict on him animal punish-
ment. He, no doubt, goes on to eat, drink, blaspheme,
and abuse his horse, day after day, apparently as if Pro-
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGEMENT OP THE MORAL LAW. 261
vidence approved of his conduct; but he neither feels, nor
can any one who attends to his condition believe him to
feel, happy: he is uneasy, discontented, and conscious of
being disliked-all which sensations are his punishment;
and it is owing solely to his own grossness and ignorance
that he does not connect it with his offence. Let us apply
these remarks to nations.
England, under the impulses of excessively strong Ac-
quisitiveness, Self-Esteem, and Destructiveness, for a long
time protected the slave-trade. During the periods of
greatest sin in this respect, the same combination of facul-
ties ought, according to the law which I am explaining, to
be found working most vigorously in her other institutions,
and .producing punishment for that offence. There ought
to be found In these periods a general spirit of domineering
and rapacity in her public men, rendering them little mind-
ful of the welfare of the people; injustice and harshness in
her taxations and public laws; and a spirit of aggression
and hostility towards other nations, provoking retaliation of
her insults. And accordingly I have been informed, as a
matter of fact, that while these measures of injustice were
publicly patronized by the government, its servants vied
with each other in injustice towards it, and its subjects
dedicated their talents and enterprise towards corrupting
· its officers, and cheating it of its due. Every trader who
was liable to excise or custom duties evaded the one-half
of them, and did not feel that there was any disgrace in
doing so. A gentleman, who was subject to the excise-laws
fifty years ago, described to me the condition of his trade
at that time. The excise-officers, he said, regarded it as
an understood matter, that at least one-half of the goods
maimfactured were to be smuggled without being charged
with duty; but then, said he, 'they made us pay a moral and
pecuniary penalty that was at once galling and debasing.
We were constrained to ask them to our table at all meals,
and place them at the head of it in our holiday parties:
when they fell into debt, we wer,e obliged to help them out
oio "'ed by Google
CALAMITI&S ARISING PJ\OIIrl
of it; when they moved from one house to another, our
1ervants and carts were in requisition to transport their ef-
fects. By way of keeping up discipline upon us, and also
to make a show of duty, they chose every now and then to
step in and detect us in a fraud, and get us fined: if we
submitted quietly, they told us that they would make us
amends by winking at another fraud, and they generally did
so; but if our indignation rendered passive obedience
impossible, and we gave utterance to our opinion of their
character and conduct, they enforced the law on us, while
they relaxed it on our neighbors; and these, being ri\·als
in trade, undersold us in the market, carried away our
customers, and ruined our business. Nor did the bondage
end here. We could not smuggle without the aid of our
servants; and as they could, on occasion of any offence
given to themselves, carry information to the head quarters
of excise, we were slaves to them also, and were obliged
tamely to submit to a degree of drunkenness and insolence
that appears to me now perfectly intolerable. Farther, this
evasion and oppression did us no good; for all the trade
were alike, and we just sold our goods so much the cheaper
the more duty we evaded: so that our individual success
did not depend upon superior skill and superior morality, in
making an excellent article at a moderate price, but upon
superior capacity for fraud, meanness, sycophancy, and
every possible baseness. Our lives were any thing but
enviable. Conscience, although greatly blunted by prac-
tices that were universal and viewed as inevitable; still
whispered that they were wrong; our self-respect very fre-
quently revolted at the insults to which we were exposed;
and there was a constant feeling of insecurity from the
great extent to which we were dependent upon wretches
whom we internally despised. When the government took
a higher tone, and more principle and greater strictness in
the collection of the duties were enforced, we thought
ourselves ruined. The reverse, however, has been the
case. The duties, no doubt, are now excessively burden--
oio "'ed by Google
JNFJUNGI\MBNT 01' TBB MORAL LAW. i6S
eome from their amount; but that ia their least evil. Were
it possible to collect them from every trader with perfect
equality, our independence would be complete, and our
competition would be confined to superiority in morality
and skill. Matters are much nearer this point now than
they were fifty years ago; but still they would admit of
considerable improvement.' The same individual niention-
ed, that, in his youth, now seventy years ago, the civil
liberty ofthe people of Scotland was held by a weak tenure.
About 1760, he knew instances of soldiers being sent, in
time of war, to the farm-houses, to carry off, by force,
young men wr the army: as this was against the law, they
were accused of some imaginary offence, such as a trespass
or an assault, which was proved by false witnesses; and
the magistrate, perfectly aware of the farce and its object,
threatened the victim with transportation to the colonies,
as a felon, if he would not enlist- which, unprotected and
overwhelmed by power and injustice, he was of course
compelled to do.
If the same minute representation were given of other
departments of private life, during the time of the greatest
immoralities on the part of the government, we would find
that this paltering with conscience and character in the
national proceedings, tended to keep down the morality of
the people, and fostered in them a rapacious and gambling
spirit, to which many of the evils that have since overtak-
en us have owed their origin.
But we may take a more extensive view of the subject
of national responsibility.
In the American war Britain desired to gratify her
Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem, in opposition to Benevo-
lence and Justice, at the expense of her transatlantio colo-
nies. This roused the animal resentment ofthe latter, and
the propensities of the two nations came into collision; that
is to say, they made war on each other-Britain, to support
a dominion in direct hostility to the principles which regu-
late the moral government of the world, in the expectation
...
og,"zedbyGoogle
C.lL.UUTI&I AlllBUJO FBOII
of becoming rich and powerful by success in that enter-
prise; the Americans, to assert the supremacy ofthe higher
aentiments, and to become free and independent. Accord-
ing to the principles which I am now unfolding, the great-
est misfortune that could have befallen Britain would have
been success, and the greatest advantage, failure in her at-
tempt; and the result is now acknowledged to be in exact
accordance with this vtew. If Britain had subdued the
colonies in the American war, every one must see to what
an extent her Self-Esteem, Acquisitiveness, and Destruc-
tiveness, would have been let loose upon them. This, in
the first place, would have roused the animal,faculties of
the conquered party, and led them to give her all the an-
noyance in their power; and the expense of the fleets and
armies requisite to repress this spirit, would have far coun-
terbalanced all the profits she could have wrung out of the
colonists by extortion and oppression. In the second place,
the very exercise of these animal faculties by herself, in
opposition to the moral sentiments, would have rendered
her government at home an exact parallel of that of the
carter in his own family. The same malevolent principles
would have overflowed on her own subjects: the govern-
ment would have felt uneasy, and the people rebellious,
discontented, and unhappy; and the moral law would have
been amply vindicated by the suffering which would have
every where abounded. The consequences of her failure
have been the reverse. America has sprung up into a
great and moral nation, and actually contributes ten times
more to the wealth of Britain, standing as she now does in
her natural relation to this country, than she ever could
have done as a discontented and oppressed colony. This
advantage is reaped without any loss, anxiety, or expense;
it flows from the divine- institutions, and both nations
profit by and rejoice under it. The moral and intellectual
rivalry ofAmerica, instead of prolonging the ascendency
· of the propensities in Britain, tends strongly to excite the
moral sentiments in her people and government; and every
JNPRJNOEMBNT OF TBJt MORAL LAW. 265
day that we live, we are reaping the benefits of this im-
provement in wiser institutions, deliverance from endlea
abuses, and a higher and purer spirit pervading every de-
partment of the executive administration of the country.
Britain, however, did not escape the penalty of her attempt
at the infringement of the moral laws. The pages of her
history, during the American war, are dark with suffering
and gloom, and at this day we groan under the debt and
difficulties then partly incurry;
If the world be constituted' on the principle of the su-
premacy ofthe moral sentiments and intellect, the practice
of one nation seeking riches and powe_r, by conquering,
devastating, or obstructing the prosperity of another, must
be usentially fidile: Being in opposition to 'the moral con-
stitution of creation, it must occasion misery while in pro-
gress, and can lead to no result except the impoverishment
and mortification of the people ·who pursue it. It is nar-
rated that Themistocles told the Athenians that be bad
conceived n project which would be of the greatest ad-
vantage to Athens, but that the profoundest secrecy was
necessary to ensure its success. They desired him to
communicate it to Aristides, and promised, if he approved,
to execute it. Thcmistocles took Aristides nside, and told
him that he proposed, unawares, to burn the ships of the
Spartans, then in profound peace with the Athenian state
and not expecting an attack ; which would very much
weaken the Spartan power. Aristides reported, that noth-
ing could be more ad1lantageoos, but nothing more unjust,
than the project in view. The people refused to hear or to
execute it.• Here the intellect of Aristides appears to have
viewed the execution of the scheme as beneficial, while his
sentiment of Conscientiousuess distinctly denounced it as
morally wrong; and the question is, Whether external na-
ture is so constituted, that the intellect can, in any ca6e,
possess sufficient data for inferring actuGl benefit from con• •
duct which is disoumed and denounced by the moral •eftli..
• Cicero de Officiis, lib. ill.
23
oio "'ed by Google
C4L.UOTJEI 4JUIING I'JWM
..,.,? It appears to me that it eaonot. Let ua trace the
project of Themiatocles to its results.
The inhabitants ofSparta poBSeued the faculties of Self-
Esteem, CombativeneBB, DeetructiveneBB, Intellect, .Bene-
volence, and ConscientiousneBB. The proposed destruction
of their ships, in time of profound peace, would have out-
raged the higher sentiments and intellect, and these would
have kindled Combativeness and DestructiveneBB into the
most intense activity. The greater the injustice of the act,
the fiercer would the flame of opposition, retaliation, and
revenge have glowed; and not only so, but the more gross-
ly and wantonly the moral sentiments were outraged by
the act, the higher would have been the class of minds
which would have instinctively burned with the desire of
revenge. The Athenians, then, by the very constitution
of nature, would have been assailed by this fearful storm
of moral indignation and animal resentment, rendered
doubly terrible by the most virtuous and intelligent being
converted into the most determined of their opponents.
Turning to their own state again,--only those individuals
among themselves in whom intellect and moral sentiment
were inferior to Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem, which
give rise to selfishness and the lust of power, could have
cordially approved ofthe deed. The virtuous would have
turned from the contemplation of it with shame and sorrow;
and thus both the character and number of the defenders
would have been diminished in the very ratio ofthe atrocity
of the crime, while the power of the assailants, as we have
seen, would, by that very circumstance, have been propor-
tionally incre.
ased. It was impossible, therefore, that ad-
vantage to Athens could ultimately have resulted from such
a flagrant act of iniquity; and the apparent opposition, in
the judgment of Aristides, between the justice of the deed
and the benefits to be expected from it, arose from his in-
• tellect not being sufficiently profound and comprehensive
to grasp the whole springs which the enterprise would call
into action, and to trace out the ultimate results. In point
oio "'ed by Google
lNFIUNGJtMENT OF THE MORAL LAW. ~67
of fact, there would have been no opposition between the
dictates of Conscientiousness, and those of an intellect that
could accurately survey the whole causes and effects which
the unjust enterprise would have set in motion-but quite
the reverse; and ·the Athenians, in following the sugges-
tions of the moral sentiment, actually adopted the most
advantageous course which it was possible for them to
pursue. The trite observation, that honesty is the best
policy, thus becomes a profound philosophical maxim,
when traced to its foundation in the constitution of human
nature.
The national debt of Britain has been contracted chiefly
in wais, originating in commercial jealousy and thirst for
conquest'; in short, under the suggestions of Combative-
ness, Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, and Self-Esteem.•
Did not our ancestors, therefore, impede their own pros-
perity and happiness, by engaging in these contests? and
have any consequences of them reached us, except the
burden of paying nearly thirty millions of taxes annually,
as the price of the gratification of the propensities of our
• Of 127 years, terminating in 1815, England spent 65 in war and 62 in
peace. The war of 1688, after lasting nine years, and raiaing our expendi-
tvre in that pel"iod a6 millioJlll, Willi ended by the treaty of Ryswick in 1697.
Then came the war of the Spanish truccession, which began in 1702, con-
cluded in 1713, and absorbed 62~ millions of our money. Next was the
Spanish war of 1.739, settled finally at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1748, after costing
M nearly 54 millions. Then came the seven yean' war of 1756, which ter-
minated with the treaty of Paris in 1763, and in course of which we spent
11~ millions. The next was the American war of 1775, which lasted eight
years. Our national expenditure in this war was 1:!6 millions. The French
Revolutionary war began in 1798, lasted nine years, and exhibited an expen-
diture of 464 millions. The war agai~~t~t Bonaparte began in 1808, and
ended in 1815: during these twelve years, we spent 1159 millioM, 771 of
which were raised by tax~ and 388 by loans, In the revolutionary war we
borrowed 201 millions; in the American, 104 millions; in the seven years'
war, 60 millions; in the Spanish warof1739, 29 millions; in the waroftbe
Spanish saecenioo, 32i millions; in the war of 1688, 20 millio011. Total
borrowed in the !IeVeii wars during 66 years, about 834 millions. In lhe
same time, we raised by taxes 1189 millions; thus forming a total expendi-
tuJ'e on war of T\VO THOUSAND AND TWENTY-THREE MILLIONS OF
POVNDS ITEBLINO.-Wuhiy Jletli<UI,
oio "'ed by Google
rr
C.lLAJUTIII:.S .lRISJ!(G PROM
i&Jlorant forefathers? Would a statesman, who believed io
the doctrines O:aintained in this work, have recommended
tbeee wars at eutnlialto national prosperity'? If the twen-
tieth part of the sums had been spent in effecting objects
recognised by the moral sentiments-in instituting, for ex-
ample, seminaries of education and penitentiaries, and in
making roads, canals, and public granaries-how different
would have been the present condition of the country!
After the American followed the French revolutionary
war. Opinions are at presei1t more divided upon this sub-
ject; but my view of it, offered with the greatest deference,
is the following. 'Vhen the French Revolution broke out,
the domestic institutions of Britain were, to a considerable
extent, founded and administered on prir.ciples in opposi-
tion to the supremacy of the moral sentiments. A clamor
was raised by the nation for reform of abuses. If my lead-
ing principle be sound, every departure from the moral
law, in nations as well as individuals, carries its punish-
ment with it, from the hour of its commencement till its
final cessation; and if Britain's institutions were then, to
any extent, corrupt and defective, she could not have too
speedily abandoned them, and adopted purer and loftier
arrangements. Her government, however, clung to the
suggestions of the propensities, and resisted every innova-
tion. To divert the national mind from causing a revolu-
tion at home, they embarked in a war abroad; and, for a
period of twenty-three years, let loose the propensities on
France with head-strong fury and a fearful perseverance.
France, no doubt, threatened the different nations of
Europe with the most violent interference with their gov-
ernments; a menace wholly unjustifiable, and one which
called for resistance. But the rulers-ofthat country were
preparing their own destruction, in exact proportion to their
departure from the moral law; and a statesman, who knew
.and had confidence in the constitution ofthe world as now
explained, could have listened to the storm with perfect
composure, prepared to repel actual ..ggression; and could
oio "'ed by Google
INFit.IMG&IOIKT 01' TB& JIOIUL LAW. ~9
have left the exploding of French infatuation to the Ruler
of the Universe, in unhesitating reliance on the efficacy of
his laws. Britain preferred a war of aggression. If this
conduct was in accordance with the dictates of the higher
sentiments, we should now, like America, be reaping the
reward ofour obedience to the moral law, and plenty llnd
rejoicing should flow down our streets like a stream. But
mark the contrast. This island exhibits the spectacle of
millions of men toiling to the extremity of human endur-
ance, for a pittance scarcely sufficient to sustain life;
weavers laboring for fourteen or s1xteen hours a-day for
eightpence, and frequently unable to procure work even on
these terms; other artisans, exhausted almost to deatb'by
laborious drudgery, and who, if better recompensed, seek
compensation and enjoyment in the grossest sensual de-
bauchery, drunkenness, and gluttony; master-traders and
manufacturers anxiously laboring for wealth, now gay in
the fond hope that all their expectations will be realized,
then sunk in despair by the ploughshare of ruin having
passed over them; landholders and tenants now reaping
unmeasured returns from their properties, then pining in
penury amidst an overflow of every species of produce;
the government cramped by an overwhelming debt and the
prevalence of ignorance and selfishness on every side, so
that it is impossible for it to follow with a bold step the moat
obvious dictates of reason and justice, by reason of the
countless prejudices and imaginary interests which every
where obstruct the path of improvement. This much more
resembles punishment for transgression, than reward for
obedience to the divine laws.
If every man in Britain will tum his attention inwards,
and reckon the pangs of disappointment which he bas felt
at the subversion of his own most darling schemes by un-
expected turns of public events, or the deep inroads on his
happiness which such misfortunes, overtaking his dearest
relations and friends, have occasioned to him; the nuan-
berless little enjoyments in domestic life, which he is forced
23•
oio "'ed by Google
CAL.UiltJa8 ..UUSflfG l'AO.M
to deny bimaelf, in consequence of the tuation with which
they are loaded; the. obstructions to the fair exercise of
his industry and talents, presented by stamps, licenses,
exciae laws, custom-house duties, d hoc genw omne; he
will discover the extent of responsibility attached by the
Creator to national transgressions. From my own obser-
vation, I would sq.y, that the miseries inflicted upon indi-
\'idual and families, by fiscal prosecutions, founded on
exci e laws, stamp laws, post-office laws, &.c., all originat-
ing in the necessity of providing for the national debt, are
equal to those arising from some of the most extensive
natural calamities. It is true, that few persons are prose-
cuted without having offended; but the evil consists in
presenting men with enormous temptations to infringe mere
financial regulations, not always in accordance with natural
morality, and then inflicting ruinous penalties for trans- ·
gression. Men have hitherto expected the punishment of
their offences in the thunderbolt or the yawning earth-
quake, and have believed, that because the sea did not
swallow them up, or the mountains fall upon them and
crush them to atoms, Heaven was taking no cognizance
of their sins; while, in point of fact, an omnipotent, an all-
just, and an all-wise Gon, had arranged, before they erred,
au ample retribution in the very consequeuces of their
transgressions. It is by looking to the principles in the
mind, from which transgressions flow, and attending to
their whole operations and results, that we discover the
real theory of the divine government. When men shall
be instructed in the laws of creation, they will discriminate
more accurately than heretofore between natural and fac-
titious evils, and become less tolerant of the latter.
Since the foregoing observations were written, the great
measure of Parliamentary Reform has been carried into
effect in Britain and Ireland, and already considerable pro-
gress has been made in rectifying our national institutions.
For the first time in the annals of the world, a nation has
voluntarily contributed a large sum of money for the ad-
oioti,... byGoogle
l:<!FRINGKMUT OF THE MORA.L LA.W. flil
vancement of pure benevolence and justice. We hav.e
agt>eed to pay twenty millions sterling for the freedom of
800,000 human beings, whom our unprincipled forefathers
had led into hopeless slavery. Sinecures have been abol-
ished, monopolies destroyed, unmerited pensions checked,
and taxation lightened; and there is a spirit abroad which
demands the reform of all other abuses in church -and state.
The high gratification which I experience in contemplating
these changes, arises from the perception that they have
all the tendency to place- the institutions of the country,
and the administration of them, in harmony with the dic-
tates of reason and the moral sentiments; the effect of
which will infallibly be, not only to increase the physical
enjoyments, but greatly to advance the moral; intellectual,
and religious condition, ~f the people. Example is the
most powerfuJ ·means of instruction, and it was in vain for
a priesthood allied to the state to preach truth, justice, and
benevolence to the people, while force, oppression, and
many other species of abuse, were practised by our rulers
and the church itself. No more effectual means of purify-
ing the hearts of the people can be devised, than that of
purifying all public institutions, and exhibiting justice and
ldndly affection as the animating motives of public men and
national measures.
Of all national enormities, that of legalizing the pur-
chase of human beings, and conducting them into slavery,
is probably the most atrocious and disgraceful; and Britain
was long chargeable with this iniquity. The callout inhu-
manity, the intense selfishness, and the utter disregard of
justice, implied in the practice, must have overflowed in
numerous evils on the people of Britain themselves. In-
deed, the state of wretched destitution in which the Irish
peasantry are allowed to remain, and the unheeded increase
of ignorance; poverty, and toil, in the manufacturing dia-
tricts, appear t~ be legitimate fruits of the same spirit which
patronised slavery; and these probably are preparing pun-
ishment for the nation, if repentance shall not speedily
oio "'ed by Google
C.lL.lMITI&I .laiSING J'aOK
appear. SJayery, however, bas now been abolished by
Britain, and I hail this as the fint step in a glorious career
ofmoral legislation. The North Americans have been left
behind by England, for once, in the march of Christian
practice. In the United States, Negro slavery continues
to deface the moral brightness of her legislative page; and
on no subject does prejudice appear to be so in\·eterately
powerful in that country as on slavery. Greatly as I
respect the character of the Americans, it is impossible to
approve of their treatment of the Negro- population. The
ancestors of the present American people stole, or acquired
by an unprincipled purchase, the ancestors of the existing
Negroes, and doomed them to a degrading bondage. This
act was utterly at variance with the dictates of the moral
sentiments, and of Christianity. Their posterity have
retained the blacks in thraldom, treated them with con-
tumely, and at this day regard them as scarcely human
beings. This also is a grievous transgression of the natu-
ral and revealed law of moral duty. Evil and suffering
must flow from these transgressions to the American people
themselves, if a just God really governs the world.
The argument that the Negroes are incapable of civili-
zation and freedom, is prematurely urged, and not relevant
although it were based upon fact. The Negro head pre-
sents great varieties of moral and intellectual development,
and I have seen several which appeared fully equal to the
discharge ofthe ordinary duties ofcivilized men. But the
race ~as never received justice from its European and
American masters; and until its treatment shall have be·
come moral, its capabilities cannot be fairly estimated,
and the judgment against it is therefore premature.• But,
• Tbe reader will find, in the 48th number of Chambers's Edinburgh
Jouroal (16th Dec. 1882), a very interesting aceouot of a Negro of high
moral aod iotelleetool qualities, who lived for a COIIIIiderable time near Ha·
wick. Another Negro, called Euataehe, of whole bead there is a cast in the
Phrenological Society'• eolleetion, displayed a degree of shrewdn- and dia-
latensted beoevoleoce very rare evea in Europe; nod his bead, while It pre-
"otl aa e&celleat aaterior clneJos-at, i• more prominellt at the orpn of
oio "'ed by Google
whatever be the capabilities of the Negroes, it was a
heinous moral transgreiiSion to transport them, by violent
means, from the region where they had been placed by a
wise and benevolent God, and to plant them in a new soil,
and amidst institutions, for which they were never intend-
ed; and the punishment of this offence will rather be
aggravated than averted, by losing sight of the source of
the transgression, and charging the consequences of it on
the Negroes, as if they were to blame for their alleged
incapacity to glide gracefully into the ranks of American
civilization. The Negroes must either be improved by
culture and intermarriage with the white race, or retrans-
ferred to their native climate, before America can escape
from the hands of divine justice. I am not sufficiently
acquainted with the details of American social life, to be
able to point out the practical form in which the punish-
ment is inflicted; but if there be truth in the principles
now ~xpounded, no doubt can be entertained of its exist-
ence.
The alternative of incoporating the Negroes, by inter-
marriage, with the European race, appears revolting to
the feelings of the latter; while they also declare it to be
impossible to retransport the blacks to Africa, on account
of their overwht>lming numbers. There is much force in
both of these objections, but the following considerations
have still greater weight:-the white race is exclusively
to blame for the origin of the evil, and for all its conse-
quences; the natural laws never relax in their operation;
Benevolence than any other head which has fallen under my observation. An
account of Eustache will be found in the Phrenological Journal, vol. ix. p.
134, and Joumal de Ia Societ~ Phrbwlogique de Pam, April 1886. Mr
Lawrence hruo collected, in the eighth chapter of his admirable Lectures on
Physiology, Zoology, and the Natural History of Mao, a great variety of facts
t<.>oding to prove that the Negroes, though morally and intellectually inferior
to tbe white race, Rre by no means near the bottom of the scale of ~umanity;
nod he expresses the well-grounded opinion,' that of the dark-colored people
Oboe have dit!tingaished thellllle!ves by stronger proofil of capacity for literary
aajl aeicatific innstiptioD, and, consequently, that none approach more nearly
than tile Negro to the poli•bed nations of tbe globe.'
oio "'ed by Google
C:ALAJIJTIU AaJIJifG J'&OX
ud hence the elliatiog eyiJa will go on augmenting until a
remedy be adopted, and this will become more painful the
longer it ia delayed. If the preeent state of things shall
be continued for a century, it is probable that it will end
in a war of extermination between·the black and the white
population, or in an attempt by the blacks to conquer and
exclusively possess one or more of the southern states of
the Union as an independent kingdom for themselves.
At the time when I write theae pages, the planters of
Jamaica and of the other West India Islands are com-
plaining of the ruinous consequences to them of Negro
emancipation, and blaming the British Government for
having abrogated slavery. These men apparently do not
believe in the moral goverDJDent of the world, or they do
not know the manner in which it is administered. If they
did, they would acknowledge that those who sow the wind
hue no right to complain when they reap the whirlwind.
The permanence of Negro slavery in the West Indies was
impossible; because it was a system of gross injustice,
cruelty, and oppression, and no such social fabric can
pennanently endure. Its fruits have long been poisonous
and bitter, and the planters are suffering the penalty of
"having reared them. They ought, l10wever, to thank the
justice and repentant generosity of the mother country,
which, by purchasing the freedom of the slaves, has so
greatly mitigated their punishment;. for they may rest
assured, that the annoyances now suffered are light and
transient compared with the calamities which would have
befallen them had slavery been prolonged until it had
wrought out its own termination. Another generation will
probably see and acknowledge this truth. But, in tim
meantime, I r€mark, that be the sufferings of the West
India planters at present what they may, they, as the rep-
resentatives of the original transgressors, are justly sus-
taining the penalty; and, in their instance, as in that of a
patient undergoing a severe operation to escape from a
dangerous disease, delay would only have protracted their
oio "'ed by Google
INFRlltG&MBN'l' OF TH& MORAL LAW. i'flj
aflliction, and augmented the ultimate pain and the danger
ofthe remedy. .
The Spaniards, under the influence of selfish rapacity
and ambition, conquered South America, inflicted upon
its wretched inhabitants the most atrociouiJ cruelties, and
continued, for 300 years, to weigh like a moral incubus
upon that quarter of the globe._ The punishment is now
endured. By the laws of the Creator, nations must obey
tije moral law to be happy; that is, to cultivate the arts of
peace, and to be industrious, upright, intelligent, pious, and
humane. The reward of such conduct is individual happi-
ness, and national greatness and glory: there shall then be
none to make them afraid. Tbe Spaniards disobeyed all
these laws in the conquest of America; they looked to
rapine and foreign gold, and not to industry, for wealth;
and this fostered avarice and pride in the government,
baseness in the nobles, and indolence, ignorance, and
mental depravity in the people- it led them to imagine
happiness to consist, not in the exercise of the moral and
intellectual powers, but in the gratification of all the in-
ferior, to the outrage of the higher feelings. Intellectual
cultivation was utterly neglected, the sentiments ran astray
into bigotry and superstition, and the propensities acquired
a fearful ascendeucy. These causes made them the prey
of internal discord and foreign invaders, and Spain at this
moment suffers an awful retribution.
Cowper recognises these principles of divine govern-
ment as to nations, and has embodied them in the following
pow.erful verses:
The band that slew till it eonld slay no more,
Was glued to the sword-hilt with Indian gore.
Their prince, as justly seated on his throne
As vain imperial Philip on \lis own,
Tricked out ofall his royalty by art,
That stripped him bare, and broke his honest heart,
Died by the sentence of a shaven priest,
For scorning what they taught him to detest.
How dark the veil, that intercepts the blaze
Of Heaven'• mysteriOUB purposes and wa7•!
oio "'ed by Google
C.lL.lllllTI&S .lRlllNG FROIII
GoD 1&ood DOt, tMup be~ to l&aDd, alooC;
And at this hour the conqueror feels the proof:
Tbe wreath be won drew down an iutant cune,
Tbe fretting plague is in the public parae,
Tbe cankered 10p0il corrode5 the piniug stale,
Starved by tbat iodoleoce tl1eir mind. create.
Oh! could Iheir ancient Incas rise again,
How would they take up hrael'• taunting strain!
Art tlrau too fallen, Iberia1 Do we-
The robber and the murderer weak u we1
Thou that hast wasted earth, and dared despile
Alike the wrath and mercy of the skies,
Thy pomp is in the grave, thy glory laid
Low in the pits thine avarice has made.
We come \viti• joy from oar eternal rest.
To aee th' oppressor in his turn oppreaoed,
Art tlrau the god, the thunder of whose band
Rolled over all our desolated land,
Shook principalities and kingdoms down,
And made the mountains tremble at his frown~
The sword shall light upon thy boasted powen,
And waste them, as the sword has w~d ours.
'Tis thu. Omnipotence his law fulfils,
And Vengeance execute• what Jutiee wills.
Cott:pc'• Pom&~.-Citarily.
The question has frequently been discussed, whether the
civilization of savages may be more easily effected by for-
cible or by pacific measures. By one class of reasoners,
including the late excellent Sir Stamford Raffles, it is con-
tended that civilized nations may, in their endeavors to
improve and enlighten savage tribes, employ with advan-
tage the superior power with which they are armed: but,
on the principle ofthe supremacy of the moral sentiments,
we are entitled to conclude, a prWri, that such a method
of proceeding would be found ineffectual. The employ-
ment of compulsion is calculated to rouse chiefly the
propensities, while the very essence of civilization is the
prodominance ofthe moral and intellectual powers.• This
• See O~tious on the Phrenological Sta11danl of Civiliatioa, Pllrea.
Joar. ix. 860.
o;9,\i,ed by GoogIe
lNPilJNG&Dlft' OY 'l'BJI li!IOIU.L LA.W. i't'f
aubject is ably handled by a very acute anonymous writer
in the Library of Entertaining Knowledge. • History,
he remarks, does not warrant the opinion that any nation
has ever been civilized by the sword; and the improve-
meni which followed the Roman conquests appears to have
been brought about, aot by compulsion, but by the exhibi-
tion of ' a standard and pattern of comfort and elegance
which the barbarians could hardly fail first to admire, and
afterwards to imitate.' The Romans do not seem to-have
violently interfered with the established customs and insti-
tutions of conquered nations. ' The inferior animals,'
says the excellent writer alluded to, ' can only be reduced
to obedience by constraint ; but men are formed to be
tamed by other methods. Example, persuasion, instruc-
tion, are the only means we may lawfully make use of to
wean savages from their barbarism; and they are also the
best fitted to accomplish that object. It is not even pre-
tended that an exercise of what are falsely called the rights
of conquest for such a purpose would have any chance of
being successful till after the lapse of at least two or three
generations- till the conquered people, in fact, have be-
come mixed and amalgamated with their conquerors, or,
from not having been permitted to follow the customs of
their ancestors, have actually forgotten them. In some
cases the natives have been absolutely extirpated before
this has happened, as was the case almost universally on
the South American continent, and of which we have a
more remarkable instance in the attempts of the Spanish
Jesuits to christianize by main force the inhabitants of the
Marianas, which were terminated in a few years by the
almost entire t\epopulation of that beautiful archipelago.' t
In surveying the present aspect of Europe, we perceive
astonishing improvements achieved in physical science.
• TI1e New Zealanders, p. 402-410.
t •See the narrative of these extraordinary pro>ceedings, though related by
a pen iD the interest of their anthon, in Father Legobien's Hutoin tl• Ilu
.ar..n-...·
oio '"•d by Google
,
1'78 CAL4JIITIU AJliiiKG J'JlOIII
How much ie implied in the mere names of the &team-
engine, power-looms, rail-roads, steam-boats, canals, and
gu-lights; and yet of how much misery are several of
these inventions at present the direct sources, in conse-
quence of being almost exclusively dedicated to the grati-
fication of the propensities! The leading purpose to which
the steam-engine in almost all its forms of application is
devoted, is the accumulation of wealth, or the gratification
of Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem; and few have pro-
posed to lessen, by its means, the hours of toil of the lower
orders of society, so as to afford them opportunity and
leisure for the cultivation of their moral and intellectual
faculties, and thereby to enable them to render a more per-
fect obedience to the Creator's institutions. Physical has
far outstripped moral science; and it appears to me, that,
unless mankind shall have their eyes opened to the real
constitution of the world, and be at length induced to regu-
late their conduct in harmony with the laws of the Creator,
their future physical discoveries will tend only to deepen
their wretchedness. Intellect, acting as the ministering
servant of the propensities, will lead them only farther
astray. The science of man's whole nature, animal, moral,
and intellectual, was never more required to guide him
than at present, when he seems to wield a giant's power,
but in the application of it to display the ignorant selfish-
ness, wilfulness, and absurdity of an overgrown child.
History has not yielded half her fruits, and cannot yield
them until mankind shall pos!less a true theory of their own
nature.
Many persons believe that they discover evidence against
the moral government of the world, in the success of indi-
viduals not greatly gifted with moral and intellectual quali-
ties, in attaining to great wealth, rank, and social conside-
ration, while men of far superior merit remain in obscurity
and poverty. But the solution of this difficulty is to be
found in the consideration, that success in society depends
on the possession, in an ample degree, of the qualities
oio "'ed by Google
INFRINGEMENT OF TBE MORAL LAW. 279
which society needs and appreciates, and. that these bear
reference to the state in which society finds itself at the
time when the observation is made. In the savage and
barbarous conditions, bodily strength, courage, fortitude,
and skill in war, lead a man to the highest honors; in a
society like that ofmodern England, commercial or manu-
facturing industry may crown an individual with riches,
and great talents of debate· may carry him to the summit
of political ambition. In proportion as society advances in
moral and intellectual acquirements, it will make larger
demands for similar qualities in its favorites. The reality
of the moral government of the world appears from the
degree of happiness which individuals and society enjoy in
these different states. If unprincipled commercial and
political adventurers were happy in proportion to their ap-
parent success; or if nations were as prosperous under the
dominion of reckless warriors as under that of benevolent
and enlightened rulers; or if the individuals who compose
a nation enjoyed as much serenity and joy of mind when
they advanced the bold, selfish, and unprincipled to places
oftrust and power, as when they chose the upright, bene-
volent, and pious,-the dominion of a just Creator might
weU be doubted. But the facts are the reverse of these,
oio "'ed by Google
( !80 )
CHAPTER VI.
ON PUNISHMENT.
SECTION I.
ON J't7Nt8BMENT AS INPLIOTBD VNDBR TBB NATt11lAL LAWS.
Tm lut point connected with tbe Natural Laws, which
I consider, is the principle oa which punishment for in-
fringement ofthem is inflicted in this world.
Every law presupposes a superior, who establishes it,
and requires obedience to its dictates. The superior may
be supposed to act under the dictates ofthe animal faculties,
or under those of the moral sentiments. The former be-
ing selfish, whatever they desire is for selfish gratification.
Hence laws instituted by a superior iospired by the animal
powers, would have fur their leading object the individual
advantage of the law-giver, with no systematic regard to
the enjoyment or welfare of those who were called on to
obey. The moral sentiments, on the other hand, arc al-
together generous, disinterested, and just; they delight in
the happiness of others, and do not seek individual advan-
tage as their supreme end. Laws, instituted by a law-giver
inspired by them, would have for their grand object the
advantage and enjoyment of those who are required to
yield obedience. The story of William Tell will illustrate
my meaning. Gessler, an Austrian governor of the canton
ofUri, placed his hat upon a pole, and required the Swiss
peasants to pay the same honors to it that were due to
himself. The object of this requisition was obviously the
1ratitication of the Austrian's Self-Esteem, in witnessing
the humiliation of the Swiss. It was framed without the
least regard to their happine!lfi because such abject slavery
could gratify no faculty in their minds,.e.nd. ameliorate no
oio "'ed by Google
ON PUNISBIIIUT. 281
principle of their nature, but, on the contrary, was calcu-
lated to cause the greatest pain to their feelings.
Before punishment for breaking such a law as this could
be justly inflicted, it would be indispensably necessary that
the people called on to obey it should not only possess
the power of doing so, but likewise be benefited by their
obedience. If it could be established, that, by the very
constitution of their minds, it was impossible for the SwiBB
to reverence the hat of the tyrant, and that, if they had
pretended to do so, they would have manifested only base-
ness and hypocrisy,-then the law was unjust, and all pun-
ishment for disobedience was pure tyranny and oppression
on the part of the governor. In punishing, he employed
Destructiveness as a means of procuring gratification to
his own Self-Esteem.
Let us imagine, on the other hand, a law promulgated
by a sovereign whose sole motive was the happiness of his
subjects, and that the edict was, Thou shalt not steal. If
the law-giver were placed far above the reach of theft by
his subjects, and if respect to each other's rights were in-
dispensable to the welfare of his people themselves, then it
is obvious, that, so far as he was personally concerned, their
stealing or not stealing would be of no importance to him,
while it would be of the highest moment to themselves.
Let us suppose, then, that, in order to prevent the evils
which the subjects would bring upon themselves by steal-
ing, be were to add as a penalty, that every man who stole
should be locked up, and instructed in his duty until he
clearly felt the necessity of abstaining from theft,--the jus-
tice and benevolence of this sentence would rest securely
on the circumstance, that it was in the highest degree ad-
vantageous, both to society at large and to the offender him-
sal£ Suppose that the latter was born with large organs of
Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness, and deficient Conscien-
tiousness, and that when he committed the offence he really
could not help stealing,- still there would be no cruelty
and no injustice in loclUng him up, and inatructing him i.n
24
oio "'ed by Google
oN PUI(J1111DlfT u t.NPLtcno
moral duty until be learned to abstain from theft; because,
ifthis were not done, and if all men were to follow his ex-
ample and only steal, the human race, and he, 88 a member
of it, would necessarily starve and become extinct.
Now, the Creator's natural laws, so far as I have been
able to perceive them; are instituted solely on the latter
principle; that is to say, there is not the slightest indica-
tion of the object of any of the arrangements of cteation
being to gratifY an inferior feeling in the Creator himself.
No well-constituted mind, indeed, could conceive Him
commanding beings whom He called into existence, and
whom He could annihilate in a moment, to do any act of
homage which had reference merely to the acknowledgment
of his authority, solely for his personal gratification, and
without regard to their own welfare and enjoyment. We
cannot, in short, without absolute outrage to the moral sen-
timents and intellect, imagine him doing any thing analo-
gous to the act of the Swiss governor-placing an emblem
of his authority on high, and requiring his creatures to
obey it, merely to gratify Himself by their homage, to their
own disparagement and distress. Accordi~gly, every natu-
ral Jaw, so far 88 I can· discover, appears clearly instituted
for the purpose ofadding to the enjoyment ofthe creatures
who are called on to obey it. The object of the punish-
ment inflicted for disobedience is to arrest the offender in
his departure from the laws; which departure, if permitted
to proceed to its natural termination, would involve him in
tenfold greater miseries. This arrangement greatly pro-
motes the activity of the faculties; and, active faculties be-
ing fountains of pleasure, the penalties themselves become
benevolent and just. For example,
Under one of the physical laws, all organic bodies are
liable to combustion. Timber, coal, oils, and animal sub-
stances, when heated to a certain extent, catch 6re and
burn: And the question occurs, Was this quality bestowed
on them for a benevolent purpose or not~ Let oe look to
the advantages attending it. By meane of fire we o*fm
oio "'ed by Google
UNDIIB. TJlll NATtrB.A.L LAWS.
warmth in cold latitudes, aod light after the sun bu set:
it enables us to cook, thereby tendering our food more
wholesome aod savoury; and by its aid we soften aod fuse
the metals. I need go no farther; every one will acknow-
ledge, that, by the law under .which organic bodies are
liable to combustion, countless benefits are conferred on
the human race.
The human body itself, however, is organized, and in
consequence is subject to this law; so that, if placed in a
great fire, it is utterly dissipated in a few minutes. Some
years ago, a woman, in a fit of insanity, threw herself into
an iron smelting furnace, in full blaze: she was observed
by a man working on the spot, who instaotly put off tho
steam-engine that was working the bellows, and came to
take her out; but he then taw only a small black speck on
the surface of the fire, and in a few minutes more even it
had disappeared. The effect of a less degree of beat is to
disorganize the texture of the body. What mode, then,
has the Creator followed, to preserve men from the danger
to which they are subjected by fire? He has caused their
nerves to communicate sensations from beat, agreeable
while the temperature is such as to benefit the body;
slightly uneasy, when it becomes so high as to be in some
measure hurtful; positively painful when the heat ap-
proaches that degree at which it would seriously injure the
organized system; and horribly agonizing whenever it be-
comes so elevated as todestroy the organs. The principle
of all this is very obviously benevolent. Combustion brings
us innumerable advantages; and when we place ourselves
in accordance with the law intended to regulate our rela-
tion to it, we reap tmmirlgled benejiU and pkaavre. But
we are in danger from its excessive action; and so kind is
the Creator, that he does not trust to the guardianship of
our own Captiousness and intellect alone to protect us from
infringement, but has established a monitor in e<rery eeai-
tiTe IIIBrTe, whoaeadmonitiOilll increaee in mt.ea.aty tJu:ouch
imperceptiblepatioea. uquisitelyadjlllltedto&a. decMe~~
oio "'ed by Google
OK PUKIIBII&KT AI JNPLICT&D
of danger, till at last, in preaaiug circumstances, they urge
in a note so clamant as to excite the wh6le physical and
mental energy of the offencrer to withdraw him from the
impending destruction.
Many persons imagine that this mode of admonition
would be altogether unexceptionable if the offender always
poaaessed the power to avoid incurring it, but that, on the
other hand, when a child, or an aged person, stumbles into
the fire, through mere lack of bodily strength to keep out
of it, it cannot be just and benevolent to visit him with the
tortures that follow from burning. This, however, is a
short-sighted objection. If, to remedy the evil supposed,
the law of combustion were altogether suspended as to chil-
dren and old men, so that, as far as they were concerned,
fire did not exist, then they would be deprived of the light,
warmth, and other benefits which it affords. This would
be an awful deprivation; for warmth is more than com-
monly grateful and necessary to them, in consequence of
the very feebleness of their frames. Or we may suppose
that their nerves were constituted so as to feel no pain from
burning-an arrangement which would effectually guarantee
them against the tortures of falling in the fire: But, in the
first place, nerv('s feel pain under the same law that enables
them to feel pleasure- the agony of burning arises alto-
gether from an excessive degree of the stimulus of heat
which, when moderate, is genial and pleasant; and, secondly,
if no pain were felt when in the fire, the child and old man
would have no urgent motive to get out of it. Under the
present system, the pain would excite an intense desire to
escape; it would increase their muscular energy; or make
them roar aloud for assistance; in short, it would compel
them to get out of the fire, by some means or other, and
thus if possible escape from death. As they fell into
the fire in consequence of a deficiency of mental or bodily
power to keep out of it, the conclusion is obvious, that if
no pain attended their contact with the flames, they might
·repoae there aa oontentedly aa on a bed of downi and the
oio "'ed by Google
URDBB THE !U'l'UJUL LAWS.
fond mother might find a black ciader for her child, or a
pious daughter a half-ehared mass of bones for her father,
although he bad been only in an adjoining apartment, the
slightest cry or groan from which would have brought her
'to arrest the calamity. '
In this instance, then, the law of combustion under which
punishment is inflicted, is both benevolent and just, even
when pain visits persons who were incapable of avoiding
the offence; because the object of the law is the welfare of
these very unconscious offenders themselves, so that if it
were subverted, they would be greatly injured, and would
loudly petition for its re-establishment.
Let us take another example. Opium, by its inherent
qualities, and the relationship established by the Creator
between it and the nervous system of man, operates, if
taken in one proportion, as a stimulant; if the proportion
is increased, it becomes a sedative; and if still increased, it
paralyses the nervous system altogether, and death ensues.
Now, it is generally admitted, that there is no want of
benevolence and justice, when a·full-grown and intelligent
man loses his life, if he deliberately swallow an overdose
of opium, knowing its qualities and their effects; because,
it is said, he exposed himself to these effects voluntarily:
When, however, an ignorant child, groping about for
something to eat and drink, in order to satisfy the craving
of its natural curiosity and appetite, stumbles on a phial of
laudanum, intended for the use of some sick·relativc, pulls
the cork, drinks, and dies,-many persons imagine that it
is very difficult to discover justice and benevolence in this
severe, and, as they say, unmerited catastrophe.
But the real view of the Jaw under which both events
happen, appears to me to be this. The inherent qualities
of opium, and its relationship to the nervous system, are
very obviously benevolent, and are the sources of manifest
advantages to man. If, in order to avoid every cbance
of accidents, opium, in so far as children are concerned,
were deprived of its qualities, so that their nervous systems
oio "'ed by Google
Olf PVlUIBIIU'l' AI JJIII'LICTU
received DO tJrealer iJapreuioo from it than from tepid
water, it ia clear that they would be decidedly sufferers.
The sreateat advaotqea of the drug are derived from ita
ICllk ofe}fo:Vtu:y, by which it can be made to produce, first
a stimulating effect, then a gently sedative, and afterwards
a bitJher and a higher degree of sedative influence, until,
by insensible degrees, absolute paralysis may ensue. A
dose which kills in health will cure in disease; and, if its
range were limited to effects beneficial in health, its
advantqes in disease, arising from higher action, would
necesaarily be lost- so that children, by the supposed
arrangement, would be cut off from its beneficial adminis-
tration. The parallel between it and the law of combus-
tion is complete. If we could never have commanded a
degree of heat higher than that which gently warms the
human body, we must have wanted all the advantages now
derivable from the intense heats used in cooking, baking,
and manufacturing; if we could never have commanded
more than the gently stimulant and sedative effects of opium
on the body in a state of health, we should necessarily have
been deprived of its powerful remedial action in cases of
disease. The proper question then is, Whether is it more
benevolent and just that children, after they have been
exposed, from whatever cause, to that high degree of its
influence, which, although beneficial in disease, is adverse
to the healthy action ofthe nervous system, should be pre-
served alive in this miserable condition, or that life should
at once be termina~ed? It appears obviously advantageous
to the offender himself, that death should relieve him from
the unhappy condition into which his organized frame has
been brought by the abuse of this substance, calculated,
when discreetly used, to .confer on him no mean advan-
tqes.
The principle that divine punishments are founded in
benevolence, even to the sufferer, is strongly elucidated in
the case ofthe organic laws. When inflammation, for ex-
ample, has seized any vital organ, if there were no .,.U..
oio "'ed by Google
there would be no intimatioo that an organic Jaw had been
infringed, the disease would proceed quietly in its progress,
and death would ensue without the least previous warning.
The pain attending an acute disease, therefore, is obvious-
ly instituted to warn the siJfferer, by the most forcible ofall
admonitions, to return to obedience to the law which he
has infringed. In the case of a broken limb, or a deep
cut, the principle becomes exceedingly obvious. The bone
of the leg will reunite, if the broken edges are preserved
in close contact; and the subsequent serviceable condition
of the limb will depend much upon th~ degree of exactness
with which they have been made to re-approach and been
preserved in their natural position. Now, in the first place,
the pain attending a broken limb gives a most peremptory
intimation that an injury has been sustained; secondly, it
excites the individual most forcibly to the r~paration of it;
and, thirdly, as it recurs with a degree of violence exactly
proportioned to the disturbance of the parts, after the heal-
ing process has commenced it officiates like a sentinel with
a drawn sword, compelling the patient to avoid every thing
that may impede his recovery. The same observations
apply to a flesh-wound. The pain serves to intimate the
injury, and to excite to its removal. The dissevered
edges of!he skin, nerves, and muscles, if skilfully made to
re-approach, will, by the organic law, reunite if left in
repose. An accession of pain follows every disturbance of
their condition, when in the process of healing; and it
serves, therefore, as a most effectual and benevolent guar-
dian of the welfare of the individual. If these views be
correct, what person would dispense with the pain which
attends the infringement of the organic laws, although
such a boon were offered for his acceptance? It is obvious,
that, if he possessed the least glimmering of understanding,
he would thank the Creator for the institution, and beg in
mercy to be allowed the benefits attending it; especially
if he considered the fact, that, after the possibility of re-
covery ceases, death steps in to terminate the suffering.
oio "'ed by Google
.. OK PVJfltJUdKT AI IIOJ.JC'I'&D
The poiot to which I requeat the reader's special atten-
tion is, that the power of the individual to avoid, or not to
avoid, the infringement ofthe law in the particular instance
which brings the punishment, if! not an indispensable cir·
cumstbce in rendering the infliction benevolent and just.
The infliction is approved of by the moral sentiments and
intellect, because the law, in its legitimate operation, is
calculated altogether for the advantage of the subject; and
because the punishment has no object but to bring him
back to obeditt&ce for !til oum welfare, or to terminate !til
w.fftring• when he hal trred too widely to return.
Let us now inquire whether the same principle prevails
in regard to the infringement of the ~loral and Intellectual
Laws. This investigation is attended with great difficulty;
and it may be best elucidated by attending, in the first
place, to the liability to punishment for their actions, under
which the lower animals are placed.
The physical and organic laws affect the inferior crea-
tures in the same manner as they regulate man, so that
nothing need be said on these points. The animals are
endowed with propensities impelling them to act, and a
certain degree of intellect enabling them to perceive the
consequences of their actions These faculties prompt
them to inflict punishment on each other for infringement
of their rights, although they possess no sentiments point·
ing out the moral guilt of such conduct. For example,
dogs possess Acquisitiveness, which gives them the sense
of property: when one is in possession of a bone, and
another attempts to steal it, this act instantly excites the
Combativeness and Destructiveness of the proprietor of
the bone, an\ he proceeds to worry the assailant. Or a
cock, on a dunghill, finds a rival intruding on his domain,
and under the instinctive inspiration of Combativeness and
offended Self-Esteem, he attacks him and drives him off.
1 call this inflicting animal punishment. In these cases it
ill not supposed that the aggressors possess moral faculties,
intimatiag that their trespass is wrong, or free will by
oio "'ed by Google
UNDSR 'l'Uit NATURAL LAWS. !89
which they could avoid it. I view them as inspared by
their propensities, and rushing blindly to gratification.
Nevertheless, in the effect which the aggression produce•
on the propensities of the animal assailed, we perceive an
arrangement instituted by the Creator for checking out-
rage, and arresting its progress.
Before the. penalty inflicted could be viewed by man u
just in such cases, it would be necessary to perceive that it
was instituted for the benefit of the aggressors themselves;
and, in truth, this is clearly observed to be the case. If
all dogs neglected to seek bones, and dedicated themselvee
eolely to stealing; and if cocks, in general, deserted their
own domains, and gave themselves up only to felonious
inroads on each other's territories; it is evident that the
races of these animals would soon become extinct. It fol-
lows also, that any individual among them who should
habitually abandon himself to such transgressions, would
speedily lose his life by violence or starvation. If, then, it
is beneficial for the race, and also for the individual offender
himself, in these instances, to be arrested in his progresti,
his chastisement is decidedly benevolent and just.
It is interesting to observe, that various provisions are
made under the animal law for bringing about substantial
justice, even in creatures destitute of the sentiment of
Conscientiousness. The lower animals make perfectly
sure of punishing only the real offender; for he must be
caught in the act, otherwise he is not visited by their re-
sentment. In the next place, it appears to be the general
law of animal nature, that, unless the offender has carried
his inroad to an extreme extent, the punishment is relaxed
the moment he desists; that is to say, the master of the
bone or dunghill is generally satisfied with simple defence,
and rarely abandons his treasure to pursue the offender for
the sake ofmere revenge.
Farther, the animals, in inflicting punishment, make no
inquiry into the cmue oftlu offince. With them it affords
no alleviation that the aggressor is himself in a state of the
~
oio "'ed by Google
'
ON PtJNISHM&NT AS ll'I'FLJCT&D
1reatest destitution, -or that hia appetite is irresistible ;
neither do they concern themselves about his fate after
they have made him undergo the penalty. He may die of
the wounds they have inllicted upon him, or of absolute
starvation, before their eyes, without their enjoyment being
in the least disturbed. This arises from their faculties
consisting entirely of those powers which regard only self.
They are deficient in the faculties which inquire into causes
and trace consequences; and in the moral sentiments,
which desire, with a disinterested affection, the welfare of
other beings.
Nevertheless, the punishment which they inflict is in
itself just, and serves, as we have seen, a decidedly bene-
ficial end. Let us now direct our attention to man.
Man possesses the same animal propensities as those of
the lower creatures, and, under their instigation, he inflicts
punishment on principles precisely analogous to those un-
der which they chastise. Indeed, it is curious to remark,
that hitherto the criminal laws, even of the most civilized
nations, have been framed on the principles of animal pun-
ishment exclusively. A thief, for example, breaks into a
dwelling-house and steals. The reflecting faculties are
employed to discover the offender, and find evidence ofthe
offence. Judges and juries assemble to determine whether
the evidence is sufficient; and if they find it to be so, the
offender is ordered to be banished, imprisoned, or hanged.
We are apt to imagine that there is something moral in the
trial. But the sole object of it is to ascertain that a crime
bas been committed, and that the accused is the real of-
fendell'. The dog and cock make equally certain of both
points; because they never punish except when the indi-
vidual is caught in the offence. Guilt being ascertained,
and the offender identified, the dog shakes and worries him,
and then lets him go; while man scourges his back, or
makes him mount the steps of a tread-mill, and then turns
him adrift. If the offender has been very presumptuous
and pertinacious in his aggression, the dog sometimes,
oio "'ed by Google
UNDJtll THE NATURAL LAWS. 191
although rarely, throttles him outright; and man, in simi-
lar circumstances, very generally strangles him with a rope,
or cuts off his head. The dog, in his proceeding, makes
no inquiry into the causes which led to the crime, or into
the consequences, upon the offender, of the punishment
which he inflicts. In this also he is imitated by the human
race. Man inflicts his vengeance with aa little inquiry into
t.he causes which led to the offence,-and, except when be
puts him to death, he turns the culprit adrift upon the
world after he haa undergone his punishment, with as little
concern about what shall next befall him as is shown by
his canine prototype. The dog acta in this manner, be-
cause he is inspired by animal propensities, and higher
faculties have been denied him. Man imitates him, because
he too has received animal faculties, - and because, al-
though he possesses, in addition to them, moral sentimenta
and reflecting intellect, he has not yet discovered the prac-
tical application of these to the subject of criminal legil-
lation.
The animal punishment is not without advantage ena
.in the case of man, although it is far short, in this respect,
of what he might obtain by following the guidance of his
moral sentiments and enlightened inteUect. Man as a
mere animal could not exist in society, unless some check
were instituted against abuses of the propensities ; and
hence it is quite obvious, that animal vengeance, rude aa it
is, carries with it results beneficial even to the offender,
except where it puts him to death- a degree of punish-
ment which, as we have seen, the lower animals rarely
inflict on each other of the same species. Unless the
outrages of Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness, Self-Esteem,
and the other animal faculties, were checked, human so-
ciety would be dissolved, and by that result the offeaders
themselves would suffer more grievous ·calamities than
uuder any moderate form of animal castigation.
The world is arranged, in so far ias regards the lower
creatures, with a wise relation to the facultiea bestowed oa
oio "'ed by Google
Ol'f PUI'fiSHM&I'fT .U ll'fFLICTBD
them. Accordingly, animal resentment is really effective
in their ease. In consequence of their not possessing re-
ftecting faculties, they are incapable of forming deep or
eatensive schemes for mutual aggression, and are not led
to speculate on the chances of escaping detection in their
misdeeds. Their offences are limited to casual overftow-
ings of their propensities when excited by momentary
temptation; which are checked by counter overfiowings
of other propensities, momentarily excited in the animals
aggrieved.
In regard to man, however, the world has been arranged
on the principle of supremacy ofthe moral sentiments and
intellect; and, in consequence, animal retribution is not
equally ~ffectual in his case. For example, a human of-
fender employs his intellect in devising means to enable
him to escape detection, or to defend himself against pun-
ishment; and hence, although be sees punishment staring
him in the face, his hope deludes him into the belief that
he may escape it. Farther, if the real cause of human of-
fences be excessive size and activity of the organs of the
animal propensities, it follows that mere punishment can-
not put a stop to crime; because it O'l!erlooks tke tame, and
lea'I!U il to operate unth unabated energ'?! ajttr the inflictioft
la.at been endured. The history of the world, accordingly,
presents us with a regular succession of crimes and punish-
ments, and at present the series appears to be as far re-
moved from a termination as at any previous period of the
annals of the race.
If the world, in regard to man, has been arranged on the
principle of supremacy of the moral sentiments and intel-
lect, we might expect better success were moral retributioft,
of which I now proceed to treat, resorted to.
The motive which prompts the dog to worry, and. the
cock to peek and spur his assailant, is, as we have seen,
mere animal resentment. His propensities are disagreeably
affected, and Combativeness and Destructiveness instinc-
tively start into activity to repel the aggression. The ani-
oio "'•d by Google
t1NDBJl TUB NATURAL LAWS.
mal resentment of man is precisely analogous. A thief is
odious to Acquisitiveness, because he robs it of its trea-
. sures; a murderer is offensive to our feelings, becaaee
he extinguishes life. And, these faculties being offended,
CombativeneBB and Destructivene88 rush to their aid in
man while under the animal dominion, as instinctively u
in the dog,-and punish the offender on principles, and in
a way, exactly similar.
The case is different with tho proper human faeultiee.
Benevolence, contemplating outrage and murder, disap-
proves of them because they are hostile to its inhereat
constitution, and because they occasion calamities to tho.
who are their objects, and misery to the perpetrators them-
selves. Conscientiousness is pained by the perception of
theft, because its very nature revolts at every infringeme_
at
ofright, and because justice is eBSential to the welfare of
all intelligent beings. Veneration is offended at recklea
insult and indignity, because its desire is to respect the in-
telligent creatures of the God whom it adores, believing
that they are all the objects of his love. When crime is
presented to the moral sentiments, therefore, they all aT-
dently and instinctively desire that it should be stopped,
and ita recurrence prevented, just because it is in direct
opposition to their very nature; and this impression on
their part is not dependent on the power of the criminal to
offend or to forbear. Benevolence grieves at death in
ftieted by a madman, and calls aloud that it should be
averted ; Conscientiousn888 disavows all theft, although
committed by an idiot, and requires that he should be re-
lltrained; while Venention recoils at the irreverences even
ofthe frenzied. The circumstance of the offenders bein«
involuntary agents, quite incapable of·relltrainieg their
propenliitie,:~, does not alter the aversion ofthe monl facul-
ties to their actions; and the reuona of this are obvio,a'
first, .theee facUlties bate evil because it is contrary to their
aatare, from whatever sounse it apringa; -and, ~lll;1
the circumstance ofthe agsres8or being a aeceaeary ageos..
2&1'
oio "'ed by Google
01'1 PUI'IIIHM&IfT .U l:'i'PLICTBD
doea not diminiah the calamity inflicted on the suft"erer.
It i.a aa painful to be killed by a madman as by a deliberate
..aMin; and it is as destructive to property to be robbed
by a cunning idiot, as by an acute and practised thief.
We perceive, therefore, as the first feature of the moral
and intellectual law, that the higher sentiments, absolutely
and in all circumstances, declare against offences, and
demand imperatively that they shall be brought to an end.
There is a great dilference, however, between the means
which they suggest for accomplishing this object, and those
prompted by the propensities. The latter, as I have said,
blindly inflict animal res~ntment without the slightest re-
gard to the cowc• which led to the crime, or the come-
IJUl'ICCI ofthe punishment. They seize the aggressor, and
worry, bite, or strangle him; and there they begin and
terminate their operations.
The moral and intellectual faculties, on the other hand,
embrace even the criminal himself within the range oftheir
sympathies Benevolence desires to render him virtuous,
and thereafter happy, as well as to rescue his victim.
Veneration desires that he should be treated as a mao ;
and Conscientiousness declares that it cannot with satisfac-
tion acquiesce in any administration towards him that does
not tend to remove the motives of his misconduct, and to
prevent their recurrence. The first step, then, which the
m~ral and intt:llectual faculties combine in demanding, is a
full exposition of the causes of the offence, and the conse-
quences ofthe mode of treatment proposed.
Let us, then, pursue this investigation; and here it may
be obnrved, tbat we are now in condition to do so with
-.ometbing like a chance of success; for, by the aid of
Phrenology, we have obtained a tolerably clear view of
the elementllt'y faculties of the mind, and the. elfeeta of
~anization on their activity and vigor. .
The leading fact, then, whica 81Teeta our attention ill
tlaia iaquiry, is, that lWf'?/ critnt procred. froa em Gban tf
,...foewllf 07' otlter; and the qaeetion immediately an.e.,
oio "'ed by Google
UNDER TRB NATUR.\L LAWS. i95
Whence originates the tendency to abuse? Phrenology
enables us to answer, From threo sources: first, from par-
ticular organs being too large and spontaneously active;
secondly, from great excitement produced by external
causes; or, thirdly, from ignorance of what are uses and
what are abuses of the faculties.
The moral and intellectual powers next demand, What
is the cause of particular organs being too large and active
in individuals? Phrenology, for answer, points to the law
of hereditary descent, by which the organs most energetic
in the parents determine those which shall predominate in
the child. Intellect then infers that, according to this
view, certain individuals are unfortunate at birth, in having
received organs from their parents so ill proportioned, that
abuse ofsome ofthem is almost an inevitable consequence
if they are left to the sole guidance of their own sugges-
tions. Phrenology replies, that the fact appears to be
exactly so. In the Museum of the Phrenological Society
is exhibited a large assemblage of skulls and casts of the
heads of criminals, collected from Europe, Asia, Africa,
and America; and an undeniable feature in them all, is a
great preponderance of the organs of the animal faculties
over those ofthe moral sentiments and intellect.
In the next place, great excitement from external causes
may arise from the individual being pressed by animal
want, stimulated by intoxicating liquors, or seduced by
evil example, and from a variety of similar influences.
And, thirdly, abuses may arise from sheer want of
information concerning the constitution of the mind and it.
relations to external objects. Persecution for opinion, for
example,.is a crime obviously referrible to this source.
I have examined the cerebral development of a consid~
erable number of criminals, and inquired into the external
circumstances in which they had been placed, and hln'e DO
beeitation in saying, that if, in the ease of every offender,
the three sources of erime here enumerated were in.-..
U,ated, reported on1 and published, the oonvlotion would.
ON PUI'fiiBlii&NT .U INI'LICT&D
become irresistible that the individual was the victim of his
nature and external condition, and penitentiaries would be
resorted to as the only means of at once abating crime and
satisfying the moral feelings of the community. The public
err through ignorance, and knowledge only is needed, to
ensure their going into the right path.
Moreover, intellect perceives, and the moral sentiments
acknowledge, that these causes exist indepmdemly of tht
will of the offtnder. The criminal, for example, is not the
cause of the unfortunate preponderance of the animal
organs in his own brain; neither is he the creator of the
external circumstances which lead his propensities into
abuse, or of the ignorance in which ne is involved. Never-
theless, the moral and intellectual faculties ofthe indifferent
spectator of his condition do not, on this account, admit
that he ought, either for his own sake or for that of society,
to be permitted to proceed in an unrestricted course of
crime. They absolutely insist OQ arresting his progress,
and their first question is, How may this best be done?
Intellect answers, By remo17ing the c&tUt& uhich prodtU:e tlae
o.lfmct«.
The first cause-the great preponderance ofthe animal
organs- cannot, by any means yet known, be summarily
removed. Intellect, therefore, points out another alterna-
tive -that of supplying, by moral and physical restraint,
the control which, in a brain better constituted, is afforded
by large moral and intelJectual organs; in short, of placing
the offender under such a degree of effective control as
absolutely to prevent the abuses of his faculties. Benevo-
lence acknowledges this proceeding to be kind, Veneration
to be respectful, and Cooscieotiousneas to be just, at once
to the oCfender himself and to society; and Intellect per-
ceives that, wheoeYer it is adopted, it will form an impor-
tat step towanla preYentiog a repetition ofcrimea.
The second cause, via. great excitement from without,
may lte remo•ed by withdrawing the irulividaal fioom the
-.ot..........................._ ... ~
oio "'ed by Google
, UND&R TB& !U.TUJLAL LAWS.
which he is exposed. The very restraint and control
which serve to effect the first object, will directly tend to
accomplish this second one at the same time.
The third cause- namely ignorance-may be removed
by conveying instruction to the intellectual powers.
If these principles be sound, the measures pow recom-
mended ought, when viewed in all their consequences, to
be not only the most just and benevolent, but at the same
hme the most ad1Jantageous that could be adopted. Let us
contrast their results with those of the animal method.
Under the animal system, as we have already seen, no
measures except the excitement of terror, are taken to
preMnt the commission of crime. Under the moral plan,
as soon as a tendency to abuse the faculties appeared in
any individual, instant means of prevention would be re-
sorted to, because the sentiments could not be satisfied
unless this were done. Under the animal system, no in-
quiry is made into the future proceedings of the offender,
and he is turned loose upon society under the unabated
influence of all the causes which led to his infringement of
the law; and, as effects never cease while their causes
continue to opera•e, he repeats his olfence, and becomes
the object of a new animal infliction. Under the moral
system, the causes would be removed, and the evil effects
would cease.
Under the animal system, the propensities of the offender
and society are ,maintained in habitual excitement; for the
punishment proceeds from the animal faculties, and is like-
wise addressed to them. Flogging, for instance, proceeds
from Destructiveness, and is addressed solely to sensation
and fear. The tread-mill springs from Destructiveness id
a milder form, and, as its sole object is to cause annoyance
to the offender, it •s obviously addressed only to Cautious-
ness and his selfish feelings. Hanging and decapitation
undeniably spring from Destructiveness, and are adminis-
tered as terrors to the propensities of persons criminally
diSposed. These punishments, again, especially the l~t.
oio "'ed by Google
t98 Ol'f PVIflSIDD!n AS IIU'LICT&D
are calculated to gratify the animal facultiee, and none
else, in the apectatora who witneu them. The execution
of a criminal obviously interests and exeites DeatructiYe-
nees, Cautiouanen, and Self-Esteem, in the beholder, and
nothing can be farther removed than such exhibitions from
the proper food of Benevolence, Veneration, and Con-
~eientiousnen.
Under the moral system, again, the faculties exercised
and addressed in restraining and instructing the oftender
are, as exclusively as possible, the human powers. The
propensities are employed merely as the servants of the
moral sentiments in accomplishing their benignant pur-
poses, and Benevolence is as actively engaged in behalf of
the offender as of society at large. The whole influence
of the proceeding is ameliorating and elevating.
Under the animal system the offspring of parents who
have been recently engaged in either suffering, inflicting,
or witnessing punishment, inherit, by the organic law, large
and active animal organs, occasioned by the excitement of
these organs in the parents. Thus a public execution,
from the violent stimulus which it produces in the lower
faculties of the spectators, may, within twenty-four hours
of its exhibition, be the direct cause of a new crop of vic-
tims for the gallows.
Under thtl moral system, children born of parents ac-
tively engaged in undergoing, executing, or witnessing the
elevating and ennobling process of moral reformation, will,
by the organic law, inherit an increased development of
the moral and i'ntellectual organs, and be farther removed
than their parents from the risk of lapsing into crime.
Under the animal system, spectators of crime, and ac-
complices, need to be bribed with large rewards to induce
them to communicate their knowledge of the offence; and
witnesses required to be compelled by penalties to bear tee-
timony to what they have seen concerning it. Maay will
recollect the affecting picture of mental agony drawn by
the author ofWaverley, when Jeanie Deans, at the bar of
oio "'ed by Google
UNJ>&R TH& lU.TUJ\A.L LAWS.
the H.igh Court of Justiciary, gives evidence against her
s.ister, which was to deprive that sister of life. Parallel cMea
occur too frequently in actual experience. The real eauao
of this aversion to betray, and internal repugnance to aive
evidence, is, that the moral sentiments are revolted by the
delivery of the culprit to the cruelty of animal resentment.
Under the moral system, the higher sentiments and in-
tellect of the spectator of a crime, and those of the nearest
relatives of the offender, would unite with those of soeiety
at large in an unanimous desire to deliver him up with the
utmost speed to the ameliorating influence of moral treat-
ment, as the highest benevolence even to himself.
Under the animal system, the office of puWic execu-
tioner is odious, execrable, and universally contemned. If
it were ntceuary by the Creator's institutions, it would pre-
sent the extraordinary anomaly of a nect8Sary duty being
execrated by the moral sentiments. This would be a direct
inconsistency between the dictates of the superior faculties
and the arrangement of the external world. But the ani-
mal executioner is not acknowledged as necessary by the
human faculties. Under the moral system, the criminal
would be committed to persons whose duties \Vould be
identical with those of the clergy~an, the physician, and
the teacher. These are the executioners under the moral
law; and, just because their avocations are highly grateful
to the superior sentiments, they are the most esteemed of
mankind.
The highest and the most important object of this long
exposition of the principles of punishment under the natu-
ral laws, remains to be unfold_ed.
We are all liable to abuse our faculties; and the inquiry
is exceedingly interesting, what, in our cases, are the causes
of the infringement of the moral law. The offences which
we daily commit, are neither more nor Jess than minor de-
grees of abuse of the very same faculties of which crimes.
are the greater. For example, if in private lite we bllCk-
bite or slander our neighbor, we commit. ab.aaee of Set&-
oio "'ed by Google
SOC) ON PUNISBM:.NT .U ll'tFLICTI:i)
Esteem and Destructiveness, which, ifincreased merely in
intensity, withour at all changing their nature, might end,
as in Ireland, in maiming his cattle, or, as in Spain or Italy,
in murdering him outright. If, in any transaction of life,
we deliberately give false representations as to any article
we have for sale, or overcharge it in price, this is just a
minor abuse of Secretiveness and Acquisitiveness acting in
absence ofthe moral sentiments, ofwhich abuse pocket-pick-
ing and stealing are higher degrees. I need not carry the
parallel farther. It is so obvious that every offence against
the moral law is an abuse of some faculty or other, and that
great crimes are merely great abuses, and smaller offences
more slight aberrations, that every one must perceive the
fact to be so.
Reverting to what I observed in regard to crime, I re-
peat, that every infringement ofthe moral law, the smallest
as well as the greatest, is denounced by the moral sen-
timents and intellect; just because it is opposed to their
nature, and they desire absolutely to bring all abuses to an
end, from whatever source they spring, and be they volun-
tary or involuntary.
Animal resentment is, by the present practice ofsociety,
resorted to as the chief method of dealing with the minor,
just as it is with the higher, abuses of our facu'lties. If
one gentleman insults another, the offended party makes
no inquiry into the state of mind and other causes that
produced the insult, but proceeds to knock him on the
head, to challenge and thereafter to shoot him, or to prose-
cute him in a jury court and inflict pain by depriving him
ofmoney. These are the common methods by which men
in8ict animal retribution on each other, and in essential
character they do not much differ from those followed by
the lower creatures.
I do not sny that these proceedings are absolutely with-
out beneficial effect. The animal faculties are selfish, and
these inroads upon their enjoyment have undoubtedly a
tendency to check them. It is painful to a gentleman to
oio "'ed by Google
lnm&ll TIIJI lU.TUliU.L L4WII.
~·
be knocked down or shot, and, in conaequence, maay indi-
viduals whose moral principles are low, are induced so to
-manage matters as to avoid these forma of retaliation, who
would not be restrained from insulting their neighbOI'II by
the dictates of their own feelings. But here the benefit
.terminates. The inJiiction ofthe chastisement excites only
the animal faculties ofthe offended party, and it is addre....
ed exclusively to the animal part of the offender's mind.
Habitual morality, however, cannot exist without supreme
activity of the moral sentiments; and the whole code of
animal law, and animal punishment, does nothing whatever
to establish this as a permanent condit\on of mind.
Under the moral and intellectual law, every thing is dif-
ferent. The intellectual faculties inquire into the causes
of abuses, and the moral sentiments desire to remove them
with kindness and respect even for the offender himself.
If one person insult another, the intellect, aided by Phre-
nology, perceives that he must otnecessity do so either from
extreme predominance of Combativeness, Destructiveness,
and Self-Esteem in his own brain, so that he has an instinc-
tive tendency to insult, just as some ill-natured dogs and
horses have a tendency to bite without provocation; or,
secondly, from excessive stimulus from without,-that is to
say, from some aggression offered to these lower organs by
other people; or, thirdly, from intellectual ignorance,-that
is, erroneously supposing unreal motives and intentions in
the party whom he insults. If one person cheat another;
inteilect, with the assistance of Phrenology, perceives that
he can do so only ·because Acquisitiveness and Secretive-
ness predominate in him over Conecientiouaness, because
the external temptation to cheat is too powerful for his
combination of faculties to resist, or because he is ignorant
that cheating is equally fatal to his own interest as injurious
to that ofhis Yictim. In short, the conclusion is irrcsisti-
- bly come to; that no abuse of the animal faculti!Js can be
.committed that may not be tra~d to these or similar causes.
But intellect and the moral sentiments desire to remove
26
oio "'ed by Google
the CUIHS u the mc.t effeaual way of putting an end.to
.the effects, and their method is one congenial to their OW'D
coastitution. Ifa mao is by nature irritable, and prooe to
injore every one with whom he comes ia&o contact, .thef
delire most sedulously to remove every cauae that f!MJ
tend to exasperate his propensities, aud also to eurround
him with a pure moral and intellect~ atmosphere. Ifhe
is ezposed to temptation, they desire to withdraw it; if he
is misinformed, ignorant, or deceived, they desire to in-
struct him and give him correct iafurmatioo. After we
.have suffered injury from another, if w:e perceive the causes
from which it proc~eded to be really such as I have now
ezplained, and if we comprehend and believe in the su-
premacy of the moral law, it will be impossibk for us to
prefer the method of redress by animal resentment.
The question naturally presents itself, What is the dis-
tinction between right and wrong, under this system? I'f
offences proceed from unfortunate development of brain,
· not fashioned by the individual himself, -from external
temptations which he did not make, -or from want of
knowledge which he never had it in his power to possess,-
how are the distinctions betw'een right and wrong, merit
and demerit, to be explicated and maintained? The an-
s\Ver is simple.
The natural dittinction between right and wrong, so far as
man is concerned, depends on the constitution of the moral
and intellectual faculties. The act of wantonly killing
. another is wrong, because it is in direct opposition to the
dictates ofBenevolence. The act of appropriating to our-
selves effects belonging to another is wrong, because it is
distinctly denounced by Conscientiousness; and so· with
all other misdeeds. The authority of the moral law, in
forbidding these offences, depends on the whole arrange-
ments of creation being constituted to enforce its dictates.
If Benevolence and Conscientiousness denounce murder,
and ifthe whole other faculties of the mind, and the estel'-
nal order of things, harmonize with their dictates and com-
oio "'ed by Google
UND&R TB& N.lTURAL L.lWS.
1MDe to punieh the offender, tfte foundation and saDCtioDII
of the moral law appear abundantly strong. It has beeo
objected, that, in Tartary, to steal from strangers is honor-
able; but Dr. T . Brown has well answered this objection.
There are more principles in the mind than BeneYolence,
Veneration, and Conscientiousness; and it is quite possi-
ble to misinform the intellect, and thereby misdirect the
propensities and sentiments. For example, the Tartars
are taught to believe, that all men beyond their own tribes
are their enemies, and would rob and murder them if they
could; and, of course, as long as this intellectual convic-
tion lasts, strangers become the objects of their animal
resentment. Every foreigner is, in their eyes, a criminal,
clearly convicted of deliberate purpose to rob and murder.
In Britain, under Lord ~llenborough's act, when men are
convicted in a court of th.is intention, they are delivered
over to the hangman to be executed; and we might as well
maintain, as a general proposition, that the English are
fond of hanging one another, as that the Tartars approve
of robbery and murder. Strangers whom the latter mal-
treat in this manner, actually stand convicted in their minds
of an intention of using them in the same way ifthey could.
The real method of arriving at a correct view ofthe ques-
tion is to suppose the coaviction complete in a Tartar's
mind, that other men love him and make him an object of
their moat sedulous benevolence, and then ask him whether
he approves of robbing and murdering a benefactor. There
is no instance of human nature, in a state of sanity, regard-
ing such a deed as virtuous. The moral law, therefore,
when cleared of other principles that may act along with
•· but are not part of it, is obviously universal and inflexi-
ble in its dictates.
The views contained in this chapter were printed and
lliatributed among a few tiiends in 182'7, and I was faVGTed
l>y them with several remarks. Two ofthese appear to me
to merit a reply.
Jr is objected, that, according to the nsorat .,..am of
oio "'ed by Google
3()4 ON PU.!fiiBM&lfT 41 IMFLJCTSD
treatiog offenders, punishment would be abrogated aod
crime encouraged.
I respectfully answer, that if this system be right in it-
self, and suited to the nature of man, it will carry in itself
all the punishment that will be needed, or that can sern
any beneficial end. I believe that to an individual whose
mind consists chiefly of animal propensities and intelleet,-
confinement, compulsory labor, and the enforcement of
moral conduct, will be highly disagreeable, and that this is
the punishment which the Creator designed should attend
.that unfortunate combination of mental qualities. h is
analogous to the pain of a wound; the object of which is,
to induce the patient to avoid injuring himseW' again. The
irksomeneBB and suffering to a criminal, inseparable from
confinement and forced labor, are intended as inducements
to hp to avoid infringements of the mOI"allaw; and when
perceived by himself to arise from the connection estab-
lished by the Creator between crime and the most humane
means of restraining it, he willJearn to submit to the inflic-
tion, without those rebellious feelings which are generally
eTcited by pure animal retribution. It appears to me that
the call for more suffering than would accompany the moral
method of treatment, proceeds to a great extent from the
yet untamed barbarism of our own minds; just as it was the
savageness of the hearts of our a&cestors which led them
to regard torture and burning as necessary in their admin-
istration of criminal justice. In proportion as the higher
sentiments shall gain ascendeney among'men, severity will
be less in demand, and its inutility will be more generally
perceived. The Americans, in their penitentiaries, have
set an admirable example to Europe in regard to criminal
legislation. Their views still admit of improvement. but
they have- entered on the right path by which succ&SS is to
be attained. Dr. Caldwell of Lexington has offered them
excellent counsel, which I hope they. will appreciate aad
fOllow.
Another objection is1 that the views now aclvocated1 e1!'en
UND&ll TB'& lU.Ttm.lL L.l.,..
supposing them to be true, are utopian-, and cannot be
carried into effect in the present condition of society. I
deny the first branch of this objection; but admit the
second to be well founded. No system of morals which is
true, can be utopian-this term being understood to mean
visionary and impracticable. But a true system may not
be reducible to practice, on its first announcement, by a
people who do not know one jot of its principles, and whose
guides sedulously divert their minds from studying it.
Christianity itself has not yet beeQ generally practised; but
does any rational man on this account denounce it as uto-
pian and worthless? It would be folly to expect judges
and juries to abandon the existing practice of criminal
jurisprudence, and to adopt that which is here recommend-
ed, before they, and the society for whom they act, under-
stand and approve of its principles; and no one who bears
in mind by what slow and laborious efforts truth makes its
way, and how long a period is necessary before it can
develope itself in practice, will expect any new system to
triumph in the age in which it was first promulgated. 1
have frequently repeated in this work, that, by the moral
law, we cannot enjoy the fuJI fruits even ofour own intelli-
gence and virtue, until our neighbors have been rendered
as wise and amiable as ourselves. No reasonable man,
therefore, can expect to see the principles expounded in
this work, although true, generally diffused and adopted in
society, until the natural means of communicating a know-
ledge of them, and producing a general conviction oftheir
truth and utility, shall have been perseveringly used for a
period sufficient to accomplish this end. In the meantime,
the established practices of society must be supported, if
not respected; and he is no friend to the real progress of
mankind, who, the moment after be has sown his moral
principles, would attempt to gather the fruit of them before
he has allowed summer and autumn to bring the produce
to maturity. The rational philanthropist will zealously
teach his principles, and introduce them into practi4le as
26•
oio "'ed by Google
:J06 JIOR.U. .lDVAl'IT.lG&I 01' PUNIIUlllllNT•
..favorable opportunities occur; not doubting that he will
thereby sooner accomplish his object, than by making pre-
mature attempts at realizing them, which must inevitably
.end in disappointment.•
SECTION II.
KOB.A.L A.DVANT.lQEIJ OF I'1TNJ!IIDONT,
A.FT&R the intellect and moral sentiments have been
brought to recognise the principles of the divine adminis-
tration, eo much wisdom, benevolence, and justice, are
discernible in the· naturaf laws, that our whole nature is
ameliorated in consequence of undergoing the punishments
annexed to them. Punishment endured by one individual
also serves to warn others against transgression. These
facts afford another proof that a grand object of the ar-
rangements of creation is the improvement of the moral
and intellectual nature of man. So strikingly conspicuous,
indeed, is the ameliorating influence of suffering, that many
persons have supposed this to be the primary object for
which it is sent; a notion which, with great deference, I
cannot help regarding as unfounded in principle, and dan-
gerous in practice. If evils and misfortunes are mere
mercies of Providence, it follows that a headache conse-
quent on a debauch is not intended to prevent repetition
of drunkenness, so much as to prepare the debauchee for
' the invi11ible world; ' and that shipwreck in a crazy ves-
sel is not designed to render the merchant more cautious,
but to lead him to heaven.
• The leading ideas expounded in this chapter hue been m001t ably and
eloquently followed out by Dr. Charles Caldwell, Professor of the Institutes of
Medicine in the University of Lexington, Kentucky, in his • New Viewa of
Penitentiary Diseipline, Rod Moral Education and Reformation of CriminaL!.'
publi.bed at Philadelphia in 1829, and reprinted in the Plvenologica110111'1181,
•ol. Yiii. pp. 886, 498. Mr. SimpsoD also bas treated the eubject with pat
ability in the IIUIIe journal, vol. ix. p. 481, and in the appondix to his work
oo the ' N~sity of PopuL•r Educati'ln,'- work in which he bas ex-
JIOIDlded and applied many principles of the present treatise with mucb acule-
- aacl fillicity of ill••tration
MORAL 4DV4.NT4G&S OJ' PO!fi8HM&I!IT. SO'f
It is undeniable, that in innumerable instances pain and
sorrow are the direct coosequencea ofour own misconduct;
at the same time it is obviously benevolent in the Deity to
render them ·beneficial directly, as a warning agaiost fu-
ture transgression, and indirectly, as a means of leading to
the purification of the mind. Nevertheless, if we shall
imagine that in some instances it is dispensed as a direct
punishment for particular transgressions, and in others only
on account of sin in general, and with the view of amelio-
rating the spirit of the sufferer, we sbaJI ascribe ·inconsis-
tency to the Creator, and expose ourselves to the danger
of attributing our own affiictions to his favor, and those
of others to his wrath; thus fostering in our minds self-
conceit and uncharitableness. Individuals who entertain
the belief that bad health, worldly ruin, and sinister acci-
dents, befalling them, are not punishments for infringe-
ment ofthe laws of nature, but particular manifestations of
the love of the Creator towards themselves, make slight
mquiry into the natural causes oftheir miseries, and bestow
few efforts to remove them. In consequence, the chas-
tisements endured by them, neither correct their own con-
duct, nor deter others from committing similar transgres-
sions. Some religious sects, who espouse these notions,
literally act upon them, and refuse to inoculate with the
cow-pox to escape contagion, or take other means of avoid-
ing natural calamities. Regarding these as dispensatioos
of Providence sent to prepare them for a future world,
they conceive that the more that befall them the better
Farther, these ideas, besides being repugnant to the com
moo sense of mankind, are at variance with the principle
that the world is arranged so .as to favor virtue and dis-
countenance vice; because favoring virtue means obvi-
o~ly that the favored virtuous will positively enjoy more
happiness, and negatively su.lfer fewer misfortunes, than
_ tbe vicious. The view, therefore, now advocated, appears
lees exceptionable, viz. that punishment se"es a double
purpose -directly to warn us against traosgreuion, and
oio "'ed by Google
301 JIOilAL .tDTA.N'!.tOII:I OP PUNISBiirUT.
iadirectly, (when rightly apprehended,) to subdue our lower
propeuities, and purify and vivify our moral and intellectual
powen.
Bishop Butler coincides in this interpretation of natural
calamities. ' Now,' says he, 'in the present state, all
which we enjoy, and o great porl of wluJt tiJe ~Wjfer, wpul
tn our ot1t1 potlltf'.• For pletmWe and poin ore the cOftle·
qwtacet of our e~etiom; and we are endued by the Author
of our nature with capacities of foreseeing these conse-
quences.' ' I know not that we have any one kind or
degree of e.1joyment, but by the means of our own actions.
And, by prudence otad care, we may, fur the most part, pass
our days in tolerable ease and quiet: or, on the contrary,
we may, by rashne11, tmgo.,erned paBBion, tllilfulne", or el't11
by ratgligenee, make ourselves "' miserable as n1er tDe
pleau. And many do please to make themselves extremely
miserable; i. e. they do what they know beforehand wiJJ
render them so. They follow those ways, the fruit of
which they know, by instruction, example, experience, will
be disgrace, and poverty, and sickness, and untimely death
This every one observes to be the general course ofthings~
though it is to be allowed, we cannot find by experience,
that all our sufferings are owing to our own follies.'-Ana-
logy, part i. ch. 2. In accordance with this last remark, I
have treated of hereditary diseases; and evils resulting
from earthquakes, volcanoes, hurricanes, and other eon-
. vulsions of nature, may be added to the same class.
It has been objected that such punishments as the break-
ing of an arm by a fall, are often so disproportionately se-
vere, that, in appointing them, the Creator must have had
in view some pther and more important object than that
of making them serve as mere motives to the observance
of the physical laws; and that that object must be to in-
fluence the mind of the sufferer, and draw his attention to
concerns of higher import.
In answer I remark, that the human body is liable to
• 1"- words are printed in Italics in the original.
oio "'ed by Google
MORA.L A.D"A.NTA.G&S 01' PUNISHM&NT. 3()9
destruction by severe injuries; and that tho degree of
suffering, in general, bears a just proportion to the danger
connected with the transgresaion. Thus, a slight surfeit
is attended only w'ith headache or general uneasine•,
because it does ·not endanger life; a fall on any muscular
part of the body is followed either with no pain, or with
only a slight indisposition, for the reason that it is not
seriously injurious to life; but when a leg or arm is broken,
the pain is intensely severe, because the bones of these
limbs stand high in the scale of utility to man. The human
body is so framed that it may fall nine times and suffer little
damage, but the tenth time a limb may be broken, which
will entail a painful chastisement. By this arrangement
the mind is kept alive to danger to such an extent as to
insure general safety, while at the same time it is not over-
whelmed with ·terror by punishments too severe and too
frequently repeated. In particular states of the body, a
slight wound may be followed by inflammation and death;
but these are the results not simply of the wound, but of a
previous derangement of health, occasioned by departures
from the organic laws.
On the whole, therefore, no adequate reason appears for
regarding the consequences of physical accidents in any
other light than as direct punishments for infringement of
the natural laws, and indirectly as a means of accomplish-
ing moraland religious improvement.
In the preceding chapters we have obtained glimpses of
some of the sanctions of the moral law, which may be
briefly recapitulated. If we obey it, many desirable results
ensue. In the first place, we enjoy the highest gratifica-
tions of which our nature is susceptible, in habitual and
sustained activity of our noblest faculties. Secondly, We
become objects of esteem and affection to our fellow men,
and enjoy exalted social pleasure. Thirdly, Whatever we
undertake, being projected in harmony with the course of
nature, will prosper. Fourthly, By obse"ing the moral
oio "'ed by Google
SolO MORAL 4DV4JfT4GU 011 l'UNJSBI!I&NT.
law, we shall place ourselves in the most favorable cen-
clition for obeying the organic law, and then enjoy health
of body aod buoyancy of mind. Fifthly, By obeying the
moral, intellectual, and organic laws, we shall place our-
selves in the best condition for observing the physical
laws, and thereby reap countless benefits conferred by
them.
To perceive, on the other hand, the penalties by which
the Creator puni hes infringements of the moral law, we
need only to reverse the picture. There is denial of that
elevated, refined, and steady enjoyment, which springs
from the l:!Upreme activity of the moral sentiments and
intellect, and from the perception of the harmony between
them and the institutions of creation. By infringing the
moral law we become objects of dislike and aversion to our
fellow men; and this carries denial of gratification to many
of our social faculties. Whatever we undertake in oppo-
sition to the moral Jaw, being an enterprise against the
course of nature, cannot succeed; and its fruits must
I hcrefore be disappointment and vexation. Inattention to
the moral and intellectual Jaw incapacitates us for obe-
dience to the organic and physical laws; and sickness,
pain, and poverty overtake us. The whole scheme of
creation, then, appears constituted for the purpose of en-
fOTcing obedience to the moral law: virtue, religion, and
happiness, seem to be founded in the inherent constitution
of the human faculties, and the adaptation of the external
world to them; and not to depend on the will, the fancies,
or the desires of man.
oio "'ed by Google
( :nt )
CHAPTER VII.
ON THE COMBINED OPERATION OF THE NATURAL LAWS.
HAVING now unfolded several of the natural laws, and
their effects, and having also attempted to show that each
is inflexible and independent in itself, and requires absolute
obedience, (so that a man who neglects the physical law
will suffer the physical punishment, although he may be
very attentive to the moral law; that one who infringes
the organic law will suffer organic punishment, although he
may obey the physical law; and that a person who violates
the moral law will suffer the moral punishment, although
he should observe the other two;) I proceed to show the
mutual relationship among these laws, and to adduce some
instances oftheir joint operation.
The defective administration ofjustice is a fertile source
of human suffering in all countries; yet it is surprising
how rude are the arrangements which are still in use, even
in a free and enlightened country, for accomplishing this
importa-nt end._
A Seotc-
h Jury in a civil cause, even in Edinburgh,
frequently presents the following particulars for observa-
tion. It consists of twelve men, eight or ten of whom are
collected from the country, within a distance of twenty
or thirty miles of the capital. These individuals hold the
plough, wield the hammer or the hatchet, or carry on some
other useful and respectable but laborious occupation, for
six days in the week. Their muscular systems are in
constant exercise, and their prains are rarely called on for
any great exertion. They are not accustomed to read,
beyond the Bible and a weekly newspaper; they are still
less in the habit of thinking; and in general they live much
in the open air.
Ol'f TR& CO:III.Jlf&D OP&JUTJO!t
In this condition they are placed in a jury-box at teo
in the morning, after having travelled probably from seven
to twenty-five miles to reach the court: council address
long speechet to them; numerous witnesses are examined;
and the cause is branched out into complicated details of
fact, and wire:drawn distinctions in argument. The court
is a small and ill-ventilated apartment, and in coll8equence
is generally crowded and over-heated. Without being
allowed to breathe fresh air or to take exercise or food,
they are confined to their seats till eight or ten in the
evening,-when they retire to return a verdict, by which
they may dispose of thousands of pounds, and in which
they are required by law to be unanimous.
There is here a tissue of errors whtcb could not exist for
a day ifthe natural laws were generally understood. First,
the daily habits and occupations of such jurors render their
brains inactive, and their intellects consequently incapable
of attending to, and comprehending, complicated cases of
fact and argument. Secondly, their memories cannot re-
tain the facts, while their skill in penmanship and literature
is not sufficient to enable them to tnke notes; and their
reflecting faculties are not capable ofgeneralizing. Their
education and daily pursuits, therefore, do not furnish them
with principles of thinking, and power of mental action,
sufficient to enable them to unravel the web of intricacies
presented to their understandings. Thirdly, protracted
confinement in a close apartment, amidst vitiated air, ope-
rates injuriously on the most vivacious temperaments:-
on such men it bas tenfold effect in lowering the action of
the brain and inducing mental incapacity, because it is
diametrically opposed to their usual condition. Add to
these considerations, that occasionally a jury trial lasts
two, three, or even four days, each of which presents a
repetition of the circumstances here described; and then
the reader may judge whether such jurors are the fittest
instruments, and in the best condition, for disposing of the
fortunes ofa people who boast oftheir love .of juatice, and
oftheir admirable institutions for obtaining it.
OF THE NATURAL LAWS.
The influence of the bodily condition of a human being
oa his mental capacity seems never to have enterea the
imaginations of our legislators as a matter of importance in
the administration of justice. In the Circuit Courts of
Scotland, the judges frequently sit for several days in soe-
ceBBion in a crowded apartment, intently engaged in busi-
neBS, from ten o'clock in the morning till eight, ten, or
twelve at night, without any proper intermission or exer-
cise. They go to their hotel at these late hours, dine, take
wine, retire to bed, and next morning resume their seats
on the bench. Now, by the laws of their nature, which
never cease to operate, the effect of this conduct is to im-
pair the vigor of the moral andintellec~ual organs, and, by
constraint, want of exercise, and obstruction of the bodily
functions, to irritate and exalt the activity of the animal
organs; so that, at the close of a circuit, even-the strongest
and most estimable and talented individual is physically
deteriorated, and mentally incapacitated for the distribution
ofjustice, compared with himselfwhen he began his labors.
It is accordingly matter of observation, that irr proportion
as a long and heavy session in circuit advances, irritability,
impatience, and intellectual obscuration appear in the
judges. The accused who go to trial fir11t, therefore, have
a far higher chance of obtaining justice, than those who
appear last on the roll.
In these instances there are evident infringements of the
organic and moral laws; and the combined result is the
maladministration ofjustice, of which the country so loudly
complains. The proper remedies will be found in educating
the people more effectually, in traini~ them to the exer-
cise of their mental faculties, and in observing the organic
laws in the structure of court-rooms, and in the proceedings
that take place within them. , · · ·
Another example of the combined operation of tho na-
tural laws is afforded by the great fires which occurred in
Edinburgh in November 1824, when the Parliament Square
and a part of the High Street were consumed. That cala-
27
o;g;,;,.d by GoogIe
I
Sl4 ON TB& COl!IBIIOD OP&Jl.lTION
mity may be viewed in the following light:-The Creator
constituted England and Scotland with such qualities, and
placed them in such relationship, that the inhabitants of
both kingdoms would be most happy in acting towards each
other, and pursuing their separate vocations, under the su-
premacy of the moral sentiments. We have lived to see
this-practised, and to reap the reward. But the ancestors
ofthe two nations did not believe in.this constitution ofthe
world, and they preferred acting according to the sugges-
tions ofthe propensities; that is to say, they waged furious
wars, and committed. wasting devastations on each other's
properties and lives. It is obvious from history, that the
two nations were equally ferocious, and delighted recipro-
cally in each other's calamities. This was clearly a violent
infringement of the moral law; and one effect of it was to
render the possession of a stronghold an object of paramount
importance. The hill on which the Old Town of Edin-
burgh is built, was naturally surrounded by marshes, and
presented a perpendicular front to the west, capable of
being crowned with a castle. It was appropriated with
avidity, and the metropolis of Scotland was founded there,
obviQusly and undeniably under the inspiration purely of
the animal faculties. It was fenced round with ramparts,
built to exclude the fierce warriors who then inhabited the
country lying soath of the T\veed, and also to protect the
inhabitants from the feudal banditti who infested their own
soil. The space within the walls, however, was limited
and narrow; the attractions to the spot were numerous;
and to make the most of it, our ancestors erected the enor-
mous masses of high, confused, and crowded buildings
which now compose the High Street, and the wynds, or
alleys, on its two sides. These abodes, moreover, were
constructed, to a great ext~nt, of timber; for not only the
joists and floors, but the partitions between the rooms,
were made of massive wood. Our ancestors did aH this
in the perfect knowledge of the physical law, that wood
igqited by fire not only is consumed itself, but envelopes
oio "'ed by Google
OF 'l'll& NATURAL LAWS. SUi
io inev~table 'd.estructlon every combustible object wiUlio
its influence. Farther, their successors, even when Ultt
necessity for close building had ceased, persevered in Ule
original error; and, though well howing that every y~
added to the age of such ·fabrics, increased their liabili\y
to burn, they not only allowed them to be occupied u
shops .filled with paper, spirits, and other highly combusti-
ble materials, but let the upper floors for brotbelfl,-intro-
ducing thereby into the heart of this magazine of confta-
gration the mos~ reckless and immoral of mankind. Tlle
consummation was the two tremendous tires of November
1824 (the one originating in a whisky-cellar, and the other.
in a garret-brothel), which consumed the Parliament Square
and a portion of the High Street, destroying property to the
extent of many thousands of pounds, and spreading misery
and ruin over a considerable part of the population of
Edinburgh. Wonder, consternation, and awe, were Jorci-
bly excited at the vastness of the calamity; and in the ser-
mons that were preached, and the dissertations that were
written upon it, much was said of the inscrutable ways o(•
PTovidence, that sent such visitations on the people, envel-
oping the innocent and the guilty in one common sweep
of destruction.
According to the exposition of the ways of Providence
which I have ventured to give, there was nothing wonderful,
nothing vengeful, nothing arbitrary, in the whole occur-
rence. The only reason for surprise was, that it did not take
place generations before. The necessity for these fabric•
originated in gross violation of the moral law; they were
constructed in high contempt ofthe physical law; and, lat-
terly, the moral law was set at defiance, by placing in them
inhabitants abandoned to the worst habits of recklessness
and intoxication. The Creator bad bestowed on men
faculties to perceive all this, and to avoid the calamity,
whenever they chose to exert tl)em; and the destructiQD
that ensued was the punishmept of following the propensi-
ties, in preference to the dictates of intellect and morality.
oio "'ed by Google
SJ6 ON TH& COMBIN&D OPERATION
The object of the destruction, 88 a natural event, was to
lead men to avoid repetition of the offences: but the prin-
ciples of the divine government are not yet comprehended.
Acquisitiveneu whispers that more money may be made
of houses consisting of five or six floors under one roof,
than of houses consisting of only two or three; and erec-
tions the very counterparts of the former, have since reared
their heads on the spot where the others stood, and, sooner
or later, they also will be overtaken by the natural laws,
which never slumber or sleep.
The true method of arriving at a sound view of calami-
ties of this kind, is to direct our attention, in the first in-
stance, to the law ofnature, from the operation ofwhich they
have originated; then to find out the uses and advantages
oftbft law, when observed; and to discover whether or not
the evils under consideration have arisen from violation of
it. In the present instance, we ought never to lose sight
ofthe fact, that the houses in question stood erect, and the
furniture in safety, by the very same law of gravitation
which made them topple to the foundation when it was
infringed; and that mankind enjoy all the benefits which
result from the combustibility of the timber 88 fuel, by the
very same law which makes it, when unduly ignited, the
food of a destructive conflagration.
This instance affords a striking illustration of the manner
in which the physical and organic laws are constituted in
harmony with, and in subserviency to, the moral law. We
see clearly that the leading cause of the construction of
such erections 88 the houses in the Old Town of Edinburgh
(with the deprivation of free air, and liability to combustion
that attend them) arose from the excessive predominance
of Combativeness, Destructiveness, Self-Esteem, and Ac-
quisitiveneu, in .our ancestors; and although the ancient
pert10nages who erected these monuments of animal supre-
IDfCY bad no conception that, in doing so, they were laying
the foundations of a severe punishment to themselves and
their posterity, -yet, when we compare the comforts and
oio "'ed by Google
S11
advantages that would have accompanied dweUanga coa.-
structed under the inspiration of)3enevolence, Ideality, uul
enlightened Intellect, with the contaminating, debui.og,
and dangerous effects of their actual workmanabip, we
perceive most clearly that our ancestors were really tbe
instruments of chastising their own transgressions, and of
transmitting that chastisement to their posterity ao long u
the animal supremacy shall be prolonged.
Another example may be given. Men, by UDitiDg under
one leader, may, in virtue ofthe social law, acquire prodi-
gious adv~tages to themselves, which singly they could
not obtain; and, as formerly stated, the condition under
which the benefits of that law are permitted is, that the
leader shall know and obey the natural laws connected with
his enterprise: If he neglect these, thenthe same prinoiple
which gives the social body the benefit of his observing
them, involves it in the punishment of his infringement;
and this is just, because, under the natural law, the leader
must necessarily be chosen by his followers, and they
are responsible for not attending to his natural qualities.
Some illustrations of the consequences of neglect of this
law may be stated, in which the mixed operation of the
physical and moral laws will appear.
During the French war, a squadron ofEnglish ships was
sent to the Baltic with military stores, and, m returning
home up the North Sea, they were beset, for two or three
·days, by a thick fog. It was about the middle of Decem-
ber, and no correct knowledge of their exact situation was
possessed. Some of the commanders proposed lying-to all
night, and proceeding only during day, to avoid running
ashore unawares. The commodore was exceedingly at-
tached to his wife and family, and, stating his determina-
tion to pass Christmas with them in England if pouible,
ordered that the ships should sail straight on their voyage.
The very same night Rley all struck on a sand-bank oil
the coast of Holland; two ships of the line were dashed to
pieces, and every man on board perished. The third ship,
27*
318 ON TB& COMBJN&D OPERATION
drawing let18 water, was forced over the bank by the waves
and stranded on the beach; the crew was saved, but led to
a captivity of many y_ears' duration. Now, these vessels
were destroyed under the physical laws; but this calamity
owed its origin to the predominance of the animal over the
moral and intellectual faculties in the commodore. The
gratification which he sought to obtain was individual and
aelfish; and, if his Benevolence, Veneration, Conscien-
tiousness, and Intellect, had been as alert as his domestic
affections, and carried as forcibly home to his mind the
welfare of the men under his charge as that of his own
family; nay, if these faculties had been sufficiently alive to
aee the danger to which he exposed even his own life, and
the happiness of his wife and children,- he never could
have followed the precipitate course which consigned him-
aelf, and so many brave men, to a watery grave, w_ithin a
few hours after his resolution was formed.
Some years ago, the Ogle Castle East lndiaman was
offered a pilot coming up the Channel, but the captain re-
fused assistance, professing his own skill to be sufficient.
In a few hours the ship ran aground on a sand-bank, and
every human being on board perished in the waves. This
!lCcident also arose from the physical laws, but the unfavor-
able operation of it sprang from Self-Esteem, pretending to
knowledge which the intellect did not possess; and, as it
is only by employing the latter that obedience can be yield-
ed to the physical laws, the destruction of the ship was
indirectly the consequence of the infringement of the moral
and intellectual laws.
An old sailor, whom I met on the Queensferry passage,
told me, that he had been nearly fifty years at sea, and
once was in a fifty-gun ship in the West Indies. The
:aptain, he said, was a ' fine man;' he knew the climate,
and foresaw a hurricane coming, by its natural signs;--on
one occasion in particular, he struck the topmasts, lowered
the yards, lashed the guns, and made each man supply
bimself with food for thirty-six hours; and scarcely wu
OP THE NA.TURA.L LA.WS. 319
this done when the hurricane came. The ship aay for
four hours on her beam-ends in the water, but all was
prepared; ·the men were kept in vigor during the storm,
and fit for every exertion; the ship at last righted, suffered ·
little damage, and proceeded on her voyage. The fleet
which she convoyed was dispersed, and a great number of
the ships foundered. Here we see the benefits accruing
from the supremacy of the moral and intellectual faculties,
and discover to what a surprising extent these present a
guarantee even against the fury of the physical elements
m their highest state of agitation.
A striking illustration of the kind of protection afforded
by high moral and intellectual qualities, even amidst the
most desperate physical circumstances, is furnished by the
following letter written by the late Admiral Lord Exmouth
to a friend. ' Why do you ask me to relate the wreck of
the Dutton?' says his Lordship. 'Susan (Lady Exmouth)
and I were driving to a dinner-party at Plymouth, when
we saw crowds running to the Hoe; and learning it was a
wreck, I left the carriage to take her on, and joined the
crowd. I saw the loss of the whole five or six hundred
men was inevitable without somebody to direct them, for
the last officer was pulled on shore as I reached the surf.
I urged their return, which was refused; upon which I
made the rope fast to myself, and was hauled through the
surf on board,- established order, and did not leave her
until every soul was saved but the boatswain, who would
not go before me. I got safe, and so did he, and the ship
went all to pieces.'
Indeed, there is reason to believe that the human intel-
lect will, in time, be able, by means of science and obser-
vation, to arrive at a correct anticipation of approaching
storms,. and thus obtain protection against their effects.
The New Zealanders, it is said, predict the changes of the
weather with extraordinary skill. 'One evening, when
Captain Cruise and . some of his friends were returning
from a long excursion up one of the rivers, although the
oiotiz
edbyGoogle
ON TB& COXBIN&D OPBR.lTION
sky was at the time without a cloud, a native, who sat in
the boat with them, remarked that there would be heavy
rain the next day; a prediction which they were the more
inclined to believe by finding, when they returned on board
the ship, that the barometer had fallen very much, and
which the deluge of die follow\og morning completely
confirmed.' •
The utility of the marine barometer, or the sympiesome-
ter, in indicating approaching storms, is strikingly shown
by the following extract from the Edinburgh Philosophical
Journal.
'The correspondent (Mr. Stevenson, civil engineer) to
whom we are indebted for the notice regarding the Scotch
fisheries, inserted in this number, (p. 1!29), informs us, that
having occasion, towards the conclusion of his voyage, in
the beginning of September last, to visit the Isle of Man,
he beheld the interesting spectacle of about three hundt·ed
large fishing-boats, each from fifteen to twenty tons' bur-
den, leaving their various harbors at that island in an
apparently fine afternoon, and standing directly out to sea,
with the intention of prosecuting the fishery under night.
He at the same time remarked, that both the common
marine barometer, and Adie's sympiesometer, which were
in the cabin of his vessel, indicated an approaching change
of weather, the mercury falling to 29.5 inches. It became
painful, therefore, to witness the scene; more than a thou-
sand industrious fishermen, lulled to security by the fine-
ness of the day, scattering their little barks over. the face
of the ocean, and thus rushing forward· to imminent dan-
ger, or probable destruction. At sunset, accordingly, the
sky became cloudy and threatening; and in the course of
the night it blew a very hard gale, which afterwards con-
tinued for three days successively. This gale completely
dispersed the fleet of boats, and it was not without the
utmost difficulty that many of them reached the various
creeks of the island. It is believed no lives were lost on
··Library ofEntenainiog Knowledge; The Ne111 Zetdllfl<kn, p. 881.
OF THE NATURAL LAWS. 321
this occasion; but the boats were damaged, much tackle
was destroyed, and the men were unnecessarily exposed to
danger and fatigue. During the same storm, it may be
remarked, thirteen vessels were either totally lost or strand-
ed between the Isle of Anglesey and St. Bee's Head in
Lancashire. Mr. Stevenson remarks how much it is to
be regretted that the barometer is so little in use in the
mercantile marine of Great Britain, compared with the
trading vessels of Holland; and observes, that though the
common marine barometer is perhaps too cumbersome for
the ordinary run of fishing and coasting vessels, yet Adie's
sympiesometer is so extremely portable, that it lllJlY be
carried even in a Manx boat. Ea:ch lot of such vessels has
a commodore, under whose orders the fleet sails; it would
therefore be a most desirable thing that a sympiesometer
should be attached to each commodore's boat, from which
a pre-concerted signal of an expected gale or change of
weather, as indicated by the sympiesometer, could easily
be given.'-Edin. Phil. Journ. ii.l96.
Dr. Neil Arnot, in mentioning the great utility of the
marine barometer, states that he himself was 'one of a
numerous crew who probably owed their preservation to its
almost miraculous warning. It was in a southern latitude.
The sun had just set with placid appearance, closing a
beautiful afternoon, and the usual mirth of the evening
watch was proceedin!J, when the captain's order came to
prepare with all haste for a storm. The barometer had
begun to fall with appalling rapidity. As yet, the oldest
sailors had not perceived even a threatening in the sky,
and were surprised at the extent and hurry of the prepara-
tions; but the required measures were riot completed,
when a more awful hurricane burst upon them than the
most experienced had'ever braved.'-' In that awful night,
but for ~he little tube of mercury which had given the
warning, neither the strength of the noble ship, nor the
skill and energies of the commander, could have saved
one man to tell the tale.' ~
• Arnot's Elements of Physics, i. 815().
ON TB& COMBINED OP&I\ATlON
One of the most instructive illustrations of the connec-
tion between the different natural laws is presented in
Captain Lyon's Brief Narrative of an unsuccessful atte11,1pt
to reach Repulse Bay, in his Majesty's ship Griper, in the
year 1824.
Captain Lyon mentions, that he sailed in the Griper on
13th June 1824, in company with his Majesty's surveying ·
vessel Snap, as a store-tender. The Griper was 180 tons
burden, and 'drew 16 feet I incb abaft, and 15 feet 10
inches forward.' On the 26th, he ' was sorry to observe
that the Griper, from her great depth and sharpness for-
ward, pitched very deeply.'-She sailed so ill, that, 'in a
stiff breeze, and with studding-sails set, he was unable to
get above four knots an hour out of her, and she was twice
whirled round in an eddy in the Pentland Firth, from
which she could not escape.'-On the third July, be says,
' being now fairly at sea, I caused the Snap to ta!ie us in
tow, which I had declined doing as we passed up the east
coast of England, although our little companion had much
difficulty in keeping under sufficiently low sail for us, and
by noon we had passed the Stack Back.' ' The Snap was
ofthe greatest assistance, the Griper frequently towing at
the rate of five knots, in cases where she would not have
gone three.'-' On the forenoon of the 16th, the Snap
came and took us in tow; but, at noon on the 17th, strong
breezes and a heavy swell obliged .us again to cast off.
We scudded while able, but our depth in the water caused
us to ship so many heavy seas, that I most reluctantly
brought to under storm stay-sails. This was rendered
exceedingly mortifying, by observing that our companion
was perfectly dry, and not affected by the sea.'-' When
our stores were all on board, we found our narrow decks
completely crowded by them. The gangways, forecastle,
and abaft the mizzen-mast, were filled with casks, hawsers,
· whale-lines, and stream cables, while on our straitened
lower decks we were obliged to place casks and other
stores, in every part but that allotted to the ship's com·
oio "'ed by Google
OF THB N.t.TU'R.t.L LAWS.
pany's mess-tables; and even my cabin had a quantity of
things stowed away in it.'-' It may be proper to men-
tion, that the Fury and Hecla, which were enabled to stow
three years' provisions, were each exactly double the size
of the Griper, and the Griper carried two years' and a-halt's
provisions.'
Having arrived in the Polar Seas, they were visited by
a storm, of which Captain Lyon gives the following de-
scription:-' We soon, however, came to fifteen fathoms,
and I kt'pt right away, but had then only ten; when, being
• unable to see far around us, and observing, from .Oe white-
ness ofthe water, that we were on a bank, I rounded to at
7 A. M., and .tried to bring up with the starboard-anchor
and seventy fathoms chain, but the stiff breeze and heavy
sea caused this to part in half an hour, and we again made
sail to the north-eastward; but, finding we came suddenly
to seven fathoms, and that the ship could not possibly work
out again, as she would not face the sea, or keep steerage-
way on her, I most reluctantly brought her up with three
bowers and a stream in succession, yet not before we had
shoaled to five and a-half. This was between 8 and 9 A.M.,
the ship pitching bows under, and a tremendous sea run-
ning. At noon, the starboard-bowel' anchor parted, but
the others held.
. ' As there was every reason to fear the falling of the
tide, which· we knew to be from twelve to fifteen feet on
this coast, and in that case the total destruction of the ship,
I caused the long-boat to be hoisted out, and, with the
four· smaller ones, to be stored to a certain extent with
arms and provisions. The officers drew lots for their re-
spective boats, and the ship's company were stationed to
them. The long-boat having been filled full of stores
which could not be put below, it became requisite to throw
them overboard, as there was no room for them on our veey
small and crowded decks, over which heavy seas were co,...
stantly sw~eping.. In making these preparations f'or taking
to the boats, it was evident to all, that the long;boat was
oio "'ed by Google
$i4 .ON TBR COJIBJNRD OPRR.lTlON
the onJy one that had the slightest chance of living under
the lee of the ship, should she be wrecked; but every man
and officer drew his lot with the greatest composure, though
two <'four boats would have swamped the instant they were
lowered. Yet, such was the noble feeltng of those around
me, that it was evident, that, bad I ordered the boats in
question to be manned, their crews would· have entered
them without a murmur. In the afternoon, on the w.eatber
clearing. a little, we discovered a low beach all around
astern of us, on which the surf was running to an awful
height, and it appe_ared evident that no human power could
save us. At 3 r. M., the tide had fallen to twenty-two feet,
(only 1iz. mor~ than tDe drcto,) and the thip, kamng belf&
lifted by a tremtndom tea, struck toith great t'iolence the
length of her keel. This we naturally conceived was the
forerunner of her total wreck, and we stood in readiness to
take the boats, and endeavor to hang under her lee. She
continued to strike with sufficient force to have burst any
less fortified vessel, at intervals of a few minutes whenever
an unusual heavy sea passed us. And, as the water was
so shallow, these might be called breakers rather than
waves, for each in passing burst with great force over our
gangways, and, as every sea "topped," our decks were
continually, and frequently deeply, flooded. All hands
took a little refreshment, for some had scarcely been below
for twenty-four hours, and I had not been in bed for three
nights. Although few or none of us had any idea that we
should survive the gale, we did not think that our comforts
should be entirely neglected, and an order was therefore
given to the men to put on their best and warmest clothing,
to enable them to support life as long as possible. Every
man, therefore, brought his bag on deck, and dressed him-
self; and in the fine athletic forms which stood before me,
I did not see one muscle quiver, nor the slightest sign of
alarm. The officers each secured some useful instrument
about them, for the purpose of observation, although it was
. acknowledged bv all that. not the slightest nope remained.
oio "'ed by Google
01' 't•& JUTURAL LAWS,
And DOW that ev~ thing in our power had been done, I
ealled all hands aft, and to a merciful God offered prayera
for our preae"ation. I tttanked every one for his excellent
ctOilliuct, and .cautieoeci them, as we should, in all proba-
bility, soon a,pe~r before our Make't, to enter his presence
as.men resigned to their fate. We then all sat down m
groups, and, alaelteNd from the wash of the sea by wbat-
&9'er we could tind, many of us endeavored to obtain a little
tdeep. Never, perhaps, was witnessed a finer scene than
on the deck of my little ship, when all the hope oflife had
left us. Noble as the clylracter of the British sailor is
always allowed to be in cases of danger, yet I did not be-
lieve it to be possible, that, amongst forty-one persons, not
one repining word should have been uttered. The officers
sat about, wherever they could find a shelter from the sea,
and the men lay down conversing with each other with the
most perfect calmness. Each was at peace with his neigh-
bor and all the world, and I am firmly persuaded that the
resignation which was then shown to the will of the Al-
mighty, was the means of obtaining his mercy. At about
6 P. M., the rudder, which had already received some very
heavy blows, rose, and broke up the after-lockers, and this
was the last severe shock that the ship received. We
found by the well that she made no water, and by dark she
struck no more. God was merciful to us, and the tide,
almost miraculously, fell no lower. At dark heavy rain fell,
but was borne in patience, for it beat down the gale, and
brought with it a light air from the northward. At 9 P. M.
the water had deepened to five fathoms. The ship kept oft'
the ground all night, and our exhausted crew obtained
some broken rest.'-P. 76.
In humble gratitude for his deliverance, he called the
plaee 'The Bay of God's mercy,' and' offered up thanks
..,. praises to God, for the mercy he had shown to us.'
'Otll2th September, they had another gale of wind, with
cutting showers ofsleet, and a heavy sea. '.tlt such. a mo-
IINftt "' tltU,' says Captain Lyon, 'we had fruh, cause to
28
oio "'ed by Google
ON 1'BE COMBINED OPEIUTION
deplore tM tzfrtme dtJAUI oj tM Gripa-'1 1Gilittgj fw
1/aovgh olmon t~ny otlaer f!mel trould-· ~ tMWiud off tMt
le4-tlwre, tilt IIIGdt little or no JWOKJ"tll bA tJ wind, bvt re-
fAtJifted tJCtually pitching1 fortct~llk talder, Vlith act~rctlJ
alttrtJge-u~t~y, to preeerve which, I was ultimately obliged
to keep her nearly two points off the wind.'-P. 98.
Another storm IJVertook them, which is described as fol-
lows:- • Never shall I forget the dreariness of this moet
anxious night. Our ship pitched at such rate, that it was
not possible to stand, even below; while on deck we were
unable to move, without holding by ropes, which were
atretched from side to side. The drift snow fiew in such
sharp heavy flakes, that we could not look to windward,
and it froze on deck to above a foot in depth. The sea
made incessant breaches quite fore and aft the ship, and
the temporary warmth it gave while it washed over us, was
most painfully checked, by its almost immediately freezing
()n our clothes. To these discomforts were added the hor-
rible uncertainty as to whether the cables would hold until
daylight, and the conviction also, that ifthey failed us, we
should instantly be dashed to pieces, the wind blowing di-
reetly ~0 the quarter in which we knew the shore must lie.
Again, should they continue to bold us, we feared, by the
ship's complaining so much forward, that the bits would
be torn up, or that she would settle down at her anchors,
overpowered by some of the tremendous seas which burst
over her. At dawn on the 13th, thirty minutes after four
A. M., we found that the best bower cable had parted; and,
as the gale now blew with terrific violence from the north,
there was little reason to expect that the other anchors
would hold long; or, if they did, we pitched 10 detply, t~nd
lifted so great a body of water each time, that it wa1 fet~red
the toindlas1 and forecastle would be torn up, or 1he mUBt
go doum at her ancho1·s: although the ports were knocked
out, and a considerable portion of the bulwark cut away,
she could scarcely discharge one sea before shipping an-
other, and the decks were frequently flooded to an alarm-
ing depth.
oio "'ed by Google
01' TH£ NATURAL LAWS.
• At six A. M. all farther doubts on this particular account
were at an end; for, having received two overwhelming
seas, both the other cables went at the same moment, and
we were left helpless, -without anchors, or any means of
saving ourselves, should the shore, 8s we had every reason
to expect, be close astern. And here, again, I bad the
happiness of witnessi~g the same generlll tranquillity as was
shown on the 1st of September. There was no outcry
that the cables were gone; but my friend Mr. Manico, with
Mr. Carr the gunner, came aft as soon as they recovered
their legs, and, in the lowest whisper, informed me that the
cables had all parted. The ship, in trending to the wind,
lay quite down on her broadside, and, as it then became
evident that nothing held her, and that she was quite help-
less, each man instinctively took his station; while the
seamen at the leads, having secured themselves as well as
was in their power, repeated their soundings, on which our
preservation depended, with as much composure as if we
had been entering a friendly port. Here, again, that Al-
mighty power, which bad before so mercifully preserved
us, granted us his protection.'-P. 100.
Nothing can be more interesting and moving than this
narrative; it displays a great predominance of the moral
sentiments and intellect, but sadly unenlightened as to the
natural laws. I have quoted, in Captain Lyon's own words,
his description of the Griper, loaded to such excess that
she drew sixteen feet water-that she was incapable of sail-
ing-that she was whirled round in an eddy in the Pent-
land Fritb-and that seas broke over her which did not wet
the deck of the little Snap, not half her size. Captain
Lyon knew all this, and also the roughness of the climate
to which he was steering; and, with these outrages of the
physical law staring him in the face, he proceeded on his
voyage, without addressing, so far as appears from his nar-
rative, one remonstrance to the Lords of the Admiralty o~
the subject of this .infringement of the principles of com-
mon prudence. My opinion is, that Captain Lyon was
o;o "'ed by Googl
ON THE COMBINED OPBilATIOK
DOt blind to the errors committed in hi1 equipmeot, or to
thetr probable consequences; but that his powerfw seatl-
ment of Veneration, combined with CautiousnellS aDd Love
of Approbation (misdirected ia this instance), deprived him
of courage to complain to the Admiralty, through fear of
1iving offence; or that, if he did complain, they prevented
him from stating the fact iu his narrative. To the wm-
pestuous north he sailed; and his greatest dangers were
clearly referrible to the very infringements of the physical
laws wbM:b be describes. When the tide ebbed, his ship
reached to witllin six feet of the bottom, and, io the hollow
of every wave, &truck with great violence: but sbe was
loaded at least four feet too deeply, by his own account;
so that, if he had done his duty, she would have bad
four feet of additional water, or ten feet in all, between
her and the bottom, even in the hollow of the wave- a
matter of the very last importance in such a critical situa-
tion. Indeed, with four feet more water, she would DOt
have struck; besides, ifless loaded, she would have s&rock
less violently. Again, when pressed upon a lea shore, her
i.ncapability of sailing was a most obvious cause of danger.
In short, if Providence is to be regarded as the cause of
these calamities, there is no impropriety which it is pouible
for man to commit, that may not, on the same principle•,
be charged against the Creator.
But the moral law again shines forth in delightful splen-
dor in the conduct of Captain Lyon and his crew• wbeo in
the most forlorn condition. Piety, resignation, and manly
reiJOlution, then animated them to the noblest efforts. On
the principle, that the power of accommodating our ~on­
duct to the natural laws depends on the activity of the mo-
ral sentiments and intelled, and that the more name~ou1
the faaulties that are excited the greater is the eurgy
communicated to the whole system, I would say, that while
Captain Lyon's sufferings were, in a great degree, brought
on by his infringements of the physical laws, his escape
wu greatly pro~d by his obedience to the moral law;
OJ zedbyGoogle
OP THE !UTUI\AL LAWS.
and that Providence, in the whole occurrences, proceeded
on the broad and general principle, which sends advantage
uniformly as the reward of obedience, and evil as the pun-
ishment of infringement, of every particular law of creation.
That storms and tempests have been instituted for aome
benevolent end, may, perhaps, be acknowledged when
their causes and effects are fully known, which at present
is not the case. But even amidst all our ignorance ofthese,
it is surprising how small a portion of evil they .would occa-
sion if men obeyed the laws which are actually ascertained.
How many ships perish from being sent to sea in an old
worn-out condition, and ill-equipped, through mere Acqui-
sitiveness; and how many more, from captains and crews
being chosen, who are greatly deficient in knowledge, in-
telligence, and morality, in consequence of which they in-
fringe the physical laws! The London Courier, of 29th
April 1854, contains a list of ten British brigs of war,
mostly employed as packet ships, which had foundered at
sea within the preceding twelve years, owing to bad con-
struction and bad condition; while, it is remarked, t10t OM
American pri"ate packet ship, out of the vast number con-
stantly sailing between Liverpool and New York, is recol-
lected to have perished in that manner. Such facts show
how little Nature is to blame for the calamities of ship-
wreck, and to how great an extent they arise from human
negligence and folly. We ought to look to all these m.P-
ters, before we complain of storms as natural institutions.
The last example of the mixed operation of the natural
laws which I shall notice, is the -result. of the mercantile
distress in 1825-6. I have traced the origin of that visita-
tion to excessive activity of Acquisitiveness, and a general
aacendency of the animal and selfish faculties over the
moral and intellectual powers. The punishments of these
offences were manifold. The excesses infringed the moral
law, and the chastisemant for this, was deprivation of the
tranquil steady enjoyment that ftows only from the moral
aentiments, with severe suffering in the ruin of fortune and
28•
oio "'ed by Google
$9() ON TB& OPBJU'l'ION t'IP TilE 541'URAL LA.W'il.
WMtiDg of hope. These disappointments produced mental
anpilh anci depreaeion, which occuioned an uohealtby
••e ofthe braio. The action of the brain being disbnbed,
a aorbi4 oe"ous influence waa transmitted to the whole
earporealsystem; bodily diaease was superadded to mental
110rrow; and, in some iostaaces, the unbeppysufferers com-
lliUed suicide to eaoape from theee aggravated evils, U•
der C~e organic Jaw,. the children produced io this period
ofmeftCal depretBion, bodily distress, and organic 4erange-
aeat, would inherit weak bodies, with feeble and irritable
IDinds- a hereditary chastisement for their fathers' trans-
gretiSione.
In the instances now given, we discover the various laws
acting in perfect harmony, and in subordination to the moral
and intellectual laws. If our ancestors had not forsaken
the supremacy ofthe moral sentiments, such fabrics as the
house• in the old town of Edinburgh never would have
Men built; and if the modern proprietors had returned to
that law, and kept profligate and drunken inhabitants out
of them, tbe conflagration might still have been avoided.
In &be cue of the ships, we see that wherever intellect and
morality bad been relaxed, and animal motives permitted
to assume the supremacy, evil had speedily followed; and
.tha\ where the higher powers were called forth, safety had
been o\Kained. And, finally, in the case of the merchants
apd manufacturers, we trace their calamities directly to
placing AcquieitiveneBS and Self-Esteem above intellect
and moral sentiment.
Formidable and appalling, then, as these punishments
are,---yet, when we attend to the laws under which they
occur, and perceive that the object and legitimate operation
ofevery one of tboee laws, when observed, is to produce
happineSB to man, and that the punishments have in view
the sole object of forcing him back to this happiness,-we
cannot, under the supremacy of the moral sentiments ud
intellect, fail to bow in humility before them, as at once
wiH, benevolent, and just.
oio "'ed by Google
( Ml )
CHAPTER VIII.
INFLUENCE OF THE N.,TURAL LAWS ON THE HAPPINESS
OF INDIVIDUALS.
A I'ORMJDABU objection bas often been stated against
my views of the Natural Laws- namely, that although,
when oonaidered abstractly, they appear beneficent and
just, yet, when applied to individuals, they are undeniably
the causes of extensive, severe, and unavoidable suffering;
110 that while, theoretically, the moral horizon appears to
be cleared up, nevertbele88, practically and substantially,
the obscurity and intricacy remain undiminished. In
answer, I have to observe, that, as the whole is but an ag-
gregate of all the parte,- if any natural institution, when
viewed in its operation in regard to the race, is found to be
just and beneficent, it cannot well be cruel and unjust to
individuals, who are the component parte of that whole;
and this, accordingly, I humbly conceive to admit of some-
thing approaching to demonstration. The form ofa dialogue
is perhaps the best adapted for illustrating the subject; and
' if, in imitation of some of the classic fabulists, we suppose
the suffering individuals to make an appeal to Jupiter, the
law of gravitation may be exemplified as follows.
It happened in a remote period, that a slater slipped
from the roof of a high building, in consequence of a stone
ofthe ridge having given way as he walked upright along
it; he fell to the ground, had a leg broken, and was other-
wise severely bruised. As be Jay in bed suffering severe
pain from his misfortune, be addressed Jupiter in these
words.: '0 Jupiter, thou . art a cruel god; for thou hast
made me so frail and imperfect a being, that I had not fac-
ulties to perceive my danger, nor power to arrest my fall
when its ocnurrence showed how horrible an evil awaited
oio "'ed by Google
SM INFLUENCE OF THB N.lTUIU.L L.lWS
me. It were better for me that I had never been.' .Jupi-
ter, graciously bending his ear, heard the address, aad
answered : ' Of what law of mine dost thou complain? '
• Of the law of gravitation,' replied the slater; ' by its ope-
ration, the slip which my foot made upon the stone, which,
unknown to me, was loose, precipit~ed me to the earth,
and crushed my body, never calculated to resist such
violence~' ' I restore thee to thy station on the roof,' said
Jupiter; 'I heal all thy bruises; and, to convince thee of
my ben6volence, I suspend the law of gravitation as to thy
body and all that is related to it: art thou now content? '
The slater, in deep emotion, offered up gratitude and
thanks, and expressed the profoundest reverence for so just
and beneficent a deity. In the very act of doing so, he
found himself in perfect health, epect upon the ridge ofthe
roof; and, rejoicing,, gazed around. His wonder at so
1:1trange an event having at last abated, he endeavored to
walk along the ridge to arrive at the spot which he intended
to repair. But the law of gravitation was suspended, and
his body did not press upon the roof. There being no
pressure, there was no resistance, and his legs moved
backwards and forwards in the air without any progress
being made by his body. Alarmed at this occurrence, he
stooped, seized his trowel, lifted it full of mortar, and made
the motion of throwing it on the slates; but the mortal,
freed from the trowel, hung in mid air-the law of gravita-
tion was suspended as to it also. Nearly frRntic with terror
at such unexpected novelties, he endeavored to descend in
order to seek relief; but the law of gravitation was suo~­
pended as to his body, and it hung poised at the level of
the ridge, like a balloon in the air. He tried to fling him-
selfdown, to get rid of the uneasy sensation, but his body
ftoated erect, and would not move downwards.
In an agony of consternation, he called once more upon
Jupiter. 'rhe god, ever kind and compassionate, heard his
cry and pitied his distress; and asked, 'What evil hath
befallen thee now, that thou art not yet content? have I
0!1' 'l'HF. H.t.PPIOSS 01' I!I'DlVIDUA.LI. 3:JS
not euspemtM, at thy request, Ole law which made thllltt
fall? New thon art safe from brUMis aDd from btokeo
li~s; why, then, doet tllou stiU complain?'
The slater answered: ' In deep humiliation. I aekomr-
l~e my igootllfte& and ptElliumptioD; restore JOe to my
couch of pain, but give me back the benefits of tby law of
gravitation.'
'Thy Wish itt granted,' said Jupiter in reply. The slater
in a moment lay on his bed of sickness, endured the eaist.i-
gation ofthe organic law, was restored to health, and again
mounted to the roof that caused his recent pain. He
thanked Jupiter anew, from the depths of hU! aoul, for the
law of gravitation with its numberless benefits; and applied
his faculties to study and obey it during the remainder of
his life. This study opened up to him new and delightful
perceptions of the Creator's beneficence and wisdom, of
which he had never even dreamed bef011e; imd these view•
so excited and gratified his moral and intellectual powers,
that he seemed to himself to have entered on a new exist-
ence. Ever afterwards he observed the law of gravitation;
and, in a good old ag~. when his organic frame was fairly
worn out by natural decay, he transmitted his trade, his
house, and much experience and wisdom, to his son, and
died thanking and blessing Jupiter for having opened his
eyes to the true theory of his scheme ofcreation.
The attention of Jupiter was next attracted by the loud
groans and severe complaints of a husbandman, who ad-
dressed him thus: '0 Jupiter, I lie here racked with pain,_
and pass the hours in agony without relief. Why hast
thou created me so miserable a being?' Jupiter answered:
'What aileth thee, and of what institution of mine dost
thou complain? ' ' The earth which thou hast made,' re-
plied the husbandman, ' will yield me no food, unless I till
and sow it; and no increase, except it be watered by thy
rain. While I guided my plough in obedience to thy law,
thy rain came, and it fell not only on the earth, but also on
me; it penetrated through the clothes which I h.ad been
oio "'ed by Google
S$4 llfrLt7&NC& 01' TB& N4Tt184L LAWS
obliged to make for myself, because thou hadst left me
naked; it cooled my skin, which thou hadst rendered deli-
cate and sensible; it disordered all the functions of my
body; and now rheumatic fever parches my blood, and
agonises every muscle. 0 Jupiter, thou art not a kind
father to thy children.'
Jupiter heard the complaint, and graciously replied:
•My physical and organic laws \Vere established for thy
advantage and enjoyment, and thou hast grievously in-
fringed them; the pain thou sufferest is intended to reclaim
thee to thy duty, and I have constituted thy duty the high-
est joy ofthy existence: but say, what dost thou desire?'
The husbandman answered: 'What, 0 Jupiter, signify
the purposes of thy laws to me, when thou hast denied me
faculties competent to discover and obey them?-Frail and
fallible as I am, they cause me only pain; deliver me from
their effects, and I ask no other boon.'
•Thy prayer is granted,' said Jupiter: 'I restore thee
to perfect he.tlth; and, for thy gratification, I suspend the
laws that have offended thee. Henceforth water shall not
we~ thee or thine, thy skin shall feel cold no more, and thy
muscles shall never ache. Art thou now content? ' ·
'Most gracious Jupiter,' said the husbandman, 'my soul
is melted with deepest gratitude, and I now adore thee as
supremely good.'
While he spoke he found himself afield behind his team,
healthful and vigorous, jocund and gay, and again blessed
Jupiter for his merciful dispensation. The season was
spring, when yet the chill blast of the north, the bright
blaze of a powerful sun, and passing showers of rain, in-
terchanged in quick and varying succession. As be drove
his plough along, the rain descended, but it wet not him;
the sharp winds blew, but they chilled no fibre in /,is frame;
the ftood of heat next poured upon his brow, but no sweat
started from its pores: the physical and organic laws were
suspended as to him.
Rejoi~ing in his freedom from annoyance and pain, he
oio "'ed by Google
ON THE BA.PPIN&SI OP INDIVJDtJA.LS :JS6
returned gladly home to meet his smiling family, after the
labors of the day. It had been his custom in the evening
to put off the garments in which he bad toiled, to clothe
himself in fresh linen, to IJUP on milk prepared by his wife
with savory fruits and spices, and to press his children to
his bosom with all the fervor of a parent's love; and he
used to feel a thrill of pleasure pervading every nene, as
they acknowlP.dged and returned the affectionate embrace.
He looked to find the linen clean, cool, delicately drese-
ed, and lying in its accustomed place; but it was not there.
He called to his wife to fetch it, half chiding her for neg-
lect. With wonder and dismay depicted in every feature,
she narrated a strange adventure. With the morning sun
she bad risen to accomplish her wonted duty, but, although
the water wetted every thread that clothed other individu-
als, it moistened not a fibre of his. She boiled it over a
powerful fire, and applied every means that intellect, stim-
ulated by affection, could devise; but the result was still
the same: the water glided over his clothes and would not
wet them. 'The physical law,' said the husband within
himself, ' is suspended ns to me; henceforth water wetteth
not me•or mine.' He said no more, but placed himself at
table, smiling over his lovely family. He lifted the young-
est child upon his knee, a girl just opening in her bloom,-
pressed her to his bosom, and kissed her ruddy cheek.
But he started .when be experienced no sensation. He
saw her with his eyes, and heard her speak, but had -no
feeling of her presence. His knee was as stone, his bosom
as marble, and his lips as steel; no sensation penetrated
through his skin. He placed her on the floor, looked wist-
fully on her form, graceful, vivacious, and instinct with
love; and, as if determined to enjoy the well-remembered
pleasure now withheld, he clasped her to his bosom with
an embrace so ardent that she screamed with pain. Still
he was all adamant; no sensation reached his mind. Heav-
ing a deep sigh, he sent her away, and again the thought
entered the very depths of his soul-' The organic law is
oio "'ed by Google
- JIU'LVMC& 01' 1'11& IUTUil.U. LA11N
...peoded u to JM!' RecoUectiag well the aweet gnD.
fioatioDS of bls evellias mMI, be seized a A»ewl, and deli.
eetely bega.u to sip, e~tmc every papilla of the tongue to
ca&cb the grateful savor. But .no savor waa pet:ceptiWe;
the liquid glided over has guatatory orgaDS like quicksilver
ovea- the smooth aurfac.e of a mirror, without impreesioa,
and without leaving a trace behind. He now started .ill
llorror, and hill spirit ta.uk within him wbeo be thought
that thenceforth he should live without senaatioo. He
rushed into the fields, a.ud called aloud on Jupiter, •0
Jupiter, I •m the most miserable of men; I am a being
without aensation. Why but thou made me thus?'
Jupiter beard his cry, aed a.uswered: 'I have suspended
the physical and organic laws, to which thou ascribedst
thy fever and thy pain; henceforth no pang shall cause
thy nerves to shri.uk, or thy muiCles to quiver; why, then,
art thou thus unhappy, and why ctiscontented ~ith thy new
condition?'
'True, 0 Jupiter,' replied the husbandman; 'but thou
hut taken away from me sensation: I no longer feel the
grateful breath of morn fanning my cheek as I drive
my team afield; the roac diffuses its fragrance fur- me in
vain; the ruddy grape, the luscious fig, and the cooling
orange, to me are now savorless as adamant or air; my
children are as stones: 0 Jupiter, I am utterly wretched;
I am a man without sensation!'
'Unhappy mortal,' replied the god, how- can T afford
thee satisfaction? When I gave thee nerves to feel, and
muscles to execute the purposes ofthy mind,- when I be-
stowed on thee water to refresh thy palate, and made thy
whole frame one great inlet of enjoyment,- thou wert not
content. I made thy nerves liable to pain, to warn thee
of tl,ly departures from my laws. The rain that was sent_
(ell to fructify and refresh the earth, and not to injure thee.
I saw thee, while the showers desc.ended, stay abroad.
r.e&ardless of its influence' on thy frame. The northern
blast received from me its piercin~ cold, to warn thee t;>f ita
oio "'ed by Google
ON 'l'HB HAPPINESS !)F INDIVIDtl'ALS. ~
-effects; and yet I saw thee, wet and shivering, stand in ita
·COurse, regardless of its power. In the voice ofthe storm
I epake to thy understanding, but thou ditfst not compre-
hend. The fever that parched thy blood was sent to arretlt
thee in thy departures from my organic laws. If I restore
to thee my institutions, thou mayst again forget my ways,
and in misery impeach my justice.•
' 0 most gracious Jupiter,' cried the husbandman, ' now
I see thy power and wisdom, and my own folly and pre-
sumption. I accept thy laws, and gratefully acknowledge
that, even in the chastisements they inflict, they are be-
neficent. Restore to me the enjoyn1ents of scmmtion;
permit me once more to reap the advantages that flow
from the just uses of my nerves and muscles, and I bow
with resignation to the punishment of misapplying them.•
Jupiter granted his request. His fever and pains returned,
but by medicine were relieved. He slowly recovered
health and strength, and never afterwards embraced his
. children, or enjoyed a meal, without pouring forth a deeper
offering of gratitude than he had done before. He was
now instructed concerning the source of his enjoyments;
he studied the laws of his nature and obeyed them; and
when he suffered for occasional deviations, he hastened
back to the right path, and never again underwent so
severe a punishment.
Just as the husbandman resumed his wonted labors, a
new voice was heard calling loudly to Jupiter for rcliet:
It proceeded from a young heir writhing in agony, who
cried, '0 Jupiter, my father committed debaucheries, for
which my bones are pierced with suffering; gout teareth
my flesh asunder; thou actest not justly in punishing me
for his transgressions: deliver me, 0 Jupiter, or renounce
thy character for benevolence and justice.' 'Thou com-
plainest of my law of hereditary descent?' said Jupiter;
'hast thou derived from thy father any other quality be-
sides liability to gout?' '0 Jupiter,' replied the sufferer,
•I have derived nerves that feel sweet pleasure when the
29
oio "'ed by Google
SSf fii'PLV&NC& OJ' Til& l'I'ATUa.U. I..UVS
gout ceueth ita gnawing, muscles that execute the pur-
poeetl of my will, seoaes that are inlets ofjoy, and faculties
that eu"ey and rejoice in thy fair creation: But why didst
thou permit gout to descend from him who sinned, to me?'
• Short-sighted mortal,' said Jupiter, •thy father was
aftlieted because he infringed my institutions; by my or-
ganic law, thou hast received a frame constituted as waa
.that of thy father when thy life commenced; the delicate
sensibility of hia nerves transmitted the same susceptibility
to thine; the vigor of his muscles has been transferred
into thine; and by the same law, the liability to pain that
existed in his bones from debauchery, constitutes an in-
separable element of thine: If this law afflict thee, speak
the word, and I shall suspend it as to thee.'
' Bountiful Jupiter!' exclaimed the sufferer; ' but tell
me fi.rat- if thou suspendest thy law, shall I lose all that I
inherited by it from my father; vigor of nerves, muscles,
aenses, and faculties, and all that constitutes my delight
when the gout affiicteth me not?'-' Assuredly thou shalt,'
said Jupiter; 'but thy body shall be free from pain.'
' Forbear, most bounteous deity,' replied the sufferer;
' I gratefully accept the gift of thy organic laws, with all
their chastisements annexed: But say, 0 Jupiter,-if this
pain was iofiicted on my father for transgressing thy law,
may it not be lessened or removed if I obey?'
'The very object of my law,' said Jupiter, 'is that it
should. Hadst thou proceeded as thy father did, thy whole
frame would have become one great centre of disease.
The pain was transmitted to thee to guard thee by a pow-
erful monitor from pursuing his sinful ways, that thou
mightest escape this greater misery. Adopt a course in
accordance with my institutions, and then thy pain shall
abate, and thy children shall be free from its effects.'
The heir expressed profound resignation to the will of
Jupiter, blessed him for his organic law, and entered upon
a life of new and strict obedience. His pain in time di-
minished, and his enjoyments increased. Ever after he
was grateful for the law.
oio "'ed by Google
9N THE HAPPINESS OF INDIVIDUALS. M9
A feeble voice next reached the vault of heaven: it was
that of a child, sick and in pain. 'What is thy distress,
poor boy,' said Jupiter, 'and of what dost thou complain?'
Half drowned in sobs, the feeble voice replied: ' I suffer
under thy organic law. A father's sickness, and the
disorders of a mother's frame, have been transmitted in
combined intensity to me. I am all over exhaustion and
pain.' ' Hast thou received no other gift,' inquired Jupi-
ter, ' but sickness and disease- no pleasure to thy nerns,
thy muscles, or thy mental powers?'-' All are so feeble,'
replied the child, 'that I exist, not to enjoy, but only to
suffer.' 'Poor victim,' said Jupiter, 'my organic law shall
soon deliver thee, and I will take thee to myself.' The
organic law instantly operated; the body ofthe child lay a
lifeless mass, and suffered no more; its spirit dwelt with
Jupiter.
The next prayer was addressed by a merchant struggling
on the Mediterranean waves, and near sinking in th~ir
foam. • What evil dost thou charge against me,' said
Jupiter, 'and what dost thou require?'
'0 Jupiter,' answered the supplicant, 'I sailed from
Tyre to Rome in a ship, which thou seest on fire, loaded
with all the merchandise acquired by my previous toils.
As I lay here at anchor off the port of Syracuse, whither
business called me, a sailor, made by thee, thirsted after
wine, .stole it from my store, and, in intoxication, set my
ship and goods on fire; and I am now plunged in the waves
to die by drowning, to escape the severer pain of being
consumed by fire. Why, if thou art just, should the inno-
cent thus suffer for the guilty?'
'Thou complainest, then,' said Jupiter, 'of my social
law? Since this law displeaseth thee, I restore thee to thy
ship, and suspend it as to thee.'
The merchant, in a· moment, saw his ship entire; the
blazing. embers restored to vigorous planks; himself and
all his crew sound in limb, and gay in mind, upon her
deck. Joyous and grateful, he addressed thanksgiving to
:H() NFLUUC& OF TB& NATURAL LAWS
the god, and called to his crew to weigh tbe anchor, set
the sail1, and turn the helm for Rome.· But no sailor heard
him speak, and no movement followed his words. Astoo-
iehed at their indolence and sloth, he cried in a yet louder
yoice, and inquired why none obeyed his call. But still
ao aDewer waa given. He saw the crew move and speak,
act and converse; but they seemed not to observe Aim.
He entreated, remolltltrated, and up&raided; but, notwitb-
standlag all his efforts, could obtain no reply. All seemed
uneoaacious of his presence. Unconscious of his presence!
The awful th?ught rusbed into his mind, that the social
law was suspended 88 to him. He now saw, in all ita
horror, the import of the words ofJupiter, which ~fore, he
had not fully comprehended. Terri.fied, be seized a rope,
and set a sail. Every physical law was in force, and
obeyed his will. The sail filled, and strained forward frooa
the mll8t. He ran to tbe belm--it obeyed his muBCles, and
the ship moved as he directed it. Bl.lt ita course was shol"t:
the anchor was down, and itopped its progress in the sea.
He lowered the sail, seized a baadspike, and attempted to
weigh; but in vain. The itreogth of ten men was requir-
ed to raise so ponderous an anebor. Again he called to his
crew; but again be found that the iOcial law was suspend-
ed as to him: be was absolved thenceforth from all suffer-
ing caused by the misconduct ofothers, but he waa cut off
from every enjoyment and advantage derivable from their
assistance
In despair he seized the boat, rowed it into the port of
Syracuse, and proceeded straight to his commercial corre&-
pondent there, to beg his aid in deli•ering him from the
indolence of his crew. He saw his friend, addreued him,
aod told him of his fruitless endeavors to leave the an-
chorage; but his lriend seemed quite uneooacioua of bia
presence. He did not enn look upon him, but proceeded
in businees of his own, with which be seemed eotirely oc-
cupied. The merchant, wearied with fatigue, and almoet
&a.tic with alarm, hun\ed to a tavonl OQ the quay, wbe"
oio "'ed by Google
Olt THE H.l'P'PI~ISS Of' ll'I'DIVIDUA.LI. Ml
he used to dine; and, entering, called for wine to recruit
his exhausted strength. But the servants seemed uncon-
scious of his presence; no movement Wl\8 made; and he
remained as if in a vast solitude, amidst large companiu
of merchants, servants, and assistants, who all bustled in
active gaiety, each fulfilling his duty in his own department.
The merchant now eompt"ehended all the horrors of his
situation, and caUed aloud to Jupiter-' 0 Jupiter, death
in the waves, or by consuming flame, were better than the
life thou hast assigned to me. Let me die, for my cup of
misery is full beyond endurance; or restore me the enjoy-
ments of thy social law, and I shall cease to complam of
the pains which it inflicts.'
'But,' said Jupiter, 'if I restore to thee my social law,
thy ship will be consumed, thou and thy crew will escape
in a boat, but thou shalt be a very beggar; and, in thy
poverty, thou wilt upbraid me for dealing unjustly by
thee.'
' 0 bountiful Jupiter,' replied the merchant, 'I never
knew till now what enjoyments I owed to thy social law;
how rich it renders me, even when all else is gone; and
how poor I should be, with all the world for a poBSeBSion,
if denied its blessings. Tr~e, I shall be poor; but my
nerves, muscles, senses, propensities, sentiments and in-
tellect will be left me: now I see that employment of these
is the only pleasure of existence; poverty will not cut me
off from exercising these powers in obedience to thy laws,
but will rather add new motives exciting me to do so.
Under thy social law, will not the sweet voice of friendship
cheer me in poverty; will not the aid ofkindred and ofmy
fellow men soothe the remainder ofmydays? and, besides,·
now that I see thy designs, I shall avoid employing my
fellow men in situations unsuitable to their talents, and
thereby escape the penalties of infringing thy social law.
Most merciful Jupiter, restore to me the benefit of all thy
laws, and I accept the penalties attached to their infringe-
ment.' His requellt was granted; afterwards he made
2~
$41 110'Lt7ZKC& OW TBB 1U.1't1RAL t.A.it~.
Jupiter's Jaws and the nature of mao his study; he obeyed
those laws, became moderately rich, and found himself
happier than he had ner been in his days of ael.fisb.u.ess
and igDOraoce.
Jupiter was uaailed by many other prayers from u!NOr-
twWe sufterera under the effects of infringement of law
iaws; but, instead of hearing each in endless succession,
llle MBembled his petitioners, and introdaoed to them the
slater, the husbandman, the young heir, and the Olel'ebant,
whom he requested to narrate their knowledge and expe-
rience of the natural laws; and he intimated, that if, after
listening to their account, any petitioner should still be
dissatisfied with his condition, be would suspend for him
the particular law which caused the dieeontent. But no
application followed. Jupiter saw his creatures employ
themselves with real earnestness in studying and conform-
ing to his institutions, and ever afterwards they offered up
to him only gratitude and adoration for his infinite good-
neu aod wisdom.
oio "'ed by Google
( 343 )
CHAPTER IX.
ON THE RELATION BETWEEN SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE.
SINCE the first edition of this work was published, ob-
jections have been stated that the views maintained in it
are at variance with Revelation, and hostile to the interests
of religion. It is gratifying, however, to know, that these
objections have not been urged by any individual of the
least eminence in theology, or countenanced by persons of
enlarged views of Christian doctrine. On the contrary,
many excellent individuals, of unquestionable piety and
benevolence, have widely recommended this work as con-
taining the philosophy of practical Christianity, and have
aided jn its distribution. It is therefore rather on account
of the interest of the inquiry itself, than from any feeling
of the necessity of a defence, that I enter into the fol-
lowing discussion of the relation between Scripture and
Science; and as in a question ofthis nature authorities are
entitled to great weight, I shall commence by citing the
opinion of one of the most learned, talented, and accom-
plished divines of the present day, the Archbishop of
Dublin.
A few years ago, a Professorship of Political Economy
was founded in Oxford by Mr. Drummond, with a. novel
constitution. The professor holds his office for only five
years, and it is a condition that one lecture, at least, shall
be published every year. Dr. Whately, now Archbishop
of Dublin, was the second individual elected to the chair,
and, in compliance with the statute, he published, in 1831,
eight lectures on the science. They are introductory in
'their character, being intended chiefly to diepel populiU'
prejudices agaiDBt political- economy, and to unfold ita
-objects. They contain se'YM81 adlllirable observ.UO..,
oio "'ed by Google
01'1' TH& R&LATIOI'I' B£TWE&I'I'
calculated to remove prejudices against new truths, and
directly applicable to the subject of the present work. On
this account I present them to the reader.
'It has been my first object,' says Dr. '\Vhately, in his
preface, 'to combat the prevailing prejudices against the
study, and especially those which represent it as unfavor-
able to religion.'
• In proportion,• he continues, ' as any branch of study
leads to_ important and useful results,-in proportion as it
gains ground in public estimation,--in proportion as it tends
to overthrow prevailing errors,-in the same degree it may
be expected to call forth angry declamation from those who
are trying to despise what they will not learn, and wedded
to prejudices which they cannot defend. Galileo probably
would have escaped persecution, if his discoveries could
have been disproved, and his reasonings refuted.' ' That
political economy should have been complained of as hos-
tile to religion, will probably be regarded a century hence
(should the fact be then on record) with the same wonder,
almost approaching to incredulity, with which we, of the
present day, hear of men sincerely opposing, on religious
grounds, the Copernican system. But till the advocates of
Christianity shall have become universally much better
acquainted with the true character of their religion, than,
universally, they have ever yet been, we must always ex-
pect that every branch of study, every scientific theory that
is brought into notice, will be assailed on religious grounds,
by those who either have not studied the subject, or who
are incompetent judges of it; or again, who are addreBBing
themselves to such persons as are so circumstanced, and
wish to excite and to take advantage of the p888ioos of the
ignorant. Fltctere si nequeo superos, Jlclutonta fll01)ebo.
Some there are who sincerely believe that the Scriptures
contain revelations oftruths the most distinct from religion.
Such persons procured, accordingly, a formal condemna-
tion ('fery lately rescinded) of the theory of the earth's
motion, as at variance with Scripture. In Protestant couo-
oio "'ed by Google
8CIUCB AND ICJUPTUJlE.
tries, and now, it seems, even Y1 Vopisb, this point hu
been conceded; but that the erroaeous principle-that of
appealing to revelation on questions of physical science-
bas not yet been entirely cleared away, is evident from the
ob;ections which most of you probably may have heard to
the researches ofgeology. The objections against astron-
omy have been abandoned, rather, perhaps, from its having
been ·made to appear, that the Scripture accounts of the
phenomena of the heavew may be reconciled with the ¢On-
clusions of science, than from its being understood that
Scripture is not the test by which the conclusions of science
are to be tried.' ' It is oot a sign of faith-on the con-
trary, it indicates rather a want of faith, or else a culpable
indolence -to decline meeting any theorist on his own
ground, and to cut short the controversy by an appe~ to
the authority of Scripture. For, if we really are convinced
of the truth of Scripture, and consequently of the falsity of
any theory (of the earth, for instance) which is really a1
. variance with.it, we must needs believe that that theory is
also at variance with observable phenomena; and we ought
not therefore to shrink from trying the question by an ap-
peal to these.' ' God has not revealed to us a system of
morality, such as would have been needed for a being who
had no other means of distinguishing right and wrong. On
the contrary, the inculcation of virtue and reprobation of
vice in Scripture, are in such a tone as seems to presuppose
&. natural power, or a capacity for acquiring the power, to
distinguish them. And if a man, denying or renouacing
all claims of natural conscience, should practise without
scruple every thing he did not find expressly forbidden in
Scripture, and think himself not bound to do any thing that
is not there expressly enjoined, exclaiming at every turn-
'Is it so nGminated in the Bond1'
he would be leading a life very unlike what a Christian's
should be. Since, then, we are bound to use our own na·
tural faculties in the search after all truth that is within
oio "'ed by Google
ON TBZ RZLA.TIOl'f BZ~WJ:Zl'f
the reach of thoae facultiea, moat eapecially ought we to
try, by their own proper evidence, queationa which form
no part of revelation properly 10 called, but which are in-
eideotally alluded to in the Sacred Writings. If we appeal
to the Scripture& on any such poin~a, it ahould be merely
u to an ancient book, not in reference to their sacred
character; in short, not as Scripture.'-Pp. 29--36.
These observations are highly philosophical and worthy
of attention; the more 10 that their author is a divine, and
now a high dignitary in the church of Ireland.
The science of geology, also, has been fiercely attacked
as hostile to religion, and been ably defended by the Rev.
Adam Sedgwick, one of its moat eminent professors. In
the Appendix to his Discourse on the Studies of the Uni-
versity of Cambridge, he has published aome valuable and
instructive notes, in the last of which he reproves, with
great eloquence and aeverity, the bigoted and ignorant in-
dividuals who ' dare to affirm that the pursuits of natural
science are hostile to religion.' He also chastises those
writers who have endeavored to falsify the facts and con-
clusions of geology, for the purpose of flattering the reli-
gious prejudices of the public. 'There is another class of
men,' says he, ' who pursue geology by a nearer roacl, and
are guided by a different light. Well-intentioned they
may be; but they have betrayed no small self-sufficiency,
along with a shameful want of knowledge ofthe fundamen-
tal facts they presume to write about: hence they have
dishonored the literature of this country hy Mo1aic Geolo-
gy, Sct-ipture Geology, and other works of cosmogony with
kindred titles, wherein they have overlooked the aim and
end of revelation, tortured the book of life out of its proper
meaning, and wantonly contrived to bring about a collision
between natural phenomena and the word of God.'-
P. 150.
The following observations of the same .author are ex-
ceedingly just:-' A Brahmin crushed with a stone the
microscope that first showed him living things among tbo
oio "'ed by Google
ICI&NCE .t.ND 8CRIM't1RB. S4'7
vegetables of his daily food. The spirit of the Brahmin
lives in Christendom. The bad principles of our nature
are not bounded by ctule or climate; and men are still to
be found, who, if not restrained by the wise and humane
laws of their country, would try to stifle by personal vio-
lence, and crush by brute force, every truth not hatched
among their own conceits, and confined within the narrow
fences oftheir own ignorance.
' We are told by the wise man not to am111er a fool ac-
cording to hit folly ; and it would indeed be a vain and
idle task to engage in controversy with this school offalse
philosophy-to waste our breath in the forms ofexact rea-
soning unfitted to the comprehension of our antagonists--
to draw our weapons in a combat where victory could give
no honor. Before a geologist can condescend to reason
with such men, they must first learn geology.• It is too
much to call upon us to scatter our seed on a soil at once
both barren and unreclaimed-it is folly to think that we
can in the same hour be stubbing up the thorns and reap-
ing the harvest. All the writers of this school have not
indeed sinned against plain sense to the same degree.
With some of them, there is perhaps a perception of the
light of natural truth, which may lead them after a time to
follow it in the right road: but the case of others is beyond
aU hope from the powers of rational argument. Their po-
sition is impregnable while they remain within the fences
oftheir ignorance, which is to them as a wall of brass: for
(as was well said, if I remember right, by Bishop W arbur-
ton, of some bustling fanatics of his own day) there is no
weak side of common sense wherent we may attack them
If cases like these yield at ·all, it must be to some treat-
ment which suits the inveteracy of their nature, and not to
the weapons of reason. As psychological phenomena, they
are, however, well deserving of our study; teaching us,
• Thi1 remark io peculiarly applicable to those who oppooe Phrenology
.00 tbe doctrine of tbe Natural Laws. Such of them ao are ,.,..ious, do oo ill
probmd igDOI'IIIlCII of tbe whole ~nbject.
oio "'ed by Google
O.lf TIIS a&LA.'l'ION 8B'I'WJIBN
among odaer thiuge, how prooe .i.an is to tam his IMIIIt
fac11ltiee to evil purpoaea-and how, at the auggeatioDB oC
nnity and other bad principles of.his heart, he can become
eo far deluded, as to fancy that he is doing honor to rei-
gion, while he is sacrificing the common charities of lii!,
and arraigning the very workmanship of God.'-Pp. 151,
152.
After the examples which these puaages afford, of mis-
directed zeal for religion leading to opposition against the
most useful an4 interesting investigations, we need not be
surprised that the doctrine ·of the natural laws has met
with a similar reception. The charge is made that it leads
to infidelity, and that its principles are irreconcilable with
Scripture.
It may be useful to observe, that in all ages new doe-
trines have been branded as impious, and that Christianity
itself has offered DO exception to this rule. The Greeks
and Romans charged Christianity with 'impiety and no-
velty.' In Cave's Primiti11e Christianity, we are informed
that ' the Christians were every where accounted a pack
of ~fl, and their religion the .&hl:ilm.' They were
denominated ' mountebank impostors,' and ' men of a
desperate and unlawful faction.' They were represented
as ' destructive and pernicious to human society,' and were
accused of ' sacrilege, sedition, and high treason.' The
same system of misrepresentation and abuse .was practised
by the Roman Catholics against the Protestants, at the
Reformation: ' some called their dogs Calvin; and others
transformed Calvin into Cain.' In France, 'the old and
stale calumnies, formerly invented against the first Chria-
tians, were again revived by Democbares, a doctor of the
. Sorbonne, pretending that al1 the disasters of the state were
to be attributed to Protestants alone.'
If the views ofhuman nature expounded in this work be
untrue, the proper answer to them is a demonstration of
their falsity. If they be true, they are mere enunciatiou
of the institutions o~ the Creator; and it argues aupei'IJ&i..
oio "'ed by Google
'BtltBNCB Al'I'D 8CRlP'rtnUt. M9
1ious, and net religious feelings, to fear evil consequences
from the knowledge of what DiYine Wisdom has appointed.
The argument thet the retuU. ofthe doctrine are obviously
et variance with Scripture, and that therefore the doctrines
eannof be trw, is DOt admissible; 'for,' in the Words or
Dr. Whately, ' if we really are convinced of tht truth or
Scripture, and consequently of the falsity of&ny theory (or
the earth, for instance) which is really at variance with it,
we must needs belieYe that that theory is also at variance
with observable phenomena; and we ought not therefore
to shrink from trying the question by an appeal to these.•
Galileo was told, from high authority in the church, that
his doctrine ofthe revolution of the globe was obviously at
variance with Scripture, and that therefore it could not 6e
ln&t; but, as his opinions were founded on palpable facts,
which could be neither concealed nor denied, they neces-
sarily prevailed. If there bad been a real opposition be-
tween Scripture and nature, the only result would have
been a demonstration that Scripture in this particular in•
stance was erroneously interpreted; because the evidence
of physical nature is imperishable and insuperable, and can•
not give way to any authority whatever. The same con·
sequence will evidently happen in regard to Phrenology.
If any fact in physiology does actually and directly contra-
diet any interpretation of Scripture, it is not difficult to
perceive which must yield. The human understanding
cannot resist evidence founded on observation; and even _
if it did resist, Nature would not bend, but continue to
operate in her own way in spite of the resistance, and a
new and more correct interpretation of Scripture would
ultimately become inevitable. Opposition between science
and revelation I sincerely believe to be impossible, when
the facts in nature are correetlyobserved, and divine truth
is c-.orrectly interpreted; but I put the ease thus strongly
to call the serious attention of religious persons to the mis-
chievous consequences to religion, of rashly denouncing,
as adverse to revelation, any doctrine professing to be
30 .
oio "'ed by Google
ON TB& lll&L.I.TION B&TWKN
founded on natural fact.. Every iutance in which the
charge is made falsely, is a grou outrage against revelatioa
itself, and tends to le-ad men to regard Scripture as an ob-
stacle to the progress of science and civilization, instead
of being a system of divine wisdom, in harmony with all
natural truth.
In confirmation of these views the opinions of some of
the most eminent divines may be added.
'Natural religion,' says Bishop Butler, 'is thefoundotiola
and principal port of Chriltianity. • • • • ' Christianity
teaches natural religion, in its genuine simplicity.' • • •
' Reo10A can and ought to judge, not only of the
meaning, but also of the morality and etlidence of Reve-
lation.' • • •
' Let rea1on be kept to, and if any part of the scriptural
account of the redemption of the world by Christ, can
be shown to be really contrary to it, let the Scripture, ita the
nome of God, be given up.'
'Those rules of action,' says Dr. Doddridge, 'which a
man may discover, by the we of reuon, to be agreeable
to the nature of thing•, and on which his happiness will
appear to him to depend, may be called the low of nature;
and when these are considered as intimations of the divine
will and purpose, they may be called the natural la,tcs of
God.' • • • • ' For any one to pour contempt upon
these natural law• of God, under pretence of extolling any
1uppo1ed divine revelation, or intimation of God's will, in an
extraordinary mant&er. will appear very absurd.' • «- • • 'No
discovery can be supposed so particular, as not to need the
use of t•eason upon the principles of the lato of nature, in e.l.-
plaining and applying it to particular cases.•
' The first excellency peculiar to the Christirur doctrine
is,' says Dr. Barrow, ' that- it gives us a true, proper, and
complete character or notion of God, such as perfectly
agrees with what the best reason dictates, the works of
nature declare, ancient tradition doth attest, and common
experienc& testify.' • • • • • ' Every religion that should,
oio "'ed by Google
SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE. S51
in this case, cltUh toilh the law of noture, would bear upon
it the mark.! ofreprobation, and it could not come from the
AUTHOR of nature, who is always consistent, always faithful.'
All existing interpretations of Scripture have heen adopt-
ed in ignorance of the facts, that every person in whose
brain the.animal organs preponderate greatly over the moral
and intellectual organs, ·has a native and instinctive tenden-
cy to immoral conduct, and tlice "eraa; and that the influ-
ence of organization is fundamental- that is to say, that
no means are yet known by which an ill-formed brain mo,
be made to manifest the moral and intellectual facultiett
with the same success as a brain of an excellent configura-
tion. An individual possessing a brain like that ofMelanc-
thon, represented on p. 158, is naturally adapted to receive,
comprehend, and practice the precepts of Christianity;
whereas it will be found extremely difficult to render per-
sons with brains like those of Hare, p. 156, Pope Alexan-
der VI., p. 159, Vitellius, p. 161, or the Carib, p. 189,
practical Christians. Only phrenologists, who have ob-
served, for many years, in various 'Situations, and under
different influences, the conduct of individuals constituted
in these different ways, can conceive the importance ofthe
relative development of the cerebral organs; but after it is
discovered, the inferences from it are irresistible. The
religious teachers of mankind are yet ignorant of the most
momentous fact which nature presents in regard to the
moral and intellectual improvement of the race. I have
heard it said that Christianity affords a better and a more
instantaneous remedy for human depravity, than improve-
ment of the cerebral organization; because the moment a
man is penetrated by the love of God in Christ, his moral
and religious affections become far stronger and more
elevated, whatever his brain may be,-than those of any
individual whatever without that love, however noble his
cerebral development, and however much he may be in-
structed in natural knowledge. I observe, however, that
in this life a man cannot become penetrated by the love of
oio "'ed by Google
ON TRI: UI.ATION BI:TWI:U.
God, except through the aid ofsound and efficient material
organa. This fact ia directly proved by cues of madnen
' lind idiocy. Diaeue in the organa ia the cause of insanity,
and mere deficiency of their aize ia one and an invariable
cause of idiocy. See figure of idiot head on p. 198. ID
neither of these states can the mind receive the advantagee
of the Christian doctrine. It is therefore obvious' that the
power of receiving and appreciating Christianity itself ia
modified by the condition of the brain; and I venture to
affirm, that the influence of the organs does not terminate
with these extreme cues, but operates in all circumstances
and in every individual, aiding or impeding the reception
and efficacy even of revelation. Ifthis were not the ease,
there would be in operatioo a power capable of influencing
the human mind, during life, without the intervention of
material organs; aud, accordingly, many excellent persons
believe this to be scriptural truth, and matter ofexperience
also. But those who entertain thia opinion are not in-
atructed in the functions of the brain; they are not aware
ofthe ulliveraally admitted facts, which eatabliah'that while
life coatinues the mind cannot act oi- be acted upon ex-
cept through the medium of organs; oor do they bring
forward one example ofidiot& and madmen being rendered
pious, practical, and enligbteoed Christians by this power,
notwithstanding tbe state of their braiD&. Cases indeed
occur in which religious feelinpco-exiat with partial idiocy
or partial ioeanity ; but in them the organs of these senti-
meats will be discovered to be well developed,-and if the
feelings be sane, the org&Dil will be foiUld una.lfectea by
disease.
Serious persona wbo are olfewied by thie doctriae, oea-
standy forget that the reciprocal inftueaee of t»e mind and
brain is not ofmu'a devisHti, but that God himself eetab-
Jislaed it, and conferred onthe organs those qualities which.
He saw to be Decenary fur exeeut.i&lg the purposes to which
He had. appointed them. If the atatemeDta oow IQade be
weuded., 1 shall be.the tirat to 'ive them up; bu&, .,..
oio "'ed by Google
SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE.
lieving them to be true, I cannot avoid adhering to them.
When, therefore, I add, that I have never seen an indi-
vidual with large organs of the animal, and small organs
of the moral and intellectual, faculties, whose conduct was
steadily moral, under the ordinary temptations of life,
however high his religious professions might be, I merely
state a fact which the Creator himself bas decreed to exist.
Indeed, I have seen several.striking instances of persona,
who, after making a great profession of religion, ultimately
disgraced it; and I have observed that in all these in•
stances, without one exception, the organs of the inferior
propensities were large, and those of one or more of the
moral sentiments deficient; and I am convinced that the
same conclusion, after sufficiently accurate and extensive
observations, will force itself upon all candid and reflecting
minds.
My inference, therefore, is, that the Divine Spirit, re-
vealed in Scripture as a power influencing the human mind,
invariably acts in harmony with the laws of organization;
because the latter, as emanating from the same source, can
never be in contradiction with the former; and because a
well-constituted brain is a condition essential to the exist-
ence of Christian dispositions. If this be really the fact,
and if the constitution of the brain be in any degree regu-
lated by the laws of physiology, it is impossible to doubt
that a knowledge ofthe natural laws is destined to exercise
a vast influence in rendering men capable of appreciating
and practising Christianity. The manner in which it will
do so, is explained in Dr. Combe's treatise on 'Physiology
applied to Health and Education,' already alluded to. That
work contains an exposition of the laws of action of the
brain, and its connection with, and influence on, the rest
ofthe system, and therefore its relations generally to human
improvement.
An admirable portion of Christianity is that in which the
supremacy of the moral sentiments is explained and en-
forced as a practical_doctrine. Love thy neighbor as thy-
:3<>-
oio "'ed by Google
eelf; aU maokia4 are tlay oeigbbon; bleued are the meek
and the merciful; love those tlaat hate you and despitefully
uee you; aeek tbat which ia pure, and holy, and of good ~
port;-theee are precepts to be found in Scripture. ~ow,
I have endea'Yored to show, that-the human faculties, and
extMDal na&ure, are so eonatituted u to admit of such pro-
cepte beiog reduced to practice on earth-an idea which it
hu rarely entered into the he!ft of man to conceive u a
poaeibility without miraculous interference. If the phi-
lo&Qphy now: explained shall carry home to rational men
the convietion that the order of nature fairly admits of the
practical exemplification of these precepts by the develop-
ment of its inherent resources, a new direction must neces-
sarily be given to the pursuits of the religious instructors
of DUIDIUnd. Christianity, after its establiahment by Con-
stantine, was left to exert its own influence over the Roman
Empire, unaided by printing and natural science. It is
recorded in. history, that it did not suffice to arrest the de-
cline ofmorals and the downfall of the State, but was itself
corrupted and perverted. In the dark ages which followed
the subversion of that Empire, it was again left, unaided
by human learning, to do its best for the regeneration of
mankind; and it became a vast system of superstition.
Nor was it till after the invention of printing, and the
' revival of letters, that the barbarous superstructures which
had been raised on the simple foundations of the Gospel
were cleared away. But the period from the revival of
letters to the present day, has been the age of scholastic
learning, as contradistinguiahed from that of philosophy
and science. Christianity stands before us, therefore, at
present, as interpreted by men who knew extremely little
of the science of either external nature or the human mind.
They have conceived it to be a. system of spiritual intlu-·
ences, of internal operations oil the soul, and of repentant
preparation for another world, rather than an exposition of
pure· and lofty principles inherent in human nature itself;
and capable of being largely developed and rendered
practical in this world.
oio "'ed by Google
SCII!NU A.KD SCRIPTURE,
It is a common accusation against philosophy, that the
lltudy of it renders men infidels; and this alleged fact i.-
brought forward as a proof that humaa nature is corrupt,
blind, and perverse, turning what ought to be its proper
food into mortal poison. But if this were really a well-
founded charge, the conclusion which I would draw from
it would be, tbat there muat be essential errors in the
popular interpretations of revelation, when the efFect of a
knowledge of nature on the mind is to lead to infidelity.
Science is of modern growth; and, down to the present
aour, the mass of Christians in every country have em-
braced their faith without the possibility of comparing it
with the revelation of the Divine Will contained in the
constitution ofexternal nature, which, philosophicallyspeak-
ing, was unknown to them. The facts unfolded by science
were unknown to the divines who first denied the capa-
bility of mankind to attai\1, by the development of their
natural powers, a higher moral condition than any they
have hitherto reached; and, hence, their decision against
the capabilities of human nature has been pronounced
cauaa n.oa cognit& (the merits being unknown), and must
be open for reconsideration. If Christianity was freed
from many errors by the revival and spread of mere scho-
lastic learning in the fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth
centuries, much more may we expect that the interpreta-
tions of Scripture will be farther purified, corrected, and
elucidated, by the flood of light which the sciences of
human and physical nature, now in the course of cultiva-
tion, will one day shed upon religion.
According to my view, the study of the -human constitu-
tion, of external nature, and of their relations, will become
an object of paramount importance, with reference to a just
appreciation of the true meaning of Scripture. Civilized
mao sees infinitely more of true anJ practical wisdom in
Scripture than the savage of the wilderness, even supposing
that the latter ·could read and understaad the words of the
sacred volume; and, in like manner, man, when thoroughly
oio "'ed by Google
ON TU& R&LATION B&TW&EN
instructed in his own constitution and in that of external
nature, will. discover still profounder truths and more
admirable precepts in that record, than are found in it by
ignorant, contentious, blind, conceited man, such as he
has hitherto existed.
History is full of instruction concerning the insufficiency
of mere theological knowledge to protect men from prac-
tical errors, when their understandiligs are unenlightened
in regard to philosophy and the constitution of nature.
The part which the religious teachers of Europe acted in
regard to witchcraft, affords one striking proof of the truth
of this remark.
It was not till towards the close of the 15th century,
that persecutions for witchcraft began to prevail in Europe.
By a bull of Pope Innocent VIII. in 1484, death was, for
the first time, denounced without mercy to all who should
be convicted of witchcraft, oro\ dealings with Satan; and
a form of process for the trial was regularly laid down by
a wretch of the name of Sprenger, whom the pope had
placed at the head of a commission of fire and sword. The
succeeding popes, Alexander VI. and even Leo X, lent
their aid in accelerating the course of this havoc-spreading
engine. So far, however, were the commissions from
being attended with beneficial consequences, that their
only effect was to render the evil every day more formida-
ble; till, at last, if we are to believe the testimony of con-
temporary historians, Europe was little better than a large
suburb of Pandemonium. One half of the population was
either bewitching or bewitched. About the year 1515,
500 witches were executed in Geneva in three months.
A thousand were executed in one year in the diocese of
Como; and they went on burning at the rate of 100 per
annum for some time after. In Lorraine, from 1580 to
1595, Remigius boasts of having burned 900. In France,
the multitude of executions about 15~0 is incredible. One
historian calls it ' an almost infinite number of sorcerers.•
Germany was so fertile a soil for the supernatural, that,
oio "'ed by Google
ICJEMCB .A.ND SCBJPTU&&,
from the publication of Iruaocent's bull to the suppreeeion
of persecutKia for witchcraft, &he number of Yictime could
not be less than 100,000! In the town of Wurtzbura
alo~ae, in the course of two years-1627-29 -there were ·
tweDty-nine acts of conflagration, and more than 157 per·
sons burnt; including not only old women, but even chil-
dren as young as nine years. In Lindheim, from 1660 to
1664, a twealieth part of the whole population was con-
sumed. Other plMles furnished their full contingent; and
so familiarized was the public with these atrocious scenes,
that it relished and gloried in them: singing the events of
them to popular airs, and representing them in hideo1111
engravings, with devils dragging away 'their cnen;' while
the clergy preached solemn discourses, called ' witch-ser-
mons,' upon occasion of every sacrifice-the effect of
which was, of course, to inspire with fresh zeal to collect
fuel for another.
England was not free from the same madness. Three
thousand victims were executed during the reign of the
Long Parliament alone; and it is a melancholy spectacle
to find a man like Sir Matthew Hale condemning wretches
to destruction, on evidence which a child would now be
disposed to laugh at. A better order ofthings commenced
with the Chief-Justiceship of Holt, in consequence of
whose firm charge to the jury on one of these trials, a
verdict of not guilty- almost the first then on record in a
trial for witchcraft-was found. In about ten other trials
by Holt, from 1694 to 1701, the result was the same. Yet,
in 1716, a Mr•. Hicks, and her daughter aged nine, were
baoged at Huntingdon for selling their souls to the devil,
and raising a storm by polling off their stockings and
making a lather of soap! With this crowning atrocity, '
the catalogue of murders in England closes, the penal
statutes against witchcraft being repealed in 1736, and the
prelenled exercise of such arts being punished in future by
imprisonment and pillory.
Barrington, in his obse"ations on the statute of 20th
o1o "'ed by Google
Olf TB& ULATJON B&TW&U
Henry VI, does not hesitate to estimate the number of
individuals put to death in England, on the charge of
witchcraft, at 30,000!
Scotland, too, must bear her share of the bloody stain of
these abominable doings. Till the Reformation, little or
no regard was paid to this subject; but soon after that
event, a raging thirst for destruction took possession of the
nation. In 1563, an act of Parliament was passed, enact-
ing the punishment of death against witches and consultors
with witches. The consequences of this authoritative re-
cognition of the creed of witchcraft became immediately
obvious in the reign of James VI, which followed. Witch-
craft became the all-engrossing topic of the day; and it
was the ordinary accusation resorted to, whenever it was
the object of one individual to ruin another. A number of
the trials are reported in Mr. Pitcairn's recent and valuable
publication of the records of the Court of Justiciary. The
first case is in 1572, of which no particulars are given, ex-
cept the name of the unfortunate woman, and the doom-
' conmct and brynt.' Thirty-five trials are recorded subse-
quently, to the end of James's reign, in all of which the
horrid result is the same. The trials proceed, in the course
ofyears, and the confessions are obtained by torture with
thumb-screws and boots, and pricking with sharp instru-
ments; while strnnglings and burnings follow of course.
The scene darkens towards the close of the reign of Charles
I, with the increasing dominion of the Puritans. In 1640,
the General Assembly passed an net, that all ministers
should take particular note of witches and charmers, and
that the commissioners should recommend to the supreme
judicature the unsparing application of the laws against
them. In 1643, after setting forth the increase of the
crime, they recommended the granting of a standing com-
mission from the Privy Council or Justiciary, to 'any un-
derstanding gentlemen or magistrates,' to apprehend, try,
and execute jmtice against delinquents. By the urgency of
.be General Assembly, who resumed the subject in 1644,
oio "'ed by Google
SCIENCE AND 8CIUPTURB.
16451 and 1649, an act of Parliament was passed in the
last named year, confirming and extending the statute of
Queen Mary, passed in 1563. As was to be expected,
·convictions, which had been fewer since James's time,
increase, and the cases are more horrible. Thirty trials
appear on the record between 1649 and 1660, in which
there seems to have been only one acquittal; while at one
western circuit, in 1659, seventeen persons were convicted
and burnt for the imp1,1ted crime. Numerous, however, aa
are the cases in the records of Justiciary, these afford a
most inadequate idea of the extent to which this pest pre-
vailed over the country; for the Privy Council was in the
habit of, granting commissions to resident gentlemen and
ministers, to examine, and afterwards to try and e~ecute,
witches all over Scotland; and so numerous were these
commissions, that one author expresses his astonishment
at the number found in the registers. Under these com-
missions, multitudes were burnt in every part of the
kingdom.
It is matter of history, that, in cases of this kind, the ·
cle:gy displayed the most intemperate zeal. It was before
them that the poor wretches were first brought for examina-
tion,-in most cases after a preparatory course of solitary
confinement, cold, famine, want of sleep1 or actual torture.
On some occasions, the clergy themselves actually per-
formed the part of the prickers, and inserted long pins into
the flesh of the witches, in order to try their sensibility;
and, in all cases, they labored with the most persevering
investigations to obtain from the accused a confession which
might afterwards be used against them on their trial, and
which, in more than one instance, formed, although re-
tracted, the sole evidence on which the conviction took
_place.
. After 1662, the violence of the mania in Scotland began
to decline; and to the great lawyers of the time is due the
credit of first stemming the foul torrent. ' From the hor-
ridness of the crime,' says Sir George Mackenzie in his
oio "'ed by Google
Criminal Law, ' I do oonolade, that of all crimes it require8
the clearett relevancy an• molt convincing probature; and
I condemn, next to the wretches themselves, those cruel
and too forward judge., who hm pet'IOftl by t1&oucmd. a
pilty of this crime.' The trials after this became fewer
and fewer, and the lalt execution took place at Domoeh ill
1'7~. The statutes were finally repealed in 1195.•
So little light did the Bible afford regarding the atrocity
of the proceedings against witches, that the Secession
Church of Scotland, comprising many intelligent clergy-
men and a large number of the most serious and religious
of the people, complained, in their annual Confession of
personal and national sins, (printed in an act of their As-
sociate Presbytery at Edinburgh in 1743), of •the penal
statutes against witches having been repealed by Parlia-
ment, contrary to the ezpreu law of God.' This defection
is classed by Dr. John Brown of Haddington, one of the
great leaders of the Secession Church about the middle and
end of last century, among 'the practical back-slidings
from the once attained to and covenanted work of reforma-
tion, which have happened in the preceding and present
age, as abuses ofthe singular favors of God.'
During the whole of these proceedings, the clergy, both
Catholic and Protestant, were in possession of revelation
as fully and freely as they are at the present day; and in
Scotland, in particular, the Reformation had been com-
pleted, and the people put in possession ofthe Bible, near-
ly a century before the cessation of these persecutions.
Not only so, but the Bible itself was perversely used as the
warrant of the atrocities, and religion employed to fan the
flame of cruelty and superstition. If any facts can prove
that the Creator intended man to use his intellectual facul..:
ties, and to study the revelation of his will contained in
the works ofnature, in addition to the Bible, as a guide to
• 'l'beee partlculara respecting persecutions for witchcraft are given on the
authority ofa learned and elaborate article, understood to he from the pen ot
Prof~ Moir ofEdinburgh, in the 11th Number of the Foreign QDIIl'terlf
--lew.
oio "'ed by Google
/
~CI'&Jte:t .UfD IICRIP!'mtE.
his eonduet,-and that the Bible wes never intended to
supersede the necessity of all other lmowledge,--thoee
now detailed must have this.effect. The great difference
between Christians of the present day, who regard these
executions as great crimes, and the pious ministers who
inflicted and th.e serious people who witnessed them, con-
sists in the superior knowledge possessed by the modeme,
of physical science, which has opened up to their under-
standings views.of nature and of God, widely different from
those entertained by their ancestors under the guidance of
the Bible alone.
Nothiog can afford a more convincing prool'o( the ne-
cessity of using all the lights in our power, by which to
ascertain the true meaning of Scripture and the soundness
of our interpretations of it, than the wide diversity of the
opinions which even the most learned and pious divines
have based upon the Bible. Another fact of some import-
ance in relation to this matter is, that the manuscripts
which handed down the sacred writings to us from ancient
times vary in many important passages, sometimes through
the ignorance and carelessness of transcribers, and some-
times in consequence of wilful corruption and interpolation•
by contending sects. The following passages, extracted
from a celebrated treatise by one of the greatest ornaments
of the Church ofEngland, Bishop Taylor, are exceedingly
instructive on this subject. ' There are,' says he, ' so
many thousands of copies, that were written by persons of
several interests and persuasions,...-uch different under-
standings and tempers,-such distinct abilities and weak-
nesses,-that it is no wonder there is so great a variety of
readings both in the Old Testament and in the New. In
the Old Testament, the Jews pretend that the Christiana
have corrupted many places, on purpose to make symphony
between both the Testaments. On the other side, the
Christians have had so much reason to suspect the Jewa,
that when Aquila had translated the Bible in their schools,
and had been taught by them, they rejected the edition,
SJ
many of them, and some of them called it heresy to foBow
it. And Justin Martyr justified it to Tryphon, that the
Jews had defalked many sayings from the books of the old
prophets....! shall not need to urge, that there are some
words so near iu sound that the scribes might easily mis-
take....The iDI!taoces oftbis kind are too many, as appears
in the variety of readings in several copies, proceeding from
the negligence or ignorance of the transcribers, or the ma-
licious endeavor of heretics, or the inserting marginal notes
into the text, or the nearness of several words....But so it
is that this variety of reading is not of sftght consideration;,
for although it be demonstrably true, that all things neces-
sary to faith and good manners are preserved from altera-
tion and corruption, because they are of things necessary.
and they could not b~ necessary unless they were delivered
to us,-God, in his goodness and his justice, having obliged
himselfto preserve that which he bath bound us to observe
and keep; yet, in other things which God hath not obliged
himself so punctually to preserve, in these things, since
vari~ty of reading is crept in, every reading takes away a
degree of certainty from any proposition derivative from
those places so read: and if some copies, especially ifthey
be public and notable, omit a verse or a tittle, every argu-
ment from such a tittle or verse loses much of its strength
and reputation.',.--Discourse ofthe Liberty of Prophecying,
sect. iii. ~ 4.
.As to consulting the Scriptures in the original tongues,
th_
ut, says the Bishop, 'is to small purpose: for indeed it
Wl~l expound the Hebrew and the Greek, and rectify trans-
~at~ns; but I know no man that says that the Scriptures
10 ebrew and Breek are easy and certain to be under-
:~~d,1and that they are hard in Latin and English: the
I cu ty is in th th" h . - th
is in th 1 e mg, owevent be expressed- e least
mother-~nanguage: If t~e original languages were our
a natural Jue, Scnpture 1s not much the easier to us; and
thorit b reek or a Jew can with no more reason or au-
yo trude h" . .
IS Interpretations upon other men's con-
SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE.
seiences, than a man of another nation. Add to this, that
the inspection of the original is no more certain way of in-
terpretation of Scripture now, than it was to the fathers
and primitive age ofthe Church; and yet he that observes
what infinite variety of translations were in the first ages
ofthe Church (as St. Jerome observes), and never a one
like another, will think that we shall differ as much in
our interpretations as they did, and that the medium is as
uncertain to us as it was to them; and so it is: witne11s
the great number of late translations, and the infinite num-
ber of commentaries, which are too pregnant an argument
that we neither agree in the understanding of the words
nor of the sense.' 'Men,' he adds most justly, 'do not
learn their doctrines from Scripture, but come to the
understanding of Scripture with preconceptions and ideas
of doctrines of their own; and then no wonder that scrip-
tures look like pictures, wherein every man in the room
believes they look on him only, and tluzt wheresoever he
stands or how often soever be changes his station.'-Sect.
iv. ~ 5, 6.
The folly of setting up any isolated passage of Scripture
against truths brought to light by experiment and obser-
vation, is rendered still more obvious by what Bishop Tay-
lor says respecting the extreme difficulty of discovering
the real meaning of many parts of the Bible, even where
there are sufficient grounds for believing the text to be
genuine. ' Since there are in Scripture,' he observes,
many other mysteries, and matters of question, upon which
there is a veil; since there are so many copies with infi-
nite varieties of reading; since a various interpunction,
a parenthesis, a letter, an accent, may much alter the
sense; since some places have divers literal senses, many
have spiritual, mystical, and allegorical meanings; since
there are so many tropes, metonymies, ironies, hyperboles,
proprieties and improprieties of language, whose under-
standing depends upon such circumstances that it is almost
impossible to know the proper interpretation, now that the
oio "'ed by Google
ON '.nl& ll&LA.TJON B&TWE.£1'
knowJed«e of such circumstances and particular stories is
irreYocably IOIIt: since there are some mysteries which,
at the best advantage of expression, are not easy to be
apprehended ; and whose expJication, by reason of our im-
perfections, must needs be dark, sometimes weak, some-
times unintelligible: and, lastly, since those ordinary meaDS
of expounding Scripture, as searching the originals, con-
ference of places, parity of reason, and analogy of faith, are
all dubious, uncertain, and very fallible; he that is wisest,
and, by consequence, the likeliest to expound truest in all
probability of reaaon, will be very far from confidence;
llecause every one of tkese, and many more, are like so
many degrees of improbability and uncertainty, all de-
pressing our certainty of finding out truth in such myste-
ries, and amidst so many difficulties. And therefore a
wise man, that considers this, .would not willingly be
prescribed to by others; and therefore, if he also be a just
man, be will not impose upon others; for it is best every
mao should be lefi in that liberty from which no man can
justly take him, unless he could secure him from error.'-
Sect. iv. ~ 8. ·
On this subject the reader is referred also to an able
' Essay on the Plenary and Verbal Inspiration of the Holy
Scriptures, by Donald Fraser, D. D., Minister of tho
Gospel, Kennoway, Fifeshire.' * The following passage
illustrates the propriety of acting upon Bishop Taylor's sug-
gestions:-' Be it observed, that when the New Testament
writers, in quoting from the Old, affirm that the Scripture
was fulfilltd, they do not always ·mean that an ancient pre-
diction was literally accomplished. In some instances they
apply this term to the verification of a type; as when John,
after relating the circumstance of the soldiers not breaking
the legs of Jesus, adds .a quotation respecting the paschal
lamb: 'These things were done that the Scripture should
be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken! (Chap.
m. 36, compared with Exod. xii. 36.) In other places
• -Mleck~~-aad Ru\ller&len .,Co,G~.~-
oio "'ed by Google
SCIBNCB AND SCRIPTURB.
they only accommodate the citation to the subject of their
narrative. Thus, Matthew, after relating Herod's cruel
murder of the babes in Bethlehem and its vicinity, i~me­
diately adds: 'Then was fulfilled that which was spoken
by Jeremy the prophet, saying, In Rama was there a
voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourn-
ing, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be
comforted, because they are not.' (Matt. ii. 17, 18, com-
pared with Jer. xxxi. 15.) That is to say, the great Ia·
mentation and inconsolable grief amongst the mothers of
Bethlehem, occasioned by Herod's embruing his hands in
the blood of their uno1fending children, may be happily
illustrated by the prophet's description of the sorrows
attending the Babylonish captivity; where, by a beautiful
figure, he represents Rachel as bitterly deploring the losa
of her offspring.
'An important critical observation ofthe late Dr. Oamp-
bell's' must not be here omitted. He justly observes, that,
in many passages of the New Testament, it would have
been proper to render the original term nJ.'lqoru by the
English word '1Je1-ijy, in preference to fulfil; for this last
word ' has a much more limited signification, and gives a
handle to cavillers where the original gives none. It makes
the sacred penmen appear to call those things predictions
which plainly were not, and which they never meant to de-
nominate predictions.' Verify is, accordingly, the term
which that distinguished interpreter usually prefers in his
own Translation of the Four Gospels.'-Chap. iii. ~ 7.
In the remarks offered in the present chapter I do not
depreciate the importance of the Bible; I only very humbly
endeavor to vindicate the study of the Creator's will in his
works as well as in his word,-to·show that the human mind
needs illumination from both to direct our conduct towards
virtue,-and to prove that, without knowledge of the form-
er, we may grievously milmnderstand the meaning of the
latter. In the words of Archbishop Whately, I consider
that ' we are bound to use our own natural faculties in the
31•
- 61'1' TUB ULA.TIOJ'I' BEi'ritzr
eevcb after all that is within the reach of these faculties;
and ·tlult most.especially ought we to try, by their own pro-
per _evidence, questions which form no part of revelation
properly ao called, but which are incidentally alluded to in
the S.Cred Writings.' 'If it be true that man's duty
ooiooides·with his real interest, both in this world and in
the next, the better he is qualified, by intellectual culture
and diffusion of knowledge, to understand his duty and his
interests, the greater prospect there would seem to be
(other points being equal) of his moral improvement.'
The relation between Soripture and Phrenology appears
to·me to be the following.
The communications of the Bible may be divided into
two great·classes- the one relating to matters which the
human intellect could never by its own powers have dis-
covered; and the other consisting of descriptions of beings
which exist in this world, and of rules of duty to be observ-
ed .by those beings, -which appear to me to be subjected
to the examination of every ordinary understanding. To
the former class belong the character and offices of Jesus
Christ; while .in the latter are comprehended human nature
itself, such as it now exists, and all moral and religious du-
ties which bear relation to human happiness in this world.
The Calvinist, Arminian, and Unitarian entertain views
widely different regarding the character and offices ofJesus
Christ. The doctrine ofthe Natural Laws and Phrenology
can throw no light whatever on that subject, and therefore
it would be a mere waste of words to mix up a discussion
of the one with a treatise on the other: and this obse"a-
tion is ·equally applicable to every announcement contained
in the Bible regarding matters which are not permanent
portions of ordinary nature.
The Bible, however, contains numerous descriptions
of human character, and numerous rules for the guidance
of human conduct; all of which may be compared with
tho constitution of the mind as it is revealed to ua by
oio "'ed by Google
~CtENOE AND SCRIPTURE. 367
observation, and with the inferences which may be drawn
from that constitution concerning its most becoming and
most advantageous modes of action. The result of this
comparison appears to me to establish the harmony
between .Phrenology and Scripture. But let us come to
de$ails.
We are informed in Matthew's gospel, (xv. 19.) that
'out of the heart (clearly meaning the ·mind) proceed evil
thoughts, murders, adulterfes, fornications, thefts, false
witness, blasphemies; ' and statements essentially to the
same effect are made in the Epistles of St. Paul to the
Romans (i. 29, 31; iii. 10.) and to the Galatians (v. 19,
21.) Now, according to Phrenology, excessive and irreg-
ular action of various faculties produces evil thoughts;-
an abuse of Destructiveness leads to murder; an abuse of
Amativeness is the source of adulteries and fornications;
an abuse of Acquisitiveness produces thefts; an abuse of
Secretiveness is the origin of falsehood; and an abuse of
Destructiveness and Self-Esteem gives rise to blasphemies
Here, then, is a striking accordance; and the harmony
will be more fully appreciated if we put the .faculties
enumerated by Mr. Dugald Stewart to the test of a similar
contrast. Mr. Stewart's 'active and moral powers' are
the following.
I . APP:&TJT.U.
Hunger,
Thint,
Appetite of sex.
II. D:&sJiu:s.
The desire of Knowledge,
The desire ofSociety,
The desire of Esteem,
The desire of Power,
The desire ofSuperiority.
III. AJ'J':&OTJOJU.
Parental and filial aB'ection,
Aft'ectiont of Kindred,
Lo-re- Priondlbip,
oio "'•~ by Google
S68 ON THE RELATION BETWEEN
Patriotism,
Uoivenal Benevoleoce,
Gratitude-Pity.
Maleflolml .njfections.
•The names which are given to these in common W..
course,' says Mr. Stewart, 'are various:-
Hatred,
Jealousy,
Envy,
Re'·cnge,
Misanthropy.
But,' continues he, ' it may be doubted if there he any
principle of this kind implanted by nature in the mind,
excepting the principle of resentment ; the others being
grafted on this stock by our erroneous opinions and crimi-
nal habits.'
IV. SJ:LF-LOVJ:.
V. Talt MoRAL FACULTY.
VI. PRII'CIPLES WIJICB CO-OPERATE WITH OUR IIORAL POWERS II'
THEIR lliFLUJ:liCit 0!1 CO!IDUCT, VIZ.
Decency, or Regard to Character,
Syropathy,
The Sellll8 of the Ridueulous, and
Taste.
These faculties, then, joined with the intellect, compose
the human mind according to Mr. Stewart; and it will be
found much more difficult to account, by means of his
single malevolent affection of Resentment, or the abuse of
the other powers enumerated by him, for such actions as
those mentioned in the quotation from St. Matthew, or as
we see daily around us.
Again : Christ says in the Gospel of St. Luke, that
'every tree is known by-its own fruit: for of thorns men
do not gather figs, nor of a bramble-bush gather they
grapes. A good man, out of the good treasure ·of his
heart, bringetb forth that which is good; and an evil man,
out of the evil tre_asure of his heart, bringeth forth that
SCIENC& AND SCRIPTURE. 389
which is evil: for ofthe abundance of the heart the mouth
apeaketh ' (Luke vi. 44, 45). And in Matthew's Gospel
he counsels his followers thus: 'Let your light so shine
before .men, that they may see your good works, and glo-
rify your Father which is in heaven' (v. 16.); and he de-
clares-' I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to
repentance' (ix. 13). Of Nathanael, he said: 'Behold an
Israelite indeed, in whom there is no guile ' (John i. 47).
Explaining the parable of. the sower, he uses the following
words: ' But that on the good ground are they which, in
an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it,
and bring forth fruit with patience ' (Luke, viii. 15). And ·
in the parable of the lost sheep: 'I say unto you that like-
wise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth,
more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need
no repentance.' (Luke, xv. 7). Of Zachariah and his
wife Elizabeth we are told, that ' they were both righteous
before God, walking in all the commandments and ordi-
nances of the Lord, blameless.' (Luke i. 6.) And the
apostle says--' Follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace,
with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart ' (2
Tim. ii. 22~; and again-' Unto the pure all things are
pure' (Titus, i. 15). Thus, also, the Psalmist says: 'For
thou, Lord, wilt bless the righteous; with favor wilt thou
compass him as with a shield' (v. 12). 'Oh, let the wick-
edness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the
just' (vii. 9). 'With the merciful thou wilt show thyself
merciful, with an upright man thou wilt show thyself up-
right: with the pure in heart thou wilt show thyself pure,
and with the froward thon wilt show thyselffroward' (xviii.
25, 26). Finally: 'Mark the perfect man, and behold the
upright; for the end of that man is peace.' (xxxvii. 37.-
See also Psal. i. 1, 2; xv.; xxxii. 11 ; xxxiii. 15; xxxvii.
16, 17; xcvii. 10-12; cxii; cxxviii.)
Thus it is abundantly evident, that while the human
mind is represented in Scripture as liable to commit every
species of wickedness, it is at the same time spoken of as
oio "'ed by Google
StO ON TBit RltLA.TION BltTWEEN
poeeeuing moral qualities of a pure and exalted descrip-_
tion: 'a good man,' we are expressly told, 'out oftlu good
fmaltlre of hil heart, bringeth forth that which is good.'
Now, Phrenology shows us, that althou~h the mind is en-
dowed with strong animal propensities, which are, in the
majority ofindividuals, prone to rush into abuse, yet it has
received also a variety of moral powers- Benevolence,
Veneration, Conscientiousness, nod Ideality. This sys-
tem of philosophy, therefore, in representing human nature
as possessing excellent and ami1lble qualities is also in har-
mony with Scripture.
In the third place, St. Paul, in his Epistle to the Ro-
mans, argues that ' when the Gentiles, which have not the
law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these,
having not the law, are a law unto themselves; which
show the work ofthe law written in their hearts, their con-
ecience also bearing witness, and their thoughts, the mean-
while, accusing or else excusing one another. ' (Rom. ii.
14, 15). The reader will recollect, that the two classes
of faculties-the propensities and moral sentiments-do
not appear to the understanding to possess the same excel-
lence and authority, but that we are instinctively conscious
that the latter class is of a higher order and has been
framed by nature to govern the former; and that it is from
the dictates of the moral sentiments that our natural notions
of duty begin. Now this is precisely, out and out, the
doctrine of St. Paul. The Gentiles were endowed by na-
ture with Benevolence, Conscientiousness, Veneration,
nod intellect: their intellect, on comparing the irregular
and excessive manifestations of the animal propensities
with the dictates of the moral sentiments, perceived the
opposition between them; and instantly their minds stood
convicted of offending against a law of morality written in
their hearts. I cannot c'onclude this branch ofthe subject
without quoting a sentence from that most excellent of the
Protestant Reformers, Melancthon: ' Wherefore o~r de-
ciaion ia this; that those precepts which learned men have
I
oio "'ed by Google
SCJENC& AND SCRIPTURE, 3'71
committed to writing, transcribing them from the common
reason and common feelings of human nature, are to be
accounted as not less divine than those contained in the
tables given to Moses; and that it could not be the inten-
tion of our Maker to supersede by a law graven upon stone,
that which is written with his own finger on the table of
the heart.'
In the fourth place, we are taught in the Bible, that
God has given different talents to different individuate-
to one five talents, to another two, and to another one;
and that each shall be accountable for only that which he
hath received. (See Matt. xxv. 14-30, also Rom. xii. 6-8;
1 Cor. iv. 7. and vii. 7; 1 Pet. iv. 10, 11.) It is impoe-
sible to look at the cerebral development-either animal,
moral, or intellectual-of any two individuals, and not be
convinced how precisely Scripture and Phrenology coin-
cide in this view of human nature; and here also, while
Phrenology accords with the Bible, many of the other
systems of mental philosophy stand in opposition to it:
for not a few philosQphers maintain that all men are creat-
ed with equal talents; and even those who admit a differ-
ence, merely state the fact, and do not point out either
the nature or the extent of the variety in the capacities
und dispositions of individuals, which Phrenology makes
palpable even to the senses.
Finally, St. Paul observes: 'I know that in me (that i1,
in my ,tlesb) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present
with me; but bow to perform that which is good I find
not. For the good that I would, I do not! but the evil
_ which I would not, that I do. Now, if I do that I would
not, it is no more I that do it, but sin dwelleth in me.
I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is pre-
sent with me. For I delight in the law of God, after the
inward man. But I see another law in my members,
warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into
captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members.'
(Rom. vi. 19-23.) And again, in the Epistle to the
oio "'ed by Google
S'fl ON TH& a&LJ.TlO!f BJtTWJtJt!f
Galatians (v. 16): •For the fleah lusteth against the apirit·,
and the spirit against the flesh, and these are cooti'U)'
the one to the other; eo that ye cannot do the thinsa
ye would. But if ye be led by the spirit, ye are not
under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest.;
which are these: adultery, fOrnication, uncleanneas, Jaa..
civiouane&&, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, ernul..
tioo, wrath, strife, seditions, heresi~s, envyings, murders,
drnnkenne&&, revellings, and such like; of the which I
tell you befOre, as I have also told you in time past, that
they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom
of God. But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace,
long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness,
temperance: against such there is no law.' St. Paul is
here speaking of his own experience as an individual;
and his description of himself is .exactly in accordance
with that of one class of characters with which phrenology
makes us acquainted, namely, those in whom large organs
of the animal propensities are combined with large organs
of the moral sentiments and an active temperament. The
hiStory of St. Paul's life shows that he belonged to this
class. His original conduct in relation to Christianity
was that of • breathing out threatenings and slaughter
against the disciples of the Lord:' •he made havock of
the church, entering into every house, and, baling men
and women, committed them to prison.' (Acts, ix. 1; viii.
S.) At this period the propensities held the ascimdency.
Afier his conv!3rsion he continued to feel their solicitations
in the manner forcibly described in the passages above
quoted from his epistles; but he no longer yielded to. their
abuses. The moral sentiments, under the influence of
religion, had now assumed the supremacy. It will be
remarked that he distinctly recognises the internal action.
of both sets of faculties within his own mind. ' I delight,•
eays he, ' in the law of God, t{ter th.a·a..,ard mtm; but l
see tmOllwr l4fl1 in my mewaber1, t~~t~mng agcialt tlu law tf
"'!/ mind, and bringing me illto captivity to the law of silt
oio "'ed by Google
liCIENCE ANn SCRlPTURE.
wbicltc"is in my members.' I am aware that some divine•
construe the ' spirit ' mentioned in the verses quoted from
the Epistle to the Galatians, to mean the spirit of God, as
contradistinguished from human nature: but it appears to
me that such an interpretation is not only wholly unwar-
ranted, but likewise inconsistent with the words just cited
in Italics, where both ' laws ' are spoken of as equally
inherent in Paul's nature; and that the Apostles, in speak-
ing of' the spirit ' in opposition to ' the flesh,' allude to the
moral and religious sentiments of the human mind, as
contradistinguished from the animal propensities. In these
two passages, St. Paul describes 'the works of the flesh,'
every one of which is an abuse of either a propensity or a
moral sentiment. He describes also the fruit of the spirit
-which is, 'love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentlenesiJ,
goodness, faith, meekness, temperance;' and all these, it
will be observed, are legitimate actions of the moral sen-
timents and intellect. He says most truly, that ' against
such there is no law.' Certainly, none!-because the
moral sentiments are the ruling powers, and their dictates,
when enlightened by intellect, are supreme: and no reve-
lation which has emanated from the same source with
these faculties can be at variance with their dictates.
An objection has been stated against the dpctrine of the
diTi.ne government of the world by established laws, that i.t
is inconsistent with belief in the efficacy of prayer. This
objection has been often urged and answered; indeed it has
been deliberately settled by the Church of Scotland itself,
in harntony with the views advocatlld in this treatise. In
a Sermon on Prayer, by the Rev. William Leechman,
D;D., Principal, and Professor of Divinity, in the College
ofGlasgow, the following passage occurs:-' It is objected,'
says he, 'That, since God is infinite in goodness, he is
always· disposed to bestow on his creatures whatever is·
~r for them; and, IJince he is infinite in wisdom, h&
will always choose the fittest time, and best miUlner of be-
52
S'74 ON TB& RBL4TION B&TW&J:l't
stowing it. To what purpoae, then, do we entreat him tfJ
do what he certainly will do without any solicitation or
importunity?' To this it may be answered, That, as it i.a
~aot the design of prayer to give information to our Creator
of things he was not acquainted with before; so neither is
it the design of it to move his affections, as good speakers
move the hearts of their hearers, by the pathetic arts o(
oratory; nor to raise his pity, as beggars, by their impor-
tunities and tears, work upon the compassion of the by-
standers. God is not subject to those sudden passions
and emotions of mind which we feel; nor to any change
of his measures and conduct by their influence: he is not
wrought upon and changed by our prayers; for with Ham
there il no "'ariablene11 nor thadow ofturning. Prayer only
works its effect upon "', as it contributes to change the
temper ofour minds, to beget or improve right dispositions
in them, to Jay them open to the impressions of spiritual
objects, and thus qualify us for receiving the favor and
approbation of our Maker, and all tbose assistances which
he has promised to those who call upon him in sincerity
and in truth. The efficacy of prayer does not lie in the
mere asking; but in its being the means of producing that
frame of mind which qualifies us to receive.'*
:Sr. Leechman was prosecuted for the alleged heresy o1
these doctrines before the Presbytery of Glasgow, in Feb-
ruary 1744. The opinion of the Presbytery was unfavor-
able; but the question was appealed to the Synod, which
' found no reason to charge the said Professor with any
unsoundness in the faith, expressed in the passages of the
sermon complained of.' The case was afterwards carried
by appeal to the General Assembly. 'That court,' says
Dr. Wodrow, in his Life of Dr. Leechman, prefixed to
tire Sermons, ' when the cause came before them, wisely
referred it to a select committee, and adopted their judg-
ment without a vote. They found, " That the Synod of
Glasgow and Ayr had sufficient reason to take into their
• Dr. Leechman'• Sermons, Lond. 1789, Berm. iii. p. 192.
oio "'ed by Google
•
'SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE. S75
«>wn hands the cognizance of the inquiry touching the ser-
mon." They confirmed the judgment passed by that Sy-
nod, and '' prohibited the Presbytery of Glasgow to com-
mence or carry on any further or other proceedings against
the Professor, on account ofthat sermon."'
Since this decision, the views delivered by Professor
Leechman have been unhesitatingly taught by Scotch
divines. Dr. Blair, in his sermon 'On the Unchangeable-
ness of the Divine Nature,' observes: 'It will be proper to
begin this head of discourse by removing an objection
which the doctrine I have illustrated may appear to form
against religious services, and, in particular, against the
duty of prayer. To what purpose, it may be urged, is
homage addressed to a Being whose purpose is unalterably
fixed; to whom our righteomness e:rtendeth. not; whom by
no arguments we can ,persuade, and by no supplications we
can molify? The objection would have weight, ifour reli-
gious addresses were designed to work any alteration on
God; either by giving him information of what he did not
know, or by exciting affections which he did not possess;
or by inducing him to change measures which he had pre-
viously formed. But they are only crude and imperfect
notions of religion which can suggest such ideas. The
change which our devotions are intended to make, is upon
ourselves, not upon the Almighty. Their chief efficacy is
derived from the good dispositions which they raise and
cherish in the human soul. By pouring out pious senti-
ments and desires before God, by adoring his perfection
and confessing our own ·unworthiness, by expressing our
dependence on his aid, our gratitude for his past favors,
our submission to his present will, our trust in his future
mercy, we cultivate such affections as suit our place and
station in the universe, and are thereby prepared for be-
coming objects ofthe divine grace.'-Vol. ii.
The same views were taught by the philosophers of the
last century. ' The Being that made the world,' says
Lord Kames, ' governs it by laws that are inflexible, be-
oio "'ed by Google
•
OK THE RELATION JJETW&&K
cause •hey are the best; and to imagine that he can be
moved by prayers, oblations, or sacrifices, to vary his plan
ofgovernment, is an impious thought, degrading the Deity
~o a level with ourselves.' His Lordship's opinion relative
to the advantage of public worship, shows that he did not
conceive the foregoing view of prayer to be in the least
inconsistent with its reasonableness and utility. 'The
principle of devotion,' he says, ' like moat of our other
principles, partakes of the imperfection of our nature; yet,
however faint originally, it is capable of being greatly
invigorated by cultivation and exercise. Private exercise
is not sufficient. Nature, and consequently the God of
nature, require public exercise or public worship; for de-
votion is communicative, like joy or grief; and, by mutual
communication in a numerous assembly, is greatly invigo-
rated. A regular habit of expressing publicly our gratitude
and resignation .never fails to J>urify the mind, tending to
wean it from .every unlawful pursuit. This is the true
motive of public worship; not what is commonly inculcated
-that it is required from .us as ,a -testimony to our Maker
of our .obedience to his laws.: God, who knows the heart,
Deeds no such testimony.' •
In closing this chapter, l may observe, that many excel-
lent and sincere .Christians, to :whom I am most anxious to
avoid giving offence, labor under great disadvantages in
judging of the tnuth and ~ortance ofaeveral of the views·
stated in this Work, in c~sequence of their entire igno-
ranc.e ,of .the functions of the brain, and the Jaws of its
activity. Many ofthem have been educated in the belief,
that human nature is entirely corrupt and wicked; .and
when, in consequence of private or public .devotion., they
'become .conscious of vivid Jo:ve to God .and benevole.u.ce .to
JDen, and of aspirations after general pur.ity and exce.llel\ce,
springing up in their minds, they ascribe .these .emotiQDI!
exelu~Jively .to the .direct influence of the Divine Spirit,-
:wit,hout ,being .in the least aware of .the extent to which a
·• Sketdlar, B. iii. Sk. 8. Ch. Iii. ~ 1.
oio "'ed by Google
SCIENCE AND SCRIPTURE.
large development of the moral organs, combined wdlt an
active temperament, contributes to this effect. The phre-
nologist, in contemplating these organs operating in exceu,
or in a state ofdisease, obtains light on this subject which
other persons cannot reach. Mere excess in size and
activity leads to fanaticism and a persuasion of inspiration,
such as occurred in Bunyan, Swedenborg, and the late
Edward Irving. I examined the head of the Rev. Edward
Irving before he had becQme known to the public, and
noted the organs of Imitation, Wonder, Ideality, Venera-
boo, Self-Esteem, Conscientiousness, and Firmness u
large: Wonder~ Self-Esteem, and Firmneu predominated;
and these appear to have attained almost to diseased
activity in the latter years of his life. Diseased activity
produces belief in actual communication with Heaven
Christianity cannot fail to be benefited by the light which
Phrenology is shedding on the organs in health as well u
in disease.•
• See on this lllbject Dr. Andrew Combe's Ot.ervatioll8 on liencal De-
rangement, pp. 18+-189; Syatem of Phrenolpsy, section on Wonder; Jle.
marks on Demonology and Witchcraft, in the Phren. Jour. vi. 604; and, in
the 44th and 45th Numbers of the !!Bme Journal, • Obeervations on Religioua
Fannticism, illustrated by a Compnrison of the Belief and Conduct of noted
Religious Enthuaiasts with those of Patients in the llontroee LDD&tic Asylalll.
By W. A. F. Browne, Eeq. Medical Supcrin~t of that Institution.'
32•
oio "'ed by Google
( 318 }
CONCLUSION.
T.IU question has trequently been asked, What is the
pract.i~ .use of Phrenology, even suppesing it to b.e truel
a few obse.rvations will euable US to l,\8l!W.er this .inquiry,
a,ud, at the same time, to present a brief summary of the
doctrine of the preceding work.
Prior to the age of Copernicus, the earth and sun
presented to .the eye phenomena exactly 'similar to those
11V.b.ich tbey now exhibit; but their motions appeared in a
very dii"etWlt light .
to the understanding.
:SWore tlle .age ofN.ewton, the revolutions ofthe planets
w.ere kllOW.Il .as J!Wltter of fact; but mankind was ignorant
of the principle of their motions.
Previously to the dawn of modern chemistry, many of
tAe .qua.li.tie1 of physical substances were ascertained by
observation; but their ukimate principles and relations
were not understood.
Knowledge, ~s I observed in the Introduction, may be
made beneficial H1 two ways- either by rendering the
substance discovered directly subservient to human enjoy-
ment; or, where this is impossible, by modifying human
conduct in harmony with its qualities. While knowledge
of any department of nature remains imperfect and empi-
rical, the unknown qualities of the objects comprehended in
it may render our efforts either to apply or to act in accord-
ance with those which-are known, altogether abortive.
Hence it is only after ultimate principles have been dis-
covered, their relations ascertained, and this knowledge
systematized, that science can attain its full character of
utility. The merits of Copernicus and Newton consist in
having rendered this service to astronomy.
Before the appearance of Drs. Gall and Spurzheim. man--
CONCLUSION•
.kiod were practically acquainted with the feelings ancl ia-
tellectual operations of their own minds, and anatomists
knew the appearances of the brain. But the science of
mind was very much in the same state as that of the
heavenly bodies prior to the times of Copernicus and
Newton. ~
First, no unanimity prevailed among philosophers con-
cerning .the elementary feelings and intellectual powers of
man. Individuals deficient in Conscientiousness, for in-
stance, denied that the sentiment ofjustice was a primitive
mental quality: others, deficient in Veneration, asserted
that man was not naturally prone to worship, and ascribed
religion to the ibvention of priests.
Secondly, The extent to which the primitive faculties
differ in strengt'l. was matter of dispute, or of vague con-
jecture; and, concerning many attainments, there was no
agreement among philosophers whether they were the
gifts of nature or the results ofmere cultivation.
Thirdly, Different modes or states of the same feeling
were often mistaken for different feelings; and modes of
action of all the intellectual faculties were mistaken for
distinct faculties.
Fourthly, The brain, confessedly the most important
organ of the body, and that with which the nerves of the
senses, of motion, and of feeling directly communicate,
had no ascertained functions. Mankind were ignorant of
its uses, and of its influence on the mental faculties. They
indeed still dispute that its different parts are the organs
of different mental powers, and that the vigor of each
faculty bears a proportion, co:teris paribtu, to the size of its
organ.
If, in physics, imperfect and em.pirical knowledge ren-
ders the u~known qualities ofbodies liable to frustrate the
efforts of man to apply or to accommodate his conduct to
their known qualities,-and ifonly a complete and system-
atic exhibition of ultimate principles, and their relatiou,
can confer on acience its full character of utility.-:the
oio "'ed by Google
CO~CLUSJO!f.
11ame doctrine applies with equal or greater force to the
philosophy of man.
The science of POLITICS embraces forms of government,
and the relations between different states. All govern-
ment is designed to combine the efforts of individuals, and
to regulate their conduct when united. To arrive at the
best means of accomplishing this end, systematic know-
ledge of the nature of man seems highly important. A
d.espotism, for example, may restrain some abuses of the
propensities, but it assuredly impedes the exercise of re-
flection, and others of the highest and noblest powers. A
form of government can be suited to the nature of man only
when it is calculated to permit the legitimate use, and to
restrain the abuses, of all his mental feelings and capaci-
ties: and bow can such a government be devised, while
these faculties, with their spheres of action and external
relations, are imperfectly ascertained? Again, all rela-
tions between different states must also be in accordance
with the nature of man, to prove permanently beneficial;
and the question recurs, How are these to be framed while
that nature is a matter of conjecture ? Napoleon disbe-
lieved in a sentiment of justice as an innate quality of the
mind, and, in his relations with other states, relied on fear
and interest as the grand motives of conduct: but that sen-
timent existed, and, combined with other faculties which
he outraged;__,; prompted Europe to hurl him from his
throne. If Napoleon had comprehended the principles of
human nature, and their relations, as forcibly and clearly
as the principles of mathematics, in which he excelled, his
understanding would have greatly modified his conduct,
and Europe would have escaped prodigious calamities.
LEGISLATION, civil and criminal, is intended to regulate
and direct the human faculties in their efforts at gratifica-
tion; and laws, to be useful, must accord with the consti-
tution of these faculties. But how can salutary laws be
enacted, while the subject to be governed, or human na-
ture, is not accurately uoderstood? The inconsistency
.C05c.Lt1&10l'f. SSI
ud ·intr,icaey .of the,laws, even in eolighteoed nationw,
.have afforded •themes for the ·satirist .in e.¥ery age;-yet
.ho.w .could ,the ,case be other~Wise ? ·Legislators provided
,rules for directing the .qualities of human nature, which
,they conceiv.ed .themselv. to :know; but either error ·in
·their conceptions, or the effects.ofother qualities unknown
or unattended to, defeated their intentions. The law, for
example, .punia!Ung heresy with burning, was addressed by
our ancestors to·Cautiousness and .the Love of Life; but
Intellect, Veneration, Conscientiousness, and Firmness,
were omitted in their estimate of human principles of ac-
tion ;-and these set the law at defianee. There are many
laws still in the statute-book, equally at variance with the
nature of man.
EDUCATION is intended to enlighten the intellect, to
train it and the moral sentiments to vigor, and to repress
the too great activity of the selfish feelings. But how can
this be successfully accomplished, when the faculties and
sentiments themselves, the laws to which they are subject-
ed, and their relations to external objects, are unascer-
tained? Accordingly, the theories and practices observed
in education are innumerable and contradictory; which
could not happen if men knew the constitution of the ob-
ject which they were training.
In an 'Essai sur la Statistique morale de Ia France;' 'by
Mons. A. M. Guerry, published at Paris in 1833, it is stated
that crimes against property and person are most numerous
in proportion to the population in those .departments of
France--the .north and east-in which the people are the
best educated, the -richest, and the most industrious. This
must be owing in part to the increased power which edu-
cation gives of doing either ,good or .evil, and partly to
defects in the education afforded.• The philosophy of man
• lt is pwoper to ·remark, .however, that M. ·Guerry's statemerrt, suppotting
it to.be crounded on aufficiellt data, does not show ·that education tends to
. _ .rather •
than diminieh crime; for, as a writer in the Phrenological
J_.} Gbeenes, 'until it be proved that edocation has the same kind of
tubjects to operate on in every part of France, .its eft'ects cannot be judged at
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION.
being unknown, children are not taught any rational views
of the plan of life; they are not instructed in the consti-
tution of society, and obtain no sufficient information con-
cerning the sources of real enjoyment. They are not
taught any system of morals based on the nature of man
and his social relations, but are left each to grope his way
to happiness according to the dictates of his individual
mind. They see the rich pursuing pleasure and fashion;
and, if they follow such examples, they must resort to crime
from tuch data as those furnished by M. Guerry.' After statiug reasoDS for
concluding that the generality of heads are better iu some parts of France
than in othera, the writer adda: 'Now, this important fact ought not to be
overlooked, as it has hitherto been, iu judging of the inftuence of education;
for it can hardly be doubted, that educated but inferior minds will display
Ieee morality than minds which are uneducated but naturally much superior.
What should we say of a man who should call iu question the efficacy of
medical treatment, because a patient tainted from birth with consumption,
and who had been long under the care of a phyaician, was not so healthy as a
peraon with naturally sound lungs, who had never taken medical advice in his
life1 But for the treatment, the consumptive man would have been much
wone than he actually was, and probably would have died in early youth.
To judge correctly, therefore, of the question at i.!ne, we muat compare the
preeent amount of crime in particular departments of Jo'rance, with its amount
in tlu 1ame department• when there was either very little instruction or none
at all. In this manner we shall also avoid being misled by the effects of
other inftuencea; such as the density or thinness of the population,-the em-
ployment of the people in agriculture or manufactures,-and their re•idence
on the coast, in the interior, or in mountainous or fertile districts. Were
such a trial made, I think it would almost without exception be found, in
cases where no great clmnge of circumstances bad occurred, that in exact
proportion to the increase of education there bad been an obvioua diminution
ofcrime. I am well aware that, by the system of instruction generally pur-
sued, the moral feelings, which restrain from crime, are wholly neglected: but -
caltivation even of the intellect appear• favorable to morality; first, by giv·
ing periods of repose to the lower propensities, of whose excessive activity
crime is the re>~ult ; secondly, by promoting the formation of habits of regu-
larity, subordination, and obedience; and, thirdly, by strengthening and in-
forming the intellect, and thereby enabling it to see more clearly the danger•
ous consequences of crime. No doubt there are criminals on whom an
excellent intellectual education has been bestowed; but in•tead of thence
i~ferring that education in~ the liability of mankind to crime, I think it
may with ll'eat reason be asked, whether, had the aame tndividuals wanted
education altogether, their crimes would n'ot have been ten times more auo-
cious.'-Phren. Jour. vol, ix. p. 268.
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION.
for the meana of gratification: yet there is no solid in-
struction given to them, sufficient to satisfy their under-
standings that the rich themselves are straying from the
paths that lead to solid and lasting happiness, and that it ia
to be found only in other and higher occupations.
MoRALs and RELIGION, also, cannot assume a systematic
and thoroughly demonstrable character, until the elemen-
tary faculties of the mind, and their relations, shall be
ascertained.
It is presumable that the Deity, in creating the moral
powers and the external world, really adapted the one to
the other; so that individuals and nations, in pursuing
morality, must, in every instance, be promoting their best
interests, and, in departing from it, must be sacrificing
them to passion or to illusory notions,of advantage. But,
until the nature of man, and the relationship between it
and the external world, shall be scientifically ascertained,
and systematically expounded, it will be impossible to sup-
port morality by the powerful demonstration that interest
coincides with it. The tendency in most men to view
expediency as not always coincident with justice, affords a
striking proof of the limited knowledge of the constitution
of man and the external world still existing in society.
The diversities ofdoctrine in religion, too, obviously owe
their origin to ignorance ofthe primitive faculties and their
relations. The relative strength of the faculties differs in
different individuals, and each person is most alive to ob-
jects and views connected with the powers predominant in
himsel£ Hence, in reading the Scriptures, one is con-
vinced that they establish Calvinism; another, possessing
a different combination of faculties, discovers in them Lu-
theranism; and a third is satisfied that Unitarianism is the
only true interpretation. These individuals have, in gen-
eral, no distinct conception that the views which strike
them most forcibly, appear in a different light to minds
differently constituted. A correct interpretation of revela-
tion must harmonize with the dictates of the moral senti-
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION.
tnents and well-informed intellect, holding the animal pro-
pensities in subordination. It may legitimately go beyond
what they, unaided, could reach; but it cannot contradict
them: because this would be setting the revelation of the
Bible in opposition to the dictates of the regulating facuJ..
ties constituted by the Creator-a proceeding which can-
not be admitted, since the Deity is too powerful and wise
to be inconsistent. But mankind will never be induced to
bow to such interpretations, while each takes his individual
mind as a standard of human nature in general, and con-
ceives that his own impressions are identical with absolute
truth. The establishment of the philosophy of man, there-
fore, on a scientific basis, and in a systematic form, must
aid the cause both of morality and of religion.
The PROFESSIONS, PURSUITS, HOURS OF EXERTIO::-l, and
AlltuSEMENTs of individuals, ought also to bear reference to
their physical and mental constitution; but hitherto no
guiding principle has been possessed, to regulate practice
in these important particulars- another evidence that the
science of man has been unknown.
In consequence of the want of a philosophy of man, there
is little harmony between the different departments of hu-
man pursuit. God is one; and as He is intelligent, bene-
volent, and powerful, we may reasonably conclude that
creation is one harmonious system, in which the physical is
adapted to the moral, the moral to the physical, and every
department ofthese grand divisions to the whole. But at
present, many principles clearly revealed by philosophy are
impracticable, because the institutions of society have not
been founded with a due regard to their existence. An
educated lady, for example, or a member of one of the
learned professions, may perceive with the clearest con-
~iction that God, by the manner in wh.ich he has constitut-
ed the body, and connected the mind with the brain, has
positively enjoined·muscular exertion, as indispensable to
the possession of sound health, the enjoyment of life, and
the rearing or a healthy offspring; and; nevertheless, tlier
oio "'ed by Google
CONCI:OitO~.
••Y find themeeiYes eo be4ge4 rouad by routine of --.
p.ioyment, the fashions of IIOCiety, the illfl11ence of opiniorl,
and the positive abseooe of all arrangements ~mited to t"
purpose, that they are rendered nearly as incapable o(
yielding this obedience to God's law as if they were illl•
prisoned in a dungeon.
By religion we are commanded to set our affections Oft
things above, and not to permit our minds to be engrossed
with the cares of the world; we are desired to seek godli·
ness, and eschew selfishness, contention, and the vanitiea
of life. These precepts must have been intended to be
practicaiJy followed, otherwise it was a moekery of man-
kind to gire them forth: B11t if they were intended to be
practised, God must hne arranged the inherent constitu•
tion of man, and that ofthe world, in such a manner as to
admit of mankind obeying them,- and not only so, but to
render men happy in proportion as they should practise,
and miserable as they should neglect them. Neverthe• .
less, when we survey human society in the forms in which
it has hitherto existed, and in which it now exists, these
precepts appear to have been, and to be now, absolutely
impracticable to ninety-nine out of every hundred of civil-
ized men. Suppose the most eloquent and irresistibly con-
vincing discourse on the Christian duties to be delivered
on Sunday to a congregation of Manchester manufacturers
and their operatives, or to London merchants, Essex far-
mers, or Westminster lawyers, how would they find their
respective spheres of life adapted for acting practic·aJly on
their convictions? They are all commanded to love God
with their whole heart and soul, and to resist the world
and the flesh, or, in philosophical language, to support their .
moral affections and inteiJectual powers in habitual activity,
-to direct them to noble, elevating, and beneficial objects,
-and' to resist the subjugation of these higher attribute.-
of their minds to animlll pleasure, s01·did selfishness, and
worldly ambition. The moral and intellectual powers do:
sent to the reasonableness of'these precepts, and rejoice- iu
S3
CONCLUBIOl'f.
the prospect of their practical application; but, on Monday
morning, the mauufacturers, owing to the institutions of
society, and the department of life into which they have
been cast before they had either reason or moral percep-
tion to direct their choice, must commence a course of
ceaseless toil,-the workmen that they may support life,
and the masters that they may avoid ruin, or accumulate
wealth. Saturday evening finds them worn out with men-
tal and bodily exertion, continued through all the inter-
mediate days, and directed to pursuits connected with this
world alone. Sunday dawns upon them in a state of mind
widely at variance with the Christian condition. In like
manner, the merchant must devote himself to his bargains,
the farmer to his plough, and the lawyer to his briefs, with
corresponding assiduity; so that their moral powers have
neither objects presented to them, nor vigor left for en-
joyments befitting their nature and desires. It is in vain
to say to individuals that they err in acting thus: individ-
uals are carried along in the great stream of social institu-
tions and pursuits. The operative laborer is compelled to
follow his routine of toil under pain of absolute starvation.
The master-manufacturer, the merchant, the farmer, and
the lawyer, are pursued by competitors so active, that if
they relax in selfish ardor, they will be speedily plunged
into ruin. If God oos so constituted the human mind and
body, and so arranged external nature, that all this is
unavoidably necessary fOI' man, then the Christian precepts
are scarcely more suited to human nature and circumstan-
ces in this world, than the command to fly would be to the
nature of the horse. If, on the other hand, man's nature
and circumstances do in themselves admit of the Christian
precepts being realized, it is obvious that a great revolution
must take place in our notions, principles of actio:a, prac-
tices, and social institutions, before this can be ar,complish-
ed. That many Christian teachers believe tJ-.is improve-
ment possible, and desire its execution, I r.annot doubt;
~ut through want of knowledge ofthe constituent elements
OJ zedbyGoogle
CO!'I'CLUSION.
or human nature, and their relations-through want, in
short, of a philosophy of mind and of physical nature-
they have never been able to perceive what God has
rendered man capable of attaining,- how it may be at-
tained,- or on what principles the moral and physical
government of the world in regard to man is conducted.
Consequently, they have not acted generally on the idea of
religion being a branch of an all-comprehending philoso-
phy; they have relied chiefly on inculcating the precepts
of their Master, threatening future punishments, for diso-
bedience, and promising future rewards for ohservance,-
without proving to society philosophically, Mt only that its
institutions, practices, and principles, must be erected on
loftier ground than they are at present, before it can be-
come truly Christian,- but that these improvements are
actually within the compass of human nature, aided by re-
velation. Individuals in whom there is a strong aspiration
after the realization of the Christian state of society, but
whose intellects cannot perceive any natural means by
which it can be produced, take refuge in the regions of
prophecy, and expect a miraculous reign of saints in the
Millennium. How much more profitable would it be to
study the philosophy of man's nature, which is obviously
the work of God, and endeavor to introduce morality and
happiness by the means appointed by Him in creation!
Supernatural agency has long since ceased to interfere
with human affairs; and whenever it shall operate again,
we may presume that it will be neither assisted nor retard-
ed by' human opinions and speculations.
We need only attend to the scenes daily presenting
themselves in society, to obtain an irresistible conviction·•
that many evil consequences result from the want of a true
theory of human nature, and its relations. Every precep-
tor in schools-every professor in colleges--every author,
editor, and pamphleteer-every member of Parliament,
counsellor, and judge- has a set of notions of his own,
.which, in his mind, holds the place of a. system ofthe philo-
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION,
eophy of man; and although he may not have methodized
his ideas, or even acknowle4ged them to himself as a
theory, yet they constitute a standard to him by which he
practically judges of all questions in morals, politics, and
religion: he advocates whatever views coincide with them,
and coodemne all that differ from them, with as uohesitat-
ill& a dogmatism as the most pertinacious theorist on earth.
Each also despises the notions of his fellows, in so far u
they differ from his own. In short, the human faculties
too generally operate simply as instincts, exhibiting all the
confliction and uncertainty of mere feeling, unenlightened
by perception of their own nature and objects. Hence
public measares in general, whether relating to edocation,
religion, trade, manufactures, the poor' criminal lawt or any
other subject linked with the dearest interests of society,
instead of being treated as branches of one general system
of economy, and adjusted on scientific principles each in
harmony with all the rest, are supported or opposed on
narrow and empirical grounds, and often call forth displays
of ignorance, prejudice, selfishness, intolerance and bigot-
ry, that greatly obstruct the progress of improvement.
Indeed, any important approach to unanimity, even among
sensible and virtuous men, will be impossible, so long as
no standard of mental philosophy is admitted to guide
individual feelings and perceptions. But the state of
things now described could not exist, if education embrac-
ed a true system of human nature and its relations:
If, then, the doctrine ofthe natural laws here expounded
be true, it will, when matured, supply the deficiencies now
pointed out.
But here another question naturally presents itself-How
are the views explained in this work, supposing them to
contain some portion of truth, to be rendered practical?
Souad views of human nature and of the divine govern-
meat come home to the feelings and understandings of
nwln; they perceive them to possess a substantive existence
aod reality, which rivet e,tte~tion and command. respec•.
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION.
If tlie doctrine unfolded in the present treatise be in any
degree true, it is destined to operate proportionally on the
character of clerical instruction. Individuals whose minds
have embraced the views which it contains, inform me that
many sermons appear to them inconsistent in their different
propositions, at variance with sound views of human na-
ture, and so vague as to have little relation to practical life
and conduct. They partake of the abstractedness of the
scholastic philosophy. The first divine of comprehensive
intellect and powerful moral feelings who shall take cour-
age and introduce the natural laws into his discourses, and
teach the people the works and institutions of the Creator,
will reap a great reward in usefulness and pleasure. If
this course shall, as heretofore, be neglected, the people,
who are daily adding to their knowledge of philosophy and
practical science, will in a few years look down with disres-
pect on their clerical guides, and probably force them, by
' pressure from without,' to remodel the entire system of
pulpit-instruction.
The institutions and manners ofsociety indicate the state
of mind of the influential classes at the time when they
prevail. The trial and burning of old women as witches,
point out clearly the predominance of Destructiveness and
Wonder over Intellect and Benevolence, in those who were
guilty of such cruel absurdities. The practices of wagef
of battle, and ordeal by fire and water, indicate great ac..
tivity of Combativeness, Destructiveness~ and Veneration,
in those who permitted them, combined with lamentable
ignorance ofthe natural constitution of the world. In like
manner, the enormous sums willingly expended in war, and
the small sums grudgingly paid for public improvements,-
the intense energy displayed in the pursuit ofwealth,-and
the general apathy evinced in the search after knowledge
and virtue,-unequivocally proclaim activity of Combative-
ness, Destr~ctiveness, Acquisitiveness, Self-Esteem, and
Love ofApprobation,with comparatively moderate vivacity
ofBenevolence, in the present generation. Before, there-
33•
oio "'ed by Google
CO!fCLtTSfOit.
fore, the practice. of mankind can be altered, the state e(
their minds mn•t be changed. No error can be more gross
than that of establishing institutioa greatly in advance of
the mental condition of the people. The rational method
is first to instruct the intellect, then to interest the senti-
ments, and, last of all, to form arrangements in harmony
with these and resting on them u their basis.
The views developed in the preceding chapters, iffound-
ed in nature, may be expected to lead, ultimately, to con-
siderable changes in many of tho customs and pursuits of
society; but to accomplish this effect, the principles them-
selves must first be ascertained to be true, and then they
must be sedulously taught. It appears to me that a long
series of years will be necessary to bring even civilized
nations into a condition to obey systematically the natural
laws.
The present work may be regarded as, in one sense, an
introduction to an essay on education. If the views un-
folded in it be in general sound, it will follow that educa-
tion has scarcely yet commenced. If the Creator has be-
stowed on the body, on the mind, and on external nature,
determinate constitutions, and has arranged them so as to
aet on each other, and to produce happiness or misery to
man, according to certain definite principles, - and if this
action goes on invariably, inflexibly, and irresistibly,
whether men attend to it or not, -it is obvious that the
very basis of useful knowledge must consist in an acquaint-
ance with these natural arrangements, and that education
will be valuable in the exact degree in which it communi-
cates such information, and trains the faculties to act upon
it. Reading, writing, and accounts, which make up the
instruction enjoyed by the lower orders, are merely meau
of acquiring lmowkdge, but do not comtilute it. Greek.
Latin, and mathematics, which are added in the education
of the middle and upper classes, are still only meam of
obtaining information: so that, with the exception of the
few wbo pursue physical science, aooiety dedicate& Tel'J
OJ zedbyGoogle
CONCLUSION.
little attention to the study oftbe oalurallaws. In follow-
ing out the views now discusaed, therefore, each individual,
according as he becomes acquainted with the natural laws,
ought to obey them, and to communicate his experience of
their operations to others; avoiding at the same time, all
attempts at subverting, by violence, established institutions,
or outraging public sentiment by intemperate diacuss1ons.
The doctrine before unfolded, if true, authorizes us to pre-
dicate that the most successful method of ameliorating the
condition of mankind will be that which appeals most di-
rectly to their moral sentiments and intellect; and I may
a8d from experience and observation, that, in proportioD as
any individual becomes acquainted with the real constitu-
tion of the human mind, will his conviction of the efficacy
of this method increase.
The next step ought to be to teach those laws to the
young. Their minds, not being occupied by prejudice, will
recognise them as congenial to their own constitution; the
first generation that shall embrace them from infancy will
proceed to modify·the institutions of society into accord-
ance with their dictates; and in the course of ages they
may at length be acknowledged as practically useful. A
perception of the importance of the natural laws will lead
to their observance, and this will be attended with an im-
proved development of brain, thereby increasing the desire
and capacity for obedience. All true theories have ulti-
mately been adopted and influenced practice; and I· see
no reason to fear that the present, if true, will prove an
exception. The failure of all previous systems is the
natural consequence of their being unfounded; if this
t"esemble them, it will deserve, and assuredly will meet, a
similar fate.
Finally, if it be true that the natural laws must be obeyed
as a preliminary condition to happiness in this world, and
if virtue and happiness be inseparably allied, the religious
instmcters of mankind may probably discover in the gene-
ral and prevalent ignorance of these laws, one reuon or
oio "'ed by Coogle
CONCLUSION.
the limited successwhich has hitherto attended their efForts
to improve the condition of mankind; and they may per-
haps perceive it to be not inconsistent with their sacred
office, to instruct men in the natural institutions of the
Creator, in addition to his revealed will, and to recommend
obedience to both. They exercise so vast an infiuence
over•the best members of society, that their countenance
may hasten, or their opposition retard, by a century, the
general adoption of the natural laws as sound guides of
human conduct.
If the excessive toil of the manufacturer be inconsistent
with that elevation of the moral and inteliectual faculties
of man which is commanded by religion, and if the moral
and physical welfare of mankind be not at variance with
each other (which they cannot be), the institutions of so-
ciety out of which the necessity for that labor arises, must,
philosophically speaking, be pernicious to the interests of
the state as a political body, and to the temporal welfare
of the individuals who compose it; and whenever we shall
be in possession ofa correct knowledge ofthe elements of
human nature, and the principles on which God has consti-
tuted the world, the philo•ophical efldetace that these prac-
tices are detrimental to our temporalt.Delfat·e, will be as clear
as that of their inconsistency with our religious duties.
Until, however, divines shall become acquainted with this
relation between philosophy and religion, they will not
possess adequate means of rendering their precepts prac-
tical in this world; they will not carry the intellectual per-
ceptions of their hearers fully along with them; they will
be incapable of controlling the force of the animal propen-
sitiesi and they will never lead society to the fulfilment of
.its highest destinies. At present, the animal propensities
are fortified in the strong intrenchments of social institu-
tions: Acquisitiveness, for example, is protected and
fostered by our arrangements for accumulating wealth; a
worldly spirit, by our constant struggle to obtain the means
«!(subsisten.ce; pride and vanity, by our artifi.cal di,stinc..
oio "'ed by Google
CONCLUSION. 393
tions ofrank and fashion; and Combativeness and Destrue·
tiveness by our warlike professions. ·The divine assails the
vices and inordinate passions of mankind by the denuneia·
tions of the Gospel; but as long as society shall be animat·
ed by different principles, and maintain in vigor institutions
whose spirit is diametrically opposite to its doctrines, so
long will it be difficult for him to effect the realization of
his precepts in practice. Yet it appears to me, that, by
teaching mankind the philosophy of their own nature and
of the world in which they live- by proving to them the
coincidence between the dictates of this philosophy and
Christian morality, and the inconsistency of their own in·
stitutions with both-they may b~ induced to modify the
latter, and to intrench the moral powers; and then the
triumph of virtue and religion will be more complete.
Those who advocate the exclusive importance of spiritual
religion for the improvement of mankind, appear to me to
err in overlooking too much the necessity for complying with
the natural conditions on which all improvement depends;
nnd I anticipate, that when schools and colleges shall ex·
pound the various branches of philosophy as portions of the
institutions ofthe Creator-when the pulpit shall deal with
the snme principles, show th~ir practical application to
man's duties and enjoyments, and add the sanctions ofreli·
gion to enforce the observance of the natural laws- ~d
.when the busy scenes of life shall be so arranged as to
become a field for the practice at once of our philosophy
and of our religion-then will man assume his station as a
rational being, and Christianity achieve her triumph.
oio "'ed by Google
o;0 "'ed by Google
APPENDIX.
No. I.-NATURAL LAWI.
Text, p. 21.
IT is mentioned in the text that many philosophers have treated
of the Laws of Nature. The following are examples :-
Montesquieu introduces his Spirit of Laws with the following
observations :-'Laws, in their most general signification, are the
necessary relations derived from the nature of things. In this sense,
all beings have their laws ; the Deity has his laws ; the material
world its laws; the intelligences superior to man have their laws;
the beasta their laws ; man his laws.
'Those who assert that a blind fatality produced ~he various
effects we behold in this world, are guilty of a very great absurdi·
ty ; for can any thing be more absurd than to pretend that a blind
fatality could be productive of intelligent beings 1
' There is, then, a primitive reason; and laws are the relations
which subsist between it and d.ifferent beings, and the relations of
these beings among themselves.
' God is related to the universe as Creator and preserver ; the
laws by which he has created all things are those by which lie preserve~
them. He acts according to these rules, because he knows them; he
knows them because he has made them; and he made them because
they -are relative to his wisdom and power, &c.
'Man, as a physical being, is, like otlu:r bodies, governed by inva-
riable laws.'-Spirit ofLaws, b. i. c. i.
Justice Blackstone observes, that' Law, in its most general and
comprehensive sense, signifies a rule of action; and is applied in-
dilcriminately to all kinds of action, whether animate or inanimate,
rational or irratwnal. Thus we say, the laws of motion, of gravi-
tation, of optics, or mechanics, as well as the laws of nature and of
nations.'-' Thus, when the Supreme Being formed the universe, and
created matter out of nothing, he impressed certain principles UllOn
oio "'ed by Google
S96 APPENDIX.-NATURAL LAWS
that matter, from which it ean never depart, and without which it
would cease to be. When he put that matter into motion, he
established certain laws ofmotion, to which all movable bodies mWJt
conform.'-' If we farther advance from mere inactive matter to
WgetaiJkmuJ anima/life, WE IHALL J'UfD THEX ITILL GOVEJlNJCD
aT LAWI; more numerous, indeed, but equa1Iy ji:J:ed and invana~N&
The whole progress of plants from the seed to the root, and from
thence to the ~ agaiD-the method of aaimal autrition, digee-
tion, secretion, and all other branches of vital economy-are not
left to chance, or the will of the creature itself, but are performed in
a wondrous involuntary manner, and guitled by unerring nda laid
tkum by the great Orcator. This, then, is the general signification
of law, a rule of action dictated by some superior being ; and, in
those creatures that haTe neither power to think, nor to will, sneh
laws must be invariably obeyed, 1!0 long as the creature itself anh-
llillt8; for its existence depends on that obedience.'-Bl4chtone's
Onnmentariu on the Laws of England, vol. i. sect. 2.
'The word law,' says Mr. Erskine,' is frequently made use of,
both by dnJina and phikltophers, in a large acceptation, to expres~~
tlie settled metlwd of God't providence, by which he preserTes the
order of the XATEBIAL WORLD in tme/a 4 manner, t/aat 7Wthing in
it may deviatefrom tlaat vniform tmme which he hat appointedfor it.
And as brute matter is merely passive, without the leaat degree
Of ehoiee upon ita part, t'M8e laws art: IlU'IOLABLT OBIIEBVED· in
the material creation, every part of which rontinuu to act, immvtablg,
according to the nda tlaat were from the IJeginniJJg pretcrihed to it
by Infinite Wudom. Thus philosophers have given the appellation
of law to that motion which incessantly pervades and agitates the
universe, and is eYer changing the form and 10batanee of things ;
dissolving some, and raising others, as from their ashes, to lill up
the void ; yet so, that amidst all the fluctuations by which particu-
lar things are affected, the universe is still preserved without dimi-
nution. Thus also they speak of the law!l of fluids, of gravitatio'lt,
&e. aad the tDONl il wed, in tlail !le1W, in SI!IJtf'al patsages of the
IIJC'redJ111"itings; in the book of Job, and ill ProTerbs, Till. 29. where
God is said to have given Jail law to the 8e38 that they should not
pass his commandment.'-Erskine'' ~ of tfte LtwJ of &ot-
limd, book i. tit. i. sect. 1.
Cowper, in his Tabk Thlk, after stating th1i' viee ctispollee tha
mind to submit to the uarped command oftyranny, e:I.Cla.ime-
'A cl1re e&ct, bJ ODe ot Natv.'a lawa
UllCI&aqeablJ OOiliieCCed With Ita ca-•
oio "'ed by Google
Al>P&NOJX.~N.lTURAL LAWS. S9'f
Di8CU88iono about the Laws of Nature, rather than inquiries into
them, were common in France at the time ofthe Revolution ; and,
having become associated, in imagination, with the crimes and hor-
rors ofthat period, they continueto be regarded, by some individuals,
1111 inconsistent with religion aad morality. A coincidence between
the views maintained in the preceding pages, and a passage in
Volney, has been pointed out to me as an objection to the whole
doctrine. Volney'a wQrds are the following:-' It is a law of
nature, that water flowa from an upper to a lower situation ; that
it seeks its level ; that it is heavier than air ; that all bodies tend
towards the earth ; that flame rises towards the sky; that it de-
stroys the organization of vegetables and animals ; ·that air is e&-
aential to the life of certain animals; that, in certain caaes, water
suffueates and kilfll them ; that certain juices of plants, and certain
minerals, attack their organs, and destroy their life ;-and the same
of a variety of facta.
'Now, since these facts, and many similar ones, are constant,
regular, and immutable, they become so many real commands,
to which man is bound to conform, under the express penalty of
punishment attached to their infraction, or well-being connected
with their observance. So that if a man were to pretend to eee
clearly in the dark, or is regardless of the progress of the seasons,
or the action of the elements ; if he pretends to exist under water
without drowning, to handle fire without burning himself, to de-
prive himself of air without suffocating, or to drink poison without
destroying himBelf; he receives, fur each infraction of the law of
nature, acorporal punishment proportioned to his transgression. If,
on the contrary, he observes these laws, and founds his practice on
the precise and- regular relation which they bear to him, he pre-
serves his existence, and renders it as happy as it is capable of
being rendered : and since all these laws, considered in relation to
the human species, have in view only one common end, that of
their preservation and their happiness, it has been agreed to as-
semble together the different ideas, and express them by a single
word, and call them collectively by the name of the Law of Na-
ture.'-Volney's Lmo ofNature, 3d edit. p. 21, 24.
I feel no embarrassment on account of this coincidence ; but re-
mark, first, That various authors, quoted in the text and in this
note, advocated the importance ofthe laws ofnature, long before the
French Revolution was heard of; secondly, That the existence of
ihe laws of nature is as obvious to the understanding, as the exist-
eDCe of the exteroal. world, and of the human body u.Jf, to the
34
oio "'ed by Google
Al'f'KNBIX.-·JU0
l'UR.U. L.&Wlr.
1e111a ; thirdly, That theee Jaws, being iaberent iD oreaUou., arael
lla•e proceeded from lhe Deity; iMu'thly, TAu if the Deity il
powerful, juat, and b6nevolent, they mu.t harmGnitle wit& die
eoullitut.ioo of IIWI; aad, laaUy, 'I'ba if t.ae Jaws oC aa&ue laue
IMieD i.DM&tuled by the Deity, and been framed. m willa, ~.
Gil jua& relatioaahip \o the bumM ooutitation, llaey JDWit at all
limee form the Aigbellt and uw.t iq1onaDt 1111bjec&lt ol lau.aa U.
~eaiption, aad remain altogether ~ by t.ae errore, itWsa,
aad crimee oftbwe wbo lllue ndea•ored we;r.poand th.em: j\Wt u
Jeligioa contiaue~~ holy, Tenenr.ble, and uBOODtaminated, aetwith--
l&alldiag the hypocrisy, wickedue8a, and iooomliateacy of iodivid&allt
profeaiug t.lllemtel.Yea her illt.erpretent a.nd frieada.
That tlae 'rie-.n of the aa.&ural laws ChemeelYea, adYoea~ ia
au work. are diametrically oppoeile to Ute practical conduct of
w Freach revolutionary rudiau8, requirea ao demORSwatioll. My
fundamental principle ia, that man can e~~joy happiueu OD eartla
oulf by preae"mg hill habitual eoudact v.nder \he direction oC the
JDORl181ltimenta aad inteUcct, and \hat thia is the latu ofhis nstJu-e.
No doctrine can be more oppoeed t1aan this to fraud, robbery, bla&-
tlbemy, aad IIIUJ'der.
lt may be urged, tlaat all put apeeulatiooa about the lawa of
nature have pro•ed more impoting thaa 011eful; and tbat, while
the lawa themaelTea aftOrd materiala jQr elevated declamation.
they form no eeeure guides even to the learned, and much leas to
&he illitetate, in practical coodact. In &n.~wer, I would rellp8Ct.fully
repea~ whal baa Creqaently been urged in the tat, that before we
ean diseoTer tbe laws of natare applicable to man, we lDU8t know,
&rat, \he COaat.itutioa of man himBeif· lleCOildly the COW!titatioo
of external nature ___. ._::...~1 ' • •'--
B t. til Ul . ; ......, tuuu Y, we mullt c::ompa:re ....., twe.
u UD e diecoTery of Phzenolegy, the mental conllt.itotion of
=
=a.ID&ttet: of vague conjecture aad endleaB debate; aod
.____ ~tionol between hia mental powets aad his organized a,...
......w-m· Ted. . .
imponau, Ill the deepeat obtcnnty. The brain, the mo.&
the ill~ oC the body, had oo ucertaioed fuetiooa. Before
Preeted with t.b of UU. ecience, therefore, lll6ll were Jalher .im·
Jaws of nature e~speakabJe importaaee of \be knowJed&e of \he
881.-ee; and n:_ ~Tely acquainted with t.hoee b- dtem-
JIOIII 8d. COUld the_ kaowledge of the eDmlal -rld ~1
~uot of its .-e~ .many iaat•ocea, be JeDdered anilable, OD
laiaed, alld una-.-.., -h!P to the qualities oC man beiDg UUIICei'-
WVe w.kao-.a. ·~~ eo louc aa t.111e11e qpaliaiaa tlbMwel._
oio "'ed by Google
I
APPENDJX.--;U.TUR.U. L.I.W'S.
The adaptation of the constitution of man and animals to the
eiroumstallOes in which they are placed, baa been noticed by former
writers.
Lord Kames observes, th!K • The wisdom of Providence ia in no
instance more conspicuous than iD adjusting the constitution of mao
10 his external einul"ft8tallce8.'- (Sketches, b. i. sk. 7.) ; and
agaiB, 'The hautf of God is nowhere more 'risible t.han in the ni""
adjustment of our internal frame to our situation ill this world.•-
(B. iii. sk. 2. chap. i. sect. i.)
Mr. Stewart .says: • To examine the economy of natnre in the
plteZ~C~mena of the lower animals, and to compare their instincts
with the physical circumstances of their external situation, forma
one of the fine8t speculations of Natural History; and yet it is a
speculation to which the attention of the natural hiltorian has eel·
dom been directed. Not only Boffon, but Ray and Derham, hare
pa88ed it over slightly; nor, indeed, do I know of any one who baa
made it the objeet of a particular consideration but Lord Karnes, in
a short Appendix toone ofhis Sketebes.'-ElemenU ofthe PhiWw-
plry tifthe Human. Mind, vol. ill. p. 368.
Mr. Stewart also uses the following words : -' Nnmberless
examples show that Nature has done no more for man than was
necessary for his preservation, leaving him to make many ao-
qnisitions for himself, which she bas imparted immediately to the
bmtes.
'My own idea is, as I have said on a different occasion, that both
instinct and experience are here concerned, and that the share which
belongs to eath in producing the result, can be IIIJCertained by an
appeal to faeu alone.'-Vol. iii. p. 338.
The following is extracted from the Qtuzrterly Review, vol. xxxi.
p. 51:-' Each mwst coincide in the desire of the Stoic to harmo-
nize ·his conduct with the physical and moral order of the universe.
When to the knowledge of each the Christian adds a deeper in·
sight into the government of the Almighty, and learns that to act
in concert with the system of the universe is to promote his own
eternal as well as his temporal happiness, his inducements are still
stronger to employ the powers of self-government with which he
has been gifted, in conforming his feelings and actions to the plan
of the great Architect.'
.t.l'l'&NJUX.-MU~lJLAR L.lBOR.
No. li.-MI18CULAR LABOR.
Text, p. 61.
So little ought the necessity for bodily exertion to be regarded
aa a curse, that in reality (as Dr. Thomas BroWJL has eloquently
illustrated in his 06tb lecture) there is no human desire more
powerful and universal than the duire ofQCtion, and aone the de-
nial of whose gratification ia productive of peater uneasineaa.
'To be happy,' says Dr. B.,' it is necessary that we be occupied;
and, without our thinking of the happiness which results from it,
nature has given us a constant desire of occupation. We must
exert our limbs, or we must exert our thought; and when we
exert neither, we feel that languor of which we did not think be-
fore, but which, when it is felt, convinces us how admirably our
desire of action is adapted for the prevention of tlus very evil, of
which we had not tho.ught ; as our appetites of hunger and thirst
are given to us for the preserva,ion of health, of which we think as
little, during the indulgence of our 11.ppetites, as we think, during
our occupation, of the languor which would overwhelm us if wholly
unoccupied. How wretched would be the boy, if he were to be
forced to lie even on the softest couch, during a whole day, while
he heard, at intervals, the gay voices of his playmates without,
and could distinguish, by these '1lery sounds, the particular paslimes
in which they were. engaged t How wretched, in these circum-
stances, is man himself; and what fretfulness do we perceive even
on brows of more deliberate thought,- on brows too, perhaps, that,
in other circumstances, are seldom overcast,..,...if a few successive
days of wet and boisterous weather have rendered all escape into
the open air, and the exercises which this escape would afford,
impossible !
' Without the knowledge of the pleasure.that is thus felt in mere
exertion, it would not be easy for us to look with satisfaction on
the scene of human toil around us,-which assumes instantly a
different aspect when we consider this happy principle of our men-
tal constitution. Though we are apt to think of those who are
laboring for others, as if they were not laboring for themselves
also,-ru~d though unquestionably, from our natural love of free-
dom, any task which is impo.sed cannot be as agreeable as an occu-
pation spontaneously chosen,-we yet must not think that the labor
iteelf is necessarily an evil, from which it would be happineBB for
oio "'ed by Google
ArPMNDIX.-Pl\OOJUlSS OP PHR.&NOLOG'f. 401;
raan to·be freed. Nature has not dealt 80 haroly with the grtta:
rmdtitvde; in comparison with whom the 6l7llllJer number, for whoee·
aeeommodation she eeems to have formed a more sumptuous pm-
viflion, are truly insigniiice.nt....How diffinent would the busy eeeu,
ofthe·world appear, if we could concei\16 that no pleasure atteDdsd!
the oeeupatioll8 to which 80 gteat a JDII:iority of our RCe would
t.hen aeem to be condemn«/, alm9at like slaves that ue futtered ta
!he -rery instrumente of t:beir daily taak ! How diB'arent from that
scene, in which, though we perceive many laboring and a few at rest,.
1re perceive in th& laborer a plea&Ur& of occupation, which thoae.
who rest would often be happy to purchase from him, and which
they do sometimes endeavor to purchase, by the eame me&ll8 by
which be has acquired it; by e-xercises a& violent and unremitted:
as his, and which have ~· distinction only o£ 'king of lea& ad~
vantage to the world than- those toilfl by whlclt Its at once promotea
his own happine88 and·eontributes to.ihe accommodation ofothers!
It is pleasing thus to perceive a souree of enjoyment in the very
circumstance whieh mi~t seem moat hostile to happine88 ; to
perceive in the labor itself, of which the neeea&ity is imposed oa
man, a consolation for the lo88 of thM Tery freedom which it con-
strains;-Lectures on tlt.e Pliiknophy qftlte JlumaA Mind, vol. ill. p.
409-412.
No. 111.-PROGRJ:SS OF PHREROLOGY.
Text, p. 11&.
On its first introduction iftto Briwn, in 1815, Phrenology waa
received by the pre88 and the publio with an unanimous shout of
deriflion. The Edinburgh Review took the leading part in the
work of abuse, boldly denouncing it as 'trash,'' despicable trum,..;.--
pery,' ' a eolleetion of meYe absurdities, without truth, eonnectien,
or oonsistency,' and ' a piece ol thorough quackery from beginniag
to end.' To Phrenology, the following sentence, applied by Dr.
Chalmers to the philoaophy of Sir Isaac Newton, is equally appli-
cable:-' Authority scowled upon it, and taats Wll8 disgusted by
it, and fashion was ashamed of it, and all the beauteous speculation
of former days was cruelly broken up by this new announeement
of the 'better phil0110phy, and scattered like the fragmenta of aa
aerial' Yision, over whieh the past generations of the world had
been slumbering their profound and their p)euing re"Werie.•.....
(Astronom. Di&rour6U, ii. 56.) For a few years, the progru~ of
34*
oio "'ed by Google
4()2 A.PPENDIX.-PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY.
Phrenology was JlOmpletely stopped; but Dr. Spurzheim having
publiahed a deciaive reply to the reviewer, and in his lectures
convinced mauy that the science had been IJI08t unfairly dealt with.
the study was eagerly taken up in Edinburgh and other parts of
Britain. The Phrenological Society, projected by the Rev. David
Welsh, now Profe1111or of Church lliatory in the University of
.Edinburgh, was instituted in that city on the 22d of February
1820; and, in 1823, eeveral of its members commenced the publica-
tion of a quarterly periodical, ' The Phrenological .Journal and
Miscellany,' which bas now {July 1835) extended to forty-four
number11, or nearly nine octavo volumes. In 1824, the Society
printed a volume of Transactions. The effect of these and other
phrenological publications,-and of the lectures of various phreno-
logisls in different parts of the kingdom, particularly those of Dr.
Spurzbeim hillllllllf,- has been; to diffuse the science far more
rapidly than even its most sangu.ine advocates ventured fifteen years
ago to anticipate. In France, a Phrenological Journal has for
several years been published, under tla.e superintendence of the
Phrenological Society of Paris; and, in October 1833, there appear-
ed at Boston, U. S.,the first aumber of a periodical entitled 'Annals
of Phrenology,' conducted i>y members of the Boston Phrenological
Society, and a volume of which is now complete. In Britain,
Phrenology bas been from time to time attacked by varions writers;
but the effect has always been a decided acceleration of its pro-
gress,-tbe defences of phrenologists having apparently been con-
eidcred triumphant by the public.
The following is a list of places in which, so far as I am aware,
Phrenological Societies have been formed :-
ScoTLANn-1820; Edinburgh.-1826; Glasgow, Dundee,
Kilmarnock. -1828 ; Dunfermline.- 1833 ; Greenock- 1834 ;
Alyth, Stirling.
ENGLA.Nn.-1824; Lon~n, Wakefield, ExeteY.-1827; Hull.
-1829; Liverpool.-1830; Manchester.-1832 ; Portsmouth.-
1834; Warwick.
Ian..a.Nn.-182& ; BelJUt.- 1829 ; Dublin.
Fa..a.Nc~:.-1831 ; Paria.
INnr.a..-1825 ; Calcuua.
UNJTXD STATJ:s.-1824; Philadelphia..-1826; Waahington.
-1~ ; Boston.-1834 ; Hingham, Nantucket, Brunswick, An-
dover, Amherst, Hanover, Reading, Leicester, Woreu&er, Provi-
dence, Hartford, Oneida.
Other Phrenological Societies, of which I have not heard, have
oio "'ed by Google
.lPPENDIX.-PROORitSS OF PHREI(OLOOY. 400
probably been instituted elsewhere ; and it is understood that some
of those mentioned in the foregoing list are at present in a dormant
condition.
Among the members of the medical profession, Phrenology haa
many talented defenders and admirers. Profe8110r Elliotaon of
London declares that- ' Gall has the immortal honor of having
discovered particular parts of the brain to be the seat of different
faculties, sentiments, and propensities.'-(7Taml. ofBlumenbach'•
Physiology, 4th ed. p. 204.) Mr. Abernethy says, 'I readily ao-
knowledge my inability to offer any rational objections to Gall and
Spunheim's system of Phrenology, as affording a satisfactory
explanation of the motives of human actions.'-(~ion1 on Gall
and Spurzhelm's System, &c. p. 48.)-Dr. Barlow, Physician to
the Bath United Hospital and Infirmary, alludes to Phrenologyas a
ecience in which he ' has no hesitation to avow his firm belief; and
which, justly estimated, has moro power of contributing to the
welfare and happine88 of mankind, than any other with which we
are acquainted.'-( Qlclop. of Pract. Med. art. Education, Physi-
cal.) Dr. Conolly, lately one of the Medical Profeasors in the
London University, and now President of the Phrenological Socie-
ty of Warwick, says, ' I can see nothing which merits the praise
of being philosophical in the real or affected contempt professed by
so many anatomists and physiologists,' for the science of Phreno-
logy.-( On the Indications of l718tmity, p. 135.) Dr. Mackintosh
says, 'Although I must confe88 that I have had neither time nor
opportunity to examine the system of those distinguished anatomists
and physiologists, Gall and Spunheim, with that care and attention
which the importance of the subject demands, and which might
enable me to give a decided opinion respecting the truth of all its
parts, yet experience and observation oblige me to state, that much
of their doctrines appears to be true, and that science owes a great
deal to the labors of the gentlemen who have been engaged in
phrenological inquiry.'-(Principle.! of PaJlwlogy, 3d edit. ii. 4.)
•The science,' says Mr. Macnish, •is entirely one of observation ;
by that it must stand or fall, and by that alone ought it to be tested.
The phrenological system appears to me the only one capable of
affording a rational and easy explanation of the phenomena ofmind.
It is impossible to account for dreaming, idiocy, spectral illusions,
monomania, and partial genius, in any other way. For these
reasons, and for the much stronger one, that having studied the
science for several years with a mind rather hostile than otherwise ·
to its doctrines, and found that nature invariably vindicated their
oio "'ed by Google
.lPPJIIJQ)Jll:.--o8GA.JUC L.lWS.
nth, I eould eome to no other caclllllioft than that of adoptiag
them u a mauer of belief, ud employing tbem for the expb.uation
of phenomena which they alone eeemed calculated to elacidate
atiafactorily. The sy8tem of Gall is gaiaing ground rapidly
amoag ecientific men, both in Eaope aDd America. Some of the
&bleat pbyeio)oriate in both qaartera of the globe have admitlecl ite
aooorduce with aatnre ; &Dei, at th.ia mo-t, it bouts a greater
number ot.,.-ly&ea titan at any pre•ioua period of ite career. The
prejodieea still existing apiut it reauh from ipcmulce of iaa .real
cbaraeter. Ae people get better acquainted with the acienee, and
the fonnidable evidence by which it ia anpported, they will think
difterently.'- (PAilcn. cif 8/«p, ~d ed. prof.) Similar p8ll88g88
might be quoU!d from otber esteemed medieal writers ; but it is
eulieiellt to add, thet Andral, ODe of tile higheat medical aut.hori-
tiee iA Europe, wu --.tly Preeident of the Phrenological So-
ciety of Parle ; that the celebrated Broaeeaia expouds aa4 de~
tbe scieaee in hill lectures ; that the Medii»-Chirurgical Review,
whieh is unqueationably at the .bead of tbe Briti.eft medical periodi-
cals, bas for many yeara adopted Phrenology lUI founded in nature ;
:md that a COII'riction of the truth aod importance of the science is
daily foreing iteelf upon many, who, before making themselves
acquainted with it, wire amoag ita bitter oppc~MDts. The simpli-
city ud practical ebuacter of the pbrenological pltilolqphy have
iedueed not a few to doubt the ~bility of ita being imnded on
pn,.iologicol error. If, aa has been well remarked, the trll1h and
~of Gall ud Spurzbeim's pbiiosophical opi.niooa be admitted,
ooe of two eonclllliou ia inevitable : We most either grant the
soundneaa of the organology from which those opiniona sprung, or
ucribe to the indi't'iduals who firet taught them aa amowrt of know-
ledge and talent which they would have blushed to hear attributed
to them, and their pouession of which is far more iDeredible than
the entire body of pbreaological ecience.
No. IV.-Oao.&.liJC L.a.wa.
Text, p. 121.
On the subject of tbe llllft'erings of women in dilldbecl, thefellow·
ing anthorities may be :referred to :-
' Oae iliing,' say• Mr. Alieon, 'ia very remarkUle, and eooaa ia
111011t cuea of oouoealmeat aad cbildmurder, viz. the aveogtll aui
capahilli.y fur exenion evinced by women in the iUtrior nab
oio "'ed by Google
APPENDIX.-oRG.U(lC LAWS.
ahortly after childbirth,-appearances so totally different from thoee
exhibited in the higher orders, that, to persons acquainted only
with cases among the latter, they would appear incredible. In the
case just mentioned (that of Catharine Butler or Anderson, at
Aberdeen, in spring 1829), the mother, two or three days after her
delivery, walked from lnverury to Huntly, a. distance of twenty-
eight miles, in a single da.y, with her child on her back. Similar
occurrences daily a.re proved in cases of this description. It is not
unusual to find women engaged in reaping retire to a. little dis-
tance, eff"ect their delivery by themselves, return to their fellow
laborers, and go on with their work during the remainder of the
day, without any other change of appearance bot looking a little
paler and thinner. Such a fact occurred in the case of Jean Smith,
Ayr, spring 1824. Again, in the case of Ann Macdougall, Aber-
deen, spring 1823, it appeared that the pannel, who was sleeping in
bed with two other servants, rose, was delivered, and returned to
bed, without any of them being conscious of what had occurred.
Instances have even occurred in which women have walked six and
eight miles on the very day of their delivery, without any sensible
inconvenience. Many respectable medical practitioners, judging
from what they have observed among the higher ranks, would pro-
nounce such facts impossible : but they occur so frequently among
the laboring classes as to form a point worthy of knowledge in
criminal jurisprudence; and to render perfectly credible what is
said of the female American Indianl!, that they fall behind for a
little, on their journeys through the foresta, deliver themselves, and
shortly make up to their husbands, and continue their journey with
their off"spring on their back.'-.Aluon's Principles of the Criminal
Law of &:otland, pp. 161-162.
Mr. Lawrence observes, that ' the very easy labors of negresses,
native Americans, and other women in the savage state, have been
often noticed by travellers. This point is not explicable by any
prerogative of physical formation ; for the pelvis is rather smaller
in these dark-colored races than in the European and other white
people. Simple diet, constant and laborious exertion, give to these
children of nature a hardiness of constitution, and exempt t4em from
most of the ills which afflict the indolent and luxurious females
of civilized societies. In the latter, however, the haril-working
women of the lower classes in the country often suffer as little from
child-birth as those of any other race. Analogous differences, from
the like cau8C8, may be seen in the animal kingdom. Cows kept
in towns, and other animals deprived of their healthful exercise,
oio "'ed by Google
u.l aeellltomed to 1111aatural food aacl habits, often haw di1Ji.cuh
lahore, uc1 auller mueh in penarili.oa.'-~• Leetww oa
Pltpioloi!J, z.ology, tmd the Nonral HiiWry of Mila. 18512..
Vol. ii. p. 190.
A.mc.g the A.raacauiaa ladiana o£ So.nh America, ' a 11110&ll.a1
u..e.Ji&wly on her delivery, ta.kea liler child, aad going dGwa to
&lle neareat stream of water, washes heuelf and it, and reUJr&a to
the nsual labors of ber stalion.'-.S:Uvm.wn'• 7\cnUy YeGrl' JliJsi,..
dmce a &viA America. Vol. i. p. 9.
No. V.-Haaz»&TA&Y DEac:~:sr ov NATIOli'AL Pac:uLlAJUTuta.
Text, p. 170.
National features descend. nnch:mged through many ceutunes,
as is shown by Dr. W. C. Edwards, in his work on' The Physio-
logical Characters of Races of Mankind considered in their relations
to History,' published at Paris in 1829. An excellent abstract of
this work, by Dr. William Gregory, win be found in the Phreno-
logical Journal, vol. ix. p. 97. .Dr. Edwards has adduced as an
e:o.ample the Jews. 'In the first place, Jews in all countries re-
semble each other, and di1fer from the people among whom they live.
Secondly,at distant periods, they had the same external characters.
In the Last Supper of Leonardo da. V1nci, this painter, who was an
excellent naturalist and cl011e observCT, has painted faces which
might be portraits of living Jews. _
This was 300 years ago ; but
we have evidence, that 3000 years ago the Jews had the same
characters.
' In the copy of the paintings adorning the tomb of an Egyptian
king, exhibited in Loudon about ten years ago, there are represen-
tations offour different races in procession :-1st, The natives, very
numerous, of: a dark brown tint, bnt without the woolly hair of the
Negro; 2d, Negroes, with the black skin, thick lips, and woolly
hair of that race; 3d, Persians ; and, 4th, Jews, distinguished,
AJS Belzoni, by their complexion and physiognomy. Dr. Edwards
-says, "I had seen, on the previous day, Jews in the atreeta of
London; I thought that I now saw their portraits.'''
oio "'ed by Google
APP&l'fDIX.--oBG4NIC LAWS.
No. VI. -HIULZ8ti'.A.IU' CmlrLaxto•.
Test, p. 1'78.
Mr. W. B. Ste-.ell800,in his • Narratms ofTwenty Yearr .Reai-
denoe in Souila America,' vol. i. p. 286, ays that he haa • alwaya
remarked, that ia - where parente are of di11'erent caatee, the
child reooiYell ftlOfe ef the color of the lather than of the -&her.'
He made extensive obeer-va\&ons during a long residence in Lisa ;
a place, he remarks, 'han which there cannot be any more favorable
for an examination of the intlnence of ' the eoruigiJiation or the
human face, or ofits color, on the int.eDeetlllLI facult.ies.' He gi'fell
the following Table, showing the mixture of the di1f'erent euta,
under theircommon er utinguiabing names. But ' this table,' aya ~
be,' which I have endeavored to make a11 correct a11 ~eo from
personal obeervatioo, must be COII8idered a11 geaeral, and not includ-
ing particular Cll,lle8.'
j FATHER. MoTHER. CHtLDREII'. _____
c_o_L_o_R._·---·!1
. European, Europer.n, Creole, White.
I
,Creole, Creole, Creole, White.
IWhite, Indian, Meatiso, I White,} Indian-Fair.
1 Indian, White, Me•tiso, f White, i Indian.
I\Vhite, Mestiso, Creole, White-often very fair.
IMeatiso, White, Creole, White-but rather aallow.
Mestiso, Meatiso, Creole, Sallow-often light hair.
IWhite, Negro, Mulatto, l White, I Negro-often fair.
INegro, White, Zambo, f White, I Negro--d'k copper.
White, Mulatto, Qaarteron, I White, JNegro-Far.
Mulatto, White, Mulatto, I White, I Negro-Tawny.
IWhite, Quarteron, Quiateron, l White, l Negro-very fair.
Q.uarteron, White, QuarteMD, I White, i Negro-Tawny.
White, Q.uiDteron, Creole, Wbite--llgbt eyee, fair hair.
Negro, Indian, Cbiao, 1Negrv, 1Indian.
ladian, Nqro, Clliao, i .Negwo, I Indian.
~. Mulatto, Zambo, t Negro, i Wlaite.
MulaUo, Negro, Zambo, I Negro, I Wllite.
R•ro, Zambo, Zambo, it Nepo, fr Wlai&e-DIIL
Zameo, Negro, Zambo, i Negro, i White.
{ Zambo· l
NepJ, Chiao, l , Chino, S HNegre, /r IDdian
au-, Nepa. ! Zambo- l i '~~~- liaaia
l Chino. 5 •.........,
Negro, Negro, Nep.
4PP&NDIL--oRO.UUC L4WS.
No. VII.-H&aJ:DIT.t.&T Ta.t.liiKUIIOlf or Qv.t.LITII\1.
Te:r.t, p. 181.
Fortified by the obeervatiotu1 made at the commencement of
the eeeond eeetion of Chap. V., I venture to cite eome additional
authorities, and to record eome farther facta, obeerved by myself
or communicated by pereona on whoee aooutaey reliance may be
placed, in support of the doctrine of the traoamiaeion of qualities
by hereditary descent.
'The advice which I am now about to give, iB indeed no other
than what hath been gi'fen by those who have undertaken this
argument before me. Yon will ask me, what iB that ? 'T iB this,
' that no man keep company with his wife for issue sake, but when
he ia aober-e.a not having before either drunk any wine, or, at
least, not to such a quantity as to distemper him; for they u!!ually
prove wine-bibbers and drunkards whose parents begot them when
they were drunk : wherefore Diogenes said to a stripling some-
what crack-brained and half-witted, Surely, young man, thy father
begot thee when he was drunk.'- Plutarcll's Moral&, translation
publiahed at London, 1718, vol. i. p. 2.
It is remarked by Burton in hie A7Ulltml!l of Melancholy, that
'if a drunken man gets a child, it will never, likely, have a good
brain.'
The passion for intoxicating liquors iB sometimes hereditary.
Dr. Gall mentions a Russian family,in which the father and grand-
father fell victims in early life to their propensity to drunkenness.
The son, although he foresaw the consequences of this pernicious
habit, continued to abandon himself to it, in spite of every resolu-
tion to the contrary; and the grandson, who was only five years
of age when Dr. Gall wrote, displayed even then a most decided
inclination for spirituous liquors.-Sur lu Fonctions du eer-u, i.
410. As these facts can hardly be explained by referring to the
induenee of example, i& follows that a peeuiiar state of the organi-
zation, giving rise to the mental peculiarity, was in this ease trans-
mitted from one generation to another. In point of fact, Dr.
Caldwell has shown much reason for considering the irresiatible
desire for intoxicating liquors as a symptom of cerebral diaeaee,
haYing its special seat probably in the organ of Alimentiveneu.
As long as this disease eXists, the desire iB strongly felt, and every
appeal to the understanding of the repentant and unhappy patient
ia in nin. Am I aaked,' says Dr. Caldwell,' how drnnkem-
oio "'ed by Google
.&I'PSNDilt.-oJtO.&NIC LA.W!.
eben ia tel be cmed, anti the tormenting propensity which leads to it.
eradieatecH I answer, by tile aame meana which are found eoo-
ceeaful in the treMmell& oC ocher forma oliMaaity, where the eere-
llal ueit.eaaeDt ia pretemataralJy high. These are, eeelusion and
tranquillity, bleeding, pakieg, parging, cold water, and low diet.
Iu UU. ~ion I am aerioua ; and iC it be opportunely adopted
aH raolately pel'IIE!'fered in, I freely peril my reputation on its
aucce.......Ifinterrogated on the aubjeet, the resident ph~dan of
tlle Ka&ueky Lunatic Asylum wiD etate that he finds, in the in·
llitu1ion he auperinteRda, no dilieulty in curing mania a potu by
the treatment here directed.'-~iaJournal <fMedicine for
Jaly, Auguat, and September 1m, p. 339-3. See also Phrm.
Jw.r. vol. Tiii. p. 61M. Dr. CaldweH admits, however, that it is
only recent and acute~ which ean be speedily cured; those o(
long ataDding are muoh Ieee traetable, aad oeeaaional}y the disease
may be fouod incurable. He thinks very justly, that nothing would
tend more to diminish the pre'falenee of habitual drunkenne88, than
to have it deemed and proclaimed a form of madneaa, and dealt
with aeeonlingly. Hospitals erected for the reception of drunk-
ards, and authority given to eonfine them there, would be among
the moet important institutions that OO'Illd be established, and would
efleet an immense saving oC life, bealth, property, and reputation.
In regard to the hereditary tranamil!lrion of this miserable tendency,
Dr. Caldwell observes :-' Every constitutional quality, whether
good or bad, may descend, by inheritance, from parent to child.
And a long ooatinued halrit oC drwtkenneaa becomes as e!!Sentially
OOOBtitutional, as a prediepoaitien to gout er pulmonaryconsumption.
This increases, in a maaifold degree, the reaponsibility of pareata
in relation tel temperance. By habits of intemperance, they not
oaly degrade aad ruin tltmwlee., bat tranamit the elements of like
degradation ancl ruia tel their peaterity. Tlris is no visionary con-
jecture, the fnlit of a favorite and long cheriabed theory. It is a
settled belief resulting from obaervatioa-en inference derived from
ianumerable facta. In hGJlCbeda and dloneands of instances, pa·
rema, b&Ting had childrea bom tel them while their habits were
temperate, h:Pe beeome afterw&rda illtemperate, and had other
claildreD aubaelpl•tly 11em. In aaeh euea, it is a matter of not&-
riety, that the yoUDg« ebildnm ha~ become addicted to the prao-
U. of iMoxic&lion much awre lreqeeat}y than the elder-in the
piOportion .ol Ave t.o one. Let lll8 !lot be told that this ia owing tel
th8yoUDpr daiWJen beiag negleetecl, and havmg oorrupt and ae-
duaing uamples eoaataady beCoM thea. The .me necleota ud
S5
oio "'ed by Google
410 .lPPJ:.IfDIX.--oaGUIC L.lWI.
proftig&&e eumplee haYe been exteaded to all: yet all baw DGt
a-n eqoally injllled by them. The children of the earlier birtha
haYe eaeaped, while thoee of the Hbeequeot ODell hue BUftered.
The reuon is plain. The IaUer children had a deeper aaimal taiDt
than the fonner.'-7rmuylvtmia J(IIJ.r. p. 34.1-i.
The following eaaea are recorded in the Phrenological Joamal;
' I now proceed &o give 110111e fade a&rongly illuatratiYe of the doo-
trine, that the facnltiea which predomin&&e in power and acti;ity in
the parents, when &be organic exiateoce of the child Commence&,
determine ita future mental diepositi0118. This is a doctrine to
which, from ita great practical importance, I wowd beg.leaYe to
call your aerioua attention. It waa remarked by the celebrated
Esquirol," that the children whose existence dated from the horrors
of the first French Revolution, turned out to be weak. nervous, and
irritable in mind, extremely susceptible of imprel!llion.a, and liable
to be thrown by the leaat extraordinary excitement into absolute in-
aanity.'' Sometimes, too, family calamities produce serious effects
upon the otrspring. A very intelligent and respectable mother,
upon hearing this principle expounded, remarked that there was a.
very wide difference. in the intellectual and moral deYelopment be-
tween one of her children and the others; and a.ecounted for this
difference by the fact, that, during pregnancy, she received intelli-
gence that the crew of the ship, on board of which was her son,
had mutinied,-that when the ship arrived in the West Indies,
some of the mutineers, and also her son, had been put in irons,-
and that they were all to be aent horne for trial. This intelligence
acted so strongly upon her, that she suffered a temporaryalienation
of judgment. The report turned out to be erroneous, but this did
not avert the consequences of the agitated sta.te of the mother's
feelings upon the daughter she a.f\erwards gave birth to. That
daughter is now a woman, but she is and will continue to be a
being of implllaes, incapable of reflection, and in other reapecta
greatly inferior to her sisters.
' The following is a melancholy instance of the operation of thia·
principle, which waa communicated to me by a respectable medical
practitioner, and which I have since found from inquiries in the
neighborhood, and from seeing the subject of it, to be aub8tautially
correct. In the summer of 1827, the praetilioner alluded to was
called upon to visit profeasionall1 a young woman in the immediate
neighborhood, Who W88 aafely aelivered of a-male child. As the
parties appeared to be respectable, he made some inquiries regalCI-
- the absence of the child'a father; when the old WOIIUUl told
og,t,zedbyGoogle
4PPB!fDIX.--oaO.UUC L4WI. 411
him that her daughter wae aUll unmarried; that the child's fadaer
belonged to •egimenl then in ·Ireland ; that laat autnmn he had
obtained leaTe of absence to visit hia relations in this pan of the
country ; and that on the eve of hia departure to join hia regiment,
an entertainment was given, at which her daughter attended:
during the whole evening, she and the soldier danoed and aang
together ; when heated by the toddy and the dance, they le.t\ the
cottage, and a.t\er the lapse of an hour were found together in a
glen, in a state of utter insensibility, from the effect& of their former
festivity; and the coneequence of this interview was the birth ofan
idiot. He is now nearly six years of his age, and hia mother doea
not believe that he is able to recognise either herself or any other
individual. He is quite incapable of making signs, whereby hie
want& can be made known-with this exception, that when hungry
he gives a wild shriek. This is a caae upon which it would be
painful to dwell; and I shall only remark, that the parents are both
intelligent, and that the fatal result cannot be otherwise accounted
for than by the almost total prostration or eclipse of the intellect of
both parties from intoxication.'-Phren. Jour. vol. viii. p. 471.
Shakspeare seems to recognise the law of the transmissi~n of
temporary mental qualities, ao much insisted on in the text:-
'Come on, ye eowarde; ye were got in tear,
ThoucJl ye were born In Rome.'
Cori4lan1U, Act. 1. Sc. 8.
A gentlel'ftlln, who has paid much attention to the rearing of
horses, informed·me, that the male race-horse, when excited, but
not exhausted, by running, has been found by experience to be in
the most favorable condition for transmitting swiftnP.ss and vivacity
to his ofiSpring. Another gentleman stated, that he was himself
present when the pale gray color of a male horse was objected to;
that the groom thereupon presented before the eyes of the male
another female from the stable, of a very particular but pleasing va-
riety of colors, asserting that the latter would determine the com-
plexion of the ofiSpring ; and that in point of fact it did 80. The
experiment .was tried in the case of a second female, and the result
was 80 completely the same, that the two young horses, in point of
color, could ecareely be distinguished although their spots were ex-
tremely uncommon. The account of Laban and the peeled rods laid
before the cattle to produce spotted calves, is an example of the
eame kind•.
The subjoined obeervations are extracted from ' Outlinea of the
Veterinary Art, by Delabere Blaine,' 3d edition, London, 18i6,
oio "'ed by Google
p. m :-'Tkat the orpaila&ioa of tile mare, her q.ia, aad
even her clileuea, are imprinted on her oftilpring, it.hardly to be
wondered at ; but how are we to acoou.at for tae eilecw which eveu
her iDJario&Uoa ltaa o'er the YOIIDI witbia l IUid \bat BUCh .ia the
cue, we han iuomerable preo&. A.e early aa the pauiarchal
1iaroe, the fael wu knowa ao4 act.ed ou. Tbeee au.omalies in t.h8
reatation oC the bOI'IIe are lea frequ.nt than in the more closely
domeet.iea&ed alUmale, aa doga ; yet l8ere are not wantiog ioetaaooa
of t.heae mental imp~ einkiDg deeply iato \he mind of tbe
mare allo, and being ealied into reoollec1M>n and action ia every
f4mlre pregnancy. Lord Mortoa bred froa a male quagga and a
eheetnut mare. The mare waa afterwazda bred from by a black
ArabiiD horse; bot etill the pmgeay exhibited, in color and mane,
a lltriking reeemblaooe &o the llll&&'P· D. Giles, Esq. had a sow
of the black and white kind, which waa bred from by a boar oC the
wild breed, of a deep cheatout color : the pigs produced by this
intercollliMI were duly mixed, the color of the boar being in some
"Very predominant. The lOW waa afl.erwanl.s bred from by two of
Mr. Weetem'a boars, and in both instances chestnut marks were
prel'&lent in the IaUer, which ill other instances had never preeented
any appearance of the kind.-Phil. Tnnu. 1821. See many other
instances detailed in the OmiM Patlwlogy, 3d edition, p. 94.'
The 118Dle writer gives some interesting details, to show the
necessity for aueading to the qualities of both parents in the breed-
ing of _h.orsea. 'The general characteristic form of the animal,'
aays he, ' is arbitrarily settled by nature, but the individualities
of character in the separate organs is divided between the parents
in nearly equal proportions.• This is exemplified in the breed
which arises from the intermixture of the blood with the cart breed,
where the ext.reme difference in form and character is nioely blend-
ed, yet the peculiarities of each remain distioguishable.t This
proves the great error eou:wlitted by the generality of &.nnera and
•' It Ill lty ao • - lnleDded ben to clelly tut the exaemal cbarecten o l -
breeda are not prlnolpaUy derived &om till> male, and of Olbera ll'om the ll!male;
hut theoe an0111alieo, fur which we cannot accowlt, do not tend to alter the geaeraJ
olmilitude oboerved towarda both parents. In the multiparous animal-, Ilia often
oboened that the lnllueace orone paret~t preponderatee Ia a part ef&be Jl"ll11ltY, aoi
eltile olber In anodler par& orlt.. Th• It bappeoa lila&, wbeol a )lOinlei" 11114 -
breed IOptiler, II Ia 1101 un-1 to llud part of the whelpa IUmoel perfect ~
And tlae remainder eo nearly true oetten.•
I 'The hybrid mule divides In equal pro.,ortiono the 110quine and -lnl~e charac-
aerw: at the oame lime II mUll be allowed that the binny, or produce efthe ·~
ud ...q llllft lllled 10""' llono tlllll tlMIIUIIit,Cll' ,..., ~ duo ...... 111111
J.11111'8.'
oio "'ed by Google
.lPPENDIX.-oRGANIC LAWS. 413
amall breeders, who, carelees about the dam, breed from any mare
they happen· to possess or can procure, though it may even be
unfitted for work by disease or age; and expect, provided they gain
a leap from a tolerable stallion, to procure a valuable progeny.
But it is in vain to hope for good form and useful qualities under
such circumstances; for it will be generally found that the proper-
ties of each parent are equally proportioned in the progeny,-and
this fact is so well known to judicious breeders that they select both
sire and dam with equal care. This dependence on the law by
which the distribution ofform and qualities is equally deptlndent on
both parents, leads to the correction of defects in particular breeds,
by selecting one parent eminent for a form or quality for which the
other ie as notoriously defective. Should a mare, otherwise valu-
able, present a low heavy forehand beyond even that which is her
sexual characteristic, by choosing her a male more than usually
thin and elevated in his crest, the defect will be remedied ; whereas,
if this be not attended to, whatever other properties each may pos-
sess, a serious defect is propagated and increased, and the produce
can be of little value. It is also by a judicious attention to these
circumstances "
_
hat particular breeds are preserved with their origi-
nal integrity, or new varieties introduced.'-' It is by the cho~ce of
such parents ae have the specified and definite form in the greatest
perfection that we are enabled in the progeny to perpetuate the
same, and by future selections to improve it. The merits and
defects of each parent should be previously subjected to careful
examination; and it is only by a judicious balancing of the one
against the other that perfect success is to be expected. It ~ thus
that our racers have outstripped all competitors; it is thus that a
Russell, a Coke, a Bakewell, and an Ellman, have raised our
ruminants to their present state ; and it is by the same art that a
Meynel!, a Rivers, or a Topham, have produced unrivalled dogs.
Our power over the animal form and qualities, by the selection of
parents, and subjecting their progeny to particular nurture, careful
domestication, restraint and discipline, is truly surprising. The
shepherd's dog is in some breeds born with a short tail; thus the
very base of the machine, that which of all the parts is the least
subjected to alteration by any physical or moral agency, the bones,
even becomes subjected to our caprice. The Hereford ox can be
bred to a white face, or a half white face, and the length of the horns
of others can be ensured to an inch. The Spittalfields weavers
assert, that they can ensure almost to a certainty in the Marlbo-
rough breed of spaniels, which flourishes among them, any given
35•
oio "'ed by Google
414 APPENDIX.--oRGI.NIC LA.W!.
quantity of color, length of coat and texture of it, and regulate its
dispoaition to curl or remain atraight. The color of the gam~
is arbitrarily impoaed by the handler aud feeder ; and the expe-
rienced pigeon-fancier ean breed to a feather. It should not be lost
sight of, that qualities, aa well mental as personal, are also to be
cultivated and banded down in the breed. Many qualities may be
.conaidered aa dependent on the organization ; ew.eh are hardihood,
,particular excelle11ee in one pace, &c. Theae, it may be expected,
apriori, might be perpetuated; and we are not swpriscd at a son
of Ecllpae or Matchem having speed in his gallop, or the produce
uf a Norfolk trotter excelling in that pace; but it is not equally
taken into the account that temper, courage, docility, and patience
under re~traint, are equally handed down in hereditary deacent as
the peculiarities ofform.'-P. 321-323.
Mr. Blaine expresaes himaelf not hostile to in-and-in breeding;
in defence of which be adduces several arguments and authorities,
as well as his own experience, and says he 'could quote innumer-
able other authorities ' to the same effect. ' But candor,' be adds,
'obliges me alilo to own, that there exists a large number of able
antagonists to it also. My limits only allow me to add, that many
practical breeders who are averae to breeding in succession from
near relationship by blood, are favorable to it in a remote degree,
which is particularly the caae with some rearel'$ of game fowls,
who aeek the intercourse of a third remove, which they call a
' nick.' From these conflicting testimonies, the matter will, with
many, be consider.e:l as problematical. With me, the only argu-
ments against it which it appears cannot be satisfactorily answered
are, tbat as hereditary diseaaes in some breeds are considerable,
by tbis mode of breeding they would be perpetuated and probably
increaaed ; and likewise, that when breeding by relationship is a
aettled practice, accidental defects are t()O apt to be passed over
unobserved.'-P. 325.
Mr. Blaine notices also a very important circullll!tance in relation
to hereditary transmission-what is popularly denominated breeding
back; that is to say, the appearance in the second or third genera-
tion, of qualities of the progenitors, not observable in the first
generation. 'It is observed,' he says, 'that the progeny of the
horse, of man, and of most domestic animals, shall bear a more
atriking resemblance to the grand-dam or grandfather than to their
own immediate parents. It is evident that this is more likely where
a common character has been preserved during successive genera-
tiona, or, in turf language, where the blood has belln J.lre&erved
oio "'ed by Google
pure. A praeUcal hint natvally preeeot4 itaelf on the ext.._.
importanoe, therefore, of admitting DO accidental adnUxture of
ltlood, where it ill peculiarly reqciaite that it should .low in trut
liBeal delooot ; eeeiog that ita debasing eonaequeoces ue oarried.
througlt whole generatioDB, and uaexpeeWdly appt)&l' in a third or
foa.rth.'-P. 326.
Dr. Ellioteon, in a note. to the fourth edition of his Translation
ef Bl~~~Dm~bach'a Phyaiology, p. 669, observes, that 'experie~
teaches ua that changes brought about in an animal after birth flN
aot in general transmitted to the ofiilpring. The caueee of change
in a epefiea must therefore operate, not by altering the parents,
but by dil!poei.ng them to produoe an oftilpring more or lese difieraot
from themaelvea. Such is John Hunter'a View of the quet&ioo, and
it is certainly can1irmed by every tact. I fear that John Hunter
has not generally the credit of this ebaervation, but the following
puaage shows it to be clearly ~ill :-'As animals are known to
produce young which are diflerent from themeelves in color, form,
and disposition, ariting tiom what may be called the unnatural
mode of life, it shows this eurioua power of accommodatiOn in the
animal eeonomy, that although educatioa can produce no cha11ge
in the color, form, or disposition of the animal, yet it ill capable of
producing a principle which becomes so natural to the animal, that
it shall beget young different in color and form ; and so altered in
disposition as to be more easily trained.up to the offices in which
they have been usually employed; and having these dispositions
suitable to such clta.nges of form.'...-Hutrter, On t'M Wolf, JaclcGll,
and Dog.' Dr. Eijiotson adds a variety of illustrations, to which
the reader is referred.
It· ill stated by Dr. W. C. Edwarda, in the work alluded to in
No. V. of this appendix, that when animals of dilferent species
are crOIISed, they produce an animal of an in$ermediate type, or a
mule ; _but that when different varieties of the same species are
mixed, the te1111lt is often quite difterent. M. Coladoa of Geneva,
he says, made a very striking experiment, which bears strongly on
this point. He prooured a great number of white mice, as well
u of oommon brown mice, studied their ltabite, and found means
to caUI8 them to breed. In his experiments he always put to--
gether mice ot di118root colora, expeeting a mixed race ; but this
did not occur in one instance. All the young mice were eithel'
white or brown, but each type waa produeed alwa:ya in a state of
purity. Even in the eaaa of varietiea of tlae ll8.l8e apeeiee, adds
Dr. Edw1u'da, we have an intermedius type or mule ; b11~ this \t
oio "'ed by Google
.A.PP&I'DIX.--GaG.t.NIC LAWS.
when the nn1tiea dift"er moet from each other : when, aa in the
cue of the mice, they app1"08Ch very nearly, mules are uot produc-
ed. In both eaaes we see one common principle, namely, that the
mother often produces a being of a type different from hu own-
lesa eo, however, in the latter cue. This principle ia eeen even in
the same variety; for here also the mother, in producing a male,
gives birth to a being whose type di.frel'8, and in some eues dift"el'8
very much, from her own. Now, says Dr. E., the same ia obeerv-
ed in man. The varieties which differ most strongly, such as the
Negro and white, when crOBIIed, produce mulattoes; and when
varieties more nearly resembling each other are crossed, the de-
scendants sometimes resemble one parent, sometimes the other,
eometimea both. This Dr. Edwards looks upon as the cause of
the great variety observable in modem nations; among which,
however, he thinks we can always observe specimens of the pure
types which have entered· into their composition. Thus, even if
two races having considerable resemblance to each other, and in
equal numbel'8, were to mix without limitation, the original types
would still, in hie opinion, frequently occur in their descendants.
Dr. Edwards very ingeniously applies to the elucidation of history,
these and other principles connected with the physiological charac-
teristics of races of mankind. For details, I refer to the Phrenolo-
gical Journal, vol. ix. p. 97-108.
In the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, No. 1., there are several
valuable articles illustrative of hereditary transmisaion in the infe-
rior animals. I select the following examples :-
'Every one knows that the ben ofany bird wijl Jay eggs although
no male be permitted to come near her ; and that those eggs are
only wanting in the vital principle which the impregnation of the
male conveys to them. Here, then, we see the female able to make
an egg, with yolk and white, shell and every part, just as it ought
to be, so that we might, at the first glance, suppose that here, at
all events, the female has the greatest influence. But see the change
which the male produces. Put a Bantam cock to a large"'liud hen,
and she will instantly Jay a small egg; the chick will be short in
the leg, have feathers to the foot, and put on the appearance of the
cock: so that it is a frequent complaint where Bantams are kept,
that they make the hens lay small eggs, and spoil the breed. Re..
verse the case ; put a large dunghill cock to Bantam bene, and in-
stantly they will lay larger eggs, and the chicks will be good-sized
birds, and the Bantam will have nearly disappeared. Here, then-,
are a number of facts known to every one, or at least open to be
oio "'ed by Google
APPBNDIX.--GRO.UUC LAWll. -itT
known by every one, clearly proving the inftuence of the male in
aome animals; and a.s I hold it to be an axiom that Nature never
acts by contraries, never outrages the law clearly fixed in one spe--
eies, by adopting the opposite course in another,-therefore, as in
the case of an equilateral triangle on the length of one side being
given, we can with certainty demonstrate that of the remainiag ;
so, having found these laws to exist in one raee of animall', we are
entitled to assume that every species is subjected to the ~teif-same
rules,-the whole bearing, in fact, the same relation to each other
313 the radii of a circle.'
Very young henslay small eggs; but a breederof fowls will never
set these to be hatched, hecause the animals produced would be
feeble and imperfectly developed. He selects the largest and fresh-
est eggs, and endeavors to rear the healthiest stock poBBible.
'A Metlwd ofobtaining a greaJer ntunller of One ~.at the option of
the Proprietor, in the Breeding ofLive Stock.'-Extracted from the
Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, No. I. p. 63.
'In the Annalesde l'Agriculture Frafl~aise, vols. 37and 38, some
Yery interesting experiments are recorded, which have lately been
made in France, on the Breeding of Live Stock. M. Charles Girou
de Buzareingues proposed at a meeting of the Agricultural Society
of Severac, on the 3d of July 1826, to divide a ftock of sheep into
two equal parts, so that a greater number of males or females, at
the choice ofthe proprietor, should be produced from each of them.
Two of the members of the Society otrered their 11ooks to become
the subjects of his experiments, and the results have now been
communicated, which are in accordance with the author's expecta-
tions.
' The first experiment was conducted in the following manner :
He reoommended very young rams to be put to the tlock of ewes,
from which the proprietor wished the greater number of females in
their otJSpring; and also, that, during the season when the rams
were with the ewes, they should have more abundant pasture than
the other ; while, to the flock from which the proprietor wished to
obtain male lambs chiefly, he recommended him to put strong and
vigorous rams four or five years old. Tlte followina tabular view
contains the result of this experiment :
oio "'ed by Google
418 .UP&lfDIX.--GilG.l!UC LAWI.
FLOCK POJl FE!IU.LJ: L.t..!IUUt. FLOCK FOR Ma.LB L4.MDS.
Jge qftlteMolltero. St:~~ qj'llte Lmnb•. Age oflite Mother•. Se:11 ofthe Lamb11.
Males. Females. Males. Females.
Two yean, . 14 26 Two years, 7 s
Three yean, . 16 29 Three years, - . 15 14
Four )'ear&, - . 5 21 Four years, . . 3S 14
- - - -
Tot•!, • - • S5 76 Total, - - - ... 55 31
6 ye~~ra nnd older 18 8 5 yea111 and older 26 24
- - - -
Totnl, - - • • 53 84 Total, • • • • 80 55
N. B.-There were three twin-birtho l N. B.-There were no twin-births
tn this flock . Two rams ~ervcd it, one j in .this flock. Two strong rnms, one
nneen months, tho other nearly twol four, the other live yea111 old, served
years old. it.
I
'The gener:tllaw, as far as we are able to detect it, seems to be,
that, when animals are in good condition, plentifully supplied with
food, and kept from breeding as f~ as they might do, they are most
likely to produce females. Or, in other words, when a race of ani-
mals is in circumstances favorable for its increase, nature produces
the greatest number of that sex which, in animals that do not pair,
is most efficient for increasing the numbers of the race : But, if they
are in a bad climate or on stinted pasture, or if they have already
given birth to a numerous offspring, then nature, setting limits to
the increase of the race, produces more males than females. Yet,
perhaps, it may be premature to attempt to deduce any law from
experiments which have not yet been sufficiently extended. M.
Girou is disposed to ascribe much of the efl'el)t to the age of the ram,
independent of the condition of the ewe.'
No. VJII.-L.&WS RELATIVE TO MARRIAGE AliD ED11CATIOK IJI
GERJIA!fY.
Text, p. 188.
' It cannot be altogether foreign to natural history,' says Mr.
Loudon, 'to notice the inlluence of climate, food, and political and
religious regulations on the human species; and we are unwilling to
leave Germany without saying something on so interesting a people
as the Germans. It will not be denied that man issubject to the same
laws as other animals, and that hie natural or inborn character must
oio "'ed by Google
419
depend principally on the climate and producta ofthe soil where he ia
placed. Hia factitious or civilised character will aa certainlydepend
on hia education, taking that word in ita most extensiTe 11ense, u
including parental care and example, 110holaatic tuition, religion, and
goTemment. In warm fertile countriee, where nature produces every
thing spontaneously, man becomes inactive, and has naturally few
labors and few enjoyments. In extremely cold and inhospitable cli-
mates, the enjoyments of man are alao few, beca.011e the labor neces-
sary to overcome natural objecta ia too greatfor hia powers. It would
seem, therefore, that intermediate climates are more favorable for
human happiness than either extremes; but whether such are at all
times temperate, as those of many parts of Italy and Spain, or such as
are alternately temperate and severe, as those of the south of Ger-
many and the north of France, are the best, may perhaps be doubted.
It appears that a climate where the winters are severe, has a conside-
rable inlluence on the human character, by the necellllity which it
induces of forethought, in the laying up a provision of food for
winter, and the greater attention and labor that are requisite in the
article of clothing for that season. It ia certain, on the other hand,
that, in climates at all times temperate, the health, other circum-
stances being alike, must be better than in severe climates, where it
is impaired by the artificial atmosphere of apartments during the
winter season; and constant good health must necessarily have a
considerable inlluence on the character. Supposing, therefore, all
the artificial circumstances to be the same in two climates, such
as that of the south of Germany, and that of Italy or the central parts
of France, it seems reasonable to conclude that man would attain
to a higher degree of perfection in the latter climates than in the
former. So much for our theory of the inlluence of soil and climate
on man; and, for farther details, we refer the reader to Dr. Falcon-
ar's work on the subject.
' Of all the artificial or accidental circumstances which inlluence
the character, personal education must be allowed to be the greatest,
and next, religion and government. Manner oflife, occupations, and
pursuits, and even amusements, have an important inlluence. To
do more than premise these matters, would be unsuitable to this
Magazine ; but what has been said became necessary as an intro-
duction to what ia to follow.
'Applying the above theory to the three states of Germany which
we have passed through, Wurtemberg, Bavaria, and Baden, the cli-
mate and soil of these states seem favorable in O,e second degree;
edacation, to a certain extent, is there nnivereal ; religion is, on the
wlaole, ..-ore aiatpJe t.bu ill eome other eouatriea; aad the Iawead
pvemmente eeem, at leaa, eqaal, ia CODIItitutiooal merit.a a.nd im-
partial adminilua&ioa, te thoee eC any people in Europe. The
manner of life, or oeeapetioo, is chiefly agrieu.kural ; which, &hough
IHK favorable to luxury or refiaemen~ eee11111, without dou!K, i»r the
pat ..a of &he people, the bappiee& mode of existence. Local
and pereooal attachments are Olliverally .elt to be -ntial MU'C8II
of ilappineas: and in no way can this feeliag be gratiJied ao euily
and eftilctually u by the poeee811ioa of land. lA the three countries
named, the great majority of tlle population are occupiers in perpe-
tuity, of a portioo of the eoil, either u absolute proprietol'll or aa
perpetual reotal'8. Thia state of things is far from being favorable
to what is called making money ; but it is highly favorable to health
and contentment. It ill a great deal fOI' a poor man to haTe 80Jil8o
thing which he caa eall hia own ; something on which he can bestow
labor, ud from which be can, in consequence, extract enjoyment.
The absolute n8C818ities of lim are few, and derived directly from
the eoil; the laboring mao, therefore, wlao hu a house and a few
roods of land, iscertain of a home and food ; he increues the interesl
of his home by a wife; and parental care and solicitude, with coo·
nubial and filial attachment, fill up the measare of his happiness.
Theseare the -tial purpoaes and eojoymenta oflife, which oature
intended for all men ; which the poor man can enjoy u well u the
rich ; and for which no other enjoymeat, either of the rich or the
poor, the wile or the learoed, can entirely compensate. lA no part
of Europe have we seen, or thoagbt we have seen, these enjoymenta
so generally dill'used as in the coootries we have receutly putse<!
through, and more eapecially Wurtemberg. We entered oa tlaeee
countriea, expecting to fiud the people not much better oE dian in
France ; but we could not reaist the conviction produced bycoostant
observation, and the result of various inquiry, that comfort and hap-
pme.exist to a much greater degree among the laboriog claseee of
society in the .-11of Germany, tban they do in Britain. The ~
pie, at 1iratlight,hal'& a milder and morecivilized aspect. Tile0..
of the counay laborers, male a.od female, ct- not consist of .ach
be materiala u in Englud ; butonepart of tbe dreE is of'- quality
«<DDIistent with the othel'll, and the whole is ill a auperior atyle,
compared with the dress of the other clueea oleociety. There ill
DO aaell tbiug, in this partofGermuy,ua- or woman ill raga,
or with a coat or gGwo ofthe beat quality, and the hat or atookinp
in a.ttera, u is £reqeendy &be case, Dot only amoag ~ baa
...umo.og1111eChaniee, ia Engtancl. IA.UI't, tlloeC..in~
oio "'ed by Google
AP. &NDtS:.--GRGANIC tAws. 421
ta in mach better keeping. Both men and women of the laboring
clus here are more intelligent in their aspect, much more civil and
polite on a firat acquaintance, and much better furnished with con-
'felllll.tion than the British laborera. What struck us particularly
were, the great rarity ofexceptions to this general description, the
general unoormity of manner and character thronghout the whole
eountry, and the total abeenoe of public beggara. On inquiry, we
found that there were few or no poor supported publicly, though
every parish isobliged to support itB poor when unable to work ; and
also, that there were few people in pri110n, either for debt or for
crime of any kind.
' This state of thinga more particularly applies to Wurtemberg;
and the eauaes, we think, may be very easily traced. The first
and principal caUlle is a Jaw respecting schools, which bas existed,
more or 16118, in the states of the south of Germany for above a
century, but which has been greatly impro~ed within the last thirty
yeara. By this law, pareatB are compelled to send their children
to school, from the age of six to fourteen yeara, ~here they must
be taught reading, writing, and arithmetic, but where they may
acquire as much additional instruction in other branch ·s as their
parentB choose to pay for. To many ofthe schools ofBanria large
garoene are attached, in which the boys are taught the principal
operatiollll of agricultnre and gardening in their boura of play; and,
in all the schools of the three states, the girls in addition to the
eame inetruction as the boys, are taught knitting, sewing, embroi-
dery, &e. It is the duty of the police and priest, (which may be
OOilllidered equin.lent to our parish vestries) of each commune or
parish, to see that the law is duly executed, the children sent regu-
larly, and instructed daily. IC the parentB are partially or wholly
unable to pay for their children, the commune makes up the defi..
ciency. Religion is taught by the priest of the 'rillage or hamlet ;
and where, as is frequently the case in Wurtemberg, there are two
or three religions in one parish, each child is taught by the priest
of itB parentB; all of which priestB are, from their office, members
of the committee or vestry of the commune. The priest or priesta
of the parish have the regular inspection of the schoolmaster, and
are required by the government to see that he does his duty ; while
each priest, at the same time, sees that the children of his 4~
actend regularly. After the child has been the appointed number,
ofyeara at school, it receives from the sehoolm&ster, and the prillllt
dC dte ~eligion to which it belonga, a certificate, without which it
c1aaot prooure employmimt. To employ any penoo under twenty-'
36
oio "'ed by Google
ooe, without euch a cert.ificiUe, ia illegal, ...apuDilluld ., • iud
fine, u il alm08t fherJ other oliiDCe ia tbia pan oCGenuay; Ulll
the fiDel are never remiUed, which makea pamiebu..t alwa:JII eer-
taia. The echeolmaater ie paid milCh ia the eame way u iD ~
Jaod ; by a houae, a prden, and 10111eti&DN a field, and by a ..U
lalary from the pariah ; aud by fixecl ralee wr the o8ildna..
• A eecoud law, which ia coeval with the ecbool law, rat1en il
ilkgal for any !JUIUI8 man Ill rtUinY IJefore Ae il ttDenty-ft«, or mty
young woman before 1be il eigltua; and a youg man, at whateYer
qe he wiabea to marry, mull show to the police and the pries of
the commune where he resides, that he il able, ani. heltJ the prwp«t,
to providefor a 'IJJife andfamily.
•There are minor causes, but these two laws, and the general
possession of land both by laborers and tradesmen, are the chief.
Amongst the minor causes are the general simplicity of their forms
of religion, and universal toleration ; even the Catholic faith in
W urtemberg is unattended with the ceremony and spectacle with
which it is exhibited in various parts of Germany and France.
The equal footing on which the different religions are placed, is
also favorable to liberality of sentiment and good neighborhood.
That particular mildness of feature and character, so different from
what is met with in the laboring classes in England, is no doubt
partly owing to the greater proportion of vegetables and fruits
which enter into the general diet of the population; the almost
total abstinence from strong liquors or spirits, the general drink
being wine ; and, perhaps, to the almost unremitted smoking of
tobacco from morning to night.'-Magazine of Natural EJStory.
No. IX.-DEATH.
Text, p. 222.
The fact of a decrease in the Mortality of England is strikingly
supported by the following extract from the Scotsman of 16th
April, 1828. It is well known that this paper is edited by Mr.
Charles Maclaren, a gentleman whose extensive information, and
scrupulous regard to accuracy and truth, stamp the highest value
on his statements of fact; and whose profound and comprehensive
intellect warrants a well-grounded reliance on his philosophical
eonclusionfl.
'DunNISHED MoRTALIT'\' IN ENGLA.ND.-The diminution
of the annual mortality in England amidst an alleged increase of
oio "'ed by Google
.lPPBtmiX.-DB.lTil.
erime, misery, and pauperism, is aa extraordiuary aacl ltartliag
taet, which merits a more careful inveetigation than it hae reoeiYed.
We have not time to go deeply into the subject; but we eball oftM
a remark or two on the question, how the apparent annual mortality
is atreeted by the ihtroduetion of the oow-pox, and the stationary
or progressive state of the population. In 1780, acoording to Mr.
Rickman, the annual deaths were 1 in 40, or IIM-forlit!tl put of
the population died every year; in 1821, the proportioe wae 1 ia
58. It folloW!!, that, out of any given number of penoDa, 1,000 or
10,000, seareely more than two deaths take place now for tluee
that took place in 1'780, or the mortality hae diminished 45 per
cent. The parochial regiatere of burials in England, from whleh.
this statement is derived, are known to be ineorreet: bot ae they
continue to be kept without alteration in the same way, the enore
of one year are justly ooneeived to balance those of anMher, and
they thus afford ~ reaalta, upon which OODSiden.ble reli-
ance may be placed.
' A community is made ap of pereons of many varioua ages,
among whom the law of mortality is very dift'erent. Thus, ~~~>­
cording to the Swedish tablea, the deaths among children from the
moment ofbirth up to 10 yeara of age, are 1 in 22 per annum; from
10 to 20, the deaths are only 1 in 185. AmOBg the old, again,
mortality is of eourae great. From '70 to 80, the deaths are 1 in
9; from 80 to 90 they are 1 in 4. Now, a community like \hat of
New York or Ohio, where marriages are made early and the births
are numerous, neeeBBarily eontains a large proportion of young pe!'-
eons, among whom the proportional mortality is low, and a small
proportion of the old, who die oft" rapidly. A community in which
the births are numerous, is like a regiment receiving a vast number
of young and healthy recruits, and in which, of oourae, as a whole,
the annual deaths will be few compared with those in another regi-
ment chiefly IDled with veterans, though, among the penona a& any
particular age, such as 20, 40, or 50, the mortality will be as great
in the one regiment as in the other. It may thus happen, that the
~nual mortality among 1,000 penons in Ohio, may be considerably
leBB than in France, while the Rzp«tation t~J Lifo, or tlae chance
which an individual huto reach to a certain age, may be DO grea&er
in the former country than in the latter ~ and hence we - tha& a
dilaiaution in the ra&e of mortality ia not a eertaia proof of an in·
~ oreue in dte value of life, or an impro~t in the condition of
the people.
1 B11t Uae eB'eet produced by an increaeed DUIIlber of biltba ie
oio "'ed by Google
1- thaD mifht be imagiaed, owiog to the very great mortality
amo~~g illfanta ill &be lim year of their age. Not ha'fi.ng time for
tu calculati0118 neoe.ary to get at the precise result, which are
pretty complex, we avail Olll88lves of aome .natementa given by
Mr. Milne ill bia work on Annuitiee. Taking the Swedish tablea
u a baaia, and auppoeing the law of mortality to remain the same
for each period of life, be hu compared the proportional number
of dealiha ill a population which ia atationary, and in one which
~ 15 per ceot. in 20 yeara. The result is, that when the
mortality ill the atationary eociety ia one in 36.13, that in the pro-
greuive aoeiety ia one in 37.33, a dilference equal to 3A per cent.
Now, the population of Engl&lld and Wales increased 34.3 per
cent. in the 20 yeara ending in 18iH, but in the interval from
1811 "' 1821, the rata waa equivalent to 39~ per cent. upon 20
yeara; and the apparent diminution of mo11ality arising from th.ia
circumataAce muat of course ha.ve been about 81, per cent. We
are assuming, however, that the population was absolutely station-
ary at 1780, whlch waa not the cue. According to Mr. l\lilue
(p.437), the average annual increase in the five years ending 1784,
waa 1 in 155; in the tan years ending 1821, according to the cen-
BWI, it was 1 in 60. Deducting, then, the proportional part cor-
responding to the former, which is 3i, there remains 5!. If Mr
Milne's tables, therefore, are correct, we mti!J mfer tJwt the progru-
.we111116 ofthe popu/otio'fl caii.!U a diminution of 5! per cen.t. in the
annual mortiJlity-a diminution whioh ia only apparent, because it
arilea entirely from the great proportion of blrtha, and ia not ac-
companied with any real increiU¥! in the value of human life.
' A much greater chang&-not apparent but real-was produced
by the introduction of vaccination in 1798. It was computed,
that, in 1795, when the population of the British Isles was
15,000,000, the deaths produeed by the emaU.pox amounted to
;li>,OOO, or nearly 11 per cent. of the whole annual mortality. (See
article Vaccination in the Supplement to Encyclopedia Britannica,
p. 713.) Now, since not more than one ease in 330 termina&es
fatally under the cow-pox system, either directly by the primary
infection, or from the other diseases supervening: the whole of the
young pereons destroyed by the amaH-pox might be considered aa
aaved, were 'f&CCillation universal, and alwaya properly performed.
Thia ia not preci~ely the caee, but one or one and a half per cent.
will oover the deficiencies; and we may therefore conclude, that
"accination /1/J$ dimini&hed the annual1PII1rtality fully niM fiB" eeru.
After we bad arrived at thia oooclllllion by the prooees deecribed,
oio "'ed by Google
we found it confirmed by the authority of Mr. Milne, wltoeetimatea,
in a note to one of his tables, that the mortality o( 1 in 40 would lie
diminished to 1 in 43-5, by exterminating the small-pox. Now,
this is almost precisely 9 per cent.
• We stated, that the diminution of the annual mortality between'
1790 and 1821 wae 45 per cent., aceording to Mr. Rickman. It
we deduct from this 9 per cent. for the e6ct of vaccination, and 5
per cent. as only apparent, resulting from the increasing proportioa
of birthe-31 per cent. remains, t11hieh, we ~. con ~ 6e
aa;qunted for by an improvm&e1&t in tlte M!JiU, moral~, mt4 pM]sicttl
tmr.dition of tlte people. Independently, then, of the two caueee
alluded to, the value of human life since 1780 hae inereaeed in a
ratiu which would diminish the annual mortality from 1 in 40 to I
~n 521,-a fact which is indisputably o( great importance, a~orth
volumes of declamation in illestrating the true situation ofthe labor--
ing el&esel!l. We have founded our oonolueion on data derived en-
tirely from English returns; but lhere is no doubt that it appliea
equally to Scotland. It ie consoling to And, from th• very unex.
ceptionable species of evidenoe, that though Chere ie maeh privation
and suffering in the_oountry, the situation of the people hae been,
on the whole, progreeeively improving daring the laet tbrty ye&re.
But how much greater would the advance have been, had they
been less taxed, and better treated? and bow much room ia there
still for future amelioration, by spreading instruction, amending our
laws, lessening the temptatiollll to crime, and improving the meau
of correction and reform P In the meantime, it ought to be ~~&me
encouragement to philanthropy to learn, that it hu not to struggle
against invincible obstacles, and that even when the prospect
was least cheering to the eye, ita elfom were silently benefiting
society.'
Extract from Edinburgh Advertiser 13th January 1829: •The
following comparative table of the average duration of lite at
Geneva, during the last 260 years, is very remarkable. The
growing improvement alfords a striking proof of the benefits re-
sulting from the progress of civilization and the useful arts.
From 1580 so 1600, -
, 1601 to 1100, •
1'701 to 1760, -
1781 to 1800, -
1801 to 1814, -
1816 10 1826, -
·-D'""""'.
y,.,.. Montb.o.
1' 6
23 6
S2 8
33 7
sa 6
sa 10
oio "'ed by Google
.UP&JfDlX.-D&.A.TJI.
It haa beeD meationed to me, that the late Dr. Monro, in his
anatomical lecturea, stated, that, aa far aa he could observe, the
tuuuan body, u a machine, waa perfeet,-that it bore within itself
oo marks by which we could poeaibly predict ita decay,-that it
waa apparently calculated to go on for ever,-6lld that we learned
'loly by experience that it would not do ao ; and some persons have
conceived t.hia to be an authority against tbe doctrine maintained
in Chap. ill. Sect. 2, that death ia apparently inherent in organ.i-
ution. In a1111wer• I beg to observe, that if we were to look at the
aun only for one moment of time, aay at noon, no circuiDBtance in
ita appearance would indicate tbat it badever risen, or that it would
ever aet ; but, if we had traced ita progress from the horizon to the
meridian, and down again till the long shadows of evening prevail-
ed,.w•ahould have ample grounds for inferring, that, if the same
cauaea tbat had produced these changes continued to operate, it
would undoubtedly at length disappear. In the same way, if we
were to confine our obaervationa on tbe human body to a ~~~ere
point of time, it ia certain that, from the appearance& of that mo-
ment, we could not infer that it had grown up by gradual increase,
or that it would decay; but t.hia ia the oaae only, because our facul-
ties are not fitted to penetrate into the eeeential nature and depen-
deneea of things. Any man who had seen the body decrease in
old age, could, without hesitation, predicate, that, if the same
eauaea which had produQed that effect went ou operating, diaeolu-
tiou would at laat inevitably ooour ; and, if his Causality were well
developed, he would not hesitate to eay that a catue of the decrease
and disaolution must exiat, although he could not tell by examining
tbe body what it was. By analyzing alcohol, no person conld
predicate, independently of experience, that it would produce in-
toxication ; and, nevertheleea, there muat be a cause in the conatitu.-
tion of the alcohol, in that of the body, and in the relation.ahip
between them, why it prodl.lcea thia effect. The notion, therefore,
.
of Dr. Monro, does not prove that death ia not an eeeentiallaw of
organization, but only that the human faculties arc not able, by
dissection, to discover that the cause of it ia inherent in the bodil7
constitution itself. It does not follow, however, that thia in&rence
may not be legitimately drewn from phenomena collected from the
whole period of corporeal existence
oio "'ed by Google
No. X.-EDJIIBURGH Assocu.TJOII FOR PROCURJIIO IIISTBI7CTJO•
111 UsEFUL .&liD EIITJ:RTAJIIJIIO ScJ&IIc&s.
Text, p. 28!.
The history of thia Aaeociation ia brie1ly stated in one of ita
:reporte. ' In the summer of 1832, several individual.e, engaged
iR mercantile and trading avocations, and who were then attending
.Mr. Combe's evening course of lectures on Phrenology, expressed
a atrong desire for a more extended course during winter, along
with lectures on aome other subjeets of natural ecieDC6. With
thia view, they resolved to form themselves into an .Aeaooiation for
procuring such instruction, at convenient hours and on moderate
1.erms ; and in order to make the public acquainted with their in-
tentions, as well as to ascertain the support likely to be obtained,
they printed and circulated a " Proposal for Courses of Lectures
on Natural History, Chemistry, and Phrenology combined with
Physiology."' These lectures were intended for the instruction
of persons of both sexes, belonging chiefty to the middle classes of
society. They have been completely successful.
The regulations of the Association are the following :-
' I. The name of the Institution shall be, THII EDJ!fBVIlGH
At~socJATION roB PJlOVJDJ!fG IKeTRVCTJO!f J!f Un:rvL .A.ND
ENTERTAI!fJ!fG Scn:!fcEs.
' II. The subjects for lectures shall be left to the judgment of
the Directors for the time being.
'III. There shall be twenty-four Directors, one-half of whom
shall be annually changed, and an equal number elected, by a
general meeting of the members ; and the aaid Directors shall,
from among their own number, ch0011e a President, Treasurer, and
Secretary.
• IV. An annual payment of one gllinea shall entitle the contri-
butor to free tickets for all the lectnres, to vote in the election of
Directors, and to enjoy all the other privileges of an ordinary
member.
r •Y. Individuala ahall be allowed to purchase tir.kets for admia-
llion to one or lllOI8 of the lectures, without becoming regulat
members.
'VI. The fonda· 8hall be deposited in a respectable bank, (at
present being ao lodged,) in the names of the President, Treasurer,
and Seoretary.
oio "'ed by Google
•vn. After the preaent eeuon, the annual meeting of members
for the election of oftice..bearers, and other general busineas, ahall
he held in the month of March.'
The last report of the Aesociation, dated OctoBer 1834, mentions,
that 'in November 1m, lectures oo Phrenology, Chemistry, and
Geology, were commenced, under the anspices of the Association.
At this early period the n1ll11ber of aubearibers exceeded all expec-
tation ; and the conreea which have sinoe been given on Botaay,
Popular Education, Natural Philoeophy, Astronomy, and Phyaiolo-
gy, have likewise met with the moat marked au~. The tOllow.
ing abstract of the pecuniary transactione 10 the close of last llelllli.oD,
will show the grea\. interest which has been taken by the pnblie in
the proceedings of the A11100iation :-
'ToTAL RECEIPT A!'rD ExPJ:l!lDJTt1RE ro:a S&..IONa 183j.-3,
1833-4, AND 1~.
Ticke!AI Vlllloro OAJ.
CLA88&1. Sold. ...Uied at llscarPTL
6d. each.
1 -
Phrenology, - - . . . 449 2l"l'tl £213 10 5
Cbemiatry, - - - - - - 229 887 100 7 II
Geology, - - - - - - - 2S1 142 "7S 2 2
Th- ~- oa Jlduc.Uon,p1'ell oepa- J 242atll. 12 2 0
rately in April 18SS, - - .
Botany, day cl&l8, • - - - 80 ss do. 38 II 0
Botany, evening claa, - - - . 1.92 16:1 75 12 0
Three Lectures on Education, given In ~
llrovember 18SS (in addlti08 to the
holders of Tickel.l to any of the other 84.() 8 10 0
ci&18C8, who were admitted to the Leo-
tures oo Educalioull"ee), • -
Natural PhilosOJ1hy, - - • • 455 821 185 14 7
Aatrou.omy, - . - . - - 311 444 125 8 s
Pllyaiology, - - - - - - 300 sso 95 17 9
Laws of the Animal Economy- - . 1&'7 S89 75 4 1
2~ S8l £103C114 0
lntereat ftom Bank, 9 9 4
£1&43 a 4
Paid Lecturers, and other chargee, 855 an
Surplua at 22d JUJ18, 1836, £187 14 5
' In comparison with some other institutions, the pecuniary meana
of this A11100iation have been limited ; but lltil1 they have beea
more than sufficient for defraying all neceBSary expenees. 'l'bele
expenses, too, have been considerable, pal'ticidarly for room-rent,
dttings, advertising, and printing; for, besides the original proepea.
'W, the Directors have already printed, and widely oUcalatecl, AJ.
oio "'ed by Google
AHil!IDIS.-IIIO&A.L LA.WI.
demiled report., eompreh81111ive eyllab~ fur the three BeUOil
oollllle& of lecture&, and a tabular view of the Linnean system of
classification of plants, with explanatory remarks, amounting in all
to 7500 copies. Certain fundamental principles have been steadily
kept in view, viz. that no reliance should be placed on eleemosynary
aid-that the Directors should be leiJUlarly changed-that the in-
struction should be interesting, practieal, aad useful-that it should
be applicable -to both sexes from twelve years of age and upwards
--..nd that full value should be given to the subseribers for their
~oney, as well as a reasonable remuneration to the lecturers for
their services. By continuing to act upon these principles, and by
aecuring the aid of well qualified teachers, the directors confidently
hope for a continuan~ of public support.'
No. Xl.-lNFRING.EIIIENT oF 1\loRAL LAWI.
Text, p. 2«..
The deterioration of the operative cl&SBes of Britain, which I
attribute to exce..Q&jve labor, joined with great alternations of high
and low wages, and occasionally with absolute idleness and want,
is illustrated by the following extract from a Report on Emigra-
tion by a Committee of the House of Commons :-
'Joseph Foster, a weaver, and. one of the deputies of an emi-
gration society in Glasgow, states that the labor is all paid by the
piece; the hours of working are various, sometimes eighteen or
nineteen out of twenty-four, and even all night once or twice
a-week ; and that the wages made by such labor, after deducting
the necessary expenses, will not amount to more than 4s. 6d. to
7s. per. week, some kinds of work paying better than others.
When he commenced as a weaver, from 1800 to 1805, the same
amount of labor that now yields 4s. 6d. or 5s. would have yielded
20s. There are about ll,OOO hand-looms going in Glasgow and
its suburbs, some of which are worked by boys and girls, and he
estimates the averag!l net earnings of eaoh hand-weaver at 5s. 6d.
The principal subsistence of the weavers is oatmeal and pota&oes,
with occasionally some salt herrings.
' Major Thomas Moodie, who had made oareful inquiries into the
atate of the poor at Manchester, states, that the calico and other
light plain work at Bolton and Blackburn yields the weaver from
4a. to 5s. per week, by fourteen hours ofc!aily labor. In the power•
loom work, one man attend11 two looms, and earqa from 7a. 6d. to
oio "'ed by Google
•••••nx.-xoa.u. uws.
U.. per week, aoCliDl'ding to the ~ of tbe work. He aadeJo.
ltood that, duriDg the lut sen y-, weal'81'8' wagee had faUea 011
aa aYerage about Uie. per week.
'Mr. Thomaa Hutton, manufacturer, Carlillle, states, that there
ate iG Carliale and il8 neighborhood about 6500 ti.mil1ee, 01 from
l8,000 to 90,000 persona dependent on weaYing. They are all
hazacl..weaYers, and are now in a nry depreeaed state, in ClOI!ll&-
quence of the innreue of power-loom and factory weavin~ in Man-
cheater and elsewhere. Taking fifteen of hi.a men, he finds that
lin of them, who are employed on the~ work, bad earned 58.
6d. per week fur the precediog month, deducting the neceseary eJ:·
pensea of loom-rent, candles, tackling, &e.; the neJ:t five, who are
upon work of the second qnfility, earned 38. lid.; and the third
live earned 38. 7id. per week. They work from fourteen to sixteen
hours a-day, and live chiefly on potatoes, buttermilk, and herrings.
'Mr. W. H. Hyett, Secretary to the Charity Committee in
London, gives a detailed statement, to show, that, in the Hundred
of Blackburn, comprising a population of 150,000 persons, 90,000
were out of employment in 1826! In April last, when he gave his
evidence before the Committee, these peraons had generally found
work again, but at very low wages. They were laboring from
twelve te fourteen hours a-day, and gaining from 4s. to 5e. 6d. per
week.'
' Extract from Lord Adcocate Sir William Rae & Speech in tM
House of Onnmom, 11th March 1828, on the additioMl arcvit
Court of Glasgow.
' The Lord-Advocate, in rising to move for leave to bring in a
bill to " authorize an additional Court of Justiciary to be held at
Glasgow, and to facilitate criminal trial in Scotland," said be did
sot anticipate any opposition to the motion. A great deal bad been
said of the progress of crime in this country, but he was sorry to
say crime in Scotland had kept pace with that increase. A return
had been made of the number of criminal commitments in each
year, so far back as the year 1806. In that year the number of
criminal commitments for all Scotland amounted only to 85. In
1809 it had risen to between iOO and 300; in 1819-20, it had in-
areased to 400; and, by the last return, it appeared that, in 18117,
661 persons had been committed for trial. He was inclined to
• In what Is called fioctory-weavlng, an Improved epecles er hand-loom Ia •·
pteyed, In which the drenlna and preparation or the web lo eft"eeted by macb!Der)'1
Nld IM weaver mere!)' ol.. ad irivee liN obaMJe.
oio "'•d by Google
•tPJ&NDU:.-JIOa.lL L.lWI. 4tH
think that the great iocreue or crime, particularly in the west of
Scotland, was attributable, in no IIID&ll degree, to the number of
Irish who daily and weekly arrived there. He did not mean to say
that the Irish themselves were in the habit of committing more
crime than their neighbors; bnt he was ofopinion, that their num-
bers tended to reduce the price of labor, and that an increase of
crime was the coqsequence. Another cause was the great disre-
gard manifested by parents for the moral education of their child·
ren. Formerly the people of Scotland were remarkable for the
paternal care which they took of their offilpring. That had ceased
in many instances to be the case. Not only were parents found
who did not pay attention to the welfare of their children, but who
were actually parties to their criminal pursuits, and participated in
the fruits of their unlawful proceedings. When crime was thus
on the increase, it was necessary to take measures for its speedy
unishment. The great city of Glasgow, which contained 150,000
inhabitants, and to which his proposed measure was meant chiefly
to apply, stood greatly in need of some additional jurisdiction.
This would appear evident, when it was considered that the court
met there for the trial of capital offences, had also to act in the dis-
tricts of Renfrew, Lanark, and Dumbarton. In 1812, the whole
number of criminals tried in Glasgow was only 31 ; in 1820, it
was 83 ; in 1823, it was 85 ; and in 1827, 211."-The learned lord
concluded by moving for leave to bring in a bill to authorize an
additional circuit court of justiciary to be held at Glasgow, and to
facilitate criminal trial in Scotland.'
oio "'ed by Google
INDEX.
AaallllliTBT, )lr., bJI opbli• el f'lue.
nol"')' 401.
Acqulalcfnne-, M, 85, '73, 80.
Acli?IIY lhe MNrce oC'hap~ IL
Adheolnnooa, 62, 62, 79.
Aleullder VI., Pope, head ud dlaracter
of, 169.
Allaon, Mr., OD lhe euy chlldblrlho
amo111 lbe lower orden, 40f.
Amativeneo,. 52, 60, 79, 120.
America, ev& lllltlclpeled f\oom lla?erJ
In the Unlled 8cacea oi; 272. Cruel-
tie. or the 8paniarda ill, 275. Penl-
tentlart.. In, :104.
American Indiana, character orthe, 190.
Ameri.eaa war, 283.
Animala, lheir cotllltilullon compared
With thai or man, 2, s, 42, 116. He-
reditary lr&ll.lmialion or lhelr quail·
lieo, 166, 174, 411. Punishmenl in·
llicled by lb- Oil ..U olber, 281. et
oeq.
Anopaoch, Marrravlne or, quoted, 112.
Arlatldeo' odvlee u to the burn!"' or
the Spartan ohipo, 265.
Artllocracy, oource or lbe 1Uihappln-
A::.,~eb;.s8Neil, on the atlllty of lhe
marloe barometer iD foretelliDI•tormo,
S21.
Barlow, Dr., hla opinion or Phrenology,
40S.
Barometer, Ill ntlllly · In foretelling
IIOrma, 320.
Bvrow, Dr., ltla lnterprelatlon of lle-
nlatloll In connection with Nature,
360.
BeneYolence, 11e11tlmenl or, .54, 69, 12.
World ool 1overned on the principle
orBene?olence excluolvely, 39.
Bible, dlvillono o~ 366. Contain• nu·
merOUIdeaerlptlons or human charac-
ter, ib. Teach.. that dllferent talenll
aregiven to dUI"erent indivlduala, 371.
Blacbtone OD the laWI or nature, 396.
Blaine, llr. Delabere, quoted on the
breediDI orhoroeo IUld other anlmala,
411.
Blair, Dr. B111h, on lbe elllcacy ofpray-
er,
Bllndn- oomellmeo heredicary, 165.
Cue or bllndn- In oeveral memberl
orthe oame family, 178.
Bonaparte'• mother a woman or anpe-
rlor talent IUld COUfAie. 179.
Brahmln'o, their childrea na&orally on-
peri« to lb- oro&her Hlndoo cut..,
181.
Bnla, .._.pdoa orthe, 121. &&be
orpa or &be amd, lSI. Neee.ll1
tor exercloinc 11, 132, el aq. Diopo-
olliono accompanylnc dillloreDI ,..,.,.
ol; 156, et oeq. Ill form IUid qualilita
tranomiuible lh>m pareoll to chilllrf:a,
186, 1611, 4108. By lmproriug lbe bnla
we may Improve hUJWUl character,
:151.
BreediJI& ofllve a&ocll, 411. elaeq.
Brldgewaler bequeot, 20.
Brllaln 100 eiclualvely maDa&ctarinc
and commercial, 2110, 2.56. Corrup.
lion or ber gonrnmen1 aritling ID-
direclly rrom lhe olue cnule, 261.
St.ricturea on her conduct in enteriu'
on tbe Amerieau war, 26S.. Her
national debl lhe puniohment orfoolish
wan, 267.
Brown, Dr. Jobn, or Haddinr&on, lUI
comJllainl aboul the repeal of penal
llalulel apilllOI wllches, soo.
Brown, Dr. Thomas, on the natural
diollncllon between right and wroJil,
sos; on the deoire ofaction, tOO.
Burlon on lhe children of drunkarda,
408.
Buller, Biohop, on the 1o•emment or
God, SO. On lhe oupremacy of c~
acience, 0. On Ute exteol lo which
aum.rtnc reaulll from our own co~P
duct, 501.
Caldwell, Dr. Charlea, 904, 905. Qooa-
ed on ahollnence or certain peraODI
from marrlace, 187. On lhe cure or
incemperance, 408.
Carib, encraving oC'okull ora, 189.
Caullou•-. M, 68, 81.
Chalmen, Dr., quoted on lhe m- or
human lmprovemenl1 .~07; lhe oppo.
•Ilion to Newlon'• pnilooopby, 401.
Childbirth, paiRI or, 123, 404.
Children, r..emblance or, 1o lbeir p•
renta, 166, et ••q., 407-418. S...
Heredllary tranom••lon.
Chrllllanlty bu proved illelf lnotllll-
cient, wblle unaided by phyalcal
oclence, 10 produee moral condnc&
among men, :154. Practical chrt..
llanlly, how lo be realized, 26:1, 352,
386.
Chrlollano, prlmlllve, chqed willa a&-.
1om and Impiety, 348.
Circaaolnn brain, 171.
ClvlUullon or Avagel, whether It -y
be more eully ellllcted by paclllc or
by forcible m-, 276.
Cleru, lheir zeal In penecutJnc u4
tormenlinl wllebeo, 368. Oupt !bey
to t..u lbe ll&tllrlllu well u ~
INDEX.
eel laws ofGod f 389, 392. See Religion.
Clerks, evils arlaing ll"om a bad choice
of, 199.
Combination lawo, !njuat!ce and inexpe-
diency of the, 246.
Combat!veneoo, 53, 64, 79.
Commercial prosperity and d!otreas, 245,
429.
Complexion, hereditary, 407.
ConoUy, Dr., hla opinion of Phrenology,
403.
Conoc!entiouon..., M, 70, 84.
Constitution of man, general view ofthe,
and ita relations to external objecta,
1.
Conatructiveneu, 64, 80.
Corruption of human nature, 23, 82,
101,352.
Cowper quoted on the plllliohment of
the Spaniard• for their crueltieo in
.America, 275; on the lawo of nature,
396. '
Crabbe's picture oran unhappy huaband,
163.
Crime, origin of, 294. How to be pre-
vel)ted, 296. Is it !ncreaoed by edu·
cation I S81, note. lncreaoe of; in
Scotland, 430.
Criminals, punlahment or, 290. Bralnl
of, 29.5.
Deall1ess and dumbneoo In the same
llunily, caoea or, 178.
Deat!'LS6, 422. -~ natural ln.olitut!on,
6, 2l.J:j.
Depravity of the human mind, 24, 82,
101,351.
D...truct!veneoo, 53, 64, 79.
Disease, hereditary tranamlas!on of; 165,
187. At dltferent ages, 212. Al-
ways ftaa a cause, 212.
Doddridie, Dr., his interpretation of
Revelation in connection with Na-
ture, 350.
Dogs, acquii'N hab!ta or, hereditary,
174.
Dra!ninr renders countries more aalu·
brious, 1S9.
Druol<en O.then produce Inferior chi!·
dren, 408-10. Tendency to drunlten·
neoo hereditary, 408. How curable,
408.
.l!!d!nbnrgh, great llreo in, SUI. Edin-
burgh Alaociation for procuring 8ci-
entillc Instruction, 427.
Education, Dr. Chalmen on Ita power
to lmpro•e the human race, 107.
Ut!Uty of, ISS. Ciau!cal and acien-
t!llc compared, 229. 8cient!llc, 2:12.
~a'f.ity u"!e:~:~~n1~n':,::n t~"i
sal, note. What It ought to be, 391.
State of; In Wurtemberg, 421.
Edwardo, Dr. W. c., quoted, 406,415.
ErP ofhens, 416.
. Eilio11on, Dr. John, qnoted, 4011, 4U.
Emancipation of the Negro llavea, 274.
Enlt:lne on the law• ofnature, 396.
---Ebell-1 hlo &CCOUIII fiC the
cleopoadeney ofDia wife, 152.
37
Evil, why does it ox!&t f S9. See )(.._,
ry.
Excise lnwa, their oppreu!vo and 1111·
ju•t operution llfty yean ago, 261.
Exercise indi•penoab!e to happlneao, 88,
lSI, et ~tq. 400.
J;:xmouth, Lord, quoted, 519.
Expediency and Juatice alwaya accor-
dant, 266.
Facultieo of mau, aummary or the, liS,
et ••q. Compared with -each other,
57. Compared with external objecta,
79.
Fall of man, 14, el ••q., 82, 101, 206,
361.
Fanaticism, cause m; S77.
Featureo, national, hereditary deaoent
of, 406.
Fire, beneftta accru!ug from ita proper
uoe, aud evils from ill misapplication,
28S.
Fires in Edinburgh in 1824, ~ o~
SIS.
Firmneas, one ofthe tkcultiea, 64, 86.
Flint's account of the A.mer!can In-
diana, 190.
Food, relation ot; to climate, 47.
France, crime In dUI"erent department&
of, 381.
Franklin, Dr., quoted, 48.
---Captain, quoted, 171.
Fraser, Rev. Dr., quoted on the 1WIIl·
menI of Scripture, 364.
French Revolution, 268. Pbiloaophen
of the, 397.
Friendship, 62, 76.
Future state, 25t 220, 22'7.
Geology, truths revealed by, 4, 200.
Scriplure Geology, 546.
Germany, burning of witches In, 367.
State of tbe !ower orden in, 420.
Education in, 421.
Girou de Buzareingueo, h!a e<perimenta
on the breediug oflive blOCk, 417.
Globe, progressively adapted lbr the
reception of man, 4, 200.
God, ex!otence and attributes of; dla-
coverable from hie works, 47, 83.
Prolluor Sedgwick and Blahop Bnt·
ler on hie go\'erDment, so. Loclte
on his benevolence and jualiee, 114.
Principles on which hla laws -m to
be instituted 282.
Good, Dr. John Mason, quoted, 1611,
177.
Government, ought II to lnterfilre with
industry I 25.5.
Gravitation, law o~ reou!ta of obedt-
to, and neglect 01, 44, 115, ss1.
Gregory, Dn. John and Jamea, qnoted.
on the hereditary t.ranBillla8ion ol
mental qualitieo,.166, 167.
Guerry, M., on crime In France, 281.
Babita, hereditary trana~Dt.o~on ol; 174.
Hqgart, Da•ld, engravlne or hla head,
201.
Haller quoted, 163.
Happ!neoo, how attainable, 88. U4.
oio "'ed by Google
434 bDU:.
• Why 10 Ut•.le adYIUice bu been made
111 the punmit ot; 105. Influence of
tbe nftlural lawa on that of Individu-
als, S.11.
Uare, murderer, engravlnc of hi• head,
)66.
Uarmoniouo gratlfteatlon of the lllcul·
ttee Df'C~uary to bappine.., 99.
Head, different forma of, l6r.S. See
Brain. Phrenology.
Health, prerequlslteo of, 121.
Hen•, their egga bow made to vary In
oize, 416.
lleretlitary transmission of bodily and
mental qualilies, 12·1, lfl5, tt lltq. 288,
408; and of acquirt~l hablta, 174. or
tcmpornry, meotaf aud bodily quali-
llee, 179. Of national leaturea, 406.
Of complexion, 407.
History exhibill man progreaoively lm·
proving, 10, 241.
Holy Spirit, lolluence of on the mind,
M2, 376.
Hon..ty the best policy, 267.
Hope, sentiment o~ 54, 69t 83.
Horace quoted, 166.
Jloi"He8, breeding of, 411, tt aeq.
Unman nature. See Man. Conatitu..
lion of Man. •
Ideality, 55, 70, 84.
Idiocy, hereditary, 168. Cue of idiocy,
198.
ldleue~s, misery of, 135, 258.
Imitation, one of the facultiee, M, 86.
IuJependence of the natural lawa, 21,
33, 1.10.
Intellectual 11\cultiee, .S.S, 71, 86. In-
tellcctual laws, 33.
Intemperance, cause of, and method of
cure, .;od.
Jamea I. of England, hio pUiillanimity
accounted for, 179.
Jesus Christ, otflcea of, 366.
Johnson, Stt.muel, on the evil• arising
trom hBBty marriageo, 164.
Jury trial in Scotland, erron In the
mode of conducting it pointed out,
Sll.
Juotice alway• in accordlmce vrilb ex·
pediency, 266. Defeolive adminiatra-
tion or, SIS.
Kames, Lord, quo!Cd, 40, 255, S75, 399.
Knowledge, acquisition of, IIJI"eeable,
89. Happinesa advanceo with, I09.
Knowledge of ocienoe neoeoaary for
rightly lnterpretinc Scripture, S.S.S, et
aeq.
King, Dr., quoted, 161.
Labor, man intended lbr, 48, .00. EYils
arising attending ila exceoa, 244, et
aeq.
Lawrence, Mr., quoted, 27S, note, 40.5.
Law. of Nature, 27. Three areat ciao-
- ot; 21, Sl. Their Independence,
21, 3S. Definition of lbe term, 28.
Ohetllence to each rewarded, and
neglect puni•hed, S4. Univeroal,
Invariable, and unbending, 3.5. In
hru'mony with the whole constitution
of mrtn, 35. To what extent are the
mi~~eriee of mankind referribJe to in-
lrlltl(ement of them ? 114. Exc"""
of•ome, that leisure for studying and
obeying them ia wanting, 232. Con-
fu•ion produced by attempta to mead
them, 255. Application of, to the
practical arrangementa of life, 102.
Djtference between uncertain and
unucertained, 212. Punitihment in-
nicted under the, 280. Instituted for
the benefit of created beiogo, 283.
Moral advantages of punishment un..
der them, 306. Their combined ope--
ration, Sll. Their influence on the
happinesa of individuaio, 331. Ex-
tract• trom aulbora who have treated
of, 395.
Leechman, Dr., quoted, on lbe efficacy
of prayer, S73.
Legi•lation, utility of Phrenology In n-
lation to, 380.
Life, Jove of, 52, 60, 217. Duration ot;
increasing, 222, 422. Plan of, 102.
Locke ou the objecta of divme puni.ol>-
ments, 114.
Loudon, Mr. J. C., quoted on the otate
of the lower orders in Germany, and
education there, 418.
Love of Approbation, 54, 66, 80.
'Love thy neighbor 88 thyself,' 353.
Lyon, Captl\iO, un.succeaolbl result of
his nttempt to reach Ret>UIBe Bay
Iraced to i18 eauaea, S22.
Machinery, anticipated moral elfeeto
trom employmen~ ot; In manufactures,
2.10.
Macintosh, Dr. his opinion of Phren<>-
logy, 403.
Maclaren, Mr. Charles, on the diminu-
tion of mortalily in England, 422.
Macnlsh, Mr., his opinion of Phrenolcr
gy, 40$.
MalthUI'I principle of ropulation, 239.
Man, doctrine of the 11\11 of, 14, et aeq1
82, 101, 206, MI. Man conoidereG
aa a physical being, 4S; u an orgKn·
lzed being, ~6; 88 an animal, moral.
and Intellectual being, 61. Intended
for activity, 48, 249. Summary of
hia mental illcultiea, 52, et oeq. Theoe
compared with each other, 67, and
wilb external objecta, 79. · A pr<>-
greasive being, IO, I06. Apparently
but in the inflmcy of bio existence,
11I. Blown- of his prorreu, 254..
Manufacturing population, oource of
mlaerleo of the, 242, et oeq. 429.
Marriage, 61. Mieerleo arising lh>m
. neglect of lbe orpnle law• In, 163-6,
182, I85, tt oeq. Prohibited before
lbe age of twenty-live In Wurtem-
berg, 188. Improper between blood
relaliona, 198.
Melanclbon, bla head and character, 158.
oio "'ed by Google
INDEX.
Melancthon'• opinion or the lawti-OfGod, IOptlmtsm, 4, 37. '
870. Organic Jaws, 32. Evils that befall
Mind, represented in Scripture as liable mankind from infringing them, 120,
to commit every species of wicked- 333, et seq. ,
nefle-and po~~JSessing moral qualities, Organized being, man considered as. nn1
360. 46. Conditions of health of organtze<1
Miseries of mankind, how far referrible being8, 122.
to infringement of the laws ofno.ture, Owen, Mr., 106.
114. Social miseries, 155, et seq.
Alieery and evil, sources of, particuln.r-
ly mentioned in this work.-111-sort-
ed aud too early mllrriagcs, 61, 163-.5,
182, 18.5, et seq. Br•ch of the phy-
eical lRws, 115, 331. Idleness, 135,
'258. Filth, and impurity of air, 138.
Ignorance of the organic laws, or
physiology, 144, 148, 233. Bad choice
of servants, clerks, partners, and
agents, 199. Rash mercantile spec-
ulation, 23·1. Mistaken choice of a
)Jrofession, 234. Excess of popula·
tion, 257. Too severe nnd long con-
tinued labor, 239. Oscillations of
trade nnd manufactures, 2·13. Na-
tional sellishncss and unjutt wars,
'259, et Sl'll· The slave trade, 271.
Errors in the mode of conducting
Jury triR)<.;, !ill; aud in lhc prOC<"ed-
iugs of judges in the Circuit Courts,
31 3. 8~":otr.h and English hozJtility,
5H. Selfishness in ca1•tains of shillS,
317. Breach of the organic laws, 333.
Montesquieu on the Iawg of nature, 395.
Mo~1 luws, 33. Calamitie~ nrising from
their infringement, 222. Sanctions of
the, 309.
Moral sentimentzJ and intellect, supre-
macy of the, 51.
Mo1·aJ science outstripped by physical,
278. •
More, Hannah, on the effects of sick-
ness on the religious character, 153.
Mortality, diminution of, 41, 222, 422.
l\loscow, French retreat from, 134.
Mother, Iter inlluence on the child, 168,
176.
Murray, Captain, his mode of preserv-
ing the health of seamen, 145.
National brains and character, 110, 189.
Hereditaty descent of national fea-
tures, 406.
National prosperity, etlllct of the moral
law on,258.
Nntional debt of Britain the result of
her wars, 267.
Nstural Laws. Bee Laws or Nature.
Navigation, dangers of, 320.
Negro slavery, 272. lnteJiectdaJ and
moral character of the Negroes; 272,
note.
New doctrines often charged with im-
piety, 348.
New Zealanden, their exceJient health,
122. Prognooticate storms, 319.
Operatives, canoes or their depreued
condition, 242, •t ••q.310.
Opium, beneftts accruior Irom Its pro-
per, and evill from its improper ~~~e,
'285.
Pain, utility or, 281, 309.
Payley, on the contrivances in creation,
37.
Parliamentary reform, 270.
Partners, evils arising from a bad choice
of, 199, 238.
Paul, St., his doctrines in harmony with
Phrenology, 370.
Penitentiaries, 304..
Pestilence, 137.
Philoprogenitlveness, 52, 61, 72, 79.
Phrenology, 11, 41, 51, 104, 109, 164,
200, 22:1, 351. Human faculties ac..
cording to, 52. Praoticat utility of,
378. Account ofit~t progress, 401.
Physical Jaws, 32. How man may he
placed in accordance with them. 45.
Cnlamities nrisiug from their infriuge-
m~nt, 115.
Physiology ought to be generaJiy stu-
died, 125.
Plutarch, on the children ofdrunken pa-
rents, 408.
Political economy, 231, 247.
Politics, utility <)f phrenology in rela..
tion to, 380.
Population, Ma.lthus•s principle of, 239.
Increase of, iu manufacturing towns,
242.
Prayer hns no effect but on the suppli-
cant, 374.
Principles, utility of a knowledge of, 141.
Prichard, Dr., quoted, on the hereditary
descent of bodily peculiarities, 173,
176, 178, 184.
Profession, choice ofa, 234.
PropAgation, laws of, 165, et 1eq. See
Hereditary Transmission.
Puui•hment for breach of the natural
Jaws, 280. Punishment inllicted by
the lower animals compa~ with that
infiicted by man, 288, et seq. Of
crimina)R, aoo, et tleq. Flogging, the
treadmill, •ecntions, 297. Moral
advantages or punishment, 306.
Quarterly Review quoted, 399.
Reform ofParliament, 270.
Religion and religious opinions, 14, 23,
37, 151-4, 206, 307, 343, et •eq. 383.
Bee Clergy. Revelation, Scripture.
Remone, its occurrence afl•r otlllnces,
how reconcilable with benevolence,
84. .....
Retirement from buo!neoa generally fol-
lowed by unhappiness, !35.
Revelation, 37. Cannot be at Y&ri&DCO
\Vith true science, 343, et ••q.
Right and wrong, Dlltural dlaiDctloa
between, 302.
&ft>ty-lamp, ISS.
•
•
INDJ.X.
~Yatlon ol'man, 111. •
&aYagea, how moat -ny cl'rillr.ed,278.
Eaay childbirth& amoiiJ, <105.
Science, ph,.lcal, baa llar oulotripped
moral, 2'78. llelallon between oclenoe
and ocriptDTe, :w3. Proc...,.. of •clen-
tiJic di~~eovery, 11I.
l!cotla...t, peneeullon ofwltchea In, 558.
lncreue ofcrime, ~so.
Scripture, Interpretation o~ 24. A
bowled!l'• of ocience nee.......y for
correctly lnterpretilll it, SM, d atq.
Ita text in many places corrupted, and
· die meaning obscure, ~. 1t11 mean·
111ap.-n different todil!erent minds,
883.
Seamen, Captoill Murray'• mode of
preoervln!l'fte health of, 145.
8ecetlerw, their aolemn complaint about
the repeal of penal otatuteo agalnot
witche•, 360.
8ecrettveneu, 53, 85, 80.
Sedgwick, Profeswor, on God'• govern-
ment of the world by general Jaws.
Qn.acrlpture anti science, 346.
Self-Esteem, h41 80.
Sc"ants, choice 199.
f!hakspeare 411.
hereditary In, 175.
167. Engraving of hio
Slolve-·treide, corruption of the British
government, Indirectly Jlowlng from
the, 261.
Slavery In the United States, evilo an-
tlcifated from, 2'72.
Socia law, calamitleo from Infringe-
ment orthe, 2SS.
l!lociety1 advantage& reoultln1 from, 2SS.
Spanlardo piiJIW>ed onder the natural
lawo for their cruelllea In America,
275. .
8parrman, Dr., quoted, 155.
Spunbelm on tile natural laww,
•
St. P..,._ quoted on death, 2011, 210.
Stel'eiUion, Mr. W. B. on the colol'll ot
mixed American breeds, 407.
stewart, Dugald, quoted, 2211, 247, 599.
Storm at oea, often prognoattcable, 519.
tt atq.
Stmuu, hereditary character ol' the, 168.
Supremacy of the moral oentlmenta and
Intellect, 57. Happlneu arioin!l' a.-
from, 224.
Taylor, Jeremy, quoted on the corrup-
tion• and oboearity ofocripture, 361.
Tell, William, 230.
Truth, alow progreao ot; SOS.
Wages, lowneoo or, 2«, t5s.
War, the American, 265. W aro absurd,
2M. French Revolutionary war, 268.
Natlonal punlohment for engagiiiJ In
warw, 263, d 1eq.
Wardlaw,.Dr. Ralph, on the corruption
ofhuman nature, 24.
Wealth, engroooing pnrouit ot; 284, 289.
Wbatelt', Archblohop, on ocripture and
ecience, 34<4.
Wifliama, murderer, engraving of his
head, 168. •
Witches, appalling atrocities perpetrat-
ed against them in Germany, 356, Eng-
land, 557, and 8colland, 3.58.
Women, their palno in childbed,128,40,1.
Wonder, oenlimeot ot; 18; 70, 84.
Wurtemberg, lawa In, rendering educa-
tion indlspenaable, and prohibiting
marriage before the age oftwenty-live,
188, 421.
Vaccination, diminution ofmortality by,
·138, 424.
Vanity, 66.
Veneration, 54, 69, as.
Ventilation and health,~ 919.
Vllellius, ellfr&vlng ofhi•'bead, 181.
Volney, on the lawo ofnature, 997.
Voltaire quoted on the hereditary trau-
mloelon ofbodily qualltleo, 168.
~·
