{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__deleuze___practical_instruction_in_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Practical Instruction In Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
/
BY J. P. F. BELEUZE.
...
TRANSLATED FROM THE PARIS EDITION.
BY THOMAS C. HARTSHORN.
%,
PROYIDENCK:
B. CRANSTON & CO.
1837.
Entered according- to Act of Congress, in the year One Thousand
Eight Hundred and Thirty-Seven, by B. Cranston & Co. in the
Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Rhode-Island.
BF
D 3t8i
I £37
TO THE MARQUIS OF PUYSEGUR.
Sir—Permit me to place your name at the head of a
work intended to make more generally known the princi-
ples announced in your writings, and the consequences of
the facts you have observed. Without you, Magnetism
would have been forgotten after Mesmer, as it was after
Van Helmont. No one would have engaged in it, if the
most active charity had not given you the courage to sac-
rifice your time, to despise criticism, and finally to brave
all obstacles, to establish a truth that enlightens us in rela-
tion to the faculties of our own soul, and upon the means of
employing these faculties in curing or in soothing the dis-
tresses of our fellow-men. To you I owe the knowledge
I have acquired, as well as what I have imparted, and the
little good I have had the happiness of doing.
Accept, my Lord,
this offering of gratitude,
and respectful attachment,
from your disciple,
DELEUZE.
INTRODUCTION.
Several persons have requested me to publish upon the
subject of Magnetism, plain and simple instructions, free from
all theory, and proper in all cases to direct those who are
convinced of the reality of the agent, and who are at a loss
how to make use of it. I am now going to fulfil this task,
solely with the view of being useful.
It is not the object of this work to convince men who.
otherwise well informed, still doubt the reality of Magnet-
ism ; it is intended chiefly for those who are not engaged
in medicine, physiology, or physics, who believe upon oral
testimony, without having seen any person magnetized, and
who, being persuaded that I know more than themselves
upon the subject, wish to try my method in order to succeed,
as I have had the happiness of doing, in healing and ameli-
orating the ills of their fellow-creatures. I shall lay down
principles which I believe true, without entering into any
discussion to prove their truth. I shall avoid pronouncing
upon that which appears doubtful : and if I err in the mode
of explaining things, my errors, appertaining solely to the
theory which I have adopted to connect the phenomena by
referring them to the same cause, will not affect the indica-
tion of the means to be taken to produce these phenomena,
and derive advantage from them. I shall not stop to detail
A*
6 INTRODUCTION.
facts in support of my doctrine : I shall limit myself to the
citing of a few of those which I have myself observed,
whenever examples shall appear necessary to the better
understanding of my subject.
For the purpose ofobtaining a more orderly arrangement,
1 shall divide this instruction into chapters.
I shall first lay down certain principles, in order to make
my instructions more plain and simple. If my manner of
announcing these principles be somewhat hypothetical,
there can be no change in the results. Thus, 1 shall em-
ploy the expression magnetic fluid, because I believe in the
existence of a fluid, the nature of which is unknown to me
hut those who deny the existence of this fluid, who compare
the action of magnetism in living beings, to that of attraction
in inanimate bodies, or who admit a spiritual influence
without a particular agent, cannot, on that account, contra-
dict the consequences to which I shall arrive. The knowl-
edge of the processes and of all the conditions necessary for
the efficient use of magnetism, is independent of the opinions
which serve to explain the phenomena, and of which, up to
the present time, none are susceptible of demonstration.
My first chapter shall contain an enunciation of the prin-
ciples which are general and applicable to all cases.
In the second chapter, I shall teach the various processes
which are employed in magnetizing, when somnambulism
does not take place.
In the third, I shall speak of the indications which the first
perceivable effects afford for the choice of processes.
In the fourth, I will give information concerning the aux-
iliary means by which the force of magnetism may be aug-
mented, either by communicating the magnetic virtue to-
INTRODUCTION. 7
certain bodies, or by putting magnetism in motion and cir-
culation, so that several persons may at the same time ex-
perience the action, under the direction of one magnetizer.
In the fifth, I shall treat of somnambulism, and of the
manner of proceeding with somnambulists.
In the sixth, I shall speak of the precautions which the
patient ought to take in choosing a magnetizer.
In the seventh, of the application of magnetism to various
diseases, and of its association with medicine.
In the eighth, of the dangers of magnetism, and of the
means of preventing them.
In the ninth, of the methods of developing and fortifying
in one's self the magnetic power, and of drawing from it all
the advantages possible.
In the tenth and last, I shall speak of the studies which
are appropriate to those who wish to acquire a profound
knowledge of magnetism.
Persons who read these ten chapters in course, will ob-
serve that some things said in the first are repeated in the
others, in almost the same terms. I would have avoided
these repetitions, if I considered my work as a literary pro-
duction : I have left them thus, that those who consult only
one article, may find all the advice relative to the subject
in question, without my being obliged to refer him to what
has been already said.
If in some places I permit myself to speak in a dogmatic
style, it is not because I hold my own opinions in too great
esteem : it is merely for the purpose of being more clear
and precise, and of not leaving in uncertainty whoever shall
consent to take me for a guide. No person feels the im-
perfection of the work more than myself, since there must
8 INTRODUCTION.
be in it many omissions. I will receive with gratitude any
critical observations addressed to me, and will profit by
them in the correction of my faults, and in adding to my
second edition whatever may appear to be wanted in this
first essay.
Among the men who have devoted themselves to the
practice of magnetism, there is a great number who have
more intelligence and more knowledge than myself. 1
have a lively desire that the reading of this work, may de-
termine them to execute the plan I proposed to myself, bet-
ter than I have been able to do it. I invite them to take,
in my instructions, all that appears to them worthy of being
preserved, and not to quote me except to rectify the errors
which may have escaped my diligence. Our wish is to do
good ; this wish unites us, it identifies us, so to speak, one
with another. When success is obtained, let us enjoy it
equally, whoever may be the author of it. It is possible
for self-love to be gratified in the discovery of a truth, but
never in having done good deeds.
A physician who has already become celebrated, would
perhaps increase his reputation, by publishing a good work
upon magnetism : he would call attention to an order of
phenomena which belongs to animated nature ; he would
found a school; he would find disciples among his brethren
in the profession. This kind of success is impossible for
us : our adversaries condemn us without examination, and
they exercise a great influence upon public opinion. We
have no partisans except among those to whom we have
rendered service, and the greater part of them dare not
raise their voice. Happily their number increases every-
day : and that should sustain our courage and our hopes.
Let us continue then to work in concert to spread abroad
INTRODUCTION. 9
the knowledge of magnetism, without disputation, without
fear, and without the spirit of system. Let us banish the
abuses and the dangers which may attend the use of it.
Let us collect the materials of a beneficent science : the
time will arrive when a man of genius will reunite all these
materials, and rear an edifice which time cannot overthrow.*
* This was written in 1825. Since that time, in 1831, the Royal
Academy of Medicine, through their committee, whose report is
worthy of study as a model of accurate philosophical investigation.
pronounced upon the subject an opinion, which has changed the
popular feeling in France in relation to it. Its existence, as a
peculiar faculty of the human mind, is no longer a matter of ques-
tion among men of science who have witnessed its phenomena.
The extent of its utility is now a question worthy of profound inves-
tigation, and not to be settled by men who never think, and who
decide without looking into its merits. The evidences in favor of its
utility are so abundant in European works of high authority, that an
ignorance of its true history, which is not to be found in the Ency-
clopedias, may be deemed singular in men of good information ;
and disgraceful, if they suffer themselves to oppose it through incu-
rious prejudice. In this vicinity, it receives the support of medical
practitioners of unquestionable skill. It should always be in the
hands of such, or administered under their direction. To promote
this object, and to recal the public attention from the curious
phenomena to the true use of it, the translator has given the
instructions of the venerable Deleuze an English dress.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
CHAPTER I.
GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES.
1. Man has the faculty of exercising over his fellow,
men a salutary influence, in directing towards them by his
will the vital principle.
2. The name of magnetism has been given to this facul-
ty : it is an extension of the power which all living beings
have, of acting upon those who are submitted to their will.
3. We perceive this faculty only by the results; and we
make no use of it, except as far as we will to use it.
4. The first condition of action, then, is to exercise the
will.
5. As we cannot comprehend how a body can act upon
another at a distance, without there being something to es-
tablish a communication between them, we suppose that a
substance emanates from him who magnetizes, and is con-
veyed to the person magnetized, in the direction given it by
the will. This substance, which sustains life in us, wg call
the magnetic fluid. The nature of this fluid is unknown ;
even its existence has not been demonstrated ; but every
thing occurs as if it did exist, and that warrants us in ad-
12 GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. [CIIAI*. I.
mining it, while wc are indicating the means of employing
magnetism.
6. Man is composed of a body and a soul; and the influ-
ence he exerts, participates the properties of both. It fol-
lows that there are three actions in magnetism : first, phys-
ical ; second, spiritual ; third, mixt action. It will soon be
seen how easy it is to distinguish the phenomena which be-
long to each.
7. If the will is necessary to direct the fluid, belief is
necessary to induce one to make a firm and steady use of
the faculties he possesses. Confidence in the power we
possess, makes us act without effort and without distraction.
As to the rest, confidence is only the consequence of belief
it differs in this only—one believes himself to be endowed
with a power, whose reality he docs not doubt.
8. In order that one individual may act upon another,
there must exist between them a moral and physical sym-
pathy ; as there is between all the members of an animated
body. Physical sympathy is established by means which
we shall indicate : moral sympathy by the desire of doing
good to one who desires to receive it ; or by ideas and
wishes which, occupying them both equally, forms between
them a communication of sentiments. When this sympathy
is well established between two individuals, we say, they
are in communication.
9. Thus the first condition of magnetizing, is the will ;
the second is the confidence which the magnetizcr has in
his own powers ; the third is benevolence, or the desire of
doing good. One of these qualities may supply the others
to a certain point ; but to have the action at the same
time energetic and salutary, the three conditions must be
united.
CHAP. I.] GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. 13
10. The magnetic fluid may not only act directly upon
the person whom we wish to magnetize, but it may also be
conveyed to him by an intermediate body, which we have
charged with this fluid, to which we have given a determi-
nate direction.
11. The direct action of magnetism ceases when the
magnetizer ceases to will ; but the direction given by mag-
netism does not cease in that case, and the most trifling cir-
cumstance sometimes suffices to renew the phenomena which
it first produced.
12. A constant will supposes continued attention ; but
attention is sustained without effort when one has entire
confidence in his powers. A man who makes towards a
designated goal, is always attentive to avoid obstacles, to
move his feet in a proper direction ; but this sort of atten-
tion is so natural to him as to be easy, because he has first
determined his movement, and feels in himself the force
necessary to continue it.
13. The action of the magnetic fluid, being relative to the
direction given it, will not be salutary only so far as it is
accompanied with a good intention.
14. Magnetism, or the action of magnetism, springs from
three things: 1st. the will to act; 2d. a sign, the expression
of that will ; 3d. confidence in the means employed. If
the desire of doing good be not united to the will to act, there
will be some effects, but these effects will be irregular.
15. The fluid which emanates from the magnetizer, ex-
ercising a physical influence upon the patient, it follows that
the magnetizer ought to be in good health. This influence
exerting, in the course of time, an effect upon the moral
condition of the patient, it follows that the magnetizer ought
B
I
14 GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. [CHAP. I.
to be worthy of esteem for the uprightness of his mind, the
purity of his sentiments, and the honesty of his character.
The knowledge of this principle is equally important for
those who magnetize, and fov those who are the subjects of
magnetism.
16. The faculty of magnetizing exists in all persons ; but
all do not possess it in the same degree. This difference of
magnetic power in various individuals, arises from the supe-
riority which some have over others, in moral and physical
qualities. Among the moral qualities, are, confidence in
one's own power, energy of will, facility in sustaining and
concentrating the attention, the sentiment of benevolence
which unites us to every suffering being, strength of mind
enabling one to remain calm in the midst of the most alarm-
ing crises, patience which prevents uneasiness in a long and
painful struggle, disinterestedness which makes one forget
himself and devote himself to the being whom he attends,
and which banishes vanity and even curiosity. Of physi-
cal qualifications, the first is good health, the next a pecu-
liar power, different from that which raises burthens or
moves heavy bodies, and of which we recognize the exist-
ence and the degree of energy in ourselves, only by the
trial we make of it.
17. Therefore there are men who have a magnetic
power very superior to that of others. It is so great in
some persons, that they are obliged to moderate it.
18. The magnetic virtue developes itself by exercise,
and a person uses it with more facility and success, when
he has acquired the habit of exerting it.
19. Although the magnetic fluid escapes from all the
body, and the will suffices to give it direction, the external
CHAP. I.] GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. 15
organs by which we act are the most proper to throw it off
with the intention determined by the will. For this reason
we make use of our hands and of our eyes to magnetize.
The word which indicates our will, can often exert an ac-
tion when the communication is well established. The
very accents of the magnetizer being produced by the vital
energy, act upon the organs of the patient.
20. The magnetic action can be conveyed to very great
distances, but it acts in that manner only with persons who
are perfectly in communication.
21. All men are not sensible to the magnetic action :
and the same persons are more or less so, according to the
temporary dispositions in which they are found.
22. Magnetism generally exercises no influence upon
persons in health. The same man who was insensible
to it in a state of good health, will experience the effects of
it when ill. There are diseases in which the action of
magnetism is not perceived ; there are others in which it is
evident. We do not yet know enough of it to determine
the cause of these anomalies, nor to pronounce beforehand,
whether magnetism will or will not act. We have only
certain probabilities in regard to it : but that should not
create an objection to the reality of magnetism, since at
least three-fourths of the patients feel the effects of it.
22. Nature has established a communion or a physical
sympathy between certain individuals : it is for this reason
that many magnetizers act much more promptly and more
efficaciously upon certain patients than upon others ; and
that the same magnetizer does not agree equally with all
patients. There are even some of them who are better
calculated to heal certain diseases. Some persons think
16 GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. [CHAP. I.
themselves insensible to the action of magnetism, because
they have not met a magnctizcr congenial to them.
23. The magnetic virtue exists equally and in the same
degree in the two sexes ; and women ought to be preferred
as magnetizers of women, for several reasons which we shall
mention.
24. Many persons feel much fatigue when they magnet-
ize ; others do not feel any. This is not owing to the
movements that are made, but to the loss of the vital prin-
ciple or magnetic fluid. He who is not endowed with great
magnetic force, would exhaust himself in the course of time
if he were to magnetize every day for several hours. Gen-
erally speaking, every one in good health and not enfeebled
by age, might undertake the treatment of a single patient,
and give him a sitting of one hour each day. But every
one has not the strength necessary for magnetizing several
persons, nor several hours in succession. As to the rest,
the more one exercises himself in it, the less he is fatigued ;
because he employs only just as much force as is necessary.
25. Children over seven years of age magnetize very
well, when they have witnessed the operation. They act by
imitation, with an entire confidence, with a determined will,
without effort, without being distracted by the least doubt,
or by curiosity, and they very well and very quickly re-
move a casual ailment. They learn to magnetize as they
learn to walk, and they are moved by the desire of soothing
him for whom they have an affection ; but they ought not to
be permitted to do it, because it would injure their growth
and weaken them.
26. Confidence, which is an essential condition with the
magnetizer, is not necessary in the person magnetized :
CHAP. I.] GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. 17
one can act equally upon those who believe, and upon those
who do not believe in magnetism. It suffices if the patient
yields himself up passively, making no resistance. Never-
theless confidence contributes to the efficaciousness of mag-
netism, as it does to that of most remedies.
27. In general, magnetism acts in a more sensible and
efficacious manner upon persons who have led a simple and
frugal life, and who have not been agitated by passions,
than upon those with whom the course of nature has been
troubled, either by habits of luxury, or by remedies. Mag-
netism does no more than to employ, regulate, and direct
the forces of nature : the more the course of nature has
been interrupted by foreign agents, the more difficult it is
for the magnetizer to re-establish it. Magnetism therefore
cures much more promptly and much better, persons who
reside in the country, and children, than those who have
lived in the world, who have taken much medicine, and
whose nerves are irritated. Nervous persons, when mag-
netism has once gained empire over them, present the most
singular phenomena, but much fewer cures, especially radi-
cal cures.
28. Magnetism having for its object the developement of
what physicians call the forces medicatrices, that is to say,
the seconding of the efforts that nature makes to relieve
itself, and the facilitating of the cures to which it is disposed,
it is essential to act with constancy in aid of nature, and
never to oppose it. Whence it follows that people ought
not to magnetize through curiosity, nor to exhibit the power
with which they are endowed, nor to produce surprising
effects, nor to convince the incredulous ; but solely for the
purpose of doing good, and in cases where it is thought to
B*
18 GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. [clIAP. h
be useful. It follows also that the magnetizer ought to em-
ploy his power gradually, and by little and little. He ought
to be exempt from vanity, from curiosity, from interest:
one only sentiment ought to animate him, the desire of do-
ing good to him whose cure he undertakes, and with whom
he ought to occupy himself wholly, all the time he is mag-
netizing him. He ought not to search out any extraordi-
nary effect, but to know how to take advantage of the cri-
ses which nature, sustained by magnetism, produces of itself
for promoting the cure.
29. Although the choice of this or of that process is not
essential in order to direct the action of magnetism, it is
useful to adopt a method, and to follow it habitually with-
out thinking of it, so as never to be embarrassed, and to
lose time in searching what motions it is most proper to
make.
30. When one has acquired the habit of concentrating
his attention, and of abstracting himself from every thing
foreign to the object he has in view, he will feel in himself
an instinctive impulse to convey the action to this or to that
organ, and to modify it according to circumstances. It is
necessary to obey this impulse without searching into the
cause of it. When the patient yields himself entirely to
the action of magnetism, without being distracted by
other ideas, it often happens that a similar instinct causes
him to indicate the processes which are the most proper for
him: the magnetizer should then suffer himself to be di-
rected.
31. Magnetism often excites pain in that part ofthe body
where the scat of the disease is found : it renews old and
slumbering pains : these pains are produced by the efforts
CHAP. I.] GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. 19
which nature makes to triumph over the malady. We
ought not to be troubled on their account ; they are but
transient, and the patient always finds himself better after
having experienced them : this is what distinguishes the
pains which are called critical from those which are pro.
duced by the progress of the disease.
32. When any crisis takes place, it is very danger-
ous to interrupt or trouble it. We will explain what
we mean by crises, and designate the various kinds of
them.
33. Before undertaking a magnetic treatment, the mag-
netizer ought to examine himself: he ought to ask himself
whether he can continue it, and whether the patient or
those who have influence over him will put any obstacle in
the way. He ought not to undertake it if he feels any re-
pugnance, or if he fears to catch the disease. To act effi-
caciously, he should feel himself drawn towards the person
who requires his care, take an interest in him, and have the
desire and the hope of curing, or at least relieving him. As
soon as he has decided, which he should never do lightly,
he ought to consider him whom he magnetizes as his broth-
er, as his friend : he should be so devoted to him as not to
perceive the sacrifices that he imposes upon himself. Any
other consideration, any other motive than the desire
of doing good, ought not to induce him to undertake a
treatment.
34. The faculty of magnetizing, or that of doing good to
our fellow-creatures by the influence of the will, by the
communication of the principle that sustains our health and
life, being the most delightful and most precious that God
has given to man, he ought to regard the employment of
20 GENERAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES. [CHAP. U
magnetism as a religious act which demands the greatest
self-collectedness and the greatest purity of intention.
Hence it is a sort of profanation to magnetize for amuse-
ment, through curiosity, or through the desire of displaying
singular effects. They who demand experiments to see a
spectacle, know not what they demand ; but the magnetizer
ought to know it, to respect himself, and to preserve his
dignity.
CHAPTER II.
OF THE PROCESSES IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
The principles we have given in the preceding chapter
are essential, invariable ; and, in all cases, the power and
efficacy of magnetism depends upon their application. The
processes of which we are about to speak are not alike
employed by all magnetizers. Many of them follow pe-
culiar ones ; but, whatever method they pursue, the results
are nearly the same. The processes however ought to be
diversified according to circumstances : we are often deter-
mined in the choice, not only by the kind of disease, but by
a regard to convenience and other circumstances, and even
by the desire of avoiding what might appear extraordinary.
What I am about to say, is useless to persons who have ac-
quired the habit of magnetizing. Let them continue to fol-
low the method which has constantly issued in the comfort-
ing or the curing* of their patients. I write for those who,
not yet knowing any thing about it, are embarrassed in the
exercise of a faculty whose existence they do not doubt
and I am about to teach them the manner of magnetizing
which I adopted after having received instruction, and after
having collected and made observations during thirty-five
years.
* I add the words comforting and curing, because every method
having for its object the production of surprising effects, or to show
the power of the magnetizer, is essentially vieious.
22 OF THE PROCESSES [cHAP. O.
When a sick person desires you to attempt to cure him
by magnetism, and neither the family nor the physician
make objection to it, if you feel the desire to second his
wishes, and are resolved to continue the treatment so long
as it shall be necessary, settle with him the hour of the sit-
tings, make him promise to be exact, not to limit himself to
an attempt of a few days, to conform himself to your advice
in relation to regimen, and not to speak of the undertaking
except to persons who ought naturally to be informed of it.
When you are once agreed, and determined to treat the
thing seriously, remove from the patient all persons who
would be troublesome ; do not keep near you any except
necessary witnesses, (one only if it can be so,) and request
of them not to occupy themselves at all with the processes
you employ, nor with the effects that follow, but to unite
with you in the intention of doing good to the patient. Ar-
range things so as not to be too cold nor too warm, so that
nothing shall interfere with the freedom of your movements,
and take precautions to prevent all interruptions during the
sitting.
Cause your patient to sit down in the easiest position pos-
sible, and place yourself before him, on a seat a little more
elevated, so that his knees may be between yours, and your
feet by the side of his. Demand of him in the first place
that he give himself up entirely, that he think of nothing,
that he do not trouble himself by examining the effects which
he experiences, that he banish all fear, and indulge hope,
and that he be not disquieted or discouraged if the action of
magnetism produces in him temporary pains.
After you have brought yourself to a state of self-collect-
edness, take his thumbs between your two fingers, so that
the inside of your thumbs may touch the inside of his. Re-
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 23
main in this situation five minutes, or until you perceive
there is an equal degree of heat between your thumbs and
his : that being done, you will withdraw your hands, re-
moving them to the right and left, and waving them so that
the interior surface be turned outwards, and raise them to
his head ; then place them upon his two shoulders, leaving
them there about a minute ;
you will then draw them along
the arm to the extremity of the fingers, touching lightly.
You will repeat this pass* five or six times, always turning
your hands and sweeping them off a little, before reascend-
ing : you will then place your hands upon the head, hold
them there a moment, and bring them down before the face,
at the distance of one or two inches, as far as the pit of the
stomach : there you will let them remain about two min-
utes, passing the thumb along the pit of the stomach, and
the other fingers down the sides. Then descend slowly
along the body as far as the knees, or farther ; and, if you
can conveniently, as far as the ends of the feet. You may
repeat the same processes during the greater part of the
sitting. You may sometimes draw nearer to the patient so
as to place your hands behind his shoulders, descending
slowly along the spine, thence to the hips, and along the
thighs as far as the knees, or to the feet. After the first
passes you may dispense with putting your hands upon the
head, and make the succeeding passes along the arms be-
ginning at the shoulder : or along the body commencing at
the stomach.
When you wish to put an end to the sitting, take care to
draw towards the extremity of the hands, and towards the
* I employ here the word pass, which is common to all magnet-
izers : it signifies all the movements made by the hand in passing
over the body, whether by slightly touching, or at a distance.
- I OF THE PROCESSES [CHAP. II.
extremity of the feet, prolonging your passes beyond these
extremities, and shaking your ringers each time. Finally,
make several passes transversely before the face, and also
before the breast, at the distance of three or four inches :
these passes are made by presenting the two hands together
and briskly drawing them from each other, as if to carry off
the superabundance of fluid with which the patient may be
charged. You see that it is essential to magnetize, always
descending from the head to the extremities, and never
mounting from the extremities to the head. It is on this
account that we turn the hands obliquely when they are
raised again from the feet to the head. The descending
passes are magnetic, that is, they are accompanied with the
intention of magnetizing. The ascending movements are
not. Many magnctizers shake their fingers slightly after
each pass. This method, which is never injurious, is in
certain cases advantageous, and for this reason it is good to
get in the habit of doing it.
Although you may have at the close of the sitting taken
care to spread the fluid over all the surface ofthe body, it is
proper, in finishing, to make several passes along the legs
from the knees to the end of the feet. These passes free
the head. To make them more conveniently, place your-
self on your knees in front of the person whom you are
magnetizing.
I think it proper to distinguish the passes that are made
without touching, from those which are made with the
touch, not only with the ends of the fingers, but with all the
extent of the hand, employing at the same time a slight
pressure. I give to these last the name of magnetic fric
tions : they are often made use of to act better upon the
arms, the legs, and the back, along the vertebral column.
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 25
This manner of magnetizing by longitudinal passes,
directing the fluid from the head to the extremities, without
fixing upon any part in preference to others, is called mag.
netizing by the long pass, (magnetiser a grands courans.)
It is more or less proper in all cases, and it is requisite to
employ it in the first sitting, when there is no special reason
for using any other. The fluid is thus distributed into all
the organs, and it accumulates naturally in those which have
need of it. Besides the passes made at a short distance,
others are made, just before finishing, at the distance of two
or three feet. They generally produce a calm, refreshing
and pleasurable sensation.
There is one more process by which it is very advan-
tageous to terminate the sitting. It consists in placing one's
self by the side of the patient, as he stands up, and, at the
distance of a foot," making with both hands, one before the
body and the other behind, seven or eight passes, commenc-
ing above the head and descending to the floor, along which
the hands are spread apart. This process frees the head,
re-establishes the equilibrium and imparts strength.
When the magnetizer acts upon the patient, they are said
to be in communication, (rapport.) That is to say, we mean
by the word communication, a peculiar and induced condi-
tion, which causes the magnetizer to exert an influence upon
the patient, there being between them a communication of
the vital principle.
This communication is sometimes established very soon,
and sometimes after a long trial. This depends upon the
moral and physical conditions of the two, individuals. It is
rare not to have it established at the first sitting. Experi-
enced magnetizers generally perceive it in themselves when
this takes place,
c
26 OF THE PROCESSES [CHAI"'. 11.
When once the communication is well established, the
action is renewed in the succeeding sittings, at the instant ol
beginning to magnetize. Then if you wish to act upon the
breast, the stomach, or the abdomen, there is no utility in
touching, provided it is not found more convenient. Ordi-
narily magnetism acts as well and even better in the interior
of the body, at the distance of one or two inches, than by
the touch. It is enough at the commencement of the sitting
to take the thumbs a moment. Sometimes it is necessary
to magnetize at the distance of several feet. Magnetism
at a distance is more soothing, and some nervous persons
cannot bear any other.
In making the passes it is unnecessary to employ any
greater muscular force than what is required to lift the
hand and prevent it from falling. The movements should
be easy and not too rapid. A pass from the head to the
feet may take about half a minute. The fingers ought to
be a little separated from each other, and slightly bent, so
that the ends of the fingers be directed towards the person
magnetized.
It is by the ends of the fingers, and especially by the
thumbs, that the fluid escapes with the most activity. For
this reason it is, we take the thumbs of the patient in the
first place, and hold them whenever we are at rest. This
process generally suffices to establish the communication ;
to strengthen which there is also one other process. It
consists in placing your ten fingers against those of the
patient, so that the inside ofyour hands are brought near to
the inside of his ; and the fleshy part of your fingers touch
the fleshy part of his, the nails being outwards. The fluid
seems to flow less copiously from the back of the hands
than from the inside ; and this is one of the reasons for
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 27
turning the hands in raising them, without carrying them
off too far from the body.
The processes I have now indicated, are the most regular
and^advantageous for magnetism by the long pass, but it is
far from being always proper, or even possible to employ
them. When a man magnetizes a woman, even if it were
his sister, it might not be proper to place himself before
her in the manner described ; and also when a patient is
obliged to keep his bed, it would be impossible to make him
sit, in order to sit in front of him.
In the first case, you can place yourself by the side of
the person whom you wish to magnetize. First, take the
thumbs, and, the better to establish the communication, place
one hand upon the stomach, and the other upon the back,
then lower the two hands opposite to each other, one down
the back and the other at a distance down the forepart of
the body ; one hand descending to the feet. You may
magnetize the two arms, one after the other, with one
hand only.
In case the patient cannot raise himself, take your station
near his bed in the most convenient manner ; take his
thumbs, make several passes along the arms, and, if he
can support himself upright, several along the back ; then,.
not to fatigue yourself, use only one hand, placing it upon
the stomach, and making longitudinal passes, at first slightly
touching through the clothes, then at a distance. You can
hold one hand fixed upon the knees or upon the feet, while
the other is in motion. Finish by passes along the legs,
and by transversal passes before the head, the breast, and
the stomach, to scatter the superabundant fluid. When the
communication is established, one can magnetize very well
by placing himself at the foot of the patient's bed, and in
28 OF THE PROCESSES [CHAP. II.
front of him ; then directing at that distance both hands
from the head to the feet, dashing them aside after each
pass so as not to conduct the fluid to himself. I have pro-
duced^somnambulism by this process, without establishing
the communication by touching.
This is what I have to say about magnetism by the long
pass, with which it is always proper to commence, and to
which a person may confine himself until he has a reason
for employing other processes.
Let us now consider the circumstances which point out
particular processes.
When any one has a local pain, it is natural, after estab-
lishing a communication, to carry the magnetic action to
the suffering part. It is not by passing the hands over the
arms that we undertake to cure a sciatic ; it is not by putting
the hand upon the stomach that we can dissipate a pain in
the knee. Here are some principles to guide us.
The magnetic fluid, when motion is given to it, draws
along with it the blood, the humors and the cause of the
complaint. For example, if one has the headache, owing
to the tendency of the blood to the head, if the forehead be
hot and the feet very cold, by making a few passes from
the head to the feet, and others along the legs, the head is
relieved and the feet become warm. If one has a pain in
the shoulder, and the magnetizer makes passes from the
shoulder to the end of the fingers, the pain will descend with
the hand : it stops sometimes at the elbow, or at the wrist,
and goes off by the hands, in which a slight perspiration
is perceived : before it is entirely dissipated, a pain is
sometimes felt in the lower part of the bowels. Magnetism
seems to chase away and bear off with it what disturbs the
equilibrium, and its action ceases when the equilibrium is
CHAP. II. IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 29
restored. It is useless to search out the causes of these
facts, it is sufficient that experience has established them,
for us to conduct ourselves accordingly, when we have no
reason to do otherwise.
The following rules, with some exceptions, may thence
be established.
Accumulate and concentrate the magnetic fluid upon the
suffering part ; then draw off the pain towards the extrem-
ities.
For example, do you desire to cure a pain in the shoul-
der? hold your hand upon the shoulder for several minutes,
then descend, and after having quitted the ends of the fingers,
recommence patiently the same process. Would you cure
a pain in the stomach, place your hands several minutes
upon the stomach ? and descend to the knees. You will
accumulate the fluid by holding your hands still ; by
bringing them down, you will draw away both the fluid and
the pain at the same time.
If your patient be troubled with an obstruction, place your
hand upon the seat of it, leave it there for some time, either
immovable or making a circular motion, and draw it along
towards the extremities. If the obstruction does not occupy
a great space, present your fingers near without uniting
them, because it is principally by the points that the fluid
escapes. Turn them aside when you bring them away,
and then wave them towards the extremities. You may be
assured that the motions you make externally, will operate
sympathetically in the interior of the patient's body, wher-
ever you have sent the fluid into it.
If any one has received a blow behind the head, produ-
cing a contusion, take the head between your two hands,
conveying the action of your will to the seat of the injury.
30 OF THE PROCESSES [cHAP. N.
Then bring your hand down along the back, if the contusion
is behind the head ; or down the forepart of the body to the
knees, if it is in the front of it ; or along the arm, if it is on
the side. You will thus prevent the blood from tending to
the head ;
you will avoid the danger of inflammation, and
probably render bleeding unnecessary. If you wish to
cure a burn, chilblains, or a felon, follow the same pro-
cess. The examples I have just cited may be applied to
most cases. I think that, in general, contact is useful to
concentrate the action, and that passes at a short distance,
are preferable for establishing and maintaining the mag-
netic currents. Magnetic frictions are employed with ad-
vantage in pains of the limbs.
In the headache, if the pain is very great, and if there be
heat, after having placed your hands upon the head for
some time, withdraw them as if you believed the fluid you
have introduced to be united to that of the patient, that the
mingled fluid stuck to your hands, and that in separating
your hands and shaking your fingers, you could draw it
off again : it is in effect what you will see verified. If the
headache proceed from the stomach, this process alone will
not succeed ; it will bo necessary to act upon the stomach.
If the blood tends to the head, it will be requisite, as I have
said, to draw it down, and repeat the passes over the legs
and over the feet.
I have said that the fingers brought near and pointed
towards the part, act more powerfully, and concentrate the
fluid better than the extended hand. There is one other
process, the action of which is much stronger, and which
may be employed with success for local pains and for ob-
structions.
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 31
Place a piece of linen several times folded, or a fragment
of woollen or cotton cloth, upon the suffering part ; apply
the mouth above it, and breathe through it : it excites a
lively sensation of heat; and the breath, which is charged
with the magnetic fluid, introduces it into the system. It is
also observed that the heat is not merely at the surface,
as that of hot iron would be, but it penetrates into the inte-
rior. After having employed this process, make the usual
passes to draw off and expel the pain.
Blowing cold air from the mouth at a distance, produces
a refreshing effect. It helps to dissipate the heat, which is
withdrawn by presenting the fingers, taking care to separate
them as you draw them off, in the usual manner.
The head may also be cooled by putting the palm of the
hands upon it, and holding the fingers elevated and separate :
the fluid passes off at the ends of the fingers.
It is often impossible to draw a pain far from the part
where it is fixed ; and you will succeed solely by driving
it off progressively, by little and little. A pain upon the top
of the head, will be lessened at first in the centre, by waving
the hands downward and outward, on the right and left.
At every pass a portion will be dislodged and carried off.
It will take more or less time to dissipate it entirely.
I will not here relate the details given by M. Kluge,
Professor in the Medical School of Berlin, upon the various
kinds of manipulation.* What has been said suffices to
indicate the processes that may be employed when no sen-
sible effect has been produced. I will merely add that the
action is more lively and penetrating by the digital manipu-
.
* In the German work, entitled " Animal Magnetism as a curative
7neans." Vienna, 1815.
22 of the processes [chap, il-
lation, that is, when one presents the end of the fingers, than
when he presents the hands open and the fingers straight,
so as to have the fluid pass from all the interior surface.
Manipulation with the open hand at a distance, is a process
generally used to soothe ; it is often sufficient to appease
the sharpest pains. The fingers united to a point, conccn-
tratc the action upon the part towards which they arc di-
rected.
I am now going to recapitulate, in few words, what I have
said upon magnetism with the long pass, by indicating the
processes which are the most convenient at the commence-
ment, during, and at the termination of the sitting.
1st. Establish the communication by holding the thumbs,
placing the hands upon the shoulders, and making passes
along the arms with a slight pressure, and placing the hands
upon the stomach. 2d. Direct the current from the head
to the feet, or at least to the knees. Touching is useless.
3d. Make passes, or else magnetic frictions along the
legs to the extremity of the feet ; soothe the patient by
several passes at a distance with the open hand ; and finally
throw off the superabundant fluid by a few transversal
passes. The first sittings ought to be about an hour in
duration, when there is no reason to prolong or to abridge
them. I say the Jirst sittings, because a part of the time is
consumed in establishing the communication. As soon as
that has been once well established, the action of magnetism
is manifested at the first moment ; then a sitting of half an
hour or three quarters, provided the labor commenced is
duly sustained, will be sufficient.
It is necessary to order the treatment in the most uniform
and regular manner possible. The sittings must be period-
ical, and equal in duration : the magnetizer must be calm
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 33
and self-collected ; all foreign influence must be banished ;
all curious persons excluded, and also every other witness ex.
cept the one chosen at first. There must be a similar degree
of magnetic power exerted at each sitting, and the mode of
procedure first adopted must be continued. Nevertheless
when the patient experiences sensations, these often deter-
mine the operator to vaiy or to modify the processes. This
then is the place to speak of these effects, and of the indica-
tions they afford of the manner of proceeding.*
Before entering upon the details, I think it important to
combat an opinion which appears to me entirely erroneous,
although it is maintained by men well versed in the knowl-
edge of magnetism ; viz. that the processes are in them-
selves indifferent ; that they serve only to fix the attention,
and that the will alone does all. People have been led to
adopt this idea at the sight of a phenomenon which some
somnambulists present, and by the application of a particu-
lar case to a general theory.
There are some somnambulists perfectly concentrated,
whose interior faculties are so energetic as to act upon
themselves by their own power, and conformably to the
will communicated to them by their magnetizer. The mag-
netizer causes a head-ache, or a side-ache, to cease, simply
because he wills it. There are likewise men endowed with
such magnetic power, that they can act upon patients who
are very susceptible and in perfect communication with
them, while directing the action upon this or that part, by
* Many magnetizers experience sensations which ought of neces-
sity to govern thern in the choice of processes. But as this precious
faculty is not common to all, I shall in another chapter speak of the
means of developing it in ourselves, and of the advantages arising
from it.
34 OF THE PROCESSES [CHAP. li-
the thought and by the look : but these cases are extremely
rare, and no conclusions can be drawn from them for ordi-
nary practice.
The processes are nothing if they are not in unison with
a determined intention. We may even say they are not
the cause of the magnetic action ; but it is indisputable that
they are necessary for directing and concentrating, and that
they ought to be varied according to the end one has in
view.
Somnambulists point out for themselves processes alto-
gether different, according to the seat of the disease ; and
when they advise a patient to have recourse to magnetism,
they take great care to prescribe to him the processes he
ought to employ. It is certain, that by proper processes,
and not by the will only, one is able to displace a pain, to
make it descend, to accelerate the circulation of the blood,
to dissipate an obstruction, and to restore the equilibrium.
There are cases when one does much good by placing his
hands upon the knees, though he would do much injury by
holding them long upon the stomach. Numbness, heavi.
ness, disagreeable sensations, are produced by charging the
head too much. It is often essential to spread out the mag-
netism at the close of a sitting, and to withdraw the fluid by
the extremities, in order to relieve him who is overcharged
with it.
When I said that a method different from mine might
succeed equally well, I intended to say that each one might
modify the processes according to his own views and prac-
tice ;
but not that he could omit them, or employ them in a
manner contrary to the general rules. For example, vari-
ous magnetizers act equally well by passes, more gentle or
more rapid ; by contact, or at a distance ; by holding the
CHAP. II.] in ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 35
hands to the same place, or by establishing currents. But
it is absurd to believe one can cure chilblains on the feet,
by placing the hands on the breast.
There are some general processes that are employed at
the commencement : there are others that are suggested by
circumstances, or by the effects first produced. We shall
discourse of these in the next chapter.
NOTE I.
I have often remarked that persons who are not in the
habit of magnetizing, think they ought to exert a great deal
of force. For which purpose, they contract their muscles,
and make efforts of attention and will. This method is not
good : it is often injurious. When the will is calm and
constant, and the attention sustained by the interest we take
in the patient, the most salutary effects ensue, without our
giving ourselves the least pain. There are cases when it
is necessary to make a violent effort, to oppose a false di-
rection, to vanquish an obstacle, to sustain or terminate a
crisis : we may then have need of extraordinary power ; but
it is never at the commencement of a treatment, that we are
obliged to have recourse to it. A person ought not to fa-
tigue himself by magnetic processes : he will experience
fatigue enough from the loss of the vital fluid.
NOTE II.
I have said that at the close of each sitting, it is proper to
relieve the patient of the superabundant fluid, by making
transversal passes, and passes beyond the extremities : and
36 OF THE PROCESSES [CHAP. H«
I have hinted that it is sometimes better to draw off the
fluid from the patient, instead of charging him with that of
another ; but I neglected to insist upon this point, and to
show the case where that negative method is of great
importance. I will explain my views on this subject.
When there is a great excitement of the nervous system,
a great irritation, or a tendency to inflammation, you will
always produce a soothing effect in drawing away the fluid.
It also frequently happens that the ailment is drawn away
with the fluid. Thus in the inflammation of the brain, it is
proper to begin the passes at the lower part of the head, to
draw it out either by the sides, or by the top. I will cite
a remarkable fact, to which I was an eye-witness.
M. H***, a mate of a vessel, went several days ago to
see M. N***, of whom I shall soon make mention. About
five years ago, he had a stroke of the sun, (coup de soleil,)
and since that period, he has frequently felt violent pains in
the head. One day when this pain caused him intense suf-
fering, M. N*** thought of filling a glass with magnetized
water, of covering it with linen cloth, so that in turning it
over, the water might not spill out ; and he applied it, thus
inverted, to the back part of the head of M. H***, who
leaned down for that purpose. Then he made passes from
the head to the tumbler, to draw off the fluid and make it
enter the water. M. H*** felt something pass from his
head towards the inverted glass. He told me it was just
like drawing out a fine stream of water. In five minutes
the pain ceased entirely. I do not know whether it will
ever return ; but there is no doubt that the same means will
succeed in causing it to disappear.
You might, in many circumstances, apply this process,
which ought to be accompanied with the proper intention.
CHAP. II.] IN ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 37
I believe that if, after the operation, any one had drunk the
water contained in the glass, he would have experienced
very disagreeable effects from it.
NOTE III.
A short time after Mesmer, who explained all the phe-
nomena of magnetism by causes purely physical, some per-
sons going into the opposite extreme, substituted in the place
of his theory, a system of spiritualism. M. le Chevalier de
Barbarin, a very pious man, but probably too much devot-
ed to mystical ideas, pretended that all processes were use-
less, and that faith and the will, were sufficient to operate
prodigies. Those who adopted his opinions, had recourse
to prayers at the patients' bed-side, and often succeeded in
curing them. The success they obtained proves nothing
to support their principles ; and the stale of concentration,
which this method demands, might give rise to bad conse-
quences. Our spirit is the principle of voluntary move-
ments ; it gives impulse to the nervous fluid : but so long
as it is united to organized matter, it is destined to act ex-
ternally by the aid of the organs, either immediately, or by
the emanation which is conveyed to a distance, like the rays
from a luminous body. I have interdicted myself from all
theory, and I would have been silent upon the opinions of
the spiritualists, if there were not at this time men of good
intentions, who, disdaining magnetism, undertake to treat
patients by practices which they think more powerful, and
more efficacious. They obtain cures, undoubtedly ; they
produce ecstatic somnambulism ; and their somnambulists
are persuaded they are inspired. This may lead into errors,
and disturb the imagination not only of the patients, but also
38 OF THE PROCESSES. [CHAP. II.
of those who consult them. Let any one recal the singular
ideas entertained hy those who witnessed the somnambulists
of Suede, and he will see that nothing can be more contrary
to reason. Let us not then consider somnambulism as a
supernatural state, in which they have celestial visions and
inspirations ; but let us see in it the extension of our faculties,
and perhaps the developement of an interior sense, which is
active when the external senses are slumbering. Let us
employ magnetism as a means of aiding nature, of reani-
mating strength, of establishing the equilibrium, of facilitating
the circulation ; and let us not imagine that man can give
to himself or to others, the power of working miracles. If
no other advantages were derived from the processes than
that of curbing the imagination, it would still be necessary
to make use of them.
CHAPTER III.
OF THE EFFECTS AND THEIR INDICATIONS.
Of the effects by which the action of Magnetism is manifested, and
of the modifications which the observation of these effects indi-
cates in the processes.
There are some patients upon whom magnetism does not
act, owing either to peculiarity of constitution, to the kind
of disease, or to a want of analogy with the magnetizer :
but this is very rare. It is less rare that the communication
cannot be established until after several sittings : whence
one cannot presume that magnetism does not act, till after a
tri I of five days.
In order to found this presumption, even after this lapse
of time, it is not enough that the patient has felt nothing
when you have attempted to magnetize him ; it is to be
considered whether he has experienced no change in his
condition, whether he does not find himself better, or whether
his disease is not rendered worse by pursuing the ordinary
course. It frequently happens that magnetism gradually
re-establishes the harmony of the system without producing
any sensation, and its influence is perceived only in the
restoration of health. In that case you ought to continue
zealously to follow the processes I have pointed out, without
troubling yourself about the manner in which the magnet-
ism acts, and without seeking for any apparent effect. By
making efforts of the attention and of the will, and trying
processes which are thought more active, you would fatigue
40 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
yourself uselessly, and perhaps disturb the gradual and
peaceful course of nature.
The happiest thing that can happen to him who for the
first time attempts to magnetize, is, to encounter a subject
who is not insensible to the action of magnetism, and who
nevertheless feels only slight and gradual effects from it.
If the first patient whose case is undertaken is absolutely
insensible to the action, one is apt to imagine he has not
conducted the process aright, or else he doubts his own
power, and in proportion as one doubts it, it really becomes
enfeebled. If one were at first to see wonderful effects
produced, he would be apt to yield to curiosity and enthu-
siasm ; and the attention would be drawn from the essential
object, which is a cure. To magnetize well, it is necessary
to be very attentive, to be surprised at nothing, and to ob-
serve the effects produced, only the better to direct the action
of magnetism.
The instruction which I here give, has for its principal ob-
ject, to prevent false ideas and exaggerated opinions, to which
persons are liable to be exposed, for want of experience.
They who adopt my principles, will not lose confidence in
their powers because they have not at first succeeded ; they
will not be precipitated into exaggeration because they have
seen surprising things. They will know how to modify
both the influence of their will, and the processes which
they first employed.
There are patients in whom the influence of magnetism
is displayed in two or three minutes ; ethers, who do not feel
it for a long time. There are some in whom the effects are
constantly increasing ; others, who experience at the first
time all that they will experience in the course of a long
treatment. We sometimes meet with persons who obtain
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS, 41
from it, the first day, results the most remarkable and salu-
tary, but who finally become accustomed to it, and receive
not the least advantage nor the least impression.
The effects by which magnetism manifests its action are
greatly varied ; sometimes only one effect takes place, some-
times several show themselves together, or successively, in
the same patient. When these effects have been once pro-
duced, it is very common to have them promptly renewed
at each sitting. They change sometimes, in proportion to
the change wrought in the malady.
I will now describe the effects which are most commonly
exhibited.
The magnetized person perceives a heat escaping from
the ends of your fingers, when you pass them at a little
distance before the face, although your hands appear cold
to him, if you touch him. He feels this heat through his
clothes, in some parts, or in all parts of his body before
which your hands pass. He often compares it to water
moderately warm, flowing over him, and this sensation pre-
cedes your hand. His legs become numb, especially if you
do not carry your hands as low as his feet; and this numb-
ness ceases when, towards the close, you make passes along
the legs to the toes, or below them. Sometimes instead of
communicating heat, you communicate cold ; sometimes
also you produce heat upon one part of the body, and cold
upon another. There is often induced a general warmth,
and a perspiration more or less considerable. Pain is felt
in the parts where the disease is seated. These pains
change place, and descend.
Magnetism causes the eyes to be closed. They are shut
in such a manner that the patient cannot open them ;
he feels a calm, a sensation of tranquil enjoyment ; he grows
D*
42 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
drowsy, he sleeps ; he wakes when spoken to, or else he
wakes of himself at the end of a certain time, and finds
himselfrefreshed. Sometimes he enters into somnambulism,
in which state he hears the magnetizer and answers him
without awaking.
As the state of somnambulism ought entirely to change
the manner of magnetizing, and as it does not take place
except in a small number of cases, we will speak of it in a
chapter by itself. Now, we are merely describing what
occurs when there is no somnambulism, and pointing out
the conduct to be observed in various circumstances.
I said in the preceding chapter that one of the most ordi-
nary effects of magnetism is to dislodge the pain, and make
it pass down in the direction of the current given to the
fluid. If when this is dislodged it does not at first reach
the extremities, you will succeed in forcing it thither in the
subsequent sittings. But there are cases, when this result
requires uninterrupted action.
For example, if the gout were seated in the head, and if
in descending it is arrested at the breast or the stomach, it is
essential to continue the action until it is conducted to the feet.
The displacement of the malady is always a proof of the
efficacy of magnetism ; but this displacement sometimes pro-
duces very sharp pains ; instead ofbeing troubled about these,
it is necessary to^ magnetize during the succeeding days
until they are entirely dissipated. I once saw a lady who
had a catarrh with a severe cough. At the first sitting the
catarrh was cured ; but there remained in her limbs violent
pains, which lasted three days, because she did not again
have recourse to magnetism.
The action of magnetism is sometime accompanied with
nervous movements, and very often a disposition to yawn :
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 43
sometimes the patient experiences pains at the stomach, and
nausea, which is even followed by vomiting ; at other times
he experiences colic pains.
These crises ought to give the magnetizer no disquiet.
He ought to know how to calm those which are nervous,
and to aid the tendencies of nature.
It sometimes happens that the patient desires to have
the sitting prolonged, sometimes to have it suspended, be-
cause he feels a species of irritation. In these cases it is
well to follow his inclination as far as possible.
I here repeat, that what I have just described are insulated
effects, exhibited in various circumstances, with various
individuals, at different times ; and are rarely united in the
same case.
Now let us see what modifications the observation of
these effects ought to suggest in the processes.
If the patient feels the sensation of heal or coolness from
your fingers, content yourself with magnetizing with long
passes. If the action of magnetism excites pain in any
organ, concentrate the action upon that organ, in order to
draw it away afterwards.
If there be manifested any heat or heaviness at the head,
attract it to the knees.
If magnetism produces a sense of suffocation, or an irri-
tation of the lungs, make passes beginning below the breast,
and continuing to the knees.
If colics take place, and if they indicate, as they often do
with women, that the circulation ought to be accelerated,
avoid letting the hands stop at the breast, or even at the
stomach ; carry the action to the sides and below them ;
make passes along the thighs, and let the hands remain
some time upon the knees.
44 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
If the patient have pains at the hack, make passes along
the vertebral column.
If you see any nervous movements, calm them by your
will, first taking the thumbs or the wrists, and afterwards
making passes at the distance of several inches or even of
several feet, with the open hand.
If magnetism seems to act too powerfully, moderate the
action, and render it more soothing, by making the passes
at a distance.
If the patient sleep, let him sleep tranquilly while you
continue to magnetize him. When you wish to rest your-
self, take the thumbs of the patient, or place your hands
upon his knees.
If the sitting has been long, and you are obliged to quit,
rouse the patient gently, by telling him to wake, and by
making passes sideways across the eyes.
If the eyes are closed fast, not attended with sleep, open
them by some passes sideways, but not till the termination
of the sitting.
If after being roused, the patient feels anew the desire of
sleeping, you will leave him to sleep alone, taking precau-
tions that no one shall trouble him.
Here I ought to observe, that the magnetic sleep is of
itself essentially restorative. During this sleep, nature un-
assisted works a cure ; and it is often sufficient to re-estab-
lish the equilibrium, and cure nervous complaints.
When you have ended the sitting, you will agree with
the patient upon the hour when the next one shall take place,
and you will endeavor to be exact. It is advantageous to
magnetize every day at the same hour, and above all not
to change the hour agreed upon for many days in succession.
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 45
Should the patient whose treatment you have undertaken,
appear to have any contagious disease, you will take care
to be always active while near him, so as always to impart,
and not to receive : that is to say, to sustain your attention,
and employ your will, that you may constantly throw off
the fluid from you. You will also avoid, as much as pos-
sible, immediate contact. After each sitting, if you have
the opportunity, you will cause yourself to be magnetized
for some minutes to free yourself from the bad fluid with
which you may be charged. If you cannot do this, you
should pass your own hands along your arms to withdraw
it and shake it off. If you experience fatigue, the open air,
and especially the sun, will in a few minutes restore your
energies.
You should not magnetize when you have eaten heartily,
and during digestion : but it is often useful to take some-
thing before the sitting to increase your strength. He who
undertakes a treatment, ought in general to live temper-
ately, avoiding all excesses, and to guard as much as possi-
ble against all things which tend to interrupt or disturb the
exercise of his physical and moral powers.
I have laid it down as a principle, that when magnetism
produces crises, it is dangerous to interrupt them. I will
now explain what is meant by crises.
Physicians give the name of crises to every sudden
change which, supervening in a disease, modifies its pro-
gress or character, and enables us to forsee the result of it.
These crises appear to be the efforts of nature to free
herself of the morbific principle. They are salutary when
they operate completely ; they are injurious when the pa-
tient has not strength to sustain them. They are manifested
by symptoms ; such as a removal of the seat of the
46 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
malady, a remarkable change in the pulse, evacuations, ex-
crctions, eruptions, the gathering of humors, pains in certain
parts, nervous motions, &c. In acute diseases, these crises
generally operate on determinate days, which arc called
the critical days.
Mesmer says there are no cures without crises. If, by
jhis, he meant that the patient does not recover his health
except by a change of state, it is so clear as to require no
notice. If he meant that the cure is wrought by a sudden
change manifested by evident symptoms, it is not always
true. For many diseases are cured by slow and gradual
amelioration, without any one's being able to mark the mo-
ment when they assumed a favorable character. A fever
diminishes day by day and entirely ceases ; and a hundred
other diseases are soothed and disappear when no one can
determine the cause of the cessation, any more than that of
the attack. But it is true that in most acute diseases, the
cure takes place by an evident change, which occurs all at
once, in the state of the patient.
Magnetizers have given the name of crises to the re-
markable changes which the action of magnetism produces
upon those who are subjected to it, or to that state which is
different from the natural one, into which they are thrown
by its influence : and as, of all the changes of state which
are produced by magnetism, somnambulism is the most
singular and most characterized, they have generally de-
signated it as a crisis, and they have called somnambulists,
crisiacs.
This expression, thus limited, loses much of the significa-
tion usually given to it by physicians ; but it suffices to be
informed of it, that it may not be mistaken.
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 47
I thought this explanation necessary in order to let the
reader understand the principle I have laid down. We
come to the application.
The magnetic action has put your patient into a state
different from the ordinary state, which displays itself by
divers symptoms, such as sharp pains in a part of the body,
the sense of suffocation, nervous movements, spasms, a con-
siderable perspiration, the impossibility of opening the eyes,
drowsiness, sleep, somnambulism. You ought to allow the
crisis time to develope itself, to calm the spasms by degrees,
to concentrate the action upon the seat of the pain, then to
draw it off, taking care that nothing check the perspiration,
to dissipate by little and little the drowsiness or the sleep, if
it be too much prolonged. But you ought never to wake
your patient suddenly, nor permit any one to trouble him,
nor ought you to quit him until the singular state into which
you have thrown him, has entirely ceased.
The term magnetic state has been given to every state
different from the natural one, and resulting from the mag-
netic influence : this word is more general than the word
crisis, and is not equivocal. You ought to avoid leaving
the patient so long as he is in this state, during whicli a
crisis really occurs. It is essential not to disturb the pro-
cess of nature.
When a patient is put into a profound sleep by magnet-
ism, if he is touched by any one who rouses him roughly,
he feels much evil from it. I have seen this thing produce
convulsions or violent pains, render the return of somnam-
bulism impossible, and even change to such a degree the
condition of the patient, that he could not afterwards endure
the action of magnetism ; and it was necessary to leave his
restoration to time and regimen.
48 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
Persons who have been for the first time put into som-
nambulism, have been known to lose all at 01 c • the faculty
of entering into it again, by being rudely roused from it.
General rule.—Whenever any crisis is manifested,
the magnetizer ought to develope it, to second the work of
nature, and not to quit the patient until the crisis is at an
end, and until he is brought back to his natural state.
It is important to have the magnetizer free from anxiety
on account of the pains which he may excite in the abdo-
men, and which are often renewed during several sittings;
these critical pains will disappear of themselves when na-
ture has re-established harmony, and triumphed over the
obstacle which is the cause of them.
I ought here to speak of an effect happily very rare, but
of which it is proper to forewarn those who are commenc-
ing the practice of magnetism, so that if it tak. a place, they
may not be alarmed, and commit any act of in prudence.
It often happens that the first impression of magnetism,
produces a crisis accompanied with convuls ive motions,
stiffness of the limbs, and fits of laughing or of crying.
In this case it is essential that the magnetizer be not
alarmed. He ought first to take the thumbs of the patient,
and tell him to be calm : then he should make passes along
the legs and feet, and withdraw himself in order to mag-
netize him at a distance by the long pass. If he keeps him-
self collected, suffers no one to approach, takes merely the
necessary precautions, and trusts in his own owers, and
the action of his will, the crisis will terminate, id the per-
son magnetized will not be fatigued, and perhaps retain but
a faint recollection of what has passed.
If he wishes to continue to magnetize him, i hich will be
very proper, he must, at the next sitting, as so >n as he has
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 49
put himself in communication by holding the thumbs, mag.
netize him by the long pass, with the intention of soothing,
and not augment the action too fast, taking care not to
shake the fingers. Above all, it is important for the mag-
netizer to have a mind free from all inquietude, to act as if
the patient were as free from it as himself, and to banish all
witnesses who might trouble him.
The effect of which I am about to speak is so rare, ex-
cept in nervous and convulsive diseases, that I have not pro-
duced them myself but three or four times, in the course of
a practice of thirty-five years. I know very well that it
has taken place many times, and been attended with bad
consequences ; but it was in the hands of persons who mag-
netized to make experiments, to exhibit phenomena, and
not with calmness and the pure intention of doing good.
I should hardly have dreamed of noticing this effect, if 1
had not recently seen an example of it which I am going to
give an account of, the better to make myself understood,
although this work is not intended to report facts in support
of what I advance.
I was desired several days ago, to instruct a lady who
wished to magnetize her daughter, while laboring under a
slight but long-seated disease, the cause of which was un-
known. I caused the mother to sit by my side, and, to
show her the processes, J attempted to magnetize her daugh-
ter, who experienced not the slightest effect.
The mother having told me that she herself had been once
magnetized, and had felt the necessity of closing her eyes,
I wished to sec if I could act upon her.
After trying the long pass four or five minutes, and pla-
cing my hand upon her stomach, she cried out, " O, what
E
50 OF THE EFFECTS, [cHAr. III.
an agreeable sensation !" One minute after, she was seized
with convulsive movements, her limbs were stiffened, her
neck became swollen, and she threw her head back, utter-
ino- shrieks. I took her thumbs ; and repeated to her sev-
eral times with a tone of authority, " be calm." 1 made
passes along the legs. T then withdrew a little, to magnet-
ize by the long pass : finally, keeping at a distance, I at-
tempted to make transverse passes, in order to draw off and
chase away the fluid. Her appearance then changed, but
a laughing fit succeeded which lasted several minutes. She
gradually became calm. She told me she felt very well,
and that she did not believe she had suffered.
Now if I had called in any one to hold her, or if I had
been frightened, it is probable that the lady thus magnet-
ized would have suffered for several days.
If it is rare to produce convulsive movements by the
method generally employed, after the instructions given by
M. de Puysegur, it is not rare to meet with persons up-
on whom magnetism produces a nervous irritation, which
leaves them after the sittings, in an uneasy state of feeling.
When you meet with subjects who are thus susceptible, it
is proper to make use of the most soothing action, and to
act from a distance. If, after three or four sittings, the same
effect takes place, you may presume that magnetism is not
good for the patient, or that the fluid of the magnetizer does
not agree with him ; and you ought not to persist in it.
One might merely try two or three times other magnetizers.
Many things remain to be said about the indications
which may direct one in the choice of processes. These
indications are of two kinds : the first are furnished by the
state of the patient, and will naturally find their place when
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 51
I speak of the application of magnetism to various diseases ;
the others belong to the sensations which a practised and
attentive magnetizer frequently experiences. I shall not
discourse of these last, until I have mentioned the details
relative to the employment of magnetism, to the crises it
produces, and to the precautions that ought to be taken to
obtain salutary results. But before ending this chapter, I
ought to say a word upon the advantages one might obtain
from a very feeble magnetic action, exerted by persons who
have no idea of it, and by processes much more simple than
the ones I have described.
We often see, in the most laborious class of people, pa-
tients to whom we presume that magnetism would do the
greatest good, and whose treatment it is impossible for us to
undertake. I will now explain how, and to what extent we
can make their relations and friends supply our place for
tli r service.
Although I have thrown all the light I could into the ex-
planation of the processes, it would be useless to cause it to
be read by peasants and laborers, who are never occupied
in any thing but their work. They would not understand
it, or at least they would not know how to apply it. But
one might give them verbal instructions which they will
perfectly comprehend, and which will suffice to put them in
the way of doing more or less good to the patient who in-
spires them with a real interest. Here is the way to effect it.
Say to the person who appears to you to have the great-
est affection for the patient, and who is with him the most,
that he can soothe him by making slight frictions ;
that
these frictions make the blood circulate ; that the heat which
escapes from the hand is salutary ; that by holding the
52 OF THE EFFECTS, [CHAP. III.
hand upon the suffering part, the pain is lessened ;
and that
by passing the hand over the body, he may draw off the
disease. Tell him that one person may communicate
health to another who is sick, as we communicate disease
to a well man, when we ourselves are diseased. You can
even assure him that the heat produced by breathing through
a linen cloth, is very good to relieve an obstruction ; and
that blowing from the mouth at a distance, assists in soothing
a local inflammation. You may add that the processes you
are teaching produce no effect, when the person who em-
ploys them is thinking of anything else. If the persons to
whom you address yourself are pious, you have a sure
means of sustaining their attention, of directing their will,
and of exciting their confidence. It is, to recommend to
them to pray to God for the restoration of the patient, while
they are engaged in acting upon him. When they are per-
suaded that you give such advice through goodness, and that
you do not doubt its efficacy, you will have little trouble in
making them follow it. Then show them how they ought
to put it in practice, by magnetizing for a quarter of an
hour, and gaining the assistance of the person you are in-
structing. While you arc making this essay, guard well
against seeking to produce any phenomenon. Try only to
soothe pains, to bring heat to the extremities, and ease to
the patient. Finally warn them that, if the patient should
fall asleep during the operation of passing the hands over
him, they must not awaken him. It is desirable that no
phenomenon may be manifested so remarkable as to aston-
ish the one who is magnetizing him, but merely such effects
as augment his confidence. Among the persons whom
you have thus instructed, you will meet with some who, after
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 53
a few days, will magnetize very well, without any suspicion
of what they arc about.
Ignorant people being often disposed to have faith in the
efficaciousness of certain practices, one might point out to
them as a curative means, a particular sign, or a form of
prayer, objects which have received the benediction of a
priest, or a sort of amulet. But this is what no one ought
to do, because it is practising deception upon them, and the
paramount obligation, is, to say nothing which we do not
believe to be true ; besides, the abuse of means, innocent in
themselves, may keep up ignorance, and favor superstition.
I have frequently obtained the most happy results from
the sort of instruction which I have just proposed. The
action of magnetism thus directed, is doubtless more feeble
than it would be in the hands of one who is acquainted with
the power of it ; it does not produce surprising effects, but
it is salutary, and is accompanied with no danger. I have
often seen a man soothing the pains of a wife, and a wife
soothing those of her husband, by conforming with simplicity
and confidence to the directions I had given them. Two
examples may be cited.
1st. Oudin, an old soldier, whose case has been described
by M. Ollivier, in his work " On the Spine and its Dis-
eases," was paralysed from the hips to the feet. He could
walk only by the aid of crutches, and his legs trembled
continually. He had most violent pains in the loins. He
had been treated unsuccessfully at the Hotel-Dieu, after-
wards in the fourth dispensary of the Philanthropic Society,
when I directed his wife, (although she was very feeble,)
to make slight frictions, almost without touching, from his
hips to his feet. From the first day, the feet which were
54 OF THE EFFECTS, fcHAP. III.
very cold and white, grew warm and red, as when sinap-
isms are applied, and a few days after, the legs ceased to
tremble. The pains in the reins were always very sharp,
when the physicians apprised me that the disease originated
in the spinal marrow. I then told the woman to apply
frictions along the reins, drawing towards the legs, and very
soon the pains were entirely removed. Oudin is not cured
of his paralysis, but he suffers no more ; he can even make
use of his legs, and is infinitely better.
2d. The wife of the man who takes care of my apart-
ment, was confined to her bed by violent pains, attended
with fever. I went to see her, and perceiving she was
very sensitive to the action of magnetism, I pointed out to
her husband how he ought to proceed in order to relieve
her. The benefit which he at first produced, imparted con-
fidence to him, and in fifteen days his wife was cured.
She then came to thank me. I asked her if she still suffered
pain ; she replied, " Only in the shoulder. When it was
very severe, her husband caused it to pass away ; but it
returned, and he had not time every day to bestow care upon
her." I then placed my hand upon her shoulder, and was
much surprised to see her close her eyes ; and, a few min-
utes after, fall into the state of somnambulism. I spoke to-
her ; and this is a summary of our conversation :
Are you asleep ?
Yes, sir.
Why do you sleep ?
I do not know.
Do you see what the matter is with you ?
(After a little reflection,) Nothing is the matter with me
but my pain in the shoulder.
CHAP. III.] AND THEIR INDICATIONS. 55
What must be done to relieve you?
You are now doing what will cure me.
In how long a time ?
Three days.
If, when you are awakened, I tell you to come three or
four days successively, will you do it 1
Yes, sir.
I then caused this woman to come four days. The first
and the second day, somnambulism was renewed ; the third
day she suffered no more, and it was difficult to produce an
imperfect sleep. The fourth day she experienced absolutely
nothing ; and since that time, she has not been ill.
It is very remarkable that the husband, who had no idea
of somnambulism, did not cause it to occur, although his
wife was much disposed to it. I did not produce it myself
the day I went to see her ; because I did not intend it, and
because I avoided acting upon her head.
The kind of instruction which I have given is particularly
appropriate to mothers who have young children. What
they are taught seems to them analogous to what they are
naturally prompted to do, in order to soothe them when they
suffer ; and as they identify themselves with the object of
their solicitude, and as nothing can withdraw them from the
will to do good, it is enough to excite their confidence, and
they will unite all the qualities requisite to the efficacy of
magnetism.
NOTE.
Among the effects of the magnetic treatment, there is one
of which it is proper to be premonished, and which I omitted
to mention. I will now supply that omission.
5« OF THE EFFECTS. [CHAP. III.
When a patient has an issue, it frequently happens that
it closes after several sittings. This ought to give the op-
erator no anxiety : it is a proof that the humors have taken
another course. I directed the treatment of a lady who had
been very ill for many years. Two issues which she had
been advised to keep open, closed in a few days. She was
at first alarmed at it ; but very soon she found herself bet-
ter, and in six weeks she was restored to health.
CHAPTER IV.
OF SOMNAMBULISM, AND OF THE USE TO BE
MADE OF IT.
It is a well known fact that certain persons walk, speak
and act in their sleep ; and that when they are awakened,
they have no recollection of what they have been doing.
These persons are called somnambulists ; that is, sleep-
walkers ; and the state in which they are, is called somnam-
bulism. The disposition to walk in the sleep, has been
considered as a nervous affection which we should endeavor
to counteract, because of the accidents which might spring
from it.
The apparent resemblance between spontaneous somnam-
bulism, and the crises which are often produced by magnet-
ism, has induced men to call the latter magnetic somnambu-
lism. A more appropriate name might have been found
but as this has been received for forty years, it is useless to
change it.
Magnetic somnambulism, which we call, simply, somnam-
bulism, because that term cannot be equivocal in this work,
is a mode of existence during which the person who is in it
appears to be asleep. If his magnetizer speaks to him, he
answers without waking ; he can also execute various
movements, and when he returns to the natural state, he
retains no remembrance of what has passed. His eyes
are closed ; he generally understands those only who are
put in communication with him. The external organs of
58 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
sense are all, or nearly all, asleep ; and yet lie experiences
sensations, but by another means, There is roused in him
an internal sense, which is perhaps the centre of the others,
or a sort of instinct, which enlightens him in respect to his
own preservation. He is subject to the influence of his
magnetizer, and this influence may be either useful or inju-
rious, according to the disposition and the conduct of the
magnetizer.*
Somnambulism presents phenomena infinitely varied. A
description of them may be found in a great number of
works published upon this subject. This is not the place to
describe them. My design is solely to teach the means of
obtaining the most useful results from this crisis, without
exposing one's self to the least inconvenience.
Of all the discoveries which have excited attention, from
the remotest antiquity, that of somnambulism certainly gives
us the most insight into the nature and the faculties of man;
The phenomena to which it has drawn our attention, de-
monstrate the distinction of two things ; the two fold exist-
ence of the internal and the external man in a single indi-
vidual : they offer a direct proof of the spirituality of the
soul : they make evident the truth known to ancient sages ;
and so well expressed by M. de Bonald, that man is an
intelligence served by organs. This advantage cannot be
too highly appreciated, especially in an age when audacious
minds do not fear to employ the researches of physiology to
shake the certainty of the interior sentiment which reveals
to us the dignity of man, his supremacy in the order of cre-
ation, and his moral liberty ; a sentiment which is the basis
* There are exceptions to the character here given, but they arc
extremely rare.
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 59
of social life, and which engages to the practice of virtue,
by pointing out to us in a future life the developement of
our earthly existence, and the recompense of sacrifices
made to obey the dictates of conscience. On the other
hand, somnambulism makes known to us the means of cur-
ing diseases which are curable, and of relieving those which
are not : it serves to rectify the errors of medicine as well
as those of metaphysics ; finally it points out the origin of
a great number of opinions prevalent anterior to the exper-
iments which have confirmed their correctness : and it
restores to the order of nature, a multitude of facts which
philosophers have disdained to examine, either because ig-
norance and credulity had altered some of their circum-
stances, or because, in the dark ages, they were made to
serve as the foundation of superstition.
Yet the discovery of somnambulism having been made,
or rather renewed in our time, without our being prepared
for it, and the application which can be made of it, demand-
ing a meditative mind, great prudence, severe manners,
religious dispositions, gravity of character, positive knowl-
edge, and other qualities which do not accord with the ami-
able levity and excitable imagination of Frenchmen, it may
be doubted whether its sudden propagation has not produced
as much evil as good, and whether it would not have been
better that this marvellous phenomenon had not been at first
observed, and that people had confined themselves merely
to magnetism as Mesmer taught it, and as many persons
before him practised it, without knowing whether they em-
ployed a particular agent, or a faculty common to all men.
But it was impossible that they who devoted themselves to
the practice of magnetism, should not be struck sooner or
later with a phenomenon which would not fail to present
60 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
itself. It was equally impossible that they should not have
been seized with enthusiasm at the sight of the wonderful
things which accompany it, and made it a secret. It was,
finally, impossible that men who were strangers to the true
principles of magnetism, should not seek to produce the same
wonderful things, to exercise their power and satisfy their
curiosity, and should know how to confine themselves within
proper bounds to avoid dangers and errors. Hence it has
resulted that magnetism has often been employed, not to cure
diseases, but to procure somnambulism. And as somnam-
bulists have faculties and means of knowledge which we
have not, people have imagined they ought to know every
thing, and have consulted them as oracles. If instead of
yielding to enthusiasm, they had examined the phenomena
by the lights of physiology, they would have perceived the
danger of pushing too far a state during which an inexpli-
cable change occurs in the functions of the nervous system,
in the play of the organs, and in the manner of perceiving
and transmitting sensation ; that the more the sensibility is
exalted, the more ought they to be on their guard against
what might increase that exaltation : that at the extremity
of the course which nature has marked out for herself, and
which she has strength to run over, preserving the harmony
of all the faculties and the control of reason, an immense
field is open to the imagination, in which illusions take the
place of truth : that somnambulism is only a transient crisis,
of which it is necessary to make use without wandering
from the design for which nature has produced it ; and that
somnambulism too much prolonged, would give us habits
which would not be in accordance with our ordinary desti-
nation, and of itself would become a disease.
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 61
I will not insist upon these considerations, the develope-
ment of which would carry me to a great extent. I pro-
pose to teach what it is necessary to know in practice, with-
out entering into any discussion.
Somnambulism is known ; it presents itself often in the
magnetic practice ; let us see what are the means of always
deriving from it the greatest advantage, and avoiding all
misuse of it.
The first advice I shall give, is, that you never seek to
produce somnambulism, but to let it come naturally, in or-
der to profit by it when it takes place.
Many magnetizers, in order to produce it, charge the
head very much ; and by this means, they often succeed in
obtaining a forced slumber, a reflux of blood towards the
brain, and partial crises which are of no utility : this method
is not without danger. It is much better simply to employ
magnetism by the long pass, and not to charge the head
more than the other parts. If nature is disposed to this cri-
sis, the fluid will, of itself, be carried to the brain, and the
tendency to somnambulism will be manifested by the pa-
tient's being in a state of tranquillity, by his closing his eyes,
and by his sleeping. You may then, without any inconve-
nience, pass the extremities of your fingers five or six times
at a short distance before his eyes, in order to give more in-
tensity to his sleep.
You may then ask him, how he is ; or whether he sleeps
well. Then one of these three things will take place ; he
will wake, he will not answer, or he will answer.
If he awakes, somnambulism has not taken place; and
you must not think any more respecting it, in the course of
that sitting. If he continues to sleep, without answering,
there is reason to suppose he is entering into the somnam-
F
62 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
bu lie state. If he answers without waking, and, after his
waking, has no recollection of your speaking to him, the
somnambulism is real.
In case the patient continues to sleep without hearing
you, you will continue to magnetize him as I have pointed
out ; and you will wait, before you put him a second ques-
tion, until the moment before that at which you think the
sitting should be terminated.
If he makes no more answer to this question than to the
first, you will leave him to sleep tranquilly, or if you judge
it necessary to rouse him, you may merely make trans-
versal passes at a distance, bidding him to awake, in a gen-
tle voice, and not commanding him with a tone of authority.
If the patient makes a sign that he understands you, yet
without answering, you will beware of urging him to speak.
It is a happy thing for him to be by himself, to collect him-
self, and accustom himself to his new condition, and to ar-
range his ideas. You will merely ask him to let you know
by a motion of the head, whether he desires to be awakened,
or to sleep longer ; and you will conform yourself as much
as possible to his wish.
You will continue in the same manner during the suc-
ceeding sittings. Yet if this state of mute somnambulism is
prolonged, you will inquire of him whether he hopes very
soon to acquire the faculty of speaking : whether you mag-
netize him well : if he finds himself better for it : and you
may make all inquiries of him which he can answer by a
sign and without effort.
Have a perfect command of yourself, and beware of em-
ploying your will to influence your patient to speak, or to
make his somnambulism more profound. Have but one
intention ; entertain but one wish, that of facilitating the
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 63
cure ; and leave nature to employ, of herself, the increase
of power which you give him.
It may happen that his somnambulism will not proceed
further ; but this is of no consequence ; it is not your ob-
ject to render him a somnambulist, but to cure him. If
somnambulism were necessary, if his constitution rendered
him susceptible of it, this state would spontaneously devel-
ope itself. Merely observe what peculiar precautions this
demi-somnambulism requires ; such as, not suffering those
to approach him who are not in communication with him,
not to oppose him, not to awaken him roughly, and to con-
tinue to occupy yourself about him.
If your patient speaks, and to the question, "Do you sleep?"
answers, " Yes ;" he is a somnambulist, but it does not fol-
low that he is endowed with clairvoyance.
Some persons have distinguished many degrees or shades
of somnambulism. It is useless to occupy your time with
all that, and there is no need for me to enter into this ex-
amination, to point out to you the surest and the most sim-
ple path, and to instruct you how to draw all the advantages
possible from somnambulism, at whatever degree it may
occur.
When your somnambulist shall have given an affirmative
answer to your first question, " Are you asleep ?" you may
address others to him. These questions should be simple,
clear, well adapted, and concise ; they should be made
slowly, with an interval between them, leaving the somnam-
bulist all the time he wishes to reflect upon them. If you
have been able to suppress your curiosity, which is always
more or less injurious, if you do not suffer yourself to be
astonished to see one who is asleep answer you with propri-
ety, if you have no other end in view but the doing of good,
64 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
if you do not think of collecting observations, you will put
only those questions which are necessary. The response
made to the first one, will suggest others to you, always in
relation to the means of curing the patient.
The following may serve as an example of the series of
questions to be first put to your somnambulist.
Do you feel well ?
Does my manner of proceeding agree with you ?
Will you point out any other mode ?
How long shall I let you sleep ?
How shall I wake you ?
When shall I magnetize you again ?
Have you any directions to give me ?
Do you think I shall succeed in curing you ?
These questions will assuredly be enough for the first
day when somnambulism has been induced. At the next
sitting it ought to be induced sooner ; but you will not try
to bring it on immediately, by charging the head. You
will first employ magnetism by the long pass, and when
your somnambulist assures you that he is sleeping, you will
let him have a little time longer to collect himself.
Then, after having repeated some of the preceding ques-
tions, you may ask him whether he sees where his disease
is ; if he says yes, you may request him to describe it ; if
he says no, you may persuade him to look for it, observing
to keep his attention to the point. You will take care not
to form your questions in such a manner as to suggest re-
plies which he can make without reflection, through indo-
lence, or the desire of pleasing you ;
you must let him be
occupied wholly with himself, with his disease, and with the
means of cure.
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 65
When he has once explained to you what he thinks of the
nature of his disease, of its causes, of its consequences, of
the crises he expects, you should ask him to search out the
remedial means proper to be pursued in connection with
magnetism. You should listen to him attentively ;
you
should take notes of what he tells you, if you are fearful of
forgetting it. You should ask him whether he is very sure
of the effect which his prescriptions will produce. And if
in them there is found any thing which appears to you im-
proper, you should make known to him your objections.
You should especially take care to inform yourself well
of the crises which are to bring on the cure, that you may
not be alarmed at such as he has announced, and that you
may know well the mode of soothing them.
You must be exact in magnetizing him at the hour indi-
cated by him, and by the processes which he judges most
appropriate. You must ask him what things you ought to
let him forget, what things it is proper to warn him of, and
what means it is proper to take to induce him to follow out
his own prescriptions.
When he is awake, you should let him be entirely igno-
rant of his being a somnambulist, and not let him suspect
that he has spoken, provided he has not of himself expressly
recommended that you should inform him of it, either to in-
spire him with confidence in regard to any thing that disturbs
him, or to induce him to follow a course of regimen, or to
do something useful, which when he is awake is counter to
his inclination. But, in this case, you will merely tell him
what he believed absolutely necessary to know, and you
will entreat him not to speak about it to any person. It is
very rare that a patient has the curiosity to be informed of
what he has said in a state of somnambulism : I believe,
F*
66 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
also, that it never happens, when the magnetizer, during
somnambulism, has forbidden him to meddle with it after
waking.
I have indicated the kind of conversation you ought to
hold with your somnambulist. I cannot insist too much
upon a point on which chiefly depends the developement
and the direction of his faculties. I cannot give any advice
in relation to the details, because it would not be equally
applicable to all cases. But there is a general rule from
which you ought never to depart ; which is, never on any
account, to permit any question of curiosity, any attempt to
prove the lucidity of your somnambulist ; to speak to him
solely of his disease ; to direct all his attention to the means
he ought to adopt for the restoration of his health. His
cure is your essential object, your principal aim ;
you
should not desert it for a moment.
I know that one may sometimes profit by the confidence
of a somnambulist to combine with him the means of cor-
recting his faults, and of rendering his conduct more regu-
lar, to break off dangerous associations, and in fine to apply
to his ordinary state, the elevated moral sensibility which
he exhibits in somnambulism. In this, one will not depart
from the rule I have prescribed ; he merely gives it a greater
extension. For it is then, in effect, a question about pre-
venting or curing a moral disease, more destructive than a
physical one, and which often aggravates the latter. You
are doing right, since you have really no other object in
view, no other idea, than the intention of doing good to him
whom you magnetize ; and do not engage him except in
that which is most essential to him.
The faculties of somnambulists are limited : their surpris-
ing penetration may be regarded as the effect of a concen-
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 67
tration upon one single class of sensations, upon one order of
ideas : the more their attention is distracted by various sub-
jects, the less of it will they give to the essential object.
If your somnambulist appears to meddle with things
which do not promote his return to health, employ your
will to withdraw him from them ; do not hear him ; and
especially do not appear as if you were astonished at the
proofs which he affords of his lucidity. You will excite his
vanity, and that is very dangerous ; for when you have
once awakened in him this sentiment, to which somnambu-
lists are in general very much inclined, you can no more
depend upon any thing.
In the state of somnambulism, the moral sensibility is or-
dinarily much more lively, and the somnambulists are often
disposed to abandon themselves to the ideas or the senti-
ments which have affected them in their common state.
Endeavor to withdraw them from these, or at least do not
say or do any thing which might favor this disposition.
There are some somnambulists endowed with a surprising
clairvoyance which is extended to objects which are very
distant, and entirely foreign to what interests them in the
wakeful state : but these somnambulists are rare, and it is
only with a great deal of precaution and reserve that we
should have recourse to them. I shall return to this sub-
ject after having finished what I have to say about ordinary
somnambulists.
It would be advantageous to the somnambulist to be alone
with his magnetizer. As in most circumstances that would
be inconvenient or improper, you will be careful to have
only one witness, who is always to be the same person, and
who takes an interest in the patient. You will banish all
useless witnesses, all who are excited by mere curiosity, and
68 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAI\ IV.
especially all the incredulous. All such must of necessity
distract your attention. He who is conscious that another
is watching his motions, docs not act with the same single-
Handedness and the same freedom, as he does who thinks
himself alone. The idea of the judgment which the specta-
tors will form, seizes him from time to time in spite of him-
self, and that prevents him from concentrating all his facul-
ties upon a single ohjcct. The more you are observed, with
the less advantage will you magnetize.
If there is a physician to whom you have imparted your
attempt to pursue a magnetic treatment, and whom you
have also engaged to attend when wanted, you will certainly
have a desire to let him see your somnambulist, either to
convince him of the effects which you produce, or to give
him an opportunity of forming an opinion upon the charac-
ter of the disease : but guard well against yielding to this
conceit, which appears to have a useful purpose, though it
really has its source in vanity. Nothing is more hurtful to
a somnambulist than the presence of a physician who is not
familiarized to the processes and the phenomena of magnet-
ism. The physician and the somnambulist do not speak
the same language : they do not see in the same manner.
Your somnambulist would wish to convince the physician
he will conduct his conversation with much address ; he
will seek to answer all difficulties ; he will lose that sim-
plicity which is necessary for his clairvoyance ; he will de-
part from the line which nature has traced out for him ; he
will make use of all the resources of his mind ; and, in the
same degree, he will cease to have the faculties which are
really useful to him. Give an account to the physician of
what takes place, and you will do well ; but limit yourself
to a simple and sincere relation of facts. What he does not
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 69
believe on your authority, he will believe no better when he
sees it, unless he has made experiments, and every experi-
ment is extremely injurious.
To the reasons which I have given for excluding all kinds
of witnesses, I can add another which is stronger than the
others.
There is in most somnambulists a developement of sensi-
bility of which we can have no conception. They are sus-
ceptible of receiving influence from every thing that sur-
rounds them, and principally from living beings. They are
not only affected by physical emanations, or the effluvia of
living bodies ; but also, to a degree much more surprising,
by the thoughts and sentiments of those who surround them,
or who are busy with them.
If you are alone with a somnambulist, and any one is per-
mitted to enter, the somnambulist generally perceives it.
Sometimes the person who enters is indifferent to him ; at
other times he feels for him either a sympathy or an antipa-
thy. In either case it diminishes his concentrativeness. If
he entertains a sympathy, his attention is divided ; if an an-
tipathy, he suffers. If the stranger is incredulous, and sus-
pects the sincerity of the somnambulist, or makes a jest of
what he sees, the somnambulist is troubled and loses his
lucidity. If many witnesses surround the somnambulist and
are occupied about him, the fluid of each one of them acts
upon his organization, and as these various fluids are not in
harmony, he experiences discordant effects from them. If
you have around you only the persons who desire the cure
of the patient, and if you magnetize them all to put them in
communication, and all are in good health, the somnambu-
list may not be in the least disquieted. But it will be diffi-
cult to prevent many of the spectators from often occupying
70 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAI\ IV.
themselves with other things besides the patient. For, every
time they occupy themselves with something else, they will
break the communication, and these interruptions produce
shocks, (secousscs,) which disturb the tranquil reign of som-
nambulism. There is sometimes among the spectators,
some one who inspires the somnambulist with a particular
affection, of the most exalted kind ; and that would turn him
aside from his attention to himself; the will of the magnet-
izer being no longer active, he does not exert the same con-
trol, and the somnambulism takes an irregular character.
The greater part of somnambulists, even in the hands of
good magnetizers, have lost a portion of their faculties, be-
cause many persons in succession have been permitted to
see them.
At the close of the preceding chapter I said that in a
magnetic treatment, there ought to be only one will active,
to which all the others ought to be subordinate. This rule
is especially to be observed when you have somnambulists.
M. de Puysegur has not failed to call attention to this ;
and
yet many well-informed magnetizers do not pay sufficient
regard to it. As to those who try it for the first time, it is
almost impossible that they should feel the importance of it,
and that even the desire of enlightening themselves upon
the means of doing more good, should not mislead them
from the path which would conduct them most surely to the
accomplishment of their object.
It is proper to enter into some details upon this head.
When a person who has no experience, obtains for the
first time some of the singular effects which generally pre-
cede lucid somnambulism, he thinks it would be useful to
get acquainted with an experienced magnetizer. If he finds
one, he entreats him to come and assist at the sittings, to
CHAP. IV. AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 71
give him instructions. This conduct, which is inspired by a
very praiseworthy motive, is nevertheless in need of precau-
tion, and I cannot point out the precautions except by recal-
ling attention to two phenomena, the reality of which a great
number of magnetic experiments demonstrate.
1st. Somnambulists, or the persons who are in a mag-
netic state, feel the influence of those who approach them,
especially of such as have an active will.
2d. Persons who are in the habit of magnetizing, natu-
rally emit the fluid from them, and act powerfully, even
without a determinate intention, upon those who are in the
magnetic state.
From this it follows that the presence of a magnetizer is
never a matter of indifference, and that in certain circum-
stances it might be more hurtful than that of one who comes
out of curiosity. If the magnetizer disapproves of any of
your processes, if he counteracts your action in any manner
whatever, he will do an injury to your somnambulist. This
inconvenience can always be avoided if he provides against
it, if he is attentive to himself, and if, on your part, you
take the necessary precautions.
When then you desire to consult with a magnetizer, and
call him in to see your somnambulist, this magnetizer must
put himself in communication with you, must submit his
will to yours, must beware of acting alone, must occupy
himself only in concurring to the good you wish to do, must
not seek the reason of the processes you employ, must not
pretend to direct you in any thing, so that nothing shall affect
your somnambulist except through you. When the sitting
is ended, the magnetizer can make his observations and give
you advice ; and, after having reflected upon the principles
he has given you, you can adopt and make use of them.
72 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
In my Critical History, book first, chapter fourth, I have
related what took place the first time I produced somnam-
bulism. I was a mere novice. I invited a magnetizer, a
pupil of Mesmer, and who had great power, to instruct me
how to make my somnambulist speak. He came to see him ;
he did not touch him, and yet he exercised such an influence
upon him, that the course of the somnambulism was entire-
ly deranged, and my young somnambulist who had exhibit,
ed for several days the most extraordinary clairvoyance,
ceased to manifest his different faculties, to acquire suddenly
that of expressing himself by words, and made no progress
afterwards. May the instruction which I now give, cause
others to avoid the numerous faults I committed before I ac-
quired experience of my own !
I might here enter into many details relative to the essen-
tial character of somnambulism, the general cause of the
innumerable modifications it presents, the distinction between
the states of wakefulness, sleep, and delirium ; and to the
transitions from one of these states to another ; but I re-
solved to abstain from all theory, and limit myself to the
giving of precepts, which I believe correct, without explain-
ing the reasons of my adopting them. I will then simply
say :
If your patient becomes a somnambulist, have near you
only the witness whom you admitted at the commencement,
and who is in communication with you. Refuse absolutely
to show him to any curious person, and let no one approach
him except when it will be of utility, and with the precau-
tions which I shall soon indicate. Put no questions to him
except such as relate to his health, and graduate these ques-
tions so as not to fatigue him. Do not seek for wonderful
effects : refrain, by all means, from relating those which
CHAP. IV. AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 73
you have seen. You can give yourself this satisfaction
when the treatment is ended : but until then you ought to
think only of the cure.
If your somnambulist prescribes remedies for himself, you
will contrive with him the means proper to be followed to
induce him to take them when he is awakened.
If among the remedies there are some that you cannot
procure, or whose- application presents too great difficulty,
you will induce him to substitute others. If he requests you
to magnetize him at an hour or under circumstances which
render it impossible to you, you will explain to him the rea-
sons that oppose it, and determine him to search out the
means of supplying your presence, at the moment when he
thinks it would be necessary to him.
Some somnambulists, after having announced that their
condition is very serious, consider it with a sort of indiffer-
ence, and do not wish to give themselves the trouble of
looking for a remedy. Others manifest a reluctance to ex-
amine their disease. The sight of the disorder which they
perceive in their internal organs, affrights them. When
this is the case, you must not partake of the fears of your
somnambulist. You must exert the power of your will to
determine him to a very scrupulous examination of his com-
plaint, to consider without affright the interior of his own
body, as if it were not his own, and to make efforts to dis-
cover the means of cure. If you are calm, and know how
to exert your will, your somnambulist will certainly obey
you ; he will recover himself, and explain to you the actual
danger, and the means of removing it. Perhaps you will
not succeed in curing him ; but you will procure him all
the soothing influence possible, and you will know to what
you ought to direct your efforts. Do not lose hope, even
G
74 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
when he assures you that his disease is incurable. Som-
nambulists have often said at the first sittings, that it was
impossible to rescue them from death, and afterwards have
found the means of restoration to health.
When your somnambulist gives you a description of his
disease, you must listen without interrupting him. You may
afterwards request him to explain more clearly and more
in detail, what you were not able to understand. You may
interrogate him about things which you ought to be ac-
quainted with in order to perform your own duty well, but
you should go no further. Ask him no anatomical ques-
tions. He perceives the seat of his own disorder ; he sees
the lesion which exists in one part, but it is rare that he
sees the situation, the form, and the tissue of his organs,
especially of those which are not affected. If you make
him talk beyond this, you will obtain from him only vague
and perhaps erroneous views. He will not make a mistake
either in foretelling a crisis, in pointing out a remedy, or in
describing the effects it will produce : but he could easily
give you explanations, which would be ridiculous in the ratio
of the interest you display in hearing them. You do not
interrogate your somnambulist to dissipate your doubts, for
you ought not to have.doubts ; if you have, you would mag-
netize very badly : nor is it to satisfy your curiosity, for this
would withdraw you from the principal object : nor is it,
finally, to acquire a knowledge of physiology, anatomy or
medicine ; for, what a somnambulist says, is not applicable
to any but himself. Confine yourself to the knowledge of
what is requisite for his restoration, and take care not to let
his imagination dwell upon things foreign to this object. If
he busies himself about persons absent, bring him back to
what concerns himself, without permitting yourself to won-
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 75
der at the faculty he possesses of seeing at a distance, and
without seeking new proofs of this faculty.
Some circumstances authorize the magnetizer to admit
some one to his treatment : there are also some which make
it his duty to do it. I will give examples, and show how
one ought to conduct himself in such cases. If your som-
nambulist often mentions to you a person who interests him,
and desires you to bring him in, and you see no inconvenience
in doing it, you may yield to his wish. Thus a woman in
the magnetic state might be continually dwelling upon her
daughter, whose state of health gives her anxiety, and to
whom she wishes to give advice : do not refuse to let her
enter, and put her in communication. The same might be
said of a husband, or an intimate friend.
If your somnambulist gives proofs of remarkable lucidity,
and affirms that he is able to know the disease of another,
as well as his own, and if a consultation would not fatigue
him, you could consent to it, in order to render service to
one who desires it, and has confidence. But these consul-
tations ought to be rare, and you ought never to permit two
to be held the same day. You ought also to avoid trusting
the direction of many patients at a time to a somnambulist.
He can hardly take the same interest in all, identify himself
alternately with each, and manage them well. As to the
rest, it depends upon the faculties of the somnambulists.*
In all cases, it is necessary to avoid fatiguing them.
Before introducing a patient to your somnambulist, you
will let him touch something that the patient has worn, so
* The sensibility, the clairvoyance, the power of attention, differ
prodigiously in different somnambulists, and in the same somnam-
bulists, at various times.
76 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
that he may tell you whether he feels any repugnance to
it, and whether he sees any danger in heing put in commu-
nication with him. When you have introduced the patient,
you will require of him to speak only of his health, and if
the conversation takes another turn, you will oppose it.
You will not permit any one to give your somnambulist
any token of gratitude ; he should not be moved by any
other desire than that of doing good.
You will not suffer your somnambulist to be magnetized
indiscriminately by any person. The somnambulists who
are in communication with several magnetizers, end by los-
ing their lucidity.
If indispensable business forces you to interrupt the treat-
ment of your somnambulist, have an understanding with him
to find some one to supply your place. Should the inter-
ruption be only for a few days, the magnetizer taking your
place, should act only in your name, according to your
views and your method, and under your direction. If the
interruption is to be of long continuance, you should give up
your somnambulist entirely.
If your somnambulist has caprices, you will oppose them
by letting him know your will, without dispute. Never suf-
fer him to get the upper hand of you. You ought to yield
all that will conduce to his good, and resist his fantastic no-
tions. You are for him an attentive and benevolent, but just
and inflexible Providence.
If your somnambulist has pangs of conscience (peines mo-
rales) which aggravate his malady, seek with him the
means of easing them. You will console him, and profit by
his confidence to soften his chagrin, and destroy the cause.
If he has any inclinations which you disapprove of, employ
your ascendancy in vanquishing them.
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 77
You must avoid most carefully, penetrating into the se-
crets of your somnambulist, when it is not evidently useful
to him to have these secrets known to you. I need not add
that if he tells you things which he would not have told you
in the ordinary state, you will never permit yourself to im-
part it to any person, not even to your most intimate friend.
I have already said, that if the somnambulist prescribes
for himself, remedies which appear improper for his state,
the magnetizer ought not to depend upon his first sugges-
tion. I ought to insist upon this point.
It is infinitely rare that a somnambulist orders for himself
a remedy which would be injurious to him, and mistakes in
regard to the doses ;
yet this may happen, for there are in-
stances of it; and though it happen but once in a thousand
times, it would be a sufficient reason for taking the greatest
precautions. I am going to explain the possible causes of
mistakes, and the means of preventing the consequences.
The state of somnambulism is not always accompanied
with a perfect clairvoyance ; and that clairvoyance, when
it is manifested in the most surprising manner, is often rela-
tive to a certain order of ideas, and variable in its intensity.
For the proper exercise of it, the somnambulist must con-
centrate his faculties upon a single object, without distrac-
tion, without trouble, without the intervention of any foreign
influence to change the direction of his mind. It is neces-
sary that the interest he takes in the object which occupies
his mind, should determine him to make efforts of attention,
to vanquish his indolence, and free himself from all the pre-
judices of his ordinary state. One might tell me that the
interest which the somnambulist takes in his own health,
will prevail with him over every other consideration : that
he will see his own body more distinctly than any thing
78 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
else : and if there be in him an instinctive faculty, he will
exercise it upon his own wants. This would appear to be
the case, but it is not always so.
Many somnambulists, either through vanity or excess of
benevolence, are more fond of being busy about others than
about themselves. Others are unwilling to examine their
own disease and the consequences it may have ; others
again seem to set little value upon their cure ; they think
they shall be more happy, when their souls shall be freed
from the bondage of matter. The magnetizer, instead of
being amazed at this species of exaltation, should employ
all the power of his will to bring it to an end, and to induce
the somnambulist to be occupied only with his own health.
All that I have said in this chapter tends to show the im-
portance of these principles, and if my readers have confi-
dence in me, they will keep themselves free from enthusi-
asm, which is much more dangerous than incredulity.
But suppose a somnambulist is occupied only about his
own physical state, and his own cure; suppose his clairvoy-
ance is real, and he speaks from his actual perceptions, and
not from anterior impressions ; he may nevertheless com-
mit an error in the treatment he prescribes for himself.
This is owing to a cause to which it is proper to call atten-
tion.
It often happens that a patient when put into a state of
somnambulism, is afflicted at the same time with several
very dangerous diseases ; and that the treatment which is
proper for one, is not proper for another. The somnambu-
list at first is employed upon the organ the most affected,
the most severe and painful malady ; he fixes his attention
upon that which gives him the most uneasiness ; and in
consequence prescribes remedies for himself, without exam-
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 79
ining whether they are not otherwise injurious. I have
lately seen an instance of this. A somnambulist whose
lungs were affected, and whose stomach was much impaired,
ordered for her stomach, a remedy which would have prob-
ably aggravated the disease of the lungs. The magnetizer
made some observations to her about it ; she agreed that
these observations were just ; she put off the use of the
remedy she had prescribed for herself; and fifteen days
afterwards she cried out of her own accord, " How glad I
am that you did not permit me to take the medicine I thought
of taking ; now the state of my lungs allows me to make
use of it." She was in fact cured. She would not have
been, if the magnetizer had been less prudent. It may be
laid down as a general rule, that when the somnambulist is
attacked by several diseases, he is naturally induced to fix his
attention upon that which appears to him the most serious.
Some precautions will now be given by which you may
be sure of preventing the dangers springing from too much
precipitation, or from blind confidence.
When your somnambulist prescribes for himself a remedy
which appears to be unsuitable to his condition, you will
make your objections to him ;
you will engage him to exam-
ine the state of his organs successively, and with the
greatest attention, and give you an account of them. You
will request him to explain the reasons which have induced
him to choose the remedy in question, and to describe accu-
rately the effects he anticipates from it. You will present
him the medicine and make him touch and taste it. You
will request him to tell what a dose should be, not only by
the name of the measure or weight, but by showing you
the quantity which he wishes to take. If, after all these
precautions, he persists, you may depend upon him.
80 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
It seems impossible to me that, in the state of somnambu-
lism, an individual should entertain the criminal project of
putting an end to his own existence ; and I could not believe
that, after having carefully examined a deleterious sub-
stance, he would not reject it. Yet if it should happen that
the prescription of a somnambulist may put his life in im-
minent danger, the magnetizer, it is evident, ought not to
conform to it. Repeated proofs of great clairvoyance and
purity of intention, are doubtless powerful motives of con-
fidence. But they do not give us the entire certainty,
which alone may authorize us to make use of an unknown
means, where an error would be attended with fatal conse-
quences.*
Somnambulists often prescribe for themselves remedies
which they have heard spoken of, or of which they have
formerly made trial ; in place of which one might substitute
others much more efficacious. You should then call their
attention to that which appears more proper for them, and
discuss the motives of their choice.
* An epileptic patient who was under magnetic treatment at the
Saltpetrierc Hospital, declared the only means of curing her, would
be to excite in her, in the most critical circumstances, and by violent
means, a sudden fright, which would naturally put her life in the
greatest danger. For three months she insisted upon the same
thing. They finally resolved to follow her advice, and the result
was a cure. But they who did this were able physicians. They
knew the desperate state of the patient ; they had never seen her
make mistakes ; they judged that the shock indicated might produce
a salutary crisis, which could not be obtained by any other means
and their profession authorized them to calculate the chances of
danger and success. A magnetizer, who was not a physician,
would not have been able to assume such a responsibility.
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 81
Many things might be added in relation to the direction
ofsomnambulists ; but I think they will be naturally deduced
from the principles which I have laid down.
I return to the manner of applying the processes when
somnambulism has been induced.
The somnambulist always indicates the processes which
are proper for him ; so that there can be no uncertainty
about them. These processes are sometimes very laborious
and very fatiguing to the magnetizer ; they demand from
him patience, courage, and devotedness : yet they are indis-
pensable to devclope and happily terminate a crisis essential
to the cure ; but this is very seldom. The greater part of
the time, nature labors alone during somnambulism, and
you have no need of doing any thing more than to hold the
thumbs of the somnambulist, or place your hand upon his
knees, or even to be busy about him.
You need not magnetize him longer than he judges use-
ful, on the days, and at the hour he intimates. If it is es-
sentia] not to interrupt a crisis at its commencement, it is
often injurious to prolong it beyond the necessary time.
There are somnambulists who fear the impression of too
strong a light. I have seen some of them who caused
themselves to be bandaged across the eyes ; but there are
others who experience fatigue by closing the eye-lids, and
who request to have their eyes opened. The magnetizer
succeeds in doing this by making passes across the eyes,
without its diminishing the intensity of somnambulism.
The somnambulist then seems to be in his natural state ;
but it is necessary to watch over him with the precautions
he indicates. There are cases when this non-apparent
somnambulism can be very useful, as we shall soon see.
82 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
When we wish to ask the somnambulist a question, it is
necessary to explain our will by words. Good somnambu-
lists understand the will without our speaking to them.
But why should we employ this mode when there is no
need of it ? It is an experiment, and it is a rule which
every one ought to adopt, to interdict all experiment. I
agree that there are cases where it is expedient to employ
only the influence of the will. For instance, there may be
near you a third person, and you perceive your somnam-
bulist, who thinks himself alone with you, about to say
things which this third person ought not to know ;
you will
impose silence by your will.
At the close of the sitting, when you wish to waken your
somnambulist, you will first make passes along the legs to
free the head, then you will make some across the eyes to
open them, saying to him, wake ! The eyes often remain
shut after the somnambulist is awakened. You will bring
them from this condition, by patiently passing your fin-
gers many times across them. Then you will disperse the
fluid from the head, and from the rest of the body, by
passes made crosswise at a distance, in order to scatter and
shake it off. You will have the precaution to continue this
until your somnambulist shall be perfectly roused from sleep.
It is of the very greatest consequence to establish a line
of demarkation, well defined, between the state of somnam-
bulism, and the natural state of wakefulness. The som-
nambulist, when he is awakened, ought to preserve nothing,
positively nothing, of the sensations which he experienced,
nor of the ideas which occupied him in somnambulism.
Somnambulism, prolonged beyond the necessary time, im-
parts a nervous susceptibility which is attended with great
inconveniences ; it ought to cease after the cure. If it
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 83
should continue and renew itself spontaneously, it would
itself be a disease.
I have already noticed that it would always be expedient,
as far as possible, to let the patient remain ignorant that he
has been a somnambulist ; and that, excepting certain very
rare cases, it is proper never to repeat what he may have
uttered. For it would establish between the ideas of the
natural state, and those of somnambulism, a relation which
is contrary to the natural order ; and which equally alters
the habitual faculties, and the somnambulic faculties. If
you know how to control yourself by your own will, your
patient will never be informed of any thing which you think
ought to be kept from him.
Somnambulists perfectly abstracted, whose interior facul-
ties have acquired great energy, are often found in a frame
of mind of which you might avail yourself advantageously
to make them follow a course of regimen, or to make them
do things useful for them, but contrary to their habits and
inclinations. The magnetizer can, after it has been mutu-
ally agreed upon, impress upon them, while in the somnam-
bulic state, an idea or a determination which will influence
them in the natural state, without their knowing the cause.
For instance, the magnetizer will say to the somnambulist,
" You will return home at such an hour : you will not go this
evening to the theatre : you will clothe yourself in such a man-
ner : you will take your medicines without being obstinate :
you will take no liquor : you will drink no coffee : you will
occupy yourself no longer in such a thing : you will drive
away such a fear : you will forget such a thing." The
somnambulist will be naturally induced to do what has been
thus prescribed. He will recollect it without suspecting it
to be any thing more than a recollection of what you have
84 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
ordered for his benefit ; he will have a desire for what you
have advised him, and a dislike to what you have inter-
dicted. Take advantage of this empire of your will and of
this concert with him, solely for the benefit of the patient.
Your will probably acts merely in modifying his, and you
might obtain from him the performance of indifferent things
to which he would devote himself to please you ; but this
would be contrary to the spirit and design of magnetism.
You may often find it in your power, while your patient
is in the somnambulic state, to induce him to take a medi-
cine for which he has a repugnance. I have seen a lady,
who had a horror at the sight of leeches, cause them to be
applied to her feet during somnambulism, and say to her
magnetizer, " Prevent me from looking at my feet when I
awake." In fact she never suspected that any one had
applied leeches to her.
Many somnambulists are endowed with inconceivable ad-
dress, and can perform certain operations as well as the best
surgeons. I am acquainted with a lady, who, in the state
of somnambulism, opened a swelling beneath her breast, and
dressed the wound until it was healed.
This address of somnambulists, can be useful to others as
well as to themselves, especially when it is accompanied
with clairvoyance ; there are some cases even, when they
can render the greatest service. I will instance a midwife
who, having become a somnambulist during a disease for
which she caused herself to be magnetized, preserved the
same faculties after her restoration to health. When she is
called upon to exercise her profession, if the case appears
to present any difficulties, she goes to her magnetizer, who
puts her into somnambulism, and opens her eyes. She de-
clared to me, that in this state, she could act with much
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 85
more address, strength, and certainty. In January last, she
in this manner very successfully delivered of three children,
a woman whose state was very dangerous.
Among the phenomena which somnambulism often pre-
sents, there is one from which persons might, under certain
circumstances, derive a great advantage. It is that of ab-
solute insensibility. There are many somnambulists that
one could pinch and prick very hard without their feeling
it. One of the somnambulists that was in the Saltpetriere
Hospital, received no impression from a bottle ofsal volatile
applied to her nose : and when experiments in magnetism
were made at the Hotel Dieu Hospital, moxas were applied
to two somnambulists who were not awakened by them.
Persons have concluded from these dangerous experiments,
that if a surgical operation were necessary to a patient
susceptible of magnetism, it might be done without causing
pain : and it is true in certain cases. But although this in-
sensibility is displayed by nearly all somnambulists, which
have been at the Hotel Dieu and the Saltpetriere, it is far
from being general. I am even inclined to think it would
never occur, if the magnetizers did not overcharge their
subjects, and if they took care to preserve the harmony of
the system. My somnambulists have never exhibited it to
me : on the contrary, their sensibility was more delicate
than in the natural state ; the contact of a body not mag-
netized was disagreeable to them ; and the touch of a stran-
gcr gave them a great deal of pain. I am also certain that
somnambulists have experienced convulsions, and have been
awaked by having been roughly touched by some one who
was not in communication.
I know that a magnetizer can by his will paralyze any
limb of his somnambulist; but he ought never to permit
H
86 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
himself the trial of this experiment. As to the rest, if a
patient has need of an operation that is painful, we should
learn from him whether it ought to be performed during
somnambulism, or during the natural state, and what pre-
cautions ought to be taken to insure success.
The absolute insensibility of the organs of sense and of
those of motion, united to the exaltation of sentiment and of
thought, are sometimes symptoms that life is drawing to-
wards the brain and the epigastrium. The spirit seems
then to disengage itself from the organs, and the somnambu-
list becomes independent of the will of the magnetizer.
This state, to which the name of ecstacy, or magnetic ex.
altation has been given, and which many German authors
have considered as the most elevated state of magnetism, is
exceedingly dangerous. You could not suddenly wake one
who is in it, and if you should succeed in doing it, he would
remain in a state of excessive weakness, and perhaps of par-
lysis, which you could not put an end to without great
exertion. I know not how then to recommend too highly
to magnetizers to oppose the developement of this crisis. I
believe even that it would hardly ever present itself, if the
somnambulist were to busy himself only about his own
health, and if one were to take care to free the head and to
re-establish harmony, when he sees the limbs stiffen and
become insensible. I shall return hereafter to this subject.
The details into which I have entered, appear sufficient
to make you acquainted with somnambulism, as it frequently
presents itself in the course of a magnetic treatment, and of
the means of directing it to a useful purpose, and of avoid-
ing its inconveniences. I have also said with sufficient
distinctness, that this crisis, if you oppose the workings of na-
ture, might become as hurtful as it would be salutary if you
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 87
have the wisdom to listen to her and aid her. I know that
some instances of success obtained by imprudent rashness,
might be cited ; but these instances are rare. Wise cau-
tiousness can never be a disadvantage ; and when we desert
it, we expose ourselves to the greatest dangers. There
remains, then, nothing essential to say upon the application
of somnambulism to the treatment of diseases ; and when I
commenced writing this chapter, it did not enter into my
plan to go farther.* I resolved to pass over in silence the
extraordinary phenomena. I thought that those who had
not seen analogous ones, would regard me as a visionary ;
and that such a reputation would not only be afflictive to
me, but might also put an obstacle in the way of my doing
the good which I wish to do ; for people will be guided
by the counsels of a man subject to illusions, no more than
by those of a man void of good faith. But after having
devoted reflection to it, I thought it my duty to yield to
more important considerations, and to elevate myself above
the fears excited by self-love. I am determined then to
* Various somnambulists exhibit very different phenomena ; and
the only distinctive and constant character of somnambulism, is, the
existence of a new mode of perception. For instance, there are
abstracted somnambulists ; there are others who are not. Some of
them exhibit a species of attraction like magnetic needles ; others
have only the internal faculties. Some of them have all the sensa-
tions concentrated at the epigastrium ; others make use of some of
their senses. There are, finally, some of them, who, after waking,
preserve for a certain time the recollection of the impressions they
have received, and of the ideas they have had during the crisis. I
was obliged to limit myself to explain what takes place most com-
monly, and to teach what it is necessary to know to assist nature,
and to derive from somnambulism the greatest advantage.
88 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAF. IV.
speak of a very singular state, because it may be presented
to others as it has been to me and to many of my friends,
and which it is important to know, that it may not be con-
founded with the exaltation of which I have already pointed
out the danger, and that its developement may not be coun-
teracted.
I am first going to describe the species of somnambulism
of which I wish to speak. I will then tell how one ought
to conduct himself with those who have reached that state,
if he would derive any advantage from it, to them or to
himself.
In this state the circulation is regular, the heat is equal
through all the body, and the members preserve their sen-
sibility. The somnambulist is so thoroughly in communi-
cation with his magnetizer as to read his thoughts, but
receives no impression through the organs of sense. It is
no longer the sensation which produces ideas ; on the con-
trary it is the ideas which produce sensations. In the ordi-
nary state every thing parts from the circumference to
reach the center ; in this, every thing parts from the center
to reach the circumference ; and this circumference some-
times extends to illimitable distances. But it is not this
which characterizes the degree ofsomnambulism of which I
speak. It is the absolute indifference to what appertains to
terrestrial objects, to the interests of fortune or of reputation.
It is the absence of the passions and the opinions by which
one is governed in the ordinary state, and of even all ac-
quired. ideas, of which they can very well preserve the
recollection, but to which they no longer attach importance.
It is the little interest that they take in life ; it is a novel
manner of viewing objects ; it is a quick and direct judg-
ment, accompanied with an intimate conviction. The som-
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 89
nambulist appears to have lost the faculties by which we
are directed ; the impressions and notions which come from
without, do not reach him ; but during the silence which he
observes in regard to what is foreign to his soul, he feels
within himself the developement of a new light, whose rays
are darted upon all that excites in him a real interest. At
the same time the sentiment of conscientiousness is aroused,
and determines the judgment which he ought to form. Thus
the somnambulist possesses at the same time the torch which
gives him his light, and the compass that points out his way.
This torch and this compass are not the product of som-
nambulism ; they ai-e always in us ; but the distracting
cares of this world, the passions, and above all pride and
attachment to perishable things, prevent us from perceiving
the one, and consulting the other.
When the somnambulist has reached this degree of ex-
altation, his manner of speaking is almost always different
from that which he has in his ordinary state. His diction
is pure and simple, elegant and precise ; his manner unim-
passioned ; every thing announces in him a state of tran-
quillity, a distinct view of that of which he speaks, and an
entire conviction of its reality. You perceive in his dis-
course not the least of what is called excitement or enthu-
siasm ; and I insist on this point, because those who have
spoken of this state without having seen it, have supposed
it to have a character opposed to what it really has, and
which even serves to distinguish it.
In this new situation, the mind is filled with religious ideas
with which perhaps it was never before occupied. He sees
every where the action of Providence. This life appears
to him only a journey, during which we ought to collect
what is necessary for us in our everlasting mansions. The
G*
90 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
independence of the soul, the liberty of man, immortality,
are to him evident truths. He is convinced that God hears
us ; that prayer is the most efficacious means of obtaining
his aid, and dissipating the ills around us, or at least of
turning them to our advantage. Taking care to make our
labors on earth, as well as the troubles we experience, ac-
ceptable to God, appears a means of converting them into
good works.
Charity is for him the first of virtues ; that which affords
us the easy means of expiating our sins, and which often
suffices to obtain their remission. He is so much penetrated
with it, that he forgets himself for others, and no sacrifice
for the sake of doing good costs him too much. This sen-
timent of benevolence is extended to all, and he makes sup-
plications for those who hold opinions the most opposite to
his own. Sometimes the prodigious difference he perceives
between his new manner of viewing objects, and that which
he had in his ordinary state, the new lights which shine for
him, the new faculties with which he finds himself endowed,
the immensity of the horizon which is spread before his
eyes, persuade him that he is inspired ; what he says seems
to be dictated by a voice from within ; what he sees is
shown to him ; he regards himself as the organ of a supe-
rior intelligence ; but this does not excite his vanity. He
delights to reflect in silence, and he speaks to you only to
say things useful for your moral direction.
Happy the man who has chanced to meet a somnambu-
list of this kind ; for there is no means of bringing forth
from an ordinary somnambulist, the faculties I have just de-
scribed. It is a 'horologe fabricated by nature : we can
easily disturb its movements, but we can neither set it ago-
ing, nor regulate it, because we are unacquainted with its
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 91
springs. We must consult it, but we must not permit our-
selves to touch it for the purpose of accelerating or retard-
ing its motion.
If then you see the state of which I am speaking manifest
itself, you should listen attentively to your somnambulist
you will put no question ; for the moment you design to di-
rect him, you will cause him to leave the sphere in which
he is ;
you will turn aside his faculties from the object for
which they are destined, and transport him into an immense
field of illusions. The power of your will, however great
it may be, cannot force him to see beyond the circle in
which he is placed. If you mingle your ideas with his,
your conjectures with his perceptions, you will obscure his
clairvoyance : the only mode for you to pursue, is to favor
its developement and its application : it is the confidence and
the simplicity that you show, not by your words, but by the
disposition of your soul, which has need of no expression in
order to be perceived and recognised by him.
Without doubt, some person will say to me, But where
is the proof that this state of my somnambulist is not owing
to a peculiar disposition of his imagination, which causes him
to mistake chimerical ideas for correct notions ? Ought I to
withdraw my reason to grant him a blind confidence ? And
how shall I assure myself of the truth of what he tells me,
if I do not combat his opinions in order to hear his replies,
and appreciate their correctness and their worth ?
I will answer you in this manner. I am very far from
advising you to renounce your reason in order to adopt the
ideas and follow the instructions of a somnambulist. On
the contrary, your reason and good sense must combine the
whole, and your decision must spring from their proper ex-
ercise. But it is necessary to point out two conditions.
92 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
While your somnambulist is giving utterance to his ideas,
you will let him speak without interruption. You will not
only make no objection, but you will banish from your mind
all those which suggest themselves to you. You will not
exert your will to influence or direct him. You will not
demand of him an explanation of what he has told you, ex-
cept when you have not well understood. You will not de-
sire to know what he wishes to teach you of his own accord.
You will also try not to be astonished at what appears to
you extraordinary. You will not seek to penetrate into
that which appears incomprehensible. You will, above all,
avoid putting your somnambulist to the proof, and taking
indirect means to ascertain his clairvoyance. You will lis-
ten to him with self-forgetfulness, confidence and simplicity,
as a child listens to a mother when she relates things to
form his heart and his understanding, while amusing his
mind. But after he has re-entered the ordinary state, and
you are away from him, you will recapitulate all he has
told you ;
you will examine the connexion of his ideas ;
you will appreciate the correctness of his reasonings ;
you
will weigh the degree of utility in his instructions. You
can then indulge your astonishment at the penetration with
which he has read your heart, at the sincerity of his wishes
for your real happiness, at the exactitude which he has
shown you while speaking of a passed event with which he
was not acquainted ; at the probability of his previsions of
the future, which it is useful for you to know. But this
astonishment should not bring on your conviction. The
more marvellous a fact is, the more we ought to fear being
seduced by appearances, to mistrust the impression they
first make upon us, and search out the circumstances that
may give them a natural explanation. Many somnambu-
CHAP. IV. AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 93
lists, when their faculties were exalted, have been known
to read the thoughts of others, to have previsions, to be ex-
empt from vanity, and moved solely by the desire of
enlightening others ; and yet to be the dupes of illusions
which are mingled with the most luminous perceptions.
You ought then to ascertain that his opinions are not pro-
duced by old impressions on the memory, by the prejudices
of early youth, by lectures or conversations which have
formerly acted temporarily upon his mind ; finally, that no
exterior influence has contributed to impart a peculiar char-
acter to his manner of viewing things.* If in all he tells
you there is nothing which cannot be verified, you will evi-
dently perceive that he is not deceived, that the torch by
which he is enlightened has not been vacillating. Then
your confidence will be excited by a train of facts and ob-
servations which determine your reasoning ; and not by
discourses more or less eloquent ; by exhortations more or
* There are somnambulists who retrace with surprising facility
the ideas which they received in their infancy, and upon whom these
ideas exercise more control than those which they have since ac-
quired. A very lucid somnambulist magnetized by M. de Lausanne,
afforded me a remarkable instance of this phenomenon. She was a
woman about forty years old. She was born at St. Domingo, from
whence she came to France at the age of six or seven years, and she
had never afterwards been among Creoles. As soon as she was in
the somnambulic state, she absolutely spoke nothing but the pecu-
liar dialect (patois) which she had learned from the negress who
had nursed her. In these recollections of infancy, in this re-
turn towards the first years of life, we must search for the cause of
the opinions of some somnambulists. There are some of them who
seem to forget the notions they have acquired by reason and observa-
tion, as they retrograde by degrees towards the period when their
.minds were but as smooth tablets.
94 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
less affecting ; by phenomena which are inexplicable, but
which are seen elsewhere ; nor by images and descriptions
more or less calculated to move us. It should be only after
this examination, made in the spirit of reflection and in sol-
itude, that you should form your judgement. It is essential
that your belief should be supported by facts well demon-
strated to your own mind, so that no objection may after-
wards present itself which has not been settled beforehand ;
because this belief, far from being a fugitive opinion, ought
in certain respects to decide your conduct.
Then, if it happens that your somnambulist enters several
times in succession into the same state, you will continue to
hear him without any expression of thankfulness, or appro-
bation, but with a desire to profit by what he will tell you
and perhaps you will find in him a guide who will not lead
you astray. He will, at least, convince you of the existence
of an order of things, different from the present order, and
will bring you acquainted with the source of pure and dura-
ble felicity, which nothing external, terrestrial, and tran-
sient, can impart.
The species of somnambulism which I have described, is
extremely rare, and many persons will think that in a work
designed to teach the use of magnetism, I ought to have ab-
stained from speaking of it, because there is little probability
of its being presented to my readers. To this, I answer,
that if this state is rare, it is our own fault ; it doubtless sup-
poses an unusual developement of the soul's faculties ; but
this developement frequently takes place, and nearly all
those who have practised magnetism have had it more or
less in their power to observe it. If it has not been attended
with that pure lucidity of which I have seen examples, it is
because they have disturbed or turned aside the natural ten-
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 95
dency. I am persuaded, that out of ten somnambulists, who,
left to themselves, would reach this state, nine have been
thrust into a false direction. Their astonishing faculties
have then made them run over a thousand paths in the vast
domain of the imagination. Hence it has resulted that
among those who have had opportunity to see this extraor-
dinary somnambulism, some have regarded it as the result
of a communication with spirits ; some, as a gift of prophe-
cy ; others, as the effect of the soul's exaltation ; others,
again, as a transient insanity. Sometimes we perceive in
it illusions of the strangest kind, without any real founda-
tion ; sometimes a mixture of superstitious notions with very
astonishing previsions ; sometimes metaphoric language and
incoherent images ; and people have formed various judg-
ments of this state, according as they were most struck with
what was presented of light and truth, or of darkness and
illusion. Nothing of this would have existed, if the som-
nambulist had been well directed, or rather, if he had not
been led astray by the ignorance, the vanity, the curiosity
of his magnetizer ; if the natural chain of his ideas had not
been interrupted, to occupy him in subjects which were ab-
solutely alien to him.
The greater part of my readers will, without doubt, judge
that I labor under an illusion in relation to the phenomena
of which I have just given an account ; and I ought the
more to expect it, because I would not myself believe until
I had been an eye-witness : I did not perceive their reality
till very late, and long after I had published my Critical
History : but then they were frequently renewed before
my eyes, and I am well convinced that I should have seen
them sooner, if I had conducted myself with more single-
ness of purpose. Those who will follow the instructions I
96 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [cHAP. IV.
have given, will have the same happiness that I have had
and this consideration alone has determined me to give them
precautions, by taking which they will profit by the favor-
able circumstances, and not let slip an opportunity which
does not occur when we search for it, but which we may
seize when it comes in our way.
I ought further to mention that this state is rarely much
prolonged ; and that the magnetizer has no power whatever
to reproduce it, when it has ceased to manifest itself. When
the somnambulist has told you what he deemed important
to tell you, his clairvoyance ceases, or at least is no longer
engaged upon things of the same nature. You must profit
by the moment.
I do not pretend in any manner to discover the causes of
the phenomena about which I have spoken. Every one
can explain them as he chooses. The wisest way is not to
search for an explanation. For in our waking state wc
can very well recognise by the effects, the existence of a
new faculty in somnambulists, but we can no more deter-
mine the nature of it, than they who arc blind from birth,
can conceive the phenomena of vision.
Perhaps some one will ask of me, whether the somnam-
bulists of whom I speak, could not give us some light on the
dogmas of religion, on the choice between the various forms
of worship, and on certain questions which have unhappily
divided mankind. I can merely answer that I do not believe
they can. But it is too essential an object to forewarn my
readers against a curiosity, always useless and often dan-
gerous, for me to neglect adding some observations in this
place to the principles I have already laid down : these
details will also serve to make them the better distinguish
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 97
the species of somnambulism to which I have called their
attention.
I have said that the somnambulist is illuminated by a light
which our spirit received from God at the moment of its
existence. This light, anterior to human education, shows
to man that which is the foundation of all religion, as the
conscience unveils to him that which is the foundation of
all morals ; but it teaches him revealed dogmas no more
than it does positive laws.
What are the truths which are shown with evidence to
the somnambulist? The existence, the omnipotence, the
bounty of the Creator ; the immortality of the soul ; the
certainty of another life, the recompense of the good, the
punishment of the evil which we have done in this ; Provi-
dence, the necessity and efficacy of prayer, the pre-eminence
of charity over the other virtues ; to which is joined the
consoling idea that those who have preceded us on earth,
and who have merited the enjoyment of eternal happiness,
hear our wishes, take an interest in us, and may be our inter-
cessors before God ; the profound conviction that God never
refuses to enlighten us in what we ought to know, when,
submitted to his will, we ask aid of him ; the firm persua-
sion of the utility of worship, which, by uniting men to ren-
der homage to God, prescribes rules and practice to all, by
which they pray in concert to obtain the blessings of heaven.
These are the ideas common to all religious somnambulists.
They go not beyond that, which is to say to you, in a gen-
eral manner, to fulfil the duties which religion imposes upon
you. But when you are once imbued with these principles,
will you fail to have the means of instruction, to know what
you ought to believe and what you ought to practise ?
I
98 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
But, says some one, I would like very much to interro-
gate my somnambulist, and profit by his knowledge, to dis-
sipate this or that doubt, to answer this or that objection.
You will gain nothing : you will even lose the advantages
you might derive from his lucidity. It is very possible that
you could make him speak upon all the subjects of your in-
discreet curiosity ; but in that case, as I have already warned
you, you will make him leave his own sphere to intro-
duce him into 3'ours : he will no longer have any other re-
sources than yourself: he will utter to you very eloquent
discourses, but they will no more be dictated by the inter-
nal inspiration, they will be the product of his recollections,
or of his imagination ;
perhaps you will also rouse his van-
ity, and then all is lost ; he will not re-enter the circle from
which he has wandered. And how can you suppose that a
light, which is innate in all men, should throw its rays be.
yond that of revelation ? Is it not enough that it brings us to
recognise the advantages of this revelation ? If you are in
an obscure labyrinth, your guide makes use of his torch ;
but as soon as he has conducted you to the place where the
light of the sun is shining, his torch is useless. If, in em-
barrassing circumstances, you have to choose between dif-
ficult duties, your somnambulist may enlighten you ; but
if you say to him, " Is it permitted me to avoid paying such
a tax ?" he will merely answer, " Consult the laws."
I know very well that somnambulists have been, and are
now known to discourse about religion, and even about the
social organization ; but they do not resemble those of
whom I have just spoken ; the imagination controlling all
their other faculties, their manner of utterance, and the ex-
pression of their features, stamp them as enthusiasts. The
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 99
two states cannot bo confounded, if you will but conform to
the rules I have given. Moreover these somnambulists
are evidently influenced by the persons who surround
them, by the circumstances in which they are placed.
The errors to which they are subject, the illusions of which
they are the sport, the extravagances which they utter,
result from a nervous excitement which they would never
have experienced, if the faculties had been naturally de-
veloped, in silence, solitude, and freedom from external
influence.*
* I have said that the somnambulist, when arrived at the highest
degree of concentration, sometimes imagines himself to be inspired ;
but he can impart no idea of the beings to whom he thinks he owes
this inspiration. When a somnambulist has visions, they ought to
be considered as phantoms, like those which are witnessed in
drr ims, Bodies only have forms. If spirits could communicate
with us, it would be by exerting an immediate influence upon our
souls. Socrates, who believed himself inspired by a good genius,
affirmed that we could no more see it than any thing else which is
divine. (See Phitarck ; the Demon of Socrates, section 35. He
said that we could have an internal voice, because thought is man-
ifested to us only by language.
In somnambulism, the sensibility which is proper to the organs
of the internal life is exalted : from the latent state in which it is,
it becomes perceptible ; and these organs arc then the instruments
of our soul, as Doctor Bertrand has very well stated it, in his trea-
tise on Somnambulism. But this new mode of perception may lead
us into error, as does that which we enjoy in the ordinary state.
It is then important to distinguish what appertains to the natural
developcmcnt of the intellectual faculties, and the notions furnished
by the new instruments, from what may be produced by the imagi-
nation, or by a foreign influence. I have endeavored to impart the
means to avoid confounding these two classes of phenomena.
100 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAI>. IV.
Many enlightened men among those who are engaged in
physiology, and who have some notion of the phenomena of
magnetism, will not fail to affirm that the state which I
have described, is only one of the varieties of ordinary som-
nambulism, which differs from others in the concentration
of mind upon religious ideas, and that this docs not prove
any thing to establish the truth of the opinions held by those
who enter into that state. I will not discuss this question,
because it is not the design of this work to inquire into the
nature of the magnetic phenomena, nor to prove the truth
ofthe notions they impart to us. I have merely intended
to point out how the peculiar state which I have made
known, ought to be observed when it occurs, and what line
of conduct ought to be pursued so as not to trouble or
change its direction. Those who see it as I have, and take
the proper precautions, will soon decide for themselves as
to the degree of confidence to be placed in it. I wished to
teach the mode of avoiding the errors springing from our-
selves ; but I do not pretend to point out the sure character-
istics of truth. I have told when and how the facts might
be observed, but it is for each one to draw from these facts,
by the use of his own reason, the consequences which ap-
pear to him the most probable and the best founded. I will
merely call attention to the fact, that the doctrine which
somnambulists, in the highest state ofconcentration and ab-
straction, (isolement,) have laid down, is as far removed
from mysticism as from materialism, as much opposed to
intolerance as to incredulity ; that it makes no innovations,
and merely confirms opinions uttered at all times by some
of the sages ; that far from proscribing philosophy, it brings
it into accordance with religion : finally, that whether it be
CHAP. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 101
regarded as the product of the imagination, or as inspired
by the internal sentiment, we are forced to agree that the
consequences flowing from it inspire a high idea of the dig-
nity of man, favor the happiness of individuals, and tend to
establish peace and harmony in society. It is pleasant, it
is delightful, to have one more reason for expecting another
life, to believe that Providence watches over us, that our
afflictions, supported with resignation, will have a recom-
pense ; that all men, the children of a common parent,
ought to be united by the bonds of charity ; that those who
have preceded us on earth, hear our wishes, and take an
interest in us ; and that the good will one day be united in
a communion of sentiments and enjoyments, where the de-
lights of a pure affection, and the torch of a truth unob-
scured, will crown the desires of our souls, which were ere-
ated for knowledge and love.
Among the men who are engaged in magnetism, there
are, unhappily, some materialists. I cannot conceive how
it is that some of the phenomena of which they have been
witnesses, such as the power of seeing at a distance, previs-
ion, the action of the will, the communication of thought
without the aid of external signs, have not appeared to them
sufficient proofs of the spirituality of the soul : but, finally,
their opinion is opposite to mine ; they are sincere, because
they have no object in sustaining it; they are better in-
structed than I in the physical sciences ; my arguments
cannot change their manner of seeing, and I should be very
presumptuous, if I flattered myself with the idea of over-
coming them in the warfare of opposition. Well persuaded
that they are in error, I ought to wish for new phenomena
to enlighten their minds. Perhaps if they had observed the
i*
102 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
developement of somnambulism in all its simplicity, if they
had exercised no influence over their somnambulists, if they
had not excited their imagination or their vanity in requir-
ing extraordinary things of them, if they had left them to
the natural order of their ideas, they would have obtained
results altogether different. I invite them to follow the
path I have traced out. It is an experiment worthy of
their sagacity ; as it is of their courageous frankness, to re-
tract their first opinions, if they are ever convinced of their
having embraced an error.
In relation to the employment of magnetism, and the
management of somnambulism, I believe I have given all
the directions necessary to persons who arc not already
enlightened by experience. It all consists in having but a
single end in view, that of rendering service, of devoting
yourself to the patient whose treatment you undertake, to
make an entire sacrifice of personal considerations, to free
yourself from all self-interest, from all vanity, from all curi-
osity ; but, I must confess, the requisition is severe. He
who, by the desire of the family and with the consent of the
physician, has taken charge of the treatment of a dangerous
disease, ought to abstain from all other labor except what
the duties of his condition impose, to be indifferent to the
pleasantries of worldly men, to be silent in regard to the
phenomena he witnesses, to renounce almost all diversions,
to avoid that which may cause lively emotions, to husband
his strength habitually, so as to employ it when it is re-
quired, without the fear of fatigue ; finally, to occupy him-
self continually about the patient who has placed in him his
confidence, and to consider him as the counterpart of him-
self.
CHAP. IV. AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 103
What shall indemnify him for so much pains, for so
many sacrifices ? The satisfaction of having done good :
there is nothing beyond such enjoyment. If the services
you have rendered are soon forgotten, if you are exposed
to pleasantry, to ridicule, and even to the accusation of
charlatanry, you will remember that you have God as the
witness of your actions, and that you are happy enough in
having Him as the only one who designs to charge Himself
with your reward.
After what has been said, it may be seen that the prac-
tice of magnetism requires the possession of rare qualities,
and that the love of doing good should be the sole motive
for engaging in it. It is also evident that great prudence
should be exercised in the choice of a magnetizer.
NOTE I.
I have stated that somnambulists do not every day ex-
hibit the same degree of clairvoyance ; but I forgot to men-
tion that they sometimes lose it in respect to this or that
patient with whom they have long been in communication,
while at the same time, they show a great deal of it in re-
lation to others. This anomaly is singular ; but I have
unfortunately seen many instances of it. I will explain.
In severe chronic diseases, it happens very frequently
that, at the first consultation, the somnambulist sees in an
astonishing manner the anterior state, and the actual state
of the patient. He points out the remedies which first pro-
duce alleviation, and some days after, such an amelioration
as to make us consider the cure as certain. Every thing
104 OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
he tells is realized, and our confidence appears to be well
founded. But in the sequel, the condition of the patient
changes ; he grows worse. The somnambulist continues to
prescribe remedies which do not produce the intended
effects. He no longer judges by instinct, by intuition.
He conjectures ; he gropes in the dark ; he seeks to reme-
dy the accidents which he had not foreseen, and we find too
late that we should not have depended upon him blindly.
It is expedient then to conduct ourselves with the same
prudence and the same circumspection, during the whole
continuance of the treatment ; and we ought not to persuade
ourselves that the somnambulist will commit no mistakes in
the second or the third month, because he saw well and
perfectly succeeded during the first days. As soon as the
somnambulist ceases to announce with exactitude the effects
of his remedies, and the crises which occur, we ought no
longer to place dependance on him. It is entirely futile to
ask the somnambulist for an explanation of what has befal-
len him. The greater part of the time he is not in condi-
tion to give it ; but he ought never to make a mistake in the
announcement of the effects which will occur. What I have
now said applies more particularly to somnambulists by
profession. A somnambulist who is charged with the care
of one or two patients; with whom he identifies himself, al-
most always preserves his clairvoyance unimpaired ; or if
he loses it, he perceives the loss, and gives notice of it.
NOTE II.
The treatise on somnambulism published by Doctor Bcr-
trand, is the first work, ex-professo, upon the subject, and the
CHAT. IV.] AND ITS MANAGEMENT. 105
only one in which it has heen examined in its numerous re-
lations ; in this publication, we recognise a man profoundly
versed in the study of medicine, physiology, and metaphys-
ics. The author compares natural somnambulism, to that
which is exhibited in many diseases, to that which arises
from the excitement of the imagination, and to that which
originates in the magnetic treatment ; and he proves that
they all present analagous phenomena, and are referrible to
the same cause. He also reduces to the natural order,
many facts which have been attributed to supernatural
causes ; and he arrives at this highly important conclusion,
that if the world had at first known the phenomena of mag-
netic somnambulism, they would not have attributed to the
devil, those which the pretended sorcerers exhibited ; to a
celestial inspiration, those which were witnessed among the
prophets of Cevennes ; to the influence of deacon Paris, those
which were witnessed at Saint Medard. But he seems to
me to make a mistake in what he says upon the action of
magnetism, and upon the principles of that action. He has
searched into physiology for the explanation of phenomena
which depend upon a different law ; he has generalized the
observations which were proper for his purpose ; and he
regarded as illusions facts less surprising than the ones he
has seen, when they did not accord with his theory. If he
had been a witness of many of the facts which have passed
under my eyes ; if he had examined the evidence in favor
of most of those which have been reported by enlightened
men, he would not have thrown aside what he calls the pre-
tensions of the magnetizers.
I would not have permitted myself to make critical ob-
servations upon this work, if I had not judged it sufficient-
10$ OF SOMNAMBULISM, [CHAP. IV.
ly instructive and important to make it a duty to advise the
reading of it.
I would also add, that M. Bertram!, though he is not en-
dowed with great physical energy, has cured by magnetism
very severe and very inveterate nervous diseases : this does
not in any degree demonstrate the truth of his ingenious
theory, but it proves that he possesses many of the quali-
ties which constitute a "ood magnetizer.
APPENDIX
TO PART FIRST.
APPENDIX.
NOTES BY THE TRANSLATOR.
Note 1.
The life of the author of this work was translated from
the elaborate volume of Doctor Foissac, by a lady to whom
the translator is indebted for other important aid in the
course of the work. Whoever reads it, will find his confi-
dence irresistibly drawn towards him, by the evidence of a
character in which it is delightful to confide. Whatever
may be our opinion of magnetism, which Deleuze has now
practised forty-seven years, we cannot refuse to accord to
him sincerity of mind, and uprightness of intention. His
various works indicate a careful, scrutinizing spirit, dictated
by a single-mindedness which rarely leads into mischievous
error. We trust in him as a guide, because we see his
caution; if he does not bring conviction to his theory, he
drives suspicion from his motive. And he is little to be
envied, who suffers his antecedent prejudices to influence
his judgment, when a subject of the first importance, sup-
ported by the practice and testimony of Deleuze, claims
from him as a professional man, a serious and careful inves-
tigation.
Joseph Philip Francis Deleuze was born at Sisteron,
Lower Alps, in March, 1753. Desirous of pursuing a
military career he went to Paris in 1772, intending to study
mathematics ; but the nominations not having taken place,
he entered the infantry, with the rank of sub-lieutenant.
Three years after, the corps in which he served being dis-
banded, he left the service and devoted himself to the study
K
2 APPENDIX.
of the natural sciences. While residing in the country near
Sisteron, in 1785, he read for the first time an account of
the cures performed at Buzancy, in which he put no confi-
dence ; indeed, he suspected them to be mere fabrications,
designed to bring ridicule on the partisans of magnetism.
But hearing that one of his friends, (M. D. d'Aix,) a man of
cool reason and enlightened mind, had been to see Mesmer at
M. Servan's, and on his return to Aix had succeeded in pro-
ducing somnambulism, he resolved to visit him and ascer-
tain the truth.
" I performed the journey on foot," said he, " botanizing
as I went, and arrived at Aix the second day at noon, hav-
ing walked since four o'clock in the morning. I immediately
imparted to my friend the object of my journey, desiring
him to tell me what he thought of the prodigies I had heard :
he smiled, and said coolly, " wait and see for yourself; the
patient will be here in three hours."
At the end of that time she arrived, and with her several
persons who were to form a chain. I joined this chain, and
in a few minutes saw the patient asleep. I looked with
astonishment, but falling asleep myself in less than fifteen
minutes, I ceased to observe. During my sleep I talked
much, and was so much excited as to trouble the chain. Of
this I had no recollection when I awoke, and found them all
laughing around me. The next day, instead of sleeping
myself, I observed others, and desired my friend to teach
me the processes. On my return home, I attempted to
magnetize the sick who were in the neighboring villages.
I was careful not to excite their imaginations, touchingthem
under various pretexts, and trying to convince them of the
salutary effect of gentle frictions. In this way I obtained
some very curious and beneficial results, which strengthened
my own faith. In the autumn, being in the city, I applied
to a young physician, a man of much merit, who to the wis-
dom that sometimes doubts, added the desire to be convinced
by actual experience. I requested him to obtain for me
a patient, and if I effected a cure, he might consider this
conclusive proof; suggesting at the same time that the sub-
ject should not be considered in a critical state, lest fatal
APPENDIX. 3
consequences might follow from my inexperience. He in-
troduced to me a young woman who had been sick seven
years, suffering constantly great pain, and was much bloat-
ed ; having also a local swelling externally, inconsequence
of the great enlargement of the spleen, which she showed
to us. She was not able to walk or lie down. I succeed,
ed in removing the obstruction, circulation was restored, the
swelling gradually disappeared, and she was enabled to at-
tend to her customary duties. When I touched her, she
slept, but did not become a somnambulist. Soon after, an
intimate friend of mine, (Mr. D.,) magnetized a young girl
of sixteen, who became a somnambulist. She was the
daughter of very respectable parents. I assisted in the
treatment of this patient, and I have never known a more
perfect somnambulist. She dictated remedies for other sick,
as well as for herself. She presented most of the phenom-
ena observed by M. de Puyseger, M. Tardy, and the mem-
bers of the Society at Strasbourg. Among these were phe-
nomena I could not have imagined or explained ; I can only
affirm that I saw them, and after this it is impossible for me
to suppose the least illusion, or the possibility of deception.
From this time M. Deleuze neglected no opportunity to
multiply and observe facts, relieving and curing a great
number of persons. Two years after, in 1787, he returned
to Paris, and pursued with renewed ardor, literature, sci-
ence, philosophy, and particularly botany. In 1798, he
was chosen assistant naturalist of the Garden of Plants ; and
when the professors belonging to that establisment united in
1802 in publishing the Annals of the Museum of Natural
History, he was appointed secretary of that association.
M. Deleuze was first known to the learned world by his
translation of " Darwin's Loves of the Plants," in 1799
"Thomson's Seasons," in 1801-6, at which time he pub-
lished his " Eudoxe, or Conversations on the Study of the
Sciences, Letters, and Philosophy," 2 vols. 8vo., Paris,
1801. The various knowledge displayed in his writings,
the excellence of his doctrines, his exquisite judgment, his
style, so clear, so simple, and at the same time so elegant,
place" him among writers of the first rank ; and his book,
i APPENDIX.
the best of those intended for the instruction of the young,
has received from the learned, praise the most flattering and
honorable. Yet notwithstanding his various duties in the
Garden of Plants, he did not neglect this new order in phys-
iological phenomena, until now despised by the learned.
He did not say, like Fontenelle and others, " If I had my
hand full of truth I should be careful how I opened it ;" but
during the bloodless contest occurring between the parti-
sans and enemies of magnetism, he was contented to observe
in silence ; and waited until the excitement was over, in or-
der to publish his "Critical History of Magnetism," the re-
sult of twenty-nine years of investigation and reflection.
This work appeared in 1813, forming an era in the annals
of science, and is now translated into all the principal lan-
guages of Europe. In this work he took a different course
from those who had preceded him. I shall not, said he,
permit myself to form any hypothesis, but shall state what
has been witnessed by myself and by men worthy of credit.
After a general sketch of the history of the discovery and
the obstacles opposed to it, he devotes a very remarkable
article to the examination of the proofs on which the new
doctrine is founded. He first lays down principles of indis-
putable correctness, concerning the probability of testimony,
and applies them with equal logic and sagacity to the exam-
ination of the proofs of magnetism. He shows that its
effects have been attested by thousands of witnesses, in
whose ranks are found physicians, savans, and enlightened
men, who have not been afraid to brave ridicule in obeying
the voice of conscience, and fulfilling a duty to humanity ;
that those who have published their opinions, and by far the
larger number who make their observations in silence, and
content themselves with avowing their belief, when ques-
tioned on the subject, have all either witnessed, or actually
produced the phenomena of which they speak ; while among
the adversaries of magnetism, not a man can be found who
has examined the subject in the only proper way, by ex-
perimenting for himself with the most scrupulous attention,
and in exact accordance with the prescribed directions*
APPENDIX, 5
With the same powerful reasoning, he has treated of the
means by which magnetism acts, of the methods of produc-
ing it, of the influence which the faith of the patients and
the comparative vigor of magnetizers, may have upon the
efficacy of the treatment. In speaking of the therapeutical
application of magnetism, he points out the cases in which
we may hope for success, and shows that, provided the
proper precautions are taken, its employment can never be
injurious. In the description of the phenomena of somnam-
bulism, we see that the author brings them forward with
reserve, that he endeavors to rob them of their marvellous
character, and to show that they are not in contradiction to
the laws of nature. His explanations of them agree per-
fectly with the principles of sound physiology. " Let us
confine ourselves," says he, " to what observation teaches
us, and take care that we do not go beyond it." No one
has insisted so much as M. Deleuzeon the dangers to which
magnetism may give rise, and the means of avoiding them.
His advice acquires the more value that it comes from so
pure a source, and that never in the midst of the most eager
discussion, has the most envenomed calumny dared to cast
a doubt on the veracity of the savant, or the honesty of the
magnetizer.
The second volume of the " Critical History" fully justi-
fies the title of the work. It is devoted to an analysis and
examination of the writings which have been published con-
corning magnetism, of which there are nearly three hun-
dred. M. Deleuze has fulfilled this difficult task with great
discernment. His researches show that the adversaries of
magnetism have in vain attempted to shake the foundation
of the doctrine, and the authenticity of the facts on which
it rests. " It is to be decided," says he, in conclusion,
" that the science of magnetism should be associated with
the other branches of human knowledge; that after having
proved the existence of the agent, we should ascertain the
part it plays in the operations of nature; and having classed
its facts according to their degrees of probability, we should
place them beside the other phenomena of physiology, that
K*
6 APPENDIX.
we may decide whether they depend upon a new principle,
or upon a modification of one already known."
Among the writings which M. Dcleuze has published in
favor of magnetism, we should particularly notice, first, the
" Answer to the Author of Superstitions and Impostures of
Philosophers," M. Ralfc Karts de Lyon, in which, after
having stated objections which seem renewed from the thir-
teenth century, he examines the causes which opposed the
re-establishment of religion in France in 1818. " The De-
fence of Magnetism against the attacks made upon it in the
Dictionary of Medical Science," Paris, 18 19. This work,
chiefly devoted to an examination and criticism of the arti-
cle, " Magnetism," of M. Vircy, at the same time answers,
in the most satisfactory manner, the declamations, sarcasms,
and even coarse abuse, in which men of merit, blinded by
rooted prejudices, have allowed themselves towards observ-
ers who were only actuated by the love of truth, and desire
of being useful.*
M. Delcuze proves that these adversaries knew nothing
about magnetism ; that they father upon its partisans absurd
opinions ; that they pass by in silence the most convincing
proofs ; and that, forced at last to admit indisputable phe-
nomena, they attribute them to a cause incompetent to pro-
duce them. We should know little of M. Deleuze, did we
suppose for an instant that he profits by his advantages, and
hurls back upon his calumniators the ridicule and contempt
* I ought to justify this assertion, lest I be accused of partiality.
The following passage will prove, hotter than I can do it myself,
what were the intentions of the author, and of those persons who
scattered his works in profusion through all the seminaries.
" While men affected no longer to believe in the existence of the
devil, he it was who played the principal part in the lodges of free-
masons, in the caves of the illuminati, in the theatres of the cities,
on the stages of the populace, in the saloons of the rich and great,
and even in the palaces of kings. He was travestied, sometimes as
the " Wonderful Man," sometimes as a physician, sometimes as a
" Magnetizer," sometimes as a ventriloquist, sometimes as an artist,
sometimes as a charlatan, sometimes as Samson, sometimes as a
fortune-teller, sometimes as a card-player." Superstitions of Phi-
losophers.
APPENDIX. 7
with which they wished to overwhelm him. His volume is
a model of dignity, reason, and politeness.
Among the instances of this which I might adduce, there
is one I cannot pass over in silence. M. Virey says, p.
404 of his article on Magnetism : " Should Mesmer, or one
of his most able successors, throw a horse or cow into som-
nambulism, then I would recognise the empire of universal
magnetism." To this strange demand, M. Deleuze content-
ed himself with replying :
" Every body knows very well,
that M. Virey never will be convinced, if he must first wit-
ness such a phenomenon as this."
After having addressed the learned world in his " Critical
History," M. Deleuze wished to draw up a system of rules,
which should place the subject within the reach of all minds.
This end he has attained by publishing his " Practical In-
struction,"* Paris, 1825. Men versed in its phenomena
will find in this book the results of a consummate experi-
ence. Those who have as yet seen nothing, and who de-
sire to assure themselves of the truth of the facts, will draw
from thence all the knowledge necessary to avoid mistakes,
to observe with profit, and to give to their practice a salu-
tary direction.
Since that period M. Deleuze has published nothing con-
cerning magnetism, although he has still in his hands rich
materials, upon which some physicians who have read
them, agree in bestowing the highest praise. Such are, an
Essay on Prevision ; several very curious modes of treat-
ment ; the remainder of the articles on Van Helmont ;
and
several dissertations on the most important questions ofmag-
netism.
* The " Practical Instruction" concludes with a letter to M.
Koreff, whose learning and excellent sense are known to all his as-
sociates. M. Deleuze having invited him to make such additions
to his work as he should deem useful, M. Koreff contented himself
with a brief statement of the results of his observations, pointing
out thcdifficulties he had met with in his practice ;
but the import-
ance of the facts, the soundness of the principles, the depth and
usefulness of its views, prove it to be a production that cannot be
too often consulted.
S APPENDIX.
Upon the death of M. Jascan, in 1828, lie was appointed
librarian of the Museum of Natural History. He is a
member of the Philomathic Society, as well as of several
learned bodies, both in France and in foreign countries, and
for fifteen years has drawn up the annual reports of the
Philanthropic Society, of which he is secretary. Such is the
ascendance which the wisdom and private virtues of M.
Deleuze acquire over all who know him, that in the discus-
sions of the Royal Academy of Medicine, his name has
never been pronounced without being accompanied with the
most honorable epithets ; the commission have always cited
him as authority. His rare qualities, his pleasing and in-
structive conversation, have gained him many friends among
the most celebrated of the learned, Levaillant, Dupcrron,
Cuvier, de Humboldt, etc., and in the unanimous opinion of
his contemporaries, he divides with M. le Marquis de Puy-
segur, the honor of having defended and propagated one of
the most beautiful discoveries of modern times.
Note 2.
Some additional particulars may be gathered from a
letter, an extract from which is inserted below. It is from
the gentleman who was the first that lectured on the subject
of animal magnetism in New-England, and who has pub-
lished a translation of the celebrated Report of the Royal
Society of Medicine, in relation to which it may be said,
that he who has not read it, has yet to take the most judi-
cious step towards an acquaintance with the subject. This
letter is dated
Nantucket, Aug. 22, 1837.
Mon cher monsieur—Je suis charme que vous ayez
entrepris la traduction de Deleuze ; mais qu'il est celui de
ses ouvrages que vous traduiscz ? est cc son Histoire Cri-
tique, ou l'lnstruction Pratique ? Je crois que ce dernier est
le plus utile a faire passer en Anglais, dans l'etat actuel de
la science en cc pays-ci. * * *
APPENDIX. 9
Je suis fache dc nc pas pouvoir vous donner les details
quo vous me demandez sur M. Deleuze. Je no le connais
pas personellement. Ce que je sais sur son compte, je le
ticns de 1'ouvrago de Foissac, et de ce qu'il raconte de lui-
meme dans son second chapitre sur 1c somnambulisme, au
premier volume de l'Histoire Critique.
Deleuze est bien vieux, et ne doit pas etre loin de la
tombe : peut-etre meme y est-il rcnferme ! Je crains en
verite que le coup fatal ne lui ait etc porte ; car, l'anne
passee, il etait deja si affaibli par les infirmities de la vieil-
lesse, qu'il n'a pas pu faire imprimer lui-meme son dernier
et admirable memoire sur la Faculte de Prevision. Voici
comment, son estimable ami, M. Mialle, s'exprime a ce sujet,
dans une note inseree par lui dans la brochure dont je viens
de parler.
" M. Deleuze se proposait depuis 1820 de faire imprim-
er un receuil de dissertations, de traitcments, d'extraits de
correspondance, &c.—pour servir de suite a l'Histoire
Critique du Magnetisme ; le memoire que Ton vient de lire
devait en faire partie. Ses occupations multipliees, l'ont
empeche d'effectuer ce projet, et maintenant, helas ! l'affai-
blissement de ses forces lui en ote la possibilite. Cependant,
ses amis appreciant toute 1'importance de ce dernier ouv-
rage, ont pense qu'on ne devait pas en differer plus long-
temps la publication."
Croyez moi bien sincerement votre tres devoue,
CHARLES POYEN.
Note 3.—Page 16.
A child about nine years of age, attending the school of
Miss S***, in this city, was, about a month ago, during an
intermission, found to" be asleep in the school-room. One
of the young scholars came and gave information. Miss
S*** and others tried to rouse her, but not succeeding, they
10 APPENDIX.
became alarmed. A young medical student, a son of Com-
modore John Ordc Creighton, being called in, soon per-
ceived that she was in a magnetic sleep. A little girl about
ten years old, immediately burst into tears. It was evident
that she had done it ; but she was so much terrified al
the result of the mischief, that Miss S*** called her into
another room, soothed her distress, and told her she need not
be frightened : she had only to go to Anne, and ask her to
wake up. This was done. She merely spoke to her, and
she came out of her magnetic state, with that smile upon
her visage which is peculiar to those who are gently roused
from it.
The child had been, once before, and only once, put into
the somnambulic state. It was effected in about five min-
utes, by a lady who had never before tried her hand at this
business.*
I learned these particulars from Mr. Benjamin Cozzens,
and Mr. Joseph Balch, Jr.
Dr. *** of this city, informed me that one of his daughters,
seven years of age, put her little sister, between two and
three years of age, into a deep magnetic sleep, so that her
mother could not rouse her. Some time afterwards she was
very eager to experience the effect again, and cried because
she was not permitted to be magnetized.
An instance occurred of one boy's putting another into
the same state, which was related to me by an eyewitness
of the fact. It took place in this city.
* An instance of the power of magnetizing without manipulation,
and causing sleep at the first trial, is afforded in the case of a wo-
man, who, being in a nervous state, was put to sleep for the first
time by her husband, in the course of fifteen minutes, without hei
knowing any thing of his intention ; she sitting at one part of the
room, and he in another. When she was asleep, he went into an
adjoining room out of her direct vision, and taking down a book,
began to read it. After being sometime in the magnetic state, she
was awakened. She related correctly what he had done, and
evinced the usual proofs of clairvoyance. The gentleman is a resi-
dent of this city, a friend of mine, on whose veracity I can depend.
APPENDIX. 11
Note 4.—Page 63.
Clairvoyance. This term is used to denote the faculty
peculiar to somnambulists and epileptic persons, which ena-
bles them to see things near, and also things distant, without
appearing to use the eye. It seems to be a more expressive
word than any in the English language that could be brought
to convey its meaning, because the idea meant to be con-
veyed is peculiar; and we must either limit a familiar word
to one of its significations, invent a new one, or adopt that
which is already introduced, and is appropriate in the tech-
nology of magnetism. Its literal signification is clear-sight-
edness ; its technological signification, is, clear-sightedness
in the somnambulic state.
Somnambulists, when they wish to examine an object at-
tentively, generally press it lightly against the epigastrium.
The translator has seen one case where the seat of vision
was on the back part of the head ; and another where it
was on one side of the head, near the organ designated by
Spurzhcim as alimentiveness. The objects examined, such
as bank bills, and the superscriptions of letters, are always
held with the blank side next to the seat of vision, so as to be
read from right to left. The translator would not make
this assertion, were he not sure of being supported in it by
hundreds of the most respectable inhabitants of this his na-
tive city.
Mr. , of Troy, in New-York, being desirous of test-
ing the clairvoyant power of one of our somnambulists, and
being withal a skeptic, notwithstanding the evidence offered
by the statements and by the thorough convictions of some
of his own friends, wrote a sentence upon a piece of paper,
without the knowledge of any person, enclosed it between
two thick cards, folded them all up in a deep blue sheet of
paper to prevent the transmission of light, took the precau-
tion to seal it with his own seal and a number of wafers,
and put the whole into a larger sheet, directed to Mr. Isaac
Thurber. Mr. Thurber presented the letter, sealed as it
came, to Miss Brackett, while she was in the somnambulic
12 APPENDIX.
state, in the presence of Mr. Henry Hopkins, and a number
of others, and requested her to read the contents without
breaking the seals. Miss B. took the letter, and retired,
from choice, to a dark room. On her return, she gave the
following as the sentence contained therein, which Mr.
Hopkins wrote down at her dictation.
No other than the eye of omnipotence can read this in this
envelopement. * * * * * * 1837.
The letter was then sent back in an envelope, the seals
not having been broken, with the above sentence written up-
on the outside of it. There was something where the stars
are placed which she could not read.
This number will be published before an answer can be
received from Troy. In the second number it shall be
made known, whatever may be its purport. The following
letter may serve to show on what basis we raise our confi-
dence.
Sir—Previous to the experiment of Mr. , of Troy, I
had done this thing to try the clairvoyant power of Miss B.
I wrote this sentence on a sheet of paper, Animal magnetism
may be rendered useful, and carefully folded up the sheet,
so that the writing was covered with three thicknesses,
sealing it with four seals. I then directed it to Doctor Ca-
pron, with a request that he would find out the contents of
the letter, and write the same on the back of it. No person
but myself knew what was in it. Doctor Capron brought
it the next day to my counting-room, and it was opened in
the presence of a number of witnesses. The writing on
the back, corresponded exactly with the writing inside, and
the seals had not been broken.
On another occasion Miss B., who, by the way, is per-
fectly blind in the natural state, as Mr. Jesse Metcalf will
inform you, for she has resided many weeks in his family,
recognised a lady of her acquaintance in a house about a
quarter of a mile off. Miss B. had never been there till
that morning, and then only in spirit. My object in sending
APPENDIX. 13
licr to that house, was, to see if she would recognise that
lady, who, I knew, was there on a visit.
Yours,
ISAAC THURBER.
In order to prove whether a somnambulist can really
visit a place where he has never before been, and describe
the present appearance of things there, the Rev. E. B.
Hall went, without the knowledge of any one, into the room
in which the Franklin Society deposit their curious collec-
tion, and disarranged several conspicuous articles. He then
went to confer with a young woman who resides at the dis-
tance of halfa mile from the house occupied by the Franklin
Society, and she being in the magnetic state, he sent her
into it in spirit without informing her of the disarrangement
he had made. She had previously been sent there in the
same state, so that she knew immediately what alterations
had been made, and stated them so satisfactorily as to es-
tablish the fact investigated. This is only one out of many
proofs which might be adduced to the same effect.
Still the suspicion very naturally remained, that the som-
nambulist derives all his notions from the mind of the per-
son in communication, which, though it be an astounding
circumstance, would induce us to view the subject in an en-
tirely different light. To try this, I one day put an old
spike into a gun-barrel, and placed it about four or five
feet from my writing desk against the wall. I then sent a
note to Dr. Browned, who was then with one of his patients
in the somnambulic state, requesting him to ask her what
was in a gun-barrel lying on my desk. The lad who car-
ried the note did not know its contents, and did not go into
the house, but came back immediately : in about thirty min-
utes, a line came from Dr. Browned, stating that there was
no gun-barrel on my desk ; but that there was one leaning
against the wall a short distance from it. Other facts afford-
ing similar proofs are abundant. It is proper to state that
the gun-barrel had probably never been in the room before.
L
14 APPENDIX.
A still more interesting proof is exhibited in the following
relation ; which, I am authorized to say, is true in all its
important facts, and is known to have created a great sen-
sation at the time. Fortunately the witnesses are gentle-
men of high standing, and of scientific attainments, whose
words are the currency of truth. The relation is extracted
from a long and interesting article in the Salem Gazette.
" Dr. B*******, of Providence, operated upon a young
lady, who, during the period of magnetic sleep, frequently
left the body, and could see and hear without the aid of eyes
or ears. She could tell correctly the time by a watch,
though enveloped in a cloth, and at the same time having a
bandage over her eyes. The doctor had a patient, sick, as
was believed, of the liver complaint, and bade the girl, who
was sitting near him, go (in spirit) to the man's house.
Arrived, she at the doctor's request, described the house
that there might be no mistake, and then entered. What
do you see? asked Dr. B. 'A man sick.' Now I want
you to tell me what ails him. First look at his head : is
that well? 'Yes.' How do you know? Do you mean to
say that you see the internal organization ? ' Yes.' Is the
liver, heart, &c. well? 'Yes; it looks just the same as
yours, or anybody's else.' Well, do you see anything
wrong ? ' Yes, there is an enlargement of the spleen.'
Several questions were then put to confuse her, and also to
ascertain if she knew what the spleen was, and where situ-
ated ; to all which she gave satisfactory replies. Still the
doctor was incredulous. But now comes the proof. In four
days the man died, and Dr. B. having obtained permission
to institute a post mortem examination, called on every phy-
sician in the city, and narrated the story of the girl. In
presence of several of them the body was subsequently
opened, when to their surprise, the girl was right—all that
ailed the man was an enlargement of the spleen.
What shall we say to this fact ? It is substantiated be-
yond the possibility of a doubt, as may be learned by any
one passing through Providence. Shall we set it down
among the list of curious coincidences, or admit that the girl
actually possessed a supernatural sense of vision, and that
APPENDIX. 15
for the time being, her immortal spirit, released from the
body, roved freely and at the will of the operator?
As in the state of vision, the fact is no more strange, than
in the well-attested case of the famed Springfield somnam-
bulist. Now if we admit that the soul in this case saw with-
out the aid of the eyes, why not admit that, in certain states
of the nervous system, other senses or faculties of the mind
may also act independently of their material organs? We
know the soul thus exists after death, and why not in the
state of temporary death caused by animal magnetism ?
What know we of the nature of that deathless spark within
us ? And if we allow that it may, without the body, enter
the next room, we cannot deny the possibility that it may
in the same manner annihilate time and space, and travel
hundreds of miles as easily and as quickly as it can so many
feet.
But some say, we cannot believe that God has given
such a dangerous power to the human will. It is out of
the common order of nature ; it is a miracle ; we cannot
believe it. But who can set bounds to the dominion of the
human will. Man—before the steady gaze of whose eye
the forest king trembles and flees ; whose power extends to
the huge dwellers in ocean's unfathomed infinite ; man—at
whose nod the giant oak which for centuries has braved
heaven's thunderbolts, falls prostrate, and rises again in
beauty to adorn his mansion ; who lays his will upon the
everlasting rock and it becomes as wax ; whose highway is
earth, and air, and ocean ; whose servant is the lightning ;
whose intellect spans earth and encircles heaven—thinking,
reasoning, godlike man—who can set bounds to the untried
power of his mysterious will? Who say to it ' thus far
shalt thou come and no farther V
Now, though in the above-mentioned cases, our will op-
erates through more tangible means, the facts, were they
not so common, are as wonderful as the alleged fact that
this same mighty agent operating through the nervous sys-
tem, produces all the wonders of animal magnetism. If
actual experiment demonstrates the fact, fools may laugh,
but wise men believe ; and believing, bow clown and adore
16 APPENDIX.
with deeper reverence that Great Being from whose al-
mighty will these millions of human wills emanated."
On reading this communication, which nearly accorded
with what I had heard stated, I conversed with Doctor B.,
who is one of our oldest physicians, and asked him whether
the statement there made was correct. He replied that it
was, in substance ; but some of the particulars were imper-
fectly stated. He gave me the following account.
The patient lived more than a quarter of a mile from my
house. I requested a somnambulist, then at my house, to
see if she could find such a man, at the same time pointing
out to her the situation of the house, which was not in sight
from the room where we continued all the time. She saw
him. On being asked in what room, she replied, in the
third room back from the street. She was then requested
to describe the situation of the furniture in it, in order to
discover whether she had got into the right place, and
whether her clairvoyance might be trusted to at that time ;
she described it very exactly.
I then told her my patient had been sick a long time} and
desired her to examine him and tell what the disease was.
She said, " He looks so bad, I do not like to do it." I re-
plied, "Never mind that ; it looks bad to you, because you
have not been accustomed to looking at the interior of a
body."
As I supposed him to be affected with a diseased liver,
and with indigestion arising from a diseased state of the
stomach, I asked her to look at the stomach to see if that
was diseased ; she answered, " No."
Is the liver diseased ? " No."
Well, examine the whole intestinal canal, and see if there
is any disease there. " I do not see any," said she.
Examine the kidneys. " Nothing is the matter with
them."
Not knowing what other part to call her attention to, I
requested her to look at every part of him.
'
After some little time, she says, " His spleen is swelled :
it is enlarged."
APPENDIX. 17
His spleen ! said I ; when we speak of a person who is
spleeny, we suppose he has an imaginary complaint. What
do you mean ?
She said, " The part called the spleen, is enlarged."
How do you know it is enlarged ?
" It is a great deal larger than yours."
Do you see mine ? " Yes."
How large is his spleen ?
" It is a great deal longer and thicker than your hand."
I then asked her to put her hand where the spleen is sit-
uated. She immediately placed her hand over the region
of the spleen.
I then asked her what the shape of the stomach was : she
replied that it was like a flower in the garden. I was not
acquainted with that flower, and do not recollect the name
she gave to it.
I then requested her to recollect all about this, saying I
wished to talk with her about it when she awoke.
After she came out of the somnambulic state, she was
asked whether she remembered having examined the sick
person. She remembered it.
What part did you tell me was diseased ? After a little
consideration, she replied, " I believe I told you the spleen
is enlarged."
How came you to call it the spleen ?
" I do not know."
Did you ever hear any description of the internal organs,
or see any plates of them? " No."
Should you know the plate representing the stomach, if
you were to see it ?
" I think I should if it looked like it."
I will go into the library and bring out some plates, to see
whether you know the internal organs.
While I was gone into the library, she said to a lady
present, " Every once in a while I saw fluids pass from his
stomach into his bowels."
On returning with the volume of plates, in order to as-
certain whether she really distinguished the different organs,
I showed her a plate somewhat resembling the stomach,
18 APPENDIX.
and asked her if that was what she saw for the stomach ?
She said, " No." Turning to several plates in succession,
she declared that neither of them resembled the stomach.
Then turning to the true plate, as if accidentally, while-
throwing open the leaves, intending to pass it by unless she
noticed it, she immediately cried out, " That 's it ; that 's
what I saw for the stomach."
I then conversed with her in relation to the other viscera ;
and she gave a very correct description of them, as she had
done in her sleep. I asked her if she had conversed upon
the subject, or seen any plates of the internal organs. She
declared she never had.
Seven days after this, the patient was taken more seri-
ously ill, and died on Saturday, the third day following.
On Monday, a post-mortem examination took place ;
pre-
vious to which I invited all the physicians whom I could
find in the city.
Eighteen persons were present, of whom sixteen were
physicians.
I then stated all the particulars of the examination by the
somnambulic patient ; and requested the physicians to ex-
amine the body to see if they could discover the diseased
spleen from external examination. They, with one voice,
declared they could not.
I then opened the body, and, to the utter astonishment of
the physicians present, found the spleen so enlarged as to
weigh fifty-seven ounces. Its usual weight is from four to six
ounces.
No other disease was perceptible except a general in-
flammation, which no doubt came on about three days
before his death.
Note 5.—Page 36.
The power exercised over the imagination of the patient,
is not the least singular thing connected with the subject.
The success of all experiments of this kind, depends upon
APPENDIX. 19
the control which the magnetizer has over his own imagi-
nation, as well as upon the strength which belongs to it. A
long practice will enable a man to call up a clear concep-
tion of the article which he wishes to administer ; and he
will succeed in proportion to the clearness and strength of
this conception, other things being equal.
A glass of water being held in your hand, you will cause
the magnetizer to be called into another room, where a per-
son whom you select, will whisper to him what you wish to
have it taste like. The magnetizer returns, fixes his mind
upon the glass of water, to impart to it the desired quality,
and requests the somnambulist to take it from your hand
and drink it. He will then ask him what he is drinking.
The somnambulist never fails to tell, if it be any thing with
which he is acquainted. It may be he is but slightly ac-
quainted with the liquor whose taste is induced into the glass
of water ; in this case is evidently involved another condi-
tion to render the trial satisfactory, viz. : the patient must
know the article attempted to be imposed upon him.
An empty glass does as well as a full one. A peach
may thus be transformed into an apple, a pear, an iron ball,
&c. A handkerchief folded, may be changed into a child,
a cat, or a dog, and thrown into the lap. In the first case, it
will be fondled ; in the second, thrown off with violence, or
caressed, as the feeling or the prejudice may happen to be.
Nor is it the fact, as some suppose, that the effect is pro-
duced merely upon the imagination of the patient. Any
medicine which the magnetizer can form a strong concep-
tion of, may be administered in this manner, and will be ac-
companied with all its usual effects, as if it were really
taken. This is a well known and common fact.
This brings me to the design of this note. At page 36,
mention is made of magnetized water. An explanation of
its uses and of the manner of preparing it, will be found in
the second number of this work. Water is magnetized by
making a few passes along the vessel containing it, stirring
it with the thumb, and accompanying the action with a
steady exercise of the will, as to the effects which it shall
produce. This experiment differs from the ones described
20 APPENDIX.
above, since they were to influence the taste, merely. In
the present case, the taste is not altered much, and some-
times not at all. *'
It takes," says one author, " about one
minute to magnetize a glass of water, and two or three
minutes are required for a pitcher-full. The patient gene-
rally distinguishes it from other water, by a peculiar sensa-
tion which it excites in the stomach." Experiments of this
kind have not yet been made in this country with sufficient
exactitude to be worthy of statement.
Note 6.—Page 77.
Among the somnambulists that I have seen, there lias
been a peculiar delicacy exhibited while in the magnetic
state. Though the magnetizer undoubtedly possesses the
power of changing the appearance of things to their percep-
tion, such as turning an apple into a walnut, and water into
lemonade ;
yet he, probably, cannot destroy that native
sense of propriety which seems to be quickened in the
somnambulist.
Foissac says, page 392, " that when M. de Puysegur saw,
in 1784, the control which he exercised over somnambulists,
he was affrighted at the thought that others might turn
aside this power from its holy intention. But all his patients
declared to him, that they preserved in that state their
judgment and their reason ; that they perceived very quickly
the designs of the magnetizer, and that these could readily
cause them to awake. The authors I have cited in the
preceding paragraph are of the same opinion. My somnam-
bulists have told me exactly the same things. If then some
instances of a contrary nature are thrown out against us, I
will say that magnetism has been the pretext, and not the
cause of these disorders ; because it does not take from all
those who practise it, the vicious propensities of their hearts,
and that all the abuses of which complaint is made, would
have existed as much without it as with it."
APPENDIX. 21
Note 7.—Page 85.
The gentlemen who have practised magnetism in this
country have arrived to the observation of the same general
rules which govern the more experienced practitioners of
France. This is the more remarkable, since they have
been obliged to depend upon the experience which they
gained from their own practice, through a want of proper
means of information. This fact about the consequences of
making short passes before the head, which M. Deleuze
calls charging it too much, was observed to me by one of
them wh(fhad never read on the subject.
Note 8.—Page 85.
It is not to be wondered at, then, if some rough attempts
made to rouse a somnambulist, by persons who doubted the
reality of the sleep, have effected the object and thrown a
temporary suspicion upon magnetism itself, as though it
professed to do what it could not perform. One instance of
this kind has often produced strong skepticism in the minds
of many persons. Hence it is proper to know that there is
always a liability, though a very slender probability, of
having a patient waked by such means. Unfortunately
the curious phenomena must be exhibited, before magnetism
can gain converts to faith in its curative and restorative
virtues ; and few are satisfied with hearing about the power
possessed by somnambulists, of visiting in spirit the houses
of their neighbors and friends ; each one claims the privi-
lege of sending one into his own house and hearing his own
furniture described. They want the proof of Didymus ;
and when they have obtained it, they depart in wonder and
astonishment, like the woman of Samaria from the well of
Sychar, and relate what they have seen, to excite the won-
der and astonishment of others. Hence they who merely
hear of these phenomena, form an estimate of the subject
not from its real utility, but from its curious nature. And
22 APPENDIX.
there is some danger of having its curative and restorative
powers overlooked in the rage of curiosity. When this
rage shall have subsided, the magnetizcrs will have leisure
to pursue their avocation without interruption. And the
maxims of the benevolent Deleuze, who forbids such exper-
iments, will command the respect and the attention that
they deserve.
Note 9.—Page 85.
The translator has himself witnessed the exertion of this
paralyzing power, both upon patients who were in the mag-
netic sleep, and upon others while they were not. He has
not, however, seen a person paralyze the limbs of another
who had never been put into the magnetic sleep by him.
It seems to be a necessary condition that a perfect commu-
nication shall have been established at some previous time.
The power which is gained by the practice of magnetism,
is however so great, that it may be found to be effectual in
a trial of this kind, without this condition.
When the patient is in the state of magnetic sleep, this
paralysis of the limbs, of the muscles of the face, of the
tongue, and of the eyelids, has been produced in the pre-
sence of many persons, including myself, who tried all means
to detect imposture or mistake. The magnetizer would act
by the will merely, upon the part indicated on a slip of pa-
per thrust into his hands, he continuing at the distance of
eight or ten feet from the person whose limbs were to be
paralyzed, and not uttering a single audible word. Nor was
this effect produced by strangers whom we do not know :
on the contrary, they arc our own citizens, in whom we
have perfect confidence as to their integrity of purpose ;
and who have never been known to be devoted to tricks of
legerdemain and diablerie.
Providence, August 25th, 1837.
Sir,—In the Practical Instruction in Animal Magnetism,
which I am now publishing in English, the author mentions
APPENDIX. 23
the power that some magnetizers have of paralyzing the
limhs of a patient in the magnetic state. But the instance
which you recently related to me is so much more extraor-
dinary, that I wish to obtain from you in writing, a state-
ment of the facts in relation to it, with permission to make
use of it in a note. I shall esteem it a valuable addition to
the authentic matter to be embraced in the appendix of
each number of that work.
Yours, respectfully,
T. C. HARTSHORN.
Dr. Thomas H. Webb.
Providence, Sept. 1, 1837.
Dear Sir—My time has been so much occupied of late,
as to have rendered it impossible for me, until the present
moment, to reply to your note of the 25th ult., and even
now I am so circumstanced as to be unable to do more than
write a very brief reply.
In conversation with Mr. Daniel Greene, of Pawtucket,
who, as you probably well know, is the most powerful,
as he has been the most extensive magnetizer in this coun-
try, I inquired if he were able to magnetize and thereby
obtain control over a single limb, whilst the rest of the body
remained in a natural state. He said that he had done it,
in the case of Miss J., with whom you are acquainted, and
would attempt it on another patient that we were going to
see that afternoon, if reminded of it.
The individual alluded to had never been magnetized but
three times, and did not present a very striking exemplifi-
cation of the usual magnetic phenomena. After trying va-
rious experiments that consumed several hours, we left the
house, having forgotten the subject matter of my interroga-
tory. But upon recollecting it, we returned, and the patient
reseated herself upon being requested so to do, without any
reason being given her for making the request.
Mr. Greene then went through the usual manipulations
some dozen or twenty times, confining them to the space
reaching from the top of the left shoulder, to the extremities
24 APPENDIX.
of the fingers on the same side. lie afterwards requested
her to raise the left hand to the head. She said she could
not. There was evidently a powerful effort made to do
this, as was shown by the working of the muscles inserted
into the upper portion of the shoulder ; but the limb re-
mained powerless and motionless, not obeying the dictates
of the owner's will. She was asked to raise her right arm
to the head, which was done promptly and with perfect ease
and freedom. Again she was directed to stretch out the
left hand, but unavailingly. It was completely paralyzed ;
devoid of motion and of sensation. I gave it a severe pinch,
nipping with the thumb and finger, as hard as I deemed it
prudent to, leaving deep impressions with my nails. Upon
inquiring if it did not hurt her, she, with an incredulous
smile, observed, that I had not done any thing to her.
I then, without saying any thing, pinched, in the same
manner, though less severely, the other hand, when she
drew back from me with a sudden start and complained
that I hurt her. The arm, to one lifting it, was a perfect
dead weight. I poised it on my fingers, and Mr. G. re-
stored it ; and there was a very marked difference in it and
about it, as it passed from the magnetic to the natural state.
To a person not acquainted with the magnetizer, mag-
nctizec, and the gentlemen present, there will of course ap-
pear nothing conclusive upon the subject of magnetism, in
what is hear detailed ; but to those of us who had previously
examined other patients, and satisfied ourselves of the exis-
tence of a power by means of which, to a certain extent, one
individual may obtain mental mastery over another, the
experiment was satisfactory.
Should a suitable opportunity hereafter present, I may
furnish you with a statement of some singular cases which
I have witnessed. In the meantime I remain,
Yours, &c.
THOMAS H. WEBB.
Mr. Thomas C. Hartshorn.
Among the persons who have possessed this extraordi-
nary power, Gassner deserves especial mention. A brief
APPENDIX. 25
notice of him may be found in the volume of Doctor Foissac,
page 446. I will translate a portion of it.
John Joseph Gassner, born at Braz, in the circle of Sau-
bia, 1727, having been delivered by exorcism, from a long
continued disease, which had resisted all the resources of
the medical art, persuaded himself that the greater part of
human infirmities might be attributed to no other cause than
demoniacal possession, and that they should be treated with
exorcism. He began by curing the sick persons of his own
parish ; but very soon Switzerland, Tyrol, and Saubia, sent
him theirs, and he cured four or five hundred a year. Af-
ter having gone over different provinces, he established him-
self at Ratisbon, under the protection of the lord bishop,
(prince-eveque.) The number of persons resorting to him
was so considerable, that he often had ten thousand of them
encamped in the neighborhood of Ratisbon. Gassner re-
garded faith as an essential condition to be cured. It was
rare to have the patients delivered from their afflictions at
the first exorcism. He consecrated to them several hours,
and often many days. When he wished to act upon a pa-
tient, he made him place himself on his knees before him ;
he almost always touched the affected part. Sometimes he
rubbed his hands upon his waist or upon his neck, but it was
not always the case.
Gassner had the power, by his will, to make the pulse of
his patients vary ; he made it small, great, strong, feeble,
slow, quick, irregular, intermittent ; and finally, just as the
physicians who were present requested of him. He para-
lyzed the limbs, caused them to weep, to laugh ;
and soothed
or agitated them simply by expressing his order in Latin, or
rather, mentally.
He thus operated the most extraordinary cures. They
found a small number of persons to contradict the facts.
But, who would have thought it ? the celebrated De Haen,*
one of the first physicians of his age, not conceiving how
* The translator has not been able to find out whether this is the
same De Haen under whom Mesmer studied.
M
26 APPENDIX.
Gassner had been able to perform such cures, concluded
that his power was derived from the devil. He however,
first argued the question whether they could have been done
by sympathy, or by magnetism, but he declared he did not
know any one sufficiently well versed in occult philosophy
to operate such wonderful things.
About that time, Mesmer published his first observations.
On his journey to Munich, being consulted by the elector of
Bavaria, in relation to the cures of the curate of Ratisbon,
he recognised in his exorcisms the presence of the virtues of
animal magnetism, the nature and the properties of which
it was reserved for him to make known.
Mesmer, himself, was endowed with the same degree of
power, which, whether exerted in the form of exorcism or
of manipulation, would have exhibited effects equally re-
markable. From the notes reported by Thouret, in his
" Recherches et Doutes," I shall translate a few instances.
Mesmer being one day with Messrs. Camp*** and d'E***
near the great basin of Meudon, proposed that they should
pass alternately round to the other side of the basin, while
he remained in his place. He made them plunge a cane
into the water, and plunged his own into it. At this dis-
tance, M. Camp*** experienced an attack of the asthma,
and M. d'E*** a pain in the side, to which he was subject.
Some persons have been seen who were not able to sustain
the experiment without fainting.
One day Mesmer was walking in the woods of the coun-
try beyond Orleans. Two girls taking advantage of the
freedom of the country, went ahead of the company to chase
him. He began to run ; but suddenly turning round, he
presented his cane towards them, forbidding them to come
further : immediately their knees bent under them, and they
could not advance.
One evening Mesmer went into the garden of M. le prince
de Soubise, with six persons. He prepared a tree, and a
short time after, M'me la M. de ***, and Mesdemoiselles de
Pr*** and P*** fell senseless. M'me la D*** de T*** held
on to the tree without power to leave it. M. le C*** de
APPENDIX. 27
Mons* was obliged to sit down on a bank, not being able to
sustain himself on his limbs. I do not recollect what effect
M. Ang****, a very strong man, experienced, but it was
terrible. Mcsmer then called his servant to take away the
bodies ; but, I do not know how it was, although well ac-
customed to this sort of scene, even he found himself in no
condition to act. It was necessary to wait a long time for
each one to come to himself.
Note 10.—Page 85.
In the report of the committee appointed by the Royal
Academy of Medicine, and read to that learned body in
1831. may be found the following statement.
" You have all heard of a fact which at the time fixed
the attention of the Chirurgical Section, and which was
communicated to it at the session of April 16th, 1829, by
M. Jules Cloquet. The committee thought it their duty to
embody it in this report, as one of the least equivocal proofs
of the power of the magnetic sleep. It relates to Madamo
Plantin, aged 64 years, living at 151 Rue Saint-Denis, who
consulted M. Cloquet, on the 8th of April, 1829, about an
ulcerated cancer on her right breast, which she had had
many years, and which was complicated with a considerable
enlargement of the axillary ganglions. M. Chapelain, the
physician of this woman, whom he had magnetized for some
months, with the intention, as he said, of reducing the en-
largement of the breast, had been able to obtain no other
result than a very profound sleep, during which her sensi-
bility appeared to be annihilated, but the ideas preserved
all their lucidity. He proposed to M. Cloquet, that he
should operate upon it, while she was plunged into the mag-
netic sleep. M. Cloquet, considering the operation to
be indispensable, consented to do it ; and it was agreed
that it should take place on the following Sunday, April
12th. The two evenings previous, this woman was mag-
netized several times by M. Chapelain, who disposed her,
28 APPENDIX.
when in somnambulism, to support the operation without
fear, and even led her to speak of it with composure, while
as soon as she waked, she repelled the idea with horror.
On the day appointed for the operation, M. Cloquet, on
his arrival at half past ten o'clock in the morning, found
the patient dressed, and seated in an arm chair, in the posi-
tion of a person peacefully wrapped in a natural sleep. It
was nearly an hour since she had returned from mass, which
she always attended at the same hour. M. Chapelain had
put her into the magnetic sleep since she had come back :
the patient spoke with great calmness of the operation she
was about to undergo. Every arrangement having been
made for the operation, she undressed herself, and sat down
upon a chair.
M. Chapelain held the right arm, the left arm being suf-
fered to hang by her side. M. Pailloux, a student at the
Saint Louis Hospital, was charged to hand the instruments
and to make the ligatures. First an incision was made
from the armpit, above the tumor, to the inner side of the
breast. The second, commencing at the same point, sep-
arated the tumor below and passed round to meet the first.
M. Cloquet dissected the enlarged ganglions with caution,
on account of their proximity to the axillary artery, and
took off the tumor. The time consumed in the operation
was ten or twelve minutes.
During all this time the patient continued to converse
tranquilly with the operator, and did not exhibit the slightest
sign of sensibility ; no movement of the limbs or of the fea-
tures, no change in the perspiration, nor in the voice, no
emotion, not even in the pulse, were manifested ; the patient
did not cease to be in the state of self-forgetfulness, and
passive insensibility, in which she was several minutes before
the operation. They were not obliged to hold her, they
merely sustained her. A ligature was applied to the late-
ral thoracic artery, which was exposed during the extraction
of the ganglions. The wound was closed with sticking
plaster, and dressed; the patient was put on the bed, still in
the state of somnambulism, and left there forty-eight hours.
An hour after the operation, a slight hemorrhage ensued
APPENDIX. 29
which did not continue. The first dressing- was removed
on the succeeding Tuesday, April 14th. The wound was
cleansed and dressed anew ; the patient manifested no sen-
sibility nor pain. The pulse preserved its natural beat.
After the dressing had been put on, M. Chapelain awoke
the patient, whose somnambulic sleep had lasted ever since
one hour before the operation, that is to say, for two days.
This woman did not appear to have any idea, or any im-
pression of what had passed ; but on learning that she had
been operated upon, and seeing her children around her, she
experienced a very lively emotion, which the magnetizer
put an end to, by putting her asleep immediately.
The following names were appended to this report.
Bourdois de la Motte, President ; Fouquier, Gueneau de
Mussy, Guersent, Itard, J. J. Leroux, Marc, Thillaye, Hus-
son.
Note 10.
Providence, August 31, 1837.
Sir—In compliance with your request, expressed in a
note, dated the 24th inst. I herewith furnish you a statement
of the case of somnambulism which I have under my charge,
to append as a note to the work you have in progress.
Numerous professional engagements at this time will
render the statement necessarily very brief and general in
its character. This brevity however is less to be regretted,
as you are able to obtain statements of many of the partic-
ulars from a number of respectable gentlemen, who have
witnessed the case, and who could command more time to
devote to making particular experiments.
Miss L. Brackett, the subject of this case, is a respectable
and intelligent young lady from Dudley, Mass. Four years
since, when about sixteen years of age, she had the misfor-
tune to have an iron weight, weighing two or three pounds,
fall from a height upon the top of her head. The injury
which she sustained was so considerable as to deprive her
of her reason for a number of months, during which time
30 APPENDIX.
she was subject to the most violent spasms, and other serious
derangements of her nervous system. From the immediate
effects of this injury she gradually recovered, and at the
end of the year her general health was partially restored.
Notwithstanding, however, the improvement in her general
health, an affection of her eyes which commenced immedi-
ately after the receipt of the injury, and which threatened
total blindness, was daily growing worse. The disease
with which her eyes were affected, is called amaurosis
it is an affection of the optic nerves, often of a paralytic
character. As is usual in cases of amaurosis, the loss of
sight was very gradual ; and it was not till the end of two
and a half years, that it was entirely destroyed. Simulta-
neously with the loss of sight, she sustained a loss of voice,
which was so complete, that for fifteen months she was un-
able to utter a single guttural sound, and could only whis-
per in almost inaudible tones.
This was her state in respect to her eyes and vocal or-
gans, when I first saw her about the middle of May last.
And her general health, though somewhat improved, was
still far from being good.
Considering her case as a hopeless one, arrangements
had been made by her friends to send her to the Asylum
for the Blind in Boston, in hopes of her being able, after
finishing her education, to obtain a livelihood as a teacher
in that or some other institution. When on her way to
Boston, she stopped for the purpose of making a visit of a
few days, with some friends which she had residing in this
city.* Being in attendance at the time, in the family of one
of her friends, I was requested to see her and examine her
case, rather as a matter of curiosity, than from a hope that
I should be able to prescribe a remedy for her deplorable
malady. In the course of conversation with her, I found
that all the usual means in such cases had been persever-
ingly employed by the most skilful physicians, without ma-
terial benefit.
* Messrs. J. & J. Scagraves, merchants.
APPENDIX. 31
There being at this time a considerable excitement upon
the subject of animal magnetism, and being myself engaged
in investigating it with a view to its remedial effects, and
having become fully convinced of its salutary influence up-
on some diseases, especially those of a paralytic character,
it occurred to me that it might be beneficially practised in
this case ; upon the supposition that her complaints were
dependant upon a paralysis of the nerves supplying the af-
fected organs ; and I accordingly, as a dernier resort, pro-
posed a trial of it. The following day, having consulted her
friends and obtained their consent, she desired me to make
an experiment. The first sitting occupied about forty min-
utes before she was thrown into a profound magnetic sleep.
On this occasion, she manifested many of the usual phe-
nomena of that state. She walked about the house, drank
her tea, &c. with as much ease and confidence as she could
have done, had she been in the full possession of her sight,
and in a waking state.
From the time of the first experiment to the present date,
being three and a half months, she has been magnetized
daily, sometimes twice daily, with the exception of thirteen
days at one time, and three or four at another. The num-
ber of times she has been magnetized, therefore, considera-
bly exceeds one hundred.
The magnetic phenomena, though very astonishing at
first, became more and more so from day to day. Wheth-
er it were in consequence of the magnetic state becoming
more and more perfect the more she was magnetized, or
whether by becoming better acquainted with the subject, we
learn to elicit those phenomena with the better success, it is
difficult to determine ; but it is probable that it is owing to
a combination of both these causes.
The somnambulic, or perhaps more properly the magnetic
phenomena, have been of several different kinds, and each
kind manifested in several different ways. The first and
most obvious of these phenomena, is what the French term
clairvoyance ; clear-sightedness, mental vision, or vision
without the use of the visual organs. This wonderful pow-
er is manifested, first, in her being able to see any object
32' APPENDIX.
that is presented to her, when in the magnetic sleep, though
totally blind when awake. Experiments have been varied
and multiplied almost indefinitely, to prove the existence of
this power, and with entire success, as you have had fre-
quent opportunities to witness. Objects when examined by
her are never held in a direction to be seen with the eyes,
but are laid down upon the top of the back part of the head,
or are held a little upon one side of the back of the head,
from which points she has generally seen, though the seat
of vision has varied at different times. She has been able,
though with more exertion, to see objects that were enclosed
in boxes, trunks, and watch cases ; to read letters that were
folded, &c.
Secondly, this power is manifested in the ability to see
objects not present—in a distant city, for instance. In the
exercise of this power, another seems to be necessary ; that
of locomotion, as it has been called, or of transporting her-
self from one place to another. This she says she docs
through the air.
Another description of phenomena, which may be called
those of intelligence, is manifested in the somnambulist's
understanding the will of the magnetizer, or of the person
with whom she may be in communication. To test this
power, 1 have made a great number of experiments which
have been almost uniforml)7
successful. She can, for in-
stance, be willed to have in her hand various kinds offruits,
cakes, wines, animals, birds, &c. ; or any other things may
be changed from one to another at the will of the magnet-
izer.
There is a class of phenomena which seem to partake
more of a physical character than those above mentioned ;
as witnessed in the attraction which takes place between the
hand of the magnetizer and the magnetized : and also as
witnessed in the attraction and repulsion in the application
of the artificial magnet. I do not wish to be understood to
mean that this phenomenon certainly partakes of a physical
character, though the sudden, powerful, and apparently in-
voluntary action of the muscles seems to favor this opinion.
On the contrary, it must be admitted that the patient in this
APPENDIX. 33
case not only understands the will of the magnetizer, but
observes all his actions, and therefore these motions mav
be voluntary and in obedience to his will. Or in using the
magnet, a powerful influence may be produced upon the
imagination, and these effects may be occasioned by the
imagination acting upon an excitable nervous system.
The want of time and opportunity on my own part, and
the desire to have as many distinguished and scientific per-
sons see and investigate this case in their own way, as has
been consistent with her convenience, have prevented my
making experiments calculated to establish this point con-
clusively : neither have I, for the same reasons, been able
to determine, satisfactorily, whether all the senses can be
used in reference to things not present, as is the case with
vision, though from some recent observations, I have myself
no doubt of the fact.
In speaking of the magnetic phenomena, I mean only to
refer to those which have been manifested in this particular
case. Many others, differing materially from these, have
been observed in other cases, of which it is neither necessary
nor proper that I should speak at this tune. Should I,
however, ever find it convenient to communicate to the
public a more detailed and better digested history of this
case, which is my present intention, I shall attempt, after
giving the result of my investigations, to follow out the
classification of the phenomena which I have here merely
glanced at. By pursuing this mode, perhaps we may ar-
rive at some rational theory. At present, however, until
a greater number of facts have been established, and more
clearly arranged, to attempt to theorize appears to me to
be entirely futile.
In conclusion, it gives me great pleasure to be enabled
to say from my own observations, that however interesting
animal magnetism may be when considered in relation to
science, however interesting as matter of curiosity and won-
der, or however interesting it may be as a means of discov-
ering our absent friends, or the machinations of our enemies,
it is still more interesting as the means of mitigating the
sufferings incident to human nature. It will be recollected
34 APPENDIX.
I have stated, that when Miss Brackctt came to this city
about the middle of May last, her general health was far
from being good ; she was totally blind, and unable to speak
excepting in the lowest whisper. Her condition is materi-
ally different at this time. Her health is good ;
her vision
is partially restored ; and she speaks in her natural tone of
voice. With much respect,
Yours, &c.
G. CAPRON.
Mr. Thomas C. Hartshorn.
Providence, August 30th, 1837.
Mr. Henry Hopkins states that Miss Loraina Brackctt
has lived in his family as an invited guest four or five weeks
at different times. Fie is satisfied that she was totally blind
when she first came to live with him. Her voice, when
he first became acquainted with her, was so low and weak
that it was difficult to hear her speak.
Her eyes were very much inflamed and painful : the lids
were scarcely open : they were easily affected by the light
so as to be painful.
She has since improved very much in her eye sight. Her
eyes have assumed a healthy appearance; they are not
troublesome. She can even lay aside the green shades,
which she used to wear, without experiencing inconvenience,
except in a very bright light. She is now able, in the natu-
ral state, to discern the outlines of objects, such as a book, or
a fan, for instance.
There is also a very great improvement in her appetite,
appearance and general health. She has been magnetized
almost daily by Doctor Capron ; and it is to this that this
improvement is to be attributed. Her natural cheerfulness
and elasticity of spirits have improved with her health. In
the magnetized state she enjoys a walk as much as any one,
and often walks in the garden among the flowers. If she
wishes to examine any flower very closely, she holds it
just behind her head, near the top, without taking off her
bonnet ; in this manner she holds Avhatevcr things she ex-
APPENDIX. 35
amines. To look at any picture hanging up in a room, in
a house where she has not been before, she steps into a
chair and brings the top of her head towards it.
Mr. Hopkins permits me to publish this.
Mr. Jesse Metcalf says he has known Miss B. about two
months. She has resided in his family at different times
about four weeks. Was not aquainted with her when she
first came to Providence. Could not understand her very
well at first, because her voice was very feeble ; she did
not speak except in low whispers. Health quite delicate.
Appetite poor. Her eyes appeared to be quite inflamed ;
it was necessary to keep the blinds of the room almost al-
ways closed ; and the lamp where it could not shine so as
to pain her eyes. While at his house, she has generally
been magnetized every day. She would sometimes remain
in the magnetized state ten or twelve hours, during which
she would walk about the house as well as any other per-
son ; but when she was awake, she would have to grope
about, and feel her way. In the magnetized state, she en-
joys vision, looking at objects with great pleasure, especially
pictures, portraits, &c. This makes her delight in being
in that state. She describes such things very accurately.
Miv Metcalf says that her general health and her appe-
tite are very much improved. When in the somnambulic
state, she walks along the streets with perfect ease, and
hears any person she is directed to, very well. She has
been to meeting three times with his family in that state,
and could remember some parts of the discourses, having
heard them very well.
When Doctor Capron leaves her in the magnetic state,
he first tells her to answer and converse with all his
family, or with some member of it. She cannot then talk
with any but these persons ; nor can she hear any thing ad-
dressed to her by any one else. She cannot, when in that
state, hear the conversation between any two individuals.
She can only see their lips move, and wonders they dd"
not talk. She cannot even hear the person with whom she
36 APPENDIX.
converses, when he talks with any body else. She hears
him only when he addresses her.
Miss B. is intelligent, has received a good education, and
is cheerful and pleasant.
When in the magnetized state, she can tell immediately
in what part of the house every member of the family is,
without moving or turning from her seat. Mr. M. has elev-
en in the family, including Miss B. who is now staying with
him.
Miss B. says the walls of the house, as do all other walls,
appear to be transparent. She can see through them, and
yet she can see them, and describe what kind of paper, or
paint, is on them.
Miss B. is of pleasing manners, and is an invited guest in
his house, where she has interested all the family.
Mr. Mctcalf permits me to publish this statement, which
he made at my request.
The young lady to whom these articles relate, has consent-
ed to have her name given, that nothing might seem to be
wanted to add to the authenticity of the statements therein
made ; which statements, she believes, may contribute to
convince others afflicted as she has been, of the advantages
to be derived from the magnetic treatment.
r&»d -Mk UrW2.<J~p*.t r
PRACTICAL INSTRUCTION
ANEM^]L SflA.SKIE'lHB
BY J. P. F. DELEUZE.
WITH NOTES 1U THE TRANSLATOR,
REFERRING TO < .1 S E 3 IN fr H t S nil'NTRY
^^^^ &
NOTICE.
In the notes, the translator has been governed by the following
Miples
^ To use only the best testimony.
fcTo mention the names of any persons who are worthy of re-
re in relation to what they have seen, without asking permis-
sion.
3d. To be ready at all times to correct, in the subsequent parts,
any error of fact that may be committed in tWtaMreccding ones.
Much interesting matter has been dcfeo^H^^the next part,
among which is a series of experiments <j^fl ^pursued and min-
uted down at the time, by a gcntlemewH Bricad of one of our
literary institutions. Twelve instances of nn^^tic somnambulism
produced in men and boys have been communicated to the transla-
tor. Several remarkable cures have been performed under the
direction of physicians. Of these things some account may be ex-
pected.
The magnetizers in this city have been very accommodating to
strangers, and men distinguished in the. professions. Huadreds of
them have had every facility of investigation, when they have ap-
peared to be guided by a philosophical spirit, and not by vain curi-
osity. A list of a few whom the translator recollects, is here pre-
sented, to enable their townsmen to find out from their own lips,
" whether these things be so." A more extended one will be r re-
pared at the end of the volume, which will be comprised in
parts, each with an appendix paged by itself. An index to the tv
will be published in the last. A second edition of the volume, if
called for, shall have a rearrangement of the matter in the notes.
Joseph T. Allen, Norfolk, Vir. ; Wm. Wadsworth, Philadelphia ;
Dr. Joshua B. Flint, Ephraim L. Frothingham, Wm. B. Bra<
Boston ; Thomas B. Mitchell, James G. Whitaker, Mobile ; W. P.
Rathbone, Augusta, Geo. ; Thomas Burgess, .Tun.. N'.;w-On
Professors Potter and Yates, Union College ;
eli.
r
"
Hartford; Major Lomax, U. S. Army; Rev. .1 : nes W. I
Stone, Abner Jones, New-York ; Bishop Br"
Rev. Francis Wayland, Sen., Samfoga, N. y
T
.; rofessor D'Wolf,
C< <
Vt.; Hint, Esq., Rev. A. Kauffman, Charleston,
S. C. ; Rev. Dr. Brazer, Salem, Mass. ; Rev. Henry Colman, Deer-
field, Mass. ; Rev. Mr. Elliot, St. Louis, Mo. ; Rcv."john A. Clarke.
Philadelphia ; Rev. F. H. Hedge, Bangor, Me. ; Rev. Bei'j. Kent.
Roxbury, Mass. ; John Taylor, Newark, N. J.
Errors.—Note 5 should have been placed before the one that
precedes it.
Ml Poyen's communication betrays our want of accented type.
The word lui en ote, should read lui en a ote.
In Doctor Capron's valuable letter, the sentence near the bottom
of the 33d page should read thus li
As a means of discovering the
condition of our absent friends." At the 30th page, 3d parai:
read "some other similar institution.'
At page 8 of the Appendix, for " Jascan," read Toscan.
The last note should have been numbered 11.
