{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__gentleman_of_philadelphia___philosophy_of_animal_magnetism.pdf","mytitle":"Philosophy Of Animal Magnetism","mylang":"de"}
T H F.
PHILOSOPHY
OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM:
TOGETHF.lt WITH THE SYSTEJI~ OF l\L\NIPULATlNG .ADOPTJ,D TO PH O·
llUCE }:CSTACY A~D SO::I[NAMHULT~JI[-THI'
};J?F.ECT5 A~D THE ltATION..!.Lf:.
UY
A GENTLEJUAN OF PHILADELPHIA,
EpichaTmus.
The most honorable, as well as the most useful occupation of man, is
to contribute to the extension of his ideas.
o/Ulison's Europe.
J/lj .
PHILADE:t'PHIA:
PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY MERRIHEW&. GUN~,
No. 7 CARTER'S ALLEY,
1837.
,
Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1837, by
MERRIHEW & GuNN, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
TO THE
CLERGY, PHYSICIANS, PHILOSOPHERS, LITERATI,
LAWYERS AND MERCHANTS,
MANUFACTURERS, MECHANICS, FARMERS AND CITI-
ZENS GENERALLY ;
BUT MORE ESPECIALLY THE LADIES
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
THIS WORK
ON
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, OR ECSTATIC SOMNOLENCY,
IS
RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED,
BY
THE AUTHOR.
INTRODUCTION .
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, owing to recent developments of
extraordinary facts, the attestation of which are too well
sustained to be refuted, begins powerfully to engage the
attention of all classes of society in our country. These
facts, spread before the community, without the least pre-
tence on the part of our fellow citizens to understand any
thing of the cause, have startled and surprised them.
They have burst suddenly upon them, like a flood of
light pouring its beams into a dungeon, almost before they
were prepared to suspect their existence; for, unless to
the learned, even its name was hardly known until re-
cently to ordinary readers, and its meaning still fewer
pretended to understand. At the apparitional presence of
a power so stupendous, our alarm has prevented that calm
investigation demanded by phenomena so remote from the
ordinary course of events. The effects of these develop-
ments were all that the most philosophic preiended to
know; the rationale of the science has been arcana into
which no one attempted to dive. From their astounding na-
ture they so greatly taxed our credulity, aroused our aston.
ishment, and exhibited those who would allow their convic-
tions to guide their judgments respecting it, as targets for the
satire and shafts of the malevolent, that no one would allow
1"'
6 INTRODUCTION.
himself to begin, if he had even sufficient perception to
discover the true starting point. One party has denounc-
ed this phenomenon as a humbug, the other proclaimed
it as a miracle; and though both were equally remote from
the truth, neither of them possessed, and few of them
sought either data or facts, upon which, without divesting
themselves of their preconceived notions, to erect a super-
structure of argumentation that would in any degree appear
satisfactory to a thinking mind; while they tended to dis-
tract the public, and divert their attention from the great
and important question to be considered. In most sciences,
but especially in physiology, man loves to build a theory
of his own, and when he has completed it, he thinks him-
self in duty bound to close the door against all further in-
vestigation! Now the theories contained in the following
pages, are not the crude and undigested imaginings or
hasty conclusions of a visionary. They have been formed
by the most profound philosophers and physiologists in
Europe; men, however, whose works have not had a
place amongst us, and some of which perhaps never may.
They are not mere logical deductions made to prove theo-
ries; they are arguments deduced from " facts and expe-
rience in explanation of this spiritual principle."
The time has arrived in this country when animal mag-
netism must be investigated as far as its facts and philoso-
phy are concerned. Effects so :surprising must have a
cause; and a cause so occult, yet producing effects so
tremendous, must exercise the rational mind; more espe-
cially since it is affirmed that on this subject, mind itself
constitutes so important a part of the machinery. Nothing
but a satisfactory development of this cause will arrest the
INTRODUCTION. 7
ardent pursuit of philosophical investigation. When
causes shall have been explored and stated, the philosophic
mind will next investigate, and see how far they are
deserving our assent. When reason is left to combat
reason, the result will be moral light. But in a conflict in
which prejudice and bigotry-a determined unbelief, in
despite of the most demonstrable facts and abundant data-
is opposed to an enlightened and liberal philosophy, the
light will be let into the public mind by jets, but its full
glory will be long delayed by the murky haze and re-
fraction which hang dense and high over the horizon to
obscure it.
The detached and fragmental elements of its philosophy,
so far as they have been given, have been entirely un-
satisfactory. Our philosophers have been too much en-
gaged in the wonders elicited by the effects, to reason
t:f posteriori about them. It has long been agitated in
Europe, but until very Tecently it has vainly tried to gain
a respectable footing amongst us. Now, when a few
scientific and intelligent gentlemen have adopted the be-
lief, and presented new demonstrations in proof of its
identity and reputed effects, in every step, more than con-
firming all that has been reported of it from abroad, we
allow ourselves to be-l almost said-frightened like
children, and to become bewildered, not knowing how to
direct our credence, or upon which side to place our
faith. The PHILOSOPHY OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM, contained
in the following pages, will s~ttle this important point,
and remove the difficulties of distracted minds. It will
henceforward be regarded neither as a t1·ick nor a miracle,
but will expose the pious charlatanry andj ugglery ofpseudo-
8 I~TRODUCTION.
saints, explain innumerable phenomena in which circum-
stances, until now inexplicable, have transpired, and pre-
sent the cause-the philosophy-the only rationale of far
famed ]}fesmerism in its true characteristics before the
world. It will afford, as it is here presented, just enough
to enable men to think and leave them at it. It will also
point out the path by which to attain a correct under-
standing of it without the necessity of any other gnide,
because it will shed LIGHT upon the mind which the
powers of scepticism can never extinguish-it will para-
liz~ scepticism itself, as we have found that its greatest
opposers come from that quarter.
This work was not originally prepared for publication.
The author having been favored by his friends with the
perusal of a few works on animal magnetism was deeply
interested and forcibly struck with the contents. During
their perusal, which was necessa.rily rendered hasty, he
made notes of such passages as he considered of most
importance. His leisure, and the time allowed him for
perusal, would not permit him to note down either the page
or the author in detail. Hence, in giving the language of
some authorities in which his recollection did not aid .him,
he was forced occasionally to use words not his own as if
they were. But these notes, made for private use, formed
subjects of much reflection; these were also committed to
paper. They were accidentally seen by others, than whom
few in our country were more competent to form a just
estimate of their value-and having been seen, he was
compelled to print, that others might see and read also! It
was insisted on that these remarks, then in a crude form,
were the desiderata upon animal magnetism so anxiously
INTRODUC'I'ION. 9
sought by the public.-They contain ample subjects of
reflection for the wise and the foolish-the learned and
the illiterate-the infidel and the Christian. They form a
TExT BooK on animal magnetism, which contains all that
is necessary to fully indoctrinate the reader into the
mysteries of the science, and enable the philosopher to
trace the cause from the effects, affording at the same
time, as before observed, the only true reasons for that
which has heretofore been viewed by common consent as
having too intimate a connexion with the invisible world
to touch without trembling! Finally, it places before the
reader the system of MANIPULATION and MAGNETIC PASSES,
as used in France and Germany, to produce that profound
somnolency, the effects of which, without these expositions
to prepare the mind, are so astounding, as to place the
most credulous under a' severe trial in yielding the assent
of the mind to their most obvious facts; so that it is
hoped, no one will hereafter say with Col. STONE, in his
recent pamphlet, "I am not a positive believer in the
system, because I know not what to believe," the subject
being clearly before them.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ANIMAL lHAGNETisM, which has been thorougly
investigated and discussed on the Continent of Europe
for more than half a century, where it has gained many
of the most profound men of the present age in the
ranks of literature and science to su·stain it, on ac-
count of the striking facts that attend its demonstra-
tions, now begins to awaken the attention of the
literati in England as well as in this country. In the
two latter countries, it has been the custom with sci-
entific men to class animal magnetism with astrology,
witchcraft, and other like exploded objects of ridicule.
In the United States, especially, it would have been
somewhat hazardous for any man of literary preten-
sions to couple it with his name, except in the way
of sneer and invective-a method which has been re- ·
sorted to by sciolists in all ages to cry down what
they either have not perceptions to understand, or
what their moral principles or their interests may
be opposed to. There is a class of men calling them-
selv€1s scientific, who reject and oppose with deter-
mined hostility, allfacts. Their heads are as impe-
netrable to conviction as an old anvil. They will not
12 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
stop to inquire-to investigate-not even to hear·
They ridicule and scoff as if all philosophy consisted
in condemning unheard; and they consequently sneer
down, secundum artem, not only what they are not
acquainted with, but also all that they have a disin-
clination with which to become acquainted. This
obstinate and irrational, if not perverse spirit, is the
fruitful source of all the ridiculous nostrums and
quackeries with which our country is cursed. They
act as if there were no further mysteries in store for
man in the walks of science, learning, or discovery.
They are ready, notwithstanding, to believe the vi-
sionary theories of GALL, SPURZHEIM, and others,
which, with some probable truths;are a Babel of non-
sense, upon which no two philosophers are in all
points agreed. Such are some of the inconsistencies
of our modern philosophers.
The celebrated FREDERICK ANTHONY MESMER, a
German physician, was the first who brought animal
magnetism into public notice, and reduced its princi-
ples into a science. On first promulgating his doc-
trines, he was assailed with as bitter a malignity and
persecution as if he had been the setter forth of a new
religion. He was slandered, circumvented, and villi·
tied-driven from city to city, and at length forced
for bread to leave the German dominions. He ulti-
mately made his way to Paris, in France, and kept
on his principles, fearlessly challenging investigation,
and boldly throwing defiance at his enemies. He
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 13
performed many striking cures in the face and midst
of his persecutors; compelling his enemies, in the
language of the Jewish Sanhedrim on a certain occa-
sion, to admit, that a notable cure had been done
which could not be denied. MESMER, soon, how-
ever, attracted the attention of distinguished men,
and these, on investigating and witnessing the facts of
the science, became converts to, and spiritedly sus-
tained his doctrines. Animal magnetism, until now,
seems to have been chiefly understood in its results
and effects, and many things connected with it have
been entirely above our philosophy. In consequence of
this, it came in conflict with the pride of learning, be-
cause it did not open a sufficiently wide field for spe-
c'ltlation. The literati could not revel in conjecture,
and perhaps one of the reasons why it has not been
acceptable to many is, that it has to do with a science
which PROVES THE EXISTENCE OF A SOUL IN MAN;
being the connecting link between physiology and
psycology, the former confining its labors to the phy-
sical machine, and the latter considering man as a com-
pound of body and spirit. Investigations, however,
prove animal magnetism to have a more especial
connexion with psycology, than with any other doc-
trine or science..
Soon after MESMER established himself in the
French capital, and promulgated his new doctrines,
the French Academicians appointed a committee to
examine, and report on the facts and circumstances
2
14 . THE PHILOSOPHY OF
connected with this science. This was about the year
1784. The Report was made public in due time; but
the investigations were extremely partial, because the
committee was prejudiced against it. Many important
admissions were, however, made in its favor. After
the lapse of a quarter of a century, when MEsMER had
gained to his doctrine many of the greatest men of
France, and when public opinion began to set 'in his
favor, a new committee was appointed by the Academy
of Sciences, at Paris, again to inquire into, and report
upon this subject. The reporter was, as the other,
strongly prejudiced against MESMER and his doctrine;
but being a man of honor and of science,and his literary
reputation being at stake, he determined to act impar-
tially. In consequeoce, this report was nearly there-
verse of the previous one. The reporter entered fully
into the subject, and from this time animal magnetism
was placed before the French nation as a science pos-
sessing great interest, and fully deserving the credence
and investigation of the learned public. This gave the
study of Mesmerism a new impulse, and the current of
public opinion began rapidly to set in his favor. It
was from this period considered by the literati as a
necessary adjunct to physiology. It presented new
ideas to the mind of the student, and threv.r light upon
many physiological subjects before involved in dark-
ness. It also formed a new crisis in psycological in-
vestigations, presenting startling views to the philoso-
phical inquirer; but while the vindictive opposition of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
the hierarchy was stifled by the above report, the doc-
trine, on the other side, afforded demonstration not
to be resisted, that man contained a souL, and there-
fore the infidel notion was refuted, that death was an
eternal sleep! It presented the best support of reve-
lation on the one side, and prostrated the Dagon of
pretended miracles on the other, by accounting, in a
natural way, for many of the extraordinary events
which emanated from the monkeries, of the marvellous
intervention of invoked saints, in the cure of maladies
and in the exorcism of evil spirits, all of which were
dissipated, like smoke, on the announcement of these
doctrines.
The works that issued from the press immediately
after the above report in favor of Animal Magnetism,
were numerous, and from the ablest pens in the
nation. If it had not been that ignorant persons con-
stituted themselves the judges of subjects, of which
they had no knowledge, thereby assuming the quack
,v"hile they denounced quackery, and were thus able,
before the unthinking, to produce some influence to
agitate public opinion, Mesmerism would ere this not
only have been v;rell understood, but a1so embraced
by the whole of the civilized world. It is a science
of FACTS and EXPERIMENTS. The RATIONALE of its
phenomena, like all sciences in their infancy, may
sometimes be questioned, because the assigned argu-
ments are new, and often startling; but they are found-
ed upon data as easily sustained as are any sciences
16 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
which claim our attention. Its developments unfold
many of the mysteries that surround the Pythonic
and Sybiline Oracles of the heathen temple; many of
the degrading superstitions that were monopolised by
a theurgical priesthood, and palmed upon the ignorant
as the attestations of heaven in favor of their impious
pretensions. This science will now be viewed in a
newer and better light than heretofore, when it is un-
derstood, that in all periods of time, in all nations,
countries and neighborhoods, men have been found
possessing the power, by a TOUCH, to work a certain
species of cures upon the human system! This is
known to every man of intelligence in the country.
The touch-and-heal doctors are now, as they ever
have been, the wonder of the illiterate, and the stum-
bling-block of the learned.*
*A few years ago one of these rustic doctors was called for
by a very respectable regular physician in this vicinity to try
his powers upon a case of severe cephalma. The patient was
in great distress, and my friend had the touch-doctor, who had
considerable celebrity in the neighborhood, brought in, that he
might be personally observant of what took place. The touch-
doctor was reluctant to try his powers in the presence of the
physician, and the latter was an utter disbeliever of the tales
reported of this, as he supposed, impostor. After a few minutes
conversation, he found the touch-doctor a very ignorant, unpre-
tending, bnt pious man. He insisted on his trying the effect of his
touch upon the patient; the other at length consented; and after
a few remarks in which he requested the patient not to look to
him, but to God, for a cure, he applied the ends of his fingers to
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 17
Now, is it any wonder that such a system should
remain a secret to the crafty theologas_
ters of the
the patient's head, and asked her whether she felt any relie£1
The answer was, that the head-ache was gone ! " I know
that," he replied, "for I feel it here, (pointing to the side of his
head,) as severely as you felt it before I placed my hand upon
the part of your head affected !" My friend was astonished.
He asked whether such was the usual result 1 His answer
was in the affirmative, but it was also remarked that its continu-
ance was always of short duration. This fact is authentic.
We have amongst us individuals possessing extraordinary
magnetic powers, and who are capable of creating surprise from
the singular effects of magnetism evolved from their fingers; but,
who are themselves incredulous as- to animal magnetism! Their
incredulity, however, does not arise from the want ofevidence, for
of this they have abundance, but from the current of fashion-
able opposition. Indeed, some there are, who possess an
extensive education, and claiming to possess high intellectual
powers, who disclaim all science, and avoid all investigations
which bring them into contact with any species of psycological
study. To name the word .soul, in seriousness, would alarm
them. They will become aequainted with, nothing which
claims any connexion with the world of spirits.
A lady, well known to us, and who stands among the most re-
spectable in our society, possesses the magnetic power in a very
high degree. We have known her on many occasions, in trials
for amusement, to require a person to press his open hand upon
a table-its palm downward; she would then tell him, that she
would, by a few passes, compel the band to rise from the table
and follow he1·'s; and no muscular effort or determination on
his part could prevent such a result! Her passes were ma,de
with the fingers over the back of the hand-the movement in
one direetion, and peculiar.
2*
lfl THE PHILOSOPHY OF
church; or that they should not collect, wherever
found, those whom nature vested with such extraor-
dinary powers, and use them for the benefit of mother
church? It will now be easily seen in what way the
world has been gulled by miracle-mongers, and what
are the occult principle and practice through which
most of the veritable saints in the calendar have been
manufactured. In fact, says an able writer, "animal
magnetism is a natural cause which explains all the
effects, formerly attributed to magic and witchcraft;
as electricity explains the thunder; as astronomy ex-
plains the appearance of the comets; as a knowledge
of the different laws of nature explains all the pheno-
mena which, in times of ignorance, were ascribed to
supernatural agents.
Animal magnetism may not inaptly be called the
PHILOSOPHY OF SUPERSTITION. When the Romish
clergy account for the operations of this fluid as per-
formed by a Priest, or saint of their church, they as-
cribe them to God; when by a Protestant, or a member
of any other persuasion, they pronounce them to be
the work of the devil! There is but little doubt that
many a poor wretch has been put to cruel torments,
in the dark ages, for having, by the order of nature,
been unwittingly possessed of this extraordinary
power in excess. That thousands are able to put
forth this magnetic fluid in the cure of diseases, or
otherwise, who are entirely ignorant of the cause,
appears to be the fact. They only understand the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 10
virtues they possess in their effects. They do not
know that the influence they exert is magnetic, or
that it is under the control of their will, in certain
circumstances. The case seems to be thus; they pos-
sess an unusual abundance of the magnetic fluid; or
else,owing to their peculiar constitutional temperament
they distribute it more readily than others. The na-
tural magnetic conductors of their system seem to
be differently constituted from those of others; or,
which is perhaps more probable, they have the facul-
ty of CONFINING THEIR WILL '1'0 THE OBJECT OF
THEIR ATTENTION WITHOUT DISTRACTION, and at the
same time making it act with great power. This
latter opinion is rather confirmed by the fact, that
men who are called touch-doctors, it is said, are usual-
ly distinguished for their steady seriousness and
piety, and are seldom characterised for quickness of
perception, or intelligence. It is true, that men
can train the mind by close· attention to points of
study, whether mental or moral; but I speak of those
who are not artificially disciplined. Those who spon-
taneously eliminate the magnetic fluid are usually re-
puted men of STRONG FAITH! They believe them-
selves to be such, and they usually inspire a correspond-
ing feeling for the time. But such men, as before re-
marked, know little of their own powers, or they
would soon be able to produce surprising effects in
the curative art; and it will, before long, be demon-
strated, that without the influence of the magnetic
20 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
power in connexion with medicine, in the ordinary
process of healing, the person who contends with dis-
ease, will more frequently destroy nature, than he
will disease when he attacks it.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, as before said, is the con-
necting link between physiology and psycology. It
is the phenomenon of the material, as well as of the
spiritual, man; because it demonstrates the intimate
connexion that subsists between them.
Mesmerism and electricity are subject to the same
code of criticism, and, in many things, to the same
laws. Sir HuMPHREY D.AvY says: "Facts are
independent of fashion, taste, and caprice, and are
subject to no code of criticism. They are more
useful, perhaps, when they contradict, than when
they support received opinion and doctrines; for our
theories are only the imperfect approximations to the
rea] knowledge of things." The science we are now
about to introduce, is one of those that must FORCE
CONVICTION. It enters into concernments, and de-
velopes truths to which man has a natural repugnance;
because it brings him into an acquaintance with HIS
OWN SPIRITUAL NATURE; a study, from the contem-
plation of which we start and fly as anxiously as if
we dreaded to know a future fate in the realization
of which we could only anticipate terror and despair!
Now, in a detail of fcwts, and when it is avowed that
it is with facts only we have to do, where is there a
just reason for incredulity in advance of knowledge,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 21
or a bitter opposition where nothing that can harm
us is presented to our consideration ? The facts and
theory ~of this most extraordinary science, place the
whole man before the student in a new light. This,
no science ever did before. As soon as ~he student
leaves the study of man, as a physical being, he
passes him over into the hands of the Doctors of
Divinity, leaving to them any thing that belongs to
our MORAL* nature. Yet every respectable physician
in our country knows, that in the cure of diseases,
• It is a singular fact, that the philosophers of France have
recently become more free to express themselves, in writing,
not only of animal magnetism, but also of almost every subject
they touch, which bears upon morals, but more especially upon
the Christian religion, than most of the would be philosophers of
our own protestant country. I do not now speak of the clergy,
hut of laymen. The recent literature of that country abounds
with frequent allusions to religious subjects. LAMARTINE's
Travels in Palestine are of this class. He approache~ the sub-
ject of Christianity, and speaks out his mind like a man of sense
as well as piety, and that, too, in a manner that should put some
of our divines to the blush. His work is a good specimen of
the spirit, if not of the style, in which a Christian traveller and
philosopher should write. There is more poetry in his prose
than is often found in such works. When any of our modern-
I might say church-going philosophers, approach a suhject
requiring psycological inquiries, they become fidgety, curl up
their lips, and sneer as if it was a concernment which no one
but a clergyman had a right to meddle with. Can any thing
indicate more truly the narrow mind, and the bigoted spirit 1
22 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
the action of the mind has, perhaps, more than half
to do with the removal of the complaint.
The chief reason why animal magnetism is a sub-
ject of doubt and ridicule, especially in this country,
where it has only recently attracted public attention,
is, because the rationale of the science has not been
placed along side the facts, before the public. My
first object shall be to discuss the acknowledged
principles and physiological theories upon which the
doctrines of animal magnetism are founded. Let these
be carefully weighed and considered ; for without
this, the science cannot be well understood; but with
these introductory remarks, all will be clear and easy
ofsolution. In my observations, generally, I shall make
free with several authorities which it is not in my
power to quote, even when I use language not my
own, owing to the manner in which they were col-
lected. I refer to CoLQliHOUN's work in English, and.
AND.RAL, VIREY, and others in French, together with
the French Reports upon Magnitisme Animale, of
which I have already taken notice, and to which I
shall hereafter refer.
M. VIREY, in his Forces ll1edicatrices, (p. 8,)
says, "Man is a compound of three kinds of princi-
ples. 1. Of an immaterial, intellectual soul; 2. Of
a sens,itive faculty, or life; and 3. of natural elements.
In order to act upon the body, the soul malces use of
a vital prinr.iple, or of a nervous fluid, which is
capable of impressing motion and sensation upon our
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 23
organs.- Though this principle is MORE sUB'l'ILE
THAN LIGHT, it appears to be a material substance,
capable of accumulating, and even of passing from
one body to another."
The same author again observes, "Our soul per-
ceives without reasoning, and by a secret action of
its faculties, produces harmonious relations with other
souls; such, for instance, as sounds have amongst each
other. vVe do not acquire this instinct by science,
although it may be rendered more perfect by study."
(p. 172.) "The sensitive element is not of the same
nature with thought; IT IS SECRETED IN THE BRAIN;
it descends into the nerves;* it exhausts itself and
is 'renewed. An animal is a fountain of life. It
loses some part of it every day, and it extracts a fresh
portion from the surrounding bodies. We never live
more energetically than when effusing the vital
fluid outward." (P· 317.) The presence, the touch,
or the words, of a very eminent man, have a very
singular influence on inferior minds, and are capable
of curing bodily diseases." (p. 359.)
From what has been said, it will appear, that
animal magnetism has for its principle a rnoral
* BECLARD, a French anatomist and physiologist, cut a large
nerve adjoining a muscle. Paralysis followed. When he brought
the ends of the cut nerves to approach within three lines of
each other, the contracted nerve seemed to protend with a
motion as if attracted towards each other by some imponderable
influence which traversed the interval of separation.
24 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
action. Jt is the WILL, which DARTS FORTH THE
FLUID, said above to be secreted in the brain. The
will gives it motion; it controls its action; it regulates
its momentum; it is the moving power in man, as it
was the WILL of the Almighty by which the Universe
was created. Man did not give himself this power.
He derived it from that Being whose WILL alone has
independent power, and from whom alone volition
is derived. He that sitteth above gave man the
power to will, and the power over the will to exert
such transcendent faculties! But no one can have
complete command over his volitions with_
out that
confidence which is necessary to augment its energies.
'Vhen, therefore, we speak of exciting the will, or
of eliminating a fluid and transferring it to another,
let it not be said that we do this independently of
ourselves, any more than we perform other acts
dependent on our moral or physical nature. It would
appear strange, if, in the creation of man, the creative
power should not imbue him with a principle ofhis own
nature, by which, of all others, he is more eminently
distinguished in our perceptions of his active powers:
it would be passing strange, if man should have been
created without faculties which would at least shadow
forth that WILL which is the basis of all his moral
attributes! We have the power to will-and if this
faculty was properly improved, instructed, managed,
and regulated, the human condition would soon un-
dergo a change that would spread happiness and peace
ANll\·IAL MAGNETISM. 25
through the earth, and before long the millenia! light
will dawn upon our moral world. I am not quite
sure that the doctrine we now advocate is not one
of the precursors-shall I say pioneers.'l-to intro-
duce us to, and render us familiar with the glory that
is to be revealed in that day.*
From all this it is plain that to effect great things,
it is necessary to divest the persons upon whom you
operate, as much as possible of their materiality; or
in other words, add spirit to matter. It is the will
existing in man, which is the moving principle of all his
actions. Volition does not belong to mere materiality.
It belongs to all spiritual beings, and is the more
active and powerful in them, in proportion as they
are disengaged from matter. The energy with which
it operates, without the assistance of organs, is the
essential characteristic of pure spirits. Volition, then,
belongs to matter, mind, and spirit; and as it is the
* It is the only discovery, apart from revelation, which
exhibits man to himself in his three-fold character of body, soul,
and spirit. To those who have even more than " Moses and
the Prophets,"-who have the Everlasting Gospel of the Son
of God preached to them, but who will not believe, it mercifully
comes in the form of demonstration, to prove the reality of spi-
ritual existence, through a medium which, to such men, is less
objectionable. God bas opened the stores of wisdom and
knowledge, that the mirlds of men, who are indifferent, might
be aroused-that men might see themselves, and, through that
medium, apprehend their Author. In the progress of this work
the three-fold character of man will be more fully explained. .
3
26 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
most active faculty of all those with which .man has
been endowed, so is it fraught with happiness or
misery according as jt is well, or ill directed.
The will is a power that sits enthroned above our
physical natures. It has full command over them
when invested and in full possession of its natural
energies and attributes. But the will is as often
impotent as is the physical system, because it is not
instructed in the exercise of its functions. When it
is, the human machine approximates most to perfec-
tion.
But the human brain is the organ upon which the
will acts. This organ seems to be a composition that,
like the Galvanic fluid, sends forth, at the command of
the will, an electrico-magnetic fluid, to trave1·se the
ne1·ves-themselves empty tubes-in order to give
vitality and action to the muscular system. The
galvanic experiments made on dead men, seem to
affect muscular action in this way. That there is a
striking analogy between galvanic electricity and
nervous influence, is certain. That the one seems
to act as a substitute for the other, and partially does
so, has been demonstrated. That the magnet is affected
by the nervous fluid, is certain, the existence of its
polarity being demonstrated, by the connexion of the
magnetic needle, with the nervous influence, according
as it was brought into contact with the opposite fluids.
It is admitted by all writers on the human system,
that the blood contains a considerable quantity of
ANE\IAL MAGNETISl\L 27
iron. If, then, it contains iron, why shoblld not that
iron be capable of feeling the magnetic influence-
of being even polarized:* By repeated psycometrical
experiments, the existin_g affinity between the nervous
fluid of the human body, and the electric and magnetic
fluids, has been pretty well ascertained. In fact, com-
mon sense points out even to the casual observer, that
a healthy subject can as well be affected by another
healthy subject, as a healthy person is by another
in a state of disease; or in other worJs, that there
should be a contagion of health, as well as of disease.
This fact was known in ancient times. It was the
method adopted by the servants of the Israelitish
* Some weeks after this work was prepared for the Press, I
saw the following article in one of our city papers. The same
doctrine may be also found in CoLQUHOUN's work on animal
magnetism.
"A curious fact, connectec with the science of magnetism,
has recently been noticed by Mr. PARTINGTON, a lecturer at the
Russian Institute, London; which seems to prove that the
human body possesses polarity. The following is his account:
'Whilst making the necessary arrangements for this evening's
lecture, I witnessed a very singular fact. A lady, who is now
in the lecture room, having brought her hand nearly in contact
with the magnetized needle, it was observed that the bar was
attracted. Although somewhat surprised at the singularity of
the circumstance, I yet ascribed it either to the attraction of
gravitation, or else to a disturbance of the electrical equilibrium,
and accordingly repeated the experiment. The result was,
that an attractive or repulsive force was observed alternately,
upon presenting the thumb or finger of the same hand.'"
28 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
king, in order to transfuse youthful vigor into his
exhausted system; and whoever consults Friar
BAcoN's "secret plaister for the cure of old age,"
may be amused, if not instru:~ted. He says: "It
heals because it is whole; when it is sick, it makes a
man sick; when it is distempered, it breeds distem-
1
pers and changes the body to its own disposition,
because of the similitude it has with the body"-for
as "the infirmity of man passes into man, so does
health because of likeness."
The brain, or cerebrum, is the chief organ upon
which the will operates, and as it is indispensable
that we frequently refer to this substance, it may be
necessary to say a word or two on its nature and use.
The brain is a soft viscus, contained within the cra-
nium; it is divided into six lobes, each of which is
surrounded by membranes called the dura, and pia-ma-
ter, also with another covering similar to a spider's web
and, on that account, called the arachnoid membrane.
This membrane is situated between the dura and
pia-mater, and has no blood vessels or nerves, and
surrounds the several medullary substances composing
the brain, and medulla spinalis. The cerebrum has
three ventricles, and several protuberances, from
which originate blood vessels, and nerves. They
give off nine pair of nerves to different sections of
the head, as to the eyes, ears, 1wse, tongue, o/c. The
cerebrum is connected with the medulla oblongata by
the crura cerebri and crura cerebelli, two medullary
ANE\IAL MAGNETISM. 29
columns; and this again with the medulla spinalis, or
spinal marrow. From the spinal marrow proceed
thirty pair of nerves, eight cervical, twelve dorsal,
five lumbar, and jive sacral. 1\1y object in this
brief description is to give the unlearned reader some
idea of the number, distinction, and origin, of the
several classes of nerves. The nine pair that pro-
ceed from the brain are called the cerebral; the thir-
ty from the spinal marrow, we shall call the spinal, or
ganglionic nerves, because they commence on each
side of the spine in large tubercles, or knots, from
which the word ganglion has been derived. These
nerves possess different qualities and characteristics.
Those proceeding from the cer~brum and medulla ob-
longata are different in their structure from the spinal
nerves, the former being harder, whiter, and more
oxydized, while the ganglionic nerves are softe~, more
like jelly, and of a grayish color. The former of
these seems to have been appropriated to animal life,
the latter to the vegetative; the one as the seat of the
intellect, the other as that of the affections.* Though
we have reason to believe that the brain is the seat or
centre of the operations of the intellect-, we have
• The Christian Seriptures every where confirm this doc•
trine. They represent the heart as the seat of one class of af.
fe0tions, and the howels of another. That they are both the
seat of the same affections appears conclusive, but the one in a
more intense degree thfln the other, in some of them. Com.
passion, s,vmpathy, and pity, ft would seem. belong more to
3* ,
30 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
equally good reason to hold that the ganglionic sys-
tem-the nerves and plexus of the chest and abdo-
men-is the primary seat of the passions and affec-
tions of the mind. In fact, love, hate, jealousy;joy,
sorrow, surprise, terror, &c., alter the functions, and
even the structure of the organs, and any effect pro-
duced by these passions and emotions upon the brain
appears to be secondary, or sympathetic. The nerves
are hollow tubes, and their intention is to convey the
nervous fluid from the seat of sensation to the muscu-
lar system, to restore it when exhausted. The nerves
always arise from a medullary substance, which, whe-
ther in the head, neck, or spine, we shall call the brain,
for it deserves this appellation, acting, as it does, in
that capacity, and giving out the nervous energy ac-
cording as the ·brain and nerves are suited to the in-
tellect or the affections.
The nervous fluid, as above observed, is secreted
in tlte brain, and descends into the nerves at the
command of the will. The construction of the brain
is such as that it can give forth this fluid, and trans-
mit it to the nervous system as it is required; and it
exhales from the nerves when in excess, after the
muscles have been vivified by transfusion;* the cere-
the bowels than to the heart, but to the latter in some degree. See
.!Ylat. xv. 19 ; 1 John iii. 19; Col. iii. 12; lsa. lxiii. 15, &c.
*It will hardly be supposed that the quantity transmitted
is always in exact proportion to that which is required, any
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 31
brine medulla, or viscus, is capable of secreting this
principle, in the same manner as electric matter is
discharged from the Galvanic battery. Neither the
fluid itself, nor the brain which secretes it, has any
taste or smell, or color, both the cerebrum and nerves
being white. ITS MOTION IS LIKE LIGHTNING, for
by the direction of the will it passes with the quick-
ness of thought through every part of the human sys-
tem! As the nerves are the organs of sense and mo-
tion, and always arise from a medullary, or brain-like
viscus, I shall in these papers regard the several me-
dullary organs, whether in the head, or spine, as Gal-
vanic apparatus subject to the will, and when in a
healthy condition, always ready to obey its mandates.
The sentient extremities of these nerves are like
wires from either pole of the battery, proceeding from
more than that the quantity of rays of light are in proportion to
the demands of vegetable life. This no man would suppose who
pretends to an acquaintance with natural philosophy, it being a
general Jaw that the principle is abundantly diffused, but that
nature appropriates of that abundance a supply for the functional
operations of progressive organization. The fact is, when
the will is impotent the supply for the nerves is deficient, but
at other times, under excitement, it is in excess. In the latter
state a preterna.tural strength, is for a time, diffused through the
system, as we witness in cases of madness, epilepsy, or under
the excitements of fever, or anger. Will it, then, be supposed,
that a supply in exact measure will be given to meet contingen-
cies which it is not the design of the creative power should
ever happen 1
32 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
and branching out into every part; but as each ofthose
projecting on any one side, has a corresponding one
on the other, always making a pair ofthe same class
which perform the same duties, so they proceed in
pairs, and bend their course to corresponding muscles,
on either side of the system. But the nerves have
different functions to perform. It would seem that
those of the cerebral nerves receive the impulse of
the will,_
upon their sentient extremities; it is probable
that at the moment of perception an impingement
on the extremity of the nerves by the viscus takes
place. The common opinion is, that sensation pre-
cedes volition; but I hold the reyerse, because I give
volition entirely up to the action of the thinking part,
or soul; and place the whole machine under its com-
mand. It is asserted upon very respectable authority,
that the electric matter is different from the nervous
fluid: That this fluid is not magnetic; neither oxy-
gen, nor hydrogen, nor azot, but an element sui
generis, which exists and is produced in the nerves
only, and can be known only by its effects. It is sup-
posed by some to be an intermediate substance be-
tween the body and the soul, and different from the
vital principle.
This nervous, or, as I shall call it, vital fluid, is
LIGHT. It is the same active, imponderable fluid that
is transfused into all nature. But this light in pass-
ing through any medium whatever is in some degree
changed 7:n its properties, and made to partake of the
nature ofthat through which it is diffused. The light of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 33
the sun, for instance, is motion, and proceeds, but is not
discharged from the sun. On striking the earth, it
passes through its pores, enters the solids, the fluids
and minerals, and passes into the centre, from which,
having become polarized and magnetized, it escapes
at the poles in exhalations, and probably returns
to the source from whence it came, thus supplying
the exhaustless formation oflight with its own beams!
So when this light vivifies the human subject, it be-
comes modified in t!te medullary organs, and is
concentrated there for performing the necessary func-
tions of life; just as the solar beams are taken up in
vegetation, to give life to the vegetable world, and
may be liberated again in the process of combustion;
for all the beams of the .sun received by the earth, are
not needed in yegetable organization, an abundance
being supplied, and from that abundance all parts of
nature taking a portion for their own use.
From what I have said on the abstract condition of
man, it may be inferred that he is capable of being
· analyzed so that his constituent elements may be as-
certained. The chemical agent by which this can alone
be effected is animal magnetism. The process by
which an analysis is effected will soon be understood.
It is agreed on all hands, that Animal Magnetism,
when applied to the human subject, operates chiefly
upon the nerves situated in the abdominal region;
that is, upon the plexus sola'ris, or great sympa-
thetic nerves, which appear to be the centre of the
34 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
ganglionic system of nervous influence, opposed, as is
well known, to that of the brain. So important in
the human economy, has the region of this great gan-
glion been considered, that some of the elder philoso-
phers conceived it to be the seat of the sentient soul.
In diseased states of the organ, this ganglion appears
in very peculiar relations towards the cerebral system,
and it has sometimes, perhaps not unreasonably, been
denominated the cerebrum abdomina/e.
Now, it is a singular fact, that in many cases of cata-
lepsy and somnambulism, the usual organs of the senses
have been found to be entirely dormant, and the
seat of general sensibility transferred from the
brain, to the region of this ganglion, or cerebrum
abdomina/e. Does not this circumstance suggest
some distinction hitherto not sufficiently investigated,
between the intellect and the sensibility--between
the cerebral and the ganglionic systems of the nervous
energy?
The ganglionic system does not spring, as was for-
merly believed from the fifth and sixth cerebral pairs;
but only communicates with them as with many others
and all the nerves of the spinal cord. It constitutes
itself a separate and independent whole. A series of
ganglions lying on both sides of the spinal cord, link-
ed together by means of connecting branches, formed
into a circle at a point between the cerebral and spinal
action, constitutes the boundary of both systems.
'\Vithin this boundary the spinal, or, as I prefer term-
AN!l\IAL MAGNETIS:\1. 35
ing it, the ganglionic system expands and communi-
cates outward with the brain, by means of connecting
branches. The gangl~onic system, eontained within
the elliptical boundary, consists of a contexture of
apparently irregular plexus of nerves~ sometimes
more loose, but where the principal vessels lie, more
closely pressed. together, and. occasionally provided
with nervous knots. In this hbarinthine contexture,
one particular group preponderates in respect to mass,
separation, and influence, which, in consequence of
its form, has been denominated the phxus solaris.
Now, having described these two nervous systems,
it is proper to explain in what manner they are affect-
ed by the magnetic action. It appears~ by repeated
experiments, that when the activity of the cerebral
system is diminished, that of the ganglionic system is
increased. At such times the SKIN IS THE SEAT OF
SENSATION! To prove this it is only necessary to let
the point of the finger, or of a metallic rod, be passed
over the skin of a sleeping person frequently, within
an inch of the skin, or so, wjthout producing a cur-
rent of air, and the sleeper will become disturbed,
rub the part affected, and if the experiment is con-
tinued probably awake.
But when this subject is treated physiologically,
there seems to be this difference between natural and
magnetic sleep, that in a state of nature the cerebral
organs are in activity; but when under magnetic
influence these are suspended, and the ganglionic
36 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
system is exalted, or in activity; that is, the principal
effect of the magnetic treatment upon the brain ap-
pears to consist in the temporary suspension of the
sensibility, and activity of the cerebral organs; but the
ganglionic system is rendered proportionally active
as the other is depressed! Whether this indicates
polarization in the human system or not, let others
judge. It seems, at least, to have some analogy to it.
The proofs of animal magnetism seem also to be proofs
of the Aurora Borealis. They are, as has been before
hinted, exhalations of light from their respective
bodies, the former from man, the latter from the
earth. Light, in passing through man, or through
the earth, becomes magnetized, by partaking of the
nature ofthe respective bodies through which it passes.
.llt the moment of receiving magnetic influence it
becomes polarized. The nervous circulation is so-
lar light, digested or modified in the brain, and
thence distributed through the system, as electricity
is circulated from an electrical battery, or galvanic ap-
paratus. It is projected from the head, and exhales
at the extremities, whence it forms an atmosphere,
or sphere of active motion similar to the magnetic ac-
tion.
Now, the vital power transferred from one indi-
vidual to another, does not, as some suppose, reside in
the nerves, but in the brain. It is from this point
that the transferred power emanates, runs through the
ANIMAL MAGNETIS:.\1. 37
nerves, and gives vital energy to all parts of the mus-
cular system.
Those who have written upon animal magnetism,
and they are both very numerous and respectable,
concur in saying, that every healthy individu'al has
the power of communicating the vital fluid. The
more healthy and sound the constitution, the more ca-
pable he is of communicating it. The opposite of
these conditwns produces the contrary effects. This
fluid is produced by a very simple process, and even
without their aid by the sole act of the will. But
the act of the will is not necessary to receive it. It
is transmitted the more easily in proportion as the
will of the ope1·ator is real, strong, and determined.
It will perhaps be with difficulty believed, that the
communication of the fluid is more or less complete,
according to the degree in which the will of the ope-
rator is more or less developed; but daily experience
has enabled us to perceive, that, in order to produce
the desired effects, an adept has been obliged to learn
to exert his will, as a child is obliged to learn to
walk! Whoever examines a Fr~nch work entitled,
"Memoires sur lefluide vital," will find many curious
and interesting remarks upon the subject, deeply
worthy his attention. Indeed, why the reasons of
most of these phenomena are unnoticed is, men are
not apt to examine very carefully those correspon-
dencies in the human body upon which depends a great
part of the play of the animal machine.
4
38 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
I have said above, that in the natural and magnetic
somnambulism the operations appear to depend, or to
exhibit their effects upon the organs which I have de-
scribed, but that in the somnolescent state the cerebral
organs are rendered dormant, and the sensibility is
frequently transferred to the epigastrium, that is,
the pit of the stomach. REIHL assumed two poles of
nervous sensibility in the human organism__._the one
the pneumatic pole, being seated in the brain ; the
other the somatic pole, in the ganglionic system. If
REIHL had been acquainted with animal magnetism~
he would !lave better known how to have accounted for
the peculiar principle which led him to make this
distinction-it would at once have directed him to
the true cause. If we admit, however, the connexion,
or perhaps the antagonism already pointed out be-
tween the intellect and the sensibility--between the
cerebral and the nervous or ganglionic systems; and
could we conceive it possible, either by means of the
manipulations, &c. employed in the magnetic treat-
ment, or by any other accidental, or undiscoverable
means, to withdraw a considerable portion of the
nervous or vital fluid f~om the cerebral regions and
concentrate it at the epigastrium in the plexus solaris,
or distribute it throughout the ganglionic system, we
should thus be enabled to account, in some degree,
for the many extraordinary phenomena of animal
magnetism, occasioned, it would appear, by the sus-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 39
pension or activity in the cerebral organs, and the
exalted sensibility of the abdominal ganglions.
There is little doubt that the ganglions I have de-
scribed, with their appendages, was designed by
PARACELsus and VoN HELMONT, in what they have
said respecting the existence and functions of the
arch;eus, which they describe as a sort of demon,
presiding over the stomach, acting constantly by
means of the vital spirits, performing the most impor-
tant offices in the animal economy, producing all the
organic changes which take place in the corporeal
frame, curing diseases, &c. VoN HELMONT even held,
that, by virtue-of the arch;eus, man was approximated
to the realm of spirits; meaning, I presume, that in
cases of catalepsy and somnambulism, the excited sen-
sibility of the arch;eus (or plexus solaris,) predomi-
nates over the cerebral energy, supplies its functions
with increased activity, and in the absence of the or-
dinary organic influence, seems to transport us to an-
other world.
It is a remarkable and well demonstrated fact, that
the combination of fluids of one individual with
those ofanother, has the effect ofproducing sleep.*
*Every child, of a kind and docile spirit, knows the effect pro-
duced on his mind during his mother's manipulations in dress-
ing its head. The author well remembers, when a small boy,
that while his mother, or nurse, used to comb his head, he was
accustomed to fall into a sleep, and while in that state his plea-
sure was so excessive, that he stilt solicits it from his com-
40 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
This combination causes the brain to pass into a sort
of ercthismus, which gradually increased hy the con-
tinuation of magnetic action, determines, in the brain
of the magnetized person, a considerable disengage-
ment of fluid. It is this excess of fluid, whose sub·
tility, traversing the sides ofthe cranium, irradiates
the surrounding objects, and occasions the wonderful
phenomena of lucidity.' - In such cases, the brain is
enabled to dispense with the instruments of the senses,
and the indivirlual can see without eyes, and hear
without ears.' I:1 the ordinary state, the organs of
the senses are a kind of conductors through which we
receive the impressions of external objects; but in
somnambulism, the fluid comes immediately into con-
tact with these objects, so that the natural conduc-
tors ofsensation become useless.
We have seen that in somnambulism the sensibility
of the animal life is entirely abolished. This phe-
nomenon, in our opinion, is susceptible of rigorous
explanation.· We feel nothing, because the brain,
completely absorbed by the activity of this new order
of perceptions, entirely abandoned to this ecstatic life,
no longer perceives any other impressions. We may
form some idea of this incapability of perceiving in
panion, though his locks are silvered with age, for the delicious
enjoyment he feels in the manipulation, This was an imperfect
somnolency, which, had the parties understood, might have
resulted in the usual effects, by continuing it in the usual
way.
ANIMAL MAG~ETISM. 41
the brain, from what daily takes place when a strong
sensation annihilates within us a weaker one, and pro-
bably where the perceptions are slow, there is a de-
gree of disease in the nervous system, or in the viscus
which supplies it with the nervous fluid, the lat-
ter being deficient in the necessary energy to secrete
the fluid which sets the machine in motion, and in-
vigorates it. It is elsewhere said, that when effusing
this fluid outward, we feel more energy both of mind .
and body than at other times. If excitement is kept
up it will give a greater activity to the series of sen-
sations upon which we act-but if the mind is too
much excited without the refr8shing influence of plea-
sure, it will sink into exhaustion, or become deranged.
In this way, whe~ strong unpleasant mental excite-
ment supervenes, and continues without necessary re-
laxation, monomania usually follows. If the mind is
balanced by a variety of pleasing emotions, or en-
lightened by study, monomania seldom occurs, be-
cause the mind has occupation on so many points that
it is not exhausted on any. It is thus that an indi-
vidual profoundly pre-occupied with some great idea, or
struck with the sight of a very interesting object, sees
and hears nothing of what is going on around him.
It is thus, too, that in a contest, embittered by wrath,
or vengeance, the two adversaries scarcely feel the
blows which they mutually inflict upon one another.
Every man, in a healthy state, as I have said, has
4*
42 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
the faculty of causing ihe magnetic fluid to ,radiate
from his brain by the sole act of his will. This'
fluid, however, is not generated in the brain in the
same -
manner as in the Gymnotus Electricus, for the
Gymnotus has no conductors to diffuse the fluid through'
its own system, and therefore 'must give it out; but
the human machine has, and hence it retains what is
necessary for its own use, and gives out at will, but
in slight and imperceptible degrees, what can be
spared. Just as the will is disciplined and taught, it
has the power to give or withhold this vital fluid.
Hence, the individual wh9 is well instructed has more
command over his own energies than the man whose
education is neglected; but the man who possesses
natural powers of a high order has this fluid more in
obedience to his will than any other, because with
him it is an instinctive principle of his nature.
It should be borne in mind that the vital fluid and
the magnetic fluid, are not exactly the-same in form
and degree. The latter is a modified form of the
former, as the Aurora Borealis is of the beams of light
which are received by the earth. These having pass-
ed through the minerals, &c., contained in it, and
thereby become polarized, pass off at the magnetic, or
around the polar regions, in exhalat-ions, and pro-
bably return to the source from whence they issued.
The vital fluid, for instance, passes from the brain
with a velocity almost beyond thought. Dr. RoGET,
in his Bridgewater Treatises~ (vol. ii. p. 367,) says:
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 43
"The velocity with which the nerves, subservient to
sensation, transmit the impressions they receive at one
extremity, along their whole course, exceeds all mea-
surement, and can be compared only to electricity
passing along the conducting wire." Now, such is
not the manner in which the magnetic influence is
given out, though the rapidity of its motion through
the organized system is quite equal to that stated by
Dr. RoGET. Outwardly, it diffuses itself from the
nervous system by almost insensible transmission, but
in greater quan'tities at the extremities than at any
other part of the human system. Let, for instance, as
elsewhere observed, a healthy person pass his hand in
the most delicate manner over the face of another
person asleep,-he need not touch the cuticle, nor
even. raise a wind, so slow and gentle may be the
movement of the extremity of the fingers, in approxi-
mation with the sleeper, and immediately he becomes
uneasy-he starts-he applies his hand to the face,
and rubs it; and, if the movement be continued, he ·
usually starts from his slumber and awakes. The
fluid sent forth by the will is given out in greater
abundance as the will haspowerover its own volitions,
when the fluid is in a neutral or natural state. Now,
suppose this fluid to be directed by the magnetizer to-
wards the brain of another individual, the consequence
will be this : if the fluid of the magnetized person is
equally natural, no fjfect will be produced, because two
neutral fluids do not act upon each other; and this is
44 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
what generally takes place when we attempt to mag-
netize a person in health. But if the fluids are isolated,
as is usually the case in sick persons, each of these
two fluids will tend to decompose the neutral fluids of
the magnetizer, and to combine with its opposite.
After a magnetic sleep the somnambulist recollects
nothing of what passes while in that state, because every
thing had taken place without the action of the brain,
since we have seen that the fluid goes out in search of
other objects. If time and space will allow, I may
give other and strong reasons for this singular pheno-
menon-at present it would be premature.
The reason why a magnetizer does not always act
effectively, is because his will at the given moment,
may be incapable of directing the fluid; because his
mind is distracted or indisposed, and his fluid no
longer possesses the requisite conditions; bP.cause he
acts upon a healthy person, and their mutual fluids
are incapable of acting upon each other; because he
operates upon a sick person, whose fluid, at the mo-
ment, is in a nat~ral state; finally, because some third
party exerts a contmdictory action with or without in-
tention. The magnetized person should have confi-
dence in magnetism, because it is necessary that the
brain should be in certain moral conditions in order
to produce certain moral effects.
Writers upon animal magnetism inform us of this
peculiar influence, or vital fluid, that independently
of its sanative efficacy, the usual effects of the magnetic
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 45
processes are the production of sleep and. somnamh•I-
lism, the latter being obviously a more profound le-
thargic state ofthe former. The phenomena invariably
observed in somnambulism, when the crisis is perfect,
are insensibility of the corporeal organs, exaltation
of the intellectual faculties, a transferrence of the
sensitive powers to other than the usual parts of
the nervous system, intuition, prevision, (pre-
science) prediction, and the total oblivion, when
restored to the natural state, of all that occurred during
the continuance of the affection.*
The B1:bliot!zeque du .ft-Iagnetisme .llnimale, a
distinguished French periodical, says in substance,
that it has often had occasion to remark, that persons
affected with mania, or laboring under some mental
irreguiarity, which caused them to be taxed with
*The intellectual faculties are not located in the brain, except
when the brain is in its natural state. It follows this fluid, and
is rendered more active by it. What we call prevision is not
an attribute of man in any state; but it sometimes receives this
name, from the ability of the active powers in the somnolescent
state to be present at all places upon the surface of this globe,when
it wills to be there present. It therefore knows and declares
what is relative prevision, because it may require months for
others to know it in the ordinary course of events. The future
is known only to God, and he to whom he is pleased to reveal
such knowledge. But he may grant such knowledge, in part,
to individuals in communication with Htm for especial pur!loses,
or to any imlividual in whom His designs are not fulfilled; for
we are immortal till our time i:o come.
46 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
sJjght insanity are, in the somnolescent state, generally
more clear-sighted (clairvoyant), than others, and
that at such times, they exhibit no indication of the
defects of the mind with which they are charged!
Another writer remarks the same thing in cases where
the intellectual faculties were absent, or were mani-
festly infirm. These phenomena are sufficiently
explained by the observations of old and experienced
physicians. They know that partial insanity, dif-
ferent kinds of mania, symptoms of an habitual
aberration of mind, must have most frequently their
principal seat in some deeply affected viscus of the
epigastrium; and in that case the irregularity of the
cerebral functions is only sympathetic. Now,
somnambulism has the effect of insulating the latter,
of rendering them, for the time, independent of their
usual relations, of withdrawing the brain from its
morbid affections; and it is by such means that this
organ instantaneously acquires this freedom-this
facility, this great latitude of operating, which it
enjoys in this state.
Those who are either altogether, or but slightly
acquainted with this science, suppose that it chiefly
consists in an artificial sleep, by means of some
jugglery, performed on the subject, by a person who
possesses powers in some degree like the Gymnotus
Electricus, or touch-doctors already noticed! The
manipulations by which the magnetic sleep is produced
is the cause-the sleep, and the extraordinary effects
ANIMAL MAGNE'l'ISM. 47
resulting from it, is the part of this interesting subject
which deserves the attention of the philosopher. In
sleep, our external senses are in a dormant state. But
the cuticular organ, the principal seat of the physical
sensibility, is considered more open to external im-
pressions and influences, when asleep than when
awake. This organ,-the skin,-in sleep, is the door
by which we may communicate directly with the
inter~al sense of man, excite his faculties, and even
direct his moral sense to the object we propose. Is
it not very common to make sleeping persons speak;
to make them sometimes hold long conversations,
and even tell their secrets? Now, the ear being
asleep, how ,can they hear by that organ ? They
cann0t-they hear you by the only organ then
active-then, indeed, more than at any other time
sensitive. The vibrations ofsound, as well as rays
of light, are perceived through the skin. Through
this medium alone, and by this does he see, and dis·
tinguish objects.
RouLLIER, a French writer of celebrity, observes,
that in magnetism, the physical processes elicit a fluid,
which reasoning and analogy would compel us, as it
were, to admit, even if all somnambulists had not
besides invariably attested its existence. The som-
nambulists invariably see this fluid WHITE AS LIGHT,
and SPRINKLED WITH BRILLIANT SPARKS, when the
magnetizer operates, with more or less energy, with
the points of his fingers; and among these somnam-
48 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
bulists, there have been children, p·ersons without
any knowledge of physics, and even some who, in
their natural state, had no confidence in magnetism.
PuYSEGUR says, "the electric machine, set in motion
by the handle, which causes the glass plate to revolve
between two cushions, is the image of the magnetizer.
Let this motion stop, then all communications cease-
all the sparks disappear-in short, all kinds of elec-
trical manifestations are at an end. In the same
manner, the manifestations of animal magnetism cease
from the moment that our will, the HANDLE OF ouR
THOUGHTs, no longer acts magnetically in the intention
of producing them."
When the inward man, the soul, forsakes the inward
sphere; or when the senses operate, and merely con-
tinues the vital functions, the body falls into an
entranced state, or a profound sleep, during which
time the soul acts more freely and powerful1y, all
its faculties being elevated. The more, therefore,
the soul is divested of the body, the more extensive,
free, and powerful, is its inward sphere of operation.
It has, therefore, no need whatever of the body, in
order to live and exist; the latter is rather an hin-
drance to it.
Th~ soul in a state of magnetism, has no perception
whatever of the visible world; but if it be brought
into reciprocal connexion with some one who is in
his natural state, and acts through the medium of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 49
his corporal senses, it becomes conscious of the VlSZ-
ble world through him, and in him is sensible of it.
SPACE is merely the operation ofthe material organs
of sense; out of them it has no existence; therefore
as soon as the soul forsakes the latter, all proximity
and distance cease. Hence, if it stand in reciprocal
connexion with a per.'JOn who is many thousand mi{es
distant from it, it can impart knowledge by an in-
ternal communication, and receive it from such an
one, and all this as r,
apidly as thoughts follow each
other. In such cases, the soul, when separated from
the body, IS WHEREVER IT THINKS TO BE; for a.s
space is only its mode of thinking, but does not exist
except in its ideas, it is always at the place which it
represents itself to itself, if it may be there.
In the early part of this work I made an allusion to
reports made by commissioners appointed by the
French Academy, on Animal l\1agnetism. I shall
now refer to the latter of those report~:~, and make ex-
tracts from it in the words of the commissioners:
"In all the experiments which we made," says the
Report, "we invariably observed that, in the develop-
ment of phenomena so delicate, the attention of the
magnetizer and the magnetized ought not to be dis-
tracted by any thing foreign. Besides, we did not
wish to incur the reproach of having injured dis-
tracting causes; and we always took care that the ex-
pression of our countenances should neither operate
as a constraint upon the magnetized, nor occasion doubt
5
50 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
in the mind of the person magnetized. Our position,
we are anxious to repeat it, was constantly that of
inquisitive and impartial observers.
_ " The person to be magnetized was placed in a sit-
ting posture, either in a convenient elbow chair, or
on a couch-sometimes in a common chair." [Other
writers say the patient should be placed in a semi-re-
cumbent posture, so that the operator can reach from
his head to his toes. It_is not necessary that the pa-
tient be undressed, only so as that no silk covering
should intervene.]
"The magnetizer, seated on a chair a little more
elevated, opposite, and at the distance of about one
foot from the patient, seemed to collect himself for
some moments, during which he took the thumbs of
the patient between his two fingers, so that the in-
terior parts of the thumbs were in contact with each
other. He .fixed his eyes upon the patient, and re-
mained in this position until he felt that an equal de-
gree of heat was established between the thumbs of
the magnetizer and magnetized. He then withdrew
his hands, turning th.em outward, placing them on
the shoulder, where he allowed them to remain about
a minute, and conducted them slowly, by a sort of
very slight friction, along the arms to the extremities
of the fingers. This operation he performed five or
six times, which the magnetizers call a pass. He
then placed his hands above the head, held them there
a moment, drew them downwards in front of the face,
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 51
at the distance of one or two inches, to the epigas-
trium, (pit of the stomach,) resting his fingers upon
this part of the body; and he descended slowly along
the body to the feet. These passes were repeated
during the greater part of the sitting; and when he
wished to terminate it, he prolonged them beyond the
extremities of the hands and feet, shaking his fingers
each time. Finally, he made transverse passes before
the face and breast, at the distance of from three to
four inches, presenting his two hands approximating
to each other, and separating them abruptly.
At other times he approximated the fingers of each
hand, and presenting them at the distance of three or
four inches from the head to the stomach, leaving
them in this position during one or two minutes; then
withdrawing them and approximating them alternate-
ly with more or less rapidity, he imitated the very
natural movement which is performed when we wish
to shake off a liquid which has moistened the ex-
tremity of our fingers. These different modes of
operation have been adopted in all our experiments,
without any preference of the one to the other. Fre-
quently we employed only one, sometimes two, and
in the choice we made, we were never guided by the
idea that one method would produce an effect more
readily and more conspicuously than the other."
To this account of the method of producing mag-
netic somnambulism, the commissioners add, in con-
52 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
elusion, (for the report is too long for our purpose)
the following brief summary of reflections.
1. "The contact of the thumbs, or of the hands;
frictions, or certain gestures which are made at a small
distance from the body, and are called passes, are the
means employed to place ourselves in magnetic con-
nexion, or in other words, to transmit the magnetic
influence to the patient.
2. "The means which are external and visible are
not always necessary, since, on many occasions, the
will, the fixed look, have been found sufficient to
produce the magnetic phenomena, even without the
knowledge of the patient.
3. " Magnetism takes effect upon persons of differ-
ent sexes and ages.
4. "The time required for transmitting. the mag-
netic influence with effect, has varied from one minute
to halfan hour.
5. "In general, magnetism does not act upon per-
sons in a sound state of health.
6. "Neither does it upon all sick persons.
7. "A certain number of the effects observed ap-
peared to us to depend upon magnetism alone, and
were never produced wj thout its application. These
are well established physiological and therapeutic
phenomena.
8. " The real effects produced by magnetism are
very various. It agitates some, and soothes others.
Most commonly it occasions a momentary acceleration
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 53
of respiration and of the circulation, fugitive fibrillary
convulsive motions, resembling shocks, a numbness
in a greater or less degr:ee, heaviness, somnolency,
and, in a small number of cases, that :which magnet-
izers call somnambulism."
M. DELUSE, in explaining this magnetism as a
natural cause which explains much of what was here-
tofore considered supernatural, says: "the opinion
that an emanation from one person directed by his
will may act upon another person, as an emanation
from the brain acts upon the fingers-does not con-
duct us to the belief of the action of devils; on the
contrary, it annihilates this superstition, by teaching
us to see in ourselves the cause of many effects, which
were formerly ascribed to strange and chimerical
powers."
The doctrines of animal .magnetism are eminently
calculated to promote the true interests of spiritual
religion, by associating with it a spiritual philosophy.
Indeed this doctrine demonstrates beyond all power
of confutation, that man contains within him another
being-a Soul.
When the thinking principle is separated from the
society and contagion of the body, it remembers the
past, perceives the present, and foresees th.e future.
The body of a magnetized sleeper lies like one dead ;
but the mind lives, and is vigorous. How much
more so will it be after death, when it shall have
altogether separated from the body?
5*
54 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
A materialist will venture to assert that. the brain
thinks, and feel~, and wills, as clearly as the liver
secretes bile. It would be much easier to prove that
mind-soul, spirit, the immortal principle-produces,
forms, creates, the brain.
Many are sceptical on the subject of the psycolo-
gical part of this most interesting science, who admit
a part of the facts-for instance, those which relate to
the magnetic somnambulism, and the physiological
facts connected with them. They cannot understand,
and will not believe, any of the facts connected with
prevision, and the locomotive powers of mind and
soul during the somnolescent state. They cannot
realize the fact, before alluded to, that during its
disengagement ft~om the body, the soul has no per-
ception whatever of the visible and tangible world.
They are unable to perceive that time is, in reality, a.
mere mode of thinking, and not of existing, and
that the depart~d o~ temporarily separated soul, may
be susceptible of future things. Why may not the
mind, or sentient soul, for instance, extend itself with
the velocity of thought, when thus divested of organ-
ized corporeity, just as easy as we are enabled to
extend our knowledge with the aid of a few lenses
directed to the heavens?
It is freely ad·mitted, that we can re~d the .rnighty
volume of the visible heavens with accuracy, and
even distinguish not only stars before unseen, but
also their periodical movements-we can travel with
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 55
them through space in the immense velocity of their
flight, and tell with mathematical precision not only
the distance but the exact geometrical form of the
course over which they travel. We have no reason
to infer that because our perceptions are circu:rr.scribed
while in the body, they are equally so when disengaged
from it. Indeed the faculty of perception enables us
to see and know only a few of the little matters and
things belonging to the globe we dwell on; but does
the soul belong to the elements of nature ? Is not
its sphere to extend itself beyond the shell and husk
of animal organization, and roam with a vast power
of locomotion over the structure of nature's handy-
work at the operation of the will? "The body,"
says an able writer, "is not the open bower or tent
of the soul-but it is its castle, from which all other
minds may be excluded." But when it vacates its
abode, for an excursion over the realms of nature,
must we infer that its evolutions are as sluggish as if
it were encased in that castle, and chained down by
the entities of animal organization? Such are not our
perceptions of its condition. We must entertain
other notions of its communications, habits, capacities,
powers, locomotions, and ethereal qualities and enjoy-
ments. 'Vhatever be the construction of that soul,
whether corporeal, or ethereal, is not our concern in
the present argument; but it is whether it exists at all,
and if so, what effects magnetism produces in the act
of its disengagement from the body, or whether under
56 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
the influence of this phenomenon, the soul can com-
municate, without the agency of the body, with those
who are in reciprocal connexion with the body of the
magnetized. This should be the most important
question of all.
M. VIREY, in his work before alluded to, (p. 346,)
says: "without doubt, we owe to a certain ability of
mind those predictions which result from experience
and prudence; but nature replaces this advantage in
anima-ls, and in the most simple of mankind, by very
delicate instincts. Our souls have/ naturally a tact
which gives them a presentiment of seasons, and
sometimes of events. The more the mind is occupied
with 'science the less is it moved by internal impres-
sions. Ignorance, too, by leaving the soul in its
natural condition, is more susceptible of instinctive
impressions, than the logical and limited march of the
reasoning powers."
The same writer further remarks, that when a sen-
sible organization observes itselfinternally, the instinct
speaks; it inspires and instructs the individual on the
subjects of his peculiar complaints, or diseases, and
frequently in a more luminous manner than the most
skilful physician is capable of doing. "This internal
voice," says M. VIREY," is independent of the intel-
lectj the most simple persons, idiots, individuals half
asleep, are even more capable of hearing it, because
they are less distracted by internal sensations."-
"There is," continues he, "in man a soul, a peculiar
"
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 57
force which animates him; this force has particular
faculties independent of the organization of the body.
It is by means oftltis invisible agent that we acquire
all our knowledge-it alone constitutes our true
being." (p. 4, 5.)
" Our soul," says the writer last quoted, "is sus-
ceptible of three principal states; 1. That of ordinary
life, which employs the soul as well as the body;
2. That of dreaming, or delirium, which chiefly oc-
cupies the sensitive faculties of the body; 3. The
state of ecstatic meditation, in which the soul acts
almost alone. The soul, in the ecstatic state, can con-
template events from a higher point of view, and its
dreams have something of a prophetic character; for
being prodigiously from the body by meditation, it
seems to have diffused itself throughout universal
nature, where it can remark many effects in their
source. The man who is in the habit of directing his
native energies, acquires thereby a marked superiority
over other men. Our soul has spontaneous motions;
it acts alone, without the concurrence of the body; it
admits the vital spirits to where they are required to
go; it organizes the fcetus; in diseases, it constitutes
the natura medicatrix, which, taking care to direct
the humors in a salutary manner, points out to the
physician what he ought to do. It is not an acquired
science, but an innate faculty; for, instructed by the
Author of all being Himself, the soul has no need of
acquired knowledge, this being only relative to exter-
58 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
nal objects. \Vhen the equilibrium of health has
been disturbed, the motion of the soul mechanically
aspires to restore it. Every disease frequently dis-
covers its remedy, if we will only listen to its deter-
minations. Medicine is in ourselvesj we do not
create, we develope it, when, consulting in silence the
impulse of nature, we favor its direction. Nature
may produce in every being the desire of an unknown
object, and cause an individual to divine the remedy,
of which, perhaps, all the science of the physician
would never have dreamed.
"Amongst doubtful events, when we cannot form a
conjecture as to what may be the issue, if we take
them so much to heart as to become heated, the soul
is enlightened, and sometimes penetrates into the fu-
ture. A prophet does not (always) know the cause
of his prophecyings; he feels himself moved by a
power which exceeds his natural energies. He does
not divine all things, but only that which comes into
his thoughts. This species of divination arises and is
lost naturally, and is with difficulty retained. When
the mind manifests it, all the senses are in a state of
temporary suspension, and nothing external distracts
them. They must hold converse alone with the
Being with whom they are at the time in commu-
nication.''
These arguments lead us to a knowledge of the
fact, that by magnetism, nervous disorders, long con-
tinued efforts of the soul, or by other means, a person
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 59
who has a natutal predisposition for ,it, may, in the
present life, detach his soul in a greater or less degree
from its corporeal organization.
With the doctrines of animal magnetism are inti·
mately connected the subject of sleep and dreams,
omens, presentiments and sympathetic forebodings,
second sight, &c. There are various well attested
'phenomena which prove the reality of these occur-
rences, and justify the assertion of the poet, that
"Dreams full oft are found of real events
The forms and shadows.''
The same may be said of omens and presentiment~!!.
It is difficult to reject the whole of the evidence upon
this subject, and absolutely to deny that, upon some
occasions, and under certain circumstances,
"Coming events cast their shadows before."
Animal magnetism affords us the means of giving a
natural explanation of these phenomena, and the
whole su~ject deserves to be philosophically investi-
gated, with a view to dispel superstition on the one
hand, and scepticism on the other.
Indeed, few observant persons are to be found, who
have not become acquainted with well authenticated
facts in relation to sympathetic forebodings and
presentiments. The instances are both numerous
and well attested. They are phenomena which the
most incredulous cannot deny, while they attempt to
60 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
account for them on principles which reject, any in-
tervention of our spiritual nature. Profane, no less
than sacred history, abounds with these species of
incidents; and they all go to prove that there is an
existence distinct from that of the present mode of
life, to which we shall emerge when the scenes of
mortality shall close upon us.
Professor ANDRAL, in his Lectures, delivered m
the University of Paris, published in 1832, speaks of
a case of somnambulism, of which the proofs are most
authentic, from which the following is a brief abstract.
The author, (M. FELAzzr,) then an interne, (an in-
ternal resident,) at the Hotel Dieu, and totally scepti-
cal regarding the powers ascribed to the mysterious
essence-this asserted magnetic fluid,-formed, for
amusement, the plan, with a brother interne, equally
incredulous, of submitting this friend to the ma-
nceuvres of the magnetizers, in the manner l\1. Ros-
T AN describes. The pas~es were continued for about
twenty minutes without any remarkable effect, but at
the expiration of that time, the young man began to
yawn, his eyelids grew heavy, and closed involun-
tarily; he attempted to shake off the torpor in vain;
his respiration next became accelerated, his head fell
on his shoulder, and he uttered a sardonic laugh of in-
describable expression. "We thought," says the
narrator, "that he was amusing himself at our expense;
but in a little time, what was my horror when I saw
his fingers turn blue, his head fall powerless forward-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 61
when I heard his respiration rattling like a dying
man's, and felt his skin as cold as death itself! I can-
not find words to describe my sufferings. I knew
not what to do. Meanwhile all these horrid pheno-
mena increased in intensity. I tremble at the recol-
lection of what I saw. There lay my friend, my vic-
tim, devoid of the aspect of life, in a state of complete
and terrible collapse! With his hands clasped in mine,
in a state of agony no tongue can tell of, I laid him
on a bed, and waited the result in a frenzy of mind I
can never forget. In a quarter of an hour he recover-
ed, exclaiming that in the ecstacy he had experienced
extreme delight, and begged me to recommence my
passes. I did so, with less apprehension, and again
the somnolency proceeded. The collapse, however,
was less profound and terri.ffi.c than the former, and
in some minutes he suddenly awoke with the ex-
clamation, 'what happiness is this!'"
The cases that might be cited of prevision, and the
sympathetic influence alluded to, having been pro-
duced in an extraordinary degree during magnetic
sleep, are so numerous and well authenticated in
France and Germany, that it would require several
volumes to detail them. All the theories laid down
in this work, have been deduced from those oft
repeated, and well attested facts. I will give one
other fact as related by M. CHARDEL, illustrative of
the peculiar sympathy often existing between persons,
and also of the statements alluded to in these pages
6
62 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
respecting the transferrence of the sensation, and the
power of seeing things as present that are at a distance,
or as it is called, clairvoyance.
M. CHARDEL had two sisters as his patients, who
were both magnetic somnambulists, and in the most
intimate affinity, (rapport,) with each other. M.
CHARDEL proposed to bleed the elder of these two
in the foot. In the mean time, the younger sister,
after being magnetized, felt somewhat indispgsed, and
went to bed in another room. The father and mother
remaining to assist the operator. At the first attempt
to insert the lancet, a piercing cry was heard to pro-
ceed from the bed-room of the younger sister, who,
on entering it, was found to be in a swoon, in the
position in which she had gone to sleep. M. CHARDEL
recovered her, and inquired the cause of her fainting.
She then related the details of all his movements in
the projected operation. She said that she had con-
stantly followed him with her eyes, and that, at the
moment he was going to insert the lancet, an emotion
which she could not control, had entirely deprived
her of sense. In case of ordinary life, this would
have been impossible, considering the distance and
the intervening walls.
In general almost all somnambulists possess, during
their critical sleep, the faculty of recognising their
own complaints as well as those of others; of deter-
mining their nature, their duration and their accidents;
of declaring whether they are curable or not-of pre- ·
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 63
dieting of what nature the crisis shall be, the manner
in which they shall take place, the precise moment
of their appearance; of pointing out how they shall
best be promoted, seconded, sustained; finally of pre-
scribing all the means proper to be employed in order
to effect a cure.
· In the Dictionaire des sciences medicates, on the
article Instinct, we are told that it is wrong to deny
that man is endowed with instinct, like the other ani-
mals; and that this faculty, unexercised in our m·di-
nary states, is developed in certain circumstances,
and gives us more information than that which we
can acquire by the senses and experience. Nature
acting, then, alone, and without being opposed, or
deranged by the intellectual faculties, or the will,
manifests those astonishing acts of salutary con-
servatwn, or direcNon for the cure ofdiseases. In-
deed, in a state of somnambulism, the person thus
affected usually feels, in a more lively manner, and
will see all the internal economy of his structure,
and thus seeing, will naturally desire those reme-
dies most appropriate to his ailment. Sometimes the
sympathetic influence or connexion between two in-
dividuals is such, that the one feels all the com-
1"Jlaints of the other.
It appears that the fluid which passes from one in-
divid~al to another, as elsewhere observed, is the same
which exists in all nature. If there exists (as
NEWTON and ErLER imagined,) in the interval of the
64 TilE PHILOSOPHY OF
stars an exceedingly rare and subtile fluid which has
been called ether, it must possess the most penetra-
ting qualities, and be capable of producing the most
wonderful effects. But this ethereal substance, being
able to insinuate itself into the most compact matter,
must produce in it different effects according to the
nature of the bodies, the modifications of which it is
susceptible.
The nervous fluid does not originate in the nerves
and procee<l to the brain, as some suppose. It always
commences at a medullary viscus, and proceeds from
thence through the nerves to the muscular system.
Hence its elimination by the pores of the extremities.
But were it to commence in the nerves, we should
infer that its escape would be by the medulla, with
which the nerves were in contact. Hence also the
effects resulting from manipulations and passes, in
drawing the magnetic action from its source, and
seating it in a region different from its natural
home. Sensation follows the transitions of the mag-
netic influence. It ceases in the part from whence
the other is entirely abstracted. When this influence
is transferred from the usual seat of sensation to the
epigastrium, it may be compared to a coated jar.
charged with the electric fluid from the battery of an
electrical apparatus. The latter discharges its contents
suddenly, or slowly, as conductors to some body in
a negative state are applied--or otherwise. So with
the human machine. It is at the command of the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 6.15
magnetizer. The magnetic and nervous influence,
however, only differ in quality as it may be modified
by transmission through a variety of mediums, every
different combination presenting it under new modifi-
cations.
But when in a state of somnolency the magnetic
influence is transferred to the region of the ganglions,
the reverse takes place of what is natural. In our
ordinary condition we effuse it outwardly-now we
infuse it inwardly, receiving from external bodies
what they can communicate. The somnambulist de~
pends upon the magnetizer for the power to change
the ordinary functiolls of sensation from their usual
current, and the magnetized holds communication
only with him, and those whoin he wills to place in
that singular relation. 'When the magnetic fluid, by
the passes of the magnetizer, is drawn from the ordi-
nary seat of sensation, and is concentrated in the re-
gions of the ganglions, the powers of vision are trans-
ferred with it--for, in the presence of this fluid in the
intellectual region consists not only sensation but also
perception. If, then, perception depends on its pre-
sence wherever located, is it any matter of surprise that
it should follow it to whatever region it may for the
time be located in? Lucidity or clairvoyance, as
the French call it, is not, however, the mere percep-
tion of things as present, wherever the somnambulist
happens to be, but depends on those magnetic changes
which separate the thinking principle, or soul, from
6*
66 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
its seat of action, and enables it to transfer itself at
the will of the person to wherever that person wills
it to go. In this locomotion, it is not able to will
for itseifj if it were, its subsequent connexion with
materiality might in some cases be doubtful.
One of the chief diffi~ulties with those not acquaint-
ed with this subject is owing to the anomalies in the
magnetic effusion and reception. In this, as in other
physiological phenomena, there · are idiosyncracies
which bid defiance to all rule. Indeed there are, it
must be admitted, some things for which it is difficult
to account, and which are not as yet sufficiently con-
sidered-that is, if they are not above our philosophy,
it has not reached and reduced them to known prin-
ciples.
My limits will not allow me to multiply cases of
somnambulism. Indeed, at the present crisis, this is
not so much needed as the rationale of results so as-
tonishing. Much of the incredulity existing on the
subject depends on the nature of the facts, lying so
closely as they do upon the precincts of what is gene-
rally regarded as marvellous, and not affording suffi-
cient explanation on natural principles. The public
are staggered in their belief, for the want of reasons,
yet the reasons are abundaht and natural. It is hoped
our arguments will give a new direction to the powers
of thought; and, while it prevents the imagination
from running wild in idle hypothesis, enable it to
trace, a' posteriori, this most deeply interesting and
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 67
important subject to its source-rescue it from the
charlatanry of men, who, before they investigate,
form pre-conceived opinions to which every thing
must bend-men who, before they enter the thresh-
hold of the investigation, announce that when they
have heard a report of a case, for which they are wait
ing, they are prepared to issue a work on the sub-
jeri,* though that case may be as remote from a cor-
rect elucidation of the science as it is possible for the
mind to conceive! When gentlemen will not stop to
deliberate, read, reflect, examine and compare, what
wonder the public would remain in confusion and
doubt, "not knowing," as Col. STONE very prudently
tells us was his case, "how to believe.2" Those who
claim the appellation of philosophers are usually slow
to recede from long cherished and sustained opinions.
Facts afford no data for their philosophizings, nor will
they believe them. They draw inferences from the
abortions of every fanatic who only keeps in his eye
the throne of Plutus. They forget that before they
attempt to enlighten others, it is indispensable that
they know something of the su~ject upon which they
write. I have heard of no case happening in New
York, and few in Rhode Island, which a philosophic
.mind would accept as correct data upon which to erect
a superstructure of argumentation. If this subject be
in any degree worthy of our attention, it is not that
* Vt'de Dr. REESE's letter to C. F. DuRANT, for an example
in point.
68 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
which every one can explain by a random illustration.
It requires common sense, a thing which, if we judge
from the remarks alluded to in the note, is not com-
mon to every philosopher. Even the commissioners
of the French king admitted that the effects were very
different in different individuals; for, say they-" it
agitates some, and soothes others." In fact, the effects
are scarcely in any two instances in all things alike,
because whatever distracts the mind destroys them;
and Mr. DuRANT must acknowledge that, if we are to
judge from his own gossip, and peculiar interference,
(which Mr. ANDROS must have soon observed,) they
were more for the sake of forming materials for his
book, than for giving a chance to his friend by favor-
ing his speculations in his lectures.
The revelation of God, who is a pure spiritual es-
sence, is founded upon spiritual existence. It was not
given with an ultimate reference to physical man, only
so far as h~ is connected with the spiritual being, and
for the conservation of both. It is through the light
of this revelation we are enabled to understand our-
selves, to know of what we are constituted, how
nearly we are related to, and how far we resemble,
our original. That God, in our creation, should
stamp upon us some part of his likeness, is not only
what might be expected, but also what the historian
of the creation has explicitly affirmed. We are, in
these Scriptures, represented as having in us THREE
PRINCIPLEs; for in one place it is said," He breathed
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 6!)
in us the breath of lives," or, as the original imports,
a plurality of beings; and, in another place, the
Apostle prays for the sanctification of our whole
spirit, soul, and body. These three principles could
not but be holy when created, for God made and
pronounced them good. They could not but be
unholy, when the Apostle prayed that they might be
purified, and consecrated to God. They must, there-
fore, have fallen; and, if fallen, must need restora-
tion.
Now the whole of man is the spz'rit, soul, and body:
or, 1. The mw;.u.t, (pneuma,) or spirz'tual and im-
·mortalprinciple; that which controls and superinte.nds
the whole animal and functional economy. 2. The
+tJ.:tn, (psyche,) or soul, which is the seat ·of the
passions and affections, and possesses the understanding
and emotions by which the physical part is agitated,
as love, joy, grief, anger, hate, &c.; and 3. The 17'{A)ft~,
(soma,) or body, which is the house, or temple, of
the other named occupants. Of these three parts, the
body, only, is subject to dissolution. The others,
being spiritual, could not die as the body dies If
they die, being spirits, they die spiritually. That
they can live apart from the body, is affirmed by St.
Paul, who, having been out ofthe body, could tell us
of that which he saw. He says, there is not only a
" spiritual body," but also that when this house,
spoken of above for the soul and spirit to dwell in, is
dissolved, we have a spiritual house in the heavens
70 THE rHILOSOPHY OF
to dwell in." There is here a strong expression, and
full to our point, namely, that we have a three-fold
nature, and that when the body loses its inhabitants,
the spirit has· a ho'use still in the soul, a never-dying
habitation, a corporeal, active body, the springs and
machinery of which, like the original man when first
created, will never wear out. It is a body possessing
sens:1tion, volition, and locomotion, but without any
alliance with materiality, and capable of pleasures
and enjoyments in an infinitely more refined sense,
than in organized materiality. Hence it is a house
in the heavens, for without these sensations there
would be no heaven. "Body," says the author of the
" Physical Theory of a Future Life," " is the neces-
sary means of bringing mind into relationship with
space and extension, and so of giving it place." In
another place he says, "God is not here or there, any
more than he exists now or then.'' The mind, or
soul, then, is the intermediate 1ink between spirit and
matter. It is the part of the man that thinks-that
puts the physical machine into motion-that consti-
tutes the likeness of God.
Now, to prevent ourselves from wandering in hy-
pothesis and doubt, we have called the Scriptures to
our aid. They have thrown light upon our path, and
in the science we have been considering, have enabled
us to understand some things \Vhich, without a re-
ference to those oracles of truth,. must have left us
groping in darkness and doubt. The demonstrations
ANIMAL MAGNE1'1SM. 71
afforded by animal magnetism show, in confirmation
of the Scriptures, that man has within him a spiritual
nature, which can live without the body during a
period ofsuspended intercourse in time-or during
the eternal NOW of a future existence.
In speaking of a spiritual existence, the present life
and visible world are introduced in contrast with that
\Vhich is .invisible and unseen-for I take it for grant-
ed that there is somewhere an unseen world with un-
seen inhabitants, having an existence and locality as
certain as the globe we inhabit. That this unsee~
world, which we call heaven, may be located in the
sun, or stars, is an hypothesis maintained by some, and
has many strong philosophical arguments to sustain it.
Others, from the frequent intercourse between the
inhabitants of those happy regions and our own, have
assigned it a place in the mid-heavens not distant
from our planet. In our opinion, its locality is less a
question than its existence, since, as I have elsewhere
said, distance is only ideal to un-embodied spirits.
The idea that thought, more rapid in its flight than
even light itself, when properly understood, dissipates .
at once the conception that either a near or remote
locality has any thing to do in regard to presence in
the divine economy. "Am I a God near at hand,
and not afar off?" was a question put by God, through
the prophet, to those who had too limited conceptions
of his omnipresence. If, then, un-embodied spirits
have such stupendous powers of locomotion, when
7Z THE PHILOSOPHY OF
dis-embodied by the magnetic operations; if they be
subject to the laws of communication with organized
corporeal matter in this life, and be left under such
direction in that state, is there not here a good reason
why this doctrine may have been ordained by Provi-
dence to work certain important ends for the benefit
of the human family, ar.d also why it was not fully
developed to mankind in its whole arrangements,
until mankind became so enlightened and prepared to
use it as intended by divine goodness,? It seems
now to be under certain laws and restrictions beyon·d
which it has no power, and therefore cannot develope
more of the spiritual economy, than finite intellects
are capable of controlling. Indeed, the finite mind is
too apt to measure the vastness and variety of the
spiritual domain by the scanty perceptions it is able
to form in the darkness that surrounds it; for, though
it may take excursions of fancy over the boundless
expanse of the mighty universe, it professes no fur-
nishment to explore, and is therefore unable to deli-
neate any of the magnificent scenery, because it holds
no communication with the Being who is the Ruler
of those splendid domains; and consequently, having
neither guide nor chart, it is in doubt and confusion
from the distance and indistinctness of the view. But
the somnambulist is always in communication with
the person who placed him in that ecstatic state, and
in the dominions allotted to the magnetizer only can
the magnetized have power to roam at will! This
ANIMAl. MAGNETISM. 73
doctrine beautifully adumbrates the scenes where the
disembodied are only in communication with God;
where the will is controlled, and the locomotive pow-
ers are extended according to the laws of that realm
where pure ethereal spirits are the only inhabitants,
and where each are in ecstatic communication with
the other, and all with the Supreme.
From what has been said, the reader will easily
perceive, that my aim is to establish the doctrine of
clairvoyance, as one of the most important as well
merciful discoveries with which God has permit-
_
ted us to become acquainted. Many of the re-
cent facts developed in Rhode Island and New York,
connected with what have been published by the
French philosophers, and others in various places of
Austria, Prussia, Russia and Switzerland, &c., concur
in proving, that all persons are not capable of lucidity
in the same degree, and that the same person is not
always able in the same degree to exhibit the same
powers. Animal magnetism has been so well demon-
strated, that we might as well question the problems
of EucLID, because we never have demonstrated them
ourselve.
s, or seen them done by others. To doubt
on that subject, would be less likely to expose us to
ridicule than to make us ridiculous, except where a
knowledge of the science had not been made known.
But the philosophy of the facts is what all inquire
after, and chiefly what we aim to furnish.
The demonstrations of animal magnetism are prac-
7
74 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
tical faith; that is, the operator must be able to confine
his thoughts to one point, and fix them there. No man
can exercise what is called faith, who is not able to
do this, it being an essential prerequisite. To doubt,
then, is to lose faith, for it is to distract. When the
mind wanders from the point upon which it is fixed,
it can no longer exercise this conservative principle.
Thus it was when Christ walked on the water. Peter
in the confidence of his Lord, walked- also, because
his mind was powerfully directed towards the protect-
ing power of Him who bid him '' come." But Peter,
without keeping his eye steadily on his master, and
his mind upon his omnipotent power, began to look
around on the waste of waters. He saw the billows
heave and roll under him, and his fixedness of mind
was withdrawn to nature from its author, and he
began to sink! Now, without the fixedness of mind
spoken of, no magnetizer can produce the necessary
somnolency. Our minds must be drawn to a focal
point. The will must be under the complete control
of the thinking principle, this being the intermediate
link between body and soul.
Faith, then, is a s1:ngle eyej and when our eye is
single, our body is light-that is, our perceptions will
be clearer, and we the better enabled to understand
and accomplish our pursuits. It was this that stimu-
lated and gave success to the heroes of ancient and
modern times. The eye was single after one object,
and all the faculties of the mind were exerted in its
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 75
execution. The habit, therefore, of bringing the will
info subjection to the mind, and of having that mind
regulated so as to operate without distraction, is the
way to acquire faith. An evil, is an erring eye, and
being unsteady, it will not fix upon one point, and is,
therefore, dark. ·
When the exiled apostle was invited by a voice to
ascend into heaven, to hear and see things which must
be hereafter, it is very evident his body was left be-
hind, being forbidden, because "flesh and blood."
Thus separated, he was in the ecstatic state, and held
communication with Him who threw him into the ec-
stacy-namely his God. Thus he could range over
the kingdom of light at will, because he was in con-
nexion with its sovereign. He saw and heard things
which he was forbidden to write, as St. Paul, in the
same region, heard things unlawful to utter. That
the same means were used to transport these favored
apostles into the regions of the happy as is used
amongst us in producing somnolency, is strongly pro-
bable-but the chief difference is, they were in com-
munication with a Being whose divine purposes
they had to fulfil, and therefore they were instructed in
mysteries published for our benefit, and no fonger ne-
cessary to repeat; while the m~gnetic somnambulist
can roam only in the region appropriated, for the time,
to the individual with whom he is in communication,
and can see nothing which does not belong to the rna-
76 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
terial world to which he is yet linked by his con-
nexion with materiality.
The preceding pages had nearly all passed through
the press before the. recent works of Col. STONE,
C.·F. DuRANT, and the Reports of the French Com-
missioners, published by Mr. PERKINS of this city,
made their appearance; of these, our limits will now
admit of no more than a passing notice. Col. STONE
has given us an interesting account of facts as they
occurred. He makes no pretensions to understand
them. Had he made such an attempt, we might have
doubted whether he did not make the facts to suit his
theory, as we presume Mr. DuRANT did,-that is, if
such a man as Col. STONE could be doubted at all.
What the Colonel relates is in perfect accordance with
the published reports of the French philosophers-
not the Commissioners-in their detail of clairvoy-
ance and prevision, as they call it. The reason is
this, the actors were honest, were not frivolous tri-
flers, were men who examined to understand, and
inquired to make known the re~ult of their inquiries,
and honest convictions. I recommend, therefore,
Colonel STONE's pamphlet as a work of surpassing
interest,-as affording almost the only instance of
clairvoyance that I have read of as having happened in
America. The report made by the Colonel is, that a
Miss Bracket, in a state of somnambulic lucidity, took
an imaginary journey to New York, in his company,
and that she there, among other circumstances of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 77
slight importance, which, as far as he knew or believed,
were generally correct, informed him of matters which
were only known to himself, and which no one could
describe without having seen them! Of these, I will
only allude to one fact. When the Colonel had escorted
Miss Bracket into his own house, he showed her a
variety of articles, and among others, some pictures.
She would only converse about these with him, but, asa
rule, would never describe any thing, presuming he
knew as well as she. It is a rule with somnambulists,
that if you request them in their ecstacy to remember
anything, and tell them about it afterwards when awake,
of that subject only can they recollect and speak. The
Colonel requested her to give him an account of a
certain picture when she returned and awoke. On
her return, the Doctor (CAPRON,) willed her from
Col. STONE, and by a few flourishes of his hand, awoke
her. The Doctor then inquired about the pictures
that had attracted her attention at the Bowling Green,
opposite the lions. She blushed, and begged to be
excused from answering. She had been requested to
remember them. They were not proper subjects for
ladies' conversatwn. He then asked her to tell him
what was the picture in the basement room of the
Colonel's house which pleased her so much. She
laughed outright, and replied, " It was a funny look-
ing fellow pulling a eat's ear." This was the fact, the
painting was there; no one of the party knew of its
existence but the Colonel, and the question of clair-
7*
78 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
voyance, in this and twenty or thirty cases, equally
striking, was fully established. The whole of the
colonel's pamphlet deserves perusal.
I said that all persons do not equally become som-
nambulists, because all persons are not constituted
alike. Hence the wise conclusion of .a learned Doc-
tor, who inquired about a few cases, not one of which
gave even a good mock imitation of somnolenc , and
no indication of clairvoyance whatever, that he might
be duly "prepared to issue his publication" on ani-
mal magnetism;-or rather, as I should understand
his meaning, he was prejudiced against .animal mag-
netism-did not believe it-and, pleased with a few
ridiculous, counterfeit imitations of it, took them for
his data, and with the gravity of- a philosopher of
the ivy bush, "prepared to issue his publication," in
order to enlighten the medical faculty!!
To say that the theory of Mr. DuRANT was the
essence of nonsense would be too much of a compli-
ment. Whether he is serious, or in jest; whether he
writes that we may have a book of instruction, or a
specimen of bathos; whether he aims to renew the
Epicurean notions, which regarded the soul as composed
of atoms and primitive corpuscles, "trilobites," as
he calls them, "motes in sunbeams," or what else, I
avow myself utterly unable to comprehend. He gives
us a rant about" clearingobstructions from the pathway
of time,"-his looking" back on the chaotic mass,"
in order, it is presumed, that he may sit "behind the
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 79
dim nebula," and view the operations of nature as it
"occupies the more conspicuous station assigned to it
in cosmogony;"-that is, to see "all matter quick
and bursting into birth," in the modus operandi
of creation, and amuse himself as "Behemoth, big-
gest born of earth, upheaves his vastness," while the
infinitessimal variety of" molecules," and "globules,"
and "gasses," &c., all "congregating" and "uniting,"
forming " poles," and "fluids," and "vapours," and
"masses," to produce "CERIN," that, "His theory"
might be complete!! And what is "cerin?" He
calls. it an "animalfat," through which magnetism
cannot pass! This is what he calls, some one or two
hundred times, "my theory;" and it would require
more than ordinary brains to say whether Mr. D. did
not write his book in such a style as to gull the sim-
ple and quiz the savans, or to make it suit those who
could not see his burlesque, and adapt it to the notions
of those who could. Though he has said some things
very well, and has displayed reading and research,
yet his egotism and twaddle, above alluded to-his
gossipping and detailing what he hears and sees in
the company into which he is accidentally thrown;-
his practisings, as we should suppose it to be, from his
own statements, upon J\llr. and Mrs. ANDRos, and
other things therein stated, are, we should say, not
quite compatible with our notions of propriety. It is
not the wish of every one who is an inquirer into
such subjects that his name and accidental remarks
80 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
should swell a book for the emolument of others.
Few have such aspirations after fame; and to be
dragged thus, nolens volens, into unsought notoriety,
makes one feel as if they were not quite in gentle-
manly hands. Mr. DuRANT understands animal mag-
netism as a law of nature, but he seems not to know
that it is solar light, modified in the medullary viscus,
as natural magnetism becomes such when the beams
of light are modified in its transmission through earth
and minerals. The most he knows is, that there is
such a thing as animal magnetism, and that it possesses
singular powers of somnolency in the animal machine.
Like a full blooded philosopher of the modern school,
he ridicules all else, by throwing into burlesque
any attempt to investigate the arcana by which this
occult science is surrounded. He accounts for the
want of magnetic power by fatty brains, through
which the fluid cannot penetrate! By analogy of
reasoning, a cracked brain is a dry one, and would
let the fluid through in one unbroken stream! .but
those who havefat brains arefat witted; the steam,
or gas, having been injected, cannot escape, and, of
course, is disposed to become flighty and ascend!
His ideas of the magnetic cords, to do away the
doctrine of clairvoyance, is about as preposterous
nonsense as can well be imagined. That the magnetizer
must will the idea into the brain of the magnetized
before their perceptions can embrace it, is contrary
to all the principles, the experience, and the facts of
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 81
an authenticated kind that have come to our knowledge.
It would be a waste of time to pursue it.
In the subject of clairvoyance lies the great diffi-
culty to the general spread of this doctrine. Of this
I have already spoken in such manner as to make it
plain to the weakest mind. If this doctrine did not
so immediately run into psycology, the stumbling
block would, perhaps, be of less magnitude. But, as
I have said elsewhere, we go armed at all points
against every ~ubject that leads to a more intimate
acquaintance with soul and spirit, and yet I have
never found that such familiarity and acquaintanceship
has lessened the author's esteem for these components
of his own elements of moral and physical structure.
Indeed, to a contemplation of these constituents of
being, has been owing most of the happiness which
it has been his destiny to enjoy through life, and as
he nears the goal, he seems to realize an increase of
pleasure by a more general intercourse, because he
recognises a close affinity of circumstance in the
ultimate destiny of all the parties to the alliance.
Clairvoyance has been demonstrated to the satisfac-
tion of the most astute.philosophers of Europe. One
commissioner of those alluded to, who took five years
to report, maintained the doctrine, though they
proved that in some cases it failed. For more than
this I do not contend, because it is well known that
of this peculiar attribute all are incapable of present-
ing the necessary proofs-and most of the objectors
82 THE PHILOSOPHY OF
to it, make their opposition upon the ground that they
witness failuresj and that, therefore, the principle
is false ! There are abundance of such logicians, but
the wonder is, that men, who call themselves philo-
sophers, have such a penchant for the ridiculous,
without knowing why.
The reports of the commissioners of the French
king are in themselves entirely insufficient to afford a
proper knowledge of animal magnetism. Indeed, it
is evident, from the statements of these savans, that
~hey did not believe in it, and therefore were too
prejudiced to present their master with an impar-
tial examination. This committee, regarding 'as
many have done since, this innovation in the healing
art, as likely to abstract from the number of their pa-
tients, took the alarm, and reported that they had
" not beheld without inquietude" the "proceedures"
which "have been and are administered to the diseased,
and paid for by the public, without having" under-
gone, in obedience to the laws, "the examination of
the medical profession." With such ideas in view,
are gentlemen capable of investigating a subject, while
they imagine their interests are so essentially com-
promitted? There is something in such grave com-
missions, and~ such reports, that "looks like" a "get
up to put down!" They are almost always, in their
conclusions, of the same complexion with the body
who instituted the commission. Their feelings are
usualJy prompted by the same motives, and their
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 83
aims, with occasional exceptions, are to look out
for their own corps and defend its interests. A
letter from such a commission is before me. It
also originated in Paris, but on a different sub-
ject. It was directed to the Minister of Instruc-
tion, and concluded thus:-"We beg of you, mon-
sieur le ministre, to deny us that means of enlighten-
ing ourselves, in order to prevent its spreading, or
at least to rehtrd its propagation during ouR LIFE-
TIME, so that we may quietly enjoy our places," &c.
One would suppose that this was irony, were it not
known to be otherwise. It is a fair specimen of all
such reports; and yet the reporters, in all cases, prov-
ed themselves more shrewd, intelligent, scientific, and
liberal, than the translator and editor of their re-
ports in our own city, who could always account for
phenomena, of which he knew nothing, "upon the
principle of collusion," and thus, by cutting the Gor-
dian knot, save his brains the labor of thought, in the
investigation.
Some of these reporters labored to prove that the
imagination is the chief agent in producing the
magnetic crisis. Having directed their attention that
way, their imaginations could receive no other im-
pression, and all further philosophic investigations
were foreclosed )y the idea, that to this peculiar
sensation all that related to crises under the magnetic
treatment, was to be ascribed. This afforded a text,
and the sermon was suited to it. The creed having
8-l THE PHILOSOPHY OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
been formed, the next point was to suit the doctrines
to it, and maintain their thesis against all opposers.
Learning, supposed to be the grave of prejudice,
has too often been its foster-mother, to convey to it
nutriment. I do not mean that profound learning
which has ·common sense for its basis, but that affected
bantling of pride and selfishness, which, the moment
its votaries are jnvested with authority to form an
opinion as a guide for others, turns instinctively to
the interests of its class, and begs that it may " be
denied the 'means of enlightenment, lest others
whose genius have stricken out a new path should
compel them "to the painful labor" of studying, so
as to keep pace with the march of improvement, or
lose both their emoluments and their importance in
the ranks of society. Few of them have the candour
of a certain professor in one of the Prussian univer-
sities, who, on examining a pupil, asked him whether
he could explain the phenomena of the Aurora
Borealis. After a pause, the student said he had known
the cause, but at present it had escaped from his me-
mory; then, said the professor, I wish you would try
to recollect and explain it to me, for I really do not
myself understand it.
Animal magnetism is a powerful support of true re-
ligion, and the more it is known, so mueh the more
will Christianity be unshackled of its embarrassments,
and appear divested of its dross.
6)
