{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1837__poyen___progress_of_animal_magnetism_in_new_england.pdf","mytitle":"Progress Of Animal Magnetism In New England","mylang":"de"}
'
! 0
PROGRESS
OF
ANIMAL MAGNETISM
IN
NEW ENGLAND.
BEING A COLLECTION OF EXPERIMENTS, REPORTS
AND CERTIFICATES, FROM THE MOST
RESPECTABLE SOURCES.
PRECEDED BY A DISSERTATION ON
THE PROOFS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
-,,-------
BY CHARLES POYEN, ST. SAUVEUR.
::;-
"FaJCinatio est actus imaginationi• intensivas in corpo1 olterius." [Fa...
cination (now called AnimoI Magnetism) ia the intt-nsn nctiuo of the mind,
(imaginationi•) of ono per~on on the bods of another.]-B&tolf, D& Auo--
KEKT Sci&RT., Lib. 4. Cap. 3.
"Mo.ny things aecret orP. true; eympathica and antipathiea are tafoJy authen-
tic unto ua, wbo, ignorant of their caute, may yet acknowJedge their etfecta."'
Baow1<.
BOSTON:
WEEKS, JORDAN & CO.
1837.
Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 183i, by
CHARLES PoYEN,
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.
DEDICATION.
TO ALEXANDER WRIGHT, ESQ. OF LOWELL.
DEAR SIR,-You are neither a King nor a Pope, neither a RigM
Honorable nor an Excellency, neither a far-famed General, nor a
shrewd and infi•1ential Statesman, neither a wealthy merchant nor
a learned and di~ified President of some of our Universities. It
is, therefore, neither in consideration of your titles and dignities, nor
of your wealth and political influence, that I inscribe to you this small
volume. It is true that you had the honor of first introducing the ,
manufacturing of carpets into ~ew~England; it is true that you are ·,
now at the head of an extensive e,;tabli~hment, and that the products
of the works you superintend are the object of universal admiration
throughout the United Stales. But still, usef~~t}l~_mc<;hanic­
~does...not~if~_rd much glory in this age of refj!)ero.en! and
rrow gentility ; and yourmtliience abroaais iioi 5o great, that I
should be m uced by it to solicit your patronage, in dedicating to yon
11. book on the unpopular subject of Animal Magnetism. My motives
in doing it, are not, then, worldly ones; they do not proceed from
outward considerations; they are inward; they lay at the bottom oC
my heart. I wish, Sir, to give you a public token of the profound
eliteem which I entertain for your virtues and high mental qualities.
I must confess, at the risk of offendingyour modesty, that I have met
with very few who unite, in so great a measure as you do, an earnest
love for science, firmness of character, independence and liberality
ofmind, the philosophic spirit and soundness ofjudgment, to so much
benevolence, tenderness of feeling, and ease of manners. 1 have ob-
served in you, that just degree of enthusiasm that stirs up a man's
intellect and sympathies towards the l'orrect apprehension of the
beautiful and the accomplishment of noble deeds, without leading
him into serious errors. What is called prejudice, seems never to
have entered into your mind, and pride of any sort is a thing
wholly foreign to your nature. Whoever is acquainted with human-
ity, will acknowledge that so many fine giftsare seldom met with in
the same individual, and surely those who possess them must be
of a privilegedmental organization. It is my delight, my happiness,;
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
iv DEDICATION.
Sir, to have intercourse withsuch beings; and it is also my supreme
delight to show them as publicly as possible my respect and attach-
ment. I am of opinion that intrinsic virtue and merit should be re-
warded here below, for the encouragement of all towards doinggood.
In antiquity, virtue was sometimes crowned in the midst of public
assemblies. In France it receives a prize from the Royal Institute !
But, after all, what is a sweeter and richer reward for a noble bean
than the respect and approbation of all those who are capable of ap-
preciating the worth of moral beauty 1
I had the pleasure of seeing you often, of observingyou in a varie·
ty of circumstances, and I believe that I have arrived at a full and
correct apprehension ofyour character.
With respect to the subject of Animal Magnetism, I must also
confess that I have not yet met any one who has adopted a better
course than you have done, to acquire a thorough knowledge of it.
You have proved your energy of mind and philosophic spirit, in the
trouble you have taken, not only to investigate the matter, but also
to become perfectly acquainted with me, and with the estimable
person upon whom we have both of us made so many interest-
ing experiments. You have been amply compensated, I hope, by
the conviction that you have gained of the entire truth of an order of
phenomenaso important to science and so glorious to human nature I
You have, besides, demonstrated that the narrow scruples of those
who shrink from avowing their belief and publishing their experi·
ments, for fear of unpopularity, are as visionary as they are ridicu-
lous; fur you do not stand, by any means,less high in the public es-
timation and in the attachment of your friends, now that you are a
~upporter of Animal Magnetism, than ever before.
Receive, my dear Sir, the assurance of my sincere esteem and
friendship.
Salem, Mass. October 12th, 1837.
CHARLES POYEN.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
PREFACE.
IN the present state of Animal Magnetism
in this country, a collection of well authenti-
cated facts, coming from numerous and res-
pectable sources, seems to me imperatively
demanded; both to instruct those who are not
yet informed of the phenomena, and establish
the truth of the science in the mind of the
public generally. Such are the character
and purpose of the following series of narra-
tives; I doubt not that they will meet the
wants and expectations of all, except those
whose judgment is totally warped by preju-
dice, or subverted by intentional stubborness
and self-conceit.
But, be~<?re~~Q~!!l-~n~es the perusal of
these-narratives, I would beg ·the reader--to
sto -··a-,:Vhlle;-an<i lend mea-kln.a 'hearm--TI
~---··~---·--~· -.........__
__....._.. ....------- .-~Jt ....._..
would beg him to let me directlv address his
reason and conscience, by a tew-~obercOiisia­
er'ations;lii"tended toaemonstrateto his moral
serise,-to hiSfiiiniJ!i..eye ihit:·.Auimal -
:M3gD.et-
ism is not, what he, perhaps, thought it t~ be,
a delusion. These considerations will be
drawn,l;t~-from Iiunian-tesH•nony. 2d, from
vi PREFACE.
the manner in which the writer became ac-
quaillte<r"w~lli~i1!:~~su~je{:t,. from tf1e ·ten"
deii-
cies of his mind and his occupations before he
commenced lecturing upon it; and, lastly,
from the course he has purliue.d to establish
the scienceillthis country.
I do not flatter inyselfthat Ishall convince
many hy t1ies-epreF£!i:@~fi"~e..~~rks-;"· 6ut still
I rnay b~fgr1.una.t.e.J~nQ.ug]L!!?.._s.~ceed in turn-
ing the hard skemicis.rrt.Q.(_§~]ntQ~a staTe-
of philosoj)i;,ic-doub.t.; tha~opet~~--the w~;y-qtp
clmVrctioll.-fn:lay happen to meet a few who
will be to~ched by my arguments, and thus
feel better prepa·red to understand and believe
the phenomena which are to be subsequently
) exposed. It is not, indeed, th!:_~_!:!_gh the e~:,
te_!.!_l_~l "~-e,~~~- OJ1hr, that the reality of animal \
magnetism, in this advanced period of its his- \
torical existence, can be ascerta_ined; ~l}an 1
1
has within himsefl,-liigher ·and a~ efficient I
mea.n!i_
t()_ar.~ive at tl~e _· kno~'ledge of truth,r )
viz. CQQ~.Un.in~..an.d a. due seo5.f.til.( respect.~_,)
for the testimony of mankind. I have no re-
gard for tnos~rw1IO"ltespire or neglect the ex-
ercise ofsuch means of.conviction; they show
themselves anworthy of the rank of moral
and intellectual beings~ I care not for their
opinion-let. them think and say w~at they
please.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
CONTENTS.
PART FIRST.
SEcT. I.-Proofs of Animal Magnetism derived
ft·om human testimony 13
SEcT. 2.-Furthcr Considerations on the manner
in which the writer became interest-
ed in Animal Magnetism, and on
the course pur1med by him to estab-
lish it in New England 39
PART SECOND.
E.1:periments, Certificates, Reports, ~c., tn serve for the
History of.!J.flimal Magnetism in the United States.
SEcT. I.-General Remarks
SEcT. 2.-Animal Magnetism in Boston aod vi-
cinity
SEcT. 3.-Animnl Magnetism in Providence aod
vicinity
SEcT. 4.-Miss Cynthia Ann Gleason
SEcr. 5.-Animnl Magnetism at Lowell, l\lass.
SEcT. 6.-Nashun, N. H.
SEcT. 7.-Tnunton-New Bedford-Salem
57
62
98
116
159
170
187
203
SEcT. 8.-Bangor-Nantucket
CoNcLusioN. - 205
NoTES. - 206
APPENDIX. - 207
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
PART I.
PROOFS OF ANIMAL MAGNETISM DERIVED FROM
HUMAN TESTIMONY.
SECTION I.
AFTER a mature inquiry into the cause of the incre-
dulity which so generally prevails in regard to Animal
Magnetism, we find it to be no other one than the
"novelty of this science." People say, that it is too
wonderful, too surprising, too inexplicable, &c., to
be believed in I B1,1t is there not an almost infinite
number of other natural operations, as surprising and
incomprehensible, which, however, appear quite plain,
and the existence of which is universally considered as
indisputable ·1 Why are these operations unanimously
admitteJ 1 why do they not excite, in the least, our
wonder and incredulity 1 Simply, because they are
not novel things; they are daily observed, and people
have been habituated to their effects from early age.
We are right, therefore, in advancing that Animal
Magnetism seems so wonderful, and is so generally/
disbelieved, only because it is new. Man, indeed, is a
creature of habit; he thinks, he views himself and the
phenomena of the outward world ; be feels and acta
according to the impressions that have been made upon
his moral and intellectual organization, through early
education, social influences, individual practices, &c.
2
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
14 ANIMAL ·MAGNETISM.
Thence we may say that man's mind is chiefly, and
perhaps wholly, framed from habit; or, in other worde,
that man's habits are man's nature. • Every thing,
therefore, that tends to alter the former, being a direct
attack against the latter, must be, of course, looked
1\()0n with a suspicious eye, and'at once opposed and
rejected with contempt, as a visionary scheme, or an
imposition! Such has been the character exhibited
by mankind from the earliest period down to the
present day, and such will it ever remain, until man is
taught, from the cradle, almost, that his .~'cl_t_t_J_r~_ i_!! __
not
fixed within .cert~in unchangeahlc;l.•. intellectual and
pr.iicticiifHinits, but, on the contrary, essentially P!'O::.
gressive; that is to say, made so that he can penetrate
but grad~ly-onli~Tnl<!-:::!I!~~.ktio,v"ted~t1umscli and
of thesorrounding world. As long as this important
philosophical ii-lith. shall iwt become a fGndamental
elem·ent o-
f tl1e education of youth, man will show bim-
aelf pitifully blind in regard to those very i[J)prove-
ments which' necessa-rily follow irinn the development
of his organization, and alwa,r.~.!!LWJII agaiu.st every
discovery, .however benefici:~Cit is destined to be.
.. The correctness ·o(die foregoing reflections appears
to me strikingly exemplified by the ridicule al!d cruel
persecutiops that almost every great trnth had to con-
tend against when it was at first revealed to the world.
We may judge of the manner in which those truths
were received, by the ignominious treatment exercised
against their sublime discoverers. Socrates, who the
first proclaimed the unity of God, and tbe immateriali.
ty of the soul, among the heathen, was condemned for
his impiety, and suffered death by poison, as a mur-
. derer aud a traitor. Christ himself, was subjected to
the punishment inflicted upon rebels, impostors, and
robbers; and his doctrine, although gaining ground
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 15
more and more rapidly, did not cease to be ridiculed
during nearly four centuries. Christopher Columbue,
when he set out on his voyage for the discovery of a
new world, was treated hy all Europe as a madman.
Galileo was termed an infidel, and shut up in prison.
Descartes, whose genius created the true philosophical
method, and opened the field of scientific investigation,
was called a lunatic, persecuted, and obliged to flee
from his country. The inventors of the art of print-
ing wue denounced as infamous sorcerers. Even,
when but a few years ago, Fulton applied the power
of &team to navigation, and Evans exhibited his plan
for.the construction of rail-roads, were they not looked
11pon as insane, and their scheme considered absurd 1
The history of medicine will show us still more
fOrcibly the same precipitation and blindness of judg-
ment concerning newly-discovered facts. Thus the cir-
culation of the blood was decreed impossible by the
most scientific bodies, and the partizans of that doctrine
were pursued with ridicule for nearly half a century;-
yaccination was considered and proscribed as a crime ;
the Peruvian bark rejected for years, as a useless, and
tWen hurtf.ul substance; all the preparations of antimo-
ay proscribed under the u decanat of Guy Patin;'' the
use of emetic forbidden by a decree of the parliament
of Paris, solicited by the academy of medicine itself.
In short, the discovery ofalmost all important truths has
had to encounter the greatest difficulties, at whatev-
er time, and among whatever nation it was made.
And wh..I.1 because the facts, or doctrines announced;
had not yet ~EHL.considered by the human mind; they
were-something different fr.om the rergnmg ideas and
practices ; they attacked and tended to alter the moral
and intellectual constitution of mankind. But, invari·
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
16 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ably, after these truths had been for some time debated
before the world, studied and investigated by all classes
of society, they were no longer regarded as contrary
to the laws of nature, impossible or absurd ; they
were recognized for what they were, and insensibly
appeared quite plain and "natural." Why 1 Be- ,
cause the human mind had become accustomed to their
influence and peculiar character!
After reflecting on the picture that I have just drawn
of the lamentable inconsistency, blindness and injus-
tice of mankind, concerning those very things which
have proved afterwards to be real and important im-
provements, who will dare to treat any newly-announc-
ed fact as a falsehood, or ridicule and condemn it at
once, as an imposition 1
I do not pretend, however, that every discovery
should be received with an entire faith, and immediate-
ly ranked within the domain of science, without ex-
amination of its solidity and value. Far from it;
such a course would be still more foolish and blama-
ble than the other. ~~e tr~-:_p~~osoph~r ~!!I -~dopt
neither; he will, at first, -n-e-
ither believe nor disbelieve,
~~ve n'or condemn; but he wllllteep himself in a
state of phi)osoplii<ml douot~ tbat may}eoonim t~ \lSe
all the mean~:~ in his possession to arrive at a correct
apprehension -of -n~e-- <lebltted ·subject, and ascertain
whethenbe pretended-- facts are real or not. This is
the course pursued by a truly wise and scientific man.
He will not, like the blind multitude, scorn and
reject a new thing, merely because it appears wonder·
ful and impossible. Indeed, as he has already reflect-
ed on the mechanism of 'his own organization' and on
the phenomena of the external world, he is aware that
there is an almost infinite number of wonderful things,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
----------~---.· ~ :.~--~
17
ewalJy inexplicable to him, the existence of which
. cannot be doubted, and has ever beeo universaJly
acknowledged. He knows, besides, that He alone
who has made every thing, and comprehends all that
is possible, is competent to pronounce one thing to be
impossible! He ~w.s, from the hjs.!OJ:I_ of his owo.
species, that the .ci.t£!e of "possibility" has alw_!!Ya
been enlarging, according to the moral and physical
development of mankind. Neither will a true philoso-
pher condemn or ridicllle ane\v.discovery' because
theatfegeoTact~ seem contrary to "t1u law.s Dj nature;"
for he knows, in the first place; thJlt_
a law ~as no real
-exis~nce by itself; .that it is nothing buta conception
_of_the hulJ)al1~ min~ an inference from the observation
of certain analogous facts; finally, a ntere abstraction;
that consequently the discovery ofnew facts renders ne-
cessary either a tota] suppression ofthe Jaw, or at least,
an alteration in the manner in which it is expressed.
This is sufficiently demonstrated by the history of the
progress of physical sciences. In the next place, a
true philosopher is wise and enlightened enough to
believe that his understanding does not yet embrace all
that is in nature; he is aware of the exceedingly small
~ompaas..Df~_is intellect, in comparison with the infinite
variety, multiplicity, and complication of natural phe-
nomena; he knows, finally, that what !s natural or un-
natural for one generation, will not be so for the
following, on account of the progressive changes that
man is allowed to make, day by day, in the knowledge
of himself ano of th11 external world.
From the foregoing general considerations the reader
will infer that the opposition hitherto made against
Animal Magnetism~ is not a sufficient· reas11n for re-
jecting it as untrue, and condemning it as an imposi-
tion; he will infer, that, Iike many other important
2•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
18 ANIMAL lllAGNETISil•
facts, it may have been unfairly examined, and awo
judged with an unjnst precipitation by the multitude.
But, if we are not sufficiently authorised to deny the
reality of a newly-announced fact, on the ground that
it is too wonderful, and seems contrary to all existing
natural laws, through _
what means shall we enaple
ourselves to decide upon itst-ruth-or Talsehood-! -· I am
coiUu~~in~-qu~stion.
When some new facts of a strange character are
presented to~ ;;;, it is supremely _!!n_phi~_bj.cal_to
uadertake...tQ._.QEP~~th!l_f!l_~_l_!l_er~reasoning. ~-
~-!_lot$ in .s.~ch a case are___
o(_n_o -~vail~-=we _ought, at
first, to strip -our rniu-d. -of_ all preconceived notions,
and ask f'or a demonstration of the reality of the alleged
phenomena. This demonstration can be obtained in
two ways. 1st. If the pretended discovery has been
for some time before the world, there must be some
precedents either fo.r, or against it; its claims rpust
have been examined, and proper experiments made by
competent individuals, for the purpose of ascertaining
their solidity. In this case, we may refer to the testi:::
mony of those competent judges, even before making
an application of our own senses. We should, indeed,
bear in mind that the testimony of a sufficient number
of intelligent, moral nnd disinterested persons, on a
matter of observation, deserves as much confidence as
the testimony of our own eyes,-as it must be founded
on a careful examination of facts. This has always
been admitted among men as one of the most rational
and soiid bases of certainty.
2dly. But if the discovery be quite new, if there are
no precedents, no previous experience concerning it,
to which we might refer, we ought then to look for an
,immedia~oculnr demonstration, and make proper
_
e!.periment_
s\ ourselves. In proceeding in that way,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIIIIAL MAGNETISM. 19
we cannot. fail to obtain positive results, either in favor
of, or against the alleged facts.
Now, Animal Magnetism, the subject of our present
consideration, has been before the world upwards of
half a century ; it has been debated, examined and
written upon, by a crowd of individuals. Let us,
therefore, inquire what has been said about it ; let us
resort to human testimony, viz. to the opinion of those
who rendered themselves competent to decide upon it
by observation, experiments and study. We need not
enter into minute historical details; it will be sufficient
for our purpose, to quote the names of the distinguish·
ed and well-known scientific men of Europe, who have
more or less occupied themselves with Animal Mag-
neti.sm, and testified in favor of its existence. We
shall also mention the governments whose attention
has been called to the subject, and that have sanction-
ed and regulated the magnetic practice by especial
- ..
measures.
Among the supporters of Anim~l Magnetism, we
find the celebrated :Qaran. Cuvier, who expressed
his belief in its reality in his "Les:ons d'Anatomie
Comparee, vol. 2, p. 117." Th-
e marquis Laplace in
his "Traite Analytique du Calcul des Prohabilites;"
Gall, in his "Anatomic du Systeme Nerveux. vol. 1.
p.l46-48," acknowledges it as a truth. J. Hahneman,
in his '•Organon ofthe Healing A,·t,'' declares that they
are-but fools or madmen who deny it. The m~_t_r_q.uis
~f _p_IJJ'~~r_, the Comte Tardy de Montravel, Mr. de
Lutzelbourg and de Lauzanne, men of the very first
rank and education in France, devoted the greatest
part of their life to the disinterested practice of mag-
netism, and wrote several excellent works on it. _M_
r._
Deleuze, the librarian of the museum of natural histo- X
ry ofP-ati.a.--aud-tnnemoerm ·severiil scientific bodies
c l ••ctbvGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
says that he exercised it upwards of thirty-five years,
and his works, (Histoire Critique du Magnetisme An-
imal,-Instroction Pratique,) are considered the best-
on .this subject. Doctor Bertrand, one of the most
distinguished pupils of the Polytechnical school, also
practised it with success, and left on it two large
volumes in Svo. full of a profound philosophy, and of a
multitude of curious observations. Charles'de Villers,
the well-known author of a history of the reformation,
was a'partisan of magnetism, and offered an ingenious
theory of its phenomena, in his "Magnetiseur Amou-
reur." Prof. Roston, one of the most eminent living
French physicians and physiologists, wrote a long and
well-digested memoir on it, in the eighth vol. of the
"Dictionnaire de Medecine." Dr. Georget also de-
voted to it a remarkable chapter in his "Physiology of
the Nervous System," in 2 vols. Svo. Prof. Andral de-
livered two lectures on this subject, comprised in his
course ofinternal pathology. In these lectures he doer
not admit all the claims of magnetism, but professes
his belief in the influence of the will of one person
over another, and in the state of somnambulism.
Prof. Broussais tried it \fith success at the hospital of
Val de Grace, and acknowledged his entire assent to
its reality. Drs. Foissac, Dupotet, Fillassier, Bailly,
Gaymnrd, a distinguished naturalist attached to the
royal navy, admiral Freycinet, and others, are known
by their profound and careful researches and writings
on this science. Baron Massias admitting it to be
true, has given to it a due place in his works on mental
philosophy.
Besides the distinguished individuals whose names I
have just u1entioned, the one hundred and eighty-eight
members, who, from 1786 to 1790 composed the mag-
netic society of Strasbourg, might be added here : the
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 21
memoirs of that society have been published, and are
·considered a valuable and highly trustworthy collec-
tion of facts. ~aris hav~l!<tp!IJ>li~~­
ed, from 1814 to 1820, two periodicals, (the Library of
Ariimal -~agn~an!L1FfLAiin!ifu__of AnimaJ__Mag;;
netism,) made up entirely of narratives of facts, re•
views of works and memoirs on every branch of the
science, by a cro\vd of intelligent and respectable men
of• the scientific and literary profession.• Finally, I
will refer to the work in two large 8vo. vols., con-
taining a faithful account of all the cures performed
through magnetism in France, and signed by upwards
of three hundred persons, most of whom were physi-
cians.
In Prussia, the illustrious Hufeland, after declaring
himself against magnetism, has bowed to eviden~e, and
·employs it in his practice. An hospital of one hundred
beds, under the care of Prof. Wolfard, has been estab-
lished at Berlin, in which patients are successfully
treated by that method. The Academy of Sciences
of the same city, one of the most distingui11hed learned
bodies of Europe, proposed,. in 1818, a prize of thirty·
three hundred francs, for the best memoir· ou Animal
Magnetism. In the same country, (Prussia,) a royal
ordinance, issued on February 7, 1817, allows regular
physicians only to exercise magnetism, and enjoins on
those who carry on that practice to give an accou~t,
every three months, of the results obtained. A chair
now occupied by Dr. Kludge, the author of a classical
work on the ·subject, has been created in the medical
faculty of Berlin for the professorship of Animal
Magnetism.
l Library ofAnimal Magnetism, 8 vol. in Svo. Annals of Ani-
mal Magnetism, 16 voL ditto.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
•
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
In 1815, the emperor Q(_
It!•ssia appointed a com-
mittee io~ th~ plu()li~~ of m~kjn_g aQ .e.xaminatian. of
~mal1\tn~li.!m. -Tb'is-~ammittee, having declttt~d,
from their experiments, that maguetism is a__ yet)[.~
po~t~nt agerifwrilcli-sliOUTcflunrustei.l 'io-tiJ~ hands of
''ivell-mformeu·-J>TIYSICJanf< -orily;· if was ordered that
those physicians who would occupy themselves with
the magnetic practice, should give an account eve-
ry three ·months of their operations, and. that the
committee itself should, every three months, present a
report to the emperor. A decree of the medical
college of Denmark of Decemi.Jer 21, 1815, and another
subsequent ordinance of January 14, 1817, impose upon
physi~ians the same duties, and prescribe to the local
authorities to tnke care that magnetism be not prac-
tised ~ any other sort of people. In various other
parts of Germany, Hermstaedt, Klaproth, .Shiglits,
Meckel Malfatti of Vienna, Hayner, Korreff, &c. have
investigated the claims of Animal Magnetism and testi-
fied to the truth of it. At Frankfort, Dr. Passavant
has published a very remarkable work, in which he
exposes not facts only, but also the moral and psycho-
logical con11eqnences arising from them. At Groningue,
Dr. Backer, translated into the Dutch language the
"Critical History" of magnetism, by Mr. Deleuze, and
added to it a volume of observations, made by himself
and some of his fellow physicians. At Stockholm,
public theses on magnetism are sustained for the grade
of Doctor. At St. Petersburg, Dr. Stroffreghen, the
first physician of the amperor of Russia, and several
others have prpnounced their opinion in favor of this
science. Near Moscow, the earl Panen, formerly a
minister of Russia, has established on his estate, a
magoetical hospital, under the care of a skilful physi.
ANIMAL MAGNETJI!M.
eian, in which a good number of important cures have
been perfi1rmed. Among other respectable German
writers who have devoted particular atteution to thi1
subject, and written " Ex professo '' on it, 1 will name
Wienholdt, Eschenmaher, Ennemayer, Kieser, Neea-
von-Eseubeck, whose works, according to 1\lr. De-
leuze's opinion, are an inexhaustible mine ofvaluable
information, (Practical Instructions, ch. X. trana-
lated into En~lish by Thomas Hartshorn.)
After soberly considering the ai.Jove imposing mass
of highly respectable testimonies, who can reasonably
doubt the existence of Animal Magnetism 1 To deny
it, as observed Dr. Mar~, before the Academy of Medi-
cine of Paris, on the 24th ofJanuary, 1825,-'' to deny
i~~p_r_ose that men of tbe grea~jl.___
two learned bodies of the first respectability, and
governments known for hav~ng surrounded themselves
with th~ best physicians, must have, in various place•
and at various periods of time, fallen the dupes ol
miserable jugglers, and propagated, favored and ex-
ecuted labors merely chimerical.'' ! will add still far-
ther, that to del!X the reality ~_!lti~~;; ~;_o-u!d. be-to
stzyp~':'--m!in,X: dislingnished Jll.e.l!.l._
.whose belief
had resulted froin the careful and repeated application
of their senses, had connived together to palm upon
society, a most ab and wicked imposition !
I am going now to demonstrate that the testimonies
above quoted can be fully relied upon-considering,
'Ist, the agreement that exists between them. 2dly,
the number and character of the witnesses.
_'We should not, in the first place, forget that An-
imal Magnetism is not a matter of Ion,
but a "matter of ac 1--Q_f which ca!_l~Qe
I! tion. This point being
well established, we find, 1st, that all the witnesses
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNBTISJI.
whose names are mentioned in the preceding pagee,
have testified to the same thing, viz. that Animal
Magnetit;m is ~ reality. Their: testimuny, therefore,
is identical, and as such its value cannot be disputed.
2dly, That the number of those witnesses amounts to
upwards of one hundred, whic~ would be more than
necessary to settle a question of fact in any court of
justice in, the wol'id.
3dly, That those witnest>es were, or still are, intelli-
gent moral men, wholly disinterested in the matter to
be decided upon. Indeed, they wer~ all of them phy-
siCians, naturalists, or philosophers; three classes of
individuals, better qualified than any other, from their
natural endowments and professional avocations, to iDo-
vestigate and study the phenomena of nature. Most
of them hud, themselves, produced the effects called
Animul Magnetism ; and those who had not prac-
tised the operations, must have seen them perform-
ed often, and to their full satisfuction, before venturing
publicly to acknowledge their belief in the truth of a
thing so generally ridiculed and opposed. !n point of
intellect and morality, those men are inferior to none;
their wi•rks,-the~elebrity of their I1nmes, the respect
they obtain from mankind, are sufficient guarantees of
their high scientific attainments, philosophical spirit
and social virtues. They were, or still are, disiuterest-
ed in the matter; for, as they occupied a commanding
station in society, and were already well known by
their previous labors on other branches of science,
they had nothing to gain, either in glory or fortune, by
giving their support to Animal .
Magnetism; on the
contrnry, they exposed themselves to sarcasm and un-
popularity; nay, some of them, QS Dr. Husson, lost
much of their practice by doing it. Deleuze, ~Q!I~n,
peorget, &c.• never magnetised for money. The
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
three brothers de Puysegur, Tardy de Montravel, de
Lutzelbourg, de Lauzanne, &c. belonged to the very
first nobility, owned large estates, and lavished their
fortune, time (lnd health in practising magnetism,
publishing extensive works upon it, and giving pecu·
niary aids to the poor people, who trusted themselves
to th~ir care. (See Puysegur's memoirs, Mr. Cloquet's
letter on Puysegur's practice on his estate of Buzancy ;
on the principles and practice of magnetism by de
Lauzanne; de Lutzelbourg's Memoirs, &c.) ·
Now, I candidly ask whether t~_e_ !e!!!imopy oL!!!.!Ch
men~-~ ~~~fidence and rjlspect 1
whether it is-'il()'f equivalenrti:i--iheap_p_lica'tiO-;; of our
oWilienses '1 whether it is not the stronge~at
can-be ilthanced in support of Anim-81- Magnetism 1
Let me-reader- pon<terthi!rqiiesnmr,-befonnmswering
it. Should he, after mature consideration, answer in
the negative, he would inevitably throw himself into
the following lamentable consequences: he would lay
_aside. all tJ:!e_r~c(!ivel}_data .oLsoundJogic -eoncerni.ug
_on~_g_f_~~~m.ost 1191lft- and rational bases of cer~ainty,
_!lz. hi!!!!IW-te11timetty, and thereby reduce to nought
the past of mankind; history would be no longer to
him but a mere Arabian tale. He would undermine
at once the foundation of the church, the state and the
court ofjustice, which are essentially built on human
testimony. He would stop all foreign_commercial in-
tercourses which are carried on through a mutual
trust in the word of the parties ; and finally, place him-
self in the logical necessity of studying equally well,
every branch of science! Indeed, how could he-de-
pend on what others have said and written down in the
especial department of. their studies and professional
avocations 1
Will people be afraid of such consequences, and at
3
26 ANIMAL MAEINETJSJI,
least, withhold their judgment 1 No, indeed ; I know
from experience that there are many who will still
persist in considering Animal Magnetism as an impo-
sition, or a delusion. ~~i~ister~ ~vil_l still ~~f!IJt, and
those very ministers grant the most explicit credence to
the stupendous miracles related in the gospel, mainly
on the authority of four men, far inferior in point of
knowledge and talent of observation to the modern
eminent intellects above mentioned! Lawyers will
still deny it, and those very lawyers often exert their
best powers to obtain 11. decree of capital punishment
against a fellow-man, solely on the authority of six or
seven witnesses ! Jujges will still deny it, and those
very judges will pass sentence of death, or imprison-
ment for life, on the strength of the testimony of a few
individuals ! Physicians will still deny it, and those
physicians have, a hundred times in their life, applied
with the greatest assurance to their patients, remedies
which they ·had never before tried, solely on the
authority of their books, or of two or three of their
professors !
It will be said, pe~_h
_a,ps. ~-cau....l&~.IL}!l_!!CJLDpy
confidence in thetestimony of others, however re-
spectable they may lfe-;111 reffience to a matter so
utterly repugnant to common sense, fi_IHLC.Q.ntrar..r.J.9.-- ·
all known laws of nature,-pariicularly when we are
informedthai-so- many doctrines, now considered
absurd und false, have been, for centuries, supported
by a c(owd of respectable individuals, some of whom
ranked among the brightest luminaries of their age 1"
We answer that those doctrines were suppJ)tled only
from "a priori views; " they were questions of opinion,
and not of facts, the r~ality Of which could have been
ascertained by the application of the senses. Animal
Magnetism, on the C}ODUary, is a_ m~tte_r of observation,
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
.A.NJIIUL KA.G!CETJIII.
an used the cause, were c
vineed. !)Qly_by ocular demnn"*fttion. a se doc·
trines of theology or metaphysics have been eo long
professed by numerous classes of society, and even by
some very intelligent persons, it is precisely because
they were·out of too circle of sciences of_observa-
tion, properly so called; they were advocated simply
because they agreed either with the religious and philo-
sophical prejudices of certain men, or with their natu·
ral ten~encies of mind, and the notions inculcated
upon them by education. Those doctrines were, often-
times, embraced with enthusiasm, and defended with
fanaticism ; being mere matter of opinion, their false-
hood could not be demonstrated through actual experi·
ments; and however erroneous they were, it was easy
for their blind supporters to explain and sustain them
by reasoning. Animal Magnetism.-.being, on the
contrary, a science-~fob~:e!vation, has not c~~~jld to
gain ground more and more rapidly, although violently
aud g.enerally opposed; because the ·results ·or-p-ositive
.experiment$_pro.ved atr!)nger_th_
an -~!1_ !l_ie_.arguments
used against it. _!1--is-lUU. advoc~U~~!!"om "-a priori ).
vi~" or on the grouDd...tb~.t it agrees with the reli-
gious or philosophical prejudi;;s of -man, &c. On
the contrary, it apparently attacks and overturns all
the received notions of the present generation, all
that has been inculcated upon us by philosophy and
education! It changes materinlly, in several points,
the mental constitution of mankind. Far from being
enthusiastically led into a belief in the reality of it,
those who begin the investigation of its claims, are at
first decided skeptics ; they proceed with diffidence
and care in their examination, and, in order to satisfy
their mind fully, they do not resort to reasoning, but
to repet;lted, sifted, and positive experiments.
28 ANIMAL MAGNETISM,
Some will reply, that "witchcraft," which is now
generaUy acknowledged to have been a gross and
lamentable superstition, was likewise pretended to be
founded on facts; that it was, for centuries, believed
in by all classes of society, and countenanced even by
a crowd of distinguished men, some of whom were the
greatest geniuses of their time, &c. We answer, that
witchcraft originated from an "a prier~ [rom
a mere article of faith, ¥iz. the_
belief in the existence
of the devil, and in his influence- on liumiiiCiiffairs.
This belief had been handed down from th~ -vcry-be­
ginnit;~g of society; it was deeply impressed on the
public mind through education, religious doctrines,
and social institutions; it had thus become a profound
and powerful element of the mental constitution of
mankind. The infernal agency being admitted ns
an indisputable truth, _people were forcibly led into
the most serious and absurd errors; every thing that
appeared strange, was immediately attributed to the
diabolical interference; even on some occasions, the
public mind was so much engrossed and perverted by
that superstition, that they mistook .very plain, yea,
common natural effects, for evident proofs of an inter-
course existing between certain individuals and the
_evil spirit. Such was, to quote an instance, the witch-
craft delusion in Salem, Massachusetts. It is true that
there were at times some wonderful and very uncom•
mon phenomena observed, as among the possessed of
London, in 1662, the trembleurs des cevennes, or
French prophets, the convulsionnaires of St. Medard,
in the 18th century, &c. But those phenomena are
now admitted to have been the natural results of a
peculiar modification of the nervous system and the
brain. Some learned authors have, 'of late, demon-
strated their mode of production, and shown their
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IUGMETJSif, 29
analogy to certain cases of hysteria and catalepsy.
At the time when those singular effects occurred, the
sciences of observation were very imperfectly develop·
ed, and the belief in witchcraft was prevalent. People,
therefore, very naturally attributed them to the agency
of the devil, because they had no other means of ac-
counting for them. Now Animal Magnetism did not
· originate, like ·witchcraft, from any preconceived idea
or popular notion ; its claims are not founded on a
rnereafticle of faith; and those who have assented to,a
beliefin·its reality, had not within themselves, like the
partisans of witchcraft, a cause of error. Animal
Magnetism, I repeat, sprung from observation; _M_
es-
mer and all his dis~iple~_ have claimed_[~ it the title
ofOiitilrali!Ql~; they haie. constantly e-ndeavored
tocoii:ioatsuperstition, and remove all remaining pre-
judices concerning the influence of spiritual agents,•
by contending and showing that the phenomena once
attributed to the action of the devil, are the results of
a peculiar modification of which the nervous organiza-
,tion of man is susceptible, when placed in certain cir-
cumstances.
,I am going now to meet a more specious objection,
which is frequenily brought forward. It is said, "If
we are to refer to human testimony, why should we
place more dependence on the authority of the parti-
zans of Animal Magnetism than on that of its opposers,
among whom are found some ,modern writers of un-
doubted merit !" I shall refute this argument, by pre-
senting a few remarks on the respective grounds
upon which both parties based their opinion~ lQJ.i!~
first place, it is well worthy__
of notice, that those
who have~ op(iosed thisSCience and written- ngamst it,
~- - - -- -- - -- ----- ·---- - --- -··
-.;I exc.ept the disciples of Swedenborg, Jacob BCEhme, and St.
Martin.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
30 ANIMAL MAGNE'l'IIIM.
never took the trouble to make experiments them-
selves, and most of them did not attend ~riments
made by others. Thus they judged a priol'i of facts,
the value of which they never had an opportunity of
ascertaining, simply because they appeared too won-
derful, too ridiculous, &c. ~Jr. de Vaugenes, who
opp()_sed Mesmer and Deslon with so much violence in
1780-81,-Montegre, who wrote at about the same
time, openly declared that they had never attended
any experi111ents. Nay, t.hey pretended that it was
"unworthy of a physician and of a true savant to
witness any thing of the kind." "As if," observes Dr.
Bertrand, "there was any thing more worthy of a true
savant than to learn what he does not yet know, and
any thing more worthy of a physician than to acquire
new ineans of relieving his patients." Messrs. Bouil-
laud and Virey do not state in their writings whether
they had witnessed regular series of magnetic experi-
ments; Mr. Foi, in his Cours de Pharmacologie, be-
gins by denying the existence of Animal Magnetism,
and very inconsistently terminates his article by con-
fessing that he has seen, with his very ·eyes, some
surprising facts, some very interesting and curious
phenomena; but he does not know what he must think
of them. I remember having read in some of the
English reviews, two or three long communications,
in which neither ridicule nor violence are spared
against magnetism ; but the authors do not take the
trouble to inform us whether they ever tried them-
selves, or witnessed many magnetic experiments. We ~­
might say the same of the opposers of. thi_s~e in
this country; they boldly deny its reality, _
not bec.ause
they have found it untrue, after giving it a.fair and
patient trial-but on the vulgar ground that it is too
ridiculous, or contrary to the laws of nature, &c•.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
AKIMAL MAGNETISM. 31
Such is the position of the opposers of Animal
1.\'lagnetism. They wrote against a thing of which
they were not at all qua!Ctied to judge, as they had not
examined it themselves. How vastly different is the
character of its advocates and professors I All of them
had made experiments themselves, and they wrote
from a conviction based upon numerous and well-ob-
served facts. Messrs. Kieser, Kludge, Wolfart, &c.
in Germany; Deslon, de Puysegur, Deleuze, Tardy,
Bertrand, Rostan, Georget, Foissac, Dupotet, Filla:s-
sier, &c., were, or still are, indefatigable practitioners
of magnetism. 1\Iore than this, the warmest and
ablest supporters of that doctrine, as the. above men-
tioned gentlemen, had been at first, its opposers, and
believed that it could not be true; but they happened
to make a trial themselves; succeeded, and were con·
vinced of the contrary. Such a result, we venture to
say, is infallible; for, as the magnetic phenomen!\
proced from human nature, they will inevitably manifest
themselves whenever and wherever proper' applications
are made. ·Now, let the reader decide who are most
worthy of credence, those who did not experiment and
saw nothing, or those whose assertions are based on
indisputable facts produced by personal operations.
It is said, furthermore, that the distinguished men
;tppointed by the king of France, 1784, to investigate
the claims of Mesmerism, had attended long series of
experiments performed by Dr. Deslon, and that the
results of their observations were contrary to the doc-
trine which they were appointed to examine. I have
already discussed this point of history in a previous
publication, to which I take the liberty ofreferring the
reader. (See the Report of the Committee of the
lloyal Academy of Medicine of Paris, &(c., preceded
with an Introduction, pages 51, 2, 3, 4, 5.) I will add
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL HAGNETJS11.
here a few words only. Ist.. I grant that moat of the
experiments performed before the illustrious gentlemen
above alluded to, were contrary to the claims of Mes-
mer; but still theyl!_f!d observed certain effects which
they.Pr_QJIQ.!LP~t;_e£ to be_~j~hTt!i-a_:n~~~n­
tion. "All the palieots, say they, are submitted to the
operator; vainly are they plunged into an apparent
drowsiness ; his voice, a look, a sign from him, draws
them offfrom that state. It is impossible not to recog-
nize, from these constant effects, a great power that
agitates the patients, or affects them, and of which the
operatJ:ems to _dispose as t_he only possessor o( it."
- 2dly , 1\:Ir,_A_Iexander ~Iussie~.pne of the most
eminent naturalists and philosophers of his age, also a
ptember of a committee appointed by the king, after
carefully attending a great number of experiments and
experimenting himself upon several patientsu;l!lem.ed _
it -~is ~).Y Jg_
_
~_lll>arate from his colleague§, and pub-
lished a private report, remarkable in every point, in
which be asserts that he bad obtained positive results
concerning the reality of the magnetic agent.
3dly. Notwithstanding the conclusions of the report
signed by such men as Bailly, Franklin; Lavoisier,
&c., Animal Magnetism has not ceased to gain ground
in France, Germany, Prussia, and other countries;
whieh is, to~mind, an evident proof that a doctrine
foundedOo fact_~tJl_lld..the__c.ru:reciiiiisL.o!:WliiCIL:every ·
one can ascertain by personal application, cannot be
crushed or st~.PJ>Criil opp(>s~!l<?.rJ.;:---- ----- --~
4thly. ·Since the publication of the famous report of
1784, some material changes have been-maile, both in
the mode -of operation, and In the theory of Animal
Magnetism; some new phenomena ofa mest important
character, those of somnambulism,__w_bich. _were not
known t_
o Mesmer and Deslon~-and-about which not a
....
ANJMAL MAGNETISM. ' 33
word is clearly spoken in Bailly's Report, have been
discovered,ooserveaaiidpi~duced in various countries
by a crowd of respectable individuals. So we may say
that the matter to be examined and decided upon
stands on a ground altogether new, the solidity of
which it would be supremely unphilosophical and fool-
ish to judge, from the report of the commissioners of
the king.
5th. Finally, consideritlg the above circumstances,
the Academy of Medicine of Paris, at the suggestion
of Dr. l'oissa~h!LlitlLoLilc:io.ber:IS?l>;:aeereed
-that 1t w~1ecessary to make a ne\V !Lxaminn.tion_ 9f
Animal Magnetism~ .. A corn~ittee o( nine members
was formed for that purpose. The gentlemen chosen
were Bourdois de la Motte, Fouquier~ uueneau de
Mussy, Guersent, Itard, Leroux, Marc, Thillnye, and
Husson. A regular course of experiments was com-
menced by them, and pursued during four years.
Their reputation and the length of time they were en-
gaged, make it certain that the experiments were
carefully made, and can be fully relied upon. In 1831,
a report on the results obtained was read before the
Academy of Medicine. Those results are decidedly
favorable to the claims of magnetizers, and, in the
conclusions drawn from them, Animal Magnetism was
pronounced to be an important "the1·apeutical agent,
and a v'try curious branch of natural h.istory and psycho-
logy, upon which the .!lcademy should encourage and
favor further researches." Since the publication oi this
lasLreport,_
lhe_former one liu-l0st~it~
valu~ and can no_Io.uger be oft"eled u an._
a!!tllority·
If the reader wishes to know something of the titles
which the above named scientific gentlemen have to
opr confidence and respect, I will inform him that •
Drs. J. J. Leroux and Fouquier are professors at the
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
ANIMAL M:AGNBTIBH.
medical faculty of Paris, and placed at the head of
important services in the hospitals ; Husson, Gueneau
de Mussy, and Guersent, are celebrated physicians of
the hotel dieu, and ofthe hospital for diseased children.;
Marc is the first physician of the king; ltard is the
director of the institution for the deaf and dumb per-
sons ; Bourdois de Ia Motte and Thillaye are known
by valuable writings on various points of science.
All these men are distinguished by their morality and
standing in society, as well as by their works; their
report, therefore, deserves the attention of the candid
and enlightened reader. If he rejects their~ony
in r~rd to Animal Magn~lsm:-il;pl;~hiJ!Iself in
tile!ogical n-ec~ssity or-reTecting-atro the resu!ts o1t~eir
studies .a ad ..(lxperience iii-otl•er branches of science ;
of tearing to pieces, or removing from his ·library,
their medical works which had been referr~d to as
classical books; for, how can we depend on the opin-
ion of those men on any matter whatever, from the
moment we admit that they have either suffered them-
selves to be grossly deceived by their own senses, or
that they have connived together to impose upon the
public a most inconceivable tissue of lies!
In the foregoing considerations I have applied my-
self to demonstrate the truth of Animal Magnetism
from the testimony and experience of the scientific
men of Europe, who have occupied themselves w1tli H1e
SUbje~t;---1 am aware, however, thafthe reader's mind
is not yet fully satisfied; he will, very probably, say,-
,, I care but little about what bas been said or done in
Eiuope; ifyoiir-ravc)rite science: be a true one, show
us the effects <5f·ir 1ri- this country; name wflie of
our respectable countrymen· who have produced or
witnessed those wonders; then, we shall be better
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
prepared to believe you." To this I am happy that I
have a most satisfactory answer to give : truth is a
seed of a privileged formation ; under whatsoever
climate, at whatsoever season ofthe year, or in whats~
ever soil it is caat, it will take root, grow anlll soon
bear ample fruit. The following details will show that
Animal Magnetism is succeeding and progreuing aa
fast in this country aa it did in Europe.
At the time when the writer commenced lecturing in
New England, he found the subject almost universally
unknown. The greater part of the community were
not aware even of the existence of such a science; and ·.'
among the few who had heard or read about it, per-
haps none ever thought of yielding the least belief to
the reality of the alleged phenomena.
Nineteen months have elapsed since that period ;
and already Animal Magnetism has sprung, from a
complete state of obsc.urity and neglect, into general
notice, nod become the object of a lively interest
throughout the country. The press has been every
where awnkened to the wonderful character of its
claims, and the attention of scientific minds attracted
by its importance in regard to philosophy, physiology
and medicine. At the present moment, _it i_o~~utably
constitutes, in several parts of New England, the moat
atlrimg topic ·oCCen?ersation ..among all classes of
seciely! How --~ould this great-change hnve been
brought about in so short a time ! Through the same
means by which every natural and positive science
ever was established, viz. t'M apPlic~~ of t~e. semes,
~_E~eriments. Indeed, the proceedings through
which the..pfuinoinena of Animal Magnetism had been
produced in Europe, have been t1sed, with an equal
success, in several places in this country, by individu-
als of standing and intelligence : every where results
,, , ,Google
36 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of a similar nature have been obtained, and were ob-
se"ed by a crowd of witnesses, from almost every
part of the Union, wbo were compelled, by the force of
evidence, to acknowledge the reality of the facts.
And I beg the reader to notice, that those who have
magnetized with success in this country, and whose be-
lief is founded on facts produced by themselves, were
formerly skeptical on the subject; even some of tbem
had made themselves conspicuous in the community,
by the furious opposition they had made against it.
Among the gentlemen who have practised magnetism
in New England and succeeded in producing the mag-
netic phenomena, I will name the following with whom
I have the pleasure of a personal acquaintance. I
will observe, however, that I mean to say nothing about
their philosophical views and opinions on the subject.
I take the liberty of referring to them only as having
obtained, on some oftheir patients or friends, the effects
which nre generally produced through the operation of ·
Animal Magnetism. In Boston, Drs. Mcl\.ean, H. A.
Dewar, Homans,• Webster, professor of chemistry, J.
Ware, Dana, Toothaker of Cambridgeport, Fletcher;
1\lons. F. Bogard, n well-known teacher of the French
language; At Lowell, Alex. Wright, Esq. agent of
the carpet manufactory. At Nashua, N. H. Dr. C.
Cutter, Messrs. Leo. Mnrhle, Jos. \Vheat, nod J. F.
Marshall. At Bangor, Drs. ~lacRuer, Jewett, a
surgeon dentist, and .1\'Ir. Parker. At Providence, Drs.
R. Brownell, G. Capron, U. Pa;sons, Utley, Esten;
Messrs. Am. Potter and brother, Andros, Cyrus Grant,,
Th. Lockwood. At Pawtucket, Rev. D. Greene, Dr.
• I have not the honor of being acquainted with Dr. Homans; but
I have heard from several persons who know him, that he had suc-
ceeded in putting into the sommtmbulic sleep a respectable gentlc-
_
man under his medical care.
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
ANIII.&.L IIAOMKTIBIL
Cleaveland, Mr. AlYin Jenks. At Pawtucket, Dr.
Cleaveland. At Taunton, Measta. George Wilmarth,
Jos. Dixon, P. Duxbury. At New Bedford, MeUI'I.
Asa Wood, W. RuBBell, B. C. Taber; Dr. Jer. Stone.
At Uxbridge, Mass. Dr. Robbins. At Haverhill, Mau.
Dr. Bu.xton. At S~em, Dr. Fisk.
There are probably many more whose names are not
known to me. I am acq~ainted also with a f~w ladies
who have successfully magnetized. I do not disclose
their namea here, for reasons that the reader will un·
derstand.
Now, I ask whether Animal Magnetism is not proved
to be a reality in America, as well a• in Europe.
Eighteen month& ago, there was not a magnetizer in
New England ! and at the present day I am able, my- i
self alone, to quote forty ! Eighteen months ago, there I
was not a magnetic somnambulist in the country, and!
at the present momebt there are perhaps upwards of
two hundred. It was said lately, in the Provideo~
Journal, that upwards of one hundred cases had been
observed in Rhode Island alone.
In presence of such ~ mass of respectable teatimo-
nie~, of living witnesses, standing in the midst of us,
and to whom any one may refer, who can still enter-
tllin the opinion that Animal Magnetism. is a delusion 1
who can still doubt its reality! I regret I have to say
that there are a great many who will still remain un-
convinced; a great many even, who will not have taken
any notice of the evidence above afforded : these stub-
born and unreasonable skeptic11 say,-" We have not
ourselves seen any thing of Animal Magnetism ; show
us some striking and satisfactory effects oftbe magnetic
influence, and we shall give our assent to your doctrine;
until then, we can but disbelieve." It seems to me
that those persons speak so .because they do not re-
4
as ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ftect I Indeed, if I exhibited before them some of the
phenomena which they desire to witness, how would
they become sensible of their reality 1 Surely; through
a careful application' of their sent~es and judgment.
Now, is it not through the same means that the above
named gentlemen, and the nine signers of the report
of the Academy of Medicine of Paris, and all the
magnetizers of Europe, became convinced of the truth
of magnetism 1 Can the reader suppose that so many ·
respectable individuals were deprived of sight, hearing,
and touch 1 Can he suppose that their judgment was
perverted and annihilated at the moment they examin-
ed or themselves produced the somnambulic phenome-
na 1 Is it not, on the contrary, very likely and even
certain, that they took proper care not to be deceived
in a matter so abstruse and uncommon, the investiga-
tion of which, they were previously aware, required
watching senses, attention, and coolness of judgment 1
No\v let the reader reflect; let him speak like a moral
and conscientious being ! he cannot possibly reject all
the testimonies laid before him, unless be boldly asserts
that all the supporters of magnetism were, and still are,
fools, dupes or rogues; and that he alone has more
accurate senses, better judgment, more talent of obser-
vation and morality than all ofthem at once !
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION II.
Further considerations on the manner in rchich the writer
became interested in Animal Magnetism, and the course
pursued by him to establish it in New England.
SoME additional inferences in favor of Animal Mag-
netism, might be derived from tha manner, in which the
one who first undertook to introduce it into this coun-
~y - ------- · ed with the science, from the ten-
dencies of his mind and his occupatwns p evwus to
comi'J!encing that undert.aking; and lastly, from the
course pursued by him to establish the subject in New
England. Such is the motive, and I believe it is an
important one, that induces me to enter into the fol-
lowing particulars. I hope they will not be judged
out of place, in a book the object of which is to afford
all possible evidences of the truth of an order of
phenomena so generally denied.
owards the middle o~e.ar 1832, while p!ll.!!l}ing
~a studies- -
at-Paris, I became affected with a
very chomhp11cntelf nerhvous diseashe, thed pr
1
i
1
nciphal s~ahts \
of w ic were in t e stomac an a t e r1g t \..
'-
side of the system. Eight months were spent in fruit- .~
less trials of all possible medicinal means. I was in a \ ~ x
most desperate state of mind and body, when my dis-\ ·.
tinguished friend, Dr. Alfred Fillassier, suggested to ~
me the idea of consulting Dr. Chapelain's somnambu· ,, , .
list, Madame Villetard, who, said be, bad a 'superior
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
40 ANIH1L MAGNETISM.
·power to discern and treat diseases. Without, as yet,
much faith in the faculties of somnambulism, which, by
the way, I never bad an opportunity of observing, I
repaired to Dr. Chapelain'slodgings, and communicated -
to him my wish to be examined. Qf course, I took
care not to mention a word about my complaint, and
in justice to Mr. Chapelain, l must say that he was
delicate enough to avoid speaking of it, by immediately
introducing another subject of conversation. In the
mean time, a note having been sent for Madame V.,
she arrived, sat down, and was directly put into the
magnetic sleep by the Doctor. The lady had never seen
me before, and very probably did not know even my
name. How much surprised was I, when, after com-
munication had been established between us, I heard
her giving a correct and minute description of .the
symptoms of my disease, as though she had experi-
enced it herself, and, more than that, stating the seat
and nature of it, mentioning".accurntely the articles of
food and drink that agreed or not with my stomach.
- Ufilii_that circumstance, I had never paid any at-
tentio~ to Jtnimai- Mlrgrrertmr:-I-cRniiot-say-ihat I
wholiy dislieti:eved-it-,-for since I have been able to ob-
serve the wonderful phenomena of nature and the
astonishing progress of mankind in every possible
circle of activity, I have thought it unphilosophical to
reject any tb~ng apriori.,olitlle score that Jt- is im-
possible; and besides, I had in favor of magnetism the
authority of an intelligent and moral friend, whom I
knew could not be deceived and had no interest in
deceiYing others. My heart, therefore, was open to
conviction. Madame Villetard's examination was the
firat fact_~which-fbasea·myliellef.
Having reeeivea-·tne ·somnnnibutm's approbation, I
passed from France, to the ~rench West Indies. where
o,g,,., b,Google
~------ ~ -~----------~-----
_
_ _
_...
ANU.IAL MAG'NBTISM:. 41
a part of my family reside. I spent nearly fourteen
months in the islands of Martinique and Guadaloup ;
there, I found a great many rich and intelligent plant-
ers devoted, for their own satisfaction, to the practice
of Aqimal Magnetism. Among them I will quote the-
Marquis Aymard de Jabrun, a gentleman of the very
first rank and education; now a representative of
Guadaloup, near the government of the mother coun-
try: at Paris. I bad the opportunity .of witnessing
several cases of somnambulism, produced by my friends
on some of their colored servants: those cases were
altogether remarkable, and t_~~-lLI!l~lll_ore- .
than an~ thing else, to form the opinion that the hu-
man-&Oii'J.-;;:s
--gifteil- \vli.li- the--8ame -pi·linltive .and '
essential'fiiclilttes; iinde-reverjcTimate~___
aE!Q!ii'!:_very.
nation; arid'tinder-",-ha:tever'skin, 'black, red, or white, '-
it may be concealed. - ~ . . . .. -- . ,~·,
-·Al\erfourteen months of residence in those islands,
without much improvement in my health, (the somnam-
list had told me among other things, that my disease
was a difficult one to cure, and that it would take me
several years to recover from it,) I took an American
v.essel in the port of Pte. a Pitre, and sailed for the
United States, -with the view of trying the climate of
this country. I landed at. Portland, (Maine,) and
thence, went to Haverhill, Mass. where I have an
uncle, my own father's brother, who emigrated from
Franee at the time of the Revolution, in 1792, and
who has been ever since a citizen of Massachusetts.
I spent five months at the old gentleman's house, and ,,_
- then, deeme.d it best to separate entirely from him, in -.. /'
order t~ire a more prompt and thorough knowl.;:~~
edge of the--English llinguage. I repaired tobowell, C
~- employed my"time for six or seven months ~
in teaching my native tongue, and drawing. My ,. "<l ·._
4* \_~ \,,,.;
\.. _
.\
DigitiZed by GoogIe
· 42
scholars were among the very firat familiea o{ tiHJ
cities, who, I may say, without fear~ of contradiction,
univereally honored me with their esteem and f!'ieod-
sbip. •
· But tbe teaching of the French tongue and of draw-
ing were not my only occupations at Lowell. _
Qgntrary
tg__
my_ctJ;J>_!Cj§lion in comiqg over to this country, I
'~ I!J)Q.~gan_to feel a liLely_i~t_e~e'!.t!n ihe CTestlmes of tbe
.
1
4.merican people_
;_
Juning made...wy~l_r:: somewhat ac-
\ \ quainted _
W.i!b____thtir__hl~r,r.L ~b~g_i~~t~--~8 much
, care _
and impartiality as possi~l.!l_Jhe!r politicalrnmtu-
l ~ tiona, -lriamdmd·~endenCles, and so~i81 Chafftcter, I
began to experience both esteem and attachment for
~em, I than·ked God for having, once more, carried
me against my private wishes and sympathies, across
the ocean, to know tbe most perfect natio.n__on earth.
From that moment I resolved to assimilate myseif to
the American society. I conceived it my mission to
d!1_vote to their general improvement my smatt-sfnrre
of mor_!!I_an m ua powers. · tely set
myself to -w
-
orkji.D::tli-e hu>._m~st ir_np~z:tal_lt (I!I<! stirring
topics which, at the time of my arrival, and ever since,
occupied the mind of alt those \mo feel --tm i~r_est in
the dig11ity and welfare of man, viz. education·-
11nd
slavery. I fiTst wrote a small treatise, entitled, Com-
parative utility of the study of the ancient and modern
languagesfor promoting the spirit of Christianity and of
peaceful associatio7l among nations.• The next product
of my labors was a "Philosophical and Historical Essay
on Slavery, followed by the exposition of a new system of
*A pretty long extl;act of this Essay was inserted, at the request
of Mrs. Sarah Hale, in the Ladies' Magazine of April and May,
11!36. These articles were kindly and favorably noticed by several
other periodicals, among which I will name the Annals of Educa·
tion, edited by Dr. Al<:ott, and the Baltimore Atheneum.
-
·········liillliilliiL-.:;:'a;
"'z"::e'.o,Google
ANIMAL IIAGNIITJIII• 43
meastm.! for the ci11iliJ:tJiitm ofAfrica, and I'M abolitio1& .
of8/afJery in tAe United &atet." In this last work I do
not embrace, I, on the contrary, attack the principles
of the abolitioniste, although I always have had a pro-
found respect for their motives and personal character.
~ 'hilosophical views 'On elavery are the results of
long stuaf,aiidespecially of a practical acquaintance
of several years with the system itself. l'he measuree
which _! _pro!l()_S~~ alw!II!_~~~- ~nd 1 '-- , ,
ev~n to several distingUlShed planters ofmy acquamt• ,
,_ I ,_I
anee to whom I have communicated them, as ca..,u at- :" ·:
_e~ to avoid all social commotions and give equal satis(',-, \ ·
faci~th~~!~~teresteci. • -- · · ·· , ~ {-~
I beg the reader to pardon the above details, which, , ,- ·f.
I'am aware, appear foreign to our main subject. I ' ·. ·,; \
have thought proper to mention them, because I deem -
them important to inspire him with a little more confi-
dence in the nature and tendencies of my mind, there-
by to induce him to look with indulgence upon my
subsequent labors on Animal Magnetism, and form a
more favorable opinion ,of the subject itself.
From what precedes, it appears evident that I had
yet no idea of lecturing in this country.on Magnetism:
In fact, I was nearly six months in Lowell, without
uttering a word about it. Dr. Elisha Bartlett, the
mayor of the city, was the first one to whom I men·
tio11ed the subject in the way of conversation.: I found
that he bad read something about it in some of the
French works, but I was surprised to hear from him
and .others that the science was, so far, entirely un-
known in this country. I determined to translate
----- ·-----~ -- ··----
• An extract from this work is to appearin the next number of the
Theological and Literary Review, published in New York, and con-
duc:ted by the Rev. Mr. Leo Wood, Jr. profes..<or at the Theological
Institution of Bangor. ·
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
ANIIU.L IIA.GNzTIB~·
. .
Dr. Roslan'a memoir, IUld to publish it immediately,
a8 being one-of-·ttunnO&til~orthy
documents on the subject. The translation being
finished, I carried the manuscript to Boston, to have it
printed, if possible; but the matter being not yet
popular, and myself laboring under the capital incon-
venience of being a fpreigner, I could find no book-
seller willing to help me in its publication.. One of
them, however, observed that if I would give a few
lectures upon the science, and could succeed in creat-
ing an excitement about it, he would very probably
Publish my translation. I returned to Lowell much
disappointed; but without losing either courage or
time, I set to writing four lectures, at first in French ;
(as I did not yet master the English language well
enough to write it extemporaneously;) having trans-
lated those lectur started anew for Boston, and
delivered them at hauncey before a small, but
intelligent and respectable a ce.
According to my expectations, the public on hearing
thiitTeCtllres weregaven on,the deiUSIOn expJOde<fSome
llfty--three~a ago by "thl great :F'ranldm,'-
' .laughed,
and denied ever,Ylbliig, witho111enmirring. The edi-
tors of the press, who, by the way, bad not attended
my lectures, pronounced, as infallible oracles, that
Anin1al Magnetism was ''not destined to flourish in New
England." I knew the contrary; bein con\!.!JJ_
Ced
what j_h~-~ 1eno~a erive from human na-
t~en placed un_~er..!Lil.rtnin..clrcumsttinc·es·, I knew
that if ~-proper - co"urse was adopted, the ·same results
would follow in this country as those that nad been
obtained in Europe. Such a course, I was aware, was
not merely to lecture, but to resort to the only fair test
to decide upon a matter of facts, viz. to experiments.
My health being stilL very poor, I could not, and I
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
t - ( ' .
V~...-·-- ~- I
ANIMAL JI.&81'111TJIIJI,
declined to practise the operation myself, but proposed
to teach others bow ~o do it; eYen I announced in
HYeral papers of the city, that I would be happy to
d~hour or two__ev_
ery_day to instruct in the
"mod"s ope~Tii"ose pbysiciana and other enlight-
ened gentlemen who might feel a desire of investigat-
ing tbe matter. ~J waiL_!~l.~!!me1 a!!clha.J_e__been
slnce, accusrutb.l'.J!IJ.IDY_t<udm at no 9ther thing than
gaif!J~ I_~!Il quote the following extract from an article
inserted by me in the Daily Advocate, March 23d,
1836--also in the Morning Post, Daily Advertiser, &c.
"The attention of the public being now awakened
upon the subject of Animal Magnetism, I announce to
.those persons who feel an interest in it, and wish for
mor~ explicit information, that the;y may call upon me
at my lodgings, 176 Washington street, from four to five
in. the afternoon. They will tiod me ready to give
them as ample an instruction as they desire, witb_
o_
qt
~ compensation than the plet~.sur~_.9Cfuifilling
a duty,-Ulat-of sp1eadlng more widely a truth I have
~en to make known in this country, as being
equally interesting to science, and ·useful to health.
It is not enough·for me to have lectured seven or eight
times upon Animal 1\'lagnetism; I ought also to in-
struct how to prac\ise it for the good of society. It is
riot enough for some intelligent and· liberal-minded
persons to -have listened to my lectures, or read a few
pages on Animal Magnetism ; they ought also to em-
brace it earnestly, and exercise it as an efficient means
of helping their fellow-creatures, when sick. Physi-
cians are especially invited to call. Should th'ey over-
look the study of Animal Magnetism, and foolishly
disdain to practise it, it woulrl undoubtedly fall, to the
greatest regret of sensible and moral persons, into the
bands of quacks, and becomo, perhaps, instrumental
of dreadful abuses."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IIAGNBTIBIL
Several called at my lodgings and I taught them
gratuitously. Some persons who•eemed more friendly
towards me, blamed me for thus giving away my time
and instruction;· -th:' observed that every thing was
wmh_~-~~~P~:::~s; that ~ng~
duc.:!!.d__m_~gnetlsm m th!!!JW»ut.ti): ought t keep-tbe
s_crr_t:_t for me, or at least not to reveal it to any body
else, unless he would consent to pay a high price for
it. They observed, furthermore, that if I could not
draw any benefit from the secret, on account of my
ill health, I might hire a man to magnetize for me,
under the written oath that he should not teach any
one else without my authority, &c. ~~I
replied that _!!lagneti~ never been and should not
--------- - -- ------- - --------
be coos1ilered as a ~·secret practice;" that it was· a
brariCh- oCnatural;cience which ought to be known as
widely as possible for the·relief of those who are suf-
fering, aud for the advancement of the knowledge of
the human mind; that besides, I was not the discoverer
. "-·- ---- ·~' ~--·- ~·
of the art, and cons.equently had no claim to its exclu-
1
sive possession; that tinally; my-m~ly ambition was to
''import" it into America, for the sake of forwarding
an important nod useful truth. .- - -- - -·--
·--•~fy ObJecf#in'-teacJiing other people how to magne-
tize, was to 'enable them to satisfy themselves about the
truth of the science, nod to .furnish them with the
means of eliciting, by personal application, a great
number of facts that would have brought it, within n
short time, into public notice. The results followed
my expectations. Indeed, experiments were performed
with the greatest success by some of those I had in-
structed, not only in Boston, but also in Bangor,
Cambridge, and Providence, even five or six months
before I had made myself any attempt at magnetizing.
There had been eases. of somnambulism produced by '
o-•·orlevGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 47
members of the faculty and other .gentlemen, the de-
tails of which were stated by me at full length in the
Medical Journal, long before I published the results of
my first personal experiments. When first a case was
elicited in Boston, under the operation of Mons.
Bogard and Dr. Dewar, I invited several well-known
scientific men to witness the phenomena, and satisfy
themselves of their reality. I pursued the same course
in other places; and when I, at last, consented, at the
repented request of Dr. Niles Manchester, of Paw-
tucket, to operate upon one of his patients who was at
that time laboring under a serious affection of the
stomach, I called, from the very second time I magne-
tized the person, upon most of the physicians of the
place, and invited them, together with some other
gentlemen, to witness the results of my experiments.
'l'hey were successful, and those who were present
, expressed their satisfaction. §_i~nted
u b me in the presence of the officers of Brown
University, an o a crowd of other respec ·ndi-
!i_duals from pJ;;fdenee iilidii£m1ty; as If wlll 6c seen
in the following narratives. ~
At the suggestion of several persons of both sexes,
some of whom are eminent by their works"and rank in
society, I conceived the idea of inviting the somnambu-
list, whose surprising faculties had excited so great an
interest in Rhode Island, to go to Boston with me.
This measure,.I know, bas been the subject of many
critical remarks from a part of the public ; it has :
been often said that I had concerted a plan with the /
person to whom I have alluded ; that my only object I
was to train her up to feign the pretended phenol'I!ena \
of somnambulism, in order to draw as much money as !
I could from credulous persons ; speeches of a still(
worse kind have, probably, been in circulation. I must, ;
' ' \
• •
.i,tu :t:t.J/~... ~
•awze,o,Googlc
ANJJU.L IUGNBTIIK.
therefore, 1ive • frank explanation oftbe motives_
w}l!C?__h
induced me to accept the asaistance of ·Misa~~_g.
During the eight months that I had been-lecturing on
Animal Magnetism, the science had made but very
little progreaa towards its establishment. A few
isolated cases of somnambulism had been elicited, but
the public knew scarcely nothing about them ; those
who bad successfully magnetized were not willing to
disclose their names and publish the results of their
own observations. Tho$._e few_cas~s, therefore, excited
but little intere~!!Jl_a_-they did _no.Le_gum~t~ cromwell-
known and trustworthy sources. Gonsid-~iliig- ibat
state_
9f -tb.ings, J_de!_e~IDine.~ to'create, if po11si~~. a
general excitement upon tbe subject, as being the only
way of leading physicians aiid other persons to per-
[
form experiments. I knew that by resorting to experi·
ments on a wide scale, a great maii'y cases would soon
.- be obtained ; that Animal Magnetism would thus be-
come the object of public attention and interest; that
Ly it would march rapidly towards a state of durable and
\. { .useful existence ; that, finally, the charges of imposition
/ t -· · : and quackery which had been lavished upon me, would
be taken away, and perhaps make room for kind feel-
ings and esteem for my character.
But, how could I create the desired excitement t It
. was by showing to a great number of persons the curi-
ous and surprising phenomena that I hadlproduced, by
publishing in the newspapers, the results,of my experi-
ments! Such were the principal motives which in-
duced me to adopt the course that I have pursued in
Providence, Boston, and other places. l'tfy expecta-
tions have not been deceived ; the public know that
from the moment I begun to exhibit and publish the
pheno~ena elicited by me, a new start was given to
Animal Magnetism; the general attention was awaken-
ANIMAL MAGNETISMi 49
ed; a number of respectable persons rep~ated the
operations themselves, and in a sh~rt time the reality
of the facts was established in the minds of all those
who took proper care to inform themselves about
them.
Other motives induced me to accept the assistance
of a somnambulist to illustrate my lectures. I am
going to state them with frankness.
In undertaking publicly to pledge my word for the
truth of Animal Magnetism, I felt bound to persevere
in the enterprise until, at least, I had demonstrated the
reality of .what I had advanced. I must have, in con-
sequence, given up all other occupations to devote my-
self exclusively to establishmg the announced science.
But, every one, knows, that this new and difficult work
was not a lucrative one, by any means. Indeed, the
first course of lectures I delivered in Boston, took up-
wards of twenty dollars out of my purse. Soon after,
I published, at my own expense, (save the~ · -
vQ!Ice y stx y or seventy su scribers
able to obtam, eport o t e Committee of the
Royarxc-aae~Ci~ans; whiCh publica-
tiOn took again upwards of an hundred dollars out of my
small means. I ltept losing in nearly the same propor-
tion for four or five months, and had I not, very timely,
received some funds from my country, I should have
been compelled either to return home, or to engage in
some other employment. That I could not supp~rt
myself by lecturing on Magnetism, can be easily under-
stood, for the science was hardly known, and most of
those who had heard of it, deemed it so completely
absurd and incredible, that they would not take the
trouble of inquiring farther into it. Lecturing on such
n subject was, then, a certain source of pecuniary loss.
I will dare say, that out of ten thousand men ofeduca-
5
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
50 ANUIAL JolAGNBTIIIK.
tion, not one would have consented at that time to en·
gage in it, under so unfavorable circumstances. In-
deed, wherever I went, except in· Bangor, (Maine,) I
was obliged to lay out my own money to. pay my
expenses.
Eight months had already elApsed, without as yet a ·
better prospect of pecuniary compensation. The
funds I had received from my native country, were fast
drawing to an end. I was then in the city of Provi
dence, where my lectures had not proved any mote
•profitable than elsewhere. I began to reflect seriously
on my very precarious situation; a dark horizon pre-
sented itself to my anxious eyes; I saw myself, un-
known in a fore~n land, abandoned, reduced to the
utmost degree of poverty, with_out kind friends to help
me, and, what I considered as a most unfortunate cir-
cumstance, having in my bosom a proud heart, that had
never before experienced misfortune and contempt,
decided to suffer in silence, rather than to beg the'
assistance of strangers. All this preyed upon my
mind with such a force, that I resolved twenty times to
sail back immediately to the West Indies. There, my
parents own a large sugar p~tation, with man~
aDdtllere, I linew_
;:Lmight In the future, as I had in the
pa~fi~d;~fortable existence. But two insupera-
ble obstacles presented themselves to my returning
home. On tlie one hand, slavery, the basis of society
in the West Indies, and which has always been as re-
pugnant to my sympathies as adverse to my doctrines;
On the other hand, the fear of leaving behind me, in
this country, the reputation of a visionary man, and
perhaps of impostor, which would have inevitably
been attached to my character, had I Jeft America
without having proved the correctness of my public
assertions.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IU.GN:ITIIMo 51
I decided, therefore, to stay a little longer, and try
the destinies once more.. I became convinced that the
only way for me to get along conveniently, and, at the
same time, to obtain the means of accomplishing_ .the
mission I bad proposed to myself, was to render my
lectures profitable, at the risk of exciting the clamors
of the fools and hypocrites.
But how was it possible for me to obtain this result 1
It was by announcing to. the public that I would, like
all other lecturers on natural sciences, illustrate by ex-
periments the pri!lciples advanced. by me, viz. exhibit
before " those who would attend m lectures" the
-Wll~nomeriaofsomi1amliulis~~ By following t IS p an,
I t~~1 ~Cl.!Jl.iri~:auc~~Qciir·.numher.1!L~e and
hear, with the hope that they would witness the curious
effects which they had heard about. Such were the
other motives that led me to accept the assistance of a
somnambulist in my lecturing career. I must add that
the phenomena I had produced were so admirable,
they had excited so much interest and enthuHiasm in
me, that I did not feel willing to give them up, and
part forever with the somnambulist who had offered
them to my observation. I wished to examine them
longer, with the view of acquiring a more thorough
knowledge of the whole matter, by daily experiments
made in every possible way, and under all possible cir-
cumstances. I felt that my health, which had become
singularly fee]Jie through my exertions in Rhode Island,
would not permit me to magnetize new SQhjeets, and
that, at all events, it would be exceedingly difficult for
rrie to find another somnambulist equal to ~iss G., in
variety and extent of powers.
Now that I have candidly and barely exposed the
motives of my conduct since (left Providence, I pro-
ceed on my narrative.
,, ,, • ,,Coogle
ANIMAL MAONETISH.
At my arrival in Boston, in January last, I perform-
ed 8 series of experiments on my somnambulist, be-
fore twelve or fifteen of the most distinguished gentle-
m(ln of the city. Out of those experiments, a single
one made to test the power of vision, failed ; all the
others were successful. I do nol pretend that every
person present was convinced, but none could prove
that the performances were not fair, and among those
.who expressed their satisfaction, 1 will mention here,
Messrs. W. Jenks, Jr., G. S. Hillard, J. G. Whittier
~the Poet, and Dr. W. Lewis, four gentlemen of un-
doubted merit, and well known soundness of mind.
At the request of two professors of the Medical Faculty
and of Professor Treadwell of Cambridge college, I
made another series of experiments, especially to test
the power of mental communication. Out of eight
mental commands suggested to me by the gentlemen,
on small bits· of paper, and without a word spoken,
three were faithfully executed, lwo others were.obeyed
but not in a clear and distinct manner; three could
not be understood at all ; yet, even in these cases of
failure the somnambulist manifested, by her gesture
and words, that she 'was affected in some measure by
my mental action. Subsequently to these experiments,
I delivered a course oflectures at Chauncey Hall. All
those who attended had the privilege of witnessing,
fifteen or twenty at a time, an exhibition of the som-
nambulic phenomena at my private room. ,I maven-
tore to say that most of th<,>!l.e who saw my -perform-
nnce5,-were satisfied that Animal Ml!gne.ti.sm was not
all a delusion ; and if it were not for fear of being
tedious and too minute, I might quote here a great
number of highly respectable persons. But it is not
the design of God lhat a great truth, destined, from the
moment of its discovery, to grow and live forever wi!h
4
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL JU.GNETISM.
m
.__
ankind, should have a l~ht and easy foundation. lt
f}JUI!t be htl!!t on the W~kf npey~n!U.Od of
~osi~ it must develope itself through the con-
11~~! of popular prejudices and the scorns ofrialcute!
SuchiStheTesson taught to us by the past : let us--not
be surprised, therefore, at the manifestation of the
popular spirit at the present time.
I must say that I met in Boston more opposition
than any where else: my experiments were ofien mis-
re.presented, and a few accidental failures spoken ofas
evident proof of deception. The conductors of the
pr.es~t _W~!e repeatedly invited by·nw-at -my-·~s
and performances ( nori~ ofttrem-dtmm-ed it worth their
while to accede to my invitation, and yet, although,
they had seen and heard nothing, they did not hesitate
to criticize mydoings most bitterly, and to represent
the whole subject as a stupendous imposition. Even
some went so far as to boldly call me an impostor in the
..public prints. I had not been habituated, I must con-
fess, to see my intentions suspected, my acts so unfairly
falsified, my character ridiculed ! These are injuries
which, although I expected they would inevitably fol-
low from the very situation which I assumed before
the public, and from the extraordinary nature of the
doctrine advocated by me; these, I say, are injuries,
which it is not in the power of my organization to bear
without intense moral sufferings. 'fo be frank, my
past independent mode of living, the nature of my
previous occupations, and the esteem of honest people
which I bad invariably enjoyed wherever I bad been,
bad rendered me exceedingly sensitive about my
morality and reputation. I never could believe that
~aning and actions could be dou~ller­
ed in ~~ --as they llave been. Therefore,
the 8-ulpicious looks of my visiters, the close scrutio1
o•
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
54 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
to which I was often submitted, th_e_.amile,-~d injuri·
.QU.§ remarks frequently uttered in my prese~e
ung~niTein-aruy~Jdact of eome·· jgmmmt- -ana self-
conceit.e.d_
i!Jdividuals, &c...;.:;fttt!Jueh cir-cut~fl!t!_~e
)lard on_ .!JIY cbaracJ~r _ani;l _J~m-perament. I beciqne
anxious; my mind was in a constantstate of perplexity,
my nervous system grew exceedingly weak and ir~ita­
ble ! In short, the performa~ce of the magnetic ex-
perimellts-_;:-_!!l~~"Siiccess -oCwllih...depend~-c;n}lte1f-on
the state, both mental and -bodil-y-, -Of_t~~o parties
interested, became painful and difficull; fo_r__!Jle.--rwas
alarmed for the cause of truth, and fearful that occa-
sional failures, proceeding wholly from my disordered
condition -of mind, would be considered as proof of
imposition, by a prejudiced public, as yet unenlight-
ened on the laws which regulate- the manifestation of
the somnambulic phenomena, and on the causes which
may disturb the magnetic influence. I resojved, there-
fore, to follow another -course, .which should prove, at
least, my e·ntire ·honesty. It w_u_~ allow my som-
nambulist to be operated on by some other person,
of well-known intelligence and morality. By so doing,
if the same effects could be obtained by a third ope,
wholly disinterested in the matter, all suspicions of
collusion would vanish away, and the truth could be es-
tablished without further obstacle in the mind of all
candid and careful observers. Such has been the course
pursued by me in my lecturing tour through Massachu-
setts and New Hampshire, and I will venture to say,
that the results have been satisfactory to the science
and the public as well as to myself. I shall hereafter
· mention the names of fift!len gentlemenlVliO 'have sue-
c~;~uily- magnetized the s~mnnnlbullst who was under
my care, and upori whom I have usually performed. I
shall also exhibit the certificates of some of them, in
-~- ·-.
on ,e•r Coogle
, ..~'~"" ·~
AN'IMAL MAGNETISM
which it will be seen that the person has been fre-
quently operated on with the greatest success, even
when I was several miles away from her, and, there·
fore, could not know what was going on. Besides, I
determined, although my health was becoming more
feeble, to magnetize new subjects, some of whom
were entire strangers to me. I shall also tell, in the
following pages, the results of these experiments.
Here I mustfinish the account I had proposed to
give of the manner in whkl1 I became interested in
--AnimaLl\Iagnetism, and oftfie- CGUI'se---f--thougtlf it
proper to adoPttojpJroduce JLillto thiScowitry. - In
the foregoing narrative the reader must have noticed,
lst, That in coming over to America I had no other
idea than the recovering of my· health, and not the
least intention of ever leeturing on magnetism. 2dly,
That I undertook lecturing on it solely with the philo-
sophic view of calling the attention of an intelligent
-a fast pro ressin peo Ie u on a branch of science
highly imp~rta_!lt, in ~i.o-- · ~las
to physiology--t,utd- ~-end of which they should
not any longer remain _ignorant. 3dly, That my con-
duct and way of ireating the subject did not appear to
be that of a man whose object is gain. 4thly, That
I gratuitously taught to all those who wished to inves-
tigate Animal Magnetism, the \vay of practising it,
tiz. the ·best and only sure menus of satisfying them-
selves and' the· public about its reality or falsehood.
5thly, That when, nfter several other gentlemen, I
succeeded in putting, myself, a person into the som-
nambulic state, I proposed, in order to remove the
doubts of my classes, that the same person should be
magnetized by a third one, even in my absence, and at
l}.ny time of the day. 6thly, That, finally, this person
has really been operated upon by fifteen gentlemen,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
56 ANIMAL IUGNETISM.
belonging to different professions, living in different
places, having no acquaintance with each other, and
the certificates of whom are of the most positive
character.
Now, from all the facts and arguments above .pre-
sented, let the candid and intelligent reader decide
whether Animal Magnetism can be a deception prac-
tisedthrough a plan concerted between tw<? individuals,
ood whether the writer of these pages has ever ex-
hibited the character of a juggler and impostor!
C. POYEN.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
/
PART II.
EXPERIMENTS, CERTIFICATES, REPORTS, ETC., TO
SERVE FOR THE HISTORY OF ANIMAL MAG-
NETISM IN THE UNITED STATES.
SECTION I.
General Remarks.
A FACT which places the reality of AnimaJ Magnet-
ism beyond doubt in the mind of every sensible nnd
moral inan, is that, within eighteen months past, up- _
wards of one hundred casea of somnambulism have
been pfoduced in this part ofthe country; and although
most of those somnambulists were completely ignorant
of the various phenomena generally exhibited during
the -magnetic state, yet the effects and faculties pre-
sented by them, coincide entirely with what has been
observed in Europe and in the French West Indies.
I am aware that some vulgar-minded and ungenerous
skeptics affirm, that there can be no ~:~uch thing as
magnetic somnambulism, and that all the cases men-
tioned in New England were, or still are, feigned. On
what evidence do those unfeeling opposers base their
bold assertions 1 On the ground, I repeat, that the
alleged phenomena are inexplicable, impossible, con-
trary to the laws of nature, &c.; or on the strength of
a few sUperficial observations, which, in their utter
ignorance of the matter itself, and of the various c~tuses
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIIU.L KAGNZTUJI,
that may disturb the faculties of a somnambulist, have
''appeared-to them as evident proofs of deception.,,_
I should not trouble my mind again about refuting such
injurious and absurd suppositions, but as they have
been widely circulated by the press and in pamphlets
written in a popular style,• as a great many respectable
characte'rs have been seriously compromised in the
eyes ofthe blind multitude, I deem it my duty to offer
a few remarks more, highly calculated, it seems to me,
to neutralize the ill tendency, and show the perfect
nonse.nse of those accusations.
In his Essay on the Probabilities ofMagnetic SomntU!I-
bulism, Fournier says, on the very point which now
occupies us, •• In order to admit that the somnambulic
phenomena are the result __Qf imposiliinJs, the union
of two things are necess~r-l.i lat..Thllt somnambulists
have the intention of.deceiving; 2dly, Tnat they are
skilful enough to do it. But, in the first place; we
must confess that among those who have fallen into
somnambulism, there are many above all suspft:ion of
deception; tbey are respectable mothers, men of a
grave character.and well-known probity, simple people,
and ·children in whom we cannot reasonably suppose
the design of feigning such a state. Is it the party
spirit, and the desire of giving an appearance of reality
to magnetism, that induce them to practise deception t
· But most of those inaividuals care but little about the
success of magnetism, and many among them knew
·nothing of it at the time when they wer& put into the
magnetic sleep. In the next place, we should notice
that if the magnetic practices were supported by de-
ception only, no honest person would submit to them,
or have any thing to do with them. It would have
* See notice ofMr. DuriUlt's work, at the en<\ of Lhis volUJlle.
, .
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
been, then,.necessary to seek the assistance of deprav-
ed people, chosen in the lowest class, and admit them
in the possession of the.secret, at the 'ri1k of 1eeing it
revealed and published tht very next day.' This is not all;
it would have been necessary to find in those individ-
uals a prodigious skill to play the difficult personage,
and courage enough to resist the trials, sometimes
exceedingly painful, exercised upo,n them by the su~
picious public. If the things had 11een so managed,
somnambulism would not have lasted long; and, far
from establishing itself by time, the illusion and im-
posture would have soon become evident, from the
impossibility _
of procuring actors capable of sustaining - •
the fraud. The contrary has been the case ; soomam-
buli!!m gains partisans every day, and the success
which it obtains contradicts all ideas of imposition."
~ remarks were written in !_?!?~· ~ sl1ort p~riod
after the-.discovery _Q_f_~nambulism in France; time
has proved how correct and Judicious they are : we
may very appropriately apply them to the somnambu- .
lists of this country, and their correctness shall be
more and more felt here, as it has been in Europe.
Those who have been put into the magnetic sleep in
thi·s country, belong to both sexes, anu they are per--
sons of almost every age. The writer of these pages
had himself alone the opportunity of obsening twenty-
eight. ARlong them were five children, one of eight
years, another of nine, two of eleven years, and one of
' twelve. Two of these children have been frequently
magnetized by their own mother, and for no other
purpose than the benefit of their health; a third one
was, for the first time, somnambulized, and hns always
since bee~ magnetized by her 0 11 n brother. 'I'he two
_ others were operated upon by gentlemen of indisput-
able talents and probity; both of them were in good
60 A.NIMAL MAGNETISM.
health; and as the extraordinary character of the
phenomena obtained, began to attract much notice,
their parents caused the experiments to cease. !d!!l
we suppose tha~!LChildr.en, innocent nd artless as
tneyaiif;-were racdsin deception? .Among the
somnambulists I have known, one was and is
still now magnetized by her own brother : can we
suppose she is feigning 1 Another, at Taunton, is a
young physician of a most amiable and respectable
character; another, at Lowell, is an eminent lawyer:•
ca~ we suppose that both have practised deception 1
Out of all the persons put into somnambulism, not
• more than four or five ever had any pecuniary object
in view. Supposing that these few have deceived their
magnetizers and the people, what was the object of all
the others to do the same 1 Were they seeking noto-
riety? But are mankind·so depraved and mean as "to
sacrifice their honor, reputation, and future happiness
to the most extravagant desire of being famed as
somnambulists 1 We know, on the contrary, that most
of those who have been put into the magnetic state,
were, and still are, opposed to have their names pub·
lished, and a great many h~tve even ceased to submit
themselves to the operations from the moment they
became notorious. But, afte_!'_~!•
.Eow co.uld so ~ny
persons, most of ~_ho~~Ere plai_l!:.l!!lartt?~t _artless,
feeble, and diseased women, have succeeded in delUd-
ing S5)_long their · m-;giieiisers, who, !n t~-e-;:;lity
·of cases, are mperiqj: In every point to them 1 Ts not
such a supposition wholly inadmissible 1 Let us reflect,
besides~ that from the very nature of the experiments,
most of which are performed by the will alone, without
the aid of language or signs, deception becomes utterly
impossible; and if any was attempted, it could be
•This person has been magnetized once, only, ~nt very successfully.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIJUL KAGNBTJSK. 61
'much more easily detected than any other sort of im-
posture that can be pointed out. The numerous and
gross failures which sometimes take place, are, to my
mind, evident demonstration that there is no concerted
plan between the parties, and no attempt at imposition
from the part of the somnambulist.
Let the sober reader ponder the foregoing remarks,
and he will see how unfair, absurd, repugnant to reason
and all feeling of charity, are the accusations of im-
posture brought forward against the magnetic som-
nambulists! I now proceed to the exposition of the
facts which I have announced.•
* If the reader wishes for more cases of somnambulism, I would
refer him to the notes and numerous facts appended to Deleuze's
Practical Instruction, translated by my estimable friend, Thos. C.
Hartshorn, of Providence.
6
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION II.
Boston and Vicinity.
A PART of the materials comprised under tlais head
have already appeared in several newspapers ; being
collected together, they will present a mass of proofs
to which the hardiest skepticism must yield, unless,
indeed, it arises from a deranged brain, or a profound
and incurable injustice.•
" "There is," says'Dr. Georget, in his chapter on magnetic som-
nambulism,(Physiology of the Nervous System, voL1, p. 2i0,) "there
is a very essential precaution to be taken by those who wish to make
useful experiments; it is to avoid surrounding oneself with dishonest
andincredulous persons: l frequently had to complain about them and
my somnambulists have experienced great troubles from them, and
almost always serious accidents." Dr. Rostan, Peleuze, and insho11
every well-informed magnetizer, have recommended the same pre-
caution; they knew indeed, from repeated observation, that such
people are apt to suggest difficulties in the wayofthe experimenter,
and exercise a wrong and disturbing mental influence over the
somnambulist.
There are individuals ofsnch an extravagant self-conceit, that they
fancy that nothing is true but what they know and comprehend; of
such an asinine stubbornness, that they will oppose facts the best es·
· tablished in the mind of all others ; of such a shallowness of intellect
andjudgment, that tl1ey will condemn an abtruse and complex sci-
ence, which requires the studyofyears and the ronstnnt application of
the senses, merely because a few things they have witnessed in pasr-
ing, did not agree with their precon<:eivl'd notions; ofsuch a blind pre-
...
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MJ.GNETISM. 63
enomena o mbulism, which are to be
subsequently described, may be range m t e--roTiow-
in~ QI:der_:_
-:-'' Suspeilsfo e or less coinplet0f
---
the external sensibility ; intimate conne · the
magnetize_r-::a:nr~~ other one; influence=
Of the
will_i __
~~~
-
lllWJice•iog of •hm~h!.i_~1_aarvoyance, or the
faculty of ~eeing through various parts of the body, the
eyes remaining closed ; unusual development of sympa.;
thy, of memory, and of the power of imagination;
faculty of appreciating and keeping time; faculty
for seizing the symptoms of diseases and prescribing
proper remedies for them ; entire forgetting, after
awaking, of what has transpired during the state of
somnambulism."
For the sake of clearness and order, I shall present
the materials under the head of the respective places
in which they were obtained.
sumption, that they speak and act in regard to a matter they have
never inquired into, as though they were better qualified to investi-
gate and decide upon it, even than those who have devoted months
after months to its examination; of so little respect for their fellow-
beings, that they will consider them all as superficial observers, poor
dupes of miserable jugglers; of so little charity and reserve, that
they do not hesitate in pronouncing those who do not agree with their
prejudices, as fools or rogues, and throw ridicule upon the most re-
spectable searchers after truth. Such characters I consider as evident
manifestations of the "evil spirit;" they seem to have been framed
purposely to" try" good men, and put obstacles to the regular devel-
opment of truth on earth; they are but worthy ofcontempt, and ought
to be avoided as IQ.nch as possible. l.Vfen of that description I have
frequently met in my career, and I have learned, through hard expe-
rience, how to deal with them.
Extrac/,cdfrom tM Bo.<ton Medical a'/Ul Surgical Juurnal of
.&pril Gtk, 1836.
I was called, on the 20th of this month, to a lady,
Mn. R--·,Jiving at No. 54,Belknap Street, who wish-
ed to have magnetism tried upon her. ,Mrs. R-- is
a woman fifty-two years of age, of a lymphatic tem-
perament, nervous, with a strong predominance of the
ne"ous system. She told me she was aftlicted, four
or five years since, with the tic dolour,.eux in her back,
and a rheumatic complaint, which occupied all the in-
ferior part of the trunk; that is, the two hips, the lower
part of the vertebral column, and the adjacent muscles.
These affections were complicated with a chronic
complaint of the liver. · Several physicians had attend-
ed her, and drugs were not spared; but all was in vain.
Mrs. R-- suffered more and more, and for several
days previous to my visit, was confined to her cham-
ber. She had not slept a wink for two nights. When
I entered her room, I found her on a rocking-chair,
in the most excruciating pains. She had almost con-
tinual spasmodic fits, which ran from the inferior part
of the spinal marrow and the lower part of the abdo-
men up to the stomach, the diaphragm and the region
of the. heart, anel kept her iri the greatest state of dis-
tress. Mrs. L-, her friend, who was present, con-
firmed every thing said by her, ana added, that she,
Mrs, R--, had been unable to stir and go down for
three days.
After examination, I thought the case a proper one
for the application of magnetism. Being not able my-
self to magnetize, owing to a weakened and disordered
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 65
nervous system, I brought with me, to Mrs. R-'s
room,_a countryman of mine, M. Bu_g_ard, a teacher of
the French language in this city; who is enjoying full
health, and to whom I had communicated the knowl-
edge of the magnetical process. ·M. B. had already
practised upon me two or three times. I had felt his
action, and judged from that he would be a good mag-
netizer. I might say here, before goi.ng any further,
that Mrs. R--and her friends were utterly ignorant
of Animal Magnetism, even of the meaning of the
word, and I have constantly kept them since in the
. same ignorance about it.
Mrs. R-- has been magnetized six times, on the
20th, 22d, 24th, 26th, 27th, and 29th inst. As I intend
giving a lecture soon, upon Animal Magnetism, in
which I shall relate all the particulars in regard to
those various sittings, I will content myself with men-
tioning here, in general terms, the most important
phenomena. At the first course of operation, the
patient slept two hours, and felt sensibly relieved by it.
•-\t the second operation, she slept all the night, viz.
from ten o'clock in the evening, until seven or eight
the next day. She began to be so well, that she was
able to go down and attend to her housework. She
said that she felt especially relieved from her palpita-
tions of heart. (I was not yet aware of the exi~.<teoce
of that other complaint in her.) At the third sitting,
she shawed the first symptoms of somnambulism. She
could hear perfectly well, and answered by monosylla-
bles, in a low voice. In the fourth and fifth sittings,
she· manifested a very remarkable degree of somnam-
bulism. The chief phenomena we observed in these
two last courses of operation were the following :-
Jst.-Tbe patient could hear nobody else but the mag-
o.•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
66 ANIMAL MA.GN:&TliMo
netizer, to whom she anawered, even when he spoke to
her in a low voice. 2d.-The insensibility of the ex-
ternal senses. The somnambule remained insensible to
the severest trial exercised upon her; such as pinch·
ing her feet and hands, puncturing her skin with a pin,
blowing the smoke of tobacco into her nose, burning
bits of candle-paper under her nose, speaking loud to
her, clapping our hands before her ear, shaking her
arms and legs, and she did not stir a single time. 3d.-
The comple•e forgetfulness, when awaked, of what she
had said, and what was told or happened to be heard
during her sleep. She already felt so well, that she
spoke of setting out on a journey to Beverly, near
Salem, on particular business.
I now arrive at this morning's sitting (29th inst.) I
will particularly describe what took place in that sit-
ting, for it was intended to be a scientific examination
of the case, by some respectable medical gentlemen of
this city. This examination, I say by the way, we
had deferred until this moment-wishing to have the
patient thwoughly under the magnetical influence be-
fore shbwing her to any person whatever. Judging,
then, that it was time to have such an examination
made. we invited Drs. Winslow Lewis, G. B. Doane,
Samuel G. Howe, J. V. C. Smith, and H. Kimball, to
resort to the patient's house at about ten o'clock in the
forenoon. Of the five gentlemen above mentioned,
two could not come, being detained elsewhere by some
previous engagement. 'Ve found the patient already
prepared and waiting f01' us in her apartment. Being
asked how she felt, ~he answered, pretty nicely. Dr.
Lewis asked her several questions concerning her com·
plaints, and the treatment she had been following.
Both from her answers and her whole appearance, •t
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIHAL IUGNilTI&JI. 67
was evident that Mrs. R-- was a plain, sincere, and
candid woman, knowing nothing of magnetism, except
the good she had already received from it. We asked
her whether she had slept well last night; she answer-
ed she had slept but very little. Befor~ commencing
the operation, Dr. Lewis touched her p~lse-it was
ninety-six a minute. The operator commenced at
twenty-five minutes past ten; in the course of twenty
minutes she appeared very drowsy ; sighed several
times, coughed a little ; we noticed some slight motions
of the muscles of the face. Finally, she closed her eye-
lids, at ten minutes before eleven. The operation had
been disturbed two or three times by the coming in
and going out of several persons, and also by an almost
continual noise in the street, and on the stairs of the
house. At this moment Dr. Doane was introduced
into the apartment. Drs. Lewis and Kimball touched
her pulse, and found that the number of pulsations had
come down to seventy-six, twenty less than when the
operation commenced. Mons. Bugard asked her
several questions about her .present feel~ng, and the
state of her health-she answered in a low voice, but
very distinctly to the surrounding persons. Drs.
Lewis, Doane and J{imball asked her also several
questions, but received no answer. The patient being
not in relation with them, could not bear what they
said. M. Bugard asked her whether she liked the
smell of tobacco. She answered that she coulJ not
bear it ; that tobacco made her very sick. Then
Dr. Doane, at my invitation, said to her, in a loud
voice, ''Mrs. R--, M. Poyen is going to burn a
cigar under your nose ; '' but .the patient did not stir
-she had not heard. I lighted up a cigar, filled my
mouth with smoke, and blew it into her nose. I also
DogoiiZed by GoogIe
68 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
held the cigar, while smoking, before her face-she
felt nothing. I clapped my hands twice, and Dr.
Kimball moved with much noise a piece of fJJrniture
behind her head. We kept talking and moving about
her, but she remained quietly sleeping, nothing dis-
turbed her. But Dr. K'imball having clapped his
hands twice at her ear, she moved her head and com-
plained a little, as a person struc·k by a sudden and un-
expected noise. The magnetizer asked her what it
was. She answered, "a cracker." In the meanwhile
I put a bit of blazing paper under her nose; but we
.noticed that she breathed the smoke, and yet did not
stir. The magnetizer passed hit~ hands before her
face, with a strong intention to calm her and keep on
the state of somnambulism ; she exclaimed-" Oh!
what a light! " M. B. " A light 1" " Ye~, a light;
it dazzles me." M. B. "How does that light shine 1 '1
"Like the sun." M. B. "Do you see it still?"" Yes,
before my face." We .were ~H ~~d I
Pilrtic_
ularl,y_ ~as struck_with the coincidence of that
ph-;n~menon, manifested. in this coun~ry;-UHt-person
quite-ignorant or-Iriagnetlsfil, 'witb··,;b·at had been ob-
served in the somnamliiltes-Of ..E.ur~pe. - ·M:·:B. carried
his hand down to the abdomen. " i>o you see now
that light 1 " "No, it is gone.'' M. B. brought ngain
his hand before the face. 'l'he somnambule exclaimed,
" Here it is again." M. B. ''How do you like it 1"
"I don't like it ; it dazzles me." M. B. "Do you see
my hand 1" ''No." "Do y_
ou feel it?" "Yes, very
well." "How do you feel it 1" "Warm, very warm."
1\I. B. then takes his hand away, and the somnambule
says again, " .The light is gone." Dr. Lewis speaks to
her, but obtains no answer. The magnetizer takes
Dr. Lewis's hand and puts it into the somnambule's-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANJJIAL JIU.GNSTIIII.
with a dtsire that she may hear and answer him. Dr.
Lewis spoke again to her, and she soon answered him,
but rather low. Dr. Kimball placed a silver pencil
case upon her face, but she felt nothing. Then hold-
ing it at about three or four inches distant from her
eyes, M. B. asked her whether she sees something?
She answers, ''Yes." "What is it?" "A piece of
silver,"-and her eyes were perfectly closed. But
here is a phenomenon still more surprising. I suggest-
ed to the magnetizer the idea of co~vulsing a limb by
directing his fingers, at several inches distant, towards
that limb. The somnnmbule could not by any means
understand what I said, for I spoke to M. B. in French.
Agreeahly to my suggestion, M. B. stretched his two
fingers towards the right hand, at about two or three
inches distant, and immediately the limb \Vas seized
with convulsive motion~, sligi1t at -nl·st~ but-fn~~easing
wilh- -suutran-l.ntensity that the patient could norkeep
_
her arm in place. Drs. Lewis and Kimball tried the
same experiment, but unsuccessfully. I directed my
two fingers towards the same hand, and it was set to
convulsions. Dr. Doane tried after me, and appeared
to produce also some effect. A few minutes after, Dr.
Lewis, in order to prevent all deception, put a book
before the patient's eyes, and told me, by signs, to con-
vulse the hand. I directed my fingers, and the whole
arm was so much agita~ed that the patient complained,
and moved her whole body, with an expression of in-
tense suffering on her face. M. B. magnetized her,
and put her to a quiet repose. 'Vherever he carried
his hands, the pain was taken away, as by charm.
Such are the most interesting particulars of this
morning's sitting-all which, as I said, was witnessed
by Drs. Lewis,·Doane and Kimball, and Mrs. J•. the
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
70 ANJIIIAL IIIAGN&TJ811,
aomnambule's friend. 1'be patient was awaked at
about twelve o'clock. Being asked how long abe had
been sleeping, she answered that she had been resting
twelve or fifteen minutes at the longest. She had not
the least recollection of what she had said or suffered
during the operation. CHARLEs PoYEN.
Boston, March 29, 1836.
Frum tM Evening Gazette, Bo:Jtun, May 21st, 1836.
1'he following surprising e_tfeets of Animal Magnet-
ism were observed in the &ance of Sunday Eve, 17th
inst., in presence of Prof. J. Ware, Prof. Tread-
well, Drs. C. T. Jackson, 11. Dewar, Ch. Poyen, &e.
Dt·. H. Dewar was the magnetizer; the operation last-
ed from thirty-five to forty minutes. The patient was
sitting in her rocking-chair ; five minutes after she had
closed her eyes, the magnetizer ceased his action and
left ·her in a quiet repose for two or three minutes.
Then we began making experiments, to ascertain
wheth.er she actually was in the somnambulic sleep.
Dr. Dewnr, the magnetizer, (this should be noticed,
for somnambulists usually hear nobody else but the
magnetizer) spoke to her in a voice rather low, and
she answered correctly. Drs. Ware and Jackson ask-
ed her several questions concerning her health and
present state; she gave no answer. They spoke still
louder and nearer; she remained perfectly insensible.
They approached her, took her hands shook her, and
spoke again very loud close to her ear; she moved her
)ips and made with her tongue a noise expressing im-
patience nnd pain. As these gentlemen continued cry-
ing out in her ear, she moved her head, and seemed to
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANt:aU.L IIAGNBTIS.M, 71
feel the sensation of an unpleasant noise on her tym-·
p-an, without, however, having the perception of a dis-
tinct articulate sound. Then the magnetizer went
and placed himself at the opposite corner of the room,
nearly sixteen or eighteen feet distant, spoke to her in
a sort of whisper that we could hardly distinguish;
she answered him perfectly we)(; The bystanders
asked her the very same question, close by her ear,
very loud, and she heard nothing. The tongs an'd a
chair were cast violently and suddenly on the floor;
every one of us was startled by the noise ; the som-
nambulist alone stirred not. Several trials very severe,
such as pinching her hands and feet, pulling her hair,
were executed upon her, and she gave no sign of sensi-
bility. Dr. Jackson then took out of his pocket, a
bottle of liquid concentrated ammoniac; he previously
approached the cork of it to the nose of each of us ;
the eftluvia was so strong that it caused us to throw
back instantly our head. Every one of us confessed
that no human being could bear such a trial, without
injury to his organs; and yet the bottle was held
under the somnambulist's nose nearly two minutes and
she gave not the slightest sig11 of sensibility. Having
been asked whether she had felt any thing, she an-
swe.re.d in the negative. In order to ascertain how
fa~ the communication between the magnetizer und
the magnetized person extended, and what degree of
acuteness the somnambulist's organ of hearing might
have reached in that state, Dr. Jackson thrust both
his hands into her ears, as closely as he could, and Dr.
Dewar having placed himself at the opposite corner of
the room, spoke to her in a low voice ; she answered
as readily as before. We tried . the same experiment
upon ourselves, but could not hear any distinct sound,
although we were spoken to loudly. Furthermore, the
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IIAGNBTJSJI.
magnetizer went out of the room, (the door remaining
shut,) proposed several questions to the somnambulist,
which she answered readily, although a great confiiiion
of noises was__made in the apartment-for~pose
of preventi!l_g-~r
_ heariog;--Having been asked whether
she had heard any thing, sbe said she had heard Dr.
Dewar speaking to her and no other noise. But when-
ever a bystander was put in communication with the
somnambulist by holding her hand, she would immedi-
ately hear him and answer his questions; she ceased
hearing from the moment the communication was in-
terrupted. -
In reference to the' ease of somnambulism above
described, Dr. C. T. Jackson says, in a letter inserted
in the Boston Courier, February 18th, 1837, "I saw
Mrs. Russell's case, which was, I believe, detailed in
the Medical Journal, and experimented very severely,
to detect her, if she was acting a fraudulent trick.
Although we treated her in this manner, we were
unable to detect any imposition ; and when it is remem-
bered how powerful were our tests, I think any reason-
able man will hesitate ere he pronounces it a fraud on
her part. The gentlemen present, were two of our
most acute and scientific physicians, who could neither
explain nor gainsay the results.
F'rum tile Bosttnr. Medical and Surgiud Journal ofJuly 6th, 1836.
The experiments and operations herein mentioned,
were performed on a girl of the age of twelve years
and a ·half, and who bas been affected with epilepsy
ever since her sixth year. She is under the care of
Moos. Bugard, a French teacher in this city, and not a
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 73
professor of magnetism, who disinterestedly uses hi8
magnetic powers merely for the benefit of his fellow-
creatures, and in philosophic investigation. The pa-
tient bas been magnetized thirteen times, often in
presence ofDrs. Ware, Lewis and Glover, of Boston.
She certainly has been affected by the operations, and
apparently favorably. That she is under the influence
of magnetism, will be evident. from the following
statement.
On the 27th inst. Dr. Ware meeting Mons. Bugard,
inquired of him concerning the health o.f his patient,
Mons. B. replied that he thought her better-and from
what I can see, he continued, I think that magnetism
has great power over her, inasmuch as she seems to
have no sense of feeling during the operation ; to-
morrow we intend to extract a decayed molar tooth.
Do you not think that she will awake 1 asked the doc-
tor. I do not know ; !mt sinCe, in France, much more
severe sur ical operations have been performed on
persons under its tn u , . . . , I
think-we ma succeed in this case. I assure you she
Wl awake, said Dr. W. I do not_know, replied
Mons. B.-I have no doubt of it i. however, I should
like to see it.-I should be happy to have your attend-
_
ance.
On the next day the contemplated operation was
performed by the writer, iu presence of Drs. Ware and
Glover; not only without awakening her, but without
even the slightest indication of feeling on her part.
After she awoke, ten or fifteen minutes having elapsed,
she conversed with us several mi.Putes, without any
reference to ·what had taken place. These circum-
stances, so extraordinary, both from the age and sex
of tbe patient and the nature Qf the operation, led to
the invitation of several scientific gentlemen to witness
7
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETt!!M.
the operation of this day. We subjoin the history of
the 8eance of the 30th of June, at which Professor
Treadwell, ofH~rvard_ University, Drs. Ware, Lewis,
Harwood, and Lodge, A. D. Parker, Esq. and Messrs.
Ware and West, medical students, were present.
Pulse, before magnetizing, ranged from 84 to 90.
Mons. B. began at 19 minutes before 10. The patient
immediately complained of feeling sleepy. At the end
of three minutes, Dr. Harwood and Mr. Parker en-
tered the room; at four minutes, the tickling of the ,
lips, nostrils,. and ears_of the patient produced no
motion; the right eyelid was raised, the lower lip was
drawn dowo, without her. notice. Five minutes having
elapsed, Mons. B. addressed her. Louisa !-Sir.-
How do you feel1-Sleepy.-Do you want very much
to sleep 1-Yes.-How long have you slept !-1 don't
know.-Holding his hands before her face, Do you
feel my hands 1-No.-Louisa, let me see your tongue:
patient complied with the request, and put out her
tongue. Seven minutes-was requested by Mons. B.
.to open her mouth, which she did, and tooth was ex-
amined. Dr. Ware: Louisa ?-Sir.-How do you do?
Very welL-Do you henr any thing 1-No.-No noise
in the street ?-No. (A carriage was tl1en passing.)·
Prof. Treadwell: Louisa 1-Sir.-Where are you?-
In this room.-Whnt room 1-l\lons. Bul!nrd's. Nine
minutes. At this time the pulse were 100 per minute·
At ten minutes, Mons. B. asked how she felt, to which
she replied that she was sleepy; she complied with his
request that she should ·open her mouth. Dr.'Har-
wood then extracted one of the molar teeth, (it being
deciduous and decayed.) Dr. Ware_
__E.erc~ived no
ch~1_1_g~~tlse during the operiitroil, although there
was a flush over tnew'fiOiernce an~a~sTigntquiVering
of the Hp; witli'ii""eo1J~iiilicative of consider-
o,g,IIZ~d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 76
~.ble.-- pain. Mons. B. : Louisa, how do you feel?-1
feel the tooth.-Have they pulled a tooth for you-?-
Yes.-Who did it for you 7-Dr. Ware.•-Why do
you mention- Dr. Ware 7-I don't know. Fifteen min-
utes : pulse 96. How happened it that you did not
cry,.-asked Mons. B., when a back tooth was removed'l
-I never cry on such occasions. Spits out the blood
at the request of Mons. B. During all this time the
patient remained apparently sound asleep. Seventeen
minutes. How do you feel?-Sleepy. Nineteen min-
utes: Mons. B. having magnetized some water, gave
it to the patient, who drank it. How do you like it 1
Very much.-Very much 7-Yes.-How does it taste 1
Very good.-Better than common water 7-Yes.-I>.o
you find any particular taste in it 7-No, I find it very
good. Says she does not remember having drunk any
water during yesterday's seance, it having then been
given to her. Twenty-two minutes: motion of lips oo
irritation with a feather. Twenty-five minutes: the
magnetizing of the flexors or-the right arm, produced
a slight flexion of the thumb and fingers. Mr. Parker
clapped his hands very near her ear, when a slight
action of the eyebrows and a flush of the cheeks en-
sued. Mons. B. played on the flageolet; Dr. Ware
asked her if she heard any thing. Yes.-What?-
Music. Mons. B.: Do you like it ?-Yes. Dr. Ware
played. Mons. B.: Do you hear any thing?-Yes.-
Wbat 1-Music. Says she likes, but'that it will wake
her. Mons. B.: Are you weaker?~No, I think I am
getting well : I th!nk magnetism will cure me. Thirty-
three minutes: lips and nose tickled without motion.
Dr. Ware: Do you feel any thing 7-No.-Nothing 1
* Dr. Harwood entered the room after the.patient was asleep,
and had never been seen by or named to her.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
76 AHJIIAL JUOKRTII!IM.
-No. Thirty-five minutes : Mons. B. : Louisa !-Sir.
-Awake, I wish you to rise. She did ao immediately.
Did you dance 1-No.-Did you have muaic ?-Ye11.
Dr. Harwood: Did you feel any thing about your
mouth 1-Yea.-What ?-Tooth out; I know the tooth
is gone, by my tongue and the blood. Dr. Lewia :
Who extracted it 1-Don't know ; one of the doctors.-
You are positive you have been asleep ?-Yes.-How .
long do you suppose you have slept 1-Don't know.
Dr. Harwood: Did it burt you a little 1-_
Not at all.
Dr. Lewis: Then you did not kno\v any thing about
it !-No. Prof. Treadwell: Did it hurt you 1-No.-
Did you not know when he pulled it 1-No.-How do
you know it is gone 1-Because my mouth is bloody
only when my teeth are pulled.-How do you know
there is any blood 7-1 perceive it in my mouth.
If it be indeed true that Animal Magnetism has this
powerful effect, and that it enables the patient to un-
dergo surgical operations with so much ease, (in sup-
port of which hypothesis, vide Cloquet's operation for
cancer in the breast,) the subject must be worthy the
close attention of every physician, especially of every
kind-hearted surgeon; and particularly since the direct
exertions of the Faculty will be almost--fli·e-onTymode
of preserving us from the invasion of myriads of igno-
rant knayes and impudent quacks.
BENJ. H. WEST.
Boston, June 30, 1836.
Prom tM CkrUtian Register, edited"¥ Prof Will4rd, of Camlwilge.
ANIMAL MAoNETISM.-'I::.hts subject has excited con-
siderable attention among us, from a well-attested case
in this city, witnessed by gentlemen \Vhose testimony is
ANIMAL MAG,ETISII· 77
entitled to perfect reliance. Another case has come
within my knowledge, in Cambridge, attended with
circumstances similar to those which were detailed in
the one to which I have alluded, and which was copied
in many:of our papers. The case in Cambridge is that
of a female who has for several years been confined to
her bed, has for a long time been subject to great pain,
and frequent, distressing spasms, and has had no sleep
without the constant use of opiates.
She was al!ked by Dr. Webster, Professor of Chem-
istry, &c., whether she was willing to submit to the
experiment of what is called " Animal Magnetism."
She readily consented, and the Dr. went through the
manipulations several times, with sufficient intervals,
without producing any sensible effect. At length he
succeeded in composing her to sleep, such sleep as is
described to result from the process performed by the
magnetizer, when the magnetized becomes deaf to
every voice but his, and is disturbed by no otfier
sounds.
. On Thursday evening, at five o'clock, I accompanied
Dr. Webster and Dr. H. A. Dewar in their visit to
the patient already mentioned. My presence was un-
ex·pected. I accidently met Dr. W. on the way. She
was perfectly awake. I had_ not seen her for several
yean ; but if she did not know me when I entered the
room, she readily recognized me when my name was
mentioned.
Dr. W. succeeded, as hehad done several times be-
fore, in putting her to sleep. He then asked her
several questions, whether she felt any pain, &c.,
which she readily answered, not merely yes or no, but
with some circumstances. To the same and to other
questions, put by Dr. De\var and myself, ehe was mute.
Dr. W. also went !O the most remote part of the room,
,.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
i
'78 ANIMAL IU.6NBTISM.
and into the entry, eloaing the door, and in whispere
and low tones of voiee, of which Dr. Dewar and my-
self could not hear a syllable, be put to her questions
to which abe replied. In two instances she asked.
"What is that 1"-but when the questions were repeated
more distinctly, but still inaudibly to the other persons
in the room, she replied cor-
rectly. Her sleep being
disturbed by slight spasms, Dr. Dewar became the
magnetizer-after which she readily recognized his
-
voice, and replied·to his questions, as well as to those
of Dr. W.;. but not so to mine. She was asked who
came into the room with Dr. W. and Mr. D. She said
Mr. Willard. Being asked by Dr. W. why she did
not answer Mr. Willard's questions, she made no re-
ply. When asked whether she did not hear Mr. W's
question~, she said she heard some sound. When the
physicians bade her good night, she responded, but
not so to me, though I was first, and last, and loudest
to utter these parting words. Such, substantially, are
the facts, and here I leave the case. It is one which I
never should have dreamed of in my philosophy.
EDITOR.
From the Boston Cuurier of Feb. lOth, 1837.
I offer the following statement, merely as a speci-
men of some of the experiments which I usually per-
form, and that have already been seen by upwards of
one hundred individuals of this city.
These experiments took place on Saturday evening,
4th inst. I put Miss Gleason to the magnetic sleep
towards a quarter past seven o'clock. The operation
did not last more than a minute and a half. At hall
past seven, aome company which .I expected, arrived,
dbvGoogle
AKIJIIAL MA6NETI8M. 79
and found the lady on her rocking-chair, motionle11,
with her eyes closed·, and exactly as a person delivered
up to the natural sleep. Among the gentlemen present,
were Dr. C. 'f. Jackson, Dr. H. Dewar, Messrs. Clark,
H. K. Horton, Andrew Morse, Jr., well known by his
ingenious and useful inventions in mechanic!!, Wilson
Dana, a lawyer in Charlestown.
Various attempts were made to awake Miss Gleason,
but without success. Dr. Jackson examined the state
o{ her eyes, and it was found that the lids were firmly
closed, and resisted very much against the efforts which
were made to open them. Being thus partially open-
ed, the eye-baJls were seen turned upward, and convuls-
ed ; the white of the eye, only, could be seen.
Two gentlemen, in succession, shook her, spoke to
her in a loud voice, and took her hand, but could not
obtain a word from her. Then I approachell and spoke
to her, in a tone much lower, and she answered imme-
diately the question I proposed to her.
Some time having elapsed in general conversation, a •
gentleman came to me, and asked me whether I could
make the somnambulist talk with another person, and
cause her to cease speaking by my will. I answered,
that I thought I could.
Two handkerchiefs, folded up several times, were
tied over Mise Gleason's eyes and face, down to the
opening of the nostrils. It was agreed that a gentle-
man should stand behind the somnambulist's chair, in
order to give the signal whf(n to act. One of the gen-
tlemen took the position, holding a pencil-case in hjs
hand. The signals agreed upon were, that when the
pencil was held horizontally. I would cause Miss Glea-
son to speak; when it was held vertically, I would cause
her to stop speaking. '
Dr. Jackson1
sat by Miss Gleason's right side, and I
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
80 ANIMAL lJAGNETJliM.
stood about one foot and a half distant from her left
side, stooping, with both my hands leaning oil my
knee!! ; my mouth was about on the level with the top
of Miss Gleason's head.
Dr. Jackson bflgan to talk, but obtained no answer.
The pencil wag. placed on the horizontal line. Dr.
Jackson put some other question-then Mis; Gleason
turned her head towards him, and answered his ques-
tions readily. The pencil was laced vertically, imme-
diately the somnam 1s ceased speakm . he pen-
cil w~ally, and she resumed the
com·e~Rtion. These experi;6nts were mad"e four or
five times in succession, and always successfully. They
were pronounced satisfactory by all the gentlemen.
The bandages were removed; then I said aloud to the
sompambulist, •• Why have you spoken with Dr. Jack-
son, at times!" She answered-" Because you told
me to." " Why did you cease to talk with him 1 " ''Be-
cause you told me to." Now, it is a fact, that I did not
move my lips once. None of those who were around,
watching my motions, could discover any thing of the
kind; neither did I toucil the somnambulist; conse-
quently, she was influenced by my will only.
A gentleman having inquired of me- whether Miss
Gleason could distinguish my whispers at a distance,
I answered, that I had not yet discovered any re!Dark-
able acuteness of hearing in her; that, however, I
should be willing to make a trial of the kind, to satisfy
the company. Dr. Jackson having written several
short sentences on bits of paper, handed me one, and
told me to place myself behind the somnambulist, at
seven or eight feet distant. I took the position, and
whispered, very low, this command-" Lift up your
right hand," which was written on the paper. Tho
whisper was so very low that no one could hear what
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 81
I said. :Miss Gleason immediately moved her bands
towards her stomach, and shook her head negatively.
It was evident that she had heard my voice, but she
did not execute the required motion, an__d the ex~eri­
menLwas not considered satisfactory.
Ano~nded to me, with these
words-" Will her to open her lids." I stood behind
her, with both my hands thrust into my coat pockets.
Dr. Dewar stood also near by me, in order to make it
more evident that there was no collusion. I then di·
rected my attention upon Miss Gleason's eye-lids, with-
out moving, without speaking, and taking care not to
breathe too heavily. At first she moved her right hand;
soon after she raised her lids, and kept them so, wide
open, and perfectly motionless. A gentleman took a
lamp, and brought it suddenly, and several times in
succession, near the eyes; no apparent motion of the
muscles was produced ; yet the pupil contracted a lit·
tle, but a great deal Jess than it does in the natural
state. Another passed rapidly his fingers near the face
and the eyes of the somnambulist, but without causing
any impression on her. Then I stood behind, and, at
a signal given to me by Mr. Clark, I caused the lids to
shut again, simply by my will.
Sgme moments after this, Miss Gleason called me,
and begged for some water. A tumbler was brought in ;
Dr. Jackson took it, and presented it to the somnambu-
list, even pressed it against her lips, but she took no
notice of it. The tumbler was handed to me; I pre-
sented it to Miss Gleason, at some distance from her
face, without speaking a word ; then she stretched out
her band, grasped it, and drank part of the water. Dr.
Dewar presented his hand to receive the tumbler ; the
somnambulist took no notice of him ; he then took hold
of the glass, and made considerable efforts to pull it,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
by force, from Miss Gleason's hand, but she resisted so
strongly, that the gentleman was obliged to leave it off,
for fear that she would break it, and hurt her fingers.
Then I presented my hand, and willed her to give me
the tumbler ; she first put it to her lips, drank again
two or three swallows, and gave it back to me.
'l'hese experiments, as well as the prec~_<ljng, were
decla-red sa_t_i~factory.-- A.n~ther-bit-of papil"~ was handed
to me, wi-
th theSe words written on it,-" Ask her, in a
low whisper, how long since she has been in Boston."
I stood at about ten feet distant, and put the question to
her. She answered ''I don't know." This experi-
ment was not found clear enough. Then I advanced
one step forward, and asked her, "When do you intend
returning to Pawtucket 1 " which was written on anoth-
er piece of paper. The whisper was still lower than
the preceding ; it was hardly possible to distinguish any
sound. Miss Gleason said, "Speak louder." I repeated
the question in the same tone of voice. She shook her
head, and said, "I don't understand you." Thus she
heard the sound of my whisper, but could not distinguish
what I said.
A few moments having elapsed, I requested her to
move from the rocking-chair, and sit on another chair,
placed at about 12 feet distance. She got up, walked
with a firm step, her eyes being perfectly closed, and
sat on the chair which I presented to her.
Then Dr. Dewar told me, in a very low voice, that
he was going t9 tickle her with a feather, and that I
.should cause her alternately to feel, and cease feeling,
"by my will."
A bandage was set over her eyes. Mr. Clark stood
behind her, with a pencil-case in his hand, in ord~r to
give th_
e signal agreed upon. The first signal given,
was, "not to f11el." The feather was carried along her
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 83
lips und nostrils; no efFect was produced. The pencil-
case, then, was placed in the vertical position, which
indicated that I should cause the somnambulist to feel.
Immediately she began to move her lips, raised her
hnnds, and brushed the feather off'. The contrary sig-
nal was given again, and she became as insensible us
before. T_!Ji_
s expf;)!~-~~actory.
At my suggestion, a gentleman said that he should
like to submit himself to the examination of the som-
nambulist, for the state of his health. In consequence,
he seated himself by her, she took hold of his arm, and
touched the pulse. After expressing herself about the
state of the ·pulse, she added, "I don't think that this
gentleman is very sick; I don't see any thing much out
of order in him." "Look at me internally." "I was
doing so." "How is my stomach T" "Pretty good;
nothing ails it." "What is the size of my stomach-
large ?" Then she indicated with her hand the size
and shape of the orgnn. "How does it look 1 what is
its color 1" " Red." " Is it very red 1" " Not very ;
ab~ut like a blush-rose." "Look at the intestine, next·
to the stomach." "It is well." "How does it look
internally-is it smooth or rough~" "It is rather rough;
I see wrinkles, and a great many small edges, as in a
grater.'' (This description of the intestine duodenum,
coming from a person so entirely ignorant of anatomy,
is certainly striking. Is it possible to use a more happy
comparison, than that·borrowed of a grater, to exprePs
the appearance of the nymerous asperities, or villosi-
ties, that exist on the internal coat· of the intestine?)
"How are my lungs 1" "They are sound; yet I see
in them two or three small pipes, filled up with afrBtky,
white; yellowish matter, that ought to make you cough
sometimes." •• It is so in almost every body." "Oh,
·not in every body who is well." ''How is my heart 't"
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
" Large." " How much doe's it wei.gh 1" " I should
think one pound." "Look at my liver; how is it 1"
"Your liver is dark-colored; it is darker than it ought
to be; but I don't see any thing out of order in it, except
three orfour white spots, like water blisters.'' " Are you
sure of that 1" "Certain; I see it." "I believe you
are mistaken.'' ''No, you may depend on my word;
as there is a God in heaven, those white spots are on
your liver." "On which part of· the organ 1" "On
the lower edge ; you must look out for that." "Why ! "
"Because they will keep spreading all around, if you
don't take care." (Those white spots, mentioned by
the somnambulist, are similar to those occasioned by
the existence of Kystes hydatides in the liver. This
singular complaint has been the object of the researches
of several authors, as Rudolphi, Laennec, and particu-
larly of Professor Cruveilheir, in his' Essai rfAnatomic
Pathologique.') The gentleman made some inquiries
more, about his blood, &c.; but the somnambulist de-
clared that she was very much fatigued. Then the
gentleman got up, and said that he had been affected
with a disease of the liver, some time past, but was ge~­
ting rid ofit.
This examination being finished, I announced that I
was going to awake 1\liss Gleason. I approached her,
and laying my hand on her forehead, I said, "You will
awake in six minutes exactly." "I feel very much fa-
tigued," said she; ''but I will try to awake, as you
want me to.'' Then I o.bserved to the company, that I
had noticed, on several occasions, that Miss Gleason
could not ''keep so good time; when her mind was
fatigued, as when it felt easy and clear." Then I re-
tired the length of about eight feet, and taking Dr.
Jackson apart, I asked him, in his ear, to let me know
which arm he wished that I should strike with palsy.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
''The left," said he. 'fhen, while a gentleman was
holding a sheet of paper before the somnambulist's face,
in order to prevent her seeing, (supposing that she
shouldfeign, which cannot be reasonably admitted, after
so m11ny trials,) I passed my hand two or three times
over her left arm, from the shoulder down to the hand,
and at the distance of several inches. First, a sudden
conyu)sive motion of the head, neck, and chest, was
manifested,-exactly like the effect produced by a shock
of electricity. Soon after the left arm was seized with
the same convulsion, nod fell on the somoa1nbulist's
knees, insensible and motionless.
According to what I had announced, Miss Gleason
awolte in a wrong time, viz. about two minutes after
the prescribed time. She preserved no recollection
of any kind of what had transpired. Dr. Jackson ap-
proached, and, in order to ascertain whether the left
arm was really palsied, he passed his fingers, suddenly,
. and without speaking a word about it, towards the el-
bow, and pressed upon the Cubital nerve, in its passage
along 'the head of the Cubitus bone. Every body knows
how exceedingly sensitive this part is. Yet Miss Glea-
son gave no sign of sensibility. She was also pinched
on her hand several times, and felt no sensation. The
arm was lifted l1p and Jet drop suddenly; it fell down
like a piece of wood. Several ladies and gentlemen
were around Miss Gleason, in eonversation wilh her.
Without mentioning it, I passed slowly behind her,
made a sign to Drs. Jackson and Dewar, and in about
one minute restored the arm, simply by pointi;;g· my
fingers toward the shoulder,·wtthout""toliebing it. ·· This
last experime-
nt wanmmrideredwiJtnbe·most su·rpris-
•ing of all. - -----~--- ... __
I have presented the statement with all the simplici-
ty and honesty of which I am capable. If the reader
8 . .
86 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
entertains the least doubt about it, I will beg to refer
him to the gentlemen whom I have mentioned. I am
authorized to name Dr. C. T. Jackson, ·Henry A. Dew-
ar, Messrs. Andrew Morse, Jr., --Bascom, G. W.
Wilson, H. K. Horton. They arc ready to certify that
the experiments, which I have mentioned as satisfact~
ry, were really so ; and that it was not possible for them
to detect the least col.lusion.
CHARLEs PoYEN.
In reference to the above statement, the editor ofthe
Courier says, in his paper of February 16, 1837, "Dr.
Dewar, one of the medical gentlemen therein named,
has favored us with an interview, and confirms the
statement made by Mr. Poyen~ Want of time is his
apology for not writing; but he authorized us, to say,
that Mr. Poyen might have presented a statement much
stronger in his own favor. Dr. Dewar was acquainted
with Mr. Poyen in Paris, and, altogether, has known
him about six years. He believes him to be a perfect-
ly honest man, and one who would not countenance an
imposition on the public-much less would he partici-
pate in such nn imposition. He has himself operated
on several patients, and similar effects have always
been produced. Several other physicians of the city,
he states, have performed the operation, and similar
phenomena have almost invariably followed. We will
not undertake to relate the entire conversation, nor
to detail the surprising and incredible actions of per-
sons during the magnetic sle.ep, which Dr. Dewar re-
lated, and \vhich he unquestionably believes to be pro-
duced by the magnetic influence-though the why and
the wherefore he does not attempt to explain, nor pro-
fess to have discovered."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM, 87
We extract the following paragraph, concerning the
same statement, from a letter written by Doct. C. T.
Jackson, to the editor of the Courier, and inserted in
the same number of that Journal.
"The statements mnde by Mr. Poyen, in your paper
of the lOth, are, in the main, correct, so far as the ex•
perimental trials were made ; and we could not detect
any way in which he could communicate with the pa-
tient, in the case of the signals with the pencil-case
since I double-banded her eyes, and not a word was
spoken. When she opened her eyes, by another sig-
nal, they hnu a glassy appearance, which I hardly
think could be counterfeited. Her pulse was eighty in
a minute, while, had she been under the influence of
opium, it would, probably, have been slower. Her sud-
den recovery, and natural appearance when awake, is
also against the idea_ of the sleep having been produced
by opium. The apparent paralytic state of the arm
was too well done to have been counterfeited, unless,
indeed, she is a most accomplished actress. We may,
ho-wever, suppose almost anything, although we can
prove nothing but the apparent facts. I regret that
want of time prevents my entering critically into the
examination of this case. You can, however, obtain
more light from my medical brethren in Boston.
CHARLES T. JACKSON."
T~1e following short communication, extracted from
the Boston Recorder of Feb. 17th, 1837, is from the
pen of Mr. _
J. W. Jenks, ~r., th~)ntelligent and talent-
ed son of the Rev. Dr. W. Jen\s, of Boston.
''It was left, though the facts have been before the
world hundreds of years, for Dr. Poyen to prove to this
community, that a state of mimic death, and of som.
nambulism, could, under certain circqmstances, be pro.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
·-
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
duced on one person by another. Whoever has seen his
experiments must acknowledge thi! phenomenon ; and
neither jealousy, self-conceit, or indifference can rob
Dr. P. of the honor of baring demonstrated this in the
face of ridicule, from some to whoRl the community is
ready to look for opinions. .
"Many have s~en a state of insensibility to external
objects produced by the magnetiz!)r, in the magnetizee,
in circumstances where the common notions included
under those mysterious phrases, • nervous influence,'
or •imagination,' will not explain the phenomena. This
is new to our current metaphysics. ·
"We have seen all communication cut off to the
mngnetizee, with any other persons than himself, or
'Such as he chooses to place in the charmed circle.
What materialist, or spiritualist has explained this in
our schools! We must thank Dr. P. for revealing it
to us.
"Further, and more strange to our experience, while
the eyes of the magnetizee contiime closely shut, (the
experiments have been tried too with bandaged eyes,)
and while no gesture or sound is used, and at the dis-
tance of several paces, I saw the magnetizer ask the
magnetizce a question, (suggested on the spot, and se-
cretly, by a bystander,) and heard the magnetizee an-
swer audibly and correctly. Men of the highest char-
acter in our city were present, and can attest this; nny•
declared it to be unaccountable. Since I saw this, I
understand such experiments have been repeated, with
even more signal success; Mr. D. Greene, of Provi-
dence, states in the Boston Courier, that he produces
the same unexampled results.
''I leave to medical men the medical tact, aud its use,
which they have seen displayed by the magnetizee, and
only during this strange state. But, in view of the facts
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 89
above, and they are said to be but elementary in mag-
netic somnambulism, how disgusting is the tone some
journals assume towards Dr. P., and how vulgar their
abuse ! Since I have known him, he has sustained a
high intellectual and moral character ; and the object
of these few remarks is to induce those of like charac-
ter to unite with him in classifying these phenomena,
fixing their relations to the great body of science, and
following out and popularizing their medical and psy-
chological uses.
'' In answer to some objections in a religious paper of
Portlaud, it is sufficient now to say, that it is on record .
that the eminent French physician, Georget, was con-
~erted from Materialism to C)l,istianity, by the facts in
Animal Magnetism developed under his practice. And
when we thus see the power of mind over matter, as it
were tangibly demonstrated, will it not tend to confirm
our faith in the spirituality and immortality of our na-
ture, and encourage us to ren-ewed efforts to live up to
its trans~endent powers 1" J. W. J.
Cambridgeport, October 28th, 1837.
Dua. S1a-Agreeably to your request, I very cheer-
fully present you a brief statement of the phenomena
that have fallen under my own observation from experi-
ments made in AnimalMagnetism. However mysterious
the cause may be, the phenomena. are certainly wonhy
of candid attention ; and whilst it becomes physicians
to investigate the subject with on almost scrupulous
severity, they ought, also, to proclaim fearlessly the re-
sults of their investigations; ·nt least so far as those
results may, in any way, be connected with their pro-
feseion.
o,Google
ANIMAL llAGI.'CETJ...
A few months since, I read the Report of the Acade--
my of Medicine on the subject, and soon after made a
few experiments, in order to satisfy myself, more fully,
whether sueb phenomena would naturally result from
the agency described in that work. With the first sub-
ject of these experimentsl met with partial success, and
the second was put into the magnetic sleep with little
effort. Yet, in this ease, though the sleep seemed to be
sound, and the patient nearly or quite insensible to im·
pression& made by others, whenever I conversed much
with her, she would awake. I have tried it(influenee
upon 15 or 20 persons. Of these some were males and
some females, some children, and some adults. Children
I have found more easily magnetized than adults. A
little boy was put into a sound sleep in a very short time,
at the first sitting. A volume might be written describ-
ing the various phenomena exhibited by all. With
some I have succeeded only partially, with others en-
tirely, whilst upon others I could produce little or no
effect. Three have become somnambulists, and others
doubtless would readily become so, were the experi-
ments with them to be continued. To one of these,
Mrs. M. of this place, my attention has been more es-
peciaUy directed, because of the favorable influence
magnetism has seemed to produce upon her health. She
exhibits the various phenomena common to somnam·
bulists.
lst. She usually seems perfectly insensible to exter-
nal impressions unless they proceed from myself.
2d. If I reach my hand towards her from behind,
she almost invariably perceives it, and seems to feel it
at the distance of several feet.
3d. She. seems to know my wish or "will." If I wiU
her to notice others, she notices them, and answers
their questions without the slightest motion of mine, or
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETII!llll. 91
intimation to her in any other way than through the
influence of the mind.
4th. She seems to know my feelings, and frequently
tells me of them.
5th. She has told correctly what articles were placed
over her head, when she was blinded, though they were
brought from behind her with great care, and I did not
know what they were till she told : I purposely avoided
seeing them, that I might not inform her mentally. She
bas told the time correctly, when there was no clock
in the room, nor watch, but one In my pocket, and said
she could see the face of the clock in the room below.
She has told correctly what I was tloing in another part
of the house, with two_close partitions between, though
engaged in a very uncommon employment, and which
when awake, she could have had no means of ascer·
tainiog.
6th. If I tell her to wake at a certain time, and go
to sleep again afl:er so many minutes, she does so;
though, when awake, she has no lmowledge of the ap-
pointment to sleep again, and sometimes finds herself
overcome by sleep while standing up, and engaged in
some employment.
7th. Though subject to impressions made by the will.
she does not necessarily obey those impressions, but
bas the same power to refuse to fulfi1 the request, as
when awake. Ideas may be communicated to her _
through tbe will, but obedience cannot be enforced.
8th.· I can paralyze her arm and hand, so that she is
unable to make the least motion whatever with it, but
her hand is firmly clenched ; and on restoring it to the
natural state, she complains of a prickling sensation as
of a limb "waking from sleep." I can produce this
effect without putting her into the.magnetic sleep.
This lady has in my opinion, as well as her own, and
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
- 4NIMAL MAGNETISM.
that of her husband, been greatly benefited by the use
of magnetism as a remedy. Formerly she was unable
to obtain scarcelyany ~tuiet rest; now her rest is calm and
undisturbed. She was the subject of most excruciating
pains ; now her attacks are few, and easily relieved. I
have two or three times relieved her of violent pain in
the head, and a general febrile excitement, produced by
a cold, by magnetizing. Also a tight cough, with pleu-
ritic pains in the chest, bas yielded to its influence. Her
strength is increased, and her general health is im-
proved. I have made use of magnetism in other cases
with advantage; several times I entirely relieved the
pain of a bad sprain, for 24 or 48 hours.
Finally, from the most careful observations I have
been able to make, during the last six or eight months,
I have no doubt that Animal Magnetism is a remedial
agent of great value in the treatment of a lage class of
distressing and obstinate diseases. You are at perfect
liberty to make such use of this statement of facts as
as you may think proper. My opinion is not formed
from a partial investigation of a few of the phenomena,
but from a patient examination of facts which have
come under my own immediate observation, and which
cannot be otherwise than true. How far ignorance
may prevail over fQcts, or whether credulity may even
be gulled by apparent phenomena, the result of fraud,
but not of magnetism, it is not my province here to in-
quire. "Magna est V£ritas et prevalabit, is-with me a
sufficient .
argument for giving publicity to these state-
ments.
Very respectfully, Yours, &c.
SAMUEL A. TooTHAKER, M.D.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
AJIIMAJ, MAGNETIIM. 93
Roston, Oct. ~1, 1837.
MoNs. Cu. PoYEN,-
Dear Sir-Agreeably to your wish, I will briefly .
state to the public, throuKh the volume you are now
preparing for the press, the results which 1 ha~e been
able to obtain in my practice of Animal Magnetism.
Thil subject is so wonderful in itself, so different from
all received notions, that it will probabry require the
labors of many years to establish-its truth on a wide
and useful hllsis! but as it is, in my mind, a matter of
importance to society, I believe it the duty of all those
who have already satisfied themselves of its reality,
fearlessly to come forth, and tell to the world what
they have observed. In thus perseveringly uniting their
exertions, with the view of removing prejudices, and
enlightening the public mind about Animal Magnetism, .
they will, doubtless, succeed in raising it to the same
rank in this country as it now occupies in several parts
of Europe, among useful practices, and other inter-
esting subjects of philosophical inquiries. I now come
to the facts. 1 began to feel an interest in Animal
Magnetis,m several months ago, on account of some
unexpected effects which I happ_ened, by mere chance,
to produce on a person who was then afflicted with se-
vere rheumatic pains, in her left shoulder and knees.
These pains were so excruciating that the person could
neither,walk nor sleep without the assistance of opiates.
1 proposed to rub her diseased parts with my hands,
to which she readily consented. Although 1 passed my
band very slightly on the parts, yet, in a short time, I
succeeded in producing a remarkable relief, and the
patient slept better on the night following! It is true
that I had no idea of magnetizing her, but yet I per-
" , uyGoogk
94 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
formed the operation with the ''requisites," prescribed .
by magnetizers, viz. a sincere desire, and a strong in-
tention of alleviating the pain. From that moment my
attention was turned to what is called Animal Magnet-
ism! I operated again, several times in succession,
on the same person, and produced still more effects.
She went into a profound magnetic sleep, and obtained
so great a relief from the usual pains that she could
walk aud rest comfortably. These first trials induced
me to repeat them on other individuals. I have mag-
netized eight or nine different ones, of both sexes, -and
succeeded in producing well-marked effects on six.
Out of these, two are gentlemen, one of whom was put
into a complete magnetic sleep, from which no trial
whatever could arouse him! But, when I stood at 10
or 12 feet from him, and pronounced his name in a
rather low voice, with the intention of awaking him, he
opened his eyes and rose from _
his chair. The other
gentfeman was so far affected that, although he wall
not asleep, yet he was compelled to shut his eyes, and
could not open them with the best of his effort ; his
countenance, also, altered ·so much while under the
influence, that those who were present said he was not
·thesame man. Having made a few passes before his
face, to dispel the influence, he opened his eyes and re-
covered, almost instantly, his natural look!
The other four persons that I have succeeded in throw·
ing into the magnetic state, are ladies. One of them was
affected with the most painful tic doloureuz in her face,
and was almost deprived of sleep in consequence of
the pain. Although she was entirely faithless, in re-
gard to Animal Magnetism, I succeeded in putting her
to a profound sleep, and so great was the magnetic ac·
tion, on her nervous system, that the pain, which was
violent when I commenced, was removed almostimmedi-
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ately, and did not return for some ti~e. Another of
my patients was subject, for several months, to a very
troublesome spasmodic cough, which prevented both
herself and those who -were in the adjoining rooms
from sleeping. From the very first attempts, I succeed-
ed in composing her to a complete magnetic slumber,
from which it was impossible, by any noise or shaking,
tickling, pricl{ing, &c., to awake her. She was carried
to her chamber, undressed, anc.l laid on the bed, still
fast in the magnetic sleep. She had a perfect night't1
rest, without .coughing once.• I have magnetized
another lady, several times, and with an increasing suc-
cess at ear.h operation. I acquired such a power over
her, that I have been able, a number of times, to put
her asleep at the distance of several feet, merely by
· looking at her.
I regret, sir, that my numerous professional engnge-
mt.nts do not permit me to give you mo1·e details con-
cerning these cases. I feel that a few more explicit
·and mitJute particulars would make this statement
much more interesting; but still, I have said enough to
prove to any sensible person tha\ Animal Magnetism is
not all a deception, and not a matter to be trifled with.
In addition to \vhat precedes, I will state, that the
external feeling has always been, more or less, com-
pletely annihilated, in my magnetic patients, while un-
der the influence ! I do not believe that they could
have been aroused by any means whatever. They also ap-
peared insensible to the voice of other people, besides
myself; but from the moment I spoke to them, even in
a low voice, they either tried to respond, or answered
di~tinctly, my question! Still further, one of them
showed, by her gesture and anxiety, that she was aware
• It is worthy of notic:e, that when the lady waslfust magnetized,
she was entirely ignorant of the subject, and did not know what I
was doing to her.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
96 ANIJU.L MAGNETISM.
even of my presence by her bed-side, while she did not
notice other people.
It is very easy to deny the reality of Animal Magnet-
ism on the ground that the magnetized person might
have feigned the whole, or have deceived their magnet-
izer ! Yet, I will affirm, in the rnost positive manner,
that if the magnetic phenomena have ever been the
result of deception, it has not been.in the case of any
of my patients. They are persons of a well-known,
irreproachable character. They generally stand in the
first rank ofsociety, and are wholly incapable, by their
education, and previous habits of mind, of attempting
. any thing like deception or feigning, of any kind. The
idea that such persons have willingly and repeatedly
submitted themselves to ·these experiments, and pre-
tended to be relieved or cured ofthe excruciating pains
with which they were affected, merely for the purpose
of playiflg a trick upon their magnetizer and friends,
is so perfectly absurd, that I need not to make a serious
refutation of it.
You are at liberty, my dear sir, to dispose of this
Jetter for the best interests of Animal Magnetism, and
yourself. Very respectfully yours,
FRANCIS DANA, M. D.
No. 34, Tremont Row.
Certificate of the Officers of the Boston Hanover
Lyceum.
"Considering the excitement which Animal Magnet-
ism has, of late, c.reated through the country, and the
state of doubt which generally exists in regard both to
the subject itself, and the character of Dr. CHARLES
PoYEN, the subscribers think !t due to the cause of jue-
ANIJIIAL MAGNETISM. 97
tice, to declare that they have attended a course of lec-
tures delivered by him before the Hanover Lyeeum, (in
Boston,) and that they have derived much gratification
and instruction from the able manner in which this sub-
ject was then treated by him. They believe, so far as
it is possible to judge of a man from his ideas and lan-
guage, that Dr. Poyen is a gentleman of education and
learning ; that the love of truth, and the desire of im-
proving the human species, which he has manifested in
his lectures, are much in his favor.
The subscribers, therefore, think that it would be but
just and rational to abstain from pronouncing any judg-
ment.on so new and intricate a subject as that of Ani-
mal Magnetism, and forming an unfavorable opinion
towards the lecturer, until after making a fair and un-
prejudiced inquiry into the matter, by attending a com-
prehensive course of lectures on it and some of the ex-
periments intef!ded to demonstrate the reality of the
alleged phenomena. .
NATHAN GuRNEY, . }
EBEN'R. SMITH, jr.
EzRA PALMER, jr. M.D.
TH. HoLLis,
NATHAN CARUTH, .
9
Officers of
the Hanovef'
Lyceum.
SECTION III.
Providence and Vicinity.
AMONG the numerous cases of somnambulism,. which
have occurred in Providence and Pawtucket, we are
able to present the few fqllowing, the particulars of
which were communicated to us by highly respecta~le
gentlemen. The three first statements had been al-
ready published by me in the Boston Courier, from
which I now extract them.
February 1st, 1837.
The subscriber having attended Dr. Ch. Poyen's lec-
tures on Animal Magnetism, in this city, resolved to
make a trial himself, to produce, if it were possible,
the pretended phenomena. In' consequence, he mag-
netized several individuals, of both sexes; and he
certifies that he has succeeded in obtaining a well-
established case of_the singular physiological state,
called magnetic somnambulism. The person who ex-
hibited these phenomena, is a young gentleman ·of
about twenty years of age, a fellow-boarder of the sub-
scriber. He is not sick, and even never was so, in a
serious manner, althoUfh slender, and of a constitution
naturally feeble. This gentleman, it is perhaps super-
fluous to state, has no personal 'interest in Animal
Magnetism ; he submitted himself to the operation on-
ly to satisfy his own curiosity, and comply with our de-
ANIMAL .MAGNETISM.
aires. The length of time necessary to put.Mt". W.
into the magnetic sleep, decreased from twenty down
to five minuets. This sleep was characterized by the
following symptoms, or phenomena :-let. The com-
plete closing of the eyelids, in such a manner that it
was necessary to use force.to effect their opening, with
the fingers ; being thus partially opened, the eye-balls
were seen turned upwards; and convulsed; it was pos-
sible to see the white of the eye only. 2d. The com-
-plete suspension of the external senses. Mr. W. was
insensible to any impression whatever, exercised on
his aenses of hearing, smell and feeling, as is -gene-
rally the case in somnambulists. 3d. Mr. W. could
bear and answer nobody but ~e. 4th. His will ap-
peared to be subjected, to a certain extent, to mine ;
for instance, I could, without speaking n word, cause
him to open his lids without waking from the magnetic
sleep, and shut them again, merely by willing it, and
looking nt him on purpose. I could, also, cause him
to move his arm forward, and shake hnnds with me,'
speak with another person, and cease the conversation.
One evening, in presence of Dr. Poyen, I willed him
to give me his hand. Immediately he moved his arm
forward. I asked him why be did so ? He answered-
" If I understood you right, you wanted me to give you
my hand." 5th. During his sleep, Mr. W. seemed to
be conscious of certain things that were transpiring
around him, although his eyes were perfectly closed;
for instance, he could name, without mistaking, a num-
ber of times in succession, the individuals who were
coming in or going out. ,
I usually awoke Mr. W. simply by waving my arms,
at some distance from his face. He felt, after awaking,
at the three first operations, a considerable degree of
uneasiness, and dulness ; but, having magnetized him
,, ,, • ,,Coogle
.....
180 ANIMAL KAGNETIBJI.
ac~ording to certain directions received from Dr. PO'"
yen, there was no longer any bad feeling after awak-
ing. Mr. W. preserved no recollection of.what had
transpired during the state of somnambulism. This
case has been .witnessed by a large number of persons,
who all appeared convinced of the reality of the phe-
nomena.
W. T. EsTEN, ,
Surgeon Dentist, Westminster St.
The following statement was communicated to me
by Dr. G. Capron, of Providence, and inserted in the
Boston Courier of February 25, 1837. Dr. Capron is
much esteemed in Providence for his professional abil-
ties and moral qualities. The earnestness with which
he bas undertaken the investigation of Animal Magnet-
tism, and the independence of mind with which he now
'comes forward and states the result he has obtained,
are worthy of being imitated, and deserve the highest
praise. ·
"The subscriber, having been induced, by attending
Mr. Poyen's lectures, and the very great degree of ex-
citement that has existed upon the subject, to make a
series of experiments in Animal Magn.etism, considers
it a duty, in order to promote the investigation of so
mysterious and important a subject, to state that,
among the cases he has magnetized, he has produced
one ' undoubted case of somnambulism.'
"The,young lady who was the subject of this very
curious affection, has, for a nnmber of years, been a
patient of the subscriber, and, at the time of the ex-
periments, was a resident in his family. An intimate
acquaintance with her for several years, enables him to
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 101
say, without fear of contradiction, 'that she is a'young
lady whose modesty and invariable regard to truth
would render her wholly incapable of any attempts to
deceive, even supposing she could have any interest in
so doing-which cannot be the fact, as she is very re-
luctant to have her name known before the public asa
somnambulist. The disease of this patient has been
so completely anomalous, that any attempt to state
what it has been would be fruitless, except by a te..:
dious and particular description of symptoms. It is
sufficient for the present purpose to say, that when
these experiments were commenced, she was subject to
frequent attacks of 11 very singular nervous affection,
which deprived her not only of her reason, but almost
of consciousness, for a number of hours. When in this
state-, her appearance resembled, more than any thing
else, those of a person laboring under compression of
the brain, from dropsy ofthat organ. This distressing
affection will frequently return periodically, several
days in succession, commencing in the early part of
the evening, and lasting until about ·eleven o'clock,
when it passes off, and she appears like a person
awaking from sleep. Sometimes, however, her head
appears to he entirely free from complaint, and her
left side is a:fiected with the most severe spasmodic
pains; and, at other times, instead of these affections,
she is affected wjth incessant cough, which, as well as
the pain in the side, observes, with the greatest precis-
ion, the same periods as the disorder of the head. For
these, and those, and numberless other complaints she
has had, within the last four years, a great number of
remedies have been prescribed, but with little benefit,
except that she has always received temporally from
bleeding. The first time I magnetized her, it was done
.from mere curiosity, when she was entirely deprived of
9• .
102 ANIMAL MAGNETJI!Illf.
her reason, and, apparently, of consciousness. of what
was passing. I made but few passes, confining my
hands principaJiy upon the forehead, and avoiding-such
motions as might disturb her, in case she had any de-
gree of consciousness remaining. The effects were al-
most in11tantaneous., so much so indeed as to astonish
me very much; some phenomena being produced which
I was, by no means, expecting to witness. She imme-
diately became extremely uneasy, appearing to suffer
great pain, especially where-
ver I put my hands. Not
only did she appear tq feel pain \vhen-my hand was in
actual contact with hers, but when ·i.rwas only iu ap-
proximation to any part of her body or limbs she had
frequent painful spasmodic actions of the muscles of
the part. If, for instance, I put my hand upon her
head, she would throw it from me with violence, and
as I passed it down before her eyes, she would start
back, as though a ball of fire had passed near them.
Her hands and feet were invariably withdrawn, and
generally with a spasmodic action, when I held my
hands near them-when, too, it was done in such a
manner that it was impossible for her to see, or in any
way know, except through the agency of feeling.
" But, what most astonished me, was the effect pro--
duced by my putting my hand to the pit of the stomach
-this gave her great distress. Her breathing became
hurried and laborious, and she frequently would groan
aloud. As soon, however, as my hand was removed
these symptoms would disappear, arul her breathing
would again become calm as before. No material
change was produced in ber complaints at this -time.
The following night the cough came on, unattended by
pain, or any affection of the head, and I determined to
magnetize her more effectually; to put her to sleep, if
possible, and ascertain what influence it might have .
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL M1GNETISM. 103
·upon her malady. . As soon as I commenced the ordi-
nary manipulations, she began to be distressed in the
same manner as she had been the evening preceding.
Her distress and uneasiness increased for about eight or
ten minutes, when her congh began to subside, and her
breathing to grow less laborious; in two or three min-
utes more the cough ceased entirely, she became per-
fectly calm ; and, in fifteen or eighteen minutes from
the commencement, she was asleep. I was, at this
time, obliged to leave her before she was sound asleep,
and she awoke soon after spontaneously. Hnd the ma-
nipulations been continued, the sleep, uo doubt, would
have been much more profound. From this sleep, how-
ever, she awoke unusually cheerful,' and we had hopes
that some good would result. The cough did not return
.again that night. After she had been awake about an
- hour, I again put her to sleep, in presence of half a
dozen ladies of her acquaintance. It required only a
fe\v minutes to produce what appeared to be the most
profound sleep. While in this state, a number of som-
nambulic phenomena were elicited. It was impossible
for any person, except myself, to attract her attention
in tho least. But, to the lowest word from me, she
would-respond with as much readiness as though she
had been awake. Many attempts were made by those
present, in various ways, to awake her, but without
making the least impression upon her. I asked her
several questio_
ns respecting ·her feelings, all of which
she answered, either by signs, or in a low voice. It
at first appeared to be difficult for her to speak, but
afterwards she spoke distinctly. A considerable vari-
ety of experiments were made to ascertain whether she
really - was conscious of the presence of my hands,
when held over and in near approximation to any part
of. her body or limbs, as was the case the preceding
104 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
evening. In order that these experiments should be
entirely satisfactory, she was blindfolded, in such a
manner that it was impossible for her to see, and the
experiments were made with so much caution, that
there \Vas no possible means of her knowing where my
hand was, except through the medium of feeling. It
was also ascertained, beyond a doubt, that she was
conscious of my presence or absence from the room.
To prove this, she being still blindfolded, I would pass
out of the room with great caution, and, after being ab-
sent some time, would return without my boots, 80 still
that it was impossible for any person to hear me. As
soon ns I arrived at the bedside, and fixed my eyes
upon her, with a wish that she would open her eyes,
she would show signs of recognition, and, on removing
the handkerchief, her eyes would be found fixed upon
me. She was asked, if she knew when I was in the
room, or out of it. She said she did. I then asked
her if she saw or heard me; to which she answered,
that she did not. , Upon pursuing the inquiry further,
she said she was sensible of my presence or absence
by her feelings, After fully satisfying myself, and all
present, that she really was in a state of somnambu-
lism, and she appearing somewhat fatigued, I awoke
her, fearing her situation to be rather distressing than
refreshing. Immediately after awaking, she was con-
siderablydistressed, and had rather an uncomfortable
night. The following evening, she was again magnet-
ized, in the presence of several physicians. The
cough, this evening, which had been incessant an hour,
and would, almost certainly, have continued four -or
five hours longer, was entirely relieved in less than
two minutes, and, in about teo minutes, she was sound
asleep. She had been promised that there should not
be many experiments made this evening, which I felt
__;:J"f .... t .;I,
Digitized by Goog"'e
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 106
myself bound to observe ; but, notwithstanding only a
few trials were made to test her somoambulic powers,
I presume there was no one present who doubtec, in the
least, that decided effects were produced, or that she
was in a state of somnambulism, however differently
the phenomena might be accounted for.
"Since the evening above alluded to, she has several
times been magnetized, and once was put to sleep in
fifteen minutes, by looking at her from the distance of
ten feet. As this magnetic state has always been attend-
ed by some degree of distress, and is followed with
much fatigue, experiments ha_ye not been multiplied ;
neither has she been kept in that state any conside,able
length of time. On one occasion, however, after put-
ting her to sleep, I told her to visit her family in the
country, which she did, and when she awoke it appear-
ed to her like a reality. She described the particular
situation of three out of fopr of the members of the
family. It is worthy of remark, that it afterwards
proved that the one which she did_ not seem to see, was
absent fmm home, though she had no knowledge ofthis
fact. Whether she was correct with respect to the
other members of the famiiy or not, has not been as-
certained. The writer, himself, puts no confidence in
this vision, believing it to be a mere dream, excited by
the impression made upon the mind by command ofthe
magnetizer, in the same manner that dreams are pro-
duced in ordinary sleep, by whatever affects the senses
sufficiently to make an impres!lion upon the brain. She
drank water this evening, which she was told was cor-
dial, and, after she awoke, she thought she had drank
cordial, though she had no recollection of being told
what it was, neither did she remember being told to
visit her friends. After she was sound asleep, she was
told to sleep until nine o'clock. I was under the ne-
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
108 ANIIIU.L IIIAGNETlSJI,
cessity of leaving her about an hour-during my ab-
sence, many attempts were made to awake her, by dif-
ferent persons, but without attracting the least notice
from her. On my return, a few minutes before -nine,
she being still asleep, I was importuned to arouse her,
and make some experiments, to which I reluctantly
consented. The instant I addressed her, her eyes flew
open, as though springs were attached to them, and she
partially awoke. Her reluctance to remain longer in
that state, she being very much fatigued, prevented me
from again closing her eyes; notwithstanding my cu-
. riosity to witness the result of the experiment. As,
however, she well knew the time at which she was to
awake-at the same time, that she did not know the
manner in which she knew it, not remembering "
that
she had been told to awake at that time-perhaps I
shall not be considered over credulous in believing that
she would have observed the time precisely.
"Respecting the effects produced upon this young
lady's case, it is but candid to remark, that, although
the success of the-second experiments was very great,
and led us to hope that much benefit would result from
it, and although her cough has always been temporally
relieved, and, perhaps, I mayadd, some other symp-
toms mitigated, she did not, upon the whole, derive any
decided advantage from Magnetism.
"By a reference to the above case, it will be observ-
ed, firstly, that her sense of feeling, as well perhaps as
her other senees, with reference to the magnetizer, was
very much exalted, so much so, indeed,- as to be sensi-
ble of the presence of his hand at the distance of sev-
eral inches, and of his person at the distance of some
feet. Secondly, that she was unconscious of the pres-
ence of any other person than his-or sotind, than his
voice ; of course, her senses of feeling, seeing, and
~ -· -
- ..-~,.----
ANUIAL MAGNETISM• 107
hearing, with reference to others, must have been, in a
great degree, paralyzed. Thirdly, it will be observed,
that she remembered nothing that transpired while in
a state of somnambulism, but what he wished her to
remember. Aud, fourthly, that her taste was obedient
to his command.
"Although the above case is by no means as remark-
able as some that have already been published, an<~ is
not pretended to be sufficient to establish the existence
of a peculiar agent, called Animal Magnetism, it is
hoped, that when added to those already before the
public, it will help to excite and keep up a spirit of in-
quiry, and that the existence of such a principle will
not be.held a delusion, until it bas undergone a full and
impartial investigation.
GEORGE CAPRON, l\1. D.''
Since writing this account of his first case of som-
nambulism, Dr. Capron has continued the practice of
Animal Magnetism, with success ! Every one has heard
and read about the wonderful po-
wers of Miss Bnckett,
a blind girl, who has been for some time under Dr. C.'s '
care. 'Ve refer the reader to the notes placed at the
end of the second part of Deleuze's ''Practical In-
struction,'' translated by Mr. Thos. C. Hartshorn: ther.e
he will find a long and interesting comq10nication from
Dr. Capron's pen.
PatDtucket, January 28th, 1837.
This is to certify, that, having been induced, after a
conversation with Mr. Charles Poyen, on the subject of
Animal Magnetism, to make a trial for myself, I mag•
netized Miss Mary J.., of this·village, according to the
mental and manual proceedings taught by Dr. Poyen in
108 ANIMAL MAGNE'l'l8M.
his lectures, and succeeded in producing the magnetic
sleep at the third operation, and an evident state of
somnambulism at the fourth. Miss Mary J.. has
been an invalid for several years; her complaint is of a
nervous character, which it would be, perhaps, su-
pertluous to describe here, in all its symptoms. I must
state, however, that Miss Mary J.. was much troubled
with want of sleep, and was affected with such a weak-
ness of the muscles, that it was impossible for her to
move from one place to another, without the assistance
of two or three of her friends. The length of time ne-
cessary to produce the magnetic sleep, diminished,
in' this case, from thirty, to four minutes. Even I have
repeatedly determined this sleep within a few moment11,
simply by looking at the patient steadily, a!ld moving
my hand slowly from upward, downward, at the dis-
tance of several feet from her. The suspension of the
external senses did not appear to be so complete in this
case as in many others. Miss Mary J .. could at times
hear other persons besides me, but was never able to
answer them from her own impulse. Her sense of
feeling appeared to be completely annihilated, only
after ten or twelve operations; her eye lids, from the
moment they were shut after the magnetic influence,
remained in a constant state of spasmodic agitation;
.which, however, I caused to cease, in a great measure,
by passing my hands over them with the view of pr.o-
ducing a calm. I have not noticed that the eye-balls
were apparently turned:upwards, and convulsed, as in
most cases; yet, though the magnetic sleep'did not seem
to be as profound in this case ns in others, the patient
was intluenced by my will, an~ felt my wishes in a sur-
.prising manner ;-as it is exemplified in the following
phenomena. In order that Miss Mary could not know
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETiSM. 109
my meaning, otherwise than through the magnetic in-
fluence, I took the care of blindfolding her.
1st. Standing at some distance from her, I willed
her to answer another person, and she would, immedi-
ately begin to converse with this person : I willed her to
cease, and she would cease instantly.
2d. Holding a few raisins, or fruit in my closed
hand, I willed her to stretch hers to take the object,
and she would immediately stretch her hand. On ask-
ing her why sbe did so, she would answer, •• Because
you: want me to take some raisins of you," &c.
3d. While she was carrying her hand to her mouth,
I willed her to give me back the raisins, and she did so.
While she was eating, I willed that her jaws should be-
come stiff, and that she would stop eating; and the
desired effect was produced almost instantly.
4th. I repeatedly altered for her, by 'my will, the
taste of several things; for instance, I made it alternate-
ly, bitter, sour, sweet. .
5th. I willed her to take hold of my hand, and apply
it to her sick side, and she executed my command ; on
asking her what she was doing, she answered, "You
want me to show you my weak side."
6th. I willed her to open. her lids without waking,
and the lids were immediately opened. They would
shut again at my mental command.
These phenomena and inany others, which it is use-
less to detail here, have been often produced by me,
and I have the strongest evidence of their reality. It
will be sufficient to say, that I have no other interest in
Animal Magnetism, than that of gratifying my curiosity,
and of improving the' health of a dit!eased person. Aa ·
to this latter point, I certify that I have succeeded; as
much as I could expect, for Miss Mary's health is much
better since she has been magnetized. She rests bet-
10
o'g''"•' b,Google
110
te'llt and she is already strong enough to walk around
her room, by sustaining herself 1rith her arm on the
shoulder of another person. I usually awake her by
waving my hapd at some distance from her face. At
times she preserves a faint recollection of certain thtogs
that have transpired during the state-of somnamba-
lism. This case has been witnessed by a great num-
ber of persons from Pawtucket and Providence.
DANIEL GKEII:NII:.
Providence, June 22d, 1837.
DEAR S1a-I have carefully examined the series of
questions which you have proposed for me to answer;
which I can do, with a single exception, in the affirm·
ative. I fully concur with you in the moral obligation
which we are under to spread the knowledge of this
science, not only from the fact that it must eventually
command the attention of the greatest minds, and cause
a perfect revolution in some branches of science, but
it must prove of incalculable benefit to mankind in the
alleviation and cure of diseases. I sincerely regret my
inability to do any thing like justice to the s~bject be·
fore me, yet, as the accumulation offacts observed in
this country, seems to be yQur only object, I will en-
deavor to state such as have come under my own ob-
servation, in as plain a manner as the nature of the
subject will admit.
Qvestion ht. "I hear that you h!lve magnetized np·
ward of 20 persons-if so, how many of these have been
affected by your action 1 In what degree have they been
affected by your action 1 How many have been put to
the magnetic sleep, so as they would conver8e with you
or feel the action of your will1"
.&NIIIf.&L lii'.&GN&TJ811f. 111
When I state that I have magnetized twenty peraons,
you will understand me to say, that twenty persons
have been affected by me. I have not affected more
than half of those whom I have attempted to magne~
ize ; and they have been affected differently; some
very slightly--others more, and two or three to the
highest degree of magnetic influence. I have found o~~ro
Jy three with whom I could converse while in a mag-
netic state, or upon whom I could exercise my will,
except in a very slight degree.
QuestioN 2d. " Have you been able to produce the
magnetic sleep, without using the manipulations, simply
by an act of your will 1"
I have found the manipulation to be of very little, if
any use, after a person has become fuUy magnetized-in
fact, I see.no difference in the effect whether I manipu-
late or not, the will being the same. I have found it
convenient to press my hand upon the patient's head,
the object being more to fix my own attention;' than to
affec.t the subject by coming in contact. I conclude,
therefore, that the manipulations are first necessary to
produce the magnetic sleep, but afterwards not essen-
tial, unless some time has elapsed since the patients
have felt the magnetic influence; in which case, they
become less subject, and will require the manipulation,
as at first.
Question 3d. "Have you been able to procure this
sleep at a distance, through one or two partition walls,
your patient being not at all informed of your operating
upon her 1"
I can perceive no difference in the time of producing
ail effect, or in the effect when produced, whether the
distnnc'e be one foot or one mile, whether there be one
or ntore partition walls between, or nothing at all; yet,
after they are asleep, when magnetized ·at a distance,
I do not appear to exercise quite the power of will over ·~
112 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
them that I do when in the same room: of this last I
am not fully convinced, as I have not had an opportu-
nity to test it fairly. I have put them to sleep at one
mile distant, and willed them to wake in a given time,
and been promptly obeyed, without knowing the result
until the next day, or paying attention to the subject,
after they bad been magnetized. The intervening of
partition walls present not the least obstruction to the
magnetic influen.ce. Whether the subject knows you
intend putting him to sleep or not, is perfectly imma-
terial; as the magnetic state depends entirely upon the
magnetizer, and not at all upon the magnetized. This
experiment I have frequently tested, and eveo when
the subjects have known my intention, and l have been
at least one mile distant, they have used the greatest
exertions to counteract the influence and throw it off,
but in vain.
Question 4th. "Are you convinced, by repeated and
tested experiments, that you could affect your patient in
•ny way while in somnambulism, merely by your will1"
Question 5th. "Could you make her perform nny
motion with her hand 1 Could you affect her feelings,
make her laugh or cry 1 Could you alter the nature of
things for her 1 Could you palsy her muscles 1 " -
So thoroughly am I convinced in regard to the eftects
of will upon my patients, that if the science were called
the power of will, instead of Animal Magnetism, it
would convey to my mind a much clearer idea of what
it really is. In fact, with the exception of a perfect mor-
al sen·se, every faculty of the mind and body seems
capable ofbeing overcome by the will of the magnetizer.
I find no other means of affecting them while in a state
of somnambulism, and almost every phenomenon which
bas been produced, is the effect of will. I will them to
raise the hand-the hand rises, a few seconds generally
intervening between the time I commenced the ope1·a-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IU.G.II'J:TJS.II(, 113
tion of willing and the hand rising. I will her to clench
her hand firmly together-physicians and others declare
it impossible to open the hand without injuring the
muscles. I will her to raise both hands at a time, to
let one drop and the other remain, to close·the hand
by drawing in one finger at a time, to open it in the
same manner, to play fantistic tricks and motions with
her hands, without any apparent design, arid to place any
thing which she may bold in her hand into the hand of
another, a third person at the same time endeavoring
to prevent its performance. With innumerable exper-
iments of this kind, I have generally met with the most
perfect success; and when I have failed, which ha1
been very rarely, I have found the fault to be in myself,
arising from inattention, fatigue, or ill health. On their
being questioned why they did these things, they will
say, "Because Mr. Potter wished me to." Nor have
they given • any other reason for obeying my will, ·
although, frequently questioned by myself and others.
I sometimes affect their muscles without their being at
all aware of it, at a time when sensation was not en-
" tirely suspended. I have found one person, whose
muscles could be so much affected, that I .could hold
the arm in a horizontal position unsupported for some
minutes, simply by the will, (after placing it there with
my hands) without the subject being conscious of the
least action on my part ; she at the same time being
able to converse with any one with ease, without my
having the power to prevent it; her eyes being at the
1ame time extended to their utmost, and the balls rolled
back so far as to conceal entirely the pupils. In this
1ituation she has the appearance of a person in great
pain, yet she· declares that she feels no pain, or un.
pleasant sensation. I find no difficulty in affecting the
feelings of my subjects in all respects, except grief, I
lOt'
U& ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
have seen them by other magnetizers brou~ht immedi-
ately to tears. This failure I attribute to my entire
inability to conceive a state of grief without an exist·
ing cause, and my own disposition being rather inclined
to cheerfulness and levity. I have often attempted this
last experiment without succeeding, the patient gen-
erally saying, "I don't know what you want." I will
her to laugh, and she laughs heartily; to feel cold, and
she shivers, with a fit of the ague ; to feel warm, and
she says it is uncomfortably so. I hand her an apple,
and will it to be a melon, liD orange, a squash, a pota·
toe, or any thing which strikes my fancy, however dif-
ferent from the article she holds in her hand, and
the deception is perfect. I hand her a glove, and will
it to be an orange, she presses it to her nose with evi-
dent pleasure. bhe afterwards attempts to peal it, and
supposes she has done !IO· I will .it to be an apple, she
puts it to her mouth, chews and swallows, saying,
~·It is a very good apple." I will it to be a large melon;
it is so heavy she raises it from her lap with difficulty.
She asks for a slice; I give her a thin slice from an
apple; she eats it, holding on with both hands, and
carefully picking out the seeds, as if it were a melon.
While eating, I have willed it to be sour or bitter; she
immediately takes it .from her mouth. I give her a
raisin, and will it to be a fig; she eats it at two mouth-
fulls, saying, "The seeds stick in my teeth." I go
through the motion of pouring something into her hand,
willing it at the same time to be pea-nuts or any other
small fruit. She believes it to be so. If pen-nuts, she
finds one raw and another baked, as I may see fit to
make it. I give her cold water ; she tastes it, and says
it is spirits, and does not wish to drink, but would like
some wine: I take the tumbler, and hand it immediate-
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
ANIMAL MAGN.ETJSM. 115
ly back ; she says it is currant wine. I ask her if she
would like some sweetened water; she says, ''Yes." I
give her the same tumbler, and will it to be eider; she
immediately takes it from her lips, and says, " It is not
what you offered me, it is eider.'' I hand her an empty
tumbler, and will it to contain peppermint, it is pepper-
mint; I will it to be hot while drinking, she takes it
from her lips with the exclamation, "You have scalded
me." I immediately give her ice-water from the same
tumbler. I held a bottle of hartshorn to her nose, and
willed it to be an orange, and it did not affect a muscle
in her face. At another time I gave her a pinch of snuff
without having anything in my fingers, and she will
sneeze wilh vehemence. In short, lhe subject seems to
be wh.olly under the control of the magnetizer. lf she
experience pain in any part of the body, he wills it to
cease, and it is gone. Of sickness at the stomach, a
thought annihilates it-she wants a tooth extracted, she
shows no signs of sensation throughout the operation ;
she perceives the loss of the tooth after waking, without
knowing at what time it was extracted.
These, sir, are a small portion of the experiments
which I have tried with tpe most perfect success, to
prove the power of acting upon a magnetized pertoon,
simply by will. A few who have been present when
the essays were not perfectly successful, (and I have
already stated that this is sometimes the cuse, owing
as I think,chiefly to my own condition of body or mind,)
have been disposed to look upon il as less of a certainty
than it really is. If such should be disposed to ques-
tion these statement~, there are witnesses enough who·
have been more fortunate.
AMERICUS V. PoTTER.
Doct.Charles Poyen, Boston, Mass.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION IV.
lJfiss Cynthia Ann Gleason.
rTuE experiments which I have performed on Miss G.
nd published in severa~ newspapers, have been doubt-
! d; even considered, by many, as the results of a con-
,\ c,erted plan. Let the unfair and ungenerous think and
--.......uy what they please. We can no more prevent the
human tongue from exercising its evil activity than
stop the impetuous and desolating course of a torrent.
Whatever opinion may be entertained of me, I feel it
my duty to pay a due tribute ofjustice to virtue, under
whatever shape, and in whatsoever circumstances it
presents itself. 1\Iy word does not weigh much, per-
haps, in the balance of human estimation, but it is
worth its price in the eyes of Him who searches all
hearts, and knows the value of all things. These are
the feelings which induce me to offer the few following
particulars concerning Miss Gleason.
This woman was affected, for nearly ten years, with
a very serious and troblesome complaint of the stom-
ach, which had carried her several times to the door of
the grave. All the resources of medicine had been
powerless against the disease ; her existence was
wretched to the extreme, and, being deprived of sleep,
her nights were still more intolerable for her tha'n the
day time. Such was the condition of her health when
I was introduced to her, by her physician. I magnetized
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
4NiliiAL MAGNETISM. 117
her, and from that very first operation she began to
feel better, and has not ceased to improve until the
present moment. She is now almost completely cu'red,
although she has used no other remedy than magnet-
ism.
After a residence ·of two months in Pawtucket, I
announced to her that rwas going to leave for Boston,
and had no intention of returning to Rhode Island
again. On the very moment I announced to her my
departure, she received, from some very respectable la-
dies of Providence, an invitation to spend a dny or
two at their houses. I accompanied her in her visit.
On the morning of the next day, the conversation hap-
pened to fall on the general incredulity which prevailed
in regard to magnetism, and on the extreme difficulty
to establish such a science in this country. During the
conversation, I spoke, in an animated manner, of the
obstacles I had to contend against-of the injurious
suspicions that were constantly hanging over my char-
acter-of the many mean treatments I had received
from the press, and even from individuals, whom I had
always used with the most polite and friendly atten-
tions, &c. The sympathy of the persons present was
strongly excited by my narrative, and they unanimous-
ly observed, that if I could procure the assistance of a
good somnambulist, to illustrate my lectures, I would
certainly overcome all obstacles, or, at least, convince
a great many persons, as I had already done in Provi-
dence and vicinity; that, finally, J could by that means,
secure a comfortable existence, and pursue my enter-
prize without ·fear of being stopped for want of pecu-
niary resources. They then suggested to Miss Glea-
son to go with me to Boston. She answered, as from
a spontaneous movement of her heart, that she would
have no objection in accompanying me; that she was al-
118 ANIMAL MAGNitTI811.
ready too much indebted to magnetism for the benefit of
her .health, not to be glad to have n farther opportuni-
ty of helping in the propagation of so useful a science;
that, besides, her gratitude towards me, personally,
made it a duty to her to assist me in my difficult task,
if I thought she could be of any service to me.
I had been previously advised, by several gentlemen,
some of whom rank high for their works, and the
soundness of their judgment, to bring Miss Gleason
with me to Boston, if I could obtain her consent. (See
p. 47.) I was, therefore, quite pleased to hear her
speak so favorably on the subject. I seized the oppor-
tunity to make her a serious offer about it: she asked
me eight days to make up her mind. The eight days
having expired, an.d every thing duly considered, she
assented to my proposal, and we started for Boston.
From the foregoing statement of facts, it appears
evident that Miss Gleason formed the resolution of
joining with me for a certain length of time, only with
the hope of recovering entirely her health, by magnet-
ism, and with the view of assisting me in the establish-
ment of an important truth. The motive which prompt-
ed her in doing it, was a heartfelt gratitude towards me
and the science. I will now declare, in the sincerity of
my heart, anrl with the inner conviction that God is
hearing me, that Miss Gleason has never manifested
·- that she had any selfish or vulgar object in view. The
only thing she required of me, was to pay her board
and furnish her with the means of satisfying the strict
necessities of life. She has never been willing to re-
ceive any pecuniary reward, and has not even passed a
single condition with me to provide for her future exist-
ence, in case that any circumstance should happen to
separate her from me. Since she left Pawtucket, she
has, most of the time, lived in private hoqses, and has
ANIMAL IIAGNETISJI, 119
received the kindest attentions, and marks of esteem
from all those who became acquainted with her. I nev-
er performed ariy experiments on her before the public
but three times only; I did so, at the suggestion of
some of our friends, thinking it the best and easiest
way of satisfying a great many persons at once. But
thosA public exhibitions have been generally unsuccess-
ful, and I now sincerely repent that I permitted myself
to give them. I have usually experimented on :(\Iiss G.,
as well as on other individuals, in presence of $elect
classes, in private rooms, and for no other purpose
than.to illustrate the principles advanced by me in my
lectures. The reports of those classes will show that
the experiments have.been satisfactory.
The following certificates, from respectable persons, •
who have been well acquainted with .Miss Gleason, will
amply vindicate her character from the charges brought
against her. I will add, also, the certificates of several
very i_ntelligent and well-known gentlemen, who bave
magnetized her, and thus acquired the conviction that
there was and could be no concerted plan between her
and me.
Pawtucket, Dec. 31, 1836.
''This is to certify, that Mi11s Cynthia Ann Gleason
is a member of the church of which I am Rector, and
that I have confidence in the integrity of her religious
character. GEoRGE TAFT, .
Rector of St. Paul's Church,
North Providence, R.I."
Pawtucket, Dec. 31, 1836.
"This is to certify, that I have been Miss Cynthia
Ann Gleason's medical adviser, in her protracted ill-
ness, for more than nine years past; during said time,
and as far as my information extends, she has, through
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
120 ANIMAL .AGNETJS.M.
life, sustained an estimable character. I also state that
Duct. C. Poyen, being an entire stranger, was intro-
duced by me to Miss Gleason, and she was put into the
magnetic sleep, by Dr. Poyen, on his first visit, (there
being no opportuuity for collusion,) in my presence, in
about thirty minutes, by the mental and manual pro-
ceeding~.~ taught in his lectures.
:N. MANCHESTER, M. D."
Pawtucket, Jan. 2, 1837.
"This will certify, that Miss Cynthia Ann Gleason
has lived, these last fourteen months, in our family; that
she has invariably behaved as a prudent, industrious,·
and faithful person, and that we have the fullest confi-
. • deuce in her moral character. JonN FALES.
c.•aoLJNE FALEs."
Lowell, 1837.
" rhe subscriber having felt much interest in Ani-
mal 1\Jagnetism, ever since he read the report of the
committee of the Royal Academy of ~ledicine, of Par-
is, on this subject, resolved to use all the means 1Fhich
the residence of 1\fons. Charles Poyen in this city could
alford him, to study thut new branch of science, and
ascertain its reality. ·
"The subscriber·, therefore, certifies, that he has at-
tended Mons. C. Poyen's lectures, both public and pri-
vate; and numerous experiments, by the same gentle-
man, on many different subjects, but more especially
on Miss Cynthia Gleason. But the subscriber did not
content himself with seeing and examining the phe-
nomena produced by other individuals-he has bimselt
experimented upon several per:~ons, and obtained, to his
great saitisfaction, results exactly similar to those de.
scribed by Mons. Poyen, in his lectu~es, and by the
committee of the Royal Academy.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MA&l'ft!ITIIIM. IJJ
·"Agreeably to the in•itation of Mona. P. birnaelf, the
aubscriber ·has often magnetized Mi111 Gleason, proba-
bly upwa·rds of thirty times; and has made many e.s:-
periments, always guarding, with the greatest caution,
against the possibility of deception : he has magnetized
her at all times of the day, often during Mons. Poyen's
absence from the city, and several times before a pri-
vate class, which Mons. P. was instructing. Many of
the most successful experiments, by the subscriber,
were tried before this class, especially on the commu-
nication of the will of the magnetizer to the somnam-
bulist, ·without the aid of sign or language, such as
giving her a piece of bread to eat, and makin~ her call
it cheese, or fruit, &c.; giving her water to drink, which
11be should call sweet cordial, &c.; ordering her to arise
from her seat, to show her tongue, &c. &c. These ex-
periments were entirely new, and had never, to their
knowledge, been made by 1\lons. Poyen ; in fact, they
were selected by the class for that very reason, and in·
variably, the same phenomena were produced, and with,
at least, an equal success as when Miss G. was mag-
netized by Mons. Poyen.
"The subscriber has proved her in the examination of
diseases, by selecting strongly marked cases, of the na-
ture of which there could not be any doubt, in persons
whom she bad never seen, or, probably, never heard of:
·he caused her to examine them while· Mons. P. was
not 'Vithin thirty miles of this place, and he must say
that he has never known her fail to state the case cor-
rectly. He has, also, In like manner, and with the
same care, proved her to possells the faculty of telling
the state of a person's health, their particular diseases,
symptoms, &c., by examining a small. lock of their
hair, even although she may never have seen i'r heard
of the owner before; and, in such cases, if the owner
11
ANIMAL IIAGM&TIIM.
is aubaequently presented to her for examination, she
will invariably say that she has seen him before, and
will recollect and tell all she said at the examination of
said hair: finally, all the eft'ects which the suhscribe.r
has obtained, and of the reality uf which he cannot
have any doubt, were entirely similar to those produced
by Mons. Poyen, and which have been already publish-
ed in several newspapers. The subscriber would also
state that Miss Cynthia Gleason has resided, occasion-
ally, in his family, where she is much respected for her
general propriety of conduct, and goodness of dispo-
sition, and nothing has ever been noticed in her char·
acter or actions, inconsistent with the strictest delicacy,
and Christian morality.
"From all that he has heard, and particularly from
what he bas himself seen and examined, with the great-
est care, the subscriber thinks that be is enabled to pro-
nounce Animal Magnetism a true science, highly impor·
tant for the _
new physiological a~d psychological phe-
nomena which it exhibits, and its value as a medicinal
agent. AI.EX. WRIGHT."
The following lines are extracted from a letter ad-
dressed by Wm. Coffin, Esq., inspector of the ·port of
Nantucket, to Miss Gleason.
"My wife and I observed you closely, during your
stay in our fa~nily, and instead of detecting one single
act that should lessen you in our esteem, we have see~
nothing but what is most favorable to you-nothing but
what is consistent with the strictest moral and religious
character. • • • I now take the liberty, and it gives
me pleasure to say, that from the time when I first saw
you, to the present moment, I have neither witnessed
nor beard any thing which bas left an impression ob
my mind unfavorable to your character."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MA.GNETIIIM. 123
Naaliua, May 9th, 1837.
" 'fhe subscriber having carefully attend~d the course
of lectures and experiments delivered by Dr. Ch. Po-
yen, in this village, and feeling a.lively interest in An-
imal Magnetism, resolved to make experiments him-
self, with the view of ascertaining; in a direct manner,
its reality and importance. Having, therefore, receiv-
ed the necessary instruction, he magnetized several in-
dividuals, entire strangers to Dr. P., and invariably ob-
tained effects similar to those de11cribed by this gentle-
man, in his lectures. The subscriber bas succeeded in
putung two persons into the state of somnambulism,
during which the patients could converse with him,
and obey certain mental commands with9ut the aid of
signs or language. I al!!o certify, that, with the con-
sent of J)r. Poyen, I have twice operated on Miss C.
A. Gleason, and have obtained on her nearly all the
results already known to the public, as they have been
published in several newspapers. In one instance,
Miss G. was put into the magnetic sleep, by the sub-
scriber, whil.e Mons. P. was giving his lecture in anoth-
er room; which proves that the effects were produced
indepentleDlly of the will of this gentleman.
LEoNARD MARBLE."
Among other gentlemen who have successfully mag-
netized Miss Gleason, I will name Drs. McKean, of
Boston, LeBaron Munroe, of Medway, E. Miller, of
Franklin, :Messrs. P. Duxbury, of Taunton, Thos. D.
Elliot, Esq., of New Bedford. All of them have been
convinced, from the effects they have obtained on her,
by the sole force of their will, that she was in a true
state of somnambulism. But the strongest pro"of that
I possibly can afford of the perfect honesty of this wo-
man, and, at the same time, of the reality of the mag-
ANIIIAL .AONETJSIL
JUlie pMDer, is, that Miss G. has been, at two difi"erent
times, put _
into the somnambulic state ?Dhen she ?Das not
ita tle letul tnDare of tle actio" exercisedupon her, by tuJo
otlatr gmtlemen besidts myself, and tt1en i• my abunce.
The first of these operations took place-at Pawtucket,
and while I waa myself at a distance of 40 miles, and,
consequently, knew nothing about what was going on.
The room in which this experiment was tried, was full
of company, who bad resorted th_
ere for the purpose of
witnessing a performance of the magnetic operation
upon a child of 9 years of age, by Mr. A. Jenks, are-
epectable citizen of Pawtucket. Miss G. was present,
but had not the slightest idea that she was going to be
magnetized> a11 she had been very particularly request-
ed by me, on my departure for Boston, not to suffer
any one to operate upon her. Among the persons invit-
ed, were Dr. L. Miller, and the Rev. Mr. Vinton, pas-
tor of Grace Church, in Providence. These two gen-
tleftnln, knowing that Miss G. had already been put
a1leep by the ?Dill, alone, secretly agreed thnt either of
them would try the experiment, and with every possible
care not to be detected. Mr. Vinton was the operator.
While the company was engaged in witnessing the
performances going on, he IIJilled Miss G. to go to sleep,
without either a word spoken or a gesture made. The
result was complete. Miss G. soon felt sleepy; being
much surprised at it, she got up and tried to resist the
influence, but her efforts were in vain ; she was obliged
to sit down again, and went into a prof(JIJnd magnetic
sleep, from which nothing could arouse her. Those
who were present spoke to her, but no one, except Mr.
Vinton, could obtain an answer.
During my residence at Salem, Mass., two experi-
ments, of the same kind, were tried upon Miss G., by
one of the most e~inent lawyers of the city, whose
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANJIIAL IIAOKBTI!II. 125
name I abstain from mentioning here, for partic11lar
reasons. Neither Miss G. nor myself were aware of
the operation going on ; the effect W1lS equally com-
plete and perfectly satisfactory to the experimenter and
to his friends. There were at that moment forty gen-
tlemen in the room. These facts are well known in
Salem; those who doubt their reality, may inquire
there about them.
I DOW proceed to a more detailed account of a few
experiments on Miss Gleason. Most of the following
narrations have already appeared in several newspapers,
and I will beg the reader to bear in mind, that none of.
·the gentlemen whose names have been mentioned, as
references, have yet ~nied a single one of my state-
ments-which must be a proof of their correctness.
Extractedfrom the PrtnJidence J01trnal of NtnJ. 17t..i, 1836.
ExPERIMENTs oN ANIMAL M~oNETisM. The subject
of these experiments is a young lady well known in
this place, where she has been residing for over ten
years. There is but one opinion concerning her char-
acter : that she is surpassed by no one in purity of mind,
disinterestedness, laborious habits, and religious dispo-
Sltlon. But, alas! in this "valley of tears'' and hard
trials, called the earth, happiness is not frequently in
proportion with virtue ! Miss CYNTHIA GLEASON has
been for eight or nine years laboring under a compli-
cated nervous andJunctional disease, which batHed all ·
the skill of physicians. It would be too long, and per-
haps ·insignificant to describe here the various symp-
toms of this complaint. I will say only that, in conse-
quence of it, the sleep of the patient had become diffi-
n•
o1"""""'Googlc
/
·~
.AJIIIIUL K.AGNJITISJI.
cult, 11bort, very much troubled by paina, and always
followed with a dullnesa of the mind, and heavineu of
tbe ayatem for several hours after awakening.
I need not say that I was a perfect stranger to Mi88
Gleason, and that she was, for her part, entirely igno-
pnt even of the words Animal Magnetism, when abe
beard of it for the first time, by her attendant physician,
the respectable Dr. Manchester, of Pawtucket. 'l'his
gentleman proposed to her to try an experiment, with
the hope that &he might receive benefit from it. She-
very cheerfully agreed ; and, in consequence, I was
brought to her lodgings, by Dr. Manchester, on Sunday,
the 6th inat., at half past four o'clock in the afternoon.
I must state here that I was very much pleased to find
her perfectly calm and sober. I havJl acquired, since
the first visit, the full conviction that she is one- of those
persons upon whom "imagination has very little em-
pire." Miss Gleason told us, among other thing~, that
she had not much faith in Animal Magnetism, and that
she would " dify any one to put her to sleep in this man-
fter." I observed to her that I did not think myself
that I could put her to sleep at the first trial, as I in-
tended to magnetize her only 16 or 20 minutes, with the
view of establishing a mere communication ~etween us.
Her pulse, taken by Dr. Manchester, gave 84 pulsations
per minute before the operation. I commenced, and in
the course of 25 minutes we perceived that her eyes
grew dim and her lids fell heavily down-in 30 minutes
• she was profoundly asleep-pulse gave 94 pulsations.
We tried her senses in every possible manner; nothing
could disturb her : the sleep lasted half an hour; I
caused it to cease by a few gestures with my hand, at
several inches distant from her face.
The next day, I resorted again to the patient's house,
at a quarter before four in the afternoon, together with
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IIJ.G!IIBTJBII• 12'7
Dr. Gardner and E. Walcott, Esq. Miss Gleaton told
us that abe had slept very well all'the night, and felt
better than usual,-the operation commenced at 4
o'~lock, exactly,-,-and although the patient, according
to her own avowal, tried to keep awake, she was fast
asleep in ten minutes. On the next day the number of
her attendants was still greater. Sleep was produced
in 7 I-~ minutes ; on Wedneaday, in six minutes the de-
sired effect was obtained.
As the patient had already experienced some benefit
by these operations, she manifested to us the desire of
being magnetized once in public; in order, said she, to
couvincc the unbelievers, and establish a truth so impor-
taut to religion and the health of mankind. I must also
atate, as another proofof the qualities of her heart, that
she took this resolut_ion for my reputation's sake, viz.
to prove that I was not an impostor, and that my labors
really deserved more encouragement than I have hith-
erto obtained.
Therefore, having previously consulted al1 my_
frienda
about it, and received their unanimous approbation, I
concluded to accept Miss Gleason's proposal. The in-
tended experiment took place on Thursday last, at the
Pawtucket Hotel, before an audience of 170 persona,
comprising the medical faculty and a part of the clergy
of the village.
I commenced operating at a quarter before 8 o'clock.
In the course of four minutes, the patient shut her eyes;
then I got up and suddenly thrust with my foot against
the floor, the chair upon which I was sitting,-no sen-
sible effect was produced by this noise. Finally, in five
minutes, the lady appearing profoundly asleep, I left
her and commenced my lecture, which lasted nearly
three quarters of an hour, and was listened to with much
interest. Miss Gleason continued sleeping during that
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
·~
ANIIIAL IIA(lNHIBIIo
Jength of time. Whep the lecture wu over, we resumed
our experiments. We proceeded to ucertain whether
the lady was really in the magnetic sleep. We pinched
her-pricked her with a pin-tickled her lips, nostrils,
and.eyelids with a bit of paper; no sensation was man-
ifested. A gentleman put his mouth close to her ear, and
uked her, in a very loud voice, if she was not tired of
sleeping, and wished to get up 1 She remained perfect-
iy deaf to the sound of this loud voice; another man
whistled in a most shrilling manner, and clapped hia
hands; but all the disturbance was without effect upon
her. Hartshorn was held suddenly under her nose, for
some moments, and though she must have inspired the
strong effluvia, no sign of unusual sensation was mani-
fested. Several persons spoke to her in succession, and
she took no notice of what they said. Then I stood at
the distance of a few feet from her, and mentally request-
ed her, without touc~ing her, to give ~e her hand, and
she immediately held out her hand towards mine. I
wished her to leave my band and she did immediately
Some other individuals·tried the same e:xperiment, but
without success. A handkerchief was put over her
eyes ; I stretched again my hand, and she gave me her's
without hel.litation. There could be no collusion here,
because the bandage being fixed closely over her eyes,
e1Fectua1Jy shut up every avenue to her mind, except
that by which the mysterious magnetic sympathy is im-
parted. This last experiment was so fairly made, and
so successful, that one of the medical gentlemen present
who had been incredulous until this moment, acknowl-
edged that he was convinced.
Then, after telling in a low voice to the ladies and
gentlemen who were standing around her, thnt I was
going to cause her, by my will, to open her lids without
awakeningher, I made a motion upwards with my fore-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIIIAL liU.GN.ETJSH. 129
inger, at the distance of three inches from her face,
and immediately we saw her open her lids to the utmost
width. There she sat still perfectly motionless, and
gazing at 1ne in the most intense manner. She looked
exactly like a wax figure.
With the view of ascertaining whether she was still
in the state of magnetic insensibility, I darted suddenly
n:iy fingers near to her eye-balls in rapid succession;
yet she winked not, and appeared as insensible as a
blind person. Rev. Mr. Taft, having noticed that her
pupils were extremely dilated, suggested the idea of
placing two blazing lamps before her eyes; so we did,
and yet the sudden glare of light thus falling on the un·
protected pupil, was as ineffectual as so much light on
the eyes of a corpse. I made a motion downwards
with n1y hand, and the lids were closed aguio.
At my request, Edward Walcott, Esq. asked the som-
- nambulist to drink of water that he presented to her
lips-but she took no notice of it. I mentally asked
her whether s~e wished for some water; she answered
in a tone audible to those who were around her, that
she ''did not feel thi1·sty." I mentally again urged her
to take some-then she opened her lips, grasped at
the tumbler, and drank two or three swallows of the
liquid.
After she had slept one hour and a half, I walked six
or seven feet from her, and, by waving my arm ouee on•
)y; I awakened her immediately. She awoke quite ex-
hilarated, and, to use her own words, "aa bright as a
dollar." She had no recollection of any one circum.
stance that had transpired.
Among the persons present, the following gentlemen
are ready to ce.rtify for the truth of the above state.
me~t :-Rev. Mr.Taft, Rev. Daniel Greene, Rev. Thom-
as Worcester of Bridgewater; Drs. Manchester, Gard·
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
,
180 ANIMAL HAGNI!ITISM.
ner, Cleveland, Bucklin, of Valley FaiJs, Carpenter;
Edward Walcott, John Street, Samuel Lord, Esqrs.;
George Crawford, superintendent of the Frankiin Print
Works; Mr. Barshal, Professor ofthe Hebrew, French
and German languages, at Brown University, &c. &c.
CHARLES PoYEN.
The following narrative was made from the notes
taken by one ofthe officers of Brown University, during
the seance.·
Were present and may be referred to for the truth
of the statement,-Rev. Dr. 'Vayland, President of
Brown University; Professors Caswell and Chace, Mr.
Shepherd, a tutor in the College ; Rev. Edward B.
Hall; Drs. Tobey, Manchester, &c. &e.
Sh. Sm.-Pulse full-84 beats per minute.
Sh. 9m.-I commenced magnetizing her by willinc,
simply, without resorting to the usual manipulations; I
was sitting beside her, at two feet distant.,
Sh. IOm.-She nodded and looked drowsy.
8h. llm.-Sound asleep; somebody clapped loudly
his hands; another moved her in her chair ; she did
not awake.
Sh. llim.-1 then magnetized by the usual manipu-
lations.
Sh. 15m.-Pulse Jess full-beat about the same.
The patient was breathing calmly, and her eyes were
perfectly shut, as in the natural sleep.
The experiments then commenced. We proceeded,
in the first place, to ascertain the suspension of sensi-
bility.
I. A large tavern bell was rnng close to her ear-no
perceptible change took place; loud eboutiQg iu her
ears produced no more effect.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL II.AGNBTISM, 131
Sh. 20m.- Respiration 32 per minute; hands colder,
pulae 84.
2. A pistol was fired-in the room, within five feet of
her bead-not the slightest change was manifested,
whereas some other persons were obliged to leave the
room, on account of the violent impression ·made upon
their organ of hearing.
3. A bottle of ammoniacal gas was placed under her
nose; respiration became quicker, nod she appeared
disturbed by it, yet there was no appearance of wak-
ing. I was then in the next room.
4. The nostrils were tickled with a feather-no
change was perceptible.
Sh. 30m.-Pulse SO-respiration 26-hands growing
colder.
5. At the suggestion of Dr. 1'obey, I caused her to
open her lids, simply by moving upwards my fore fin-
ger a few inches distant from her face. The pupils seem-
ed to be as in the natural state. A lamp was brought
suddenly before them, and produced no effect on the
pupil, and apparently no sensution at all. I thrust vi-
olently my finger towards her eye-ball-no perceptible
change took place. ·
Other Experiments and Observations.
J. I whispered to the person standing next to me, in
so low a tone that the sound of my voice could be heard
by no other person in the room, that I would mentally
ask her to give n:ae her hand. Her eyes were exactly
closed ; I held my hand a short distance above hers ;
abe immediately raised her hand and grasped mine.
2. Dr. Wayland wrote on a paper-" Tell her, men-
tally, to clasp her hand." I mentally put the question.
She shook her head negatively, but said and did noth·'
ing. A fe\V moments after, I mentally put her again
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
132 ANIMAL MAGNJ:TlSH.
the same question. She shook again her bead nega-
tively, but did not execute my will.
She then began to talk aloud, and told us an amus-
ing anecd,ote concerning a man she had m~t in the
street.
Prof. Caswell. Where did you meet him 1 N{) an-
swer.
Writer. Where did _Y0\1 meet him 1 Somewhere
down the street.
Various other questions were put to her, but she would
answer no other than mine.
I mentally asked her where is Dr. Manchester1 She
answered-1 should like to t.Jllk to Dr. Manchester
about my stomach.
Dr. Manchester. How does it feel1 No answer.
Writer, aloud. Do you hear Dr. Manchester 1 Yes.
Dr. Manchester. Do you feel bad 1 No answer.
Writer, aloud. Do you feel bad 1 Yes.
6. ~A paper was handed to me, on which was written,
''lift up your right hand." Without a word being
spoken, she immedi~:ttely raised it at my·mental request.
7. I, aloud. Do you see any people around you!
No. Did any one come with me this morning 1 Three
or four from Providence. (True.r Who were they f
President Wayland, Dr. Tobey, Professor Chace, and
some others.
8. Signs were made to me, to tell her mentally to
grasp my hand, and then, on raising it for this purpose,
when Dr. Wayland interposed his; she took no notice
of it, but still moved hers towards mine, and moyedit
on one side and the other as I mofed mine. She finally
grasped it. This was varied and repeated several
times, and uniformly with the same result, although
there ·was a large slate placed constantly before her
face and chest, in order to prevent entirely, the nat~~ral
vision.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 133
9. I asked her, aloud, whether she should like to be
magnetized 1 Y~s. Having done so, I asked her if
she recollected having replied to my request to magnet-
ize her 1 She said, No.
10. Dr. Wayland grasped her hand, and then by
signs requested me to tell her, mentally, to_
take my
own hand. She immediately, obeying my wi1k, pulled
her hand away from Dr. Wayland, and grasped at
mine.
11. Then I whispered to Prof. Chace that I would
make her give her hand, and answer to Dr. Wayland.
I wished her to do this, and immediately she grasped
at Dr. Wayland'" band.
Dr. Wayland, aloud. What· wns the weather this
morning 1 Stormy-(true.) How is it now 1 Clear
-(true.) When did it clear off? This afternoon-
(true.) How many looms did you attend to to-day?
Five-(true.)
12. A small tumbler of water was brought, and I
asked her aloud if she would have some water. She
said, Yes; she took the tumbler, and, raising it to her
mouth, drank .some. Some chloric ether was then
poured into the tumbler, which gave a strong taste to
the liquid; she drank some ofit, and having been ask-
ed by me what taste she found in it, she replied, "No
other than that of water." During these experiments,
a handkerchief, folded several times, was kept over her
eyes.
13. I then whispered that I would make her mistake
the liquid for paregoric. I gave her again the tumbler;
ebe drank, and I asked her what it was! She answer-
ed, "It tastes like wine.''
14.- Rev. E. B. Hall, sitting close to her, put her
several questions, to which she made no reply. At Mr.
Hall's request, I wished her to hear him, and she an-
12
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
134 ~NIMAL MAGNETISM,
swered him immediately. Dr.Tobey also spoke to her,
and she made a reply which, in all appearances, was
for the Doctor's question. Somebody noticed that she
had answered Dr. Tobey, although no communication
bad been established between him and her. Then I
wished her-to remain deaf to every voice but mine;
and immediately she ceased to answer the questions
made to her by the other gentlemen.
15. Dr. Wayland. "How many looms do you usu-
ally attend 1" No answer. Dr. W. then made me
signs to request her, mentally, to reply to him. I sig-
nified that I had done so. Dr. \V.-" How many looms
do you usually attend 1'' "Three-sometimes four."
Dr. W.-" You wo'\Jid not answer me before; why
now 1" " ~ecause Mr. Poyen told me to." Dr. \V.
·-" Why do .you tnke my hnnd 1" "Because Mr.
Poyen told me· to." Dr. W.-" But you ought to obey
me as well as him." She pulled away her hand appar-
ently in displeasure.
9 o'clock, 25~. Pulse 72-The same experiment
was tried by some other persons, and with the same
results.
1~. A slate was held hetween her eyes and me. Then
I extended my foot-she raised hers until they met.
Having made a sign that I would mentally tell her to
withdraw it, she immediately did so. She would follow
my foot with hers wherever I turned it.
17. I, aloud. "You have drank some water, have
you not 1, "Yes.'' " Recollect that, when I awake
you." "Yes."
18. I retired the length of the room, and endeavored
to wake her by simply willing it; in one minute I S\IC•
ceeded so far as to open her eyes and give every ap-
pearance of waking. I the·n advanced, and, by the
usual manipulations, immediately awoke her. Time
9h. 38m.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 135
19. "Do you recollect to have taken any thing 1 "
" Yes, some water." " Any thing else 1" " No."
When fully awake, she said she felt fatigued-she
usually felt refreshed by the magnetic operation ; was
totally unconscious of every thing that occurred while
asleep; did not know how long she had been asleep.
Her pulse was not taken after she awoke.
C. P.
Frlfrn tkc ProridcnceJmtrMl of Nov. 24, 1836.
,, REMARKABLI!: PHENOMENA OF ANIM_AL :MAGNETISM.
Having received, f1·om Dr. PoYEN, a polite invitation to
witness a ease of magnetieal somnambulism, now un-
der his charge at Pawtucket, with the assurance that
an hour there spent ' would be one of the most won·
derful of my life,' I went, last evening, accompanied
by a gentleman of the highest integrity, who witnessed
with me the facts I am about to relate, and who would
give testimony to the truth.
" At half past 7 o'clock we went to the boarding-
house of the somnambulist, (Miss Cynthia Gleason,)
whom we found 'sitting, dressed, and in her right mind,'
conversing with some twelve or fifteen ladies and gen-
tlemen.
"On-being introduced, she rose from her seat, and
very modestly gave her hand, saying-' I am happy to
see you.' She is rather tall and slender; has large
prominent eyes, and an expression of purity, of relig-
ious thought, rests upon her well-marked features,
which are r.ather pale than fair. Wishing to observe
something of her manner of conversing, her looks,
thoughts, and tone of voice, while in her ' natural
state,' I began inquiring into the state of her health,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
136 ANIIUL IIAGNETISII.
and whether she bad experienced benefit from magnet-
ism 1 She replied, ' I think I am better than I was
last night, and feel much better for being magnetized.'
Do you like it 1 one asked. 'Oh ! I think I have been
operated upon long enough-it is time some one took
my place.' At this moment, Dr. Poyen, who stood by
my side· before the fire, at the distance of about eight
feet from the patient, touched my foot with his, as a
sign that he had com~enced magnfltizing her with his
tDiU. I instantly looked at my watch, and marked the
moment when the operation commenced, being curi-
ous to watch every movement of the magnetizer,whose
magic power seems not less wonderful than the clair-
floyance of the somnambule.
"I first looked at him. He stood perfectly still, his
eyes firmly fixed upon the patient, not on her eyes, for
she had slightly turned her head, which rested upon the
back of the rocking-chair, in which she was silting,
with a deep and earnest look of entreaty and resolve-
of toishing and unlling. It was that fervent, speaking
expression of the soul, which no one can voluntarily
give to his countenance, who has not well learned that
wisest lesson-that most heroic of arts-to rule his spirit.
In about half a minute her eye-lids trembled and fell-
her bead nodded-her hands dropped lifelessly, and in
one minute and a half her sleep seemed as profound
and complete, save a gentle breathing, .as the last deep
sleep that falls on mortals ! That supernatural going
to sleep, to me, was a moment solemnly impressive. In
that mysterious slumber, that 'deep sleep' of the sens-
es, I saw an emblem of the sublimity of death!
"Standing before that senseless body-that faintly-
breathing, half-living corpse, I questioned more deeply _
within myself, than ever before, what is the human
soul1 And what are the true laws of its action and
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
ANIMAL MAGKBTISM. 137
existence 1 Alas! there was no responsive philosophy,
which, at such a moment, could satisfactorily explain
the momentous problem. But I feel, lind there was
consolation in this feeling, for the aching want of true
wisdom and soul-science, that God and eternity are
the only answer to these mysterious phenomena-o.these
apparitions of the Infinite and Unknown. But this
was a time for observation, and not reflection. Dr. P.
now advanced, and stood at about two feet from the
somnambulist; when he inclined his head towards her
-touched gently her forehead with his extended fin-
gers; then drew his hands rapidly down her arms~
sometimes with slight friction; threw them off sudden-
ly at right angles ; brought them again over to her fore-
bead, frequently resting them a moment upon the top
of the head. These gestures were continued about
two minutes, during which the patient drew a long
breath, which seemed more expressive ofdeep emotion
than physical pain. There was something in it too
tranquil for a sigh. It was like the breathing which
we sometimes witness in a sleeping child, when its
whole being lies melted into one delicious sense of
deepest and sweetest repose.
"He now ceased magnetizing her by external opera-
tions. Her hands grew cold, her pulse was quick and
tremulous. No impression could now be made upon her
senses; she was dumb and deaf, and dead to all except
her magnetizer! The warm principle of Life, which
gives sens~tion to every nerve, was temporarily with-
drawn from its cage of clay, and left it almost as cold
and inanimate as the empty sepulchre of the risen Spirit.
Her magnetizer, after we had questioned her in vain,
spoke to her in a low voice about her case. She replied,
with true and beautiful emphasis, with a calm and elo-
quent earnestness, 'This is the Lord's doing ! but it is
12•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
138 .ANIIII.AL III.AGNETISIII.
not wonderful in our eyes. It is only the ignorant who
cannot understand it. If people would-only read and
study more, they would know more about these things.'
'Yes,' snid Dr. P., 'if people spent less time in bar-
rooms, and more in seeking to know what is truth in
philosophy and religion, it would be better for them,
much better.' '0 yes,' was her reply-' there is
_ ----, (calling the name,) he refused to let his
daughter have a ticket to attend _your lectures. When
you meet him in the street you would think he was a
gentleman; but-' (here she spoke in strong and un-
reserved, but perfectly calm and decorous language,
of the individual she had alluded to.) . At my request,
I was then put in communication with her, simply by
the wish and will of her magnetizer that she would
answer my questions and talk with me. Instantly-
although her head was turned from me, her eyes shut
and no audible wishes had been expressed-she nodded
assent to the mental request of Dr. P., raised her right
hand feebly, and extended it towards me. I inquir-
ed, Are you at rest 1 She said, •Yes.' Have you at-
tended church to-day 1 Ans. 'I have.' Whom did
you hear preach 1 Ans. 'Mr. Taft.' I was going to
continue, when she suddenly withdrew her hand, and
instantly became to me ns oue_ dead. I looked up and
saw that the eyes of the magnetizer were again upon
her. He confessed, by a smile and awink, that he had
put an end to our conversation. He afterwards per-
mitted her to converse with any one who had the curi-
-osity to ask her questions. He then repeated before
her the former magnetic gestures, extending-his fingers
f1·equently to the eyebrows and forehead, in order to
efrect lucidity-wishing and willing with all his might.
Once he spoke his wishes aloud, 'that her mind would
leave the brain, woukl, com'lt-.Qut or' the body, and see
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANJMAL MAGNETISM. 139.
what should be held over or behind her.' She answered,
'I wiJJ try.' I then took a watch-key from my pocket
and held it one or two inches directly above her head.
Dr. P. asked what it was1 She said, 'Is it not some-
thing steell ' '.But tell us what object it is?' 'I can·
not tell; it hurts my eyes.' I then took a book and
held it in the same position. She answered immediate-
ly, '.It is a book;' and with an emphasis that indicated
certain knowledge. Before, she had rather, by the pe.
culiar indections of her voice, asked than told what the
object was. A huge bunch of peacock's feathers were
held over her. She said, promptly, •It is a bunch of feath-
ers.' John Street, Esq. placed a large pencil-case sever-
al inches above her head; Dr. P. asked her to tell what it
was; she answered readily,' It is a pencil.' These expe-
riments were repeated sometime: she had failed in nam-
ing the watch-key, butsucceeded in every other instance.
"She complained to Dr. P. that she 'felt confused.'
He again magnetized her, with the intention to ca_lm
her mind and tra0quillize the nerves. I then expressed
a desire-as she had told her magnetizer that she saw
the objects 'through his mind,' and that, in her QWD
language, 'his spirit witnessed with her spirit '-to put
her cl~irvoyance to a farther test, by concealing the ob-
ject from Dr. P. I took from my pocket a small knife_,
very small, and held it in my shut hand over her head.
Dr. P. begged earnestly that she would 'tell immedi-
ately what it was;' she said promptly, 'It is a pen-
knife!' He then asked her to tell him the exact time
of the evening; but her answer was not correct by any
, -watch. ·
''He then magnetized her more. I held my watch
above her head with the fa,.e down. She said, 'It is
half past eight o'clock.' It was within one minute of
the truth. Dr. P. again wished her to cvnverse with
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAJ, MACNETISJI.
me; and having heard that in her natural stat~ she had
expressed some doubts and fears as to the propriety and
rectitude of her submitting herself to the operations of
magnetism, owing to the sneers of the incredulous and
the f~owns of the bigoted: I assured her I could see no
harm, but much of good resulting from these experi-
ments, which she suffered to be made for the benefit of
her health, and the high gratification of the wise and
good. That all true philosophy and religion are friends,
and can never operate against each other. Don't you
know, I said, that the perfect one • went about doing
good? '-That he restored a withered hand, opened
the eyes of the blind-and in his sympathy and benev-
olence turned water into wine for his friends 1 'Oh!
yes,' said she, 'it was Jesus.' Well, I replied, none
but the benevolent-the good, can do these things.-
' None can do these things except it be given him of
the Father.'
"As I said these words, she pressed my hand asif she
found sympathy in the thought. I inquired, Do you not
think it would be a great blessing to those who are
sick-who cannot sleep, to be put at rest as you nre!
She replied, 'It would be a great blessing indeed.'
Dr. P. inquired if she knew the profession of the per-
son with whom she was conversing. She said, ' He
reads a good deal, and I should think he was a Teach·
er! ' I replied, I am; and shall toke pleasure in giving
my scholars an account of the facts I am witnessing.
She said, 'You may tell them from me, if you please,
that I do not these things for money-for love of world-
ly gain, but for my own benefit and the good of my
fellow-creatures.' Dr. P. asked her if she would have
some drink. She said, ' Yes.' A small tumbler of
water was brought in, which I presented to -her lips.-
She refused~o drink, and seemed entirely unconscious.
ANIMAL .MAGNETISM. 141
Dr. P. then took the water-placed hi1 fingers upon
the edge of the tumbler, held it a short time in this po-
sition, then gave it into her hand. She carried it to
her mouth, aipped moderately until it was about two
thirds exhausted, and gave it back to her magnetizer.
He asked htlr what she had drank. She laid, ' It was
some of Mr. Fales' sweet wine.' He remarked, that
was what he bad wished it might be to her. He then said
to her, I wish you to awake in six minutes precisely
from this time. He previously had requested her to
remember when she awoke, having seen .the bunch of
feathers, and the word clairvoyance. Several gentlemen
held watches to count the time. In five minutes she
sighed-brought her hand to her head, and gave symp-
toms of awakening. Dr. P. having been out of the
room, now entered and stood about six feet from her.
At the end of the sixth minute she partly opened her
eye!T, and looked around with a smile of diffidence. On
being asked if she felt bright, she looked at Dr. P.,
threw her hand towards him, and said with much
naivete, 'I wish you would wake me up.' He said,
'I wili.'-At the same time telling ua with a wink•
that he w.ould do the contrary.
"He looked again steadily ·upon her, and in a moment
she fell back into that deep, mysterious sleep, more
wonderful because less frequently witnessed, than th11t
more mysterious, and sublimely awful sleep of Death,
~ in which so many of the living, moving, beautiful forms
of Life, hourly lie down, in the bosom of their mother,
hid forever from mortal ey~s, beneath the ample folds
of that great, green mantle, the winding-sheet that en-
shrouds us all. I have written what I have seen, and
believe to be true ;-yet I must confess I have felt the
while as though I was recording fiction, and have not
faith that those who will take the trouble to read, will
regard it as any thing else."
,,,, Coogle
I
142 ANIMAL MAGNETISII.
The above well•written article, is from the pen of my
talented friend Hiram Fuller, a well-known instructer
of a high school in Providence.
FtWI' the Provide?u;e Journal, Nov. 24, 1836..
T!tttrsday, November 17th.
There were nearly 20 persons in the room, among
whom were Dr. Manchester, Mr. Nathan Buffington,
a manufacturer, Mr. Hale, teacher of the High School,
a gentleman from Columbia, South Carolina, &c.-
The patient was sitting, as usual, in her rocking-chair.
Dr. Mauran took her pulses-84 beats; I began mag·
netizing her mentally, only, while I was standing up,
four or five feet distant from her, near the fire-place.
';{'here were several gentlemen placed between me and
her. In one minute and a half she leant her head
against the chair, and shut her eyes. In two minutes,
I declared that she was profouadly asleep. Indeed,
all our attempts to awake her produced no effect at all.
The same experiments that had been made on the
night of Tuesday, 15th, were repea-ted, at this sitting,
with equal success. Dr. Mauran spoke to her -several
times, but obtained. no answer. Then he signified to
me to establish communication between him and her.
I requested her, mentally, without a word. spoken by
any one present, to hear this gentleman-and imme-
diately she gave hi!D her hand, in a friendly manner,
and began to hold conversation with him. l signified
that I would cause the comniimication to cease : I
merely wished that it would be so; and immediately
the somnambulist pushed away Dr. Mauran's hand, and
ceased to hear him. Another gentleman tried the.samo
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 143
experiment, with the same result. Some one wrote on
a piece of paper-ask her "HUUJ much per ·cut, (about
30 yards,) do you receive 1" I retired the length of the
room, and while 8 or 9 persons were standing between
the somnambulist and me, I put the question simply by
moving my lips, \vi-thout uttering any sound. (She
answered distinctly 14 cents, which was correct.) 'fhis
other question was written on a piece of paper and
handed to me. "llow many cuts hltve you woven in a
week 1 '' She answered, Sometimes more and some-
times less.
At the request of Dr. 1\lauran, by moving upwards
my fore-finger at the distance of two inches from her
fnce, I caused her to open her lids, hut without a\vaken-
ing her. A blazing lamp was held before her eyes;
she winlted a little ; then fearing that she might ~utTer
afterwards by it, I caused the lids to close again by a
motion downwards of my fingers. As it wns growing
late, I announced that I was going to close the experi-
ment by bringing the somnambulist, afl asleep, into her
bed-room. Then I laid my hand on her forehead, nnd
told her, mentally, that it was time to go to I.Jed; she
answer~d, "lunderstaudyou,"and got up very readily
and walked into the next chamber. The·door was shut,
and two minutes having elapsed, Mrs. Fales and some
other ladies re-entered the parlor, and told us that the
somnambulist had undressed herself, still in the magnet-
ic sleep, and was now lying on her bed. 'Ve entered
the room;· I magnetized her a minute or two, with the
view of procuring her a sound and restoring sleep all
the nigllt through. Dr. l\1. approached the bed, and
bade her good night. She took no notice of his voice;
I wished her to answer him, and immediately she
stretched her hand towards his, nod begnn to talk with
him. I wished her to cease; she withdrew her hand,
,Coogle
t« ANIIIAL .MAGNI:TIBII.
and spoke no longer. The same experiment was blade
by the gentleman from Columbia, with th&,same resu]L.
I bade her good night, and told her to sleep until a
quarter before Ieven in the morning. We retired. The
next morning, Mr. Buffington, Mr. and Mrs. Fales en-
tered her room 25 minutes before seven, and found her
still soundly asleep, and exactly in the same position in
which I had lefl her the night previous. They made
a noise, called her up; but all was in vain ; but as their
watch was going ~o mark the time I had prescribed, she
moved her ha~ds and opened her eyes.
C. P.
The most remarkable of Miss Gleason's faculties,
during the state of somnambulism, is that of discerning
the symptoms of diseases, and prescribing appropriate
remedies for them. This seems to be a "natural pro-
pensity, an instinctive disposition in her." As soon ~
a person is put in communi'cntiuu with her, she first
takes his pulse and proceeds on examining the state of
his health, whether she has been directed or not, by
the magnetizer to do it. This power is also the most
constant and certain we have observed in her: out of
nearly 200 patients, of all descriptions, she has examin-
ed within 8 or 9 months, I have known but two or three
failures, or rather- unsatisfactory cases, when her "l•
cidity (clearness of mind and feeling) was completely
deranged by ill health, mental troubles or fatigue oc-
casioned by some previous experiments." The manner
in which abe investigates a disease is this :-She first
examines the state of the pulse, then passes slightly
her hand over the patient's head, chest, epigastrium,
and abdomen ; then describes the symptoms and feel-
ings, and pronounces upon the appearances of the
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISH. 145
external organ. My opinion, and it is that of Deleuze,
Bertrand, Rostair, Georget,Koretf, &c. is, that the sgm-
nambulists, (l must observe that there are but few who
• have this faculty) are made sensible of the morbid dis-
positions and symptoms of other people, through an
unusually exalted state of the sympathies, which ena-
bles tl~em to feel the disease as though they were
themselves affected with it. It is by that means, that
they are able, sometimes, to give as accurate a descrip-
tion of the disorder, as the patient himself could do it.
I do not pretend, however, that some somnambulists
cannot see the internal organs; I had, indeed, frequent
and conclusive proofs of the contrary. I will quote a11
instance or two: Having been directed by me to de-
scribe the heart, and the manner in which the blood cir-
culates in and about it, (Dr. E . Bartlett, and Mr. Wright
of Lowell, were present.) She said that shP. saw four
cavities, two superior, (the auriCies,) and two inferior,
(the ventricles,) that the biood was poured into the
·-right cavities, through a large !Jesse!, as through a tunnel,
and came out again by the left cavities; that the blood
poured into the heart was very dark colored, and that
which comes out from it, much more light, atleast two
shades ligl!ler than the other. She then said that part
ofthe blood was transmitted from the heart into the
lungs though several vessels, &e. After awaking I re-
quested her to describe to us the same organs; but she
could not 1mswer a single one of my quelltions. I
urged her to tell her ideas about these points; she then
said that she thought the chest was full of blood,
and the heart completely surrounded by that liquid, as
a ball dipped into water.-Mis8 G. has several times
described accurately various articles of food or drink
contained in my stomach, although I had not told her
· a word -about it! On another occaaion, having been
13
oJ""eao,Google
146 ANIMAL IIAGN&TIIII•.
directed by me to describe how the food reaches the
stomach anil the air penetrates into the lungs, abe
ilaid, after some momenta of attention, that she saw tvw
pipes descending along 'the neck, the one plaoed over
the other; that the one laying behind, and a little on
'the left side of the other, conducts the food to the stom-
ach; that this last organ was curved from left to right;
that the inaide of it was of a reddish color; that the
other pipe comes down so far as the upper part of the
chest, (she indicated the place with her fingers,) and
there divides itself into two hranchcs, one of which goes
into the left, and the other into the right lung; that
those main branches were divided again in many oN!er
smaller pipes. After awaking, I put her the same
questions, but she was utterly unable to answer them :
he said she had never tlwug!U about it; the only conjec-
ture she could form, was ''that the1·e was but one pipefor
the food and the air, goiRg dowrt to Ute stomaclt, tluu
this organ laid straight down in the chest, ~c."
Some persons will say that I had previously instruct-
ed Miss G. I shall not trouble my~elf about such un-
generous suppositions; I write candidly what I know
to· be the truth, ai1d am confident that my friends and
all-those who have paid a serious attention to magnet-
ism will believe me. ·
If it were not for fear of enlarging this work beyond
my purpose, I might present here a most interesting
series ~f examinations of di&eases by Miss C. Gleason,
which prove, beyond all dispute and cavil, her wonderful
mtdical tact ancllmidity. I will content myself with
presenting the following paragraph, from an artiele iu-
18rted by Doct. C. Cutter, in the Nashua Gazette, of
July 21, 1837, and a few other eases extracted from my
~ry. •
'' Dqring the· lectures of Mons. Poyen recently ia
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETIIK.
this place, I requested that Miss Gleason, while a som-
naRtbula, should examine a patient of mine, Miss Pria-
eilla Baldwin. This she did, in presence of several
gentlemen; neither M. Poyen or Miss G. ever saw
Mise B. previous to the experiment, or had any knowl-
edge of her case. Passing over the general examina-
tion of Miss B. which was correct, she applied her
hand to her left side, said there was an oval cavity
there, filled with a yellowish fluid thicker than water.
She applied her hand to the part diseased-the swell-
ing was concealed by her dress to ordinary observers.
Subsequently, Miss B. was examined by Dr. J. C.
Warren, of Boston, who said this swelling which was of
eighteen months standing, was a wen, and advised its
being cut out. '
"The day following the examination by Dr. Warren,
I opened the swelling, which discharged more than half
a pint of a yellowish fluid thicker than water, and the
• wen' was entirely gone. If Miss Gleason could not
see, this must be good 'guessing.' In examining anoth-
er individual in this place, she applied her hand to a
part of the system covered by her apparel, nnd said
there was a scar; and so there was. If this was not
seeing, it must be good 'guessing.' While here, Miss
G., in a state of somnambulism, examined the Hon C.G.
Atherton,· James Osgood, Esq., D. W. Jones, Mrs.
Adams, Mrs. Nahor, Miss Wi11e, and Miss Adams, who
all say that Miss G. designated the situation of disease
in every ease-l know of no failure here in the examin-
ation of patients. Likewise Mr. Alexander Wright,
agent of tho Carpet Factory, Lowell, informed me that
Miss G. correctly de11ignated the location of disease io
a dozen individuals, without a single failure. If she
could not see, she must be good at ' guessing.' These
are facts, and I have given the names of reputable in-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
·
-
.
148 ANJHAL XAONETJSII.
dividuals. If it be true that Miss G. and other som·
nambules can detect and describe disease in the human
system, it cannot be all a 'poor deception,' but it is val-
uable to those diseased. Are there not many in our
community, after having feed six or eight M. D.'s, the
first telling the patient the disease is in the head, the
second in thl' lungs, the third in the liver, the fourth
in the stomach, the fifth in the blood, the sixth-that the
nerves are disordered, &c. ·who would not prefer the
' guessing ' of a somnambula like the above to the dis-
cordant opinions of M. D.'s, as it is rare that two agree
when separate."'
Case 1st. Among other examinations made by Miss
G. during my residence at Lowell, Mass., I will men·
tion that of Mr. Mann, the father of Sam'J. H. Mann,
Esq., a lawyer of the place. She had never seen or
heard of the patient, and was put into the magnetic
sleep even before she was introduced into the room
where the old gentleman was laying on his bed. After •
passing her hand slightly over Iris head, chest, abdomen,
&c., Miss G. !'Itated that Mr. M. was sick all over; that
his disease was mainly in the hlood, the general con·
stitution of which was profoundly alterec.i'; thnt this li-
quid was not much better than wftter; that his stomach
was very weak, his lungs and particularly the right
one very much affected; that he had roater iu his chest;
that his spleen was also affected, and a great deal larger
than it ought to be; .she said that there was \'ery little
hope of recovery, as the diseHse was so general, and the
p~tient already advanced in age; but that, however, he
might receive some benefit from magnetism, and by
following a treatment which she was going to prescribe.
Being requested to name the · disease, she said she did
not know the scientific name of it; but that she would
judge it to be what is commonly called the King's evil.
,,, " Coogle
A~DIAL JIAGNJ:TIIIJI. 149
(The patient was, indeed, affected with the Scrofula;
in the worst stage.)
The treatment prescribed by the somnambulist was
not applied ; (it is very probable that no treatment in
the world could have restored, nor even improved in
the least Mr. M.'s health !) He died three weeks after
Miss G.'s visit ! A post mortem examination was made
by Doctors Green and Bartlett, in presence of Mr.
Saml. H. Mann; according to the account given me by
the two last gentlemen ')early three gaUons of a whitish
liq~id was extracted from the chest of the diseased man ; -
his spleen weighed as much as three pounds, whereas it
ougbt to weigh only from six to eight ounces ; he was
found altered all over, and his blood was very thin and
poor, as Miss G. had stated.
Medway, May 24th, 1837.
This will certify, that, at the request of my physician,
Doct. Le Baron Munroe, I caused myself to be exam-
ined by Miss Cynthia A. Gleason, while in somnambu-
lism, for a long and very complicated nervous disease.
Having passed her hand slightly•over my head, chest,
stomach, sides, &c. Miss G. gave a .minute and remark-
ably accurat~ description of my feelings in those vari-
ous parts. She said that my complaint had originated
ieveral yl!ars ago, in my liver, and thence the affection
of the blood and my other troubles. I can only say, -
in relation to this, that I was taken sick eight years
ago, and that my disP.ase was then considered and treat-
ed as a bilious one, by my physician. Ever since, my
health has been poor. Having been directed to exam-
ine my head with great care, she said that she discovered,
in the loroerpart ofmyforehead, (she pointed to the place
with her fingers, just above the root of the nose and in-
wardly,) a purpk spot, rwro as big at a nine-pence, but
- 13•
UiO
IAal il ,,.,, llaH beeil dJ large fU amal; that lki• rpot
Aad been caused by a sore, and a collection ofaattttr,.,iiei
/aDd discAargedtirDUgh llu noae ad ill llae b.r:kpurl ofit,
in tie tAroal ; that I had spit cs ptrrl of the maiM-: ilt&
added, thtll wAile tAe matrer ~as collecting, I"""' /u.t
beettflighty, ad perllapr crm:.y ; thal I Aad felt a press•
11re ooer my eyes, wl&ich Qltnost obliged me· to kBep tAm
shut ! I eerlit)', that all these particulars are correct• •
and that every thing took place exactly •• Miss G. de-
aeribed it I (there are already two weeks since_
the mat•
ter has discharged.) Furthermore, on examining my
inferior limbs, she said that they were very weak ; that
I could not walk; (true,) that my right limb was the
most lame; (true,) but that I had more pain in the lefq
(correct.) Miss G. prescribed for me a treatment which
was judged remarkably eunsistent and rational by
Doctors Nathaniel MiJJer -of Franklin, E. Miller his
son, and Le Baron Munroe, who ·were present. I will
finally certify that I wns an ·entire stranger to Dr. Po-
yen and Miss G., and that very probably they had not
beard a word coneerning my complaint, as ~hey bacl
just arrived in the place. •i
SARAH S. TeuasroH. · '
I never directed Mies Gleason but nnce, to e:xamieeo
a patient at a distance; aa the result ofthis e:xaminatioa
~·as altogether extraordinary, I will briefly relate it....J.I..
One evening during my residence at Pawtucket, in the
month of December, 1836, I called, on a friendly visia,
at the house of Samuel Lord, Esq. who felt a Ji~ely iD-
terest in Animal Magnetism. Contrary to my expec-
tations I found Miss Gleason there. (She had been
inrited by Mr. I.. to spend the evening wkh..fli. famil,.)
I put her into tl\e magnetic sleep, aud to try her clair- •
voyanee at a di~ance, 1 requeated ~r e&pto Dr. JltJiflff
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
.a.JIJII.U. ••ozn:Ttsx. 1$1
skater's iotue, three quarters of a mile, ahd tell me what
abe saw there; I requested her also to see who was sick
ia the house. After describing several particulars whicb X
abe pretended to see in the lower parlor, she walked
up stairi, and named the persons she saw in one of the
fruot room1. After a moment of considerable attention,
·abe ·said that she saw a little boy p]eeping i~ his cradle
and in very good health ; that there was another child;
a pretty little girl, (whom she •aid she had never seen
before,) laying on her mother's lap, and now in a state
of high fever, caund ~.Y a severe cold, settled all oYer
her ; that this child coughed a little, and felt a great
optJreaaion towards the upper pan of her chest ; tha&
her throat begun to feel sore; that ehc had already
token some medicine, some kind of white powder, (shd
thought it was a salt,) and that Iter parents were 110111
talking about giving ker a sweat. (It was at that mo-o
meot 9 o'cloc:lc by our watches.) She added that it
IJX)uld be necessary to apply prompt and energetic reme-o
dies to stop the fever ; titat if it w.as not immediately stop-
ped, it would very 1oon tuNa into a scarletfever, trRd thut
the child roould then be in great danger. After the ex~
amination was over, I went to Dr. Manchester's houl!e,
and inquired very particularly about the disease of th•
child. Every thing stated by Miss G. was correct; not
only concerning the symptoms, but also the medicine
Ule child had taken, and the talking about giving Aer a
110eat, at the Yery time I baye above mentioned I The
treatment prescribed by the somnambulist was not apw
plied; the fever assumed the 11carlet type em the morning
of tke nezt, and the child died thrl4 dtv§s afterwards.-
Among those who may testify for 1he truth ofthe above
statement, I will refer to Samuel Lord, John Street,
E;qrs. and 1\lr; Bates, an Engli•bgentlemah1 nil res.id..
illg at Pawsucltet.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
152 ANIMAL IUGN&TJIK.
So sure is Miu Gleason's power of diagnostics, so
profound is the impression made on her by the di,seases
abe has examined, that, if a single lock of the hair of
one of her patient• is presented to her, even three or
four weeks after the e.x.amination has taken place, abe
will describe the disease as though the person was pres-
ent, and even find out who he is, and where be is,
rnerely by holding tbose hairs against her epigastrium,
and feeling them with her fingers. She has been fre-
quently submitted to this test by Mr. A. Wright, whose
certificate has already been presented, and by myself,
in presence of a great many witnesses! In making
auch experiments, we are careful not to say a word_
that
might lead her to give correct answers ; we are also cau-
tious not to tell her, before she is put asleep, what we
mean to have herto do, while insomnambulism ! The re-
aults of these experiments have been almost_
invariably
successful, and sometimes perfectly astonishing. She
has also frequently been able, in a state of high lucidity,
to describe accurately a disease, by holding in her hand
some hair belonging to a person she had never seen nor
heard of before ! I might offer a number of such in-
stances under my personal observation, but I prefer to
quote one out of Mr. Wright's practice, as no one will
auspect collusion or deception in the case !
Dr. Huntington, of Lowell, having expressed to Mr.
W. his desire to have a patient of his examined by Misa
G. while in somnambulism, Mr. W. requested him to
procure some hair from the person, and send it
carefully folded in a paper, to his house, where Miss
Gleason was on a visit for a few days. Tbe patient is
a very respectable lady of Lowell, and an entire stran-
ger to Miss G. Mr. Wright having put the somnambu-
list asleep, began to converse with her about a Mrs. C.
whom she had examined some weeks past: while abe
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 153
was fairly engaged in talking about that lady's ease,
Mr. W. handed her the paper containing the hair, and
requested her to see what was in it. She immediately
applied it to her forehead, and, after some moments of
attention, said it was hair. She then took the lock out
of the paper, and, having carefully felt it, said it was not
Mrs. C.'s hair! that the hair belonged to a person who
was an entire stranger to her, and who lived only within
half a mile, (true,) whereas Mrs. C. lived three miles !
That, however, the person who owned the hair was a
lady; that she was not well by any means; that she
had been out of health for several years; that the symp-
toms of her disease were a 15reat wakefulness, headache,
pain in her right side, proceeding from an affection of
the liver, poorness of the blood, and general debility,
which prevented her from walking. This description
was remarkably accurate, as I afterwards heard from
Mr. W. and other intimate friends of the lady. But
the most surprising is this :-After finishing her exam-.
ination, Mr. W. took the hair back from Miss Gleason's
hands, nod awoke her. Not a word was told to her
while in the wakeful state about the case she had been
examtnmg. On the evening of the next day, Mr. W.
together with Miss G., called on a distinguished individ-
ual, then, lodging for a few days only, at the Merri-
mack house, for the purpose of making an experiment.
Among those who were presept, I will mention Dt.
Huntington, his brother the Attorney of the County of
Essex; Judge Williams, of Taunton, Mass., and sever-
al ladies, among whom was the owner of the hair, ex-
amined by Miss G. on the night previous. Miss G.
having been put into the magnetic sleep, the patient,
about whom not a word had been said, wns put in com-
munication with the somnambulist, with the request
that ~be should investigate the lady's health. After a
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
lU ANIMAL IIUGNETIBM.
minute or two of deep concentration, Miss G. said,
" This is not a new thing to me! I have already seen
this person; I have examined her!" "No, you are
mistaken, you never saw me before ! " " I know bet-
ter; I saw you last night, through your hair ! and 1
have nothing more to tell concerning your case." She
then, at the request of the lady, repeated what she had
already said on the night previous. The patient and
her friends, who were present declared that the de-
scription was very correct. Every one in the room was
in .the greatest amazement.•
, I might refer to upwards of a hundred patients of
both sexes, the certificates of whom I have in my po~
session; but the·proposed limits of this work do nQt
permit me to offer a)ly more for the present. I will
only beg the render to bear in' mind, that should he de-
ny the statements above presented, he would consider
as liars, not myself alone, but several other intelligent
and disinterested of their countrymen and fellow-ci~i­
zens, who have suc~essfully magnetized Miss Gleason,
and certified to the correctness of these statements.
Analogy between lllineral and .R.nimal Magnetism.
Being desirous of knowing whether there was any
analogy between Mineral and Animal Magnetism, I
made on Miss Gleason the following series of experi-
ments to satisfy my mind about it. Miss G. being in the
magnetic sleep, and her eyes kept shut by the hands of
~ bystander, placed behind her, a magnet was carried
slowly over either arm, without touching it. Soon con-
vulsive motions were manife11ted in the muscles, ani
followed by a well-marked movement of the hand, and
• I was at Nashua, N. H., when this examin~tion was made.
ANIMAL IU.ON&TISM. 15$
sometimes of the whole limb, towards the magnet.
This movement would cease as soon as the magnet was
removed, and manifested itself again at its approach.
Fearing that the influence might have been derived
from the hand of the individual who held the magnet,
rather than from the instrument itself, I suggested an-
other plan. The somna.mbulist's eyes being kept shut, as ,
·above described, and not a word about what was going
to be done, having been uttered in her presence, in or-
der not to excite a mischievous and disturbing participa-
tion of the imagination, a book was placed horizontally ·
on her lap, and a pair of scissors, of a considerable
size, very carefully laid on the book, the poit!ts direct-
ed towards either the left or the riglit hand. In the
course of a quarter, sometimes of half a minute, some
visible convulsive motions were developed in the fin-
gers, and imme4iately followed by a distinct movement
of the hand; sometimes of two fingers only, towards
the scissors; these being drawn back a little, without
the least noise, the hand still continued to move to-
wards them, and if the scissors were entirely with-
drawn from the hook, the hand dropped down und re-
mained perfectly still. Then, a silver or lead spoon, a
piece of wood, or any other article of the same size,
wa~ placed on the book, no ·effect was manifested ; the
scissors were laid down again, and the same motions
as above described were produced; if, while the fingers
were moving towards the steel, a lead or silver spoon
was suddenly presented, by a bystander, the e-ffect was
counteracted, nnd the fingers pulled back again. These
e'Xperiments were repeated in every possible way, and
were highly satisfactory to those who witnessed them.
In order to obtain more powerful effects, we resumed
experimenting with a strong magnet, and in such a
manner as to obtain some conclusive results. Two
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
A.Nlll.lL K.t.GNBTIBK.
chairs were placed near the somnambulist's knees, and
both her arms laid on the arms of a rocking chair, her
bands hanging down on each side. Tbe magnet wos
then carefully placed on either chair, at about 6 inches
distance from the eo~responding band. Soon the same
twitchings were perceived in tbe muscles; the fingers
stretched themselves and became stiff; by and by the
·whole limb moved forwards, as though attracted by tbe
instrument. If the magnet was then 'suddenly with-
drawn, the movement of the hand was stopped at once,
and the arm fell down, as insensible and powerless as
before. The magnet being placed on the opposite side,
similar effects were produced, and those effeeta.invarj.
ably ceased when the cause of action was removed.
Such experiments must have been satisfactory, as there
was no possibility of deception-the somnambulist's
eyes being carefully closed, not a word ·being spoken,
and it being so easy to shift the positi~n of the mag-
net. Furthermore, to show the analogy of the' two
magnetisms, n bystander carried his hand, at some dis-
tance, over the somnambulist's hands, and, invariably,
results similar to those produced by the magnet or the
scissors (steel) wP.re obtained. Now, to show the su·
periority of the human will over the mineral or electro-
magnetic flnid,-while the somnambulist's hand was
decidedly moving, as though attracted towards the mag-
net, the magnetizer placed his own hand on the oppo-
site side, with the firm intention of counteracting the
movement already impressed, and the movement ceas-
ed ; further still, if the magnetizer willed that the som·
nambulist's hand should draw back towards his own
and grasp it, the required effect was immediately pro-
duced. These curious experiments were tried a great
many times, and in all possible ways, without, so far as
I can remember, a single failure. Some persons will
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
.&NIM.U MAGNI!.TIIIW. 167
object that tbey might haye been an efl'eet of the im•
agination of the somnambulist, who ~me aware of
wliat was going on througA a merrtal actionexercised by
the magneti~er. No one is more pel'luaded than I am
or the prodigious power of the imagination in SOliHltliD..
boliRts, and of the reality of a mental influence exer-
ci•ed on them by the magnetizer, or dle person in com-
munication. Therefore, I can only say·that I hue
taken all possible care to obtnin from the above exper-
iments such results as might show the genuine effects
of steel, and of the magnet, on the human nervous
system, during.the state of somnambulism, independent-
ly ofany other cuuse. •
I have omitted a circumstance worthy of notice:
three of four times we kept the magnet in the same
situation on the chair, until the somnambulist's hand
reached ~~; her fingers would then cling to it with an
extraordinary force ·
: on asking her what it was, she in-
variably answered that it was a man's hand! She wish.
ed to know who it was, and observed that this man was
cold-henrted, and earnestly begged me to take him off
from her! !.n holding to the magnet, she appeared to
suffer very 'much ; the whole arm twitched, sometimes
io a violent mnnner, and when the instrument was pull-
ed by force from her hand, her fingers remained e•
ceedingly rigid and stretched for some time.•
I wish that some magnetizers would repeut these ex-
periments, on their somnambulists, and let the public
know the results. I see that the Principal of the Quak-
er College, at Providence, has already tried the effect
• Among those who have witnessed and conducted these experi-
ments, I will refer to the members of my class, in New Bedford,
whose certificate I shall present in the subsequent pages. . Those
genUemen are known to be the most respectable citizens of New
Bedford.
14
lti8 ANlatAL lf4GNETISII,
of the magnet on his somnambulist, and I refer the
.reader to the account given by him, in the notes placed
at the end ofthe second part of Deluu's Practical In-
struction, translated by Thos. C. Hartshorn, Esq. Ex-
periments should be made, also, to ascertain whether
the human nervous system, during the state of magnet-
ic somnambulism, can exercise any action on the mag-
netic needle, or the electrometer. I have not yet tried
any thing of the kind, but I mean to do it, as soon as
an opportunity will present itself.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION V.
Lowell, Mass.
MR. ALEXANDER W RJGIIT, agent of the carpet man-
ufactory, is,. I believe, the only person in this place who
wu perseveron~ and earnest in investigating the claims
of Animal Magnetism. I have already presented a
long certificate signed by him, in which he briefly states
the results of his experimWits, and pronounces, after
careful examination, Animal Magnetism to .be a t"'•
science. Those who are well acquainted with Mr.
Wright, will give to his opinion ita due weight and val-
ue. His reputation as an intelligent, upright, honor-
able man, is surpassed by that of no other iR the com-
munity in which he lives. I hope that he will be in-
duced, at some future period, and when his occupations
allow him, to give to the public a detailed account of
some of his experiments. They will show that Mr.
Wright unites, to a profound sense of delicacy and be-
nevolence, a talent of observation, and shrewdness of
mind, which are not, by nny means, frequently met
with, even in the conceited esprits forts .who so boldly
deny the reality of Animal Magnetism, because they
consider all the professors of this science as fodls, who
have suffered themselves to be imposed upon by some
cunning women! Among those whom Mr. A. Wright
has succeeded in putting into the magnetic sleep, i will
name two, who are, at least, in the opinion of aU thoeo
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
•
160 ANJKAL KAGNETJS••
who have heard of them, above suspicion of deception.
Capt. Calvert, an overseer in the Lowell carpet manu-
factory, and Samuel H. M--, Esq., one of the most
intelligent, active, nod a.opular lawyers of the same
city. So complete was the magnetic sleep into which
Mr.lU-- was thrown, contrary to bis expectation, and
against his own will, that he is now as much convinced
of the truth of Magnetism, as of his own existence!
His family, who had been hitherto skeptical on the mat-
ter; could hardly believe their own eyes, on seeing him
10 profoun\.!ly plunpd in the myst~rious slumber, and
iD~enaible to all external impresaions ! How much
areater was their amazement on seeing him come to
the natural state again, by n few insignificant gestures
made by the operator at some distance from hia face !
•
Certificate of Dr. E. Bartlett, mayor of the city of
Lowell, and professor at the medical institution of
Pittsfield, Berkshire county.
D1ning my residence at Lowell, I performed a series
.
of experiments expressly for the mayor of the city,
Dr. Elisha Bartlett, whose reputation as a scholar and
a physician ranks among the very first in New Eng-
land. The following is a certificate he gave me, after
witnessing my experiments:--
Lowell, March 31, 1837.
MoNs. PoYEN,-
" Dear Sir,-1 am perfectly willing to comply with
your request, that I should state my opinion of Animal
Magnetism, 110 far as I have been able to forrp one from
what I have seen of your experiments. You will re-
member that on the evening when these experiments
were made, (the 6th inst.) at the house of our friend
ANIMAL MAGftETIBM,. - 161
Alexander Wright, Esq., the only persons were Mr. and
~Irs. Wright, Miss Gleason, yourself, and the writer.
The experiments were made under my own direction,
and they were successful, with the exception of one
only. If there was no concealed understanding be-
tween the parties, they showed a ver:y extraordinary
and inexplicable power of the ·magnetizer over the
magnetized; and as to the presence of any thing like
an attempt to juggle or cheat, I can only say that I
could discover no evidence of any such thing. So far
us my limited means have just\fied me in forming an
opinion upon the subject generally, it seems to me that
it is worthy the further investigation of scientific men,
and that this investigation should be prosecuted in a
very careful and cautious manner. I take pleasure in
adding, and this without any solicitation on your part,
that so far as my acquaintance with you enables me to
judge, I have never had any reason to doubt the entire
.. .
honesty and sincerity of your own conduct and opin-
ions in this matter.
I am, very respectfully, yours,
ELISHA BARTLETT."
In the foregoing letter, Dr. Bartlett says, that the
experiments WHe made under his own direction ; t,hat
they were all successful but one ; that he could not de-
tect uny collusion; that, finally, he believes me to be
an honest mau, and perfectly sincere in my pursuits.
Yet, he says, also, ''Ifthere was no concealed understand-
ing between the parties, &c." This, reader, will appear
to you as an inconsistency. Perhaps it is so ; but you
must reflect that great men can never be too cautious ;
it is but just that they should keep a little crack open,
to effect their escape, in case that the great collective
being, from whom popularity and Tumors emanate-!
14•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
.UrUU.L IU.OJrBTIBII. _
- b)Bill) the pu6lic-sho1,1ld make a call upon them, and
inquire of their opinions! -
I c~ affirm, however, thllt of all the great men of
the day, Dr. B. is ol}e of the most liberal, amiable,
ready to e.x.amine any matter of science whatever.
Since writing the above certificate, he has acquired
stronger evidence than he had then, of the truth of
magnetism. He has ltimself mtzgxetized, to the satisfac
tion of his mind, a respectable young lady, at the house
of our common friend Alexander Wright, Esq. I hope
that whea the science ia well.establiali.ed, be will fear-
lenly, and generously, publish what be baa observed,
and what he believes ! I hope that all o~ber grea~
men, who now keep their conviotions within their own
bosom, will also bear testimony to the truth, wben the
stormy clouds, which are now hanging over our heada,
shall have passed over.
From tAe LoweU Advertiser of Mank 31st, 1837.
One of the undersigned, 1\lr. ALEXANDER WRIGHT,
agent of the carpet manufactory of this city, feeling a
lively interest in Anim:~.l Magnetism, and wishing to
have in his possession some facts of a very conclusive
character, to oppose to the incredulity which generally
prevail~! on this subject, asked me to make a few exper·
iments at his own house, where he inteuded to invite,
to witness them, some influential gentlemen, well known
in this community for their cautiousness and talent of
observation, but, at the same time; for their fairness
and independence of mind, ami who woold ·be willing
to testify for the facts that they would see. _
I assented to Mr. Wright's proposition with much
pleasure and eagerness. Saturday last, 25th inst., was
o,Google
AJiflliiAL 114GJIETfllilo 168
the day appointed for tbe experiments. The gentle-
men invited were, Dr. J. Fox, Dr. W. Duesbury, :Messrs.
G. Brownell, superintendent of the machine shop, G•
.Motley, agent of the Appleton Mills, Ch. Tilden, Maj.
S. A. Coburn, the city clerk, E. Case, the Postmaster,
J. Nesmith, L. Huntress, the editor of the Lowell
Courier, and R. Southwick.
According to Mr. Wright's suggestion, Miss G., the
somnambulist, was to be put to aleep, at a time pre-
seribed by cbe committee of gentlemen, and in a man-
ner of which she could not be aware by any of her
senses. In order to accomplish this purpose, the fol-
lowing plan was adopted. On the day above men-
tioned, towards four o'clQck, Mr. Wright resorted to
my lodgings, and took with him; in his carriage, Miss
G. alone, who was, says he, going to spend the after-
noon at his house with a few other ladies. Before re-
tiring; he said that he would come again, alld take me
at atwther moment, in the evening.
Indeed, towards twenty minutes after seven o'clock,
Mr. W. called for me in his chaise. In order to aoroid
that Miss G. should have ~ny knowledge of my arrival
at_the house, Mr. W. introduced me therein throu·gh
the back door, which is situated far from the parlor, in
which the somnambulist was sitting, ~ogetber with the
other laaies. I entered, stepping as lightly as possible,
into a room where the gentlemen were assembled fOI'
nearly one hour. I did not even bid good evening ver-
bally to the company, in order to avoid giving any mo-
tive of suspicion whatever. The room in wltieh Wil
were was separated from the other parlor by a folding-
door, closed so tightly that no ray of light could pene·
trate through the crack. A few moments after my en-
tering, a gentleman handed to me a bit of paper with
these words written on it : "Please to commence mag-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
164 ANIMAL IIAGJf&TlS..
netizing Miss ·G. from this room, four minutes after
reading this." I stood in silence near the fire-place,
while the general conversation and moving about wu
going on. Itis eseentinl to state here, that among the
ladies present, in the next parlor, one, only, Mrs.
Wright, was informed of the plan : abe had not spoken
a word about it. The other ladies, as well as Miss G.
herself, were expecting that I would come in through
the front door, and enter their.apartment together with
the cummittee of gentlemen, in order to perform the
experiment. Therefore, that which took place subse-
quently was entirely unexpected on their part. A.t the
prescribed time, I stepped very lightly and stood at
about one foot before the folding-door. A gentle\Dan
who bad been looking, with great care not to be &eeo,
through the window, from without, on purpose to &&-
certain where Miss G. was sitting, handed to me a bit
of paper with these words : " She is sitting at about
three feet from the door, her back turned toward you."
Then I began to operate with great energy; yet it
was very difficult for me to keep my ·mind attentive to
the object and strongly directed on a single point, on
account of the moving and conversation that was going
on both behind and before me; for the ladies, being
not aware of the operation, continued talking loud in
the other room. Af$er 8 minutes of action, I stopped
for some moments. A gentleman, who bad been look-
ing through the window, told me that the patient wu
leaning her bead against her hand-that she appeared
very drowsy, and was making evident efforts to keep
aw~ke. Another person indicated to me the precise
place where she was sitting. I resumed the operation,
and continued it for about ten or twelve minutes. I
ceased again, as I felt very much fatigued. 'fben a la-
~y, Mrs. W., came out and told us that Miss G.'s ey,ea
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
I
.A.NJJUL MAGIUTJ811. 166
were shut, a~d that she could not answer the questioDt
put to her: we learnt, aleo, from Mrs. W. (and it wat
afterwards confirmed by the other Indies,) that Miss G.
bad felt sleepy in a very few ·minutes after I had com·
menced magnetizing her; that she had even made an
apology for it; that, finally, Hhe would have gone to
•leep very "
soon, if the other ladies had not tried to
keep her awake by talking constantly to her. Imme-
diately after hearing the foregoing particulars, the gen·
tlemen entered the other apartment and found the pa·
tient on the rocking-chair, her eyes shut, and in the
posture of a person quietly delivered up to the natural
IJleep. They shook her bands, tickled her face, spoke
to her, but without producing any effect. She was, in·
deed, in the magnetic sleep. Every one of the com·
pany declared that this experiment had been very fair-
ly done, and was perfectly satisfactory. .After it was
sufficiently ascertained that Miss G. was in the mag-
netic state, .and could not anStover any body, I ap-
proached her,.and proposed to her, in a low voice, sev-
eral questions, which she answered readily, and cor-
rectly. , A few moments afterwards the gentlemen pro-
ceeded to the following.experiments:-
A bit of paper was handed to me, with this command
written on it: "1\Iake her give you her hand." A
gentleman standing be~1iod her, passed his hands over
both her eyes, in order to prevent collusion, supposing
that th6i'e could be any. I stood at about one foot dis-
tant from the somnambulist, stretched my hand towards
her, without touching, and requested her, mentally, to
shake hands with me. Soon she moved her fingers,
opened her hand, and grasped at mine. This experi-
ment was declared very clear and satisfactory.
The gentlemen wishing to see the same performed
a,ain, for their complete· satisfaction, I repeated the ex-
166 ANIMAL K.AG.N&TISK.
periment with equal succesfl. I noticed, however, that
this time no bandage was held over the somnambulist'•
eyes. A gen!le ' an told me afterwarcs that this same
experiment had been tried over again, in order to know
whether the same effects could be produced without the
application of the hands on Miss G.'s eyes, as it had
been objected by some that the application might have
been a signal agreed upon between me and her.
A few moments aftei, another piece of paper was
, passed to me with the words " make her open her eyes,
atanding behind her." I took the position in perfect
silence, and without moving. In the first place, the
somnambulist put her head straight, and saUJ, as if she
bad heard a voice, " Speak a li.
'tle louder! " (every
one present may testify that I did not move my lips.)
Then she opened her :ids and kept them so, perfectly
still for some moments, although a lamp was brought
near them, and several quick motions made, in rapid
succession, towards them, by a gentleman. Then I
passed behind, and caqsed the eyes to close again by a
mental action.
The-somnambulist having asked for some drink, Mr.
N. took a tumbler and presented it to her, even put it
in her hand, but she took no notice of him. The fum-
bler was banded 1o me, and, standing at about two feet
from Miss G., I requested her, mentally, to take it; im-
mediately she stretched her arm and grasped at it.
After she hnd finished drinking, some gentlemen tried
to take th~ tumbler from her ; but she would not give it
up to them, and pulled away their hand. I, standing on
tbe same place, requested her, mentally, to give it to
me, which she did instantly.
A gentleman handed to me a piece of paper on which
this command was written : " Present to her the tum-
bler again, in willing that the water should be Rum for
o ,, bvGoogle
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 167
her." Accordingly, I magnetized the glass a minute
or two, and requested, mentally, the somnambulist to
take it, which she did.immediately: after she had drank
a few swallows, I asked her what it was; she answer-
ed, " Wine! will it make me dizzy 1 "
A gentleman having manifested the desire to be ex-
amined by Miss G., on his state of health, l put him in
communication with her. She first took his pulse and
•aid how it was ! 'fhen carried her right hand lightly
over his chest and sides, her eyes remaining perfectly
shQt and still. Then she said that this gentleman was
ilot very sick; that, however, he must be subject to
pains in his bead; tbat his liv-er was affected a little,
the JJpper and posterior parts of it being very light-col-
ored, (two shades lighter than the rest of the organ;)
that, in consequence of the state of the liver, he must
have pains in his right side ; that his lung~ and stom-
ach were sound; that his blood was neither of the best
nor of the worst kind; that he was subject to jaundice.
Q. "Have I any pain in my left side 1'' A. "I have
not looked at it yet." Then, after toucbin ·~ the part,
•he said, in shaking her head, "Yet~, you have pain in
this side, but not so much as in the right. You ought
to take something to physic your blood and cure your
liver!" Then the somnambulist indicated several rem-
edies, not chemical ones, but extra~ted from the vegeta-
ble kingdom, and which she might have heard of be-
fore, as they are often usedjn this country. The pr~­
acriptions were declared, by the medical gentlemen
then present, very proper, both for the nature of the
plants, the quantity, and the manner in which they
should be taken.
The somnambulist, making a deep sigh, and passing
her band on the pit of her stomach, with an expresaion
of pain, said, "I believe that I .am now a great deal .
,g,uzeobvGoogle
168 ANIMAL MAGNETISM:,
sicker than you are," and left the gentleman's hand.
Then I asked her what was the gentleman's complex-
ion 1. ''Dark!"
The consultation being finished, Mr.-- got up a~cl
declared that he was much satisfied with the somnam-
bulist's answers ; that, indeed, he had pains, at times,
in his head, but more particqlarly in his right side,
which sometimes perplexed him very much; that be
was subject to jaundice, being naturally very bilious!
Mr.-- is of a very dark complexion. ·
-Shortly after this last experiment, I announced that
I was going to awake the somnambulist. I approached
her, and told her to awake in six minutes, precisely.
She answered, "Very welt." Then I retired the-length
of the room, and asked, in a very low voice, 11 gentle-
man to tell me which arm he wished I should strike
with paralysis 1 "The right." While another person
was holding a bandage over Miss G.'s eyes, I carried
my hand, without touching, four or five times over her
right arm, with the intention of paralyzing it. I cea~
ed. We waited io silence. As the ueedle was making
the sixth minute, by the watch of a bystander, the
somnambulist began to inove, and stretched her left
arm-the right did not stir. Within half of a minute
she opened her eyes, and appeared perfectly awake.
Then she moved again her left arm, rubbed he!' eyes
. and forehead-the right remained still. Agentleman
approached, put her several question11, which she an·
llwered,"and requested her to shake hands with him ;
abe presented her left hand. "I want the right," said
the gentfeman. '' I cannot stir it; it is powerless and
insensible, sir."
A few moments having elapsed, I restored the par-
alyzed arm, simply by making a few passes over it.
Such are the facta that took place. And I may af•
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
firm, tbnt in the ppi,niop .qf I!V~l'Y ~dfl ."nd ~Qaest­
hearted man, they .~re CO:Dcl.
u!liw:e eu.9~gb to .~ow 'IJY
estimable friend, Alexandt:r Wright, to ,t'pglnud him..
self for not hav'og blindly yielded to the .general in-
credulity, and for .having _given his .earneat and disi.J1,-
terested supJ)()rt to ,a acience that will prove hqreafter
ao.useftrl in m~ny imwrtant ways. C. P.
" T~e undersigned .certify that they have a,tten~d
the experiments in Animal Magnetism, ,performed at
Mr• .A.lennder Wright's house, on the 25th inst.; that
the statement above presented, by Mons. Ch. Poyen, is
correct, and that it was not possible for them to detect
any collusion, whatever, between him and the magnet-
ized person. They also declare that Mons. P. conduct·
ed bimstllf in a manner creditable to himself, and cal-
culated to inspire confidence in the integrity of his
moral character.
ALEX. WRIGHT,
GEoRGE BaoWIIIELL,
SAMUEL A. CoBURN,
Ca.u. L. TILDEN,
RoYAL SouTHWICK,
W. DuEsBURY,
GEo. MoTLEY,.
LEONARD HuNTREss,
J OBN NESMITH."
Certificate of E. Case, Postmaster, of L(IU)eU, Mass..
LOUJell, March 29th, 1837.
"To MoNs. Cu. PoYEN.
•• Sir,-Havingbeen requested by you to express an
opinion of your experiments in Animal Magnetism, at
the bouse of A1exander Wright, Esq., on the evening
of the 25th inst., I will cheerfully and frankly state
that I attended on said evening, at Mr. Wright's re-
quest, with the understanding that, if desired, the opin-
ion you ask should be given.
15
o.a.oze<t,Google
170 .t.NIIIAT. lfAGN'ETJillf.
"So far u I know or believe, the experiments were
fairly conducted, and, with one exception, entirely sue~
cessful. , There was not the slightest appearance of
collusion between the magnetizer and the person mag-
netized. The experiments were all entirely new to me,
and before giving no opinion of the nature, or even
cau1e of ''the magnetic sleep," I should wish to make
further observations. It was, however, something dif-
ferent, in its appearance and effects, from any thing I
had before witnessed. Yours, truly,
ELJPHALBT CAs'~:.''
SECTION VI.
NasAtUJ, N. H.
Naalu1a, April29tA, 1837.
AMONG the persons who have been magnetized with
success, during my residence at Nashua, N.H., I will
mention Mrs. M. M., from Chester, Vermont. This
lady, on her journey to Boston, had stopped for a few
days at Capt. Adams's tavern, where I had my&elf
taken lodgings. She is a relative to the landlady, Mrs.
Adams, and was an entire stranger to me. After
a few moments of acquaintance with Mrs. M., I formed
the opinion, from her temperament and external ap-
pearance, that she would be easily affected by Animal
Magnetism. I proposed to try the operation on her-
which she readily granted. I must observe here, that
she knew nothing of this science, having never beard
nor read of it previous to my conversation with her.
She was magnetized in presence of her husband and
two or three ladies, her cousins. According to my ex-
pectations, she was very soon affected : it did not take
me longer than 8 or 9 minutes to put her in a sound
sleep, characterized, as usual, by the complete insensi-
bility of the external senses, and the incapacity of the
muscular system. ·I proposed to her several questions,
which she appeared to have heard, as she she tried, but
in vain to answer,-her lips would move, but without
forming any audible &ound. This sleep lasted half an
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
172 .f.NIM.U. K.f.GNETIIIK.
hour : I caused it to cease by the usual motions with
my hand, made before the face and chest of the patieat.
Ron. G. C. Atherton, Esq. had witnessed this firs~ ex-
, periment, as be was introduced into the room immedi-
ately after the lady was put to sleep.
Mrs. M. was magnetized again, and with an equal
success, on the evening of the aame day, in presence of
a numerous assembly, and awaked in the same manner
as abol'e mentioned.
A third operation on the same person took place the
next morning, towards 10 o'clock, in presence of the
ladies of the bouee, G. C. Atherton, C. Cotter, M.D.,
nd three of the cleYgyrnew of the place. In this ex-
periment the patient answered aadibly and distinctly
my q~Jestions, without awakili~. Also, at the approach
of my fingets towards her hand alrd arm, conv~tlsite
motions were prodoeed almost instantly in those parts.
This last experiment was repeated with equal llllecel!!l ;
and to the greatest satisfaction of the gentlemen
prelfe!wt.
Mrs. M. having left Nashua in the af!ernoon, leonid
not continue my operations on her. But n few dRys
afterwards, on her re1urn (rom Boston, she stopped
again at Capt. Adams's, and the experiments were re-
sttmed by me. Mrs. M. W111! also magnetized tl1ree
times by Dr. C. Cutter, of this place, and invariably
tbe same results were obtained. The eonYulsiye mo--
tions of the arms and hands, at the approach of the
marnetizer's fingers, were rwoduced more and more
easily, in proportion as they were more often repeated.
Ttliii phenomenon took plaee, even when a ba·ndage wRS
placed Of"er the patient's eyes; and' they were invnriably
produced·in rhe arm towArds which the action was di-
rected. They would atso iavariably cease as soon as
dre action- "!lis interru·pted. This ease, together with
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
.ANIMAL MAGNETIS:M. 173
three or four others of about the same character, con-
tributed much in establ.ishing the truth of magnetism
in Nashua. It is almost useless to' say, that Mrs. M.,
after awaking, had not the least recollection of what
had transpired during the operation. C. P.
•• I certify that I have attended to the magnetic ex-
periments performed on my wife, and that the above
statement is correct. WrLLUM MARSHALL,"
The following remarks and statements were pub-
lished some time ago, in the newsp~pers, by Doct. C.
Cutter, with the permissioq of whom, we extract them,
to corroborate what has been already written in the
preceding pages :-
" ANIMAL MAuN.ETISM. As this is a subject new to
most persons, curious and interesting in its details, and
to many incomprehensible, and conaequently to them
apparently a deception, those who become its advocatea
will have bestowed upon them, in liberal measure, the
epithets, impostors, quacks, and charlatans. This has
~er been the case relati.,.e to those who advanced and
advocated novel truths. Galileo was proscribed and
condemned as a criminal for simply stating the truth
concerning the solar system. Harvey, an eminent phy-
sician of London, discovered and published the true
theory of the circulation of the blood in the human sys-
tem-yet for this truth he was rewarded with slander
and ridicule, by the physicians of London, so libe'rally
as to destroy his extensive practice. Such was the con-
duct oftbe medical faculty of Pari• towards those who
defended and used Animal Magnetiam in that citr aome
ll)•
"
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
174
ftfty yellrs si·lfee ; &l'td I shaH be disappooiftfed ifmy re•
ward is not liberal in this respect, as I iJ()W could name
some in this towu and ricinity, who are practising phy•
eicians who as11ert that it is quackery a:nd deception ~
yet, when they have been invite dto witness the ef"ects
of magnetism, examine persons in a state of somnam-
bulism, nnd be present at the examination of patients
by somnambules, they have refused, with this rea:son1
•I am a member of the medical society.' Now, I am
not a member of the medical societ.Y, but I have re-
ceived a medical diploma, and have been invited to join
the medical society, whic~ I have declined doing. De-
nouncing any thing without examination !s not acting
with candor, intelligence, benevolence, and charity-
as by so doing, truth bns not free course, and thus inju-
ry is done to society. All nrc interested in the cause
of truth, as all truth is of value.
"Relative to magnetism, examine it before approving
or condemhing it. Are not all bound tQ do this 1 Will
any one slander and ridicule in place of candid exami-
llation 1 We presume not. Concerning the utility of
magnetism, I will now say a few words. Let us inquire
first, what are its etrects on the system, &c. After
having magnetized many diseased persons, I shall an-
swer that its common effect is general traTUJVillity oftAt
system, remo11ing pain, and cavsing very fret sweating,
and in some cues a peculiar sleep, caJled somnambu-
liem. With candor I would ask, if tranquillity and free
sweating are not useful io almost every disease. Hence
its value iu the treatment,and cure of disease.
"European physicians, among whom may be named
Rostan, Geo~, Viery, assert that it will speedily wre
the following COMplaints: Scrof11la, obstructions oftbe
glands, piles, ebrooic inflammation, rout, rheumatism,
inflammation of the throat and eyes, hemorrhage, epi-
'a"'ze'o,Googlc
ANJMAL MAON~Tll!llllt. 175
J•t•lfY• byetetiu, mania, headache, toothac.lte, all kinds
nenoua pain, dyspepsia, cbolic, pains in the stomach,
-.omiting, asthma, palpitations of the heart, cough, deaj:.
nes11, paralysit, tie doloreu:, &c. In many of the abgve
disease• I ha'fe used it, and found it perfectly success-
ful. Out·of many cn,es, I shall only present the fol-
lowing, &8 the penons are now ia NBBhua.
" Case lit. ' For eight years I have been affiicted with
ft partial palsy or my right arm, rendering it nearly
useless in labor. During most of this time, my health
has been poor, having bad pains in my chest, cough,
shortness of breath, pain iu the back of the head and
neck, for some years. Some months since, I was mag·
netized by Dr. Calvin Cutter, of this villnge. It pro·
duced a tendency to sleep, great heat in the skin, lungs,
and palsied arm. It was repeated four times. My arm
was restored to its strength and feeling, the pain in my
head and lungs, together with my cough, was removed-
my health is now better than for some years. As I
took no medicine, I must impute the benefit to magnet-
ism. ' ELEAZER BARRJO:TT.'
Nai/lua,,' Sept. 4th, 1837.
"Case 2d. ' For more than two years I have been af-
flicted with pain in my stomach, side, and back, to so
great an extent as to incapacitate me for labor a con·
siderable part of the time, during which time my rood
bas usually distressed me, after eating. Some months.
since I wa11 magnetized by Dr. Cutter. At the second
magnetizing, the pain in my stomach, head and back,
was removed; appetite became good, and food ceased
to cause distress. I took no medicine. Since magnet-
izing, my health has been better than for many months
previous. FLoRA FuLLER.'
Na,sAua, &pt. 6th, lS37.
176 ANUIAL MAGNBTISII.
'' Cast 3d. 'This certifies, that four years since I be-
came diseased in the back part of my head, attended
with much pain, and want of feeling in one side of my
neck, to so great. an extent that I was unable to turn
my head one side. This has been gradually increasing.
I have been under medical treatment from several phy-
sicians, without receiving any ·benefit. -Some weeks
since I was magnetized by Dr. Cutter, of Nashua. It
removed the pain, the sensibility and mobility of the
neck were re~:~tored, attended with free sweating of the
diseased side of the bead and neck. This was effected
in the space of one week, without any medicine what-
. ever. SusAN HARTSHORN.'
Nashua, Sept. lst, 1837.
"Case 4th. A lady, now living in my family, about two
years since, become diseased with a large ulcer upon
, the ancle. Its diameter was something like two inches,
attended with constant pain, and swelling of the foot.
She applied to several physicians in this town and vi-
cinity, but received no benefit. Some months since I
magnetized the diseased ancle and foot. The pain and
much of the redness was immediately removed, and
the ulcer rapidly healed. The ulcer is now well.
" The effect of magnetism, in removing the inflamma-
tion around this ulcer, bas been witnessed by many,
among whom may be named Dr. Bartlett, Mayor of
Lowell, and Dr. Dearborn, of this town. Since mag-
netizing, she receives no inconvenience from walking.
F()l'merly it caused excessive pain.
" Other cases might be given, of citizens now living,
but space will not permit. Should any individual de-
sire, reference would be made to many other cases.
" Some may ask, what is this Magnetic Sleep, or
somnambulism, concerning which there is some talk'!
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
~NJMAL MAGDTJSM. 17'7
Is it or'nny benefit 1 I answer that it is useful, when
there is restlessn'ess and want of sleep. Bot the molt
eurious phenomenon of somnambulism is the faculty
wllich some have of corre~tly locating and deecribin,;
disease in persons of whom the somnambule had no
previous knowledge. If thi11 be true, it may be of nl-
ue in the treatment of disease. Ignorance of the true
disease probably is the catJSe why good physicians fail
in relieving and curing many cases of disease. This
is illustrated in the case of many, by their going to one
physician who tells them their disease is in the head,
and treats it accordingly. The patient, after many
weeks, being no better, calls upon another doctor, who
tells him his disease is in the longs, and so treats the
case. No relief being obtained, another member of
the faculty is consulted, who concludes that the liver is
the cause of trouble, consequently he prescribes for a
liver complaint. Nothing bettered by this course of
treatment, advice is obtained from a fourth, who is
quite certain the stomach is in fault-speedy relief is
promised; but here disappointment again awaits the
patient. Almost in despair, relief is still sought by ob-
taining advice of another distinguished member of the
healing art, who wisely determines that all-his brethren
have been mistaken, and that the blood needs purify-
, ing and strengthening, and then the patient will be
quite well. Relief is promised; but the wretched pa-
tient learns that pTomiset.l are one thing, and perform-
ances another. Now, when good and well educated
physicians differ in opinion, as above specified, it is
clear d1ey do not know what ails the patient. And is
not the want of certain knowledge of the disease the
cause of the iU success in tbe treatment of many pa.-
tients? But a diseased person may ask if the inform• -
tion of a somnambule can be depended upon 1 We
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
178 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
think it may. I have witnessed from forty to fifty ex-
aminations of patients by a somnambule in this village,
and in all the cases, the somnambule did correctly
point out the seat of disease, without a question being
asked, or any information being given to the somnam-
bule. In all the cases, except one, the patients were
unknown to the somnambule. In several cases, tumors
were pointed out correctly, although not perceivable
by common observers. As it is often said, if a som-
nambule can point the site of a tumor or sore, it WO!Jld
be concli1sive, I will detail a case or two. ,
"Ca1e 5th. Miss PrisciJJa Baldwin, of this town, was
examined by a somnambule, (Miss C. A.Gleason,) some
months since. This examination was in presence of
the Rev. Mr. Pratt, James Osgood, Esq., Dr.-Parker,
and others. Passing over the general examination,
which was apparently correct, the somnamLule pointed
out a tumor in the side, and said that it had an oval
cavity, filled with a yellowish 6uid. Subsequently,
Miss B. wu examined by Dr. J. C. Warren, who
said it was a wen, and advised its removal. I then
opened the tumor, and it discharged something like
half a pint of yellowish 6uid, and, upon examination, I
found the cavity to be an oval one. The somnambule
had no knowledge of Miss B. previous to the examina-
tion.
"Case 6th. Mr. Moses Saunders, of Hudson, "'as ex-
amined by a somnambule, now at my bouse, in pres-
ence of Dea. Reuben Greely. The somnambule point-
ed out the exact situation of a tumor in the bowels,
which could not be seen by common_
observers, except
by manual examination. The examination of this case
in other respe~ts, was apparently correct. The som-
nambule had no knowledge of this case, previous to the
examination.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
A.NIIIU.L IIA.GN8T18M, 179
· "C!ase7tla. Sept. lOt/a, IS.'J7. Without a word being
said to any individual in my house, I requested permis
sion to magnetize the·somnambule, now living with me,
for a head-ache. While in a magnetic sleep, by appoint-
ment, Mr. Samuel F. Jenness came to my house with
Miss Martha Donn, who has been deaf and dumb for
/twenty-two years. This was said to have been.caused
by a disease, when two years old. I requested the
somnnrnbule to examine the head of Miss D. After a
little time, she said she saw n hard mass, of a reddish
yellow color, eonnected with the interior of the brain,
and that Miss D. could not hear or talk. Of this the
somnambule was certain, while nn equal degree of pos-
itiveness was expressed that Miss D. c~mld see and
smell. On the following day the somnnmbule, when
asked by me, said that she had no knowledge of the
cause of deafness, and had never been in company with
a deaf person before. -
"Aug. 16th, 1837. I put a person, Jiving in my fami-
ly, into a magnetic sleep-this pers011 having been mag-
netized several times, and having examined many indi-
viduals afflicted with diseases of various kinds. In
about half an hour; Dr. Bartlett, the mayor of Lowell,
and lady, called, by previous appointment. I then-seut
for Mrs. Collins, who had 11 child, ubout nine_ months
old, that for four months had been gradually losing the
power of sight, by reason of cataracts that were per-
ceptible in both eyes. The child being asleep, was ex-
amined by the somnaUJbule, who soon said that the
child could not see much, and that there was something
in the eye that prevented the child from seeing. The
1omnambule further said that the nenes of the eye
were diseased, and were the cause of the disease in the
eye. Mrs. Collins has had other children who became
blind from cataracts, and who died at an ~arty age,
•
ISO .ufiiU.L IUitiNBTISII•
from disease in the head. No mention was made to
the aomnamhule, or any person in my family, that tbia
child was to be examined. The only person to whom
I named it, were Dr. Bartlett and Mrs. Collins. On
this and the other cases examined by the somnambule.
which have been communicated, I make no comment.
Let the candid reader deeide whether abe bas the pow·
er of locating and describiog disease with accuracy.
Names of all individuals examined will be given to any
person asking. .
"In the foregoing lines I have not attempted to sus-
tain magnetism by reason or analogy, as I think that
this, as well as other sciences, must be sustained by
well authenticated, observed facts, and ~n no other
way. C. CuTTER, M. D."
Nashua, Oct. 4th, 1837.
Dear Sir,-I very cheerfully comply with your re-
quest that I 11hould. furnish you with a brief statement
of an interesting case of magnetic somnambulism,
which has occurred in this village, under my own obser-
vation. The subject of these operations was a young
lady, well known in this place, and a near relative of
mine, in whom, moreover, I have the utmost confidence.
The operator is myself; therefore, I cannot have any
doubt about the reality of the phenomena .that I pro-
pose to mention. They were, bet!ides, of such a nature
as to .carry conviction to the mind of the most skeptical
person. The young lady, the subject of these experi-
meots, lives in my house, and I had the opportunity of
magnetizing her several timea. 11!., The d.uratiou ofthe
operation to put her in the magnetic sleep, has dimin-
ished from thirty to seven.minutes. 2d., This mag11etic
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIKAL IUGNBTII!IM• 181
sleep, or state, is characterized in her, as is, I believe,
most generally the case, by a suspension of the ac-
tion of the outward senses. She hears nothing, feels
nothing, &c. Her eyes are closely shut, and the eye-
.balls, when the lids are opened by a bystander's tin-
g!'rs, are seen turned upwards, and seem as though
they were convulsed. I will observe, however, that
her external insensibility is, in some measure, under
the control of my will; if, for ·instance, I will her to
feel the tickling on her lips or cheeks with a feather,
abe imm!!diately feels it; if, then, I will the contrary,
she ceases to feel. If I will her to hear another person
besides me, she hears him immediately, and answers
all his questions. If I will her to cea11e conversing,
she ceas(ls, &c. ,.
" 3d. She appears evidently very sensible to the ac-
tion of my will. According to my mental request, she
performs also various motions. It is useless to state
that in experiments of this sort; I do not resort to lan-
guage to convey my volition to her.
" 4th. The most remarkable of her faculties, is, that
of seeing, her eyes remaining still perfectly closed.
Her power of vision is so great, that she sees as well
in a room completely dark, as when there is light be-
fore her face. In fact, light, as we call it, seems to be
of no us~ at all in the operation of seeing, since she
recognizes objects, with the greatest accuracy, through
opaque bodies. •I will quote an instance or two. In
order to test her faculty of vision, a short time ago, I
caused all the lamps to be removed from the room ; sev-
eral persons were present, but the obscurity was so
great, that it was impossible for us to distinguish each
other. Then I handed several newspapers to the som-
namb~list, and requellted her to read their titles ; and
abe readily read ' The Herald of Freedom,' the •Sat-
16
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
A.IUIIAL IIAGNBTIIM.
urday Evening Courier,' tbe • Boston Morning Post,'
• Fanner'• Cabinet,' and .. Lowell Courier.' Another
evening, a watch was. presented to her with a silver
face, and she was requeeted to tell what time it was.
•It is 8 o'clock~ ' and it was correct ! The same wateb
was again preeented at some distance from her face,
wholly covered by the gentleman's hand; ehe was re-
quested to tell towards which side the dial, or gloss face
&f tbe watch was turned. • It is turned towards you,'
said she; and it was correct. Again, a thick board,
aba.at 4 feet long and 3 wide, was brought into the
room ; several gentlemen placed themselves behind it,
while the somnambulist's eyes were kept closely shut,
by a bystftoder's fingers; she was asked to look and
see the gentlemen, and sbe named them in succession,
without mistaking once. :Being asked whether she
had noticed any thing interposed between her and the
individuals, she answered in the negative. Then, be-
ing directed to see the object interposed, she said it was
a board.
"5th. Her faculty for appreciating and keeping time
is equally wonderful ! If, for instance, I prescribe to
her at one time to awake in a given number of minutes,
go to sleep again in another limited number of.minutes,
and awake again at a certain time, she will awake, go
to sleep again, and awake at the very second, accord-
ing to the prescription.
"6th. I have never observed that this somnambulist
would speak or act in an improper manner; far from
it-she exhibits the same delicacy and perfect reserve
as in the wakeful state. A great number of respect-
able gentlemen and ladies, of this place, have seen her
in the magnetic s1eep, and have expressed their satis-
faction about the phenomena.
I am very tro}y yours,
JOSIAH A. WHEAT."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL IUGNETIIM·
Nashua, N. H., Oct. 2d., 1837.
"DR. Ca. PoYEN,-
" Dear Sir,-You are aware that from the moment l
heard your lecture on Animal Magnetism, in this town,
I expressed to you that I felt a deep interest in this sci-
ence, on account of the great importance that it seem-
ed to r~e to have in regard to the health of mankind,
and to the philosophy of the human mind. I resolved,
therefore, to ascertain its reality by proper application
of my own senses. I commenced a .regular series of
experiments, according to the method taught by you,
and I have, ever since you left Nashua, perseveringly '
continued them. I 'inust cQnfess, sir, and I do it with
the greatest pleasure, that the results I have obtained
have fully confirmed, in my mind, the opinion which I
had already formed from the two series of experiment&
which you allowed me to ptlrform, for my own satisfac-
tion, on your somnambulist, Miss C. A. Gleason. I
have acquired such an evidence of the reality of Ani-
mal l\'1agnetism, that I could not reject it without deny-
ing my own existence. My conviction is founded, not
on experiments made by other individuals, in my prea-
ence, but on those I have myself repeatedly performed.
" 1st. I have successfully magnetized several persona,
of both sexes. I mention this, because I have found it
to be the general impression that men are not suscepti-
ble of the magnetic influence.
"2d. I have succeeded to put a pretty good number
into the magnetic sleep, and to awake them by my will,
with a fe\V gestures, at a distance.
"3d. Several of those I have magnetized have be-
come somnambulists.
•• 4th, My somnambulists have exhibited moat of the
,
184 ANIJIAL MAGNETISM.
phenomena mentioned by you in your lecturt}s, and
which I bad witnessed in your experiments.
"5th. The time necessary for putting a person into
the magnetic sleep, has varied, under my observation,
from about 40 minutes to half a minute, and even le11s.
I have now a somnambulist under my care, who falls
into that state in less than a quarter of a minute, al-
most as soon as I form the volition. I have.observed
that this stnte is elicited much more easily, and sooner,
in a person who has been frequently operated upon
than in a new subject. I have been able to produce it
at a distance, say 10 or 12 feet from the patient, and
without either contact or gesture of any kind.
''6th. My somnambulish< are generally insensible to
impressions exercised OJI their external organs.
''7th. They will hear no one except myself. But by
arousing a little their mind, and willing them to, they
will answer correctly questions proposed by others.
"8th. I have met with several somnambulists, who
could understand and obey my will in a most accurate
manner. For instance, they will, at my mental request,
raise their hand, take any object _from mine or from
another's hand, open their eyes, without awaking, get
up and walk, converse with another person; and cease
conversing, awake in a certain number of minutes,
prescribed by me, without a word spoke, &c. About
the reality of the power of the will, I cannot have any
doubt, as the experiments were made by myself, and
could not be known to anyone else.
"9th. I have a somnambulist, whose sense of touch
and internal feeling are so much developed and perfect-
ed, that she will tell correctly to which individual an
object, placed in her hand, belongs ! ·If she does not
know the person's name, she will designate him by
pointing out the seat occupied by him in the room. I
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 185
kave made a number of experiments of this nature in
your presence, before a numerous co"mpany, and you
know that there could be no collusion. · Among the
persons present, on that evening, wer~ Dr.'s Cutter and
Reed, of this place, and the Rev. Mr. Hatch, a very
intelligent and respectable pastor of the Methodist
church.
"lOth. This same somnambulist is also remarkable
for the faculty she has of appreciating and keeping
time.
" 11 tb. Two of my somnambulists possess what has
been termed clairvoyance, or the power of seeing with
their eyes closed. They can, for example, read a few
lines, tell the number of a bill, the time marked by any
watch, and recogni~e any object placed at a distance
before their face. I l1~ve -observed that the exercise of
this power is exceedingly fatiguing to ·the somnambu-
list; it is prudent not to repeat these experiments often,
because the person complains very much afterwards,
and is liable to make a failure when his mind is already
confused. I will add, that I hive noticed that the fac-
ulties of my patients are not always alike; their clear-
ness and power vary very much according to their bod-
ily state and mental dispositions previous to the exper-
iment.
"12th. My somnambulists preserve, while asleep, the
strictest feeling of delicacy and the same sense of duty
as while awake. They never experienced any injury
from my operations; far from it-one of them has re-
ceived evident relief from them.
"Such are, my dear sir, in a few words, the results of
my practice. I must add, that my line of business
·does not permit me to make the practice of magnetism
a professional occupation : what I have so far accom-
16•
,
186 _ANJIUL IUGNETIIIIL
plished has been done with tbe view of satisfying my
own mind, and convincing my friends.
" If you think that my testimony might be of any
value, you are at liberty to use this letter _in any· way
you see fit, to promote the interest of the science.
Respectfully, yours,
LEONARD MARBLE.''
Report of the Prtncipal of my. Class in Nastiua.
Nashua, N. H., May 5th, 1837.
''The subscribers, having carefully attended the pri-
vate course of eight lectiues and experiments on Ani-
mal Magnetism, given by Dr. Ch. Poyen_, in this town,
cer.tify,-Ist. In regard to the lectures, that they.have
derived much grati-fication and instruction from the
candid and scientific manner in which the subject was
treated by him. 2d. In regard to the experiments,that
they have clearly and forcibly proved the doctrine
taught by Mons. Poyen to be founded on indisputable
facts-as they were, with n very few exceptions, suc-
cessful, and performed with the greatest care.
"Lastly, the subscribers certify, that, in all his course
of lectures and experiments,.Dr. P. conducted himself
in a manner creditable to his character, and calculated
to inspire confidence in his perfect integrity.
"(Signed)-C. G• .1\tberton, C. Cutter, M.D., Leon-
ard Marble, W. E. Crosby, D. Kimball, W. D. Jones.
''The first signer of this certificate, C. G. Atherton,
Esq., bas been the Speaker of the House of Represent-
atives of New Hampshire for these several years, and
is now a member of Congress from that state. Dr. C.
Cutter is a distinguished physician, who is now prac-
tising magnetism with much success. W. E. Crosby
is the Preceptor of the High School."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION VII.
Taunton.-New Bedford.-Salem.
Tl~E remarkable change which was effected in the
public mind, at Taunton, in favor of Animal Magnet-
ism, affords another conclusive. refutation of the . ab-
surd, common-place argument, so often resorted to by
our opponents, viz. that magnetism is supported only
by weak-minded, cre<iu.Jous persons-believers in ghosts
and witchcraft, who hav~ suffered themselves to be
gulled by some shrewd rogues. The fact is, that no-
where have 1 met with so much .opposition as I did in
Taunton; nowhere had I to contend and ·discuss so
much ; nowhere have my experiments been so closely
scrutinized, so much doubted and ridiculed ! Yet, the
Tauntonians were'generally honest in their incredulity,
open to conviction, and eager·in their investigation of
the matter. Those who had subscribed for my private
course, assiduously attended the lectures ; being not
satisfied with my own experiments, they decided, at
my urgent and repeated requests, to make a trial for
themselves, on some of their fellow-citizens. Severai
aoiong them, in consequence, performed the operation
to their full satisfaction. A number of very remarka-
ble cases of somnambulism were .soon elicited in the
town; the phenomena produced were so striking, and
the character, both of the magnetizers and of the per-
sons magnetized, so well known, that the belief in the
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
188 ANIMAL MAGN.:TtSM.
reality of magnetism, in a short time became general.
There is another circumstance worthy of notice ; it is,
that the best somnambulists at Taunton, are men, in-
telligentt respectable, and well known in the communi-
ty. One of them, I had an opportunity of seeing a
number of times while in the magnetic state; he is a
well-educated, amiable young gentleman, now engaged
in the study of medicine, with Dr. Gordon.
The Tauntonians have thus demon!!trated, in a man-
ner that no honest and philosophical mind can deny,
that An.imal Magnetism is a matter of fact, the reality
of which can be ascertained by experiments, and of
which even the most skeptical and cautious persona
can convince themselves, if they only choose to lay
aside their prejudices, and resort to the proper method
of inquiry. They have, also, proved that simple; dis-
eased and superstitious females are not the only ones
susceptible of the magnetic influence; but that men of
sense, and in good health, can be equally affected by it.
.Among the magnetizers who have obtainetl most
su<lcess, I will name Messrs. G. Wilmarth, Joseph Dix-
on, Paul Duxbury, and Hiram Barney-all gentlemen
of sound minds and irreproachable characters.
I might ·fill up some twenty pages with the narra-
tives of exceedingly curious facts that have been ob-
served at Taunton ; but I am· obliged, at present, to
omit all this, for want of room. I will content myself
with extracting the following communication, inserted
in the Taunton Whig, of September 13th, by a highly
respectable professional gentleman. ,
"A gentleman who had a carious tooth, was desirous
of having it extracted while under the magnetic influ-
ence, and seated himselfTor that purpose. He was put
into a state of perfect magnetic sleep in the course of
five minutes, at a distance of eight feet1 by a friend who
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 189
had magnetized him many times before. In that state
he r~marked that the -room was too light, and a-f!lilk
handkerchief was therefore boun(J over his already
closed eyelids. Being then asked if he wished to have
his tooth extracted, he answere'd that he did. After a
lapse of a few minutes, the magnetizer, standing at a
distance, willed him to open his mouth, which he did,-
asking, at the same time, if it was wide enough.
"The magnetizer then retired t~ an adjoining room,
and the operation was performed during his absence.
I was near the patient, watched him closely, and did
not observe any sign of suffering' There was not the
slightest contraction of a muscle, either -
of his face or
limbs, during the operation; no change of the counte-
nance, or of the respiration. His whole body remain-
ed as perfectly composed as i·n the most quiet natural
sleep. A bowl was placed under his chin, but he made
no effort to free his mouth from the blood which flowed
out between his lips, until the magnetizer returned, and
willed him to do so.
''He inquired 'what made him spit so much ; ' and
shortly after complained of the 'stuff running down
his throat.' Being asked what it was, he replied, after .
tasting, that he,' did not know.'
"He was permitted to sleep a few minutes ~ore,
when the magnetizer went into an adjoining room, and
willed him to awake in ten minutes. In precisely that
time there was a considerable movement of the eyelids.
The sleep continued three minutes longer.
"Soon after awaking, he observed the bowl contain-
ing the blood, in a chair by his side, and immediately
placing his finger upon the cavity, asked, with the ap-
pearance of great surprise, if his tooth had been ex-
tracted. He declared that he was not until then aware
that the operation had been performed, -
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
190 •
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
"The tooth was n large one, had two stout fangs, and
came out unusually bard. It was one of the molar teeth
of 'the under jaw. .
"I have shown this communication to Messrs. C. R.
Atwood, Hiram M. Barney, Samuel C. 'Vest, Horatio
Gilbert, Francis S. Munroe, and Jonathan Hodges,
who were present, nnd to Dr. Nahum Washburn, who
operated, and have their authority to state that it is an
accurate recital of the incidents of the scene. G."
To the above statements 'I odd a report, signed .by
thkteen gentl~men of the first respectability, who have
attended my private course of lectures. This report,
although short, yet contains all that is necessaryto
sho\v that the signers of it are satisfied of the reality of
Animal Magnetism.
Report of Dr. P.'s Class in Taunton.
''The subscriber!', having attended the course of lec-
tures on Animal Magnetism, delivered by Dr. Charles
Poyen, in this vilwge, feel it due to justice to certify
that they hove been much instructed by the scientific
lectures, and gratified by the candid manner in which
they were given.
" As to the phenomena described by Dr. Poyen, the
subscribers also declare that they have acquired indis-
putable proof.-; of their reality, having seen m6st of
them repeatedly produced by s•weral members of the
class on some of their fellow-citizens, whose moral
character, education and standing in society, make it
certain that there was no collusion whatever in the per-
formances.
"C. R. Atwood, H. M. Barney, J. W:. D. Jlall, B.
R. Gulliver, G. L. Wilmarth, P. C. Duxbury, George
S. Pierce, Albert Sweet, John W. Seabury, B. L.
Wood, Will11rd Loring, H. Gilbert, William Mason,"
Taunton, July 24th, 1837,
ANJJIA~ MAGNETISM. 191
New Bedford.
I had to contend, in this town, against nearly the
same general incredulity and opposition as in Taunton,
and other places. I must confess, however, that I
found the most influential and enlightened persons
there uncommonly well disposed towards giving a fair
and unprejudiced trial to the matter. :My lectures and
private experiments were carefully attended there by a
numerous class, composed of the very first gentlemen
of the town; and, lam happy to say, that I felt exceed-
ingly gratified by the attentive, candid, and gentleman-
ly manner with which -they pursued their investigation.
They were skeptical when they commenced, but 1 ven-
ture to say that very few of them remained unconvinc-
ed. Another noble and rm·e trait, which 1 take pleas-
ure to signalize here, is, that· I found them ready to
come forward, fearlessly and publicly, in support of
what they believed to be true. The following report,
signed by twenty-two of the principal of the class, will
prove whnt I have just advanced.
From tiLe NeuJ Bedford Merctt:"!f of tM first of .Avgwt, 1637.
New Rulford, July 28th, 1837.
"We, the unders·igned, deem it an act' of justice to
certify, that we.have attended the course of lectures
delivered by' Mons. Ch. Poyen, in this town, and that
we have been instructed and gratified by the able man-
·ner in which they were given. ·We also certify1
that
we have witnessed a series of experiments, pcrfi>rmed
by Dr. P., to illustrate the principles advanced in his
lectures. The experiments were made before the whole
class, orl-a young gentleman of respectable connexions
and education, who had been living, for several weeks,
in the Rev. Mr. Choulea's family. From the testimony
o,g,tiZed by GoogIe
191 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
of the Rev. Mr. Choules himself, this gentleman had
been an entire s~rariger to Dr. P. until the very day on
which the experiments were performed. Considering
that circumstance, and especially the character of the
effects produced,·we think ourselves authorized to ad-
mit the reality of an influence exercised by one person
over another, the nature and extent Qf which we do not
attempt to explain. We have likewise attended a se-
ries of experiments performed on Dr. P.'s somnambu-
list, whose name is known to the public. So far as we
can judge from Rn attentive application of our senses,
the performances were fairly made, without any ap-
pearance of deception or collusion between the partieL
An additionRI fact, which we deem it proper to state, is,
that Dr. P.'s somnambulist has been magnetized by a
member of the class, (one of the undersigned,) success-
fully on the first attempt, and while Dr: P. was not in-
formed of the mental operations exercised by him. Un-
der such circumstances, there seems to have been no
opportuuity for deception.- We are, therefore, satisfi-
ed that the subject deserves the candid attention and
careful scrutiny ofscientific men. We further certify,
that, in his course of lectures and experiments, Dr. P.
bas shown himself to be a gentleman ofeducation, and
bas conducted himself in a manner calculated to in-
. spire confidence in his integrity. (Signed)
R. R. Crocker, Chas. W. Morgan, John 0. Choules,
T. Dawes Eliot, Thos. A. Greene, Wm. R. Rodman,
Andrew Robeson, S. :Merrihew, James Cannon, J.
Williams, Jr., J. Bourne, Jr., Daniel McKenzie, Thos.
R. Robeson, Wm. G. E. 'Pope, L. 'f. Wilson, Jas. H.
Howland, Jos. Hathaway, David Baker, J. A. Standish,
B. C. Taber, Jeremiah Stone, Wm. B. Russell.
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. J93
During my residence in New Bedford, several inter-
esting cases of somnambulism were produced-two of
which by me. The first subject of my experiments,
was a girl employed in Mr. G. Blake's Hotel. All
those who have known her, are convinced, from her
extreme simplicity, that she is totally incapable of
practising deception. .Besides, how could she feign
the phenomena of magnetism, ignorant, as she was, of
the subject, which WI!S entirely new to her. 'i'his girl,
· in consequence of some imprudence, was taken severe-
ly ill, and confined to her bed, in a state of high fever,
with intense head-ache, and pains in her stomach. She
was in that state for thirty-two hours, and had already
tried, but without effect, various remedie!l, prescribed
by the physician, when I proposed to !'nagnetize her.
She obstinately refused to undergo the operation1 al-
though she was urged very much, by several persons of
the house_
, to submit to it. Still perseve.ring in my res-
olution, I stood by her bed-side, and began to mag-
netize h~r, conirary to her own will, as I knew that it
would be beneficial to her. In fifteen minutes she was
fast aslcerJ. I left her undisturl>ed for half an hour,
when I asked her how she felt; she answered, "Very
well: my head-ache is gone, and my stomach is be-t•
ter." I did not wish to perform any experiments, as I
had no other intention than to cure he1·. She remain-'
ed two hours in the magn!ltic sleep. Several very re-
spectable gentlemen, among whom were Rev. Mr.
Winslow, of Boston, Rev. ~lr. Choules, and R. R.
Croclter, of New _Bedford, having expressed a desire of
seeing ·her, they were introduced into the room : for
their satisfaction, I tried a few sjmple experiments,
with which ther appeared much pleased. Two hours
and a half having elapsed, and -the girl assuring us that
her troubles were gone, I awoke her by my will and
17
.-·
194 ANIMAL MAGNE'tiiM,
the usual gestures, made at a distance. In<Jeed, her
aiekness did not return, and she was able to resume her
work (rom the very next morl)ing.
The other person magnetized by me, was the son of
the ReY. Dr. Cox, of the London University, a youn·g
gentleman, then residing at the house ofthe Rev. 1\Jr.
Choules. His case has been mentioned in the certifi-
cate of my class, as the reader must hove noticed.
Among those who have l!lagnetized with success in
New Bedford, I will name Messrs. Asa \Vood, Wm. B.
Russell, Dr. Jer. Stone, and B. C. Taber. This last
gentleman had the kindness to furnish me with a cer-
tificate, w.hich I now present to the render.
" From the great difficulty generally ~ttending the
introduction of important truths against the prejudices
and preconceived notions of men, it is unquestionably
the duty of those_who become convinced of the value
of those truths, to give all rational assistance to those
who are laboring for their establishment. I belie\·e
the reality and importance to mankind of the phenom-
ena called Animal Magnetism, require it-and, as a
humhle individual, I cheerfully give my testimony to
aid in its further advancement. I have myself practis-
ed Animal Magnetism, with the view of producing its
peculiar effects on the system, nod obtained the most
satisfactory results, convincing to those who witnessed
my experiments. I have attended the lectures of Dr.
Poyen, on the subject, in this place-am well satisfied
that the true character of his experiments have been all
that he has pretended to claim_fur them; and, so far as
I have become acquainted with the gentleman, I sin-
cerely believe him to be of strictly honest intentions in
wha_tever he has placed bcf~re the public inspection.
BENJ. c. TABER."
New Bedford, July 31st, 1837.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM; 196
The subject of Mr. Taber's experiments, was his
own sister, an innocent and weU-educated child, aged
twelve years, only. She became a somnambulist, and
the phenomena offered by her were so well marked
and conclusive, that the editor of the New Bedford
Gazette, who had been bitterly opposed to magnetism,
was compelled, on witnessing them, to confess he was
"swampt," to use his own printed word; which means
convinced, in the language of all frank and honest•
hearted people. Mr. 'l'aber did not think it proper to
give many details concerning this case of somnambu-
lism; the reason is,-that his nearest connections and
friends were decidedly opposed to his practising mag-
netism, and especially to having any thing published
on his sister's case. Mr. Taber has, then, acted as he
ought to;· he has done enough-and his simple certifi-
cate -will weigh as much as though it \vas a pam-
phlet of twenty pages.
Salem.
We extract from the Salem Gazette of August lith,
1837, the following statements and remarks, regretting
very much that the limits of this book, wMch have al-
ready fur exceeded our anticipation, do not permit us
to transcribe the whole article, which fills up three col-
umns of that paper. These remarks, as will be seen,
were suggested by the lecture and experiments of Mr.
Joseph Dixon, formerly a citizen of Salem, and now
residing at Taunton.
"-Mr. Editor,-Having attended Mr. J. Dixon's lec-
ture on Animal Magnetism, and witnessed his success-
ful experiments at Danvers, on Saturday evening last,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
196 ANIMAL .AGNETJSH.
I am induced to offer some remarks upon this wonder- -
ful, though much ridiculed branch of science.
"Whenever a new doctrine is started, we are too apt
~ to decide upon its truth or falsity from first impressions;
and it is peculiarly unfortunate for the reputation of
a new science, particularly if that science be so extra-
ordinary, so opposed to all preconceived opinion, that
even its believers are halfashamed to confess their be-
lief, for fear of ridicule, if its early promulgation fall
into the hands of ignorant ent~usiasts or credulous
sciolists. A true philosopher doubts, hesitates, -delib-
erates, scrutinizes, looks nt it in every conceivable
aspect ; but, when satisfied frQm observation, from ex-
periment, or induction, that it is truth, he firmly believes
it as such, though the modus operandi be shrouded in
darkness. On the contrary, the first question with
many is with regard to the how and the why; and, in
endeavoring to explain things beyond human compre-
hension, bring discredit upon the truth 1tself.
"Perhaps no science has suffered more from erroneous
statements, exaggerations, and the attempt at furnish-
ing a plausible theory, than that now under considera-
tion. In investigating its claims, let us be guided not
at all by opinion or assertion, either of friend or foe:
subject the alleged science to the unerring standard of
actual experiment. If it stand not by this test, let it fall;
and lilte those philosophical humbugs, Dualism, the
universal solvent, the quadrature of the circle, and the
inftuence of the tltars, be numbered with exploded hy-
potheses. -
- "Setting aside the origin and history of Animal Mag·
netism, we propose to define the science, by showing-
" 1st.-Wltat it is not. It is in some minds associated
with fortune~telling,, juggling, &c. &c. Others imag-
ine that the operato~:, possessing uncommon strength of
nerve, and a peculiar organization, deranges, in som 0
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM·, 197
mysterious manner, the imagination of the persons op-
erated upon, causing them, whHe in that state, to see
sights and hear sounds, as is usual in cases of diseased
visual perception. Others suppose the operator merely
frightens them into a belief that they see and hear things
out of the common course of nature. Others, again,
who admit the facts, imagine that the operator is in
some mysterious way surcharged with an unknown
species of magnetism, which secret is concealed from
his audience. All the11e ideas we believe to be,errone-
ous. The great majority, however, among us will give
the subject not a thought,, except to say to the whole,
Fudge, fudge.
"2d.-We will endeavor to state what the science is.
It is difficult, by an abstract definition, fully to explain
what we mean by the term Animal Magnetism.· We
cannot better define it, than by calling it the influence
which the will of one human being exerts, through the
nervous system, upon the will and all the bodily func-
tions of another. In other words, it implies a transfer
of our own will into the person of another, who, for the
time, is to a greater or Jells extent the mere creature of
our will. This definition, vague as it is, conveys
enough to the minds of some of our readers to induce
them to exclaim, ''This is a hard doctrine, who can be-
lieve it 1" How can our will thus operate 1 In reply, I
would ask, How can your will control the action ofyour
hand 1 W~o can explain the l1ow ? We know the fact-it
is n common, every-day fact; we believe it: but another
fact is stated, we disbelieve it; Why 1 Because more in-
comprehensible 1 No, but solely for the reason that it is
new, startling, opposed to formerobservation and ex-
perience. We reject it at once-as di~ the learned
heathen doctors-the first annunciation by Anaxagoras
17•
o.g,tiZed by GoogIe
-...,.
198 ANIMAL MAONETIS.I.
of the existence of an all-perfect, self-existent Intelli-
gence, as the Great First Cause.
''An enumeration of facts being the best method of
explaining the principles of the science, I will ~ake the
liberty of giving a brief narration, to the truth of which
many of the most intelligent citizens of Danvers are
ready to hear witness. I allude to the experiments
performed at Danvers, on Saturday evening last, by
our well-known, sincere, and intellectual townsman,
1\Ir. J. Dixon.
"1\lr. D. first tried his ~rt upon a girl about eight years
of age, resident in Salem. She was placed in a chair,
opposite, and wi.thin a few feet of l\lr. D., who calmly
folded his arms, and with his eyes fixed intently upon
her, sat perfectly still. He requested that silence
might be preserved among the audience-not that it
would affect leer, but would distract his own attention ;
the requisite for successful operation being in the oper-
ator, not only sound health and superior strength of
nerve, but n~so the power of concentrating his will upon
a certain point, and keeping it fixed there unwaveringly
for a considerable length of time. As few possess that
degree of mental abstraction which enal!led Archimedes
to throw his whole soul into a problem.. and there keep
it, though soldiers burst into his room, and Death sat
grinning uponthe pGint of a thousand spears; they are
of course unable to resist the diverting influence of ex-
ternal imprCtisions. If the operator wills that a person
sleep, he must for the time believe that he has powe1·
thus to cause sleep, then with every energy of the soul;-
aroused and brought to a focus, envelope his subject in
the all-conquering grasp of his determined wil1, and thus
remain firmly, unwaveringly, till his object be accom-
plished. 'Vithout irreverence, I would say, the opera·
tor must possess, in a certain limited degree, that same
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 199
lofty consciousness of immense power which our great
Creator felt, when He bade the infant universe of
worlds, fixed in their deStined orbits, move on ; ~tnd,
from the bosom of Eternity, said, "Let there be light."
"But, to return to our ingenious lecturer. After a
sitting of ten minutes, the girl was apparently asleep.
The first object was to satisfy the audience that the
. sleep was supernatural. Accordingly, she was placed
so that all could see and handle, and be convinced.
To this end, noi§es were made equivBlent to the dis.
charge of a fowling-piece close by her, but not a muscle
moved. Her hands were deadly cold. They might
be pinched to discoloration, but no movement indica,ted
the least sensation. Mr~ D. then willed her, (without
speaking,) to raise her hand. Instantly, it was con-
vulsed and slowly raised. He then, placing in her
hand a closed penknife, at the same time conveying
the idea to her that it was an apple, bade her eat it.
Again were the convulsive motions visible, she raised
her hand until it came in contact with her mouth.
"After repeating similar experiments, he willed her
to awake. Convulsed in..every limb, she slowly, slowly
awoke. Her movements were so remarkable, and the
whole operation so open to inspection, that uo one
could suspect the least deception. Indeed it was im-
possible. Several minutes elapsed before she was able
to walk; her first convulsive attempt at which, conveyed
forcibly the idea of a departed spirit returning to reani-
mate a corpse .already stiffened iu death.
''I subsequently asked her h~w she felt. She replied
that she "liked it,"-but when it was coming on, she
felt as if spiders were creeping all over her, and some-
times rath_!!r coM ;-she could remeRlber nothing that
transpired during the slumber, and on awaking was
bright and well as ever.
"The next operatee was a young lady of about seven-
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
teen. She once or twice even replied to questions put 9Y
the operator, though the greatest noises made by the
others could produce no impression. Many ofthe most
intelligent citizens of Danvers will attest to the truth
of these statements. F."
The Letter which we are going to place before the
eyes of the render, is from Dr. Jos. E. Fisk, of Salem,
one of those men, whose countenance, language, and
manners, express so great simplicity of heart, benevo-
lence and honesty, that I should consider it almost a
crime to charge him with concerting a plan with any
person to deceive his fellow-crenturj!s. Dr. Fisk has
made, with the greatest success, several seriesof experi-
ments, which has been the means of convincing a great
nulnber of the most respectable citizens of Salem, of
the reality of Animal Magnetism. ·
Salem, Oct. 22d, 1837.
"Dr. CH. PoYEN,-
" My Dear Sir,-You wish me to state in a few lines,
the result of my experiments in Animal Magnetism, to
appear in a volume which you are preparing on the
subject.
"I am induced to comply with your request, only as
I think it thf) duty of those who have had an opportu-
nity of satisfying themselves about a matter so gener-
ally ridiculed and opposed, to help, as far as they can,
in enlightening the public mind concerning it. Such
is the motive which prompts me to give you my name.
I must state, in the first place, and you are aware that
I have as yet but little experience in the practice of
Ani"mal Magnetism. I began to occupy myself with it,
only since you have come among us, and my profes-
sional occupations taking most of my time, I have exp~
rimented upon but few individuals. I have, however,
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISlll. 201
obtained some results which have confirmed me in the
opinion that the subject is not all a delusion, as a great
many pretend it to be, but is one which is well worthy
of a thorough investigation by scientific men. I have
succeeded in producing well-marked effects on three
persons, one of whom has become a somnambulist, (so
called.) My ex'periments have been so fnr ~ade with
the view of ascertaining whether the will of the mag-
netizer could be communicated to the somnambulist
without the aid of language or signs. I can say the
results obtained were in the affirmative, and! were
of a positive character, and ns truly astonishing to my-
self as to those who witnessed them. There could
have bee.n no deception on the part of the somnambu-
list, as my experiments were made through the opera-
tion of the will, without language or motion, and every
precaution was made to guard against the deception;-
oesides, she could have flo interest whatever in feigning
such a state ; and if she had, she could not have done
it. No person, in their natural state, could know when
another wills, and what particular tlting he wills, pro-
vided there is no language or sign to express it.
"At your request, I will certify that I have not yet
seen any ill effects, either moral or physical, follow a'ny
of my experiments. I am very truly yours,
, JAs. E. F1sK.''
NoTE. Besides Dr. Fisk'~, other experiments have been tried with
the greatest success, in Salem, by an eminent lawyer of the city,
wlio now holds a public office, but whose name we are not author-
ised to disclose in this book. Every oneknows him in Salem, not only
as a professional man, but as a magnelizer; he has himself, loudly
proclailJled his successful experiments in private circles, and even
before my whole class! He has also performed in presence of a
number ofselect companies, and even once,jn presence of my class,
when neither his subject nor myself were aware of what he was do-
iug. (This experiment was made by the will alone, without a
word spoken or a gesture made.) And yet this gentleman alluded
to, feels the greatest reluctance to have his name mentioned with
the subjeet of Animal Magnetism, although he has practised it,
and believes it "to be as true as kis O'ID'n e:I:i:;tence."
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
SECTION VIII.
Bangor.-Nantucket.
Front tkc .Medical Journal, Novcnwer 2d, 1836.
D
0
URJNG myresidence in Bangor, seven persons were
magnetized under my personal observation; most of
them were cntirtily ignorant of magnetism, und those
who had heard something about it, l~ad no faith at all
in its efficacy. Yet, all were affected by it; onetotaUy
ignorant of'thc usual effects of magnetism, was oper-
ated upon by myself, in presence of :Qr. Clark, and
was compelled to go to sleep, although she (it was a
woman,) had taken the determination to resist the in-
fluence. I could not continue my experiments on her,
as she left the place on the next morning. Two other
persons, magnetized by Doctors McRuer and Jewett,
experienced a general increase of heat, and a great
drowsiness ; but could not be put into a profound sleep,
on account ofthe convulsions, which manifested them-
selves with such an intensity that the operators were
obliged to cease. These convulsions were produced
at several successive times, and in the particular parts,
towards which the magnetizer's hand!f were directed,
although without touching even the clothes. A bandagQ
carefully placed over the patient's eyes did not prevent
the same phenomena to take place. Among the other
persons magnetized, two were put asleep a number of
times, but had not yet reached the state of somnambu·
DogoiiZed by GoogIe
ANlMAL :&U.GNETISM.
lism when I left the city: finally, one became a perfect
somnambulist. This last case, considering the age of
the subject, (a little girl, 12 years old,) and the stand-
ing of her parents in society,-together with the peculiar
nature of the phenomena exhibited, seemed to have
~arried conviction to the minds of all those who wit-
nessed, tho experiments ! An~ong those witnesses, I
will name Rev. Messrs. Curtis, Leonard Wood, Jr.
Prof6ssor of Theology, at the Bangor Seminary1 and
Maltby; Doctors MacRuer and Dean. Mr. Parker; a
wel)-known gentleman, residing in the city, was the
magnetizer.
Nantucket.-The conversion of Samuel H. Jenks,
_
Esq., to Animal Magnetism, is nlrendy known to the
country. Although dispoted and ridiculed by our boast-
ing esprits forts; his testimony had its due weight, and
has opened the path to many others to investigate the
claims of this new science. Mr. Jenks' philosophic
and deep mind, his honesty and ~<implicity of heart,
his cautiousness, and, at the same time, his moral cour-
age, were too well known, not to 'have forced those of
like character to inquire more into a subject upon whi~h
· ihey had not yet thought worth their while to bestow
their attention. I will now take the-liberty of extract-
ing a few lines from a letter of int1·oduction, Mr. Jenks -
had the kindness of giving me for Mr. Woodward,
Editor of the 9onnecticut Herald. I shall afterwards
place before the eyes of the reader, an article from the
Nantucket Inquirer, .in which he made his first p1·ojes-
sion of faith.
Nantucket, August 27th, 1837.
Friend Woodward,-1 have investigated the claims
of this new science, and am entirely convinced of their
,Coogle
ANIMAL MAGNETfiiM,
solidity. I was a skeptic, but determined to explore
I have done it, carefully, patiently, laboriously; and
the result is what I have already declared to the world.
My lenses have witnessed, and I can no longer remain
incredulous. No man living, (I will say it, that should
. not,} is more determined in the disposition to withhold
credulity until proof shalli1ave removed it, than myself.
I therefore commend to your examination this. whole
matter. Study what has been written thereon-then
explore candidly and deeply. You will, naturally, at
I did, feel a repugnance to the process; but I assure
you that you will be amply repaid for your pains.
Prom the Nant1tcket lllquirer of Au,Lr. 23d, edited by tile Hon.
S.H.Jenk$.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. To this subject, which we are
now satisfied is one of extraordinary importance, we
have in our late numbers devoted considerable space.
Having investigated the claims of this new science, can-
didly,·as we trust, and as patiently and thoroughly as
time and opportunity may have allowed, we do not hes-
itate to avow our unqualified assent to its principles,
and our belief in its wonderful phenomena. A few
weeks since, we were imbued with the prejudices which
are common and natural to all who have as yet either
enjoyed no means, or taken no pains to examine the
matter; and we then adventured sundry remarks, which
we now desire to retract, disclaim, and discard. Our
confidence in the reality of Animal Magneti.~>m is
founded on facts which the· closest scrutiny cannot
ove.rtu~n--on evide~ce \~hich the m~st stub~rn incre-
duhty 1s unable to Withstand. To th1s uuav#tfable con-
clusion we h11ve arrived, through the aid of proofs, an
exposition of which, at a future period, we may attempt
to communicate through these columns. Our present
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
ANIMAL MAGNETISM. 205
purpose is to say that the first course of instruction in
this interesting branch of physiological science, by Dr.
Poyen, will close this evening. The class in attendance
has not been numerous; but we believe none, who have
closely attended, remain unconvinced.
CONCLUSION.
To the numerous facts and testimonials contained in the pre<:ed-
ing pages, if we add the almost equal number of testimonials and
facts presented in the three appendices to Deleuze's Practical In-
struction, translated into English by Thos. C. Hartshorn, Esq., of
Providence, every honest and sensible person must come to the con-
clusion that the evidence afforded of the reality of Animal Magnet-
ism is, to say the least, s~ron~ enough to entitl,!!_thl\.-sullieet-tcr.a
cand1d and senous examlllaliOD. J-wonlltask, mdeed, whether 1t
doestiOfrequH·e·a:s"tiftic11 creduLitJj_to believe that.all these factslll'e
fiilge-thaHt!Hh<r.!einle!Iigent, disinterested witnesses, who ·have
testified to the truth of these facts, were mere rogues, or deluded
persons, as to believe in the most incomprehensible phenomena of
Animal Magnetism 1 Is not the coincidence existing between so
many respectabletestimonies, in this age of general information and
skepticism, sufficient to arrest our attention, and cause us, at least,
to withhold our judgment 1
I know that the Animal Magnetic experiments are not always
successtul. BuUl!!La.:m;g-ati'zw1lrctlfeutralize-·il positl_
t:_e-one7
Wlmt-'\Voiiliilcoiil.
!LOf the.scierices of Medicine;· Chemistry, Gal-
vanism, Electficiiy, &c:z if :we_ recor<led-only-the failures that take
plaee-ift the cltemical;galv:niTc and mediCal experimeJ;II.S't'". 'Read-
er,--mimhvtmrTWillnowlalie the liberty of ftillillg you; Make use
of your reason; do not allow yourself to be influenced by the preju-
dices of others; do not disbelieve a thing, do not ridicule it, merely
because it is generally dibbelieved and rid1culed. Before you pro-
nounce your opinion about Animal Magnetism, read and meditate
the writings of our learned, judicious, and good master Deleuze.
(Histoi1e Critique, lnsllrudion Pratique,) and make, yourself, a fair
trial of the rroceedings lry which we pretend that the magnetic phen011~,o
ena can be produced.-Ig scientific bod jes l..will..say•.lf.yo__~e
to investigate the cl~~of~etism, d!2._1;10t .content yourself with
appoifitffig'CU!D1I!trrees ofS'Kep~l all~ p~~J ual!!edprOI'essJOnal men,
--- -· ·· --- -- ~ ---~-- -
• Boo my pamphlet, containing a" Lotter to Col. Stone, of New York, and a
refutation of Mr. Durant'• Expoaition," &c., in which 1 explain the eauoea of
failwea in the Animal Magnetic e.rperimenta.
18
206 ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
to see and sretdini::e tmly experiments made lnl otllers; but appoillt a
~m_ittee of di'i!_llerested~ tili!~. int~fligent, andiieatlli,;y m-
dn·Ic.fua:ts;-of \'af!OUS prole:iSJ01lS;-40. e:ip!:ri-PM tht:lfU8lPU1 VJZ. to
magn-etne 'llcui s-uhP, in whom tJu:1 Gfi?, ptm;e amfiiUiiCe; liit fJime
me'' pursw: tlu:ir c.wmi11.atio" acco·
rtlwg to tl~ meth.od taught by Ik-
leuzc ; a11.d report, afterward$, m& iJu! result-
s of tMir oum perSO'TI4l ez-
periel=. In that way, only, you can arrive at the truth, and yonr
report.~, either for or against the pretended science, will be entitled
to a serious consideration.
JYotc lst., page 30. When I say that those who have opposed mag-
netism were not competent to decide upon the matter, because~
/uul not 111arle c.ryerutu:nts tke~nsclv~Jlt.!~~n to S!!Y tbpt they e
not tlu:msch·cs practised magnet"i:ml,_
viz. applied, frmp their gw.Q ac:,-
cord, and in-·tm,i:ng·astde lMir former prejudices, the mental and
manual proceedings by which-~·epretend that the magnetic exper-
iments can be produced.
1\"ote 2d., page 58. I intended to give here a pretty lon<> notice
of .llr. Dura1&t's Exposition of Animal Mag1~tism; but as I have al-
ready examined that work in a separate publicatio'!~ I will refer the
reader to it. See "A Letter to Col. W. Stone, of .New York," and
" A Plai" Answer to Durant's 'Exposition of Animal Magnetism,
&c.;" Boston: Weeks, Jordan and Co., 121 Washington StreeL
Also, at C. Shephard's, New York.
oawze,o,Goog(c
APPENDIX.
'fHE reader is, perhaps, already informed that Baron
Dupotet de Senneroy, a distinguished physician of the
faculty of Paris, who has been successfully engaged,
for nearly 20 years, in the practice of Animal Magnet-
ism, is now in England, endeavoring to establish the
science in that country. Baron Dupotet commenced
his undertaking in London, about four months ago.
He has been permitted to perform experiments on a
number of patients in the public hospitals, and, it ap-
pears, not without success. Among those who have
been convinced by his performances, and who had the
courage of publicly aclmowledging their belief, I will
mention Dr. Elliotson, physician of the North London,
or University College Hospital, already celebrated by
his works, and justly considered as one of the most
eminent medical men ofGreat Britain. The conduct-
ors of the press, in this country, who seem to have
formed a league to oppose Animal Magnetism, and
show themselves eager iu grasping at every thing cal-
culated to throw contempt and ridicule upon the sub-
ject, have been careful to overlook Dr. Elliotson's con-
version to magnetism ! None of them have yet, if I
am well informed, quoted a single line of the lecture
delivered by this distinguished individual, at the hospi-
tal which he superintends. 'fhe skeptical editors have,
perhaps, found it so pitiful, that they did not care about
mentioning it. Dr. E. has suffered himselfto be gulled!.
Poor, weak-minded savant, he bas fallen the prey to a
''humbug!" What ! Dr. E. believing in magnetism ?
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
..
APPENDIX.
It is no more than Dr. Johnson believing in ghosts,
and Cotton Mather in witchcraft! &c. But enough
ofthis contemptible and dishonest incredulity. Enough
with those ungenerous and unreasonable skeptics, who
thus willingly keep their eyes shut, in order that they
may have some ground to deny the existence of light,
and maliciously treat as rogues or fools all those who
conscientiously and candidly confess their belief in
what they have carefully examined with the senses that
God gave them.
'Ve extract the following pages from Dr. Elliotson's
lecture, published in the London Lancet, Sept. 9, 1837.
"Now, the question arose, whether these states could
be produced by means of art ; they were evidently de-
pending on a diseased state, as epilepsy was. A girl,
now in the hospital, was thrown into the remarkable
state by the manipulations which had been called ani·
mal magnetizing. The gentleman who magnetized her
would pass one or both hands gently before her; in a
few minutes she would stare, move her eyes, and then
go to sleep. This had also occurred in a large uumber
of other instances. Some had said the result was to be
attributed to the gentle motion of the hands, as that
would sometimes, as was known, send people to sleep;
but it could not be so in all cases, as the effects were
produced when the magnetizer stood some distance off,
and sometimes even by one or two movements. The
same thing also occurred in some cases when the move-
ments were made behind persons' backs. Besides the
effect being produced in some persons when at a great
distance, and in others by one or two movements, the
sleep was sometimes mo&t intense. He thought the
manipulation bad greater intiuence than had before
been imagined. Now, he had read of all these things
many years ago, and felt anxious to know something
more about them. II\ 1829, 1\lr. Chenevix, who had
been in Paris, and practised mesmerism to some ex-
tent, was willing to show him the effect of it. He (Dr.
E.) took him to St. Thomas's Hospital, to try its effects
o'g''"•d by GoogIe
APPENDIX.
on some nervous patients, in whose cases it is said to
do most good. He (Dr. E.) was not satisfied with its
effects on any but one patient, and in that instance the
results were so extraordinary, that be felt convinced
that it was a subject not altogether to be laughed at.
The patient was an ignorant Irish girl, who had never
seen or heard of the gentleman. She was brought in-
to a private room, und the manipulation commenced;
in a minute or two she begged he would not go on, as
she said it produced 'great weakness in her,' and a
pain in the abdomen. This pnin went off wh.en a
transverse motion was made over the part. He (Dr.
E.) did not infer much from this, for he thought this
effect might be merely imaginary, but when the manip-
ulator suddenly darted his open hand upon her arm,
and she suddenly lost the power of it, which was again
as suddenly restored by a few transverse motions; and
when he showed the same effects on the other arm, and
also on the leg, and produced the same results, when
the girl's eye~ had been closed, he (Dr. E.) began to be
staggered. On one occasion, too, while she was in this
state, the operator placed a very small piece -of paper
on one of her feet, and then she could not raise that
foot; but after a few transverse motions had been made,
she raised it easily. This occurred ·again and again.
He was satisfied there was no deception there. He
was astonished at the effects, and when asked if he
was satisfied, be did not say, at first, either yes or no;
he was almost ashamed to say that he was not. On
first seeing a thing of the kind, he thought it excusable
for any one to suppose there was collusion, and disbe-
lieve the effects altogether. He had published an ac-
count of these experiment~ in the ' London Medical
and Physical Journal' for 1829. He was fully satis-
fied that there was something more than imagination
in these things; but he had had no opportunity or time
to carry on the investigation, till h<' heard of Baron
Dupotet being in London, who had magnetized for
twenty years. and some of whose works on magnetism
he (Dr. E.) had read. He was determined to ask him
to afford his assistance. The results of the experiments
had been the following :-Generally speaking, it took
19
210 APPENDIX.
no effect on male subjects, or if it did it was very slight,
com1isting of slight twitchings of the muscles, a feelinr
of fulness, and gasping, or catching of the breath,-in
many cases not even so much effect ns thi". These ef-
fectll were not, however, imaginary.; he (Dr. E.) had
felt them, and he hod expected rather to go to sleep, if
there had been any effect. Some, however, went to
,sleep, who had made up their minds that no effect could
be produced, and hod determined to resist it if possible.
A great number of female patients had been sent to
sleep, and so had one mole epileptic for the space of
ten minutes, not longer; he was, however, decidedly
asleep. This effect was all that was produced in him,
and this did not always occur. The experiments bad
been tried on three girls, one of them epileptic, and
two of them hysterical. In the first case, the girl was
sent into a state of decided coma ; she had no sensa-
tion; she was pricked with pins, and suffered no pain;
she did not feel when her hair was pulled. During the
time the influence lasted, she kept rolling her eyes, or
moving her lower lip up and down ; when the eyes
were still the lip moved, and tJice ver&a. Nothing but
coma was produced in this case; but she .could not open
her eyes by herself, nor by transverse movements across
them, except these movements were made by the mag-
netizer himself, as no one else, in performing this man-
ipulation, succeeded. This was tried repeatedly, and
found always to be the case, while the magnetizer suc-
ceeded instantly.
"With regard to the patient he first mentioned, the
effects were most decided ; she did not fall into the
ecstacy directly after she was magnetized, but the
change in the fits came on after she had been magnet-
ized several times. Hence it was not an immediate ef-
fect of the process, though it hnd been produced by it.
These paroxysms were, however, decicedly put an end
to by magnetism. She would sit during the manipula-
tions, and talk as ramblingly as possible, and be exceed-
ingly abusive ; then, all at once, she would stare about
her, close her eyes for a moment, and be quite well
again. Now, she was brought out of the attacks sore-
peatedly, and so decidedly, that there could be no doubt
APPENDIX. 211
that the magnetism produced the effects, There was
no imagination acting here, as they had seen her when
she sat 'down, restless and abusive, not knowing that
she was to be brought to herself; indeed, not knowing
that she was not herself. She only came out of the
fits once or twice without magnetism, but was brought
out of them three·fuurtbs of the times by that agency,
when it was employed; and she hnd never, be believecJ,
been brought out o( the ecstatic delirium without it.
Many persons had been convinced of the effects of
magnetism by this case, who had not believed in it when
only sleep was produced. There wns no collusion, he
felt convinced, in this case. Another patient, a girl,
had been sent into a state of coma by means of mag-
netism; no pricking with pins, or pulling of her hair,
would bring her out of that state. There wns, there-
fore, no doubt that a coma, similar to thnt of epilepsy,
could be produced by magnetism. Her jaw was so
fixed that it could not be drawn down by the fi1rce of
the hand, but when a few transverse motions were
made over it, it gave way directly. This girl could
not open her eyes until they had been magnetized.
There was no deception practised in these things. Bar-
on Dupotet said he would open one sense while the
others remained shut. He placed his finger in one of
her ears nnd she heard slightly at first; she then began
to hear better, and gradually got to the full sense of
hearing, and answered questions ; and the last time
not only spoke, but fell into a violent rage, and shook
an individual, who had offended her, with great force;
she sat down, looking the picture of rage, her lips
white, and she trembling all over with passion. She
was awoke by a few transverse motions over the eyes,
and knew nothing of what had occurred during the
state of insensibility.
•• Now, so far as these facts had gone, that is, those
that had come under his own notice, he (Dr. E.) be-
lieved in what he should call :Mesmerism, for Mesmer
might be considered the second founder of the system.
He (Dr. E.) was never ashamed to declare what he be-
lieved ; he had little respect for authority, when he saw
facts like those he had observed in the cues manipulat-
21~ APPENDIX.
ed on by Baron Dupotet; he must ~lieve them. The
whole profession might laugh, but be must believe that
there was a peculiar power which gave rise to the phe-
nomena which be had observed, and that it was not suf-
ficiently known or apJlreciated. They were not, how-
ever, without the authority of great men, as believers
in Mesmerism.''
After quoting two pa__ages, one from Laplace, the
,great mathematician, and the other from Baron Cuvier,
Dr. E. observes,-
"With the authority of two such individuals, one of
them a profound mathematician, the other a distin-
guished naturalist, there could be no disgrace in taking
the trouble to iuquire into the etfe_
cts of Mesmerism."
